 

                        Hey! You Chinese locust. Stop jumping the queue You've bought the whole world Get off you bastard Lockhart Road, please Tell me where to get off. Not the name of a long street I'm not in the mood Hong Kong is a playground for the rich For them the sun's never set. In the dark only the poor get upset Don't I speak good English? I did well in my GCE. A few F's and an E Now end up driving taxi "I don't wanna shut down" "I wanna open up my heart" "Gotta fight through this darkness" "Before the silence tears us apart" "Free me from these chains" "Nailed through my feet to the ground" "Gotta fight through this darkness" "I don't want to shut down" Shut down? This city's gonna shut down soon People get nostalgic You've been moaning all the night You need a priest to talk to? Rent is to increase by double. We'll have to shut down This pub saw through the hand-over Boss, ask the owner for some bargain The owner said: Shut up, pay up, or close down. Fuck! Down with property tycoons! Give us democracy! The road is sealed off. Can't get there I'll drop you nearby. You can walk across Not again. I hate demonstrations What a waste of time Is this your boyfriend? What a lucky guy He speaks English and he's a journalist. He's handsome Press freedom is now the last bottom-line He's got a US passport. Congratulations If things turn sour, there's always a warship for rescue When will you divorce your American wife? Oh please I'm walking over You're so quiet, you look like a wise man. Tell me how to earn a billion, will you? A billion? Life is just a long continuous chain of belches God bless I'm terribly sorry I like your dress. It looks slutty 20 minutes late Has Julie arrived? She's worse than you - Any drink, miss? - Soda please In school, she was always the queen all guys falling at her feet Does she think that's a carte blanche? How can you still put up with this? I know what she's like. Relax Less moaning keeps a woman young Going mad means earlier menopause Sorry. I'm late It's OK. We know you're so busy Get a drink I know your choice, dry martini You still remember it Oh yes. We're good friends Get me a DM DM? DM means Dry Martini Not Dumb Man OK, DM Your husband, Ben, is in elections. You must have a full schedule. We go separate ways Ben's been howling around, leaving me alone Today he asked me out, which came as a surprise But ended up campaigning with him Such hot weather! I'm a bad time-keeper It's OK It will soon be over After he wins, he'll be a faithful husband. Politicians are too scared to mess around Make sure we're invited to your celebration party It's been more than 20 years Thanks to Facebook Cheers You two look the same as before Well... You've been abroad for years Now you talk like a classy Brit I can't help it All these years, I graduated from Cambridge Mixing up with too many Brits, I forgot my Chinese How lucky to have gone to Cambridge! I did a local degree in Chinese. I'm now a college tutor You two are doing great I left school and went straight to a hair salon My grand-pa's been admitted to an elderly home named Cambridge I earn my living by feeling ladies' hair You seem to be doing well, man ls education a must? Be it Maggie Cheung, or Maggie Q, I make all women look younger and cute But you are the best of us Now you work for Citibank In charge of Far East, you must have a good time With a hot western girlfriend! We've seen her pic on Facebook Look. She looks hot Finished. Just broken up It happened this morning Just broken? Doesn't matter Chinese girls have better skin. Cheers Ka-lok, you look a bit miserable My mom's just got cancer I've been looking for my dad these years How long are you in Hong Kong for? No idea. I'm now Managing Director May be Shanghai next stop Girls are easier to pick up there Easy? They are all the same: London Shanghai, or Hong Kong Hey, look over there! That one seems interested in you How do you know she's into me? You are the coolest among us Can't it be me? Summer camp is not just for games We've seen the tanks out in the square. We're sad and distressed Work hard for a better China Now it's time for more vocab Does anyone know what this place is? I know. Niagara Falls Well done, Adam It was discovered by a French explorer some 200 years ago Shing, what's the word for this huge ditch? It's nothing but some roaring waters There's no gold there. Is it worth an adventure? There is so much beauty in life so intangible only to be felt by one's heart Adam, what will you do when grown up? I'll seek to change the world How can you do that? I'd earn a lot of money Money is what most people want But we all need love Your parents love you And friendship And love between man and woman Is it true that we will find what we want only if we work hard, like that French traveller? Yes, if you have a strong will Ka-lok, you don't look convinced Don't tease him. He's no idea who his dad is I don't want to go to England on my own They'll convert me into an Englishman Ka-lok, and Shing, what are your plans? What plans? We're not well-off enough to go to the West Dad said we wait for the commies to come Will you come back to see us? I won't forget you. I'll be back That's a promise. Sure Hey, look over there! Wow, come on Wow, that's a spectacle This is better than the waterfall (Hong Kong my homeland...) You keep letting us down How can you go to Britain on your own? But I only saw her naked back Just the naked back? You wanted more, didn't you? Just her back. OK I have been very bad What a brat are you! We're going to Canada. You make us worry I bet you'll grow into a sick peeper, or even a Yorkshire Ripper Sick? Oh yeh? Someone under this roof is sicker What did you say? I had a nap on Sunday Corning out of my room I saw you hugging and kissing Maria What? Is it true? Oh what a liar Maria, is that true? No, it's not true Not true? You know what I'm going to ask you? She's given it away You sick dirty old man Bull Shit! You play kind to Mommy, but you fancy Maria You're a hypo... a hypo... Hypocrite. Watch your English! I hate hypocrites I'm going crazy! Hypocrite! Write the word 50 times! Hi Shing, I'm going to the UK soon Don't let them bully him I'm off to the loo I go with you May I buy you a drink? I've tried out everything on this drink-list Besides, nothing interests me Take a wild guess All right Excuse me, Tony What can I do for you? The stunner here, she said she's tried everything in the bar But I reckon there's one thing she hasn't tasted yet Why don't we give her a pot of Red Robe? Red Robe? This is not a tea house Tony, I know you have it Don"[ you? Your gweilo boss is here Killing time, he doesn't drink alcohol. He drinks Red Robe tea Let's try some of his private collection You're well-informed And so? Did that count as a surprise? Let's say I'm intrigued You like tea? Not afraid to be called old-fashioned? I'd like to change taste from time to time After all this alcohol, I do just crave a cup of tea But I prefer wine I think a man should be like wine full-bodied, and seductive And addictive? Nowadays many westerners are tea-experts Including a hybrid like you Do you want to give it a try? Why don't we go somewhere else? Hey guys, sorry. Gotta go I wait for you outside That's quick Oh, come on guys, Let's meet here again on the New Year's Eve We come back here for another round and the countdown Bravo! Tony, Adam suggests December 31 Get three champagne glasses ready on that night No problem See you on New Year's Eve Can I have your mobile? What? Don't ask, let me have it Lest you forget Reminder: Our party. December 31 Do come back To performance! He's awesome, isn't he? New Year's Eve Let's get a girl each on that night I'm off now Sure. I'll settle the bill Take care! See you Here's the list your husband has drafted Total value is 1.6 billion. Equal sharing What about the Rolls Royce? It's not on the list Oh, Mr Lam's words, the car is a gift from his grandfather It's his own property I am not being greedy. I have a son to take care of He is my whole world That bastard's got everything His Chinese slut will have the last laugh I'm afraid the law is the law I tried my best You've got your Bentley, why don't you get off his back I was such a fool to have married him Don't be upset Divorce is the new start in life Do you believe in God? This Saturday, there is a hymn choir recital I bought two tickets. Why don't we go together? As the Psalm goes, The Lord is my shepherd... I shall not be in want. He makes me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside quiet waters... Don't play with me. I'm also a Christian May I have the honour to be your protector? I'll come to your office to sign the papers What about the choir recital? No thanks. I'm your client Do go back to review these papers I'm so sorry. Are you OK? Sorry. I was in your way Do let me pay your bill No thank you. We drank a lot. That's not fair May I insist? If you do, then shall I repay you with a cut? My card Lau Tin-shing? Come to my shop at 8 pm next Monday, if you're free I'll give you a private service Hi chauffeur, are you downstairs? OK, bye Hope to see you next Monday You're such a devil Don't you like it? I don't know if I'm in heaven or hell with you Why are you so fierce? That's how I hunt a beast like you That's a nice ring Yes, it's my wedding ring He's in politics. I hate politics Politics?? You know politics is like prostitution Now he's busy with all his whores How can he make time for you? Is that what we call love? Love is a luxury Yes, I love him, for his granting me such liberty I love him for his love of power He never spends much time here What if he finds us out? I have his secret Wow. This is your husband? Jesus. Who's that girl? She's just a child! It's a young chic in Shenzhen. Fourteen or fifteen He kept the video as a trophy I've discovered it, and stored it Aren't we just too moral compared with that? I'm sorry. Did it scare you? All right. I'll take a shower Should we be together? Together? What about your husband? I mean shall we take shower together? Most women-writers met a tragic end Fate was cruel to them Like Lin, who fell for a poet But he died in a plane-crash Hsiao Hung fell in love with her teacher It was taboo, and didn't end well either Their love was brilliant, magical, but like fireworks, transient I'm reading a memoir Is that within the syllabus? Is that all you're interested in? Is life programmed into a syllabus? Don't just bargain, please The happy gourmet there, is it delicious? Bring me one next time Sorry I've been a bit selfish Class dismissed Professor Chan, you don't look well Are you feeling OK? Do I look sick? No. But you don't look very happy You put it so well, but such knowledge seems outdated Sad that they're not interested in the past anymore So be it They don't give a stuff, and I get paid Not their fault. A literature degree is no MBA Employers don't like it Your teaching is brilliant. They just don't get it Professor! That guy's waiting to date you Forget him Have you ever met anyone like those heroines? It's a lost breed of rare creatures Why not? I'm from Tianshan, the North West Like you, I feel like an alien in this place So you're not Han Chinese? So far away, I bet the air is clean and fresh there. Hey, you don't look Chinese. You have good manners Hey, I love your country Fancy coffee at Starbucks? How did you know I'd turn up? I saw you with my mind's eye - Do let me. - Yes They play Mozart for cattle to make Wagyu beef An art in Kobe. It helps the creature to relax, the meat becomes tender I don't do hair-dressing I do hair sculpture I bet you tell all women clients the same thing I'm fussy. I reserve my best lines for the most fabulous one Shing, I'm not eighteen anymore A woman's hair is like an outer-heart I feel its texture, its delicate warmth, and explore its secrets How warm is my other heart now? A western customer told me this saying: A bad haircut is two people's shame You're my work from now on If I mess it up, you'll get frowned upon, and I'll share the shame Have faith in me You smell like heaven A rare perfume Shall I guess? A few drops of Vol de Nuit A brand with a dark blue fragrance It's associated with a legend Like that of The Little Prince. It was made with a life During WWII, a French air force pilot had to fight the Nazis He made love with his wife on the previous night So that he would carry the fragrance to the sky Sadly, he never came back How do you feel? I feel like walking into a waterfall What do you see? I saw how you bumped into me that day You poured wine on me, and made me wet Drunk again? Let's go home It's my birthday today. Sing me a song I'll do it later. Shall we go home? Come on, sing. Happy birthday to you... - Let's go home morn. - Come on, sing Who's she? - My mother. - Is she OK? Just a bit drunk. Sorry sir. I'll take her home Ambulance? No thanks Come on mom - Sorry sir. - I'm fine I said I'd tell you the truth on my birthday I should do it now Is this dad? And this looks like you He joined our school late It was a girls' school taking boys in sixth form He was so popular Many girls fancied him And I was so proud, I thought he should be mine We both joined the school's opera club We went out. We fell in love He got me pregnant and I was expelled My grand-dad was in the seafood business The scandal was a terrible loss of face He kicked me out He gave me this flat I had lived alone to bring you up What happened to dad? I heard that he then joined the police force Police?? He married someone Her father was a drug-lord He had killed a cop to cover his in-law, and was jailed After he got out, he killed himself with a gun Did he? Where? That's enough! And stop looking for him He's long dead. No more Now you're grown up, get married Get someone to share the rest of your life Come on Now I've told you everything You have to put it behind. Promise me Are you resident here? No. I'm for Mrs Lam This is a privileged area Have you got your permit? I'm her boyfriend. Haven't got a permit I have an appointment - Hello. - Hi - She's waiting for you downstairs. - Thanks Hi Sorry I fell asleep. Didn't feel very well - A massage would heal. - Fine You have good hands. You do it often This is the spot for headache Where's your husband? He's doing business in China A factory-owner? He's done shoe-making and jeans, now he's in mining He's got a mistress, right? How do you know? You wouldn't have got me otherwise, would you? He's keeping a masseuse in Hunan It's not a fair world Men can mess around, why not women? That means you're messing up with me You're not serious either, are you? Remember? A bad haircut is two people's shame Since I touched your hair that evening, my piece of silver has been addicted to your tenderness Serendipity, right? Do you mean it? Mom, I'm going to Phuket with my classmates Oh, sorry morn What a lucky generation Your son? Andrew. A big lad, right? Born with a silver spoon in his mouth Living in a big house. I envy him He's just finished his IB He'll soon go to university in Toronto - Toronto? - Yes It's been my dream to live there Well? My dad was poor. He couldn't afford it All my friends ended up In Britain or Canada Life is short. Once a dream's gone, Life becomes dull But you're still young What can I hope for? But I'm just a worker Work hard, and you'll get it What a clichm Row hard, you'll get to the shore No you won't. The world's fooled us We all had dreams I'm sure you once had one: You'd meet your Mr Right You'd get married, then a sweet family He said he would love nobody else And now? Just like a dream, wasn't it? What if I say you float my boat? And would you one day shore me up? What has become of Peking Opera? So many Peking Opera artistes perished in the 60s That was the Cultural Revolution, which destroyed all good tastes The Red Guards and the burning of books It was the Reign of Terror It's now a remote episode But if we choose to be forgetful, History will repeat itself Hi Linda. Nice to meet you again Welcome for body check. Would you come upstairs? We have some new products for you Our new brand this year: Angel Touch We have different sizes and colours. Your body's well kept You have all the beauty and wealth in the world But I believe women want one thing What's that? Romance. You don't have that yet A man who can change his fate is always charming That's all that I ever want to do since I was a child To do something incredible Change the world What do you want to change? Not yet. But one day I will You're working in an international bank. You'll go to Shanghai Hot cash, cheap labour, rich and poor, You are part of globalization What could you change? Yes You are right, I can't change the world But can we change us? Thank you. Thank you Welcome to our new salon Congratulations Linda Shall we get a discount from your new salon? Definitely Then we won't keep going back to the same place in Jockey Club Oh just stop cashing in Shing's skill is to die for. He's the chef here So this is your partner? Yup. This would make him stay I gave him some shares Linda is the boss, I'm at her service But you're together You're a boss. Just perform. You'll make it Besides his hands, your golden boy's so humble What a treasure Where did you get him? You have good taste Sniff around for us Then come often with our alumni You'll pick a good-looking boy among our staff Not another Filipino I prefer Shanghai guys Definitely Excuse me Andrew, take care of aunties Hey, master. I've got a problem with my hair, It's a bit dry. What do you think? I'd suggest some colour treatment first Can I be your first customer? My first month is fully booked My card. Call my secretary Your secretary? Thanks (It's my birthday tomorrow) Your mom's brain looks fine But her lymph cancer is spreading And it means? Her days are numbered, I'm afraid Come in What can I do for you? How much? US$1,800 Don't you take a shower first? Wait What are you thinking? Hello She's my mother I beg your pardon? In hospital. I'll come over What's happened? My mother's in hospital again Go to see her No, keep it Hey, just wait How are you feeling morn? Here you are Nice to see you Who is this lady? My student No, we've been together for a while Snowy is my name So you are in love Yup. He's been keeping it quiet That's why I don't see you often I've been looking around for dad Give me a break, would you? I've told you. He was a cop He shot a colleague before blowing his head off Haven't I told you? OK, stay calm And your name is Snowy Snowy Please keep this, Snowy What a lovely amber It's a million years old I'm like the insect inside for these years, frozen and locked up forever Don't say that You can fly out, if you tell me the whole truth Forget it. You'd take care of my son, wouldn't you? Yes She's rather weak. - Visiting time's over. - Thanks Take a sleep. We'll be with you soon Shampooing. Lesson one Never splash water on your customer's face Didn't I tell you? Handle your towel properly Hey. Be serious Mixed vegetables and gingered chickens We had so many VIPs here Chris Patten, Hillary Clinton Even Obama for next year Who is Chris Patten? Our last governor. Now people are so forgetful Your chic? She's pretty Watch over You don't look in the mood You've been searching for days I have friends in the police. Still not a clue They might not want to tell I know them well. They won't fool around Then your mom must have hidden something She's deluding herself She's been holding so much from me She must know the truth There must be something She wants to tell but she couldn't I've seen a pic of dad in uniform He'd sent it to morn That means he was really a cop You've got to find him, right? One learns wisdom at a dining table from his father at home As a kid my dining table had always been empty - I got it. - What? A cop murder must be big news Let's check out some newspaper archives Go to a city library. Eat up Here it is! (Mid-night murder) (at police station) Policeman shot colleague against bullies He turned himself in (Police murder on trial) The gun was missing We know more now, right? Professor Chan Where's he after his release? He should have nowhere to go after his release You mean he's still in Hong Kong? - Leave me alone! - Professor Chan... Go home. No ice-cream. Go home Shut up! I want ice-cream Hey, how can you be so rude? - Sorry. - Stop being nosy and get lost! You little devil. I feel sorry for your parents! Let's go home... Thank you This man just assaulted me. You thanked him I'll tell mommy! Why did your mom give me the amber? Can't you understand? A million years ago, this fly had been sunbathing His life was cut short before he knew what happened. Sad Life is so transient. At least the fly was immortalized Now he lives in a crystal heaven. I consider that lucky But his heaven looks like a tear-drop Amber means tears of a tiger in classical Chinese But tigers never cry Tigers are merciless My morn must want you to be my dictator You mean I'm a tigress A vegetarian tigeress. Or, A buddhist witch Hey, why are you here? I'm here to beat you Who do you think you are? All stand-by. We've one minute left Cam 1 on Wong on the right. Cam 2 master shot Cam 3 on Ben Ding, the beast BD is to win. My God. What a spectacle Thirty seconds... Where's his pretty wife? I wouldn't show up if I were her That would make the Beauty and the Beast How could she have married him? 15 seconds Ready? 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, pull them apart! Dr Ding, we meet again Barrister Wong, let's fight a fair battle The young are rebellious They are a bunch of anarchists They're into cyber-porn and demonstrations You, however, are hero of that rotten clan I've been fighting for their rights Dr Ben Ding, you've been a shameless spokesman for your class The poor are languishing away in cages and boxes But property prices rocket up They can hardly breathe in this Winter of Despair Only an electoral body hand-picked by Beijing can vote in this election Property tycoons suck up our blood. We want universal suffrage This is a ricked game. You're part of this dictatorship Crazy! Don't you think he's a joke! What joke? Your husband! They want to make him the mayor of Hong Kong You know what the things he's done. How can you stand it? That's beside the point. I don't have a choice Why don't you just leave him? Leave him, so we can be together I want to, but not now Trust me, I need more time HOW long? I don't know? He'll win, at least after he becomes mayor... Enough. I don't see why you have to wait What did you tell me your dream was. What did you say... You know my dream: to be with you You said you want a romance Look at this place. This is southern France. This is beautiful We can move there I'll quit my job. You can leave all the shit behind Start all over again, Now isn't that what you call change? It's not so simple How can we be together if we weren't willing to change ourselves? Andrew, I brought some clothes for you Linda! Linda! You hook up my boy! You've got me, now my son! You jerk! You don't like girls? Thank you very much! You're so versatile! You hurt mommy so much, don't you know? But you and dad never care about me! Dad's got a mistress,and you a gigolo What about me? But what about your school fees, piano classes, and skiing trips? I want you to treat me as a grown-up. Not a baby I never got what I wanted! So what did he give you? We've been close friends for months I'm happy with him Shing works so hard, I want to help him But mom's helped him with a new salon! He's been cheating on us. He's a liar! I've been true to Andrew I haven't been false with you either Now what? I'm not going to Canada. I want to help with the shop Are you mad? You haven't gone through all these years, to be a hairdresser! You've got an estate! We've made up our minds. We'll be together! It's OK Not even Beijing could help you I just want to know about this cop He was a murderer, and jailed. You think he'll still be in charge here? Don't waste your time Just go away And what do you do? A journalist? He's my father Lone Chan. Please - What's up? - Sir! This guy came for a cop named Lone Chan Claimed to be his son Lone Chan? Your father? Please sir. He's never met his dad Now his morn is dying. Please help him I thought the Hong Kong police serve the people Prove your honour, please! Stop it... You come with me. You stay The shooting took place here in 1978 I was a new guy then I knew about it What happened? PC Chan was on duty It was manslaughter Why did he kill? Had he been bullied? I have no idea Nobody from police had visited him in jail What happened since his release? You really want to find out? The bar opposite to this station, there's a heavily made-up middle-aged woman She hangs around there every Saturday night Go find her. That woman might know something The bar's name? Maya Thank you Remember, the lady in red Let's get her I can't figure out why the lady in red We just get there and look around I had been living in the dark till you lit up my world Did I? I'm flattered Thank you for being my only audience of my old Peking opera Peking, that forgotten name, not Beijing as now known It was then full of talents, our Weimar Republic They say I'm claustrophobic, they don't talk to me They say depression is hereditary I want to get away from the city's clamour I just want some quietude They think I'm a weirdo, I'm no weirdo, just a loner I'm obsessed with solitude I'm shut down My life is a dead end Sorry, I've been boring you Your father seems to be your burden If it's a burden, why do we live with it? If the state is a grim patriarchy What does liberation mean? What a puzzle Who am I here? You're getting philosophical Let's find him on Saturday Support Ben Ding! Ben Ding our next mayor! We're for DB! We love DB! If I'm in, you all get full bowl of rice! Good! Get lost, you puppet! Get lost, you loony! We are for DB! Ben, you have our support! Are you crazy? Why don't you leave him? How can you stand that? Please! How can you let him off? Shing, you've promised me! Haven't you promised me? You get out of here! I'll let go of Andrew I'll give up the salon I'll get lost for good What? Do you mean it? On two conditions And? First, I'd give up all the Salon's shares You buy them back with $20m 20 millions? You're crazy Second, Andrew will go to Canada as planned I'll go with him Oh yes? Are you good enough for the college? Don't worry. I won't be after Andrew I have been haunted by a childhood dream I want to see Niagara Falls I want to make that pilgrimage Just to be there Why don't you join a tour? I want to join you. A farewell trip Andrew will go his own way A short trip? Not more than 3 days Andrew, you have your future Your mom is right. I'm a jerk I'm a trespasser in your lives Our paths shouldn't have crossed Get back to your mother We've lived on borrowed time Don't cry Shall we do this last journey? What a cozy place. It's kind of you I've rented the whole dining room Congratulations to your celibacy I heard the latest rumour You're well-informed The rumour has travelled fast It's the hottest gossip in all the clubs Hong Kong is a village Do you remember me? Betty l'm Betty, Linda's friend Of course. I've done your hairstyle Shall I come straight? You've split up from Linda May I consider myself next in the line? I'm now in intermission I'll let you know when I'm available I wouldn't wait. I've got great plans I have good contacts in Beijing I can take you to China With a few hundred salons, we can get on to stock market With our talents, plus my network, we'll be Elizabeth and Walter Raleigh I don't ask for much Someone to carry my shopping bags Be my chorus in a karaoke Above all, occasional free hair-treatments Couldn't spot a thing It's been raining Maybe she's not there I'm starving Let's go Would you tell me about a person? Who are you? My name is Ka-lok. Do you know Lone Chan? Do you know him? So you come for my boyfriend What? This is my friend, Ka-lok, who wants to find his dad Really? My morn is very ill. I must find him My mother Come with me Where's Mr Chan? Is he away? I'm Lone Chan You don't believe it, do you? Come over We went to the same school. We were in the opera club Your morn was aggressive She was the most daring girl in school I am not interested in girls It was a crime at that time. I had to disguise I had to accept her crush. I made her pregnant Your great grandfather was furious I couldn't possibly marry her For me it was unimaginable You brought shame to our family! There must be a wedding, or you go! I left her Did you marry someone else? Mom said your in-law was a drug-dealer You killed a colleague, then killed yourself She made that up I've been single since then I joined the police, with the secret hope that I could correct myself there to conform You're way behind. Hurry up you wanker! You're just a piece of rubbish! Not you again you filthy queer! Shame on you! Get the bastard! Why joined the police? I was on late duty with that one. It was bad luck You again What? You sissy So you have a dick? Show it to me! Don't you dare? Go away! I was scared I went far away and buried the gun I turned myself in I said I had thrown the gun into the sea Guilty of manslaughter, I got out after 8 years The world had turned upside down The Brits were packing up I had nothing left So I decided to live an honest life I had to be true I went to Thailand to make a change I came back as a changed man I have been waiting so many years Day after day, at the street corner, wasting my time. Have I been waiting for you? Or my Judgement Day? For something to happen? I had no idea The moment has come, Let's get to see mom Your mom? Dad Meet her before it's too late Please pass her this message I've missed her all these years But I prefer hiding for the rest of my life lam not good enough to be your father Police never discovered the gun I dug it out after This is my previous life Would you keep it? Don't look back after you leave here You are my father forever What the hell! Do you know what time it is? What's up? Just watch this Shit Holy shit. It's dynamite stuff You know what? I live here I make a living from this place Oh come on You're the one guy that preaches about the freedom of press That's why I asked you to come here You know they have a right to know Oh yes. Something nasty happened today Yes Those cynical journalists... I totally agree. The U.S. must be behind this Hello Hey you! It's shit hitting the fan now What? Happy now? You're the only one who knew I never said a word You think I'm an idiot I tell you, they know everything Get a divorce, OK? I've done nothing! Some guys up in the North called me Sorry, no mobile in the club Get me the papers That's it! Mrs. Ding (Ding's Teenage Sex Video Exposed) Hi Something for your boyfriend? How's he like? He teaches in college I'd recommend this This looks nice What size would fit him? This will do. How much? It's $598 I'd take this Just a sec - I'd pay cash - Thanks Hi morn. Great to hear from you What? Why are you crying mom? My brother? Beaten up, in hospital? But what about dad? Don't cry morn. How much do they ask for? What about our house? Ok. I'll come back. I'll get home now Your shirt Hey, come over here! What a spectacle! Wow! Andrew, mom's got a flu Buy me some tablets, would you? Come over Thank you for spending so much time with me But I can no longer stay with you I don't belong to this place. We are from different backgrounds We are both aliens in Hong Kong You've been living in a shadow Shall I call it serendipity? I felt only I could help you to be free My home in China has been destroyed I need some money to settle this. I have to go I feel bad about leaving But I learned a lot in Hong Kong Thank you for your sharing We are both like amber, entrapped But enthralled by each other I cast away a cloud for you But I'm still looking for my blue sky An insect was fossilized by a drop of tree resin a million years ago And you have been imprisoned in your solitude I bid you farewell I hope you can fly out Keep the amber, and the instant of timelessness Take care Snowy (Reminder: New Year's Eve Party) "I feel like I can't speak" "My vision gets a little hazy" "The world around me disappears" "I slowly go a little crazy" "I hold your body close" "but my heart it isn't here" "Lost inside this silence" "Broken down in fear..." "I need to hold you" "Like it's the first night" "Take us back in time" "Press rewind" "Why can't I say what's on my mind?" "I don't wanna shutdown" "I wanna open up my heart..." Happy New Year! Happy New Year! Thank you, Linda, you have groomed me You made my dream come true You redefined my life You have been such a role model And a great mother Rest in peace, Linda We will miss you forever I've got good news from the solicitor The estate's come to me, I mean us My goodness Are you that famous journalist? You've just made a headline You have good sense Forget it. This is Andrew Hi, Andrew We just got married in Toronto He had gone thereto study But ended up graduating with me at a church Another one. How's life? Surviving Everybody ready? 10, 9, 8, 7, 6... Once more, Happy New Year! Things looks screwed up this coming year America is finished. Japan is fucked up Europe is bankrupt. Depression everywhere. Agree? The fireworks look gorgeous Tomorrow will be wonderful
