 

                        - Hi! - Ok, Francois? And you? Stephane... Francois... - Still on the team? - As ready as ever. Hello. - This one? - At the back, please. Hi, I'm Herve. A sports teacher here for 3 years. Welcome to all our new colleagues. The students can be tough... but they're good kids. Hi, I'm Olivier. I teach physical science... and I've been here for 4 years. I'm Patrick, and I teach multiplication tables, and sometimes mathematics! I've been at this school for a number of years. Hello, I'm Anne. I used to work in the Lyon suburbs. I teach English. I'm looking for my new colleagues. Hi, I'm Isabelle Nice to meet you. I'm Christiane. I'm Frederic, I teach history and geography. and I used to work out in suburbs of Paris. I'm happy to be in the city now. I'm Julie, the year supervisor. I'd like to welcome you all and wish you a good year. I'm Aline and I'm the cook I'd like to welcome you all. Thank you, Aline! Hello. I'm Gilles, I've been teaching mathematics for many years I'm retiring at the end of this year I'd like to wish the new arrivals plenty of courage. I'm Francois I teach French. And I'm starting my fourth year here Welcome everybody. We'll meet up at midday... in the canteen for a drink to mark the new year. You get Wednesday like you wanted! We could swap our classes Nice, nice... Not nice, not nice at all. He's nice. Not nice, watch him. Not nice at all. Nice, not nice. She's not nice at all. Arthur, your cap. Good morning. That's my place. Get lost! Calm down now! Stop stirring things up Remove your hood, please You two back there, there's place here. - One up front. - There's room here too! Let's get one thing clear... We waste 5 minutes lining outside, Do you realize what 15 lost minutes means? With 25 hours a week and 30 weeks in the year, we lose thousands of minutes. In other schools, they do a full work. Imagine how far ahead they get in a year Figure it out! We never do an hour. Hand up to speak. We never do an hour You always say that! Teachers say we do an hours class but we never do. All right it's 55 minutes. Thats an important point Stop saying other schools do an hour They don't! All I'm saying is that we waste time. Like now. To start with, take out a sheet of paper, fold it in two so that it can stand on the edge of your desk clearly and using block capitals, write your full name. Why write our names? To know who you are - But you know us! - We had you last year. Esmeralda, half of the kids here are new. Be happy. That way people will know your name I'm not doing it I won't if you don't You're right For those of you who dont know me, I'm Mr. Marin - A marine? - Very funny Corny! He wiped you out, sir Come on, it shouldnt take so long Five minutes to write a name It's ridiculous A biscuit for the firs day? I'm OK, thanks Rachel, a biscuit will buck you up All right. "Witty" That's word we'll try to explain later. Are there any other words that you don't understand? The word "condescension" Yes, that's a complicated word. Do you have any idea what that might mean? A vague idea but I'm not sure You're not sure? We'll talk about that later then - Yes, Damien - "Argentine". Argentine. What does that mean? It's people who live in Argentina. Right, the inhabitants of Argentina Of course not Damien, who lives in Argentina? The Argentines In a soccer match Argentina's players are called... Footballers Let's move on Any other difficult words in the text? Henriette Is there anything that you didn't understand? "Henceforth". "Henceforth". "Henceforth" Thanks for the prompt, Samantha. I think that will do, Let's take a look at these words. All right. Austrian Wey was the one who picked the word Austrian Yes, Esmeralda. We all know what "Austrian" is. - People from Austria. - Wey doesn't know and... Maybe, but everyone else knows! We get the message. You didn't know "misleading" ...so you're not really in any position to talk. But everyone knows what "Austrian" means. Nobody's perfect. - "Austrian" is not a very, important word, Wey. It refers to someone from the land of Austria, which is pretty tiny country. We can live without the word. Can anyone name a famous Austrian? Mozart. - Who? - Wol Fang Amadeus Mozart. - "Wol Fung" maybe if he were English, not Austrian. Any other famous Austrians? Austria could vanish no one would notice. Seriously, it's south of Germany. So check a map, Wey, You'll see where it is. Souleymane, ...can you note the words too? I forgot my things. No one can land you some paper... I'll do it at home. You'll do it at home. Sure you will. That's your approach Only work at home. I'm serious! If I could be sure of that... Don't worry. It'll be ok Let's move on to "succulent". "Succulent" is a word that we'll try to guess the meaning of. What's is "succulent"? Suck Suck off. Very funny, Boubacar. Very witty indeed, Here's a sentence... ...with "succulent". "Bill enjoys a succulent... ...cheeseburger. " Cheeseburgers stink! - Who said that? - Me. Why "cheeseburger"? Well, since you say that, you think cheeseburgers aren't succulent. Maybe, but they're crap. OK, but what I just said should have made the penny drop. - What does that mean? - Mean what? The penny thing... To make the penny drop, No one knows the expression? If the penny drops, it means you understand. When I say, if cheeseburger stink they're not succulent, that should help you see what "succulent" means. - What's with the Bills? - What bills? The name Bill. You always use weird names. Weird? A recent US President was called Bill. Why don't you use Aissata or Rachid or Ahmed... You always use whitey names. What names? - Honky names. - What's honky? Honkies, Frenchies, frogs. You're not French? No, I'm not French. I didn't know. I am, but not proud of it. Fine, I'm not either Why use these names? Khoumba, if I start choosing names to suit all your origins, it'll never end. Just change a little! What do you suggest? Aissata! Fatou, no! - No, Aissata. - Aissata, Aissata! Excuse me. You have class 4/3 in French? I'm class supervisor too. Know what book you'll be reading? No, I haven't decided. In history I'll start with Ancien Regime If you want to link into that, what kind of books are there? The Enlightenment will be tough for them. How about Voltaire? Is he tough? He's not easy. Candide, is simple... Not in their year Zadig... Yes, but it'd be tough You have 20 seconds. No, we've not finished yet! We've not finished yet! We can't spend 2 hours on the imperfect. Dalla, I can give you the time. Sir, my pen keeps leaking! - It's crap - Who has a handkerchief? Me! Rabah! Ask before you stand. - May I? - Yes. - Gently, Ok... - The perv! He touched her tits! Just give him the handkerchief. Spare us your comments. God dam pedophile! - Quiet! - Sir? Why the imperfect indicative? Cut it out! - Why not just imperfect? - Quiet, Souleymane. All right, Esmeralda, why the indicative? If I knew, I wouldn't ask. I can imagine. Anyone know why we specify the imperfect indicative? Why not just the imperfect? Nassim? May I wash my hands? Go on, wash them and get it over with. Make it quick. He'll take a week! - I'll go with him. - Enough The imperfect indicative is different than another imperfect Which imperfect is that? Agam? - The imperfect subjunctive. Exactly. The Imperfect subjunctive. Can anyone give me an example? I don't believe it, Khoumba, but go on. I may be wrong... I think so too. - I were - I were. From the verb "to werr" - I don't know... - I wuz. I were, we were, you were All right. Not bad but you use it wrongly. You vaguely recall the imperfect subjunctive. Imagine I say: "He insist... "that I be... " Let's say "in shape". "He insists that I be in shape" What is "be" in that example? The present subjunctive. Very good. For the imperfect subjunctive, we follow the sequence of tenses and use a past: "He insisted... " - "He insisted that I... " Khoumba? - Were. - Were. Yes. You really think I'll tell my mom: "He insisted that I were'd been in shape? Not I were'd been. Learn to use it first "That I were in shape" - The sequence of tenses. - No one says that. I was right! "I were". Will you let me answer the question? If you care. - You may. - Before mastering something, the imperfect subjunctive, you're telling me it's no use. Start by mastering it, then you can call its use into question. Sir, why are you criticizing us? They're right, that's the way people talked in the old days. Even my gran didn't say that. Or your great granddad It's from the Middle Ages! No it isn't. It is! It's bourgeois... Tell me, when was the last time you heard someone talk like that? Yesterday, with friends, we used the imperfect subjunctive. No, someone normal! All right, all right. The people on the streets... Can I reply? Yep. I'll talk this over, but calmly. All right, not everyone talks that way. In fact, people who do are pretty rare. I'd even say only snobs... ...use the imperfect subjunctive. What's a snob? Snobs are slightly affected, slightly precious people who tend to put on airs. Homosexuals? No, not homosexuals... You can be affected and refined without being homosexual. In any case, this register may seem formal and a bit affected, and even bourgeois. But these different registers exist ...as I keep telling you, ...you need to be able to use them ...Familiar, current, formal, oral and written. Move between them and use them all. Yes, Lucie? How do we know what's written and what's for oral? Why is a word more one for one register? Normally, that's something that you pick up as you go along You need to use intuition. What's this? Intuition is when you can't use thinking When you can't really... It's not knowing but more like sensing something. When you sense things What if you don't sense? If you don't sense them, well You gain intuition by using the language. That's when you learn to distinguish... almost automatically between oral and written styles. - Souleymane wants to say something. - Shut it. What does he want to say? Go on! Calm down Cut it out. No fighting - I'll whop you - Don't act tough! What's wrong? Boubacar, turn around. - What is it? - Nothing - Apparently not. - Don't send him to the principal. If I tell you, I'm good for Guantanamo. Guantanamo! Guantanamo! I'll be tased! You won't be tased. - You have a question? - Yep So ask it - It's too wicked - It's not It's the pits for you - Just ask it - I have your word? - Hurry up This is what I heard, ok? I didn't say it but I heard... People say you like men. I didn't say it! - Who says that? - Just people They say Mr. Marin likes men" Others say that, not you? - You not interested? - No way - So why do you ask? - For the others. I'm spokesman - But you don't care? - If you like men, fine - So is it true? - You are asking me. Homosexual isnt an insult, sir. You say it isn't but it seems to be a problem for you. You find it odd, men liking men. Maybe it is, I don't know It is true or not? No, it's not. Feel better now? Yeah? Sure. Sorry to disappoint you. All right, if Souleymane doesn't mind now he's settle his hang-ups, let's get back to the imperfect indicative. Yeah, like that! Not bad - What are you doing? - Stop. - What's up? - Get lost Who asked you? Look at your mug - Get lost - It's fucking ok! Take these jerks, then we'll see Go on, show me your backs - These guys suck. - Another one. - Classy display - You bet - Got one for me? - Can't afford it - How much? - Too much! Stop thinking I'm broke like you! She screwed up there She thinks it's regular verb No the verb's swim. Swimmed. Justine! "Swimmed"! Justine, work it out yourself Swummed. That's better, it mixes the two. Swammed! She put swemmed - Ok, thank you - Try swommed You can sit down Let's see. Let's see She cant write She cant write? Can you, Rabah? - You bet - Go on then Conjugate it properly - Swummed - No Continue. Swammed Wrong again Just kidding - Its not like that - So what is it? Without an I Right, no I Why make fun of Justine, when you cant do better? Justine wasnt so wrong Thats enough You cant focus for more than 20 seconds like 3 year olds People aged 14 or 15 like youre supposed to be If I ask a question they should know Your kidding around goes too far! Not at all - Everyone thinks so - Dead right Everyone thinks so or only you think so? No, everyone! I think you push it. If I cut you some slack, you'll never get anywhere You go too far! And you know why Im sick of these clowns! Sick of them! I cant take any more Theyre nothing, they know nothing... they look right through you when you try to teach them They cat stay in their shit Im not going to help them Theyre so basic, so insincere ...always looking for trouble Go ahead, guys ...Stay in your crap neighborhood Youll be here all yours lives and it serves you right Ill see the principal and tell him Im not working with 3/2 again. No more technology for the rest of the year. Too bad Its been three months now and they havent done a single thing Have you seen them in the yard? Its like theyre in heat Theyre all over each other, like animals Its crazy. Its the same in class Kevin spent a whole hour doing Ive never seen the like of it in 5 years! Enough, no more! Were not animals! Sorry Im Its dumb. Come on. Let's get some air One extract isnt a lot to read No one did it? Were wasting time here Lets read it again then Who wants to read? Great! Excellent work atmosphere today. Khoumba, go on. No way. You wont read? I dont want to The class revolves around your desires? - I dont want to read - Dont care What did Khoumba just do? - Wey? - Sneer I meant her attitude, What did she show? Insolence. Thats right, youre an expert Youre all angrulo with me What is this? - Thats not true Try saying it in French. What am I? Angrulo Say it in everyday French - Youve got it in for me - Thats normal French I just want you to read I have the right to ask you to read, dont I? Dont you think so? - No. No one has read it and youre picking on me. Im not. I want to work and Ive chosen you as I have the rights to. Drop it. Shut up and start reading I wont read You tell me to shut up, then to read. What is this? Whats what? Make your mind up, Think it through Well talk it over after class It wont be fun - Sure You wont say that later Esmeralda, are you on strike too or can you read for us? Its her life In that case, will you read for us? I'd be delighted to All right, were listening "Dear Kitty Im known as a bundle of contradictions. "As Ive told you several times... ..."my soul is split in two "my mocking approach to everything, my joy in life, ..."On one side my exuberant cheerfulness ..."and my ability to take things lightly "By that I mean not seeing any wrong in flirting... ..."giving a kiss, embracing someone, ..."or telling a tasteless joke "That side lies in wait pushing back the other side... ..." which is more beautiful, purer and deeper. "The truth is that no one knows, ..."Anne's better side... ..."and that's why most people... ..."can't stand me. "I can be an amusing clown for an afternoon ..."but then everyone "has had enough of me, ..."So the nice Anne has never once, ..."been seen in company "But, in her loneliness, she always triumphs. "My best to you. Anne Franck. Anne's diary ends here It ends here. Why? Because the police turned up at the rooms ...where they were hiding and deported them. She died shortly after ...That's what I asked earlier We talked about it. I learn about Anne Frank because she talks about herself and so I get to know her. When I ask you to write your own self-portraits, ...I'll expect the same. ...In other words, to learn things through your feelings, ...You can talk about facts... ...that will allow me to know you better. Yes, Lucie? What we write won't be as gripping as... as what Anne Franck wrote Our lives aren't as gripping. - All right Juliette? Someone aged 70 could talk about their life, ...but we have nothing to tell at 13, At 14, 15 or even 13 you've had experiences - Less then someone aged 70 Theyve live a lot more. - OK - Theyve seen life. Its funny. You dont think your lives are interesting. We just come to school, go home, eat and sleep. You come to school, eat, sleep, fine The bare facts of your life are dull But what you feel is interesting - Thats my business Maybe, but Im interested Thats different Why is it different? Because you're a teacher. Its not the teacher talking. - Its the human being - Its your job I think youre only saying that to get us to talk and stuff ...but its not true. It isnt? What isnt true? The fact that youre interested in knowing all that So Im not interested at all ...and Im pushing at this ...to convince you its interesting? Not as much as you say Maybe I am exaggerating a little. Its only natural since you dont agree with me But, deep down, Im totally sincere Why it is such a problem for you ...to talk about your lives? Boubacar. Well there stuff... Theres private stuff. Of course What could be hard to say about your private lives? Burak. - We may be ashamed to say certain things Yes, it has to do with shame. Things you find it hard to say and even harder to write. On your life, when were you ashamed? You can be ashamed of pal's mom... Why? Because you find her ugly? No. For instance, Rabah's mom, She offered me lunch but I refused because I was ashamed Ashamed to eat with her? Because its beneath you? - No. I dont understand, Tell me why. Im ashamed to eat with her because I respect her. You never eat with people who you respect? I mean, shes not my girlfriend! You can only eat with a girlfriend... Tell me why. Im interested I cant explain it. In any case, Im ashamed I always hang out with Rabah so I respect his mom I dont eat in front of her So if Boubacar eats in front of us he doesnt respects us No, its not that! - You cant understand. - Im not smart enough? You just cant understand. Rabah? I was at a party with Camemberters Camemberters? Yeah, like you What's a Camemberter? Someone who stinks of cheese So the people at the party stank of cheese? They were all in suits and ties. I was in my baggies and got these weird looks You were ashamed? Because of the looks They were embarrassed because of you ...and you felt the same They werent embarrassed They looked at me like I was an E.T. You are an E.T.! "Whys that Arab here?" Ok, so it was a race thing I dont know But the snacks were bacon-flavored So I... abstained Right. Bacon, ham... Ok, I get it Wey... Young people now have no shame. Young people now? Like you? Yeah - Drop your briefs! - They have no shame Its normal. Always normal Are you like them? - No. - Are you ashamed? Yes, ashamed of them. Ill waste your ugly mug! Anyone can speak, but you stay polite, OK. So why are you ashamed for them? They have no shame They yell, they hit each other. They make jokes, bother others. No shame Wey, arent you confusing shame and discipline? You find the others... rowdy and impolite. It can be shameful too Louise? You can be ashamed of your appearance Absolutely Tell me Louise what are you ashamed of? My ears Your ears? Can we see? Youre ashamed of your ears? Whats wrong with them? They stick out - You think they stick out - Mine too I think that covers it all. You have all you need to figure it out Take out your exercise books. Note the following exercise for next Thursday Its very simple: Write your self portrait. A self-portrait isnt an autobiography. I dont want your life story Describe yourself and your personality. Well read them in class ...and see how we can use them Khoumba. You know I want to see you Give me your report book Why? You know why. No, give it to me. Politely. Thats enough now Put your photo on it Is it normal to refuse to read when teacher asks you to? Is that normal? Theres others in the class. I cant turn a blind eye to this. Can I? OK. What happened this summer? What happened during the vacation? - I didnt see you - I know. Im intrigued. At the end of the year in June ...wed gotten on pretty well together You participated in class. Since September, since the start of this year, Youre not cooperative, ...You keep sulking, You refuse to read... What happened? I dont like reading now. Can you hurry, please? No, I wont hurry! Explain. Why have things changed all of a sudden? I cant stay a kid forever So its a kid thing to cooperate? That's it - There's others in the class. Of course, when you work, it's I havent finished. My moms waiting for me I want an apology first An apology for what you did "I apologize for being insolent, sir" Sorry. Ok? No, not sorry. "I apologize for being insolent" Go ahead "I apologize, sir" - "No, I apologize for being insolent" Be sincere. I want a real apology Can you hurry up, please? - My moms waiting - For your apology Lets deal with this I want a sincere apology ...thatll stand for the rest of the year We wont go on like this I apologize for being insolent. More conviction! Im not saying it 50 times - You two, What are you up to? Were waiting Hurry, Im listening I apologize for being insolent. May I go now, please? I didnt mean it Two weeks ago, at the last meeting the teachers suggested introducing a penalty point system for the students ...based on the driving license system If student broke a rule ...they would lose points As its teachers idea, Ill let them to speak Since last September... ...weve noticed an increase in problems within the school. Punishment has no effect on the students So we had the idea ...of a penalty system The students would have for example six points each and depending on the misdeed theyd lose one or two points. And when they run out of points? They go before the disciplinary committee. As a parents representative... ...this is typical of the schools bad habits You always condemn the students... ...but never praise them They earn praise on their own They do it with their grades, by moving up a class and we do it in staff meetings... ...by encouraging them to work. Theres the honor roll, the congratulations. that all counts. In your system ...you take away points for misdeeds but why not further ...and give points to those who do good things? Like gold stars. Im all for praising the students. but if student collect points and end up with 34 points, say, ...That leaves room for all kinds of trouble, ...we cant control Without going as far... as these imaginary 34 points ...six points to start with, means they can cause trouble without punishment. Losing a point or two isnt a real punishment. It can create a dangerous sense of impunity. For me, the ideas totally wrong-headed. In that case, ...we could find a punishment ...where the students lose all their points in one go... But why bother with the points in that case? Its tricky - What you call a sense of impunity gives us a room to maneuver, ...When youre dealing with punishments. that are cut and dried, you cant adapt them to each case I dont agree The rules apply in the same way ...to all the students They break them, theyre punished If not, why bother with rules? Dealing with extremely strict rules ...creates the greatest tension... Take cell phones We agreed on a rule... ...that cell phones were not allowed in class Sorry, but I break that rule ...because it wasnt problem for me Theres room to be tolerant. The reign of the arbitrary. No, the law and the spirit of the law. We could talk all night but its not possible We have other topics to tackle. In particular, one vital issue, a very sensitive one, concerning the staff coffee machine. Its a sensitive issue, all right Theres a real problem this year... ...The price of a coffee has gone up from 40 centimes to 50 centimes That may seem petty... ...but with several coffees a day, ...at 8, 10 or 4 in the afternoon... it works out a lot ...So we've clubbed together to buy a coffee maker. - That way we can drink as much coffee as we want... ...without having to count. - Mr. Pierre will be delighted to reply. - First of all, this machine was installed in 2001... to replace a machine ...that needed the intervention of... ...an outside company for restocking ...repairs etc. It was very expensive And not at all profitable We switched to the new machine, which isnt profitable yet Im sorry to hear that! And so we increased ...the price of coffee by ten centimes. The thing has to be economically viable - Nobodys shocked? - Its clear and logical for me. - Good evening. Dont move - We have to go We havent finished " Respect " Adolescents learn to respect their teachers... ..." because of threats... ..." or the fear of having problems " For starters, I respect you... ..." and respect must be mutual For instance, I didnt say youre hysterical ..." so why do you say I am? " Ive always respected you ..." so I dont understand why I have to write this. " I know you have it in for me but dont know why. " I shall sit at the back... ..." to avoid any other conflicts. " unless you come looking for them. " I admit I can be insolent... ..." but only if provoked. " I wont look at you again,. " so you cant say my look is insolent. " In theory, in French class, ..." you talk about French, not your grandma or sister ..." or girls periods. " And so, from now on, ..." I wont spell to you again.. " Signed Khoumba. - What is it? - Secret. - A secret? - A secret. It wont stay a secret for long. Esmeralda, Why have you changed places? No reason. I felt like it. - A problem? - No, not at all. No problem. I wanted a change of scene. Ok, thats enough. Lets get to work. No, sir, please! Please, sir! Youre just copying what you did at home Youve had plenty of time Esmeralda. I have to? Yes, absolutely. My name is Esmeralda Ouertani. I'm 14... ...I live on Allee du Pere Dhuit... ...Paris 20, ...with my two parents and my three brothers and sisters. Later, ...Id like to be a policewoman... ...because people say all policeman are bad, ...and so we need good ones. If not, Id like to be a rapper... ...and Im fan of Bakar, Medine, ...Younes, Marvin and Mafiak1 Fry. Otherwise, I like eating, sleeping and hanging out in the hood. Or rather? - The neighborhood. - You can say it right. When you write, you use the standard style... Dont make me correct you. Wey, go on. My names Wey, Im Chinese. Im 15, I have two sisters, Im the youngest. My hobby is playing video games at least 4 hours a day. I find it hard using French correctly. Its so hard expressing myself... ...that others dont understand me. Thats why I dont communicate much. I hardly ever go out. Nothing much interests me outside... The environment doesnt suit me here since Im allergic ...but i dont know what. Allergic to yourself, thats what. Thats good, Wey. I feel I know you better... ...after hearing your self portrait. Thats the goal. To tell us things. Hes just happens to be good, not ours No, not at all. I can congratulate Wey and I'd gladly congratulate you, if you manage to do it well. Rabah, read us... your self portrait - No. How can I congratulate you if you dont? I dont need that. Make your mind up Were listening. My name's Rabah. Im 14. I listen to rap. I love my village in Kabylia and go there every year. I like music, rap and slam. I have two brothers but I dont like school. I dont like tramps. I like Zidane. I like to talk and I like Psy 4 de la Rime's videos, ...Go Marseille! We can manage without Marseille. Go Paris! We dont need it in a self-portrait - Thats all. - He skipped two lines. Cut it out. Go, dude. Boubacar! - I like to make love I like to look good for the women and I like summer, ...to see girls cleavage. Why not, Rabah? I never wrote that. It looks like your writing. No way! Theres no shame in liking cleavage. It's not a sin. Souleymane stop rocking and read your self-portrait. - Im very curious - Huh? No, not huh. I wrote nothing. - I saw your writing earlier - No, I wrote nothing You did - Nothing - We're listening. I'm Souleymane. I have nothing to say about me because no one knows me but me - Bravo! - All right Thats good. A bit long maybe You cant make the effort that the others did? I dont talk about myself. How come the others do? Thats their problem I dont talk about my life He just cant write, that's all! What's up, you cop? You talking to me, cop? I can live with it - Enough! - Arrest guys... ...instead of talking to me. Got your cuffs? Your breath stinks! - Chill. - Heard of Aquafresh? Souleymane there's no need to be offensive. Need a toothbrush? Souleymane, ...Youre a lot better at oral insults than writing He cant even write his name. Zip it! What does this say? Spare us your Koran. Shut it. Whats wrong with the Koran. Ill spare you when you calm dawn Its the Koran. Bullshit! Whats that tattoo, Souleymane? Why are you showing it? He claims it's Koran What is it? Why are you showing us? It means shut your mouth. It doesnt mean that So give us the real translation Go on, tell us I dont want to You show it in my class so tell us. It says here, right here: "If your words are less important than silence, keep quiet. " What I said Its not what you said. Why isnt it the same? Its different. I think it sounds better Yes its better put. If only you could write such interesting things on paper, that would be great I think so too. That proves you can do it. After these fires few self-portraits, Id like you, to rewrite them and polish them... ...making sure you answer the questions that we listed: what I like and dont like... my qualities and flaws who Id like to be? Come in. Stand up please. Good morning. That goes for those at the back too Come on, stand up. Cherif, you heard me? Everyone has to stand. Its a way of greeting an adult It doesnt mean submission or humiliation. Good. Sit back down Ive come to introduce a new student. Carl. Try to make him welcome... ...until the end of the year. Thank you Carl, go sit in the third row, in that free place Khoumba, move your things Take a sheet of paper and a pen and try to catch up with the others ...Well talk after Dont forget the homework for Monday without fail. Lets finish with this Carl, stay here a minute or two Welcome I dont know if you know but I'm Mr. Marin, your class supervisor. If theres a problem, tell me. I know who you are... why youre here The principal told me but that doesnt matter for me We'll start from scratch here It will all go well. Youve seen that we... Were on self-portraits to be handed in next Monday. - Maybe you could do one too - OK. Know when the next class is? Monday, 9.30 Good. You like French? Like everyone, I guess. That doesnt mean much. Ok, off you go. Good bye You know what a self-portrait is? - Yes. - Youre sure? Yes. Have a good day. Pleased to meet you Sit down, please. Thank you for coming I know it isnt easy We're very pleased with Wey Very pleased. All the teachers at the staff meeting said so. He's kind, he's pleasant... It's good to have him in class. And its showing in his grades. we have... the usual good grades in mathematics. He's doing well there In French, we have a 9 here Not a lot He doesnt speak French very well yet but thats only normal He speaks a lot. He tells me about a lot of things. He talks about his computer Hes into that Always too late He works too late? Yes, too late, not sleep good. After, school not good. ...Eyes get sick after He may spend a lot of time on the computer but things are fine at school for now He works well and he doesnt seem tired Nassim... Id like him to do... He can go far. He has all he needs At his age, I wasnt that lucky Im behind him Anything he needs, I get him But he has to do right Things are good at home with him but Id like him to keep on studying Me and his mother, wed like to be proud of him Thats what we ask of him I think we all agree on what we need to do. Its crazy how alike you are We're lookers in family Youre right. An adolescent who talks with his family, ...who has good grades, ...who has friends, even if hes a bit of a loner, ...hes an outcast? Hes a boy who talks with adults, who exchanges with them Maybe he doesnt with you but that means ...hes just a teenager trying to define himself. I was useless at school for years, ...I rejected the idea of marking us fit in with the system. Do his black clothes bother you? The way he looks? I dont get it. Id like him to go to the best, to Henri IV. Why? Standards again... Because they have very high standards. A mother wants the best for her son Shes scared Ill feel lost in high school because of others ...went to fancy private schools. and Dolto Hogh isnt like that Its a pity that the teachers... I don't want to accuse anyone Go on, accuse us. Its a pleasure Why dont you try ...to push the better students ...a little harder, say? They get bogged down by other students... ...who arent as good My mom makes stuff up. Dolto High isnt useless. - I didnt say useless, I said average I didnt call it useless - We talked about Souleymane a great deal... ...at the staff meeting Many teachers have complained about his attitude ...that is very negative. What? Many complain... ...that he comes without his things, ...When he comes, as hes often absent - I think you know that - No we didnt know Souleymane tells us he works hard She doesnt think so. - There have been notes in his report book... ...since September, 3 month now Notes about the problems he was having. - She signs them without knowing because she cant read. You read the notes too? Yes, but I'm just his brother. You see? But you knew there was a problem? - No, I didnt know. He says things are fine when I ask Does he work at home? He stays in his room She doesnt understand the notes I realize that You know the situation now I'm telling you officially: there's a problem - Talk to him. - I'll talk to him about it Just having an idea. Maybe conversation with his father could help. I'll talk to my father and see what we can do We're not settling scores. We want to improve things - Your mom? - You bet. - Ugly old crow! - She hates photos Me and my bro pissed her off Sir! Souleymane has a photos ...for his self-portrait Cut it out, my photos are crap. - Thats a good idea. - Get your down Painters do self-portraits - I'm no painter - Yes, I know that. Let's go Caps, please I spend all my free time playing the guitar. If youre typing, hurry and finish to let the others... ...type up their self-portraits Souleymane, Dont blow the place up! - You know what youre doing? - Yeah As a computer genius youll put it all back after. Dont worry. Im counting on you. - Ok, Carl? - Yes, sir - I cant see it? - No, not yet. Sir? How do you spell Lafayette? - How do you mean? - Like Galeries Lafayette. Why mention that? I go there often so I want to add it Wow! Thats four metro stops A huge leap from your neighborhood We're not Hicks We're city kids Really? You go into the center of Paris? I go everywhere. The 1st, the 5th, the 20th, the 12th, the 19th Why do you go to the 5th? In the 5th, I go to see pals ...in high school Near Luxembourg. The Luxembourg gardens? Not the gardens, Luxembourg. The country? No, the Luxembourg metro station! So you do get out and about I see you two have made up - It's our business - And not yours So, how do you spell Lafayette? Lafayette is L-A-F-A-Y-E-T-T-E. With a capital Much better now! Much better Yes, that is a good photo - You could add a legend. - A legend? Like a story or tale. A caption under the photo like in papers. You mean, like in Le Parisien? Yes, like in Le Parisien What could you put? Who is she? - My old woman. - Meaning? - My mother - You could say she's your mother. Then you could explain ...why she's making this gesture to the photographer They'd pissed her off I'm not gonna write that! - So why is she doing that? - She hates photos So write that "My mother hate having ..."her photo taken". That's a legend. - Understand? - Yeah Do that with all the photos and you're set - Printed everything? - Yeah, Im good Excellent What are you doing now, sir? As you can see, Im putting the photos up ...to get a global view The others read out, their self-portraits ...so youre going to put yours... ...on show. You know my photos suck Not at all, theyre very good Sure When a student does good work, ...I let the whole class see it Youre just winding me up No, I wind you up if I feel ...you can do better. This is good. That's bullshit If you've finished, come and take a look ...at Souleymane's masterpiece Slowly I'll straighten them Look at the tattoo! You're hideous! I like playing soccer I like playing computer games I like playing with pretty girls I like vacations in the Carribean I like fries, zouk and dancehall music I like watching MTV Base and I like my parents and my brother. I like my pals and staying up all night I like the series on the slave trade I like my hood I like the series Homeland Security I like eating in restaurants and going wild. I hate people crying for no reason I hate techno and tectonic I hate guys and girls who show off I hate visiting my brother in jail I hate talent contest shows on TV I hate politicians, the war in Iraq, Goths and skaters I hate teachers who are too strict I hate mathematics, racists and I hate Materazzi I hates the Paul Eluard school and I like being here I have something to say Could you listen to me, please? I have something to say The mother of Wey ...a student in 4/3 has been arrested She was in France illegally. She has been picked up and may be tried next week She may be deported to China. I thought you should know as its important She's been here 3 years now! I know but that's how it goes, wrong place, wrong time Not the father? He doesnt have papers either but they dont bother him To start with as lawyers cost a lot we could do a collection and maybe even go to court to try have some influence on the verdict Will Wey have to leave? Not for now but you never know. Well, I feel kind of pathetic after that I had something to tell you, ...but this isnt a good time Youve said too much now I'm pregnant That calls for a celebration! How far gone? Two months. I'll only have a drop Just a drop Bravo, Vincent! I didnt do it on purpose! Who shook it? Any names yet? If its a boy, say? ...You already know? If its a boy, I like Enguerran. Seriously? What a handicap! That won't be easy I hope not. Thanks a lot! You all have a glass? Hold on a second I have two wishes I have two wishes My first wish is that Wey's mom stays in France And my second wish ...is that my child will be as intelligent as Wey "Jackie Chan"! C'mon, play I didnt do nothing He just fell! Play, Souleymane - What do you say, Mali man? - Whats up, you Caribbean shit? Malian bastard! Motherfucker Cmon lets play! - Caribbean fag! - Ill waste the fucker Shut up Blow Thierry Henri, faggot Stand there. Talk loud enough for them to hear and try to convince them. Go ahead The African Cup of Nations will be starting soon I'm glad Morocco's playing It's the best team in the world in my opinion. The sick thing is that my pals, the Malians aren't playing. It's tough for them. They weren't good enough to qualify. Morocco would have let them play on a friendly basis... but 4-0 is really hurts - 4-0 how? - Last time ...Mali played Morocco, they wasted 4-0 But the weird thing is ...when Mali doesn't play ...it's like all the Africans here, ...aren't African With each cup, they all go crazy but when Mali doesnt play, they keep a low profile. Weird. So, whether Mali plays in the African Cup of Nations or not, ...the Africans in this class feel more or less African. Ok. Thank you, Nassim. I get the feeling your words are directed ...at your neighbor, Souleymane Morocco jerk's ...not even on my radar, Arthur is next I see you have your notes just like a politician - Exactly - That's good Speak up Arthur. Esmeralda, let him speak first I want to defend my look ...A lot of people say it sucks I dont dish your clothes, so you dont dish mine. Clothes are freedom of speech I dress how I want you dress how you want, ok I dress like this to be different ...and not follow the others like sheep. You're the sheep here! I feel better being myself and not being like others I also think if there were 22 goths here, ...and one guy like you you'd keep quiet then There's a contradiction in what you say You want to be you. Are those clothes you? Those clothes are worn by a huge number of people Most people who wear them are gloomy inside ...so we're all kind of alike - You're all alike, you're all gloomy, so thats not you. By being different You're different and the same. Thank you for taking a stand ...and being brave enough to do so Boubacar, go on Boubacar, my pal Listen to him Ive come up to reply to Nassim He says that since Mali isnt in the Africa Cup of Nations black Africans have no team to support But he's forgetting Ivory Coast! With an ace player Didier Drogba He beats any Moroccan He plays for Chelsea What Moroccan plays in England? They're not up to it I'm through. Thanks, Boubacar I think that rectification was indeed... ...indispensable Who wants to speak now? Carl, go on Actually, I'd like to say they're starting to piss us off... ...with the Africa Cup At recess you're there pissing us off with your cup It hasn't even started yet... Carl, I'll be polite with you Sorry to interrupt, but tell me, what's your national team? France Why do you say you're Caribbean... ...rather than French? We're French. It's a French region Why don't you ever say you're French? - It's the same - I don't think so Look at the players. Thierry Henri, Wiltord ...Abidal, Thuram... Where does Diarra play? He won't play in Mali, bro, he's not crazy enough. Shut your mouth, pal, I'm not your bro! An ape like this jerk No need to loose your cool. We can talk calmly! That isnt a slanging match. Its a debate. Souleymane, watch your language He's fuming! Clam up. Go get fucked! No vulgarity - I aint talking to you, man - Im talking to you Is that any way to talk to a teacher? That's enough now You're coming with me - I'm talking to you - Don't start yelling at me, ok I'll get you, faggot You just cant talk normally? Shut up, ape Nobody else moves Hurry it up - Move it - Hands off! Arent you sick of assing around? Sorry to bother you I have a troublemaker who's been disrespectful in class. I didnt ask you to sit down, Souleymane. My class is waiting Sit down now. I'm listening Will you tell me what happened? A teacher should have to leave his class to bring you here? "Results ..."too uneven "Too much talking in class Now let's move on to Louise, present here today A total disaster. What can we do with you? No, good work Always good, I'd say It's a joy having a student like her. We need to say it. Shall we offer this young lady a commendation? I'm sorry, but I don't ...totally agree with you. She's relatively well-placed in the class from a numerical angle But a commendation? There's room for progress, huge room for progress and I dont think her general attitude ...really merits a commendation That's the problem with commendations ...Are they purely numerical and mathematical or are they also to do ...with her attitude and behavior as top of the class? That means, to get commendation, ...you have to be an excellent student ...and, at the same time, be a class leader? So a commendation this term Louise is intelligent ...and will realize she can do better to satisfy you Now, Cherif ...Our friend Cherif I have a problem with Cherif ...He's a kid with abilities he could do well could easily give him 17/20 ...but he spends so much time talking ...and disturbing the class, ...his average grade is poor And that's a pity His behavior's irregular. He can be a disaster and you cant do a thing with him or he can be really good - What does Cherif get? A warning about his work or his behavior? For me, behavior, ...not work - In my class, it's more his work - Thats a problem. It's more like a work problem looking at his grades. Mathematics: 6 French: 8 History and geography: 9 English: 9,5 Excuse me! Science 12. Music 11 His grades are pretty low but ...it seems to be a behavior problem Why don't we put that for now and say he can work harder? So I'll put Cherif ..." can succeed as long as ..." his attitude changes ..." in relation to his work. " Let's move on to Souleymane Someone else can start. What do we say? Nothing good. - What else? - We already discussed him in the first term. We said it all He has huge weakness, notably in written French I dont think theres anything particularly new this term Feeling better, Esmeralda? I didnt know being class rep was such fun We were talking about Souleymane In relation to what Francois just said, he forgot his things most of the time this term ...and didnt do much Its not just that, Its way beyond that Sir! Hes more and more unruly He prevents the others from working. Can I say something? If you put the biscuit away. Remember, you arent allowed to eat in classroom Well, his overall grade has gone from 6,75 to 7,25. We're not discussing his grades ...but his behavior for now I have the impression ...we need to consider disciplinary action His attitude's wrong It's simple. Every other class I throw him out I dont even throw him out anymore, ...Hes only too happy when I do. I dont think disciplinary action will help... ...because things will get ...really bad then Theyre already really bad Its gone too far. Its like hes mad at the others for being normal I'll remind you Mr. Marin ...you brought him to me yesterday. Yes, but it was this year's first incident. He was disrespectful, I set a limit I did what I did but I dont think it will go any further than that I dont have any real complaints, ...apart from yesterday Our job isn't to make sure students sit quietly at the back and dont cause any trouble. We have to bring them out! I wont do that with threats or punishment, ...I'd rather stress his good work. Some things interest him. He can come out with some pretty good stuff Simply because he does ...something positive now and then, ...we let him sink and wallow in his hole... ...and we do nothing. You just want to buy social harmony. That said, what do we say? What do we do? A warning? I dont think a warnings what he needs. Maybe we should say he has reached his limit, ...because hes limited scholastically. Thats all well and good but Im dim and have a line to fill. What do we put? Its not right ...saying that Three rhymes per verse. What do you call that? - Verses of three lines... Wey? - A tercet Very good And four rhymes would be? A quatrain From quatre, four Tercet, three rhymes. Quatrain, four How many syllabes per line? Can you tell me that? Khoumba. I know here are 10 You know that? - Want me to show you? - Yes. "Noir-dans-la-nei-ge... ..."et-dans-la-bru-me. " Thats 10 You say that and... ...You have two ...extra syllables by counting the mute Es. Dont count them, theyre mute That makes 8 ...We can underline each syllable I'll come back to that one Two octosyllables and one four-syllable line - What is it? - A problem, Is 11.47 the number of syllables here? No, my grade. It's down! They lowered my grade! What's that to do with poetry? Who gave you your grade? You shouldn't have it yet Esmeralda told me So the class reps ...did do something after all I took a load of notes! I got the impression you weren't ...really following the meeting - I noted all! Louise, I'm delighted you've done a good job passing on information... Let's get back to this poem The rule is to count in front of a consonant... A question What? I heard you really wiped me out ...at the meeting yesterday Another remark about poetry, I see. No, it isnt Yes, I know it isnt about poetry What do you mean? I dunno. You wiped me out Some teachers, not me, ...said if you carry on like this you'll be in trouble, ...not wiped out. That's revenge. I don't get it Why do for revenge? How come it's revenge? If you say stuff about me getting in trouble, that's revenge It's not revenge at all We're not on the streets It's a warning Our goal here isn't revenge, ...it's discipline - Get the difference? - I don't get it. When a judge sends someone to jail, ...he doesn't do it to get revenge ...It helps society run smoothly You just want revenge. You're riffed with me. All I care about is revenge? I wake up and say I'll get Souleymane today? You insulted him yesterday anyhow. He really laid into you! I did not. What did he say, Louise? That you were limited. ...I underlined it, I was so shocked Me? Limited? Brilliant... Esmeralda, Louise, ...What's your role as class reps? You represent the students to help this class work or you stir up trouble for me? We just do our job. Wicked! We report on the meeting. Of course. I didn't realize When I saw you snigger ...at the meeting, I felt bad for you It wasn't the place or time It didn't look very serious Nobody minded in any case - They did! - Only you No, it bothered me and I think it bothered the others too No. It only bothered you Sorry, but laughing like that made you look like two skanks. What? Have you just lost it? That's a bad thing! You can't dump on us The word is insult. You're crazy insulting on us. You say "dump on" or "insult" It's either one or the other, ok. Yeah keep on talking! In fact I never said you were skanks, ...I said that at one point ...in the meeting ...you acted like skanks. Understand? Don't try to con us, you said skanks I'm just explaining the difference. Sir, you don't talk to girls like that! Look who's talking! ...You always insult everybody! He wants revenge on the girls No way. The noble knight riding to rescue act, ...wont wash! You dont talk to me, man! Show some respect! I will if I want! You're heading for trouble! Think you're tough? It's a question of discipline! I'll take you anytime! Stop playing the big short - Calm down - Stay outta this Cut it out! Don't touch me! Dont touch me. You're crazy! Cut it out What are you doing? I'm outta here You can't just walk out of my class. Are you nuts? - Calm down - Let go of me Stop it - Let me go - Ah! - Where are you going? - Let go, fucker Pathetic Fuck What do we do? I think we need to convene the disciplinary committee This is starting to add up it begins with disrespect, then the fight, ...with a student injured, ...and finally he leaves the class without permission. There was only one incident and it all spread out from there. One thing led to another, ...a chain reaction. Well ...what I can do is take a protective measure ...since this is so serious ...by suspending Souleymane for 48 hours. That'll give us a little time ...to reach a decision OK. Shall we do that? However, I need to see you tomorrow. Could you come to my office? - Good bye. - Good bye Francois! I need a word with you There's a rumor going around... A rumor? Some students came to see me and told me... ...you insulted them Who? Louise and Esmeralda? They told me ...you called them skanks ...and that led to the incident ...with Souleymane And you believe them? That's why I needed to see you. You didn't mention it in your incident report... I didn't mention it. What can I say? - Did you do it or not? - What? - Did you... - Hi! Hi. Did you call them skanks? But Souleymane's another matter! I know it had nothing to do with him But word's getting around. People are talking. I wanted ...to let you know - Thanks for letting me know. Hey, you two You complained about me. - Thanks a lot! - Youre welcome You could have talked to me Teachers can complain about us and vice versa, right? No, it doesn't work both ways. What are you after? To see you punished - Punished? - Yes! - You, punish me? - You insulted us, you get punished. Where will that get you? I'll have spoken out. Great, that's a lot of use. Do you know what 'skank' means? I never called you skanks! Yes, you did. For me skank means prostitute. It's not that at all For me, it doesn't mean that. It's nothing important at all, just a girl laughing stupidly Hey, skank means prostitute, right? You bet! - Will Souleymane get expelled? - No. - A disciplinary hearing? - We don't know yet. It's a possibility Stop yelling before anything is decided It's all settled anyway - Why say that? - Because it's always the same! You're in no position to talk. You're the one who got hurt He didn't mean it There was a metal thing in his bag In any case he blew a fuse and that's bad Sir, ...anyone can blow a fuse And then calm down after That's not sure - You did - No! You're calmer now I'm not. You dont know me! All the teachers say your attitude is perfect now... You think you've tamed me? No, being sent here helped ...you understand things, see? Teachers helped you and we'll do the same for Souleymane. I say teachers who expel students are fuckers Right on. You want to repeat that? - Yeah, fuckers - Everyone goes wild ...over some word I said. You say fucker and I shouldn't react? They're fuckers! Cut it out! You say skanks, we say fucker. It's the same thing They're nothing alike A teacher can say certain things that students can't say. Try to understand that! We have no right to speak? You keep talking all the time! You never stop speaking Whenever we talk, you yell. What is this? Enough... Sir! - Sir? - What? Will Souleymane get a hearing? Give it a rest You sound like you want him to. It fires you up. You know what'll happen if he's expelled? He'll change schools. No, he wont change schools. It's automatic. It's obligatory. That goes for Souleymane too. Do you know his father? I've seen him once or twice. No, you dont know him! If he's expelled, his dad'll send him back to their village Don't get overdramatic He'll go back to Mali I think we all need to keep our heads. Dont worry You cant smoke here sir I know, but since I was alone Ok, you went too far with those girls. We all screw up. Souleymane overreacted. He's right. I saw Khoumba. Her face was all bloody What he did is unacceptable. That's for sure. I know that. His bag hit her by accident. A split eybrow bleeds a lot. That's all. You can't ignore it. Don't take it to heart. Seen how they talk to us? How's that relevant? Souleymane is going to get expelled ...Thats it! - No. - That's kind of logical. How many hearings last year? Not that many. He could be right. I know, I'm on the committee so I saw them all An average of two per month, The hearing is where we talk things over Ok, 12 students were expelled but maybe there was no other solution. ...talk about debate! But 12 out of 12 just means ...when a student has a hearing, it's too late. Or it was justified. Ok, things happen that lead to a hearing But then what happens? What do we expect from a hearing? There are prior stages: Pre-disciplinary committees, ...we inform the parents, the students are warned... - Not in this case. - We've no time. It's pretty rare. It's rare because we have this final punishment ...that allows us to ignore the prior steps. And even if we did use them, ...the simple fact of expelling a student... ...is a disavowal of everything we have tried. Ok, but it's Souleymane's chance to justify himself At a hearing, you don't speak. You're scared. You're paralyzed. Exactly. Let me sum up. He'll get a disciplinary hearing, he'll be expelled and maybe even sent back to Mali You're being overdramatic. No, I'm not Students who know him better than any of us here, ...who know his father, say that he is likely Mali... to send him back to Mali after this Some are threatened ...with boarding school but in never happens It can happen. A lot of parents spend their time ...threatening their kids with that. You can't take it into account - Even if there was just a slight risk that a hearing could lead to him being sent back, I don't think I can take that risk. It's like when you hesitate ...over punishing a kid because when he goes home, once that door closes, ...he'll get a beating from his parents We've all seen that ...But we still have to punish them when they go too far Whatever the consequences which don't ...concern you! So I ignore that? I know punishment can have such a consequence, ...but I turn a blind eye, is that it? You can't take it into account in every case The violence him being sent back... - No more Christmas presents... - True, you have to consider it but after a while... It's a question of principle ...We each have a role to play We can't substitute ourselves for the parents Sorry, but if I rewind the movie, ...it's a weird chain of events. It starts with reprimands, ...when Souleymane forget his things, talks back. We punish him. Again and again, until a disciplinary hearing leading to who knows what Everything gets out of hand Sure, looking at it that way it's really shocking But the school won't expelling Souleymane He's been gone for a while Francois, I didn't expect you so soon. Have you reached a decision? I don't think I have much choice. By the way, Julie told me you had a heated exchange ...with two girls in your class. Yes, the two class reps but it happened first so You apparently called them "skanks" Let's say that, yes That complicates things, but the problem remains. I'd like you to mention it in your report I don't want it used against us at the disciplinary hearing. Don't bother hiding it, just write it down. I understand. I'll let you reread this before we launch the procedure. So I I just need to add... Yes, without going into detail. Does that suit you? OK. Can you take the minute. - Hello - Hello. Hello, sir. - Please sit down. - Thanks. "Carl tried to reason with him, but Souleyman broke free, "winging his bag that hit Khoumba in the face. "He left, insulting everyone and slamming the door. "I didn't go after him because I needed... "to help Khoumba whose eybrow was bleeding. " Those are the facts that led to today's hearing Madame, it doesn't mean Souleyman is a bad boy. That's not we're saying But, sometimes, a student in a class through voluntary or involuntary behavior, can create an atmosphere that... ...prevents the class from working. Do you understand what we're saying? If I may say something, it's true there had been number of signs that should have warned us. We could have reacted sooner But how we have to deal with an incident that is fairy violent and that's simply unacceptable. I'd like to know if you realize that, Souleymane? We're not saying you're deliberately violent. The problem is you can't control what you say, ...and what you do You're here to express your point of view. Go ahead I don't give a damn. I've got nothing to say Do whatever you want to do Excuse me... Can you translate? She says I'm a good boy I do my homework. I help my brothers and sisters with their work when I can I always wash the dishes and help her when I can We don't doubt he's a good son. That's not the problem. Let's consider ...his school record Excuse me, but could we focus on the facts here? Firstly, I'd like to say ...that we're surprised to see the teacher involved in the incident ...on this committee We find it highly irregular It's true. It's odd to be both judge and litigant. First of all, ...Mr. Marin was elected to the administrative board. as the teachers' representative Moreover, I think that the incident... ...that occurred in Mr. Marin's class ...doesn't involve the teacher directly. I'm sorry, you mention ...some harsh words ...spoken by the teacher... Apparently, you used the word "skanks" ...to describe the class reps. And that's a problem I did say that ...but it wasnt something that concerned Souleymane. I think he used the excuse of a rather heated exchange ...to express the bad mood that he was in that day. He tried to defend them So I feel that it's relevant Sorry, but absolutely nothing justifies ...being disrespectful to a teacher, ...insulting everyone and leaving a class without permission. Souleymane, do you have anything to say? I don't know. What can I say? Souleymane? - What did she say? - The same thing again Souleymane? She apologizes on my behalf. You can come back in now. Madame, the committee has conferred and has decided to expel Souleymane from the school for good. You will receive the ruling by registered mail ...and have eight days to appeal, We shall do our best to find Souleymane another school Goodbye, Messieurs, Mesdames Souleymane, come to see me before the end of the week, please. Mathematical proportionality. This year, you learned mathematical proportionality? - I liked science - What you learned, not liked. If you liked it, you learned. So what did you learn? All about volcanoes, earthquakes, ...plates... Convergence and divergence, ...movement of the Earth's plates, - It was fascinating. - It interested you? - Yeah. - Good. Well, in mathematics, .. trigonometry Pythagoras theorem, Thales theorem. I'll stop you there. You can't sit there and brag... ...you learned Pythagoras theorem. Recite it for us If, in a triangle ...two sides are equal to ...If the square rot If the square of two sides is equal to the square ...the square of the hypotenuse then the triangle's a rectangle. More or less, yes It's spot on All right. I believe you. In history, I learned about triangular trade. The fact that ships left Europe... ...with manufactured goods that they took to Africa to trade for men, ...whod became slaves that they took to America to work. Then they took the money they made back to Europe. That's triangular trade Chemistry What in chemistry? Combustion What's that? Blending Fehling's solution and glucose. What do you get? Heat up test-tube, ...and it changes color. - What's the interest? - The interest? I dunno. Why teach it to us if there's no interest? Reproduction What did you learn about human reproduction? Human reproduction... Well, the sperm ...gets into the ovum then you wait 9 months, then you do a sonogram and then it comes out The sperm does? No, the baby The human being that's inside. - Khoumba? - Me? Yes. That is your name? Yes. In music, I learned to play the alto recorder... and in Spanish The recorder in Spanish? No, in music, I learned to play the alto recorder. - Right - And other stuff in Spanish - Good. Can you say something to us in Spanish? - And that means? - "It's the vacation soon". I didn't learn anything You cant spend 9 months at school and not learn anything. I'm the living proof You got something from the books we read. - Your books are shite. - They're what? They're useless. What about a book you read by yourself? The books I read? Well, there's The Republic Platons "Republic"? You read that? How come? My big sister had it - She does philosophy? - No, law So what's it about? Well, there's this guy... His name's Socrates Yeah, Socrates. He stops people in the street and asks them: "Are you sure of thinking what you think?" "Are you sure of doing what you do? and so on?" After that, people start getting confused. They ask questions. The guy's too much What does he ask people about? Everything. Love, religion, God people, everything - It's good you read it - I know It's not a skank's book! Wait a second. Before you leave, here are your self-portraits One by one. When you have yours, you can go. What is it? What is it? These are the self-portraits that you wrote ...and that we made up with the class photo and so on You too, Eva. You don't have one? - You look good in it - Cut it out You're like a leader Very good. - Good bye, Sir. - Good bye. - Have a good vacation. - You too - Sir? - Yes What is it? I didn't learn anything What? That doesn't mean anything Earlier, all the others... ...said they'd learned something Compared to them, I learned nothing You learned as much as them They had to think hard too. It's not easy to remember what you learned... But I don't understand What do you mean? I don't understand what we do. In French? In school You cant say you dont understand everything. Thats not true... I dont want to go to vocational school. Theres no question of that yet Youre moving on to the next year. Youll have plenty of time to think about your future Vocational school isnt an absolute certainty It all depends on how you do next year But I dont want to. LINK REL="SHORTCUT ICON" HREF="favicon.ico" html meta name="keywords" content="subtitle, subrip, merge, put together, cd1, cd2, two, cds, srt, sub, untertitel, studio, glue, one, rip, subtitle file, divx, extratitles, cat, aneinanderhngen, zusammenfgen, verkleben, verketten, link, delarue band,subtitle workshop,divx-digest, SubEdit" script language="JavaScript" type="text/JavaScript" !-- function MMswapImgRestore() { //v3.0 var i,x,a=document.MMsr; for(i=0;a&&ia.length&&(x=a[i])&&x.oSrc;i++) x.src=x.oSrc; function MMfindObj(n, d) { //v4.01 var p,i,x; if(!d) d=document; if((p=n.indexOf("?"))0&&parent.frames.length) { d=parent.fram
