 

                        I've had it. Work is low, one must be patient. Always patient! Move. Get to work. The pay? One florin for two cars. It's too little. It's agreed then, I'd throw the sac on the ground... and say: "We quit!" But back me up. I got a wife and kids, don't forget. Go ahead, Mario. Yeah, they say they'll strike. Then they'll get cold feet. What's the matter? Tired? No, I'm furious with the boss. The miser! Only one fluorine to load and unload... two cars. You're right, I can't stand him either. When he needs laborers I call you. But I'm ashamed of the pay. Got any cigarettes? No, I don't smoke. But Mr Wilder does. Look at this one... Take that one, it's beautiful. How much? One fluorine... very little. Oh, another blackbird! Auntie is resting. You'll like it? No be quiet. You and your animals! They are better than most men... and certain women. I am going out. Ill mannered! Don't be disrespectful. She's not going. Why have you stopped going to the store? I won't tell you. You have grown lazy. Go to your room! And straighten up everything. I'm warning you. Get that chicken out of here. Come, Camilla... I put her in the kitchen. Good morning, Mr. Wilder. Damnation! This is the last one! Give me the cigars, and avoid temptation. Why? It's the last. As of tomorrow... I quit. And the box in the safe? Here... No! Did you tell the cleaning woman... that I can't stand the smell of mothballs? The mothballs? Yes... took care of it personally. Very well, back to work. The cigars! Cigars! Here... ...my conscience is clean. And I don't want to be disturbed. I have an important business letter to write! Keep an eye on the workers! Specially at the ones in the warehouse. Cigar? Keep the whole box. My ideal is to rob the reach to help the poor. I'm for socialism. You too? I don't bother with politics But you do well. Today's youth sides with the owners. We shouldn't smoke in here. But I don't care. Good? You're a nice boy... good looking too. No one ever told me. Not even your mother? Least of all, she is afraid of spoiling me. We are different, but I wish we could be friends. I'm not rich. Half of my salary goes to... ...my mother. ...and the rest for women! No, I decided no women until I'm 18. Are you married? No, not me. I'm a bachelor. I prefer it that way. Your father? Never knew him. He left my mother before I was born. And my uncle Giovanni became my guardian. He's a fanatic. He hates me. He hates all socialist. Your mother must love you. I don't see how she couldn't. Why? I don't know. It's a shame... That we can't be friends... go out together. Because you're older? That's not why. Do you know what it means... to be the friend of a man like me? If you don't, I'm not about to teach you. Do you know? You have understood. Yes, but where? Where what? To be alone. Well, how can we? In the country there's a place... No, somebody who'd see as outside. Tonight, in the woods. Let's think about it. All right. We'll talk about it later. "Blessed are thou, oh Lord, creator of all things" "of the fruits of the earth" "This is the bread of our fathers in the land of Egypt" "Eat Of these bread" "Celebrate the Passover, this year we are here" "In the next, we shall be in Israel" "Here we are in bondage. Next year..." "in Israel, we'd be free" I'm hungry, we have been here three hours. The questions "Why do we dip our vegetable in liquid, and..." The meaning of this ceremony... "What does this ceremony signifiy for you?" Have you no respect for the Seder? What do you expect? He's the son of a man who become a Jew for money. By the way, we have a good offer for the store. We can sell, if you're tired of working. I will regret it, but I don't feel like continuing It's final It's a shame to sell ...I will run it You? Run a store, after all you have caused? You married a goy who runs off, leaves you pregnant I warned you... ...the moment I saw him You remember. "That goy is a bastard" The meal is good mama Like his father! Socialist tongue with a capitalist stomach He is a child, what could he know about politics? Tell us about Garibaldi Where he alive... ...today, he would be a socialist I read it in "The worker" I prohibit such literature She is tough, even now! Mama, don't tell me this is... my Camilla? She was messy ...she stopped laying eggs and was dirty She even ruined aunt Regina's hat I hope the socialists take over ...and hang you "A novel by Carlo Wilder" "And he said..." He said... What? Five... four... three Mothballs! Who was it? Mothballs? It's impossible. Everyone knows you have... ...an alergy My head... ...it is smoking I want to smoke, too. The cigar box? I threw it away It's gone You did what? What was that? For your own good Of course, everyone is worried about me! I adopted a father! You asked me to Why are you twiddling your thumbs? Work! I am working Harder! God bless I told you to check the loaders in the warehouse If you damp the sacks... they will break I have worked enough Come, pick up the sack Pay me two flourines One flourine is a fair price I pay more than the others Arguing is useless, it only tires us out Lets it go. Tomorrow, there is work for everyone At the same rates We still have two hours before sundown Move! Let's go! Bravo! To work, to work! Get out! You come an hour earlier tomorrow There are sacks that need mending You, too, Ernesto... Come to check the workers Today we are alone Yes... but for an hour One can do many things Such as? Don't you remember what we said? ...you almost promised ...and I have been waking To bugger me? Is it so nice? There is nothing nicer For you... what about me? For you too Ever do it with a man? No. Never And you, with other boys? Many ...but none so pretty What did they say? They begged me. They were happy I'm afraid I know what to do the first time I believe you... ...but I'm afraid it will hurt Me, hurt you? I am in love You just say that... ...to convince me, but once you get started... Before I could hurt you, I would cut it off I beg you... There is so little time for us to do it You want to do it? Yes, and so do you Isn't that why we are here? Unless you will have regrets I will decide that But on one condition If I tell you to stop, you will stop No matter when You won't have to say stop But I promise That's not enough. Give me... your word of honor I will stop whenever you tell me to! ...may God bless you All right. I have decided Over there Don't be afraid I won't hurt you ...and you'll will like it Angel! You called me an angel, but in just don't do these things I was in heaven. You enjoyed it too. Confess In the beginning yes. Then it began... to hurt We came together How do you know? One can sense it. Besides, look there If it shows, we should better turn the sack I'm sorry, but I must warn you... not to tell anyone I'm not stupid. I know what one can tell It's dangerous. You can end up in jail And then one dies of shame I'm not fool. I closed all the doors first If I don't finish, who knows what the boss will think Is it true that in the Army... ...they look up there... and reject those... Who told you that? Does it still hurt? It does Next time I'll bring something... to keep it from hurting. They sell it in pharmacies They sell medicine for such things? No, it's not for that It's for certain ailments. They are cones The slide in and melt ...and then it doesn't hurt What are they made of? Out of cocoa butter Butter? ...cocoa butter... cocoa yet! ...my stamp collection... ...my stamps... "When with mothballs you tease" "On your stamp I sneeze" Naturally, it hurts I would cry also Stamps... ...without edges are worth very little You need a sense of humor, not only... when pulling a prank... but also when you're the object of one Come, Ernesto Take this It's a gift I know you always liked it I am sorry. Be good now... I didn't mean to... Don't cry ...want me to cry too? I'm going Don't forget. Be firm They have the money. Collect it And don't take the tram. Use your long legs! We'll never finished here. Move! Let's go! To work! Move! Driver! Is this a tram? Good. Take me to Salita Maria Teresa I don't have money for the rent There's a lot of work, but very little profit ...barely enough for a square meal I can't go back empty-handed Wilder has more than enough money I could have closed shop already ...where it not for them I know, you say it each time ...and never pay How can you, a socialist... collect money for someone with exploits... the workers Yeah, I have heard it before... Well then let's screw him He is a dirty capitalist Hail... Socialism! You have disappeared since you left school Where have you been hiding? I have been busy One thing after another... I have business to attend to... with little time to spare There is no doubting the supremacy... of Italy over Austria: on land, the barsaglieri ...on the sea, the DUILIO battleship Lissa Island? We were betrayed Forget it, let's drink Again? Really, I'm glad we met We never see each other ...besides, I'm going to London Today I collected a few rents They always paid me. It's a question of style Since I had taken over, Wilder caches in promptly You're doing bookkeeping? You were a dunce in school! School is one thing, life is another Are you coming on my boat this Thursday? Your boat? My father's graduation gift A sailboat, a sloop Good old Ernesto Did you ever... ...with girls? Oh, lots of times If you only knew... I'm afraid, duty calls ...oh, well... That's life! Don't. Let us they care of it I work... so I pay Good old Andrea! I never did it with girls! Never! What are you looking at? What is it? The boss sent me, to see Ernesto about... the invoices Come in, please I will wait... No, come in, please Nice. I nice house Thank you But aren't you... Of course... Ernesto often spoke about you He's a good boy Come in... I'm disturbing you Not at all, really ...I'll call Ernesto ...I'll be right back There is someone from the company What a mess here! Oh, mama, why all the fuss? Let me straighten your bed... ...at least Please, come up Come, put your shirt on I'll only be a minute Sit down You were feverish, put it on Leave me alone The boss told me you were sick Sick? Nearly dead! The doctor... He is not here for that The boss? He can't find the invoices for the week ...and asks if you have them ...he is angry You're so absent minded Searched my desk? Mama, my jacket... my jacket! What manners! You can give that shylock his invoices I can't understand why he talks that way about Wilder ...he doesn't mean it My mother sides with money Offer him some wine No, don't bother, I'll be leaving Oh no, please Why are you so harsh with your mother? I imagined her... ...differently. You spoke in such a way... It's not that I don't like her... but at times she is impossible What's new at the warehouse? Nothing in particular. Just that... It's lonely without you. Very I'm all better now. Tomorrow... I'll get up I'll take a bath, and right after lunch... I'll go to the warehouse... and do whatever you like Cheers! It's good Only, it's... It's very strong Oh, the boss... ...said to give you this Remember the cocoa! Let's dry your hair well You're healthier than before! And yet... You ran a high fever Now, all you must think of is work Who are you? What are you doing? I am the apprentice Mr. Wilder personality hired me Listen... Will you listen? You talk, talk and conclude nothing All you do is talk Take this in the warehouse Give it to Mr. Ernesto and buy yourself a cigar That's it. Cesco! He's a good man. I'll bring you back half a cigar Keep at it! What is it? Like I promised. The cone I thought it was chocolate Do you like sweets? Yeah, they are my passion You're my passion How did it feel? Neither good, nor bad You want to? Like it? I want to do what you do To whom? To you You shouldn't with a man But with a boy, before he grows a beard... and it goes out with girls I am a grown man with a moustache Shave it off It would be the same. I would still be a man Let's try What a mess How disgusting! Look at that... ...you're such a busy body They are warms for the blackbird You need a barber No, you will go today, before dinner I will go when I please Mama... Mama!... I didn't mean it. I'll go right away Even you mistreat me, it's too much I was joking ...I can't open my mouth... Don't cry, please If I had married a Jew... ...we would be better off And I would have a sailboat, all for myself Oh, you come here to study! You don't? Me? I'm going to the barber... it is quicker through here Look... ...you pay her a visit Only one flourin. Go on. Take the leap For you it is a game... but prostitutes are the victims of a bourgeois society You look like an Indian prince Don't put your hands... ...on his hair I'll take care of him myself Your uncle Giovanni came by yesterday He said that... ...you're a socialist Yes, to spite him, if nothing else He hates socialists The violin...? ...do you still play? I have made incredible progress I am going to be a great virtuoso No, not that junk ...not for Ernesto Oh, look how nice Perfect. Thank you Your chin is getting fussy If you would seat still, I'll shave you It's a real bear... needs cutting "A boy can do it only before..." "he grows a beard" Ah, Ernesto has grown up! He is a man Remember when he was little? He was a darling child ...full of curly hair Good boy, you came back It was about time You want me? Well?... What are you doing, you should be in school! Coming up? Hello, sweetheart. Looking for me? No, sorry, I have an appointment... It took you long enough! As usual... the others tried to grab you, they are terrible Sit down... while I straighten up here Everything is always in a mess here Don't you want to? And your hat? Do we make love with your hat on? Must be the first time. Right? No? You sure? Will you undress? I will help you What's your name? Ernesto... Wilder. And yours? Sandra It is not my name, but they call me that No, don't Is anything wrong? No, it is just something... Come, lie next to me It will be very sweet, since it's the first time You will be happy Feels good? She will leave right away Do you smoke? I guess not... You're still so young I should quit smoking My father always told me to stop If you want a puff... ...I'll light it Why so much money? Today was payday for me It's too much I don't want so much. Listen... I will hold it, and next time you won't have to pay All right? Agreed? Ernesto, you're annoyed because I took on an apprentice I'm totally indifferent No, it's not true. you're... ...very proud I don't say the boy is a genius... but, you will see When I am through teaching him... he'll be orderly, he will You will share the work He will handle the correspondence You, the workers Why can't he handle the workers? No, someone... must do the desk work... since you won't May I go? Wait a minute I have a surprise for you Take a look... Beautiful stamps. Rare... Japanese Thanks You collect them. I'm not a kid anymore You don't want them? Very well But I want my whistle What whistle? It was in my desk How did it get here? Take it, and give me back my cane You want your whistle? Then I'll take my cane It works What nerve! How many do you deserve? How many lashes? Now that you had your way, you would beat me? It's punishment If I have sinned, it's not you who should punish me It's not that It's because you're too pretty... and you're also mean You delight in making my head spin Slide your pants down Give it to me I want it back I will decide that Give here Put out your hand Come on... How many did I deserve? Five Off with the pants Stop that... stop, stop... You remind me of Ali Bab A bab? That means "there" in dialect It's a character in "1001 nights" In Baghdad... there was a young boy who never knew his father One night, when the moon was high he had a yen... for an ice cream, and so he ordered one The ice cream man... offered it free. It was so good... that the boy accepted another. After which... attracted by the boy's beauty... the man offered him an ice cream each night And while the youth licked the cone, the man... looked on, enraptured When his thoughts turned caresses, the boy said: "Be at easy, and console yourself with admiring me..." "and serving me" You have forgotten what we did and enjoyed together One could go to prison ...for such things But no one has found out Don't speak so loud We could say that sack needs... ...to be mended We will see... ...perhaps in a few days... but for the last time! How are you, Mr. Luzzato? Did you hear... about the Ravagnani scandal? I don't read the papers. The he go bankrupt? Banker Ravagnani, who openly supports the socialists... didn't go bankrupt, he went one better A squalid affair with a young man servant Ah, a "warm" friend! Exactly, and a family ruined One who does such things... has no choice, but to shoot himself Did he? This morning. Shot himself in the mouth Look how beautiful. Do you like it? Won't you introduce me? My friend, Giovanni Are you a connoiseur? You like it? Very much You see? I bought it I'm sorry, it's late, we must go Goodbye. Come, Carlo May I go, unkle? A flourine... For each slap? No. Don't you know why? You ought to To buy some sweets? The theatre? For a concert? You're no longer an adolescent A man must prove that he is a man Very well, thank you I'm through... with Wilder and his literary ambitions I will tell him: "It's useless for you to write" "You have absolutely no talent" And then what? I will be free as air ...I will travel ...and trade in spices Weren't you going to be a concert violinist? Who knows, maybe both. I am still in time I will be able to buy my own boat. With 50 sailors How will you ever keep 50 sailors? They will love me We where worried, you disappeared completely I had to walk You must be exhausted. Next time... I will send you a carriage... a hansom I am sorry but... Did you know, that I spent... ...over six flourins for your "airfare" And since the rents you have collected amount to... zero You're a total loss. You must trotl You have long legs. Start trotling He trots Came in second in the school marathon Second! I was last As of today, not another cent for you... So-called carfare. Back to work! Some paper Give me! Go and trot, go on He came in second. I was last! To work! To work! Writing to Wilder? Thinks that slaves can not appreciate "And he said..." He said... He said what? What is it? The are vouchers to sign Leave them there and go, I have things to do "PERSONAL" You have forgotten me ...but I haven't I can't forget, Ernesto. I even call your name, when no one can hear... Like a fool. I beg you... grant me this wish I can't go on... You will obey me? Then lie down. Today I will do it You mind? Do it for me I promise you will like it Hurt me if you like, do what you want Don't think you were hired here... to teach me something... you never produced anything here. You can't teach me anything. Because you're a spoiled and selfish being Too lazy to work... or to do anything else Here is your letter! According to you... I bleed the legs off my employees Well, your legs are fired You're through! Pass by the office to settle accounts Get out You and your "marathon"! The mothballs. You keep them Tell me the true... That carfares are an excuse You want to go because you feel trapped in here How did you know? I feel trapped too. And I hate... everything in here The letter book. The sacks. The apprentice The great Wilder! The great merchand! I have been stuck here for 40 years This barn never appealed to me Yet it keeps making money, don't ask me how Why didn't you go? Going away solves nothing Go where? Where does one go? It's like giving up smoking Here, "give up smoking". Look here I hid them. You see? Full of cigars. I didn't quit at all It was a joke You wanted a dumb boss to poke fun at... So I played the writer... alergic to mothballs and cigars... just to amuse you I played the part, and smoked What'll you do, now that you have satisfied your ego? Something that will amaze you I heard you want to become... a violinist. That remains to be seen Shall we bet on it? ...I say no! I will bet anything I would be happy to lose, dear friend You will be back Despite the violin, despite the trips... and adventures What if you were in my place, at my age? I forgot, when you're young you're sure of yourself Just wait... you will come to a halt... all of a sudden Perhaps sooner than you think One never quits smoking May I go? Take the cain. It will bring good luck Go, go... How come you're so early? I was fired Stop that... Can't you ever be serious? I am serious. He fired me I am glad, I was fed up Without a job! First, your father, and now you, too It's different. He ran off when you were pregnant Mine was an act of courage Why should he leave off me? I couldn't even take a tram A tram at your age? You're all the same... You might as well know, I'm through being an employee What then? A violinist A violinist? Aunt Regina... ...will send us away Oh, mama... stop talking misery I grew you up with it only to find out... we are loaded with money If uncle Giovanni hears you... You're not poor. They make you feel that way After your marriage, they took over completely You're also going to preach to me?... Be like me, pay no attention to them Revel! We will take trips Madame, may I...? ...Vienna ...Paris ...London ...Saint Petersburg You left without pay God knows what you wrote You go to Wilder... and have him pay this last week I would like to... I will go, don't worry But don't breathe a word to aunt Regina Of all days to get fired Want me to have a stroke? 2 flourins for the theatre The theatre? I will murder you What theatre? Why aren't you working? If you're sick, then... go to bed Instead of the theater, a phyalc There is Ondricek tonight, the violinist... the world's greatest Our socialist prefers art to work It's serious music Not the junk you listen to Please, 2 flourins Mr. Wilder is a saint Quiet, I read your terrible letter It took me a while to convince him ...he forgives you ...you're hired again I won't go back Not for anything, not even for 100 crowns a month Did he give you the money? If you don't go back... you will get nothing Help me Mama... there's something you don't know If you did, you wouldn't want me to go back Tell me... did you steal? Nothing like that Remember that man... when I was sick? Yes, a good person... Remember about Ravagnani, the banker? ...about the scandal? I don't understand... Uncle Giovanni said that... Whoever does those things, should shoot himself Mama... that man and I... we did those things... And so I can't go back I mustn't see him The despicable... murderer! taking advantage of a boy! If I see him I swear I will kill him! No. Promise me you won't do anything It's all over now He said he loved me. He never left me in peace He would even buy me candy... He will pay for what he did An upright boy like you I am not upright at all It's also my fault If I hadn't wanted... Was it important? Then why... why? Forget it now What you did was ugly, but... if it's really over... and no one finds out... Thank goodness you're not a girl That's for sure I was even with a woman ...once... And here I thought... Mama... will you forgive me? Then can I have the money for the concert? 2 flourins All right... Looking for me? You knew I would be waking? Naturally, I wanted to meet you. What's your name? Emilio Luzzato. But they call me Ilio I'm Ernesto How old are you? You're still pretty young I'm 18, but we could still be friends Fine Are you one who considers Ondricek exceptional? He is a fair technician... Not bad though In all modesty, I would have handled the last sonata... with greater technique... and finer interpretation Don't you like anybody? Frankly, myself. My style is original, personal My teacher says that I have little to learn He's an old fogy Mine to, he makes me do scales all day If I could study with someone like you... Do you know what it means to be a friend of a man like me? No. Why? It doesn't matter The hands of a violinist You live with your mother? And my father Well, forget it Oh, please, don't say no Well, maybe I will take a run over When? Let's see... this Sunday The neighbors will complain... oh, that violin! He played so well, that I woke up saying: "I am dead and this are the angels" He really applied himself If he becomes a concert artist... It's better than a merchand I wouldn't give myself airs if he become famous I can just imagine The entrance, please? Come... Papa, this is Ernesto Come on... I am here, mostly alone. Do you like it? Stupendous! Good morning, boys You're Ernesto, right? My son keeps working about you. Here is your tea No, later No, your tea first Oh please, leave us alone Well, enjoy yourselves Your mother is sweet, mine always sniffles Mine is worse Let me hear you first Just this once (...God, he will never learn...) How is it? Fantastic Don't stop, you must keep at it (This is so cute and so...) (...tone deaf) Wait... The little finger... here The ring finger... like this ...that's much better... Well? Nothing... I am not scandalized Ilio and I have no secrets Rachelle, my twin sister Ilio, get the violin Keep still you geniuses That's enough, I am tired! Stop it, I am not through I surrender... Ilio is really sweet Give a hand I was sure I saw... ...somebody I know Give me a hand with this trunk. Let's go How could you know anybody in here? You keep seeing people everywhere You should better stop hitting the bottle Nice, huh Ernesto? Let it out, that's it... Would in the slack Pull... Are you in love? Papa thinks it's you he likes ...is the jib all right? Let go, let go... Stay down Leave me... As kids we did it... ...whenever a guest arrived They never caught on They would mistake us every time My father couldn't tell the difference Not even our mother I could tell You're both crazy I am ready I am going to take a look You're both beautiful I don't know how Will you help? If I were fuller here... I would be prettier than she is Will you? I will try... It won't button Just a touch of makeup Come... You will see... Are you mad? Now I am like your Ilio I am Ilio Your Ilio... That's enough! ...I am tired of this game See anything? Nothing. Can't get it to work Poor Ernesto! He is trying so hard He is even giving lessons to Luzzati's son Really? I am pleased that he frequents the Luzzatis It's an important family If he can make such friends, well then... You know, that boy has improved I really like you ...and you like me I know it And Ilio? He is just a poor imitation The game is over Great! I knew you were conniving You meet secretly. You do everything secretly You liar! Stop it Ilio Women ruin everything. You're a poor imitation of me I taught you everything. You're my ghost I hate you You choose... Excuse me, I must go I didn't know you were here What's wrong? Ernesto and I like each other ...and Ilio is happy about it. Right, Ilio? Fine, fine... But there is no need to shout... If it makes you happy So, Ilio has a sister! Yes, we have met a few times She painted our portrait Why all these questions? Shall we tell him? We have been invited to Luzzati's this coming Sunday I imagine we were invited by Ilio's sister What's her name? Rachelle Exactly, Rachelle "Oh, nothing official. They are still children" "But if their friendship should develop..." "Yesterday Giovanni spoke to Rachelle father" "There was no objection" "Being related to the Luzzatis would cancel out" "your unfortunate marriage" You're so lovely... Beautiful These pearls are for you Yes, because... ...you know, that I love you Go, while you still can Fly, little one, fly Hurry or we will be late The women went ahead Mr. Ernesto, how are you? Buy yourself a glass of wine, or a cigar Hurry... To Villa Luzzato... Who was that? One of Wilder's workers I was right, wasn't I? Nice party! ...looks like we are all here Any concerts? None? Don't worry, you will play your violin ...when you're alone... at night Otherwise they would laugh at us For the time being, Ernesto... ...will work in my Company, he is through with childish pranks He will mature with marriage. Ernesto is... ...very judicious And remember Rachelle. Ernesto is... very timid, sensitive With a mania for animals Don't bother about that... At night, you with your violin, and... I, with my novel "What would you do, Mr. Wilder, were you my age?" Now we are the same age Let's enjoy the party! That's enough Ilio, I told you not to carry on like that And stop shouting Leave me alone That shrew, Maria, is dying of envy This wedding will make up for her marriage You're behaving like a child! Leave me in peace... You'll get it! Ernesto is like a ray of sunshine He is a socialist but not against pretty girls Where is Ilio? I wouldn't know. Why? Won't I do? How we sacrificed... ...to make him what he is, poor darling They are beautiful! I will buy them a motor car Thank you To our children... to their happiness To our children! To think, Rachelle and I were still playing with dolls
