 

                        Please don't lay a hand on my cunt. Don't touch my cunt. Please forgive me. I don't want to bother your cunt. Don't thrust my cunt so hard. What is this thing falling from above? Is this the gift from above? It would be very fortunate. Get this thing to my wife first. It's so strange. The strange thing was I was chopping wood, Suddenly his treasure box fell off from the tree. Did you open it up? Of course not. It fell off all of a sudden. I'm scared to open it. What's wrong? Why didn't you open it? If you turned dead, It would be pathetic. Now what? Open it. Oh Definitely, hurry up, hurry up, what it that? Ha Ha Hal can get out finally. Eh who are you? I am the wizard inside the treasure box. A wizard A wizard Ah it must have surprised you for the first time. Why don't we have some tea and snack? And I will explain it to you. I haven't had such tasty food for a long time. Very good. What fried pork ribs? What ribs? We don't have fish . How come we have that? That's true. English which is something that you don't know Then why don't you explain it to us So that we can understand it I've almost forgotten that I'm a immortal Immortal? No wonder you are so good looking, I have breached the law in heaven Therefore the emperor kicked me out And locked me in the box and put it on tree You saved me. Please don't mention it. We have saved you. How are you thank us? I swear that whoever releases me I will grant that person three wishes. Three wishes Really? However there is an attachment What is that attachment? That is after the wishes come true I need to make love with you Are you kidding? Go hell. Don't even dream of it. You don't need to feel glad or sad It is because I wouldn't make love with men. You make love with women? And only when you are having your period I would make love with you. I thought only me like doing it during that time I can't believe even immortal likes that also This is the way I increase my power To realize your wishes At that time, there is female only. And we just touch ourselves at most. How could we do it? It would be meaningless to say further more. Do you really want my wife to do that? Do you really want to have three wishes? Don't you want to have three wishes? If I have to choose I rather not have those three wishes Hubby think twice No need to think. No way. Think again No that's impossible. You two stop the fight. Have the discussion rationally It is not about rationality. No... no way. When the emperor punished me He added an extra condition Therefore I am half man half woman I don't care. Don't you touch my wife. Oh shit who woke me up? It's me. Ming-li what's the matter? I'm sorry to bother you at this time. However I really want to have three wishes. Oh yes? Wishes is fine you make love with me at your period What are you doing? I don't remember. I have to get my spirit out to make love with you Get your spirit out? Hubby it's time for lunch. Wow we have a delicious chicken tonight. Men need nutrition to avoid being soft. Yes yes come on wow this is delicious. Honey this is what you say. Men need nutrition. I've finished It needs to get started again. What? Now I am fed and am thinking of that. What? Don't be so horny. I am still having my period. That's good. That's howl like to do it. Come on, hey, honey, are you ready? Here I am. Is my make up beautiful? Yes beautiful. Come on quick. Hey what about my underwear? Fantastic also. Come quick. What about the entire body? Absolutely perfect. Come on. Honey What's matter? Where did you get the money? For the chicken, make up and underwear? I didn't have money. You didn't have money for those? The immortal gave me. What? You Yesterday I think that you wanted to eat chicken And I want to get some make up And a new underwear Then I went for the immortal I let him do it. These are the three wishes? Ridiculous Hubby This immortal, you will be dead if I find you. Hubby, hubby, hubby Shut up you slut Hubby, hubby, you wait for me please You are here. Good morning Damn it. How could you deceive my wife? You listen to me. There is nothing between us. Don't be so angry. It's not her fault. It's mine. How come it's not her fault. Three wishes. Three wishes mean three wishes. These are the three wishes. You wasted them. You gave her chicken, make up and underwear. Those are worthless? Of course those are worthless moron. Three wishes mean a lot. Okay okay. I can give you three more wishes. No attachment. Is that okay with you? You are so kind? Both of you are not greedy. Three wishes only. Name it. Oh, three, then I know I know Why don't we have ginseng, bird's nest and reishi? This woman is so stupid. These things will be digested after consumed Poop after digestion. Then you will have nothing. How can you be so stupid? Then what do you want? Let me think At lease a buffalo, an axe and a large bed. Buffalo and axe have more useful I can do it with you every night on the bed To get some new excitements good? Ha ha ha. You both are so stupid. I thought I could give you something. Don't waste your wishes. These things are far too meaningless. These are very practical. How come meaningless? You should get something that use for a life time. Oh what can be used for a life time? What is for a life time? Why your body tuned into such a great shape? It's the immortal gave me. What immortal? When my husband picked a treasure box. There is an immortal inside the box. And he gave us three wishes I took the first one for the enlargement. What is the second wish? It turned me into this. It's like I am having a third leg. If I had this si My wife would be dying. What's more, the immortal turned it to be hard and long lasting Oh my god, what about the third one? Now I am so strong my wife's breasts are so large This is such a perfect match. This third wish Of course is we would never feel satisfied we'll be feeling horny and making love non stop do you think my performance is not well enough? Do you think I am not hard enough? I feel bored making love with you every day. You are kidding Do you think the attacks game is not exciting anymore No? Then what is it? I want to ask you My breasts are not as large as Ming-li's Would you touch them? Oh they are large enough to grab. However mine is not that large Would you dislike me? Not really. I would like you to be longer, bigger And longer lasting Then your breasts should be larger more hair down there. More moisture would be perfect. Then it would be the same as Ming-lei's. That means you are fond of her. You are always thinking of her, If you say that, then I'ld be the same as Tin-gin You are thinking of him and dislike me We never quarrel before. Now because of those two people We are always fighting. That's right. You know you're wrong Oh honey I don't really mean this. You don't think you're wrong then. Honey, please don't get mad. I mean We are jealous of them I am jealous of his big dick. And you are jealous of Ming-li's large breasts. That's why we fight Hubby why are you so smart suddenly? Honey you are also the same. How come we don't we those? That's right. What do you think we should do? What should we do? Why don't we Steal that treasure box, and ask the immortal To transform us? No you are so smart. Really wonderful What did I say? You said to steal the treasure box. I thought that we had between man and woman The best, Who knows we have nothing now. I thought we would be the best combination. And now we can't do that. What exactly is happening? What is it? It's very late now. What are you thinking of? Go to sleep Yes Good morning Can you transform us back now? What? It's not that easy. You are god, You can do whatever as you wish. Last time I helped you to transform. Ming-li didn't do that with me. Didn't do what with you? What? I thought you gave three wishes to us for free. Those three wishes were free If you want another would not be free understand? Last time I didn't know you touch my wife I won't let you touch her again this time. Forget it I know he is over exaggerating a bit. You have to obey him a mistress when you do it with me, he can do it with her. If not he would be very pathetic. My god you are so good. You wife is more than wonderful Do whatever you want. OK spectacular Gigi you are Tin-gin's mistress from now on. He is the boss Yes I know. My husband, how are you? Ming-li let's go into the bedroom. Didn't you say you would transform me back? Get into the room first. This immortal is pissing me off. He is pleasuring my wife for a whole night. This is driving me nuts. What are you doing hubby? Drink some tea first. Leave me alone. What are you doing? you got the wrong fire on. My sex life is inharmonious. You press here for me. To help me get back. Oh this is cool. Is it really that cool? Oh virgin How would I lie to you? You must believe me this time. Gigi is tailor made for me, perfect body shape Her hair is plentiful and her voice Her mourning sound Is terribly exciting. What is wrong with you? Are you okay? I hurt my ankle. Could you help me up? Oh I help you get there. You sit down here. Let me take a look at it. Here? Yes it hurts. Not here Oh let me take another look. Another check I check it for you. Not here? Is it here? Who are you? Who are you looking for? Shut up or else I'll kill you. Get lost. This is futile. Oh is it the treasure box This is Ming-li Hey what are you doing? What? Don't. What are you doing? Help What are you doing? Go away. Honey I am back You are late for an hour I was in the village What? Did you see Ming-li You took advantages when she was sleeping. Don't get mad. I ask the immortal out And transform me to long and hard. And you try it okay I will try first. What is the matter? How come it's you? Don't you bother that. It is me who open this box You have to give me three wishes. What do you want? I want my dick is long to touch the ground No problem. You are so short You are ridiculous. Now my dick is long but the legs are short I want both of them long Okay Wow you are so tall. Are you playing fool of me? Oh lucky that your dick is still long. You I have realized three wishes for you. Go away These are the three wishes? Please go away Oh what happened? Our treasure box is gone. Chung that bastard knocked me off. And raped me. You have to swear you would be kill Kim-chi and Chung You have to take justice for us. This is caused by Chung I think it doesn't involve Kam-chi Do you have an affair with her? I am not. You are saying killing someone. I hope it won't be too much trouble. I just hope it won't cause too much trouble. I am just asking a small favor from you. Forget it then. Honey honey honey What? Get into the bedroom with me first I won't. You stay outside tonight. Gigi tonight you come with me okay Gigi forget about her. Message here for me. Honey, get into the room with me Don't even dream of it. Gigi why don't you help me here? I'm sorry. I can help you. This is not okay. That one is also not okay. You two do it. Promise me? We can do it and you can do it too. You give Gigi Gigi gives you I can't do anything. Do I really need to do it myself? Honey, please promise me. Stop bothering me. Gigi, please promise me I'm sorry. This is a bastard. Madam why don't you do it with him? No way no matter what happen tonight I won't let him enter the room. Do I really need to do it myself? Why don't get the treasure box. Then I don't need to be alone. That bastard Madam you forgave me already? You are willing to have fun with him I don't punish him tonight, punish him later You go into the room to see if he is there Ask him out. I will fetch him for you. He is not in there. Where is he then? He must have gone for prostitute What should we do? Ignore him just for now. You help me get rid of the fire Alright I massage you first Alright Oh why is it so dirty You search the box for sex only. You have sex now, no need to search Tin-gin you are so porny You look slut I am slut? You are slut also We both are slut I couldn't believe Kam-chi is so cool I need to go home now as my wife requires This is pathetic Not really, get some dry wood I cannot steal dry wood pathetic Kam-chi is a real slut You need to rest What if my wife ask me to do it But I can't Why are you here? Oh it's you. Help No don't do that Oh hubby Where have you been last night Last night? Last night umm ah right I went to Chung to get the box Where is the treasure box? When I got into the village last night There were more wide dogs running towards me Then I battled with them for a long time. Then as for Chung I couldn't find him. Did you really Don't kill me my wife, please don't kill me You cannot escape from my punishment Another punishment of that? I can do it tonight Not tonight. Now Now? This? We need to find a place. Let's go Oh no, I might die It's you two again What are your wishes this time? You need to hear our wishes clearly Before you start the transformation. Alright say it. what's the first one? The first one is I hope that my dick Will change to a feet long and 3 inches wide It would be as hard as iron during sex And can finish its duty every time What's the second wish then? The second wish is that my breasts would be In the perfect size of 36C My body would be noticeable I wish my hair would be plentiful The third one? The third wish is that we would be strong physically and lots of fantasies in sex Then we can make love all daylong. You two are suddenly so smart now. Do you hear all the wishes clearly? Yes Then it wouldn't have any mistakes this time No mistakes Then why don't we start the transformation. Your wishes are boring and meaningless Oh why don't I give you some suggestions We just like it that way So what? So what Then do it now Oh hubby what are you doing? Oh honey What? Now is soft why don't you get in hard on I think I can get it hard Alright Better, better, almost there What's wrong with you? It's not getting hard again. I don't know why how come every time You cannot have it hard on I am still aroused and it makes me want more No actually I really want it But I don't know why I can't get it hard on you've been rely on the magic for too long Now without him you can't do it No kidding Why don't we ask Gigi to join us Three of us together might get it right Helping you to be more aroused You are just too sweet No matter what happened before You are still respectable to me You ask Gigi to join us No matter what happen You are the best to me Gigi Gigi Yes what can I do for you? He said last time you massaged his foot He was aroused Why don't you try it now To see if he would feel better Oh This is sad. Honey did you eat yet? I am full I've been doing it for the entire day. It's time to get the immortal I really want to speak to him that I want to make a good use of this wish You will see Why are you calling me so early It's been a whole day I can't get you out here to have three more wishes? So what I have helped you two times I got nothing from that, now what? Getting nothing? I need to say it again Didn't I explain it to you that Whenever I give you three wishes I need to have sex during the woman's period Or else how can I realize your wishes Do you understand just tell me your boring and meaningless wishes Alright the first wish is that I want to be the king of this village And be powerful and rich All the men would become my slaves What did you say? Cantonese The second wish? I want to take all the woman in this village Including kids What did you say? Cantonese You want to take other women bitch you don't think yourself beautiful and attractive I am forced to have sex with you. I am so sick of it. Get lost Hey Hey what? Kam-chi is your wife. As you hate her so much Why did you marry her at the first place? I marry her? She came to me You are such BBBBB What BBBBB I don't get it I need you to realize the third wish for me I want Kam-chi's memory forget about everything If she would become a whore or getting any STD, it would not be my business. I would not realize your wishes Oh really if you don't I would lock you inside this box forever You are so BBBB If I had the chance, I would cook you in a soup That's it Oh my gosh what happened? Chung are you nuts Yes I got everything and my wife is dead I am the person in charge in this village You all will listen to me You think you can do this You can choose not to obey. Stand up keep chopping wood until you die What exactly has happened? Chung, do you know what's going on? What happened? The wind is so wild; how come smiling And not answer me? The wind is wild. It is not wild at the moment. Later when you and I are together it will be much wilder What are you talking about? What am I talking about? Undress yourself What is happening? It's out of control. Oh my god what happened This is gorgeous Oh no, why? What exactly is happening? We don't have any clothes on Let's go, go now we come to here would be discovered? Don't care about it I need to have my power back This time is really cool You are so good at this Of course I am both male and female Not only do I have the man thing that can pleasure woman and I know how woman like to be pleasured You said where I can find it? If met you first I should have remained with you. Then I would never need to be with that bastard. I know howl can be a normal being again Never be trapped into the box ever again Why don't you do it? It costs a life this is too cruel. How can I do it Immoral it's bad What's wrong? Don't know why Chung has become the leader of the village He has ordered mens to chop wood until to die And he also has raped all the women He is too oppressive and orgy If this keeps going on, the village would become a burial ground It would become hell Holy shit How come you are free? It is because I am born from a mortal so I am not under the monopoly of Chung I made it happen I made this monster That's not your fault. It's never your intention The worst is that Chung has the treasure box If he opens the box and ask for wishes I can withdraw his wishes Why don't I go seduce Chung? Then you go to steal the treasure box Now Chung has countless number of women When is your turn? Not really, he is doing it day and night He gets bored What should we do then? We need to come up with a plan against him Gi, umm We need to get together to fight against Chung That's right I need to place him in hell And I would become a human being Thinking about how to fight against me I have absorbed the essence of the women I am much more powerful now None of you can bit me Immortal, even your magic power cannot bit me Immortal Are you have idea? There is a riddle that is able to crumb his power. But I cannot solve it. Now we have so many people You tell us that maybe someone can solve it. It is mandarin, banana, balloonflower, plum and bottom What kind of riddle is that? How do I know? Is it that we need to collect all the fruits? I know I can finally become a human being The answer to the riddle is screw you Kam-chi why are you so unhappy? Because immortal has become a human being in the form of woman. How can I have fun with him now? Don't worry about it. Before my transformation I have left my precious thing to Tin-chi What is that? Now Tin-chi possesses the precious thing which is large as well as hard Is that true? Tin-chi I want Good good. I want both. I will have four wives. Need to do it harder What did you say?
