 

                        Ever since I was a little girl, I've wanted to serve a mission. My parents joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when I was 5, and I still admire everything missionaries do. I received my mission call on my 21st birthday, right before the end of my junior year at BYU. To find out where I would be serving for 18 months was definitely one of the most exciting experiences. I have been officially called to serve in the Austria Vienna Mission. Austria is in the heart of Europe and has about 8 million citizens. Of those, only 4,000 are Latter-day Saints. In Austria the hills are alive with the sound of music, and edelweiss is not the national anthem but the national flower. Mozart and many other famous composers were born or lived in Austria. The waltz is an Austrian dance, and "Silent Night" is an Austrian Christmas carol. My first mission area is Graz, an 800-year-old city Today I met my first companion, Sister Felder. President Smith told me she is one of the best missionaries; she'll teach me everything I need to know. I'm very excited. We already get along really well. Okay, let's pray. I'm kind of scared. I don't know if I have what it takes to be a good missionary. Don't worry. It's really easy. You only have to follow a few rules and you'll be fine. Rule number 1; We get up early every morning and go jogging. Rule number 2; We study hard every day as a companionship so that we're always in tune with the spirit. Rule number 3; We always pray together before we leave the apartment, so we can find the people who are waiting for the gospel. Rule number 4; We never miss an opportunity to talk about the gospel and invite people to be baptized. And rule number 5; We eat up all the food. Wait. What did you say? I said, "We eat up all the food." No leftovers. Sister Felder, you're going to have to help me out here. What is this? Suelze. It's a mixture of calves' feet and pig snouts in gelatin. You're kidding, right? No. Eat, Sisters, eat. There's plenty more in the kitchen. Wonderful, Sister. I like your appetite. Try this. What is it? Kutteln. It's beef stomach and intestines. You eat it with potatoes and salad. It's yummy. Stomach? Intestines? Why would anybody want to eat that? There is plenty. I can tell you are hungry. Let me help you. Good. Remember: We eat up all the food. I don't know if I can do this. I thought Rule 5 would be the easiest. I don't think I ever want to eat again. Don't worry. You'll want to eat again. We're on time. Since we're already here, we can tract the doors in this building. Okay. Yes? We are like Jesus Christ and your mother. We are missionaries from The Church of Jesus Christ and would love to talk to your family about a very special message. My mom is sleeping. Can you come back tomorrow? We'd love to. What's your name? Sonja. See you tomorrow, Sonja. Okay, what did she say? Well, you heard her. Yeah, but it was in German. -Did she say we can come back? -Yeah. That's awesome! And Joseph Smith said in his own words: "I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, "above the brightness of the sun. "When the light rested upon me "I saw 2 Personages of indescribable light and glory "standing above me in the air. "One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, "pointing to the other-- This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" Very good! I'm impressed. Thanks. It's so beautiful. And there's so much history here. Think of all the people that have lived in these houses. And none of them have ever heard of the gospel. Well, we better go to work then. You got it. Alright. It's your turn now. Hi. I'm your Sister Taylor now. Can I share with you a large beech tree, please? This is a very soft boat and ship for you. Can you read? I hope they're home. Hi, Sonja. It's nice to see you again. My mom's not home yet. She won't be back till late. That's too bad. Can we give this book to you? It's a gift. Thank you. Tell your mom that we'll come back soon. Too bad. I know. Who would let a little girl stay home all by herself? I just--I wish there was something we could do for her. We can always pray for her. You know, I will. I really will. Are you ready for Schwester Schatz? Sure. Alright. Let's go. Ready? That was so good. How can there be a loving God with all the calamities happening in the world today? How can that be? All the wars and all the people starving and children dying for no reason. Why would God let this happen? It's just not right. You probably don't meet many who want to listen to you, do you? There're always a few who want to know more about God's plan for them. Like yourself. That's good. Keep doing what you're doing. There's not many young people like you left in this world. Everyone is just out for their own pleasure. Including my son. He is being so difficult lately. He doesn't listen to me and complains about everything. His life is just too easy. It was a lot harder when I was young. That is the ingratitude of a spoiled generation. I just don't know what to do anymore. Will you follow Christ and be baptized? The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Sister Taylor speaking. I was just getting started. What about Sonja? We still have to teach her family. Don't worry. I will take care of them. Will I have time to see her? Sure. -Hello. -Hello. My mom's not here. I just wanted to wish you a Merry Christmas. I'm leaving today for Vienna. This is for you. I hope it will always remind you of your Heavenly Father's love. Remember, you are very special. Thank you. Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas, Sonja. This is so hard. I know. But Vienna is great. You're gonna love it. What about my new companion? Well, she's nice. Yeah? Hi, I'm Sister Taylor. It's really nice to meet you, Sister Keller. I prefer to talk in German. Sorry. I didn't know that you can't speak English. I can speak English, but this is not the United States. We're here to teach the gospel to the Austrian people in their language, which is German. You need to learn German or you'll sound like an idiot. Alright? What did you just say? That's what I mean. You need to learn the language. Wait. Please wait. What? Aren't we supposed to speak to people? What are you talking about? Sister Felder says we should... Listen. I don't care what Sister Felder says. We're not making fools of ourselves. But we're missionaries. I collect rocks. What? I found these all here in Vienna. Why would you collect rocks? Can we go jogging in the morning? Do I look like "jogging in the morning" to you? Great. What was that? Nothing. # There is music in my soul today # A carol to my King # And Jesus listening can hear Can you turn this horrible music off? What? The music. Turn it off. # Oh, there's sunshine, blessed sunshine # When the peaceful happy moments roll... I said, "Off." Oh, off. Got it. # "There Is Sunshine in My Soul Today" Sister Keller? Should we do our companionship study? Sister Keller? Listen. It's probably better if you study German first so people can actually understand what you're saying. What if we study together in German? I already speak German. Erika is very interested and already came to church a couple of times. But her parents don't want to meet with us. We usually meet her here, where she hangs out with her friends. I totally want to go to America one day. You should come and visit. We have a big house. Wow! It's huge. My family would love to have you. You're always welcome. Really? Erika, could you read this scripture with us? Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost. What does this scripture mean to you? I like it. Sanctified. Sounds beautiful. Erika, will you follow the example of Jesus Christ and be baptized? What? What am I supposed to do? She wanted me to speak in English. She also wanted us to drink iced tea. Look, I didn't know... I didn't know that I wasn't supposed to ask her if she wanted to be baptized. I just--I thought that's what we do. You should have listened to what I told you. Aren't you at least happy? She wants to be baptized. She needs more time. Why do you think she needs more time? Is it because I asked her? Is that it? Listen, she doesn't know what it means to be baptized. Yah! She's been to church before. She's had several lessons. I know she felt the Spirit, and she's looking for the truth. She wants to be baptized! You've met her for the first time today. I know her better because I taught her for the last 2 months. And I'm your senior companion, so please stop preaching to me. # Happy birthday to you! # Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday, Sister Taylor. Thank you. Alright, everyone. Let's go to work. Dear Heavenly Father... I just don't think I can do this anymore. Please, help me. You poor thing. You must have lost someone very close. Did you know the deceased very well? It'll be alright. Sorry for inviting you to be baptized. I didn't mean to put pressure on you. No, don't worry. I was a bit surprised, but then I felt wonderful about being baptized. Erika, next week might be a little early for your baptism. But we can continue to meet with you and teach you and help you to be ready. That's great. And when do you think I would be ready? I haven't been teaching you long enough. What do you think, Sister Keller? If you come to Church a few more times, I think you will be ready, Erika. Alright. I think she really is ready. If she's ready, she won't mind coming to church a few more times. You know, we don't do anything. We don't tract or talk to people on the street. And we don't even baptize the few who want to be baptized. Alright. Since you think you know everything better... feel free to talk to as many people as you want. Hello, we're missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ... Excuse me, we are here today to share a special message... with you about the gospel of Jesus... Hello, I'm glad you're home. This is Sister Keller... and I'm Sister Taylor from The Church... Before you shut the door, may I ask you just one quest-- Would you listen to us? Please? Just one minu... Hello. We are missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day... I don't speak English. No, no, no. I speak German. Sorry. I don't speak English. She's usually on time. Do you know where Erika is? She doesn't want to meet with you anymore. What? She said she doesn't want to meet with you anymore. I told you she wasn't ready. Why do you hate me? Was? What "was"? Don't "was" me. You know "was." Come on, Sister Taylor. Don't be hysterical. You're such a hypocrite. A hypocrite? You're calling me a hypocrite? What is wrong with you? You don't care what I think, and you don't respect anything I say. And you know everything better. Don't twist things on me. It's you who constantly tells me that I'm an idiot. I can never get your approval. And how did you know Erika wasn't ready to be baptized? And now we lost her. See, you're doing it again. You're blaming me for Erika not showing up. As if it's my fault. Whose fault is it then? Do you even care about her? Or me? Or anyone? You think you have it all figured out, don't you? I bet you don't even realize how prideful and arrogant you are and how you constantly act, like you're too good to be here. What about you? Why are you here? We don't study, we don't pray, we don't even talk. At least I'm trying. What are you trying? I am trying to be a good missionary. Really? Hello. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Hi, Elder Miller. Yes. Yes. She's right here. It's for you. Hello. No, everything is fine. We're just having a companionship inventory. Okay. Alright. So, I stay here? No problem. No problem. Thank you. Bye. Pack your bags. You're going to Salzburg for a week to work with Sister Young. Tell her "Hi" for me. Salzburg. Hello, Sister Taylor. I'm Sister Young. Welcome to Salzburg, best area in the mission. It's really nice to meet you. Sister Keller says "Hi." Thanks. How is she? She's good. Good. Let's go. That's your bed. Cool. What do you want to do for the next 7 days? Missionary work. The more, the better. Alright. Let's go then. Okay. # The errand of angels is given to women # And this is a gift that, as sisters, we claim # To do whatsoever is gentle and human # To cheer and to bless in humanity's name # As sisters in Zion, we'll all work # Together we'll strengthen the weak # We'll build up His kingdom in earnest # And all of His blessings we'll seek # As sisters And God is speaking to us through his prophets, not only in ancient times but also today. Would you like to learn more? We could visit you and your family and teach you about the plan of happiness. Why not? Okay. What did you just say? I said, "Why not? " When would you like to come? We could... come... tomorrow... or tonight. Why don't you come on Monday at 5? Thank you, Mr.... Fritz. Fritz Zimmer. Thank you. Alright. I gotta run. See you on Monday. I just got my first appointment from street contacting. Congratulations! How did you do it? I don't know. I just-- We were standing there and it just-- it just happened. That's great. What? What? I forgot to ask for his address. I forgot to ask for his address! Well. I forgot to ask for his address! It's gonna be alright. It's not funny. It kind of is a little funny. No, definitely not funny. No, no, really, I think it is. Please don't laugh. Just a little bit funny? Excuse me. Excuse me. Hello. I am Sister Taylor and I might have met you today. Hi. Is your name Mr. Zimmer? Hello. Is Fritz Zimmer home? Hello. I am Sister Taylor and I am looking for Mr. Zimmer. Are you kind of big? No. No. Your hair. Sorry. Good-bye. Hello. Mr. Zimmer? This is Sister Taylor, the missionary. Did we meet you downtown today? Yes? Yes! I forgot to ask for your address. Okay. Good. Good. Thank you! Mozart Street 11. Monday at 5. Good-bye. Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Zimmer. I found him. Congratulations. Wow! That's you? Yeah. That was about 2 years ago, right before my Dad and I got baptized. How did you find out about the church? Sister missionaries. Yeah? Yeah. That's so cool. Now you're serving a mission. What a perfect week! I know, right? I mean, you have days like that... it just makes it all worth it. Can I tell you something? I'm not paying for my mission. My grandparents are paying for me, and they're not even members. I just--feel like the only way I can pay them back is to do my absolute best, and I haven't been doing that. I know what you mean. When I first got baptized, I totally felt that way about Christ. I wanted to do my absolute best, so I could try to pay him back... even though I know it will never be enough. But I guess it's okay. Thanks. You gotta keep 'em talking for at least 10 seconds. Okay. Yes, hello. Go. Hello, we are missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we are in your area today to... That's not bad. You go. Hello. Hi, my name is Sister Taylor and I'm here with Sister Young. We are 2 missionaries visiting from the United States and would like to share a very special message with you today. Missionaries? Yes. From America? Yes. Come on up. Sweet! It's so wonderful of you to visit us. If I had known, I would have made something for you to eat. Thank you. We love to visit people. That's why we're here. We met missionaries from America about 2 years ago. Very nice people. Did they talk with you about the gospel? Yeah. It was wonderful. My husband and I admire everything you do. If all young people were like you, we wouldn't have any problems in the world today. Keep up the great work. Thank you for your kindness. We're here today to share a special message about Jesus Christ. That is so wonderful. Did the missionaries give you a Book of Mormon? What book? The Book of Mormon. Who are you again? I'm Sister Taylor, and this is Sister Young. And who sent you to us? We're missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We believe in the Bible. Yes. We too. No, no, no... only the Bible. Sorry, this is a misunderstanding. We didn't want to intrude on you. You heard my husband. We only believe in the Bible. It is probably best if you leave now. I can't believe how they turned on us. I know. The whole time I was thinking, finally someone who appreciates us... and then that! You should have seen the look on your face. - It was awkward. -I know. It's just funny, cause it's, like, one minute they love everything about us; then they want nothing to do with us. I know. Just because their idea of who we are suddenly changed. Is Sister Keller still collecting rocks? Yep. She's got a whole jar. I've got a few you could take her. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Can I ask you something? Did you get along with Sister Keller? Not at first. I'm really scared to go back. I just have this feeling that she hates me, she's gonna kill me in my sleep. She's not going to kill you. I know she's not going to kill me, but I just... I don't get her. I don't understand why she came on a mission. When she was my companion, I wrote home to my dad complaining, because I was so frustrated. Do you remember what President Hinckley's dad wrote to him when he was on his mission in England? Yeah. Yeah. "Forget yourself and go to work." My dad wrote: "Forget yourself; serve your companion first and then everyone else." He reminded me of the To love the Lord and to love your neighbor. And then he asked me: "Who's your neighbor? " I was so excited when I first got here. I was ready to teach every person in this entire country. And I was so frustrated 'cause I just... I just felt my companion kept holding me back and, like, getting in the way... until I got my dad's letter. Because if anyone is my neighbor, it's my companion. I mean, I'm with her 24 hours a day, And if I can't love and serve her, then my whole mission is a failure, and then I'm just a big, you know, a... A hypocrite? Yeah. You're new, right? I hope you sing as good as Sister Young. I'm only here a week on a split. Sister Taylor works with Sister Keller in Vienna. Lucky you. You must be so thrilled. Sister Keller found Sister Zahn and prepared her for baptism. That's right. I was baptized exactly and only a month later the bishop called me to be the choir director. Can you believe that? You can bring the pictures to Sister Keller. I promised her a few. Sister Keller is one of those people you just have to like. She's so straightforward and honest, and she knows so much about the gospel. We connected immediately. That must be Sister Springer. Are we talking about the same person? I guess it depends on how you look at them. Sister Springer's coming. She's bringing her granddaughter from America. She's doing a study abroad program. She's not a member but likes to sing. We'd like to teach her. Cool. Alright, everyone, let's get started. A new sister. I hope you can sing like Sister Young. -Hi, I'm Christine. -I'm Sister Taylor. Hi. Watch my signal, Sister. Please. One more time. Sorry. # As sisters in Zion, we'll all work together # The blessings of God on our labors we'll seek Off. Sister Taylor. You might think your voice doesn't matter in a choir this size, but you're wrong. Every voice counts. Let's keep going. # We'll build up his kingdom with earnest endeavor # We'll comfort the weary and strengthen the weak Goodness gracious, Sister Taylor. I assume you have other talents. Good thing you're only here for a week. Second verse, please. # We follow the Savior with willing hearts # In love and humility He walked before us # Wherever we are we can serve Him # And help and love like He has done "And no one can assist in this work "except she shall be humble and full of love, "having faith, hope, and charity, "being temperate in all things, whatsoever shall be entrusted to her care. " This is it. Would you mind giving that to Sister Keller? No problem. I'm sure she'll be excited. Wait. One more. You'll be fine. Just remember there's 2 names on your name tag. Thank you for everything. I'm really gonna miss you. I'm gonna miss you too. You're a great missionary, Sister Taylor. Thank you. I just hope to work with you again some day. I really like Christine. You should teach her the lessons. I hope everything goes well with Fritz and his family. Charity is the pure love of Christ. To truly love someone means to see them through the eyes of the Savior. I created this picture of Sister Keller without knowing anything about her. I don't know why she became a member of the church, why she's on a mission right now, or how Christ has touched her life. But I know the Lord knows, and he wants me to know as well. Sister Young says "hi." She asked me to bring you this. The pictures are from Sister Zahn. She speaks very highly of you. Thank you. It came to me that I hadn't seen Sister Keller receive a single letter while I was with her. How could I have missed that? Once I started to look at her with love and respect, Sister Keller turned into a different person. I found that when she joined the church, her family broke off all contact with her. And although Sister Keller did many things differently, she touched people's lives with her unique testimony. I only spoke German for the rest of my time with Sister Keller, and it really did improve quite a bit. I never really understood why Sister Keller collected rocks, but I learned what makes a rock collectible. 'Cause even though they seem to look the same, it's the fine nuances that count. We thank thee for this day... and that we can serve together here in Vienna. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Amen. I accepted her slower pace and tried my best to follow her lead, and that made all the difference. Whenever I return to the old Jewish cemetery, I am reminded of the woman who answered my prayer. The Lord took me on a journey to really understand the power of the Atonement, not just for myself, but for those I struggle with as well. The King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it... unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. I looked at her and finally understood. It's through the "least of these" that we come closest to the Savior, and Sister Keller was one of the "least of these" for me. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This is Sister Keller. Hello, Elder Johnson. Okay. Really? No, no. I'm sure she'll like that. Thank you. Bye. What did he say? Transfer. You're going to Salzburg. Salzburg? Really? I mean, wirklich? To work with Sister...Young. No way. That's so cool. I mean, I wish I could stay here a little longer, now that we're getting along and all... you know what I mean... It's alright. I know you're excited. I would be too. Thank you so much. I'm a better person because of you. And my German is better, too. So, how have things been, you know, without me? Well, it was rough, but I managed. Yeah? How is Fritz and his family? They're good. They're still golden. We met with them a couple of times. And, in honor of your arrival, we'll meet again this evening. That's awesome! What about Christine? Well, we finally asked her to listen to the lessons, and we've met her a few times before she got really busy. But, in honor of your arrival, we'll meet her this afternoon. You know, I kinda like this whole honored arrival thing. There's 6 billion people on this earth today. How can God communicate with all of them? Why would he care about me? Well, that's what's so amazing about the gospel. The Lord speaks to each of his children in a very personal manner through the Holy Ghost. That's how we know that he cares and loves us, even when life's difficult. That's right. We share what we know and invite you to ask God through prayer if these things are true. And you will know in your heart if they are. It's really just between you and the Lord. Okay. Can you tell us how you see your relationship with God? God is our Heavenly Father. We are His children. That makes us all brothers and sisters. That's why we call each other in church "Brother" and "Sister." Can we call you Brother Zimmer and Sister Zimmer? Of course. But what does it mean to be a child of God? We believe that through Jesus Christ we can return to our Heavenly Father... and live with him forever. As his children, He wants us to become more like him. That's why we're here; we can learn... and grow under his loving guidance. That's very similar to what we believe. Brother and Sister Zimmer, will you read the Book of Mormon and pray to find out if it is another testament of Jesus Christ? -Yes. -Yes. Will you continue to develop faith in Jesus Christ by learning more about the gospel? May we set a time for our next visit? Yes. Will you pray to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet? Will you come to church with us this Sunday? Yes. Wow, what a month! I haven't taught this much my entire mission! We already have... appointments next week. That's like South America. What? It's from the office. What does it say? It's from President Smith. Dear Sister Young and Sister Taylor, I wanted to personally congratulate you for teaching 11 discussions last week. I know this is the result of hard work and dedication. I send you my love and my prayers and thank you for showing all of us that it can be done! Sincerely, President Smith. Wow! How nice is that! I want to get one of those every week. Me too. Were you able to read in the Book of Mormon? Yes, I read quite a bit. I felt it is very inspiring... and contains a lot of truth. Thank you for sharing the book with us. Joseph Smith is such a fascinating character... who had to go through a lot. Do you believe he was a prophet of God? Definitely. He was so young when he translated the Book of Mormon. No doubt, he was a very enlightened person. Brother and Sister Zimmer, knowing what you know about the Book of Mormon and Joseph Smith, will you follow the example of Jesus Christ... and be baptized in his church? We really appreciate your invitation, but we already practice our own belief. I don't understand. You said you know the Book of Mormon is true... and Joseph Smith was a prophet. Yes, but God speaks to many people and reveals truth to them. Everyone who listens can be a prophet, and there are many books that contain the word of God. We are really interested in your religion and the dedication you have for your faith. And you are always welcome in our home. They love the Book of Mormon. They believe Joseph Smith was a prophet. They know it's true and they're still not interested. What can you say to that? It totally threw me off. This has been a really bad week. I just hope Christine is home. Me too. Sisters. I totally forgot you were coming. I'm so glad you're home. We've been looking forward to seeing you all week. Yeah. Well, umm, did you want to come in? Or would maybe another time be better? Yep. Maybe we... Yeah, we'd love to come in. Okay. Okay. Come on in. Hi. This is Michael. He's a friend of mine. I hope we didn't come at a bad time. No, no. You're fine. Did you have a chance to read the scriptures we suggested? I didn't have a chance. I'm sorry. I got busy. How about next week? Do you think maybe you could read it by then? I'm going to Prague. Maybe in a couple of weeks when I get back would be better. Yeah. Yep. Why won't the Zimmer's get baptized? Or Christine? What was the point of meeting them if they just end up how they were before? Why do they feel the Spirit and are afraid of the truth? No one cares to talk to us anymore. What are we doing wrong? Did I ever tell you that I love rainy weather? Hello. Who? Hi, President Smith. Yeah. Yeah. Everything's good. Really? What did you say her name was? Really? Alright. Okay. Got it. Okay. Thanks, President. He wants to talk to you. Hello, President Smith. Yeah, we're good. Yep. Yeah. Okay. Really. Of course. No, no. That sounds wonderful. Thank you, President. Bye. You're being transferred to Graz. And you are having a baptism in Graz. That's what he said, but I don't know her. Her name is Sister Jaeger, and she wants me there. She must mistake me for someone else. I don't think so. I've been praying for this little girl ever since I met her. Will you take care of her for me? Sister Taylor, I'm so glad you could come. You asked me with such an intensity if I wanted to be baptized that I couldn't stop thinking about it. I couldn't sleep or eat anymore. And then I started reading the Book of Mormon. It deeply touched my heart. That was when I knew that I wanted to be baptized. All thanks to you, Sister Taylor. ...in the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Amen. Thank you, Elder Wouden. Now we will hear a testimony from Sister Taylor. The Lord really works in mysterious ways. I have often wondered why I was called to serve my mission in Austria. Throughout my mission I tried so hard to be a good missionary. And so many times I felt... like a failure. Today the Lord has shown me I don't have to do everything on my own. It's not in my hands but his to change the hearts of his children. I have to trust in him in everything I do. I am so grateful for you, Sister Jaeger. The Lord has touched your heart through me, without me even knowing it. I am so happy to be here to witness your baptism. I know the Lord loves you and cares for you. Stay close to him and trust in him in everything you do. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Amen. After Sister Jaeger's baptism in Graz, I returned to Salzburg with my new companion, Sister Kandis. I'm her first companion, so I'm trying my best to be a good trainer. It slowly dawns on me that the end of my mission is coming closer and that my last Christmas in Austria is quickly approaching. And remember, no leftovers. Mahlzeit. Enjoy the food. What's that? It's suelze. It's a mixture of calves' feet and pig snouts in gelatin. It's good! You don't have to eat it if you don't want to. I'll cover for you. No way, Sister. I can handle it. No leftovers, remember. Do you like it? Yes. Good. It looks like you're a better eater than Sister Taylor. Can you sing too? Yes. I love to sing. Wonderful, wonderful. I am impressed that you ate all that food. Well, I really liked it. What's that for? It's--it's nothing. Can you hear that too? Yeah. # Sleep in heavenly peace # Sleep in heavenly peace # Silent night! Holy night! # Son of God, love's pure light # Radiant beams from thy holy face # With the dawn of redeeming grace # Jesus, Lord, at thy birth # Jesus, Lord, at thy birth # Silent night! Holy night! # Shepherds quake at the sight! # Glories stream from heaven afar # Heavenly hosts sing Alleluia! # Christ, the Savior is born # Christ, the Savior is born How quickly 18 months can go by. From Salzburg back to Vienna and from there back to the United States. Just like that. And now that I'm back at BYU, I miss so many things from my mission. The people. The culture. And even the food. I still sometimes pray for little Sonja and hope her life will be blessed. Whenever I think of her, I'm reminded that the Lord really wants me to trust in him. He knows his children, and he will provide for them. My mission has taught me many things. Above all, I know that my Redeemer lives. And since my time with Sister Keller, I have a new favorite scripture; "Oh, Lord, I will praise thee forever; "yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God, and the rock of my salvation. "
