 

                        So what do you want to do? I don't care, whatever You're easy Wanna come hang at my place? Sure. I'll get to play with your dogs I thought we were going to your place Are you okay? Just relax. Let me do all the work That was the first time I got fucked I never talked to him or saw him on-line again Taking it up the ass is not as bad as you think You get paid a lot more if you do It's not as tiring as giving a blow job or a hand job This is my favorite position lying on my stomach Because I don't even have to see his face I was never exactly your happy suburban kid... but things took a strange turn... when I started to explore my sexuality on-line That was just about a year ago when I was still going to school and working at my dad's restaurant Don't forget to lock the door We're closed Bag up all the money Okay, just chill What's going on? Give me the cash, now! Don't look at me, you Jap! No! My life started to spin out of control not long after that night What's wrong? Is this yours? Is this yours or not? Is this what you are? If I hadn't promised your mom before she died, I'd - Then what? If you're really this then you're not my son And you gotta live somewhere else! Mom died when Noel was eight and I was twelve The photo is all I have of her now I remember how much she loved wearing her diamond necklace It was pretty much the only thing dad ever bought her Did you think about what we talked about? What? About you not having a home... and maybe I could adopt you Living here will be a lot better than where you're living now How was your day? Two tricks. Bought Chinese food Yummy New stuff? I haven't tried one yet, but they're supposed to be really good I'm starving Teach me how to use chopsticks? No When I was a little kid I saw this kung fu movie on TV And this guy... he could kill people by throwing chopsticks at them It was the coolest You know it's unlucky to open a fortune cookie before you finished eating What did you get? "Your prayers will be answered" I met Remigio a couple of days after I started working on the strip I learned all about hustling from talking to a couple kids on-line I got paid really well because I was just the right type Howdy. I'm Remigio What? Am I supposed to pay you a road tax? Just seen you around... thought I'd say hi Are you a cop? Vice squad. Just kidding But if I were you I wouldn't make it so obvious Don't get dropped off on the street Thanks for your advice, Remigio Wanna smoke? I don't smoke Come hang with us I'm tired, hungry and homeless Will you excuse me? I'll buy you dinner Why? Because I dig you It's gonna cost you What are you in the mood for? How's the sushi? Good So you're just gonna sit here and watch me eat I'm not that hungry I'm still a little high On what? On E, and a little bit of coke Ever tried it? No I make good money on it Wow. I guess I'm supposed to be impressed by a drug dealer You're a little bitch, you know that? Look, I know you're scared But trying so hard to act tough isn't going to get you anywhere Just be yourself and keep your eyes open Look, I'm going to pay for this and I'll leave you alone Wait Do you have a place to stay? Wanna crash at my place? I'm not going to fuck you if that's what you're thinking I know how you feel I've been there What's your name? Ethan. Ethan Mao Hey, Christina. How are you? Yeah. I'll be down there around eleven OK. See you Do you want me to come with you? You really need a good night's sleep I feel like doing a couple more lines You need your rest You haven't slept in over a day Can I ask you a favor? Tell me about it I need to get some stuff from my parents' house Can you give me a ride? Sure I hate straight clubs I'm so tired, but I can't sleep I'll come with you No, just stay here I'll be back in no time Is that really necessary? I've been in some rough situations Babe, I don't want you to do anything tonight From Miss Tina Trade herself I'm serious Mao's my mom's family name Where're you from, Ethan? Christ Minster. What about you? Back east. I came down here because I always wanted to be here I also came to look for my mom but it's been three years and I still haven't found her Were they divorced? I was adopted. I never knew my dad, and my mom... Well... She gave me up when I was really young Last thing I heard was she came down here to be an actress Ethan? I'm so rolling I can tell I hope you're not mad at me I couldn't sleep, so I tried one It's really good Oh, Ethan I miss my mom so much You're gonna come with me, right? To my dad's house, right? I promised Will be give me a massage? Do you want to fuck me? For the things you've done for me like letting me stay here you know it's okay if you want to fuck me I don't care. Just get it over with I don't want to fuck you, Ethan I told you that from day one Why are you so good to me? Do you remember Rubin? That big older white guy? I never told you this but I was his boyfriend for almost two years He deals higher stuff like coke He set me up to do what I'm doing now So what are you trying to tell me? I had no money, and I didn't know anyone when I first came out here I needed to be with him you know what I mean? He was completely in love with me but I wasn't even attracted to him How do you know you're in love? You just feel it I don't think I can ever love anyone One day you will I hope so Will you promise me something? What? We're leaving in an hour Yes, dad Move it, you fag Asshole! Did you wake the boys? Yes, M'am. Can you put this in your purse? It's the jade for May Of course, darling Please don't forget You look lovely Um... I'm going to make breakfast Just my shake will be fine Hurry up, Noel Anywhere you want Do you guys have the Thanksgiving Special? Of course. Serving it all day long from seven A. M I'll have one Do you know what you want? I'll just have pancake OK. Coming up Let me see It's my little brother He just left me the alarm code Who were you calling, Noel? Just a school friend We gave you the cell phone for emergency use only I know. Sorry, dad Maybe Noel has a girlfriend He's too young to have a date This is America, Abe. Not China My family never celebrates Thanksgiving So what do they do? They usually take a road trip to meet some family friends Thanksgiving is the only day off we have from the restaurant My adopted mom She made great turkeys Did you bring the jade? Of course, I did Are you sure? Yes, darling Can you check? Can you find it? Can't we give it to her some other time? We see them only once a year Can you find it? I'm sorry, Darling It must have slipped my mind You're not turning around are you, Abe? I just asked you to do a very simple thing Don't talk to me like that I'm not your servant Hey, can I take care of the gun? Sure. It's you hood Wow, nice TV! Why don't you sit here and watch TV? Oh, but we shouldn't make any noise Good thinking. I'll pay for the cable when we get back, all right? Hey, do you need any help? No, I'm cool. Won't be long Noel, who do you keep calling? Just checking the weather, Dad Ethan? Where did you leave it? On the dressing table, I suppose Get up! Listen, Sir, I was just - Put it down. Put down the photo Raise you hands and walk towards me out of the room Are you alone? Yes, Sir Now turn around and walk downstairs Drop the gun Ethan? I said drop the fucking gun Remigio What are you doing here? You know, Dad, I worked for you since I was eleven... and not once have I gotten paid So what are you going to do? Just stay back Go ahead, you faggot! I dare you! Let him go. Let him go, Sir! What's going on? I need to use the bathroom I need to use the restroom too Get up. Move Abe? What the hell? Shut up, Josh Just do what he says Ethan, what are you doing? This ingrate has come back to rob us You're gonna fry for this You think I'm still going to take your shit? Ethan, no For all the years you've been shitting on me and Noel I really feel like blowing your brains out right now Ethan, he's your brother You mustn't hurt him My brother? He's not my brother He never treated me like one And you are a back-stabbing bitch Look at me Look me in the eyes and... tell me you didn't take that magazine from my room I just found it, Ethan My mother loved you and worked for you all her life and... you treated her like a dog This woman is a leech and you treated her like a queen What do you see in her? Don't talk to me like this I talk to you however the fuck I please You've got our money. Now leave Don't you ever come back again or I'll kill you, you monster Maybe I'm a monster But I didn't ask to be born And one more thing I want my mom's necklace back It isn't worth anything It's not yours. Where is it? It's not here. It's in the safety deposit box at the bank It's Thanksgiving, Ethan Well, then. We just have to wait till tomorrow morning Get it first thing, and we'll leave But until we're gone, you'll all listen to me for a change Honey, let me take a look You don't have to look Mom. I feel fine So Ethan, how've you been? I'm still breathing We haven't heard from you in months We're all very worried about you I don't know what happened between you and your father - You knew exactly what happened You couldn't wait to show him the magazine, could you? Whatever happened, Ethan let's just put it all behind us You are part of the family Fuck you! Abraham, talk to your son About what? You're scared, aren't you? You're scared for yourself and your baby Ethan, there has been a great deal of misunderstanding between... all of us. It shouldn't have come to this Just shut up, bitch! I need to take a crap So? So can I use the bathroom? Please? Please, your majesty Go. Downstairs Shit! Motherfucker! Watch them I'm gonna fucking shoot you if you're on your cell phone Open the door! Stop! C'mon, Ethan. We've never gotten a chance to do this man-to-man Remigio! Dad! I'm fine Get up! Why did you shoot Dad? He was trying to kill us I said get up. Now move Oh my God, Abe What happened? My son shot me Josh, Josh! Are you all right? Yeah. I'm all right, Mom Just don't hurt my son He started it all I've got to get some bandages for Dad Go! Everyone stays still It's Mrs. Harvisham What the fuck does she want? I'll deal with her Noel, go take care of her Do you know what day this is? It's Thanksgiving Exactly. This is a very important national holiday So if you could please keep the noise level down which means no banging no screaming And please don't play your Hong Kong action movies too loud Do you understand? Yes, Mrs. Harvisham Good day! She's gone. Where's Ethan? He'll be right back And I suggested all of you turn in your cell phones And you? Gracias Josh, honey Leave me alone, Mom Don't talk to your mother like this She's my mom And I talk to her the way I want Besides you're not my father Josh, I love you I know, Mom. And I don't have to hear it all the time Will you help me tie them up? If that's what you want Ethan, take the money and tomorrow morning we'll get you the necklace I hope a gag won't be necessary Why are you doing this to us? Because I feel like it Sarah! This is all your fault Your son is a psycho You've made your point Please don't put us through this I don't trust you anymore I have to pee Piss in your pants Look Ethan, I may be an asshole But I don't lie You have my word that I won't do anything stupid and I'll make sure no one else does I will untie you when I feel like it Now that I have everyone's attention you better call Aunty May and tell her... that you guys aren't going to make it to Roy Town How did you know we were going to Roy Town today? Just a guess Roy Town is your favorite place Noel, you called him with the alarm code in the car didn't you? Yes, he did Noel... I'll kill you - If any of you touches a strand of my brother's hair I'll hunt you down and put a bullet in your head He's my son I work all my life to put a roof over my children's head put them through school give them what they need... I don't know what more they want from me For you, all there is is money That's all your children need They just need your money And that's exactly what I'm here for Your stinking money I need to use the bathroom I said, "Piss in your pants, bitch!" Feeling better? You call Aunty May and make it sound good Hello May... it's Abe here Yes, something came up and we're not coming over anymore Yeah. Sarah's not feeling well Yeah... okay... I'm sorry. Hold on She wants to talk to you Hi, May. I got a really bad stomachache We'll give it to you some other time Listen, say hi to Chuen for me and have fun. And Ethan Ethan, you have humiliated us enough They got the point I don't know what more you want from us We'll give you what you came for And we'll listen to all your reasonable demands in the meantime But please, untie us! Do we have a deal? Fine I want your word You have my word So this is a done deal And no one is gonna do anything contrary. Josh? You have my word Sarah? And Noel? Yes, Dad Tomorrow, only one of you goes Well it has to be Sarah The safety deposit box is under her name Don't worry. I'll give it to you... it's not worth anything Don't you get it? It's not how much it's worth It's all I have of her So everyone understands and is going to abide by this deal Including you Don't worry I want nothing from you guys I'm only here because of Ethan But if any of you comes at me with a knife again I'll have no problem in shooting him or her May I please go and change now, Ethan? Yes. But Remigio is going with you I'm hungry Can I cook something for them to eat? Yes, you may. Why don't you clean up your mom's mess? What's your name? Remigio That's unique. My name is Sarah So Romeo how did you meet Ethan? I'll leave that up to your imagination I need some privacy Use the bathroom. And please don't try anything stupid Oh my my... you don't trust me? I don't know you Well, I'm not a wicked stepmom I was an actress My mom was an actress If I hadn't devoted my life to my son... I would have been the next Meryl Streep How're you doing? Just fine, darling Mom's going to help me Noel, why don't you go play video games with Remigio? You know I hate video games Noel, just go. I'll stay here I owe you Wow, you guys have so many cool games You don't like to play video games? They're all Josh's So what do you like to do? I like novels and movies What are you reading now? A few books at a time One is Frankenstein Hey, Ethan, can I call Vicky? I promised to call her today Hey, Vicks. It's me Just calling to say hi and hope you're having a good Thanksgiving Give me a call back when you get a chance I'll talk to you later. Okay, bye I thought you and Vicky broke up I mean she's so far away You need a girlfriend here Besides I think you can do much better than her It's Vicky! Go ahead Hello, how're you doing, baby? I'm cool, just hanging with my folks right now We cancelled the trip and decided to stay home So... you're having a good Thanksgiving with your aunt? Cool. Well I just call to say I love you Okay, I'll talk to you later Bye. Thanks She isn't home this Thanksgiving? No... she's in Boston with her aunt I'm actually going to go out there next year You're not going out there You know what, Mom? I'm twenty years old now I can get up and walk right now so don't push me Oh really? And how're you going to support yourself? You've never had a job Not one in your entire life Watch me Oh, go ahead You just go ahead and leave me here to rot I'm going to play video games Is that cool? All right You use these to use your special skills Like that? And you press these two buttons for your back flip Hey. Mind if I join you guys? Oh... go ahead. You can play I'll just watch We can play teams. I'll tag with Noel since he isn't that good Don't get dehydrated I hope you're taking care of yourself out there, Ethan Can I ask you a question? What? We used to be able to talk you and I. What happened? I mean I've tried the best I could to take care of you Take care of me I've worked in my dad's restaurant since I was eleven to support you and your son Have you even worked one day in that restaurant? Ethan, I didn't marry your father to be some kind of slave I love your father and I brought my own money into this marriage You've gotten things quite twisted If you think things were hard on you imagine how I felt when I first came You never even gave me a chance You wouldn't even looked me in the eyes for the first year How do you think I felt? I just lost my mom And you waltzed right in You wouldn't even acknowledge my presence You were trying to control me Well! It turned out none of us could control you, Ethan Youre out of control And you're not a kid anymore You're a criminal Oh, back flip! So what do you do? I sell stuff. This and that What do you sell? Vitamins What kind of vitamins? Oh... crystal, E, K & G Seriously? Yeah, just for the time being To get by So do you think I can buy some E off you when this is all over? You mean ecstasy? Shut up! Well, a few of my friends do it at raves I mean... It's supposed to make you mildly intoxicated and relaxed... and energetic with a general sense of wellbeing, right? You're such a nerd Why don't you tell the kids the food is ready? How're you doing? I'll live Dinner's ready! Pause! You guys go ahead I want to talk to Noel for a minute It'd be better if you came with us Let's go I'm gonna go get something else to drink Hey can you get me a juice? Yo, Ethan! Can I have one too? Josh, please. Stop throwing things In our family, we say grace You don't have to if you don't want to... but I'd like to have a moment of silence Dear God, I want to thank you for giving us life... and all the food on the table on this difficult day I pray that you guide us through these hours... and we pray that you forgive Ethan's sins. Amen Amen Ethan, your father has made your favorite dish I'll get you a fork Wait. I want to use chopsticks Just show me how Oh, I'll show you how I mean it's really easy You hold one like this and the other one like this Ok You got it? Fair enough It's still kind of bleeding You okay, dad? Noel, will you help me get some blankets... and pillows when you're done? I'm gonna go help Ethan I'm sorry, Noel I'm sorry all this had to happen I really didn't know I just hope Dad's gonna be fine He's tough. He'll be fine I know he'd never say it But he cares about you He cares more about money He'd sell any of us out for money That's what I hate about him So Remigio seems cool So are you... We're just friends You ever think of coming home? It's too late now I need to change Romeo, why don't you watch over me? Your mother must be very beautiful I don't remember what she looks like I was only three when she gave me up I know she is, because you're a very handsome young man You're in love with Ethan aren't you? I can tell Have you ever been with a woman before? You have a very firm grip, Remigio Stop fucking with my mind and go get dressed Or what? You're gonna shoot me? How are you holding up? I'm finally coming down Tomorrow when this is all over I'll do whatever you want You don't have to do anything We're friends You're probably the only friend I've had for a long time We'll take turns watching them Take a nap Are you sure? I'll wake you up when I start getting asleep Thanks. For everything Where am I? We're here in my apartment I just dreamt that I was at my dad's house with you And all these awful things started to happen At least you slept for a couple of hours Can I ask you a weird question? If you had to die tomorrow what would you have done today? If I had to die tomorrow... I'd still do what I did I'd still be here, with you, right now Are you okay? Yeah. Sorry to have to woke you Go back to sleep Are you okay? Yeah. I'm scared We'll be out of here soon I promise I need to go to the bathroom Dear God, please let me live and die without regret Hey, are you done? It's all yours Hey... just gonna get some water Can't sleep No... not really. Water? Sure I know there's been bad blood between us for a long time But I don't really have anything against you You're a smart guy, Ethan You should go to college for something Whatever. I just want to get out of here Thirsty? So Remigio says he can hook me up You know... Josh, you should be careful Just once in a while. E Not a big deal Actually I want to do it with Vicky once Yeah. That'll be fun Hey man, you know what? I have some in my car I'll give you a couple Serious? Yeah All right, man. These are very pure and potent. They're capsules No shit Have fun Thanks. I'll pay you something Don't worry about it, man Seriously Just have a good time with your girlfriend I so approve of your boyfriend Ethan We're just friends I'm just playing with you, bro Listen, Josh, if something happens to me... will you keep an eye for Noel for me? I will What happened? My nightgown from Saks The dressing must have gotten loose over night He bled quite a bit How are you feeling? I'm all right. Sarah, go get changed and go to the bank We need to take Dad to the hospital Not until I get what I want Get changed and go to the bank You want to kill your father don't you? Noel, go get some bandages and towels What are you doing? I go cook breakfast Just sit and relax, Dad This is my house Let me do what I have to do Listen, just go to the bank... get the necklace and we can put all of this behind us Don't worry. I have absolutely no use for it if you think it's worth anything you're wrong You just don't get the point do you? No, I get it. You don't think you have to work You think you two can just rob innocent people of all the things... they've worked hard to earn all their lives I hope you two get AIDS and die Well, I hope you'll be happier Trust me. I am happy I just pity all you pathetic losers Oh, Sarah. I'm sorry I forgot your shake I'm fine, Darling I'm going to the bank I'll be back in half an hour Do you want me to go with her? No. She'll be back If not, I'll just blow her son's brains out My stepson is a homosexual and psychopath Where is she? The bank is only five minutes away Take it easy, Ethan I have a bad feeling about this I'm going to see who it is Hello. No. Dad Who's it? I don't know Calm down, Ethan don't fuck with me! She will be back and let me see who it is Yes. Yes. He wants to talk to you Who is it? It's the police Yes? This is Sheriff Black How're you doing? Listen, we have the house surrounded I want you and your friends to come out with your hands up... any weapons in the air. Let's get this over with, so no one gets hurt I'll give you five minutes Fuck you! You lied to me I didn't lie to you Ethan, take it easy, dude You told her to call the cops You think I don't have the guts to kill you? I didn't know anything about this If that's what you want, go ahead Ethan, no! I told you, Noel I told he'd sell us out for money Please don't hurt Dad Get out of the way, Noel I'm sorry about that night It's too late. It's too late for you to say that But you're my son Nothing can change that When I left that morning I was no longer your son I don't care if I die If that's God's will, let it be But I just don't want you to get hurt I don't want you to get in more trouble You didn't have to kill that kid, Dad Ethan? No, this is Remigio How can I help you, Remigio? Listen, maybe Ethan isn't going to shoot his family I may So I suggest you don't make a move until we've agreed on something What do you want? Thirty minutes And I'll call you back with demands So that makes it ten thirteen? Ten thirteen sharp I was just buying ourselves some time so we could think of something Noel, I need your help Promise I won't hurt you Josh, will you call the sheriff back... and tell him to look outside the dining room window? Act scared Yes? Sheriff Black? Who am I speaking with? This is Josh. He told you to look at the window in the dining room Are you okay? Yeah The good news is the SWAT team isn't here yet Bad news... there're five police cars and cops with rifles Why did you do that? So that they'll take us seriously and... You didn't have to get involved I got involved when I came with you Think about what you want to do, Ethan Son, you've got to do the right thing What is the right thing? We'll help you. We'll get a lawyer for you and everything will be fine What about Remigio? We'll get a lawyer to represent both of you You've got to do the right thing now Be sensible guys you can't get away Shut up. Just shut up, everybody Ethan, don't! It's over! Please don't! Ethan, we'll do anything to help you Listen to be... babe, it's okay Dad, I'm sorry! I'm glad you came home What do you want to do? I don't know. What do you want? I have an idea. I'm just going to go out there and turn myself in I'm going to tell them that I force you to take me to your home and... I told you to rob your family What? It'll be easier. You'll be okay and you'll come off clean You can't Listen, you don't have it that bad There's still a lot of love for you and you can't take that for granted No! Let go! You goddamn brat, don't you get it? They love you I didn't mean to hit you Look, I'll do some time... a few years max... take care... I'll see you again But you didn't do anything Not everyone get a second chance, Ethan I wish I had a second chance I can't owe you more For the past few months you were living with me... I had the best time of my life I was just using you I was happy That was all that mattered When I closed my eyes and tried to blow my brains out... the only person I could see was you... and I couldn't do it because I'd really miss you If I let you go out there alone I'd regret it for the rest of my life Let's do it together Are you sure? Ethan! I love you I love you too Ethan, will you promise me something? What? When you do fall in love, will you let me know no matter where I am? Sure. You'll be the first person I kiss... If I ever love anyone SkyFury
