 

                        Where the hell is this town Zur-HaSharon? Any further and we'll reach Nablus (the West Bank). Ah! There! There it is. Like I said, on the border with the Arabs. As long as we get paid, Sasha. Come on, move your butts. I haven't got all day, we must finish by 2pm. Easy with the drawer chest! Don't worry, Mrs. Navon. She's a pain... Quiet, she's our Defense Minister's wife. Careful with the sofa! Gilad, Arabs by the security fence, copy? Copy that, coming. Keep an eye, ok? Where? There. I'm on it. Heading back. I'd like to thank the PM, the Cabinet and you all for your vote of confidence. My late father used to say that goals are achieved only if you draw boundaries. I promise all lsraelis to do just that, to continue the successful policy of my predecessors: hunting and eliminating terror wherever it is. The new lsraeli Defense Minister today as he begins his term... When you look at Minister Navon's record over the years... I'm done for the day. Welcome... When are Laila and the kids coming? They should be here any minute. I miss them so much. Me too. Excuse me. Hello? Hi, Mom. Hi, where are you? We won't make it. Ali is not well. Does he have a fever? Sorry, Mom. It's ok. We'll come another time, ok? God willing. Bye, Mom. Ok, bye. Don't be upset. Maybe next week. That's how it is with children... Well, let's eat anyway. Thanks. I'll just go home. At least take food with you. It's ok, some other time. Let's see what's happening. Good morning, what's up? The north of lsrael is under high alert after last night's Hezbollah rocket attacks. No injuries and only minor damages were reported, but the North Region Commander stated we must be prepared in case the Hezbollah renew their attacks... Good morning. Defence Minister Navon says... Your friend, Tamar Gera, interviewed President Assad's wife. Pretty good article, worth reading. Where did she meet her? Not in Syria? No... in London. She's British, calls herself Esma, but in fact it's Emma. Good looking, huh? Yes. Don't forget to invite her to our housewarming party. Gera, I mean... Got it. When will you be back? Two days, if there are no surprises up north... A bit scary sleeping here alone. Scary? Why? Both the army and Secret Service are here. Today they're installing the best technology to protect you. Us. Us. I keep thinking of all the nights I'll spend on my own... There are worse things than being the Defense Minister's wife. Good morning, Mrs. Navon. Good morning. Sir, we really must get going. I'm coming... You're doing a fine job, guys. I'm coming. Yeah, Jackie, talk to me. What's up? Move it! Step on it, guys! Careful with the fence, easy! Hi, you've reached Sigi's phone but I'm busy 'cause my parents forced me to study at Georgetown University in Washington DC. So leave a message after the... Sweetheart, this is your mother. Remember her? Call me, it won't hurt you... Kisses, take care, bye. Dear student, welcome to the self-testing Psychometric Test. Chapter l: Verbal Thinking. The data is: Footballers don't believe in Confucius. Some footballers are bald headed... I remember the day your father planted these trees. His hands were blessed. Once we ate apricots, he spat out the pit, and within a week it grew into a huge tree. Come on, Abu Hussam... Pity, he died too young. God rest his soul. God rest his soul. What can I say, Jacob, I don't like this grove. I told you, this grove's over 50 years old and nothing ever happened. I know the owner, a poor, lonely woman who hardly lives off her lemons. What about a husband? I knew him well actually, but he died years ago. But what will keep a terrorist from entering the grove, gathering intelligence, throwing a grenade, whatever. Before we respond, he'll be asleep in Nablus. Gilad, security fences, watch towers, sensors, soldiers, the Secret Service. Not enough? What else can we do? Do not turn the page until you are instructed to do so. Easy, Gilad, easy. Listen, I don't take the decisions here, but you see how easy it is. Everything ok? Can't complain, Mrs. Navon. Why do they always give me the worst jobs? Stop whining. Give her the letter and let's go. I'm starving. Move it! Open the door! Come here! Quick! Give this letter to Mrs. Salma Zidane. It's urgent and important. Got it? Hello, Abu Camal. Hello, Um Nasser. How are your wife and kids? Fine. They kiss your hand. I came because I received this letter. You know I can't read Hebrew. And I have a feeling it's important. It's from the Central Region Commander, the son of a bitch, informing you they will cut down your lemon grove, because the trees pose a threat to the safety of the Defense Minister who lives across from you. "An immediate and absolute military necessity." What's wrong, Um Nasser? Why are you crying? Do you know how much land they confiscated to build prisons for us? And how many houses they demolished? It says here you are eligible for compensation. The lsraelis are so generous... Thank you. But we don't take their money. You understand that, right? You're listening to DC Radio 99.9 FM, in the nation's capital. The only station that brings you jazz to sooth your ears. It's 1 1 :14 and it's another sunny day here in the capital... Nasser, phone call for you, I think it's your mother. Thank you, boss. Nasser, make it quick! Hi, Mom, how are you? What? What do you mean? Why? Damn them, but who needs this grove anyway? It's not worth the effort since Dad died. I wish I could send you more than $150, but life in America is expensive. You understand, right? Mom, I can't talk now. Forget the trees and come to America! You'll be a queen! Life is much better here! Complete: the threat of atomic catastrophe... When can you design my house? I've got some things to finish here first, the house warming next month that the PM is attending, and then I'll be free to take new work. Can we look upstairs? Sure. Thanks, Mira. What a nice place. How do you manage? With what? Don't these women get on your nerves? Not at all. We have a lot in common. Want some? Really? Like what? Army wives may be considered desperate housewives, but we're an active part of the political and social scene, Tamar, I wouldn't dismiss that so easily. What? Would you rather hear I'm unhappy? I'm not unhappy, not at all. And how is it to live so close to the border? Aren't you afraid? Afraid? Why afraid? Look at this grove. Isn't it charming? Show me your lD. Salma Zidane? Listen, there's nothing for you here. It's the General's decision. Why complain? We offered you compensation, right? Look around, these people have real problems. Your problem is small. You hear? Don't go to Ramallah via the checkpoint, it's closed. Closed? Curfew! Even an ant can't get through. God help us! I hope the soldiers aren't lurking in the hills, blocking our detour. Are you painting? So what do we do? There's a lawyer at the Jelazoon Camp, a relative of my mom. He might be able to help. He'll charge a fortune. How will I pay him? I have no idea, Mom. Mussa hardly makes ends meet. Maybe Suha can help? Suha? She has enough trouble in Gaza. What does Nasser say? Hello. Hello. Can you direct me to Ziad Daud's law office? Sure. Next corner turn right. Thank you. You're welcome. Come in. Good day. Hello. I'm Um Nasser, Mussa's mother in law. Hello, Um Nasser. Mussa told me about you. Take a seat, please. Give me those things. Two years since I returned from Russia, and I'm still addicted to them. Want some? No, thanks. What's the problem? It's not easy being their Defense Minister's neighbor, huh? I live only off this grove. They offered you compensation, you know that, right? I know, I inherited the grove from my late father, no money can compensate for that. Sure... Look, we can appeal to the Military Court, but it won't be easy. Have you ever handled such cases? Sure. Mussa said I should make sure you did. Look, it's not easy for one of us to go against the lsraeli army. Truth is that since I came back, I only had divorce cases, and even those are hard to get these days... It's your decision... Salma... Salma... Daddy! Higher, Salma. Reach higher... Dad... Hello, Mrs. Zidane. Hello. Please, come in. Come in... Thank you. We've... I've appealed to the Military Court. We should be summoned soon. This is your copy. Thank you. You're welcome. Here you go. Thanks. From your grove, yes? Yes. Very tasty, bless your hands. Hello, Abu Hussam. Hello. Abu Hussam's been working for us for 50 years now. Attorney Ziad Daud. Pleased to meet you. You look just like my father... Pleased to meet you. Don't you want to show him the grove? Why not...? Abraham says: Like all Namibians, Christopher, too, breeds fish, which is why I was surprised to see he had a beard. Which of the following cannot be concluded from Abraham's saying: do not normally grow beards. This is their Minister's house. Your neighbor is good looking. I mean, Jewish women know how to take care of themselves. You have 10 seconds left. Shut up, stupid... Time's up. Go to the next question. Did you choose a caterer? I thought about authentic Arabic food. Shall I check the Arab restaurant we know? Samir's place? Yes. Won't we have kosher problems? I don't want trouble with the Orthodox parties. But why go so far? Ask our Palestinian neighbor to cater for us. She does catering? I had no idea. What? Why? She's suing me. Really? What did we do to her? Nothing yet, but we will. We are cutting down all her trees. Why? Because terrorists might infiltrate Israel through her grove. Makes sense, no? Why are you looking at me like that? I have nothing against her. So who does? The Secret Service do, and I trust their judgment. Fine, I didn't say anything. Now the whole world will think I have something against Arabs. Know what? Go for Samir. The PM loves his food. Just make sure he keeps the food kosher. Your Honor, I'm sure the army thanks the learned attorney for his advise on lsrael's security, but as I've already stated, the grove poses a real and imminent threat to the Minister's household and to the State, so... How can you claim my client's grove poses a threat to the state's security? It's been there for over 50 years, and not a single shot was fired from it. Only since September 2000, more than 20,000 terror attacks were perpetrated by terror organizations on the lives, bodies and property of Jewish civilians. Terrorists will use the appellant's grove to gather intelligence, throw grenades or bombs at the house, shoot at it, etc. while taking cover among the trees, unseen by the army. Your Honor... And just as an example, if I may... No need, I've made my decision. Please be seated. For the record: The Military Authorities' decision to uproot the grove was taken after contemplating various alternatives to minimize the damage caused to the proprietress. The security authorities are willing to compensate her if only as a token of the State's good faith and generosity, although the lntifadah Act authorizes the Defense Minister to proclaim the grove a hostile territory, thereby exempting the State from any kind of compensation. Therefore, the court rejects the appeal and orders the uprooting of the trees ASAP. Until then, the grove is to be fenced in, and Mrs. Zidane or her proxies are banned from entering the parameter. I won't let them touch my trees. It's the court's decision, nothing we can do. Um Nasser? Salma? Salma... We'll go to their Supreme Court. Is that what you want to do? Are you sure? I'm sure. Do you know what it means? No. But I do know one thing... I've had my share of grief in life. Your Honor, my client says she does not accept the honorable court's decision. We're taking it to the Supreme Court. "Accepted" She's going to the Supreme Court. I'm not surprised. I'd have done the same. She's protecting her home, lsrael, what did you expect? It happens all the time, it's part of the history of this place. Only this time it's because of us. Because of me, you mean. What can I do? Go against the system because of a few lemon trees? You're the Defense Minister, you can revoke the order. Supposing I do that, what then? Somebody will come up here and shoot you? Really, Mira, what do you want? Want us to move out? There must be another solution. So maybe it's about time. Tighten the security. Why not bring all the army? Leave Lebanon and the territories, just to watch over you? Great, very mature, lsrael. Mira, I have a million things to deal with. I don't need your attitude too. Fine, no problem. Cut the trees. Ignore reality, as usual. Thanks a lot. Come on, guys, I don't have all day. Move it. Come on. Yeah, Jackie, what's up? Easy with the fences. Yes, I hear you. I'm coming today. I give you my word. You don't trust me? My word is worth a million dollars. Ask anyone. Move it! Here we are planning the new segment of the Separation Wall, with a promenade, as a treat for the locals. If it was up to me the wall wouldn't be delayed. There are many problems but we know how to deal with them. Suzie? Tamar. Tamar Gera. I have to cancel. I won't make the editorial meeting. Hello, lsrael... Suzie, I'll call you back. How are you, Minister? Very well, Gera. And Mira? When I see her, perfectly fine. What are you doing about the appeal filed by your Palestinian neighbor? It reached the press already? Off the record? To be honest, I was opposed to the idea of uprooting the grove. But who can oppose the Secret Service? But you're in charge of them. Gera, I don't know this lady, I've never even seen her. Mira says she seems very nice. You know what my father used to say: We will sleep quietly only when the Palestinians will have hope. At any case, the trees must be uprooted. On the record. Moving out... Did I miss something interesting? On or off the record? I repeat the question: Does knowing the end of a movie spoil the fun of watching it? You have 10 seconds to mark the correct response in the answer sheet. Time's up. Do not turn the page before you are instructed to do so. Stop! Time's up. Go home. You're not allowed in here. Me no Hebrew. You're not allowed in here, don't you understand? You'll get in trouble. No Hebrew. What's your name? Name? What is your name? Salma. Salma, I'm ltamar but they call me "Quickie" 'cause... never mind. You must go now. My father... Iong time ago, take me along to sell lemons at market, in lsrael. Really? Yes. Why did you let her in? She's not allowed here! I didn't! What do you want? And who gave you permission to come down? Go back to your post! Why are you making trouble? You're not allowed here! Go home! But my trees are dying. Go home, or I'll arrest you. Come on, get up there! Hello, Ziad. Hi, Mussa, how are you? Welcome. Mrs. Salma Zidane. Pleased to meet you. So, are we going in? I've got a letter explaining everything... Sorry, no, the President had to go to Cairo. Didn't Minister Abu Labda's daughter talk to you? She did, and so did her father. But the President is always busy. Thank you, Mr. President, it was a pleasure meeting you. I'm sorry, Ziad. Believe me, he has no time at all. Give me the file, I'll see to it. Trust me, I'm your brother. With your permission. Do we have a chance? We're going against all odds and no one will help us. Not even Minister Abu Labda's daughter? Not even her. Do you really know her? Yes, she studied with me in Russia. Excuse me, I've got loads of work on your case. Sorry to interrupt, but we've never discussed it. How much will it cost? Well, the expert witnesses and the paperwork will cost a bit and... How much? As far as my fee's concerned, I can put it on hold. Really. Ziad! How much? We'll work it out. It will be alright. How are you? Hello, Abu Hussam, good timing, I need to prep you for court. Mr. Ziad, Iisten to me carefully. I never got married and have no children, except Salma. Her mother died when she was 5 years old, and I raised her with her father. She's all I've got in the world. Remember that well... all I've got. Ok, now we can begin. There are wolves in Malaysia, ergo: 1. If wolves don't necessarily live in woods, then Malaysia doesn't necessarily have woods...Following the uprooting of 2,000 Palestinian-owned olive trees in the West Bank, over the past three months, Defense Minister Navon ordered a special inquiry. Look, what really bothers me now is the lranian nuclear threat and the Hezbollah attacks. However, this business with the trees is an outrage. My father was a warrior and farmer all his life. He taught me that a tree is like a human being, not a hair of his is to be touched. Our sages have asserted that "Man is like a tree". A hotdog and fries in pita-bread costs 3 shekels. A hotdog and salad in pita-bread costs 2.5 shekels. Assuming the fries cost double the salad, the pita-bread costs as much as the hotdog... Who is it? Ziad, attorney Ziad. The area is under curfew, and I can't get home. I thought I might... Just a minute. Sure. I'm sorry to bother you... You scared me. It's good for your blood circulation. Tea? Please. On second thought, no thanks, but you have some. I don't want any either. Hear that? There's a pack of wolves in the ravine. Sometimes they sound so close, as if they were in my grove. When I don't hear them I feel lonesome, and when I do, I feel like joining their howling. You're a lone wolf, too. Unlike most young men. How did your husband die? The grove wasn't enough to live on, so he left to look for work. But he had a weak heart and it gave in. Sorry, I didn't mean to... It's ok. It was 10 years ago, he left me with 3 kids... He died young, poor man. But that's life. Every man has his fate. Did you love him? I never knew other men. And you? I have a little girl. Her name is Luna. I left her behind in Moscow, with her mother. I was young and foolish. I thought life would be much easier. I try not to think about it, I run away from the thoughts. Run away all the time... What a pity. You're still young, your whole life is ahead of you. Unlike me. I'm done. Why do you say that? You're still very beautiful. People with a cold can't distinguish an orange scent from a lemon. Yossi can't tell the difference between these scents, hence, Yossi has a cold. Which of the following deduction methods is most similar to the one above? Itamar! Want a cold drink? No, thanks, Mrs. Navon, They take care of me here. And please call me Quickie. Quickie? Why Quickie? Because I was the slowest guy at basic training. I see. Ziad? You've reached Ziad Daud's Law offices. Leave a message. Thanks. Hello, Salma, I'm tied up in court, submitting papers for your case. I'll be a bit late. Wait for me, ok? See you. Salma? She's very pretty, takes after you. God bless her. Thanks. When the trial's over I should go see her. Well, we have lots of work. How can I find anything now? Construction of the Separation Wall was suspended in several places. When do you reckon the wall will be completed? I'm told the construction of the wall is to be completed within 3 months. Actually, the last part of the wall is going to be in my hometown, so they better be quick... Minister! Yes, Avraham. The Supreme Court convenes tomorrow over your Palestinian neighbor's appeal. How will you respond if she wins? This thing reached even the USA? Really, there's a limit... or maybe there isn't. Israel's mere existence is under threat, and you're dealing with lemons? Now, listen, dear friends. There's a very nice young lady who's been waiting for a long time. So if you'll excuse me, I'll stop here and take my daughter to dinner. Thank you. Thank you, Minister Navon. No second thoughts? No second thoughts. Let's go? Let's go. This is not just a violation of my client's proprietary rights, it also undermines the deep emotional bond she has with these trees that her late father planted. Furthermore, the uprooting order is unlawful, unreasonable and does not comply with the regional military commander's powers under lnternational Law, Iet alone humanitarian values. Article 53 of the Geneva Convention prohibits the destruction of any personal property, Iand or possessions by the occupying force. Too bad my learned colleague did not continue Article 53 that states: "Unless so required by imperative military necessity". But we'll forgive the oversight. day in, day out, Salma and I cultivated the land and the trees. It's not just watering and fertilizing. Trees are like people. Trees are like people. They have souls, they have feelings. They need to be talked to, need tender loving care. I don't use a tractor, I only use my own hands. This soil is the best in the land. No, not only in the land, but in the whole wide world. This is a soil sample taken from Mrs. Zidane's grove. Lab tests show it has not been properly tended to for long time. Most trees bear no fruit at all, others bear foul fruit, because they all have diseases that went untreated. And why, if I may ask, are the trees in such bad shape? No need to reply, Mr. Ziegler, we all know the answer. Because this order bans Mrs. Zidane from entering the grove, and when she ignored it, she was chased out at gun point by the soldiers and Secret Service. So, as agreed, we meet Tuesday. Don't worry about the case... I'm not worried. Mr. Braverman, I'm honored. My name is Ziad Daud... I know who you are. Tell me, what do you think you're doing? Do you really think you can fight this country? Look, I've handled many cases of Iand expropriation and house demolitions but when it comes to state security... you don't stand a chance. And your case is even more complicated. Lemon trees, a Defense Minister. A lethal combination. Good luck. Thanks. Um Nasser? Hello. Welcome, Abu Camal, what an honor. Come in. Come in. How's Nasser? Isn't he coming back? What's he doing in America? He works there, and he'll study computers. If your late husband were still alive... he'd never let him go to America. God rest his soul... May you live long. Please. Um Nasser, I hear bad things, you hear? People say bad things about you. You are a respectable woman, and you raised very respectable daughters. So what happened? What's the story with the lawyer? I hear he's your son's age. Um Nasser, I won't let anyone desecrate the memory and honor of your late husband. Not even you. Don't make me come here again. Tasty, thank you. Take it to the yard and you'll be shown where to put it. What? Is everything going well? Yeah. Amazing tree. Where did you get it? Thanks. Can I help with anything? No thanks dear. Today you're a guest, and guests don't work. Hello, Mrs. Navon. Hello, Samir, how are you? Fine. Just fine. Good. Amin, give some humus for the bodyguards. Eat up, guys, you'll be busy later. Amin, Amin, come here. What's the matter? Excuse me, ma'am. You idiots! You forgot the lemons? Stop yelling! There's a lemon grove here. My idiots forgot to bring lemons. So what's the problem? Restatements: This part consists of several sentences, What are you doing here?! Who let you into my grove? Why are you picking my lemons?! Get out of here! Get out, I said! And leave those behind! Hey, go home, you're not allowed in here, go before we arrest you. Get out of here! Out! Hey, stop it! Out! Out! Stop it and go home! Out with all of you! Out! Leave me alone! Come on, leave her alone! That's enough! Soldier! We just wanted a few lemons. I'm sorry. Hello? How are you? Fine. Something wrong? No, nothing's wrong. What's all that racket? A wedding? No, a big party over at the Minister's house. They're playing Farid el-Atrash, as if they understand his music. How are you? Me? Fine. We'll talk again tomorrow? Yeah, ok. Tomorrow. Good night. Good night. Great party, Mira. Fantastic. Thank you. Hey, Mira'le, a little attention over here, please. Have you forgotten me? Since she's Mrs. Defense Minister, you can't talk to her. Dear friends, I'm so happy to see all of you here today. Housewarmings are always heart-warming, and this house is all Mira's doing. And even if at times I feel like a guest here, I'd like to thank her, and I'm sure you do too. How are you doing? Ok, I guess. - As long as lsrael puts up with me being here... The PM sends his best and apologizes for not being able to attend. The coalition is in a crisis again... Well, I don't want to take up your time, so I'll just tell you that as a lad in Beer-Sheba, my parents were famous for their garden parties that always ended with deafening sing-alongs. My father was always off tune, but with a lot of charm, so I have a surprise for you all: The next person on the podium, and maybe my successor in the cabinet, will sweep you off your feet. But first a toast to us and the State of lsrael. Cheers. Cheers. And now, the surprise I promised you... Einat Saruf! First, here's a kiss for always being so nice to me. And a toast to your gorgeous new house, your new job, to you, dear friends, and to the State of lsrael, let's sing. "l watched the Sea of Galilee glisten in bluish-green" "and a purple wave swooshing in," "and I thought to myself: all is possible," "as long as we sing" Everybody: "All's open, it's not too late" "tomorrow will be better," "it's possible, it's doable" "as long as we sing" "I've been to Afula, I've been to Eilat..." Shelly! "and in Hahula Reservation" "l found refuge" "and I thought to myself: all is possible" "as long as we sing." The Defence Minister! Hurray! What was that? A suicide bomb? Mrs. Navon, come with me, please. Reports coming in from lsrael of an attack near the Defence Minister's house, possibly carried out by our brave Fatah fighters... Anybody been here over the past hour? Are you hiding anyone? I'm sure you're hiding somebody in here. Tequila Head from Tequila 2, over. Found anything in there? No, all clear. Come on, guys, let's move. Mrs. Zidane? Mrs. Zidane? Sorry, I didn't mean to startle you. I'm Tamar Gera from "Yediot Ahronot". I'd like a few words with you. Me no speak Hebrew. It's ok. I speak Arabic. I'm a reporter for "Yediot Ahronot". May I sit down? Be my guest. Sorry about the mess. The soldiers were here last night after the attack near the Minister's house. Have a seat. Tasty... So, being the Defense Minister's neighbor isn't easy, is it? Ever since they moved in, my life has turned into hell. And yesterday the Minister himself stole some of my lemons. The Minister? How so? He sent his soldiers into my grove to pick lemons for his party, didn't even bother to ask my permission. What are you writing? You really think he would ask? I wish he'd leave my trees alone. Yesterday his wife said she was sorry. Do you know her? Mira? Yes, I've known her for a long time. This grove seems so harmless, doesn't it? Yet from this very grove came the bullet intended to kill me. We'll compensate the lady for all her losses, but we don't have a choice in the matter. Do you have any contact with her? No, we don't have contact with her, which is a shame because she strikes us as a very nice lady. Mrs. Navon, what do you think about it? Well, I wish I could be a better neighbor to her. A normal neighbor. But I suppose it's a bit too much to hope for. There's too much blood and too much politics. And there's the lemon grove between us. That's why it's so important to cut it down, so it no longer be a problem. Just kidding, of course, Maria... Well, Gunar, let's go inside and have something to drink. Sir, will the attack effect the court's decision? You know I don't interfere with the Supreme Court, but I'm sure... Sometimes our country has no limits. And I can tell you, more than once the guards chased her out at gun point, when she tried tending to her trees. So what do they want? For her to admit the terrorists came through her grove? What does lsrael say about all this? Israel killed many Arabs but whatever he did, everything he ever did, was to protect us. And he really wants to make peace with them, you know that. Yes. What else is going on, Mira'le? What else is going on... How's Sigi? Fine. I wish I had another Sigi at home with me, but lsrael never wanted to adopt another child. Yes, I remember. Sometimes I think, that all these years I've been grieving for a child I never knew. But you can still... No, it's too late. Israel had a hard time with Sigi as it is, so... My mother always said Israel needs to sort out his problems with his father before he becomes one himself. She wasn't much of a psychologist, but perhaps she was right. On the other hand, I remember when you couldn't keep your hands off him. Yeah... But these things pass, and you're left with just a hole in your heart. "Mira Navon: Our state has no limits!" "Does Minister Navon fear Salma Zidane?" "Lemon War l" Coffee, lsrael? No, just get lost, ok? Hello, this is the Navon family. Please leave a message. Mira? I know you're home. Mira, pick up the phone. Are you out of your mind? Are you stupid or what?! You want to ruin me? Will it make you feel better? Listen to me, you call Tamar Gera this very instant and retract it all! Got it? Now! Stupid... Mira never said all that, she's a smart woman. They distorted what she said. We are going to sue the paper. Shelly, hold my calls. Say I'm in a meeting or out, whatever, and draft a harsh letter to "Yediot Ahronot". Get Mira to sign it, and send it. Inform them that their military correspondent isn't allowed into the Territories. And as for Gera... Good news! The Defense Minister's wife has done all the work for us! We might even use it in court. We must seize the day and contact the media. "AlJazeera", "ElArbiya", "MBC"... How about it? Great. See? You look very beautiful in the picture, but you look even better in real life... much better. Sorry... I didn't... They like you. Why not? I like them. Ok. I want to ask you about these lemon trees... Come on, Yair, aren't you fed up already? As a matter of fact, we are, but still. The minister in-charge of lsrael's security is afraid of some lemons? I'm not afraid of anything. Don't you read the papers? Seriously now, I won't go against the Secret Service. They decided it's risky - I'm with them. And I try my best not to over-work my bodyguards. Last Saturday I wanted to go to the synagogue near my house, so l... Mira, I'm so sorry for what I said, I didn't mean it. Yes, I'm sorry too. Your friend Gera caused all this mess. No. Everything she wrote, I said. Yes... Mira, it's Shelly again. Please return my call ASAP. You must sign the letter. You have it, read it again and sign it. Mira, you wouldn't believe the stress lsrael is under. I've never seen him like this. The phones haven't stopped ringing and the PM is furious. I'm really worried about him. It could harm him. And you. Well, sign the letter and get back to me. Thanks. Stupid cow... "Sincerely, Mira Navon" The Norwegian people wish to extend their support to Mrs. Zidane, and tell her that if she ever needs anything, anything at all, she can call us in Oslo and we will do whatever is needed. From Oslo to Madrid, Salma Zidane's lemon grove is now a political issue. This grove is used as a hiding place for Palestinian snipers. but we don't have a choice in the matter. Situated next to the lsraeli Defense Minister's house, the grove has become a legal battlefield which will be resolved next week in lsrael's Supreme Court. Look, my trees are dying, All because of the lsraeli Defense Minister. That's my mom! Your mom? Are you serious? She's a good looker. Mrs. Zidane's case represents the Palestinian struggle. I'm sure we're going to win. Here's to your mother, old boy. Cheers, boss. Good day, Um Nasser, how are you? And your daughters? Is Nasser still sending you $100, or is it $150 a month? If your late husband were still alive, he wouldn't go head-to-head with the State, like you're doing. He was a good man and a good father. You must miss him a lot. You're a beautiful, smart woman. You don't want the State of lsrael all over you, and certainly not this Ziad. How is your wise guy lawyer anyway? I hear he's dating Minister Abu Labda's daughter. Take care. Don't let him break your heart. Mrs. Navon! Madam's with me. What's come over you? You know you can't be here, it's dangerous. Come, I'll walk you home. I give the orders here, and I say it's alright. Mrs. Navon, I take my orders only from my superiors, and they are crystal clear: No one enters this grove. Ever thought why? It's not my place to think. Won't harm to do it sometimes. Perhaps, but right now I'm asking you to come back to the house, or they'll kick my ass. So, please... Who's there? Leave a message after the beep-de-beep... Hi, Sigi, talk to me. Miss you. Hi, Mom. How are you? Hi, sweetie, I'm so happy you called. I'm fine. What happened? Why do you look so miserable? Miserable? Not at all. I'm fine. How was the exam yesterday? Mom, I can see you've been crying, don't bull me. I don't know, I don't know what's with me. Maybe I snapped. Does Dad know what you're going through? You know tomorrow is the Supreme Court hearing over the Palestinian woman and her lemons? Well, you're not planning to go, are you? Mom, you shouldn't! Do you know what it'll do to Dad? It's just a phase and it'll pass. It's all because of these stupid lemons. These stupid lemons turned my life upside down. Mom, you seem really depressed. Take care. I love you. It'll be ok. You'll see. Yes, it'll be ok. You have completed the Psychometric preparation tests. To calculate your score, please refer to the last page. We wish you great success in the real test... Why aren't you ready? What's wrong? Nothing, I didn't sleep very well. Well, get dressed, we don't want to be late for court. You're not getting cold feet... No... Maybe I'm a bit afraid... And you? Me? No. No! Well, maybe just a little bit. But I'm tough. You'll be impressed. Come in. Salma? Almost done! Wow! You look stunning. Enough to drive a guy crazy. In a few hours we'll celebrate our victory. And then I'll never see you again. You're a very courageous woman. I wish I had half your courage. Courageous... Salma... Don't say anything we'll regret later. Drive on, go, go. Driver, turn the cab around and go back. Jerusalem is blocked off. Soldier, we're going to the Supreme Court, we have a permit. Jerusalem is blocked off, don't you understand Hebrew? Curfew! Go on, driver. I understand Hebrew, but I have to get through! Don't move! What, are you thick?! Curfew! Soldier, what's going on? Big mess, that's what. Um Nasser, how are you? Hello, Ziad. Where are you heading? We have a permit but they won't let us through. They have a permit. I know them. But there's a curfew. A curfew is a curfew. There's a curfew... I must get to court. Justice must be served. We win, the entire Palestinian nation wins. We fail, it's the failure of us all. In your Jewish Bible David fought Goliath and won. Mrs. Zidane, I'm from Arab News World. What have you got to say to Defense Minister Navon? I've got nothing to say to him. Attorney Daud, what do you expect will happen in there? We have no expectations. We'll do our job, then wait and see. Mrs. Navon, Mrs. Navon... We believe the individual right to a dwelling providing adequate protection for life and body, supersedes the right of possession of land and its ingrained, provided the breach of this right is kept most minimal in attaining the required purpose. In order to give sufficient response to the security demands, we decided that it would suffice to prune, not uproot, This would allow a clear view into the grove neighboring with the Defense Minister's house. Your proposal dishonors me, my late father and my late husband. My trees are real. My life is real. You're already building a wall around us. Isn't that enough? Mrs. Zidane, please sit down. Now. In the event that having taken the above actions the respondent will conclude that the security demands are not being met, and the full measure, i.e. uprooting the trees, is required, the respondent may appeal to the court and the court will re-deliberate the matter. As for reparations - the lntifadah Act recently passed... Ladies and gentlemen it appears that only American movies have a happy end. It's not the decision we hoped for, but we definitely have a precedent. Instead of uprooting all the trees, they will now prune 150 of them, and this is the Palestinian people's triumph over the lsraeli system and establishment. Attorney Daud, Arabic, in Arabic please. The decision is not completely in our favor, but for the first time in lsraeli history the Supreme Court decided not to uproot all the trees but merely prune half of them. This is just the beginning of the struggle, and the first step of the road to victory. Mr. Daud, will you appeal the decision of the court? Hello. Hello. "The Palestinian Authority congratulates legal advisor Ziad Daud upon his engagement to Lara Abu Labda" Don't worry about me. I'm ok. It's better this way. Yes... It's better this way. Everything ok, Mrs. Navon? Everything's ok. Thank you, Gilad. Thank you, Mira.
