 

                        1 Notices dead back to life have been reported in the United States. A catastrophe can so inexplicable that the future of humanity is at stake. At one point an old diary detail a personal encounter of the Living Dead for over 100 years ago A diary can give us the answers the plague that threatens the human race = = My name is Malcolm Young I have a secret diary that was passed for generations in my family Returning to the American Civil War A legend with drawings and obscure passages To tell a story on the undead Hidden for decades Now you may cross the barrier. Read It's now a warning as we must guard In such times If you're reading this day then my attempt has been accepted My name is Edward Young It all started at the end of the war seemed to be alive But the soul had been torn off = And I could not die = was a monster This is chapter 1 of Edward Young: "The output of humanity" 6 years No! No! No! For two days I left my family when I left hunting I came home to find My wife became one of them I have shot and killed My son Adam now is missing Adam! Adam! What do you want Edward? In life - I want? We all want something What do you want? I just want to be a good man Be good to you... our son It is everything I want in life 're a good man Edward Dear Lord Jesus Christ I leave the body of my wife Julia Young on the floor Please guide her and protect her soul for all eternity I can not believe my wife is dead Top illustrate and document what I'm witnessing In the event that I am a victim This will my story untold From Hell on earth My patience is thinner making I go to the field and seeketh 6 shots My gun is ideal for close proximity situations Today I have concluded that all die the same way A fatal head wound They move slowly enough and are an ideal target for my rifle crossing with my old neighbor Charles One of them And as others have no memory of who I am It seems that just wants to eat My curiosity extends every day I'm not sure that senses have but they can smell Listen and watch seem to many like eating meat Day 9 are afraid to fire Charles found me in home Maybe it's my smell or some form of distant memory And not like human food I give little hope and suffering Death is the only solution Tomorrow my horse "Shadow" and I ride Taking my search beyond home If... more of them I was wrong today clash with the corpse of a young child eaten the body are spoken And I'm grateful that my son was not read earlier today, I expect impatiently Because it is happening this? That disease is behind all this? Had my son 11 years now sent him to eternal rest The sound of my heartbeat is decreased with the burning flames of my son Because these punishing me?! The devil has challenged you?! Had a family... a man as a husband As a parent... There is no way to heal To or that it's done Hey man! Can not sleep? - No I do not, come All my long years of war kept this with me This cataract gave peace to your daddy Where is Dad? It's very far from here Can we go there? Promise to take me I promise Go sleep, shall we? - Ok Pope Goodnight - Goodnight I made a promise, my last task in this life I would take the ashes of my daughter to the Falls And liberate I come with the fury of death killing death itself Bloodthirsty Ride for what seemed hundreds of years One night I was attacked by a mob bitten Shadow = = the wound is infected has lost the desire to run This painfully I'm worried is clear that can not continue Caminare with el The only friend who me remained in this world A friend that was always there for me Never gave me the back Do not wait for that wake up in the virus I know what to do goodbye my friend found many corpses in Falls Dallas I'm a little weak in ammunition I've run into an old people bit you? No someone else with you? No - do you want? I came here to find food and shelter That's all 'll kill you where you stand You can not kill a man who is already dead I killed many men already dead Now what? Okay... Quiet Quiet - Where are my things? It's all here Everything is right here That's my gun? I guess it is What happened? I think you resbalaste And you fainted This is your house? It is now I've been here a while, small but fortified Pumpkins are all that remains chickens and other animals fled O were bitten For these creatures Always good to have a drink a sip Let you need to have some strength My name is Isaac Edward Young 'Cause you help me? At first I was going to eat But these skinny as a foal so that... not have much to eat Then I found this horrible book... With pictures, only I was watching I can not even read It's all there NO touches more things You could have drawn some tits there, if you do not mind my saying so You say this is not your house, where are you?! Grew only 10 miles from here My mom and dad... that good that the good Lord do not let live to see this what's your story? Edward Young You're not from around here, I can account I have been away for some time was something I had to do It has something to do with that book? Kind You were at war Yes sir You could use a guy like you I'm not your friend It's my sister Has been carried Taken by whom? A guy named Williams have ever met a rebel sir? Raping, killing, abducting all field The rumor is that there is a cure There is no cure Sleep Look... Are underground tunnels And I know like the palm of my hand For that helps build I wish you luck not going to help me? I can not even help myself think are here? I know that if They are vicious men Men with whom we fought who collided with swords I guess Williams has met with the devil He does not have one bit of humanity Lost so many men with Yankees that he corrupted the soul The war continues There are only the two types and more Wayne He is always there on the side of General He does what you asked to do His heart is black and has no soul Corporolly is a coward, killed his own father to gain the confidence General have a sergeant = = I called Johnson have a dumb idea where believe they can control these things and restore some order These men are not even close to what really happens no longer think more Edward I need your help I can not go there without. Along with my gun in hand I need Edward, she's my girl My blood - You have children? No more I have nothing more in this world so or her She's all I have left Save your damn life! Remember?! Look at me! You're a coward can not even call yourself a man I think not by Edward sure seems that Isaac I feel some truth in the It reminds me that one can even find the light in the Darkness we have a common interest The two were looking for something our Among all were willing to kill for the o We were on stage 's attempt to rescue the sister of Isaac I feel that speaks hope cloudy I fear has passed away Luckily I found yours man alive or dead who can kill me Is that true? True Edward're a good man? No you ever been a good man? My child A bitch told me my future once said that my fate was found to last good man on earth not me Well... If that is out there Can I find What else did he say? Nothing Her eyes turned black and try to bite So I fucking head explode I will go to the bathroom Hello boy What are you doing here? Solo? Got something to me? What have we here? What's your name son? No matter who I said what's your name boy? Edward Young - well Edward are alone? These alone here? These single guy? I used to fight with us? It seems that we have nothing to fight about in our hands You know who I am? I ask you something General Williams Williams was General Check his stuff - If you touch my stuff... What is there? A piece of shit Yes you have guts to be out here your so o The rumor says that someone this part is immune a pest that is here And where there there is a chance for a cure Have you ever been bitten? Because they will not play their game of war somewhere else? Well... Son had chosen my words more wisely You'll be a great volunteer up! Hurry Watch your step boy and shut up! Wayne! How the hell you get here? We will take one to one to see who can survive If so survive or end up like the rest A living dead How long are you here? A couple of weeks I lost track of time Silence! Do not wanna hear a sound more! You in the dress! If you! Then return for you Lord Well... Any of my treatments are working We are in a dead end supposed to have immunity Has been dead for weeks and nothing has changed Now the only thing that is that the infection is caused by... By bloodstream Other than that everything is beyond my Science still wants meat And I'm beginning to lose my faith Do not tell me you're losing faith Listen to this before It is a disease that out of control, a plague You keep telling me the same information Well trying to tell you that this is not human not natural This goes beyond what I understand I'm scared! This is not supernatural! It is made by men and there is a cure And if you do not find you I personally alimentare those walking dead I mean? All men are afraid of something It is fear that has kept us alive the two so long you better recompongas Johnson I hope you continue being afraid Now returns to work Wear this dress with which Johnson Hurry! Stand woman - Take me Idiot Let alone Be a man Emma! - Isaac I'm fine! I told you you were lucky What the hell was that? Hey! Hey! They are escaping! Go! Run! Come on Edward! Stop! We gotta get out of here! Emma come on, hurry up! I'm coming! For the color of your eyelids I realize that is in poor condition Home is just a few miles from here The house was burned! Where are we going! Let us moving! We lift it up go! Grab your bags! Where we're taking? - When we were children speak a house remember? The people called Stone Mountain Where the evil witch? Are you crazy? - Well if you live maybe I can help If he is alive is because it has made a pact with the devil himself I do not think Isaac... In addition to choice do we have? Keep on rockin 'going we have to follow the Oh my God! That's Is there God is not here go! Hello? I have a friend who is badly wounded! Need immediate help I know you are here please! Please I beg you! Please! No one is here! Emma! Emma! Emma! Emma! - I can not leave! Emma! Open this door! Isaac Open the door! - Because I bother? I do not want to hurt women We need help, our friend is badly wounded Bitch! Do not hurt! Open the door! I'm just a girl! I'm sorry Emma! - Isaac put the gun down! She will help us - hurt you? - No! Bring it Watch your head Move This cold, put it up Take boy drink it because it will remove some of the pain Do not do a spell! Okay OK Open your mouth and bite it This is going to hurt You give me that box! Okay here we go! What are doing? - She is only helping Okay Okay, someone followed them here? Do not Know I do not think will survive? Has lost much blood If the wound becomes infected if you die must rest I remember my mother told me about it... Emma! No! - I said what happened Your mother does not know anything about me And you do not It's a fucking bitch! - Please! I do not speak more help it heal faster thanks I have not felt in years thanks It's nice to feel needed Again There are only two of these holes Some spend but many fall I have no strength I used to have are welcome to stay healthy while your friend Grab a shovel If you ever pass these bells will ring If you hear bells is because they are close We stayed here for a while I guess the hope is patient I trusted Eve She did a miracle and I'm thankful I can sit? Of course, if Isaac told me about your wife and son It will get better than this Edward must be something better I stay with the ashes of my son It's all I have left in this life I know what it's like to lose people you love Everything happens so fast Before we can continue to absorb what's happening everyone was already walking dead But I thank the lord that I have yet to Isaac And Eve And you There time Where just wanted to get the next day I thought it would survive the worst days No one should teach you to like take the life of another man but you learn to do it and live with that = = How are supposed to learn to live with myself Knowing the things I've done? Knowing that I can do This is humanity I have left And I need an outlet Isaac was always watching Always on guard waiting anxious to defend As we put a light to a world of darkness Is our pain, our strength our truth is It is our desire These are our questions and our faith despite the years of exile Eve felt in nature, it will recalled Whoever she was lost count of the Day And when the days passed, we all kept hoping and praying that all this would end soon attacks were frequent The most nights we could not rest and felt at the door 're coming by the back of the cabin! Behind you! Eve was telling us that time will tell the truth And us to embrace every moment Edward! We were afraid that Williams and his men are looking for us even if their resources are thin Eve do not talk much most of the time It was his way... although it seemed that he was hiding something The night that changed us all The night that changed everything Emma has been bitten! - No! I'm fine I'm fine! Jesus! - I'm fine! Isaac put the gun down, put the gun! I know you do not want this do not want - Yes! I have to do! Emma go outside! Not gonna let you become! Demons! I can not become one of those?! Already bitten me before! Bite me for weeks so stop shouting of you! I can see the scar? And are you sure it was one of those? Before they came soldiers I was taking care of our sick neighbor mr. Griffin and bit me A few days passed and nothing never even felt it Know... Ios days have passed and my eyes have not seen anything like this! Yes she is right Our daddy always said you were special but look... - Famous not so fast A cure, say there are larger forces than were ever here know And they know nothing What about Eve? Edward... Lived for years with my sister It was very different from my... she was... Younger one night two men were drinking in a bar followed home And they took their innocence I look pregnant and I was in the business of medicine Y knew someone who could end fertility Villagers They learned it accused of murder = = I I went to a priest who was a friend And his father offered to the people I was there, was there hanged when my sister With the rest of the people And was so full of anger And with so much hate yell curses against those people And I yelled to the village priest After that I was banished I began to be isolated not even give me 24 hours to leave the village walk for days in the forest With cold and hungry With only the clothes on her back Devastated And I found a woman in the woods She welcomed me and comforted me This was his home she got back into balance I take my anger And my need for revenge against these people that my sister murderer But then Melinda died And I just... Go inside Edward I'll show you something She had among his possessions , these ancient rituals What are centuries One of them as old That could revive the dead bringing them back to life I began studying these rituals My sister was buried outside the village While I knew this brought her home where run Curse hours passed and nothing happened Let a bell at his side That afternoon nap And when I lift the bell rang violently Enter to see my sister stop against door And his body... She was alive My heart was beating very strongly I was standing back Soon after that everything started victims begin The dead came to life I release the poison 're saying Are you saying that you are responsible for this? I'm I lost my wife for this disease I lost my son My heart is dead Stop being the man who used to be I understand your pain Do not you can talk about pain with a man who has no heart... Trying to forget someone to frame your life is like trying remember someone you never knew I am sorry for all what I did to your family And this world It's like you said The pain reminds us we're still alive Eve revealed more and more spells The history of leisure reaches hundreds of years across cultures countries and religions = = a blessed man in an African tribe believed that eating a living person could bring the dead back to life 1200 years after Europeans discovered ancient skulls buried in the late 15 Again were men who played at being gods following the process of divine creation exploration Thousands were stolen from their lives And their souls All undead were connected, only 250 years later third discovery was on a boat These boats were full of these creatures Who spread the disease by 7 months evil continued spreading but with their own power and those who questioned his power over others had a islands south were taken are not alone in this, but our place was isolated These are filling holes we have to keep moving This is my home We have no ammunition = = is where they can get all the ammunition they need Are you crazy girl? She's right You and I can do I have to leave tomorrow for a while now? Why now? - Emma! Let want to go with you? It is something I have to do myself Be assured I never liked you like thee well thanks Edward wait! Watch I will be careful I'm going back Trees... the smell of the forest It is amazing how nature can continue Amidst all this horror for the first time in ages I began to feel alive again The let you go, once were Men Men with families and loved ones immunity Emma is a true sign of hope If? I found that indicated Mr. Where? - It was with troublemakers 're in a cabin in the mountains The time has come going to do an orderly society now... wait here was a prize It's news we all have been waiting here seems that a lady is immune to this curse The world is full of pain I guess it always has been but they are the little things that make go ahead The people around us remind us that we are alive This is where I found peace and sanctuary during the war This time I am not alone the troublemakers took to the woods to the hut of a witch a big funeral in a church not release my son I was always at his side General When we us? The patience will be rewarded The time is now It is a supernatural force We can not do this What do we divided in such times? What unites us? No buts, we win! We will bring the traitors to justice We will put all this in check And bury in the ground where it belongs Eureka! Eve! What happened? What happened? Isaac! Eve! Where Isaac and Emma? They took - what?! They know she resists how I can help? Let me help when I get thanks... all you say! - Never Too Late to heal your heart Eve stay with me! Eve! Eve! My aggression was more than a defect of monster This is a crucial survival tool unthinkable ago It sounds weird What we do? Give me time already come to me Doc? General wants to know how much longer it will take Well... before I die I have only a little of your blood take time forgive Emma, these right? Okay? Move! Go! go! Finish them! Isaac No, no! NO please do not! No! No! Go! Down! We must part I'll meet at the home of Eve I have to finish this Please do not wait! - Emma now! Here we go behind you kid! No! You ruined everything! I'm coming for you! Do not got it right, son! You should be on our side! That witch poisoned your mind! There are no sides! I never had You're just a desperate man trying to find more fun What if we do this like gentlemen? He has the cure son Think what that means could restore order could claim back what we lost And we can recover Tennessee There is no cure for behavior of a monster rather live among the undead I live with a man like your monster A broken heart can be a new push to move forward We had to and two empty life The story is a matter of survival light in the darkness, existence with a broken heart nothing worthwhile to live Neither sunsets and sparkling waterfalls I say, there's the time But today... I see more clearly even in a world between the living dead If you choose hope... Anything is possible Emma's resistance to infection is sufficient proof that the bloodline there What's an end to this problem end this diary as proof of these dark times = = It's never too late to heal soul A friend told me that never stay away Be honest, be prepared And always fighting As you The output of humanity...
