 

                        Do you still have the work? Not legally You know, every time that we went to the cinema... ...He/she bought the tickets, he/she bought the roses... ...and now all that wants it is to stay at home ?? it is not not even that, rather it is perfectly happy in the bottom of the barrel Your Morgan is a good type, alone that it is not good for you Let us be honest, I say, he/she has their dark side You remember when he/she caught that children slowed with the exposed heads... and it played hourly with them and he/she mediates... I am pregnant Niki, Niki, Niki, Niki, oh Jesus Christ You are est... I sit down it Did you already tell it to him? It is not of Morgan Seriously? Ah..., Tide, Frank, Mike, the type of... No, jdete, jdete No Of who is it? Of who is Niki? It is yours, Samuel It is yours Is it possible? I mean, I thought that you had said that with the time that you... No, it is possible Expiration Dear mom, wanted that is here! Dear Samuel, happy 16 years. Make your dreams reality or I kill you! Mom It is brilliant Well, like the thing goes? All well I don't smoke, thank you You know, there is a rumor in the vicinity on of you and Nikki Rumors? Gossips Good, I surrender Reason people say that something is between Nikki and me? There is not anything, alone we are friends Well Is it the I believe that it is? Where did you find it? In the loft Oh, still shines well I remember when it used it in the town. The eyes of the women left their basins They could not believe that it used this being what was He/she allows to see if I still have left What do you find? Maybe should put it in the box and to keep it. Do keep it for my, do you want? Nikki is a jodida He/she listens She said that I was a slow one, a fool, a hollow head But like something will find better hey? Do you know what I say? Is that? Yes You are really similar She says that he/she will leave What reasons did he/she give? That I am an idiot Yes, I believe that he/she is right Jdete Sam You will surely miss it Who have been with Nikki in the circle? That carajos knows of besides that? Your life consists to eat mierda, to go to the work, to eat mierda, to return of the work, maybe to eat something and to be sleeping while you are eating mierda No, jdete man You know what is to leave in the means of the night No No Nikki, is Sam I had an idea I thought that maybe we could travel to the city and to leave to have dinner and... I have another surprise, so... I know that all this sounds a little different to my but I am crazy So you call me and I will speak to you soon, chao What does it happen? Hello I canceled the orders of the night Reason? Because there is something more important of what I want that you are in charge of But I believe that... But I don't want you to make the same ones questions that you always make Single thistle the hearings and I gave that yes to all that tells you It is well Last week I received the call of a fellow And he/she wants some each drug illegal that can get him Everything from coca until heroine I thought that we didn't treat that We will make it today He/she gave very precise instructions He/she wants a delivery to home exactly 4:45am for a girl of blue eyes of blond hair Why? I don't know, it is a damned one obsessive The most important thing is that it can allow it And he/she is waiting for somebody as you that he/she gives it to him It is what I am making It returns so soon you finish Beautiful place Yes, I like it, it is red, all red one With lights everywhere Has probably bothered me some time ago behind What? You are putting that face How expensive? Me not... any face, how expensive? That face: I have something to tell you but I don't dare to make it He/she doesn't swim, absolutely anything. Very well, maybe there is something Of what I want to speak to you Reason doesn't prove a sip of your wine and me... I will speak It is well, me... Do you know? I don't like... You remember that... You know as... ...a bear is seated to the orrila of the one I roll and he/she is waiting the correct one... Not you how to say it You cannot make that It is not anything single treatment of... Not even attempt it ...and it worked he/she is an idiot I am an idiot, yes Do I like this place, do you know? To my also, Nikki Yes, it is really pleasant Yes You know when it was the first time that I was with a man? Is it officially logged in the registration? Doesn't he/she wonder? Or what? Clear, why not? Well, well, we go in the mistaken address Definitively we go in the mistaken address I know where I go! It is well I don't need to hear it of you Nikki, is not the moment to go for the incorrect road We come from two different cultures That that your you see as going in the mistaken address... I know where I go I told you that it was when bending of the corner Right for that street, and when bending the corner Nikki, alone we manage of the house Well, Sam, I already told it to you, it is there below same Are you crazy? Nikki, alone we manage of the house Joder well Only relax you until I/we are happened something Well Oh God Can you take he/she came I tint? Alone you relax yourself Oh, I feel better Relax you Sam, where carajo is? Calm, calm, alone... Do bring me some pills yes? It is well I say, you go, you know, you go to the store and bring me some pills I will take the pills and I will walk a little, you know Right now, I say, he/she takes so many as you can and I will feel... Nikki, Nikki, relax you Well, you look at me Peptobismol? Yes It is well I will put you in the car and I will walk Do you leave me not? No, I will only put you in the car one second... Sam, you promise it Yes Seriously? Yes I won't leave you Up, let us make it now. I will only walk Here Ciudado with the head Well, I will close the door, put the insurance Well It goes up the window, I have the keys So he/she does sleep a little, yes? He/she knows where the pills are for the vomit, do you know? Well, thank you. Give me everything, everything in the inspector Now! Put it here Please, their hands up I need everything, all that you/they have Their wallets, cellular, their localizadores Now, all You, give them to me, we go, give it to me Everything, everything He/she looks, I need it all man, we go Everything that carajo that is? Well, well Give me now the damned bag Jdete, do you give it to me or not? Alone they have an opportunity before it flies them the brains Give it to me Give him the bag Devils, don't make me make this Devils I sit down it I am needy It is not my blame Does he/she wait that make? What carajos do you believe that you made? He/she looks, as only that type had made you something had been if has scared him and that was exactly it you made The gun was not real As you know it? As you can be sure of something like that? Only you that if I don't recover that bag they will kill me So you only... you know, thank you Have a pleasant life I believe that I saw something Hello, good night Hello, good Hello Can I make something for you? Yes, if he/she can My code is, my cgido is four five four five Thank you Oliver That I can make for you today? Hello? Yes, ah..., what is there of good tonight? What is there of good? Ah..., we have: interior, external, tutti-frutti, Norvan Lanes, Hash... if he/she wants something stronger he/she will come Well I will take... tomer the??, please How much did he/she want? I think that one, one of those please ten cents? Yes, ten cents, certainly Well, ten cents, right now Well, before it cuts, he/she wanted to know if he/she has the correct address somewhere around alone to make sure that he/she has the address correct instead of the old one... What address does he/she have there? 3871 St Lake. That is, it is well You are up-to-date, it is grandiose. Well, something more than he/she can to make for you tonight? No, no, not that I know But it is well, thank you Have good night You also Well, see you later What devils am I making? you don't have my support why you would have to have my support Oliver is not... He/she should lean on to yourself for heaven's sake saint ...Nora, do you never listen? Where I am when you return of the work? Is Dond, for heaven's sake saint? Cannot reason be like a normal woman? I am a normal woman, a woman supernormal You look at yourself, the vencindario is listening everything it is as if you were a menopausal madwoman If, because you accuse me of having adventures I would like to have energy to have a romance Because the last person with who wanted to sleep, to have sex, to make love, you are you idiot Fabrizzio Fabrizzio The one that came when it was with my brother Of what do you speak? Fabrizzio is the type that you would like Fabrizzio? Well, him you, I forgive you Fabrizzio? Well, I forgive you Fabrizzio? Idiot, imbecile I hope their sex was good He/she wanted, I like that I forgive you That is the true love, pardon I don't want your pardon You know, he/she wanted to have had sex with a man really, not with a Don Nobody with you it is for that reason that you look all You are becoming madwoman, you are so stupid... ...when he/she went for you to finish the work, I saw you... Do you know what? I am also a loser Because I am living with a loser that it is jodiendo my life Is Oliver? Is Oliver at home? He/she spoke of a party Has not it been at home in the past? He/she would not have listened to it Do you want a swig? Oh, nr. Non thank you Thank you Thank you That he/she is drinking? Blue Curao Well, let us speak Did I wonder if you could do me a favor? You will see, Oliver Your son He/she requested me something borrowed tonight and he/she wanted to recover it and he/she wanted it now You know of where the Blue comes Curao Curao Very well Thank you I suppose that all this will sound a little strange but... I wondered if... I wondered if he/she could enter in their room for single thirty seconds to see if what requested me... it is there Ahead I sit down what I said alone that am not clever all want you to be there All my love, Gina What is there? As devils you did arrive here? I followed you He is not here A good while were up Yes, me... He/she listens, only tell me where the is station of nearer police... Why? I believe that I saw something, maybe that helps... You don't want to go to the police Don't I want? Not if you want your turn things Well that will make but? They come to my house and I will show you Why? Because I will show you what I have found Is there bathroom? Yes Well, then... Yes, he/she enters. Hello Did you want to catch that map and to see?? ? Yes, clear Is the one that is under the shelf? Yes Well I like the design, it is very beautiful ?? I suppose that yes From when you play guitar? I don't play Is it only decoration? Yes, you can say that Can I wonder something? What? What was there in the bag? Some thousands of dollars and drugs that don't belong me And you? Probably more, it was historical, it was my... my future And now, what is that? Their future Miss Stop What? He/she waits, he/she waits Hey, waits Wonderful, to see if you spend it in something pleasant ?? He/she stops to follow me Ah, do you believe that you are better than me? Here we are When you will tell me something about you? Which is your second name, of where you are To give me inforacin about Rachel Non thank you Well Do you want to smoke a cigarette? Do you speak seriously? Alone I gave yes or as soon as? Well When it was small... smaller of that than I am now, me... He/she told me that I will never drug that he/she won't take a sip of alcohol he/she won't make anything bad Yes, me also You joke Once in my best friend's patio She asked me At some time you have smoked? I whispered that he/she would not make it neither in a million of years and me presign. We go Hey, looks that good, it is Francine Good night Hello As they walk? Well Oh, here the invitations is I sit down it, he/she needs a countersign Countersign, invitation He/she looks, Oliver and Gina invited us and not they spoke of the countersign, so maybe... I sit down it they give a floor and specific orders that nobody debit side to pass without a countersign So I sit down it boys, if I cannot help them it is what I should make Well, one second Sure I sit down it, he/she needs a countersign This stinks You believe that we can take something No, they were drugs If, certain As much as money has? Anything I don't have anything Did they steal me, all you have? 20 dollars He/she waits one minute He/she waits one minute Countersign Well, we need to know which is the countersign The porter asks the countersign and people say... I need the countersign Well, but what do people say when him that asks? She is a jodida beautiful girl Yes, you know, he/she has something When he/she had 17 he/she had a girl as her But there was a thing that she never showed me teats Do you want to see their teats, not? You fall me well You are my type What? Don't you hope he/she really makes it? I cannot show mine, I don't have Mierda Well, of agreement Alone... I will veer me have privacy Well, I want the countersign You heard INFINITY Well, they have it I hope they enjoy ...you owe me... I need them tonight I don't have them Julia You seem a mierda Thank you He/she looks, I have this for you Non thank you, I have had enough tonight It is not to drink, it is for your face, now put on it Oh, sure Thank you You know to that type No As devils you did arrive here? To what do you refer, to this park? Here it is: without money neither seated wallet between of he/she swims her with a beer on your eye which tomorrow will be but black that coal fool. He/she looks, single treatment of arriving home Where the house is? The motel Anker Do you know it? Too much jodidamente well Would you show me as arriving? Do you want to give a turn? Me..., I like to give turns Well Thank you of anything ...that it is the problem, all look at me... Affection is well Well, excellent, that it is the spirit Let us make it Katy the flower is yours I love you Very well I am very lucky... What do you believe if we sit down? Is there a thing you know? I love you but now it doesn't leave me This is my only form of expressing it So... continue Oh, very sweet Jessy Katy Ah, to be totally honest was not this way as it had imagined my wedding... I don't see it For sure it will be here Yes It will be here If, it is crazy for her, so alone we wait What if it is not presented? Do you know what? The things are changing and I feel so happy of passing the rest of my life with you Oh, is grandiose Well, I will need the payee of the rings, please... There it is And in fact to all you if they could unrsenos Make a great circle We go, concentrate, concentrate You two behind You before Meet with us We go, move moves. Could the hands shake? Grandiose Everybody, without making traps Well One for you Thank you And one for you Thank you So Katy and Jessy they will repeat after my Of agreement? Of agreement With this ring With this ring Let us believe an eternal union Let us believe an eternal union Let us believe an eternal union that no government can deny that no government can deny that no government can deny and that it will be true for always and that it will be true for always and that it will be true for always and forever and forever and forever Jessy, Katy, her union is complete So now he/she can kiss the girlfriend And you also kiss the girlfriend Very beautiful, very sweet I will really need this jacket You not know... there is not a lot of heat herein and... thank you I bought it ago a navidades couple for my daughter it was still very immature that age tints? Seventeen Carajo! I am bigger than it seems him small Is it hard to be...? ...to make that faces... ...being a mother? Devils not Alone to stay far away and to avoid to speak to all coast Oh He/she is Julia Hello Sara that there is? Jodiendome are Well, where? No, exactly where? Sure? Well She is to half of the town, so... you can come with me or I can leave you in police's station or in the stop of the bus near here He/she looks if it is well for you me... I go with you It is well As I arrive until here? I am not sure I leave of here Thank you What? I told it to you, this very bad one He promised it Seriously? One hour? Do you know what it is? Of agreement Of agreement Chao If I give you some money would you be here for one hour? What? Why? I have to leave for a moment What, is an emergency? No And what is it? I will go cash for 4000 dollars to deceive one hour I have to make it I won't stay here 100 dollars He/she looks, it is not for the money I have to return to my hotel In 60 minutes I will take you to your damned door You can read a book, you can drink that whisky you can be sleeping I want that somebody stays here You didn't love me Everything wants to kiss me except him You know, I don't understand you That you mean with that? To marry is not as making love you know? Not for that reason that I go to... I won't make what you are thinking... Nikki is We are better friends we know each other lifelong we like same things and... do you know? When one has been naked... how more lack? What is there of that? As that That is that you know... people fall in love in forms different, it is something complicated.... Then the owners? What does it happen? I thought that we would not talk about us A question Which is the biggest difference among you know... between a great friendship and a couple of married? I put it to you difficult Oh, she finished speaking... We go Does it list? you that it is strange that this here He spoke to me of this party And didn't I want to leave without saying goodbye you know? So he/she wanted to see it It is not here Alone I spoke with him He/she said that it would be here like at the 5, something like that Yes Me only... I don't like to lie and... to my neither Oliver has something mine if I don't have it for 4:30am o'clock I will be in serious problems He spoke of the cellars, in the old port I don't know that devils make there You can probably find there it Do you have the address? alone you come closer when the lights they are even lit You won't get lost You are a savior of lives if there was a lie Oliver not this well I don't want to leave my house Why? We don't have money Is that the true reason? No Well All that I know is here It was a pleasure to know you Gina Have good night Sam, do you promise it? Yes Seriously? I won't leave you That is my jacket Your mother made me use it and it asked me me to stay here with you Was she here? Yes So you did draw all this? That believes You are astonishing Why are you here? Carl My mother's wonderful boyfriend gave me again This time he/she won't receive a jdete like answer so he/she gave me this and I gave him therewith in the head What did it happen? It is unconscious or something like that What? Do you know? but this time was as rigid as a chart Even when it was unconscious he/she had their small penis plaster... It is not certain for that don't give you a swig? I am pregnant if you are there he/she catches the telephone But, you could call me to the... 595-1742 Alone you call me so that I don't worry about you Yes, that is, so... Thank you We go Met, divertmonos a little Hey that carajo boys, not likes them? Let us pass a good while What is this, a funeral jodido? We go, alone they take something What devils does it happen? Alan, hey levntante arrives That they are looking? I told you that of the store Which is the wheel of the destination? Five syringes Cuantro doesn't make anything The other one kills you Are you I jodiendo, is that? you don't go it will allow to leave of here, specially now Her neither he/she is in charge of of my Does he/she call me prostitute and does he/she say that he/she lied when?? Yes, it stinks but it is this way For that don't leave of the house And to go where? Not you... the house of a friend Any other thing would be better than this for you Probably I will make it soon Well What carajo faces? I leave Now? Yes And you will help Carl this in the house now He was half unconscious before him golpera If you help me will he/she take as much as, five minutes? He/she listens, I am waiting for Julia Do I need your help really well? I believe that it is very important that see to this type round in the floor with their thing to the air. I am not afraid He/she looks if we return late... I gave Julia my word Is there something that I should say you well of Julia? She won't return The promises don't mean anything for her Clever for the shot That will make Your shift That is boy, ahead and he/she throws Mierda! Where for? Nobody knows Here we go There is not anything to worry one only lives once You are alive Your shift It is a six Do you know what you have to make friend? Give turns to that mierda There it is All luck will have, right now we will know it We know that you can make it We have faith in you This is yours, I have another for the police Make it None of us wants to see you making this He/she stops to listen to it But that bag means more it stops my of what means for you Now that devils I thought that you had come to play Oliver Dear R returns K Oliver That was well I mean She won't show the tape Well I sit down a lot this sure that want to make this? I don't have another option What do you make? Seemingly it plays them to him all No, it doesn't play them to him all Rachel that you make? I feel inspired Sam You don't have to make it, we can have one conversation with them and to explain to them that it happened Rachel listens, you believe I/you/he/she would be really retarded after playing this game Does he know the needle, don't you see their face? Undoubtedly he/she knows the needle that is be not stupid Alone he/she breathes deep and we will finish this. Correct? One of two Are there chances that he/she survives, not? Listen to me Rachel Please don't make this You are not a lot more than you believe it Sam Will you leave it to you? Yes Yes Sam sounds as a good type It is really it Can I tell you something? It is not that he/she wants your advice, support he/she helps or something like that, is that... There is... there is something in my mind that cannot I take out you know? Spit him woman I am an anyone Is that? The baby is not of Sam What, won't you say anything? -I don't have anything to say He/she listens As 17 years ago if? Julia was violated and he/she knows to the type but this is.. that is to say violation and from then on there is tratato of forgetting what I happen He/she realizes that it is pregnant... Now, alone many people would call to the doctor and they would ask him for the special of Sunday... But non Julia I mean, after everything she is daughter of God In spite of the fact that a boy was the thing that less Julia wanted What time is it? 15 minutes 15 minutes... What do you make in the traffic of drugs? Secret agent or something like that? Which is your work? You go, you give the mercaca, you pick up the money... The business is quick and so courteous as it is possible Do you want him to go not with you? No, thank you Sure Good, hey... I hope to see you when be of turn were you there? My mother took me to Orlando in my first birthday And the day that we arrive I was... direct to the ocean When, bum, I was probably hit the wave bigger of the one than there is eschado in all my life Bum and... And it took me directly inside the water And I was very afraid, he/she could not breathe, I could not move, this only... paralyzed And finally I grabbed my float and I left the water I sat down in the beach, it returned my breathing... and I have not returned from then on He/she makes sense What do you know about this fellow, Jeremy? Do I mean, do you know something about the one? Alone their name and that he/she prefers the blondes Are you sure that you don't want that he/she goes with you? I am well Well me... Better I leave If My room is at the end of the corridor there is a suitcase on the bed alone you take it yes? I will enter in the basement when do let us return, is it well? Are you well? Yes Hey you, I will be in one minute Well Rachel, give it to me Oh, fantastic Rachel that I told you of six in the telephone Seven Oh, yes what is, seven hello as he/she goes them Julia, you see yourself very well tonight Sweet A sweet animal, that is Do you want a swig or something? No, I am well, thank you it is that you don't sometimes know when the neighbors will come... Well, good... Here the money is This will cover it It is a call for Rachel Yes, he/she waits Oh, looks at that It is a call for Sam You are very busy boys Rachel, can I wonder something? Have you proven something at some time of this? I am well, I am well Neither in a million years I return in 20 minutes Everything is there, you don't have to count it Oh, beautiful, doesn't trust my Well, he/she enjoys the trip Thank you For sure they don't want to stay? Stay for two minutes, only two minutes please We will take some beers He/she waits... They come here one second I love you something man Only one second, I love you... sit down I won't fight Listen to me They come, Sintate,Vamos Sit down, sit down, sit down Rachel, I think that we should stay Of what devils languages? I am not able to... I cannot explain to it now But we should stay a while here Better than it is good Naom Naom What do you make? This is my house No, what do you make? Nikki, who carajo is in the one right of ruining my life? Or that of Julia Naom, what will you make? Alone you have that... You cannot escape a lifetime No No, this is not mine Do you finish out for an idiot with the penis certain? alone I need you to make some things for my I will make this with or without your help Does this belong to a professional, do you know? Believe it or not the first time that I proved you drug it was only behind nine days I wondered that would be what would feel And like the experience was? I saw to God I suppose that that is very good Alone he/she said a sentence aloud Only a small thing That all your sins should be forgiven What devils does this mean? It is my last day on the face of the earth Do we probably make the correct thing, not? Alone to be sure Will you say that it is already when he/she calls, if? Three Dos Julia Excellent Boys, Listen He/she wanted to ask them They come with me In a small final trip And this, is all his Completely I won't make he/she swims therewith where I go Alone makes me company and... it is all his Sure that know where you go? Over there He/she listens Thank you to stay I mean... you that it was not easy There is not problem Well which your plans are? To take my things to a motel To leave I will devise something in the morning Are you well? Yes Sure? Yes Take it soft We see each other We see each other Nikki Nikki You go behind 17 years and give a small advice to Julia Do you know to what I refer? To have a son... It doesn't mean that you are normal What view? Well Julia Let us begin to make the preparations It is almost the hour It is a good place Yes, my favorite one The light is lit It is clever They come all This button, correct Yes, alone it presses the botoncito They come Rachel Well, we go, clever They will never forget this boys Ah, this it is my taking Well Well All clever ones for... All well? Well Julia Don't forget the music Is it in tip, certain? I don't believe that he/she makes it It won't jump Jeremy listens, you that we don't know each other for more than one hour but... you seem a pleasant type and I fear myself that you are not thinking rationally here I am 100 rational% No, he are not, jodido are I have never been more sober There are there below pictures where your wife appears former-wife And the boy is yours William It didn't allow me to see it a lot He/she listens, you won't really think that you spoke with God, certain? No, I don't believe Not you if I am healthy or crazy, but I can to live with 50%-50% in the paradise And you what? I don't know it Jeremy He/she looks, you that we don't have a lot of time Can I tell you a little something strange? I have not seen my father in 17 years He/she left my fourth birthday in the morning He/she didn't lift us, he/she didn't make a sound Alone he/she left a note in the kitchen with a note of 20 dollars for my gift I mean, it followed their heart, their destination And who devils am me to question it He/she didn't have option But he/she made it He/she had an option He/she made a decision and he/she left He/she had not understood it until seven days ago Sam, I don't see where you want to arrive Honestly I think that you believe it is correct what you will make But... you have an option equally Julia, lover I believe that everything will be well Postal Rachel, good-bye sends It lists How do you feel? Awake Yes Where is your office? Where is your hotel? Then I suppose... Yes, I suppose... All the better one with your... He/she listens you believe that... maybe... some day you want... your you know, to leave somewhere around And to make something that doesn't involve suicide, heroine or prostitution? I mean, only for one day I don't see it the grace to that Yes You that you are right Alone he/she asked to be gentile, really What do you find today? Today is well Yes Now alone I will say something to Nikki and later I will be very free Which your itinerary is? I will only say something to my boss That sounds well So... Are we again here in one hour? Yes, right here? Right here One hour 60 minutes Where were you? It is a long history Nikki He/she enters I have to leave you That there is in the case? Sit down first Ahead, it is well The boy is of Morgan He/she makes sense Hello Sam, excuses to leave this way If, it is not easy, jdete You believe it or I didn't have a good time last night, thank you for to return me the faith in those that you have penis They come to see me as soon as you can We go, he/she takes this Me not... Well So that you leave I will enter in the car Well And the things? Everything is in the car Well Of agreement Do you call me if? I will be well Of agreement I call you soon I don't know it It was, your you know, How do you know it? Did she tell it to you? Maybe He/she told it to you, certain You look at me Did he/she tell it to you? No I notice it I notice some changes I like it I like the whole Sarah Jessica Parker she makes of vaquera Seriously Do you like hey? Well, I will get up first You later I am waiting Miss Here he/she goes, we see each other You pass it well Better you stay in contact Better your, you stay in contact
