 

                        Oh, darlin' I love you in the mornin' I love you in the afternoon Chuck, you know I love you. Of course, Betty I love you too. And I know I've made you wait a long time. Yeah A long time. Well, tonight, that all ends. What do you mean? Chuck... tonight is the night I'm going to give myself to you. I'm ready to take things to the next level. Are you sure? We're gonna do it? All right. Whoa, darlin' Whatever I have to do Oh, pretty baby How I'm in love with you That was awesome. Yeah. But... now that my virginity is behind us, I think I'm ready to take things to the next level. What do you mean? I thought we just did. Come on, Chuck, don't be coy. You know what I mean. Anal Seriously? Yeah I love you, Chuck, and I know you love me And that's why I want you to stick it in my ass Giddy up, horsey Come on, let go Yeah Who's riding your pony? Horny pony Oh, yeah They've seldom seen of your contemptuous greed Wow I know. That fucking ruled! But But what? Well it's just now that the ass sex is in the bag I think we're ready to take things to the next level What other level is there? Get an extension cord Next level! Who are they!? Next level! Ohh! Next level! Next level! No more levels! I'll be right back Maybe I rushed things Sex me up and I'll sex you down Whatever you want is my command I'm into S and M, I lead the butcher farm And now don't you understand, I'm into any ma'am Sex me up and I'll sex you down I get on the floor, I'll turn around Get on my hands and knees, on your command I'll freeze I hope this never cease, come get me, won't you please But she won't hold me and she won't squeeze me From what she told me, she'd never please me But she won't hold me and she won't squeeze me From what she told me, she'd only tease me She said I said Sex me up and I'll sex you down Sex me up and I'll sex you down Sex me up and I'll sex you down Remember, students, it's Sexual Awareness Month. Gentlemen, pick up your free condoms in the gym, - and ladies, lubricant is available... - I got laid last night - Same chick as the night before? - Are you crazy? I can't have the same chick comin' around two nights in a row That's bordering on a relationship I like to play the field See, this is exactly what I don't understand How does he do it? He just goes out and gets it done, man, that's how he does it You can't sit around and wait for Santa to bring you some ass under the tree Dude, how psyched are you for first period? - Mr. Matthews' sex-ed class - Man, that dude's a total freak I cant wait to go in there and talk about all the ass we've slammed It's gonna be awesome, bro No doubt, bro I can't take this class Why not? Why not? Did you not just hear that conversation? " -How much ass we've slammed?" - Yeah, bro Exactly The class is just gonna be with a bunch of pervs who are open about their sex lives, and frankly, I don't have one That's sad You're not bad-lookin' And your legs work I'm not gonna have sex with just anybody, I know thats what you are thinking right now Sorry, not gonna happen Doesn't have to be just anybody Look. Look, look How about you start off with a nice little virgin like Betty? Hey, Betty Okay, everyone, bring it on in, we got a lot to do, and little time to cover it I can feel the sexuality brewin' in here already - Oh, no Stacy's in this class? - What do you mean, "Oh, no?" You've been trying to tap that since fifth grade This is an opportunity You're in a class with her Go talk to her! - What would I say? - Listen, all a girl wants is for you to be yourself So do that... be yourself Or just shake your dick at her You know, whatever feels right - Hello - Hello Hey, Stacy Looks like we're gonna be having sex together What!? Ed S... class Sex-ed class together I'm sorry, I just... y'know Whoo! Bye Yeah... talk to ya later My name is Mr. Matthews First off, there's no teachers in here... just a bunch of people exploring their sexuality Right? So once you enter through that door, you're comin' through a No Bullshit zone That's right... I said "bullshit" Huh? We're keepin' it real in here, people Fart, fuck, shit, cock, ass, cunty cunt! All rightie Now, listen up Teen sexuality is a living, breathing thing, and we're gonna explore that concept from every different angle we can get our greasy little hands on And you're gonna share I'm gonna share right now Hell, I've had sex with koi fish There, I've said it Sometimes you find me naked down at the bottom of a fun-ball pool at your local fast food restaurant True story Okay, let's do a little role-playing exercise in here I want each and every one of you to decide that you're gonna have sex with someone for the very first time Okay, partner up, people! Stacy needs a partner Seize the day, bro Hell, screw the day Seize the booty That's a good union there I like that I saw that when I came in - Mr. Matthews? - Yes I don't think there's any girls left Mike, human sexuality isn't always between man and woman Stand up, Doug Class, I'd like to introduce you to our first gay couple... Mike and Doug Now, just because they'll be experimenting with man-on-man lovemaking and assorted humbuggery, don't treat 'em any differently Mike, I think you're gonna be on bottom Okay I'll be the stay-at-home-dad What? Mark So, Matt, what advice do you have for young people about sex? Advice Uh guys, be responsible You know, always wear a rubber Of course, it feels way better to do it without one Unless, of course, it's a Vietnamese hooker, and then I think you just take your chances As long as there's a naked chick somewhere in the room, you are not gay If you have an STD, do not tell your partner It is a lose-lose situation Fellas, be nice to your partner In the morning, if she needs a ride home, point her to the nearest bus stop before you go back to sleep Be a good guy Today one out of three young adults has a sexually transmitted disease. And letting a former hook-up know that you've got genital cooties can be pretty hard. Now there's an easier way! At STD-E-CARDS, you can share the bad news with one click. Pick from such messages as, "You gave me your heart, I gave you gonorrhea", or Thanks for the blowjob... sorry about the herpes" . It's from Kevin! That hot guy that you hooked up with this weekend? - Yeah - What's it say? "Roses are red, violets are blue, I gave you syphilis when we screwed at the zoo" That was easy STD-E-CARDS, where bad news travels fast! Attention, students, prom is fast approaching. Get your free STD screening in the nurse's office. - Hi, Carla - Oh, hey Hey, listen, um, I know it's kind of last minute, but, um, I wanted to know if you'd maybe want to go to the prom with me tonight Oh, I'm sorry, Justin, someone already asked me Three weeks ago Oh... oh, okay Thats thats all right Well, have fun, though Oh, check out your cock! Oh! Oh, honey! I've been using these since the Eisenhower Administration Can I help you? Huh? Uh... uh, no Oh, honey... She's a real beaut, isn't she? This just isn't right I wish we'd met years ago My whole high school experience would have been different Every day, the one thing I can count on So much love It's like a river with no end So much love The minute it seems to stop, it starts again So much love You've given me so much love Don't you know you've made my dream come true I've always wanted to see the Grand Canyon, too! They brought me you, you brought me love Dreams come true every day with you So much love Justin, I haven't seen you around much lately I've been busy Well, prom wasn't the same without you - Really? - Yeah I was wondering if we could go out sometime - Me and you? - Dinner? Maybe Saturday night? And just when I thought the night could not get any worse, he pukes all over my dress It was horrible I'm sure you still looked beautiful, though Thanks, but I didn't I had vomit all over me You're so amazing You really are What? No, that's ridiculous I'm going to play poker with some of the guys Dont worry I'll be back by 10:00 All right? Hello? Anyone there? Look, don't be a pussy, just tell me who it is Stop calling me! Another prank call I know what you're up to, and it's gotta stop Leave Carla alone! It's over between me and you Get used to it! Where were you this morning? I thought you were gonna watch me practice Oh Sorry, I forgot Well, you comin' to my game on Friday night? Actually, I'm going to Len's party with Stacy You know what? There's someone else who actually cares about me Good-bye, Carla Justin, where are you going? What? No! Why?! Why did you do this!? Someone call 911! So what's the kinkiest thing you've ever done in bed? The two of us licked whipped cream off of each other once - That was fun Yeah - That was pretty kinky What about you? I don't know - Uh - Come on, don't act all shy - What if my parents are watching? - Come on Does it have to be the kinkiest thing that weve done together? No, it could have been on your own Well this one time I had sex with this black guy while his best friend did me in the ass, and then I sucked both their dicks at the same time That was kinda kinky - What? Baby? That's great MR MATTHEWS Bring it on in! We got a lot to do and a little time to do it! Wanna make sure we can cram it all in That's what she said Ha ha ha! You guys know what I'm talkin' about You've gotta sit next to Stacy and be her partner Yeah, man, don't be scared Go ahead All right, we're all gettin' in a circle This is great Okay let's talk about penises That's right, everyone I said the big P-word Now, the most common question: What's normal? Simple answer: There's no such thing Penises come in a variety of different shapes and sizes Huh? All rightie! As you can tell from the molds cast from actual penises we have here Got 'em all different from all over the globe Now, the next we like to call the Fireplug It's short and stocky, but boy, when you get it excited, kablooey! Like a sawed-off shotgun, I tell ya All right, what do we have next? This one's called the Tadpole Why is it called the Tadpole? Because it's got a larger head tapering down into a smaller shaft We like to call this guy the Mushroom Cloud, if you will Yeah I thought you'd like that one Now, this is an interesting one Looks small, but if you know how-to use it, I tell ya, it's quite a powerful weapon It's called the Torpedo You know what I mean? Or the Meat Cone 'Cause it's got a tiny head tapering into a large shaft Nice Hand that guy around, that's a good one We like to call that one the Roto-Rooter Next we have what's called the Super huge - That's right - Oh, damn! We also like to call this the Great American Challenge Ladies, you're gonna love the cervix stimulation on that guy Okay, this next one's interesting, all right? I found this one online It's the Doubleheader, ladies and gentlemen It is out there, believe me Hand that around Okay, everyone, pass 'em around Look 'em up and down NOW freeze! Okay Gentlemen, the penises in your hands, that is your penis Ladies, put your penises down and partner up with the person closest to you Looks like we got a small one, huh? Yeah Okay, now I'm gonna hand out some condoms for each group Here ya go, everyone get a condom Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna have you put the condom on the man's penis, together Okay, the reason I'm having you put these condoms on together is because contraception is both partners' responsibility Have to say that Sorry Mike, it looks like you got a little room there That's because, Mike, you have a very small penis Okay, everyone, let's talk about fetishes Now, a fetish is basically an obsession with leather... black leather... and bits, mouth bits Who likes a ball in their mouth? Anyone? Oh, baby, you look so good - You wanna do it now, baby? - Hell, yeah, I do Okay No, wait You know what would be even hotter? What? This You want me to wear a hat? Oh, yeah, baby, that shit is so hot - Okay - Yeah. Yeah. Wait Uh, you know what else would be so smokin' hot? What? This big mole What?! Ew! It's hot Trust me For me? Fine - Now can we do it? - Yeah Ronny... what the hell!? - What? - I didnt want to say this, but you clearly want to have sex with Abraham Lincoln! That's crazy! Is it? Look around you, Ronny - You're obsessed with him - He was a great man What's wrong with paying tribute? Paying tribute is one thing... trying to turn your girlfriend into him so you can get a hard-on is another I'm outta here Call me when you get some therapy Sue... That was my last beard TV Announcer: Can the transporter be fixed? Or is all hopeless for our heroines? Will Alice and Betty make it home? Find out next on Babes Lost in Time! Time Forward into the past! Here I come, Abe! Ladies, you do not... I repeat, you do not have to have sex with a guy for him to like you But it helps Want to remain a virgin until you're married? Two words: Butt sex Look, if you like to be choked, it's okay Everyone likes it... a little Just don't go too far Blue is a warning sign So, what's the kinkiest thing either one you has ever done in bed? - Well, um, check it: - Whoo! I'm at the club one night, and I meet this little white chick, right? So next you know I get in her ear, man, and she lets me take her back to my spot, and she did me and him at the same time - And then she blew us You're kidding Whoo, man! That girl was off the chain, man! Hey, you know, uh, shit, what can I say? That little woman had a big ol' twelve-pound pussy, man! - Where'd she get that? - There was a lot of acrobatics in that motherfucker, you know what I'm sayin?' She was small, but she did a lot of big things, baby - Hey, Kim, holler at your boy! - Whoo! The women spend most of their time stretching their breasts, - adding a new ring each year. - Yeah Ooh They probably like it when they stretch 'em Yeah I know they do Holy crap! It's Saturday night and you guys are getting stiffies watching PBS? - You're pathetic - Get out of my room, RJ! You never knock! Stupid He's right, you know - I mean, this is pathetic - What else are we gonna do? It's not like we can actually get laid Let's just watch this Unless we come up with a way to build an artificial woman from your computer And then program her to have sex with us You're a genius! This is stupid, Barry Shut up Are you sure you know what you're doing? Relax! We're gonna give her Halle Berry's face, - and Beyonce's ass - All right - Tyra's boobs - Bam! Tyra's probably got bigger nipples than that Now all that's left to do is make sure she's horny Like really, really horny, though See this pair of panties, right? Where'd you get those from? They're lacy All right Are you ready to lose your virginity? - I'm ready - Say good-bye Ow! I told you that was stupid, Barry Be quiet, Leon I'm thinking Oh, shit! So, who gonna fuck me first!? Him! Him! What the hell just happened!? The panties, they was my aunt's I knew it It was my aunt's panties What you waitin' for? My pussy ain't gonna eat itself out What? What you say? Who would say that? Where you goin?' Where you goin?' Leon! Leon! Well I guess that means you first No It don't... it don't have to mean that Come give mama a taste of that sweet chocolate What you talkin' about? Chocolate ain't sweet! I'm your human sex toy, and I don't come with no Off button! You don't even have to wear no jimmy hat! Save your energy! I plan on Cumming a lot tonight! Come out, come out, wherever you are! You're too big for me! Your ball sack is about to get drained! Let me go! Please, Jesus! You were good. I dont want no more I don't... I dont want no more No! I dont want it! You broke my bed She's so big. Why is she so big? I musta... I probably hit F1 instead of Enter I don't know Here I come! And this time your ass cherry is mine! No, it's not! No, it's not! It's my ass cherry! It's not yours! Barry? Leon? "Press Enter now?" Yeah You're lookin' good, baby Whoa! You're cute How old are you? Old enough Ooh-whoo! Yeah, yeah Here we go I know you're probably too young to be thinking about marriage, but take it from me, if you find somebody that you want to spend the rest of your life with, there's nothing better Thanks, sweetie But before you get married, make sure you explore all your options, guys, and bone as many chicks as you can Well, ladies, be sure you take the long way through Dick-town, too I banged at least fifty guys before I met this asshole sitting next to me here And a group of girls, too It was no accident that I invited the electrician and the plumber on the same day - Ohh - Whoo-whoo! Real hot! Guys, listen up If you're planning on having a threesome, you better to do it before you get married But trust me, there's no better sensation than two women making out while riding your Johnson I almost forgot Book yourself a ticket to... Try sleeping with your fianc's best man and his brother at the wedding reception Very hot Great Ohh Ohh Ooh, that's nice Oh, why didn't I think of this before? Oh, shit Ohh! Ohh! Damn it, damn it, damn it! Honey, dinner's ready Oh, my God Oh, my God Oh, this is bad Can you pass the mashed potatoes, please? - Certainly - Thank you Mm Everything is delicious, dear Did you pick up your condoms for the prom? Yeah, they gave them out for free at school today They did? Yeah Thanks, though Honey, is your vagina ringing? Dad! That's ridiculous Sounded like it Okay, I think we've learned a lot here Class dismissed I'll see ya all tomorrow Now, remember your permission slips for the field trip Now, these permission slips are no joke, people, okay? Now if you can't find your parents, they're in their bedroom, doing it - He'd probably use the toys - Totally Hey, Stacey Jess - Hey - Hi Uh, so listen, Stacey, um... Mike, can I talk to you for a second? - Later? - Yes - Awesome - Okay So, Mike, how are things going with you and Stacy? Oh, uh, great You know, we're really good friends We... Hey, hey! Don't bullshit a bull-shitter, bro I know you're into Stacy You wanna rap about it? Yeah, I mean, I don't know I like Stacy - Hmm Hmm - A lot What do I do? How do I tell her how I feel? That's a good question You don't I don't? No, you don't You see, Mike, a girl like Stacy is, ooh, way out of your league Way What? What do you mean? I thought you were all about breaking the rules and there are no rules and we're all equal I am Just not when it comes to you and Stacy You see, Mike, a girl like Stacy, to get her, boy, you'd need like a truckload of cough syrup and a vat of malt liquor Really mellow her out, you know what I mean? But not knock her out That's a whole different class altogether - What? - Mike you need to go after something more attainable You need to find somebody who's a lot less pretty-err You might have to go up a few weight classes... a little more than you're comfortable with, probably... buck-fifty, two bills... I'm not sure Somebody who hasn't seen the light of day in quite a long time Acne scars, fangs for teeth, bad hygiene, - retarded, if you will - What!? Hey, sometimes keepin' it real hurts, little bro But in the end, we're all stronger people Now go out there and get an ugly chick Or a whore Good luck Good talk Now, a quick word from our sponsor. Tired of waking up with morning wood? Embarrassed by untimely hard-ones? Boners sprouting up at the most inopportune times? Well, that's why we've invented Flaccitra. Flaccitra cuts off blood to your penis, causing it to shrink like a frightened turtle. So, for you teenagers suffering from SBS... Sudden Boner Syndrome... try Flaccitra today. Flaccitra may cause infertility, mood swings, loss of appetite, headaches, butt acne, penis leprosy, scarlet fever, bloody ejaculations, and for a complete list of side effects go to Flaccitra. Com. Come on, guys Flaccitra. Mmm, this is nice, baby Lindsey, relax Everybody farts This is huge. We've crossed the Fart Barrier Really? Ahh See? It's nothin!' I do feel comfortable with you Damn! Now, that's just nasty. Oh, my God! Oh, yes! Hey, man, she was riding you like a pogo stick! Up and down! Hold on, hold on It gets better - Wait for it - I'm gonna cum! Now Oh, my God! Whoo Let me introduce you to The Screamer Griffin, this chick is amazing Which is why I invited her over here today Yes, sir And we're gonna be right here to make sure you go through with it Got your little sister's baby monitor hooked up in your room And we're gonna have the other end right here so we can listen in No Not happening, guys - Not happening? - No - Yes Yes - No No Well, that's what you think - Oh Too late - Oh, I love it! Go ahead - Hi, I'm... I'm Mike - Where's your room? Oh, my God Oh, shit Oh, my God I can't believe this Come here Oh, shit Whoa, you're taking your shirt off immediately like that, it's kinda tough for me to say no. You hear that, man? The shirt just came off! - It's on! - Oh, it is on, all right Put it in me Why... why don't I just grab some ear plugs real quick? Oh, my God, what should I do? Oh, hell no, man, is it broke? What are you waiting for? I'm sorry I... I can't do this What? There's this girl in my high school, and I... I really like her Great I didn't have a back-up plan Now I've gotta go fuck a trucker or a cab driver or a homeless guy Do you possibly think that maybe you could go through the back door? Just so you know you're givin' up a sure thing Your friend said that you were desperate for it Last chance Man, all the settin' up we did, he better not be pussin' out He's definitely pussing out Let's go see what's going on with the dumb-ass You like that, don't you? Ha ha! We back in action! Oh, Mike! Yeah, Mike! Whoo-hoo! Man, you hear that? Yeah! Ride it! Ride it! My boy's goin' strong to the hole, I'm tellin' ya! - She's going nuts! - She wasn't that crazy with me Ahem Hi Have you guys seen my purse? Oh, Mike! You're so big! Ahh! Ahh! Oh, Mike, I've never been fucked so good! Cover your ears! I'm about to cum! I'm Cumming! I'm Cumming! Aaah! Aaah! Aaah! Aaah! Oh! Oh! You're such a beast! I'm your big daddy Mike, I'm... cover your ears! Shh! Shh! Oh! Oh! All right, home stretch Oh, like that! Oh, like that! Oh, like that! Oh, my God, oh, my God I'm in love, Mike I love you I love you, Mike Let them know you worked it, dust it off and jerk it So was it as good for you guys as it was for me? You know, I would tell you to go fuck yourself, but it sounds like you just did Now, Suzy, I don't know how to tell you this, so I'm just gonna come right out and say it. Say it. I've been sleeping with your mom. - Hank, come on - What? You know I made an abstinence pledge I promised myself I'd wait until I was sure it was with the right guy I thought I was the right guy You might be I'm just not sure yet But I like you a lot Hi, sexually frustrated teenager! I'm Blue Bally! And if you and your girlfriend don't have sex soon, you're gonna wind up with a serious case of blue-balls! That's right! Your nuts are gonna turn blue Aw, don't be afraid I'm here to help You've been stiff as a board for the last two hours That means you're reaching a critical moment where that good tingly feeling down there can quickly turn into an achy not-so-good feeling! Wh... what do you mean? See, Hank, right now your testicles are filled with semen, and only a little bit's dripping out That's called pre-cum What you want to do is ejaculate Otherwise, that back up of jizz will cause pressure in your nut sack to the point of making you nauseous In fact, your genitals can increase in size 25 to 50% That's huge! - So, what do I do? - From where I'm sittin,' even if your girlfriend won't have intercourse with you, the least you should be able to do is to score a hand job Judy? L... I want you to know that I really do care about you And I've known that since the first time I saw you in Bible Study class Uh-huh uh-huh uh-huh - Uh-oh That's not good - What do you mean? With that kind of arousal, it's only a matter of seconds before full-on irreversible blue balls! You better go to the bathroom and jerk off, right now - Here? - Yes! Go! There's no time to waste! Go! Get going! It's a medical emergency! Oh, yeah, you won't see this on children's television! Blue Bally! Hope you like sloppy seconds! Hah! Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Man, I'm never gonna get laid I'm such a loser No, you're not I met a girl in a chat room - Did you? - Yeah I met in her in Teen lonely boys 'Cause I figure I'm a teen and I'm lonely Anyways, it's crazy, there's not a lot of girls in that chat room It's mostly older guys interested in photography That's kind of creepy It is at first, but, you know, once I made it clear that I was a teen boy in the market for a teen girl, ladies were just coming out of the woodwork And now I have a girlfriend Her name is Randy Isn't that a guy's name? It's both I... I mean, she says she gets that all the time - She send you a picture? - No Uh... but I sent her tons of mine Most of them are naked It's awesome Well, maybe I'll give it a try And maybe if you're lucky someday, you'll have a Randy, just like me "Sweeety Pi" Accept Hi. Hi. Sex chat? Sure. Okay. I'm dressed in a tight mini-dress walking down a dark alley. I'm completely alone and vulnerable. Then you appear out of the shadows. You wear all black, with a ski mask over your head. You approach me menacingly and say?... Hey, what's up. Was that wrong? Menacing. Okay What are you doing in my alley? Oh, no. You stay away from me. I'm lost, alone, and half-naked. But I have Mace. Don't try and take advantage of me. Okay, sorry, no problem. Do you need cab money? Be aggressive. I want it. Oh Weird I'm afraid I don't care about Mace. Prepare to be attacked. Sexually. That was amazing. We should meet. Come to 429 Covington Avenue, apartment 8, tomorrow night at 10:00. Wear a mask. Take me against my will. Don't break character. - Oh, hello, dear - Oh, hey, Jane Doing anything special tonight? Nope, just baking cookies for my niece Oh Just a second! Did somebody order the rape? Aaaah! Whoo! Oooh! So far so good Uh, you can run but you can't hide from forced sexual intercourse, you know what I mean ma'am? Get out! God, be careful! You're gonna hurt me! I mean, you won't be so feisty when I'm violating you Sexually I'm bleeding! That wont stop me! No, you don't Oh I'm sorry, I'll pay for this You stay back I'm warning you! Uh, I'm scared, yeah, yeah I'm scared and... Oh, my God! What is it?! What is it!? Oh, God! Oh, it's burning! Aaaah! Did somebody order the rape? Fred Oh Hey, Betty - Hey - How's it goin?' What's wrong? Oh, it's just been kind of a crazy week It's a long story, though You know, Fred, I've been thinking we've been friends for a really long time Yeah Yeah, we have Maybe it's time we take things to the next level Next level? Wow Next level! Hey, baby, this is for you. I love you. You're the only one for me. I hope you enjoy. Kat, can I borrow a squirt of your herpes cream? Uh, yeah, sure. I'll bring it over in a minute. Ohh! Ow! I'm not in Leave a message Hey, girl, it's Billy Sharpe from the basketball team Thanks for rockin' my world Talk about takin' it to the hole... damn! Sorry about that. Oh, shoot! Aaaah! Nice titties! Chug! Chug! Chug! Chug! Put the south in your mouth, pretty baby Put the south in your mouth, pretty baby Let me slop my biscuit in your gravy I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it I'm there I'm there I'm there I'm there Put the south in your mouth, pretty baby I wanna kiss your mouth Mm, tastes like blueberry So good... Oh, God Mmm Hi Hi You look like you just saw a ghost Um I had a... a really bad dream Oh, sweetie It's okay Come here I had an amazing time last night Oh l'm sorry Do you have a toilet? Oh Yeah, it's right over there Ohh Mmm long night - Hello - Aaah! Who the hell are you? Why don't you ask your dick? What is going on here? - Relax, Len - How do you know my name? Uh, I usually like to know the name of the guy who's fucking my mouth Nobody fucked anybody's mouth last night! Fine Nobody fucked my mouth last night And I guess nobody was three knuckles deep in my sphincter, either Jesus Christ, what were you doing, reaching for, like, a winning lottery ticket or something? I could feel you in my small intestines Oh, look what the cat dragged in - Do you have any matches? - Such diarrhea Ugh I'll air that out All right? What I need right now is for you to leave my house My parents are coming home this afternoon and I need to start cleaning up Sorry Dick hair Those weren't your parents we met last night? My parents are in Cancun Yeah Yeah Right. If you say your parents aren't here, then we'll just believe that your parents weren't here Maybe it was your aunt and uncle I don't care I came here to fuck and get fucked. And you know, I got fucked last night Fucked good Okay Very funny The, uh, the joke's over This has been a delightful little prank that you guys have played on me, but now it's time for you to respect my wishes and please get the hell out of my house! Yeah You're right The whole thing was a prank After we invited you for a threesome, I got blueberry yogurt and I smeared it all over my face and your balls to make it look like you fucked my mouth And then I dig my fingers in my asshole and put some of my butt stink on your hands And then I put some moisturizer up on the ceiling to make it look like you shoot a load up there Pooh! Yeah! All a joke Please just get the hell out - Fine - Whatever Please, just... just leave Ooh So kind If you say your parents aren't here, then we'll just believe that your parents aren't here. Maybe it was your aunt and uncle. Mm-hmm. Oh thank God Oh, please, God, don't let them be home I swear I'll never drink again just... just don't let them be here Hello So, you guys are home early Did you just get in? How was your second honeymoon? Oh! No! Get the hell out of our sight Okay How could you!? How could you!? How could you!? Ohh! Len, can we talk? Um, just a minute What, you been doing a little spackling work on the ceiling? Oh, God, Dad, no This... it's not... Your mother and I are disgusted with you, Len Well, uh... Look at her - You don't understand - Son, I have one question for you, and I'm only gonna ask it once Have you been sneaking behind our backs and being on a hidden camera show? - What? - Look over there No No, no, no, no, no! You didn't! They were in there the whole time? Gotcha! No! Hey, buddy! Fuck anybody in their mouth lately? Look at his face! How could you do this to me? Wait Who am I? We roofied you, honey Wait, wait, wait... so I didn't fuck you and you didn't fuck me? Well, I fucked you a little, but it wasnt all faggy Mr. Tight Sphincter ha ha ha ha! Mark Fellas, personal advice from me to you: Get in there and shave that shit up Visually, it will give yourself an extra two or three inches If you're having anal intercourse, whatever you do, pull out and deposit your sperm on her back She'll appreciate it in the long run Alcohol and sex don't mix Cocaine and sex If you don't have a rubber, don't panic, whatever you do Watch this Ready? "Hold on a sec, babe Lemme grab my jimmy hat" And then pantomime "Oh! It's so small! The rubber" And then you lock and load She'll never know - Damn! - Oh, my God! Ohh, what died? Girl, you gotta stop being so comfortable! - Hey, pretty sweet field trip, huh? - Yeah, it was cool So, Stacy, I wanted to ask you something Hey, man, I'm gonna catch you inside, all right? - Uh - So what'd you want to tell me? You know what, it can wait Hey, man, fake any orgasms lately? - Fuck off - What? Ew Are you okay? Yeah Why is that guy so tall? Great Yeah, I should be okay I'll just go try to clean up before we eat - Uh, see you inside? - Okay Sorry! Guys Can someone help me get off the bus? Hello? - Hello? Ah, there you are Everybody's waiting for you Come on Oh, yeah - Oh, yeah - Oh Licking, licking - Oh! Oh! Suck, suck, suck! Oh, yeah! Keep 'em shakin' Show 'em to me Tits Ohh, yeah! That's it, Nance Cut! Great job, girls Nancy, nice licking Very good sucking, too - Okay, he's here - It's about time Listen, I know it's your first day, but we got some stuff to shoot, all right? - Uh... wha... - Now, listen The way I view this film, it's a spiritual successor to Rebel Without A Cause... only with a lot more fucking Ha ha! Uh, right Um, you guys, I think there's been a small... I'm really looking forward to working with you Jackie and I are especially curious how you got the name Gigundo-cock Oh, I can't wait to wrap my hands around the biggest penis in the biz "Penis"? I haven't heard that word for a long time - I usually just call it "dinner" - Mmm Okay, everybody on set! I told you they wouldnt have any beer Oh, man, how was I supposed to know? - Oh, man! Sweet car! Here's the scene: You've just helped these girls fix their car And so to repay you, you get to bang 'em Now, Nancy right here, she's gonna start by blowing you Then you're gonna do some back-door stuff with Jackie Bro, check this out After that, just feel free to improvise All right Hey, you gonna need a fluffer? Uh... uh... All rightie let's see that gigundo-cock And action! Thank you so much for fixing our car How can we ever repay you? What? - Cut! - Hey, sorry I'm late I'm Gigundo-cock Damn Yeah, I'm not Gigundo-cock I'm just a small-town hick An 18-year-old virgin With a super-tiny dick Kid, I've seen this once before A boy who wished he was Ang Lee Found he couldn't frame a shot That's right, that little boy was me It wasnt my first choice My parents think I'm in college I thought I'd be doing theater On Broadway We're just accidentally Incidentally, unintentionally making porn Accidentally, incidentally, unintentionally Making porn Not me, I do it 'cause I fuckin' like it Girl-on-girl pays fifty bucks I get double for back-door fucks How I got here I'll never know Beats Mexico and that donkey show All these tits got me in the mood We're the ones who should be getting screwed Let us be your man-whores Will someone show these assholes the door? I found my home here On this porn set Better hurry up or I won't stay wet Fuck yeah! Wow Thanks for being so cool about everything I feel like I should tell you, though, I don't really think this is the life for me You've got balls, kid very large balls You show that kind of confidence in real life, you're gonna be fine, just fine All right, let's reset Back to one Dude, what happened in there after we left? Yo, bro, do you know those chicks? Yeah, Mike! That's what I'm talkin' about! Dude, yes! Whoa Look, Stacy I'm not sexually experienced, and I'm not some famous porn star named Gigundo-cock Look, I'm just some regular kid who just wants to ask out a very very beautiful girl Don't call past 10:00 My dad'll kill me Screw her for me, dude! Yes! Fellas, you gotta be respectful of your ladies Whatever you do, don't go around your boys telling them all the gruesome details But me, on the other hand, I'm married with two kids, I like all dirty stuff This website will go directly to me, and only me Send me all pictures, streaming videos, letters... as bizarre as you want I'll read them all, and masturbate all night Thank you I'm Matthew Lillard She's got that kind of booty Little mama, come here and do me She's got that kind of booty The type that'll drive you looney She's got that kind of booty, pack it up and bring it to me Smack it up, let's make a movie, she's got that kind of booty Shake that booty, cutie, up and down and all around That big ol' juicy brown ass, Shorty, go to town Kick it smooth like Luther Vandy, so good, like chewing candy In the middle of M-I-ami, come and sit down on my jammy We can do it in a big ol' bed Long as you give me good ol' head Yeah, girl, that's what I said, no, girl, you don't get no bread She's got that kind of booty Little mama, come here and do me She's got that kind of booty, the type that'll drive you looney She's got that kind of booty Pack it up and bring it to me Smack it up, let's make a movie She's got that kind of booty Shorty got that fat ass Gets 'em harder than a math class Smilin', don't you act up, just stop and back up Go ahead and drop that ass low, be easy movin' that slow Nobody has to know, we in the corner, though You sippin' champagne, I'm drinking cognac You do that damn thing, I get to bone that She's got that kind of booty Little mama, come here and do me She's got that kind of booty The type that'll drive you looney She's got that kind of booty Pack it up and bring it to me Smack it up, let's make a movie She's got that kind of booty Shake that booty, sh-sh-shake, shake, shake Shake that booty, sh-sh-shake, shake, shake Up and down the stripper pole, got that body all swole You know my package, right? You can stay the whole night Lady, what you gotta do is keep me in the back of you Nobody move you like I do, they call me Mr. Mac-a-do They counted Tallahassee classic got 'em on my caddy Girlie, let me be your daddy and we can both be happy She's got that kind of booty Little mama, come here and do me She's got that kind of booty The type that'll drive you looney She's got that kind of booty Pack it up and bring it to me Smack it up, let's make a movie She's got that kind of booty My darling, the stars, they shine for you My darling, the birds twitter for you My darling, my heart skips a beat Whenever I think of you And under this moonlit sky I pray and dream that I will be the one, will be the one That you'll Bend over and bang good and hard From behind Have me on all fours, howling at the sky I'll give your cock a good long suck Then you'll give me a good hard fuck Squeeze my tits, all big and bouncy Then spunk all over my body I want to be your buttt-hot greasy slut Greasy slut Beggin' for more, for I can't get enough Can't get enough When I leave your tool Used up, worn, and soggy I won't stop then Oh, no, no, no I'll become your little leg-humping doggie Let me be your dirty, fuckin' whore Let me be your dirty, fuckin' whore
