 

                        'Coming for the seventh time' Bit more to the left. Look, here. That's enough. Now put here. There should not be any scandal that we have wasted UNESCO's... ...fund. The publicity should be, only after getting some findings. The journalists are on with a good title 'research extended to the forest' No journalist will reach here sir. On telling the old 'Chaerra' capital was on this forest people may ask you - Which is the best place suited for you, is it Koothiravattom or... ...Oollenpara? (Both mental hospitals) Sir, you are the first one who hinted this theory. This will help at least to ascertain that it is a myth. Let it proceed. Let a debate get over. Prasad what about the arrangements on your accommodation? Have written to the forest people they might have arranged that. Tie, tie it fast. Sir, little further it seems there is a temple on digging there... ...might find something. After all isn't it a temple surrounding? During the invasion of 'Tipu' people had... ...foregone everything and fled! There might be something under the earth. So, Raman Nair also have started the research is it not? No, nothing when heard what people said. Let them go after marking the area. Then you come to the ranger's office. I'm Dr. Prasad coming from Delhi. I know conservator had made a special mention of it. Sir, shall I go and come after taking tea? Must come fast. May take your seat. Tea. Nothing is required. Have you arranged the room at T.B? (Tourist Bungalow) Our T.B is dismantled on account of repair works. It has been 2 years since the amount is sanctioned. The conservator has arranged another estate owner's bungalow. It would be fine if it were a government guest house. There, on a temporary basis it is made as an office of wild life fund. All the facilities are being made at the estate owner's bungalow. Will that be a burden for them? They are not using it, will give to some guests for staying like this. Earlier it was the estate of the English men. There is watch man... ...he will prepare the food and all. But still.. Sir, for your work that is comfortable. Do you know Gopinatha Menon? No. He is the close friend of conservator. Very decent... ...will just drop in and go. He is a must meet person. It is about 700 acres, it was all forest. Sir, place where you are... ...going to conduct research. There is yet another 500 acres. But will move freely with everyone. Come. He is a real hunter interested in sports and all. Due to his efforts we are conducting a tournament this year. Please sit. Just try calling planters club, sometimes will be there. Mrs. of Gopinatha Menon. He is the person who was told that will come from Delhi. I..We know earlier. We've seen before during the time of studies. On seeing the letter of the conservator, mentioned a doubt that... ...it will be someone from North lndia. Sit. I just visited the range office. The guess work that he might be a U.P guy went wrong. He also knows sir's Mrs. While discussing. You know Banu how is that? Can tell we were college mates. I studied in Maharajas.(One of the oldest colleges in Kerala) Which year? 09-00. Was my junior. Is it so? I passed out in 06. I'm also an old Maharajas. But later on, have come to that ground for playing foot ball. The college magazine during that time had a full page photo of mine. Have you seen it? I was the only one who got the selection at the university team. Have not checked in detail, l was aloof from sports and games. Foot ball was my craze when father purchased this estate and... ...exiled me from native place then that was over. So shall I take leave? Lot of papers to be send to D.F.O. Sit man take a small and go! No need now, whatever you need can directly tell him. 'The excavating earth research' is it not the right word? Tell D.F.O I have taken the charge of it. Okay then. Banu..She used to boast that she was a creative person and the... ...Ieader of the girls in the college. Is it true? I was not an active student. I was not an active student. Aren't you meeting for the first time after the college? She has not... ...changed much has she? Did you recognize him when you saw? Was the chair man of the college union. During those times we girls also have shouted a lot, vote for... During the election were you supporter or rival? Lot of girls had signed and they had launched a preface for me. Have signed on that. May be in peace. So the old rivalry is not there is it not? A get together of three Maharajas products. Tea or coffee what do you prefer? Both are not required, take some nibble. Which is your brand? Some amount of gin also will be there. Hey Gopala! Nothing of that sort is required now..Time! Someone has told, boozing by looking at the clock and calendar is... ...really weird is it not? Some famous person. Is it Church Hill? Don't know. You go and take the Whisky, scotch. For the locals on giving the arrack(Liquor)... ...By adding color they will be happy. It is a rare occasion that a guest comes here having the privilege... ...to serve scotch. Hunting was the only hobby out here now because of the... ...government law. There is no chance for that. The life out here is really boring. It is a great relief for us if there are some visitors. Sometimes some will come. Last week the forest minister came for lunch it was arranged here. Though the ministers will never become good company. Come will sit upstairs. Actually l should have gone for a foreign tour. Scheduled to start yesterday. After the send off by the planters club, received a message that... ...delegate program had been postponed. The governmental activities are like that. Sit. Do you want to go to bathroom or wash? Nothing is needed. I'm on my way back from work place. You give that to me and you go to kitchen. Anything special is required for lunch? Will tell. Tea was fine for me. Here no one is served with tea. What a coincidence is it not? I didn't know you were here. Thanks a lot that you remembered about notice. From the newspaper bearing the news and photos about the... ...doctorate, the address was a guess work had send a note of... ...congratulations. Did you get that? Have you compared the stories of the old college mates? Sit. The biggest problem is she doesn't have a company here. No company for me also. On Sundays to play the cards and to drink usual four or five people will come. That is also getting bored. Where is your native place? Kalladi. Near to your native. Prasad was not seen in your albums and all. Is it? May be there in the group photo. Then there is one in the photo of drama. The one in which your hair loosened and you standing like a lunatic... ...is it that one? In that is it not a guy with a beard? The old styled 'sorrowful lover'. Isn't it the proper word for that? Have acted some foolish characters like that during those times. No need. No need of acting when we are all alone! After all Prasad is not a stranger. Occasionally for the company it is all allowed. Pure water to drink, to have some vegetarian food some 'tee totters' also comes here some times. At that time she has got a uniform a 'mark with sandal wood paste'... ...'dressed in traditional style'. I'll also change my attire, when they leave we'll slowly open the bottle. Then you didn't tell what is this project? The conservator had told that you are going... ...to dig up something in the forest. Sorry for calling 'you' I don't like formalities. You are very slow. What will you get on digging there? There, on the 7th century there was a community and a kingdom. Some are claiming they have the proof of that. What in that forest? It is a theory. On those regions I have gone for hunting several times. I have not seen anything. There is a dilapidated well and also a temple. It might have gone under the earth when covered by forest. There are histories where the forest had swallowed big cities. It can happen like that. Forest swallows! There are proofs and documents for that. The temple at the Ankkoorkaute... ...which was partly swallowed by trees Haven't you heard of Ankkoorkaute? The forest had completely destroyed a capital of a kingdom at Cambodia. I have that book with me if you are interested can refer that. And what do you plan to do there? If when some remains are found can do the recording of it's age. When you find something, what is the use of it? Helpful for the history students. Personally for you? For me can write a book and publish it. Only that? For me that is more than enough. I didn't understand. What does it mean forest swallowing? Is it that, forest is covering the city like this? Yes. While talking it may seem to be silly the trees will grow abundantly... ...then the roots will destroy the foundations, over the centuries Without our knowledge the forest that is around... ...and then tangled to death and then slowly swallowing. The boredom that is received in a place like this place, where there... ...are no people and men. She is really nervous of lately. Two times had consulted the psychiatrist. I'm Nagu. Take that luggage. Don't take that, it belongs to Raman Nair. The worker who was send by the owner said that will reach in the morning. Some more workers will be required. As there is no farming work will get as much as people wanted. Does people live in these areas? Immigrant population is rather few in these areas. Mostly there are hill natives. Nagu, do you belong to this area? Came here and settled sir. Earlier all this areas belonged to royal family. When a verdict came on a case lot of property was received by the... ...owner's father. There were lot of teak-wood and rose wood. I came here as cook for... ...the carpenters. That is almost 26 years now. The forest was kept in possession... ...which was an offense. Later the rules became in support for them. Nagu, also might have possessed lot of places, have you? No, nothing like that but in a small area there is cultivation. That can be now told own property. Is there food for driver and Raman Nair? Yes. Somewhere for them to sleep? Sir that will be arranged. Where is Nagu staying? Here only, just behind this. Take that flask, take some hot water to drink... ...and after that Nagu can go. What time can the tea be made? Sir on what time do you need? Where is Nagu? Having food. Are you his daughter? There is cow to milk at any time the tea can be made. At around 7 it will be okay. Name? Mala. Is the digging at the forest started? Should start. Will not get anything on digging. Why is that? The treasure which was there was dug out by 'Kellumuthan' long back. I didn't know that. Then what did this Kellumuthan do with the treasure? Mustn't take the treasure of goddesses took only one sovereign... ...became mad. Even forgot the place where it was buried in the forest. Who is this character? No that, where is this Kellumuthan? Died by becoming mad. Have Mala seen him? No, have heard everyone telling. Sometimes if we see that again? No one will see that even if you find that treasure... ...must handover to government is it not? I'm the government, you also try searching and those who finds it... ...government will give a portion of it to them. That is also a rule. Sir the north west quadrant is already one meter depth... ...how many foot more do we have to dig? On digging one more meter might reach the natural soil Raman Nair... ...don't you worry. That they will do it, you can go. No job now, it is hunger in the forest it became a great help for the people. Did you grind the wheat girl? I will grind it. Started telling that from the morning, the girl is interested only to play around. Dig, dig it seems one more meter still more to go. Are you with the family in Delhi? There is no one like that. Where is Nagu's place? It was near Palaghat, ran away sir. At that time everyone was there... ...have not gone there after that. Will the daughter have the desire to see father's native place? Somebody will be there, that cannot be otherwise. One lady hailing from here was with me, her mother as I was about to die... ...due to typhoid she was the one to help me. If anyone is present there, will anyone accept her on knowing she is the daughter of a tribal? After some time find out a good bridegroom and send her married. Sir, that is also not easy, couldn't teach, taught a little bit. What is education in this forest? On knowing it is the tribal our people will not come. As she was the daughter of a slut, nobody wants her among them. No time to hurry there are also young men among them. Modern men, many are -studying in higher classes is it not? That is all there as long as I'm alive no problem, then... Let it come as it may be destined. No don't step on it, that is a itching plant. There are few people residing over there do not disturb. Father. Mother. Two children. Looks like it is wild forest cat. May be wood squirrel. Wild forest cat will build nest. Do you want to see? Come. Look through these with both eyes. Can't you see? How close? Look mother is biting the child. Don't know whether it is the mother or the father. Who would beat you? Is it the mother or the father during childhood? No one was there. Might have got from mother little bit. I don't remember mother. Died when I was 2 years old. What kind of a bird is that? That is that Nennjans girl Paru. Hey girl come here. Don't be afraid, this is the sir who came to our place. She knows the panacea. I don't know. Sir will show some people on the trees. I'm afraid. What is going on there? Madhu's marriage. Till morn there will be drumming and singing. Is it nearby? It is in that direction where you find the light. "The glass bangles, bangles made of shell" "The fisher men bangles at the market" "The glass bangles, bangles made of shell" "The fisher men bangles at the market" "The stone bangles will glitter like glass bangles" "The bride is possessed with a golden bangle" "Golden bangle with the jingling noise" "The stone bangles will glitter like glass bangles" "The bride is possessed with a golden bangle" "Golden bangle with the jingling noise" "The glass bangles, bangles made of shell" "The fisher men bangles at the market" "Hand full of bangles Got the ear ornaments also" "Hand full of bangles" "Got the ear ornaments also" "On the chest there is chain made of beads" "The girl is also pretty" "On the chest there is chain made of beads" "The girl is also pretty" "The glass bangles, bangles made of shell" "The stone bangles will glitter like glass bangles" "The bride is possessed with a golden bangle" "A good golden bangle" "The glass bangles, bangles made of shell" "The stone bangles will glitter like glass bangles" Stop the dance! Oh! Tribal head my child was taken. I don't have anyone left how can I bear this? Someone go and check in the forest my daughter was taken. Don't cry. Someone go and check. Let them go and find. Caught by leopard. When? From where? Nearby, was coming for the marriage from the eastern hills. Chief the man hunter has come, one was taken. It was a forest where there was no danger, even the small children... ...could walk without fear. Are you not scared? Don't be scared those gone to find, will sometimes shoot the leopard? No one will see it. Why is that? That is Thondachan. That means..Is leopard a ghost? Don't laugh. Who is Thondachan? Was a guru. When came impersonated as a leopard the ladies had shut the door... ...had changed the form as the wife told will open the door in... ...whichever form he takes. That lady betrayed she did not open the door. Then what happened? To get back the human form, should beat with a broom dipped in... ...cow dung water. Looks like that slut lady had forgotten that. Wife? Yes, who knows what is inside her? Then what? The leopard screamed and headed to the forest. From then on the Gurukkal was destined to be a leopard. Isn't it an old story? Leopard would have died at a long time back itself? Will not die once after 7 years will come for the hunt. After eating 7 ladies will again fade in to the forest. No one will see and no one will get to shoot. So there is a story like that is it not? Don't make fun of it. On making fun where ever one is Thondachan will come to know that. But this leopard has come from the Mysore forest. Sometimes tomorrow you can see that being hunted down by hunters. Only a short distance we will run. On running will come to know fast, shouldn't move. They have searched the entire forest, it is not there in its old den. Not able to find any marks? It is all filled with dried leaves is it not? The foot prints cannot be seen. Sir have you gone to the other side of that hill? No. That is part of the Gopi's area is it not? Yes there is a temple over there. The hunter is the main deity... ...everything is all dilapidated. The rituals were stopped during the times of royal families. It is a powerful deity and big boss has agreed to do something for it. There is no use in telling to present person. He might have thought there is no use of renovating an old temple in... ...the forest. Miss-fortunes! Again there will be miss-fortunes. Nagu's daughter's interpretation is that, it is some cast off heroes ghost. Even if it is a hero or a deity all this will be cleared once a good hunter... ...comes! Sir I have seen with this eyes, while thinking will only die by catching... ...with fever. Carpenters went as they wished. I was only one in the dining hall. Dogs barking at night. When I opened the eyes and saw my god! There were the hunting dogs which flew... ...without touching the ground. In the front with the slings and arrows, by leaping the forests... ...and mountains. The way in which it goes. Not a dream but was fully conscious. Feeling of horripilation all over. Only after that became unconscious. Don't break it! Sir clay pot. Broken became two pieces. No problem with that. This decorative patterns. Raman Nair should clean this very well, should see that... ...it doesn't bear any scratches. Don't play with that you give that to me. Simply will whack you. Did you give coffee to sir? No. Then you go. Thought will clean the gun will not allow that also. Don't break that you don't know the value of that. When someone was buried might have broken the pots. May be do you know when it was? No. Will tell you. Must be around 1000-1,500 years back. Sometimes will get... ...the treasure also. A very long time back there was a city in this forest. Here? Yes here itself. Not a story but for real, all out here there were buildings in the middle... ...a palace. Do you have any doubts? Was there a king in the palace? King, queen sometimes princess also. King and queen will be making the rice in pots is it not? When king became poor, might have pawned all golden plates... ...to traders. 'King and queen will be making the rice in pots'. 'When king became poor, might have pawned all golden plates... ...to traders'. Do you know to sing? I don't know. Hey wait! Just hum even if you don't know after going from here I can still hear your song. When will you go? On finding the palace will stay here for some more time. Or else will leave the place with the pieces of utensils. Then will you not come here again? Will come some times. Who is going to come in this forest? No one will come. Will come, many will come. Some one will come searching for you. Don't want to hear. A good guy will come ask your father. Eh! Make it fast will you not sing? Just sing any song learned in school. "Forest has blossomed" "Dream has blossomed" "Forest has blossomed" "Dream has blossomed" "Brook in the wood has blossomed" "Forest has blossomed" "Dream has blossomed" "Brook in the wood has blossomed" "Jasmine in the heart blossomed" "The river shore in the woods where children of woods swim" "The river shore in the woods where children of woods swim" "The shores where the birds built nests" "Long to hide in the woods where there are young stags" "Long to lie down in the green bushes with the smell of..." "...palla tree(Alstonia Schlaris)" "Long to see a dream" "A desire.." "Forest has blossomed" "Dream has blossomed" "Brook in the wood has blossomed" "Jasmine in the heart blossomed" Is it gold? No, if you like gold so much this is the only one left shall I give a... ...piece from it? I have not asked anything. "The 'palla trees' are fanning the whisk in the seven colored soil" "The 'palla trees' are fanning the whisk in the seven colored soil" "ln the month of Karthika(Third Constellation) as the folk dances are..." "...staged in temples" "Long to light thousand lamps" "Long to hear the tribal songs of tribal girls" "Long to sing and dance along" "A desire.." "Forest has blossomed" "Dream has blossomed" "Brook in the wood has blossomed" "Jasmine in the heart blossomed" It's me, Raman Nair. What is it? Some kind of uneasy noises. Did you also hear that? Just called to see whether sir has slept. I was made to wake. Doubts whether it is creeping in these areas. We'll sleep in a corner here. Okay then. Sir, you sleep without fear, by locking the door as we are inside. Sir did you hear anything? So it's not a dream. Lie down..Lie down! Look here there are two foot prints! Let me see where this guy has gone? Can't find also. Seems like, came here and returned back. Luckily did not enter inside the compound of bungalow. The cattle shed is not strong enough, did not take the cow... ...the same place where there was child also kept. The cow didn't shed the milk today. Child it is like that when the cow gets scared. Why all of them? Wait, wait all of you don't say. What is it? What had happened? Today early morning Paru's mother was also taken. My god. When? From where? Was going for the estate work by the time was able to scream... ...snatched and took her. God! His people have seen the leopard clearly. The stripped one. That girl still now has not recovered from unconsciousness. I'll tell one thing you have cleared all the woods, they have got no... ...place to catch the prey. So they will come to place where the humans live that is what... ...had happened. Paru's mother! You must take the jeep and go must give it directly to the ranger itself. Tell that I have told. Here I'm not that much essential as I'm going till that place could... I just visit my home? For that Raman Nair's house.. That is very near to that sir. Is Mattanchery very near to Waynad? When you tell lies it shouldn't differ -from what you told earlier.. To me. Okay go fast. Today workers are very few in numbers the rest of the men... ...will come after the funeral. What the hell is this? The gun men had not reached so far. They will come no reason that they won't turn up. Is it true that leopard will snatch only the females? The one who was taken was all ladies. You don't go to forest... ...to fetch wood. Then shall I tell one thing? In this forest when they started to dig... ...the treasure only then leopard had started to hunt. Do you know that? Who had told that? All this compatriots are telling like that. No I just... ...Did the danger again occur at night? That lady was all alone when she came back from the shop after... ...buying the rice and the stuffs. At that time the leopard got hold of her. Five! What? Now it's five! The ranger and the forest men will come. Told that they will... ...come at the earliest. Think it is them. Hey Nagu! Where is that rascal? I came to know only yesterday. The debate is not over... ...whether it's a private forest or a government forest. Then should declare it's a man eater, that is all governmental activities. Should have phoned me. The moment when the first killing was reported. Didn't inform as the hunting was against the law. What law? Hey you! Have you again confiscated my property and... ...started cultivation in my land? Boss can come and see that. When was the latest kill? Yesterday at the dusk. Then there will be some marks let me check hey you! You also come with me. Get in fast. Who is that? He is your boss is it not? Haven't you seen? Now there is nothing to worry when the leopard comes to know that... ...this guy has reached. Will flee to some foreign countries! A real hunter! Not joking boss has got the skin of 5 or 6 of them in his house... ...which was hunted down. Here from here. From here, one mile from here only it jumped, the body of the old... ...Iady was found there. Horrifying! Sir, was trembling on seeing it! When did it occur? Yesterday at dusk. Have heard that at night again will come to the killed one. That is when it is some cow or buffalo. Move to that side. All of you go I say! Nagu! Where are you going? Hey you come! Should be careful might attack all of a sudden! Where? Coming. Get lost all of you, his knowledge and all. Have spoiled all the foot marks. And the way they talk like great hunters, as if they know the... ...nook and corner of the forest. Idiotic fools! Get some good water and two glass. One foot mark I saw clearly not tiger but a leopard for sure if I see... ...4 foot marks. I'll tell the height and the length I will not go wrong. Pour man! Give! No need now. Got as much as stock can take bottle to the room. How are the things going on digging out the forest? Can the teachers teach the new history? Not yet ready to say. So found something and all. The ladies will not understand, thinks that hunting trip is a picnic. There are 10 to 15 workers to look after the jobs both inside and outside. And another army for the estate work. And still fears to sit alone. Mentioning the matter of the college mate. I'll be on the other side. Why is this..? To tie this at the forest during the night, the boss will be on guard. On telling nothing will happen. The daughter starts crying and weeping. Is the young cow ready? Have brought it. Load all the stuffs in the jeep. Take this also. In the room. Coming? No. It's also thrilling to be on guard at night in the forest. One experience. It is interesting to hear the sound of the forest, a kind of music. What music? All this fellows drumming and blowing the horns is it not? That is not what I meant. Small small noises, sounds of crickets... hawks, murmur of winds. A symphony when that is all tuned up together. Several nights I have stayed in the forest there will be movement... ...in the woods. But I haven't seen any symphony in that. Then must imagine something and create That will turn to nervous trouble, Banu's disease! Are you not coming? Not interested. Can I tell which is the music I like the most in the woods? Can you guess? The sound of bullet when it hits the target! For the hunter it is true. There is time left, you will have a full quiz program of mine, will tell you. In many of the parties I have made the people to get stunned. Tell the answer to this. Which is the best music that should be heard in the bedroom? Must tell after guessing. Flute? No, all that is not the one. The sound of un-zipping the nighty! Isn't it true? Oh! You have not got married haven't you? But true is it not? The balance after wards. If you are destined like that let it take you and eat. Not yet woken up? Come. Really boring. Did you see it? No. Then our child cow might have got relief. Indeed a man hunter! Really checked the spots, near that area, was easy get the cow. Hadn't touched it. That guy needs only human beings! On getting old as it cannot get the prey is it at that time the leopard... ...kills the humans? Are you Jim Corbet or Kennath Anderson? Is it only the knowledge... ...written in the books by foreigners? After reading all that and when l went to forest. Came to know that... ...it's all pure hum-bug! Who is she? Nagu's daughter. Stop wash this and keep it in the next room. Has she grown up so fast? Good doctor saab! If the arrangements are like this, that... ...means I'll also join to dig the history. Not bad! Poor girl, she is a problem for Nagu. The wife was a tribal is it not? Dead, she is the daughter in that, that's the problem also. Oh! Inter mixed cultures! Is the word right? Child..It was hidden from my sight is it not? Did you see this? Cheara coins. Did you see that emblem? Sir is it gold? Not gold it's copper. Check in that area there will be some more. Hey check carefully. Now all of you go and work. Got. The olden days money. Take a look. Let me see. Are you busy? The time is not moving tried sleeping. Shall we play? Only for name sake. I don't know. Rummy? The old 29. A wonder,will there be youngsters who doesn't know to play cards? Or at least have company on this. No need. My friends hiding place will be somewhere near that eastern side. He will come in front of me. The hill natives believe that it's not a leopard but a ghost. When the leopard snatches the humans then ghost stories will start... ...to rumor in the town. That is not followed now right from the olden days. Another version you dug up the history and took the remains of... ...God or Goddess. The leopard leaped out at that time!No one will see it. The vehicle of the Goddesses. Who told? No one has told all this, make them tell. On telling the doubt to one... ...fellow then all will believe. You can be packed immediately! Want to see that? Just joking man! That is the physiology of these men. Let me get going for our duty. Aren't you coming? No. Nothing to fear I have not missed it till now. For that will the leopard come? Will try. If it fails today I have yet another scheme. Let me see. Within three days I'll put this in the verandah over here. Do you want to make a bet? Can bet how much you want. You are very clever on fixing the bet you will fail. You know that. It seems he has identified a leopard den. Will go and see and come. Then what about our young cow? Hey you! Where is it? It is nearby. Where? There. Is this a leopard den? Returned fast? It's a fox den by seeing a bone piece made to walk. Good for nothing fellow. Don't get angry on telling a joke. On sensing that you have reached -leopard might have gone to some zoo in the city. Lord there is one more den on the other mountain if necessary will go... ...and check that. Get lost you! Lord don't do anything. It is that girl Nagu's daughter! Don't! Move back man! Good! What are you doing? I'll just wash my face and come. It's not a big deal only a matter of ten rupees! Nagu shouldn't hear this. Will chop you off! What Nagu doesn't know me or what? Why had you come here? Simply. What a drive the road is pathetic full of potholes. Are you mad to come with Benz on the forest tracks? There is no jeep. Even if it's there I can't drive that. You don't know there is no clearance on the road... ...what happens when the crank case get hit? Now started with your automobile knowledge. I don't want to hear. How is the research going? Going on. Have you seen any remains of the old town? Not yet to say anything. Put it in Gopiatten's room. This cold and fog will not be good for you. That is why I told. The woolen cloths which are for European tour it must be taken... ...out once is it not? If it is not Europe then it's the forest nearby. Here there are no much facilities. Will do with the facilities that is disposed here, it is not for any... ...permanent residence. There is thrill in waiting for something to happen is it not? Is it in this forest that a big thing will happen? Why not? The leopard making a mistake and be in front of... ...you will that be a big event? That will be epic event for you to boast all through your life. Might find the old town one day is it not? One thing will not happen, it's good that forest creeps and swallows... ...all of us. But that won't happen. The forest is perished all owners have chopped it down. It seems that you will become mad. For you as well as the leopard. Come. Are you at work? No. You shouldn't have come. To this room or to this forest? The historical documents. Can be interpreted like that also. It is there the story of Ankoorkaute. Can take it when you feel like reading it. No need I know the story of forest swallowing one life. Without the help of the book. Do you have the time to hear that? The Shiva temple on the sandy tops during the rainy nights the song of... ...the river. It was from there I was transplanted to the forest compound. It's not mere forest a dynasty. With lot of subjects is it not an enjoyment to rule? At the bungalow the Doberman dog also has to rule. A cage with teak-wood, good food medicines, good exercise. Happy really happy! On the night when you came checked the old suitcase. Three group photos one excursion picture. It was lying decayed, just went through the old autograph of mine. No news of several ones, do you see anyone? No. While reading what several have written felt humor in it. Those were the days when everyone was the prince and... ...princess in their minds is it not? Will write foolishness. Many..One have written with care. Without taking the first page that was kept blank, taken the last page. All foolishness! No..One who had written that the words are like the golden coins... ...of a miser. The one who reminded the opponent at the platform... ...Will he write foolishness? Never! Do you remember that? A note in the last page. It is where to put an end..Blessings. Is it not what was written? I don't remember exactly. I remembered..Always! I also began hearing the news at that time felt that it was correct. I shouldn't be a hurdle for the decisions. Happy that I got the telegram on time. The postal department did a joke. Along with the letters of wishes in one of them there was a only a number. Number 9 Prasad! That is l.. Understood, to reduce the cost someone had told that, had... ...given the code number. Brother found out that 9 is the code of happy married life. At that time also stinginess for the words! After giving the address have arranged to send the telegram. On saying no: 9 first will think of the room no: 9. The room no: 9 of the hostel having window to the main road. The one and only room having the facility to murmur to one who is... ...on the outside. The foolishness during those times what is the use of thinking now? On growing old only the old foolishness will be left behind. The asset in the memories. Outside there is good moon light shall we walk? Why not getting married? Had not thought about it. When the studies were over, research then got one fellowship. Then on getting the job. Or is it because thinking marriage is also a foolishness and did you... ...postpone forever? Do you remember Prof. Malathy's words? Are you people serious then I'm not saying anything. At that time telling it's serious told sorry to the professor. Will that be also included as foolishness? One request, enough of old stories. The leader among the students acting like an intellectual to... ...be the pet of the professors. Just let there be a love of a girl along with that, as a decoration. The picture was really made good and then with a word just fled... ...without hesitation. Go and have some food. Go on, go head let me sit alone for some time. Have you not heard what Gopiatten has told for me it's the beginning... ...of madness? "ln the moonlight,lingers the pain of love" "ln the moonlight, lingers the pain of love" "Beloved in your smile ..Beloved in your smile..." "...Raptures the sweetness of love song" "ln the moonlight, lingers the pain of love" "Tickle of your bangles create the resonances in my heart" "ln my memories colors began to rain down" "Have started to weave the dreams and slept in your love shores" "You are always my desire, you are always my poem" "ln the moonlight, lingers the pain of love" "Beloved in your smile..Beloved in your smile..Raptures the sweetness..." "...of love song" "ln the moonlight, lingers the pain of love" "Your anklets with beads creates a rhythms of love inside me" "As the imagination rises in your feathery touch" "ln your smiles the silence became over spoken" "You are always my desire, you are always my poem" "ln the moonlight, lingers the pain of love" No need to advice me. Don't try to correct me also. How come so early? Morning when the Gopiatten came woke up. Then when he started the accounts of heroism at night I gave up the sleep. Have you started to search the history so early? No will just walk, leaves and flowers drenched in the sand. To know the smell of the woods must walk in the morning. What is it? Don't hesitate, can tell. No, when saw you in the morning you had again changed. Haven't you been present at the class of Prabakaran Nabiar sir? Variety is fine but don't try to be like Cleopatra. Shall we walk? Mala, Mala come. Have you come searching for me? Mala knows lot of stories. A hero still destined to live as a leopard because of the mistake... ...of the wife. What was his name? Who knows. Father told only till afternoon there will be workers. Why is that? Theyyam Kaettu (A temple ritual) Oh! I forgot that. Now you don't have much chance with this leopard will leave the forest. If they really want to learn something, now the leopard... ...should kill someone. That will take place. Really boring let me go and sleep. Are you coming? You go and sleep. It will be staged till morning. This act of mockery. Are you planning to sit here till that? Let me see this. Without knowing that I'll be here you got trapped in here is it not? Happy to meet again but.. Thought that will write a line to me may be some other time. At least one line. Had written but not one line but several lines. Had written in detail two times. There was no email and all hardly a cell phone. I liked to write in my hand writing. Simply telling. Had written later came to know you didn't get it. Your father's reply came for the second letter, hereafter don't... ...write to daughter. Father had listed the property details of bridegroom Gopinathan also. May be thought to compare it with myself. Called to the hostel on the day when the seniors were leaving. By the time had left. Was scared to write letters to home also was scared what that... ...person will write who had already underlined? In the letter what was send to the university I begged in that... ...at that time the date was not fixed, the invitation was not printed. There, no chance of that you failed to get it. Got it! You start I will be waiting for you. If you had written a line like that. Without anybody's notice l would have got on the vehicle. Thought you are going to gain something more. Then when the time of taking a decision came the cowardice! Say like that itself! Will you accept it is not my fault? But, had thought that everything was for good, at that time. What about now? Afterwards have you never thought of me? Tried to forget but honestly I couldn't. That's enough that is all I wanted to know. Don't cry. Come will walk. On the way must meet someone, most wanted family, come. Slowly! Look over there! Take a look! Can't you see? Now can you see? Yes, yes I saw. Head is gone it's a female the male escaped. Give this to Nagu it's a good meat. Madam do you still want to enjoy the beauty of forest? Is it not the right word? Are you planning to stay and hear the poems of doctor? Don't be scared child it's me. Don't be scared. Don't cry. Don't say anything to anyone. Not even to father. There is no use of telling it to father no use if father shouts also. For you.. For you only a bad name that will be left behind. Should not tell to anyone promise me. Look nothing had taken place. Just think that you saw a frightening dream... ...you try to forget that. Walk. Paru was a good child she was also taken. The ladies who were present told fell on her and immediately snatched her. Hey man where were you? All the stuff is finished. Go and buy. Daughter has got fever. No one to help also. Then send that driver. When are you returning? Not yet decided. Must return at the earliest. Are you listening? Must return at the earliest. Get up and sit! What is it? Nothing how long we will be here? Will tell you. Here nothing is perfect as it may seem. You walk to the work spot I'll come. What is it Nagu? The daughter has got high fever. Might have got scared by... ...seeing something. Not saying anything on asking. Sir you may sit let me make some porridge for the daughter. Paru has also left. Now those who are dead is 6! Who is going to be the 7th one? Before that the leopard will be gunned down the... ...government men had reached. Lie without thinking anything. Where were you? Yesterday where that girl was caught my friend is there in... ...that same area. There are people who had seen it at day time. There I had identified a good spot. Coming? On getting scared you can come here and sleep at any time you want. You don't worry I invited the 'antique researcher' is the word correct? Have asked for a black tea. Gone! I'll cover these three areas you take care of areas in the behind. This is an experiment young cow is not a bait for him. He is coming by sniffing the smell of humans. That is why thought of standing here. I myself is the bait. Now we both! Do you have fear? Will have one more cigar after that no more smoking... ...the wind direction is to that side. Let the owner keep it! It is worth of Rs 25,000 19 caret gold. Thought that girl might have got it. You don't try to be a detective agent, special agent. Prasad..Zero..Zero..Zero. I was about to tell even otherwise. The entire body was bitten and scratched! Beast! The day had started with a bad omen morning itself a rustic breakfast. Now it is easy for you. An in born human outburst! Is it the correct word? There is nothing wrong in hugging the other man's wife is it not you? By mistake this gun might fire, a bullet can pierce in the heart... ..By mistake! In hunting sometimes a routine mistake! Showing the vengeance to her is after reaching home... ...it was good..Good acting! Oh! Both of you have acted a lot is it not? Get up! Were you both in deep love? Digging a town in the forest. Oh! Its like this is it not? Now I realize what fool am l? At the time when I'm abroad the right time you had come. Kindly pardon me for not going my lover boy! Accidental arrival and accidentally meeting of old college mate. Today night here also one accident will take place. Kill, kill me! There is nothing like that she is innocent. Earlier also, deep and divine love! Is it platonic or a kind of touching... ...in which category does it belong? My mistake, I curse myself! You curse, at evening who goes out and buys vegetables... ...she ought to have a teacher like that. Is it not? She was ready to come anywhere along with me. Even after knowing the... ...owner's property list, you go and ask. Hear this! Several times she was with in my hands, she was innocent. Not to confess to you, I controlled myself so that she may not feel guilty. For that should I thank you? Do you want to see again she coming with me disdaining thousand... ...acre estate and bungalow? Do you want to see she coming now? You go, look there is a bait for leopard. The human flesh with the smell of the blood! Go run! Don't talk in between you can mourn that is good. No one might have done a beautiful hunt better than this, even in history. I'll decide later should I untie after eating a part of the prey or not! Depending on the suitability of the aim. Is it not a thrill to wait for something to happen? Can enjoy the beauty of the nature. Can listen to the music the symphony of the woods! Is it the correct word? Don't come here! Go back! Go back! Go back! You have not seen anything nor did see anything when they ask... ...you don't know anything. Do you understand what I say? You understand?
