 

                        Hey, mister Get up if you're not playing What the hell you hit me for? How dare you wake me up? Have you no fear, you little twit? Don't you know who I am? Well, do you or not? How could I? Oh. You don't! Great! Give me a cigarette Lighter! You're dead if you sit here What? Are you deaf? You want me to make this place like before? Okay, okay I will put these coins over there Hope Employment Agency Please meet me, sir... That fucking cop hung up on me! Fuck! Open the window when I smoke, you idiot! They are all fucking idiots Huh? Stop the car Bite! Bite! Bite. Fuck! Good afternoon, sir! When did you get out? In... in the morning, sir Then why are you showing up now? What's that? This? A toaster, sir So you go to a Game Room after such a fuss? You idiot don't know the situation Kangjae! Kangjae! You fucking idiot! You should think Think, I said! Why the fuck is it closed so early? Shitheads! And how they work! Oh my god! You fucked? Oh, no Don't give me shit You think this is a hotel? In my store of all places... Now. I manage this shop What? You manage what? Who authorized it? Yongsik did He ordered me to manage this place And never to let you, Mr. Idiot, come near here What did you just call me? Mr. Idiot? What a fucking bastard! Have you no respect for your senior? Leave it there. You bitch! When you were suckling on your mama. I made the foundations to this gang with a knife in my bloody mouth Don't you have any respect? You bastard! Fuck you! Don't shout at me Go complain to Yongsik Stop it! All right. You mother fucker! I'm gonna ask Yongsik right away If he says otherwise, it'll be your last day You fuckin' shit! Is it okay to treat him like that? He's not worth my respect You bastard. Take this! Hey, Kyungsu! The cops are here! Hide those things. Quick! Fuck you! Fuck you! Thought you could fool me again? What? Fuck me? Is that how you treat me when I just got out of prison? Is that how you treat me when I just got out of prison? You are a real son of a bitch, you know that? Hey. Mongrel! Shame on you! Porn tapes to teenagers! You'd already be dead cold without me See whose clothes you're wearing So what? Shit. These really stink like hell! Shut up and bring me some beer There's no beer left Then go and buy some No way! It's damn cold so you go! Besides, looks like you've already drunk What? I'm gonna break your neck Okay, okay. I do have some Where? Just wait That's better Here you go! Take this! By the way, I met Yongsik today He was mad as hell Is he PMS-ing or what? Tell me about it! It's red alert While you were in prison caught for illegally immigrating Chinese The whole city was a mess! Even our agency was shut down Besides, the D's kids are trying to eat up our club now So Yongsik's in the pits. I bet And they call this a gang Wouldn't take it even if they call me boss! When you met Yongsik, didn't he tell you anything? Tell me what? He wants you to be a bouncer at the club You know what a bouncer is, right? Humiliating, huh? Tell him you want to be a waiter Unless you want to get frostbitten Put it away. You bastard! That bastard! Nothing's left What's rat! U-hm! The latest version That dirty bastard! Never washes the dishes! This bastard tries real hard to bait chicks You bitch! Do you think with your tits? You should've worked harder when the sales dropped in half How dare you take two days off work Just to hang around D's club? Honey... You guys heard her bitching, right? This is why we're in the shits right now There are reasons why D's kids eat in our area You idiots! Now look! Look, I said! Look at it, shitheads! Can any of you put these pieces back together? No one can! When it's broken, it's too late You understand? While I'm gone to piss, think about it hard! And you, bitch! Today's your last day of your life Where is Yongsik? I've got something to tell you, sir. What is it? I'd do better as a waiter than a bouncer Kangjae, you bastard! That's exactly you You know nothing but to talk When I tell you something, do as you're told What an idiot... What a parasite Who put that idiot in? They should get rid of him Because of that bastard Just eat your noodles If Cha Bum-gun was young again, he would never play like that! You are a real noodles! Cha is a coach, not a player You fool! You don't know a thing When Cha was young, he scored three goals in the last 5 minutes Oh, yeah? Then do you know Bae Dong-sung in short tracks? Then, do you know Pro wrestler Kim-i1? How about Yeo Gun-bu? Who? The legendary Yeo! You'll never know Pro wrestling is only for show! As for wrestling, Shim Kwon-ho is the best! Here's the uniform! Wow. Yours is fucking big! Are you talking about wrestling? Give me a parterre position Parterre? Okay. Parterre! Don't hold it. You idiot Okay Take this! Fuck! Hey, it's rotting? Shit! No more! Do it again! Parterre! You idiot, are you ready? A whistle! You bastard How's this Oh. You're tough You can't beat me! No! You bastards, freeze there! You don't bow to me? Who's in the offices? Go check yourself Hey, if you have any problem, ask me for help Ey, Kangjae! We've got a real problem Can you help us? This is too much The interest has doubled the original sum I can't give you any more So you're saying you won't pay us back? Auntie, this is Kangjae Look at me. You should listen to me Don't make excuses Do whatever you want! You shouldn't do this to me Remember what I've done for you when you were hungry I fed you noodles and bought you drinks I don't remember anything Stop babbling and get to the point Are you going to give it or not? You ungrateful bastard! Is she a Yakuza or what? Are you paying back with violence? Give me few more days. I beg you! What the fuck! What? Hey, sit down! Watch your mouth to your auntie We should respect the elders Auntie, please come over there Please give me a break. Will you? So you're saying you want a couple more days, right? Yes. Yes But how can we? We'll be going to the States tomorrow for good You motherfucking bitch How can you call me like that? Don't you have parents to teach you manners? No. I don't! I'm an orphan! So what you gonna do about it, you bitch Hey! Hey! Get out and wait Get out of my way Pour it around I like it! Hey, auntie Your last chance You want me to drop this Just do it, huh? Bye! Thanks for the noodle How humiliating this is! Be careful not to become like him What are you talking about? You seem to have a fun life You can't even handle that old bitch Are you going out with her? Why are you so soft on her? If you have no guts, just shut your fucking mouth What did you say, you bastard Fuck! How can I call this scum my senior? Go away. Just go Let's go What did he say? I don't know He can do nothing but talk Stop it! Little shitheads. How dare... Stand upright! Upright! Upright! Upright! I did nothing, sir Don't make excuses Come closer. Closer! Stand up! Sir! Stand up, idiot! Up, up! I'm sorry, sir Get out of my sight! Right now! Why are you still here? Get lost! I don't want to see you You're not even a human Even if I was born four-legged, I wouldn't live like you You should mind your own business Why did you go with the kids and fuck up? But the auntie treated us... I told you not to talk about the past, didn't I? But... You're shit! I'll finish you today Just take it with one hand That's all right, sir Hey, call me by my name when we're alone I'm your friend Bottoms up! At one go! Have some more Kangjae, isn't it a fucking world? I know how you feel We started out together And I became the boss and you're still a minion You know why? That's because you're not made for this You have the tiniest guts and you're so weak at heart And you're not responsible enough to carry out your duties fishing with your brother You talked big about going back with a boat? You that you talked big about going back with a boat? Please take my glass, sir You bastard... Drink it What the hell are those bastards doing here? Think this is their home or what? Call the kids... No. I'll take care of it myself Hey, you son of a bitch How dare you come into my area? So what? You fucker... What? You're dead! So the bastard wants to die! Die you fucking bastard! Die! Die! Die! Yo...Yongsik Hey, get up! Hey, you! Get up, you bastard! Yongsik! Have you heard the news? That bastard rose to the surface We should've hung something heavier on him What should we do now? There's got to be a way out, surely If we work together, there's nothing we can't do Kangjae... Would you save me, I mean, us? I'm not trying to put the blame on you But if I go in now, it'll be the end of everything You know what I mean? I'm begging you now on my knees If only you would do this for me, then... You said you want to go home with a fishing boat I'll buy it for you This is the first and last favor I ask of you as a friend. Kangjae! I need some time to think about it Actually, you're partly responsible too Since you're cleaner than me... If you turn yourself in, it won't be longer than 10 years But for me, it'll be at least 20 years and then my life's over I can't die alone My hometown must be bustling with squid and shrimp fishing now Driving me crazy... Why? You want to go back? Every time you get drunk... Go back if you have the nerve I'll definitely go With a small fishing boat... Yeah... a hundred years later What? You think I can't do it? Buying a boat is a piece of cake to me This shithead thinks I can't afford it Hey, give it to me! Give it to me! I'm gonna show you that I can! Give you what? Your cell phone, you idiot! Then what? Yongsik? It's me. Kangjae Yeah. It's Kangjae who you beat up real bad yesterday Yeah. I'm drunk How can I not drink after getting beaten up like that? I'll get to the point Were you serious about what you said the other day? Yeah. I will go in. Yeah! Instead of you... Instead of you... Only on one condition Give me the money first Yeah, send it to my bank account If not, you will be fucked up You think I'm nothing Hey. Yongsik! Keep your promise Give me the money first Will you? Are you Mr. Lee Kangjae? Well. I was just about to... Ms. Kang Failan is your wife, right? I'm sorry but she died yesterday It's been over a year since they moved to Canada Haven't you contacted them before coming here? They're my only relatives Do you have their phone number? No. I am sorry about that Go back to China It's hard to live here without any connections There's no one there either Hope...? Come on in! Relax! That's too bad How can I help you? I'd like to earn some money But how? I studied Korean in China I'm confident that I can do anything But there is a problem You can't stay here longer than allowed If you don't get a visa, you'd get arrested There is a way Could you untie your hair, please? It's okay What style! Look at this red scarf. How embarrassing! Shut your mouth and give me the money Okay. Okay! Here it is... deducting my fee Are you ripping me off? Am I crazy to do this for nothing? Give me your documents Is there all that we need? Sure. Sayonara! Your wife is inside. Wanna see her? No! Come on. Just have a look at her That's your wife, there Where? Over there. Wanna do her? That little chick? Yeah Shit Why. Not your taste? You do her yourself Where are you going? To the turf Going there again? What is it? Give it to the little chick Caring for your wife already? You said red looks embarrassing. Didn't you? Don't worry I'm not gonna hurt you Thank you! We have his picture here. would you like to have a look? Maybe it's all for the better Why don't you go cool off your head? Let's finish our deal when you're back You haven't changed your mind. Have you? Give it to Kyungsu He's at the station He first took the girl there Have some fun with this No. I have money Take it with you No thanks Just take it Yongsik What? You'll keep the promise? Of course I will Hey, you don't bow to your senior? You don't bow to me. You asshole Kang Failan. 781011-2454311 Kang Fai. Right? Fai? Kang Failan. 781011-2454... Hey, look at the snow there You really hate using your brain Her hometown? How can you smile when your wife's dead? Should I cry then? Why did that bitch die to hassle me like this? And when was it that you were overjoyed at getting money for it You have to memorize this What if the cops ask you about her? What kind of a husband doesn't know about his wife. Huh? How many guys memorize their wife's social security number? I just think that's over the line Did you see her at the agency? You didn't, right? Here is her picture I don't want to see it You should know her face not to be suspicious Isn't she pretty? Even better in person What? Does she get to you? Moron... Hey! She's pretty Hey, hurry up! Hurry! Come on in It stinks... Come on in Just relax. It's all right Sit down What the hell is this? Hey. Isn't she great? Shut up and give me a minute She's perfect Have a seat Not bad. Quite good Yeah? You should pay a lot Bullshit! Oh. That bastard! Whenever he gets drunk... Come here, you bitch What is it? Leave me alone, you bastard! What the fuck is that? Just sit down You bitch. You... Let me go. Shit! Who's the guy? I don't know Whenever he gets drunk, he's crazy like that It runs in his family to be like that What's taking her so long in the bathroom? What if she took off? Here she comes Say hello to your boss Hey, what the fuck is that? Is this how you do your business? No, it's not like that I almost got fucked up Do you think this is a blood donation center? No, please have a seat Don't give me shit! Hey! Hey, please! What do you want me to do now? She's sick! She coughed up blood I don't know... looks like some contagious disease Shit. I'm really out of luck It wouldn't have mattered if she coughed it up after the deal But she did it right in front of him How could I cheat on him right then? What? Which agency? Okay, give them a call first. All right? You don't know how hard laundry is How such a fragile girl can do the work? I guarantee it You can't find anyone like this girl You're really lucky, lady In the past I washed many clothes. I am good at riding bicycle What did she say? See? She says she was a pro laundress in China She can ride a bicycle too But we can't even communicate You don't need much talk After I left home, I will work very hard She'll do whatever you order. You are so lucky! Work hard. Don't slack off Lady, don't give her a break Don't say that Good bye Good bye It's cold. Come on in Thank you for your present What did she say? Thank you for the scarf Hey, tell her that it's a wedding present from her husband This scarf is given to you by your husband. You should thank him You speak Chinese well When I was young, I had a business there She has a disease or something, right? Nonsense! It's small but good for one person And tell me if you need anything What can I tell her? This is frustrating Good morning Hi Uh. Hi! Oh my god! You're a walking washing machine How could you wash all these with such a thin body? Laundry...! Good. Welcome! "Welcome" Ha ha... Thank you! "Thank you!" Ha ha... Did you have dinner? Did yi o dinor? Ha ha ha... I can't help it! Did you have dinner? Did yio dinor? How can I have her work? I can't do this any more. I quit Thank you! Laundry...! Why'd she come here? Her dying mom gave her a note to find her aunt here But her aunt has gone to Canada She has no one there What could she do? Fucked up so she decided to earn money here Her writing is a total mess unlike her pretty face To Lee Kangjae? It looks like she really took you for her husband Dear Mr. Kangjae Thank you for marrying me Thank you Because you married me, I am able to work here Everyone's kind to me I want to keep working here Everybody's kind, but you're the kindest of all Because you married me I sincerely thank you Where should we go first? To the job agency We need some information about her Pull over, please Why? Even though it's all fake, I can't go there like this What? Why? Am I wrong? Oh my god! Thanks to you two. Now I can be rest assured Let's have a drink Because of that bitch, I'm in this trouble now I should've helped her then Have some more No, thanks Well. That bitch came to me a month before she died Do you know what she said? She said that she was sick She looked all right to me As you know, I'm no doctor And besides, she owes me lots of money How could she be sick without my permission? It's cold Isn't he a fucking bastard? If it was his own daughter, could he still talk that way? There are so many bastards in the world Hey, he looks exactly like you. You know that? You're like brothers Shit. Stop it! Born in 1978... Let's see She's only 23, 24 years old What a pity at such a young age! Thank you for marrying me You're the kindest of all Good night You're really making this hard for me It's warm in here The cell is so damn cold Husband. Lee Kangjae. Occupation. A real hoodlum A kind idiot who goes to prison for his friend Wife is a dead bitch who died so pitifully... You are pathetic and I am too! What a perfect match we are... Why are you hassling her? I'm just checking if she's legally married or not. That's all. Your husband's name? Lee Kangjae... Lee Kangjae What's his occupation? He's in Inchon He's a sailor So he's busy Even if he's that busy. What kind of a husband never visits his wife? They're all bastards who make life hard for their wives She is a hard-working girl Just leave her alone Go on. Now! Husband LEE Kangjae Wife KANG Failan The mountain is beautiful The sea is beautiful, too I want to see Dear Mr. Kangjae Failan! It's me. Don't you remember me? Hello Now you can speak Korean well Failan, aren't you sick any more? You've got a bit thin She's really making you work hard, huh? She's kind. Everyone's kind I thank Mr. Kangjae Why should you thank Kangjae? For marrying you? Well he thanks you too He wants to see you He wants to see me? Yeah. He fucking misses you a lot Fu...? Fucking means... It means... Anyway, he fucking misses you Oh, shit! That bastard... Hey, I'll come back later Let's do some art together at the beach! One sheep, two sheep, three sheep... Why do we get off here? Let's get some air here Shit! Fucking crazy... It's freezing cold. Fuck! Now what? Hey! Isn't it good? Wow! Don't go in there! It's dangerous! The ice will break Come on, you chicken! What did I tell you? Hey, man! Hey! That's not how you skate You don't know a thing Watch me now! Ready! Go! Oh. Home, sweet home! Hurry up! Will you? There won't be any problem, right? When your wife's dead why would they look you up let alone consoling you? Are you a criminal? You always feel uncomfortable with cops, right? Hey... You go in alone Am I Failan's husband? Why should I? Do I have to cry? That's a bit exaggerating but you should look sad Hurry up! All right! Wait! I'm freezing! Let's go in! Who's the husband? I am Do you have your ID? I forgot to bring it in such a hurry But I brought this instead Her social security number is... You even memorize your wife's number? Husband LEE Kangjae Wife KANG Failan She died the day before yesterday, right? Yes... Since we were apart for a long time I didn't know she was ill so... If she had told me, I could... That'll be all. That's all? Can we go now? What do you mean? Let's go What do you mean by that? Hey, let's go I meant that the process is over so you can go now Okay. I see But wait! Why is it that simple when a person had just died? Isn't it strange? What do you think you're doing? I'm not doing anything, but... What the hell is he doing? Hey! We're sorry What did you say? Is she your wife or what? It's over. Just get out of here! I don't want to stay here either He's just very upset. Sorry, sir Ah, am I a criminal or what? Hey, who the hell do you think you are, huh? Why are you so pissed off? Is she really your wife? Legally, yes Jesus, you're really losing your mind Anyway, I don't know what the hell's got into Yongsik He asked me to say hello to you Anything else? Just give him a call Take this! You should move this Don't touch How may I help you? Sir! What is it? I can tell who's the loser Right Do it quickly I'm sick What? I'm very sick What? You're sick? I will work very hard I can recover. I'll try hard You don't look sick to me! If I don't get your money in time, my toes are sick too I can't wait even a month Checkmate You can put it here Leave it there Great You're always smiling Do you know how scared I am right now? I might die To Inchon Funeral It's so funny! I'll take this Only that? Yes Get it back quickly You're going to High School next year, right? Yes Grow up, kid! Want to see something really cool? It's cheaper there Then go rent it there! Bye Well, it's spooky to see a dead body. Isn't it? Do you know who I am? I'm KANG Failan Do you know who I am? I'm KANG Failan Stay away! Search high and low! Hey officer, give me a break You hopeless bum. Let's go! Get in Wait. Wait Get in. Bastard Is she really dead? It's okay now Hey! If you overdo it... What is the matter? Fuck! You fucking bastard! Who? Me? Of course, it's you. You fucking bastard Who else is here besides you? What about me? You're such shit! Why are you eating that? Are you hungry? Or is it for your health? Fuck! What is the matter with you? Eat all you want. You bastard Even your kinds need to stuff his stomach to live But I hate that! Hey. What do you live for? What bullshit! Yours is more fucked up than mine Shut up! I can see your whole life You're exactly Kangjae Jr. That's enough! I hate to tell you this But if my life were like yours, I'd rather die Yeah, you're right I'm always fucked up I'm the most fucked up in the world But did you see her? That bitch lying dead in the hospital said I'm the kindest person in the world Bullshit! So what? What shall I do now that she's dead? Do I have to live with the dead body, huh? Okay. I got it. Stand up please Do I have to live with the dead body? Lee Kangjae! Okay, okay. Sit down. Fuck! Watch your mouth, you shithead! Are you my father? You little piece of shit Shut up and just drink. Mister! Yeah. Okay, you motherfucker! You are an actor! Everyone would take you for her real husband! It's all over now. Let's go Whom do I get her debt from? Are you crazy? What's wrong? Hey! What are you going to do with the remains? I don't know Let's scatter them in the sea here I think that would be best Hello! Ah. Yes, sir! Wait a second Yes. Right Everything's done I'll go back soon See you then What did he say? Nothing much Who's there? Are you the husband? How could you show up now? How could you! You don't know how much Failan had waited for you How could you... How could you...? She'd waited so long She worked so hard waiting for you Poor girl, I feel so sorry for her Hey! Wait! Failan told me to give you this when you come here I almost forgot She must've had lots to tell you Aren't you going to read it? Dear Mr. Kangjae I didn't mail this Because I wasn't sure that you'd receive it If you see this, then you've come to see me Thank you But I am dying Thank you for your kindness though for a short while I know a lot about you While I saw your picture not to forget you, I came to like you And after that, it became even harder for me Being alone made it so difficult to bear I'm sorry You're always smiling in the picture Everyone here is kind but you are the kindest of all Because you've married me I have a favor to ask you Would you come to see me when I am dead? Would it be all right to die as your wife? Sorry for asking this But it is the only favor I have to ask of you I am sorry I have nothing to give you I love you more than anyone else in the world Mr. Kangjae. Good bye The police are investigating gangsters over the dead body Which was found at the harbor on the 18th Inchon Bus Terminal - It's cold! - Now, you are back! What a gambling! Look at the bet! I'm happy to see you! You idiots! Don't eat Chinese food in the office! Have a seat The investigation is narrowing down Let's finish our deal now I kept my promise Now it's your turn Sorry Don't be. It's me who should be sorry I'm not going in I'm going back home Thank you for everything Are you really going back? I don't know whether it's better for you or not Hey, how about a last wrestle? You never beat me! Why are you standing there like that? Did you say that I never beat you? Come on. For the last time, huh? Wear it! You'll get a bruise Whatever! Let's do it! Are you ready? Go! Idiot. I was joking Don't go before I come back Where are you going? Just wait! Okay? Failan at the spring beach Hello? Yeah? Yes, sir Fucking Yongsik always send me on errands when I'm busy! Wonderful sea. What an art! Say something to your husband Mr. Kangjae, thank you No, say something else Say you love him Okay. How about some singing? I can't sing Just try Hey, once again No! Just once Hey, come here. Will you? I'm gonna show it to your husband Ready. Go! Hey Failan! You sing great! Your husband will love it
