 

                        Since the dawn of man, he has known pain and suffering. War has plagued him and death. Giants, too, walked the land. Man feared them. And god despised them. He would wipe them from the face of the earth... until now. Enter, lord Ammon, for this is your house. Where is my son? He returned last night. He is safe, lord, for now. Speak. The god of the Hebrews has... I may no longer be in his grace, but I will not allow your insolence. How dare you imply the existence of another god. I meant no disrespect, my lord. Wages of sin, priest. Tell me this news from my father. Yahweh has judged men and Nephilim alike. We will all be destroyed by a great deluge of water. And my brothers? The fallen angels, too, shall churn in the waters, such is the word of Yahweh. I should have expected no mercy. They chose to walk the earth and know the daughters of his favorite creature... man. And he cannot abide our offspring. Hello, father. Aramis, in the coming days, there will be a great flood, destroying every living thing. I have refuge for myself, some great sacrifice. I will fight. I will survive. No. His will shall be done. You will die. Father! When the hand of man reveals your tomb, there will be a new era of the Nephilim, and once again they will know the wrath of the fallen ones. We are nearing readiness, my lord. The slaves are being prepared to travel with him to the next world. And Aramis? He's dead. By dawn we... You said he was dead. It's your presence. Your power is reanimating him. Aramis. Why is he like this? He is but a shell, my lord. The poisons used to kill him have destroyed his mind. I wanted my son preserved, not a simpleton! It's not time for you to walk again, Aramis. I'm sorry. Sleep, my son. matt? Matt? What are you doing down there? You all right? Ladder broke. Give me a hand, will you? Huh, a little mummy. I'll be damned. Oh, jeez. Sorry, buddy. Here, grab on. Jeez. I wonder how this little guy got so well preserved. Bone dry, perfect burial tomb. Funny though, doesn't look tribal. See, took the brain out, probably the other organs. It's a ritual mummification. Not even the Anasazi took this kind of care. Maybe something the Mayan could have done. There's no record the Mayans ever traveled this far north, professor Fletcher. Well, who knows? Find a couple of pots and a bone or two and we think we know it all. If this is Mayan, we could be rewriting a few history books. This little guy could be the big thing we've been looking for. I'm going to get a crew down there ASAP. Not without helmets and not without gear. I was down there myself, Joseph. It's safe. That hole wasn't there three days ago. We're two miles from the fault line. How can you say it's safe? Our blasting opened up that crack, not a quake. I just figured you might have learned something in Mexico. Joseph, you jerk. You want to take care of that, jenny? Thanks. So what was that whole Mexico thing about? Oh, god. Joseph. He's the kind of guy that would offer to put some salt on a paper cut. The Mexico thing was, a couple of years ago, matt was down there with a crew. They were looking into a cave, out in the middle of a rain forest. He discovered a passageway under the water, and without going back to get some scuba gear or to let anybody know where they were going, they just dove in, literally. The water was deeper and went farther than he had imagined. And there were tide pools. Five guys went in. Matt's the only guy who came out. What do you think of that? Professor Fletcher! Matt! Get Morton on the radio. This is big. Really big. I gave explicit instructions that this site was to be left alone. I understand that, sir. But, Mr. Morton... but what? Who moved this? I did. Are you matt? Yeah. Oh, yeah, Charles told me about you. I didn't expect you this early. Barstow, right? Angela Barstow. I'm the structural engineer in charge. I hate to be the one to tell you this, but Im in charge here. Really? Yeah. This is my dig. Morton is not going to appreciate you wasting my time. I'm the archeologist around here. The way he told me, you fell in a hole and got lucky. Nice digging, chief. Let's settle this now. Fine. We've hit a snag on site 17, so we're switching gears. We're going to have to dig around it for now, which means that we're going to have to reroute about 2000 feet of pipe. Now Gus has new plans and maps for the department heads. I want to be able to break through to that reservoir by the end of the month. All right? Now get going. We've got a lot of work to do. Charles, do you want to explain a few things to this gal? I'm all ears, but you need to explain to Indiana Jones here that people stopped using the word "gal" sometime around 1955. Glad to see you two met. You know, she acts like she runs the place. You and I agreed, this is my dig. Fletcher is in charge of the dig site. Damn straight. Now, hold on. When you called me to come down here... let me finish. After that fiasco in Utah, with the Indian artifacts, I hired him to take an advanced look to be sure we weren't digging up something that was going to bite us in the ass later on. He's a little hotheaded, but he's one of the best diggers in the business. That's what he tells me. And, as for Angela, she's in charge of how you dig. Understood? Oh, for crying out loud, Charles. We have a lot of earth to move and maintain structural integrity. That's Angelas forte. We don't want to wake up and look at the big guy covered with a couple of hundred tons of clay. Treat her right. Three goats. No, sheep. Three sheep, ah. And the milk of one goat, in exchange for oatmeal cookies. Am I smelling oatmeal cookies? You still like a little coffee with your milk, professor? Matthew, sit down. So nice of you to visit. Oh, you must be psychic. The cafeteria, they have coffee, but they don't make mocha latte, and their idea of grande is not so grande. So... what, mister big shot, huh? You slumming, huh? You know, most of us have to beg and plead to get grants that last six months. How long have you been with Morton? Two years. Why don't you go back to school? They don't start construction on an area until I confirm that there's nothing of archeological value. We're extremely careful. Why wouldnt you be? I just wanted you to know that we're not taking any needless risks. Matthew, are you sure you're not a little Jewish up here, huh? You carry your guilt like a pro. I was on the review board. The only one that blamed you for the accident was you. I want you to do a little translating for me, Eli. That's all I do here. Look... are like this. Receipts. Here... "how many goats a man traded for a woman. "Who did the well belong to. " Lawyers, accountants, even back then, Matthew, they were running things. Feh. Why don't you take a look at this? A man's limb. No... a hand. It's a hand of a man. This is very old. Older than old. The sentence structure is just like the old tribes. Where did you find this? Let me show you. Seik, hah, no. Tempest. Rabbi, you have a package. Thank you, my dear. I keep the battery companies in business, forgetting to turn this thing off. They make them that turn off when you stop talking. Yeah, well, who trusts technology, huh? Ah, perfect timing. You know, I have a confession to make. I know Sumerian symbols like what I had for breakfast. But when it comes to ancient Hebrew, to say Im rusty is being kind. "And the great flood shall destroy them. " You getting anything yet, doc? Something, Mickey. Looks like that movie with the three kids that get lost in the woods. Wouldn't his guts be all dried up? His guts, for the most part anyway, are in those oversized Canopic jars over there. They probably replaced all of his organs with herbs, maybe leaves or talismans. That's the fascinating thing about this mummy. It's more like an Egyptian mummy than anything ever found on this continent. That's the fascinating thing, not that it's the size of a truck? Yeah, that, too. Wait a second! Mickey, go back, slowly. Hang on, it's stuck. All right, let me focus. Oh, my god. Are those people? The camera is too low to be in his stomach. I'm assuming we're not looking at his last meal. Pharaohs often had servants buried with them in their tombs. It looks like these are posed. Mickey, where are we in relationship to his organs? I'm guessing probably around his right kidney. That's what I thought. It looks like they're actually positioned as the kidneys themselves. I think youll find more bodies in the lungs and the heart. As I read the letter that you sent me I realize I love you so but I know... I'm goin' away now... Why, oh, why can't you see I miss you? I'm not in the mood to play around here. I said, Im not gonna screw around! Ugly s. o. b., isn't he? I don't know. I'd say when he was alive he was pretty good-looking. Most Acromegalics have distorted features. The bones keep growing while the rest of them stops. This guy's pretty proportionate. Most what? Acromegalics... people who suffer from gigantism. Eli, why do you think no one ever came across one of these things? Is your grandmother alive? What? Your grandmother, I assume she's passed on, yes? Yeah, when I was a kid. Well, if, and I mean no offense, if you were to exhume her body now, from her nice do you think you would find much of her left? No. Well, our friend here has been buried in the ground for over 50 centuries, not to mention, he seems to be on the wrong continent. I'm surprised we found one at all. Excuse me, Mr. Morton. Gus has got a couple of guys from each drill team ready. They're just outside if you want to talk to them. I'll be right there. Eli, you made a good point about my granny, but Ive seen dinosaur bones closer to What do you say to that? I was hoping you wouldn't think of that. What's going on? Joseph is missing. I don't know. He left his house wide open. Lights are on. They found his knife about 30 feet from the front door by that new mustang. Listen up, we're running out of daylight. Joseph wasn't the kind of guy who would go off in a drunk and disappear. Maybe he got sick or something or disoriented. These hills are honeycombed with all sorts of caves and tunnels. Stay on your toes. If you spot something, radio back to Gus. I'm going with jerry up in the 'copter. Never seen them move so fast. They must really be worried about Joseph. No, whoever finds him first gets a case of beer. Oh. He's their friend. Come on, matt. That's Joseph. He's probably the best friend any of them ever had. That's why I didn't offer a keg. Mickey, we'll help you look for him. Oh, I didn't know you were a drinker. Where are the police? Why arent they out here? Well, you have to go to find somebody who wasn't a part-time sheriff. Morton likes to keep everything in the family, anyway. He's probably just worried about Joseph mouthing off, even after he gave him a little bonus. What bonus? I paid off a couple of guys to keep their traps shut, so they wouldnt be yakking about jumbo. He trusts us so we didn't get squat. There's a ravine up here. It's the remnants of the old Ohio stone quarry. I doubt Joseph came out this far. But we oughta keep looking. Matt. Matt. Matt. I was just trying to tell you to slow down. Gus, come in, Gus. Andy, Gus here. Go ahead. Trouble. Me and Pete was checking out these caves over at site 3. He's gone now. Gone? What do you mean, gone? I went to take a leak, and I heard Pete shouting. By the time I was back at the truck, he was gone. I can be there in a couple of minutes. Tell him to sit tight. You shouldn't have been taking a leak. Hang on. Pete may show up anytime. We'll be right there. Andy! Blood. Somebody else was here besides Pete and Andy. Looks like Andys radio. Guess Joseph wasn't the only one who walked away. Andy! Is this some kind of protest group or something? Who knows? Morton's made a lot of enemies along the way. Could be some rival construction company, too. Hey, guys! Hey, guys! Quit moving around! Yeah, I knew growing up with older sisters would pay off some day. I'm afraid I might have nicked up your tire iron. Hope we don't get a flat on the way back. Charles, this is Gus here. Did you find Joseph? Negatory. As a matter of fact, another two of them went missing. What, missing? Well, we got a situation here, Charles. Damn it. I'll get some men out there right away. Out. All right, out. Didn't sound too happy. I don't think thats our biggest problem. Oh, yeah! Matt, they took Mickey. You look like hell. We were attacked out there. Then they just vanished while we were looking for Mickey. This is way too big for us to handle by ourselves. I agree. What's this? It's my resignation, and a copy of what Im telling the police about what happened with Mickey and the others. I've already called in someone to take care of this. He's number one in the security business. He'll be here tomorrow morning. We don't need the police. We don't need the police? Four people are missing, Charles. I've been down that road before. I'm not risking anybody else's life for anything. Well, the police wouldn't do anything that we're not doing, except shut us down. Is that what this is about, the project? What do you think's going to happen when the bureau of land management guys come down here to talk about our 42-foot mummy that's under wraps? You haven't told them yet, have you? You told me you'd call them so that I could do a proper study this time. I've got ten years in negotiating the land rights for this resort and two years with architectural planning. Matt... this resort is worth millions. Think of how many jobs we'll provide. Look at Las Vegas. It's not worth it. We don't know if Mickey and Joseph are even alive. Give me the weekend. You can keep looking for them. If we haven't found the men, Ill go to the police with you. Charles, if it was anybody else, Id tell them to shove the whole thing, but you've always been square with me. You got till Monday, but we gotta find them. In essence, this tablet confirms my thoughts. This mummy is one of the Nephilim, the fallen ones. They were the offspring of fallen angels and human women. That had to be one hard pregnancy. This one's father was a leader of his kind, a destroyer. I have not been able to decipher his name as yet, but he is one of the angels that god sent to destroy Sodom, the wicked city of sin that sprang up in the desert. I thought you might reconsider, Mr. Morton. Sounds to me as if you have two security issues to contend with. Your missing workers and the discovery you eluded to. My price would reflect that. Good. As long as that's understood. I'll be there tomorrow. The tablet also depicts a prophecy. It shows the return of the destroyer. We're hitting granite. Should we get another bit? No, thanks, we're done. Mickey's skinny, but I don't think he'd fit in there. I'm just trying to get some handle on the stability of this ground. That cave you showed me didn't go more than ten feet back. If those guys appeared and disappeared like you said... what do you mean "if"? They have to have gone somewhere. Maybe there's a cave or a tunnel, and we're just not finding it. Or they could just be magic. Thanks. If we're hitting rock this dense at this shallow depth, we're not going to find any tunnels. I'll get some sonar imaging gear out here tomorrow. Can you help me with it in the morning? Sure. What? It's like you said, magic. We should get out of here. It's not safe. I'm not home. That's a pretty horse. Thanks. My dad gave him to me. You still want me to help you with that sonar gear? Yeah. When you weren't here at 7:00, I just went for my ride. I thought you said... that's right... you did say 7:00. I'm sorry. No biggie. Thanks. Just give me a sec. Look, I, uh... I wanted to say I was sorry for the way I acted the other day. I, um... I felt like I was losing control. I usually show up on time, too. It's okay. It's your turn to be scatterbrained. You're a cancer. You know... your sign. How did you know I was a cancer? I looked at your file. Made it a hobby. Look, astrology. June 24th, cancer... you're governed by the moon and since it's gonna do a little peek-a-boo show day after tomorrow, it's your turn to be a flake. There's going to be a lunar eclipse? Yup, time for crazies to get crazier, would-be suicides to jump and cancers to go a little gaga. If my aunt were here, she'd pray for your soul. Pentecostals don't go in for the divining. Good thing I left my Ouija board and tea leaves inside. It could be worse. I could have been raised Baptist. No card playing, and they believe that pre-marital sex will lead to drinking beer and dancing. Well, I do drink beer every now and then. And Ive always wanted to learn how to dance. I thought you were going to be up here a little bit earlier. Sorry, Gus, I got the time wrong. No problem. I know how it is with you cancers around this time. So who all did you tell about this flaky cancer thing? Nobody, I swear. The transmit button was on on the radio. Anybody listening on channel 2 got all the early morning chitchat, and by the way, when are you taking that girl dancing? You want to give me a hand? Matt! Matt! Was this in my fortune? How could this have happened? Nobody walked passed me, miss Barstow, I swear. For crying out loud, Dennis, it's not like he walked out the front door. Nobody's blaming you for anything, Dennis. None of these markings were on any of the cover stones. Oh, my god. We just found out. This is not good, Matthew. Morton is going to be pissed. Not good at all. I'm Raphael Ammon. Angela Barstow, structural engineer. Are you all right, miss Barstow? I'm... Im fine. She's fine. She's a little dehydrated. She went horseback riding today. Matt Fletcher. The archeologist. You must be the super rent-a-cop. My team is already deployed in the hills surrounding the valley. Mr. Ammon insisted on coming here before we even took him to his quarters. He's on it, matt. Good. 'Cause there's somebody else missing. There, try it now. Same thing. The tone only goes down about eight feet, and the sonar shows a solid mass of rock for at least another five. Hoping the rock was an illusion? Your spit would pass through solid stone? Trying to hit a spider. So how did a 42-foot tall, of here with nobody noticing? You left out, dead. A dead giant mummy. Somebody had to take him. You've had the time you requested. Mr. Ammon wants you out so we can make our inspection. You can tell Ammon to wait. We're not finished. You can tell me yourself, Mr. Fletcher. My response would be the same. Matthew. Please leave... now. What's your deal, mister? You push us around. You've been here all day, and I don't think your people are looking for any of our missing men. Matthew, don't. Listen to the old man. You listen to me. Don't push. I know these kind. They push back hard. Something doesn't smell right. I'm sorry, miss Barstow, but we need to do our own assessment. Your crew can come back tomorrow. Of course. I'm sorry about matt. He's just worried about the workers. No harm done. I assure you. Thank you, thank you, my lord. Yours is the honor. My son hasn't eaten in Avery, very long time. No! But you healed me. My son is a hunter. He wouldn't eat wounded prey. He has to kill it himself. Shalom. I'm sorry, sir, there's no admittance. Oh, I understand that rules exist for a reason, but I left my Tallith inside. Tallith... it's a prayer shawl, and a rabbi without a prayer shawl is just a Schmendrick in a funny hat, huh? Oh, not a sharp young fellow with a hat like yours. Nice hat. Go ahead. Rabbi, make it quick. Thank you. I had to reconfirm what I had seen this morning. Matthew was right. These markings are different. They give the time of the prophecy's fulfillment. "When the hand of man reveals the Nephilim "from the earth, "and the moon has been eclipsed, "the fallen angel "who spawned this creature "will return, "and his name is Ammon. " Ammon. You're really quite good, rabbi. I doubt there are half a dozen men alive who could translate this text. It is what I do. Raphael Ammon? So you are... the same. Ammon the destroyer, Abodan. The angel of death. Yeah, I know who you are, and frankly, it scares the hell out of me. You won't feel a thing. You're going to kill me then? Yes. Would you grant me one request? Rabbi, if you're going to ask me not to kill you... oh, no, no, it's not... I- I thought of that, but no. Tell me how you fell from grace. You're serious. Because god chose you over us. I was prideful. He forbid our mating with the daughters of man. Once, I loved a woman. God destroyed the world by flood, killing my brothers and our offspring. But you hid one of them here. Four were buried, spread to the four corners of the earth, out of reach of god's earthly followers. How did you survive? I left. There was a place in hell for me, sanctuary in the pit of darkness. When I returned, I wanted god's favor. I sought out the most sinful city in the land, and I burned it to the ground. Sodom. And he scoffed, named me the "penitent angel. " In my anger, I corrupted the daughters of one of his most righteous. You remind me of lot, rabbi. He knew not to push me as well. Not like his foolish wife. As they hid in a cave while Sodom burned, I convinced his daughters to get him drunk and sleep with him, to carry on the line. God hates incest. I also knew his youngest daughter, Rachel, that night, in the biblical sense. But her son was human. Prophecy bound me. No more giants, until one of you dug up my son. Tonight... I will mate with Angela, on the site and we will begin anew. Angela? Why not some harlot in an alley, or a nun in a convent? It was her in a cave outside Sodom and will be again tonight. Angela? Rachel? Her soul? Her essence. Humankind will serve my children. Out of order will come chaos. From chaos, death and the end of mankind. Oh, forgive me. I am by no means an expert on the book of revelations, but I have often thought that the Christians had something right when they depicted the end of the world. There is nothing that you described in there. You are going to fail. But, I have to try, rabbi. It's what I do. Fletcher. Get up. I didn't know it was you. The lights are out all over the camp. Even the backup generators are down. I know. Something's not right. It's loaded. Whatever's happening isn't normal. Yeah. Put this around the barrel of your gun with this tape. If we're lucky, the batteries are still going. We gotta call the police. I already tried. Our phones are dead. Blackout must have taken out our cell tower. Radio's are still working now. It's Friday night. Most of the men are in town drinking up their paychecks. Everyone else is going to be in their trailers. You ready? Yeah. Okay, let's go. What about Angela? She'll be fine. I told her the same thing. Her trailer's probably the safest place she could be. I'm sorry. I was about to knock. You scared the hell out of me. I wanted to check on you... with the lights out and everything. I'm fine. Thank you. Did you find out what happened to the power? My men are working with your crew investigating. It shouldn't be long now. Do you mind if I come in and check your generator? It's dead. I tried it. If you wouldn't mind. Still dead, Im afraid. How could you see anything? I have exceptional night vision. I spend a lot of time in the dark. Yeah. Well, thanks for checking on me. I'll radio you if I have any problems. You're very beautiful, Angela. I think you should go. The moon will be eclipsed soon. Let me show you the night. This is not the way for a woman to treat her new husband. Where the hell are Ammon's men? They were here earlier. They wouldnt let me in. Eli... don't you ever quit working? Eli? Eli. I'm sorry, matt. If I hadn't brought him here, he'd still be alive. It's not your fault. Tomorrow we bring in the cops, the FBI, the whole damned army if we have to. It's Elis tape recorder. It's still recording. But I have to try, rabbi. It's what I... This can't be happening. It is. Giant mummies, fallen angels, all of it. Oh, my god. Angela. She's not here. She left her radio on the table. Her horse is all saddled up like she's ready to go for a ride. We'll find her. I'm going to try to find Gus and some of the other guys. I'll meet you back here. Ammon said he has to perform the ritual during the eclipse. That gives us some time. Try to stay out of trouble. Angela! Angela! Tell me Im not seeing what I think Im seeing. It's alive. It's an effigy. They're mimicking the thing they worship. Mickey! Doctor... Fletcher. Hold on, I almost got you loose. Where are the others... Joseph, Andy and Pete? They were sacrificed. What do you mean? They were eaten. Come on. Any more of our men on that thing? No, the rest are all Ammons followers. That's all I need to know. Stay down. No problem. Hey, over here, over here! Come on, come on. Come on! Come on! Fletcher, Mickey filled me in on what happened. I see you managed to stay out of trouble. I couldn't find Gus or anyone else. We gotta find Angela. I know where Ammons keeping her. I can show you. Okay, you see that? It looks like the cave dead ends right there. But those rocks are just shells. They pull those things out and climb over and pull them in behind them. It opens up to a series of tunnels. So that's how they were able to appear and disappear so fast. The reservoir is less than a half a mile over this hill. It's a wonder we didn't cause a cave-in when we were blasting. Oh, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. What is it? Run! Get your gun. I hit it. Did you hear it scream? I think you pissed it off. Let's see how well he runs after I blow off his damn leg. This is nothing. I heard them talking. He won't be fully restored until Ammon consummates the ritual. Mickey's right. The mummy's only going to get stronger. It's Ammon we have to stop. He's still chasing us, so Im going to keep firing, if it's all right with you. Okay. Where the hell did he go? What do you mean where did he go? He's a 42-foot tall mummy. This guy doesn't give up. Hey, there's Josephs trailer. I got an idea. You'd think the son of a bitch would leave an extra set of keys before he up and left town. Hey, watch where you're goin'! Your lights are out, you idiot! Jerry. That's my guy. Jerry. Hey, hey, hey, over here. Yeah, come on. I don't believe it. I knew that worked in cartoons, but, man! I'll tell you what... that was pretty slick. I don't know. Yosemite Sam always gets back up. You did good kid. Yeah, I remembered Joseph had dynamite in his trailer, so I went for it. Guys... when you came running out of that trailer with that stick of dynamite lit, I thought you were going to blow us all up. I didn't even think about that. Wouldn't that have been great? Guys! What is it, Mickey? What's it doing? I hadn't gotten to shoot anything yet. You used all the bullets! Give me that thing. You gotta learn a new way to fight. You're telling me. Stop messing with that thing. I'm not messing around. Nice driving. Get in. Soon, you will have Avery special place in the world, Rachel. I'm not, Rachel. You were robbed of it so long ago. Forced to bear me a human son. That's why there are cycles... to give you another chance. You can't. When it's all over, you will remember everything. And we will be together again. We can't have you ruining this moment. Can we? All right, we'll get Angela out, then we'll blow the tunnel. I've got enough explosives in here to bring the whole thing down around Ammon's ears. Wait, it won't work. Think about what he told Eli. It's the great flood he feared would have destroyed him. The lake. If we blast the top of the dam, the whole thing will collapse. I'll blow it. Flood the tunnels. After we get Angela out. You did a good job playing catch with that giant. But what we need here is someone who can lay a charge and set a timer. I'll do it. Clock's ticking, guys. Charles. What if I can't get her out before you flood the tunnels? If she's unconscious... nobody could have saved those men in Mexico, matt. You'll be fine. Radio me when you get Angela out of there. It's pretty cool, huh, doc? How much further? I don't know. I was drugged most of the time. I think were close. You won't change a thing tonight. I have to try. I know. Okay, don't let him touch you. I heard his priest talking. Until the eclipse is over, he cannot hurt you unless he touches you. I should have fed you to my son. Fletcher, Im at the reservoir. She will make a beautiful mother. Don't you think? You'll never know. You're a persistent race. I give you that. I used to think you were simply stupid. Oh, we're that, too. You can go to hell. No, thanks, Ive been there. Mickey, lookout. Hey, you stole our gear. You should have listened to your rabbi friend, when he told you not to push me, little man. I will burn your soul, slowly. I was going to save you for later, but Im tired of playing games. You knew to stay out of my reach. Mickey, come on, you gotta get up. Matt. You okay? Can you walk? Yeah. Run, run. Now, Charles, blow the dam. Charles, do you read me? Blow the dam. Come on, move. Charles, blow the damn. Angela is clear. Oh, oh, no, no, no. Keep moving. Come on, come on. Come on! No, what are you doing? You're going to die. There's not much more I can do here. If there's anything you need, just give me a call. Take care. We'll follow up on this Ammon and his crew. But it looks pretty obvious to me. It does? Well, there were more than a few companies that could benefit if this resort project failed. My guess is one of those companies hired Ammon to shake things up, flood the works. Could have been some tree hugger outfit. They had a nut up in Washington... shot three construction workers last year. He said he was protecting an owl. I hadn't thought of that. You would be surprised at some of the crazy stuff in this world. Hey, we'll be out here working with you people for a few days to account for everybody, so try to get some rest. Okay, thanks. I'm leaning more toward the tree hugger theory. It was everything I could do not to laugh in their faces. Did you talk to Gus? Yeah, he said there must have been quite a little cleanup crew out there last night. Ammon's followers, I guess. What do you mean? Well, you'd never know there was a rampaging giant mummy trashing the camp, for one thing. He's gone. So are the little guys. The rest of the damage looks like it happened when the helicopter crashed, and they're blaming that on the blackout. What about the caves? Well, there's a few million gallons of water in the caves right now, including where we found the mummy in the first place. That whole dig is underwater. It's too much. Hey. Hey. I didn't know you guys knew each other that long. Pretty much since the day I was born. He was my father. Why didn't he ever say anything? Because I told him not to. 'Cause I wanted to make it on my own, not as the boss's daughter. Barstow was my mom's maiden name. Gus knew... and a few others. I'm so sorry. Don't be. Daddy knew exactly what he was doing. He always did. If I thought it would bring him back, or any of the others, Id tell the cops everything I know. I know. if we told them the truth, we'd wind up in matching padded cells. Let's get some air. It'll take at least a year to get the dam back to where we had it. You're going to rebuild it? What about you? I've been thinking. Ammon said they buried four of the giants in the ground, spread to the four corners of the earth. Scholars differ as to where the mythical four corners are. I'd like to find them. Sounds like work. We'd have to find them and destroy them before anybody else did. Now if a fella wanted to excavate, find and destroy them, he'd need a pretty good... engineer working with him. Gus could run the show here. Sounds like dangerous work. Well, I wouldn't want you to do anything you didn't want to. I'm not saying I don't want to. I'm just saying that we might need to drink a few beers and dance a little just to break things up. Media services, inc. Burbank- ca SkyFury
