 

                        SCREAM OF THE ANTS Mohsen Makhmalbaf Hey, boy! Going? Do you think the train coming? Do not train? What time is the train passes? The train is not coming. Is a way for a vacant lot. I rubbed her feet. Nothing heals. Nothing? Heal? Why is it always have to argue? Look at yourself! From the beginning, our trip you want one, I another. Do you know why? Want to know why? In order to live, I must stroking your hair, kiss your lips, put your head on your chest, to hear your heartbeat. Look at your feet! Dry as a shrub in the desert! Stop it. I'm not in the mood. I'm sorry, are you from? I'm sorry, are you from? I do not know. It is better said in English. Where are you, lady? We are from Iran. - Nice to meet you. - Me too. Are you a tourist? No, I am a journalist from the south of India. I believe you want to meet with Seyi Baba? No, not with Seyi Baba. Then, perhaps, with the Dalai Lama. Dalai - who? You know the Dalai Lama? Spiritual leader, who lives in the Himalayas. No, I do not know. Then what brings you to India? We are looking for a special person. Special person? We are all special in India. What is that special person? This person is called Ideal or perfect man. I'm the perfect man. Do not you think? No, I believe you. What does he do? This perfect man? He performs miracles in people's lives. You know, most of the foreigners, coming to India, stupid. We are stupid? Yes. No offense to my words. Because you do not chase after those things. What is a miracle? What is, in your opinion, a miracle? I do not believe in miracles. I believe in reality. All the world's a miracle. This heat - a miracle. Life - a miracle. What is a miracle, do you think? What is a miracle, do you think? I can a long list. You wonder. Sorry. I did not hear. For example, you wonder. You are very beautiful. Such a miracle. You wonder. Your smile - a miracle. So beautiful. Can I? Your husband, quarreling with you Non-violence in the country - a miracle. Tourists coming to India - a miracle. We have a lot of miracles. Life - a miracle. What can you say? Yes, but this man doing something special with people's lives. We came to see him. For this we came to India. My husband and me. What a coincidence. I'm here to take a picture of a miracle for his newspaper. But you do not believe in miracles. I came to find out if this is true. As a journalist, You must be very busy in India. The wonders of high demand, foreigners come after them. I always have a lot of work. Presumably, the old man can stop the train look. Look? Svom look? So people say. I came to find out if this is true. I agreed with the engineer. I am going to look at it up close. If you want to come with me. We can go with you? Hey, are you still angry? He says he is a man, which stops the train look. Want to see it? - Why not? - But it was not allowed to fight. Okay, we'll go with you. How long are you here? I can not imagine how much. Probably 7 or 8 years. Why did you come here? I came to this place, Because I am a lot of grief. I have traveled and came here. And my soul asked: what is the meaning of life? I was in mourning. I sat there, thinking, that will train and move me. But then I fainted from hunger and cold. Then my soul said: "Even the train is not coming. What is the point to die?" I did not move. I sat here. Finally, the train came. The engineer stopped the train. The passengers got off the train and said: "Baba, how did you stop the train look? " I said, "Brethren, I do not stop train. This driver stopped the train. " He said - he can stop train? This driver stops the train. They say that you are giving advice everyone who comes here. I do not give serious advice. I do not want stop the train with his eyes. Here come the poor, They beg for food from the passenger trains. They will not let me out of here. I am here trapped. If only someone had taken me out. I am filled with sadness. It has no magical powers. That's why I'm here. Somebody save me. Get me out of here. I miss my children. He says, "Save me. Take me away from here. People will not let me go. Bring me back to my family. " You know, it is a good idea. But these people are dangerous. Take a chair! Let him go! Let him go! How beautiful! Your eyes are a tourist. Give me the camera, I'll show you the truth. My mind is in turmoil. Love ... Death ... All this nonsense. I do not understand what a great beauty you see here. It's really beautiful, I just do not see it? Am I longer distinguish between beauty and ugliness? They are all so friendly. They say Gandhi loved the poor, but his rejection of violence was convenient for the rich. Check it out! This boy is laughing. Why is he laughing? I came to vanity in theory, then in practice. First, poverty ... poverty ... impotence or indifference. They stand for hours in line for a piece of bread. They go on about non-violence, but nonviolence turned violent. They seemed to sleep, being in a collective stupor. Why is there no revolution in the country, where 99% of the population lives in poverty? India for me not a starting point. It is the final point. What is God's answer to poverty and misery? His reply to you definitely not divine socialism. On poverty God's answer - the small joys. When you are hungry, a crust of bread - joy. When you are thirsty, a drop of water - bliss. When you are tired, sleep gives you the highest joy. To find real happiness, you must first lose everything. Because happiness is not infinite. This is some certain moments, such as minutes of laughter. When many of these moments, they gather and form a line. I think the poor man happier what people like us, who believe they have reached the end. People wonder why God is pleased to the rich, but prefers the poor. God made them poor, so He can bestow them with something very small. Whatever it was, it remains question of why he does not like the rich? Who created them, if not God himself? Or there is no God, or is terribly unfair. I'm sorry. I love you. Recently, we did not say it to each other. You're such a This beautiful Indian saris. Today I want to start my life anew. I want to see the world through your eyes. I want everything to be beautiful. I want tonight be filled and drained you. Today, I want to kiss your legs and kiss your hands, put your head on your chest and go to sleep, lulling beat of your heart. India is beautiful tonight. You know the story of Gandhi? No. On a day when Gandhi's father died, all night he made love to his wife. After that, he despised himself. He asked himself how could he be so nasty, that succumbed to petty pleasure to forget the heartbreak? He has since decided to make love for conceiving children. Want me to do it too, just once? What? Only once, to conceive a child? As a father, I would have no one not invited to this stupid world. I have become a mother. This will be the beginning my tragedy as a father, if I invite someone in this miserable world. My love! Please think a little bit. Is the child does not want to be born? What if he grows up and asks, what gave birth to him at the light? If he asks why you helped he is born, what did you say? Do we say: "Forgive us, you're the product of a random union In India sperm your father egg and your mother? " You know, no creature was not created by an act of love. We are all a product of neglect pair at the time of sexual intercourse. At the moment of negligence, when a man and woman do not interrupt act of love at the top of his orgasm. I'm afraid of the child who born or a murderer, or a victim. As half charge for his birth, I could not answer him. Can not you hear the baby crying? He in his own protests against birth in this world, clearly unable to take it and feed in the world, which do not even pretend to justice. And look at his stupid mother. She thinks that he is hungry and puts it in his mouth parched chest. You know, to be a father - it's like that tell the world: "I was born, I tried life and she seems fine. I feel it is my duty - to have a baby. " No, I'm afraid become a father, because I feel that it will be my first son's betrayal. We have come to India in the wake of Gandhi, in the footsteps of Mother Teresa. But I was stupid, time came to catch up with our love. Two frustrated man make a philosophical journey. I'd rather spend the night with the dogs in the street and leave you alone with Mother Teresa. Where are you going? Look, sir. You do not need a woman for the night? Only 60 dollars. Do you want a woman? Listen to me! Do not want a hot woman for the night? If sex is important to you, for me the importance of money. Man would not sell themselves. Only things are sold. Then why do so? I have a chair and desk chair needed. It is worth the higher price, if I'll be your desk. What are these things in your room? The gods. How many gods you have in India? We are 3 million. What is this God? It is the god of dance. Do not smoke, I will not breathe. Please. Do not smoke. And this? It is the god of power. I prefer the power of God. I do not like useless gods. Do not look at me like that. I was embarrassing. I really want to understand How do you get lonely before the big bang. What is it with you, If you decided to create us out of nothing? Where is your power? What is this world that you've created? I'm in space. I long to be obsessed with you. Enough freedom! I can not bear it! You cow standing four legs on the ground. God - in heaven. It is He who has created women and wine. They say he had made it, you know? You're nobody. But ... There is something right the two things that you have created. Women and wine. Thank you for the women. Thank you for the wine. And I forgot to thank you for what you have created a cigarette. You heard me! You came down to the ground? Is that you? What are you doing here? You came to see what happened to yours servants? You came to see me? You are so beautiful. The same person, as we are. It is good that you are a woman. If I knew that I would be a believer. It's your fault are you filled my head wisely, not wine. We want to see a perfect man. The perfect man? The car? At a meeting with the perfect man no one goes to the car, ma'am. All go on foot. That's better. He said that we'd better walk. But we can get lost. We do not know road. How much time do we have to go? Foot - two days. By car - hour. By car in just an hour. It would be better if we go. You can not take us there? - Please. - Thank you. But you know, my friend, I'll tell you one thing. If you go to a perfect man, you can see the good things. But if the you go on foot, you will have a vision. What kind of person This perfect man? Say it. The perfect man? Oh, God! You've heard what they say about him. He is a divine person. You have to see it. Say His face lights up like a flower. Lower the window. The wind will carry it. No, please do not open! Please do not open the window! A fly can fly. We have to bring it back to the same place. He takes us back? He's crazy! What's with him? He's crazy. Let's go out. He is coming back. What can we do? It reminded me grandfather. He was a great singer. Look. He remembers his grandfather. You turn around? Are you going back? I shall return. It is unlikely that it will take Tell him to stop. Why are you laughing? Foot? Are you sure? Do not laugh. Tell him that we walk. Wait. Stop, please. We want to get out. We want to go here. Stop! Stop! Why do you speak French? Stop the car. We want to get out. Stop the car! I ask you to stop! Tell him that if he was a believer, he would not We disembark from the insect. Every step we kill at least one ant. We have to choose. If you want to see a perfect man, you have to become a killer ants. If you stop, you will become a victim. I am a killer. I'm a murderer, because I go. Forgive me, God. God, get the ants out of my way. I gotta go. Dead ant. I heard him scream. God, can you hear the cries of your ants? One ant died. Two ants. Three ant. Four. Five. God, are you listening? You hear them moan? You saddened by the death of your ants? Hello Hello - Do you speak in English? - A little bit. Sorry, what's your name? People call me a shepherd. We are looking for Perfect man. Do you know where he is? Yes, I know. Follow me. You saw it? I've seen it several times. - Did you see how he's doing wonders? - No. Why do people doing a a long way to see it? Ask them. He is an interesting man. Do you believe in God? Every man is his own God. Who do you ask for help, When you are lonely or you suffer? Birth - suffering. Death - suffering. Defeat - suffering. Victory - suffering. All that we have, all that we have, they are also suffering. Is suffering. Desire is also suffering. Yes, but what do you think? Do you think God exists? God exists or not. If you say that God is, what it is. If you say, that He does not exist, then He is not. This is his home. Call him and wait. If it will not be long to answer you, do not despair. Continue to call. Monsieur perfect man! Monsieur perfect man! The perfect man! Are you here? Is there anyone over the world? Sorry. I had to take the cows in the shade. Do you also live here? Yes. Who would you like to see? You know. We are looking for the perfect man. I was the name of the people. Your name Shepherd. Everybody calls me differently. But you said that you saw Perfect person a few times. In our house there is no mirror. Mirror creates selfishness. I saw myself only a few times, as reflected in the water. So what can I do for you? My friend and ... Tell me at least "my favorite." My husband and I had a long way from Iran to see you. I'm so excited. I do not know what to say. I can not imagine you ... Sorry for my words, but you are such a simple, an ordinary man. My husband was once a communist. I used to be religious, and now only believe in God. You could not ... Sorry ... I'm confused. Could you give me some advice? New faith? Maybe New God in whom we must believe? If you have a piece of paper or notebook, I write to you. You do not need advice? I believe devoid of talent. Tell him to give me your email address, I will be with him sometimes in the chat. I only have a phone book. These numbers connect me with my past. You do not write to me anything that would put me in the future? I am writing to each of its handle. I have only this. I was very uncomfortable, you can write it? Sorry. Why are you turning back to him? It's not polite! Three days later, hold the sheet paper over a fire in the Holy City. This will help you understand your future. You see. He's an idiot. And you said that he is a perfect man. You're in my naivete admire such people. I forgot to sit on a chair, that he could have re-married. Can God officials bless love? I promised the teacher that Perfect people sit on it and made it holy. Such a sacred souvenir for him. None ass can not consecrate this chair. What are you trying to prove? I left everything for you. Even parents. But you are so selfish that unable to face the man. What are you trying to prove? It's nothing. I'm just looking for the way how do I get rid of doubts and their prejudices. Do you understand? I went with you, because I thought that you seek the truth. I despise all those who found the truth. Anyone who finds the truth becoming fascist. I do not want to talk about God. I'm a murderer, because I'm going. God, forgive me! Get rid of the ants out of my way. I gotta go. One ant died. I heard him moaning. One ant died. Two ants ... Three ant ... Four ... Five ... O God, whom I love so much! I'm looking for shelter under your roof. Without You my boat will sink in the ocean of ignorance. Nailed my boat to shore. Please Come, let me hold you. O God, whom I love so much! I'm looking for shelter under your roof. Without You my boat will sink in the ocean of ignorance. Nailed my boat to shore. I revived many times. I remember their past lives. Once I was a cow. One yogi once Maharajas. Do not know what I did did in past lives God made me now sick and poor. I want to get rid of this world. I want to die in Benares and never to be born. I'm waiting for God will me. Help me, please. What says the old woman? These people believe that all creatures that all human beings are not born once. This is a very tedious cycle of life. They are very tired of involuntary suffering. And they believe that if they die in the holy place, the holy city, they no longer have to be born again and again. It stops. All that is born again and again causes of suffering - stop but they need to give their ashes River Ganges. Then all the suffering will end. You speak very well in English. Where are you from? Not from India. In this life, I was born in Germany. Led not very happy life. When I turned 40, I decided to go to India. For January 3 years I was there. People call it the religious life. I would call it attempt to find the ultimate truth. You have never lived in the jungle? The last 4 years I lived in Burme. Into storm forest. Once a day you go for food, then came back to his house. No one to blame. Only an idiot that there is reeling - is you. So you're starting to be very careful relate to conviction. If you will judge yourself, then you will suffer. There are a lot of animals. You learn to respect animals. Why did you leave Germany? Negative cause separation with this old conventional life was that I have not been particularly successful. A positive reason was I looked at his work and said: "Is that all?" There must be something else. Why did you leave the Western countries? By and large, the most real, you need to do - is to get the soul and let it do what it is supposed do soul. You can not burden our soul endless reflections then the soul becomes like a stone. We must learn not to burden the soul all the thinking that debris and help people who know how to do it. Concentrate on that, Do not concentrate on that. In the end, you have found the reality? No. Finally, we find that life does not give any guarantees. I do not guarantee that I will get the final release of force loop birth, death and rebirth. But, in any case, I am convinced that doing real business. This case is just worth it. Other cases only meet some sense of satisfaction. Chasing money, or for glory, or even for something like this, would run around in circles, as demented mouse, like a hamster. You want to say, that help people to die? I do not help them to commit suicide. But I help them to focus on something higher than 5 of pleasure or the pursuit of some crazy idea. Concentrate and work on something bigger and grander on value and quality. It turns out the mind of the soul quite small and very fragile, almost like a child's mind. You will not regret? I'm sorry? No. The first thing he should learn - is not afraid of death. The second, which it must learn - it is not to have regrets. The third thing he has to learn - be cheerful, when death comes. My husband gave all our money prostitute. Now we have no money, to go to the hotel. You will not be mind if we stay here for the night? I hope this night become a mother. This boat is possible. We have enough space. Thank you. This is the mother river of holy Ganges. People give the river the dead. They give the Ganges ashes of the dead. They pee in it and drink its water. Here you can see life and death. You saw a woman's body floating in the river? Tell him that if God exists, He created this world as a game, and he expects nothing from his servants, except mockery of his insane creation. If God exists, He certainly regrets that he had made man. It therefore allows a person have children, but destroys them by the thousands, in floods, storms and earthquakes. Mom, do not worry, we will find firewood. In excess. Do not worry about it. This pyre is lit always. Of it will not go away. In rich countries, will not see this. But here you really can see this in detail. Because of this, people really get tired, even scared, because it's so obvious, so badly. No escape. Only burning. If this was the end, it would relief, because the suffering is over. But after burning - again birth. After all, at this point people are convinced we die, we are reborn, die reborn, die, reborn. After all, it is mandatory terrible suffering. Do you see that? He was rich man. Lots of wood. And the fire is very small. Poor He was a man. And his body is hard to burn. Family worried, they are unlikely to burn his body. Rich off well. Even after the death of a wealthy family is glad that his body quickly consumed. Even after death You can distinguish the rich from the poor. If this was the last burning ... Somehow have survived, and said, "Well, now that it happened." But in this culture people really believe that after death they will be back again. The new birth and a lifetime of suffering, burning, rebirth, death, rebirth, death, and it is compulsory rotation scares these people. They suffer so much. They are not very aggressive. They simply ask: "Why, why?" They want to go ... They want to get out of this vicious circle. In this world of so much crap! The world is not stable, the world is full of shit. You're all in the shit. Shit flowing streams. Shit coming down on you. And this shit is not just here. Shit follows you. Shit rotates poured on you. And in different cultures people in different ways to explain it. For example, Catholics say, "You've earned it." Protestant: "Now this is happening to others." Muslims say: "This is the will of Allah." The Jews always say, "Why it always happen to us? " Buddhists say "In fact, it is not shit." In Japan, Zen Buddhists say: "Listen to the sound of falling shit." But, you know, it's just a theory. This is just some solutions invented by people, trying to comfort others. Help people get out of the shit. Come on. We need to make something interesting and important. Give. Come on. Close your eyes. Your ears and just breathe. Your ears and just breathe. That was your lesson today. Sorry. Want to buy a flower? 1 0 Rs. Throw in the Ganges. Do you? Want to buy a flower? Why? Why should I buy you a flower? Throw it into the Ganges with your name. It will bring good luck to your family. I have no family. Write the name of your child. I do not have a child. This will help it gain? - Do you have a match? - I have. I need a fire something to read. Take a look. I can not read. You do not help me to read it? This is in Hindi. I will speak in English. I crossed the seven seas. Climbed the seven hills. Passed all of the valley. Across the vast plains. At all times of the year. I traveled all over the world. And when I got home, I was amazed to see the whole world in a tiny droplet on a piece in my garden. Protagonist: Mamoud Chokrollahi Main character: Manur Shadzi Joint production Wild Bunch and Makhmalbaf Film House Director, writer, editor Mohsen Makhmalbaf
