 

                        What I wanna buy is some celery. Ah, you got the tomatoes? Yeah, I got the tomatoes. How many do you want? They're two for a dollar. Ah good, two for a dollar I'll take four tomatoes. Gonna try to take one onion. One onion, you get two for a dollar. Alright, I'll take two. - How much is all that? - Four dollars. Four dollars. That's not very expensive, is it? No, not really. - You can have that, that's fine. - Alright, thanks. Alright guys, thank you very much. - Y'all come back now. - I will now. Happy Thanksgiving. You all have a good time. Alright mate, see ya! I thought it'd be nice to find somewhere off the freeway, amongst nature, a beautiful spot here in Arkansas and... juice up my Thanksgiving lunch, which has no turkey in it by the way. I think in a funny way I'm thankful that I got sick because if I didn't get sick, that was my body telling me to slow down and get well. Who knows, if I hadn't had got sick, I might not have ever slowed down and I might have already had a heart attack and died, so... We'll never know. I'm thankful for that. Quay. My name's Joe Cross, and I'm an Australian, in case you couldn't work that out from the accent. I've just arrived in the United States. I'm not gonna eat any of your food. I've come here to fast for 60 days. All I'm gonna do is drink juice, green juice. Why am I doing this? Well, let me show you. Take a good hard look at my gut. How many pizzas, burgers, fries, and cokes do you reckon I inhaled to create that masterpiece? I'm certainly no picture of health. I look like I've swallowed a sheep. Not only am I overweight, I'm also sick. For the past nine years, I've been taking pills, night and day, just to get by. But as of today, I'm saying enough is enough. I know what you're thinking... "Can't you just eat the fruit and vegetables? Why juice?" Well, have a look at just how many vegetables it takes to make one juice. I don't care how hungry I am, I don't think I could eat this four times a day. So, by juicing, I'm super-charging my nutrient intake. That's a lot, isn't it? I've tried this before but never for this long. In the past, I've always gone back to my old ways. This time, once I'm done, I'm determined to adopt a healthy lifestyle. But first, I have to get through the next 60 days. So, I have a plan. For the next 30, I'm gonna hang in and around New York, and after that, I'm gonna drive across the country. What I'm doing is a documentary on health. - About what? - Health. - Health? - You know, what we eat. I'm actually going across America, on a tour around the States. I've got a thing called Chronic Urticaria, which is like a chronic rash. - You got a what? - An illness, like a disease. I put myself there by having a lot of junk food, eating a lot of crap, not eating vegetables, not eating fruits. I believe what we put into our body is very important as to how healthy we're gonna be. I'm on a juice fast. You ever heard of fasting? Fasuma.. Water... and vegetable juice. and about six to eight months of eating just vegetables, fruits, nuts and beans. That's crazy. - I don't think I'd survive. - I reckon you would. - That is unbelievable. - I know, tell me about it. You wanna know what else is unbelievable? Is just how many doctors I went to when I first got sick. In fact, I went to six of them. I had skin biopsies and tests to see if I reacted to certain things. I took a bunch of different pills. I even spent 14 days in hospital. When none of that worked, I started exploring alternative paths: Massage... Acupuncture... Chinese herbalists... Mud baths... Cell and hair analysis... Even witchdoctors The list was endless. And then I thought, hang on! When I scraped my knee as a kid, I didn't have to do anything as long as I got out of the way, it just got better. If the body can heal itself on the outside, why can't it heal itself on the inside? So what have I been doing wrong? Well for starters, I had my priorities out of whack. I'd been focusing on my wealth, rather than my health. And look where that got me! And this is only the beginning. Now I'm on a mission to cure myself, which means... no more pills. Well, it's the morning of Day One. Time to visit Dr. Joel Fuhrman, a leading expert in nutrition. You don't have a common condition, but it's related to an autoimmune phenomenon. I've seen patients with this condition do pretty well and even get rid of it. Alright Joe, step on the scale. The moment of truth. - Check it out. - Here we go. Dr. Fuhrman agreed to supervise my fast, as long as I got a blood test every ten days. Permanent results only come from permanent changes in lifestyle and diet style. You don't get permanently well unless you permanently change the way you live. Let's see what your waist is. The tape's long enough? The fasting period itself can be used as a time where you're gonna retrain your taste buds. So if it's something that really helps motivate you to stay with healthy eating thereafter, then its done its job. Hello? G'day Mum, - Hi Joe, - it's the morning of Day Two. Oh dean only Day Two, I've been very concerned about you doing this. It's just beyond me that anybody can do this for 60 days. The first few days are the toughest. Not eating, it's kind of like you're cutting yourself off from society. When you're not eating food, it just doesn't seem normal. I couldn't even watch TV because of all the commercials. You don't want to be around people, and you don't want to be around food. I was happiest in bed. I didn't wanna get out of bed. I just wanted to lie there and feel sorry for myself. Day Three was today. I had a pretty bad night last night. I felt very, very, very much alone, last night in the sense that... it's like you've got this mammoth task ahead of you and without food, you're really starting to hurt, and you're feeling it. You wanna go to sleep and wake up in two months and it's all done. As the saying goes, "You do the crime, you do the time," and there's no question, I've done the crime. I mean, you know, I really have... I really have... not been kind to my body. You know it's... it's a tough thing, the emotional attachment to food, its bloody tough. These are the pills I have to take. This is a 5 mg tablet of prednisone. That's 15 mgs there. Before I started on the fast, that's how many I was having a day. Looking at these... at these... bottles here, it doesn't look good. If you're a fit, healthy, young person, you shouldn't be traveling around with prescription drugs and doing that, I mean it's... You wouldn't have thought, I would never have thought that it'd be me, that I would... have to do this. I was in California in 1999 and I played golf and I thought maybe I touched some poison ivy, and that night I went to bed. I went to wake up the next morning and it was up my forearms and Shins and very itchy and scratching. It's like hives. It's chronic hives. It spread all over my body, torso, and geez, I was lit up like a Christmas tree. This is how my autoimmune disease works: When you get bit by a mosquito, receptors under your skin send a signal to your brain. HQ, we got an invader in Sector 3. Scramble the histamines. Roger that. Histamines are being deployed. Histamine makes the blood vessels around the bite swell, making it more difficult for the poisons in the mosquitoes' saliva to spread through the body. As a side effect, the whole area is swollen, red and itchy, but with my disease, the receptors send the wrong messages. A handshake is like getting bit by a thousand mosquitoes. Mayday! Mayday! All hell's breakin' loose down here! All histamines, report to battle stations! And this can happen at anytime to any part of my body. Just the smell, just the smell is sensational. Normally I'd eat two of those, not two slices, two whole pizzas. I better get out of here. So I've been coming to the US. off and on for the last 35 years. I even lived here when I was a kid. It's like a second home to me. I reckon Americans are super friendly. Maybe that's because I'm not from around here. I also love American food, and if I'm gonna really change the way I live my life, I'm the sort of bloke that likes to tackle my demons head on. So, I couldn't think of a better place to be food free, than here in the US., the home of the hamburger. - Have you ever heard of fasting? - Yeah. Have you ever fasted? Only when I ain't got no money to eat, man! It's the only time I fast. I think I sent off for it, it's ten bucks or something, "How to Lose 12 pounds in Four Days." It consisted of... First day you eat nothing but nine franks. You drink all the liquid, or diet soda, but nine hot dogs. - You have nine hot dogs. - First day. - I would never be able to do that. - I would never fast. - Why not? - I don't have enough self-control. And you? I don't like not eating. It doesn't seem healthy to me. Second day, you have a fruit, apple or a pear, but you have to have nine apples. I went four years one time eatin' only on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Third day, you had eggs. Like a boiled egg. You could have ten, nine boiled eggs. I don't fast, I eat. I eat fast, but you know, I don't fast. You eat fast. The fourth day, you could have a mixture of all three of those. OK. And that was the Four Day Diet. - Did you lose any weight? - I lost about 12 pounds. I have no interest in it. Every time I hear that they're sick at the end, they're grumpy. They hate their kids, they hate their husbands, you know, they're pissed off. Then they reach some high, then they lose eight pounds, then they gain it all back in three weeks. Yeah, right. - Are y'all from Australia? - I am from Australia. - Yeah, I can tell... - Why? You been there? You got the Russell Crowe thing happening. - Have I? The accent? - Yeah, the accent. Yeah, I'm not as good of an actor as him. I hear you. Right from the beginning he loved his food. He'd have a bottle, but when it was finished, he'd drink it so quickly, then he would just throw it the other side of the room. And demand another one. He was known for somebody who loved Coca-Cola. Like his father. Love it! When I got out of high school, I was in good shape. I skipped college, went straight to work. I got a job with a brokerage firm and wound up on the trading floor of the Sydney Futures Exchange. After five years, I went into business for myself. And at age 23, I was making a truckload of money day-trading futures and shares. Lots of cash meant fast cars, big boats, big nights out, and in my case, food, lots of food. And boy, didn't I give it a nudge. In the years I've known him, his weight fluctuated, big time! Went up and down like a bride's nighty. Cold, depression, headache, hangover, varicose vein, menstrual, stress, I would like you to make me your favorite juice. - My favorite juice? - Yeah! The cleansing cocktail? The cleansing cocktail, that sounds good. - Carrot, apple, beet and ginger. - Sounds good. Step right over here, hes gonna fix it for you. - Beautiful. Thank you very much. - Thank you, no problem. So juice fasting, you're still eating something, you're drinking nutrients. Particularly a lot of micronutrients that are coming from fruits and vegetables. And because it's a liquid, it's more rapidly absorbed. So it's a quick, easy way of giving your body a very potent source of healthy nutrients. Now try to think about the way we normally consider juice in our country, which is in a bottle, in a grocery store. Whether it says it has sugar added to it or not, it has been so processed that it's not at all like the fruit and vegetable juice coming out of a juicer that you're making at home. How about a small apple juice please? Thank you. Like it doesn't seem logical not to eat food. I mean where did three meals a day come from? I mean who decided we eat three meals a day? Why isn't it six or seven? Or... two? I don't understand that. Spinach and beans. It's gonna be... a big part of my future. I actually love spinach. When you're eating three meals a day and you're 41, that sort of equates to Now we go on holidays, we sleep at night, we give our car a service, but we don't think about giving our bodies a rest. Part of being on this journey is I've resigned myself that I'm not gonna eat so... Once you do that, surprising how easy it is, like... Theres nothing gonna break me here. I'm not gonna have a panic attack and run out and buy a donut. Alright. OK. All the energy I need to digest, to get through my day, here it is here, look. It's sitting here. So, I've gotta think about it that, you know, the falafels that I had say two months ago. They're still sittin' there, and, I gotta think mentally that I'm actually having them now. So the idea of fasting is not unique. In fact, fasting is part of who we are as a human being. You see, for millions of years we basically lived by the philosophy of hunter-gatherer. But to survive when there wasn't anything to hunt or gather, we became like human refrigerators, capable of storing food and carrying it with us for lean times. So early man had a tremendous amount of activity just to survive. In our current modern world, we don't necessarily have to expend much energy and the reality is that many people don't. We have very sedentary jobs. We're not chasing animals. We're not running away from animals. We are riding to work, sitting at our desk, and sitting in front of the TV. Yet we're consuming far, far more calories, particularly from processed, refined foods, convenience foods. Actually 61% of the American diet today is processed foods. We're talking about oils, sugar, flour, predominantly. And the processing, which usually involves cooking and heating, also damages the food. In other words, processed foods don't even have probably 1/10 the original nutrients that were in the food in the native state. Day 31 today. Half way. Time for a change of scenery. Actually this really ain't too bad. - Not bad is it? - No, no. So what do you think? I'll have one with you. That's OK. What do you think? No, you don't like it? It tastes like grass. Tastes like grass? Really? If it tastes like grass, I think a lot of people will drink it. No, no, no! What do you think? Not bad at all. What if I told you, that I've only been juicing, in other words, I've been drinking this only for 39 days; what would you say to that? I'd say you're crazy as hell. And is there any secret you'd like to tell young people about what's the secret to living along and happy life? Yeah, just be good and kind and be obliged to everyone. That's the answer? What about eating the right food? Certainly has a lot to do with it. If you don't wanna be constipated, eat the right food. Ain't that the truth! The closer a food is to its natural state the healthier it is. So, it's like, why are fruits and vegetables good for me? Micronutrients are essentially your vitamins and minerals. Where do we get these micronutrients? They are predominantly found in plant foods. All plant foods are beneficial and essential for human health. Everything from building muscle to immune function, preventing a cold, staying healthy. I found out that food can be divided into two camps: Micronutrient and macronutrient. Micronutrient foods are vegetables, fruits, nuts, seeds and beans. Macronutrient food is everything else. So what sort of food do you eat? I eat almost anything. Pizza, chicken, pork chops, potatoes... You have KFC on one corner... You guys are looking for a hot dog stand? Yeah. And then on that side of the street, there's a Burger King. Do you like Burger King? A lot. It's five past, ten past eleven in the morning. Why are we looking for a hot dog stand? Is this our breakfast, or is this our snack between? This is snack between breakfast and lunch. I'm a meat and potatoes guy. My portions... I don't eat the best, you know... If I do have vegetables or fruits, it's in moderation. I eat no fruit and I eat no vegetables. - What was in there? - Pepsi. - What else do you eat? - Mexican. That's all? Only Mexican and Pepsi. Nothing else? I drink Coke. Do you eat a lot of fruit and vegetables? No. If I told you that eating fruits and vegetables really would keep you healthy... Would that change your outlook on them? Probably not. - OK and why's that? - 'Cause I'm 16. And your diet? How's that? I eat a lot. - What do you eat? - Pie, cake, hamburgers. And how many pounds are you now? About 370, 380... - That's pretty big. - I know. Doesn't a doctor say you gotta watch what you eat? But you don't bother with that, you just eat anyway. I can't, I don't have any willpower. I'm weak. Whose fault do you reckon it is that you're 330 lbs? Me, I don't blame nobody else but me 'cause nobody controls what I eat. Nobody tells me what to eat. It's my fault. Them folks didn't put no gun on me to make me eat their food. In terms of that poor diet, whose fault was that? Me, me, me. It's my fault for it, but look, - I'm hooked on it. - Yeah. Once you start eating all this fast food stuff, you begin to like it, man. I'm just being honest, you begin to like it. You'd much rather go get your quick combo, now wouldn't you? Is your life been mostly vegetables and fruits or have you also eaten fast food? KFC, McDonald's, Wendy's, - Chuck E. Cheese - Chuck E. Cheese Now how's your health overall? Do you feel healthy? No, I feel like I need to lose some weight. How much weight do you want to lose? - About at least 50 pounds. - Ok. How did you put that 50 pounds on? By doing what? Just sittin' around eatin'. I love doing that. - Do you watch TV when you eat? - Yes. When you watch TV do you feel like eating food as well? Yeah. You get to a point where you really wanna eat what they cooking, and when you eat it, eat it, eat it, like you're bingin' on eatin'. For most Americans, they desire more calories than they require and they gain weight. But they're forced to overeat, it makes them into a food addict and they don't feel well if they don't constantly put food in their mouth. When you fill up your stomach with unprocessed plant foods, it takes up a lot of volume. It satiates you, your body gets full of nutrients and it stops you from craving excess calories. The modern world is eating both too much processed foods and too many animal products. We're suffering 'cause we're not eating enough natural produce. Your typical American plate is half meat, a quarter overcooked vegetable or some kind of a white potato. And the other quarter is gonna be another white, refined carbohydrate. Morning. Cowboy Caf. What are you eating there, mate? I'm having a chicken fried with mashed potatoes... Chicken fried what? Chicken fried steak, Right on, and mashed potatoes. Mashed potatoes, corn and Texas toast. What are you eating? Liver and onions. Sid, you've gone with the chicken salad, have ya? That looks good actually. - It's not too bad. - And you eat salad a lot? A fair amount. How do you feel overall, generally with your health? I feel fine, but I've had heart surgery so... And did that change the way you ate back then? No. Not at all. And why is that? It really doesn't change the way I eat today. Really? I'm here for a few good years. I'm gonna eat what I want, and if I die at 55, great... If I live to be 65, great. If you ate foods that were fruits and vegetables and nuts and beans, that sort of stuff, and you made that and say two meals a week, you can have a meat, a burger, a pizza, whatever, just two meals, you could do that, and that would significantly prolong your life. Would I do it? Probably not. Alright, that's good, that's honest... - I'm just... - No, I appreciate it. And what about you, Ken? What do you think about it? It bothers me because I know for a fact that it affects my life expectancy and my health. But it's just hard to... be... so controlling of it. - So let me ask you a question. - Sure. - Say this works. - Yeah. Say it adds... five years to your life, maybe ten. What are you gonna do with it? - Have you got kids? - Six. OK, I kind of think that seeing your children grow up and being able to pass on your knowledge, just be around for them, and there as a support. Well I actually have Type-2 diabetes. What was your reaction when you were told? If there was any kind of denial, it wasn't so much that I had diabetes. The denial has been that I have to do something about it. That's what I denied. I actually haven't had food for six weeks, but I feel better as a person, and you know, in terms of satisfied, then if I'd just eaten that meal right now. Well, you seem energetic. Oh, yeah, I feel great. You've done the juices for 40... worse for the wear, I guess. You wanna see a photo of me at the beginning? Sure. There's a good one of me. - Actually that looks a lot like me. - Yeah, there you go. I don't know if you've seen me lately in the buff, but... that's about what I look like. Can you see that it's me? Yeah, you sure don't look as happy, I'll tell you that. Here's what I believe. I'm not a doctor, but I reckon that you can get your body back into shape so that you can cure yourself. And you'll be able to hang around and annoy Sid a bit longer in life too. I know I'd feel a lot better if I weighed that amount. Sid, nice to meet ya. It's amazing that, just sitting in the car now like with my jeans tight, you know, and not having to undo the button, to sit down, I mean, it's just little things. I can even feel the pelvis hipbone, like here. It's like, I haven't felt that for 10 years. It's like a whole new reintroduction. I've got to reintroduce myself to my body. That's the kind of momentum that kicks you on, and makes you feel... Makes you fell good about what you're doing. What do you think you need to do to live longer in life? Probably change my diet. - Oh you think so? - Yeah, I know so. So when do you think you need to change your diet? I don't know. One day I'll wake up and it's like time to diet. Right now, the doctor said, if I don't lose my weight, I'll probably have a heart attack and die. Right, when did he say, by when? About in five years. That's why I'm trying to stay alive 'cause I got grandkids Do you mind me asking how old you are? I'm 42. How old are you, if you don't mind me asking. I am 39. What do you think your life expectancy is, if you continue going down the way you're going? What do you give yourself? I give myself 55 maybe. I'm guessing like 50, 55. I'd say about the early 40s. Early 40s? So, how does that make you feel? Makes me feel bad, because I know I need to eat right. I know I need to. I don't know but I hope God got ribs in heaven. Right now, how old do I want to live to? Let's see. Probably about 90. - 90? - Yeah So what do you think you gotta do to live till 90? Try not to get killed. How you doing, mate? You know about fasting? Do I look like I know a lot about fasting? No but you look like you know a lot about eating though? I know a lot about eating, but I don't know a lot about fasting. Do you keep a gun under there, just in case? Absolutely. Can I have a look? Is it alright to come in and look. Well, it's loaded and the hammer's back. Oh yeah, gotcha, gotcha. So, if I wanted to carry a concealed weapon on me now, what gun would you recommend I buy? If I'm not real good on guns. Geez, you recommend that? That looks like a girl's gun. That looks like a girl's gun! Is that real? If you're not good on 'em, you won't do much damage with that, will ya? That's not real is it? Yeah, thats a real .22. So if I break into your house tonight and steal the TV set... You won't be filming tomorrow. What do you think is the biggest threat to national security in the United States of America? Borders. - Border control, you reckon? - Border control. What if there was something that was right now in this country that was killing 70 million people? There's things in this country killing 70 million people. Cigarettes probably. - Yeah? - We both quit smoking. OK, so what about fast food? Yeah... we're fast food people. What sort of fast food do you like? Well, since we retired, I don't think we've cooked dinner at home more than two or three times in a... a month. So you would cook dinner at home twice a month? Maybe. The rest of the time we eat out. How many pounds are you now, total? About 320. But you know, my brother's a doctor. I've watched him struggle with being a vegetarian his whole life and now he's dying of that cancer. And I think it's a choice people make. I decided, that if I'm going, I'm going happy. I'm a happy, you know, I'm a happy fat guy. I think I'll play Santa Claus in the upcoming auction that we're having. My philosophy, if it's your time, the good Lord's gonna take you, whether you're fat, thin or whatever. Yeah, right. I've been following Dr. Fuhrman's orders and getting regular blood tests. Time to check in and get the results of the last one. Your cholesterol dropped from 204 to 135, your LDL cholesterol went from 132 to 86. Theyre all good numbers? Yeah, very good numbers. Electrolytes were all good? Yeah, everything was perfectly normal. Everything was absolutely perfect. The point here is we have an unprecedented opportunity in human history, to be healthier and live longer than ever before. We simply don't have to be demented when we get older. We don't have to have a heart attack. We don't have to get strokes and we can dramatically reduce the risk of cancer. The one thing I'm finding remarkable about people is they say, Oh, I couldn't do that, without even giving it a try. I just don't understand that. Hey, if you want to do a 10-day juice fast, and you only get to Day 7, well good on ya for trying! Not, oh, you're a failure. Good on you for trying. If you do give it a go, be warned. Your mates will probably think you're crazy. I spoke to him, he was struggling a couple weeks ago. He was... thinking about breaking then. just drinking juice. Extreme? Yes. Extreme? Yes. But let's not forget I've had a debilitating disease for the last nine years where I've had to take prednisone, a powerful steroid with a bunch of side effects. I'm 41, I'm fat and I'm sick. You don't need to be Einstein to figure out what's next. Even though I met a bunch of people who felt they were heading in the same direction I was, I also met lots of people who thought they weren't. How would a more conventional Siong from Iowa volunteered to find out. Unlike me, she was married, and she had to cook dinner for her family. When I met her in New York, she explained to me that she suffered from migraines, and she was interested to see if this could help. I don't know which way goes which. I think this thing is so fun! I get migraine headaches if I smell certain things, or if I eat certain things. And I mean literally a migraine headache that can make me sick, can't see, can't hear, throwing up, the whole bit. Down the hatch, guys. Oh God, that's nasty! Shes a bit of a coffee drinker, So... She'll know where she is right now. She'll be having the withdrawals and... that'll be tough. Hi Joe. Hey Siong, how are ya? Rm fine, now are you doing? I'm going very well, thank you very much. And how are you feeling? Today I'm very tired, I feel like I'm in a fog, I just... I'm OK. Trust me, its gonna get better. You want fried potatoes or baked potatoes? I don't care. Fried's good. Now when this starts smelling good, I may have to leave the room. It's growing on me. Well I got something funny to tell you. The first day I drank this juice, within about 30 minutes I was in the bathroom. And... I mean I was totally cleaned out, so I thought. Well then, when I had the first glass again yesterday, I was in the bathroom again for quite a period of time. And I was like, whoa, where did all this come from 7 Oh my gosh. I'm starving, or so I think I am. Who said this was gonna be fun? My daughter. She lied to me. She was sadly mistaken, something like that, anyway... I've meditated, I've stretched, I've chanted, I've prayed, and I still wanna slap somebody. Nancy's been my friend for 20 years or longer it seems like. Nancy is a very health conscious person. She works out, she eats right. So she's gonna be my champion. - You wanna go down that way? - Sure. You know what? We can even eat this, this is so good. I'm starving. Hamburger Helper, oh yeah. Oh, coffee! Move, girl! You can't have any of that either. That smells good! The coffees been the hardest part... We could have one bean... of trying to give up. You wanna smell it? Come here. And every time I pass Starbucks, or every time I passed the Coffee Pot, it's like, I'd start to reach for it. Oh, there's donuts and clairs! Get out of there! Were leaving. Mornings are the best. Evenings... Last night when the crew went out to dinner and they all went to Mexican, it's one of my favorites. They got no respect for me, of course. Going out and having Mexican, Im at home with a kale juice. He'd say, "Things are going well, Mum", and he'd say it's difficult sometimes when the crew are in the restaurants eating and he'd be sitting in the car and I'd feel for him. And then I'd get off the phone and then I'd go to eat something and I'd find that very difficult because... I'd think, oh my God, he's sitting in that car, having some juice and I'm just about to get into a beautiful meal. Got my juice. One thing I'm just totally stunned by is just how much energy I have by just drinking juice. Now I know I can't do this forever, so I'm hoping that this fast will be enough to reboot my system. And believe it or not, I'm actually looking forward to eating more fruits and vegetables. How are ya mate, my name's Joe. Phil Staples. How much driving do you have to do? How many miles a year would you do? Anywhere close to 150,000. Im actually just doing my own little research, trying to get myself well. I've got a medical condition, I'm trying to cure. I'm this big because of steroids and driving. For what, what's the issue? It's called Urticarius Vasculitis Yeah Urticaria. That's what I've got. Your immune system's overactive? - Yeah, yeah. - Same here. That's extraordinary, mate, cause you're about the only, first people in the world that I've ever met, that's got the same thing that I've got. What's the worst thing about it, for you? What do you find? The swelling, the blisters, and the pain. Is it hard to find good food on the road? Oh yeah. It's mostly either fried, and these places, like pizza, hamburgers, pre-made hamburgers. Fasting, I've found, fasting works for me, so maybe it'll work for you. And I'm betting my life on it. And now I really am betting my life, that, this is the way to go. I'm willing to bet my life, too. Let's walk over here and we'll go and get a juice I've got my battery hooked up, and I've got my juicer. Alright. And out it comes over here on the other side. Come on. You can have a go. You gotta push it down, right? - That's not too hard, is it? - That ain't too hard. You've probably got power in the truck, have ya? Oh yeah, I could power that in my truck. Now this stuff will save your life. - Smells good. - It does, doesn't it? Wow, that's pretty good. Not bad, is it? It's better than the juice you've been buying in the bottle. - Cheers. Good health. - Yeah. I would suggest that you eat micronutrient food for two months, then you can do your first fast. If you want, I'll give you my details, you can call me, I'll talk you through it, help you through it. And if you're not down to 210, 220 lbs, I'll eat my hat. It's unbelievable, I can spend eight years with this illness, where I've met maybe one or two, but not exactly the same. And I'm in a bloody truck stop in Winslow, Arizona, and I run into someone. Similar age to me, too. He's had it four years. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. I'll tell you what, the smell in here is about to drive me insane. Of all the foods I think that there is that you can put in front of somebody, hot bread that's fresh baked, that smells so wonderful, is probably the hardest thing to turn down. It was for me, because I was about ready to give up. Do you need anything else right now? And... the ribs, I'm not a meat eater, but let me tell ya, those barbecued ribs were really, really lookin' good. They smelled good. This ain't good compared to that. This is a big challenge. This is... a challenge that I did not expect to be so tough. I did not realize how weak I am where food is concerned. G'day, Siong, how are ya? I'm fine, Joe, how are you doing? I'm feeling pretty good. You're looking great. Oh, thank you. We're in... You look pretty good too, by the way. I wanna hear all about it. How are you feeling? Give me the run down. I'm feeling really good. Energy levels mostly up. Less fatigue then even when I'm not fasting. I'm not having any headaches whatsoever, so it's really been - ...a wonderful experience. - That's great. I can even tell on the webcam that your face is looking a lot clearer and cleaner and ... I think things are just kind of... clearing up all over, from head to toe. She just seemed like everything was out of control for her, and since she's been on this fast, why, things are starting to take shape in her life, where she has some control over her weight and her attitude and her sleep. These types of things. She was totally... totally in despair really, to tell you the truth about her body and her sleep and her physical... her spiritual life was good, but her physical life was deteriorating. So that's good news for me, and her. I feel so much different now from when I started. Being healthy, no headaches, that's the best part. It's incredible. I'm not going for skinny, I'm just going for healthy. No regrets, none whatsoever. I'd do it again, in fact, I probably will. So here I am, on the morning of Day 61. I thought what better way to break my fast than 2,000 feet above the earth on a beautiful morning. Up in that balloon, I renewed my commitment to eat nothing but micronutrient food until I was free of my medication. And then the real test. Would I be able to achieve and maintain a life with balance? Here goes. I actually bit my mouth. I'm out of practice. So the great news is, I'm back in Australia. Eight weeks since I've been in that balloon. And guess what? No medication. That's right, I've been one whole week on absolutely no prednisone. It's the best feeling ever. It's just sensational. The changes I've made are not only helping my body, they're also making a big difference to my mind. I invest my own money in growing businesses, both in the US. and here in Australia. So we found the right guy, we're confident that he's the right guy for us? Hello, mis is Shane Hudson speaking... it's Joe, how are ya, mate? So what have we got here? So this is one of the dresses from the Collection Spring/Summer. What I know hes never looked so good before, and actually I find that in board meetings now, he thinks so clearly. Its actually quite interesting. And I wonder if it's because the food, the intake, the... it's cleaner, so therefore his thought processes are cleaner. Theres definitely a difference. So there I am, back in Australia, working on the new Joe, the healthier Joe, the happier Joe. I was on top of the world, and then... You've reached the U.S. cell phone of Joe Cross. Unfortunately Pm in Australia right now, please leave a message, and I will get back to you. Thanks for calling. I just got a really disturbing phone call, and, it was Phil Staples, that truck driver I met in... Winslow, Arizona that has the same awful disease condition that I have. I offered him help and I've gotta do that. I've gotta get over there and see what I can do. The last few years, I've been takin' so many pills, it's just amazing. I'm so tired of it. It's just not right, I mean, no energy to even walk. Always in pain because of the weight on my knees and my legs. My back, I don't feel like walking and I know I should. So we just got into Sioux Falls, not far from Sheldon. Here to see Phil. After we talked on the phone, he decided to try a 'IO-day juice fast. You know I really think Phil can do the 10 days. He seems very committed. I spoke to him on the phone a couple of times. Hes at the beginning of his journey. You gotta admire the bloke though, he's taking some time off work. That's not easy. You know, he hasn't got a lot of, a lot of means, financially that is. He's putting his health first. How are ya, mate? Good to see ya! How you doing? I'm here... ready to go. You look a lot better then the last time I seen you. Ya reckon? You see a difference? I see a big difference, now I want to get there. Oh mate, you'll get here, and listen mate, in true Australian form, I bought you a present. Thanks. Now this is a... See, this is Australian, these are our colors, green and gold are our sporting colors for our country. So you've got Australia there, our flag, What do you see on the front there? A kangaroo. Eh? Yeah, here you go, mate. This is the beginning. Have a look at the size on it. Alright, now what are you normally into? - This is a six. - So what's this gonna be? - A challenge. - The target. That's right. This is life or death for you right now in my view. - I mean this really is. - Yeah, this is. Yeah, you didn't know me when I was sick but, I'm looking in a mirror here. This is how I was. I wasn't as big as you, but I was on my way. Isn't it scary when your parents or your relatives or your loved ones start talking to you, and they're asking you whether you want to be buried or cremated because you're big enough that it's going to be tough to bury you. It's going to be expensive to bury you, so they ask about cremation. For healthy people, doing a But when you're on prescription medication, you need to be supervised by a doctor. We brought Phil in for a full check-up, just to make sure there was nothing else seriously wrong. What will you be able to tell from that? If his heart is structurally sound, if hes had any disease or problems from being overweight. So far, everything was looking good. More tests to go, blood to be taken, and then to the Dexa Machine to measure Phil's fat and muscle content. Sorry but the weight limit on the table is 350 so... you won't fit. The table won't move properly the way it should. I'll be too heavy for it. It depresses me when somebody calls me "big guy". I want to be known as... Phil again. Instead of walking up behind somebody and scaring the tar out of 'em because they see this rather large, angry-looking man, who's not really angry. I'm just in pain. Go ahead and stand up straight. OK, six foot, one inch. Weight is 4296. What do you do for exercise, anything right now? Walk from the truck to the truck stop. OK. Cause all this is just too much to carry for me right now. - It hurts to walk very far. ' Yep, WP- How about your feet and ankles? Have you had a lot of problems with swelling? Oh yeah. It's mostly worse on the left foot. OK. You're at more risk of getting skin breakdown where you'll get ulcers and stuff that can get infected just like diabetes so... You are 429 pounds, which gives you a body mass index, and that's your weight versus your height, and ideally we like that less than 25. You're at 58, which is in the extreme obesity, or morbid obesity. You know, you're almost off the scales for, a few more pounds and I wouldn't have been able to measure you on this type of scale. And what's the prognosis if Phil does nothing about anything and just keeps going the way he's going? What do you think he has the unpleasant things to look forward to? If he doesn't lose weight and keeps going, he'll get diabetes, your blood pressure will continue to rise, which will require numerous medications to keep it under control. With your family history and your high blood pressure, you will be at risk of having a heart attack. If you have a heart attack and your heart dilates from the heart attack and from your blood pressure, you will eventually not be able to breathe and go into heart failure. If the sleep apnea that you probably have from the weight continues, you're at risk of heart failure, which means then you're on pills to get rid of the extra fluid. You limit your ability to walk any further, and you're at risk of sudden death because of your weight. You could just not wake up one morning. Scary. Phil got the all clear from the doc to start a 10-day juice fast. So, it was off to the supermarket to buy some fruit and vegetables. You'll never guess who we bumped into in the car park. So this is your brother? This is my brother Barry, "Bean" Barry, " Bea r." So mate, what do you think about his... current situation, where he's at now? He needs help. But I think, if this works it'd be good for him. - Has he always been like this? - No. - He used to be a scrawny kid. - What do you think happened? That's hard to say 'cause I let myself go too. I used to be 200 pounds. And now I'm up around 300. But that's my own fault. I don't exercise like I should, I don't eat right. That's a lot of Phil's problem. He doesn't exercise or eat right. I just hope this works, 'cause he needs it. Were gonna get him some groceries. Alright, I just got mine, my ice cream melting. See you mate. - See ya later bro. - All the best. Given that Phil had never done anything like this before, we thought it'd be good to get him away from all temptation. Dr. Badberg suggested Phil should do some exercise, starting off with some light walking and swimming. So, we found a great place by the lake. From my point of view, you know, ten days is a huge achievement and it'd be a huge win, and you're gonna feel, you know, terrific at the end of that. I have no doubt you're gonna feel terrific. What would be a good breakfast for juice in the morning? To start with? Well, I used to start with fruit, and then just go into vegetables, with a touch of fruit sometimes the rest of the day. It looks good. That looks good, doesn't it? Looks good to me. Good luck, mate. Ooh, that's good. - You like it? - I like that. How much do you feel like walking? I could do five minutes out and five minutes back. OK, a ten-minute walk. That's a good start. Alright, let's go. He was depressed. He was on the border of, I think, suicide. He was trying to kill himself with food. When Joe got a hold of him, it struck a responsive chord in him, and I think it's great. Now you know you can get me on the phone. Yes. Give me a call, you know, it's gonna be tough but I know you can do it. I've got it now, I think. There ain't nobody to blame in this but me. I stand up and I can't see my toes. I'm not happy with it. I can't clean myself well around it. When I go to the restroom, you know, that's quite... I would almost say a circus act. I guess you could say, takes creative thinking to get to clean the areas down there. I didn't really start putting on weight until after the Air Force and came home and I started to eat because I wasn't happy, and I chose that. And it's been that way ever since, slowly isolating myself. I started getting into truck driving again. My excuse was I was following in Dad's footsteps. 'Cause Dad was a truck driver. But, you know, staying in the truck and staying out a longtime and isolating and eating nothing but greasy foods, that's when it all started. It didn't get real bad until after the second divorce. That's when I really started putting the weight on. 'Cause I thought I was a real failure. So I just started eating til I couldn't eat no more. Because of my health and what's been going on with me, I've been a horrible father. I don't want any of my kids to see me like this. I don't. Not even my youngest boy, he's eight years old. Hes at the age when he really needs to see his father. I'm hiding because of this, I haven't even given him a chance. When I start getting down to where I start feeling better about myself, and being able to do things with my youngest son, throw a football or baseball in the park. Walking with him to see the games and stuff like that. Even just walking around town and talking with him about his day and what he has going on in his young life. I want to be around there for that, for one thing, you know. Being what I call a cheeseburger away from a heart attack is not a good thing. Thats what also gets me upset. I'm afraid to do anything with him. He's the one I'm working for. They all, my oldest children, all want to see me, skinny and handsome again. They've seen pictures, they'd like to see that again. What I'd like to do is lose a decent amount of weight. Even 20 to 30 pounds would make me happy. I was a championship swimmer when I was eight and under, I was winning trophies and medals on the swim team. If I wouldn't have quit, I probably would've gone to the Olympics. I've broken a lot of goals. But for my health and for my life, this is a goal I'm going to keep and stick with and work on. Healthy, healthy, healthy. This is my main goal. Phil's eating habits were typical of the average American diet. As a percentage of calories, roughly 60% of what we eat is processed and refined foods... and just 5% are fruits and vegetables, the foods which provide most of our micronutrients Without those micronutrients, our cells are weakened and susceptible to a whole gang of diseases. But Phil has turned that around. He's taken his fruit and veg intake from 5% up to the maximum 100%. Fruits and vegetables are the delivery system that brings the sun's energy to our cells, giving them the micronutrients they need. The micronutrients not only nourish the cells, they also clean and remove the waste. And help them resist all those diseases. And that's why what you eat is so important. But I'll leave the details to the experts. I have this poster, this study was done with Barbara Sarter, a PhD at the University of Southern California, and with Dr. Colin Campbell at Cornell University, on people undergoing weight loss who were diabetic, or high blood pressure, or heart disease. And actually in this study where they follow what we call a vegetable-based diet, the pyramid has vegetables at the base, fruits and beans, whole grains, nuts and seeds, and then animal products are in a smaller amount. We're talking about twice weekly or less generally speaking, and not eating processed foods, that this healthy diet resulted in the most weight loss of any study ever recorded in medical history. The average person lost 53 pounds, and they kept it off. The people didn't gain the weight back. Now I wouldn't mind if, it wouldn't be so terrible if people were well-educated and well-inform ed, they didn't have to die, and they could make the choice to commit suicide with food. But the unfortunate thing is most Americans are not properly informed. It's just like they can say, you gonna smoke cigarettes? You wanna smoke, go ahead and do it. You're gonna have a heart attack, you're gonna get cancer. You can't escape from the biological laws of cause and effect. What happens to you is gonna be the same thing that happens to every other American. And you're gonna have a healthcare crisis, and you're gonna run to doctors looking for medications to control those symptoms, our headaches, our fatigue, our allergies, our auto-immune conditions, our digestive disturbances. We're gonna be medical-crippled society because were eating a diet style that couldn't be better designed by the best nutritional scientist in the world, to create the epidemic of disease that we have in America. And of course obesity, diabetes, and all these diseases of nutritional ignorance. When you're on a juice fast, there's always something. Something that makes you wanna break. Some obstacle, something thats there that makes it oh so tough. For Phil, it was a barbecue on the Fourth of July. What I normally do is I'd normally stuff my face, brother. Potato salad, hot dogs, ham burgers, steaks, soda pop, milk. And now I gotta watch that... and drink this. Nice to meet you, Phil, I'm Joanie. - Joanie, and I'm Ray. - Nice to meet you. So what did you make here Phil? It's fruits and vegetables. It's good. It's not bad, I could do it. - You drink that big glass? - This is my meal, every meal. Do you feel full when you're done with that? Yeah, I do actually. You've been on it five days? I've been on it five days and I've already lost 15, no, And I drink water. But you also inspire me. It's not just for people my size, it's for everybody. I'm gonna go for it. I like this stuff. It was fun, I was excited. My first conversion, so it was really wonderful. I'm just a simple 42-year-old truck driver from Iowa. You know. I'm not the head of NASA, the head of a corporation, you know, and I'm not the village idiot either, thank God for that. Were taught to eat in the bible, in the New Testament. Jesus fasted for 40 days. John the Baptist fasted. The Apostles fasted with Jesus. And its not just Christians that fast. Most religious people, including Muslims, Jews, Hindus and Buddhists, they all fast. I reckon they're onto something. How are you mate? I'm doing good mate, I'm down 30 pounds. What day are we on Phil? That'll be Day 9, Day 10, I'm losing track. What's been the toughest thing about the last ten days? July Fourth weekend! It all got to my food addiction, the hamburgers, the hot dogs, the old me. I was talking to a guy by his grill, and I'm not gonna lie to you, the thought flashed through my head while I was talking to him to reach behind him, pick up a hot dog straight off the grill and eat it. That thought actually raced through my mind. What stopped you from doing it? Common sense. I'm doing this to make my life healthier. I'd like to go 30 days for now. I want to make sure that you feel that going on is of your own volition, that you don't feel like you have to do it for anyone else. Are you sure you want to do it for yourself? I wanna do it for myself. I've already figured it out. In the ten days that we've done this, I've dropped two bowling balls. Nothing would make me happier than you beating me my friend. Ill tell you what. It's probably not the easiest thing to do but it's well worth it. I mean just by looking at him, you know it's worth it. My mom has tried so many different things, every diet pill that's on the Walmart shelf, or wherever she finds it, on TV whatever. I mean she's spent thousands of dollars and this is one thing she hasn't tried and if it works this well for him, I mean why wouldn't it work for everyone else? And it's all natural, thats probably the best thing, I think this would be perfect. If I could just get her to try it now. Damn I hate that ball. Hello? Well hello. Wow, look at you! Your valves all look good. Your hearts squeezing better than it was last time. So it appears that whatever you're doing is working. Hello. - Hello. - How we doing? I feel good. Evidently by the tests, I'm doing good. You are doing well. You went from 429 to 368. So that's a 60 pound weight loss in a month. That's excellent. Your blood pressure went down from 160 over 84 which would be high blood pressure, down to 136 over 70, which is a perfectly normal blood pressure. Cool. And your triglycerides, which is your fats in your body were at 216. Today your total triglycerides are down to 161, which is almost in the normal range. My medication, do you think eventually if I keep continue this, I'm sure wed need tests, but maybe that you could take it off or lower it, if I need it. We would probably be able to lower it, if not get rid of it completely - as things improve. - OK. How is your Urticaria doing? I haven't had an outbreak in over a week now. Usually I have something, a small spot here and there. OK. I want to continue this fast. You think it'd be alright if I'd continued? Yes. Everything looks very good on you. There's no signs that it is causing you any adverse effects. If anything, you're much healthier than you were a month ago. Cool. Well isn't that just unbelievable! It's wonderful lam very happy and excited I mean it's nothing short of a miracle. That's pretty much right... All these little victories are making me happy. Oh man, congratulations Phil, well done mate, - I brought some juice. - You brought some juice? Would you like to try some of my juice that I've been drinking? Sure. Mostly green vegetables as you can tell. That's why we call it Mean Green." I'll give you a little shot there. Cheers. Who would have thought Phil that one day, a truck driver from Iowa such as yourself would be bringing medicine to a hospital! It's a little ironic, isn't it? Phil's not the only one with good news. Six months after I finished my fast, I'm 90 pounds lighter. - No pain in the chest? - No. Good. that affect us now are caused by our life choices. How we exercise, if we smoke, what we eat, that's saturated fats, carbohydrates, salt and alcohol. Now... Can you have some of that? Sure. Most people have too much of it. Who would've thought I'd get excited about a broccoli salad? He certainly changed his lifestyle. He didn't just change what went in his mouth, he became more active, he stopped drinking alcohol. He doesn't drink tea and coffee, and he doesn't buy manufactured, processed foods. What he's done will go a long way to prevent him from getting heart disease, cancer, mental illness, diabetes, and a range of other medical conditions because he's committed himself to a healthier lifestyle. And he did it at 40. Look at you! I've shed some, haven't I? To be fair to Joe, he's probably been an inspiration to us. - Yeah, I'd say that's true. - I'd hate to admit that. - Yeah, don't tell him. - No, please don't tell him, Do not tell him. We don't need to feed that machine. We definitely think we should do it. He got me to try and do it, and I did it for three days. And I rang him and I said mate, I had headaches, I was cross, I couldn't sleep, I couldn't concentrate at work, I said "I don't know how you do it, but I can't do this any more, "I need a meat pie." Are you ready for this? Well hang on to your pineapples! Because Phil fasted for another 30 days. That's right, a total of 60 days on nothing but fresh fruit and vegetable juice. As the weeks passed, he had more and more energy and his face began to glow and in this community he has inspired so many people. He felt so good, he wanted to spread the word. So... he started a community juice fast. Kale. Here's how it worked. The store got a hold of 10 juice machines, which they would lend out to those willing to give it a go. What did they have to do? Six days, on nothing but juice, as long as they consulted their family doctor. - I think it's good. - I like it too. The response was off the charts. And people were already signing up for the next one. Well, the first day I wondered why I did it, 'cuz you know I wanted to eat, and the third night, I got home from a 14-hour day, where I usually would have went to bed, I went outside and I worked for an hour and a half, come in and I got on the computer for an hour, then I watched TV for an hour and finally went to bed at 10:30 and had to get up at 4:00, so... I know I had a lot more energy. At Day 4, I felt amazing. I sleep really well. I lost eight pounds. I'm down 15 pounds. Got on the scale this morning and I've lost 22 lbs, so I'm tickled. Today I just weighed myself and I'm down 91 lbs, which is six bowling balls, ladies and gentlemen. So that is what I used to carry all over my body. Good morning, how are you doing today? - I'm doing wonderful. - Good. How about the decrease in the methotrexate? That's going wonderful. I was wondering if I could get it dropped some more sometime. You can probably drop some, some more, you've been five weeks without flares? Without any flares. Not even so much as pain or an itch. Once we get you off the methotrexate, then we can get you off the hydroxychloroquine. OK. Eventually we'll have you off of all of them. When are you going to go back to work and do all? I intend to, hopefully, I'm not going back to driving trucks. That darn near killed me. I've got a few applications up at the lake for, you know, active jobs. You know, physically moving around. So what's your family think? They're all proud of me, they're all happy. My brother's a little jealous 'cause I'm catching up to him. He's going up and I'm coming down. You know what I like, I like Spam. I know I shouldn't like Spam, but I do. It's nothing but ham with... I eat Spam. I love Spam too. I used to have it in the truck. Oh yeah. I mean probably on the weekends I could juice a little. And I planned on doing some walking and a little exercise here and there. With me, it's the... social, job, family limitations. Yeah. You know, if I did it, then... Well, you know, I'd be tempted by what they have over here. Then I'd probably fall off the wagon. You don't have to do it as long as I have. I mean you can do it so that you can detox and rebalance your body like for a week. It'd take longer than a week to detox this truck. I get that question a lot. Do I have to do it as long as you? No. You can do it for ten days, I'd recommend at least a week because, you know, the first few days you're gonna feel kind of leh, you're gonna feel kind of nauseous 'cause you're detoxing. And then after a while, you get energetic and everything, and then, you give it awhile. Yeah, that's my problem, trying to put That would make a mess. And it should be a very good proving point to a lot of people that you can make very radical lifestyle changes without having to have surgery or medicine or a quick fix. This is gonna be longer lasting cause you've completely changed how you eat and everything about the way you live your life. When I go off this, I already got my mind made up, I'm gonna just eat soup and salad for a while. I have no desire to eat any of that fast food right now. It's gone. This is something I've always wanted to do, is to help people, in some way or another, knowing that I helped Eugene out, it made my life so much better. - Hi, come on in. - Hey Bear. - Hi, come on in. - Hey Bear. Come on in the kitchen, I'm gonna go sit down, if you don't mind. What happened? I went up to Sioux Falls and I had my knee scoped, and it was right about two hours after we got home, and I had this pain right across my chest, I was hurtin'. I thought it was gas... And then it just kind of creeped up into my jaw. Its like I had lockjaw. Oh, it just hurt so bad. And then I got light-headed, short of breath, hot sweats just came through. I was leaning on my dresser going, "Oh whatever this is, make it stop, "this is not right." I told Claudia, You better take me to the hospital, somethings wrong. And they hauled me up to the hospital, laid me on the table, stripped me, wired me up, they said I was having a heart attack. Scared the tar out of me. Scared the tar out of me too, bro. I don't wanna lose my big brother, you know. What kind of medication did they put you on? What do you have in there? Got a little bit of everything. Some aspirin. OK. A blood thinner. Metformin, that's for my Type 2 diabetes That's Mavic for my heart. Lipitor, I think that's that cholesterol pill, I'm not sure. A couple other.. The heart attack kind of opened my eyes. The way I was living was not right. And I'd like to get off these pills. Yeah. Cause a lot of pills, that's not right. I'll end up growing a third eye or something. All right, what are we startin' with? It's usually best to start with the kale because the rest of the vegetables wash it in and mix it up. Then just shove it down. I got it, go ahead. - Like that? - Yep. I think we can live with this for a while. Not full bore. No, I'm not asking you to go full bore because in your condition right now, it's not recommended. I mean use it as a supplement to your diet. Something like, you wake up in the morning and you grab a glass of juice, Mean Green, and you can go on about your day. I've always looked up to my brother He knows this is serious, he knows this has helped me, so he's starting to listen now, he's starting to realize that he can't be real selfish. Hes gotta think of Claudia and Vanessa and his son, Barry, and the rest of us. Little brother leads the way kind of a thing. Hello Dennis! How are ya mate? God, you look different. - Oh thanks mate. - You look great. - How ya been, alright? - Great, terrific. - Doing good? - Yea, very good. - You're a new person - I'm trying mate. You look great! Trying. Hey the girls will come on you, hear me? Doing my best mate. When I started this journey, I thought it was all about the juice fast. But as I now know, that was only the beginning. For the most part, it's been about maintaining a balanced lifestyle. One thing I know for sure: if I go back to my old ways, I'll end up back where I started in no time. So, the choice is mine. I'm under 300! Yeah! Before all this, yeah, I was probably like the rest of the American people out here who had bad eating habits, but I'm taking full responsibility for my life. It was my life, I almost ruined it, now I need to repair it. That Phil at 430 pounds was real dark and just didnt care. Well he's died. That Phil has gone. Now I'm feeling much better, I'm getting clearer. I'm starting to realize a lot of things, and you know, working my way through them. The food is in itself too, is also making me feel better. I'm feeling so much better then I did at the end of June. So were down here on Manly Beach. I used to come here as a little kid, my dad and my brother, park the car up here, roll out down, straight into the surf. Get bashed by a few waves. It's terrific! And afterwards, wed head up to an ice cream shop just up here, and I'd have a double chocolate ice cream cone, and all was good in the world. Boy, those were the days. We fast-forward 35 years, and I've been on a journey. An expanding one, and right now, a contracting one. I'm very proud. He did an excellent job. He's lost the weight, I hope he continues... Ready, set, go! Once the weight started coming off and he started to see that he was doing this, his demeanor changed, his attitude changed, and the lower he got, I think the better he felt. You're getting better. As far as me doing it? No. I heard you spent the weekend at grandpa's place? - I bring my BB gun. - Cool. I feel great since the fast. I don't have the migraines any more, so that is a big, huge plus. Even if I'm not fasting, I still have to have the juicing because of the nutrients in it. It's just a normal part of my everyday life now. I feel like I'm 21 years old again. Show you how to do this Wii thing. Show me this Wii Fit. See if you can keep up with the old fat guy. Swivel, swivel. Keep swiveling. Put some action into it. Come on. I'm working on it. Wanna see ski jump? Ski jump's cool. Dad loves playing golf, and finally after eight years, Joe and Dad are back on the golf course playing together and I think thats fantastic. Ah yes! - Good shot! - Right in the middle. - Beauty mate. - Good shot, eh? - Thanks, Dad. - Good on ya mate. Skoal and L'Chaim, all that stuff. To your health. He's got me to see the... the changes in him can help change me. So we're going to try to change me. That was a pretty good batch. Better than this morning. I wonder what I did different. I dunno. I peeled the lemon. That's what it was. I'm proud that he's gotten this far and hopefully he'll be proud of me. I've gone from someone who knew, to someone who would do. And, that's just helped my journey, my journey along, and I'm hoping that I'm gonna stick around here a bit longer. And as for my journey, well, it ain't over yet. Got a long way to go, I hope. Captioning: LVT-New York
