 

                        What! That's it? I'm just warming up. Come on., let's go! Ten more minutes... No... Five minutes? No... Two! No... You're safe now. Don't worry! Get back inside. Good boy! You want to play? I'll play with you! It's time to go home now. Bye! Bang on time! Who's Silver Hawk? This is my name card! Call me! Thank you! Ah! Jackpot!!! Jackpot? Hi., miss., I know you In fact. I'm sure of it! , You are... My name is Man! Rich Man! My name is Man. Rich Man! Bravo! You can call me by my Chinese name Man Yan I'm Lou Welcome! Lou! Lou! Dismissed! Lou! Why didn't you answer me? I hear you're an orphan? How do you know? I'm smart... like a detective I'll look out for you here. So call me "Big Brother" Why should I? Because I got here before you. Okay? Big brother! Little sis., my dear little sis! Big brother! Who stole her lollipop? I did What's it to you? Everybody behind me I'm the 'Defender of Justice'! I... crack-crack-crack... Let me! No need! Let's go! Why didn't you let me in on the fight? I don't know why., I get so excited when I fight! Silly! Silly! Master., she's the one who beat me up! Me too! No! It was just her. I recognize her! You did it by yourself? Lou! I have got a brilliant idea Next time when you fight., put a paper bag over your head Then no one will recognize you Who are you? It's me., Big Brother! Big brother! I'm going! Bye Bye Put a paper bag over your head when you fight! Remember., okay! I remember! Here! That's where I've seen you Heiress to a billion dollar empire and founder of numerous charities The most famous lady in Polaris City. Miss Lulu Wong! Nothing escapes you Pleasure to meet you Superintendent of the Police Force! To be exact., I'm Senior Superintendent-to-be I am actually on my way to Polaris City to report for duty My predecessor was quite unlucky Forced out by this b-i-t-c-h! Silver Hawk? You mean., the crime-fighting, crook-bashing "b-i-t-c-h"? Apparently, her antics have completely... demoralized the Police Department Aside from being a cop, even as men our egos have also been dented And it 's my duty to bring her to justice You are going to arrest her? That's right. It's really too bad... for her You really think you can catch her? What do you think? I'm so sorry! No problem. No problem... Excuse me Welcome Superintendent Man He's coming, he's coming! Hello! Hi! Welcome to Polaris City! Hey everybody Welcome! Thank you! Come on, let's take a picture Wait... Miss Wong! I have a car, plenty of room! Can I give you a lift? I have my own ride Thank you. You're welcome Hey! Do you have a phone? You want my phone? No... I mean your number Give me your phone Sure! Can we go now? Thank you. Wait! I am new in town, Why don't we... have dinner tomorrow night Okay When you remember who I am Boss Who is this Rich Man and... and why bug his phone? This one could be fun Let's tune him in later. Okay? Okay Boss, what was it at the Great Wall? Totally Fab! I jumped the Great wall, saved the Panda Doesn't get better than that I've never seen an ass kicking "My Fair Lady" You're certifiably mad! Yes! I am No. Stop it! Your Auntie is coming Hurry! My shoes... Aunt Jean! Aunt Jean! Lulu! Let me look at you You've lost weight again When you were adopted by my brother you were such a chubby little thing If they were still alive... I miss them very much too I've brought your favorite chocolate You're always spoiling me Come on in. Chocolate , Thanks Let me introduce you to the "Jewel of Polaris" Mr. Ho Chung Actually Professor Ho Chung Pleasure to meet you I'll let you two youngsters get to know each other well! So Professor, what do you like to do? I... research Read And then more research and more reading... What about you? Everything. Except research and reading Don't under estimate my work In a few days time I will be announcing the biggest technological breakthrough ever Congratulations! Tea? Thank you Boss! Getting bored? We are tuned into the Man Channel Here we go Our story so far: Rich Man is back at HQ bragging Police Headquarters-Polaris City about his in-flight romantic tete-a-tete I always find beauty in the skies The Lulu Wong! She's out of your league I don't care We have a history We... later Check this out. Her private number Really? Ready to eat crow Hello? Hello! This is Superintendent Man May I speak to Miss Lulu Wong, please? Superintendent Man, there is no one here called Miss Lulu Wong But... You don't have to be so loud when you're calling the station We can all hear you very well Clever! Very clever! Fine! I love a challenge Sir! Good Is Silver Hawk challenging enough for you? Yes. Sir! , Don't worry, sir, it's all under control Sir. We have code blue at , the City Warehouse on Ocean and Main! Alright, let's go! Let's go! Go? Go where? I mean let's go to... the movies? Good... Let me go and change It's Silver Hawk! Run! I got her! Guys! Come on! Miss Hawk! Not such a big deal after all, are we? You're under arrest! You leave me no choice Now. I will have to use , my "Crack crack" attack I... crack! Crack... Hey! I wasn't ready... Great! Hey guys! Arrest her! Miss Hawk. No, no! We are your fans! May I have your autograph, please? How about a picture? Hey! No! Please go away! What? Leaving without saying 'goodbye'? Junior Academy of Martial Arts Even though little Lou is naughty Junior Academy of Martial Arts she is incredibly gifted in martial arts If she stays, it will just waste her talent If you will teach her yourself her talent would reach new heights Lou! Lou! Come back! How can you leave without saying good bye... My boss is correct You are very consistent, it really does take you four hours to get dressed every time Who are you? I'm Professor Ho's assistant, my name is Kit Professor Ho has a very important presentation today Al Home Exhibition and he would very much like you to attend Al Home Exhibition that's why I'm here to escort you there Excuse me Don't move! This time there is nowhere to hide Turn around, please Little Lou! So, you finally remembered your little sister If it wasn't for this. , I wouldn't have guessed so quickly You didn't even say goodbye when you left... I've missed you so much! Give me a hug! Miss you so much! Excuse me, sir Superintendent Man Excuse me, What is this? "A Day of Our Lives" reunion? Or are you here to protect my boss? Excuse me. And you are? Kit, Professor Ho's assistant Also, Lifetime Honarary Chairman of the "Silver Hawk Fan Club"... Let me say this, I know you want to catch Silver Hawk No doubt you are destined to fail, but... I sincerely hope you won't fail in protecting my boss It's time to go, this way please Welcome to our Al home exhibition Our Professor Ho Chung is delighted to show you the latest interactive home control system A revolutionary new chip that will change the way we interact with technology A new chip that will offer you greater comfort and a better quality of life Now, I need a volunteer please Yes. Miss? Thank you This communicator allows the chip to gather all your vital bodily information Hi! Lulu! I'm so glad you came Really? Congratulations Madam! You are 48 days pregnant Would you like to know the sex of your child? That's amazing! We only found out yesterday This way please Thank you How do you know I am thirsty? Our communicator is capable of instant analysis of your hypothalamus accessing your most primitive thoughts Now for your prenatal exercises We will start with some light stretches No, I hate exercise Yes. Madam. Nevertheless , our analysis shows that you need exercise at this time Please follow the demonstration I don't want to exercise We only do what's best for you Exercise is good for you and your baby too No! Trust me Okay. Maybe you're right We're here to serve 24 hours a day... offering only the best to our master Excuse me. What about freedom of choice? We will only do what is best for you Define "Best". Who gets to decide what's "Best"? Al. Or ourselves? , We only do what is best for you Honey! Are you okay? Ladies and gentleman. This is the end of our demonstration Thank you for coming! Lulu! Lulu... Lulu! Excuse me Lulu! Excuse me What do you think of my invention? You are saying that your Al system can basically direct the way I should think In theory, yes Then I don't like it Excuse me So little sis, did you keep up... with your martial arts? No. Not really. And you? Well... I did. I am damn good now Practically invincible! Wow! That's fantastic But... what's that about you, the Silver Hawk and the lamp post? That's not true, right? I want your real telephone number no more tricks Okay My invention is purely for the benefit of mankind What's wrong with that? There is nothing wrong with your invention They still don't understand about interactive artificial intelligence I'll make you a cup of coffee Stop! Who are you? Who are you? They got the professor! Hurry up! Help! Stay put. Let's go! Follow me! Over here! Go! Go! Over there! Take care of him! Follow me! Go! Attention all units. This is Superintendent Man Professor Ho has been kidnapped! Look out for a black armoured vehicle... Mimi, got that? Quickly turn on the statellite tracking system Got it! They're eastbound on Science Museum Road... no... they changed directions! They're westbound, turning into Mandarin Road Guys, over there! Silver Hawk? That's my idol, don't worry. She'll save the professor! What am I, chopped liver? Sit back! Take care of him! Follow me! Did you see Silver Hawk? She is so Femme Fatal! left kick, right kick just awesome! Kid, you are only here to help with the investigation not to paw me! Professor Ho Chung ' s Laboratory Professor Ho Chung has no money, no friends the only thing of value is in his head So who would find him interesting? The Shiraishi Enterprise? Who's this? The Shiraishi Organization from Zenda... was one of the initial sponsors of the development of Professor Ho's chip They wanted to have the exclusive rights to the A. I System but my boss refused So no deal The last e-mail was sent a week ago Shiraishi is one of the biggest financial power houses in Zenda Telecommunications. Media. Electronics... ,, you name it I really don't think they would resort to kidnapping my boss Anything is possible I'm going to Zenda I'm coming with you No! Listen to me! Professor and I have a special way of communicating Trust me. I can help you Trust you? God damn liar! I'm not lying! Silver Hawk front kick. Back kick. Side kick ,, did you see it? But I can imagine it, you know! Imagine it, so you're a liar! OK! Next time when I really see it, I'll tell you OK! Next time? Don't exaggerate! Let me introduce myself. I am Alexander Wolfe the one man who truly understands your work I believe your A.I. Invention has a greater potential than even you can imagine Look at the world today. It is run by fools fools whose singular objective is to be elected by an even bigger bunch of fools & they call that democracy People need leadership, clarity! They simply need to be told what is best for them. Don't you agree? Now with your new chip and my vision, we'll be able to bring the minds of the people together under one common voice MY VOICE! What do you want from me? To bring your prototype Al chip into mass production and install it into this phone Do you want to use my invention to dominate the people's minds? No! No way! The whole idea of my microchip is to improve the lives of the people not to turn them into into your slaves You're insane. I am not going to... Do you really think you have a choice? I... I can't do The Shiraishi Enterprise brings you the latest in communication technology. The SZ8000 This blue tooth phone keeps you in touch face to face with your friends around the world via the wrist-band communicator I'm Lieutenant Lisa Hayashi and we are here to see Mr Shiraishi Yes, please wait Thank you If they have Professor Ho's Al chip which they don't They could make it interactive, totally voice activated Kinda like you... all talk... no action? Still messing around on your computer? Professor and I have a very special way of communicating I'm trying to look for him Yeah. Find him then! , Sure! Lieutenant Hayashi, my apologies Mr Shiraishi is with a very important guest he has no time to see anyone today Who can be so important? Lulu Wong! I almost forgot, Auntie sends her best regards Thank you! Little Sis! What are you doing here? Let me introduce. , this is my uncle Mr Shiraishi I am Superintendent Man, from Polaris City Nice to meet you! Lieutenant Lisa Hayashi, Zenda Police Department Nice to meet you! Hi! And I am Kit... I'm sorry Hi, Tina! Daddy! I'm downstairs can we have lunch together? I'm busy, But Look! Hi Tina! Lulu! It's been a long time I've missed you so much! Me too! Daddy, can I have lunch with Lulu? Could you, Lulu? Of course, I love to. I'll be right down I'll leave you to your business, I'll see you all later Okay Mr Shiraishi, we understand that the Shiraishi Enterprise has great interest in Professor Ho's invention My company has many interests including Professor Ho's new chip But I don't think we need to resort to kidnapping Mr Shiraishi, May I ask you... Let me help you make an appointment Tina? Help me! Help me! Lulu, help me... Interesting They're the one who kidnapped the Professor! Stay back! Or I'll kill her right now Zenda Police Headquarter Station Shiraishi told my department not to interfere I don't think he is going to cooperate with us! Tina and Professor Ho were kidnapped by the same people What's the link? We stopped the surveillance of Shiraishi as ordered So, any news? Who are these people? Any ransom demands? Tell me something! Lulu. What? You said you hadn't been training I see you still got the moves What? Not really So, how well do you know Shiraishi? Very well, since the day I was adopted, Uncle & my dad were best of friends Is he very influential in Zenda? What do you mean? He has asked the police not to interfere with this case. We are on our own , If he has chosen to co-operate with the kidnapper We'll just have to wait and see what he gets up to So Little Sis you are still using the mask... that I made for you? Still using it? To masquerade parties? I got rid of it a long time ago So, why did you become a cop? Don't you remember... ...I was always the defender of justice Now I am legit. I do it with a badge Honestly, with your skills, I thought that... you would have become a cop I thought about it but you know me, I don't like being told I like to do things my own way I see So, you're here in Zenda for... Uncle is coming Damn it! Okay? Where is my daughter? How much money do you want? I don't want your money I want your cooperation My SZ8000? This is the new SZ9000 Your SZ8000 is obsolete I know you always want Professor Ho's new chip and I am delivering it to you. Wear it! Daddy, help me! Daddy, help... Tina... Tina! Don't hurt my daughter! I want the new phone in production, yesterday! And your satellite system I want total access! When are you going to release my daughter? Soon Hey computer genius I need your help Find out who this is This is amazing. My Silver Hawk wanting my help This is it! Professor Ho how are we getting along? Everything is running smoothly Wonderful! These are the first of the subliminal messages that I want you to transmit for me How long will it take for them to be effective? To completely dominate a person's mind the process will take four to six weeks No. That's too long You have ten days That will seriously affect the reticular formation area and cause long term brain damage! And... do it! What are you doing? Speeding up the process like what you told me Check and authenticate what he has done It's clear. Sir , Don't get any ideas So prefect The SZ 9000 sets a new paradigm for man-machine interface... ...and total synchronization of artificial and human intelligence Combining all the functions offered by the SZ8000 this new device incorporates state of the art Al and interactive technologies The SZ 9000 will assist you in identifying the optimal choice tailored to meet your personal needs for your daily decisions scheduling important meetings, dates or selecting the best restaurants Can I have a volunteer, please? Please! Your name? Aida OK. And birthday? Thank you! Please call this number Hello. Mr Aida. ,, would you like to go to dinner with me? Yes. Of course! , How about sukiyaki at 7 pm? Mr. Aida, you are not free until 7:30 May I suggest dinner at eight? By the way, your cholesterol lever is now at 215 It's a bit on the high side May I make a booking at Kenyo House? OK. How about eight at Kenyo? I'm looking forward to seeing you there That's the Professor's idea! His concepts are all here! Yeah! You're right for once! Excuse me. Miss Wong I'm sorry Mr. Shiraishi said he is not receiving any guests today What? Not even Lulu? But it's very urgent! Can you try again please? Not enough publicity! I don't care how much it costs Have the phones gone out? Yes Every senator has received the phone yesterday Uncle Akira. Is everything alright? Who was the man in the helicopter? Is he the kidnapper? Get rid of them. Now! , Uncle? Are you OK? Oh by the way, our chips will deliver to your plant today Production of the SZ9000 will start immediately Understood? Get them out of here Distribute all phones at half price! Uncle is not the same Look! The publicity is huge! His daughter is kidnapped and yet he is so enthusiastic about the promotion Cutting price by half, I don't get it! Ms. Hawk If you don't want to see Tina dead come to the rendezvous point tomorrow at 3 pm! Analyzing... Sir. There are some leads! , Just give me some time I hope you can crack this before Silver Hawk Got it! Silver Hawk webpage You don't like the paper bag, so you are not wearing it! I've got a new mask for you, it's better, right? I did but it was torn during the fight So, you got recognized! I must go, remember to put on the mask when you fight OK? Zenda Hotel I need to talk to you Sure! Wait for me at the bar. Let me change first You're going somewhere? No This is the girls' thing, just wait downstairs Almost 100% A beer, please My dear Silver Hawk. Using all my skills I have finally hacked into the encoded top secret databases... ...and finally tracked down the guy you are looking for His name is Alexander Wolfe A few years ago, he attempted a coup d'etat in Southern America, and failed During his escape, there was a major explosion and he lost both of his arms Then he vanished The rumor is he now possesses two incredible metallic arms, very powerful! PS, it's such an honor! Is it really you? What's that? It's a game What are you doing? Playing tag along? Who are we following? Not now. Get out! Beat me up! Beat you, I will beat you up! Get out Help! Someone help me... You little punk! Come on, let's go AWL warehouse #9 So. Is it the Silver Hawk... , or Miss Lulu Wong? Where's Tina? Tina? Tina is not your concern, she is just a pawn And anyway, explanation can be... so lengthy I have no time for your nonsense Just hand over Tina! You know I really am quite a fan of yours But you have cost me enough That's why I have planned such an elaborate party... for your send off Show time You are the Silver Hawk! Come on! I am just warming up! Let's play another five minutes Sure! Who are we following? You are not going to arrest her. Are you? I won't let you! No... No... Don't! You gonna stop me? No! Where am I? Who did this to you? Is it the kidnappers? Do you know what kind of danger you have put yourself into? Do you think you can save the world alone? I don't have time to think about that All I want to do is to catch the crooks That, is police business and I am the cop Do you know who you are... ...and what you are doing? I know exactly what I am doing and I know who I am But... you really think your position is that important? The only difference between us is that you carry a badge and I don't At the end of the day remember we are fighting for the same cause Same cause? It's easy for you to say. Put on your mask you are the hero! Take it off, you are Miss Lulu Wong It's all fun and games for you! There's Law and Order! If everyone works outside the system like you, it will be total chaos From now on stay out of it Otherwise, expect no mercy for me! You have your Law and Order. I have my principles I choose to use my skills to help people It is my mission in life It's my life and you can stay out of it I'll find my own way to save Tina I swear if you were not hurt I would lock you up right now Really? Do it then This might be your only chance! Miss Silver Hawk! No, I mean... Lulu my hero... no... Did you receive the e-mail I sent you? The guy you are looking for, his name is Alexander Wolfe, he is very powerful... Let's go! He is very powerful... Come on! I say go! Tell me everything you know and make it fast or I will lock you up Lock me up? Yeah! I have told you everything I know! Stop talking about locking me up! So why don't you tell me earlier? She's my hero and you wanted to bring her in Why would I tell you? When you find out your little sis is Silver Hawk how does it feel? How come she has moves that you don't? A statement released by Shiraishi's office... ...confirmed that previous rumors about... ...the alleged kidnapping of his daughter are unfounded Earlier today. Shiraishi held a press conference along with many leading senators and business leaders announcing their nomination of Alexander Wolfe as candidate for Premier How would you characterize your support for Alexander Wolfe? He has my total support! Shiraishi and the senators look juiced This is the first time in Zenda history that a foreigner is nominated for the highest political office interpreted by many... They're all wearing SZ9000 There has gotta be something wrong with the phone We should buy one. I could examine it let me show you what a computer genius is made of Really? Computer Genius! No problem Hello, Lisa Richman? Yes I need your help There's no case. You know our hands are tied Come on Lisa. , how long have we known each other? I hate it when you say that Master, why do you keep teaching me more Kung Fu when I already fight all the time? Water can turn into floods and bring disaster but it also brings life to everything Remember. Lou. ,, everything has a Yin and Yang Kung Fu can hurt, but if properly used, it can destroy evil and help the good Master, what is the most powerful Kung Fu? Once upon a time, Water and Fire were sworn enemies To become stronger Water turned himself into ice but Fire just melted him away Water realized to defeat Fire he could not use the sheer rigidity of Ice but the pure fluidity of water There is no "most powerful" in Kung Fu it's a matter of how you apply it Police Headquarters - Zenda Good Morning. Good Morning Good Morning. Good Morning Another all niter I got it What? I got it! Wake up, I got it... Come on, get up Got what! Look, I got it! What's this? This is the code the Professor and I created he's so smart! What's he saying? He said he is held inside at an underground base by a man name Alexander Wolfe Wolfe is using his chip to dominate the mind of the users of SZ9000 He will begin the uplink of his mind domination messages through the satellite on the 2nd of this month at 3pm After that all of the users of the phone will be affected We need to stop him! That's today Did he say where the transmission will take place? No. But I should be able to track it down in a few hours! Few hours, we don't have the time! Lisa, can you send a search team out there? To where? To... No. 9 Country Road compliments of Silver Hawk No. 9 Country Road Silver Hawk That's it Lisa. It's our last chance. Trust me! ,, Okay. I'll get my team Yes! Let's go I should ask you earlier You were too busy scolding people You shut up! Let's go! Take him! How much longer? We can begin the uplink in 5 minutes, sir The process will take 15 minutes to complete By 3:15 p.m. Your operation will be a success Do you know how many SZ9000 phones are in the market place today? Over one hundred million! You're lunatic! And the numbers are rising every day. You know this is just the beginning you know you and I, we still have so much to accomplish Sir! I'm ready Wonderful! Let's begin Yes sir! You brought them here! I warned you! AWL warehouse? You're sure this is the place? Yeah! Is here! Lisa OK Great guys! You've managed to infiltrate a mannequin stud farm OK. Spread out and search the place Move! Lisa! Idol! Well. It's about time? , Isn't this police business, want my help? Well? You are hogging the fight! Let me! No need! After all these years you still haven't changed! Look! Us too! Are you okay? Yes Let me! No need! You need! You take care of them. , I'll look for the passage way OK I've found it! Wonderful! Just in time to witness my vision Shall we celebrate? Sure! Over my dead body! Professor... you're all right? This time, I will finish you off! One on one this time? No way! Come on professor, wake up! There's no more time! It works... We have to stop the transmission! Hurry up! Password invalid I need to scan Wolfe's retina. , so I can get into the master system... ...and finish reversing the uplink Let me! OK! We are running out of time, we need to scan his eyes Hurry! Over here! Open your eyes, open up! Come on! We've found the password and stop the transmission! Impossi... Professor! Transmission determined I did it! I did lt! It stops! I did it! He fell for it! Destruction activated We better go... Hurry... Let's go! Go! Go! Quickly follow me! It's all over, come on! Let's go! Go! Hurry! Are you OK? Get up! Hurry! Let's go! I'll open the door! Hurry! There is no more time! Come on! Come on, get them out of here! This place is gonna blow! Go! What about you? I have to go back! Damn it! Hey! Hey! Kit! Wake up... wake up! Kit! Open the door! Come on... Wake up! Wake up! Wake up! Look at me, I need you, open the door! Come on Kit, wake up! System invalid No! Kit, open the door! You take care of him! Silver Hawk! Silver Hawk... Get out of there! Silver Hawk, I know you can hear me! I know you can hear me all the time! Come on. There's no more time! , Lulu! Lulu! I won't let you leave without saying goodbye! Can you hear me? Little Sis! Kindness! So you do have a weakness! Open the door... What are you doing? He was going to arrest you! Wasn't he? I'm outta here! One month in Polaris City and I've solved such a big case I guess I have you to thank Wasn't it the Silver Hawk who helped you? So are you still going to arrest her? Oh. She hasn't tried , my "crack - crack" attack yet who do you think will win? Excuse me Hello? Yes... Ok, I'm on my way Sorry, I have to go It's on me Your "crack - crack" attack really shattered the glass? Actually, was it my "crack - crack" attack or... ...the sheer force of Wolfe's punch... I'm not quite sure
