 

                        edited by : onlyiran2001@yahoo.com mohammad fathnejat Yesterday my son was playing, ... was to find a fruit to the boxes ... One of the packages was open, was cracked ... Almost died in the arms of his mother ... because of the poison that you asked me to hide. Forget what we have seen. This act of mercy does not mean no threat to you. The next time it does not make a deal can not meet. It's very tense, relax. when in truth I meant was "in the next life." My apologies, Madam Kim. In his next life, choose better her husband. Please, no. No. Move, move. Your time is over! Jazz musician ... so are you ... There was a time that we saw. The time is over is yours! We agreed that nothing in women or children. That the Lord accompany you, sister. Your family is waiting for you, kid. I go in a minute. And you'll be with them again. I know I do not understand what I say. God forgive me to save your life. The Fifth Commandment Los Angeles, 9 years later. I just fell in the very world Small and I had to ensure you. How my real parents died? In a firefight. They were caught in a crossfire. They were innocent. Since that killed your parents, I have carefully. So things are, Chase, and there is nothing to do about it. ?Lo see? As his mother died I have no alternative. Max Templeton is not Coubrie a house of charity. Do the same as me. "Head of the Mafia, Tony Four Eyes" Sapianza killed. Did not I told them not play those damned guns! Get out of here. What you have to say? Cool. Get out of here. Fast. Holy Trinity Church of the Redemption. When traveling through this door, enter unable to return to Hell. Welcome to Purgatory. - Listo to fight? - Sure. Well, give me a beating. You can not because I do not feel my rhythm. I can follow everything golpe?ndote the day because you do not have rhythm. In life all about how it flows. Find your rhythm and you will be invincible. You are missing two other things to learn. The two hardest things to our profession. ZDE what is it? Shoot a man for the first time. And you shoot first. ZY if I shoot? There you go. We're going to Probart. At the present time. Lifting Energy Control For you. Let's see. Health. I like the tattoo. This, this. Goddamn you! God does not care about the people like us. Does Chance, ?c?mo you go, associate? I call you to know what seemed to you the piece of news lists of orders. Associate, call me when you have a time. Ah, and insure of returning my team this time, without rasgu?os, ?bien? Call me, associate. Farewell. Target: " Angel ", American singer. Safety guards of ?ngel: As my mother died, I had not left another alternative. Sound like that the things, Chance. There is nothing to do on this matter. - Joe. - This target is out of scope. - ?Qu? - I leave. You cannot do this, associate. You can do this up to slept. - You have to look a new executor. - But ?sabes how much do they pay for this? Tremendous fortune. I leave, it is personal. - This is ?ngel's car. - Yes. When I am ready, you appear him for the window. I want a good photo of her very angry. - It is well. - Relax. Everything is going to go out well. Good, associates, hour of going away, they are invading private property. Get lost. Speak with Lenny. Curse. - is zTodo well? - Yes, only we accompany them out. - Good to meet, Thousands. - It is always good to meet you. Matt, this is Tye. I am sure that it has told Thousands to you of what it worries us. Allow me to say to yourself that Tye is perfect for this work. It has contacts, knows the culture, it understands the language. In the relating thing to the worry of Angel for your own safety.. I give him my word. I give him my word. That's why we have you here, Thousands. Support everything in calmness. That tried. I have never had a finished bundle, Angel will be the first one. As always I say, first I die earlier of risking the safety of the client. For. Not, not. Come here. are ?Me teasing? ?Me are you taking it? We have worked for 11 hours and you continue with the same error, Tamara. This is not my first disc. The choirs they have to be somewhere here. Tamara, I know that you can give more of you. He rests five minutes and come to demonstrating it to me. did ?Ya manage to come to a decision? They all detest the disc. - ?Qu? do ?Tu dial? - Not, that of the Beatles. Yes, my disc. - Nobody detests it. - zY for what anybody has he bought it still? I do not know that, but I know that it takes time. You extracted something for that the people were not waiting. Yes, this way it was, I surrendered completely, Matt. This album it is me who is same, it is my heart and it expresses things to which I have had that... to resign to come to where I am,... parts of me that I never go to recovering. It hears, Angel. He trusts in your instincts. You are the only family that I have, Matt. He sleeps a little, peque?a, and ma?ana to Bangkok. - " Sayonara ". - This is Japanese, Matt. What is. Good night. Good night. " Sayonara ". ?Est?s angered or is it that it makes you happy to see me? do ?Te match of him? It is very well similar, as his father. Do not move. - Care, boy. - ?Por what did you lie to me? I have to go to the ba?o. During 11 a?os you said to me that he he was dead. It was better for you not to know where it was. are ?Quin to decide? I have taken the decisions for you from that you were a dwarf. A brother gave me that then you snatched me. zPor what? Calm down, Chance. Because you allowed it to me. zQuieres to know why I said to you that was your brother dead? Because it was not like you and as me. Miles is better with his own life, without having anything in common with us. I believe that it is very stupid. It has passion too much. He was writing to you letters. I had to kill the damned postman because every day were bringing a letter... of Thousands, which one wanted to communicate with you. To make to believe that he was dead, it was the only form of that you forgot. I did not prevent you from finding your brother. I prevented him to be you. You are a killer in cold blood like I. I am what I am for what me ense?aste. Everything what I did was for to be proud. But now I know that I do not look alike in nothing to you. I am the man who did you to you. For me you are here. When you cross this door, you will enter to the Hell without being able to return. Welcome to the Purgatory. Holy Bible. Hour of your last lesson. I am already not your trainer. Now you have your own life. It is time of that you do the correct thing. did zMe listen? This is already not only an assembly, it is real. I know much of this and you are different. Be going to say to him. Do the correct thing. And I cannot ense?arte anything any more. Only he remembers: do not approach anybody. It will be very easy to replace you by other. It is everything what I know. Have this lucky charm. It belonged to your real family. Take it next to your heart. It is the only family that you will have of now from now on. - Rapid delivery. - Chance. Do his order. Your mother not you ense?? to answering the phone like that, ?o yes? I am joking, associate, relax. Bangkok. is ?Quin the new executor? Tokyo, Japan. After you pushed that thing about back Thousands,.. they went on to the next name of list of the best. But really they have to wish very much to see this made girl bits... because the new executor, is a monster. And it is not only one. It is a team of husband and woman. They love to kill as much as it is they who love each other. You give birth, 2005, 60 dead persons and only one target. London, 2001, the whole blocked city for two targets. ?Conoces his finished name? Collateral damage. It is better that Bangkok entrusts enough bags to transport corpses. Good boy. do zNo enjoy these moments? Curse. Bangkok, Thailand. - ?Revisaste quite? - This way it is. - ?Y the greenrooms? - Two times. - ?Y the ba?os? - We already check everything. - ?Y the roofs? - I checked them earlier. There will be a man there above this night. I will check them again personally. And after that I want that you leave one man there permanently. Chance. It cannot be. are ?Qu doing here, associate? ?Recibiste some of my letters? Not. It was known that it would not give them to you. ?C?mo is dad? It is not well. You are very elegant. The roof is assured, I am going down. When you are young and do not have to where going, you can get into many things,... none of them good. You become an alone man. You to be sincere, I turned out to be enough pressed. So as soon as I could, I enlisted in the Marina. I learned very rapid mine. When I went out, I joined the police of District of Columbia... to the special forces. A friend of mine brought me to that thing about the safety guard. And now here I am, in Bangkok. He had never thought that he feels better to save lives that to snatch. We are always on good terms, Thousands. Perhaps, but not always. I am here for a motive. I was already imagining it. Your client has an executor to the watching. zDe edges? We are already not children, Chance, we are adult. I do not walk with jueguitos, I am a professional. do zMe understand? Thousands, you know what I do. This is serious. The people will come to Bangkok, perhaps even be already to here,... to kill your singer. And they will kill you or to anyone that interfere with his work. Thousands, I am one of the best and I say to you that is an easy target. Nobody can avoid it. If you get into the way, also they eliminate you. I know it because it went to me to first whom they hired. zY? does zSe suppose that I am scared? zPor what do you you appear after all these years saying these things? Do not misinterpret me, the fear does not have nothing to see with this. Of equal form that you surprised in I roof,... to her also they can surprise her. It is better that you analyze better, little brother. In the roof it was you who were the astonished one. And so that you know it: I am one of the best. And if the people come, it will be better that they come with all,... because I have a gift and it would be would have used also with you. Thousands, if I had accepted this one contract, you might not have detained me. And if you had accepted the contract, I would have extracted you of here stiffly. ?Sabes a thing, associate? ?Por what do not you go away of here? Look after, boy, I can handle like this situation. Devote to yours. I will devote myself to mine. Go out of above. ?Tiene an identification? ?Est?n ready? Forward. Not, not, not. ?Alguien will he say to me what demons it spent? Hear, ?ustedes do not speak? - Thousands, say to your clienta that it should be kept silent. - ?Disculpe! Do not speak to me this way. A: He was not speaking with you. B: I am not working and... C: It is better that it does not move. - do ?Ad?nde go? - To a sure place. Stop it. Below. - Care, Chance. - I have it controlled. - zPor what was a police officer shooting us? - This was not a police officer. - was zQuin? - A type to which they paid for his life. does zNecesita help? We are going to analyze the reality: I do not work for the Government, anybody deceased can love me. Return me along with my representative right now. - She would be dead at the dawn. - Then take me to the police. I cannot risk to that the police it is bought. - zPor what I? - Because they paid well. Hold here. - zPor what will we stop here? - We are going to balance our minds. And then we are going to continue even our sure place. Well, to the sure, clear place. Matt worries so much for you that it hired me. I am expert in this type of situations. - It is going to be well, trust in me. - zTengo another option? It is my duty to take her to safe house and I will do that. Feel and have a short rest to the wall. Associate, do ?qu do? We need the whole help that we prune. What you say. You more than anybody, you have many things for that to be grateful. Hello, old man We need the whole help that we could obtain Since it is, old man You more than the majority there has much for that to be grateful There do you go ?no? ?Recuerdas when we were playing of ni?os? I remember that you usually played only they were stamping me on the bottom - I was covering you the back - It is true Does not matter who, you were finishing them I still cover you the back I will always cover you the back I hope that also you should cover mine ?Entonces why us did you leave me and to dad? This was a different epoch Different I Now I am a man I meet you, old man I know what exists in your heart. Since we were ni?os we did not have another option except to continue the life style in which ca?ste ?Vas to being burning hot a little of incense for me? ?Para to escape from all my sins? I cannot do that Only the big man can do it I chose this life Dad had something that to see in that since it made me better Me ense?? to being the best To being a professional I do not repent and there is no return I have done things that cannot change My first work. We had to the target in the kitchen and to the wife and children against the wall Suddenly, the whole family dies We had a target ?Pero his wife and children? It is as if I himself had killed them ?Crees that I can burn an incense that's why and already? You broke 5to order, Chance But you have not been the first one You will not even be the last one ?Dios will he excuse you that's why? I do not know it But I yes Do the same that I Do the same that I - Fact - We go, Angel I go already I need to get the hands ready and the feet as soon as I returned I cannot believe that you should have brought me here with this garment and these heels do zMe say again what we do here? - Looking - Looking It hears, I have to go to the bath Really I have to go - Please - You already listened to the lady zQu? You will not want that do it here zverdad? - Give to him - Slowly zSabes? It is much more kind than you You are so a villain zquieres to stop pushing me? Do it there zPuedo to have a little of privacy, please? Privacy, please Now move - are zQu looking? - The insurance is put Lie. This is one Walter P22 They have no insurance That is impressive It removes this grimace of face or I swear to you for God... only take me of return to the hotel of my manager Look at me The game was finished Do not move and remain below! We go, old man! Get up! Not, God! - Do not move - He was not even going to say anything - do ?Ad?nde go now? - I am going to call a friend ?Tienes one? My god, old man are ?qu doing? - I need someone of here - You have not brought yourself like in 3 days, old man - are ?D?nde? - In Bangkok - This is a shit - You know that you should not be... - A name now - Very well, very well. - Allow me to look for it - Give me a contact I am employed at that, old man - I need to equip myself - Renegade DJ You can find it easily in a place called Bangkok - ?Puedes to stay safe, please? - Thank you, I join - To moving - To moving They look for you You are doing a lot of noise, I join - Sometimes it cannot be avoided - You him are causing problems to all And I want to say to all They see the ba?o It takes what you want and I vetoed I need a first-aid kit of the first help We have identified to suspect of the abduction of yesterday evening... Consider his priority to be this one He is a killer of police officers - ?Para what devils is all this? - Do not worry ?Qu do not worry? ?Quin devils are you? You are a damned ?Y where devils it is is another type which is his name? It was Thousands Templeton He died for you this night and you do not even know his name - ?De what are you speaking? - I speak about my brother Miles He took the bullets that had your name It was not known it, I believed that it was a big foul-up This way it is, a big foul-up in which my brother it lost the life for a brat as you Do not I know what is happening ?ok? - I came... - This way it is, you do not know Probably you have never thought in nobody except in you himself Miles was always there for me It is the only reason for that you are alive this night So keep silent yourself about the mouth and do what is said to you Leave me I do it You will be well do ?Qu do now? Miles had a plan A sure place I have to take you there Elders, I come before you with big respect... ... to looking for his advice We had a service They know that we have never trumped them My love has died The responsible man of his death is the student of an enemy with whom I crossed long ago So this is only question of revenge and of honor I offer my fees for killing to the girl as compensation if they help - ?Quin devils is it? - It hears, old man - ?Qu devils do you want? - Your boy is in all the news It put the paw up to the fund - ?Y what? - Max, is your boy - It is your responsibility - is zD?nde? In Bangkok Only I want to go away to house. Please zpodr?as...? zPodr?as to go to me with my manager now? Still not This is not a question of saving me! Not you are here to protect me, only ...! Only you are using me as bait! You want to remain with me so that more men come until you could finish with responsible man of killing to Thousands This is exactly what you want! If it will take you back you would be dead and they also I do not know if this way it would be but... ... I want to go away to house! I go away! You can handle this alone! Do not go out! We go We go! Extinguish the engine! Show his hands! We know that it killed the official in the concert yesterday evening I do not understand you, old man And you kidnapped the singer ?Crees that you can do what do you want in Thailand? Sufficient! Allow me to take charge of this He says that you killed a police officer And there is nothing that he hates more in world that to a killer of police officers zSabes what they do to him to killers of police officers in Russia? Much worse things Listen! Allow me to go out of here! Raise it I am inside, it is mine Let's go out of here Moan my God, is here. Be here! You are going to be safe now I know it ?Por for what are you weeping still? It had 14 a?os With 14 a?os was to point of signing my first dealing And this type Sean was God, had 14 a?os! He was touching the guitar and was singing A thing took other one and I embarrassed myself They found out quite rapidly and record stamp was afraid of signing with a 14-year-old pregnant girl I had to resign my baby I had to resign my baby I had to resign my baby Since then I have felt that quite what I have done has been for nothing I have resigned from so many people things for this business for my career zy why? I lost the most important thing in my life long ago It is time to take you to house My god, thanks to God that you are safe! I have tried to return with you the whole night. It has been a madness I know it Chance, he is Matt. Matt, he is... Does it hear, we are going to do that they check you ?s?? I want to insure oneself of that... We go, go! At once I am going to check you It hears, it was a good work that you did. I am grateful for it to you Thank you. I want to pay something to you zHablas English? Really I am grateful for it to you It takes this. You were well You are good with the sure places If one day I need a work of bodyguard, of safety will I call you ?s?? I have to go away, have to check her I have to check her - Enjoy his stay - Thank you - ?Prop?sito of the visit? - Cleanliness - ?Disculpe, se?or? - Business, se?ora - Business only - Welcome to Thailand Thank you - Here you have - Thank you ?D?nde is Chance? Chance had to do a pair of errands Nevertheless, I would like to present yourself to your new bodyguard ?Qu? My god is ?Qu happening? did ?T? do this? What rapid! Rapid, rapid, rapid - ?Por what? - ?Por what? First of all, you began with too much garbage, Angel Yes. Echo of things that come to me from the soul Things that I cannot to recover. Garbage, Angel Garbage ?OK? And only he needed an empujoncito of public relations - ?Qu? - I did a dealing with the disquera Omines And since I possess the rights of all your songs... ... and you have sufficiently, as 6 ?lbumes, good... ?C?mo could you do this to me? The essential thing You cost more for dead me that lives - ?Todo is it a question of the money? - ?Qu more? Do your work! You were well. You are good with the sure places Not, it is tied You killed my wife, and now I have yours - Come for her - ?D?nde? ?Cu?ndo? In your so-called sure place Hello. Agent Luai ?D?nde? ?D?nde?! do ?Est?s list? You and I have loose ends ?Tu was brother that of the market? I know much more on you: Wherefrom you come, ?Nunca they said to you what did it happen with your parents? Good, I eliminated your papi And he was debating what to do with your mother until... your teacher appeared, bullets started raining and the next thing that I knew the fact is that she was dead ?Sabes what? Everything was my fault You shoot this gun and we all die Mortal Gliding to take my time with you In the life ... in the life ... in the life.. everything talks each other about the flow... everything talks each other about the flow... he finds your rhythm... he finds your rhythm... Move away from him! Not. It shoots - ?Est?s well? - Let's go out of here - You have to go away - Not, I do not want to go away - You have to go away now - Not, I will not go away without you - Listen to me! - I will not go away without you! You saved me of more ways of which you will know Thank you There is nobody any more here except squirrels trying to escape - are ?Quin? - A musician I am here to touch my last song - Lower the weapon! - do ?Qu lower the weapon? Please! For the God's love, lower the weapon! Old man ... ?qu has what to see God in this? One year later This is for you. You have two minutes At once I go You saved my life of more ways of that you can imagine It makes me happy that it is you who are I feel it, son - Chance Templeton is dead - ?De what are you speaking? When I found you I thought that you would have the second opportunity Now I have mine I have always had my matters I will take charge of this Now it extracts your bottom of here I go behind you I will always go behind you
