 

                        Money is a common good. - Like water. Exactly. Algiers the White As Mireille Balin gives up Pp le Moko And as we have, once again, given up Africa Constance, there is nothing else you could have done. It's well known that when one goes south the latitude becomes negative and all that remains is the North, precious soul, precious friend. You still have the watch. Done with the crimes and the blood. Done with Kigali. Long live the holidays. Uncle Mathias, why did you say this watch is worth gold? It doesn't even show the time. THINGS Henri Dricourt... wait a second, yes I know. But Richard Christmann... I don't know. I know, the fire... but doesn't matter... it's him, it's him. Alright... war is war, but a crime remains a crime. Please keep looking for Alice. Two "M", only one "N". We're far from Byzance, you know. What lies ahead is an impossible history. We're facing a kind of zero. I have once encountered nothingness and it is much more immense than one tends to believe. Jaffa, 1948 you know that we are living in a material world LIKE THA You're completely right, I don't love any nation. Not the French, not the North Americans, not the Germans. Not the Jewish nation, not the Black nation. With their slanted eyes I only love my friends. Dollars Cinmascope Where did you steal this watch? It's not your business. Give it to me, or I will denounce you. No, it is mine. Oh, you speak German? You will be useful, my boy. Yes, but... how much? And you have studied, too. What a great find, this Ludovic. Who told you my first name? I know everything. Mr. Obersturmbannfhrer Goldberg what did you do in Avenue Foch, 1943? Leave me alone, horrible kid. All movement on a plain surface that is not driven by physical necessity is a spatial affirmation of oneself be it building an Empire, or tourism. Everyone can do something so that there is no God. But what has changed today is that the assholes are sincere. A-L-I-S-S-A Stop being suspicious of everything. I'm thinking about what Ludovic has told us. Alright... what, for example? The old man with the young girl. I have seen them speak to the Captain. Alright... and so? So, the name of the largest shareholder of the company Goldberg Mountain of Gold Yes... it's the name of the old man. Alright... Abandon ship, abandon ship, abandon ship! Quiet, Alissa, quiet! Meow is how the ancient Egyptians called their cats. You trouble me with each of your words. Be silent, Alissa. Waves of Allied bombers destroy the Third Reich under their bombs The Luftwaffe tries to regain their advantage by means of a terrifying new strategy. The German pilots will crash their own planes into the enemy bombers. Ach, Germany. Did you know that kamikaze, in Japanese means divinity of the wind? - Of course. Major Kamenskaia. I am a friend of your godmother, Alexandra Irinivna. Yes, exactly, the old chief of the Moscow Police. I have read a number of books... I have read a number of books on what she has written. So... I think that we should talk. And you think you will stay in Haifa? I will see. They say there's a right to return. For me it would be... to get away. In Stanford, what are you studying, exactly? I'm directing a seminar. Monetary creation and literary creation. You see, still today, they're asking themselves, in Moscow... The Spanish Civil War The Republicans tell the Comintern to evacuate the gold of the Bank of Spain. The France-Navigation company, exactly. When they reach Odessa, one third, one fourth has disappeared. And another third in Moscow. Regarding the first third, I have my idea. For the last third you would have to dig deep into the communist archives. Art... and the knife. War. So it's... You want to hear my opinion? AIDS is just an instrument to kill the black continent. Why is there light? Because there is darkness. LIKE THA Money was invented so that the people wouldn't have to look each other in the eye. So, we're back to zero, my friend. Fortunately, the Arabs have invented it. We don't even pay them for their copyright. Negative numbers were invented in India. They made some in Arabia, before setting out for Italy. Fibonacci has used them first. When the British left Israel what exactly did you do with the gold of the Bank of Palestine? THINGS LIKE THA One always says that one can only compare what is comparable. In fact, one can only compare what is incomparable to the incomparable. It's over, all that. Stalin Hitler No. Your comedy is pointless. Enough, stop. Me too, I have learned to collaborate with the French. See, I will teach you something. It's Napoleon. During the Fire of Moscow, he signed the decree for the creation of the Comdie-Franaise. I do not understand. I do not understand. To understand, Mr. Goldberg, that is difficult. I don't care about the Spanish gold that you have made disappear. I only have to find the rest. There's no need to fear Moscow anymore. My only true mission, Mr. Krewitzky... Ah, what fortune. My grandmother would say that as a Yes and as a No. I don't want to die before I have seen Europe happy again before I have seen the word "Russia" and the word "Happiness" cling to each other again, like two plaques of a belt. God be with you. Heil Hitler! Naples, alright. But Alexandria, Haifa, Odessa... to get from Algiers to Barcelona? One shall never... - Silence is gold. Istanbul, that's the Orient or the Occident? Lets go. EGYP Once, in 1942, I have encountered nothingness and it is much more immense than one tends to believe. To be or not to be. A jew. Yes, I've been told... my parents... but so what? To tell is never enough. Geometry as origin The origin is always what one returns to. There has been, for decades, especially in Mathematics a return of Geometry. The idea is not that Geometry would return to its origin but rather that we return to Geometry, as origin and participate in the return of Geometry. The poor things. They have for themselves only the name that we impose on them. There's nothing more convenient than a text. We have only books to put into books. But what if we have to put reality into a book? And what if we have to put reality into reality? I TURNED AWAY SO AS NOT TO SEE Geometry that is still valid, and at the same time still improves. Residing in all these new forms... Geometry. Do-Re-Mi-Fa-So-La Husserl underlines the "la" ... la gomtrie. In all new forms ... die Geometrie. This I cannot accept. I will address it tonight. I have to work now. Miss Alissa... Miss Alissa! continued to speak, for a while, with a low voice so that the young girl wouldn't hear them. But this precaution was unnecessary they spoke to each other with their thoughts. insofar as all of these parts, or a sum of these parts at a given moment denies, insofar as each part contains the sum the part that we consider, insofar as this part denies insofar as the sum of these parts, re-becoming collectively becomes the collectivity of these parts joined together dialectical thought is quite simply a way of using analytical thought insofar as it is part of a whole, insofar as it denies this whole insofar as the whole includes it, conditions it and denies it insofar as, by consequence, it is both positive and negative with regards to the whole, insofar as its movement must be destructive and preserving with regards to the whole Listen... after the reception of Daguerre by Agaro at the Academy of the Sciences, a mostly British armada even though long before the Declaration of Lord Balfour rushed towards Palestine. This is one of the first photographs of the Bay of Haifa. So... Otto Goldberg, Leopold Krewitzky, and even Moishe Schmcke according to their passports. But one pronounces Richard Christmann... The French knew him well since he was working for the German counter-espionage, and for their own. He begins in the Foreign Legion in Spain then joins networks of the Rsistance in occupied Paris on behalf of the Abwehr. After the defeat of the Germans, he still belongs to the rest of the Organisation Gehlen ... the Algerian FLN and finally Tunis, representative of Bayer and Rhne-Poulenc. Multiple assassination attempts. Acquitted twice. Like Henri Dricourt. Like Henri Dricourt. No, that's another story. War criminal, maybe not. But you know... Alice Simone How do you know? The book by Roger Faligot The archives of the NKWD That would explain why only two thirds of the Spanish gold made it to Odessa but not why also Moscow would only receive one third. The Group du muse de l'Homme. Germaine Tillon... Alice... Mind borrows from matter perceptions from which it derives its nourishment Mind borrows from matter perceptions from which it derives its nourishment Mind borrows from matter perceptions from which it derives its nourishment Mind borrows from matter perceptions from which it derives its nourishment and gives them back to it in the form of movement on which it has impressed its liberty. NAPLES Have you heard, they have abolished the fiscal paradises. What are we going to do? Well... we will rest in hell. Italy has concerned us a bit too much in the last two thousand years for the French, painting is Italy all our journeys take place in Italy, it's Italian museums while German Renaissance painting is for me extremely impressing Thank you for your advice. So... you're going to do something. You know, all these failed resolutions... The United Nations are rather disunited since 48. Never mind the crime... My friends, I have found the black box. This is why Hollywood was called the Mecca of cinema. The tomb of the prophet All eyes in the same direction The cinema hall Yes, but... a strange thing is that Hollywood was invented by the Jews. Adolf Zucker, William Fox, David Selznick Samuel Goldwyn, Marcus Loew, Karl Laemmle, etcetera Life is beautiful, you will see how in spite of sorrow you will have friends, you will have love you will have friends Is there a single act in the world of which I could still claim today that I have done it? My business, the garage Catherine wants to sell it. Her friend wants to buy it. They know it. I don't. I know bookkeeping, yes. France is facing today the largest risk in its history. One has to know how to say "We" Before one can say "I" A drama that we debate, in the hope that we can end it. A tragedy? Not at all. Everything remains neat. Everything remains among us. We ignore each other. Wars everywhere, for the last fifty years. We see ourselves in war like in a mirror. One can buy time. It needs courage in order to think. Love your neighbor? Ridiculous. You would have to love yourself enough to not do bad to your neighbor. Today that becomes impossible. If you follow the law or if you break it... Don't say all this, dad. And I ask you: Why don't you love us? Ideas separate us. But dreams bring us closer... No, nightmares. Because there's love and pride in the blood of the father... and thus hate. So what have you found today to piss us off? I love my brother, first of all. We've just debated brotherhood. And liberty. - Liberty, before. And once the hour of equality comes I will speak to you of shit. Okay, Flo. But why don't you love us? Excuse me, Miss... Excuse me? Miss, hello.. We want to go to the Cote d'Azur. Is this the right direction? Are we on the right way to the Cote d'Azur? Straight? Left? Right? Unbelievable. Scheiss French! - Scheiss France! Ach, Germany. Go, mother... Go, mom... Yes. To keep space and time intact, I have lied. I neglect to live them. That's a bit unfair. That's a bit unfair. But for me, that seems to be the way I do it. I always think that I'm elsewhere - Forget it. I always think that I'm elsewhere - Forget it. and that no particular moment has any importance. - Forget it. Nothing else? There's a figure, the mother. For her, it doesn't matter if she has a life at all. If one considers the fact to have a life as a fact by itself. She will never ask herself, not once, if she is still alive. She will never have the idea to just ask herself why and how she exists. After all, she is not aware that she is this figure because she is never, not for a single moment separated from her role. She doesn't know that she has one. The blood of the mother, full of hate... loves and remains. Is this Garage Martin? Is this Garage Martin? Is this Garage Martin? Is this Garage Martin? Flo, what do we have to tell them? We don't speak to people who use the verb "to be". Are you working here? Yes, but I don't have a contract. Lets speak to your parents. BALZAC LOST ILLUSIONS I'm leaving. I'll return to the Midi. And our comrades? And our comrades? It will be them who decide. They will come. It's for the elections. I'm filming... - Forget, my dear, forget. We have an appointment with them. - Forget it, madam. Only two or three minutes for a declaration. Who will present it? - But forget it, forget it. But your parents have made an appointment. What parents? - We're not making this up. No, he wanted to say: What kind of parents? Mr. and Mrs. Martin, they are not your parents? Please don't use the verb "to be". I don't understand anything at all. So? - They're not picking up. - Give it to me. It's not surprising that they all have mobiles to say that they are not there. Excuse me... to say that they have no time. They really seem to have a problem... Finally... use the verb "to have". Everything will be better in France. Did you find that in Balzac, Flo? Florine. If you make fun of Balzac, I will kill you. Please, Mr... two or three short questions. - No. Please, two questions. - No. One and a half hours late. Had this project been carried out the way it was initially planned it would have, without a doubt, given France a lasting advantage with regards to the digitization of books. But it's failing dramatically. Mr... do you want me to wait for you? No... you will pick up the Prince at the airport and then return to the office. So? So? So... the presidency "la", not "le" We'll see. - It's been seen. Nothing at all. And our convention? It's the 4th of August today. Flo is right. We'll have to wait a bit. The show is at 7 pm. We will still have to do some editing. Ten minutes. I will take care of it. Can I film while we're waiting? Nothing at all. Why don't we present ourselves at the elections? Florine and I. Not mama or papa. They're dreaming. Children don't have the right to participate in elections, not even on the regional level. Yes, yes, yes... but children are part of the people. And it exists, the will of the people. We have paid 30% of France's debt. Because you've grown old. Exactly the sum of profit that the insurance companies make of the debt. And the beautiful dress, can I film it? Yes, why not. I'm listening. Today it's not so good. I had forgotten that. They're both born on the same day. On every birthday Jean-Jacques and me we'll accept a debate with them, based on democratic principles. And it's them who direct it? More of less. We have signed a convention. But that's great. We have to film that. We're working at night. We're doing what we can. We're giving what we have. How long is this going to take? - 24 hours. It's their right. So either you wait, or you come back tomorrow. We're waiting. We're waiting. I will borrow Catherine's car and I will be back in a bit. We have to take care of the Garage. Oh shit. Be careful, mom. Yes... all of you... I'm able to mess you up. I will also attack the sun if one day it attacks me. I do not have my heart in my mouth. Ah? Are we moving to America now? No, to England. Exactly 400 years ago. Her heart is not in her mouth. Well, okay. But now, do you love us or not? When I speak to myself I speak the words of someone else that I speak to myself. When one hears one's own voice ... where's that from? No, dad... from here. - Yes. So? I'll check the TV. - No, mom... stay. The other is oneself. Oneself is in the other. And these are the three figures. - We are four. There's the law. But you have rights. At least say it. We're entering an age the digital age where for various reasons mankind will face problems that won't offer the luxury of expressing themselves. With regards to the garage, for example there has to be a redistribution of property. One has to say it. The revolution... Brotherhood... St. Augustin I count as my friends those who disapprove of my actions but not of my existence. I'm still smiling but there hasn't been a reason, for a long time. My words enter... They make a mess. I stay like this. I've had enough. Language enters... The mouth shuts up. It has to form a straight line now. It's done. I've made the image. Almost all, mathematics, television... There are almost as many as there are numbers. I don't understand... why television? Today, the nervous system becomes a natural resource. So in my humble opinion, Africa is once more out of luck. But has not become history. One used to think that. It doesn't change the fact that there will always be assholes. But what is different today is that the assholes are sincere. They believe sincerely in Europe, exactly. Europe used to be a German musician... a French writer... the Italian singers... Ah yes... The Marriage of Figaro Yes, Sir! What we're doing is pathetic. We're distributing, but we should be producing. We'd know how do it. Now, with these people here, I'll try to produce something. Don't you think so? She hasn't given you the sandwich, Flo? Flo, Flo? Yes? Yes... Yes, yes, 5 pm. Do you think this will take long? It'll be soon. As I said, I don't have any control. You've heard it. 5 pm. It'll work out. Jean-Jaques will leave you some space? - I hope so. Ask him if he has a program. And the unions? What are they saying? We'll see. They'll say he's right, but then they won't do anything. Anyway, there's nothing to say. To show, above all. To show the possible. That's all. What, for example? Not by making it readable. By showing it. Do you want more power? No power at all. A society, not a state. Excuse me, Florine, I don't get it. The dream of the State is to be one. The dream of the individual is to be two. Lets go, hurry up! What is she talking? Make up your mind about what it is that you're struggling for because you might well obtain it. What's this story? Be cautious, dad! You're also wearing a string, like mom? Lucien! - But I'm curious. To live or to tell... We don't have a choice. I'm going to tell... Abolishment of all individual privileges There will only be one common law that applies universally to everyone in France. Nothing to obscure the relation between the individual and the law. I hate the dust that I am made of and that speaks to you. Bravo... Saint Just... 89 Les beaux corps de vingt ans Madame... what are these countless eyes that are watching at night? Monsieur... all of a sudden, all of sudden it takes me wonder. There is no-one but still I speak to you. And you can hear me since you are answering. Monsieur... what are these images? So free and yet locked up. This enormous idea... where figures pass, and where the colors shine... Madame... it was space. And space is dying. One word, that's enough. - I know... Yes... you're full of beauty, of power. I can tell you too... We don't love each other anymore. The General Councils... it's not simple. There are no simple elections. We'd need to have a program. Yes, obviously... a program. And do you have one? To be twenty years old. To be right. To keep up hope. To be right. Since your government is wrong. To learn to see before one learns to write. It's great, no? Oh dear... you never listen. But still, without her knowing she had already taken the decisive step and was advancing through an unknown country outside the borders of her ancient paradise. Alone, as someone else than this little girl. The union of multiple voices... Without fear. prevents the progess of one towards the other. Stop the thief! Stop the thief! Has anyone seen my hat? Hey, little white one... you haven't seen anything? Hey? - No, Miss. I've seen you, bastard! Hey, attention! What are you doing? I'm welcoming an ancient landscape. I'm welcoming an ancient landscape. Shit... that's a Renoir! Yes, exactly. It has seen beautiful things, this animal. And these two here, that's you and your mother? If anyone asks you, just say that you don't know. I can't make out the brand. "Night and Day" Le jour et la nuit. It's fine, I understand English. It's from Egypt. It was found in the tomb of a pharaoh, at El Amarna. But there are no hours, there's nothing. Yes, but there is time. The night of time. And the day, who decides? - The watch itself. Nothing moves. Yes, because it's thinking. If it takes too long I shake off the dust. And so? Mystery. What are you thinking? And you? Of your back. That really interests you? No comment. That's enough! and you will see them again yes, after the annulation of the first elections now the children are waiting for the decision of the State Council their father has a small estate in the Midi for the first elections the decision of the State Council was correct Florine and Lucien had kept their family name the sovereignty of the people had spoken, but without a clear pattern this time, they got with just their first names so they are going to win in the days of the Resistance, not far from Toulouse there was a small group, part of the "Combat" movement "the Martin family" who had as their motto liberate and federate We know that gold powder from Sudan together with egyptian slaves constitutes the principal element of trade in the Sahara. But one doesn't see that this gold has been for centuries one of the decisive weapons of western Islam. Sun and death never look at each other directly. See... here... two female gold diggers, in a gathering of the Golden League. So, the image... Historians don't search, they find. To shield all these images from language means to actually make use of them because they are in the desert and that's where one has to look for them. In 1839, Palestine welcomes its first photographer. The quadrature of the circle had been accomplished with the famous metaphor x + 3 = 1 that Einstein had been looking for all his life. Clarity through obscurity At the end of 1926 in Jerusalem Gershom Scholem writes to Franz Rosenzweig in Berlin This country is a volcano. And the day will come when language will turn itself against those who speak it. And this is why the young girls love you Take me for a walk, make me run after you The king invites me into his chamber A prisoner of love And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea and it became as the blood of a dead man. In his second course at the cole libre des hautes tudes in New York Roman Jakobson shows during the winter of 1942/43 that is it impossible to separate sound from meaning and that only the concept of the phoneme can solve this mystery. To write for two voices can only succeed if the dissonances are announced by a common note. Tell me where the soldiers are where have they lived on? Tell me where the soldiers are what has been done? ISAAC SAID TO HIS FATHER Tell me where the soldiers are I SEE THE FIRE I SEE THE KNIFE over gravestones wafts the wind BUT WHERE IS THE LAMB? When will they ever see AND ABRAHAM SAID when will they ever see? GOD WILL PROVIDE I FOR A BURNT OFFERING The crusades, and the name Jerusalem, explain many things. If there was desire for vengeance the person to avenge was Jesus Christ. PALESTINE ODESSA Odessa. The stairs, in Russian, are feminine. In my opinion, she's talking nonsense. But there was something else. Poor Vakulinchuk. The manifestation was full of joy, of happiness. Here's the work... your turn. The soldiers began shooting because... manifest... and in manifest there is the word hand [main]. An ideal, a smile that conjures up the universe. HELLAS Democracy and tragedy were married in Athens under Pericles and Sophocles. A single child: civil war The tragic hero of the Greek The deadly encounter of a body without language with an impossible declaration. Ismene, mine own dear sister, knowest thou what ill there is? When Odysseus returns from his odyssey the only one who recognizes him through his disguise is a dog. But that morning, side by side with Atalante he understood that the war would be at the center of his life. French News presents today the first report from a country that is falling apart. Why would I have desired the gift of prophecy? Cassandra, you will be reasonable! - No. You don't approve of Gods plan? - No. But you going to behave! - No. Naples Reintroducing duration. Even more significant than the profound structures of life are the points where they break, their brusk or long deterioration. The tragedy is that one copies the same model that dates back to the Ancient Mediterranean. Affection is an ancient event. It has colored with its perfume, its colors, and its affirmations the entire life in the western world. Without affection, evolution would not have been possible. The plague breaks out in Naples on October 1st, 1943 the same day when the Allies enter and liberate this unfortunate city. Liberty is expensive. But one can't buy her with gold, and not with blood but with cowardice, prostitution and betrayal. The North Americans could pretend to liberate the people and force them, at the same time, to feel defeated. Barcelona Spain is a country where there is no shortage, at the moment of chances to die. And even our hopes And yet, of course What matters is not what a dictator thinks. We discover war only once. But we discover life many times. A truth that's more loyal, and one might add, delivered by hand. Bullfight on the Plaza de Toros. Everyone was there. Hemingway, Dos Passos, Orwell. And then? After the execution, toreros and spectators left for the front. Women. Like all the ones who were building barricades in the suburbs of the city awaiting the offensive. Simon Weil would later, after Franco's victory when she learned the Germans had taken Paris, declare: A great day for Indochina. You see, with the verb "to be", the lack of reality becomes flagrant. For example: Soon we will be in Barcelona. It would be better to say: Barcelona will welcome us soon. What time is it? Always the right time. THINGS LIKE WHEN THE LAW IS WRONG JUSTICE COMES BEFORE THE LAW SUBTITLES PIRATE CINEMA BERLIN
