 

                        THE WINDOW IN FRON You've been weird since we left the market, what's wrong? Nothing! Does there have to be something wrong? We've been out for an hour and you haven't said a word! We got the groceries, came downtown and you're silent! If you're mad at me, say so. Stop wearing that face I'm not making a face, you're the one who's always pissed off Let's go over there If I'm mad I don't shut up and hold it in like you! Oh sure, you're always right, I forgot I'm not always right, but I am this time Come on, you like to fight You could stick up for me just once! You made a scene because she cut into the line - But she was ahead of us! -When I tried to apologize, she jumped on me like a maniac and you kept quiet! What was I supposed to do? You don't see the face you make when I talk to people - You're ashamed of me - What are you talking about? You were screaming. Even the cashier said you were wrong Did you see how she pointed that pencil at me? Yes, but you didn't need to tell her where to shove it Okay, maybe I went too far. Then she asked the Romanian if she had enough money to pay. What a racist! Listen, put that money away. There are people around... He's lost He can't remember his own name Maybe he's got l.D. Do you have an identity card? No, not money, identification - What about in his pockets? - What, should I frisk him? I'm very confused... I don't remember anything Put your money in your pocket Give it a minute, you'll remember - We can't just leave him! - What can we do about him? He's following us! - He's not following us -Yes, he is! Don't worry We'll take you to the police station near our house They'll know what to do You know how many people get lost? A whole lot, right? There's a game on TV tonight What team do you like? - Okay, so you don't like soccer - Stop it now! Hey, can you give me a hand? No, you stay in the car. I'll get it - Ma, Martina broke my Game Boy - It's not true, Microbe did it - Hurry up, don't stop to chat - Hi, kids - I'll help, Mama, give me one - Martina, you're in my way - Who's that man? - I have no idea, he's lost You know Filippo and how he can complicate life - Where did you find him? - Downtown - Just what you need -Wait, don't pull me Microbe, stop yelling on the stairs! - Where's Papa? - Go watch TV with him - Who was that man? - I'm in no mood, Martina, go I don't feel like watching TV Detergent on the right, all spray bottles on the left This kid is getting more obsessive than you are! Order makes life easier and doesn't make you waste time You're the one making me waste time I told you, go inside and watch television! Martina, can you hear me? I told you, I don't feel like watching TV Was she born that way or did she grow into it? I don't know - Giovanna, he's undressing! - Get away from there! He's almost naked! Come before he closes the shades Will you stop that? Okay, enough already! Open up, Vittorio! Leave Luciana alone! I'll call the cops this time! Open the door right now! Busybody! I told you, I don't want you involved! Go away! Mind your own fucking business, bitch, or I'll call the cops! I'll have you and that illegal immigrant who fucks you arrested Get out of here! He was kidding Giambo! - Giambo! - What is it? Vittorio called me a bitch - He called you a dirty nigger - I'll take care of it - He didn't say that! - He thought it! Be quiet! Open the door, asshole! - It's about time! - The game started, right? Papa's home! Hi, Papa! Will you eat with us or take your plate next door? Good evening - Filippo! - I'll take him after the game I don't believe it! You brought him back here!? There were too many people, we waited an hour! They want to know how I found him and bullshit like that - There, only one point! - What an imbecile... Eat - Would you like some more? - Yes - Mama? - Why are you awake? Maybe Simone is dead - Simone? - The man in there! - How do you know his name? - He told me He got his memory back He told your daughter that his name is Simone He's asleep from overexertion Did he just tell you or did you ask him? -Why are you whispering? - So I don't wake him up If you let him sleep, will you carry him out of here? Sir? Simone? You have to wake up. We have to go, wake up No, Filippo! You're not leaving him here! - He could be a maniac! -You're exaggerating, Giovanna He'll sleep near the kids! You're crazier than he is! Stop yelling I'll yell when I want to! Watch how he wakes up now! Great, he made himself comfortable now - You resolve this situation! - Look! You made him cry! Stop that tone or I'll smack you one! And I'll report you to a cop! Are you coming to bed? He's sleeping. I put Mama's blanket on him Turn out the light, I'm coming - Go to sleep! - I'd go to sleep, - but this guy's awake! - I don't feel like it We sleep together once a week and you don't feel like it? No, leave it open. I don't trust that man in there - No, he'll hear us this way - We'll do it with a silencer - I really don't feel like it - Come on, sure you do! Good morning! - Why didn't you wake me up? - You were sleeping so nicely Look Mama, Simone made breakfast - Where is he now? - He's in there He made a mess with the eggs, sure he's better, right? Have a crepe - No, I don't want anything - I helped him, you didn't! Martina, go do your notebook Yeah, and do Marco's too! Remember, they get out of school at two today - What time do you start? - At seven, like always - Haven't they changed the shifts? - Sure they have It's just that they gave me the night shift again -You always get cheated - I was the last guy hired I have to hurry now, I hate doing things in a rush! He's in there He's going, today I'll take care of it Today Don't worry, I promise What's wrong? - Have you seen Chen Suilan? - Why? - Have you seen her? - Sure, don't you see her too? - That's not her - What's the difference? - What happened to Chen Siulan? - She works two jobs, her sister replaces her and she has no working papers. The bosses know this trick of using the same name for relatives who come - It doesn't work anymore! - What are you, an SS officer? - They asked me to investigate - You tell them it's not your job You do the accounting. What does that mean? -You count people? - How can I say no to them? With your mouth! Hi! Hi Mama, look what we got - What's all this? - Wait or I'll crash - What have you done? - I'll explain later - How about explaining now? - Are you happy now? - No, I'm playing! - Let Marco play too No, he doesn't know how to play - I didn't buy it, okay? -You took money from that man? - No, he gave it to me - You know what that's called? - Exploiting the vulnerable - Don't yell, he'll hear you! He'll hear me? Why the fuck didn't you bring him to the police today? I did and I made a report I just couldn't leave him there - How much did you take? - They'll call and let us know I didn't take his money, are you crazy? He came with me to get the kids from school and he wanted to buy them a gift He told Martina to pick one, you know how grand she is Yes, but you've really lost the plot! I can't sleep with him here Take him to the pub and leave him at the station on the way Sure! This way I'm always the one who's the shit! They're not for us, I sell them - Are you a pastry maker? - To earn some extra money I make them twice a week for my friend who owns a pub But I'd have liked that I would have liked to open a pastry shop Why didn't you? I didn't have the money You could work in a pastry shop if you like it that much Sure, at 29 years old with with a husband who gets himself fired all the time I know it's hard to quit, but at least when you bake you shouldn't smoke. You used tap water and you didn't even taste it to make sure there wasn't too much chlorine Pardon me. I'll use mineral water next time Do you have a favorite brand to suggest? You'll find the right one. Try it when it's cold and when it's heated. The water must always be clear, have no smell, be pleasant to the taste and be absolutely low in alkaline How do you know all this? Maybe I knew someone... who knew how to bake very well Then you must remember something If I'm late at the police station, would you put my kids to bed after yours? - Want Giambo to go with you? - He is just what I need... I'll take two minutes, wait for me here No, you could have brought them a little later for closing time! Sorry, I'll bring them early next time, life is a mess at home Send your husband if you're in a mess, or don't you trust him? It's you I don't trust! He works nights anyway, so... Excuse, excuses. If I had the chance, I'd show him a good time Do it! You'd get him off my back then! - Trouble is, he'd never do it - Oh yes he would - Isn't Giorgio enough for you? - Still? After 15 years, it's incest now - Irene, the cash register - I'm coming! I can't, I'm in a rush Relax a bit or your brain will blow up, honey By the way, the pies aren't selling very well What can I do for you then? That's my favorite question. Make sure it's good Be serious, tell me what you want How should I know? Invent something, shock me Make something new You think that's easy. 'Bye Pardon me, I think your grandfather isn't feeling well I was standing by him and he was saying some strange things - Then he walked off - He's not my grandfather Sorry, it's just that I saw him with you before... I live in the building across from you Really? I don't know who he is, we found him in the street The police said they'd inform us if they find out anything Where did he go now? I met him there in front of my car Excuse me, but you took him to the police and they left him in your care? - Impossible, right? - It seems a bit strange to me You're right I wasn't the one who brought him anyway Well, he can't be too far He's not well - What's wrong with him? - His memory is gone What's the name? Giovanna I'm Lorenzo. But, I meant his name Oh! Simone I should have taken him to the police before going to the pub Now what can I do with him... I can't chase him around all night You've been very kind, but I'd better go home now Simone, what are you doing? Why did you get out of the car? My life is already a mess, you are just what I need! Come back to the car I'll take you where you want We can go ask again, maybe they've found out - where you lives - I'll take you there No, thanks anyway My car is right here. Two people are better than one I'm sorry, I'm taking up so much of your time Don't worry about it, I'm not working tomorrow - They're coming! - Who's coming? Don't get upset - Let me out. I have to get out! - No! What are you doing? Simone, wait! - I'll go with him - Okay, I'll catch up No, please! Let me go! Lorenzo! He's not feeling well! Simone, what's wrong? Nothing I just need... to sit down for a bit Good evening, Mario. I'll have the usual, please - Sorry, I'm not Mario - Then have Mario come No one named Mario works here -What do you usually have? - Vermouth - I'll have a beer, please - Make that two Who are you? Lorenzo. We were in the car together just now We met in front of the pub, remember? No. What kind of work do you do? I work in a bank Do you like it? I guess so. I'm about to become a branch manager Your wife will be pleased Well...I'm not married You're not married at your age? Why not? I don't know Maybe I haven't found the right person yet What about you? - What about me? - Do you like your job? - Do you like chicken? -Yes, it's alright I work in a chicken factory I'm in accounting. And I don't like it I like your cakes very much. The ones you bring to the pub How did you know I make them? I've seen you quite often and I go to the pub a lot And like I told you, I live across from you You've never seen me? Maybe I have Maybe in the neighborhood Or maybe from my window I don't know, what with everything I have to do... - Sir?! - Oh, excuse me Have you seen Sara? They're even taking babies away! Please help me find her, please! Help me find her Remember to take the money out of your jacket These are Filippo's. They might be small for you I just need time to wash your things, put them here I don't like the sweater You haven't even tried it on I don't like the color Alright, I'll get another one for you This robe is for you... it's blue! I'll take your clothes to the cleaners tomorrow Do you understand? - Hello? - Giovanna? It's Lorenzo Sorry to call so late, but I looked up your number and I saw you were still awake Yes After I left you at your car, I lost you and I just wanted to know if he's alright Yes, he's taking a shower I couldn't.. I couldn't tell you before what he said to me when he stopped me So, here we are My friends had gone and I was getting into my car At a certain point, he was almost on top of me He spoke to me...as if he were talking to someone else He...it was actually as if he were declaring his love I don't remember the words exactly now "I'll always love you" More or less that's what he said And then? "We have to love each other secretly," "because no one...no one will forgive our love" What did you answer? I didn't know what to say It was a bit embarrassing too Then he just stopped. He looked me in the eyes "l don't want to give up our love. Do you?"' He really said that? Yes For a moment I was... I tried to give him an answer Any answer. I don't know how he took it You didn't understand who he was talking to? No, but he was convinced he was talking to the person he loved So he wasn't talking about me...I mean about her. About the woman that he couldn't love What was he thinking about? Who knows how it ended... Take him to the police tomorrow Yes, I have to take the kids to school and shop, but.. You can always call if you need a hand. I'll give you - my mobile number - Alright Is everything alright? Is everything alright? Listen, I'm coming in What are you doing? You couldn't sleep? You couldn't either Did the children stay with your friend? Yes, but Emine's kids sleep here often too I like the way your husband plays with his children Yes, Filippo is a good father Have you known him long? We've been married for 9 years, but were together before that It was different in the beginning. Then... Then the worries, the children, like everyone else I guess It must be beautiful to watch love grow that started only as passion... and to help it change, to protect it from the passage of time Well, that's not always easy Do you like to dance? Yes, but I haven't danced for years It's been longer for me - Martina, hurry up - We'll be ready in two minutes - What time is it? - Too early for you I'll take the kids to school and then go shopping with Emine I swear I'll leave him at the police station today No, I have to take his clothes to the cleaners later Alright, just don't complain later I took him to the pub last night I almost lost him, but thank God I got help. You know, that guy that.. Alright, I'll tell you some other time You be quiet, I'll talk to her Comb your brother's hair, it's sticking up It took me an hour to get it like this Don't yell, you'll wake him up She doesn't understand, she's an old lady He doesn't care about the old man. He wants to do you! Come on, he hasn't even thought about that Don't you think I'd have noticed? He spied on you just like you spied on him! I didn't spy on him! You've been acting out a soap opera for months - For this afternoon, please - This will take three days Please, it's really urgent It's Saturday, we're closed this afternoon. No way, sweetie It's a human issue If someone begs you there must be a reason! Come on, it's important to her Pass by later and knock on the grate Just this once, got that? Nice suit, very fine fabric... - Whose is it? - What's it to you? He's hitting on you, he even knows how you like your coffee These were in the pocket - What's he doing with rocks? - He throws them at busybodies! Oh, hello! Right now? I don't know, how can I do that? Yes, that's a good idea Where? Alright, the same coffee bar. Fine The same coffee bar! Do you two have "your song" yet? - Good morning - Good morning - Sit down - Thank you Would you like something? - A coffee? - Yes, a coffee, thank you Two, please - How is Simone? - He was asleep when I left I had to wash him last night I saw numbers on his arm... - From a concentration camp? - Yes He took us here to the Jewish neighborhood I wanted to tell you, I called a policewoman friend of mine She said there's been no report of anyone finding an old man - They know nothing about this - That's what I thought She'll let me know if anyone reports a missing person - I see you're getting involved -Yes, a bit Thank you - Milk? -Yes, a drop No, I don't take sugar - I can't stay here long - Alright, we'll hurry How is it that someone like you took a stranger home? It wasn't me. It was my soft hearted husband He goes overboard when it comes to helping someone In fact, it seemed odd. With your kids in the house... What do the kids have to do with this? No, I only meant that. it seemed rather strange What did you think strange? What do you know about me? It's true, I hardly know anything about you I only know that you take your children to school at 8 every morning Your friend, who has black children, is always with you I know that every night after you wash the dishes you stay in the kitchen to smoke a cigarette You put out your cigarette under the tap water I know you often wander around the house at night You go to the window and look outside But I don't know what you see - Good morning - Good morning - I'd like some information - Certainly, what is it? Would you happen to know an elderly gentleman called Simone? No, no one comes to mind He's lost, he remembers nothing. He's staying with her for now I think he's a concentration camp survivor How can you say that? He has those numbers on his arm He stopped here in front of your shop last night He knocked on the grating as if he knew this place very well He may be one of your customers Are you sure his name is Simone? It's the only thing he remembers - Did you make a police report? -Yes, but there's no response Listen, I've worked here for a very long time Maybe if you brought him here I'd recognize him I'm sorry. We're not looking for any missing persons here It seemed the name Simone meant something to you a minute ago It struck me because this lady's brother was named Simone But it can't be him. Simone died many years ago in a concentration camp Excuse me, where is your car parked? - Along the river - Mine is the other way Goodbye - Why was your cell phone off? - It wasn't, I was at the bar Maybe it didn't receive there Look, it's on. I never turned it off If you say so Didn't Simone go out with you this morning? Oh sure, I took him shopping with me - He wasn't here when I woke up - Where is he now? -You said you'd stay with him - What did I say? I said I was going to the cleaners, you stupid shit! -You're really a ball buster! - I can never trust you! I know you didn't make a police report! I'm sick of this! - It makes me even sicker! - Then do something! Take some initiative! Just one thing! What am I saying? You can't even get on the day shift! Give me time for fuck's sake! It's a new job! Do you call checking the gas on trucks a job? Fuck you! Is it my fault? You forget I lost the job the auto shop to a family member. If it wasn't for the kids I wouldn't be breathing gas fumes all night! You could stop breathing for what they pay you! Are you throwing money in my face now? I've always had a job! Who gave you this house, huh? If I'm correct, if your mother hadn't passed you the lease... At least I had parents who helped us! True, I didn't have any But I'm not like you at least I'm not like you! Why? What am I? Go on, say it! What am I to you? I'm a failure? Am I a failure? Right?! You're a real bitch! My dear Simone, After you, red is no longer red The blue of the sky is no longer blue The trees are no longer green After you, I have to search for colors in the yearning I have for us After you, I miss even the pain that made our love timid and secret I regret the waiting, the relinquishing, the coded messages, our stolen glances in a world full of blind people who didn't want to see because if they'd seen us we'd have been their shame, their hatred, their cruelty I regret I haven't yet had the courage to ask your forgiveness And that is why I can no longer even look inside your window That is where I always saw you when I didn't even know your name and you dreamed of a better world A world where a tree was not forbidden to be a tree, or for blue to become the sky I don't know if this is a better world... now that no one calls me Davide anymore, now that everyone calls me only Mr. Veroli How can I say this is a better world? How can I say that without you? I have to leave in a few days I'm being transferred to the Ischia branch It must be a beautiful island Yes. But not now It's always like this I'm never good at guessing the right timing A few days ago, I thought this promotion would save me It's the last thing I want right now It seems I always get what I want at the wrong time Everything's fine as long as I'm dreaming of something, but then when I try to make that become reality... I don't know how to explain it, sorry, I know, but.. It's just that l... I'd stay sitting on this bench forever, even though I know it would never be possible... Just look at how you're dressed You have to be cleaner, more polite, better than other kids That's easy if everybody else is like you! Martina! Say you're sorry right now! You weaned this kid on viper's milk! Hello. May I please speak to Mr. Veroli? Mr. Davide Veroli - Who is this? -You wouldn't know my name You don't know me. Tell him I'm Simone's friend - Simone? -Yes Just a moment Mr. Veroli is sleeping now, please call back later You may also leave me your telephone number Hello. We spoke yesterday. I have an appointment - with Mr. Davide Veroli - Come in You're not bringing bad news, are you? Why bad news? You never know. I expect just about anything from life! Davide shouldn't be seeing you However, don't agitate him. Diabetes! Heart! Depression! His problems are worse than other people's! Understand? - I'm sorry -You're telling me Just the effort it takes for me to give him a pill... There's nothing worse then someone who refuses to take care of himself! Stop putting on a show, Sara Why don't you go make us some coffee? "What's your name, what's your name" Martina constantly asked me The only name I had fixed in my head was Simone's I read it, I'm sorry I thought it would help me to find you In fact, you found me Simone never read this letter When you found me that morning I was on my way to our meeting place Simone and I had a secret meeting place We left our messages there Everything we couldn't say in front of anyone else or on the telephone, we wrote We hid the messages between the stones of the fountain I made you worry, didn't l? Yes Why? Everything is ready I don't taste things as I once did Come here. Taste this chocolate Did it break immediately? I didn't notice, it's melting Quickly? - Yes - It's the grain It must have an almost imperceptible graininess Then once it's melted it must leave a sweet sensation that lasts for just a moment, and then the thing that counts is the bitterness Yes, that's what it tastes like Do you taste the perfume of the vanilla? Yes, but... distantly Distantly... Yes, distance You've transformed your passion into a hobby You shouldn't treat your talent that way! Do you know the pastry shop on Via Giustini? - Veroli's? - Davide Veroli. It was his He was a great pastry chef, an artist famous all over Europe - Have you known him long? - A lifetime I owe him my life He was the one who saved me on October 16, 1943 You don't know what I'm talking about, do you? No, I'm sorry The Nazis...began at dawn and continued all day to load entire families on to their trucks Men, women, old people, babies Not only in the Ghetto, but in all of Rome Davide did everything to warn as many people as he could He saved a lot of children that day That's why he was given medals and honors... For what it was worth... -What did you do for him? - Why? You don't know how truly privileged you are He's never allowed anyone to make pastry with him, much less give them his baking tools Are you a pastry chef too? I don't know, maybe it was... all the love in the letter that never made me think... they were two men I didn't realize it either, but then... Only after I thought about it again... Mama - I'm on the telephone - It's been an hour! The second time he has to go home, why isn't Tom Thumb -able to find the bread crumbs? -I don't remember - The birds ate them - The birds, the birds ate them But wasn't it pebbles he left along the road? Everyone remembers fairy tales in their own way Do you still have a lot of packing to do? I guess so He's a dead end Look, he wants to sleep with you and then he'll take off Anyway, he'll be in Ischia and you'll be here Alright, but would he spy on me for months just for a fuck? Then tell him you're leaving everything to run off with him to live your dreams of love on the island. Watch how fast he disappears Listen, I'm working overtime. Will you wait for me? No, I'll take the bus Fuck him! Yes, have yourself a good fuck It's the only way to get him out of your head. Go home, make yourself pretty, leave the kids to sleep at my house, and that's the end of it Don't make that face, it's not a tragedy Look, if you do it well, do it very well Come in I tried to give the place some atmosphere Maybe I went overboard I'll put them out if you like No, it's very nice If you knew for how long I imagined this... And now you're here and I can kiss you. I can kiss your mouth, your face, your eyes You never stop, did you know that? You're always moving Day after day I watched you, you became an obsession for me I came home early just to watch you I hid behind the curtains I waited for you to go out to see where you went It was enough to know that you were there and there were times I couldn't tear myself from the window in the hope that I'd see you for one more instant From that window? Yes With this transfer you'll have a lot of responsibilities Your life will change completely A new place, a new job, new friends -it'll be hard at first, but.. -I'm not asking you to come I can give you all the time you want Why do we have give this up? I know it's difficult for you It's difficult for you to be with me But it's even more difficult for me to leave you I owe you 13 euros I'll give it to you at the end of the month Hello. I've brought back his suit Giovanna, come in, please. Hurry! But I came only to give him his suit - No, please come inside - Has something happened? The air is too humid. It's no good for pastries It makes it harder to knead the dough You didn't tell me if the children liked the cake we made together I'm sorry, they liked it very much. Emine went crazy for it too That woman should go crazy with a good diet Today is not the day to make pastries, they're turning out badly Are you sure he told you the truth? It wasn't easy, he didn't want to talk. But when I aimed the gun at the baby, he told me everything He made a list of everyone still hiding valuables You can't go wrong. I'm not leaving. Is everything ready? Yes, the German troops are here. In half an hour we'll surround the Ghetto. What about that Jew who works with you? - Will he warn anyone? - Who? That queer? No, he's harmless. I keep an eye on him If he dares to leave here... I believe you! I'm going, but keep an eye on him I saved many people that night The same people who laughed at me, who didn't believe in my sentiments, who wouldn't accept that I could love Simone And to save them, I lost him I was at a crossroads, can you understand that? But instead of running to Simone, I chose to warn the others first I had to show that I was worthy of them, to save them first would be my redemption Where did you leave the children? With Emine You mustn't trust anyone! Every neighbor could be an informer, a spy! - They're not in danger -Yes, they are! Run, go home, hide them, take them as far away as you can! Calm down, Davide, nothing's happened! There's no time to lose, they'll be here any minute! - The children are safe - Oh, the indifference... That's your disease. You're blind and deaf They've stupefied all of you with their propaganda! You must.. You must run and warn everyone you know, Giovanna Before it's too late! Alright, Davide, I will. Just calm down now We're here with you, nothing can happen I'm not afraid for myself I can't do anything now But you... you still have a choice You can change, Giovanna Don't be content to merely survive You must demand to live in a better world, not just dream about it I didn't do that Are you awake already? I never went to sleep Has something happened? I've decided to quit my job In two hours I'll take the kids to school and then I'll go to work and give them my resignation Why? What's the reason? I'm sorry I thought something happened to you at work That you were forced to do this No. This was my choice I should have done it sooner, but I don't think it's too late What will we do now? What will you do? I want to work in a pastry shop Help me, Filippo Help me - Here they are - Where's my other bag? I'll go get it - That's very well done - I know Then why did you want me to check it? To show you how smart I am! I've never had a doubt It's me! Hi. Did you find a job? No, I had some interviews, but I'm too old to apprentice Did you make these for the pub? - No, they're for us - They're not fattening, right? - No - If you get any fatter... You little... He's downstairs, he's moving out Should I put raisins or almonds in the cookies? Both - We're done - Good. You lock up My dear Davide, Since you left us forever, Martina asks me of you often She still calls you Simone. I'll tell her your story soon Yesterday at work, for the first time I was asked to make a cake by myself. Guess which one I made? The head pastry chef didn't comment, but it was added to the list of cakes to be made for Sundays I think that's a good sign Filippo was able to get on the day shift It seemed as if he'd won the lottery, he was so happy and I understood that I can't ask more of him right now You know, when I think of Lorenzo, I'm afraid I'm already beginning to forget his face, that I can't remember his voice anymore What is he doing right now? Who is he smiling at? I still need your advice, Davide, one of your glances, one of your gestures But then suddenly I'll feel your gestures in mine, and I recognize you when I speak Does everyone who leaves you always leave part of themselves with you? Is this the secret of having memories? If that's true, I feel much safer because I know I'll never be alone
