 

                        This highway that you travel... ...you entered in her. On this same night... ...I chose this. does THE man create his/her destiny, right? But nothing makes the gods to laugh more. treacherous Highways on this night, personal. in the morning, we can be the to look for 25 centimeters of snow. The temperatures here, in the High Desert, they begin to lower until the 7 degrees, for that, take my piece of advice, Mice of the Desert. they Diffuse in a bottle... No, I knocked in the ditch to 95 km / h. Ed? Ed, are you there? Shit. Go there, dear. You know, I walked 80.000 Km in the last ones two years without having holed a tire. Are you there? Yes, I am always without net. He/she listens, I will delay one more two hours. I need that leave that for Morelane, it maintains the calls the walk. He is to speak in redoing completely the commercial center, in Nob Hill. It is Christmas. Yes. At 5:30 o'clock. Then, Ed! I would not be here if he/she didn't go to escape the coiro. Thank you. I also love you. He/she listens, Enrique. I am in the highway since the seven. I am a salesperson. I have the woman home. This week we have a beb to be born. My wife does be nervous that I am here kept. It is how he/she said. This night, in the best of the hypotheses. Shit. Some amusements interesting for here? There are some cliffs the quilmetro and middle of here. Beautiful sunsets. Pete, was not? He/she listens, I have a contact in Phoenix that he/she will make me a beautiful business in a fleet of of removed jukeboxes of the market. Wurlitzers, the old ones 1015. An American classic. Completely renewed. It is still have the disks original of.45. Without games. You put one of those beauties here, and you have the bar with more class in a ray of 160 Km. I already have a jukebox. I am to speak of Wurlitzer, Pete. To 1015. A, I reduce to zero, a, five. The model of more jukebox popular of all of the times. The people don't get to resist to fill her/it of money. Looking here to the turn, I am with the impression that you are a type that he/she worries about this space. You have tables of new snooker, to I house-of-take a bath is very clean, the drinks well arranged. I would increase some style, therefore, he/she thinks about that. Same there. A brilliant tribute to Presley, Otis Redding, Buddy Holly. manes of guaranteed money. Here he/she says that you sell pavements. At this time, yes, but of here the some months childbirth for my business. The more and better. No. What is made of the net for here it? Let to guess me. Does he/she have state to my wait, right? I am to close. It is a little busy day. Seriously? And is it busy in some? It would be surprised. How much cost a reading? Ten dollars. Is it exorbitant, not? I collect that can pay. Everything well. Because not? This doesn't implicate the death of chickens, yes? - Unless he/she wants. - No. No there is a crystal ball? He/she is at the workshop. He/she sits down. The energy is stronger if he/she plays him/her in the hand but you are that he/she knows. Comfortable, make his/her "thing." What would like to know, gentleman... Starks, Jimmy Starks. I don't know. My car.... Does he/she endure to house? Tolerate. Just for playing me in the hand. That is incredible. What is that he/she sees more? Highways. Purple Mountant. A woman is there to his/her wait. She makes him to feel again with 20 years. How is it that is dressed? A turbulent mind. Replete of fears. Strong ambition. In the past, this brought him/her problems. And Wolves? Will they take a lot? I would not bet against them. With Levans of crutches? Forget. The small is their secret weapon. - Levans will play. - With a burst knee? I doubt a lot. However, tentative beautiful woman. I would not bet against them. I am with a risky business. Somehow, full of uncertainties. How is it that that will run? That will need one forecast more deepened. Does he/she have to tie the big antenna, it is not? His/her business is assured. He/she will benefit of a sudden luck. A great amount of money he/she comes for itself, arrival of Dallas. Dallas? I don't know anybody in Dallas but I am happy for being with the money. Only marvels in the horizon, it is not? Boss? It is me to break the hand. But that ray! Is he/she well? My concentration was interrupted. It seemed that was to have a glutting. Of certainty that is well? Well... Recover the breath, I pick their things here. I fear that the session has finished, Sr. Starks. That is what valley the 15 dollars? I don't control the talent, I just listen to him/it. Without offense, but I already read things improve "Little cakes of the Luck." Is he/she part of the espectculo, right? That is good. You are good. I give him/her other 20 dollars and maybe it can summon his/her vision again. Go there, let us continue. That is a madness. We are finished, Sr. Starks. He/she is displeased because I agreed to his/her game? We go there. I am also a salesperson. Maybe we can learn one with the other. At least, feel the that valley my money. What was? That forms finds strange of doing business, companion. Of diamond for stone, boss. He/she has to improve his/her presentation. Shit. Yes? Who is that was to annoy? Probably, it is one of those automatic markers. The most common form of organic life. The telemarketing. Of any in the ways, I will link to the company telefnica. Oh God, as you are good. You should have seen me in the bed. Were you never kept in some place? It seems that were in a bar and not in a workshop. - It was at a bar to the wait. - As you want. I don't want to begin an investigation. You already have your work as lover of any in the ways. I yesterday could be in the statistics of the freeway and you come me with shit. You drive very fast and you are always the brute of the telephone. - Porra, as you are good. - Jimmy, not. - I will show a T4. - He/she only said that were good. Yes, you said that and... I thought, in that second fraco, before almost to come undone in the highway... It is going you foder, nor play. ...as he/she missed of the smell of your hair, of the soft curve of your neck. As it would go me of this for best without to play a last time in my angel. Did you think that everything about one second? Yes. They are incredible the things that you say for you give a queca. i Jimmy, are you already awake? He/she is Roy. i there is a problem here for you solve. i it is Lopez. Porra, Jimmy! Do you want to know a thing on Roy? Roy has nightmares in to give me a bill of a "foreigner." He thinks that I leave to put in a car "cholo" with an ambientador of the Virgem Maria in 3D. Roy maybe is harsh, but it is just an idiot tenth of the one that some that you will know thereabout. It is a treacherous game, Andy. Nobody tells you when the rules change. But do you have a future and pears, do you know? You always went one of the more sharp of my personnel. Thank you. - Do you dream in big, it is not? - I learned with you. Always in search of the shortest road. But the one what does that interest? This company is just one among many. Me own I will leave next months. To leave, how like this? I have jukeboxes to sell. Jimmy, what are here to do? He/she waits one minute. Wait one second. It was an order, Andy. Roy agreed to the leaves of expenses. Shit. But I can explain that. Can we explain that to Roy, right? He will understand, because of everything that I had pay on these last months with a small one to I walk, and you, practically, you taught me to prepare the leaves. You were been hit, small. The rules are not mine, is it well? My rules are not, how like this? I don't understand. He/she is the same brute that he/she spoke to me about the rules: "That if fodam the rules", "Don't worry about that, Andy", "There is no problem, I show you...". It was not exactamente that that I said. It was exactamente that that you said, son of the prostitute. - Shit, Andy. - I don't get to believe in you. If it didn't go me, you would have ruined your job has one year. It saves me the those tretas, "gabacho." - That is an expensive fact. - That if foda your fact, "pendejo." Good, good. Didn't you get, h Jimmy? Nor you got to remove the dark glasses. He/she removes the top hands of my car, Lopez. It is going you foder. Porra. Jimmy, then? Where do you have state? You are to lose the game. Are we to lose? i Who is that he/she could foresee, personal? i THE incredible return of the Mark coming Levans of a lesion, i that many thought that he/she would put an end to his/her time. Defense! Let us go! i ...and it comes for the lateral line. This type three days ago not he/she got to walk. They were to twelve points. Type, the something? Three, four minutes behind? Truth? You should not bet against it equips her/it of the house. He/she gives bad luck. - Good, personal. - Good, Roy. To see Wolves? Unbelievable. Jimmy, appears at the bar when do you have one second, yes? See you later, personal. He only wants a piece of advice of the Oracle. You know, of the Guru. Important. I am grateful for you have treated of Lopez. Many brutes become some coninhas if you give them a challenge. Well... - To the success. - To the success. An interesting time passed in Dallas, in a damned convention. I am seating in an old one club to drink some glasses and in the song there is a jukebox full of scratched out old disks. Just as those... ..."Wosewhizlers" that you have been speaking. - Wurlitzers. - It is, therefore, because... Of any in the ways, I am there seating during the whole night, to see the people to do line for us to fill this thing of money. It is later... ...I am me. It is intangible. Just as Jimmy Starks he/she said. Nostalgia is a powerful thing. I think will put in practice your idea, maybe to reduce a little the numbers, but who knows, we can be sat down on top of a mass pipe. Roy, porra. That is a madness. I made the bills and this thing is... ...quite solid. Did Dallas say? Dallas, Texas. He/she passes for here tomorrow, before you go to Paygman, for us to begin the to work in the details. I thought that he/she had to pull you of the tecto when it told you. No. That is fantastic. I am very happy. We will put him/it to walk. It is like this that is. Cannot they leave you alone on one Saturday? Yes? You smell well. Today? Cannot he/she wait? Everything well, I appear. No, I know. Yes. Is everything well? Yes, yes. It is because of the checkup that I did last week. They made an electrocardiograma and they say that you/they saw a pick or something like that there, they want to see better. You think is serious... No, it is only a thing of the machine. They need to see again, only that. - I am going with you. - It is not necessary. He/she is well, I am going home. No, it is here. I don't stay. What is here to see is a prolapse of the mitral valve. - What ray is that? - Type a lazy valve. The heart expels blood, the valve doesn't totally close and some returns back. Usually, it is a benign problem. A lazy valve? Then, basically I am well. Didn't he/she see anything else? We will mark him/her other echo for in six months or like this. Be attentive the that valve, but in otherwise... I have the free weekend. He/she wants to say, I know that the house he/she needs work, but... ...they are 10 hectares in Taos. Because. He/she relaxes, Jimmy. I won't choose Chinese patterns. Does he/she please you a cold? - How many years you have? Fifteen? - Yes. Go there. - He/she is well. He/she comes with me. - No. I will smoke a cigarette. - He/she is well. Do you want of something? - Chocolate and cherry. - I already return. - Thank you. Does he/she work in the hard? Industrial? Sheep, not? No, Taurus. Clear, the lines along the Monte from Jupiter says him/it. And the... How is it that you/they call him/her? The line of the life. Some thing? Three life "bracelets", maybe four. Very deep and defined. Is that good? At least 75 years, at the most 100. A long life. Good destiny. What was? Mammy, this is destroyed. He/she told you for you be at the other room. Go. The mother is to work. I apologize immense. Let to wonder him/her something on the destiny. Is it something what she can change? To be discovered that something will happen, if it something that was already to the wait goes, I was able to...? Each life is a tapestry. Some threads are tighter and they cannot be altered. But others are freer. With these we wove the history of our lives. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, gentleman. Always return. Apposed that didn't think that he/she see, not? Or if it suits until he/she thought... Is it going the some side? I like to fish at the lake Abiquiu. He/she is good, in this height of the year. Listen, about the last time... What does have he/she? I have to tell him/her, when here I arrived, I didn't believe in itself. I returned him/her the money. I know. But certain things happened. Coincidences. Things that he/she could not know, unless... I am an actor, Sr. Starks. A salesperson. You said him. Because... An actor doesn't stop to middle of an acto and, certainly, a salesperson doesn't give reimbursements. The game of Wolves, the money that my boss he/she promised me like this of the anything. You knew that that vineyard of Dallas. Which are the hypotheses of that to happen? Some how many lucky hunches. A present that I give him/her. That blockade that had. What did happen he/she? Did he/she see some thing or something? Same if he/she could see things, what is that interested? Live his/her life. Everything forgets this. Listen, with certainty that has some ethics code or like this, but I picked a fright there are one days, my health. Is that? Have a good morning. I want another reading. - I am not open for business. - I pay him/her the double. We go there, he/she is a man of businesses. Accept. There is some thing that me be to pass to the side? What is, elderly? He/she already had his/her reading. Listen, you are not entitled of playing like this with the people, therefore, I want the dirt of another reading. I stopped seeing highways, amanhs... It doesn't remain him/her a long time. - Lament. - Is it even? How long? More is worth to know. How will it happen? The vision comes in images, impressions, I don't know the details that he/she wants. But a thing is right. He/she is safe to the first nevo. To the first nevo? Shit, I think is better to do the suitcases and to move to Florida. That trip of the caraas. That espectculo of aberrations is it that you/they dismissed him? We lost 300.000 m2 for Brabson, what are to do in relation to that? The siblings Garcia walks to eat you the lunch, to eat you the future. Centimeter to centimeter. Jimmy? Jimbo? He is to dream with jukeboxes. What can say? - Excuse. - We are going there personal. Cunning. What does in Nob Hill happen? Do you have a clue on this such Morelane? Yes, yes... You are to play with me. Any caravanista catches you in the hand and does he/she tell you that are done to the steak? He/she thinks well, Jimmy. We are always so much sure that we are that ordered in the life. Right? Maybe us only... ...accompany her. The something? Type... As if I was destined the to order this chicken chicken soup to come? It is not my area, Jimmy. He/she asks any police, the obvious answer is usually the correcta. You went aldrabado. Apposed that was your first instinct. Admit. He/she waits to the next offer for him to speak with THE Very big in your name. First are tame falinhas, then it is: "Could you empty the bill saving?" I am you to say, these types are good. - They enter you in the head. - Him nor he/she spoke in money. The money? He is patient. He/she noticed that not you are a superstitious type. - He/she had a lucky hunch. - The luck doesn't explain the game of Wolves. Do you think he didn't remove you the measures? What didn't observe all the details? He/she saw the autocolante of Wolves in your car and it calculated that you had money in game. And Dallas? He knew about the money. He plays with the percentages. A type bites him bait, the other ones fifty he never again sees them. And he/she leaves you completely curious. You... Yes, a little more, thank you. Is it new, it is not? You remember of in small we play that game in the freeway? Which was the name? How many Volkswagen red you got to see? - Spud. - Spud, because. Roads hills of them, as soon as you began to the search. You, my friend, you will have an exhaustion. He/she removes one day, one weekend. He/she affects with D, he/she leaves this to pass. He/she lets to pass. You are capable to have reason. He/she is well. ptimo. Jen. Jen! It swallows him/her some French fries with chili and cheese, or like this. He is to eat a salad. Never again serve him/her a salad. It is going you foder! He/she forgets that trip to Paris. Champagne, and the night all of cigarette. I like this new Jimmy. Yes? Now this new Jimmy is desirous for a cigarette. Yes? Am I? - That is deprived property. - It is what my box of the mail says. Excuse?! He/she listens, I didn't like the form as the things ran you. I think went badly dismissed and he/she said him/it to Roy. You are to say him/it. Thank you. I didn't go me the responsible. It was decision of the dirt of the direco. Your word escaped of Roy, therefore, I don't know about what are to speak. You betrayed me for your jukeboxes, and that doesn't let to fall asleep. Don't approximate again of my house, is it well? What shit is that? Your illegal presence in mine mailbox? You go by the office as a bothered postman? You walk to smoke a lot of drug. You have to leave you of that shit. I am not to play, Andy. The police know. - Then if it happens me some thing... - Who are you? ...and they come here to have. I get tired to have work, and do you come with shit upward of me? I take oath, if you dirty my name, Jimmy... - The something? What will make? - What will make? - Yes. What will make? - You are to scare him. - He/she leaves of here before it changes of ideas. - What does this stop now, yes? How do you have past? - Ready for the curves. - How is it that is Katie? - Did he/she pass so much time already like this? - Shit. Lament. There is no problem. We are better separated. - Do they have house-of-bath here? - Clear. Reason? He/she seems that the people have walked to urinate in the ground. Who is that paved this? - The siblings Garcia... - Oh, God. I know, they are some thieves. You don't guess with whom I crossed there am me one days. Sra. McClure. Vincent's mother. She fainted in Tabarts, while he/she made the payment. But it is a tough velhota. He/she didn't let to call me an ambulance, he/she won't let to go her her although but he/she told me that Vince was in the car awaiting her. Now it takes her care. Is Vincent here in the city? Yes. I thought that was still in Oklahoma. I also heard that, it seems that he/she got to probation. What do think happened in Creedmore? I heard some histories of the caraas. I don't know. He/she seems that you not... No, there is already a long time. Some time they will have hypotheses of solving the things? No there is anything to solve, Tom. He followed his/her road and me mine, end of the history. I know, the problem is that am tied in the middle of the traffic. I know, it is type a caravan. He/she is same bad. Next week I think ptimo. i ...we can be to look for one Winter premature, they will look for those gloves. Hello, Sra. McClure. I never thought to return to see you again in that sofa. You and Vincent... I remember of when your feet didn't arrive to the ground. Excuse to have her awake. I know that he/she likes to sleep the siesta. Inside soon I will have plenty time to sleep. If the doctors are right minimamente. Don't say that. He/she is ptima. You still have talent for the tretas. I am to die, Jimmy. Excuse. Then... What does he/she/you bring you for here? I heard to say that Vince was in the city, to take bill of itself. Who told you that? A friend that drives one I center commercial in Nob Hill. Bradicardia. You know what do to the velhotas that live alone? Especially the ones that suffer of dizzy syndrome. They order them to the rest houses. Doesn't Vince have spirit then? I don't know, James. No. Lately, Vincent she have been carrying very well. He/she arranged work in the building site. He/she stood back of the drink and of the damned drugs. - I don't believe that he/she needs to recall... - I don't want to cause him/her problems. You should have looked more for him. He needed that. It broke him/her the heart the form as the things became. We were young and stupid. You were not stupid, Jimmy. With license. He/she cares that will see the fourth of Vince? I have a lot of memoirs here. You know where it is. When it is that he/she said that Vince here it was for the last time? He/she didn't say. Like this he would be to violate to probation, it was not? This time I have a good premonition. Vincent knows that he won't have you for close very more time. For the first time in the life he will be alone. I made a full coffeepot, for the in case of you want. Jimmy? He/she went running over the auburn person that he/she was in the tip of the bar. Is he/she in the suitcase? Today I need that receive my calls. - Is the new ritual of the week? - No. Today I am full of work. And Roy has been receiving many complaints for the services. - He/she doesn't have anything. - I am not to play. He/she asked me walked if with personal problems. For besides the facto of having me statement that it invested a hundred thousand dollars in a projecto of jukeboxes that was your beautiful boy. That will have to wait. - He/she seems that yes. - Do you help me or not? - What does happen he/she? - I have to do a trip. That doesn't have to do anything with one certain reading of the luck? No. They are personal shit. - I need a coffee. - Take. I want to speak with you... I don't want your coffee. I have to go. Carlos will link at three o'clock, therefore it certifies you that you assist. He/she liked to speak with you... - I love you. - Because. He/she lets to do you to me a question. You characterized our relationship as a near friendship? Yes, so arrival as for that two masculine adults can have. Then as near friend liked of... I feel that is my duty to listen my deep concern... Desenrascas-me or not? No, I don't really go. If you have respect for me not enter the finger in the c! Then, Ed? Listen... The objective in my box of the mail. Maybe it has not been Lopez. - Seriously? - I know. I think belongs to an old friend that left in probation of Creedmore. Then, you are going him/her foder the head how did you do with Lopez? - No. - That resulted well! - It will be recognition. - Recognition? Then now you are of SEALs? He/she calls the police, he/she calls the agent of the conditional. - Go there, the brute can be crazy. - Exactamente. Then, it helps me, yes? I am hung over and... Ah, foda-if. He/she leaves the middle of the highway, mine. Jesus! Foda-if. Shit! ptimo. Thank you. - Yes, I tell him/her. - Who is? Thank you. It was of the company telefnica. You know those calls what did walk to receive? Yes. It was a telemarketing computer. They already solved the subject. - Are they the sure? - Yes, it was what said. ptimo. Are you hungry? Yes. ptimo. Can you make us any thing? Am I? - I don't believe in this. - How are you, partner? Who speech? Then, you don't know? I am hurt. - Are you still there? - Yes, I am still here. Who is? Everything is well. Wait one second. - Was Katie? - No. Other for the statistics. - If you need of a shoulder friend. - It is late a little, Vincent. You won't wonder how do I have past? Yes. How do you have past? In the good, mine. Thank you for you ask. What did find of my corner? Of my den. I am the planear some improvements, but what is the one that found? - I don't know about what are to speak. - Maybe have noticed badly. First, he/she knew that you went to see the mother, the thing to follow that I see, is mine it marries in New Mexico to be broken into. Yes, I passed for there to see your mother. ptimo. You are the son that she always wanted. Maybe that Chevy has been only a coincidence. It is, probably, you walk every catita, with a good-looking car, for this height. Diamond, full of class. No properly. One day of these it should pass thereabout and to see how you are. I thought that you already had him/it done. I received your letter. I don't know the one that refer, partner. Almost that I walk to give in crazy. You know, to work, to defecate, to sleep. - From where are to call, Vince. - Of house. In the terrace, with the telemvel, to drink a glass to the edge of the swimming pool. This new one small he/she should treat you well. brown eyes... ...and dark hair. A thin mouthful, you always liked them in form. Am I there close? - Partner, am I there close? - Yes, quite close. Then, the things have been running you well. Did they end for running how you had planeado? What did Vince, happen? No faemos that, Jimbo. We are not going for the memoirs. I am to try to stay fresh, I already removed the t-shirt. I am only me to try to maintain fresh. Did you want to try to do the peaces? Was it for that what came here? You have just left the prison, Vince. He/she thinks about that. - Are you to threaten me, Jimmy? - I just demonstrate a facto. The facto is that you invaded my house. He/she listens, why didn't follow our separate roads? Are you that you came to my search, you remember? What are you to try her/it planear, Jimmy? I am already me to begin to pass. Vince? Deirdre? Deirdre? - What ray is to do? - Did you open that window? Yes, I opened the dirt of the window. This seems a grave in here, I don't get to breathe. At least, we are not slaughtered in the bed, for love of God! - What are to do? - To take care of this house. I have to get up in four hours, Jimmy. Foda-if! He/she has a lot of thing, here his/her friend. Then, this type begins him/her to call of the anything? After something? About seven years. Great discussion that must have been. Some idea of the reason of him to have contacted him? No, not. I thought that his mother he/she could know, then I went to see her. Wait there. Did he/she go to have with his mother? - Yes, I thought... - Then, you were in search of him. - No, I heard to say that he was for here. - The mother thought that she wanted to speak with him. - No. - Wait. Did this man threaten him really? It is more on it that he implicates. Well, because he has criminal registo, I call his agent and I certify myself that you/they walk of eye in him. It is only what can do. This type had a serious problem with the drug and I think maybe he is to use again. Does he/she have proofs of that? He/she keeps her. Only for the case. For the case of the something? "Meritssimo, is this the brute that killed my friend!" Me not even I know this brute. We had a business together and he/she gave for the crooked. What business type? A business of sales. We will look for the things to Mexico. - It was easy and the money was ptimo. - In Mexico? - Did they make money laundering? - FBI appeared. FBI appeared. It is a minimum detail. Six hours later... Of any in the ways, the brute said that Vince had counted everything and he/she suggested that I made the same. Did you accomplish feather? Vince was hit three years. The type is a brute of the caraas, he could have left one year later, with good behavior. For him the prison was a game. - Him that if foda. - Yes, that if foda. You are right, he/she has a weapon, he/she has drugs underneath of the bed. Exactamente, that if foda. He/she puts an end to this, it removes this of your life, you don't need this, I am you to say, it moves away you. You know, in 1986 I was been hit for to steal a beer pack in a store. The something? I went down for the highway of the crime. I also already went by that, brother. I am going home. Jimmy! - What is that you want? - He/she has calm, I am me. Peace offer. I thought that... You know. - For me, not. - Am I an idiot, is it well? I make stupid scenes, mine. Then my wife ends always for putting in the line. Go there. What do say? Without resentments? Porreiro. Listen. Am I to try to win judgement, do you know? For my family. You know how it is. I only want to ask excuse. Is he/she well? To have made that scene of the objective, he/she wants to say, it was a stupid game and he/she should not have made her. - The something? - The departure of the objective. I ask you even excuse, mine. Jimmy! He/she excuses, mine! Jimmy, are we well? Hello, Jimbo. Probably, you are to play golf with the personnel. Later we spoke. they Say that this year will snow. Does he/she give to believe in this? are you to hear? I am to urinate and to defecate at the same time. it is what call "ambi-dextro." you are not me to ignore, yes, partner? after all the initiative that you had... i "Friends to the end." Do you remember that? have just arrived? So many working hours will kill you. Then, as it is the karma today? - Anything badly. - It was what thought. I Have state here lying, only with the memories. Vince... I want to ask excuse for me to have shot to you in the way that I made him/it. i seriously, Jimmy? Yes, somebody nailed me a departure. I exaggerated. I left for precipitate conclusions. Type... "Who is that I know what was arrested?!" Yes. i there is No problem. i They massacre us with that type of thing in the reinsero program. convict's past it is as the quicksand. the more you try to leave, plus you sink. He/she excuses, Vince. In the prison, they teach you the notion of responsibility. you Assume your crimes. A crucial step. most of the brutes affirms that the they schemed or that were not them. Denial to the maximum. THE those brutes, there is no hope for them. are you there? Yes, I am to hear. I Calculated that returned to assume the responsibility. I think I didn't notice. I Need to hear to tell him/it, partner to you. When we were in the city of Oklahoma. Vincent? he/she Says him/it, Jimmy. For us. I didn't betray you. do you Notice him/it what want to say? Until we solve this, we will be caught to this moment. He/she hears, you had hypothesis of you save yourself, do you remember? But you chose to proceed in front, without my help... - You are really to be disappointed. - ...therefore I won't assume responsibilities for the your life shit, yes? Has everything been making calculations, Jimmy is not? You have been losing hours of sleep all your life. Face to face, he/she looks at me in the eyes and he/she tells me that what did... - ...and if this doesn't stop... - The something? ...I call your agent of the probation. And the one what do he do? To do to urinate you for a glass. Don't Vince, want this, is it well? We will follow different roads. Nor to think, Jimmy. He/she smells me the critical situation. i it is now, at the four hours, height for the local time. Well, Mice of the Desert, prepare those skis, the fort nevo is to whiten the mountains of Colorado, and he/she goes for south, in direco to the city of Duke. He/she was to keep them for the right occasions. It seems that were many. Only that didn't seem in the height. Maggie, am a little concerned with Vincent. He is been to carry very well. Last night I spoke with him to the telephone and... ...I was with the impression that he is the to think in doing some stupid thing. How the something? I thought that maybe if he/she can call him/her and to put some judgement in the head. - I cannot call him/her, Jimmy. - Reason? He went to Cymaron with the agent of the conditional. They went to dig ditches for the victims of the floods. It is not loved of his part? Dirt. Who had felt, that me... ...it was awake when him he/she left the message, he/she said that he/she loved me. Vincent doesn't tell him a lot of times. He/she is really to be cold outside. It is better to go walking. Thank you. Jimmy, takes. Don't wait a lot for you open her. That such it is this for a critical situation? What should think of you live the life in agreement with the one what does a seer say? James McClure didn't attend the encounter with his/her agent of the conditional, but with his style, that is mere routine. He should walk for there in the spree. Then, he/she won't make anything until that him appear here and enter a candy in the head. Is that? Mister, no there is any indication that him planeie to pass the state borders or to do him/her badly some. That is a routine situation and we are to discover. Routine the tanas! He comes for here. What will be need? i Sr. Starks, advised him/it to speak with a lawyer. I only want you to enter there alone and that you tell him/her that you want a reading. Is he/she well? It is easy. He/she asks him/her on the future. Some thing to see connosco. Marriage, children, what wants that is. Marriage and children, that is... And if he says that will happen me some thing, don't happen, he/she asks him/her just what is. But the cabro has problems in answering to you ask directas, therefore, you will have to release some tears or... Is he/she well? Yes. The type of the silver caravan, does he/she know where was? Look who returned! The small of the jukebox. The type of the destiny. Do you know where was? He/she wanted to speak with you on Wurlitzer. I think can make business. Do you know where it is? It goes and it comes a lot of times. Marci, was not here more anybody in search of the elderly man? Yes, it was to speak in the he/she would fish at the lake Abiquiu. It seems that it is good, in this height of the year. He/she listens, regarding that Wurlitzer, do we make business or something? Abiquiu is in three hours. He/she arranges a hotel. This cabro has state behind us from Espaola, did you repair in that? The this height, Vince can to be anywhere. - He/she lets to pass him/it. - Shit. Where is it that went to look for that? - He/she keeps the dirt of the weapon. - He/she lowers you. That was typical, Jimmy. What are to do? The elderly man said that would be safe to the first nevo. That stripe are to speak? Jimmy... He/she does what have to do. I am going home. Sr. Starks... - Fishing? - That talent ray that you have. Does he/she want to speak to me of that? Because I don't notice one I stripe than it is been to pass. Does he/she want to speak with me? - Anything that I say will do difference. - Maybe do. Won't I use this, right? He/she should not have told me. If he/she could try to see as a blessing. Because, a blessing. Think about those that... ...that you/they never had the hypothesis of... ...of putting the things in order... ...of saying good-bye. That that if foda. I have a friend that thinks that I sanded him/it. Now, if he/she knew how it comes, if he/she knew what he will do, then it could impede him/it. Therefore, I want that tells me. His/her destiny proceeds any highway that takes. Even if choice to flee of him. I will lie down and to die. I am me in the paints for who decides him/it for me. My God! Mister? i clean Sky in the city of Duke, i and it can melt the snow one little earlier this week, /i i but it still doesn't put aside the skis. i A solid cold front is to form to north of S. Diaz, what will be able to /i i to reveal in 25 centimeters of snow on this weekend. i you Left Deirdre to the edge of the freeway. Does that seem you a rational behavior? i THE same thing that told him/her this morning. i He was seen in a camera of safety, two days ago, to steal a vehicle. i he/she will leave a mandate for all of the agencies. i THE something? The something? The noise that you too much work runs. We don't see you for here three days ago and the people begin to speak. i Sr. Starks, the last time that he was seen, it was in El Paso. Then, basically, nobody makes idea where is it that he is or where it does go? i they Finished your tretas, Jimmy! i I am full! I will remove the coiro again. i Hello, it is Deirdre. i it is not known what to do, I cannot help him/her. Is there there inside some problem? I fell. Everything is well. i I Need to hear to tell him/it, partner to you. i When we were in the city of Oklahoma. i he/she Says him/it, Jimmy. For us. i do you Notice him/it what want to say? i Until we solve this, we will be caught to this moment. i his/her destiny proceeds any highway that takes. i Same that he/she chooses to flee of him. i Where do you have yourself hidden, Jimmy? - I have the sensation that you walk me to avoid. - No, I am here, companion. i you Ruined me the plans for cause of your small disappearance acto. Which plans? i I Thought that were willing for a small meeting. i to Give some how many laughters, to remember. Clear, everything well. i you are not me to deceive, yes, Jimmy? i I am to tell with you. No arrunes this. No, I will be there. i ptimo. Tomorrow night. i we will put the bills in day. i I do Be happy that come. Jimmy! That good to have you of turn. Roy... Is everything well? Yes. The money for those jukeboxes he/she is in North and Well, to your wait. I need then to transfer half in this bill and the rest in money. We are going to this. We will make money. Of certainty that wants to walk for there with this amount? He/she wants to say... We can transfer her, without problems. No, he/she has to be in money, these types are former-better. They don't trust us, Mice of the Desert. What do you want? Now you do come to present complaint, also? Wurlitzers, 1015. The most popular model of jukeboxes in the whole history. I have 50 thousand dollars of them, kept at a grocery store in Phoenix. I have the clues here. What do say? He/she thought that this was your coupon of the luck. I am in search of a partner. Somebody that does me the administrative part. Do you want to think in that? You are crazy, "foreign." Yes. Yes, I will think about that. Your name is already in the bill. You will feel beautifully. For where have been walking, mine? You know how it is, a small one lazy valve, anything of serious. He/she gives me the one of the habit. And other for my friend attacker of stores there to the bottom. It is good to see you. Equally. - Excuse it was so... - Stupid? Idiot, yes. You seem different. You already heard to speak of those types of the time that you/they are going behind the hurricanes? And that arrive to the center and... ...suddenly it is everything calm and calm. Is it there that are? Yes. Are they still in the storm, did you know? Well, it is a good place to be, mine. Shit. You reach the Nirvana, and me Espaola. Do you want to pick trace bar with me? Go there, me and you. A cruise in the freeway. - No. - No? - He/she goes you. - Don't you have will, right? Do I see you tomorrow? Yes. Sam, makes my bill. It is not still final of the month. You are a bar employee did espectacular, know? - The something? - I adore your work, mine. - He/she only pleased to tell him/it to me. - It begins you to walk of here, Jimmy. It seems that are back. Yes, that can be said. I only came to look for my things. My father is again sick, then I thought about going there and... I am happy that are well. This resembles as a great adventure. Do you want to go Taos even soon? To give a view of eyes to the 10 hectares. Are you to speak seriously? I am fed up with this place. You don't go to Denver. They are only some days. He/she waits that I come and we leave. You sometimes surprise me, Jimmy. - Don't change of ideas as Taos. - I won't change. I have to go. He/she will run everything well, D. After all you appeared alone. I am proud of you, Jimmy. He/she seats you. You remember that time that did my old one bring us here? To say that were researchers of gold. Yes, it was a beautiful day. Shit! Aperaltaste-you completely for me? I would have arranged me, but... ...Four Seasons was full. He/she drinks a little, Jimmy. Now you are not a lot of drunk, yes? He/she knows well, to be again home. You know, I still consider you my best friend, even after everything. The friends like us, no if they spend as old tires. I imagine... ...you and me, we live her side by side, the women the they be the best friends, the small ones play her together. Maybe until bringing them here, in search of gold. Because it is that you had of foder all this? Because... He/she liked to tell you. What is that we had for the front? The something, one year? It is even so, still in the fodeu the head. To share the same cell, to say jokes in the harvest, to dream with crazy shit for to do when we left, it would have been good. I suppose that this doesn't tell you respect, nor it is of your responsibility, my shit life. He/she forces, Jimmy. He/she gives me one of your ideas. Blindfold-but. I betrayed you, yes, Vincent. I only wanted to leave of that cursed room. He/she was so much heat. He/she only wanted water... Some time you thought in telling them the truth, Jimmy? In the prostitute of your life? Any elaborated outline of money laundering, no, only two "foreigners" stupid all passed. You could have told them that after you have drunk the dirt of the water. He/she was afraid of the caraas. They were only those times that I had him/it to memorize. "I will hire a lawyer, Vincenzo. The best. I will remove you of that hell." What did to the plan happen? "Not to look back", was that? A man sinks in quicksands... No the pontapeies in the teeth, Jimmy! You catch him/her the hand and you try to pull him/it. It is as my mother. I passed there, two days ago, it hurt my head, everything that I wanted was to sleep and she calls mine agent of the conditional. She is to die, Vince. - She wants that you... - It silences me that mouth! She wants you to straighten. My mother is not to die. I have 50 thousand dollars in the car. I have 50 thousand dollars in the car for you. Do I take you outside of here, yes? I take you where you want to go. Always a salesperson. Still to try what can... ...to negotiate your exit of a critical situation? No, I am not. That is as throwing a leaning one fast for who is to bleed to the death. It is not a bribe, Vince. I want to help you. It is too late. I already bled everything. I have been trying to correct the things, but I feel so alone. Me Corri-me inside. And you appear of the anything... ...and it is as if everything it was to go to the place, mine. As if everything was planeado. He/she lifts you. He/she lifts you! He/she walks here. They put me with a cell companion... How is it that the brute called himself? Once, after dinner, Rottie attacks his/her guard and it picks him/her the.38, as this here, and he has the guard, well close to him, just as us at this time. And he screams in the porra of the harvest: "Back!" I will leave of here or this pig takes with a candy. Then, finally, the guards attack him/it. Old Rottie, he pulls the trigger, and the candy raisin for the skulls of the two, he/she will stop in a board of dinner, to 100 meters of distance. The idiot broke out with their own insides. No! Don't move. He/she lowers you. It puts you of knees. Jesus Cristo! What is he/she/you going you in the thought, Jimbo? It is not what had in mind. Me and you partner. Two rabbits with a wallop. A death without pain. We will make here one equips in the next world, did you know? - Imparvel. - Don't make this. But we have to stay united, from now on. We will enter in the car. To maintain united. No, no, not... That is better. Don't have fear of anything. Are you ready? Don't make this, Vince, go there. - Are you ready? - Vince, Vincent.. - I see you in the next world, "hombre." - Vincent, go there, Vincent! treacherous Highways on this night, personal. in the morning, we can be the to look for 25 centimeters of snow. The temperatures here, in the High Desert, they begin to lower until the 7 degrees, for that, take my piece of advice, Mice of the Desert. they Diffuse in a bottle, catch in the your love and stay home this night. Lonely Wolf, for you, in directo of the Rdio Cemitrio... This highway that you travel... ...you entered in her. On this same night... ...He chose this. does THE man create his/her destiny, right? But nothing makes the gods to laugh more. last night, the fort nevo complained his/her first victim in the freeway 14, after a camio to have lost him/it I control in the cold highway, killing the driver instantly of the vehicle that proceeded in the north sense, in a front collision.
