 

                        Whoa, lordy! Wooo, wow! Lemme outa here! Oh feet, do yo' stuff. Wu-huh! Wu-huh! Woooow! Going down down down How far can you go? You might fall into the Forbidden Zone Going round round round Driving me insane Everything looks different but nothing has changed Living in the Sixth Dimension Things get rough Living in the Sixth Dimension can be tough It's so hard when you're on your own When you're on your own Going down down down How far can you go? You might fall into the Forbidden Zone Going down down down Cross the border line The guards look scary But the girls are pretty fine Okay! I'm a-going down, I'm a-going down, I'm a-going down I know Turnin' me around, turnin' me around, turnin' me around, I know Thank you very much for that delicious breakfast. It was absolument superbe! I'd like to chat with you longer... however, I regret that Flash and I have to hurry along to school. As I am a new student, I don't want to make a bad impression. Yeah. The principal, Mr. Yodlebein, sent out bulletins to all the classrooms... and he said that if anybody's gonna be late, they're gonna be punished. Oh, children, don't be late for school. And, Flash, be sure you tie your grandfather up... and check the knots real good. While he was sniffing around for food yesterday... he nearly wandered into the Forbidden Zone. The Forbidden Zone? Qu'est-ce que c'est que a, alors? What are you ever talking about? Squeezit Henderson's got a brother that dresses like a broad. And he took us down into the basement... and showed us those funny games, you know, like the adults play... and he went through a door, and he never came out. A door leading to the Sixth Dimension? How strange, yet intriguing. Just imagine the adventurous world beyond that door. You don't ever... You don't ever, you don't ever.... Behind them doors You don't go through That is one thing You do not do Sin and evil That's what you'll find You'll meet two baldheaded devils there with wild sex on their minds The King and Queen of that terrible underworld They capture and torment all the little sweet young girls You can't be serious, Pa, It sounds like heaven! Ha! Ha! Ha! I think I'll move there, you stupid, silly father Stay away from that door, my little daughter You'll miss yer daddy You'll miss yer mama One of these days You'll be sad and lonely Some of these days, Laday la hey You're gonna be so lonely Some of these days You're gonna want me only You'll miss my lovin', miss my kissin' You're gonna miss your little daddy When you goes away You'll be so lonely For me only, you know, baby Why I went away Oh, when I'm leavin' You don't know About how your heart be grievin' You'll miss your little daddy, mama Some of these days Holy cow. It's ten to 9:00. Come on, Gramps, we gotta tie you up now. Oh, la, la, we'll be late for school. Beautiful dreamer Come unto me Ewww! Squeezit Henderson. Will you get a load of that jerk, will you? Ewww! Hey, Frenchy, you got a Kleenex? I got something stuck in my throat. No, sorry. -Hi, Flash. Hi, Frenchy. -How you doing, man? Flash told me that you have a twin brother that disappeared behind the door... in our basement. It's not my brother, it's my sister. It's your brother, he only acts like a broad. He's a faggot. You're the faggot. Do you think you'll ever see your sister again? You know, I think I've accomplished astral projection with my sister. Ah, banana oil. Formidable, alors! How fascinating. You'll have to tell me everything about it. Well, last night, my mother was punishing me again... and I begged her to stop hurting me, but she wouldn't. And finally the pain got so intense and unbearable that I felt like I was dying... and leaving my body, and then I had this vision of my sister... that was so real, I could see her as clearly as I'm looking at both of you right now. I kept rubbin', rubbin' on the darned old thing Ow! Ow! Ow! Don't push your luck, Henderson. Chrie. Fausto, 1,000 years... and for some reason, I just can't get enough of you. Everything got black. I must've fainted. How amazing. And she disappeared in our own basement. In your own basement. Well, so long, Squeezit. Come on, Sis, Miss Feldman will mark us tardy. Come on, Squeezit, we're going to be late for class. You fucking kid! You motherfucking kid! I told you not to do that, you motherfucker. I'll kill you, you son of a bitch. You fucking bitch. You motherfucker. I'll kill you, you fucking bitch. Squeezit Henderson, please come forward, and lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Class, we have a new student. Flash's sister Susan will come and tell us of her studies in France. Le soir on cause d'un tas de choses Avant de se mettre au pieu J'apprends la gographie De la Chine et de la Mandchourie Les frontires, les rivires Le Fleuve Jaune et le Fleuve Bleu Y a meme l'amour c'est curieux Qu'arrose l'Empire du Milieu C'est moi qui suis sa petite Son Anana, son Anana, son Anammite Je suis vive, je suis charmante Comme le petit oiseau qui chante II m'appelle sa petit bourgeoise Sa Tonkiki, sa Tonkiki, sa Tonkinoise D'autre lui font les doux yeux Mais, c'est moi qu'il aime le mieux Man, I think I'll put up 400 on this one. C'est moi qui suis sa petite Son Anana, son Anana, son Anammite Je suis vive, je suis charmante Comme le petit oiseau qui chante Check that out, man. Hey, man, put that motherfucking chip back on the table. Put the chip back on the table, man. D'autre lui font les doux yeux Mais, c'est moi qu'il aime le mieux -I'll blow your brains out. -Hold me back, blood. Hold you back nothing, I'll hold you back-- -Squeezit? -Johnny just shot Billy. -Johnny? -Well, the man was cheating. So I just had to do away with him, and that's all there was to it. That does it, Johnny, you're going to Mr. Yodlebein's office. You ain't taking me nowhere, you honky bitch! I didn't want to come to school, no way! Frenchy, come back, they'll mark you truant! Is anybody home? Mama, are you okay? I guess I'm all right. I'll be okay in just a minute. -Just go out and play. -Oh, okay. I think I'm going to take a little peek behind that Forbidden Door. I'm so curious, I can't resist. Merde, alors! Hot damn! The Sixth Dimension! Do I detect a rhumba? Bim Bam Boom, Bim Bam Boom Es el nuevo camps Que los negros van bailando en la comparsa Bim Bam Boom, Bim Bam Boom La mulatona Mercedes arrollando va detrs de la comparsa Ya no quieren cumbanchear las negritas del solar Si no tocan al comps de este ritmo as Sunalo, bilalo, gzalo Bim Bam Boom, Bim Bam Boom iQu sabrosito est Este paso arrollador de la comparsa! Stop the music! Stop the music! Seize the intruder. She must be taken before my parents. Go along with the Princess now, and don't be cheeky. Be sure and call me if they decide to snuff her. Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness... like pillar of smoke... perfumed with myrrh and frankincense? Just another slab of meat for my dungeon. Quel bordel de merde. -Thy speech is comely. -Encul. Thy lips are like threads of scarlet. This isn't very amusing, darling. Why do you waste your words on this piece of petit-fois? Oh, it's nothing, nothing, nothing... a mere outburst of the poet within me. Take her to Cell 63. You're Squeezit Henderson's sister, Ren. Cheese it, it's the Princess! My pet needs a mate. Oh, he can do it to me. Honest! Why don't you go down on your knees, and give him what he wants? Oooo! You're really gonna get it. You make a lovely couple. Lucky, lucky, lucky the boss really noticed you. -Oh, yeah? -Uh-huh! But how can he bear the touch of that loathsome Queen? She's nothing but an old, fat whore. The Queen is a very important person. She hurts me a lot, but I respect her. When I turned 12, Papa said: ''Little woman, better get yourself a wife'' '''Cause you're too mean for a man She'll clean up your life'' ''And if she's the Devil, you'll know she'll be your friend'' When I turned 13, I spat in my poppa's eye Took off to find my man 'cause I couldn't find a wife I spread-eagled in a lot of towns I couldn't find no man to lay me down They were so busy a-cock-a-doodle-doin' But they still couldn't nail me down So I grew up lonesome knowing there'd be no man or woman to get me goin' through this life 'Cause I was hatched out of a witch's egg Been doomed to fly high like a crane with no legs I laid down with the Devil and his sidekick, mankind But somethin' called lovin' made me hungry inside So I went to the Lord and I asked him for more than what this world could offer I laid down with him and I had to grin 'cause he was shyer than a flower Now thanks to the Lord I've been set free My lover is the trade winds that take me out to sea My life is like nobody else's There's only one of me 'Cause I was hatched out of a witch's egg Been doomed to fly high Like a crane with no legs Pleures, pleures, oh pleures Pleures, pleures sur ton malheur Pleures, pleures, oh pleures Pleures, pleures triste coeur Pleures, pleures, oh pleures, pleures Pleures, mouills les fleurs Pleures, pleures, pleures, pleures Pleures sur ton bonheur -Doris, you surprised me. -Just what do you think you're pulling here? -I was just only looking at her. -Oh, yeah? Listen, buster, looking's dangerous. Next thing you know, you'll be sucking on her mangoes. My, my, aren't you a jealous one? Well, why shouldn't I be? It gets on my nerves, you know. You know, I must have my army. I'm not about to compromise my position in life, my ancestry... my tradition, for your silly little suspicions. Your army! Where is your precious army? I will have a whole army of Zombie. A Zombie Marine Corps... a Zombie Navy Corps, a Zombie Space Cadets-- You're really out to lunch. Look at this world you've cooked up. And you expect to take over another universe? You dumb fuck. Just wait until these dead babies start marching... and you'll be eating your words. I am waiting, Your Majesty, waiting for you to tell me... why that French slit is so special to you, and why you carry her photograph... around in your pocket. All right, I'll tell you. She's French, and that's simple. And therefore, she's of the master race... a direct descendant of God, just like me. Direct descendant of God? You just want to slip her the pork. That does it. I'm hopping the next bus out of here. You cannot mean that. What will you do? Just go on living, I guess. Oh, chrie, ma petite coquette, ma petite princesse. Mon petit chou, c'est rien. Harder. Frenchy! Harder! I hope you were not treated badly. I gave strict instructions for you to be put in our most cheery dungeon. Why am I prisoner here? It's for your own safety, chrie. The Queen may have had you tortured... or executed, had it not been for my quick and decisive action. -Vous-tes artiste? -Oh, no, no, no, no. I am a soldier by profession. This is only doodling, you know, to relax. La couleur, la form, l'image! C'est vraiment magnifique. Vous tes tres gentille. It's nothing, nothing at all. A is A, A-A-A A E icky U, U-U-U Icky A-E-I-O-U, Icky I-O-U B is Bay, Bay-Bay-Bay Bay-Be-Ba-Bi-Bo-Bo-Bu-Bu-Bu Bay-Be-Bay-Be-Bi-Bo-Bu Bay-B-Bi-Bo C is say, say say say say see sicky so soo woo woo Sicky say see si so so, sicky si so su Golly, what a groovy tune The alphabet is fun Consonants and vowels to learn The pen is mightier than the gun F is fay, fi fo foo -F-U-C-K -You! You! You! Ficky Fa Fe Fi Fo Foo Ficky Fi Fuck you! G is gay, gay gay gay gay guy gicky go goo goo goo Gicky gay, guy, gee-- Shut up, you punk. A! B! C! D! E! F! G! H! I! J! K! L! M! N! O! P! Q! R! S! T! U! V! W! X! Y! Z! Z! Z! Z! Z! Z! Z! Z! Squeezit, if you're too scared to help me rescue Ren and Frenchy... I'm gonna have to get that kosher fart grandfather of mine to help me. Yeah, but Miss Feldman will never let you out of class this early. Oh, yeah? Gramps, come on, lean back. Let me untie you. We got to go save Sis. Shit. Come on, Gramps, let's go. Change your foreign money to local currency. Change your foreign money to local currency. Okay, Mr. Bernstein, give me a quarter's worth. Two craps. How do you like that? Killer Rosenblatt, the famous Jewish wrestler. I've read all about you in the paper. Well, you see, Gramps, he can't hear you... 'cause he's so used to hollering at the opposition... he's deaf and dumb. So what's a nice Jewish boy like you doing in the Sixth Dimension? You see Gramps, we're here to find my sister Frenchy. She disappeared. The French girl in 63? Oy vey, oy vey, oy vey! If the Queen should find out what the King is doing to that girl... -She'd murder the poor girl. -No kidding? Tell me, Gramps, you got a way, maybe I can get my sister back? Get his sister back, he says. Let me think. I have a strategy that could get her back. I could even bring Jesus Christ himself back again. -For how much? -For three shekels. -Okay, three shekels. You got a deal, okay? -Okay. Here's three shekels. Now I'll tell you.... Wait a minute, Gramps. Hold it. Let me get rid of this guy. Hey, Bust Rod, here's a quarter. Go get me a pack of cigarettes. Camels, like a good fellow, that's the idea. Come on, Gramps, let's go find Sis. I'll give you one last chance to live... you sniveling little weasel! Tell me why you and the Fat One came into our Kingdom here. If I tell you, will you let me and Gramps go and take one of the prisoners with us? -Of course, dear. -See, we really came here... to rescue my sister, you understand? Frenchy. Because Mr. Bernstein said that she's in great danger. The King fell in love with her, and the Queen is jealous. Oh. You're the Queen. Lower the rope! Gramps! But, Your Majesty, you promised. Gramps, let go of what you're holding. Gramps, let go, I might fall! Assemble all prisoners from Cell 63 into the Interrogation Cell. But, Mommy, can't I watch some more? They're still wiggling. You heard me! There she is, eyes so sweet What a shame that soon they'll be glowing like some burning coal when I turn on the heat Impudent, surly bitch Soon you'll sing a different song You'll plead for mercy, beg forgiveness When I throw the switch You don't scare me now You don't scare me ever Asking you for mercy or forgiveness now, never Gonna throw the switch Gonna throw the switch Give it to the bitch And give her plenty, make her scream Ti yum titti tum titti tim titti tim hi-hay Give her all the juice, give her all the juice Twenty thousand volts in her caboose Will make her see the error of her ways Frenchy is going to pay Frenchy is going to pay Look at her acting tough Well, that's fine for now, honey I've got plenty time to play and, sweetheart, I play rough Getting late, say goodbye Time to meet your fate And I do hope that you're thinking of me When you start to fry Don't you worry, Mom, I will oversee now Really, though, don't go to any trouble over me now Give her all the juice Give her all the juice Twenty thousand volts in her caboose Will make her see the error of her ways Frenchy is going to pay Frenchy is going to pay The Queen will have her way Frenchy is going to pay This poor girl so fair -Can this be her fate? -Going to pay Can there still be time? Or is it too late? Frenchy is going to pay Oh, why must it be that life is so cruel? The Queen will have her way Frenchy is going to pay Unfair and unjust Must this be the rule? Oh, darn. The fuse blew. -Flash Hercules at your service, ma'am. -Ma'am? I am the Ex-Queen! I was once happily married to King Fausto... until that fat loathsome cow, Queen Doris... that silicone uddered pig stole the throne by seducing me... even though she's not my type. She thinks I'm dead... because he, the King, couldn't stand to see me die... because he's such a coward, so he threw me a mile down in this cell... where I've been for 1,000 years, and to maintain my sanity... I've been writing a screenplay, and it's so difficult... because there's no hot water, there's no fresh orange juice. There's bats falling in my hair at night and roaches climbing through the pages... and so much dust on the keys... that I just can't stand it another minute! Okay, Queenie, don't worry about nothing. I'll get you out of this place. Here, watch my magic propeller, and off we go. Come on, Gramps, let's go find Sis. I've got to change a Tampax, I'll see you later. You fuzzy bastard. Come on, Gramps. Pico and Sepulveda Pico and Sepulveda Doheny Cahuenga La Brea -Tar pits -Tar pits La Jolla Sequoia La Brea -Tar pits -Tar pits You can keep Alvarado, Santa Monica Even Beverly Drive Vine may be fine, but for mine I want to feel alive And settle down in my -La Brea -Pico and Sepulveda Tar pits Where nobody's dreams come true Pico and Sepulveda Pico and Sepulveda By the way, honey, when is that mentally retarded Swedish husband of yours... coming home, anyhow? Mmmm, hello there. Hello there. Hi, Pa. Gee, I'm glad to see you. I'll get you out of here, Pa, don't worry, and then I'll go save Frenchy. You leave me be. In the real world up there, I was just another rat... and down here, I also live like a rat. So what's the difference? Go avay. I vant to be alone. Ah, banana oil. You're gonna see your son in a minute. He just turned 11. What the frig are you talking about? Me, a kid? Ruthy, come on. You're the one, okay, you big gorilla. You wanna see him, eh? You wanna see Chicken Boy? Oh, Chicken Boy? You wanna see him? You wanna see Chicken Boy? Oh, Chicken Boy? That's really rich. -Mom, mom. -Squeezit, meet your pop. -Dad? -I ain't your dad. Unless we got chickens in the family. Come here, baby. Oh, yes. What are you doing, you big lug? Squeezit, help your mom! Let go of my mother. Hey! Come here. -I love you. -Shut up! You're too much, baby. Come on, sugar, I got a hard-on that won't wait... -And the ship leaves in a couple of hours. -What do you mean, a couple of hours? That's a sailor's life, baby. I love you, Mom. I love you. I love you. -I don't know where to begin. -At the beginning. -I have no self-respect. -Why, Squeezit. I have no courage. Ren and Frenchy are prisoners in the Sixth Dimension... and I didn't go when my help was asked to save them. -Nobody ever helped you. -But I don't need any help. You know the chickens are always ready to help you any way we can... -But as you know.... -What can chickens do? -Precisely. -I wish I could be brave, like Flash. Gee whiz! -Henderson here. -Hey, Squeezit, man. Yeah, you got to come down here right away. We're lost. -Maybe I'll gain some self-respect. -Frenchy and Ren are in great danger. I've got nothing else to live for. I'll help. I'll help! Where are you taking me? Where's Ren? Where's Frenchy? I demand an answer. Ow! Ow! Yoo-hoo! Well, if it ain't the little Princess! Come on there, boy. -Gee, that girl was beautiful. -You said it, brother. My boss is just dying to stick his fork in that there tomato. Is your boss the leader of the Sixth Dimension? No, that be the little Midget King. Well, son, let me tell you I'm so pleased to meet you The boys and I've been expecting to greet you As guest of honor in the house of the dead Just relax, lay yourself down, say goodbye to your head -Hi de hi de hi -Hi de hi de hi -Ho de ho de ho -Ho de ho de ho -Wa de wa de way de -Wa de wa de way de -Hi de hi de ho -Hi de hi de ho Please, Mr, Devil, it's not for me I'm pleading If you help Ren and Frenchy I'll give you what you're needing If you want to bargain, then produce something real Deliver me the Princess, boy, and you've got a deal Deliver him the Princess, boy, and you've got a deal Okay. -Oh Sheep dop doop dap daydee doo -Sheep dop doop dap daydee doo -Skeeba de deeba de debop dee do -Skeeba de deeba de debop dee do -Oh dop dop dop daddy-o -Oh dop dop dop daddy-o -Hi de hi de ho -Hi de hi de ho Congratulations, son, you really deliver This little gal makes me shake and a-shiver Don't think I've forgotten all the things that I've said Don't worry about your friends, relax Now off with his head -Hi di hi di hi di hi di hi di -Hi di hi di hi di hi di hi di -Ho di ho di ho di ho di ho di ho hi ho -Ho di ho di ho di ho di ho di ho hi ho -Ho hi ho hi ho hi he bob de dop o de -Ho hi ho hi ho hi he bob de dop o de -Hi de hi de ho -Hi de hi de ho Be nice to me, babe, or you'll regret it You are my hostage, and don't you forget it The night is early and there's lots to be done Lets boogie now Come on, we're gonna have some fun -Oh ho de ho de ho -Oh ho de ho de ho Keep an eye on the King. And keep me posted. He doesn't know where I've hid that French slit. He may be a little man... but he carries a big stick! And whatever you do, Froggy... keep him away from that interrogation cell. Oy vey, the Yiddishe Charleston Vey's mir The Yiddishe Charleston Vatch those Heebie-Jeebies at the Yiddishe Cabaret Lo do ti do The Yiddishe Charleston Do Ta Ti Do, the Yiddishe Charleston Little Yiddles on their fiddles Play it on East Broadway Alley oop, you must wear a derby hat When you do that dance Alley oop, you twist like an acrobat then you clap your hands Oy Vey, the Yiddishe Charleston Vey's mir Oy, yoy, yoy, yoy, yoy I knew you'd come to save me! Bust Rod told me that the Queen took you here. I had no idea that she would resort to such a thing. Please, I beg your forgiveness. It's all forgiven, my Fausto. The Queen said she was gonna ream us with 20-inch cattle prods... -And I'm still waiting. -We must hurry now. Bust Rod, undo her chains quickly. I must command you to leave the Forbidden Zone at once. This is for your own safety. Henderson will show you the way out. Aren't you gonna hump us one last time, Fausto? Shut up! When will I ever see you again, mon amour? I cannot answer to you that right now... but somehow I feel that our destinies are intertwined. -Come on, Frenchy. -Goodbye. You let the French girl go? Don't you think you'd better go get her? -Goddamn it. -Ren, Ren stop it! Ren, help! Somebody help me! Shit! Let me go! Guess what? The Mystic Knights took the Princess as hostage... and if anything happens to Ren and Frenchy... she's really gonna get it. But I helped them escape. Yeah, but I heard a rumor that the Queen captured them all again. Attention, all soldiers! So you thought you'd get away? Well, your little King won't be able to help you now! -Nobody'll find you down here. -He'll find me, I know he will. -And he won't let you get away with this shit. -Oh, yeah? Well, we'll see about that. No one can survive what this child will go through. So take a good look, you French slit, 'cause you're next. Throw her in the pit! Khomeini. Khomeini. Throw the French girl in. That's not fair. It's my turn next. My frog, you killed my frog, goddamn it! -You killed my Froggy. -So get another one, bitch. You're supposed to be dead. Uh-uh, Baby. You're dead. I know that voice. You're the one the King keeps locked up in the pit. This is going up your asshole as soon as I've finished with Queenie here. Faggot. Your buns smell like lox, honey, I can smell them from here. Attention, all soldiers! We have to save the French girl. -Hurry up. -That's what we're trying to do. Come on, shut up. Let's go. Hurry up. Come on. Nothing can stop me now. What are you doing? I'm going to open her up like a can of worms. No, our daughter is their hostage. If you kill the girl, they will kill the Princess. -Out of my way, or you'll be first. -Come to your senses, darling. You'll be killing your own daughter. Oh, God. Oh, beat me! Oh, kill me! Oh, fuck that asshole! Please don't die. Please don't die. Life was so beautiful. Oh, why does it feel so good to be so bad? You...you were the only decent thing in my life. Smile at me one last time. Tell me how you love to... Tell me how you love to... I love to feel your nipples stiffen when I caress them with my finger tips. Oh, Fausto. Faust- You are my Kingie My heart's desire turned to fire with your caress This must be heaven I've got my Fausto I've no doubts our lives are blessed With all our powers No one can stop us now We'll conquer the planets Then all our dreams come-- -Adenoidal doy voy -Yes, we can hump them -Pain is a thrill -Yeah, sure -I coronate the New Queen. -La Chaim. A toast to him as we salute the true Queen. She really is a sight. In death, too, there is pleasure As dead rats, we're free to bleed To rot, and at our leisure be eaten up by worms La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la -There's humping here forever -Forever And if you think you're really very clever Just eat more cakes and pies La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la So really, what's the hurry? Don't worry So maybe you got couple little troubles? Just tell them all to me -We're happy now together -Forever -The Hercules are in for stormy weather. -No, it's really just a breeze! And so, my friends, sit tight and some advice to you I'll lend This drama may be over But it's really not the end Come with us in the land of sin and pleasure You'll be surprised by the things that you will see Come with us while we conquer other planets Through time and space The Forbidden Galaxy The Forbidden Zone The Forbidden Zone The Forbidden Zone The Forbidden Zone The Forbidden Zone The Forbidden Zone Living in the Sixth Dimension things get rough Living in the Sixth Dimension can be tough It's so hard when you're on your own When you're on your own Moving in the wrong direction brings bad luck Living without protection really sucks It's so hard when you're on your own You might fall into The Forbidden Zone Going down down down how far can you go You might fall into The Forbidden Zone Going down down down cross the borderline The guards look scary but the girls are pretty fine Okay! I'm a-going down, I'm a-going down I'm a-going down, I know Turnin' me around, turnin' me around turnin' me around, I know ho ho Living in the Sixth Dimension Moving in the wrong direction Living in the Sixth Dimension Moving in the wrong direction Living in the Sixth Dimension Moving in the wrong direction It's so hard when you're on your own When you're on you own The Forbidden Zone Going down down down How far can you go? You might fall into The Forbidden Zone Hey! Okay! Going down down down cross the borderline The guards look scary but the girls are pretty fine Going round round round driving me insane Everything looks different but nothing has changed Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
