 

                        INSPIRED BY ACTUAL EVENTS Portuguese sailors called it Formosa, or Beautiful Island. After the Second World War went to the Republic of China But most Western know it as Taiwan. All FBI agents are asked to take an oath when they form in Academy in Quantico. Not just a bunch of words. That's why I entered. I love America and I think it's worth defend it with my life. In 1983, the FBI sent me to Taiwan to assist in a murder case of an American citizen. It was there that I met Ming, a Man subjected to an injustice. that shook my faith in our constitution, my belief in justice and the fundamentals of Our U.S. government. Welcome to Airport International Chiang Kai-Shek. FBI. He is with me. I just bought you a little time. Are you okay? Here. Take this. What the hell happened? Begin to tell me right now or I'm not able to protect him! - Come! - You have no authority here. Here is Taiwan. And if you have not noticed, I'm their only link with their civil rights. CHICAGO Two weeks before Henry Wen was murdered by mafia why you're here. Hey, this is the first. First I think this rivalry with the feds suck. I just want to get the bad guys. I'm with you. Lisa, I like girls straight. It's Detective Gilbert, Braxton agent. We found a abnormality in the X-ray. The throat was scratched. Most autopsies would straightforward, this was an exception. We found that the trachea. - It's Chinese? - Taiwanese, actually. I think it must have conecxo Patriots with the Blood Iron, a gang of Taiwan. Blood Iron Patriot? Is. And it was found at the scene. This cigarette brand is not sold here in the U.S.. The evidence points one outside my jurisdiction. It should be a detective. Lakecrest School Henry Wen was professor of economics. That is what we teach today? There seems a normal course. Found something to connect him to the Taiwanese mafia? No. Nothing in the house. The widow was very helpful, which certainly is not typical in crimes carried out by the Mafia. They killed him by because of his job. They were spies ... watching you Something with the university? We interviewed teachers and students. He was very dear, respected taught economics and apparently was writing a book. - What was the book? - Nobody seems to know. At least that's what they say. Actually we were celebrating the execution of Henry The night he was murdered. He came to this country still young, expert in number theory and now he was honored with its realization with stability in record time. As a man of great integrity. We hope to have many years wonderful together. Let's raise our glasses to Professor Henry Wen. Congratulations. When we shall hear new book on Henry? What book? He was well known the Chinese community, newspapers, etc ... Can you think of any reason for someone wanting to kill him? Apparently he openly criticized rallies in the current Taiwan government. I can not imagine economic theories of Henry causing something else than arguments. But his wife suggested that was because of work? She said the were spying. It was perhaps with afraid to talk about the mafia. - She was scared. - That's understandable. She mentioned two types suspects guarding the park in front of the house This was confirmed by a neighbor. I saw two guys sitting on their bikes. - Could you be more specific? - They looked oriental. I could not see them very well, but sat right there in their bikes smoking cigarettes. I saw them twice, Both times, I was leaving for work in the morning. - Look like amateurs. - You may want to look that way. What do you think they were looking for? And what they found? How's it going? As if I had prepared myself for this for many years ... but now I know because I realized ... you can not prepare for such a thing. We've known all my life. I've watched the ambassador many years ago. I was a teenager. It was like I knew my husband. You may want to talk the bridegroom. Tell him I send my greetings. I hope he's okay. Ms. Wen was inside the car when the thing all happened, but she was not hurt. They have not touched it. Guys dick bastards. They did not seem to be afraid of being caught or identified. The Wens were the last to they leave the building that night. - Ming Wen Hwa? - Yes. Help! Help me! ONE WEEK LATER The conversation with Ms. Wen stayed with me. I can not imagine how she must have felt. It is not often a witness murder be spared. Why did not they kill her? - Agent Kelly? - Yes. Susan Kane, your contact American here. - How are you? - Well, thank you. Let him take his bag. - So how was the flight? - It was good. Long, uhm? When you install it in the hotel can rest a little. Agent Kelly this is Mr. Kuo, our contact with the government here. Welcome to the Republic China, Agent Kelly. It is an honor to have the participation of the FBI. If there is anything I can do to make your stay here more productive please do not hesitate to say. Thanks. Loh superintendent of police. And the agent of Chen Federal Police in Taiwan. He will be supported in their research assistance. We were anxious by his experience to find the murderers of Professor Wen. Gentlemen, shall we? I feel sorry for you have to see it. Communist spy. Can not imagine all problems we have here. Agent Kelly, we have events wonderful for your visit. At dinner tonight you know all who will work with anxious for his knowledge. Then we have chairs excellent for ballet. Unfortunately I'm not here vacation. Certainly the work is important but our country has much to offer. It could turn the air conditioning, please? That's better. Even after four months 'm still not used with heat. That's because you never was in Chicago in the summer. Hey, I'm a California girl. You should choose their missions better. Enjoy your stay, Mr. Kelly. Thanks. - All arranged? - All arranged. So, I'll send the car pick him up at 6:30 for dinner and I recommend try to get some sleep. Such events usually long and believe it will be difficult to leave early. You know, I just need wash myself a little and would love to go in the office Federal Police. I prefer to go on dinner tonight take a few drinks, know a few people. It will break all formality here and get all the doors open. - When in Rome? - Exactly. - When in Rome. - Okay. - Thanks. - Get some rest. Sorry, you speak English? Wonderful. - Is the National Palace Museum? - Yes. I would like to talk with Dr. Li Pei Huang. Dr. Huang is not. Oh, sorry. You know when he returns? He left for the day. I would like to leave a message? No. I will call back. - Thank you. - Thanks. Taiwan's beer for you. A shot of whiskey for me. Never took a shot that before coming here. When in Rome. You know, sometimes I think that this government spends more money on fun than on defense. Agent Kelly, excuse me. Have you had time to see something in our town? Uh, unfortunately I was resting at the hotel. As you can imagine, I am eager to start working. Gentlemen, grab their chairs! I think we need dinner. Hope you are hungry. Dear friends ... If you are not satisfied with dinner tonight. I apologize. I have the honor as representative of our government to give a warm welcome to our asked the American FBI, Agent Jake Kelly Our esteemed President remains committed with the protection of our people and China's sovereignty. not only against Communist infiltration, but also to end with organized crime. Let's toast to the determination of our Government and our great President Unlike the evil communists with our utmost respect. Hopefully soon can reunify China and free our brothers the yoke of communism. Also one million Thanks to our dearest allies, the United States. - Cheers. - Drink! Well, I should feel honored. - Oh, and there's more to come. - I can not wait. Sure, enjoy the night, Agent Kelly. It was a great success. - Good evening. - Thanks. Good night. FIND THE KILLERS TEACHER'S WEN THREE DAYS AFTER THE MURDER OF WEN What symbolizes the bags? A fashion of politics? A political attitude. Maybe you just do not want be identified. Oh yeah, maybe by the killers. I could not identify these staff in any way, with or without the bags. You're a jerk. What does the money Wen's throat? The Chinese mafia puts money after an execution to pay the victim's spirit. Very well thought out. I can not see this guy as some kind of gangster. In this profession until he retired becomes easier. We have received calls. We must go. WANT TO KNOW THE TRUTH ON THE ASSASSINATION We are in the surveys. And you? Find anything? Only one transfer $ 1,000 dollars a month. - Are you kidding me? - I'm not funny, Jake. Why do not you tell me at the beginning of the conversation? Because the recipient is Bishop Episcopal Church in Taipei. Sees conecxo with Mafia on that thing? - You sure can have a tenuous. - Continue working on it. I appreciate your vast experience. It's good Braxton is not here. He hates Chinese. You must be kidding? How many calls do we have? - Hundreds. Most worthless. - Nothing stands out? Maybe. We have a connection to a store owner visited by two Asian guys he has sure, but think who were driving a Cutlass Sierra brown. - Right. Where was this? - In Bringmar and Cicero. Six blocks from the university. Okay, I did research and found that the more car rental O'Hare Airport is the Cutlass Sierra. I made a list of all the guys at that time came from Taiwan and China they rented a Cutlass Sierra. Good job. Want to see your animation when you see the size of the list. So what do we have? I got a call from a manager of a motel. He said two Chinese were brought there the other day, not speak English well and were driving a Sierra. - It is the motel? - Right. - A convenience store? - Uh-huh. - The University? - Near the expressway. Worth checking out. Hi, I'm Detective Gilbert Chicago Police. We are investigating the two Chinese men. - They are. - David Lee and James Wo - They stayed in room 36. - A Cutlass Sierra. Empty. Take a look here. I'll check the funds. Lisa, have two bikes back here. Lisa, you know? Lisa, you understand? Freeze! Police! Stop! FBI! Is clean. Is clean. Kelly's agent, FBI. Gunfire, police gunned down. - Did you find something? - It hurts a lot, actually. - Yeah? - Uh-huh. They are in Taipei. The car was Sierra found this morning a tire factory abandoned on the south side. - She was right. - Who? Lisa. The car was rented Airport O 'Hare two days before Wen be murdered. By James Lee the same James Lee who bought a ticket to Taipei, paid in cash. They bought the tickets and then flew. So these guys flew from O'Hare? Passport control had these drawings? How did they leave? Something in Taiwan? They think they are false identities. - Interpol? - The same. I have a senator who is glued on my ass. It seems that this teacher the project is his favorite. Want to make a big fanfare in the press because the victim was a U.S. citizen. and mainly because suspects crossed the border. "Made in Taiwan". Is. But ... as we have official relations with them more, we can not extradite them in any way. Then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs told me we were allowed to send an emissary to observe and possibly assist in the investigation. Why are you looking at me? You're a senior. When I left Vietnam, locked the door of the helicopter. You can send me for Europe. - How's your Chinese, Kelly? - Um, no, sir. Oh, bad thing as you go. And remember, you were invited to assist. - What does this mean? - Do not be a cowboy. Let them do their work. Yes, sir. - Braxton. - Hey, Jake. Hey, how's it going? Sick of food already? I would say that people is like drinking. I think I would also live in a state of repression. Yeah, me too, but do not tell anyone. - So what you found? - Nothing. - I see the pictures tomorrow. - Tomorrow? These people do not see this case with the same urgency as us. - I'll call tomorrow after work. - Okay, do not forget. I'm worried about you. - Bye, Tom - Bye. They will remove Lee's body and when the military police back through that door, will throw you in jail or worse. So, tell me right now. Who gave you Lee? You can parole? No. There is no freedom conditional here. Then you'll get from me just a name and number. - Hello, do you speak English? - Yes. I want to talk to Dr. Li Pei Huang. - Who's calling? - Mr. Jake Kelly. Please tell Mrs. Wen suggested me to call him. - It's Huang. - Dr. Huang? I'm Agent Jake Kelly of the FBI. I'm in Taipei, assisting an investigation the murder of Wen Ming Hwa. A horrible tragedy. Ms. Wen asked me send their greetings. - Are you hungry, Agent Kelly? - Hungry? You eat breakfast. It does not take? I can recommend a excellent restaurant. Near your hotel. The five blocks. The restaurant is in your street on the right. Thanks. Dr. Huang? I suppose not. I'm sorry, I ... Do you speak English? No thanks. Sure, coffee. Caf Coffee? Silence! Silence! Is there a communist here? You must meet the requirement and denounce the spies! Get up! No, no, please. Get up now! No, no, please. No. Wait! Hey! Hey! - Do you speak English? - Please sir, calm. You know Dr. Huang? He just asked me to pay your bill. Wanhua STATION, First we show some gang members in Taiwan. Incidentally, we believe Wen who was murdered by a group called Iron Blood of Patriots. They are very well represented in many cities U.S., smuggling electronics and dealing drugs. And Professor Wen was well known be the head of another gang: - The Tigers Bamboo. - Really? Professor Wen was a respectable academic have trouble painting it as a Mafia boss. As you can imagine, is easier for us we infiltrated those groups than for you. Unless of course the FBI has been specializing tactics in Taiwanese these days. Please. If you take a good look at photos of these murderers, I assure you that find them here. Someone once said: "Be cautious what you want. " Well, when I want a cup of coffee. Provide for the agent Kelly a cup of coffee. Well, Agent Kelly ... What new information you have for us? They are not here. Neither James Lee, or David Wo. That's impossible. In these folders are all gang members on the island. All gang members Taiwan are in these books. Sorry. I think you did accurate identification. He was so close to me As you are now. And I have no problem to identify you. Agent Kelly, as is going on your first day? Mr. Kuo. Agent Kelly may be right. Let's check all over again to ensure that no one was forgotten. Meanwhile, Agent Kelly you need to rest. I know a special place where can I get it. Really special. - Come on. - Looks good. Good! We will have a private room for dinner. Then I'll introduce you to some important people. You get companies and exclusive agent Kelly. Very few people have access this particular circle party. Only we and CIA sit at these tables, uhm? What an imagination you have. I suppose in his profession, is a hands-on, um? Come on. Only people of high echelon come here. Entrepreneurs, representatives Boeing or Lockheed. If you'll excuse me, I'll check the kitchen. They have a rib very good here. - Health! - Health! Thank God for this guy, right? You're here on business? Is. So, you know what I mean. Did you know hundreds of missiles are pointed at us right now in China? No, I did not know. And for what? Christ! The Reds have already made Hong Kong back with the British in command, that's for sure. And this guy right here ... This guy right here is that it guarantees Taiwan a safe place - To make money. - And democracy. It is ... too. This, too, buddy. - Health! - Health! Operator, I wanted to call the United States, please. Thanks. - Braxton. - It's me. Hey! How's it going? - It seems tired. - I am. Is it? Many party around? They put him to work? Yeah, but the files are not complete. No kidding. - Now what will you do? - Will show more pictures tomorrow. - Looking more. - Sounds like fun. What is that noise? Is someone knocking? You got a girl up or something? Yes, several. I'll call tomorrow. Hello. Can I help you? I always wanted to know an FBI agent. See my friends as a thank of our president. Please tell Mr. Kuo thank you, but ... No thanks. - I do not find attractive? - I find you very attractive. You are very sick, Officer. Do not use your phone. Are listening. - Who is listening? - Get mad ... and put me out. Meet me in the alley in ten minutes. Exit. - You do not like girls? - I do not like prostitutes. Come on. Get out! How the hell are you thought it would take Taiwanese aboard an unknown an aircraft for the U.S.? - That's why I called you. - I do not work for you. I do not have unlimited power. Should have communicated Ambassador. - Nonsense! - Should have led him to Beijing. No, the government here strongly depends on us. No, the government here and we if it matters, only care for this island not become a communist. That's it! Oh, come! I do not think even for a second do you believe that. You're not stupid and is not naive. How to stop will arrest me a communist invasion, huh? Where are you going with this? - Someone followed you? - No. - Are you sure? - Yeah, sure. Sure, it's dangerous here. Who are you? My name is Maysing. Dr. Huang has sent me. Right? Come on. Maysing, what are you afraid of? What's happening? Did you like dinner tonight, Agent Kelly? They kept your cup full? What do you mean? They have a hint on Wo Da Wei. Known as David Wo in your country. They know where he is hiding. And they're going to arrest him. Come, we are close. He is in the last quarter the first floor. FBI! FBI. Why was not informed about this? Captain, I understand that he interfered in police matters. He did not intend to commit any disrespect. I assure you it does not exceed limits again. What were you thinking? They would arrest him. They should have warned me. Christ! You could have been killed. So I would have problems in fact, would not you? This morning, they had not Wo idea who David was and 24 hours take half of Taiwanese army to kill him. - This is not a conspiracy. - No. It is the theory of the mafia. Still pushing notes through the canyons. The gangs are here very well connected. Unfortunately we do not have controlling corruption. Henry Wen was not a gangster. We are strangers here. You have to act differently or will not leave us stay inside. The military has a profile very high here. They are under martial law since 1947. I know it is very difficult for us to understand how is living with a constant threat of invasion. Threat of a communist invasion. Very difficult. Reception. Can I help you, Mr. Kelly? Mr. Kelly? Hello? The phone has touched continuously for three hours. - Let me guess, Susan Kane? - Washington. - Washington? - Is. I do not know, but apparently you created a storm there. I'm telling you, they had - And shot him. - It's their show. You take me to dinner and after work. You're just there to advise. How do you suppose that I give them technical to kill suspects, Tom? I'm telling you, there's something great going on here and I'll find out more sooner than you think. Well, when you discover let us know. I gotta go. Why am I not surprised? I'm happy not to have us abandoned, Agent Kelly. I'm Ming. If Dr. Huang is here I'll take you to him. So, you know Professor Wen? No, never knew him. Chicago is a big city. - What you know about him? - He seemed well liked. The wife is very nice. He had a big demonstration in campus protesting his death. And the demonstrators, which were trying to say? They were trying to link the death him with his government. That seems impossible to you? I know he had a connection with the gang Tigers Bamboo. You need reamente talk with Dr. Huang. How to stop will arrest me a communist invasion, huh? - Where you going with this? - What did that with Dr. Huang? Wen's widow asked me to say hi. So you went to Kaohsiung to say hi? If I tell you, can you drop Ming to my care? I can speak with the Minister Foreign Office. It is not enough. Let me tell you something: This is not a pure research you can control its field office. I think you're not understanding exactly - What is happening here. - Yes, and you? How is Mrs. Wen? Given the circumstances ... She seems to be a very strong woman. The last time I saw her, she was a shy and beautiful bride. Wen was very happy. It's a terrible loss. You are near find the killers? Unfortunately I am forced to stay out of the investigation. - They do not allow me much. - Must be very frustrating. I am sure. Who wanted to assassinate Henry Wen? Police say the Mafia is responsible. Yeah, but do not believe that Wen had something to do with the mob. I'm proud of my Henry Wen student. He did what I could not do. - What? - The supreme sacrifice. He left his country to try get the best for his people. They could be in your country ... a free country, in which they could speak freely. What you know about the history of our country? After the Japanese occupation World War II, Chiang Kai-shek and his army was forced to leave China controlled by Mao Tse-Tung and settled here. Since then he has Protected Taiwan against a possible invasion Communist China. I assume that this information is approved by the government. This island has been controlled by foreigners long ago. To gain control Chiang Kai-Shek imposed martial law. He did not care people here were being pursued, arrested ... tortured. What mattered was the people here be forced to speak Mandarin. We were fined for speaking our own language, Taiwanese. Wen would be allowed in America write about these things. There were 18 million Taiwanese in these islands, but less than 2 million the Chinese dominated. When President Nixon shook hands with Mao ... the government realized that its days were numbered. They are desperate. Desperate enough to kill an American on American soil? "Kill the chicken to scare the monkey. " Fear makes us lose consciousness. It can transform us craven cowards too. I do not want to offend you, Agent Kelly but do not understand why their government sent him here. You do not seem to be a specialist in Taiwan. I was one who could identify Wen's killers. But they already know who killed Professor Wen. But the important thing is that all we can say we seek do the right thing. And I owe it to Wen. We need to finish Wen's work. Come on. Wen sent this to me. Now we need reveal its contents. You do not want to give it to me. Give me evidence that I may have. We all need to believe something, agent Kelly. and believed Henry also the ideals of the United States. And you? Is not concerned with what might happen to you? I am the curator of the largest collection Chinese art world. I'm still useful the government. If not, I would not be here. Finally, I also I'm doing the right thing. Thank you, Agent Kelly. Thanks. Ming. See you soon. Are speaking in Taiwanese, not in Chinese. - What is 228? - February 28, 1947. Chiang Kai-Shek murdered It is illegal to talk about it. - What are they saying? - Independence. You and Dr. Huang spoke by at least 20 minutes. You knew I was being followed? This is not America. You have exceeded their limits. You can not have noticed but is being followed since arriving here. Which side are you on? I can do to you the same question. You're hiding evidence, helping a Communist spy ... The government is giving me information now? The military command me sent as a courtesy. Let's cut the crap. Say what you know. I'll tell you what I know. A U.S. envoy was seen at a rally hostile. The government ordered the Army that fire on unarmed civilians they were doing a peaceful protest. How would that look like? - I'm going back to the hotel. - It's late. Please stay. - No, not yet ... - I'll make some tea. I can not believe they shot a crowd like that? They had orders to do so. Why? It was a meeting democracy. The government does not want publicity about the 228. They did a great job, anyone off the island know about it. Therefore we suspect who killed Henry Wen. He tried to reveal the rest of the world. What happened? After the Second World War Japanese left after 50 years. We were very happy. Then the Chinese began a civil war. And the army of Chiang Kai-Shek began to lose against Mao Tse-Tung and the Communists. The army of Chiang Kai-Shek began to flee to Taiwan. At first, we happy because ... many of our ancestors were continent. But then we started to realize because they were losing the war. It was because they stole from people on the continent, the same way stole from us. They came to Taiwan and saw how rich we were. They acted as if they owned everything. On February 28, 1947 met the Taiwanese and marched to demand justice and order. They responded by sending a battalion to kill us. They were very specific about who they killed. Mataram politicians, businessmen, journalists, intellectuals ... Anyone who could form a government. A whole generation of leaders. My father ... was a civil engineer. He was taken from our house ... and washed into the river with five other men with no luck. They were tied together ... then fired at head of one of them ... and he drew others to drown him. My father was the last to drown. Drink your tea. It is a healing tea. The Chinese say we are his brothers. But if we are their brothers, why treat us this way? Thanks. No. It's okay. We know we have government agents / i in all major universities the United States. / i - Good morning. - Good morning. It has a shirt for you. Thanks. As Wen was able to smuggle the tape with the government pursuing? Neither our government can organize the chaos of our postal system. - What's on tape? - It's a saying in the book of Wen. A copy. He felt that was in danger. About what is the book? He wrote about the Taiwanese government and the systematic use Chinese mob. Gangs sell drugs and use the money to buy weapons other countries including United States. They spread fear spying on the people themselves, launder money and even kill political dissidents. Susan ... Agent Kelly, where the hell have you been? We've been looking for you all morning. I do not know what is happening, but I suggest that it is cool, let me talk. Try not to speak anything stupid. Where's Kuo? - Good morning, gentlemen. - Good morning. Thanks for coming. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the importance to the United States we find Lee Shin Shen. We are aware of their concern, Mrs. Kane. I can assure you we are so eager to meet him as you do. Thank you. You'll find Lee or they will kill him? I saw how efficient are David Wo holding. We can all understand, I am sure, - Agent Kelly's frustration. - Please do not. The agent understands what Kelly is happening here. We look forward to hear him. Then, perhaps, can tell us what were you doing there. I was doing what I was sent here to do. I was watching. Maybe they'll leave me know the next time that they hold some of my suspects. The suspects are no longer their suspects. It is our research and I not need to report to you, except by courtesy. I'm sure we all we want to find Lee Shin Shen. I'm curious, though. How do you know where it was? I went for a walk, I saw a police activity and decided to follow them. Then, perhaps, you can tell me what he was doing in an illegal protest in Kaohsiung yesterday? Excuse me? Surely you did not leave just to walk, then? No. I had a hint that Lee was in Kaohsiung. - And was he? - I do not know. I was hit in the head before I could check. Own initiative can compromise our research and Inspector Chen. The last thing I want to do is to jeopardize this investigation. What if I have done this, I apologize to you and the Inspector Chen. Due to the riots did not fear be safer to keep you here. His advice was much appreciated but we have to ask you leave the country until tomorrow afternoon. - Mrs. Kane. - Certainly. I believe that with this have enough time to end all their businesses here. Thank you, gentlemen. Agent Kelly. - I can not leave yet. - My hands are tied. We have no relations officers in this country. You were lucky not to were thrown in jail. Lee is the key to this whole thing. He can blow it all. So want to get rid of me and catch him first. - It's their investigation. - They will not investigate it. - They will kill him. - Enough. What exactly is the your goal here? I think the Taiwanese government is behind the assassination of Wen. Listen, even if it were true, you could never prove. No. Not without Lee Listen to your even saying. You want to blame all the Taiwanese government for murdering a citizen American on U.S. soil. I'm sorry that this has to end this way, but you have to leave this story it be. Do not leave the hotel without me calling. Wait a minute. What is he doing? Operator, I'd like to call to the United States. One moment, please. - Hello? - Tom Jake, you've found anything? - Daltry's there? - For Daltry wants to talk to? He's gone. - They sent me home. - What? Seems I'm not most welcome. - A bunch of crap. - It's crap. I said to keep a low profile. It's hard when you discover that the Taiwanese government Wen murdered. What? What are you telling me? Now it makes sense to the Ministry have called Daltry. Wait, explain to me again. What are you talking about? Jake? Jake! Jake? Damn! Jake? Huang is dead! You're not safe. They are behind you now. Come on. Come on. I see you already know my sister. She has contacts in security police. Apparently. Victims of Torture. - From Kaohsiung? - Some, perhaps. In this they used a blowtorch. You saw for yourself it said Dr. Huang. It was nice to be on you Kaosiung protest. I think they started something that can not be stopped. I'm sorry, but the Security Police has information that Lee Shin Shen fled to Hong Kong. FBI! This man is in my custody. If you are not hostile, I remove his handcuffs. You can take the sale. Do not worry. You're safe. You're a lucky man, Agent Kelly. After his capture, I lost his track for several hours. I feared that some of my subordinates execute you. That would be unfortunate. You certainly is not the goofy that our government had hoped. - Where is Ming? - You will see him soon. Change can come from anywhere. As my friend Huang some prefer to work within. Huang is dead. Why should I I trust you? You have no reason. What if I told you that your suspect Wo Da Wei Shin Shen and Lee were members an organization called Patriots Blood Iron and that this organization was hired to assassinate Professor Wen? This only confirms something I already suspected. Then the government was involved. - Military Command? - Sure. But the order came from above. The Blood of Patriots head Iron is the son of the president. Wen then murdered to save face? Yes Why risk the relations with the U.S.? That was a stupid decision, as many decisions taken recently. You knew about this? Would you believe me if I said "no"? - I have my doubts. - As you should. It is a tricky business, Agent Kelly. We must be aware Goal ... all the time. They will not admit it, but this government feels backed into a corner. Are pressed by contracts with several entrepreneurs Americans ... to fund and train the Contras in Nicaragua to combat communist government. In return, the U.S. will approve a arms trade with Taiwan exceeding 50 million dollars. When President Nixon decided to support China took advantage of the continent. The UN seat changed Taipei to Beijing, but ... the greatest threat to our government, is not the "red giant", she's here in Taiwan! What most Taiwanese wants is a democratic government, separate and independent from China. Sounds reasonable to their ears as an American? China needs Taiwan. Taiwan does not need China. It is a fact that the U.S. and the rest the world will never understand. Henry Wen was Taiwanese. He was murdered in their continent. Now that Da Wei Wo is dead Lee Shin Shen know is being hunted by the employer because it has become more dangerous for the government Henry Wen than it ever was. And now he fled to Hong Kong? Take care with our intelligence, agent Kelly. We know exactly where he is. See, unlike Wo Da Wei Lee Shin Shen is senior member Patriots' therefore he has some protection. But its members are ready to extradite him for a price. We will extradite him tonight. You want me to find before they do that, do you? How do I find it? He is a club managed by the Patriots. Ming knows your friend. Already released? I arranged to stay the vigilance of the guard. You will not want to be late for the last flight, Agent Kelly. And I wish him luck during his last hours in Taipei. Ming! Are you okay? Ming ... I know where Lee is. You've got me help you find it? I will arrest him. Enough already! Who the hell are you? What did he say? He said he was waiting for us. He said he knows that was betrayed by the party and that he prefers a trial in U.S. court. Ask him why Wen he murdered. He said the party offered a good deal and that he did not realize who were their partners. Who hired him? He said that once custody outside of Taiwan he'll tell you everything. Come on. - Where are you? - The way to the airport. We are two people going out tonight. - Impossible. - Nothing is impossible. I need your help to spend on security. I do not have that kind of power. I know you have power sufficient to exchange a trade secret weapons to Nicaragua. We will meet in security gate. Take the left by arrival gate. Here is good. Take care my friend. - I go with you. - No. You have to leave. - It is not safe for you. - I do not care anymore. Knows what will happen if the catch me. The only thing that matters is put them safely on this plane. Welcome to Airport International Chiang Kai-Shek. FBI. He is with me. You behaved like a Cowboy since he arrived. Precipitated and arrogant. This will cost the U.S. much political capital in what you're worth. I did not come here to see opera. You can not sacrifice because of one man. You will not change anything. If you think we must sacrifice the last bastion that have against China you are a traitor for your country. Let me tell you one thing: Wen would reveal the truth about what is happening here. He was murdered by this government. If that is our policy, this is what she deserves now. Just tell them you were bringing Lee to me. Yes, of course. Damn! What happened? He wanted to wish me a good flight. - You did not call, did not write. - I was a little busy. Yeah, you know Daltry everything that happened. All actors this division shall testify before a special committee to explain why the FBI helped one of its agents violating the laws of international law. I was sent to a work and did the job ... You were sent to observe and report, not to get our the only suspect dead try to smuggle it illegally across the country. If we wanted an Elliot Ness we would eviado Elliot Ness. I was the only one who was trying to arrest the suspect. The only thing you did right has been delivering that terrorist the Taiwanese government and you did it by accident. Ming was not a terrorist. I never would have found Lee without his help. Now we're abandoned to die. This is an internal problem the Taiwanese government ... They murdered the His family, Daltry! The daughter was deleno a terrorist. - It is not our responsibility! - It is not our responsibility? And the truth? It does not matter anymore? - And the killers Wen? - They are not our people. They are not our people? Wen was an American citizen. His widow is a U.S. citizen. Well, there are many people who not see it that way. You have evidence that Wen was killed by the Taiwanese government? Here because this is still the FBI, and work with evidence. And if you want to create a international incident you better have something more than just his word to go ahead. And I will not risk the rest of my career cursed by a bunch of politicians neither do I care. Hey! The Federal Police in Taiwan accuses him of smuggling important evidence. What are they talking about? And I dunno. I remember you, Agent, is a crime to hide evidence. You signed the same I vow. Defend the Constitution against all enemies, external and internal. I did not get the FBI to observe while people are being murdered! Are you sure you want to do this? That is not why I sent. You know? It's just a job. Okay, eliminate all the evidence you have. - Are you talking or Daltry? - Daltry. You know, I do not care what you will do. We must be faithful yourself, uh? Doing the right thing. Only you know what it is. It's very Chinese coming from you. Is it? Coming from you, I take it as a compliment. - I see him there. - Do not be long. I will miss you. We know there are agents the Taiwanese government / i in all major U.S. universities. / i I also walked being watched. / i I've seen photographing me / i outside of my office at night. / i I know what I'm doing is dangerous. / i Raise your voice and demand change was always a risk in history. / i We have suffered enough now. / i We can not remain over in silence. / i Because of events like those portrayed in this film, Taiwan became a democracy. Today China has more than and has threatened to use force if it declares independence. Today there are 23 countries that recognize Taiwan as a sovereign nation. The U.S. is not one of them. - Sabras - --
