 

                        I'm Kim Philby, Major. That is, Colonel Philby KGB, retired... I think you will find I have an appointment with General Govorshin The Chairman of the KGB General Govorshin left three hours ago. But that's impossible. I was summoned for an important conference with him. I regret, the Comrade General charged me to make an alternative arrangement. And what, pray, might that be? Major Valeri Alexeivitch Petrofsky? At ease. You're a fortunate man, Major Petrofsky You have been chosen for a mission of the utmost importance. If you are successful you will return to honours and promotions beyond your dreams. As Chairman of the KGB, I am giving you a director order. You will accept my authority, and my authority alone. You will consult neither your Camp Kommandant nor the head of the Illegals Directorate. Nor will you reveal details of this mission to anyone. Major Pavlov her will be in charge of your briefing if you have any questions, you will direct them to him. They tell me you are the star of the Illegals Directorate. You will need to be. Thank you, London! It's fifteen minutes to midnight and here in Trafalgar Square huge crowds are already gathering to welcome in the New Year everyone's in good spirits. The crowd is cheerful but orderly and the police so far, have had an easy time. St John's Ambulance have only had to deal with a few people fainting up in the studio in Glasgow our Hogmanay party is in full swing so... let's go north of the border to join in the fun Nigel! I've some reinforcements... Drunkard sod! It's Jeremy! Tell Nigel to open the bloody door! James... Happy New Year. What flat do you want, sir? I've got the reinforcements for Nigel! Yes. But what flat number, sir? Don't worry I'll follow the noise. Happy New Year. Bingo... Ah! Preston. Come and sit down. Preston, I have told the Committee that I did not authorise your action last night. I have also told them you have needlessly alerted Berenson to our investigations by recklessly blowing up his safe! Presumably you have some explanation for the decision, Preston? Well, we've got Berenson. What we need now is the name of his controller. If Berenson believes it was only a burglary he won't be afraid to contact him. But that still doesn't explain why you didn't ask for my authorisation. You wouldn't have given it. That will be all, Preston. Berenson's away, I take it? He's at a house party in Yorkshire. With his wife. Yes, but, er, tomorrow is Saturday, Sir Anthony we don't expect him back until Monday we will pick him up then. But do you go along with that, Preston? He has a girlfriend. I'm sorry what's that got to do with it Quite. I wouldn't be surprised if he found an excuse to leave the wife in Yorkshire come back early, and start the New Year with a bang. I see. What do you want, Preston? Round the clock surveillance. Three teams of watchers. Phone tap. Mail intercept. Everything, immediately. Twenty four men round the clock for an indefinite period!? That would mean wrecking at least three of our current operations. Brian, I'm sure you'll agree that this Berenson business is of overriding importance. Yes, of course, Sir Anthony. Alright, Preston, you've got it. Gentlemen, I suggest we reconvene after lunch. Preston. Got a moment? Close the door. Just what the hell do you think you are playing at!!! First, you have the unmitigated qall to proceed without my permission. Then you deliberately try to embarrass the service in front of that shit, Irvine! Of course, I'm well aware that you somehow consider yourself as outside the normal chain of command but let me remind you that this is a SERVICE not a free-for-all! And when you've finished showing off, you come back to work for me and I as Director General of the Security Service... Acting Director General... Bernard Hemmings isn't dead yet. Look, Preston let's get this straight. If, or rather when, I am confirmed as head of this department you are just going to disappear. Without trace. I will bear that in mind. In the meantime, I want another report Complete in every detail, on my desk before you go home. Would that include this meeting, Sir? Do it!!! Yes, Sir. General Govorshin asked me to give you this. Your final instructions. Okay. Could you put these in the car for me? Thank you. Nigel. Bernard how are you? Terrible. But I'd rather you didn't mention it to Harcourt Smith. Or has that little shit already got me dead and buried? Not quite. But he does seem pretty confident that he will be your successor. Has he got rid of all my people? No there are still a few flies in his ointment. John Preston, in particular. Good man, John. What's he been up to? Well, that's what I wanted to talk to you about. Perston's caught that prick Berenson leaking NATO papers And I'd appreciate a little chat about what we might do with him. Julia? George. How was the New Year? How was yours? So, so. How about tonight, then? Yes, lovely. Seven? Okay. Fine. See you then. 'Bye. 'Bye. Oh my God! Hello? Julia. I'm sorry, darling, something's come up I'm afraid I'll have to skip tonight. Why? Is it Angela? No. It's the bloody office. Oh, Geroge, I'm sorry about that. So am I. I'll, er, call you tomorrow. Alright? Bye. Bye. Chummy's gone to ground. Pizzeria on Fillimore Walk. It's a long way to go for a pizza. I think we'll join him. Do you think Jimmy's overdoing it a little? Gloria doesn't seem to be objecting. Well done, Charlie. Alright. Here we go. Don't you like your pizza, Mr Berenson? No we don't go... It's a drop. So what do we do about Berenson? Better give him the first team. Oh, shit! What? Take away pizzas in boxes! William... The girl with the pizzas. The Manager again. Who gets special service? He does. We'll take this one. Hello, Angela. Nigel Irvine. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, of course. How silly of me. Were we expecting you? Not exactly. Do you mind if we come in? No. Please do. Is George in? Yes, of course. Darling! In North Wales, severe blizzards... Hello, George. Nigel. How nice. I wonder if we might have a quiet word? Yes, of course. Do sit down. Quiet New Year's holiday? Not missing something, are you? What do you want, Nigel? I thought you might be missing something. Like this. These are yours, I believe. But these beyond a doubt... Never were. I don't suppose there's much I can say, is there? I don't know. Try me. Alright. Well for years now I have taken the attitude that there was only one struggle on this planet worth a damn the fight against world communism. And it has long seemed to me ridiculous that the most committed anti communists in the southern hemisphere the South Africans should be excluded from NATO planning because of some unfashionable domestic attitudes. So was this your idea? Or did someone approach you? I met someone at a party. Or did he meet you? Jan Marais... It seems our Secret Service is up to scratch. Just what exactly have you been passing him? It would be awfully helpful to know. I gave him any relevant documents to NATO taht crossed my desk. NATO? Mmm-huh. Well, I hope they didn't pay you in cash, Berenson the Rand's taken a bit of a dive lately. I didn't do it for money. I did it because I believed it was right! A man of principle to the last. You can bloody well sneer, Irvine but perhaps I'm rather more of a patriot than you are. You may be interested in this. It's an extract from the debriefing of a recent Soviet defector which pinpoints a Soviet agent in the South African Foreign Service. And this is a summation of the South African internal investigation which identifies the man as one Jan Marais. What have I done? You've betrayed your country. You've passed untold numbers of secrets to Moscow... And endangered the lives of British men and women and I'd say, you've weakened NATO perhaps irretrievably. Oh my God! Just your and your schoolboy politics... And your idiotically conceited faith in your own importance. Now some of our more muscular colleagues favour taking you to a cell and going to work on you with a carving knife and a pair of pliers. The rest would like to feed you to the newspapers and throw what's left into prison for 20 years. It's a tricky choice, isn't it? However this is what you will do. You will resume your "special relationship" with Moscow Only this time I shall be suplying the papers. Understand? Then later when we're finished we can decide what to do with you. I'm very grateful, Nigel. Good operation. Damn good. The turning of Berenson? No. The false flag recruitment, the way he was run. Very clever. I've been thinking it reminds me of someone... Who? General Yevgeni Sergeivitch Karpov, Deputy Head KGB... Sort of your opposite number, then? You could say that, yes. I shall enjoy feeding him a few wrong turns for a change. The well-known Kremlin watcher we also have with us Colonal K who quit Moscow to come to the West last year Colonel, who's now the leader of the minority hard line group in the Politburo? Certainly it would be a KGB chief, Govorshin. How secure would you say he is? You know, Govorshin is in a very delicate situation unless comes some change in world power balance to justify his his hard line policies. You talk about a hard line, I... KGB Chief, Govorshin. How secure would you say he is? Govorshin is in a delicate situation unless comes some change in world power balance... General Karpov? General Borisov on line one. General Borisov. General Karpov. Pavel Petrovich, how are you? Fine. I need to talk to you. Yes? It's serious. Can we meet today? Well, where are you? I'm out of town. I'm fishing. All right, I'll drive out this afternoon. Good. Good. Natasha, I won't be back after lunch. I'll call your driver. No. I'll drive myself. Karpov my friend. That was quick. How are you? I'm good. I'm good. Bistovia. Yevgeni Sergeivitch how long have we known each other? Get to the point Pavel Petrovitch. Why are you stripping my department? Why am I what?! Stripping me clean. Everyday something new is taken from me First, the very best agent we have specialising in Britain Major Valeri Petrofsky. And then, a forged life story meticulously maintained over the years a legend that fits Valeri Petrofsky like a glove. Where do you want me to stop? Couriers, their documentations radio men and then the coding crystals for that sleeper transmitter you yourself planted when you were head of the KGB in London. What the hell are you mounting over there? Whose authority has been on all these transfers? Govorshin! But Comrade, General Chairman Govorshin knows nothing about Western Europe. That's why I was sure that you knew of it. Pavel Petrovitch, old friend, I give you my word. I'm not the one who's wrecking your department. Then what the hell is going on? Yevgeni Sergevitch, I'm sorry. I thought that you... No. No. In your position I would have thought the same. So, who is advising Govorshin on England, apart from ourselves? Do you think he's trying to embarrass you? Maybe remover you? Not as far as I know. No... He and I have not had any, er fireside chats lately. Something's wrong here, Yevgeni. Take care. Take care. I'll look into it. Stay well old friend. And stay silent. By the way, what's the name? What's the name of the legend? The name of the legend? Ross. James Edward Ross. Mr Ross? Yes? I'm so sorry I'm late... I'm Jill Dunkley. How do you do? It's absolute bloody mayhem out there! I'm sorry? The traffic. Quite frightening. I got stuck for half an hour behind some motorised carrot pulper or something. Anyway, I gather you're looking for a three month leg? Yes, that kind of thing. Are you a single man, Mr Ross? My wife will be joining me as soon as we sell our house in Plymouth. Oh, well that's nice. This is the attic, upstairs. I see. Thank you. Then there's the bathroom and this is the second bedroom. Of course one does hear the occasional sound from the Baywaters American Airbase. But I hope it doesn't bother you. No. That doesn't bother me at all. Yes? General... Tell the first courier to proceed. Yes sir. Would passengers arriving on swiss Air Flight 307, please collect their luggage... Hey... You must be our new neighbour. I suppose I must be. Jim Ross. Tome McWhirter. Any time you feel like dropping around, huh? I'll do that. Thank you. You're a problem, Preston. You see, while you've been away, young Mayhurst has been heading up your section. And he's done an excellent job very thorough so of course it would be grossly unfair to push him back to his second slot now But, as luck would have it, a vacancy has suddenly appeared. In C5. C5! That's airports and ports, isn't it? Do you know, I do believe it is. But I think you could look on it as a real career move. Well, you can't keep a good man down, can you Mr Smith? Well, I expect your talents will be equally appreciated in airports and ports. John this telex just came in for you. Give it to 'young Mayhurst'. I don't work here anymore. Where are you working then? In airports and bloody ports. Hey, seaman? Where's your pass? Did you forget something? What's in your bag? Gold fillings. Lily white hands. Soft palms. So what we've got is a 'deckhand' from a Russian trawler who looks like he's never handled anything harder than a bar of soap coming out of Glasgow docks at two a.m. In the morning. No forged papers? Nothing unusual at all. I think we better have another look at these effects. It's polonium. What'a polonium? Well combined with lithium the two together form an initiator. That's that's a detonator. For a bomb. A bomb? An atomic bomb. Pull over, Gregoriev. Yes sir. I understand you have been driving comrade Colonel Philby lately. Yes, comrade general. Up till christmas Where have you been driving him? Gergoriev, do you know who I am? So tell me, where did you drive him? Comrade General, I've been forbidden to... Gregoriev, you have a wife and two children. Do you think they will like you driving an open jeep in Afghanistan? So where did you drive Colonel Philby? Comrade Professor Krilov? Yes? My name is General Karpov. May I have a word? Come in. Professor Krilov... In the interests of the State I want you to tell me the plan that you and Philby have been discussing with Govorshin. What authority have you got for this? My authority is my rank and my service. If you have no singed authority from the Comrade General Chairman you hve no authority at all. In fact I might draw his attention to your line of questioning. That might not be a very good idea. Did you know that Philby has already gone missing? What do you mean "gone missing"? Disappeared. The rumour is that he is dead. Shot. On Govorshin's orders. Well, that is not my concern. Then man is reckless and weak. No doubt he has overstepped the mark. That mark is easily overstepped. You have a son for instance. But this can't be. You know, we do not tolerate these "golden boys". Five years in a labour camp not everyone survives that endure it the beatings the sodomy... I regard this report this report as alarmist, irresponsible and supported by insufficient evidence. Evidence? Can't you read!?! That metal disc can only be used as part of a trigger for an ATOM BOMB. That remains to be seen. Don't think I don't know what's going on, Preston. You're trying to worm your way back into favour by dreaming up some far fetched drama of which you yourself, naturally, are the hero. And and you're kicking out anybody who doesn't make themselves available to kiss your arse! But if you were to look at this thing straight just for a moment, you might see that there's something going on out there! It is my prerogative, as head of this country's Security Service... Acting head, sunshine... But if you ask me you're acting like a complete arsehole! No further action and you are suspended for insubordination. Indefinitely. Look what we've got here! Nah! What, you think I'll get out of this bloody carriage for you bloody wog Yeah! Fuck off back to the jungle! Want to go somewhere? Get out! Wake up all you black passengers! Fuck off back to the jungle then! And take your Commie fucking brass mates with you. What's your problem, toerag? You two related? Eh? Hello, Joa. Hello. I'm staying in tonight. You can take the evening off if you want to. Hi, Dad. Hi, Tiger. Who's winning? I am! And police reports indicated that rioting continued today in townships outside Johannesbourg, Pretoria and Cape Town... Come on, Tiger. Bed. Scuffles broke out today between demonstrators and police as a further squadron of American F1-11 Strike Bombers arrived at the US Airforce Base of Baywaters had flown non stop from Texas refuelling in mid Atlantic. Hey! You looking for someone? No. No, not really. You got a room here? No. But I've got my car. Let's go then. Hey Jim me and Eileen been figuring you could use a little entertainment. Well actually, I'm rather busy, at the moment. Well, hell you ain't too busy to be watching TV why don't you come down to the Base for a few beers? Yes, alright. Thank you, that would be lovely. Um just give me a couple of minutes, okay? Ever done any bowling, Jimmy? Goddamn! You're pretty good, Jimmy. Yeah, too damn good. I think we'd better find something I can beat you at. Push another? Oh! Now don't tell me you've reached your limit, Jimmy boy! Well, I usually try and stop after a gallon or so. No shit. Marty come here. Give us two large Moscow Mules Pronto! Maybe that's kick a hole in that famous British reserve. Na zdrovye that's rusky for "up yours". Narza drovier. Cool you British are real cool. Most of these boys are just all hat and no cattle. Sounds painful. I ought to be getting back, Eileen. Yeah? Okay. Yeah, you get real bored around here. These people treat us like such dopes. To tell the truth I sometimes wonder what we're doing here at all. Yes, I can understand that. Do you get bored too, Jimmy? Bored stiff? I ought to be getting back. Come to fly a kite, Sir? Now, I'll land it. Very good. Go and get it, Tim. It's an interesting report, John. You're pretty sure about this, I take it That somewhere out there there's a soviet agent assembling an atomic bomb? Yes. Don't suppose you heard a sleep transmitter has just gone active in East Anglia. Sent two messages. First, two weeks ago. But the second soon after your glasgow incident. So he's already asked for a replacement disc. And if you were still on the case how would you track him down? Well, we know he's at least one component short. I would start by working on recent immigration records of all Soviet Block citizens. Try to pick out the courier. Alright I can get you those records. I'll have them brouth round to your flat. Okay. Just keep Harcourt Smith off my back. Oh, he's much too busy working on his Knighthood. Timmy! First of all, there'd be a core of uranium. Probably round and about five inches in diameter. Now there'd be a two inch diameter hole right through the centre. Over here we have a two inch diameter ord. Also uranium 235. Now when the rod is rammed into the heart of the fissionable core the mass of the two together rises beyond the critical threshold. And that's when things start to get exciting. The fissionable core will explode only if at the moment of criticality it's bombarded by a blizzard of neutrons and the blizzard is created by the initiator... Lithium... And polonium... what is it that wends the plug down the tube into the mass? Any old plastic explosive. I believe you know about that. So what we're looking for is some plastic explosive a detonator tow small discs a tube... A round metal case and a rod of uranium And the uranium ball. The thing about uranium, it's heavy. Twice as heavy as lead. That ball alone would take a strong man to life two handed. But in size it's about as big as a small football? Nearer a child's football. If an atomic bomb explodes on an american base they'll be blamed For a nuclear accident. The British will kick them out. That will destroy NATO. But if Petrofsky is caught with those components Russia will be blamed for breaking the Fourth Protocol. Govorshin would have forced us back into the cold war. Denounce him to the President. On what evidence? Well, what about this professor, er, Krilov? Krilov. Krilov. Krilov will change his story in five minutes. Will he live that long? And then Govorshin would simply destroy me. He can destroy us all. Govorshin need not last forever. I want to die in my bed. No I can't. So what will you do? Watch. Wait... Hi! Good evening. Next please. May I have a look at your ticket please? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Dunker. Hi, Tiger. Haven't you finished playing yet? Not yet. Can I have a go? Press one of those, there. Charne is from East Germany Dussiaux, where's he from? Jugoslavia. Is from... Czechoslovakia. And from Poland. Poland. And they all came into Heathrow in Frebruary and March and nobody can pronounce their names... Mrs Vatanen? How was your journey from Finland? Very comfortable, thank you. Mr Ross. Let me take your bags. Irina Vassilievna of the soviet Army Artillery, Research directorate... Specialising in the design and con struction of atomic shells. I know. Valeri Petrofsky. How do you do? How do you do? Unfortunately we have a problem though. We're still missing one component. We got your message... Yeah? John. We've got a break. Barry. What is it? It's the lead we've been looking for. Yeah. I'm on my way. I'll be ready. This way. Here we are. Where are you sleeping? We're husband and wife, remember. I think not, comrade Major. So what have we got? Austrian by the name of Winkler. He had a duff visa. So immigration checked out pass port it was forged all right. And Winkler was the name of a spy the FBI busted three years ago in California. We ran him through the computer found out his real name was Ivan Komishenko. KGB Agent specialising in radio equipment. The transmitter in East Anglia? Yes and we've just heard he's booked on the six thirty to Colochester tonight. We've got fifteen minutes! We'd better get a move on. I'm doing my best, John. Passengers with tickets for the eighteen thirty from Platform 9 calling at Shenfield, Chelmsford and Colchester... Where will I be working? Upstairs. In the attic. So how about a drink? Don't! Keep that away from the ball. How big is this bomb going to be? One and a half kilotons. It should devastate about two square miles. That's a lot of damage... I imagine it'll kill somewhere between two and five thousand people... Hand me that battery. Tighten those strutts, will you. There we are. Armed and primed. Now you'll have two hours. To detonate turn the key niney degress clockwise. Press the button. Then the timer's running. Is that clear? Okay let's move this. And when do I get the 'Go' signal...? The Radio Moscow English newcast's at nine. When you hear the words 'Colonel Gaddafi' in the third item... Colonel Gaddafi, okay. Wait. And I have to give you this. Is everything alright? Yes. Just confirming your instructions. I turn the key clockwise press the button then I have two hours before detonation. Yes. Two hours. It suppose to tell Moscow already Before I go... I thought you'd get to that. Don't. The key... Your friend's arrived, Mr Hardcastle. Oh, thanks. Thank you. Hi, Barry. What did you find out? The place is owned by two Greek Cypriots. Entered the country in '76 must have been in deep cover ever since. The KGB's really pulling out the family silver on this one. Does Irvine think the transmitter's based here? Yeah. How about Winkler? He still in there? Who did you bring with you? George. He's parked in a company Transit down the road. Ah, well. You boys have everything covered so I think I'll go and get some sleep. John. What is it? Winkler's leaving. Let him go. But he could be out of the country by tomorrow. So he'll tell Moscow that the Maldon transmitter is secure and recently serviced. Winkler's only small fry. I think the jackpot's in that cafe. And I fell lucky. Anti nuclear protesters have continued to stream into Suffolk in preparation for tomorrows demonstration at Baywaters the American Strike bomber Base. Cruise Out! Yanks Out! The organisers of the really claim that by tomorrow attendance would top 50,000 in protest at the tactical nuclear weapons carried by the F1-11's based there. They said the demonstration would make it's point... John? Barry? There's a man standing at the end of the road. A Suffold Police Spokesman said they were never... What does he look like? Tall. Well built. Wearing a raincoat. He looks as though he's carrying something. He's moving towards the cafe. Arrived by car, rail and on foot. Many preparing to spend the night at the Base... Got him. Let me see. What's he carrying? I don't know. It's a motorcycle helmet!!! Get over to the chalet, George, and stand by the phone. Right. John? Yeah? I've found the motorbike. Engine's still hot. Fix a bleeper and come back here. Yes? A message from the transmitter in Britain, General Govorshin. "Everything in place. Awaiting signal." Very well. Sir. George... Yes, John? Tell Irvine to hit the Greeks now. You guide them in. Alright. Take the next left. And then right. This guy's really moving! Where are we now? We're into Suffolk and heading towards Ipswich. He's stopped. In town. And then right again at the next one. He's still there. That's over four miuntes. This must be it. What's happening? There's been a big accident! The main road's blocked. Hang on, Barry. Alright. Keep moving. Now come on through. Move it! Move along now. Barry! Pull out! Pull out, quickly! Come on! Midblue XR3! Stop! Stop now! Who signed for this van? You did. RAF Baywaters? It's the American Nuclear Base. That's where he's heading! He's turned off to the right. Looks like a dead end. Keep trying for about half a mile. I'll be in touch. Two people who are believed to be responsible for the attack later shot dead by soldiers we'll hve our next news at 11 o'clock. Good morning, madam. I've come to read the meter. What, now? My identification. Jim ross that's right, yeah. How long has he lived here? Two months. Does he live alone? Er, no. A woman arrived the day before yesterday. I think it's his wife. So what's all this about then? I want to borrow this house for a little while. What?! That's not his wife over there, you know. He murdered his wife and three children with a shotgun. Oh my God! This is serving the North American service of Radio Moscow just in case you tuned in late I'm Nikolai Kornakov and I'd like to remind you that with me in the studio are two Soviet jazz critics Alexei Sattin and Demetri Drkov and we're going to listen to some in depth jazz. Coming to you on the North American Service of Radio Moscow. Our friend is in Cherryhayes Close north west of the Air Base. I'm in the house opposite, number 14. It's the solar house at the end of the road. Come in over the waste ground at the rear. The back door is open. Out. Sir Nigel Irvine, please from Radio Moscow... Hello, everybody. Today we announce the results of our russian language contest... I'm in here, Barry. Upstairs front bedroom. Number 12. I think there's someone in the attic as well. Preston? Hello, Chief. So you found the man... Yes. He's in the house next to the American Air Base at Baywaters... Well, we'll have to get him then. Yes, I think we should. Geroge. Bill. Let's go. Captain Lyndhurst. Assault Team Commander. Is Preston here Through there. I'm Julian Lyndhurst. John Preston. Have they told you anything? Just that he's a terrorist. Oh, he's more than just a terrorist. He is a top Soviet agent. A pro. Is he alone? Maybe there's a woman in there. He's armed. With a bomb. How big a bomb? Atomic bomb. Deep in our hearts I do belive that we shall overcome some day. The time is nine o'clock. You are listening to the English Language Service of Radio Moscow. And here is the news. You're reader, Paul... In Afghanistan today, democratic government forces assisted by their soviet comrades in arms continued their sweep against fascist, CIA backed rabels in the Panshir Valley... You correspondent in Kabul reports that the Government Forces... Entering Cherryhayes fifteen seconds. Go ahead. Including large areas of the valley have been liberated and restored to the arrival of Government and soviet forces have everywhere been greeted with dubilation by the liberated the Afghanis army reported the capture of... Ginger? Hold position. There's a civilian on the street. Ginger... Ginger. Come on! Ginger! Come on down from there! We're bloody exposed out here. While trying to escape to join the rebels as lies and distortion. Here, Ginger! Continuing his tours of collective farms in the Maldazian Republic... Ginger easy now. Ginger! Politburo member, predicted further record grain harvests this year for soviet agriculture to a cheering crowd of farm workers... Eays. Eays. For Christ's sake! With the order of Heroes of soviet labour... Ginger! Hogs and corn are not setting an example to the whole nation... In Lybia today progressive Arab leaders invited by the Lybian leader, Colonel Gaddafi met to discuss further measures in the cntinuing struggle against American and Zionist imperialism in the Middle East. Let me go! Put me down! Shut up! Go! Don't shoot it's me! Stop! Go back in your homes and remain there... We needed to talk to him! Sorry, boss orders. Stay in doors! Stay away from the windows... I'll be a couple of minutes. Okay Dad. We are gathered here today to give thanks to the life of our friend, Mr Bernard Hemmings we are grateful for the privilege of having known him for all of us, I believe, have had our lives enriched and enhanced by the example he has set us. For Bernard conducted himself thorughout his distinguished career with unfailing cheerfulness and with generosity of spirits and with charity. In commemorating him today I do not think it is too much to say... Excuse me. Thank you. That his passing marks the end of an era. It is our fondest desire that he may gain here... Preston what do you want? I've been trying to speak to you for two weeks. I want to know why the Russian was killed. I believe he was crawling towards an atomic bomb at the time. No he wasn't. He was "executed" on your orders. Or was it on yours General? Why did you send Winkler? Your man with the obviously forged passport to lead us to Petrofsky. You deliberately wasted the whole operation. Why did you do that, General? You and Irvine set it up, didn't you? You gave us Petrofsky in return for the evidence that you were using to destroy Govorshin. You could well become the next Chairman of the KGB. Preston you are out of your depth. It's all a game to you, isn't it? You don't give a shit about any thing except your lousy careers. Neither of you. It's about time they put you in a fucking musuem. Do you think he'll talk? Dad! Where are we going? Home.
