 

                        Viagra, so fashionable It puts the party at sea ah? Kids like them You hit me Happy Birthday THX Wei uncle Children over and told Uncle Uncle good So young, that my brother can You are very hypocritical ah, my brother Chan called fitters A color, my friends are in there We used to play good Your son really like you A man wanted to see you But you promise me not to see him get angry, right? Master Le Chai, I miss you ah Long time no see You seemed to be something behind What? Slut bad people who do not fight Loss I talk and talk You get on with the big boss recommended my location You said nothing and ran back If not with your father become sworn brothers I early you castrate He's come back to help you Viagra, you do not eat a lot of Viagra Eat bad head, I want to help him? Le Chai you receive the message last time it was destroyed DOA Swallow air to come back to you to take revenge He purposely come back to help you Now great ah, look down on master it You helped to not Did not mean ah master, I worry about you Worry? You You hit me Sorry painful ah, come on This is for your dad to remind you Ah man to stay the course I just do not know how to open a bottle of Lafite 82 What I am very angry drank less than Eight a few? Eighty-two early to say ah This cup is your This cup is the father of King Le Chai When we come out to mix the three together His father died early Godson he is young has his ideas You do master give him some space total For your dad drank a cup Do not hurry Thank you master, the Cheers Father, sister in there with three people playing mahjong He lost to undress it? To paste? How much do I lose you? Thirty million piece of cake Thirty million? What happened? That I have so much money? They Gods group The old thousand does not matter, undress No, I do not take off work? While their pants are Detuo Xiaozhi daughter Do not worry, I'm coming back for you to win So powerful? Three, very familiar, ah, how to call? Crystal brother Smart brother called me on the line Donnie Yen I was the strongest on earth, ah, what play? Unlimited Fan, playing from it? The ah I also played four five hundred million from Well, I take or pay lost Win and do good, what? That of course is good Come So kind to do good? Listen to six A lot of cheese ah West ... What, then to the West so much to you? What the West you? Two cylinder ... That there are so many two tube? Two cylinder ... You are Troublesome it? "Also see? Plug in your eyes." Three, that the card is not small, see point Fortune Fortune What brand do? Four See what? Do not call you eat it? Fortune Are you This is not four You do not listen to four How do you know? Flop, ah, ah Hu fraud Four ah I recently with the brain more Root out white hair on top of the This is actually five Pick pick paste, clear front Down one hundred million per person, one hundred million, one hundred million I play nothing serious First owes okay ah? Money told him to undress Take money Yeah, a million apiece Money it? Undress it Help them undress Off it, hurry up Help me, Help me Ah indecent assault, rape ah I always looked at from the clutch I think of a young man told her that Mo Well Do you remember her name ah If not you, ah, I would like to You forget it In fact, she gave me two opportunities The first time was just got to do to win the title of invincible hand She asked me to leave this line What the outcome, you know best That second it? The second time was ten years later met her in Las Vegas - That exciting, almost married Ruined I was doing in the Casino Director She wanted me to quit job Otherwise, I regret a lifetime You know I bet bad character, I hate people fool Angry and they had a falling out with her That she was not very sad? She was born lacrimal occlusion But she gave me a one night Morning did nothing left In fact, we all know that we are in love with each other If God give you a chance to meet again How would you do? I think God will not be so fun to me Mo Heads up Godfather How do you have a gun? Ajian I'm fine. What can I do it? I do not know why I shot the First insisted on, I'm afraid there are remnants Could not hold it long Do not worry, if you bought insurance Even if you are rusty, there will be compensation Really? Sick, there is no Sorry, Aoi Women, the operation failed Not so exaggerated it So many people ah Kennedy brother How to call ah? I  A music Interpol has joined us Master, we can join the International Criminal Police win You neuropathy In fact, we send this back to Arab music Kennedy brother and hope we can cooperate Interpol Together against DOA You do not bother me Good luck last time because only retrieve his life You like to play with guns, you play your fill with them You do not come to me Silly strong, you die there? This robot is really interesting ah The latest models of intelligent housekeeper, Korean friends sent Korean original components, but is Chaozhou Assembly Instructions thicker than the phone book I have not read it You can become up to it? Boss, tea or coffee? Your sister ah old boss Meiguimeiju Of course, ask guests to a VIP My name is stupid strong need anything I'll try to satisfy everyone Tea Massage All I can do the laundry Okay, just tea massage laundry Boss, wait a minute Massage not mistake it, you want to do, stop ah Massage not ah Laundry stop, ah, do not ah Instructions pointed out with a command to a Or will be out of control Laundry service Silly strong, do not panic ah Laundry service Shore, do not sleep ah silly strong He died, which comes to an end next Today the first case, I went to visit Viagra This is a new house Many organs then I do not know Ten million do not run or you will be sorry to hurt So, goodbye Authorities? It is not ... Careful ah Master Interpol? Viagra, I wish to thank you never rust Hurts it? Killing me Sorry, I hurt you Le Chai said he was coming back this time Just want to ask you promised help coming We add up more than one hundred years old Fix will be destroyed in the Bay Lisboa But now to the people oppressed to the head You do not sell us these old people really nowhere to go up You have not rusted, how old No matter what kind, this time in public in private You have learned that Aoi Promise you disciple Consider What can play ah? Le Chai to your I said you all day sneaking Yeliang He is so fond of you, that he cut a finger really give you ah Give me fake finger, really Go ahead, and his drink slowly Must go back to look at it Boss, coffee Refers to intervene look inside It is Master, I know you must be very angry this time But I hope you listen to me I remember seven years old, I got you home Enter the house after the first sentence told me You say do not be afraid, later on when this is their home I always remember these words To be honest, I would treat you as a father You taught me to have a purpose in life, loyal to their own So I want to tell you I grew up volunteering Not care Casino But want to be a good cop I will go with the brigade headquarters of Interpol in Bangkok tomorrow DOA's chief accountant caught pony Stop Strong brother, you seem very moved ah? I just sent you to upgrade the latest version of Transformers software You are now a very powerful Or I buy a ticket to take you to Thailand You told me to go watch apprentice punishing evil ah Not ah boss, I was touched by the moment did not hold back Do not say a look at those old Korean You like to see those dead collapse Room Students who play terminally ill cancer You see people from the stars I do not know more handsome, more intelligent You? I do not know that the stars are coming Inferior goods What do you want? Said you two do not convinced, I want to play me ah? Chaozhou strong I warn you ah You do not get in front of me so many tricks ah I dislike, I move a finger I send you up the stairs to heaven No, I'm afraid Afraid you a sitting duck, ah, continue to put pieces I will go to Bangkok tomorrow with the brigade headquarters of Interpol DOA's chief accountant caught pony And their behind Aoi From small to large, what do you have to protect me You can expect this task to me Let me protect you once Thank you, Dad I told you yet? You later encounter such a situation you implicitly point ah People see you a whole box of tissues push up I face Where is ah? I went to the laundry I endure very hard Put up twenty years I have not finished your left No big or small, you want how ah? Since the assassination of Mr. Gao It has been behind the scenes of the Aoi retake DOA But even more powerful now DOA Aoi will be moved to the air base DOA She's flying fortress Across the airspace of several countries She simply can not grasp I won The only way is to use bait snake out of its hole Therefore, we must find Mr. Gao's cousin pony He is seeking to protect themselves Possession DOA150 billion dollars even as an amulet There is information that the pony in Bangkok But he did not use credit cards and bank cards So find him All the way to Bangkok, is to further God? Is he the money hidden in here? 15 billion ah, 15 billion does not fit here How a person brought over? Smart people like him will only believe in yourself I'm not afraid of anything DOA early step to find the pony afraid than we are The television was poor Daddy I want to go back to kindergarten You're not told me your class teacher boring it? But there are a lot dudes Your father is also very handsome The teacher does not mean that lying is bad habits? You often top of your father, that bad habits worse Dad, this hotel stinks another hotel in Hong okay? Television group of people often want us to shoot TV series We live in that kind of incense Hotels They are very easy to find us What will we find? They were caught, we have to shoot from morning to night Even sleep must shoot until we exhausted Are you afraid of? Afraid You're not afraid, I'm afraid Hello, I am looking for? Xiao Jiang, ah, are you busy? Are you? Pony, ah, you come to Bangkok you? Yes, I see you Well Well, then you come quickly, I invite you to dinner in Patpong Brother, call 27 seconds You can lock blocks He always said his restaurant business is good How can so quiet? Lunch time is now First day back They say the call with 27 seconds If we go down it will just run with them Daughter, come Go Layer by layer to find You do not go up I do not need to listen to your command Had Ms. Aoi so spoil you You would not be so presumptuous it I can not eat you this set Young Guiyan you even have to beat disciples Shiyi Jian I think you may not be good to get there If you are not a woman, she died You left, we on This side What is the matter? "Pony small hotel in Chinatown" Pony has been found Brothers, departure Dad, you take it with They scared to fly, right? Daughter, took over the tank so heavy ah THX We are not in the barbecue? Take two bottles to me Grab Are you afraid? A little bit of fear Dad afraid of anything, okay Mom is not afraid to sing to me Dad can not sing Come on, you sing it, it does not matter ugly Well, just before my mother forced me to sing you sing that song My mother, your mother? Your mom My mother My wife Who is your wife? My wife is your mother, your daughter, all right? Sing (I wish I'd driven a rocket, take you to the sky go) (They live in space) (Live to be a thousand years, are generally fascinated with you) Mom said it good? She certainly put it nicely What to see, go Brother, they ran Chase Started to remember that a man must be calm TV people find us Interpol What to do in Thailand? Travel, read Thai embarrassing thing So many people to play with you with a gun? Maybe I cool it DOA chief accountant on hand to control 15 billion dollars Mr. Gao is your cousin, right? I'm just an accountant That 15 billion in what? 15 billion, the number zero? I tell you, do not tell me to play tricks We all know Not to send him to the hospital? He is wanted in the hospital He does not installed Take him to the detention room You do not do accounting, really can be a winner If I qualify for the next cast drift Awards I voted for you It is not in play tricks? You also used to extract confessions that set ah? So what? Do you think you still like before? Useful on the line Not be useful Do not hit my father Sister accompany you watch TV? I want to watch "The Walking Dead" I can only say good look "happy Cow" ah Oh, I forgot to do my volunteer Scrawl on the line Free to write to do lawyers, doctors, police Certainly can not go wrong But I wrote to do site work Diarrhea bromidrosis What good throwing the first to show his face? Here is the safe house? Yes It is not safe Here are the most advanced communications equipment And monitoring systems There are more than a dozen guards inside and reloading Our walls were reinforced, as well as Bunker Facilities installed in this way, this does not work? You should be able to deal with the general triad But international crime syndicates DOA Recently, they bought a lot of military equipment Some arms fire can penetrate 20-inch-thick titanium plate As in the US confrontation with almost In the end you doing in Thailand? I find old classmates There is a restaurant today Papon A four and employees all killed Owner surnamed Jiang I hurt him You come to what purpose? You do not say you no good Benefits? You give me a instant noodles, what you want are the benefits? And I have US $ 15 billion You have to enjoy life it? I do not know it Within three hours, they must have action Why are you so poor in how TV stations are not even ice cream TV? You do not want to shoot, "Dad hiding" it? What? Everything is normal Oops, they come Dad started to come Okay? This is the safe house? Walking up, take them Under bunker Go A music with them advanced to Go I'm not a gun Go there now? This can be reached through the tunnel woods How far is it? One thousand meters M96 have a range of 1500 m It would be better to go out the front door to negotiate with them now "Muscle hardener" "Explosive" Walked Card You people are so noisy how Daughter, live Zouya Le Chai, sorry, late master Master catch Not too long shot, a little shaking hands Or to rely on high-tech a little tricky Three left Right hand seven Left four points, for the gun Nine hand Sure enough, a little your dad's style The colt pay out or else you guys had to die Who is he? He is the pony? 15 billion, you will not mess Come Magic hand to you? Ma Ying-jeou it? Daughter, good people go over there first Little sister, we go out You go first, I bring up the rear Come on Go On Boss, they seem to run away Not to send unmanned aircraft Run out? Yes I am I know We do not start, they will run away No, let them go My daughter is hungry, we want to eat Yes, the safe houses have been bombed Phone that can talk so much If busy can go ahead Go to the bathroom His daughter was here, would not go far in the Sit down Help, there are bad ah Forward Forward Forward No, they are just civilians Follow him To sail on the first money Forward Fast Then add money to reopen quickly Turn right Please re-open quickly Turn left How do you sail, the water came up Dounong Feel embarrassed You're crazy How? Bad engine? Now the bad? Is not it? Inside know Where to go? Money There Daddy, why we do not shoot the TV program? The TV station also without a permit When they got before we shoot you? All right Grab you so easy But also to dive again airship, go with me How? Sir David said animal expert Crocodile in the water emit low frequency There are only two possibilities The first is courtship Not fancy you? Second, the enemy declaration of sovereignty This is a bigger possibility Stabilization point, we just tongue top palate Gas accumulation pubic region Our infuriating shock in the water out They will be able to shake away To close anus, breathing 1,2,3, squatting How so foul it? Sorry, my stomach is not very good recently Again, 123, squatting Help me I was there ah? Daughter ah I often tell you that I do not greedy man Do not loud Beggar hundreds of pieces Buy a real strap Or original waterproof strap you a call to let us Paroxysms original table is not waterproof That what is really asking for trouble What did you say? I said she grew timid Suddenly see something scary She would perhaps out This told us on Why distributed to them bleed to plug it? I just said that a crocodile floating out of her fear A fear is called, I called distributed to them bleed In the end who is bashing whom? What your father say, I can not hear Hello Haopiaoliangya Dad, I hungry ah Hello, how much money the three? Three ninety baht Ninety baht Thanks friends Thank you This table has a bad back to me? Too much Finished, Aunt can deceive, dead There casino You can bet on it? You will say, you are magic hand ah Yes, I almost forgot You go to bet two, let alone a meal Again a genuine Thai massage can be had right ah I do not go to the casino right Come on Go right I am afraid of the dark Do you want to eat ah? It can Goodbye Wax head, no wax head Wax head, no wax head There is no wax head? No wax head Tiger Yuxia, good Thailand Landlords good Foreigners? See that Come here Here a lot of stuff Locals playing outside Here are foreigners special hall Play two friends You do not have money, right? What money ah Slowly play well Well, I won Unscrupulous ah, but could not walk win Strong brother You fool I told you many times You still have to put the beach back to Marco coats, big back head There jade ring, did not he is But he did not chocolate Master Yeah Daozi Master, alright Daozi Always want to saw trees Xueyibujing Also coming? Give me a disgrace Okay I go first Wait Since there are so many fans today You have to sing two add to the fun, keep up appearances Keep up appearances? Faster (Five thousand years of wind and rain Yeah, many hidden dream) (Yellow face, black eyes) (Constant smiles) See you, Andy sing song You sing Jacky Cheung became the You also have skills He sang when we have not found his throat had been trembling Listen once again shake Smile Shake a little more I think that is not is not bad? Thank you Go first Since so many friends to join Come, first play with finesse Try it to Right At this moment, you are so focused on the hard bit And then a little harder Dead I welcome Mr. Gao to visit casinos Poor hospitality to you Peizui We have been very low-key We went to get one hundred thousand baht I had the chance to exchange blows with seniors Both have the ability to take One million baht worth So I seriously shot when you know you're bitchy Master, I first went out to wash towels Full buy idle Idle Licensing Trilateral Trilateral This bureau you win, but I play three wins Master, you do not have that beauty tip Do you take yourself black Well there is a high intake You can also count terrific You can not run away run Also back to help me play a big dragon and phoenix With you ah Fortunately, the show did not tell you I bought that woman win To eat Father First day I also admire high into until I installed about Mr. Gao First day, there is no miss Dad? Have Daughters After the dinner, he told me right back to Interpol Headquarters You are Interpol it? No, my apprentice is incorrect I put her daughter to her mother there Come back for you Her mother in Thailand it? Yes ah, her mother is half-breed in Thailand A few years ago with her divorced Follow you really nothing good day You really are the king of hell unfortunate You Danzaibuxiao, steal my money? Retribution ah You smash the glass of my bridal salon He stole my dress Limit 24 hours you compensate me one million baht Otherwise put her to sell Do not touch her, let her Let her go Let go of her father save me ah What do you want? Let her go Dad save me ah Why are you going to Pattaya? I went to the first day of uncle He first started with borrowed money to redeem You have not found the way to bite we hold DOA But when we leave Interpol, no matter the What you say is ah It really hurt, do not come What did you do ah? Why Bees Light bite I do not bite you ah? What you use wax hair? It is the local licensing Shili Shili way Of course, use wax hair Robertsons You'll soon brains, but also come from? I know I was wrong before But now you can borrow me One million baht redeem my daughter You do not have to DOA taught? Do not look for this little money I borrowed I do not have time to go with you to explain your Just brother, if you are willing to lend me what I would do Okay You win the champion is the secret I will give you one million baht in prize money You do not fight, let your friend play is also OK Step aside Mo? Mo Mo, very happy to see you again How you will be here? I Hello, he said, is the secret to challenge champion You also learn other people boxing appearance? Clown install it? He is Mr. Korea are sensitive water Before you is her boyfriend, the little old thousand it? Scholars boxing, forget it Do not look down upon me, if I win, how to do? What are OK Well, I told you to take a gamble If I win, you strip off shoes Tuoku Here we go two laps A strong, you speak Freeze Thai boxing champion is secret He punched can interrupt your hands Do not worry, I was magic hands Well I play You learned Muay Thai it? No way People are champion ah He did not lose too it? Really not heard Your early brains, I like a little scared now I also understand that in the face of the dead woman was also propped I would be less worried about a friend Master, you are not so to speak? Come on What is he doing? They usually hop dance before the game Pray God bless them Open your mouth Remember, do not be afraid on stage Afraid you'll lose a lifetime Master Go to worship He engaged in what, play monkey ah? Hard to read Master, I'm getting afraid Do you jump you, too sick Well I will not go out Come Master, cramps, and how to do? Walked, he came What are you doing? Down ah Begin What? Why are you pulling my legs I save you, you really hit him ah You tired of living it? Sleep a little longer, and 7 seconds 1,2,3,4,5,6,7 Kill him Begin Stop Just good to, thank you to There are two to and kept to Dead I have no gas, dying You want to lose face in front of your little girl it? You see that look more arrogant rival Is not it? Get out ah Do not stop me Begin So strong ah Begin 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 Stand up I call you up, you hear that? This time he lose it Do not ring the bell ah? Stand up Stand up I do it a little dizzy I will cancel your qualifications, it You do not call you knock knock, always Luanqiao Now knock knock ah See you, how this ah Begin THX THX "Muscle hardener" Master, I really hard I do not play okay Come out They dragged him out Up, do not hinder me from work to dinner with his girlfriend What are you doing? 1,2,3,4,5,6 Up 7 8,9,10 Thank you I added a muscle in his braces hardener Grateful Trouble to help me unlock it Mr. all, you are not deadbeat, right? Neuropathy, not mad with you Mr. both speed connection Only two laps Neuropathy You're so naughty No man would generous in the face of rival I'm still your lovers? What do you think Come on, I want to save the daughter ah Ajian My master daughter was kidnapped in Sriracha To us one million baht Then you have to worry about My poor little bodyguard pull forces That quickly go Well, you have to remember to come back to me ah Well, I promise you Anyway, I started to redeem myself after I come back to you THX Be careful way You two seem to be better My teacher told me good Thai But sometimes bad, do not give me food to eat I also hurt him Put your clothes on A little hot Trees Mom Mom First day Mom What happen? I left the company When is my self-righteous, grays I think this is my career How would you like them? You do not always do wrong? You are not an accountant would calculate it? Even awarded my daughter away from me also Did you not say that you can control everything? Until cousin died Daughter or leave your side is better After this card a month, there will be money for Houston You are left to their own use Dad, you do not want me? How can I do you ah You do not always say want to mother? You stay with her mother to learn to paint Mom and Dad In school My mother always painted scores are the highest I am sorry Good Father I will listen to the Dad, I'll obedient Dad, I'll obedient Father Father Dad, I'll obedient Father Father Long time no see, okay? Well, for so many years I have one too Not married? You say the cause is important, so I'll wait for you for five years You do not want my Do you diss me The most I ever wrong to say this sentence Why did not you come to me? Well I'm afraid you do not want me So you married a family, I was there to get married? A color is my dead friend's daughter I promised he would take care of as a daughter How many years you have a girlfriend in the end? Do you really want to know? Of course Okay You told me before the Bodhisattva vow, I'll tell you to be Okay Come on Cheers Yesterday you in front of Buddha What'd you wish for? That How about you? How can I tell you You really do not unreasonable I tell you what, you can not tell me ah? Unreasonable, is a woman's prerogative Ate admit is a man of nature I know all the things you Last week, I met you at the Macau sea Is that right? I did not notice You together with a foreigner He is a director of the Swiss bank one of my suitors From the first day I met you Your boyfriend in exchange for going Not surprisingly, because I pretty ah You say is not it? Let me see you say US Are you leaving? Yes ah You come to Macau to find me, I invite you to eat curry squid face I might bring that one up stooge I like it so stingy? Well, I went to Macau to do your stooge Master, you choose to come to my house to take a statement Not to Interpol Headquarters That I am safer here than in Thailand safe house, really smart A color daughter, called the Little Marco Ma Ying-jeou Ji Qi, you've seen She will stay a few days in this statement from The last time you have seen, there are many agencies I did not find out, you be careful now This is a manual, you take your time Le Chai took her up the rest Master, introduce a friend to you know Heads up Your daughter is really sick princess What princess disease, ah, ah Princess cancer Boss, I'm here Petit Marco Ma Ying-jeou Hello My silly strong mechanical housekeeper Tea or coffee? Coffee No problem A little cool ah Boss, back Who are you? Silly strong, you start with too much friends Right Yes? Sorry ah master This guy does not like a man near me You said earlier it There are, ah, he did not study well to not rush to launch ah Feel embarrassed Ajian I went to Macau So quickly to it? Viagra will attend a charity dinner You went with me I dare you call me to go? Eight o'clock in the dining hall to see Well, to be met Goodbye It seems Renyuehuanghun after ah Silly Strong Use my private collection Korea acid to entertain him Happy little Ma Ying-jeou, also drink drink coffee? Drink your sister ah Martha hair, do not quit cigars? Smoke less, oral cancer die See you later Hello A firm sorry Viagra, late Shiyi Jian to I heard you six months ago in Macau and surnamed high There was a fantastic century baccarat game Do not mention it You are not there a nickname What? Try to win the invincible hand The last thing to mention it Texas Hold'em technology you okay? Texas Hold'em ah, not landlords, okay ah? I have not gambled It does not matter ah, all the winners and losers were donated today to do good deeds Come, please be seated How just that dark skin is always staring at you Like any grudges with you like Last year, my birthday Landlords lose me Ate fifty life package Mr. Shi, the gentleman has won three bracelet Specifically requested to accompany you to play today, he called Needless to say you Mr. Parker, welcome to Macau Thank you Yes ah, know you much I also Tencent blow it every day in Texas Today's game is No Limit Texas Hold'em A maximum of fifty million The size of the blind one hundred thousand, two hundred thousand The small blind bet big blind please Place your bets Fold Fold Live Place your bets Raise, 7.4 million Live Live Too, sorry Y'all, I had also been Mr. Shi, ten million Fold With one thousand Viagra, how much we ceiling Per fifty million Then shoved Shoved all-in on Forbearance you back That bastard win Please flop Before the flop, play one privately Bet big way? One hundred million Mr. children have, on behalf of mountains Thank you first I do not believe you have a flush Four "J" Do not believe you do not believe go But Flush is possible Boss, I do not know what happened I'm sorry, I do not know what happened Flush wins I am sorry How do you? Hello beautiful, I want you Look at my body more strong Baby Come dance with me Undress We go home to eat your favorite curry squid face Undress Bet over, hands What happened to him? A friend left a few drops of water I tried last year to force I did not try, so they took him to try He seems to still staring at you I received a new apprentice,, Ms. Mok Martha hair Master, my technique for paying accurate? Very holding Too, sorry You too, I have had You really crafty That bastard win Feel embarrassed I was Abin, I have something important to find Kennedy brother Abington I received a message DOA people here tonight Kennedy brother do? He is not ah Why do not you call? To personally come? When I receive a message in the vicinity Direct drive over A music, pay his gun What are you doing? I always suspected he was betrayed our people He is the only contact with anyone we will not say So DOA people have been with us What are you talking about? In the safe house when you was gone After three days you suddenly back Those three days I was in the hospital you know Shackled Dead bitch It's you Tea or coffee? Away Tea or coffee? Yeah away Became, fighting a man thing, you grab pony Are you doing? I am cold Robots also know that cold? I was very nervous, nervous urinary wanted Do you have a penis? I put up with you for a long time I doubt that you are filled with people You see, I like to see meat touch You are Shiyi Jian's great disciple you? I heard that you are very powerful But do not worry, I do not hit your hand in Come I forgot, sorry ah I dare you to break the master base camp I did not teach you loose handcuffs it? Shiyi Jian, very powerful thing But I tell you, our people more Sensible to pay out quickly to pony Otherwise, you will die Go Penis in there? Help Silly strong are you doing? Master, you do not be afraid My safe room is to create a carbon titanium Thick and one meter Outside bombing a week, we have nothing Silly strong church ah? No, I'm afraid Afraid you son of a bitch, I'll give you upgrade ah The ah silly strong Now is when you sake Do not be afraid, I am with you in Come out Charge Task completed Strong brother, I love you Two days with you over the sea Star restaurant to eat fried chicken and drink beer Now with you and good? You brats very vengeful ah Trouble you Shiyi Jian, Mo daughter started with pony In our hands They want peace to come to Shenzhen to meet with me now At that time I will tell you the exact location and how to do I have taught you, still remember? Should you try ah Kennedy brother, I really regret ah Regret betrayal DOA? Not ah, I knew engage in such a long time I will first go to the toilet How you shake it, you're not ... Welcome to our two flying fortress Long Dian Ms. Aoi has been waiting for you, please Welcome, Mr. Shi Yijian magic hands And our old colleague pony Full name how to call you? Why they might always full members? Your real name is what I really do not know? Ma still wind Let you take a look at the goods it I can pay you back the money But you have to put the first day Also, you have not hurt her mother? I am a woman, how would embarrass a Bitter woman? I use this program The fifteen billion deposit to the global banking network More than ten million points within five years Nobody used the account Just use this program within the ten minutes You can be all the money Revert to the original Swiss bank account "Trading Start" What a genius Money has been collected, release it Fifteen billion did not can be earned Pony can kill or may not kill Bring him down, let them reunite father and daughter now Zouya Mr. Shi is a talent, it is rare Many times I have not kill you Cadence when you talk to me very naturally very exaggerated I believe that you are not really Aoi, you just substitute Is not, ah, Mo Why you always be so smart? When I chose to go to Las Vegas and did not marry you Not because I do not love you But I found that you had already Come together with many international predators You suddenly appear I have long suspected that the You still love me I love, I've always loved you But since the beach with you kiss me have reservations The first kiss is romantic The second kiss with the point being bitter sweet The third Kiss Kiss of the Spider Woman is simply I was going to Heaven smile breathe away Did you know that the wooden temple What'd you wish for? I just wish I were not you looking for apprentice I did not expect a bowl of curry squid face Macau will fool you now Mami Cang teacher You do not really think you do to win the invincible hand I love you and give you the opportunity to Whether or bet with wisdom, I have been on top of you Do not believe, we gamble How to bet? Father Daughter They were filming, all right If you lose, I put the two of them dropped his daughter airplane Unless you work for me I win it? Put three of you walked Like how to play? Here are the cards Our comparison and see who can grab the biggest Okay, that the life and death It seems I have to win You have only four cards ah Four won enough Flush seem bigger You see the point Black heart more suitable for you Them leave to go Do not move Dad, I do not like Departed such a thing, my apprentice stronger than me Interpol Why is this program so violent ah? Each play to this time are like this Here you do not move, and so Dad Sister, did not brand the A woman can not be too toxic, or chest will sag Completion of the transaction Transaction fails After this program started ten minutes All the money will be automatically restored Although I have not opened fire But I have won two mixed martial arts champion Do I have to go around preaching it? No pain, no pain Die with the dead I did not teach you loose handcuffs it? Down eight thousand feet, I want to parachute Mo, do not run again You went to the end of heaven I will find your apprentice Why always me you can not win Emotionally lose to you, and now you lost Surrender it, I'll help you You asked me, in front of the Buddha What'd you wish for? I told Buddha if I get back 15 billion I'll marry you retire Unfortunately Buddha hear Whatever the outcome, I will wait for you I will not go to jail I remember what it is today I want you to always remember me the way now Mo (Every night by thoughts haunt) (But unfortunately we understand each other each passing ah) (Love is impossible private profile) (Reserved touched the hearts of the first exhaustive) (Not allowed to make the time decay of the original intention) (So let go) (So hidden) (Wet cuff) (Not to retain) (Do not look back) (Continued spend memory) (Happiness is easy) (Because of a short stay) (Not necessarily in terms of time to adapt) (Love is cruel) (It is not grass is always greener) (I'm with you trapped in this whirlpool) (But unfortunately we understand each other each passing ah) (Love is impossible private profile) (Reserved touched the hearts of the first exhaustive) (Do not allow to make the time decay of the original intention) (So let go) (So hidden) Can it? Can ah Martha hair, good fortune Kung Hei Fat Choy Mom Wife Not so loving it Kung Hei Fat Choy, Duoxielili Yes Thank you grow up fast high Kung Hei Fat Choy Thank you Viagra I have Also give you Thanks, boss Godfather, Happy New Year Congratulations to eat cake Lilly Yes Thank you You're getting pretty THX Your father do? I do not know I know Just to see that he did not know what to see on the outside Angry to go out Is that right? He has so much anger ah Yes ah Master thing you guess Perhaps he'll be back I'm fine. Master, what is it? I'm fine. Heads up Master, what happened ah? The big back head Last year, the big back head? At the junction sneaky I saw him fire came Three boxing feet towards his head A knockout punch elbow How I felt like you were playing someone else? See the little red Well good luck Silly strong in Cook a few eggs to Boss, high cholesterol High you son of a bitch I want to rub noses Rouyan, high ... It is Kennedy brother, you just say the big back head is not still wearing a jade ring? Do you know him? He said she wanted to take me as a disciple Take you as a disciple? Who? Good fortune, good fortune Daozi younger, compliment it called me Conman What is the matter? I just told you a little misunderstanding master Let me come with you specifically say He is not fake Your master? Dad, you do not say it to the people down to the ground? His internal organs bleeding, dying Master This big back head you call him master? Do you believe him? People have so much to say hello station type in the past it should be Brothers You see, there really is platform type ah You get out, I want to start with you in immediately
