 

                        1 Okay, okay. Here we go. So lonely. Stiff. I can't do that! Come on, Elsa, this is for Anna. You can do this. Relax! It looks great. I just want it to be perfect. Speaking of perfect, check this out. Kristoff, are you sure I can leave you in charge here? Absolutely. Because I don't want anything to happen to this courtyard. What could happen? It's all set. Olaf, what are you doing? I'm not eating cake. - Olaf... - But it's an ice cream cake! - And it's for Anna. - And it's for Anna. - Oh, it's time! - It's time! For what? Okay... - You sure you got this? - I'm sure. - Don't let anyone in before we're ready. - I won't. - And don't touch anything. - I'm just gonna stand here. - I'm probably gonna walk around a little. - And keep an eye on that cake! She thinks you're an idiot! Well, clearly she's wrong! - What? It's fine. - I can't read... or spell. - Anna! - Yeah? Happy birthday. To you. It's your birthday! To me... - It's my birthday. - Come on! - It's my birthday? - And it's going to be perfect because... You've never had a real birthday before Except, of course, the ones just spent outside my locked door So I'm here way too late to help you celebrate. And be your birthday date if I may... Elsa, I'm thinking you might have a cold I don't get colds, besides... A cold never bothered me anyway - Fancy. - Just follow the string. Wait, what? I've got big plans, I've got surprises for today Nothing but nothing's gonna get in our way I've worked for weeks planned everything within my power I even got Kristoff and Sven to take shower If someone wants to hold me back - I'd like to see them try - Summer! I'm on the birthday plan attack I'm giving you the sun, the moon and the sky Little brothers! - I'm making today a perfect day for you - Sandwich! I'm making today a blast if it's the last thing I do For everything you are to me and all you've been through I'm making today a perfect day for you - They come in threes! - I'm fine. Surprise, surprise this one specially... You've got me reeling but I'm still concerned for you I think it's time that you go home and get some rest We are not stopping 'cause the next one is the best Elsa, you gotta go lie down No way, we have to paint the town But you need medical attention Are you sick? How 'bout a cold remedy of my own invention - No thanks. - We'll take it. - We're making today a perfect day for you - Making today a special day We're singing a birthday song to make your wishes come true - Wishes come true - We love princess Anna And I love you too So we're making today a perfect day A fabulous day in every way We're making today a perfect day I can fix it. No, no! All fixed! "Dry banana hippy hat"? Come on. Now we climb! Elsa, that's too much. You need to rest. We need to get to our birthday chills, I mean thrills. Making dreams, making plans Go, go, go, go! Follow the string to the end You are my very best friend - Elsa? - What? I'm fine. We're gonna climb, we're gonna sing Follow the string to the thing Happy, happy, happy Merry, merry, merry Hot... cold... hot... big day Elsa, look at you. You've got a fever. You're burning up. Alright, we can't go on like this Let's put this day on hold Come on, admit it to yourself Okay I have a cold I'm sorry, Anna. I just wanted to give you one perfect birthday, but I ruined it. Again. You didn't ruin anything. Let's just get you to bed. Surprise! We're making today a perfect day for you We're making today a smiley face all shiny and new - There's a fine line between chaos - And a hullabaloo We're making today a perfect day Making today a perfect day A! N! N! A! - Making today a perfect day for you - Happy birthday. - Making today a happy day and no feeling blue - I love you baby! For everything you are to us - And all that you do - I do. We're making today a perfect day Making today a perfect day Making today a perfect day - Perfect day! - Okay. To bed with you. Wait, wait. All that's left to do is for the queen to blow the birthday bugle horn. No, no, no, no, no... - Best birthday present ever. - Which one? You letting me take care of you. This way, Sludge and Slush and Slide and Ansel and Flake and Fridge and Flurry and Powder and Crystal and Squall and Pack and Sphere - and William! - Don't ask. .:: Translated By MasterGold::. ..: :: WorlD-SubTitle.In:::
