 

                        How's it? It's not O.K.! Come up first Do we have no chance? Speak up! Digging like this, we cannot leave by the end of the week Wah, if you can't see your bride tonight You cannot marry then By force! I can face 9 enemies at the same time But there are over 9 Japanese soldiers outside How about the rest of you? No, some of you may be hurt! OK, let's have a conference with them What a nonsense idea! You try hard to escape, while many people are coming in You are so lucky that you must go out! So you can get marry! The bridegroom! Remember to bring the letter to Chun for me! Ask my honey to wait for me Bring 2 doz. condoms for me You son of the bitch! Should Wah do such nonsense things? Snake, Blackie, Fool, let's create confusion Be smart! If Wah fail to escape, you 3 should be punished Dragon Forget it When you are not here I will take care of your toothbrush I won't let them use it for cleaning shoes Thank you Even Liz Taylor and Vinian If they can't stand it, I'll sacrifice myself To make...so and so... Can you really hold it? Get away Wah You are son of the bitch! Stop them to go out We want to say goodbye only It's completely useless! It'll disturb his mind! Stop bull shit! Let's choose someone we hate, beat him as you like! His life is of no importance, ready? 123 No, it's not me...you've got a wrong one Fighting...Fighting inside! Give the cat back to me Is it a zoo? Line up at once! Why don't you go? I'm afraid of being recognised Go! Who recognise you? After we hit down the Japanese, you take the car and leave Chocolate Don't be afraid, it won't hurt Go and stop those Japanese! What's wrong? Why do you fight with your friends? Stop then! Don't let them go Stop them, ask them to retreat... Stop the car Shit! Wah Jone Wait... What for? I can't breath Why just kiss me softly? You used to kiss me for 4 hrs without stop and breath My lung is much more weaker recently It must be hard for you... to escape No, I won't care my hardness in order to meet you Which church should we go for our ceremony? I cheated you a little bit Do you have false teeth? I won't mind Do you have tattoo? Great! It's art! No... Even you have babies already, I won't mind I'll treat them as my own No... Don't you want to tell me that you daddy is not a billionaire? If not, he is a millionaire at least, right? My father have no money He is much more poorer than you It's a great problem! But, I love you not because of the money You love me so much! But I cheated you indeed What? Speak up! Here's not only we two Did you bring your mom here? Stop! Fatty, do you want to kill him? I won't let you go if he is hurt What for? Wah is Wah! I know why she loves you so much! Young and successful! You're my idol Fatty! OK, I won't be tray your lover Boy, give me your autograph OK? OK, where to sign? What's your name? Brother Hung, we're friends, let's call my Brother Brother! Goodboy! Who're you? I hope we work happily Crazy! Who work happily with you? I am spy no. 1, you're spy no. 4 now Bull shit, who wants to be spy no. 4? Let's go Stop You've sign the contract, see! Period: 20 yrs; no increment, no double pay, Report duty at once, work for our home country You trapped me Yes, but the Japanese is going to catch you Chinese won't help you, you're helpless! I hope to work with you, for our beloved country OK, after our honey moon, if I still have energy, I'll help you No, you'd report duty at once Kidding! Even I wish, she won't! She will, maybe you ask her yourself Jone Spy no. 3 is going to carry special duty She is no. 3? Did she tell you? She told me that she was teaching in military school Fool! Woman are like "Lantern blowing by the wind" What that means? I don't know Let's go Tell me please, you must know the meaning She is afraid of windy, hot, shame... You won't understand such complicated thing Where do we go? Seek help from a soldier You wait here May I help? You dress like this, they won't let you go in French toast Your turn! $1? That means I've to bet again The problem is whether you accept it or not Or, don't put it here so as to avoid any tricks Push the desk here Yes Sir! No, that one is no good I bet all! As well as your legs, hands and your dad I don't believe you have 4 aces No comment! I like funny games as well as tricky games I'd like to go to toilet No! Someone'll attack you in the toilet You'll be beaten up when you call Don't try to call others to replace you, let's finish it Sit down Kill him! Take back your guns Fine! I'm lucky all this life, I follow Kill him! I bet your wife, concubine, auntie, god mother and your mom Whoever loss, he and his family should die I bet the guns of them too Show it Robin, you're the loser! This is Ace See, four Ace I'm sure that's not Ace It's no need to check, right? I don't want hands and legs, greet me 3 times then Fuck off! Freeze, don't be mad Shoot! Kill him Why did you come? Orders I'm in vacation! You take it your own Why don't you help me? Why? For friendship? Who do you think you've friendship with? Then, for our beloved country What a shit! OK, then for orders Are you in vacation? OK, I cancel it It seems like a man Oh! Well equipped! It's your turn, I leave now! No. one, save me please! No. one, save me first! See my Kung-Fu! Are you fooling me? Fool you? No, I'm the fool! Go quickly! Jump! Kill him! Let's go, Robin! Freeze! Let's go! Let's go Wah, drive the car here! Fatty, you can take the order yourself! Not this time, for the Japanese know who I am The Japanese know me better than Paul Newman So, you better to by yourself What kind of duties are that? Did you know... $500 billion are kept in bank of Switzerland for saving China? Yes! No! The one who knows the code is named God of Fortune He was caught by the Japanese, luckily, the secret had not been discovered But a spy called... Hedeki Saijo in Japan He once met the God of Fortune, so we've to save him before Hedeki found him Where was he captured in? Just in the camp you came Since you're familiar with the camp, so we need your help I escaped with great danger, now you want me go back We'd save him as soon as possible, we can't let the Japanese get the fortune No way Jone got into the camp already, if you don't She'll be raped, mistreated by the Japanese You shouldn't be named Hung, you'd be named "Force" How do we know who is God of Fortune Our secret code is "Great Wall is great, home is sweet" Who say the following sentence, that's the one Jone is great... in make up What personality will she act this time? I don't know, but she told me she'd sweet feeling when kissing you Should you kiss anyone with sweet feeling, that's her Valentino! Teach me when you're free, OK? We're going to take risk, but you're going to enjoy life? I'm going to stop Hedeki to go to Camp 732 Hope we'll get God of Fortune soon New comers! Welcome General Is it Wah? Yes! The gate was made of wood before Honey moon here? Peter and Paul! Sir! The 6 prisoners of war with red tie Are the "Tigers" of China Air force who came from different provinces In our mating plan, we need the excellent Chinese To mate with... our excellent women To born excellent children and rule China in the future Your duties are to keep an eye on them To mate with our women, understand? Sure! Where did you come from? "Shanghai Tiger" Red horse "Canton Tiger", Little Dragon-fly "Kwangsi Tiger", Little Candy "Chekiang Tiger' Little Robot "Shangtung Tiger" Little Tortoise "Sigiang Tigers" Runaway How can a "Tiger" be so short? I'm as tall as you all before But I'm tortured recently So I became so short and fat Shot! I know this, La...Sing together You know I know... Shut up! Raise your hand before you ask You, the one in blue, come up! Do you know why? Should you try to escape, I'd make you die General is great! He was seriously hurt by your kick What a great general? He was injured just by a small touch? All of you should obey the law and orders here Only dead body may leave... my 732 camp Officer Kent, assign the cells for them Yes Now I assign the cells for you all "Tigers", cell C Understand? Understand! "Tigers" are assigned to cell C We're first class soldiers, we can't live in C grade camp OK! I lend you a helping hand If you want to live in cell A, you've to show your strength Go and defeat them? Or just stay in cell C Try our best, no regret! Chinese won't hit Chinese I'm Thai I'm Thai, too You are bastard! I like to beat bastard I'm not borned by my Mom Come on! Wait... Let me worship the God first Delay delay... How long do you take? I almost finish Delay... Finished? Another one still! Delay... Be quick! One more only! Your time is all wasted! After you left, they added a lot of traps The guards are very smart, mines are everywhere If you escape like last time, you must be killed It's so serious? Really? Chocolate! After he helped you to escape He was beaten up by the Japanese seriously Now he become... mentally handicapped Mother is great! Mother is great... What a tragedy! No underwear! Penis disappear! No underwear! It doesn't harm that he treat himself as a child But he treat me as his mother! Suckle...I want suckling! Go and feed him I'm coming The Japanese may know that God of Fortune is kept here We must be faster than those Japanese Who's this guy? He seems like Alan Tam May I tell them? Yes, but... Spy no. 2 I just told you to introduce the name only I just tell the truth, they are my good friends We're Chinese, so I tell you frankly My holy duty is to save God of Fortune out Yours holy duty is, to help whole-heartedly Forget life, be brave, sacrifice Be co-operative, help me to finish my duty What do you think? Shit! When we save him out, We do! Another proof of dirty human nature To welcome our camp-mate I've prepared some roasted beef and soft drink Did you retain your stealing habit? Ching? How can we enjoy these food without stealing? Come in, line up, face those guys I can't stand! Goodnight Everyone is so beautiful, my God! No! Crazy! They're standing in front of me! We'd seeing without watching, hearing without listening Be strong, so as to protect our virgin! The enemies want our species Although we have, we can't satisfy their wish We can't mate with those girls Can you really stand it? Show them your attractions Beautiful legs Imagine they're Chicken legs! So you'll not be tempted Second round Shoulders Imagine that they're knees So that you'll not be tempted Last round Steamer bun, Pork bun, Chicken bun! Carbonado bun, Steamed bread... Should you dare to go, we'll kill you Be smart! You'd enjoy when you've got a chance Beware that I'll tell them to rape you One cannot force an OX to bow its head besides it drink But I'm weak and thirsty, I'll bow my head easily! You bastard! Shameless! You're right! Who did no wrong things? Shameless is only a small defeat I don't know how your dad taught you? My dad taught me to take whatever free We go now, enjoy yourself then Thank you! Now, I've to tell my secret to all of you Come on I've got Epilepsy Let me sacrifice myself... to mate with them I'm ugly, short, fat, stupid and got Epilepsy I'm full of confidence... to make their 2nd generation to be fools The poorest body figure The most stupid guys, and all got Epilepsy I'll make the Japanese babies... be the poorest species Let's consider to give me a chance Let me work for my beloved people What do you think? As I know, there's no plane in Sinkiang You're liar! You're liar! Not even "Tigers" So he must be a false one He is a cunning guy Yes, if the Japanese inherit the cunning of him It's harmful to our Chinese! No way! I'm a weak man, if they rape me I can't resist them Don't worry, if you can't stand I'll castrate you I won't let you loss your virgin, be patient! I'm great! I rape them all with my eyes Freeze! Stand up! OK! Shall we go and help to save God of Fortune? After finding him out, what's next? That's great, we'll get lot of money What's the matter? The roast meat stolen by Ching must be dirty Kidding! You ate too much Shut up! Great Wall is great... Mountain, Sea...is it matched? Great Wall is great... What? Cake? Birthday cake? Which one? As you like! Great Wall is great... Read more! Boy Great Wall is only 7560 miles long From starting point to the end, it's only 594 miles There's 695 miles from Canton to Peking Great Wall is great I'm bored by you! Where's doctor? This way please! Gambling? A or B? I've got stomach-ache Red-cross hadn't send enough medicine to us I'm painful! Give me any medicine OK? I haven't! What's on? General! The medicine is used up The remaining medicine should be reserved We provide nil medicine to him for his ache We should be nice to the prisoners as bounded by the Geneva Treaty We should cure his sickness Yes, but we have nil medicine We must! But we've not bounded to give him the correct medicine General, beware! Any medicine! Yes, sir There's some pills here Why the pills are as big as horse eyes? You've eaten all? I'll recover soon We can't find God of Fortune for one whole month I don't know who Jone is! Did Fatty give any hint? He said that she'll have special feeling when kissed Try and feel it yourself then Isn't he? Banana? Are you kidding? Look, his smile to you is so coquettish It must be Jone! Kidding? Spy no. 3 won't expose herself easily If you don't try this way, you won't know it From this on, no problem! He doesn't seem to be Jone! Shit! Should I kiss? It's better be Jone, or I'll kill you If the news is spread, how can I face the others? I'm coming China, China... Who is it? Why so flat? What're you doing? I just worry that you'll get cold, so I bring you blanket only Sorry, I wake you up! Good night He's so concern me! Thanks It's OK! Why I feel sexy when he touched my chest? Help! Shut up or I'll kill you When we'd a small sleep today We almost mated with those girls So, we've to make you... the last eunuch of China Help! Our beloved China Good morning General What a lovely parrot! I send her as a gift by all soldiers to you sir General! What's the matter? Urgent letter Good morning General Long life to our King That's my dad Long life to my dad! He was dead! What a great death! I was sent to 732, because... The Chinese got a lot of money overseas to fight with us The money is taken care... by a man called God of Fortune He was accidentally... caught by us Should we find him, China is hopeless But we don't know who he is by now Paul and I will try hard to find him out and force him to disclose the code So, China is the poorest country Our Japan is the strongest and most powerful You 2 have to organize... a spy term To find him out I'm hurt You're lying! Brothers... The food is belonged to all of you It must be tricks again We should be smart! I did not hate to be Chinese, but China is finished So we should make sure our own master Who is it? Japan! Japan Dog! We can't change life even we have hard feelings Serve our Japanese Army! We need your information! To find who's God of Fortune! Who is God of Fortune? Shit! Who want to be secret police of us, give hint! Give me a small small hint! I saw 5 in left Another 3 in my right! Thank you, you did a good hint! You'd be grateful to serve our army We won't mistreat you Prize other than great food... for the best spy, included a woman... for you every night You'd praise her so much after once! And cash prize, $1 billion And... a Japanese Honda bicycle! Gold prize is a gold medal, made by pure gold! There are so many benefits being spy, let's do it The pay is so high that it means no one'd found God Any more hints? Any? Any? Stop listening his bullshits! He just want to disturb us, son of bitch! We're faithful to our country! Don't try to set a variance between us! China must be a strong nation China victory! Shut up You beat Chinese? Beat him! Chinese fight back! Go back! Stop! He beat us! Catch Donald Duck! Donald Duck, we respect your braveness! Don't mention it, or I'll be too proud of it Let's go Donald Duck! No! You'll be beaten to death! Why stop me... from helping them to fight back? Donald Duck's braveness is suspicious Stop! Or I'll shoot! They beat Donald Duck severely! What a hero! Delicious! It's too great! Don't be hurry, eat slowly After this, there'll be next fantastic programme Fantastic? Don't ask, it must be sex I'll give a bitch! Thank you! Thank you Do you know the benefit of being a traitor now? Yes, I made a wish of being a traitor when small But my dad forced me to be an intellectual Intellectual teach people... be smart too Truth! Truth! Shout loudly, as loud as you can Listen, the voice is trembling! He is a great hero! We'll keep the secret of your service You're a hero still in their eyes You two bring me to eminence, I'll try my hard till death We share the fortune only, don't mention death! If you find the God of Fortune and the code What will you do? Report to General? Yes! Report at once, but not to the General I'll report to you two! Smart! You're our brothers now on Thanks Noiseless! He must be fainted No matter how ugly the girl is, I'll enjoy it The noise come again! He must be beaten up again! He is a great hero! He shouted loudly He'll shout louder... by the next time Woman again? Beaten up! His voice is changing! They must be castrating him! Bastard! He is a great hero Though you're good at stealing, you're not as brave as Donald You ate the food I stole and you ate most! Who is it? Donald Duck Poor! He is severely hurt! Donald, though you're as ugly as before Now you're the idol of me You stole my mom's milk when small, and stole my wine I forgive you! From now on You can drink any liquid of my body No stealing, freshness guarantee Donald, what'd you like to drink? Say it out! I'll give you at once Hero Donald Duck, I admire you Don't praise me. If I die, so as to wake every Chinese up, it's worth! It's not only you to wake us up! Alarm clock can do it You bastard! Just kidding! What did you say? I suspect Donald Duck, don't trust him But they all think that he is hero, but you... They'll think that you're assisting Japanese I've scolded him already Mom, are you back? Why there is smell of ham and chicken? Those Japanese... tortured me! They used bone of ham to hit me Come on, let me feed you Men shouldn't do such kind of work, I'll do it Sit down! I'll feed you baby I eat so much! Donald Duck, poor guy! No matter how they tortured me, I won't surrender Long life Chinese! Why those robots come? "Tigers" salute to Donald Duck Thanks! Should you need any of us Or someone doesn't respect you, call us We'll help at once! Thanks! Donald, go and have a walk, otherwise your leg is hard to recover I've only one leg which can walk It's no good of sitting too much, come out OK? My left leg is almost broken by them After you leg recovered We'll escape together How? By tunnel Robin... Donald is our friend, it doesn't matter to tell Yes, I was hurt for all of you Where is the tunnel? That's the one dug by Wah before Wasn't it abandoned? We decided to dig through it after you'd caught Anything can't be told? Can't you tell your Peter? Speak! Traitor! You dare to insult the faithful servant of Japan, catch him! Stop! You can't beat him again, beat us instead Beat us instead! Fuck off! It's not your business, take him away! Stop! Hero! It's hard time again! You're severely hurt already, how can you be tortured again? I deserve it! Let it be! Traitor! Take him away Traitor! I won't be afraid of you Let's hit me with ham, come on... Hit me with chicken? I won't scare! What're you looking at? His left leg was hurt, but now it becomes the right one Any new discovery? They're digging a tunnel in cell D... for escape That's not our business! Looking for God of Fortune is most important! I'll find it out within one or half year We've no time! When Hedeki comes, the merits will go to him Let's think out good ideas! Let me have food first, after, I'll have good idea Forget it! General Should we want to find him out before the King's birthday, there's only one way General is so kind to all of you, but you want to escape Now, the tunnel is closed, he can't stand it anymore Who is God of Fortune? Confess now! If not, we'll kill 2 persons for every 5 mins From now on! Stop that shit, I'm God of Fortune It's me... They aren't! I'm the real one We're the real one Crazy! They're committing suicide! Quiet... Do you want to fool me? Kill the Tigers! Stop! They're not God of Fortune, I'm the one Wait, you confess that you are the real one, then tell me where the money put, how much? In Switzerland Bank, US$530 billion and 8 million Peter Yes Take him to the Commander Station Take him back to C.S. Dismiss! Miss Wong, we rely on you now It's my honour Don't hit me, don't scare me I'll loss my memory easily, better give me a cup of nice tea My memories will be better Tell me the truth then you'll get whatever you want Be patient! Speak slowly, we'll listen carefully The code is long but easy to be remembered Repeat 8 times, that is Easy! Just like singing The code is long but easy to be remembered Do you remember it clearly? Sure Take him out and kill! Stop it, he is telling lies We'll lose God of Fortune forever I'm not going to kill him, but you two Why? I can't let so many people know the code Are you faithful to King of Japan? This is your good chance Don't! Please don't... We'll soon discover the code is true or not. Come on! Go and send to CIA. Urgent! I think everybody in the cell will hate me General, what you've just said... I will keep my promise Otherwise, no one will tell me the truth that'll be my loss! From now on, all of you will eat and live better Actually, we don't want you Chinese to be slaves, But want you to share and build our new Kingdom To share the happiness and wealthy, from 732 on Those provide us information benefiting this scheme, are the friends of our Japanese Kingdom We'll treat them good Thank you sir! Stay outside and watch out Sit down and have a cup of tea We'd be greedy, cruel, betray We can betray US, UK but not China Don't you know that I come here for God of Fortune? I cheated them only, I don't know who he is either I just cheated them by saying any code Dragon, I can guarantee Shut up! Guarantee is useless If I find out he is the traitor, I'll kill him Pills, everyday a pack Liquid medicine, 3 times a day Thank you doctor Wait a while Let's pretend to have stomach-ache Sir, do you have stomach-ache? Sure, I'm very painful OK, come here, sorry Sorry! Line up! Hurry up! What a great feeling! Did you find God of Fortune? It doesn't matter, it's more important to find God of Love We lost 3 provinces again, there're many locations in bad condition If we cannot find him to get the fund We'd properly lose our country I can't find him indeed Wasn't he in the camp? Impossible! Did you find all place? Only left the hostels of soldiers, Commander Station and Torture Room Get a chance to check the torture room Why shouldn't... we seek help from Fatty? He is responsible to stop Hedeki in entering the camp Enjoy yourself Release me... The food on the desk, is credited from your friend Robin You'd appreciate and thank him If the code he told is true, we promise you good lives in the future Who dare to eat, I'll beat him to death We won't eat the food by traitor! Take him away! Long Life to China I can go into the torture room if I fight Long life to China Take him to the torture room Dismiss! Go in Great Wall is great Long long road..., I can't stand it, fuck off Home sweet home... God of Fortune? What is the code? Say quickly Speak up! God of Fortune... I'm going to cheat him telling me the truth! No matter what happens, don't come in! Not even I cry for help! It's tactics Go! Go quickly! Damned! You bastard! Damn you Japanese! Wah, why you're here? The Japanese said that I know who God of Fortune is How do I know? Even you don't know, do you? You know? You must know it Tell me please, I won't tell others I don't know I know that you were caught before me Why did I come earlier than you? Those guys tortured me, my hand and legs... It's awful! Painful But I can smell the cigar and shell fish They tortured me with cigar and shell fish But I didn't them about Robin and you Did they flood you with perfume? How can you explain? What an awful experience! They cut me with fingers You're the traitor No, I'm patriotic youth Then I'll be the traitor who is against the patriotic youth Damn you! I defend... Stop, or I'll kill you Help! What's going on? He cried for help He told us not to interrupt, it's tricks I nearly forget! Are you patriotic youth? No, I'm traitor, I'll be traitor no more Tattoo is not easy to be removed, if you be traitor anymore I'll disclose your secret Don't you think that I'm not afraid of death? someone told me that he was God of Fortune and told me the code of the account Today, through the Switzerland Bank, we find out the code is true! It's true? Bastard! I, representing our King To thank Robin who informed us about the money Everybody can enjoy good food as previous days Our King decided... to hold a party on his birthday To enjoy his happiness with all of you Entertainments are your duties This is your pleasure. Dismiss Hey! Release Wah and bring Donald Duck to me Watch out! Close the curtain Don't be mad We're not, but stirred up! To kill a traitor is our responsibility It's a trick! The code is a false one, I make it myself Don't you try to cheat the Japanese or us! How can I believe you? You shameless! Betray your country and people, I hate you Although I'm amorous, but I love my country We kill unfaithful Chinese Close the door first Go! Damn you! You'd not beat a woman Tigers! Stop him Kill him Beat him General wants to see you What for? I've no information to tell Go! I don't have anything to say Taken him to the Commander Station May I have a bath? Chocolate, why they closed the door? They said that they were going to beat Robin Why? I don't know, it doesn't matter, worst to worst, he will die only What're you doing? Open the door! Don't let him go Coming... No body in Damn you, how can you beat a woman? No body in Stop! Watch out! Give me a woman... You've misunderstood Robin, he's not traitor You are allied to Robin! Don't fight again Robin, go! Stop! Ask them to stop, stop! Wah, don't stop me to kill our enemy If you want to kill him, kill me first Those betray our country should die Listen, God of Fortune was dead I saw him in the torture room So he didn't betray us, he isn't God indeed What proves that you've seen him? I haven't, but when he die He's holding two bird feather See, it may be a clue Those doesn't seem to belong to human! Why the Japanese said the code was true? He wanted to create civil conflicts between us To make internal fights and to find who is God Why should we believe you? I guarantee with my life If he is the traitor, I can be killed first Why he said he was God of Fortune? Robin didn't want anyone to sacrifice his life If he didn't, all of you would be killed If you don't stop us earlier, he would be killed He hadn't told the code before he died But he hold two feather in hand I'm sure nobody has kept birds here He must leave the code before his death Robin remembered there was a parrot in Commander Station To enter Commander Station, only you can do it Anybody in? Great Wall is great Greater and greater Or, is there another one? Great Wall is great, home sweet home Great Wall is Great... I won't tell! Tell me! How is it? Don't be naughty, come on Who is it? Why do you come here? An Officer came to see me, but forgot to bring his medicine So I came and sent him, but I can't find him here The code is long but easy to be remembered Don't hit me, I shut up It's cute, and can talk! This kind of bird is beautiful and smart I kept one before Report! The Golden cage is OK Change for it, be careful! If it lose a feather, I'll kill you Yes Sir Whose medicine is it, I'll send it for you I just remember his face, may be I look for him later Stop going! Would you be my partner on the celebration party? I'll prepare the gown for you Anything to be considered? No. Thank you General, I go out now Where are the guards? Why they didn't know somebody'd come in? May be they're on duty Add more guards to the Commander Station Who doesn't carry his duty, kill at once! Yes Why they come here? I think we can't get the parrot easily The best time should be during the party So as not to harm others, we'd think some ways to send them away You're right! I saw... Kwang Tung Tigers outside These people enjoy killing people There must be something dangerous, be careful I've got it Snake, what are we doing here? To watch out Why? Why don't we watch in? Quiet! We'd be careful, don't be in a mess! Any suggestion? Raise your hand We lost our country We're losing it only I don't care, we lost it We lost it! Shut up I was experienced... in transporting pigs to Shanghai illegally I think it just the same to transport people How? Tell us It's simple! First to separate the male and female So that the male can't kiss the female, no confusion! Don't feed them so much Otherwise they'll urinate, it may cause attention Next I haven't tell the main part! Next I hope your suggestion be smart! And under serious consideration! Wah, shall we keep calm first? Tell your plan! We don't move and see if they would kill us! Next Wah... Chocolate, do you have any idea? Yes, I want feeding Chocolate, don't border uncles Let's feed there Let's fight face to face It waste lots of blood, why don't we donate to Red Cross Next I prefer death... to no freedom Can you fly? No! How to escape! OK, no one wants to be dead, fine Quiet! Quiet! Since you've no good ideas I suggested that Robin be responsible to order our moves Shut up! I don't believe him! Why? The traitor is someone else! Don't you want me to tell the truth? Speak up! I'll kill him! Don't discuss it, let's listen to Robin! Shut up! You need to say nothing! Stop! Listen to him first We'd be co-operative... to reach success I'll explain the plan later on We've to find some ways... to take those ill and small brothers and those who can't help us to leave here first So as not to hurt them if the plan go wrong Any suggestion? The best idea is to dig a tunnel Is it too late to dig one? What a pity that the Japanese closed our tunnel last time If I know who was the spy, I'll kill him Donald Duck, what're you doing? I'm touched by your spirit We've dug one already If some one help, it'll soon be finished Let's go Jone, I've decided it with Robin You get the God of Fortune while we are on the stage Salute! Miss Wong, please take care the ladies of 3 Commanders In order to appreciate our kindness... to the prisoners of war We retreat all military strength round here Did you find God of Fortune? No Take the secret order from King Yes Ladies, this way please The programmes are designed by the prisoners The stage was built by them too Make yourself at home! What's going on? They're escaping How is outside? Safe Robin, how many have left? Just starting Hurry up, I'm afraid that we can't succeed We do our best There are so many people, how long will it take? Farewell! Goodbye! Shit Don't beat me! Damn! Why you dress like this? I just want to steal some wine to celebrate later on Why you dressed up like Japanese? Jone, what's the matter? Changes! The Kwangtung Tigers came, plan may be changed, be careful How is it? We are the best nation in the world We're the son of Apollo! Apollo assigned us the responsibility to rule the world We must succeed but not to fail! After the party tonight, from 1 2:00 am All prisoners should be dead! We should finish the order of King! Yes Farewell Thanks Be careful! Hurry! Japanese! Get away! You cannot come in Get lost This is restricted area, you can't come in Someone beats me! Why you beat us? Sorry, he is mad! Get out if you don't know dancing! Someone's in, you can't go in! Get lost What are you doing? Change! Get out, get out! What're you doing? What're you doing? Changing! Get away Oh my god! What's the matter? General said that if they didn't perform, I'd be killed Get away! Yes Make up and perform now! Robin, I saw a team of soldiers outside They said that we'd be killed tonight How can we do? We've to take action earlier, you deal with the Japanese soldiers outside Goodbye! Farewell, be careful! Wah, some Japanese are here, how can we do? You steal the patrol, I'll deal with them Fine! Deal with the Japanese up there first Don't stop me Take action earlier What's going on? What's the matter? I tell Jone to fetch God of Fortune Be careful Be parrot! Good morning But my stomach doesn't feel well, I'd like to leave Do you want me to accompany you? No, I just take some medicine Take care All dead? Go and get change, hurry! Robin, is it our turn to leave? Shall we go now? Go and get changed, we've to perform When shall we go? Are we waiting for death? We should let the others go first! Stop talking! Get changed! I'm scared! Go and get changed! I enter the Commander Station now, go and deal with the guards Stand up! Up! Be quick! Go and up! Where is Tortoise? Why are you so slow? Tortoise is slow! Go up! Quickly Chinese are so optimistic, they're so enjoyable when life is short You dress off. I hit him Every time it's me It's you turn How won't escape! Kill! First, we've Tortoise's somersault With quick speed, it's great! Next, is Tiger and The hen Hen? Me? Come over here What's on? Sit! I'm cock! Sit! Use your mouth only but not you hands Chai! Commander Where's you woman? She is sick, I go and find her now Come on, tell me the code! If you don't, I'll kill you OK, deep tried is better You're a traitor too! You didn't give me the 1st sentence Great wall is great, home sweet home To... Come on, why you stop? I can't! Fool, Japanese is in! The parrot is God of Fortune! Stop! You can't take the parrot away Without it, we'll lose our country If you take it away, I'll betray Japan Fine, then we do what we'd do Receive the God of Fortune! Receive it Receive it Satisfied? We lost it both Don't fool me! The one easily killed by me, must not be God of Fortune Yes, I'm the real one Be careful! Who are you? Damn! I'm scared! Stoy saying, have you found it? Yes, here it is Let's go! How is Wah? You only concern him! I go and deal with that guy Who are you? Go to hell Quickly! What are you doing? Stand still! They'll jump through the big one and then the small one Line up, jump! You jump first! Jump! I go and help! Kill them all Stop him It's not only you can do it If you've something to tell, just tell him I know you already! We're Kung-fu fighters Now we show you... the excellent Kung-fu Brother, your turn! Chicken of Haika style Horse style, rabbit style Tortoise style, and the human rights of all Chinese Yes, right and fists of Chinese Hit him together Butterfly! Turn! Cyclone circle of Eastern style May I help you? Go quickly Stand still! It's not easy for you to escape! Take the bag to me! Come here and take it yourself! How are you? Go...go quickly! You leave first, I'll go and help them Let me go first, I'll go and help them It's hard to deal with, I pass it to you Do you want to change a great hat? Fatty, why don't you leave? There is bomb! It'll expose soon! How are they? All wait outside for you Jone, where are you? Jone! We are here! Ching! Stop Wah Jone Come on, get on the car Hurry to the car Where's the God of Fortune He's inside I'm suffocated Tell me the code OK, you've tried your best, I'll tell the code now Great wall is great, home sweet home Cloud disappeared, here comes the sun, and a lovely scene I finished, go and get the money quickly We succeed! Cheers!
