 

                        Lord Godless, the evil warlord and Master of Godless Palace, always coveted power and the massive land of China. Attempting to usurp the throne, he sent his assistant Eunuch Cho to the Emperor's Palace as an undercover, and threatened the General in Command to assist in his plot. Later on, he used his special formulated poison to subdue a large number of martial arts masters, including martial arts legend, Nameless. Considering the safety of Chu Chu, Cloud also let himself fall into captivity. On the execution ground, Lord Godless has started to torture his hostages... Your Emperor has already given up his throne to my father, Lord Godless! Whoever surrenders will receive medication to restore your strength. Get your weapons back, and enjoy wealth with us. Or else, you will be executed. Nameless, give me your martial arts bible. Then, I will designate you as my second-in-command. For hundreds of years, invaders always try to takeover China. But our country has never been defeated. You want to takeover us with your small troops. What a crazy dream. You go against me? Kill! Is this the medication to Lord Godless' poison? Heart! What a bunch of losers. The Return of Wind and Cloud is worthless. My body is invincible. Let me break your unbeatable legend today. From now on I am the Martial Arts Legend How come your master is so badly wounded? Master has not fully recovered from poison. He was injured when he fought Lord Godless. My condition is really bad. I will not recover within a short time. Cloud, where are you going? I cannot bear the sacrifice of other people. Cloud! Cloud, think twice about revenge now. If we are careless, the sacrifice of our friends will be wasted. Cloud, you and Wind both have the potential to fight against Lord Godless. But both of you need to improve your power and skills. Right now, only one person is able to fight against Lord Godless. He is Piggy King's elder brother in martial arts, Lord Wicked. Lord Wicked? He is a strange person. He may not be willing to help. Enemies are coming Let's split. I will draw the enemies away. Piggy King, please bring Wind and Cloud to Sheng Si Men to ask Lord Wicked for help. Alright... Heart! Bring Earth and Sky with you to catch Nameless and his group. Take out other martial arts schools on your way. Kill everyone who goes against me. Is he able to beat Lord Godless? He is actually a very strange person. I'm really not sure if he is willing to help. I hope he could consider the situation of our country and make an exception. Leng Lao, long time no see... You just keep working. Slow down and take a break. Enjoy your life... Hey, old man, I am here. Come out and see me... Lord Wicked, We come on behalf of Nameless and sincerely ask for your help to save our country. The invaders have invaded us and killed our innocent people. The situation is really critical. I pay no attention to earthly matters for years. If Nameless the Legend is involved in this matter, Lord Godless will be defeated eventually. Please go. Nameless is badly wounded so he cannot fight back. That's why he asked us to come here. If our country falls into Lord Godless' hands, what do you think? Cloud To show our sincerity, We will kneel here until you agree to save the world and stop Lord Godless from killing the innocents. Hey, old man, stop being so arrogant... Leng Lao, come and drink with me. The food is good. Both of you haven't eaten since yesterday. Please eat something now. I don't need to eat. Thank you. How about Wind? Uncle Lord Wicked, I am the daughter of Knife King. I come to extend my greetings to you. Second Dream, why are you here? Piggy King, our country is in great danger. I hope to help Wind... and Cloud. Please ask the old man to come out and help. Uncle Lord Wicked, this is Second Dream, please come out... Oh, Uncle Lord Wicked does not like Second Dream anymore. Second Dream will also kneel here and will not eat Just like Wind, until Uncle Lord Wicked comes out... You finally grow up... How is your dad? He is fine, thank you. Dad is longing to have a good fight with you. You are such a sweet mouth. Old man, what happened to your hands? I overestimated myself and started training in the evil way. I thought I could control the evil spirit. But I was wrong. I don't want to kill innocents anymore and therefore I broke my two arms a few years ago... Now I am no longer as powerful as before. Supreme martial arts skills cannot be learned in a short time. In this situation, there is only one alternative... What is the alternative? We take the evil way to increase your power... It is very dangerous to take the evil way. You might be overwhelmed by evil power. But this is the only way to increase your power within a short time to combat Lord Godless. Who would like to give it a try? Me! Old man, why don't you recommend another martial arts expert and ask him for help... Open your hands and let me see... Cloud You are too aggressive, too extreme. The evil spirit will only boost your violence. Wind You have good control over your power. Even if you enter the evil way, You would have better chance of returning from evil just like me. Cloud, please be patient and wait until I finish training. We will then fight Lord Godless together. But I hope you promise me one thing. If I am overwhelmed by evil power and start to kill innocents Please be decisive and kill me right away. This is for you. Thank you for saving my life so many times. Okay, I won't bother you now. Thank you. No one, not even a genius could learn top martial arts skills in a few days I understand that it takes time and effort. It's hard to be righteous, but it is easy to be evil. A thousand years of spiritual training might still fall prey to evil. If you want to boost up all your power, You must devote yourself to the evil way. Will you regret? I am well prepared for this. I will not regret! I need your blood to blend with the water from the Evil Pool. From outside to inside, you have to turn into evil... We finally meet Wind This letter comes from you. I always keep it with me. "Listen to the wind and rain. Let go of earthly troubles." Master asked you to meet him at Ling Yin Temple You are able to block my styles and learn my styles so fast. It proves that you are capable of rescuing our country. I am going to transfer my power to you. I am not as great as you think. I kneeled in front of Lord Wicked Just because I want to fight for myself if I turn evil. Now I only have one tenth of my power left. To fight against Lord Godless, Wind and Cloud must join hands. I can feel that, if Wind and Cloud join hands, An exceptional power will be created. The power will grow stronger and stronger. When the word "evil" is filled with water from the pool, Your training is done. On the map, the dragon's head is pointing to Dragon Tomb, the place hidden with the secret of the royal family and is vital to the destiny of China. It is in a cave in the back garden of the Palace. The Emperor is the only person who knows the way inside the Dragon Tomb. If someone gets lost, he will be trapped inside forever. The Emperor is under our control. As soon as we locate the Dragon Tomb, Our dream will come true. China will be mine and my father's! Remember, you can't share the country Master, if the Legend Nameless is still alive and Wind and Cloud are still around, I heard that they have some special hidden power... Nameless has underestimated the strength of my drug. He tried to use his special strike before he was recovered. For Wind and Cloud, they are nobody. But if they join forces... Only the persons who could locate the Dragon Tomb could share this country with me. Understood, Dad. Master, Nameless is hiding at Ling Yin Temple. Wind and Cloud are at Sheng Si Men. Send the carrier pigeons and bring my message to Earth and Sky. Ask them to get rid of Nameless. Besides, select a group of evil warriors to Sheng Si Men. Yes, Master! I am going with you to search for the Dragon Tomb. Bring along the Emperor. Son Yes, I understand Lead us to the Dragon Tomb. My father promises endless wealth and honor for the Royal Family. Wealth and honor always belongs to me. This land also belongs to me. It looks like my benevolence to you is wasted to no purpose. Stop talking... Stand guard here. The rest of you, follow me... Go. Get inside. I am astonished that you could realize and create 23 completely different new sword styles within such a short time. Master, the new styles that I created are based on what you've taught me. May I ask you to name these styles? The new styles you created are of divine superiority. No word could name it adequately... Maybe... there is only one word... Cloud, this is the name of your new sword style. Master, what does it mean? I have never seen a word like this. This is a word that I just created. It's a word that partly resembles the character "cloud" and partly resembles a sword. This is exactly what it signifies. You can pronounce it as "Ba"! "Ba" Stop please. What are you sweeping? I watched you for a long time. There is nothing to sweep at all. You keep sweeping day and night. You are going to sweep the ground open. Every one has his own obsession. Can I ask you to stop fooling around? Wind is at his final stage of training. It is the critical moment and he must not be disturbed. We cannot go inside either. Or else, before he turns into evil, he may turn into ghost Cloud, when are you coming back? Cloud, your new style is still immature and its power is not fully released. You'll be even more powerful in the future. Now, go to Sheng Si Men and see what's going on. Which path leads to the Dragon Tomb? China is mine... Lord Wicked What happened? Where is Wind? Wind didn't complete his training and came out earlier to save Second Dream I am very puzzled as well. Theoretically, if the word is not fully filled with water from the pool, the trainee will not leave his training and come out. If he is being disturbed at the final stage of his training, he could seriously get hurt and become totally disabled. Even worse, he could die right away... Wind is a very special person. It is possible that if someone or something could wake him up before he turns completely into evil, he could be saved and return to normal. That means Wind still has the chance? Where is he now? Cloud, what did you do with Nameless? He is my teacher now. He transferred all his power to me, and led me to create a new sword style. The Emperor is captured by Lord Godless. They are seeking the Royal Secret at the Cave in the Palace's back garden... The Royal Secret is hidden within Heaven Cave and it is related to the destiny of China. It must not fall into the hands of Lord Godless. Cloud, you must stop him. Lord Godless has a special skill that makes him invincible. But I believe he has a weak point which is hiding behind his strongest point. I'll remember your words. I'll return as soon as possible. I think I know where Wind is This is so graceful! Where is the Dragon Tomb? Is this the Dragon Tomb? What a cool and daring man. I heard that it is very important for Chinese people to leave progeny. If you don't talk, I'll start to kill your sons. Stop that Your Majesty, l... Son Protect His Majesty... Your Majesty, please forgive us. We are forced to surrender. We are very sorry... I understand. Protect His Majesty... stand back Bring him with us Bring them with us Cloud, you made a great improvement over these days. I might have underestimated you, I am so... This will be the tomb of Cloud Lord Godless has special skills that make him invincible. But I believe he has a weak point which is hiding behind his strongest point. Wind Now Wind has taken the Dragon Bone. Take him back. This is my order. Yes, Your Majesty... I understand that the two of you have saved our country. But you need to know, the Dragon Bone is the root of our nation. If it is lost, our country will fall. Wind Finally I got you. Wind, do you remember that I mentioned in my letter, this is the place where we can hide away from this earthly world. Wind, Wind I still don't understand why Wind appeared in the Dragon Tomb. It is your chi that brings Wind to the Dragon Tomb. You both are from the same root. Wind moves clouds. Cloud changes and wind appears. Is he already overwhelmed by evil spirit? I hope that we could find Wind before he turns into evil, and before the Emperor gets him. Hey... Ghost Tiger told us that Wind is at Nie Village. The Emperor has sent his men to kill him. Wind, surrender now and give back the Dragon Bone. Or else, don't regret. General, please give me more time. I will convince Wind to return the Dragon Bone. Actually, Wind does not show any evil sign over these days. If you say he is good all these days, he has already recovered. Then he should give back the Dragon Bone right away. Wind is gone To throw the evil out, We need to get rid of the evil eye first. Besides, if you have the chance, try to bring Wind into your mental state. To throw the evil out, we need to get rid of the evil eye first. Try to bring Wind into the mental state and tame his evil heart. Wind Cloud Wind, please stop! Go away Wind, he is completely out of control. Wind, it's me, Second Dream... Do you remember me? Please stop! Cloud Cloud Cloud, how are you? Cloud, why do you look like this? Second Dream, has Wind turned evil? Wind! How can you hurt Cloud and Second Dream? Are you out of control? Wind, Lord Wicked said that as long as you don't turn completely into evil, you could be saved and return to normal. Wind, can you hear me? Cloud, he... Chu Chu This is for you. Thank you for saving my life so many times. if I am overwhelmed by evil power and start to kill innocents please kill me right away. Cloud Wind Second Dream... I said before, if I turn into evil, ask Cloud to kill me But why... why? Why? Cloud, why? I am sorry. I am sorry. Wind Let me go! Don't! Why didn't you kill me? Why? Why didn't you kill me in the first place? Why didn't you kill me in the first place?
