 

                        TALKING HEADS What is your year of birth? Who are you? What do you most wish for? I am two - Who are you? - I'm Waldek - What do you want? - Nothing - Who are you? - A toddler - What do you want? - To be a Syrena car - Who are you? - I don't know - What do you want? - To paint a house, have a house I'm an ugly brunette I'd like to leave school and have fine babies I'm not sure who I am, but I love reading books I'd like to go to America I think I'm a little different from my friends I'd like the Pope to come to Poland I'm not yet ready to make serious decisions What I'd like most in daily life... ...is for people to show more respect for each other People should pay more attention to each other... ...there should be more love within society I'm a bit of an egoist, I don't respect everybody Yet I'm a good friend; it sounds odd, but that's how it is What would I like? To change my character I'd be happier without my bad points If I decide on something, I usually do it What would I like? I'd like everyone to do something for others They work only for themselves, not others I'd like them to understand... ...that material things alone do not create happiness I was in a children's home I'd like everyone to have a happy childhood Childhood should be beautiful I'm rather uncomplicated, no problems, no conflicts I face life with a smile I'd like that to continue I'm a girl who doesn't reconcile dreams... ...with their practical realization I'd like to be more certain about my criteria... ...to know good from bad I'm a non-problematic dreamer and optimist I'd like to escape the town... ...to live with nature and animals So far, I'm a nobody It could last for some time But I'd like to become... ...what is called... ...a human person In the present stage of my life, I'm still taking, not giving I'm still acquiring values I want freedom in the broad sense... ...not just freedom for the strong I'm a student. I still have time to make a firm decision... ...which will bind me for the rest of my life I do not like the aggression in people They hate and fear each other I'd like to see them fight against this attitude I'm a single mother, I feel alone at home Here at the clinic I'm among people, life I'd like to save a life, all by myself I'm an engineering graduate, still full of moral principles, ideas I'd like to stay that way I'm a driver. I'd like Polish people to work better I'm an alpinist Here there's no other way of proving ourselves, only the mountains For me, the most important thing is courage I suppose I want the same as everyone else I'd most like... ...people to conduct their lives normally... ...unaffected by fear I'd like them not to be afraid of others I've worked in many places. I've been a clerk Now I'm an electrician and I'm very satisfied I don't think the young should worry about the future too much Seize the day That's always been my philosophy I consider myself a realist. What would I like? To provide a modest, decent life for my family I'm a history teacher The freedom to decide my own fate matters most to me I'm a Catholic I'd like to have my own house, a nice place to live I consider myself a humanist It may seem unrealistic, but what I want in life... ...is a genuine introduction... ...of democracy and tolerance I'm a youth activist. I represent a youth organization I'd like to do the same in the economic field I'm studying for that I think I have everything an average person should have It's all right, but I feel something's missing I'd like a change, some achievements I don't know what, something different I'm working, but most important, I have two children I dislike pushy people I'd like more heart and wisdom I'm a father and a civil servant I think the most difficult thing... ...is to live in accordance with one's conscience It may sound banal, but it's very hard I have two children. I've written two novels My fears? I've seen an envelope from abroad, franked with the words: "The ability to write is a root of democracy" I fear the lack of real public debate. It's prearranged A lack of exchange of ideas... ...that's what worries me Fewer and fewer books, the conveyors of thoughts... ...may result in what that franked envelope was about: The twilight of democracy I'm a real worker I'd like people to be more honest... ...and justice to be better Now that I'm a taxi driver I feel more free But I realize that personal freedom is not enough To be really liberated and free... ...requires democracy and security Personal freedom is not enough I am a chemical engineer. Now I drink What do I want? Nothing. Everything is just fine Who am I? That's a difficult question There are so many expectations, it's impossible to remain unchanged I'd like to live in a real world, not one of fiction and facades I live in Warsaw. I'm a sociologist I'm a person of some responsibility, and little sense of humour Characteristics unhelpful in my life As for my wishes... ...they're in this order: Good health for myself and my loved ones... ...and in general... ...less suffering and humiliation for people... ...in my country and all over the world I'm caught between two mysteries. One is natural reality I'm a human being The second is very strong, it is my faith... ...my relationship with God It makes me happy... ...because I can help others to be better... ...to be happy What do I wish for? To paraphrase a well known exhortation: "Workers of the world - unite!"... ...l'd like good people to unite... ...not against somebody, but for good All my life I've tried not to lie... ...to have an open face What would I like? People to be grateful to each other All my life, I've given I worked... ...to the best of my ability and health There's a competition for a monument to Slowacki I'd like to make a good project for that I live with my memories: Pre-war... ...the underground resistance, the great reconstruction after the war Not all my dreams came to fruition I'd like my sons, or perhaps my grandsons, to reap the benefits I'm a humanist... ...in my profession and convictions I'm convinced that it's most important to observe... ...human rights and law... ...the right to one's own views and dignity As for wishes... ...I wish tranquillity for the world and myself I've been a widow for two weeks Widow of the late Stanislaw That's all. What do I want? Nothing I'm one hundred years old What do you want? How much more do I want? To live longer Much longer Directed by Krzysztof Kieslowski Photographed by Jacek Petrycki and Piotr Kwiatkowski
