 

                        Give me your word, Usman If I'm caught, you will shoot me at sunrise tomorrow Step back... move! One minute... hang on! Why're you guys pushing and jostling? Just a few more breaths You can't let me down today, Life I will finally have the bliss... I have craved for, all my life Just stand by me till the break of dawn today If you had to desert me... why didn't you leave me on the day... I found myself at the crossroads of life? Get a hold on yourself You'll fall, Simran. You've had too much to drink Listen to me. Give me your hand, Simran... Simran... Simran! I've landed you in trouble too. Haven't I, Akash? You were about to end all the trouble today What do you hold against me? For the first time I've found a true friend... and you want to snatch her away from me? You were the who was drowning, but it... ...was I who was dying. You know that? Akash, I've never cared for my life But you've increased its importance by saving it today For the first time I've begun to feel... that my life and death make a difference to someone Oh shut up! It's two months since we met, right? Sometimes I think I understand you very well And there are times when I think I don't know you at all Why do I get the feeling that you're... ...suppressing something in your heart? It keeps trying to come out... and you always drink to keep it bottled up What are you hiding from me, Simran? What is it? I don't want to hide from you what's going on in my heart right now What? I don't intend to spend an entire lifetime in this hospital Will you take me home? All right Akash, stop right here What's wrong with you, Simran? You get off at just about any corner or square every day It's either this road, or some other one Let me drop you home atleast today. You're not keeping well Akash, I'm okay. I'll go on my own I'm still a stranger to you, right? - Why do you say such things? That's not true, Akash I'm always afraid that I'll drop you some place, someday... and never see you ever again Stop talking nonsense. Nothing of the sort's going to happen, Akash Okay, I'll skip the nonsense. But I have two conditions One, you won't drink again Two? You'll come to hear me sing this evening. At the club I can't guarantee the first. But I'll surely come to the club May I go now? Hello...? Drunk again? When are you coming home? You weren't at home last night Who'd I come home for? Who is it that's waiting for me? You call just once a week... you have any idea how I spend the rest of the six days? Whatever happens, I have to wait for the phone to ring to talk to you... and I'm not even supposed to phone you! Every time I talk to you, I wonder... if I'll ever get to hear your voice again If something happens to you... Everybody's got to die, Simran But I'm not dying without meeting you I've got some important business to wrap up I'm taking a ship to Dubai tomorrow morning Take care Daya... You are my night, my dawn... you are my day You are my God, my universe... you are my world To me, you are Time... and I'm every moment for you How on earth can you ever live apart from me? You are my night, my dawn... you are my day You are my God, my universe... you are my world To me, you are Time... and I'm every moment for you How on earth can you ever live apart from me? I don't know why, but without even realising it... It was in a moment of weakness... that I met Akash at this very restaurant about a month ago I can't believe I've grown so close to him in such a little time Your eyes, misty... your face, the mirror of your heart You are a beautiful sad story Your eyes, misty... your face, the mirror of your heart You are a beautiful sad story What causes agony to your heart... tell me Why are you so angry with yourself? Not just my eyes, you are etched on my heart You are the reason why I live Not just my eyes, you are etched on my heart You are the reason why I live Your laughter... your charms... are so different from the others You are my night, you are my morn... you are my day You are my God, my universe... you are my world To me, you are Time... and I'm every moment for you How on earth can you ever live apart from me? Thank you, thank you I didn't think you'd be coming today, I didn't think I'd be coming either, Everybody loved your song. - Yes, sure, How about the one I sang it for? Akash, you get so utterly corny at times, Thank you. - What for? For accepting both my conditions, Akash, I got to leave. - Where to, Simran? I get paid for 3 hours and I've sung just one number yet, You can stay, Akash. I got to leave, Where are you going? I had plans for this evening, Some other time, Akash. - Wait, Simran..., and why're you taking the backdoor? - Akash! Coming, sir, Stay here, I'll meet the manager and return, Akash, this is Mr. Raghavan. - Hello, Mr. Akash, I've heard so much about you, Your songs are being discussed even in India, Meet my wife. - Hello, Please sit down, I'll join you in a minute... yes? Can I have a bit of whisky? Please? Why're you doing all this, Simran? Why do you love me so much, Akash? I have a lot of reasons to drink like this, But you have no reason to fall in love with a girl like me, I can't even stand on my own two feet..., how will I ever be able to stand by you through a lifetime? I'll take care of you, I know, you don't want to tell anyone your story, I know, Simran... - What do you know? You know nothing, Akash, You know, had Raghavan caught sight of me today..., my story would've come to an end, Raghavan? That guy who works at the Indian embassy? The bastard's an intelligence agent. He's here on a mission, Mission...? , Don't you always ask me, Akash, why I drink so much? This is why, I somehow managed to escape Raghavan's bullets, But this poor child died right there, I couldn't even talk to him one last time, Who are you? Who, except a criminal, could I be..., to run away from the police bullets? What... what crime have you committed? I've committed the crime of falling in love with a gangster, I've committed the crime of living with him, Gangster? , Daya, Well? The mere mention of his name makes you break into a sweat? I've spent 5 whole years with him, He's someone the entire police in India hates..., and I've committed the crime of falling in love with him, I don't care if I'm caught, Akash, But I know, if I'm caught..., perhaps he will be caught too, It's not today, I've always tried to protect Daya, Even on the day he got straight to my house..., running away from the police, There were 300 families in that locality, But I don't know why destiny pushed him through the doors of my house, Did you see someone coming here? - No, There's nobody, sir. - No? Let's go, You want to die? They must still be out there, You can spend the night here if you wish, This chap who was mopping the floor with me that day..., I later got to know, was a very dreaded gangster, Whatever he meant to the world..., what I saw in his eyes that day..., made me feel that he too was as lonely as I was, No thank you, no good-bye..., he didn't say a word to me when he left early next morning, I could feel his silence for several days, It was more than a month since he had left..., but I still couldn't get over him, And one day, he landed up at my door, I wasn't in, He made enquiries with my neighbours and..., and he straightaway got to my workplace, He then started coming frequently to my dance-bar, He always took one particular table with his back to me, Working at the dance-bar, I had seen several drunkards..., stripping me with their eyes. In Daya's eyes, however..., I saw respect for myself, With him, I thought I was adequately clothed, even in skimpy clothing. He always looked at me silently, He never uttered a word, Maybe he wouldn't ever. If it wasn't for..., Let's go home, The first word he uttered was "home", It was as if my dreams were taking shape, I felt as if he was taking my hand, never to leave it, I don't know whether I let myself go with him... or my necessities, But I got to his place, You know something, Akash? In broad daylight..., I haven't felt safer even with the so-called respectable men..., as safe as I felt that night, in a gangster's house, I thought I had found a world of my own, My dream of starting a family was really coming true, How was I to know that as usual, my happiness would be short-lived? I'll see... who is it? - Milkman, There was no stopping after that, I was looking for one house..., and destiny kept changing my house everyday, At times it was a footpath. At times, a room in a 5-star hotel, We used to spend our nights in hiding, He always had his share of enemies in the underworld, But even those that considered him to be a friend..., had turned his enemies, Brother, Khan-Saheb is here, Go inside, Sit down... you must be tired of running He was barely 12 or 13 years old when he came to me asking for a job Everybody said, he was a kid, not to make him part of my gang But no, sir. I trusted him And he never broke my trust Boys in the gang going out to kill would first ask the means of escape This guy did his job; he never thought of how he'd return Even the big guns were scared of him. You know why? Because he wasn't scared of death And ever since you have entered his life... he has started loving life Like a dog with its tail between its legs... he's running from place to place He has forgotten what a goddamned nuisance women are Have fun, use them and dump them! If you wear her around your neck, she'll slit your throat! Make him see reason In our business, there's lust. There's no love Like my mentor, Sikander. What happened to him? He became a bloody dog for the sake of a girl He took a Qazi to the broad's house; she double-crossed him His body was riddled with bullets. And I had to shoot the bitch later If my kid is being stupid, if he's making a mistake... I'll have to do the same thing again Hey, you're a whore who works at a bar You won't let go of him so easily. But you can atleast reason with him... to leave you. Else, I'll have to do... ...to you what I did to Sikander's broad Now I know why boys leave their fathers for the sake of women You have lost your father today You're on your own now So look after yourself I was terrified But I had implicit faith in Daya Akash, all my dreams were about to come true I waited to see fulfilled a dream that I had for several years And that is why you married Daya? To dream and to see the dream being fulfilled... are entirely different things Daya loved me so much, he didn't even touch me before our marriage Our marriage... that never took place The kid then? It was hired There is no dearth of poor, helpless orphans in the world I pretended to be a mother too But I don't know what it was about Bittu... when I met him, I felt as if... I were his real mother... as if he were really my son We needed passports to leave the country And to get those passports, we needed to be a family That's it. Bittu became part of our so-called family I thought then that I had everything A husband, a son, a family I wanted to make this fantasy the picture of my life And thus, I never wanted Bittu to be separated from me Daya was changing too This man couldn't bear to see even a drop of the child's blood Who could've imagined it was this man's... . profession to indulge in bloodshed? As they say, you can get rid of everything except your shadow And Daya's shadow was far longer than himself I'm terribly scared, Daya. - There's nothing to be scared of Why not, Daya? I don't know whether I will ever have you in my lifetime But I don't want to lose Bittu Nothing will happen to Bittu. It's dangerous for us to live in India There are informers everywhere. If we don't take Bittu along... it's impossible to get to Dubai. - You said we'd never use Bittu! I also said I'd never let anything happen to Bittu It's my chest that'll take the bullets. Not his Mummy! Thank you Won't you come in? Simran, your past is like these four walls You have managed to step out... but you've left the keys inside Simran, life is goading you towards a new goal But you're still tied to the past I know you want to get on with life... but you're afraid, you might lose your dreams on the way Open your eyes, Simran Your dreams are here with you... right in front of you You don't need to look back again and again to be happy, Simran You have shed enough tears for things that did not happen Atleast let what is about to happen reach its conclusion? Simran, you have every right to live You have every right to dream I'll give you all the happiness, I'll fulfill all your dreams Because now that I've heard your story... I've begun to love you more than ever before I love you, Simran Every moment, the distances between us begin to melt In the fires of passion burns the dew The sun sets with desires... In what fires burns the dew? Hello, - Reception Please try this number again For the past three days, I've been trying this number Why don't you understand? All you Indians are the same! Your eyes... show me... dreams... of the stars On your lips... is written... what you say... in signs In a caravan of dreams, the night moves on What fire is it in which burns the dew? This evening, I'm going astray... with you in my arms Must I touch you... or keep you... hidden in my eyes? Shy. Fumbling... what fire is it that burns the dew? Every moment, the distances between us begin to melt In what fires of passion burns the dew Why does the sun set on our desires...? In what fires burns the dew? Akash... Akash... Will you forget me like this someday? He's dead The doctors say she's out of danger, Daya! Daya! Don't hit him! Let him go! Leave him alone! Let go... it's not his mistake! He hasn't made any mistake! Daya, let him go! Let go of my hand! Leave me alone, Daya! Let me go, Daya! Please let me go, Daya, Let me go, Daya! Daya, leave my hand! Leave my hand, I say! Akash... Talk to me! Why aren't you talking to me? What right did you have to hit him? Jealous? Jealous to see me with another man today...? Where were you when I gave up everything..., and wanted to settle down with you? You locked me up in that house and went away then! And when I want to open the window for some fresh air..., you find that bad? Why must I wait for you? What have you given me except fear and terror, Daya? I thought Bittu's death would change you, But you can never change, Daya! Never! You were a gangster and you are still a gangster! I can't spend a lifetime with a gangster! I can't spend the rest of my life with a gang..., which is the stained with the blood innocents! What are you going to get out of killing Akash, Daya? Talk to me! I'm the one you must talk to! You want to know whether I love him? Yes, I love him! He's the only one who can fulfill all my dreams! He's the one who took care of me after you went away! He's the one who brought a smile to my lips! He's the one I truly love! Only he can fulfill my dreams! If..., you really..., are in love with Akash..., I will not stop you, I've given you a lot of sorrow, But if you have ever loved me..., even a wee bit..., give me one chance, please, I'm a changed man, Today, this moment... I'm willing to give up everything, But if you leave me..., I'm going to die, I won't be able to live, Simran, I... I won't be able to live, Simran! I won't be able to live anymore! I won't! Usman...? Daya, go away! Listen to me, Daya! Go away! Go away, Daya! Listen to me! Run, Daya! Get him. Quick! C'mon! Move it! Shit! , Moist memories, moist nights, moist eyes... what makes my eyes moist? Dreams in my eyes... make me laugh one moment, make me cry the other... what vacuum is this...? Nobody knows... what life I lead... my story, incomplete what life I lead... my story, incomplete Sleepy, awake... your eyes, teary... for my sake My Maker, angry. Everything, lost... heartbroken, without you... how shall I accept life? Nobody knows... what life I lead... my story, incomplete what life I lead... my story, incomplete Moist memories, moist nights, moist eyes... what makes my eyes moist? Nobody knows... what life I lead... my story, incomplete Nobody knows, nobody has a clue... of the incomplete story my life is Nobody knows... what life I lead... my story, unfinished My story... incomplete Simran..., it's said one must begin where one strayed off... if you wish to tread the right path all over again, I too wish to go back to India. To my village. With you, You know where my village is? It's near Kashmir, When it snowed in winter, all roads used to be blocked, My mother was employed to clear the snow, Two rupees, To earn two rupees, she used to pray..., that it may snow again, so she could have employment, There was so much of peace in those two rupees, After several years today, I could sleep in peace... after earning an honest living, And it's all thanks to you, If it wasn't for you, I wouldn't even have known... what sleep for the honest means, I wish to live like this all my life, Simran, With you, But before starting again on the path of honesty... I'll have one last bad thing to do, I'll have to get hold of fake passports for you and me, I'm going to Seoul, One last time. After that..., you can say the bad man in me is dead for good, Hello... hello? Simran...? Akash... Thank God, Simran! I looked so much for you... where are you? I want to meet you just once, Simran I promise, I'll never try to meet you ever again Simran, please don't do this to me Ties aren't snapped like this, Simran... - Akash, I'm pregnant O Merciful Lord... everybody would lay down his life for You O Savior... my life's for You My life, I could give away for my love... I'd wipe myself out for my love I'd finish my identity for my love O Merciful Lord... everybody would lay down his life for You O Savior... my life's for You I thought I hated you I used to dream that you'd walk before me... and that I'd shoot you And now that you stand in front of me, I hate myself What goddamned business are we into? We got to shoot our kids ourselves... and then carry their biers on our own shoulders Allah! Looks like that's the punishment I will get for my misdeeds What has happened is in the past I will never stand in your way again I'm taking Simran and returning to India for good Please let me go How I wish I could... but it can't be helped, my son If I don't kill you and set an example, people will call me impotent Every boy in my gang will turn a Romeo... and will rebel for the sake of some whore or the other I have to pull a full-stop to it, right? Don't worry, son I'll kill you and set a good example After you're dead, I'll keep your whore alive... I'll hold on her display on the terrace, stark naked... so that people can see... what consequences befall those that come between father and son You get that, son? My boys will toy with her body every day... so that she can realise what... I've given up... Without You, there isn't a moment Without You, there is no tomorrow If it wasn't for You, man would be stone-hearted He would know no feeling For my love, my sweetheart... I'd die, finish myself I swear, I'd wipe out my identity O Merciful Lord... everybody would lay down his life for You O Savior... my life's for You Simran, I don't want to lose this baby I want to marry you, Simran I want to take you and my baby home That's what you too want, isn't it? Isn't that what you want? I'll give you so much of love, you'll never crave love again All I'm afraid of is... will Daya be able to forget you? Not even an ordinary man can accept defeat in love... ...and Daya's a gangster I don't want a gangster's shadow to be cast on our child The family and surroundings I'm taking you to... is a place where only decent folks live My parents haven't even sworn at anyone If they get to know that you and a gangster were... Simran, you will have to shut the doors on the past forever You'll have to help me If you want us and our child to be happy... you'll have to turn Daya over to the police, Simran Hear me out... - No, Akash... I'm asking you to save him, not to trap him Out in the open, he might fall a victim to the bullets Behind the bars, he has a fair chance of getting justice Think it over, Simran! I can't do it, Akash! Think again, Simran On one hand are the lives of the three of us... on the other is Daya You're the one who has to decide Hello... - Simran! The police are after us! Get out of there immediately! Meet me at the Seoul station at 10 Daya...? Simran! C'mon! Haul him over! Tantra. - Is Akash there? Akash is not here. Who's this? - This is Simran here... I've been looking for him... - Simran, Akash waited all night for you Mr. Raghavan and his men were here this morning; he has left with them You'll probably find him at the Indian embassy, my child Hello... is everything okay? I've committed the crime of falling in love with a gangster I've committed the crime of living with him Daya Well? The mere mention of his name makes you break into a cold sweat? I've spent 5 whole years with him I don't care if I'm caught, Akash But I know, if I'm caught... perhaps he will be caught too It's not today, I've always tried to protect Daya Even on the day he got straight to my house... Ladies and gentlemen, there's a saying... "everything is fair in love and war" And this is also a war For my country. A war against organised crime If you have any questions, you can ask them right now Mr. Akash, when did you begin this battle? In Spring, to catch a cobra, you got get hold of his female first That's the mating season they cannot do without each other And the cobra is forced to slither out of its pit I did something similar To ferret Daya out of his pit... I used this beautiful female cobra She was Daya's weakness and I became her weakness Daya was crazy about her and I drove her crazy about myself Her dream was to have a small family of her own... and my dream was to finish international organised crime I put the two dreams together and the results are there for you to see How dare you! How dare you do such a thing? How dare you...? How dare you! Have you never loved me? Not even for a moment? Not when you were consoling me, ...getting out bits of information from me... in my arms, in bed... wasn't there a moment when you really loved me? Never? No, never I was only doing my job, my duty In any case, how would a police officer like me... ever fall in love with a cheap and filthy girl like you? A girl who has warmed the bed of a criminal like Daya It's part of our job to thrust our hands in filth now and then But yes, the times when I looked deep into your eyes... talked sweetly with you, in your arms, in your bed... every moment that I spent with you, I hated you so much! Akash... - Shut up! I wasn't getting close to you; I was making a sacrifice for my nation I was saving those several men who could've been Daya's victims I was trying to prevent innocent children from being orphaned... by gangsters like Daya! - Gangster? He's not a gangster! You guys are! - Get away! You cheat despite being in uniforms! And he never betrayed anyone! Not in the name of justice, not in the name of hatred! If he's caught today, it's only because of his integrity! He's not the criminal! You guys are! In trying to save families, you've ruined my home today! In the name of innocent children, you've killed the baby... that I'm carrying in my womb! How could you forget that this is your baby...? Akash! How could you forget that I'm carrying your baby? You will have to pay for this! Let's go Kill me Please kill me Kill me... "You're not to blame for what you've done, Simran" "You haven't betrayed me. In fact, ...you are the one who has been betrayed" "As for me..." "I had to face death for shedding the blood of so many people" "What could be better for me..." "that God has made you the reason of my death?" "I understand today..." "why I got to your place of all the places in that locality" "I understand today what role you had to play in my life" "I've always been a bad man" "But thanks to you, I'm dying a gentleman" "God gave me just one death..." "but I've lived several lifetimes in the days I have spent with you" "One last thing" "I'm sending your passport with Usman" "lt'll take you safely to my village" "Don't refuse, Simi" "If you get there, I'll feel I've gotten back there" Daya in police custody After a long and grim battle... the law has finally caught up with gangster Daya Shankar... who had escaped from India The credit for the success goes to Akash He's the toast of the officers in the echelons of the police force Daya created a sensation in the court today He prayed to the court for a death sentence All charges against Daya Shankar have been proved in this court Moreover, the accused has also confessed to his crimes This court therefore holds the accused guilty... and sentences him to death He may be hanged till death on the morning of May 2 To be hanged till death Nobody knows... what life I lead... my life My story... incomplete Nobody knows... nobody has a clue... what my story is Daya... forgive me. Please forgive me My incomplete story My incomplete story Give me your word, Usman... if I'm caught, you will kill me at sunset tomorrow Promise me Promise me... give me your word, Usman Who is it, Sharda? Stop me not... let me go to my lover's house I'm a firefly... let me die for my flame Do not stop me To have him... is the only aim of my life Should I have him... let me go forth and embrace death Should I have him... let me go forth and embrace death Do not stop me.
