 

                        As though we are atop living stilts which continuously grow, occasionally taller even than church belfries, until eventually, walking becomes difficult and dangerous and at last, they fall. They're coming. Three clicks left... Four clicks right... One click left... Two clicks right... Now! You did it, Kougami! I say, it is the cruel law of art that human beings should die and that we ourselves must die after exhausting the gamut of suffering, so that the grass, not of oblivion but of eternal life may grow, the thick grass of fecund works. Do an equipment check. Power the glasses. Download the map and our schedule. No problems. They're working. Don't deviate from the specified route. Let's go. Did you find something? It's nice to see that my customers got here safely. Identity confirmed. You are Mr. Miyazaki? Hey c'mon. Give me a sec. Let me turn my translator on first. Say something. We need a car. We need a car. Okay. Let's get down to business. I want it just as I ordered it earlier. An older-model car, without interior cameras. It needs to have the lifeform scanners fooled too. Not a problem. Show me the money, and I'll get you anything. Don't get tagged by the street scanners, alright? I can tell just by looking at you guys that your Psycho-Passes aren't good. I'm surprised you found this place. I've been using an information broker these days. Huh. Sort of like one of those old-school detectives. You see the info from the Pillbugs on your Terminals, right? They're probably illegal immigrants, although I don't know how they got in. Six foreigners, and one probable black market broker. A quick Hue Check shows that they're all past the limit. Checking their Crime Coefficients with the Dominators will probably say the same thing. What's the plan of attack? Once we block the entrance to the parking garage with drones, we'll split into emergency staircase and elevator teams. We've verified that there are no traps at either of our entry points. So, Ginoza and Kunizuka will take the stairs with me. Will take the stairs with me. Inspector Shimozuki will take the elevator with Sugou and Hinakawa, putting two drones in the lead. Roger that. First, my team will enter using flashbang grenades, which will distract the enemy. At that time, Inspector Shimotsuki's team will enter from the rear and flank the enemy, trapping all of them. Flashbangs? You're being really careful. If the information from the Pillbugs is correct, the enemy is equipped with firearms. You mean... If we allow the enemy to counterattack, there will likely be casualties. Take extreme caution. Roger. Hmmm... Well then, the deal's done. Huh? Shit! It's the Bureau?! This is the Bureau of Public Safety! Don't do anything stupid! Crime Coefficient over 170. He's a target for enforcement action. The safety will be released. Return fire! Who are these guys? They're used to combat. Crime Coefficient is 310. Lethal Eliminator. He is a target for enforcement action. Crime Coefficient is 326. Lethal Eliminator. Damnit! He is a target for enforcement action. Target's Threat Judgement has been updated. Explosive Destroy Decomposer. Secure him! Understood! This is the Bureau of Public Safety. Please cease all resistance and hand over the weapon in your possession, then surrender. This is the Bureau of Public Safety. That's enough! Put down the weapon and give yourself up. Turn around slowly. Stop! Crime Coefficient is 293. He is an enforcement target. This is a world where the mental state and personal tendencies of humans can be quantified. "While all sorts of inclinations are recorded and policed, these measured numbers used to judge people's souls are commonly called Psycho-Pass." "When a person's Crime Coefficient exceeds a certain value, they are deemed a Latent Criminal," and are arrested and isolated. The Ministry of Health and Welfare manages a massive network to unmask Latent Criminals and provide Mental Care for the registered populace. This surveillance system is known as: The Sybil System. In my heart the discord and the siren of emptiness won't stop ringing. It's as if they are testing me. Answer the truth. A freedom filled with blood is what you wanted, right? In reality, I'm shaking. I don't even know my name even though I know all about you. Even if I cry, nothing will stop ringing I'm just breathing. Where is my heart? In this imitation play, freedom leads to a manipulated future and encounters. In the maze of the meaning" that was set in this world, I realize I'm sinking. Who? What? Who? What?" The indelible questions line up. A resounding distortion, why? The double-edge knife colored this flawless abnormality. The griefs of Who? What? Who? What?" have also been lost. Good bye feelings. Up against armed criminals, yet you took zero casualties. Well done. The investigation will resume once the Paralyzer wears off. I'd like you to take a break until then. Those illegal immigrants had guns. Those advanced glasses were developed by someone with knowledge of this country's security protocols. What are you trying to say? Isn't something strange going on? Naturally, all kinds of things are going on. Whether it's strange or not is a matter of perspective. Anyway, I'll have more after my investigation. Yes? Inspector Shimotsuki, come up to my office. You're getting married? Yes. He's busy too, so the ceremony will probably have to wait. Even so, I want you to meet him. You're finally getting married, huh? Congrats! Thanks. Now I finally know firsthand that the Sybil System's. Romantic Compatibility is really something. The System was the only reason I had a chance to meet him, too... "So we said what the heck," and contacted each other's parents. Still, I can't say that I didn't have any complaints about him at first. But in the end, he was the perfect guy for me. Although there was a lot to deal with too. I see... We can live in peace. Because of your Bureau of Public Safety, right? Yeah. If Sybil can find us the path to happiness better than we ever could, maybe someday, Sybil will be able to save everyone on Earth. I wonder about that... And now news regarding the Sybil Export Program, currently being conducted to aid SEAUn. The experimentally deployed Sybil System in the capital of Shamballa Float which had issues with its initial roll-out, is now functioning well... It's impressive that we could bring peace and order to a war-torn nation. I wonder... where he is and what he's doing? What's going on, Shion? I'm using a secure line right now. Don't tell anybody that we had this conversation. Inspector Shimotsuki is operating under the Chief's orders. What's she doing? I can't defy a superior's orders. Get here as fast as you can. I don't know what she's trying to do, but could you stop her? Can you buy some time? Sorry, it's too late for that. I'm so sorry. You performed a Memory Scoop for the investigation? What the hell were you thinking? Don't get mad at me... Chief's orders. It's not Analyst Karanomori's fault. The man was a confirmed Latent Criminal. Just because there's no precedent doesn't mean it's illegal. That's awful. We gave him some drugs to make his brainwaves stand out more. We've never had armed illegal immigrants come in before, and on top of that, he's a Latent Criminal. It's not like he has any rights we need to consider. Thanks to that, I got results. Results? The Chief wants to see you. What the hell are you using Inspector Shimotsuki for? Investigating the incident. You have no shame! It's an incident all the same. We did what had to be done. Look at this. I'm certain that you'll recognize him. He was under your command, after all. A group of foreign terrorists smuggle themselves in, and their memories contain an Enforcer who deserted three years ago. Very interesting, don't you think? You see, my theory is that Kougami Shinya has finally become a true criminal. We've even determined where the illegal immigrants came from. It was SEAUn. They originated there, and were terrorists involved in anti-government operations. The Southeast Asian Union, they're the ones in charge of managing the Sybil System? That's right. The current capital, the artificial island of Shamballa Float is being administered as a Special Ward, and is also a test case for remote management of the Sybil System. However, the region is currently gripped by internal strife. The top-grade armed drones we currently have in place have been destroyed far more frequently as of late. That also resembles him quite well. There have occasionally been tales of hunters, who in their zeal to catch their prey end up becoming the prey themselves. I don't know how he escaped, or what route he took, but let's say that Kougami Shinya is hiding overseas, and he's sending criminals over to Japan. If he wanted to jeopardize the Sybil System, that's a halfway decent plan. Kougami wouldn't do that. Then what do you think of the results of this memory montage? Kougami Shinya and this terror group might be connected in some way. But, we can't say with certainty that it proves he's become a criminal. We should bring out the truth by investigating this. We've identified the country that you came from. Why did you come to Japan from SEAUn? It must have something to do with the exportation of the Sybil System. Right? What can you tell me about this man? Even if you don't talk, someone will. No one will tell you anything. What? You animals lost sight of true justice when you entrusted your fate to an oracle machine. Our wars won't make any sense to you now. You're asking about the possibility that Kougami Shinya aided and abetted a crime? That's right. Maybe he isn't on the battlefield personally, but his plan is to organize and lead people to carry out his crimes. Do you think that he's capable of that? Like Makishima Shougo, for example? Yes. I'd like to say that it isn't possible, but I also can't deny that the answer is colored by my personal feelings. What Kougami is doing now wasn't captured by any of my predictions. But... If you want to live life according to your professional duties, you need to mold your soul into the part assigned to you by society. Kougami walked that path once. But, as he worked to capture Makishima, one who deviated from the mold, he ended up deviating from what was expected of him as well. Oh... You're applying to conduct your investigation abroad? Yes. You want to go to SEAUn personally? The special ward of Shamballa Float is operated by the Sybil System. In other words, the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare is entrusted with police powers. Naturally, as it is enforced by one of its departments, the Bureau of Public Safety, your actions will be permitted. However, you will be stepping into a lawless land the minute you set foot outside Shamballa Float, and this is why they will attempt to keep you within the Ward, and they will not provide any aid in the search for Kougami Shinya. Is that all right with you? I'm more than prepared. There's an air mail transport leaving tomorrow. It's a jet plane used to deliver sensitive equipment. How many will be accompanying you? Just me is enough. If we consider what you know about us, it's probably best that you're going alone. I offered to come along, but they turned me down. I'm not surprised. Inspectors are never deployed abroad, after all, let alone Enforcers. I have a favor to ask. What is it? If you manage to meet up with him, give him a punch for me. I can't do that. What? If I find him, I'll arrest him and bring him back, so I want you to punch him yourself. I can't tell whether you've changed or not. You're a mystery as always. Good to have you along, Miss Ministry of Health and Welfare. I'm glad to be here. It's been a long time since we've brought along a living person. All order and morality simply vanished into the chaos. Nowadays, the vast majority of humanity is now forced to live lives no better than animals, driven only by the compulsions of their desires. Will they live in the cage that is the Sybil System? Or will they step outside, and submit themselves to the Law of the Jungle? Either way, there's no longer any place on Earth that respects the ideologies and dignity of their fellow humans. You've got to respect the strength it takes to muster the willpower and do what's necessary to live life according to your values while forging your own destiny. Especially to those who have been put in such a bind by their predicaments that they're willing to go out and commit crimes. Makishima Shougo demonstrated that strength, and in the process of trying to catch him, Kougami demonstrated it as well. Yes. Hey, does the SEAUn government know who you really are? Of course not. Do you really think we would reveal a national secret to people overseas? As of today, we've given SEAUn street scanners for Cymatic Scanning and the ability to send the collected data back to Japan. We have forbidden their use of Dominators and we have left the matter of public order to the nation's military police. To them, the Sybil System is a black box somewhere overseas. I'm surprised Chairman Han was willing to accept an enigmatic system like that. It simply goes to show how important it was to restore public order quickly. It was a good opportunity. I think it would be valuable for you to see just how scarce and valuable something like peace is in the outside world. Perhaps you will once again become aware of Sybil's greatness. This craft will arrive at SEAUn International Airport in fifteen minutes. We will now be preparing to land, so please fasten your seat belt. I am Nicholas Wong, the captain of the Union Military Police. You must be Inspector Akane Tsunemori, from the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare? Yes. Welcome. We welcome you and the Sybil System. Are you shocked at how bad the situation is down here? No... Every country around the world is like this right now. Except Japan, that is. Is it really that dangerous around here? This is one of the better parts of town. The Junta in charge has been crushed. This civil war is coming to a close. So by that, you mean that the war isn't quite over? That's right. At present, disruptive elements of the population opposed to the current regime remain. Ahead of us lies Shamballa Special Ward, where the Sybil System is being experimentally started. Only those whose Hue and Crime Coefficient are at normal levels are permitted permitted to enter. Please, let me into Shamballa Float! It's thanks to your country. Please, open up! Hurry up and remove her. Let me in, please! Don't move! Move and I'll shoot! Don't worry about it. This happens quite often. This bus is only for residents authorized by the Sybil System. Who are those people with the collars? You've noticed them, have you? They are Latent Criminals. That device allows allows them to move about freely, but constantly monitors their Psycho-Pass. If their hue clouds, their Crime Coefficient is immediately measured. Depending on their Coefficient, the device can inject a sedative or a lethal poison. While allowing them to live among the general population is harmful to the Area Stress levels, we still haven't been able to isolate our nation quite as well as Japan has, thus this arrangement is only temporary. Soldiers wear them too? "Yes... you might call them Enforcers." The entire officer corps has clean Hues, "so we can act as Inspectors." By the way, Inspector Tsunemori, Yes? If you plan to step outside Shamballa Float, or enter important facilities, you must go with an escort of our choosing, and coordinate your visits with us. You need someone to come with me? Will that be inconvenient? No. I'm an Inspector from the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare's Bureau of Public Safety, Inspector Tsunemori Akane. I am Chuan Han. I didn't think you'd come to greet me personally, Chairman. It simply means that we are very interested in both you and your country. You must be tired from your long journey. Please, sit. Okay. We would like your assistance in an international investigation... The man you are pursuing, is apparently a terrorist aiding the guerillas? Yes, we suspect him of that. This nation's efforts to take countermeasures against the guerillas are a stubborn effort at suppression; "We would not refer to it as an investigation." We will provide you with plenty of support, of course. However, remember that the situation in this country is fundamentally different from that of your own. I only ask that you keep that in mind. Understood. Very well. Colonel? I leave her in your care. Treat her well. Leave it to me. Open case. Hm? Sign: Open this if you're in a bind. Geez, come on, Shion. Chuan Han, former Army general. In the internal disunity that plagued the Union 12 years ago, he was one of the generals competing for hegemony. By making an agreement to create a Sybil-controlled Special Ward within SEAUn, he gained the backing of the Japanese government, and gained supremacy over his rivals. It's been two years since he re-established the parliament and named himself Chairman. But the voices of rebellion still cry out against the military government. The situation within the country is still unstable. The terrorists that came to Japan were probably anti-government guerillas. The foundation of Han's power base is the support of the Japanese government, and as a result, Tokyo became the target of terrorists seeking revenge. I will be taking care of your surroundings. I am called Yeo. If you need anything, please do not hesitate to ask. If you would like something to eat, it would be no trouble for me to prepare something for you right now. If you plan to go out again, I have been informed that as long as you do not venture into secure areas or cross the bridge, you may go wherever you wish. I understand. In one week's time, Sybil will put restrictions on the alcohol trade, so if you would like to sample some, now is your chance. Um... Yes? Can you answer a personal question? I will answer it if I'm able to. Do you... consider your life on Shamballa to be a happy one? Of course. Everyone who lives in this Special Ward is thankful that Chairman Han introduced the Sybil System. After all, there was no such thing as a safe place in this country until very recently. This is not my fault! He did it! How 'bout it? All green. Move out. What? Mind if I join you? I don't mind, but don't do anything rash when the fighting starts. Of course. I understand. What kind of operation is this? The ruined old capital is 50 kilometers north of here. It's a ghost town now, but yesterday, we learned that there is a high probability that the anti-government guerillas have a base here. I was under the impression that our drones were being lent to you for peacekeeping purposes, am I right? Do you intend to use them for something other than policing the Ward? Taking care of latent threats is just another one of our duties. It's nothing that goes against the agreement. Shamballa Float is just the first step in getting the Sybil System a foothold here. We'll eventually have to expand its control across the entire nation. In order to do that, we must crush all armed opposition and measure the Psycho-Passes of everyone in the country. Commence attack! Roger! All units, switch to combat mode. We are commencing our attack. Get to the point, hurry! This is horrible. If the Cymatic Scan doesn't have a problem with it, the safety gets unlocked. Their Crime Coefficients must be at least that of Latent Criminals. There's no way that anybody's Psycho-Pass would give good numbers in a situation like this! It's kill or be killed. And unfortunately, we have no form of mental care to help rehabilitate these people. In the new SEAUn, only the citizens who are needed will remain. These guys are, to put it bluntly, the leftovers of our civil war days. Activating Skandas. Commencing mobilization. Lost communication with Ganga 02. I think it was shot down. We've also lost Ganga 03! And also Ganga 01! It was shot down! It's that guy. Start the counterattack. Do exactly as I told you. Go! Let's move! We're losing control of the Ganeshas and Skandas deployed at all points. It doesn't matter. The drones will restart soon and go into stand-alone mode. They can't measure Psycho-Passes, but it's fine as long as the Identify Friend-Foe system works. Don't you think that restart time is what they're after? All units have restarted. Good. Commence counterattack. Leave our escort units here, and commit the reserves. What the hell are you doing? Investigating the incident. You need to stay with me! I'll keep the enemy occupied here. We're in control now! But if you don't keep your eyes open, this could turn into a massacre! It's been a while, Kougami. I can't say that I expected you to chase me all the way out here. You're under arrest. Arrest? Do you realize the situation we're in? Are you the one who sent terrorists to Japan? What? What are you talking about? Then... Well, Inspector? Are you gonna stop me, or let me go? Jump in! Kougami. I'll cooperate with you. Hey now. It's only temporary. Just for the investigation. Got it, Inspector. Colonel! Remove her from the Identify Friend-Foe system! But... This is a battlefield. The mission has priority. It'll take time. We have to send the system back to headquarters first. No abdominal hernias. No pelvic abnormalities. The pubis is joined properly. No lumbar vertebrae abnormalities. No femoral abnormalities. No abnormalities in the limbs. Get me a neck brace. Hurry up. We're moving out soon. What's going on here? Explain. It's exactly what it looks like. I'm taking part in the democratization of the country. Where are you going next? I'm going back to base camp. By the way, Inspector. Quit calling me that. Have you met Chairman Han? Oh, yeah. I met him yesterday. Don't you think there's something off about him? Huh? I wonder what a dictator's. Crime Coefficient looks like? So, the mission was a failure, and our Japanese Inspector, Tsunemori, is missing? Her conduct was tantamount to aiding the guerillas. She acted completely without authorization! Be that as it may, she was a foreign guest in your custody. This is a question of responsibility. But! I'm joking. The Japanese government understands the state this country is in. You wouldn't expect them to send her here alone in that knowledge if her life mattered to them. This situation is most regrettable. If anything, Colonel, you should prepare yourself for even bigger trouble. What? It's entirely possible that she was sent here precisely because they know that she's capable of surviving in these conditions. I'm very interested in seeing how this plays out. I have an urgent job for you. Of course, there will be a reward. I'm very grateful. We have more time than we know what to do with. Near Siem Reap, there's a guerilla stronghold containing two Japanese. One is a member of the group, the other, an Inspector from Tokyo who came to arrest him. I want them taken care of. The guerilla's one thing, but the Inspector too? She's an agent of the Japanese government, right? She looks as though she may get in the way. She's a hazard. Here we go. Since we got on board with Sybil, how will we get our message out like this? Thanks to Sybil, we have this paradise we call Shamballa. You could live civilized lives here, if you wanted. Just how long do you plan on playing savages on your little island? At the level of the individual, violence has a detoxifying effect. It takes away the inferiority complexes, and changes the contemplative and desperate attitude of native people. Violence makes them fearless, "and restores their dignity in their own eyes." You're not familiar with Frantz Fanon? We're investigating the present whereabouts of the targets. As soon as we find them... Don't worry about it. We mercenaries have our own intelligence network. Most information can be bought with money or valuables. Of course, I have to bill you for the necessary expenses separately. No problem. I need military aircraft ground clearance and IFF recognition codes. Both the young and old are here, huh? You're back, Kougami. Who's she? It's hard to explain, but she isn't an enemy. She's a guest of mine, Sem. Did Kougami show you the way too? Then we're comrades. I'm Sem. I act as the leader here. I'm Tsunemori Akane. Nice to meet you. I lost a lot of good men again. I'm sorry. No. If it weren't for you, we'd all be dead. Is Gino doing well? He became an Enforcer after that. I see. And what exactly are you doing in a place like this? At first, I was looking for someplace quiet. I was tired, you see. But once I left the Sybil System, I found that there weren't any quiet places left. Everywhere around the world was a battlefield. I thought I had prepared myself for that reality, but I soon found out how naive I was. I beat those survival instincts into my body. But why did you join the guerillas? Soon after I came to this country, Han's decrees and the deployment of drones to hunt guerillas began. So I decided to teach the guerillas how to fight drones. The drones are all made in Japan. I know their weak points as well as the best ways to defeat them. But what do you hope to achieve by doing all this? We may look like this now, but at the time, it looked like we could win by toughing it out. "He might call himself Chairman" now, but Han is just a leader of one faction of the military. He joined forces with Sybil to get a leg up on his rivals. His aim wasn't to turn Shamballa Float into a paradise. In all practicality, Han's real power is the result of his faction being the strongest militarily. We thought that would be his downfall. The Sybil System is the basically the ultimate bureaucracy and would be anathema to a dictator. Once it got to the point where it could rule, it would force everything into the system, and leave the dictator powerless. It was only a matter of time until Han figured out how terrifying Sybil could be and we thought that once he realized that, Shamballa Float would throw them out before they could finish construction. That's what we thought a year ago, at least. But... that isn't what happened. Yeah. Han opened up Shamballa to the experiment without a fight, a floating paradise similar to Japan opened its gates, and armed drones are still slaughtering anti-government forces. There has to be some angle we're not seeing in the relationship between Han and Sybil. But we can't give up until we figure out what that is. Is that what you call justice? Ignore the law, involve anybody you can, and continue to fight in order to satisfy your self-centered pride? You sure learned how to talk back. And you haven't changed at all. Yeah... That's a relief. So... you really didn't have anything to do with the terrorists sent to Japan? I do remember some who were saying that we should take revenge on Japan, because it was where Sybil was based. Sem and I were opposed to it and they ended up leaving our camp but they didn't seem like the types who would be able to cross the ocean on their own. There's no mistaking them. Samlin, Ma, Shim; It's those guys. They had advanced hacking tools, as well as the connections necessary to get in touch with a fence at the Waste Block. Doesn't something seem off? You're right. I can only imagine that someone was guiding them. Kougami. Looks like both of us have bitten off way more than we can chew. Stay here tonight. Tomorrow morning, we'll get you to within walking distance of Shamballa Float. If you stay quiet, you shouldn't be in any danger. Would it be too much to ask you to turn yourself in? Please, don't tell Sem or the others that you're a detective. If they find out you're involved with the government, even they won't be able to ignore that. Hey, it's already past time. All clear. Get moving. Roger that. Roger that. The terrorists who came to Japan had some rare paper books with them. Proust's In Search of Lost Time. I'll bet that was mine. When Samlin was still here, he kept bugging me about wanting to read it. I thought I'd lost it, but I guess he took it. The man named Sem, "he told me that you showed him the way." Are you sure you're not their spiritual leader and not just a tactical advisor? To be honest, it doesn't sit right with me, and it doesn't suit me. But, it seems like the guys here have been influenced too much by my words and behavior. Even if you're not intending for it to happen, you've got the ability to draw people to you; It's almost like gravity. It's just like Makishima Shougo. Do we look similar to you? You could accurately predict his next moves better than anyone else. It wouldn't be unusual if you also possessed similar talents and character traits. At the very least, my words never steered anyone wrong while I was still back in Japan. So why now? It's because you've changed the way you live your life. Even if you can't see it, the place you stand right now is no different from where Makishima Shougo stood before. Are you trying to say I'll become him? No. But I'd be willing to bet that people who want what you and Makishima Shougo do will keep appearing. The people who are angry and frustrated at society are looking to pin their hopes on something... I'm afraid they might try to put you on a pedestal like they did to Makishima. Sounds like a pain in the ass. But you aren't the kind of guy who wants to control people's hearts. That's the biggest difference between you and Makishima Shougo. If that's really what you thought of him, then it's no wonder he's giving me so much trouble. Enemy attack! There are flames rising in the direction of Bayon! Acquiring. Weber, Babangida, keep sniffing around for them. Copy that! Break out the ECM! Yuria, did you find the target? Not yet. Shit, only small fry here. Hey, Boone! That's fine. Search for the targets. Roger. These tactics are different from the military's. How so? They're not relying on drones; They're highly trained special forces. I've got a bad feeling about this. Sem, where's my ECM? They've seized the controls! We're trying to stall them! Sem! We'll have her escape. Kougami! You need to leave without me. We'll hold them off. I'm not leaving alone! Your criminal investigation might get to the bottom of Han's crimes! It's an opportunity for us. Go back to Shamballa, and continue your mission! But! Don't worry. Do you really think I'll die that easily? If we both survive this, come try to catch me again. Sure. Sem! Go, Kougami! Sem, get outta there! I can't abandon a friend! Sem! Target Delta identified! Open fire! Wait. What about Target Juliet? Signal lost. She's getting away. Do you want me to chase her? No, it's too late. Get me Delta alive instead. Don't kill him. I'll be right there. Roger. You're quite something. You'll regret it if you don't kill me now. Terrifying! Unfortunately, we have some important questions to ask you. You may be an important guest of ours, but there is a limit to our patience. "An important guest?" You tried to kill me! It's because you were operating alongside the guerillas. That was part of the investigation. Why can't you understand that this is our country? You will be jailed and sent home immediately on the next flight to Japan. Colonel, I'd rather you not decide important matters without me. Mister Chairman! There is no need to deport her. Simply put her under observation and return her to her quarters. But! Silence! It is not as if I do not have issues with some of the Military Police's conduct as of late. Also, I am the Commander-in-Chief. Yes sir. Well then... Excuse me, Miss Tsunemori. I see you have returned to your room, so I have come to prepare your meal. Thank you, Yeo. I'll take my meal after my shower. Yes, certainly. Hm? Akane? Sorry about this, Shion. Can you hear me? Yes, of course. Looks like the program I gave you is working properly. So, what is it? Is it possible to systematically inspect the Psycho-Pass diagnosis equipment that the Public Safety Bureau gave Shamballa Float? Sure. It should be just fine if we use the Pillbugs, I think. What do you hope to find? The Sybil System is in use over there, right? In that case... There's a possibility that the system is not being used fairly. Check the Ward's equipment, and make sure you take a close look at the Military Police. I need you to figure out ASAP if Cymatic Scans are being measured accurately. A detective's gut feeling... I take it? It's not that. It's just a conclusion I've drawn after looking at the facts. All right. I'll inspect the hell out of this. Oh, and one more thing. The collars being used to manage Latent Criminals on Shamballa Float are made in Japan, right? Do you think you could get me a code to unlock them under the Public Safety Bureau's authority? Sounds simple enough, but will you be all right? I don't think the Military Police will appreciate that. I'm way past the phase where I make my decisions just so I can please people. Your meal is now ready. Thank you. Don't say a word. Th-this is... Calm down and listen to what I have to say. I need your coopera... tion... This is... I did just as you said! You'll really remove my brother's collar now, won't you? I'll have a good think about it. Don't kill the girl yet. I'll arrange for her to die with our guerilla military adversaries. This should avoid any unnecessary suspicion. I knew you guys weren't undergoing Cymatic Scans. Oh? Do you have proof? You just killed someone, for god's sake! As long as the Sybil System doesn't bitch about it, it's not a crime. Am I right? Hey, did you buy them all? These aren't regular army methods. Are you mercenaries? You surprised me. The guerilla military advisor, whom we've heard so much about, is a Japanese. I was under the impression that the whole country had been turned into spineless, phony wimps by the Sybil System. Well, it's true that I don't have a place there anymore. Did you decide to quit government work after getting professional training? But you're still only a third rate mercenary. After all, you still haven't grasped how to choose the right employer. Don't lump me in with you hyenas. I don't live my life sniffing for blood in the water. Oh, really now? If you really were a detective, that's bullshit. There are some who chant slogans, saying that violence is both the law and just. When society begins to collapse, violence becomes increasingly privatized. That's because the state has monopolized organized violence. When violence begins to spread, it leaves the realm of politics. The organized violence becomes an economic activity, with societal unrest at its heart. The Wretched of the Earth, huh? A mercenary obsessed with Post-Colonialism is something I'd rather not deal with... Oh, you have brains as well as brawn, do you? This is getting even more interesting. From what I've heard, it sounds as though those guerillas really took a shine to you. Did you whisper sweet nothings into their ears? No idea. But still, I've gotta wonder. As I talk to you, I'm strangely getting into a better mood. It's like I'm listening to Wagner or something. Those are words I'd rather hear from a glamorous woman instead. Hearing it from a guy just makes my skin crawl. You should be thankful for the advice of your elders! But that ability of yours is very precious, Mister Japanese. You'd make a very good agitator. You can incite rage and focus resentment; That's a special kind of charisma. Although it's modest, we've been managing our own little community. We need to build our forces first, but we want to form our own faction. And when that happens, we'll need not only leadership, but the ability to fire up the crowds and captivate them. How 'bout it? Do you feel like joining us? If we hone your abilities, I can get you a squadron that you can use to your heart's content. Hey, boss! If I go ahead and give you up to my client, you're dead anyway. I'm saying that I'm giving you a chance to live. Don't expect me to thank you for offering me an option I'd rather die than accept. Hey, someone. Give him treatment. Is he still alive? The male target. Yeah. Can I kill him yet? He still has some use. Bring him to me. Understood. I would've liked to give you some time to change your mind, but unfortunately, you're out of luck. Kougami... The Japanese terrorist who joined the guerillas managed to break free while being escorted, took Inspector Tsunemori hostage and seized a helicopter. He attempted to commit terrorist acts against the State, "and in our attempt to thwart him, we reluctantly shot the helicopter down." That's how it'll go. It sure is a waste to destroy one helicopter to kill two people. This was all the result of a Public Safety Bureau Inspector's mistake. We can petition Japan to reimburse us for damages. I want to get rid of them quickly. It's fine as long as we find some of their remains in the wreckage. Kill both of them. Now. Do you really think you can keep hiding all of this? How are you going to explain this to Chairman Han? The Chairman? The Japanese Government won't stay quiet about this either. They're sure to do a detailed investigation. What a pitiful stooge. She knew not what her master's right hand was doing while allowing the left hand to work her to the bone. Hey, Miss, what would you say if I said that we're actually operating according to the Japanese government's plan? What? Isn't that right, Colonel? We took out Chairman Han at your request, and apparently the Japanese government provided the body double who replaced him. Hey! Don't let another word slip! Shoot them, now! Hey, Nicholas... What the hell is it doing? This is the Public Safety Bureau Investigative Division. According to paragraph three of the Sybil System Treaty, and the powers vested in us by paragraph five, the Japanese government will now be restoring public order. Persons who exceed the Crime Coefficient threshold may be eliminated without warning in some cases. Please purge all thoughts of resistance, calm down, and return your mental state to stability. We repeat, this is the Public Safety Bureau Investigative Division. According to paragraph three of the Sybil System Treaty... The Japanese Public Safety Bureau? These outsiders don't know anything! Crime Coefficient is over 380. Enforcement Mode: Lethal Eliminator. Boss! Kougami. Tsunemori, you find the Chairman. Okay. Descending! Are you all right, Inspector? Why are you guys here...? Karanomori was able to determine from the Pillbug's data... that the Street Scanners here have all been illegally modified. This place is a nest of Latent Criminals. How did they do it? They managed to insert the data from their IFF system into their Hue scans. Anybody judged as friendly by the IFF wouldn't be targeted by the scanners. Nearly everyone in the Military Police was able to fake their Psycho-Pass using this method. They were able to fool the Sybil System using such a brazen trick? Sybil wasn't fooled, obviously. They were merely being tolerated. Exposing the Military Police all at once was Sybil's goal all along. If you'd guessed that in the first place, you wouldn't have had to go through all this trouble. You sure love doing things the roundabout way don't you, Senpai? What do you mean? You don't even need a Cymatic Scan to figure out what these guys were thinking. Even so, we had no choice but to use them until SEAUn had enough infrastructure to support Sybil. Once Shamballa Float was complete, they would have fulfilled their usefulness. Then we'd just need to find evidence of their wrongdoing and dispose of them. The whole part about pursuing an escaped Enforcer was just an excuse to send you away. And you're totally okay with all of this? It takes those who are capable to do what needs to be done. Basically, get your head out of your ass, Senpai. In that case, let's do what needs to be done. Dominator Portable Psychological Diagnosis and Suppression System has been activated. User authentication: Inspector Tsunemori Akane. You are a valid user. Inspector Shimotsuki, you'll take Kunizuka, Hinakawa, and Sugou, and take command of the site. Okay. I'm going to arrest the Chairman. You're coming with me, Ginoza. Roger. This isn't time to be playing around. You'll be in danger if you don't get out of here soon. Or maybe you can't work up the motivation unless you're chasing your prey? Oh my. You truly are a bloodhound, down to your very bones, aren't you? Do you really think I can let a guy who wants to form his own military force get away scot-free? What good does it do to believe that bullshit? Besides, even if you hadn't gotten involved, he would've ended up destroying himself anyway. What is it that drives you? Your sense of justice? That's not it... There are thousands of men like him. Killing a guy like him wouldn't change a damn thing. Even so, you continue to risk your life by hounding him. Why are you so tenacious? The dead need to stay silent! I'm going it alone from here. What's going on? I want you to chase down Kougami. Meaning, I can deal with him however I'd like? I'll leave it to you. You aren't a detective, are you? I'm a former detective. That's not what I meant. I meant you were born to be something different. Crime Coefficient is zero. He is not an enforcement target. The trigger will be locked. Criminally Asymptomatic... I knew it. You figured it out? Someone revealed to me that you were a body double. But I doubt he knew that Japan's Ministries are already full of body doubles. Yes... Colonel Nicholas thought that I was merely a person who had undergone plastic surgery. As it turns out, the current me has only known him for about two days. You see, I came to SEAUn on the same flight you did. Switching bodies is a pain when you have to cross the ocean. So it's just as Inspector Shimotsuki guessed. It's all gone according to your plan, hasn't it, Sybil System? Colonel Nicholas' aim was to complete the construction of Shamballa Float, even if he had to overcome Han's opposition to it. Japan offered up its unmanned weapons systems in exchange, which ended up becoming our trump card in taking control of SEAUn. We were attracted to the concept of setting up a model city overseas that made use of the Sybil System. What both parties needed was a cooperative Chairman who would support and greenlight the project. Staging a foreign intervention... conspiring to assassinate the real Chairman Han... those are clearly criminal acts! This nation, for all intents and purposes, had no organized government. Corruption. Discrimination. Racial strife that was almost religious in nature. Two years ago, SEAUn was "a group of allied nations" in name only. All you wanted to do was expand the Sybil System's area of control. We do not possess the simple lust to expand our dominion that you believe we do. "The greatest happiness of the greatest number." In other words, it depends on how you define the extents. You have judged our actions to be criminal behavior. However, a crime is merely a deviation from the law. Laws don't simply exist for their own sake. The law wouldn't exist without the support of the people. You've seized this country, but you haven't received the consent of the people. All you've done is fool a dictator and lie your way in. In order to bring peace and quiet to a people constantly at risk of starvation or slaughter, it was necessary to take the fastest measures possible. We deemed this to be the fastest and most optimal way of doing things. You need to resign, Chairman Han. And in a free election, select a new leader. You need to discuss the pros and cons of bringing in the Sybil System, and decide based on the consensus of the people. And if the people of this nation reject us? If, of their own will, the people opt to throw away this brief peace and this shining city of dreams? What's worth protecting is something that can only be decided of your own volition. Don't just force them to obey, but make them want to take the law and continue to protect it. I reluctantly understand your stubborn insistence on protecting our transparent little farce, but perhaps we only value our consensus because you have asked us to do so. The abilities to approve of one's society and change it are rights people have long shed blood over in order to attain them. Have some respect for history, Sybil System. Pretty good, Mister Japanese. Surrender! Kougami... I owe you one. Gino... Leave. Now. And don't ever show your face around us again. Don't make Inspector Tsunemori shoulder more burdens than she already has. Are you okay with this? I've learned how to compromise. We're even now. The day before yesterday involved a coup d'etat by the commander of the Military Police. Colonel Wong has given me deep concerns about my leadership in the current government. And, after reflecting seriously on my responsibilities, I, Chuwan Han, hereby declare my intention to step down. Hereby declare my intention to step down. What does that mean? It means we may not need our guns anymore. Finally. Geez. What honeyed words did you whisper into his ear? I didn't, really. I just asked him to make the optimal decision. You look like you're thinking over something that's way bigger than you. Kougami disappeared again, didn't he? Sorry, my Dominator got destroyed at the last minute. My mistake. It wouldn't be like him to shoot you and run away. He's changed. He's just a common scoundrel now. He's no longer worth your attention. Just leave him alone; He'll wind up dead somewhere eventually. Ginoza, you haven't changed, have you? You're always trying to carry the burden. Excuse me, Inspector Tsunemori. We are ready to leave. Okay. Well then, we leave the rest to you. Yes! The fairy-tale has died just now. I couldn't sing it well in this brick hospital. The foggy night, let the red moon float. Look at me. Keep eyes on me. Behind these iron bars I was born. Pray for what deserves for your malice. And as you wish, to you I will bring justice. Destroy them, before they destroy us. We'll pay for our karma and go together, nameless monster. My ears are ringing. The barbed-wires are noisy. I can't remember the melody on that day. Still rain has not stopped. I can't see anything. See, it is now this big. Let the sky rain the black rain I am a being of undesired a cracked neruroic. To beloved bystanders with the same guilt now excercise justice. Embracing my unerasable scars accepting this body - let's go together, nameless monster. Ah. The God sentences the true world. Behind these iron bars I was born. Pray for what deserves for your malice. And as you wish, to you I will bring justice. Destroy them, before they destroy us. Pay for your karma and repay, nameless monster. Let the sky rain the black rain I am a being of undesired a cracked neruroic. To beloved bystanders with the same guilt now excercise justice. Embracing my unerasable scars accepting this body - let's go together, nameless monster. With 40% of the votes counted, the results of the. SEAUn Council Chairman election have been announced. Currently, the former Chairman, Mister Han, is pushing aside his challengers with an overwhelming number of votes. The world under the System is evolving. One day, this System's true worth will be tested.
