 

                        Chuunin Exams Second Preliminary Venue Drill Area 4 AKA Demonic Sea, Keep Out From now on, we're rivals! Kage Bunshin no... Rasengan! Naruto-nii-chan! T-Thank you... You'll drop out from the preliminary if you keep loitering around here! You guys all right? Yeah! Oh, for goodness sake! Why'd you come in at the best part?! I was just about to showcase my skills! Sorry... Moegi! Udon! Let's go look for another monster! Konohamaru-chan! Wait! Heeey! Taking out monsters isn't in the rules, you know? That Konohamaru sure is hyped up! Fiery Chuunin Exam! Naruto VS Konohamaru! As you know, the Chuunin exam this time is being held despite preparations for the 4th Shinobi War. The purpose is not to compare abilities between villages like it was before, but to beef up the Shinobi Alliance's forces. Congratulations. All of you have successfully entered the 2nd preliminary. Having won a place in this preliminary, in the matches ahead... Hey, isn't that... Yeah... that one who saved Hidden Leaf by himself... No way! Isn't that Uzumaki Naruto-san?! Why is thot monster in the Chuunin exams?! I heard Naruto-san's still Genin. You must be joking! Naruto-nii-chan's the center of attraction! Of course! After all, he's the number one shinobi of the Hidden Leaf! I'll now explain the rules of this round. You will be fighting each other one-on-one in a freestyle sparring match. Although this exam is irregular, if s still a place for you to showcase your skills. Fight with everything you've got! Konohamaru! Let's become Chuunin together! Of course! I'm gonna become a Chuunin for sure! Looks like you're even allset to defeat me, huh? Yeah! Because you're my rival! Yeah! And I won't lose to you either! This is what you are, nii-chan! Whaat?! I can defeat you with just one finger! I'll make mincemeat outta you! I'll tear you from limb to limb! Hey!!! Naruto! Listen to what she's saying! It's important! Sakura, shut up! You remember this, Naruto! Sakura-chan... scary... All right: Well now announce the pairs that will be fighting each other. Examiners, take your positions. Round one. Uzumaki Naruto VS Sarutobi Konohamaru. All right! I'm getting all fired up!! Uzumaki Naruto right off the,bat! This is gonna be an intense match. I pity that little kid. Shouldn't we be running away? Uzumaki Naruto is a Jinchuuriki, right? And he can't control the Kyuubi, either... If that kid tries too hard and Kyuubi goes berserk... I'd welcome that. Konohamaru-chan... Of all the people... How could this happen! Though we may be instructors, there's nothing we can do at times like this? Except to trust in them and cheer them on. Konohamaru-kun! Go for it!! Do your best! Go get em, kiddo! Don't let'em get too full of himself! Go for it! Konohamaru! Oh boy... But I do want to have a serious match with Konohamaru. Nii-chan. I think I've been waiting for this day. It's a chance! Everyone has their attention on this match! Everyone's looking at you and me! I can show everyone my way of fighting! This is a great chance for me, Konohamaru, a shinobi of the Hidden Leaf, to be acknowledged! Let's do this, nii-chan! Come on, Konohamaru! Start! Oodama Rasengan! Wait... I haven't taught you that yet! I'm not gonna be chasing after you all the time! Tajuu Kage Bunshin no Jiitsu! Tajuu Kage Bunshinno Jutsu! What? What did they do? Hey, that kid... He's down already? Well that goes without saying. Yeah. Uzumaki Naruto wins this! Next match! Start the next round already! Sorry, Konohamaru! But I gotta become Chuunin too! Because Konohamaru has been knocked out... Can you continue? Of course... I haven't hit Naruto-nii-chan even once! That's the spirit, Konohamaru! Isn't that bit too much? He's even going this far? You're one to talk. That Naruto guy.. He can't hold back. Because Naruto understands his opponent's feelings. There's just no way he'd do something... that'd make a fool out of his opponent. I really wanted to at least hit him once... I guess... Naruto-nii-chan's really... One step closer to being Hokage! If you want the name of Hokage, you have to defeat me first! I'm not gonna be your underling anymore! From now on, we're rivals! Don't lose! You can do it! Konohamaru! Konohamaru! Try hitting me once! Shunken Kage Bunshin no Jutsu! What?! Gooo!? That was Gramps' jutsu! And... Katon, Haiseki Shou! Wait, wait! Time out! And this was Uncle Asuma's jutsu! That kid's pretty good! Ouch, hot! I have no more shuriken. I've run out of chakra too. But... At least one hit? That Konohamaru's being too enthusiastic! Oh no! I hit him. Yeah!! You did it, Konohamaru! You're awesome, Konohamaru-chan! Not bad. My name is... Sarutobi Konohamaru! The man who's gonna become Hokage! I won't let you have it so easily, Konohamaru! Oh yeah! Idiot. Idiot. Idiot. Idiot. Idiot. We've specially set up a few excpetions for the tournament this time. One: No Senjutsu allowed! It's a handicap so the others have a chance. Uzumaki Naruto is disqualified for going against the rules. Sarutobi Konohamaru wins! Eeeh?! What the heck is this?! Naruto. You can become Chuunin anytime. You're already above me in terms of skills, after all. That's right! After all, you're the hero of Hidden Leaf! Aww... I'm not THAT good... You're finally back to normal. Let's go bock. Hold it right there. I wanna say something too! Good for you, Konohamaru! From today on, you're my subordinate! What the?! Nothing from Houzuki Castle yet? We've located the box, but security is so tight, we can't make any moves yet. Keep monitoring things. Once there's a chance, steal it! Understood. Is there really such a box? A box that can grant any wish... How suspicious is that? No... we can't say that for sure. Although it does sound ridiculous, the box itself may be just a metaphor, whereas it's actually referring to a powerful weapon. If that is the case, then we... Argh! Will you just shut up already?! Does a box like that really exist, Raikage-sama? If s said that the Hidden Grass Village almost took over the world once with this box. We can't just let it alone. Have you contacted the Hidden Leaf yet? Hokage-sama has expressed her agreement to work together with us. All personal differences will have to be put aside for now. Of course she has. This is a matter of great importance to ALL the villages. What's going on?! Who goes there?! Simpleton! You're... Looks like things are progressing at a much faster rate than we've expected. It can't be helped. Summon Bee! We don't have to bother Killer Bee-sama for something like this! We cannot afford to fail this time. Summon Bee immediately! The Roikoge was attacked last night. The Hidden Cloud Village says that you were the culprit, Naruto. What? No way! I didn't do anything Oh, Granny Tsunade! You're joking with me again, right? Have been killed. Three Hidden Cloud Jounin and two others from Hidden Stone These are drawings of the culprit sent from the Hidden Mist and Hidden Stone. That can't be! Naruto wouldn't do something like that! This has to be a mistake, Tsunade-sama! Silence! But! This is a diplomatic problem between villages It wasn't me! Kakashi-sensei, please believe me! Yesterday, I was eating ramen at Ichiraku, and then... then I was playing shogi with Shikamaru the whole night! Naruto! Until the truth of the matter is revealed, we'll be sending you to Houzuki Castle. W-Whaf s that Houzuki Castle place? A shinobi prison focility delegated to the Hidden Grass by the other villages. Anyone can enter that place, but not everyone can leave. If s a place where they restrain problematic shinobi sent to them ibythe various villages. But I haven't done anything! Someone must be trying to get me away from the village! Don't be absurd, Naruto! Kage Bunshin no... Mokuton! Shichuurou! (Wood Arts, Four Pillars Prison) W-Wait! It wasn't me! Take him away I haven't done anything!! Attention! Mui-sama, the owner of Houzuki Castle, will be addressing you now! Listen well! I am Mui, the person in charge of this place. The fact that you've been sent here means that you've completely lost the trust of your villages. Therefore, I want you to remember that you're all equally worthless... I was framed! I haven't done anything! Really! I've been falsely accused! Do not speak without permission! You're saying someone schemed to send you here? I can't be wasting my time here! I gotta find the real culprit, or the village will be in danger Here in the Hidden Grass, our assignment from the various villages is to ensure that those who get sent here do not escape. It's none of our business what your circumstances are. Katon, Tenrou! (Fire Arts, Sky Prison) An imprisonment jutsu passed down through our clan. Ifs because of this Tenrou that the Hidden Grass has been entrusted with the oversight of Houzuki Castle. As long as that seal is upon your body, you won't be able to make chakra. There are only two ways you can leave this place. First, if your village submits an official request for your release. And the second way is if you die. Hah! Once I'm free, you're no match for me! Tajuu Kage Bunshin no Jutsu! (Art of Multiple Shadow Clones) What... my body feels... so hot... like it-son fire... You're quite something, aren't you? Despite being under Tenrou, you could actually make that much chakra... But don't think you can escape. When you're a certain distance away from me, Tenrou will kick in and burn you to ashes By the way... Tenrou is a fire style jutsu that doesn't work in the water. However, the water around this place is deep and the fast-moving. Jump in, and you'll be drowned before you can even use any chakra. Once you're sealed by Mui-sama's Tenrou, you'll never be able to escape from this place. Well, this is a pretty nice place once you get used to it. Look at how your seniors are welcoming you. Hey... we've got newbies. Yo, yo! Now aren't you a fine looking one! I'll take real good care of you later... Before that, you guys have to go through a body examination! I'll personally search through every nook and cranny of your body... Hey! So what did you do? I already said I haven't done anything! Ooh, scary As for me, I made a mistake during a mission. I was supposed to wiped out a certain village, but conscience struck and I let a kid get away. Then my village found out. What's wrong with that? Which village are you from? Hidden.Leaf. Looks like the Hidden Leafs a pretty soft village, huh? What did you say?! To a shinobi, the village's command is absolute. But it looks like that's not how it rolls in your Hidden Leaf village, huh? Don't you dore talk bad about the Hidden Leaf when you don't even know anything about it! Just you wait and see! I'll get outta here quickly and give the guy who framed me a lesson he'll never forget! That's enough. What?! That man is right. This Houzuki Castle is a gathering spot of people who no longer have the pretext where villages cover them for what they've done. A thief is a thief. A murderer is a murderer. We have no excuse anymore. I'm not making excuses! Bandanna! Come! If you've realized you've already fallen into a deep pit, then you'll try not to make it even deeper. What do you mean? Think about it yourself. Take off your clothes. Nothing. Right. Now jump on the spot on alternate legs. Huh? What's that for? If s to check if you're hiding anything in your body. Hurry up! Sheesh... Looks like there's no problem. What was that for, seriously? Not yet. There's nowhere else I could be hiding anything already! Take your pants off. What?! Stop... Stop!!! Exercise time for today is over. All prisoners are to return to their cells immediately for a roll call. The time has come, Maroi. I repeat. Exercise time for today is over. All prisoners are to return to their cells immediately for a roll call. Who's that?! Sleeping so soundly on your first day here? You're either really good, or really stupid. This is really suffocating... I don't like it. You messed up, Maroi. Dammit... Just one Bunshin is the best I can do now... Sleeping so soundly on your first day here? You're either really good, or really stupid. Thankfully I didn't end up becoming like one of you... They've already found out... Team one, to the front! Teams two and three, hurry to the cliff sides! One escapee secured. According to Houzuki Castle's Penalty Article 23, he will be brought to the punishment cell. Uh oh! He's been caught! I thought he'd try a little harder than that... But, what shall we do now? The rules say that he'll have to be put in the punishment cell for 3 days. We won't be able to get him during that time... After all, there may be Flower group spies among the guards... Are you sure he's the Jinchuuriki? The time for the revival of the Hidden Grass Village has finally arrived. The time for you to avenge your son's death has come, Mui. We must execute the plan quickly. We've received reports that the Flower Group has already sent spies to infiltrate this place. By the way, what are we going to do with Kazan of the Hidden Bath? Kazan is quite strong. We may not be able to restrain him unless all four of us face him together. Do not worry. For we have already gotten hold of his weakness. Are you there? Who's that? Just a nameless little fly. More importantly, do you want to leave this place? Is that possible? What should I do? Just defeat Mui, and the seal on your chest will disappear. Why you telling me this? Hey! Hold it! You've been released? So was the punishment room comfortable enough? I can't keep staying in this place! Not at this time when someone's trying to take down my village! What has that got to do with me? I heard that the Tenrou seal will disappear if I defeat you. I don't wanna do it, but if that's the only way, then... Forget it. You cannot defeat me in your current state. We won't know until we try! What is your village to you? Why you... Have you ever killed an innocent person just to protect your village? Are you saying we can't protect our villages without doing that? That's right. Don't make me laugh! It hurts to even breath, right? You must be thinking, this can't be happening! That you couldn't have been so hurt by a move like that. When you fight, somehow, you'll have to use chakra. If your chakra even so much as twitches, Tenrou kicks inland bums up your body. Dammit... My body's not listening to me... Let me tell you something No matter how much you've had to bear because of your village, they don't care at all Let me go! We're not done yet! I guess you realty like the punishment room, huh? Going'back in once you come out... Houzuki Castle Penalty Article 23 Clause 6! Your second time in the room is 5 days! Hopefully that'll cool your head down! Have you ever killed an innocent person just to protect your village? What is your village to you? Box of Extreme Bliss. It brings forth enlightenment, actuates enlightenment, and ends in enlightenment. In any case, what awaits is destruction. Your punishment ends today. Uzumaki Naruto, come out! Ooh! There's ramen in the Hidden Grass too? I'd bet it loses to Ichiroku, though! W-W-What do you want? If you wanna fight... I'll take you on! Come on! Whaf s going on? Go on. Don't really get it, but... Yeah! Thank you, thank you Uzumaki Naruto from the Hidden Leaf, at your service! Nice to meet you My name's Maroi. Man, you're already a hero here, you know? Hero? Suddenly escaping on your first day here, and challenging that Mui right after coming out from, the punishment room! We have no chance against him without chakra. Yet you went right at him with just guts and determination! It's not something anyone can do! Aww, you make me blush. I'm serious! A shinobi is just a normal human without chakra, after all. The guys here don't try to stir up too much trouble, either. It's pretty peaceful. Hey, there's a fight! Some guys are picking a fight with Mui! Didn't you just say it's peaceful? Well, you know? They've been influenced by your actions, yeah? Hey! Stop! So if we defeat you, we can get rid of this accursed seal on us, right? Stop. Those marked with Tenrou should just stay here obediently. Die! Hidden Leaf Style, Happashou! (Blast Palm) Tenrou Kaken! (Sky Prison, Fire Sword) Those idiots! Call the medic team, quickly! What the heck!.. Don't do it! I can't forgive that jerk Mui! I've already been here for two years. so I know most of what's going on here. That guy he just burnt, he'd poisoned a certain village and wiped them all out. Why'd he do that? To take revenge on a woman who wouldn't bend to his will. Treasure your life, okay? Why waste it risking yourself for a piece of trash like that? Exercise time for today is over. All prisoners are to return to their cells immediately for a roll call. I repeat. Exercise time for today is over. All prisoners are to return to their cells immediately for a roll call. Shoot! I'm late! Don't blame me! I've gotten used to making Shadow Clones! I failed on the land route the previous time. Right. This time, I'll take the sea route! No matter how fast-moving the currents are, if I swim like my life depended on it, it'll work out somehow! You'll die if you jump from there. Who's that?! Why do you want to escape so much? You're... If you've realized you've already fallen into a deep pit. then you'll try not to make it even deeper. Because I want to prove my innocence! How do you intend to do that? Well! I don't know! But I'll find a way somehow! Even if you do manage to run away, you won't be able to prove anything. Shut up! I can't just sit here and wait for someone else to find the real culprit for me! Kage Bunshin... The current is too fast... I can't make my hand seals! Umm... Sorry... Thanks for saving me. The currents around this area suddenly become faster when you go further out If you'd been washed out there, I wouldn't have been able to rescue you. What're you staring at? Transvestite? Ow! Who're you calling a transvestite?! Eh? You're really a woman? Don't you dare tell anyone! I saved your life, okay? Don't forget that! Do you remember what I told you in front of the body examination room? Yeah... I said it as a warning for you to not do anything stupid. Looks like you didn't get it at all. You're always doing something reckless... And you call yourself shinobi? What about you? My name's Ryuuzetsu. An ANBU from Hidden Grass. I've been investigating about you, Uzumaki Naruto. I came to Houzuki Castle at this time because I received news that you've been thrown into prison here. Hidden Leaf ANBU? Whatfs your motive? I know who framed you. Really?! Who is it?! The owner of Houzuki Castle, Mui Mui is a Hidden Grass Jounin. For generations, his family has been Door Guards. As the words suggest, a Door Guard's duty is to protect a certain door. Inside that door, lies a certain box. A box? It goes by the name of Box of Extreme Bliss. Ifs said that whoever can open it will get their wish granted. A box that grants wishes? How's that possible? Nobody knows the truth. But apparently, during the Rikudo Sennin era, Hidden Grass Village opened that box and almost took over the world with it. Then, what happened?! Nobody knows. Ifs said that one day, Hidden Grass Village was suddenly destroyed. After that, two groups rose up in opposition to each other. The pro-war Grass Fruit group that hopes to revive the Hidden Grass and an anti-war group. Grass Flower, which I belong to. Mui belongs to the Fruit group, and they intend to use the box as a weapon. According to information we've gathered. a huge amount of chakra is needed to open that box. The Fruit group has definitely set their sights on your Jinchuuriki chakra Uzumaki Naruto. So I've been put here because of that Fruit group, right? My mission is to prevent them from opening that box by hook or by crook. Then you shouldn't have saved me! They won't be able to open the box for a while if I die. If I did that... If I let someone die in order to fulfill my own mission... I'd become just like him. Him? That man... Mui. He stopped at nothing to open that box. He even offered up the life of his own son. Not enough chakra? To complete my mission, I must kill Mui. I will kill Mui. Did something happen between you and that old guy? You don't have to know. Once Mui dies, the Tenrou seal will disappear. When that happens, I'd like you to use your powers to open the box and destroy it. There.s no way to lift this jutsu without killing Mui? But this seal is nothing! There's no need to kill Mui. I'll destroy that box by myself! Don't make it sound so easy There's nothing I can't do! Don't underestimate the great Uzumaki Naruto! Uzumaki Naruto. Come back to Houzuki Castle with me for now. All right! Let's do this! Katon, Onidourou! (Fire Style, Ogre Lantern Cage) Dam! Failed again. Don't rush it! Katon, Onidourou! Are you showing off? Must be good being a genius. You con do anything without practising! You're a genius too, Ryuuzetsu. Youimean my bloodline? Yeah. The Ryuumei Tensei (Dragon Life Incarnation) is a fantastic skill, you know? You can only use that skill once, because after that, you end up dead! That's not even funny What's wrong, Muku? It's tomorrow. Oh, I see! Finally, huh? Yeah. I'm so envious of you, Muku. You just laze around and stare into space all day. but everyone clamors about how you're a genius not seen since the Hidden Grass started! And now, you're going to become the village's hero! I may not be able to come back. Are you afraid? Because... I just... Hey, Ryuuzetsu. Do you think it's right for us to open a box like that? Of course! Because ifs for the village, right? Ifs not that I'm afraid to die! I don't know how to put it... Sometimes I just feel like... I'm going to lose sight of myself... You're not going to die! Promise me, Muku! That you'll come back safe and sound! Promise me! Okay... I got it. I promise. Now I understand, Muku. That box shouldn't be opened! What is your village to you? Have you ever killed someone you had no resentment for, just to protect your village? I will kill Mui. Are you a fool? You'll be put in the punishment room again. I understand now. You were the one who set me up, right?! Is he an idiot?! Why you... Hidden Grass Style, Happashou! This should make you give up. What is my village to me? I thought about it seriously, but the only things that came to mind were some mundane stuff. The ramen shop... My dirty-minded master... To other people, these may be just pointless memories, but... According to Houzuki Castle's Penalty Article 23 Clause 6, your third time in the room will be one week. Why don't I make a nameplate for you and put it on the door? Please hurry. This is the key. I can't wait any longer. If I kill Mui, the box won't be opened! I see. So you're the Flower group's assassin! Mui's not here Don't know what's up, but apparently he's got to run some errand or something. My mission is over. You'll let me see my son as promised, won't you? The weakness of Hundred Transformations Kazan is his only son... Why don't you transform back already? As per your instructions, I've transformed into that kid and gone around killing people. You'll keep your promise, won't you? Of course we will. As soon as you die. Can't move my body... You can't move. There's no one in this world who can hold a candle to us in restraining jutsu. We will let you see your son, as promised. In the afterlife. Dammit! He didn't even last a single strike! Bless his soul. Oh, Mui! Now we can rest assured. Why did you let me go? Your mission is to assassinate Mui? Which means the legend of the Box of Extreme Bliss is true, then? I won't let you guys use the box to do as you please! I don't care about that. I only want to live a quiet, peaceful life. I can't escape as long as I'm sealed by Tenrou. Which means life'll be easier for me if I stuck to Mui. What's your point?! You still don't get it? Once Mui dies, I'll be able to escape from this place, and your mission will be complete. And that means we're not enemies. What are you planning? I'm going to set up the stage. Why should I believe you? Why do you think the Hidden Grass built the Houzuki Castle here, of all places? One reason is to hide the Box of Extreme Bliss. Secondly, so that they can research on how to open the box by using the prisoners. After all, those who have been sent here are as good as dead. I don't know when I'll end up as a mummy after being sucked dry of chakra,\either. I may not look it, but I'm actually pretty desperate too. Who are you? Why do you know so much?! Just a lackey of Mui's. So, what will you do? Wanna try staking on me? Uzumaki Naruto! Come out! Hurry up How dare Mui make us wait so long. Mui is a man who even offered up his son for the village. There won't be any problems. It's almost done. This time, the world will belong to the Hidden Grass... no... It will become the footstool of the four of us! Ifs not that I believe that Maroi guy, but he's our only chance now. The Box of Extreme Bliss can grant any wish, right? Then why isn't the Grass Flower group keen on using it? If used correctly, it can bring peace to the world, right? It's too risky. That thing makes people think war is all right as long as it brings peace. A thing like that shouldn't exist in this world! Can I ask you something? What is it? How are you related to Mui's son? Why do you ask? Because you looked kinda desperate when you were talking about him. His name was Muku. My best friend. I see. That's all I need to know. I can trust you. Aren't you afraid of the Tenrou?. Course I am! But I'm even more afraid of losing myself! Sometimes I just feel like... I'm going to lose sight of myself... I got it. What the heck are you doing?! What was that for, hey?! Don't just stand there like an idiot, blockhead! You trying to pick a fight, brat?! Hold it right there! You're not getting away Come and get me if you can! I'll take you all on! Hey, there's a fight going on! Ooh, they're going strong! So it's started? Sorry! Didn't do it on purpose... Looks like your blood's boiling too, eh?! What are you doing? It wasn't on purpose Sheesh, I can't even eat a meal in peace. Yo, yo! What's going on, yo? My radio! Shut up My corn soup What? A riot?! Hurry up and stop them! Stop!! Mui-sama! Please use Tenrou to suppress the riot! Ifs just a minor scuffle! Figure a way out yourself! Yes, sir! Stupid old man! Come on and get me, greenhorns! While Ryuuzetsu's drawing Mui's attention away, I have to find the door that leads to the box. Let me see... The third blue book in the center shelf, I think? So that funny box that can grant any wish is inside, huh? If I'm not wrong, we should be able to break the Tenrou seal without killing that old guy You're... not Mui! Stop! Dammit! We've finally captured the Jinchuuriki! Are you stupid? I'll remove the Tenrou first. Unseal! I need to concentrate. May I request for you to leave me alone? Raiton, Denkou Noroshi! (Lightning Style, Signal Fire) Just a bit more... Such immense chakra... The Jinchuuriki is indeed impressive. You bastard... So I heard you even gave your son to that box, huh? Do you really want to open that thing so much? It is all for the future of the Hidden Grass Village. Don't use the future as an excuse! Some guy who can't even protect the little things before him at present is not fit to talk about the future! I once asked if you have ever killed someone innocent for your village. And my answer was, Don't make me laugh! I feel the same way. I feel the same way you do! That's why I had to open this box!! Dammit! Not enough chakra! Katon, Tenrou! Dammit! Not again... Whoa... so the Box of Extreme Bliss is the door itself? How majestic. Now our wish will come true. Where is Mui?! Get him here quickly! The Box will grant the wish of its Door Guard! There he is! Hurry up and wish for the revival of the Hidden Grass! Surely your deceased son wanted the same as well! Box... open hence! Box of Extreme Bliss! I make a wish for my son... Please let me see Muku! Box of Extreme Bliss! Please grant me my wish! What! Have you gone crazy, Mui?! In my heart, the Hidden Grass Village has long been dead! That's right... ever since that day 10 years ago... when I lost Muku! What?! I don't remember asking for your help! Shut up! I was actually gonna kill you You're... Hundred Transformations Kazan! We should've killed you that night! Why? Just a passing whim. Once everything is over, I'll gladly hand myself over to you. Dammit, Mui... If it wasn't for you both my son and I would've been done for. How dare you lot make a mockery of Hundred Transformations Kazan! Mui... How dare you betray us! haven't you? You've been wanting to resurrect your son right from the start, I won't let you lot off! Muku... Father... Muku... Sorry... I was wrong. Mui! Yes. You were wrong. You shouldn't have let me out of the box? What the heck do you think you're doing?! Old guy Mui was just... Muku! Why, Muku? That's... That's not like you at all! Ryuuzetsu... You mustn't lose sight of your true self. Remember what you were like before you were taken by the box! Muku! What's this... I can feel an unpleasant chakra... That's... Don't come here! That's not the guy you knew anymore. I'm the one who has no right to be shinobi... This is no time to be crying So this is the Sennin mode? He put his clone somewhere to store up natural energy, huh? Natural? Natural energy is something you get from outside. Tenrou restricts chakra within one's body, so it doesn't work on that! What are you going to do? He might regain his senses if I destroyed that box Senpou, Oodamo Rasengan (Immortal its, Big Spiral Ball) It didn't work.. That can't be.. If s useless. I've tried for countless times inside, but this box can't be destroyed. Why did you kill old man Mui? You want me to be grateful to a father who sent his son into the box? Old guy Mui may have made a wrong choice, but he's been trying to save you all this time! He did everything for you, even if he had to go against the whole world! If s useless. Your attacks won't be able to reach me. I Why can't I hit something as big as that? Gotta use monsters to deal with monsters! Kuchi Yose no Jutsu! (Summoning Art) Who're you calling a monster?! Ah, sorry, slip of tongue... And what's with this tiny... What the?! Naruto! What is the Box of Extreme Bliss doing here?! You know about it, boss? Of course I do! That was an ultimate weapon during the era of the Rikudo Sennin! Isn't that Satori? Satori? That's his name? The Box of Extreme Bliss brings forth Satori (enlightenment), actuates Satori, and ends in Satori. That guy is a puppet of that box that captures enemies and throws them into the box. And he can read hearts. I don't know how the Box of Extreme Bliss came into existence, but it can make comrades out of enemies that have been thrown inside. Let's go, Naruto! Yeah! Boss! Where're you going? Running away?! That was my intention from the start. And I mode use of your fighting spirit to not let him read my intentions! There's no way you can win that freak face-on, anyway! Is someone controlling Satori? No. That means Satori's gone berserk. Once he sucks everyone into the box, he'll start sucking everything else. That's how whole countries have been wiped out in the past... What should we do then? Humans swallowed by Satori won't be able to return to normal again. We can only either stuff him back into the box, or kill him. Dammit! Wasn't it a box that could grant any wishes! Something like that doesn't exist, moron! What's your wish? Peace? Money? Or the world? Whatever you wish for, it's something you have to get by your own strength! The only things coming out of that box is evil power. But old guy Mui was just trying to save his son! You humans can be so optimistic. Put an apple in that box, and the only thing you'll get back is a rotten apple! He's coming Tajuu Kage Bunshin no Jutsu! Bastard! Dammit! Can't hit him at all! Is there no other way, boss? I already said he can read your mind, didn't I? The only way is not think of anything. Not think of anything? Here he comes. Oh boy. Not quiet and peaceful at all. Whoa! This is not funny!!! Boss! Boss, are you okay? A He's completely reading all my moves. Are you afraid? You may have mastered Senjutsu, but you've yet to free yourself from fear. Don't listen to him, Naruto! I know! Naruto! Dammit... at a time like this... Die!!! I won't make it! Boss! Damn! Dangerous box. Open it and you get the chops. Hurry up and move away or you won't live to see another day! Old man Octo! Coz the Bee is accompanying this boy! Yeah! Yeah, believe it. Naruto! Guys! Granny Tsunade too! What's everyone doing here? This was your mission, Naruto. Nobody suspected you from the start! Sorry for the anxiety. If we'd told you the truth, you would've gone on a rampage, right? Oh, Bee-san! Thank goodness you made it in time! My mission was to gather information about the Box of Extreme Bliss and steal it when the chance arises. And also, I was asked by Bee-san to protect you What? You don't get it? I'm just a nameless little fly. That voice... Just defeat Mui, and the seal on your chest will disappear. I've heard about your personality from Bee-san. I thought you'd stir up a ruckus if I told you that. And if you did, you'd be thrown into the punishment room. There's no place safer than that room here! Huh? Then why did you kidnap me on the first night? Well, I thought, we have to get that door open first, so... Really, really! Of course, I fully intended to rescue you once the door was opened! Yeah! How? Whatever! You're safe and that's all that matter. We'd better take care of that monster first. Here it comes! He was totally gonna leave me in the lurch. Dunno what's going on, dude you're totally impossible! I'll be the one to take out that terrible box! And I'll be the one to take you out as well! I see! This is gonna be hard! He dodged everything. He can read hearts. Dammit... And he's still so relaxed! Stop it already, Muku! He couldn't tell that Ryuuzetsu was going to run to him. Why? Why is Ryuuzetsu the only one... It's all or nothing! I'm going to enter Sennin mode again. Guys, buy me some time! Naruto won't be able to move for a while until he enters Sennin mode. Let's protect Naruto together! Son of a gun Run! Don't push me, idiot! Back to the castle! Neji! Kaiten! Nikudan Hari Sensha! (Meat Porcupine Tank) You done yet, datteba-boy? That's not Muku... It's not Muku... Don't be deceived... That's not Muku... The Hidden Crass will clean up its own mess! Katon... Onidourou! Suiton, Teppougyo! (Water Style, Archerfish) Don't be stupid! You still have Tenrou on you! Stop... Muku! I'm not fighting alone. I'm not fighting alone. Everyone in the village is with me. Here I go Why is he suddenly able to hit that thing? I can't feel any killing intent from that kid at all. What's going on? A Can you imagine what if s like in this box? There's no exit and you can't destroy the box itself. In complete darkness, only one emotion exists within. If s pitch-dark and heavy, seeping into every last cell of yours. That was the emotion that honed me. All emotions that gave me grief become ambiguous. And when I killed my father, it completely disappeared. Nothing's holding me back anymore, and that feels great... Feels great? I can only feel fear now. Fear of coming out of the box. Fear towards those who wish to attack me. I can't read hearts. But my body automatically responds to the feeling of fear, that's all. So I can understand very well that right now, you have no fear So that's what you gained after killing your father? Father bestowed true strength upon me wit "This death. True strength that has no hesitation. What old man Mui was trying to give you... wasn't that showy and pretentious kind of strength! Do your eyes no longer reflect pain? Can your ears no longer hear the voice of someone calling your name? Do you no longer have that feeling of wanting to protect someone in your heart?! How about the taste of the ramen that comforted you when you were sack! You still don't get it? Even though we're being bound and made use of by the village with those meaningless emotions? Cut off all your ties, and you'll be able to climb to my height. Kage Bunshin no Jutsu. You're the one who doesn't get it. You won't get stronger no matter how many ties you cut. Only by pursuing for more ties and protecting those ties do you truly gain strength. Just like your father! That just sounds like a trivial excuse by trivial humans. That's enough, Muku! How can you say such horrible things? Wake up already! Hey! Ryuuzetsu! Muku... your father has never once betrayed you before! Come back here! Have you forgotten your promise to me?! Oodamo Rasengan! Ryuuzetsu... That's enough of you... What?.. You couldn't read Ryuuzetsu's movements just now because there wasn't a single shred of fear in her heart at all! Tenrou isn't actually an imprisonment jutsu, right? Since we can't use chakra, nobody tries to go around causing trouble. Were not those hands of yours made to put a stop to wars? I know Satori can't go back to being human. If you feel the same as me, you should know what I'm thing right now! What are you talking about? I wasn't talking to you Dammit... Pull yourself together, old man Mui! A son always looks straight ahead at his old guy's back! Since Tenrou's still working, it means old man Mui's still alive as well! At least let us die together, Muku! That's the least bit of atonement I can make! Katon, Gouko Tenrou! (Fire Style, Great Fire Sky Prison) Let's go Get away from him, old man.Mui! Fuuton, Rosen Shuriken! (Wind Style, Spiral Shuriken) Father... Muku! Ryuuzetsu... Father's hands... are really so big... Oh, Muku... Katon, Onidourou! Sorry I couldn't keep my promise to you, Ryuuzetsu. This time, with Father and you... we'll truly live here peacefully together.. Hey, the Tenrou's gone! The seal's gone! Let's run! Don't let anyone escape! Chouji! Give me food! Son of a gun! Tonight we're gonna be hard rock! And this guy will have a head lock! I guess no one was able to make it so far, huh. This is... Such a gentle warmth... Promise me! Okay... I got it. I promise. Definitely, all right? I'll definitely come back. I just wish I can live peacefully, Ryuuzetsu. Here, with Father, and... Huh? What did you just say? That took quite a while. Welcome back, Muku. He's getting weaker Naruto! Pull yourself together, Naruto! Don't lose to something like this! Out of the way, Sakura. I'll do it. But... The wound is too deep... If s already too late... I am Ryuuzetsu, sharer of life. Uzumaki Naruto. At least be the one to live on. The ultimate skill of my clan, Ryuumei Tensei. Muku, this child reminds me of you back then. So laughably tiny, and yet so surprisingly huge. I have a feeling he would be able to protect what we've been trying to protect. I'm so glad I got to meet you in the end. At the very least, right now, I can become your road lamp. Naruto, you're going to become the road lamp guiding others from now on So that no one ever loses their way. So that no one ever becomes sad. His pulse has returned. What about her? Sakura-chan... Granny Tsunade... Don't say anything Wait till you're fully recovered first. A voice... Ryuuzetsu's calling for me... Naruto... I was in a very dork place Cold, felt unsure... Has Muku been staying in a place like that all the time? All by himself inside that box... Enough, Naruto. A Couldn't find on exit at all... Then I heard Ryuuzetsu's voice... Granny Tsunade, where's Ryuuzetsu? Leave the troublesome stuff for later! Leave it for after you recover! Or I'm gonna ignore you, you jerk! Yeah... Mui "Ryuuzetsu" Mui old man. To me, my village is... Well, I think it's probably a place I can be myself without thinking too much. I won't give up. I may be small, but I'll become a man able to protect what's important to everyone. That's what being a guide means, right? Ryuuzetsu? Take him away! I haven't done anything!! D-Did I seem unnatural or anything? You're such a meanie, Tsunade-sama. Keeping a watch on Naruto round the clock when you received the drawings... You're the one-who said we should pretend to play into the enemy's trap, Kakashi. You'd better apologize to Naruto later. What? Why me? You're the one who told us to be discreet as this was a combined operation with the Cloud... Before you can trick the enemy, trick your own people first, right? Oh boy... Naruto s gonna be so hurt. Guess I'll treat him to all the Ichiraku ramen he wants when he comes bock...
