 

                        The time: the Warring States Era. The brave men aiming to unify the land heralded in the age with the entire country on the line. The one closest to unifying the land was the Devil King of the Sixth Heaven, Oda Nobunaga. Nobunaga ruthlessly shot down all those who dared stand in his way. His biological sister, Oichi, and her husband, Azai Nagamasa were no exception. As the Oda army dyed the land of the rising sun in blood and fear, the One-eyed Dragon of Oshu, Date Masamune, and the young warrior of the Kai Takeda, Sanada Yukimura, aim for Nobunagas stronghold in Azuchi together despite formally being enemies themselves. Well turn Azuchi Castle into the Devil Kings grave! {need to decide how to We absolutely cannot give our future over to a compassionless general! All we shall offer the Devil King are prayers for the dead! Thus, their rear guard, comprised of warriors from all over the land, amass at Azuchi. From Oshu: Masamunes long-time confidant and loyal retainer, Katakura Kojuro. From Kai: the Tiger of Kai, Takeda Shingen; And Shingen and Yukimuras dependable ninja, Sarutobi Sasuke. {what, Shingen totally From Eichigo: the general, Uesugi Kenshin and his adoring ninja, Kasuga. Further, thanks to the appeals of the Vagabond of the Maeda clan, Maeda Keiji, Chosokabe Motochika from Saigoku and Mori Motonari both heeded the call and the siege of the Oda clan was complete. You finish this. I shall, though it may cost me my life. With the hearts and minds of the states behind them, Masamune and Yukimura defeated Nobunaga. With Nobunagas death and the wealth and might of the country behind him, the Despot King, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, along with his strategist, Takenaka Hanbei, sought world domination and once again the land was plunged into turmoil. With Masmune, set on making a comeback having been once defeated by the surprising power of the Toyotomi, heading for Osaka, and Yukimura, setting out on an expedition to Saigoku on Shingens orders, having caught wind of the Toyotomi plot, they were both moving to defeat the Toyotomi, though their paths may have differed. They both walked the paths they believe in, overcoming trial after trial. And then, just as the Toyotomi army headed complete its dominion of the land, Mori Motonari, who had formed an alliance with the Toyotomi, rose in rebellion. And Yukimura, who had allied with the Satsuma Army amidst the chaos, took him down. Meanwhile, in Odawara, Masamunes brings his fight to the death with Hideyoshi to a close, managing a narrow victory. And with that, it seemed like these turbulent times were coming to an end, but the destruction of the Toyotomi heralded in a third wave of turmoil. Two of Hideyoshis subordinates: Tokugawa leyasu, aiming to unify the nation with heartfelt bonds, and Ishida Mitsunari, hunting down Masamune to avenge Hideyoshi. Thus, with the entangled feelings of Masamune, Yukimura and the other generals, the greatest battle of the Warring States Era was about to explode. With the defeat of the Oda and the end of the Toyotomi Era, countless wars brought forth untold sorrow and regret. And that, at times, transforms the souls of those left behind into a hell fire of carnage. Their fates which ought to have been meager, warp, seized with uncertainty. Here is one such soul. Lord Hideyoshi... Lord...Hideyoshi! LORD...HIDEYOSHI! The Lamenting. His name: Ishida Mitsunari. Let the game begin! Amidst the profusion of florid colors Wills to fight intertwine How numerously those bonds gush fourth from their Flags Those that carve up the brilliance shall herald in a new age Their lust, like a Crazy Storm, compels them to paint A rainbow that sparkles only at night, they are drawn to it even though it makes their hearts pound They hold their breath in anticipation, at the mercy of each others eyes They dont budge, not even one step, as the brilliance draws near They aimed for the heavens! Gather! At the banquet of flowers hastening to bloom at the summit A storm crashes through tomorrow How wonderously those souls spring forth from their Flags If they dont sprint through the moment, their lives will never be set ablaze You, who will carve up the brilliance! Create a new age! I shall not allow you to beg for your life. L-Lord Mogami! The enemy is not a great army! Hm? What ever do you mean? I-Its a single man! Hmph. Just when I thought it was a whole army, its just a skinny little boy. Thats much more convenient. A gentleman...! is never violent! about you, my boy. Now then, come here Ando, or whatever! {added or whatever because it would be hard for normalfags to realize he doesnt know what I dont know who you are, but lets be friends! As a token of our friendship, have a Getting-to-know-you-Genmaicha! And look, the tea leaves are aligned auspiciously! Certainly, you wouldnt do anything reckless when youre at such an overwhelming disadvantage, would you, my boy? Begone.{this kanji is seriously the Refusal is not an option. Those that hinder me are just is. W-Whos he? You wouldnt happen to have come here to kill the splendid, sly fox of Ushu, Mogami Yoshiaki, would you, my boy? Save your shenanigans for your mustache. The one I am after...! , brah. GOOD SPIRIT! Pretty ballsy of you to try and get REVENGE on your own, Toyotomi leftovers. I came here to say sup. T-T-T-There you are! I was waiting for you! How do you like that, Yamada or whatever! Hes my bosom buddy, the One Eyed Dragon of Oshu... HA! Yeah right, old fart. Youre more BFFs with tea cups than a dragon! {idk, i had to make this ! Do whatever you want to that GENTLEMAN, Ill wait. {gonna treat Masamunes Engrish V-V-Violence is bad! Lord Hideyoshi... give me permission to decapitate this man in vengeance! {zanmetsu, decapitate AND destroy! Funif we wanna go there Who the hell are you? I have no name for the likes of you...! MARVELOUS! This is not a game! Unforgivable...! I shall never forgive you! Not bad, but... Im Date Masamune, Head of the Oshu Gang! And, sorry brah, but theres only one dude in these Warring States who can, unironically, HEA COOL OFF! You cant beat me with resentment alone. Fly your own flag, dude. Then we can talk. Lets go at it, with the YOU SEE? As if I care about the likes of the land! I desire nothing more than to end your sorry life! If you wanna mourn General Monkey that badly, why dont you go cry at his grave? You... How dare a criminal insult my Lord Hideyoshi with such a churlish nickname! KEEP IT UP! HA! You bastard! Let me execute you! {this is some obsolete word for killing someone who has Unforgivable! I shall never forgive you for your crimes! Date Masamuneeeeee! I should not expect anything less from my eternal rival. It was a complete defeat, Tiger of Kai. Thanks to you, I have spent half my life full of vigor. You have my heartfelt thanks, Kenshin. I leave the future of Echigo, to the Tiger of Kai. Trust this man and devote your energies to him. Milord...! Yukimura, observe well. Some day, this time shall come for you. Yessir! We must part, my beautiful blade... Farewell, Kenshin...! Lord Shingen! Thats-! Sir Tokugawa... Ieyasu!? You mustnt sever your bonds! Lord Shingen! The Light of the East... Its you, Takechiyo. It has been too long. Youve certainly grown. I guess I have, but you are still bigger. I am glad to see you are as healthy as ever. You seem well too, Sanada Yukimura. It has been ages since last we met, Sir leyasu. I came here today with a singular purpose: To convey my determination to Lord Shingen and to Lord Kenshin as well. I, Tokugawa leyasu, have firmly resolved to unify the Land of the Rising Sun with the power of bonds. This is the last time. So everyone says and so everyone believes, but thus far we have been repeating the same actions over and over. However, each time someone tries to seize the land, yet another appears and the world descends into the chaos of war. This time, I want to bring an end to this world in which those who believe in tomorrow cannot live to see it. {this line right here is about max length for a single line... idk how the dialogues gonna be styled but I think this should Thus, you have preemptively removed your helmet and cast away your spear? Indeed I have. In sum, you can wait no longer for the time to be ripe. That is correct, Lord Shingen. To wait any longer would be tantamount to wishing for the ruin of our country. Waiting for the time to be ripe would mean missing an opportunity." I cannot think of anything more heartening than the two of you, the Tiger of Kai and the War God of Echigo, bound by such deep bonds, lending me your strength hand-in-hand. Ieyasu, I understand your thoughts but, no one will lend you their ears. Certainly, if obtaining universal approval were a simple task, no one would go to war in the first place. Only two were willing to listen, having paid me a visit in response to rumors: The Vagabond of the Maeda and the Demon of the West Sea. But even so, I Milord...! Then, try to achieve it. Thank you, Lord Shingen, Lord Kenshin. We will meet again, Sanada. MILORDDD! What is so urgent? I am most busy with the expansion of the Takeda territory. There is a matter I wish to report to you, Milord! Speak. Yessir! There has been something smoldering in this chest of mine since after returning from my previous trip to Satsuma and doing battle with the Mori. {yukimura has some derp grammar here, need to reflect it morehes gotta be talking about the Mori army and not Mori himself since he doesnt -dono the name, unless Moris the one person It was but a vague feeling and, try as I might, I could not give it to words. But, Lord leyasu has shown me what it was through his example. {derp, mi wo motte shimesu is to show by Youre too naive, Yukimura. A thousand pardons, however... Lord leyasus unparalleled determination to achieve, with a single fist, what all others have long given up on, nay, what none have even attempted in this war-torn age has set my heart hopelessly ablaze! You are telling me that, for the sake of tomorrow, you are prepared to abandon those spears of yours henceforth? Those spears you thoroughly tempered and continued to refine? Yessir! Yukimura! Yessir! Thats... good! Yessir! Thats... GOOD! YUUUKIMURAAAAA! Milord?! Now thats a true warrior! This is not a decision born out of youthful impetuosity! Nay, it is what all men should aspire to! Now, in my stead, blaze a trail to tomorrow! {totally not forcing a Milord...! Now is the time, more than ever, as you have fallen into the abyss of agony and devoted yourself to your studies, and now as you have acquired the spirit, skills and also strength of the martial arts! Know this! You and leyasu can achieve it! Understoooood! Miiiiiiloooord! Yuuukimuraaaa! Miiiiiiloooord! Yuuukimuraaaa! Miiiiiiloooord! Yuuukimuraaaa! Miiiiiiiiiiloooooooooooooooooord! Yuuuuukimuraaaaaaaaaaaaaaa! Wait a sec, this is getting serious! Mi...lorb... Yuki...bura... Milord! Milord! Yukimura... I, Takeda Shingen, have taught you all that I know. Youve adjudged the God of War and have surpassed me. I entrust the spirit of the Tiger to you. Yuki...mura...! Milord! Milord!? Miiiiiiilooooord! He couldve just retired like a normal person. Sasuke! There have been signs of unrest in various places. Im assuming I should report to you now, General. Boss! Lord Masamune! Where did you go off to without mobilizing the troops? We should have intercepted the unidentified intruder who trespassed upon Oshu before leaving Mogamis territory There was only one opponent, Kojuro. What?! Just one person? No big deal, dude. I just had to roll out the welcome wagon for that desperate, REVENGE-crazed Toyotomi survivor{just wanted to receive some hospitality... check line break? Lord Masamune?! B-Boss? Boss?! Booooooooss!! Have you tired of strolling about, Mitsunari? Date Masamune, I care not if you abase me, but there is no meaning in making mincemeat out of you if you continue to scorn my Lord Hideyoshi. That knave used my own self to further blaspheme my Lord Hideyoshi! I must make him repent before granting him the death penalty! {wash out those Hee hee, there are few that take others words as seriously as you do, Sire. Speak your mind clearly and concisely, Magistrate. I know not what manner of cowardly tactics the One Eyed Dragon used to entomb the regent, { Hideyoshi,... I'm thinking people'll be able to pick up Regent=Hideyoshi from context here but if but, his refusal fight one who does not command an army? It is, perhaps, just a makeshift excuse. You may have failed to kill him, but surely you made him run away with his tail between his legs. Aapparently you have to watch the movie 6 times to understand this scene if youre a native Japanese Yahoo. co. jp/qa/questiondetail/q1269735747 Do you not believe that, Sire? If it is as you say... It is all the more unforgivable! For such a weakling to have felled Lord Hideyoshi! There is no need to raise an army against such a weak foe. It would be prudent tempt him into action and lie in wait. I shall make arrangements. I leave it all to you. Are you not curious about my choice of tactic? I have no time to doubt you. I see. All for honor, all for you, Sire. Lord Masamune! You still mustnt move around too Found out who that dude was? Yessir, Ishida Mitsunari. After invading Oshu alone, it appears that he led an army and attacked a variety of places. And after mercilessly visiting violence upon not only soldiers, but unarmed civilians as well, he makes a show of raising his own flag and leaves. Wholesale slaughter? The generals of the other states are now filled with trepidation. They call Ishida Mitsunari, The Minister of Misfortune, for they fear and detest him. Kojuro... Yes? Im gonna go beat up Ishida. Back there, I, the One Eyed Dragon, used mere words to distract him and turned my tail and ran from an enemy! This world is vast. Huh? Your decision to refrain from needlessly crossing swords with a revenge-crazed assassin is most befitting of one whos duty is to care for and protect Oshu. I have rebuked you for recklessly going out alone, but thanks to you, this land avoided violation and the soldiers and civilians carry on their normal, daily lives. Do not believe for a moment that only those who go to extremes for military valor are worthy of becoming Conqueror of the Land. I havent the faintest idea as to why you feel responsible for Ishidas subsequent deeds. Im the one who pissed that dude off. I told him to come back again after he flew his own flag. Gotta settle things with him. In that case, there is one thing I must say. Next time, I shall not let you go alone. The King of Misfortune, huh? Yeah, that dude was CRAZY. But... Why did he have such clear eyes? As forces began to make secret maneuvers in response to the Ishida army, Tokugawa leyasu, Maeda Keiji, and Chosokabe Motochika, tried launching a full-blown walking tour about the country in order to convince the lords of the states that it was not a day too soon to end the war-torn age. Ieyasu... You scoundrel, why do you refuse to avenge Lord Hideyoshi with me? How can you forget Lord Hideyoshis kindness and abandon the Toyotomi? Sir Hideyoshi was too concerned with power. If left unchecked, the Toyotomi would have spread the fires of war to the whole world, and even more people would die and fall into despair. You... Just what did you see when you were with them? Lord Hideyoshi sought power with that indefatigable heart of his and fought to protect the pride of this country, so that the Land of the Rising Sun would not fall to ruin! Listen to me, Mitsunari. I am as guilty as anyone of admiring heroes from a far. But, I have learned something in doing so. Ironically, their actions were not so heroic. Power exists not to be used. One must have the strength of both body and heart never to brandish it in order to protect our bonds. That is what true heroism is. That is what I should have told Sir Hideyoshi... My crime was my failure to do so. Had I, perhaps Sir Hideyoshi would still be alive. Know your place, leyasu! You disgust me with your impertinent talk! What can any man other than Lord Hideyoshi accomplish with a naked fist alone? Prove it to me before this blade, wet with my bitter tears of blood! Mitsunari, I came here to talk to you! As a friend, I wanted to make sure you understood first. There is nothing I need to hear from the likes of you. I have no need for friendship! Why do you think that? You, just as Sir Hanbei was to Sir Hideyoshi How dare you frivolously speak their names! Lord Hideyoshi and Lord Hanbei shared a bond deeper than a mere mortal could understand! Yes, a bond! Those two shared a deep bond! And so did Sir Hideyoshi and Keiji! Maeda Keiji... He committed the folly of standing in Lord Hideyoshis way as he headed for Odawara. He is deserving of certain death! He the very picture of self-righteousness! I shall indict him after Date Masamune! I dont believe that. Keiji believed in his bonds with Sir Hideyoshi, and I believe his actions are the very symbol of those who will live from hereon. Do not glorify those that defied Lord Hideyoshi! Do not talk about Lord Hideyoshi as if he represents bygone days! Lord Hideyoshi is the one who should have lived from hereon and blazed a trail to tomorrow with his sword! Lord Hideyoshi, was my everything! Mitsunari! I refuse to indulge you in any further conversation. I shall never forgive that man who stole my Lord Hideyoshi away! This world that is on the verge of forgetting Lord Hideyoshi, is unforgivable! The lot of it! What a pretty flower garden... They said something wonderful will happen if I make a lot of flowers bloom... So Ichi is going to try very hard to make them bloom. My brother is laughing... Im so happy... Wonderful! Yes! More! Accumulate more of them! Lady Oichi! Im scared, Father Tenkai...! Legatus, you truly are a timid one. It will be fine as long as you offer up a prayer to Buddha. No, you offer up a prayer to Buddha! Arent you a priest? Fret not. I shall hold a memorial service for them en masse. Dont surprise me like that, Mr. Otani... Before long, everything shall be in order. And what of you? Mitsunari does not doubt me. Magistrate, you seem quite friendly with the King of Misfortune. Credence is not something so easily obtained. I am not working for his benefit. I am merely noting that Mitsunari does not suspect a thing. The Devil Queen of the Fifth Heaven... Lady Oichi and the King of Misfortune, Ishida Mitsunari. An impeccable medium for channeling the true banquet that I desire and the destruction you wish for. and Legatus shall provide the finishing touches. Huh!? Y-yeah. Juuuust you waiiiit, Booooosss! Boooooossss! Yoshinao! Hey, Y-Yoshinao! Where were you hit? A crow? What!? Hey, long time no see. Mr. Keiji! Whats up? Just wanted to see the One Eyed Dragon. Hows he been? The Boss said he was gonna settle things with Ishida Mitsunari. Were chasing after him right now. Gonna go mess up Tokugawa after we beat up Ishida! Huh? The Boss... feels responsible. And now even Tokugawa is taking advantage of the Ishida troops random acts of violence... Ive heard the rumors, but leyasu wouldnt do such a thing Hey. Whats stuck in your hair? Huh? Why would that be in...! This is... a letter to the Boss. From Tokugawa leyasu! What?! Lemme take a look. Hey, wait! But, uh, thats... for the Boss. You cant! This is...! I am Tokugawa leyasu. One who desires from the bottom of his heart to govern the lands with the power of bonds. I have visited every corner of the land and advocated the importance of bonds to everyone. However, regrettably, not one person responded to my appeal. With each battle, no matter how much we exhaust ourselves or how often we experience the grief of losing something irreplaceable no one in this Land of the Rising Sun tries to believe in the power of bonds. This reality has sunk deep into my mind and I understand now... Therefore, shameful as it may be, I have no option but to change my methods. It precisely because my will is unyielding that I must resort to force. I would like you to understand that, at any time, the Tokugawa could do as Ishida Mitsunari, who has been rampaging about as he pleases. Now, I have even started to think that this Land of the Rising Sun, filled with those poor in spirit who do not try to take each others hands, might be better off being destroyed along with the villainous Ishida army. However, I understand that is nothing more than my own imprudence. Therefore, I would like to speak with everyone once more. On September 15th, at daybreak, I would like for you to all gather on the grounds of Sekigahara in Mino. To all warriors born and raised in the Land of the Rising Sun who grieve for its future. Tokugawa leyasu Methinks Sir leyasu would not do something so craven and backhanded! Its just a rumor that he ended up resorting to force after no one gave him the time of day when he visited the states to bring peace to the land. Well, youd normally think it was pretty shady. To be talking about bonds all of a sudden in this day and age. That is not so! Nay... Regrettably, I sense that many have such inclinations... But nonetheless Sir leyasu would not This letter... The brushstrokes look just like his, but... Something smells fishy... It certainly is suspicious, and that is why No, I mean it kinda smells delicious... Kinda like, hot pot. H-Hot pot? What Im worried about is how the surprise attacks keep happening even though none of the ninja squads I sent out catch wind of them. Even though no ones seen forces that could be them moving about, almost every night some place gets attacked and falls. Could they be utilizing a as-of-yet unheard of weapon? In any case, that is not something Sir leyasu would do! Sir Masamune! LONG TIME KNOW SEE! Just where do you think youre going with such an angry face, Sanada Yukimura? It has been ages since last we met. I am on my way to call on Sir Tokugawa leyasu. HM, thats so you to be driven by righteous indignation. Word on the street is that hes pretty tough. Be careful, bro. Nay, that is not Im gonna go kick around Ishida Mitsunari. I was gonna come back around to get leyasu too, but if youre going Ill leave him to you, bro. Sir Masamune Yo, I heard youve succeeded the Old Tiger? Indeed. Good job. When were done running errands, lets have a PARTY to settle things. I do wish to settle things with thee. However, at this time, I am not on my way to destroy Sir leyasu. Hm I am calling on him to confirm something: That Sir leyasu is not one who would trample down other lands as if imitating the Ishida army and tell all the generals to gather at the grounds of Sekigahara in a half-threat. Sekigahara, you say? I also have something I need to check with Ishida too. But that doesnt change the fact that were going to go at it anyway. Catch you later, Sanada Yukimura. Oh yeah, this is where you and I first fought each other. That is correct. How about we settle things right now? What are you saying... Lord Masamune! I could have resisted if we met anywhere else but here, but... {just couldnt keep it in A match with that dude doesnt make me COOL or HOT. Somebody wins and somebody dies. Its just a DEATH MATCH slathered in hatred. HAD NO CHOICE! So I wanna go at it with you right now! Sanada Yukimura! Sir Masamune!? General! To not accept would be the greatest regret of my life! I feel as such! DEATH BITE! Ring of Fire! Who goes there? What are you doing, Vagabond? Just what are you guys doing when the lands in trouble?! Sorry dude, but its got nothin to do with you. Outta my way! I get it, youre rude. But I wont back down! Do not interfere! Oops! Thats it! I know how you feel, but lets stop here, you two. You, Sir, are... Im Maeda Keiji. This is Yumekichi. Youre Sanada Yukimura of Kai, the guy who always makes the One Eyed Dragon happy, right? Huh? How about it? Until this haze hanging over the land is neatly cleared away, why dont you let me hold on to this match for you? Yeah. As far as Im concerned, youre always my GOAL. Almost forgot about that other dude. Thanks, girly-boy. What a clear spoken, cheerful personage... I shall leave it in your custody, Sir Maeda! Lord Masamune. That letter you were talking about, huh? No need to read it. Ill find out what the hells going on and whos up to what, once I get to Sekigahara. Yeah, probably. Both leyasu and Chosokabe Motochika, whos running around western Japan now, should be rushing there themselves. Its gonna be a crazy-ass PARTY. If that douche Ishida is hostin it, then Imma settle it with him right in the middle of it! For you, Boss... Whats this? Everyone in the Date gang talked it over and said they want you to use it, Boss. We knew you might get mad, Boss, but we got permission from Lord Katakura and we rushed to make it. It wasnt easy to get the old smithy to sign off on it so its a bit late but... Use this for your fight with Ishida The King of Misfortune, Ishida Mitsuri... is he that strong? Please accept it, Boss! Lord Masamune. Lord Masamunes life, is the life of everyone in Oshu. HM, not bad. COOL ACCESSORY, bros. Ill use it. Her fear in hand, her fear in heart... The roots did tear her soul apart... They ate him inside out, his roots that did sprout Um...Ms. Oichi...? Petals fall and flowers wither... D-do you want some hot pot? The voices call, "Come now! Come hither!" Legatus. I have bad news. Huh? What? What is it? Everyone has found out that you used Tokugawa Ieyasus name to write a fraudulent letter. Whaaaa-? It seems like the generals are quite angry and once they arrive at Sekigahara they will first destroy Kobayakawa Hideaki. Really?! Is that true?! I thought it would let everyone be friends like you said, Father Tenkai! I, more than anyone, understand how much you wish for peace, Legatus. But a mere monk cannot deal with the warriors driven by anger Deal with theeem! It is unfortunate that they will gang up and torture you to death, but you cant avoid it. N-no waaay! Yesss. Why dont you treat them to some hot pot? This inexhaustible darkness. Even if I were to carve death into that knave, I would not be able to annihilate it. All that awaits me is inescapable nothingness. My second death. Mitsunari. Flourish that might to your hearts content! Let us wrench open the world together! ARE YOU READY GUYS!? YEAH! DONT SLACK OFF! STEP ON IT! YEAH! ALL RIGHT! LETS RIDE ON! YEAH! Ishida Mitsunari... If youre really the one thats gonna be waiting for me right smack dab in the middle... gonna be the ! E-Everybodys maaad! Oh no! Im scared! What do I do, Father Tenkai!? Mr. Ieyasu! It was you, Legatus? Im sorry, Mr. Ieyasu! I I see. Its okay, Legatus. I know you didnt mean any harm. So dont be scared. Watch over the hot pot and serve it to everyone. O-Okay! I am Tokugawa leyasu. I am grateful that you responded to my appeal and gathered here today. Thank you! Everyone gathered here witnessed the dreadfulness of the two great powers, the Oda and the Toyotomi, with their own eyes. And it should have been carved deeply into your flesh and bones that military might severs the bonds between people. Ieyasu... I see... Only those that show their might rise in the world and survive. That is the nature of the Warring States. But, with that attitude, conflict will never end! {you know, Im starting to notice how similar the language about lol peace in Basara is really close to the language used in the We have twice seen the fall of those that rely on might alone. I dont believe there are any here who brandish might, wishing for ruin! I am Maeda Keiji of Kaga! Do you know why you are so physically strong, my brothers? Its so you can protect those you love. The constant threat that your hometowns, where you were born and raised, and dear things that money cant buy, will be snatched away... Why dont we put an end to that? I am Sanada Genjiro Yukimura of the Takeda from Kai. Heretofore at numerous battlegrounds, I have fervently crossed blades with many a warrior. The rival warlords exercised military valor to the utmost; and their aims after seizing the land... are the same: peace! Let us talk together of tomorrow along with Sirs leyasu and Maeda, who both, rejecting avarice and ambition, carry the true heart of a warrior! Sanada Let us protect the bonds we have now and form new bonds with those unknown to us and those who were our enemies in the past! Come! Let us talk of a peaceful world while sipping Legatus hotpot! The Tiger of Kai... WAIT! Wait a sec. First, lets make it clear whos been attacking people all over the damn place. Ishida Mitsunari! Its the King of Misfortune! The Minister of Misfortune! Weve been waiting for you, Mitsunari. Come over here and you can talk with everyone too! Do as you please. Do not involve me. True bonds are a miracle. And the hollow words you spew forth shall never erase the resentment and hatred that stole away their joy from me! Mitsunari! They were in collusion after all! Weve been had by Tokugawa and Ishida! Wha Why you...! I was almost fooled! Wait! Youve got it all wrong Fools... Bonds are nothing more than invisible threads. Man is a creature that must quarrel. To deny this truth is the act of fools. All you pawns that have gathered at Sekigahara! Cut down all those you know not by sight! Those under a different flag are your enemies! He who wins shall be the Conqueror of the Land! This is the decisive battle! That is... Mori Motonari! A mere expendable pawn cannot defeat the likes of me. I see, as long as I win... Ill be the Conqueror of the Land! Ill be That Mori... Hes much more boisterous than I expected. Thanks to him, the battlefields aswirl. {I dont think aswirl is actually The stage is set, so kill him as you please. You have my gratitude. Kill... Advance... General! Our defenses are at their limit! Sanada Yukimura! It seems like youre facing a crucial decision, but its time for you to prepare for the worst. What are you gonna do as the commander of an army? To suppress all the roots of evil here and now at Sekigahara! The entire strength of the Takeda army shall achieve it! Counterattack! Understood! GOOD! That dude hasnt given up. As long as hes in it to win it, even if you cut him up once or twice, hell survive and claw his way back up. That is correct, One Eyed Dragon. And at that time together... Sorry bro, but I dont like pretending to be friends. Ill probably go at it with you someday. And I will face you with this fist when that day comes. Tokugawa leyasu...! I wont let the Land of the Rising Sun become a peopleless land! I will protect bonds and friendship! Lets treat ourselves to a contest of strength! Kojuro. Yessir. You lot! Date Masamune... What foolish means did you use to willfully murder Lord Hideyoshi? Ishida Mitsunari. What about you? How many innocent dudes have you dragged into this mess with your grudge against me? What are you trying to do with this CRAZY uproar? That is inconsequential! I shall not forgive those who forget the power of the Toyotomi Still less those who defile them! To have only such an uptight d-bag as the head of the clan, the boss monkey must be turning in his grave! Recant all profanities you have poured on Lord Hideyoshi! I shall not accept any other words! Repent and die! HELL OR HEAVEN! X-BOLT! Be cutttttt! With this, everyone is gathered together. Moris participation is a godsend. It seems like even the matchlessly resourceful general has not noticed that his surprise attack actually lent us a hand. The King of Misfortunes feelings of resentment towards those that have forgotten the Toyotomi and the pure and unselfish will of Tokugawa leyasu, who wishes for peace though all of the Land of the Rising Sun... It seems we can make a delicious hotpot with the finest, unadulterated ingredients. And the one to stir it up is my puppet The Devils sister, Lady Oichi. Whats up with this woman?! Mitsunari, You must be overjoyed. Indeed, this must be the greatest sight for those eyes that are unforgiving of this world. W-will this really bring about peace?! Moriiiiiiii! You scallywag! Long time no see! Causin a ruckus and trying to profit while others fight. Up to your same old scurvy tricks, eh? Mori! Gleefully disparaging your opponent? Chosokabe, although it has not been so long, you have changed. Im gonna return the Land of Aki to you for a bit! Just so I can beat you up right here and take it once again! Relinquish it if you please. After you are gone, Shikoku shall become an independent islet of Aki! Watch your tongue, scallywag! You have defiled Lord Hideyoshis land! You stole my only light! Lower your head to Lord Hideyoshi! Seek, nay! Yearn for absolution! And then give me your head! Hey, what are you gonna cry about once you get your REVENGE? Come at me, bro! This is your CLIMAX! What?! What is the matter, Magistrate? Pay it no mind. For one who has died once to know death once again and to be impressed at its impermanence... Y-Y-YOUUUU!! Especially cause youve already died once, how dare you brandish power to survive! Im gonna rid you of that grim reaper! JUMPING JACK BREAKER! What are you playing at, leyasu?! Hatred... and resentment... can all be healed with bonds, Mitsunari. I wanted to tell tha I told you to know your place! I never asked you to save me! Go and die... like a... dog... Dont say such a thing, Mitsu...nari... Behold, Magistrate. At last the King of Misfortune has been dragged into leyasus farce. Absolutely perfect as an hors doeuvres for the banquet! Lets all make them bloom... Look, its almost time... Hey everybody! Watch out for those black hands! Dont touch them! Damn that Legatus, saying unnecessary things... Father Tenkai said this was to make everyones hearts as one. He said this was a sacrifice for that. I thought it was right because a priest said it, but... I think its wrong after all! Youre too late, Legatus. I have a recollection of those black hands... Lady Oichi... Whats that... Petals fall and flowers wither, The voices call, "Come now! Come hither! We have awakened and revivedddd! All bow down and submit to Us! Rejoiiiiiice! You foolish, greeeedy dependeeeents! The Devil King... of the Sixth Heaven! Is that... Oda... Nobunaga?! Been a while since hes popped up...{ I dunno who plotted this, but youve been used as a setup for this SURPRISE PARTY. It was all for this, huh... Men! Spread the banquet the world over! What... astonishing power. Incomparable to his former incarnation. The sediment absorbed by the Devil Queens black hands has become the Devil Kings new flesh and blood. This world shall be shrouded in ruin... With this a thousand men are equally maggots squirming in an abyss of darkness! De... sist. I absolutely do not approve of your barbarity! With this, youll destroy the world Lord Hideyoshi ruled! Lord Hideyoshis dreams... Lord Hanbeis hopes... I shall not let the likes of you efface them! Lowly monkey and his useless tail... Becoming such a fragile, sentimental soul and gazing upon the land for all eternity is worthless! To worship a feral monkey drunk with power is the pinnacle of folly! Worthless fooools! Absolutely... unforgivable! Contemptuous Devil King...! the likes of you... should return to Lord Hideyoshis... Ashes! How perspicacious! Magistrate?! What are you doing!? Why are you here!? Fall back! Fall back, Magistrate! Do not endure any more! Know the futility of your actions! Magistrate! Until now... I had not noticed... when you thought of me... and when I thought of you... we felt the same way...{well its not There is no greater sorrow in the world... Tis laughable... Magistrate! Magistrate! I will not permit you to die! Magistrate! What a stale expiation. Magistrate, you were a mere mortal after all... Mitsunari! Take a good look at Nobunaga! Behold how Sir Hideyoshi... How we were reflected in the eyes of the people in the age of the Toyotomi! There is... no way...! Are those Mr. Devil Kings roots?! You say those countless black hands are the Devil Kings roots? The Devil King has not yet fully resurrected. If we cut them now... Kojuro! Understood. May victory smile upon us. Sasuke! I entrust the Takeda Army to you! Roger that but... Does second in command get a salary? Its now or never! I leave the rest to you, Kojuro! Milord! I beg your forgiveness! I, Yukimura, shall become a sacrificial pawn for the land! Toshi, Matsu, be happy...! I trust that everyone will be united with bonds after Im gone... Wind, Forest, Fire, Shadow; Mountain, Lightning, Water! Smile lightly, light of the east! All I do, I do in the name of love! {Embrace and hold, unravelled hair! snagging the Ah... Finally we can kill each other... Lord Nobunaga... We... cannot perish... For We have already periiiiished once before! Ichi. Dont run away, Ichi! Now is the time to pay close attention. Lord... Nagamasa? I say, it is Lady Oichi. You were still here? Thank you very much for fulfilling your role. I, Tenkai, shall see you off to the abyss! What? Oh my... Um, am I out of alignment? Yes. W-wait a minute, please! Dont Dont eat me! I dont taste good! But! Leave that... for last! Lord...Hideyoshi... For me to fall to ruin here uncouthly, I beg your permission! On my blade: censure! On my scabbard: redemption! Mitsu...nari! Not even a tickle! Now is the time to atone, Ichi. Only you can do it. Lord... Nagamasa. Brother... Lady... Oichi... The Devil Kings... sister... Lets go to sleep. The fifth heaven?!{?! The name for the 5th heaven :|... yeah were fucked on this unless You fool! Ichi will always be with you... These arms... are... comfortable... It cannot be hel {zehi mo nashi, which is old timey for shikata ga nai but idk Hey everybody! Tadakatsu! Heeey! Do not forget your crime of stealing away Lord Hideyoshis future... If you prove yourself to be a unsightly little snake, I shall execute you on the spot. Refusal is not an option. Bring it. Youd be doubling my fun. You are Maeda Keiji? Yeah. I have a favor to ask... What is it? Ill do what I can to help. Someday, I would like you to tell me stories about the Lord Hideyoshi I did not know. Sure. Anytime, no problem. Sir leyasu. What is it, Sanada? I thought I relinquished the name of the Tiger when my determination on this occasion proved insufficient. Mayhaps the one truly worthy of succeeding the spirit of the Tiger in posterity, is you, Sire. I have always revered Sir Shingen as my mentor in spirit. And I revere him as such still. But you are different. Your bonds with Sir Shingen are surely Complete and honest devotion, convey that to the next Tiger. Mitsunari. I hope to someday rule over the country with you with the power of bonds. To succeed the wishes of someone you love dearly... is also and important bond. I shant collude with you. Thats what I thought youd say. So how about this: Why dont we settle this with force? Fine. Lets treat ourselves to our long-awaited PARTY, Sanada Yukimura. I shall take that challenge! GOOD LUCK. Farewell. Come on, everybody! Lets have one last genuinely big fight! Lets decide the winners and losers with no hard feelings! Youre pretty sullen, Mori! Fool... My ingenuity and military prowess are not inferior to yours in the slightest. Dont hold it in! Its written all over your face you want to have a load taken off, so Ill settle things with you! It should be the fond ambition of a pirate to become one with the ocean. I shall make that anchor of yours your gravestone at the bottom of the sea! The battles of the rival warlords continued on without end. Lord Hideyoshi, Lord Hanbei, I beg your permission to commit this act of insolence here and now! Your teachings shall be in this heart of mine for the rest of my life! Will those in control of the battlefield become the supreme rulers of the Warring States, or will they be unable to end the turbulent times even with the passing of the Battle of Sekigahara? I feel I can build a stronger bond with you than anyone else! With you, you who risks your life in pure devotion to someone, I know I definitely can! Only the bonds and the burning spirits of these warriors know the answer. One Eyed Dragon: Date Masamune! Let us fulfill our ultimate oath here and now! BE SATISFIED. Dont let me get a GOAL IN so easily, Sanada Yukimura! {I really cant The Supreme Spears of Heaven! Sanada Yukimura, has arrived! The Head of the Oshu Gang, Date Masamune, The cool and the wild befit this bewitching moonlit night Though drinking in refinement is not a bad match either With a snap of the fingers, light the signal fire or nothing will begin Driven into a corner, cut to pieces, has it already come to this? Living the life of the naked sword means even in the darkness shadows fall behind my back Falling forward as I am tempted to fall back Dont be stingy, show me tomorrow! Party on! Burning soul! Priceless! The partys fire will never burn out Let's dance! Warriors! Lets be honest, its the end of times Isnt being super flashy in good taste now? Pile it on! The only way out of this decisive battle is victory So keep on partying! I am resolved, but every last one of them is too desperate Gotta save room for desert so that even fate is moved The brevity and the deep color of the fading, red twilight layers onto my body Looking from the back of a runaway horse, if its tail is facing east, which way is tomorrow? Party on! Burning blood! Deep in a dream! Drunk on waking up, I can't stop now! Let's dance! Warriors! Go and do it right now! Watching from on high would be a mistake! Seize the searing, shooting star of this decisive moment Living the life of the naked sword, show me the age beyond! Party on! Burning soul! Priceless! The partys fire will never burn out Let's dance! Warriors! Lets be honest, its the end of times Isnt being super flashy in good taste now? Pile it on! Party on! Burning blood! Deep in a dream! Drunk on waking up, I can't stop now! One last round! Don't be stingy now! Embrace the age with elegance because The only way out of this decisive battle is victory So keep on partying!
