 

                        If it was easy, everybody would be good at it. I was told that long time ago by a coach. If you want something you never had before, you gotta be willing to do something you've never done before. That's what I live by. I want to be two-time Mr. Olympia. I have to be willing to do whatever it takes. You know, the record is eight Mr. Olympia titles held by Lee Haney and Ronnie Colman. Arnold Schwarzenegger won seven, Jay Cutler won four. I think for me it's just, I'm already the best at what I do. I had to ask myself a serious question, which was, can I get better than what I just did? And it was like, the next day at a photo shoot, I knew. I don't like the way I look right there. People would say, "Are you crazy? You just beat everybody! You won with a perfect score." But in my heart, I knew, I was like, "Phil, this is just the beginning." Your legacy is not gonna to be dictated on winning one Olympia, it's going to be dictated on how many. For all bodybuilders, the experience is similar. They are an oddity, stares, pointed fingers. They're in a freak show with no circus tent to hide away in. For the 32-year-old champ, it's an honor, an honor that fuels his drive to secure position as the greatest bodybuilder of his day, to prove that his win was no fluke. - All right, take care. - Thank you! There's a lot of people out there wondering, "Can he do it again?" So it's my job to remind them and the world that I am the champion. And I'm gonna be here for awhile. Never gonna stop till I get what I want Never gonna stop, till I get what I need Falling down, knocked out On my knees, a breakdown But I'm holding on, holding on, holding on Pouring out my heart, diggin' out my soul As I'm holdin' on, holdin' on, holdin' on Never gonna stop, till I get what I want Never gonna stop, till I get what I need Never gonna stop, till I get what I want Never gonna stop, till I get what I need You know, it's no pain, no gain Go hard till the end What's the use of playin' a game if you ain't aimin' to win My feet planted in the concrete We in this to the win Quitters never finish Finishers only win Ain't no time for no compromise, ground to the top Comin' from the bottom where the sunshine stop Where dreams get diminished and the daytime's dark And the only light we see is what's believed in the heart Against all odds, all on God, mighta mentioned Ambitions and wishes bent on crushin' competition Never gonna stop, till I get what I want Never gonna stop, till I get what I need Never gonna stop, till I get what I want Never gonna stop, till I get what I need Please take the first-place award, the Olympia Gold Metal, the Sandow Bronze Award, and the title of 2011 Mr. Olympia to our winner tonight... Phil Heath! Bodybuilding falls into this unique category of, you know, being a sport, being entertainment, being a way of life, and being also art. So you have to really have a sense of a sculptor to really sculpt, to mold your body. The only difference is that we in bodybuilding use a certain machine to train the front deltoid, if it's missing, or a certain machines to train the serratus or the intercostals, and an artist or a sculptor uses a chisel and a hammer. But it's all about what is your vision about the way you should look like as a finished product and how do you get it there. You're trying to take your body and sculpt it to where everything is in proportion, everything from right side to the left side is equal, and just being a true work of art. I think the main motivation for me with this whole bodybuilding experience is knowing that there's not such thing as "the perfect body." But I'm gonna chase it as hard as I can. Joe Weider was really the father of fitness. He created the Mr. Olympia contest, and created the International Federation of Bodybuilders, and the Mr. Olympia became the Super Bowl of bodybuilding. What does it mean to be Mr. Olympia? It means to be the best of the best. A great champion is a lot of things. You have to be a role model to a lot of people. You have to carry yourself as a professional all the time. You have to go in and have to train at 100 percent. You have to go to bed every night and say, "Am I fulfilling the task of being the best at what I do?" Like in any sport, you can win it and relax a little bit, or you can win it and stay hungry. Do you really want to, you know, win it more that once? But there's never a guarantee. It comes down to the mind, the will, the determination, the discipline and the motivation. And you have that fierce drive that nothing's gonna stop you. That's what makes you a champion. When you are a champion, you never think you're gonna lose. This is you life, and this is your job. This is your number-one responsibility, your number-one priority in life. All you gotta do is continue to do what you done before. Let them follow you. You don't have to follow them. So, if I try to change up my training system... Why? Why would I change? I am who I am. They are who they are. They may try to change to do what I'm doing, because I have proven that it worked. I'm the leader, I'm the man. Not you, me, and it's okay, because I look good. I think that Phil has the look, the physique, the mindset. I think he has the fire in the belly to be a champion, which is something he wants to do for the next several years. So I think we'll have the next Ronnie Coleman. Phil Heath, also known as "The Gift," is the image of confidence. The Olympia competition is still weeks away. Some of his contenders have yet to qualify, yet he has no qualms about having a suit tailored for his victory. I'm not gonna lie, I mean, I kinda like knowing that when I win, not only I outshine them on stage, but then off stage. Because I know that I'm covering every angle to be better than them. If I go out on the town with the missus, or if I'm going out with the guys, I'm wearing button-downs, you know, I'm wearin' the same stuff, the guy would be like, "How did you fit in that?" I say, "Well I got a tailor, bro." There're always contenders waiting to rise. Waiting for the perfect moment to take advantage of a misstep... an unseen weakness. This is Kai Greene, his nemesis, his enemy, studying every pose. He has 11 weeks to prepare. For me, winning the Olympia is a celebration for a lot of people that at least can share in the idea that well, you know, maybe I wasn't born with the best genetics, or maybe I wasn't born with the most dashing good looks, but there's something to be said for hard work. So, you know, we can say, "Keep your gifts." I work hard. I know how to work real hard. Even if I tear a bicep, I'm still gonna stay on my discipline. Look at me from every angle, and you're not gonna see one piece of my body that's undeveloped. I'm gonna develop symmetry, conditioning, and I am going to whup the ass of anyone that stands there believing that all it takes is genetics. Hard work beats talent all the time. Well, that's what he's thinking. He thinks that hard work is gonna beat talent. When talent actually works hard, it's over. There's nothing that that other person can do about it. That confidence has lead Phil to achieve a greatness few can dream of. But pride and arrogance have been the downfall of many great men. Kai never had a family. His mother abandoned him when he was a teenager. And from that point on, he was raised by various foster parents, moving from home to home. Kai grew angry and aggressive over time. Before long, he found himself in a juvenile detention facility. His story would have ended there if he hadn't discovered bodybuilding. The feelings of being unsafe, feeling unsafe, constantly under threat. I remember I was in the process of being restrained while fighting, my shirt had gotten torn in the midst of the whole demonstration, I'm taking the rest of the shirt and throwin' it off. "Fuck that, what?" You know, you go through this whole display of "I'm powerful, I'm angry, I don't care!" You do this thing, and it was some time after that the teacher, I had bumped into him again maybe a week or so, back in population. He had said, "Hey, you know, you got a physique on you! How you'd like to think about competing against teenagers your own age?" I thought it was a joke. Back then, I never even used to think that I would probably ever even get out of being in institutional placement. It's a lot easier for me to have been identified as an animal. Going to the gym and training, it was probably the single most important therapeutic choice I could make on my own. And the people that were in my life have long since moved on. The one thing that's remained consistent is still, you know, your focus towards achieving this ultimate goal. Texas. Wide plains. Open spaces. Scorching heat. Branch Warren leads a simple life away from the hustle and bustle of the city. I tore my quadriceps tendon, and it completely detached. No one's ever come back from injury, you know, that injury, especially that fast. Most people, it ends their career. I did it in six months. And that was an accident, right? I was walking in the parking lot... in a thunderstorm. And... I slipped and fell. So, you never know what kind of curve ball life's gonna throw at you, right? Some people cry and bitch about it like little girls, you know, and be babies about it. A man, he has issues. He sets it aside, he focuses on what he... what his job is and gets it done. I put my faith in God. You know, I learned from a very young age that no one owes you anything, and there ain't nobody gonna give you a damn thing. But you can have anything you want if you work hard enough for it. What's up? Gotta take care of business in the gym. You're with the boys, so you gotta do what you gotta do. And when you come home, you don't bring that home to your family. Metroflex Gym. Built inside an old warehouse. Produced many of Texas' greatest bodybuilders, including the great Ronnie Coleman, eight-time Mr. Olympia. Now it serves as a training camp for Branch Warren and his training partner, Johnnie Jackson. Yeah, baby! One more, go! Yeah! Come on, get some. Nobody beats you. Huh? I grew up in that gym. I mean, from learning how to fight, to learn how to train, to learn how to be a man. I don't think there's one bodybuilder on this planet that's competed... or even dreamed of competing that hasn't dreamed of being Mr. Olympia. For 20 years, man, I go to bed at night thinkin' about it, and I wake up in the morning thinkin' about it. I think about it when I train. I've accomplished everything in this sport I set out to accomplish. I've got one contest left to win. I'll eat dirt if I have to eat dirt to win this, so... I don't care. You know, you're goin' against the 15-20 best bodybuilders on the planet. We all wanna win. And I'm doing everything in my power to make sure I win. Get out, move. Out of my face. Let's go. Branch is one of those guys who just, I've never seen him do anything right, or efficiently, he just works hard at everything. You look at him train, you're like, "Man, I don't know how you still have any joints left." And that's why it's easy to pick on him. There's just no intelligence. There's no, like, it's pure work ethic, man, which is great. And that's probably nine of the top 10s of guys in the IFBB, is they're doing the same crap, day in, day out, year in, year out, not gettin' any better, but then they think the result is gonna be better. Well, news flash for ya, it's not gonna happen. Take a smarter approach, take a different approach, you know, get better at it, which is why I need... if I wanna compete with these guys and beat these guys, I need to take the most precise, educated, scientific approach possible. The great thing about this machine it's gonna give us, you know, any ounce of fat that he loses, any ounce of muscle that he gains, it's gonna track it. It's extremely sensitive. Ben's faith in his scientific approach to bodybuilding is complete and unquestioning. He has no shame in comparing the failure of his opponents' training philosophies to the efficiency of his own. You ask him to push himself to a certain level, and he finds a way to push past that. And we're tryin' to kill him in the gym, you know, we're really trying to push him mentally. That's perfect. That's perfect, right there. Squeeze harder. That's it, squeeze harder. That's it, perfect! That's exactly what we want, man. That... those last three, four reps, you were activating maximal amount of muscle. That's exactly what we need for growth. Bodybuilding is the most fascinating sport there is in the world. And in fact, this whole laboratory is dedicated to studying bodybuilding. Even NFL linemen, they get big. And they get a lot of muscle. But how in the world can you get massive and get shredded at the same time? This is completely counterintuitive to even science. So, to study how do you do that is phenomenal. I remember it clear as day, Flex Magazine, I was 15 years old at the YMCA in Toronto. And the guy sitting at the front desk brought one in. I looked at the cover of it, and I was like, "Man, that's disgusting, that's gross. Man, I never wanna look like that." For me, it was more along the lines of, well, I achieved my goal, now, what's next? And I achieved my goal, and what's next? So, first I wanna be 190 pounds with abs. Did it. Wanna be 210 with abs, did it. And I just keep pushin', and pushin', and pushin' it. I guess I was just never content, never happy with my body. That's really, you know, where it started for me. Myself as a bodybuilder, should be someone constantly striving to be one percent better every day, you know, whether it be in your workouts, in your approach to life, in your mentality, in your nutrition, how meticulous you are with nutrition. Just being better and better. Pushing your... every aspect of your life. Like, I've always known that Mr. Olympia was something I could do. If I want it, and I set my mind to it, there's nothing that can stand in my way. There you go, man, no pain. - Come on, hit it, there you go! - Drive it! You think this is fancy, let's go, hurry up! Man, there's always somebody trying to reinvent the wheel. I don't care what kind of scientific formulas, or whatever it is you come up with, or nutrition or whatever. There's no substitute for hard, hard work. And the pain and the sacrifice, the sweat, all the hard work, man, when they announce you winner, it's all worth it. Heavy clouds loom over Tampa, Florida. Roelly Winklaar arrives from Rotterdam, Holland, with his trainer, Sibil Peeters. In the industry, she's known as Grandma. But those who've trained with her know her as the trainer from hell. Ah, rattlesnakes. I like snakes because I like how they eat the food, you know? Kill them. And then you eat them, you know? The body's like this and they eat like this, you know? That's the way I like it. They ask, "Where do you come from?" And I say, Curaao. In the face, you can see that they don't know where it is, you know? And I say, the Caribbean. Then everybody know the Caribbean. The two always share a bedroom during their travels, the mobile kitchen and key ingredients traveling along with them everywhere they go. Sibil herself used to be a professional bodybuilder. Put the fish on it. But after the tragic death of her husband, she dedicated her life to training others. Grandma, is my food finished? Is my food finished? Your food is finished. In the Netherlands, I trained like a week with the guys. My body grows fast, you know? The owner asked me if I want to do a contest... I say, "No, I don't want to do that because I don't like the string in your ass! It's not my style. And he says, "It's not string in your ass. The name is posing trunks, you know?" I say, "No, I don't like it." And he says, "I got one option for you. You go on stage, and you win, you can train for nothing, and I'll give you food and supplements." I say, "But, I got one problem. I got nobody, you know?" Everybody told me to go to that woman over there. Grandma. I say "Grandma? Are you crazy, man? Don't let me train with a woman, man!" "Really, she's good, she's good "She's one of the best, you know?" I give her hand, but I say, "Wow, you're a trainer?" I say, "Hey come on, you can talk to me straight away, come on." And then, I find out that he was very, very shy. In Holland, there was an ugly word for him. "Look out, he's lazy. Lazy negro." I say, "Come on, guys!" I trained with him, he's not lazy, the guy is... Go, go, go, go! He's like a machine. In the gym, he's a machine, nobody can stop him. He is "The Beast." My dream is to make a house for my mother. Before my father died, my father wanted to buy a big house for her. But that's not happened. What my father promised her, I make her. Tomorrow, in accordance with the IFBB point system, Roelly must place first or second in order to qualify for the Olympia stage. So Winklaar... Are you nervous for the competition? No. You're always nervous before a contest. It has to be you're nervous, otherwise on stage, you're... No, I'm not nervous because... I know I'm gonna win, you know? Okay. Put down the telephone. You want to put it down? Put it down. You sure? Come on, we have to go to sleep! For a long time, I have been tired, OK? Hidetada Yamagishi has also yet to qualify. Hide must place in the top two in order to advance. If he didn't have a tan, you wouldn't see his definition on stage, you wouldn't see his striations, his vascularity, anything. He would just wash out under the bright lights. You really gotta be dark when you get on that stage. When the guys have to go on stage, and they go white on stage, their muscles look small. When you're painting up, you can see the muscles look very, very good. Ok, bend over When we are finished, we are all brown. Seven. I got nine, Jason. Ten, Todd's here. I got 11, I got 12, I got 13. I got 14, I got 15. I'm missing 16, Shawn? The bodybuilder takes the human form to its utmost visual extreme. The development of muscles isn't just a game of measurements. Perfect symmetry is equally important. I've been up, hit the ground Chased the dirt, hear the sound, in my head, spinnin' 'round But stand up There's no place to go No place to go I've been up, hit the ground Chased the dirt, hear the sound, in my head spinnin' 'round But still, there's no place to go If I can have our top five on stage at this time. Some say I'm lost and never found my way And it makes me wanna lay here with you But I'm always gone Please take the fourth-place award. The check for $1,000... to our fourth-place finisher. Roelly Winklaar! The road to success isn't always straight or clear in this sport. Another loss like Tampa would mean months and years of training have been wasted. This means the loss of prize money and perhaps even a sponsor, the support line for any bodybuilder. Lonely nights, familiar hotel rooms, long-distance calls are the only way to keep in touch with loved ones. At times when the family can't be reached, the trainer is the only person to talk to. Hey, bro, congratulations! Second place, and Olympia qualification. I'm happy, and I'm relieved, you know? Yeah, me too. I knew you were gonna do it, but now it's official. So, we got six weeks to train hard. Alright. Okay, bro, keep in touch, and thanks for calling. Roelly has trouble sleeping most nights. Moments ago, he was told that he has one more chance to qualify, but he'll have to travel back to Europe to compete at the Nordic Pro. Winklaar. You OK? Yeah, Grandma. It's time for your food. Yes. Unless he places first, his journey will end before it begins. Victor Martinez wasn't always an inmate. He was a star, a star bodybuilder on his way to conquer the Olympia title. He was incarcerated for an immigration charge as a result of his arrest for a controlled substance years ago. To actually be in jail and want to live or think of outside, it just makes it all difficult. I had to shut down, there's no making up, it's lost time, that's it. I was disappearing. His stint in jail has left him far behind his competitors. And mounting emotional and financial problems won't make his return any easier. A six-month sentence is a lifetime for a bodybuilder. You're at war right now, with other competitors. And when you do what you have to do from now to the Mr. Olympia, you do what you have to do to win. And as long as you know you did what you had to do to win, nobody can ever say anything bad about you ever, ever. Because you know in your heart, you gave it your all. Coming back now, preparing for the Olympia is... I don't have that feeling like I'm ready. I can't say I walked in and had the best workout. The first time I went in, it was horrible. I'm touching the weights, and it's... there's no connection, I didn't really eat in there, Seven, 800 calories, most of it was through bread and you know, junk food, Snickers bars. I'd say right now, every workout I do is important. Between meals and training, between court-ordered appointments, between his separation from his girlfriend, between all these things, he tries to maintain his sanity. He tries to find time to be a father to his four children. Two boys, which are autistic, and two young girls, all from different mothers I'm backed up on child support, I still take care of my kids, but, they freeze your bank account, they suspend your license and yes, I'm driving illegally right now. So what, what can you do, you know? Let's warm up, after this, we gotta pick it up. I'm not mentally ready, it's... it's bothersome every single day. It's bothering because I'm working on it every day, you know, preparing myself. Pick up your spirit, let's go. Come on, man! We gotta do this. Come on! Great set. I can't keep going like this. I gotta try to pick it up, man. I'm playing with the big boys, man. That's why we gotta push. You'll get back there again. Push it. That's it. Come on! You can do this. You're gonna do this, man. You gotta stay focused. I mean... You want to be on that stage again, right? Yeah, of course. My entire life is the fricking stock market, man! Right now, I'm in a recession. Dennis Wolf wanders through the halls of NBC networks. This is a dream come true for the bodybuilder from Germany. A moment of classic American celebrity, an interview on the nationalized television show. This is his time, his moment to grasp a hold of fame. Welcome back to "The Morning Blend." They're fit, they're strong, but there can only be one! The world's top bodybuilders are competing to bring home the coveted title of Mr. Olympia. I was a big fan of Arnold Schwarzenegger, and bodybuilding, I fell in love right away, when I walk out... you know, walk in for the first time into the gym and that was my thing. People are going to America to have success, the first six months was hard because people are, "Oh, look at this guy, he's probably just lifting weights and that's it. Dumb, stupid," because people have no idea what is bodybuilding. You need someone who can push you, and it's not easy to find someone who can push me, that's why I have Dennis. Your know, every time we train together, he finish me. he's finishing me, and, you know, I'm sore for days. Come on, one more, come on! - Too big pump! - Come on! That's what we're here for! We gonna pump the iron, come on! Slow, Dennis, slow, slow, slow. Slow! That's good and three... Let's go! Hup, hup, hup! Stand up and move around a little. You have to lose that one, I'm really dizzy. Anybody ready to break dance? Almost drowned! Germany, with its cold and oppressive rain stands in stark contrast to Vegas' glaring sunshine To him, America is the chance to become one of the greats. To become an Arnold. To become a star. Wolf's stepdaughter visits him as often as she can. Their relationship is as strong as iron, despite the lack of blood ties. I saw him every day. It's... yeah. I didn't think he's big, it's normal for me, every day I saw him. Everybody should place where they deserve. It's hard when you have so many judges and you have so many great athletes, where the standard is so close, you could throw a coin. You know, apples or oranges, what do you like? You know, it is that close sometimes, "He was great, wow, wow, wow." How do you judge? He has a better smile, he has green eyes, he has blue eyes, he has brown eyes. You know what I mean... it's hard, it's not easy. Every muscle part must be completely perfect. No weak points, we get judged by weak points. If you don't have the better symmetry, the better muscle maturity, muscle quality, as Mr. Olympia, you don't win. Do the double biceps. Try to open up, pull up, pull up... And bend the wrists back a little bit. "Oh, his hairstyle." He's gotta be gay, there's something wrong. I just... something's wrong with that guy, he's just so different! You'll never be a champion. You might win a show but... you'll never be Mr. Olympia!" While others will celebrate, you know, achieving master's and Ph.D.s... I won bodybuilding competitions. And now I stand here, at the top of this experience, looking at winning the highest... title in the bodybuilding world. Turn your wrist in, pull it tight! Flex your hamstrings, pull tight! Pull. Pull it. Pull it! Roll it over a little more, Kai. There we go, pop your hamstring out. Squeeze... all the way down! Bring this up... pull tight, hamstring up a little. Posing is a very valuable tool to build a physique, to build a physique that is historically the physique that is bodybuilding. It's not just enough to go to the gym, and just train, and lift weights. There's an internal connection with the contractions that your muscles make. What I'm really talking about is the presence of the artistic mind that ultimately sculpts the physique. Lower your shoulders, you're doing it wrong. Let's do it again. No, do it again. Suck it in... Legs, legs, legs. You're forgetting about your legs. People always tell me, "Hey, he's looking tired. You let him do too much." But he's always up late on the internet, coming in the gym with a face like this. That makes me angry! It's not allowed... I respect you, you have to respect me. Don't come with a face like this because you didn't sleep. Go to your bed, you have to rest. Let me know when you're finished. You need your energy on the stage, when you don't have it on the stage, you can lose everything. - I know. - In the off-season, do what you want, don't do it in the competition! - What's up, champ? - Dennis James, a retired bodybuilder, and mentor in the eyes of most athletes, doesn't sugarcoat criticism. From posing, to diet, to training, his astute eye can identify any problem. So this time you have to really, really go out there, and you have to nail it... and I talked to a judge who said that you lose two spots on his sheets because of the way you pose, you know what I mean? So this is something you can control. You can work on that. - You can show him. - Yeah, of course. You're here, please help. Now pull it down, like you do a lat pulldown, and now open up... there you go. See, now he has some movement going on. The judge told me this was not coming out, and that's why. You know how you bring that out? Just try this one time. Instead of going right into something like this, try to go up, pull it down, then open up, cause you create music. This is the again what I'm saying, you move, eyes on you. Always start from the bottom, legs, hamstrings, glutes. Now arms, all the way, straight up. Just like... that's it, just like that! That's what I want him to do, see the difference? - You see that? - Yeah. Our third-place finalist, representing Germany, number two, Ronny Rockel. Let's take the first runner-up award and present that to... by way of Poland, number eight, Robert Piotrkowicz. The first-place prize, and moving on to the Mr. Olympia contest... Roelly Winklaar! - Finally! - Finally! Nice job! This what we worked so hard for! Hey, finally... Finally, we made it through. Yes, finally. We are... up to the... - Mr. O. - O, nice! The Martinez family moved to Washington Heights, NY, from the Dominican Republic when Victor was six years old. He grew up in a house with seven sisters, two brothers, an overbearing mother, and a strict, unsupportive father. That lack of support and understanding has plagued Victor's ambitions his entire career. Getting smaller, man! What's up... you're not working out, man! Trying to, I'm gonna get to the gym, man. Good, good, good. Get me a ticket or something, I'll go! Yeah, all right. In 2009, Victor's sister, Iridania, was murdered. Iridania always cooked meals for Victor before his competitions. Her absence affects him to this day. You say "Daddy"? No... So you want ice cream? No? I know you want... Oh! What was that kiss for? That was all for me? Victor loves returning to his old neighborhood, where everything seems so familiar. Familiar faces, familiar places. This is a place he will always call home in his heart, mostly because of his daughter, who still resides here with her mother. Quitting has not been a choice, only because I cannot see myself explaining this to my kids. Right now, I have to provide for my family. I need bodybuilding to survive. - Goddamn! - All right, bro. How are you doin', bro? Fast! Killing yourself down here, already? Yeah, I have to, man. - The only way to go, bro! - No doubt! I'm very proud of you, you hear me? God bless you, bro! My judgment day will be seeing Steve Weinberger. Seeing the judge, and him telling me if I'm ready for the Olympia stage or not. Yeah, look at your hamstrings. I'm telling you, Victor, you have a lot of work to do before you see Steve. Can I get two pounds? - Two pounds? - Yes, sir. It's pretty intense. It's always intense. Somebody may ask you, "Is it that serious?" It's always that serious. I'm a professional at what I do. I'm not a fan, I'm not a spectator, I'm not the person at home, I'm the man living this, if I don't eat like this, I don't make conscious food choices when it's time to make them, every day, all day, then the goods won't be there when I need them to be. This is the easy part. If you can't do the easy stuff, then what do you do when life happens? Things will come and test you. A loved one goes to the hospital. It's abrupt. You feel obligated or compelled to want to be there. You still gotta be in the gym at six o'clock in the morning. You still gotta start your meals, so for you to stay focused, it's not a sacrifice, it has to be a lifestyle. When you're training for the competition, it consumes your whole day... bodybuilders, by definition, most of 'em will tell you are very self-centered and selfish. Even if you're not that type of person, you become that kind of person, because you never get away from it, because your nutrition, when you dieting, for Mr. Olympia, you can't eat out, because you have to weigh your food, you have to have so many carbs, so much protein, so much water... you have to control what's in the food. - What you got? - We got beef, chicken, turkey, beans, potato salad and coleslaw. Like a bunch of marinade and things on it? Not it's just... salt. Cool, man. Damn, ain't gonna be getting none of that today. You can eat seven, eight times a day, like some people. I'm like, "Yeah, you gotta eat a lot of clean food." And then the mom will say, "Yeah, my son eats, he eats everything..." yeah, he's eating everything. That's why he's not lean. Suppose to mix this in a drink, but goes down fine just like this, so why not? Most other people, they go to the store, they'll buy some product. They just... and hoping for the best. They don't know how that actually works. They don't know the science behind those supplements. They don't care, and they're not supposed to, I get that... but, yeah, we're the dumb-dumbs. We're the people that don't know anything, but just bein' a box of rocks with weights, and all this other stuff, we're the meatheads, we're the idiots... we're able to do something that 99.8 percent of the people on the Earth can do, which is lose fat and gain muscle, at the same time. They don't know that we eat seven, eight, nine thousand calories a day. They don't know that we're in the gym two, three times a day, six days a week. Right away, they want to just diminish your work. By going to that one little thing and brush it off, they're saying, "You know what, it's because they're taking steroids." The overall perception of steroids, obviously, is something that cheaters only use. We are realizing now that the truth of the matter is any athlete at the professional or world-class level... is likely using some form of performance-enhancing drugs. Anabolic steroids don't make what professional bodybuilders do easier. It simply allows them to take it to that extreme level. Anabolic steroids are basically testosterone, or testosterone derivatives. So in the body, when you take a synthetic form, it basically gets into the muscle cell, attaches to receptors that are in that cell, and then that turns on genes in the muscle cell that produce more protein. That's the way it enhances muscle size. Many of the athletes simply refuse to talk on the subject. It's taboo. Others are willing to engage in the conversation. Because people... take too much of this stuff, and don't know how to use it, that gives bodybuilding a bad, bad name. The media likes to portray it as being very sensational but steroids aren't addictive, steroids never killed anybody. There's no physiological proof, it's never been shown, it's all what the media wants you to see. Society's reaction to steroids is often hypocritical and judgmental. I think it's a contradiction, to be honest, 'cause most bodybuilders that I know and that I've met are on steroids, or have done steroids, and for somebody who wants to portray themselves as a fit and healthy person, that's not at all healthy. People go, "Ahh, steroids," man... Nobody can do that. Like, it's not easy to do. People don't respect it, they go, "Oh, I can do that with steroids," no, you couldn't. You couldn't do what I do! They come to the gym, never did a workout, and then they find on the internet... steroids... They sell steroids on the internet. Children, 15, 16 years old, they order it... That's what I hate... it's dangerous, very dangerous. If you do something extreme, you can't be healthy, you gotta take some risks. So it's like, you know, like racing... If you go Formula One, you take the risk. Any time that you're using performance enhancers, particularly when we haven't studied them in the lab, to the level that they can be used, certainly, there can be negative side effects. There is issues with kidney damage, There is, what we do know, is that the heart size increases because the heart is a muscle, there's liver issues, it's quite toxic, especially the oral drugs, that's why injectables are one of the preferred drugs for minimizing health risks. I think the best answer is to allow the athletes to use the drugs, but provide medical treatment. Get a group of very competitive athletes together, everyone wants to win, you've got large sums of money up for grabs, guys are going to do whatever it takes to win. The bodybuilders and the professional sport of bodybuilding has gone the next step. Where all of a sudden, the body does not look as acceptable, simply because it's too big, and it doesn't have any talent behind it. And the neck is 23 inches and the calves are 18. The proportion is gone. The audience wants to see a spectacle. When they go to see a show, they don't want to see someone that looks like them, they want to see something extreme. So we have to get huge. We have to go to the next level. You know, is there a limit to growth? Certainly, there's a limit, but I don't know that we found it. They ask the Olympic athletes, if you could take a drug, right now, that would kill you in five years, but guarantee you a gold medal, would you take it? More that 50 percent said "Yes!" They would take it, even knowing it would kill them five years later. This is what these athletes do. This this their lives. This is their livelihood, this is how they make money. This is everything they know. Do you really think you're gonna convince them to stop? As time progresses, the science of bodybuilding advances faster and faster, and with it, the size of the muscles. One more major title this year. One down. One to go! Three, four, five, six... Come on, one way! Eight, nine... Ten! Every rep count! Every rep, come on! Bring the pain! - Six, seven, eight, nine... - Fight it! My physique that I bring to the Olympia this year... it's not the product of three months of hard work, it's the product of over 20 years of hard work. I thought I'd be retired by now, originally. I thought by 36, 35-36, I'd be... I'd be retired, but... You know, I think I've had so many injuries, I've had four significant injuries, since I've been pro, and I think that set me back. Due to the injuries, Branch had to skip the 2010 and 2011 Olympias. Despite this, he continues to live his life to the fullest. Branch, a few competitors said that, "If you're gonna keep working out the way you're doing at the gym, you're going to get injured before the big competition." What do you think about that? They're entitled to their opinion. But, you know, I can imagine who that was, and they ain't gonna beat me anyway, so... they don't really matter. And the thing is, the past two injuries I've had weren't in the gym, they were outside the gym. So, I haven't been hurt in the gym since... C'mon. Let's go! Oh! Goddamn! Ouch! Son of a bitch! Goddamn, guys. The filming stops. Branch's hamstring is injured. His future at the Olympia is now uncertain. I just know that the end of a bodybuilding career is one injury away... one major injury and you're toast. No matter how hard you work, and how perfect you are, one injury and you're done. The days of being in the dungeon, training with your hoodie on, you know, "grunt and cuss" bodybuilder, that eats, sleeps and trains... that's all he does... are over. You have to be able to do other things. I'm more focused now on my career, but of course I think about the years after it because, I don't want to be like, "Okay, now it is over, so let's think about what I can do now." Of course, it would be nice if I could get some roles in the movies, things like this. I just I got a call for a casting tomorrow for an action film, so we'll see... They're gonna fly me in... The movie star! ...with a private jet. I don't want to waste my time trying to be an actor or something, if I don't have the talent for this. There some that have the personality. When I started doing interviews in the '70s, the media always said, "Finally there's someone that loves to talk about the sport," because for years we tried to get interviews and everyone just said, "No, I'm not going to talk," because they were always shy characters, and they'd rather live in a dungeon and work out, and were very impressive, but they didn't want to talk, they felt too shy about it. All these guys say they want to be like Arnold, and be in the movies, and stuff like that. Sometimes, it's like pulling teeth to get these guys to talk. So, imagine giving them a script they actually have to read. - Hi. - Hi. How you doing... oh! Dennis, nice to meet you. So, Emilio Ferrari is directing this movie, and we're gonna start shooting it in October, but it is a comedy, and it's kinda like "Private Benjamin" meets "Legally Blonde." So we can have fun with this, and if you want to try something new, or have improv or anything, don't feel that you can't do that, okay? - So, you are reading for Robert. - Robert, right. Hello, I'm Robert... Hello, I'm Robert Starkey. Wow, you really love this country. - So, here's what... - Uh... the United States. Yeah, I'm sorry. Let's try it again, now there are some parts where you are coughing and mumbling, you know like, you're... So play that a little bit. Hello, I'm Robert Starkey. If you sign this right now, I can't guarantee it... I can't guarantee, by this time tomorrow you will be in sunny Puerto Rico. That was really good and we're probably gonna have callbacks, which I'm gonna bring you back to the director, and that was funny. So just take it and work on it, and we'll see each other later. Thank you very much, it was great. - It was nice meeting you. - Nice meeting you, too. - Thank you. - All right, take care. While playing basketball in college, Phil realized that he would never play professionally, but there was potential in his genes, potential that led him to another sport. That's right. I would say quitting basketball, I mean... It wasn't really quitting, I'll be honest, I just wasn't good enough to play at the next level. Those dreams, as far as like, playing in the NBA, were just... they were squashed. - This is Phil Heath. - Hi, nice to meet you. Good to meet you. At times, nostalgia kicks in. He loved to play ball just as much as he loves bodybuilding now. When the opportunity presents itself, Phil enjoys to return to the court to shoot some hoops. When I decided to be a bodybuilder and quit basketball, I actually marked down the date, it was October 8th, 2002, and then the rest is history... I got bit by that bug, and it was an amazing feeling to know that, coming from a team sport... You know, you're being more concerned with not just yourself, but your teammates all the time, and going against a different type of opposition. Playing basketball, as opposed to bodybuilding, where it's really all about my effort. For me, as Mr. Olympia, it's not about beating your competition, it's about crushing those dreams of those other guys... and that's what I've got to do, I've gotta crush their dreams. It's a gloomy afternoon. Victor travels to the Bev Francis Powerhouse Gym in Syosset, New York, to see a legend, his mentor, Steve Weinberger. Today is his judgment day. - Hey, what's goin' on, brother? - 'Sup, Steve? - How you doin'? - Good, good, how you doin'? I'm okay, how you feel? I'm okay, I've felt better. Yeah... how's it coming along? I don't feel confident. Lemme close the door... too much noise out there. As soon as I got out, I started training, and getting back on my regimen... the training's been good, everything's been good, no injuries, you know, and, uh... Everything's good, it's just, is it "Olympia good"? Is it "Olympia ready"? - Let's see what you look like. - All right. For Rikers Island, you look great, Vic, but for the Olympia... I don't think you'll have enough time, honestly, I'm sorry. If I was you, I would shut it down, and just concentrate on next year. I don't think there's enough time, I'm sorry. How you feelin', Victor? I just don't want to talk, right now. Please, c'mon. Hey, V. Yeah, I just saw Steve. Yeah, I decided I'm not doing the show. He's a guy that's gotten no breaks, with his sister getting murdered, and... this is his second time in jail, and... just all these problems, it just seems that... You never know why some good people never get breaks, and some bad people get breaks. And Victor is one of those good guys that never get a break, and I feel bad for him, I really do. Hide lives a solitary life in Venice, California, near the beach. When he looks across the water, he sometimes imagines he can see home. Though he is married, he spends most of his time separate from his wife, who often travels to Japan to take care of his family... a family that has never fully accepted his life path, nor fully understood it. They don't watch my shows, but they call me and I call them. It's a really hard sport. For me, my thinking is that they can't enjoy their life. I was born, born to be bodybuilder. I'm a bodybuilder until I die. I hope that one day my family understands. People thought that it's just impossible for Japanese or Asian people to step on Olympia stage... Because of their structure or genetics, I don't know... I wouldn't say I'm small 'cause I'm 5'5". But I weigh 220, which is pretty heavy. Olympia. Nice... are you gonna win? - Say yes. - Yeah, I will. Yeah, say "I'm gonna win the Olympia!" Yes I will. I'm still, you know, challenging the title. If I'm the champion, I would say there will be a lot of pressure. There's always that pressure... you gotta be your best, 'cause you're only as good as your last contest, in our sport... No matter how well you placed at the last show, if you do poorly at this one, this is the one everybody remembers... I think that's why a lot of guys fail, is because there's so much pressure. Sponsors drop you. I better be ready, you know. I better be ready to bring it. Here we go! Fight! Perfect! Make 'em grow! Here we go. No pain, no pain. Fight! That's it! You got this, man, no pain! As a competition looms in the near future, the pressure builds. Training and rigorous routines take a toll on the body, as well on the mind. Each bodybuilder seeks out different ways to alleviate the stress. Is there anybody that you're worried about competing against? There's probably two guys in the world who, I think, if they bring their best, and I bring my best, they can beat me. Other than that, nobody's gonna beat me, so I just gotta come with my best. I want everybody to bring their A game, and if somebody beats me, I'll shake his hand, 'cause he outworked me, but I don't see it happening. I met Phil at a mutual friend's restaurant after his second bodybuilding competition, that he won his class, but he didn't take the overall. And I just knew, like, I just saw the... what he was working for, that he was gonna become great, and that everything was gonna go for him. And he's like "Really... you really think I'm gonna make it that big?" and I said, "Absolutely, I think you're gonna go all the way." I'm glad I have a family that can go on this journey with me, I'm not going at this separate, and them just watching. They're there. They'll be there. I'll have the list for tickets for you by tomorrow. Did you spell my name right? I'm just kidding. So here's the thing with Phil and I, we always got along, man... I've never had a problem with him... I was in Denver last year, we went out to dinner, and then I leave, and I hear he was talking shit... and I was like, "Okay, you're a scumbag... you say one thing in my face and something else to my back," that's fine. And to me, that says he's insecure and he's scared. I don't respect his work ethic. I don't respect him as a person, with his attitude. But he's become an excellent bodybuilder. He's not a very good role model for the sport. Is he as dominant as everybody thinks he is? No, he's not... but I've seen him train and I'm like, "Man, his back sucks, his calves suck, his hamstrings suck," man, that stuff, you fix it like this, like, I can't build muscle nearly as easily as that guy, and yet I'm doing it, you know? It ain't all talk when you're on that stage, man. Phil Heath has had a lot of gifts. He's a gift, he's "The Gift." I don't represent gifts, I really don't. He's had a lot of help, a lot of help. It's not like I had people handing me money and stuff. When I first came into this sport, I was working two jobs, unlike him. I don't even know if he has a resume... I don't even know if he knows what that is. Easy, easy. Guess what, Kai? You've been bodybuilding for 20 years. I'm already better than you. You know it, but now you're making an excuse, saying, "He got this, he got that." Each man's body will represent years of focus and concentration. It'll be a great event. You're one injury away from your career being over. I've fought too hard to get where I'm at, to slide back down. I'm not one to lay down and cry about it. I'm gonna take this thing by the horns, I'm gonna overcome it... I'm doing everything I can do, man, I'm 100 percent. Have a dream. Everybody need to have a dream. Have a dream and go after it with everything you got. Time to make Phil look small, Bro. Come on! Make 'em all look small. Yup. They're gonna announce my name, crowd's gonna go crazy, I'm gonna hit my front double bicep, this and that. Crowd's gonna go, "Whoa!" And I'm gonna just... I'm gonna feel... like a true Adonis, man, like a god. But this trophy is mine. Come on, take your shirt off. Yo, who do you think was the best ever? Best ever? Arnold or Lee? Arnold. - Arnold is better than Lee Haney? - Of course. That's a big statement to say on camera! How many, how many, how many Olympias has Arnold got? Seven. How many Lee got? - Eight. - Eight. So who will be better? Arnold, still Arnold! Hold on, wait a minute, so we go back... Then you gotta go with what century you was in or what... It doesn't matter how many Olympias he won. - It doesn't matter? - Doesn't matter. Who's had the best, what year... Who had the best chill body ever? - Ronnie Coleman. - Ronnie Coleman? He was a good one. All right, big... hold on, one thing! Let's arm wrestle. - You lost! - Oh! Olympia, a plain in Greece in the western Peloponnese. The ancient Olympic Games were said to be played on this stretch of ground, and it held the chief sanctuary of the supreme god, Zeus. Now on a stage in Vegas, the supreme man, Mr. Olympia, will be crowned. When I go back and I think of the Olympia, I go back and I think of Arnold Schwarzenegger, when the first prize money was $1,000. And then today, in the 48th Olympia, we're hoping to give out prize money of one million dollars. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Joe Weider's Olympia fitness and performance weekend 2012! Just before the competition, the contenders begin their pre-show preparations. The most agonizing is dropping their water weight. We always need to lose a little bit of water in the last couple of hours before the show because on stage, with all those lights and the tan and the oil, you still look a little watery. If you lose the water, it makes you look on stage much, much dryer because all the cuts, all the separation, coming though more and more, you know? Now I'll introduce the 19 competitors here to vie for the title of Mr. Olympia. Before Olympia, a press conference is held for the contenders. For the first time, but not the last, they are on stage together. What do you think about people saying Phil can't be beat at this year's Olympia tomorrow night? I don't give a damn about what people say. I think I'm a better poser than Branch. Well, I think I'm a better bodybuilder than Dennis. This is a bodybuilding contest, not a dance contest, baby. Going into tomorrow night, I'm crossing my fingers, praying to God that I can be at my best, because my best will be good enough to win another Sandow. No question. I'm happy I'm here, I worked hard for it. You'll see the best package you've ever seen tomorrow night. If you and Phil Heath are 100 percent on game day, who wins? I expect to be the last man standing this year. A fallen warrior arrives in Las Vegas. It pains him to be a spectator, for this sport and its contenders have been his most constant family. My phone used to ring off the hook, you know? Now it's a little quiet and it's... damn, you know? Am I taking it personal? It's like you really can't, you know? It's what it is. Remember, it's... it's a business and if you're not producing, they could just drop you, and that's something I might have to do as well, go into my next show without a sponsor, and that's gonna be one of the biggest challenges of my life, not just coming back from injury or coming back from seven months of being incarcerated, it's gonna be competing as a free agent. That goes into the whole question of, "Does politics exist in bodybuilding?" It's alive and well. The hypocrisy is part of the business, it's part of it. The makings of a champion are elusive. Is it in the genes? Are some destined for greatness while others doomed to mediocrity? Or is a warrior made, forged out of steel, honed from oak and chiseled from the stone of his skilled hands? The Mr. Olympia Competition has been sanctioned by the IFBB since 1965. It alone decides who is the best in the world. I mean, look at this. This is what Mr. Olympia should look like. Thank you, I appreciate it. I saw your wife yesterday. Yeah, yeah, she told me. Yeah, for sure, yeah, for sure. My mom says she saw you too and yeah, you know? We're huge fans of yours, trust me. Come on, Branch. I didn't even get to pump up! Can someone bring me some dumbbells or something? We're back at the 2012 Mr. Olympia. I'm Lane Norton with my co-host, Larry Pepe, and Larry, we talked about... is this the beginning of a run for Phil? If he hits it tonight, do you think he starts to put these guys more in his rear view, and start to build on that momentum and maybe get three, four, five, six Mr. Olympias? I think coming in, we thought the question for Phil is: Is this gonna be that type of performance where you just look up there, you see him and you say, "It's him," and everybody else kinda battling out for second. I think we now feel that it's him and Kai Greene. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Mr. Olympia final results will be based on a combination of both tonight's and tomorrow's scores. The lights flash. The pre-judging begins. One by one, the athletes pose on stage, their bodies are exposed and ridiculed for any failure in symmetry and conditioning. There's just something to be said for the dude that can... Man, he can... He can run up in there with an arm tied behind his back and still... he's still a deadly dude. Man, you still gotta watch out for him! And even with that, this dude is still fighting for his life. And then... slowly... persuade the masses to start to favor him. When you line up the best in the world, it's so easy to judge. When you're right there in person, you see everything. Sometimes a photographer will take a picture and Phil's looking great, Jay doesn't look great, or Kai or Branch, you need to see it all together and also, it's not the clearest of quality on the internet, not like in living color. Being there and seeing it, it's pretty easy. Phil Heath and Kai Greene, right off the bat, seem to separate themselves from the pack. Those two clearly, Number One and Number Two. If there was any question, we answered that in the final call-out when they were the only two brought back, center stage. I think there's a lot of support out there for Kai Greene, there's a lot of people who think that he's winning this contest. Listen to me, you beat him every freakin' shot. Hands down. Hands down, okay? And the feeling was, he was terrible. He was picking your best shots too, side triceps, Back double biceps, you frickin' creamed him. Do you really think that, George? You have the frickin' edge, would I lie to you? It's Mr. Olympia, the best of the best. You saw it. Yeah, exa... Once you start, you know? That was getting close with the whole Kai thing and... Kai starts good, he started getting better until he becomes great and then, and then you shave it down to the top guys and those top guys were Phil and Kai. The drama came in there, 'cause first you go, "Okay, yeah, you know, Phil's walking away with this," then you look, you go, "Wait a minute, this is getting closer than I think." The more you look, the closer it got. I mean, I don't know how much tighter I can get. I wouldn't try to get fuller if I was you. Thank you. I mean, really. There's no way I could be any tighter than I was. I mean, I lose room all the way up past my hip. What else can I do? I mean, you tell me where I can be tighter. I think I was tighter than last year, easily, easily but... I think what I presented was good enough for the win. But we'll wait and see. - Want some water, champ? - No, I'm good. Not always gonna hear what you want. So that's when you exit. Because you don't need to hear negativity right now. If anything, I like to be the guy that smiles, plays nicely, you know? But I'm trying to take your head off just like anybody else. Don't sleep! Okay, now I am starting to get irritated, like, I can't deal with that shit right now. You know what I'm saying? I can't think like that right now. That shit has no importance whatsoever to me winning this show. We won last year with a perfect score. It'd be nice to try to do it again. It would be nice, I mean, I don't know that's Hany's goal. That's mine. It's always a goal to try to win. To win, perfect score. I mean, this is definitely a hard focus right now, there's no soft focus at all. Like, this is definitely very serious. When you start stressing, your body starts changing. And just... and a lot of people who've done competitions have looked absolutely amazing, and then, all of a sudden, the stress hormone kicks in, and their bodies just kinda fade away and they don't understand what happened. This is not where you let off the gas, either. I'm gonna have to get going. Catch your breath, that's right. - Huh? - Catch your breath. Come on! That's right. Yeah, if you want. I know I'm the champ. I don't have to keep saying it. They know I'm the champ, too. My title is Mr. Olympia. Theirs isn't, and they're trying to get there? They've gotta fight me all day. There's no way I'm gonna lose. The champ takes a moment to drive through the streets of Vegas to clear his head. The most important battle of his life lies here moments away. The battle that will define him as a competitor forever. As you know, it's Olympia weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, bodybuilding fans from around the world, welcome to the 48th edition of the fall classic, the Mr. Olympia! For those that was here last night, you saw one of the most exciting pre-judgings in Olympia history. Because once again, folks, only one person can hold the Sandow and only one man will be crowned Mr. Olympia. Mr. Olympia is my dream, my life dream. I can't think of anything else that will ever happen to me again in my life that will mean as much to me, because it was nothing but sheer will, determination, and stubbornness. I knew from the time I was 18 what I wanted to do in life. I set goals for myself. I've accomplished every goal I set out for myself, except for one, and that's win the Mr. Olympia. I'm training for this title, I want to win this title. My daughter is my biggest fan, she's always at the Olympia, she always wants to be there and I won my first show where my wife and my daughter were together there watching us, and that was amazing, you see the girls crying, because they are so happy, it's amazing. You know, in Japan, nobody really challenged it before me. I thought I was going to be the first one really to challenge the top. I want to prove that bodybuilding is not all about size. It's a dream for every bodybuilder to stand on the stage for Mr. Olympia. It was my dream. It was my dream, and I make it true. Everybody can make it true if you want it. From Brooklyn, New York, comes a predator. Ladies and gentlemen, Kai Greene! When I was younger I'd leave the cold institutional facility, go to a bodybuilding show, and I'd stand there on stage with athletes, teenagers, that had people at home invested in seeing them succeed. You'd hear a very proud mom or pop, sitting in the third or fourth row and then there was you, no mom, no dad, there's nobody gonna be sitting in the audience, proud of you, but you were proud. You took pleasure in beating those guys that did. He's your reigning and current Mr. Olympia, "The Gift," Phil Heath! They only nitpick the best. They only criticize the best. They do! In all sports, they do. Because it's hard for someone to say, "He's just perfect and we'll never talk about him" They have to say something! Did they announce it? - Did they announce the Top 10? - No. I'm just gonna go. As I call you out, that means you're in the Top 10, if you need to go see Pro Tan, get greased up, go down and do it, then we'll get you up there. In numeric order, please, gentlemen, Can I have Branch Warren, Tony Freeman, Johnnie Jackson, Evan Centopani, Lionel Beyeke, Dexter Jackson, Shawn Rhoden, Dennis Wolf, Kai Greene, and Phil Heath. Once again, Branch, Tony, Johnnie, Evan, Lionel, Dexter, Shawn, Dennis, Kai and Phil. That's our Top 10, thank you, gentlemen, we should have you on stage in roughly 20 minutes. Roelly, sorry, brother. Fuel for next year, baby! Come back next year. All right let's bring out our Top 10 back on stage. Gentlemen! Hey, we've got one more call. I need Phil and Kai back. That's gonna be it, group. Okay, now. Quarter-turn to... no, wait, hold on, stop it. No, wait, stay back on the line both of yous. And do me a favor, take two steps to your right. Do me a favor, take a step apart from each other, there's plenty of room. Gotta stay on the same side, come on, a little bit of room between yous. Come on, Phil, take one more... yup, thank you! Okay, now, front. Front double bicep. Come on now, front double bicep. And relax. Relax, front lat spread. Okay, both, front lat spread. And relax. Either side for side chest. And relax. Back double bicep. And relax. Face forward. Your favorite most muscular. And relax... and relax. Okay, thank yous very much. This concludes our confirmation round. All right folks, here we go. Are we ready for the awards? Aileen, please take the sixth-place award to our sixth-place finisher. Dennis "Big Bad" Wolf! The fifth-place award, Branch Warren! The fourth-place award, "The Blade," Dexter Jackson! The third-place award, "Flexatron," Shawn Rhoden. And now, ladies and gentlemen, in Olympia tradition, Kai Greene, Phil Heath, center stage, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a one-point decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the next name I announce will be the winner of the 2012 Mr. Olympia! Come on, baby! When I did find myself in institutional placement, the cold, oppressive feeling of, like... Like you don't matter and you may never, ever, ever matter again. I began to talk about competing in the Olympia one day. I really did not develop Plan B. But I didn't, I didn't. I didn't just talk about it, it's like... I really believed that it was gonna happen. Phil Heath! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Olympia, Phil Heath! I didn't get any sleep, trust me, over the past 48 hours, because I knew that these guys were all champions and I knew they were bringing it. Man, it feels freakin' good to be king up in here, man. I can't even lie. Did you feel nervous for a second, like it was close? Did you feel at any point nervous? I think I was more nervous yesterday. 'cause I felt that after the first round, I thought it was lights out, and I kinda eased up off the gas, and that allowed allow Kai to get more confidence and to start making up ground on me, and it showed. I mean, I could tell. And it was like the power was going to him. Well, today I realized what his game plan was, and I just figured, I gotta let it all hang out. This is my town, this is my show, this is my title, this is my throne. And I refuse to give it to anybody. They're gonna have to fight me for it. I know that I pushed him to his best look, and I knew I'm gonna go against their biggest punch, but like I said, wait till I punch back. What's next for Phil Heath? What are you gonna do? We're gonna party tonight, man. We're gonna party. The title was within his grasp. A point away. The smell of victory teased his nostrils. You know, no one's gonna give you anything. You gonna have to work for it. I didn't come there expecting gifts. I came there willing to work for it. And I believe that any man that is willing to work hard and labor long can attain the goal, as long as it's realistic. I've seen enough feedback that lets me know that this is not unrealistic, it's not impossible. We got a chance to see the champ bleed. And he bled. He's still bleeding. Whatever can be forced to bleed against its own will can be killed, it can die, it can be beaten and you know, um... We got more work to do, you know? We got more work to do. Never gonna stop till I get what I want Never gonna stop till I get what I need Falling down, knocked out On my knees, I break down But I'm holding on, holding on, holding on Pouring out my heart, digging out my soul As I'm holding on, holding on, holding on Never gonna stop till I get what I want Never gonna stop till I get what I need Never gonna stop till I get what I want Never gonna stop till I get what I need Shaking out myself, listening to me Breathing out, breathing in, breathing out Closing my eyes, looking inside To see again, to feel again To live again Never gonna stop till I get what I want Never gonna stop till I get what I need Never gonna stop Never gonna, never gonna stop Never gonna stop I've been up, hit the ground Taste the dirt, hear the sound In my head spinning 'round But still there's no place to go No place to go I've been up, hit the ground Taste the dirt, hear the sound In my head spinning 'round But still, there's no place to go No place to go Some say I'm lost and never found my way And it makes me want to lay here with you But I'm always gone I pray Take these demons far away Put 'em in the ground, will not be renowned But they always stay Always I've been up, hit the ground Taste the dirt, hear the sound In my head spinning 'round But still, there's no place to go No place to go I've gone to every one of the vendors and I can't find it! Can't find my T-shirt! But when I find it, I'm gonna put it on eBay and some bodybuilder will pay maybe a few dollars for it for their collection.
