 

                        You know what My first memory? two I feel special, The first time defequei, I cheered, When we are drawing in crayon, It was like a Picasso, Golden Seals for everyone, C + in Physical Education? exemplary frequency? Hey, here's 100 bucks, When we got a new phase in the game, we won the Olympics, For children of my generation, Strike three means one thing, Take your base, Care, world, here we go, Subpack by: LAPUMiA Here it is, Closer, closer, That, Look at this, You are so cute together, Beautiful, So, Jillian, Will told us to start working Johnson & Johnson, This is fantastic! Thanks, Yes, I'm excited to get started, Sales Analyst It seems incredible, Junior Sales Analyst, But the "Junior" is only until Christmas, And Will finally getting paid in LA Weekly, Very good, you two, I know, I told you, We are a power couple, Will, here is a little help to get started, Thanks Dad, Thank you mom, Will, I told you which was my first job? Tomato was stacking boxes in a warehouse? Exact, It should be about 40 degrees inside that warehouse, - You know what made me endure? - Air conditioning? Air conditioning, There was an office that had loud air conditioning, It was the warehouse supervisor, And I told myself there: I do not know how I'll do, but I am able to that office, That guy does not enfartou, Dad? It was an aneurysm, The point is that I worked to be responsible for the entire network of supplies from North America, I am proof that there is nothing you can not achieve, Exactly, And that's why I say this bid LA Weekly It is only a stepping stone for me because it will dominate the network editing them, I have videos, live blog, interactive content, I am creating my brand, Brand? You spent the money on a TV? This is one of the largest TVs available in the market today, Seventy inches, What? You want to know why we are not living together? Example A, Hey, J it? It was his sister at graduation? - No, - Are you sure? I saw, like, hugging their parents and giving to your dad a ,,, I mean, can you give me her phone? That's iPerseguidor? It is iProcurador, if you can take care of your things, What is iPerseguidor? The iProcurador? It's just an application I'm developing, Imagine you have someone who wants to find but do not want to be found, Like, there's a girl, and called her a million times and she never returns your calls? My application allows you send a text message and receive the exact person's location, then there is no place to hide, sister Jillian, no where, No, I will not give you her number, I will find your sister, You will end in iCadeia, iEstuprado being, And I will give account iPerseguidor the IP, You even have a job, I have a business degree, Unlike you, I have marketing skills, Unlike you, I have a job, I have nine interviews this week, Today is Morgan Stanley ,,, And Great Pacific, I love you all, Stay safe, - Good luck, man, - Good luck, Excuse me, ma'am? Would you like to join me? Hello, we met? I'm Jillian, Stop bugging me, Charlie, Just once, smoke with me, Open an exception, We're celebrating, Charlie managed a job today, McDonald's or Taco Bell? Chemistry teacher in high school, I'm sorry for our future, Take me from behind! Take me! Hey, Brian, Hi, Will, Look good, man, We do not have a job for you, What you mean? I say that we do not have a job for you, We decreased, Yes, but I'm perfect for employment, Sorry, Will, Thank you very much, Look, Brian, I have three episodes ready to launch, "Where to find Best Steak Machaca " "As Pedaling in Rio LA" "Why is Ultimate More complex than chess, " You're not alone, I had to dispense eight people last week, Why did not you tell me? Honestly, with everything going on here, I just ,,, forgot, Good, You forgot? I spent two summers free inside to have the job you expected after graduating and you forgot? I already told to all on this job, I told friends and family and my parents about this job, and you forgot? Well, you know what, Brian? You can not do that, man! I deserve to be treated better than this, And I think you owe me a little more than "forgotten," Will ,,, I do not owe you anything, System administrator? Do not, Nuclear Piping Technician, You do not have much experience with pipe, so ,,, I'm very, Charles, Ask your mother, Burn, Burn sick, Administrator Assistance Unemployment, Yes, do it, It will be ironic, Is not it ironic if all the time, You know what's all the time? Blow in the bag and deaths, Do not play dirty, man, Dude, honestly I have no idea about what it means, Well, better find out soon, The lease expires Friday, I know, I just need something to ensure the light until I find the dream job, I do not think can monetizing masturbation, Very good, There's something in the hospital industry, You have no specialization in the medical field, Have a gun in the drawer, but probably will not need, Okay, good night, boy, There are black people on this boat! I'm sorry, You're the newbie? - Yes, I'm new, - Skeezy D, Will, Three bedrooms, Keep the change, Girl, you better take good care of this guy, He was in Vietnam, Korea, Between there and enjoy, Hawkeye Pierce, Hell, Cheryl is one of my best girls, - Work hard? - She is right, Where to meet? I met her on my last tour, That was ,,, when? Borders, The Borders Bookstore? Listen, man, the business went bankrupt, beauty? All were out of work, I had to get out of there fast, So why Skeezy D? Men who hire prostitutes They are not paying for sex, Will, They are paying for danger, they are paying to feel alive, Hey, motherfucker, better pay my bitch who owes, They are paying for a certain joie de vivre, Joie de vivre? It's French, I am not resisting arrest! I am not resisting arrest, I'm not! Bitch had a deal! I was renting rooms for prostitutes? Skeezy said they were here ,,, No, this is not the kind of establishment I have here, Read the warning there, boy, Says banned prostitution, This certainly includes prostitutes, You are fired, Sorry, officer, I just need to be more cautious with whom I contract, - Do it, - Yes, I will, Thanks for everything, cop, Sorry, kid, I Think shit left for you, you know? You got it! You will be fine, Son of a bitch, Hey, Dad? I need to ask you for money, Will, you're an adult now, I will not give you more money, Father, what will I do? You want me to sell my body in the corner? No more life lessons, man, I'm broken, I have no money for anything, I lost my job, Are you serious? I'm afraid so, What happened? Apparently, I was so successful optimization the beverage production chain I did, made my job obsolete, So what will you do? I'll get a job, I follow methods, I remain positive, and in the meantime, I can do all the tasks for which I never had time, GENTLEMEN RIVER CLUB You have to live life together, The top one percent, here I go, babe, Fantastic, This guy got a job, Called Top Deck Securities, Beginning next month, If I say well, I will be making transactions in December, From this point on, will be coffee and cocaine to me, baby, You give change for a dollar? No, stay, you worked hard, You have one incredible amount of torque, You deserve so more money than that, but I have a teacher's salary, If you want to see the show, you have to pay, No, I'm here for the free buffet, The buffet is free because you should They are spending money on me, I think I found an opening, Your friend has personality, He is unemployed, So pay it a dance in his lap, Anime it, Would you like to meet her one day, Do not get pregnant, Look, I have a girlfriend, - Will! - Oh no! - So, are you looking for work? - Yes, What would you do if you won the lottery and never have to work? I do not know, What is your passion? What love do? I like to do funny videos on YouTube, If enjoys making videos on YouTube, why not try one corporate job? Corporate? Yes, I do collaborations, Listen, baby, when you're starting, It must be flexible, You know what we do, Hamilton? Stock transactions, Wrong, We make money, This is Hamilton, It will be our scribe, I had to resign that other imbecile because, good, I could not look at his face, Spend all your requests for him, Wait, I have to meet requests? - More than you think, - That's right, Cross the street, Bring me three expressed, Three tablespoons of sugar in each, Not that Splenda, the true, Go to Fatburger, bring double 12XL's with extra cheese, twelve chips with cheese, nine milkshakes, Go to 7-11, bring me 25 tickets Lottery Black Cherry, Fifteen Top Grand Prix, You the scrapes, From bottom to top, odd first, Go! Go! Go! And I better win! What are you doing? I need a sexy video of you, I think not, I have an appointment to donate sperm, What? Your best idea to pay the rent It is masturbating in a bowl? I am a talented masturbator, I will not know what's there with you, At school, you always had a million things to do, his energy was contagious, It was what I loved you, And now, it seems that you are just It is taken, doing things in the meantime, - Not you,,, - I found a job counselor, Oh really? A counselor? And it excited me ,,, about, you know, come up with a strategy and she said to keep me flexible, and so we decided to focus on corporate work video, I sent resume, interviews should start next week, Come here, You remember the Ultimate Frisbee? Not the District, the Regional? My pass 45m pro Sullivan? It was a cross ,,, I do not know what we're talking about, What I say is not to worry, I'm at my best when the going gets tough, This is not school, Will, Please, I need to be strengthened, Thirty years a company, An employee sees it, and they see a dinosaur, Well, I can not say I do not agree with you, - Fernando, - Fernando, - Is Fernando? - Fernando, You should do what you can to pretend to be younger, Starting with the beard, A query image is included in the Platinum package, We will give you a position, a place to go every morning, we will make a resume video that will put you ahead of the rest, But all this It is only a preparation for the main event, Wilheimer has a placement rate 85%, Mr, Davis, How do you think we do this number? - Well, I ,,, - It's a rhetorical question, While all are out there wasting time satisfying the average level in Human Resources, Wilheimer put you in front of the person you pull the trigger and hire you, The decision-maker, The decision-maker, That's it, - Liked it, - Good? To begin, how much are we talking? The platinum package It is a single payment of $ 30,000, Not serious, how much are we talking? Hello, Hard day? What? Do not, No, no, A hard day's only a great day that was not realized, Well, then leave you on with a little Rockin 'Moroccan, It's cool, I'm Cammy, What's your name? - Roger, - Understood, To go, please, Hello? Hey love, how are you? I am in the office, The music, Yeah, well, I ,,, It's ,,, it's ,,, You know, Jerry, he is trying to cheer ,,, I have to go back for the meeting, dear I see you in a few hours, okay? Love you too, Kiss, It was my wife, Well, look, we have free WiFi and taken three pins available, So,,, And do not worry, Rog, No one here has a job, Thank you, Children can begin, The objective of this experiment It is to create a uniform coating, No other singe and without cold spots, I'm serious, Dijon, And remember, do not look to the flame for a long time, because ,,, will steal your soul, Let me see, It is close to perfection, Mr, Baxter? Stop calling me that way! It's Charlie, all right? Okay ,,, Charlie? For all our experiments involve making food? I get the munchies after the break, Any more questions, Sergeant Buzzkill? Do not, - Mr, Baxter? - It's Charlie! My basketball coach the sixth year resigned, Are you interested in the job? Sorry, I look like someone that is with a lot of free time? Are extra hundred a week, They thrive under my umbrella! WILHEIMER GROUP Tanya Sellers, human resources, Sorry for taking so long to return, We received about a thousand resumes for the videographer position, I was glad you called, Katherine Dunn oversees Our video services, but it is in China in a conference then you will get a direct flight to the decision-maker in person, Lawrence Wilheimer, He is a legend in business integration, He revolutionized the game, - Make sure to check your package, - Your retirement? The package-package it, He is well-endowed like a minotaur, Thick, William Davis? Yes sir, Extensive experience in all aspects video production? Could you elaborate more? Well, sir, for the past seven years, I have been producing original content videos to YouTube, - YouTube? - Yes sir, I think YouTube It is the perfect training to produce curricula video that really stand out, And customers executives firm South Carolina They deserve this type of curriculum, Those who hold the attention the employer and the handling, even if they say "I give up," Then hire William Davis and your customers will ,,, Hire William Davis and their customers will stand out above the rest of ,,, I'm sorry for that, Hire William Davis and your customers will be highlighted and this is what you want, right? My girlfriend and I are having a fight, Mind if I ,,, What could be more important? Thank you sir, That's what I said, And I sent, So where were we? I was showing you the door, Mr, Davis, It's there, Right, Thank you, Look, sir, I mean, I do not think, do not know if this is appropriate to the subject you're looking for, but I think this demonstrates my skills to recognize what is unique on an individual and as use it to market, What is your business philosophy? It's all consumer satisfaction, We are basically a factory Burlington coats, Hookers, I sluts custom, Did you understand what I said, For $ 5,99 you can book a whore, Hey, be careful with that, man, I really do not like those guys, - Do not trust them, - Watch your digital, Really dude? It's a hell of a TV, What's up man? - Thank you, Thank you bro, - Use an HDMI cable, Do not use,,, Take care of my TV, bro, - Hello, this is Will, - Will, Tanya, the Wilheimer, - Are you calling for my interview? - Of course, - Mr, Wilheimer charging fees? - You're in, player! - What? - You are in, starting salary of $ 26,000, benefits partial health after 90 days, Calm, saying that I have a job? - That's what I'm saying, - Oh, you, wait, wait! Wait, wait! Stop it! Hello? I have good news, Tell Will he have the job so pass the drug test, drug test? In multiple choice? - Will, - How are you, father? - What's it? - I got a job, That's great! I know, It is a place called Wilheimer, They enter the labor, I know, I heard good things, I just need one thing, and I am ready to go, You have smoked marijuana? I am an occasional user, I never smoke and drive, You want me to pee in that bottle to pass a drug test? Damn it! Father, I have no one to ask, I'm hanging by a thread with Jillian, plus they can detect gender, Ethan is sick, Luke is not pure and Charlie is radioactive, What should I do? Get new friends, I have a job A real job in a real company, the type of job that comes asking me to have for years, and if I do not get a immaculate urine mug, is the return to the dole, It's what you want? No, it's not what I want, Know this, Just do not feel good about doing it, - Air-conditioning, so ,,, - No, It was about 40 degrees that warehouse, you did what you needed to get out of that ground, That's what I'm doing, That's what I'm doing, I'm doing what I said, - What happened to you? - A strain, Pounding that pussy, Sending see it, is not it? No, I was at the gym, Sending see the weights, Okay, ready to make it rain? Ready as ever, What are you doing? It is necessary for me to stay here if you try some noise, Okay, will enter the cabin also with me? No cabin, baby, You'll have to put it out right here, I'll be right back, listening closely, Okay, I'm shy bladder, It's a shame, because you have 30 seconds, from now on, If you are having difficulty, think of waterfalls, Or fire hoses, strong gushing water, Twenty-two, twenty one ,,, Think of things ,,, gushing, Or squirting, Eighteen, seventeen ,,, You know, I'm a ejaculatory, but only if I am comfortable with the guy, Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five ,,, That's enough, I'm coming, I managed, Hi-ho, Silver! My God, Wow, Face,,, I should get a job more - That's right, - That's right, It was amazing, I have something else for you, - From behind? - Yes, - I'll put my belt, - Right, You will love, What is it? I can see? Yes of course, Oh, dear, My skill set allows me seamlessly integrate a range of management structures, which makes me highly qualified for the current market, I found that dealing with people It was my main talent, I have a lot of charisma ,,, A common man sees everything as a blessing or a curse, A warrior faces a challenge, Who are you? exciting material, Yes, fascinating, Just follow the script and will do well, Customers choose between three funds, Horizons, also has office and bookcase, Office and bookcase, right, I made a video here once, and I was not the only one, Okay, Thank you, Thank you, Sr, Wilheimer, I would thank you for the opportunity, Well, we are always looking for new talent, Will, Just one thing: You could put me in touch with the guy of your video? Yes, sir, in six months to a year, depending on good behavior, What the hell? What the hell? How can you be so bad? Ball, Right, Kwan, let's review the basics, Pass and go! Jesus Christ, Very important, someone has shown you how to set the vision? No, Prepare to bring pain, Hamilton? Come, This is the essence of deer, I use it in the forest when I hunt, I use here when I think the clerk You are ready for your own table, - Drink it, - Money talks! Hang on, Go ahead and let him make your own choice, You want your own table? Or you want to be a clerk the rest of your life? Your decision, I bet drinking deer semen deer semen? Drink, Drink deer semen deer semen deer semen! I think it's coming back, $ 500 which he will vomit, Breathe, I taste like? It tastes like nuts? Is Bambi juice, Give to me, Lets roll, Great, You saw the arch that made? You can not do anything, sucker, Okay, people, you will want pause to see this, What are you doing? - What's up man? - It is a game of Halo, I have something to show you, Come on, get out! It better be good, My God, Man, I thought more bottles in my chemistry class, I put my little ones to work, Nice, What's the special occasion? - We're celebrating my desk, - That's right, - And I buying an island, - You are not buying an island, - No? - No, Because I met someone who knows partner of Warren Buffet, I will offer it some shares of my company in exchange for the Warren Buffet cell, I will use the iProcurador in Warren Buffet, will get access to billions of dollars in venture capital, I buy my island and I popularei with porn stars, Forgiveness for having doubted, No, you did not know the plan, I did not know the plan, Rick, how are you, man? Will, this is Katherine Dunn, Services Vice-President, It is good to have her back, Prepare to be amazed, because I'll take the video resumes to another level, all right? Ready? People think that counters is a bunch of nerds, but I am a jazz lover, I like to think that the tax code It is my instrument, I'm Tom Wilson, the TomWilsonContador with It was somewhat shocking, So what we think? I think it makes him younger, Yes, so far, I thought Tom a total rumor, This is a firm professional insertion, Mr Davis, no MTV, Yes, no one will hire this guy because of his personality, It needs to look professional, Everyone always liked the old curriculum, so ,,, It seems that you mistook this video as an opportunity to express yourself, Mr Davis, From now on, you will follow the protocol to the letter, Yes, I found the protocol a bit limiter, I wrote the protocol, Mr Davis, And while I have you here, there are some problems of conduct that apparently need explanation, you keep a professional look, This means a suit and a tie, No tennis, No khakis, It does not mean that rag poorly washed calling shirt, Got it, Understood? Understood? AND,,, While I was out, I received several of your emails "for All" They were unsuitable, offensive, and above all, some bland, No one wants a slipper birthday to you, Mr Davis, And finally, I looked on your Facebook page and I came across this sordid image, I was there for the buffet, You are an employee this company, Mr Davis, Your behavior must match exactly with the firm's standards Executive Insert Wilheimer, Understood? - Understood, - Understood? Understood, Hi, Pearl, Roger Davis, Mr, Gentry is? He's not? It's all right, Do you know if he has already made a look at my resume? Regional Distribution Manager, Scanner Division and Disk Copy? No, Right, Do you know if he received the shipment Coffee Rockin 'Moroccan that ,,, Hello? Hello, buddy, Come into my office, Cammy, come here, This is Will, Will, this is my friend Cammy, Hi, Will, How's work? - Good, - Nice, Father, what have you done with your beard? Well, I lost two jobs in a week for people in their 30s, Cammy then volunteered to make me look ten years younger, Dye Crow Gothic, what do you think? IT IS, Cammy, you have helped he posts on Twitter? Rog does not need any help, IT IS? I think Rog need a little help, "My friend Jim lost his mother yesterday, RS, Jim, " What? "Roger feels" for your loss, All right, you want another, Rog? Can bring, A to Will Also, please - Yes - I'm okay to be who you are, So what? Well, my supervisor came back and she is a walk in total bag, I mean, she's teasing my emails, my Facebook, I dress in front of everyone, It was humiliating, Wait, that's not how you dress at work, is it? Father, I am the face of the video, Who cares how I dress? Look, stop a bit, okay? Take a second, Your customers pay $ 30,000 for their services, They care about how you dress, You need to fit in their standards, not the opposite, And the fact that you can not understand is that is intriguing, What's up with you? What's wrong with me is that I sent hundreds of resumes and I got only three interviews, What's wrong with me is that I do not want you hear whimpering his boss makes him act professionally, That's what's wrong with me, Okay, Dad, Excuse me to say how I feel, I did not know why I have a job, and you do not, you do not listen to me, I'm listening, but all I hear is spoiled brat claim! Right, You look like Billy Mays, - I look like Willie Mays? - You look like Billy Mays, Who is Billy Mays? If you are talking about someone, make it clear! What do you think? sexy, Very, very sexy, They are Prada, It costs $ 779, I know, I just ,,, Just wanted They take me seriously at work, All you are serious, - You take? - Yes, they take, In the second year, we are training Ultimate Frisbee in the lounge, Ethan comes in and says there is a problem I need to solve on the floor below, So I go down the stairs and I see this small person pajamas and slippers, and she is very brave, I was trying to study, The moment I saw you, I knew you were someone to take seriously, What will respect to work, Will? The Buffet Mode Have a great day, boys, TACOS SNACKS It's raining in earnest, - Look at you, - Yeah, right? Look at you, Yes it is, - It's cool, - Thank you, Well, there's something good here? Everything is good here, - Same? - Yes, I wanted two pork burritos with beans, four steaks and two beers, What are you doing? - I am paying,,, - No, today's on me, This was my first machaca steak, Great, Father,,, Sorry about last week, And me too, Can bring us beer, please? Two shots of tequila? Let chapar, Cheers, Drink it, Damn it, - Saw? - It's all right, Father knows why we doing this? - Because? - We're doing this for ,,, What's his name? Your,,, My boss? James Gentry, The decision-maker, Okay, so James Gentry you know who you are, Yes, Who I am? You are a great man, You supported me all my life, father, Let me return the favor, Please - Right, - Right, Ready? - Do it again, that means no, - Right, I'll start recording, Go, My name is Roger Davis, I am very punctual, true, God, I'm terrible at it, God, I need to do something productive, Something of value, That's what really matters, You know that the work has always been More important to me than for anyone I know, It's just, I love, I love, I just need to get and see employers understand? Mano a mano, and if they can just know me, just a little, then they will know why should they hire me, This is the goal, This is the goal, Oh, sorry, I am philosophizing here, Okay, we need to do this, Right, No, we did, - No, I'll try, - Father, another time, Right, - If I drink more of these ,,, - No, - This is not going anywhere, - We still have six more, Yes, You did that on purpose, did not you? - Certainly! - You did, You too, Good afternoon, Mr, Buffet Wow, You must be thinking how I knew that would be in the city, As you read in L, A, Times? Indeed, by use GPS triangulation, my application, iProcurador, It allowed me to send you a message and get back its exact location Bringing me here to this cabin, That's incredible, You know, Foursquare already does this, right? No, you did not understand, Foursquare allows you tell others where you are, My app tell me where you are, even if you do not want me to know, It's a revolution, sir, all right? I'm telling you, if you say yes right now, I promise to you 50-50 in our company, 60-40, You bargain high, sir, 65-35, Last offer, You know, Liked it, Liked? Let me tell my team, My God! I knew I would like it! You are the Oracle of Omaha! You are a visionary like me, sir, this is amazing, this is ,,, What is it? What the hell? Who has security while defecates? What the hell is wrong with you, Buffet? You can not hide the iPerseguidor! Buffet! Double dose of white chocolate mocha with extra cream, Where are we in the video Frederick? Scheduled for tomorrow afternoon, I was relying on a particular time tomorrow afternoon, Say no more, I will be today until late and show you early tomorrow Will? There will be changes here, Changes? I'm taking the Wilheimer 21 Century, There will be a new post, Vice president Corporate Communications, Keep up the good work and the vice president will be you, - Hi, Fernando, - Fernando, - Pardon? - Fernando, Fernando, right, Tanya said I should talk to you, About what? I have extra work I need to do tonight and need help, You want me to do your work for you? No, no! What I'm saying is she said I should talk to you about, you know ,,, I have ADD, Did you know that there are two Fernandos in this office? Fernando Little, Director of Client Services, Leader of Sales Division three years ago, and Fernando, the caretaker, My mother, she's a psychiatrist, I leave you on what you need, These are drugs, I saw you last night, With your father, Do not tell anyone, right? It was close to my father, Your words, they touched me, I'll take this to my grave, Now, someone with extra work, - I recommend ,,, - Dexedrine, sexy, I found that dealing with people It was my greatest talent, Then he would deliver ,,, He began delivering ,,, and finally,,, And then finally ,,, Because I have a lot of charisma, My only ,,, my only ,,, Make me different, Highly trained, Highly qualified for the market, Lawrence Wildheimer am and I am old, I do not understand technology because I'm old, It will then clear the history my browser every day, Who is the decision maker? - You, You, You, - That's it, - Will Davis, - Face, - You viralizou, - What? Your video has over Skeezy 114,000 views on YouTube, YouTube? - Yes, YouTube, - YouTube? It is YouTube, I'm saying it wrong? - Yes, YouTube is YouTube, - Is YouTube, right? Is YouTube, Will! I structured my business over the same echo model as Ben and Jerry, You know what I'm saying, the whores go to the pimp with better desktop, right? So we have free trial STD free condoms ,,, I'm viral! That! Damn it! ,,, And even dental plan! You can not have edentulous sluts! Great opportunity for you !! Call me!!!!! Lon Zimmet How much do you know about us as a company, Will? Absolutely nothing, Well, join the club, brother, This will fix, Spray Soft Body? When children lay it, I want know that pass a message, - Guess what that message is? - I am cool, - No, the message is:"I want to have sex," - Oh, man, beauty, Or be fucked, Lon, still do not know exactly why I'm here, Why are you here? I'll tell you why you're here, You are here because I want you lead our Viral and Internet market, You are offering me a job? I saw the video of the D and he Skeezy I turned my head, I was up all night, I could not sleep watching the video again and again, screaming at the TV, "tell me whatever I buy? " Yes, Gall that monkey, Flay, flay this monkey, Yes! She's my niece, Okay, that salary level we are talking? Okay, can I pay you $ 22,000, It is not much, Will, we are advertising to children that they were triple irony in the garden, is that you, you are so ironic that went all the way back to authenticity, You irontntico, face, It irontntico, "Irontntico" Ding-dong, Down, What are you doing? Will, if you told me to toasting all our marketing money on a billboard with nothing more than photos thick sticks, filled with veins, I would do, I would do everything I say, Tell me what to do, man, Guess who's amazing, I am, Will is amazing, I could, I was promoted, baby, I did exactly ,,, There you are, I did exactly what you told me, I went up a lot, and I great news for us, I was fired, What? I got fired today, They called me in Human Resources and I thought it would be promoted, It's how I am stupid, It is not stupid, Yes I am, I owe $ 90,000 and spent $ 779 in a pair of shoes, It's gonna be okay, - It's gonna be okay, - No no go, As will be okay? Because you,,, You will get another job, Come here, Sorry, Will, What you,,, What are we celebrating? Katherine will promote me, That's great, At least one of us has a career, is not it? Come here, That's great, What will I do for rent? Hey, mate, For your information, we leave pornography home, get used to, The week started bad, My compensation is over, the mortgage won, I exhausted my savings, and then, on Tuesday, finally I got an interview with Xerox, So I went there and trashed, I mean, it was the kind of interview with which you dream, I mean, I was so good to remember crying in the elevator, and I knew that would send me to the Gentry, I finally knew would know the decision maker, And since then, anything, Zero, I need the bathroom key, Excuse me, Oh, Cammy, How do I get to James Gentry? I sent e-mail, text message, Twitter, I called his house, I spoke to his wife, - You called his house? - Well, the conversation was quick, Dinner time, He was accompanied But I think I spent a good impression, Maybe you should focus more than one type of employment, I'm so perfect for this job, I just need to stay on the guy who can pull the trigger and hire me, It's time for ABC! One way or another, have to get to the decision maker, Yes, James Gentry, get ready to know Roger Davis, Hello, Hey man, Listen to the latest tweet from my father, "It ends today, ABC means: Now I seek Confusion " "Roger Davis, symbol better than James Gentry " What does that mean? I do not know, man, but it sounded threatening, Yes, definitely it did not sound good, Yes, that's bad, look, Luke, we have to find my father, Okay, here I go, In Thursday with Spring, in front of 101, large gray building, ROGER DAVIS CURRICULUM IN VIDEO Excuse me sir? Enter the counter, please? Oh, right, Okay, I'll take care of that in a second, See you later, - Good afternoon, - Good afternoon, Roger Davis, I am here to see James Gentry, You can subscribe here Sir? I need you to exit the building, Right, Or how about this? How about I do not go anywhere to see the decision-maker? Katherine? - Sr, Wilheimer? - How are you? Look, family emergency, need to leave early, It's starting the meeting Fredericks, How important I be there? How important it is to continue with your job? Katherine, forgiveness, My father needs me, Output closer, everyone! Go, friend, 10:00 am Wait, you rang the alarm for me? Go to your daddy, - Get in the car, - Hurry up! - It's in the Millennium Plaza, - What? As you know? IPerseguidor, scoundrel, Can not wait here, sir, Why not find a Starbucks? Why not find a Suck-my-paubucks? Excuse me, That was unnecessary, - Where are we going? - You mean he's around here? - Split up, Go, go, Let's go! - It's not funny, ,,, But I would say that if you call Pearl, Pearl knows me, and she will ,,, Just say is Roger Davis ,,, It's my father, Will! What you have done done, you can leave it, I promise to take you home, Look, please, sir, do not constrain more Please, Go ahead, Mr, Davis, Thank you, Wait a minute, is Gentry! It is he, the decision-maker, I will break you, Father! Go! I was captain of my Ultimate Frisbee team, - Shut up, - Right, Hold, hold, Hold, hold, Thank you, No, Hold, hold, Mr, Gentry, my name is Roger Davis, Stay away from me, I call security, They know I'm here, Now, sir, I know you must think I'm crazy, I'm not crazy, I'm just a man moved by despair for months and months rejection and indifference, I am a human being asking for an opportunity to tell you face to face why I think it would be great for the company, This is my resume, My son did, Because I? Because you, sir, It is the decision-maker, What happened? I got an interview, - Nice! - Yes! - Great! - Yes! There can be only one, Katherine wants to see you in her office, A blowjob? What? No, What is wrong with you? I'm very bored, Not a glorious day? What's glorious? I got rid of this dead weight company, We are leaner and bread-hard, This is a contract, Which is? You are the Vice-President Corporate Communications, His salary is $ 52,000, 52,000? You will do the work of three people, Get used to dine at your desk, Now that I took care of you, It was easier to promote yourself than training someone new, Just do not forget who you promoted, - Yes, - Come here, I'm your owner, Mr Davis, To work, Vice-President, Where are you? Paus await you !! lon I need an answer! Stop cock-block me !! lon Yes, - Why massaging my girlfriend? - Do not take her concentration! She's almost there Trophy of the Living Legend, This is insane, man, She's bloodlust, - Bloodlust, - Your girlfriend is a prodigy! Give me a drink, You light, Lights for her, - "Give me a drink"? - What has gotten into you? I lost half a million dollars today, I'm screwed, All disappointed, man, Disappointed Tyler Perry, Oprah, Barack Obama, Barack Obama disappointed, I'm screwed, man, - Continues, - I got it, You do not understand, You do not understand, I drank deer semen! - Skirt! - Out of the way! Jillian, I can talk to you one second? It's all right, Endgame, suckers, What are you doing? Can not do that! You can not pull the cable! Vaiem not me, you do not ,,, No vaiem, Stop booing me! I'm surprised at you, Will, Get out of here, Trauma sudden can damage the LED, Wait, come here, save me, save me, I do not ,,, Give me a drink, Trago coming, Sure, Jillian, I need you to get up, My God, Bring bacon, honey, Damn, let's eat bacon now, Mr, Diller? I just wanted to say I'm sorry have spoiled everything, Thanks for the opportunity and ,,, Sorry to disappoint you, Where do you think you're going? Sit down, Which generation of pussies you came anyway? Never apologize, never, never, quarter past eleven You set fire to the house, rolls up his sleeves and builds a new, Now, go back to there and try to make money, understand? Go, Yes, it will never happen again, Thank you very much, Shit, Send the guard in, Come here, Make a circle, Right, I know not yet won a game, but we lost by less and less, And I know that two of their best They had lice, I'm saying that today we have a chance, A chance to win, A chance for redemption, Greeting, Victory in three One two Three, Victory! HOUSE 11 VISITORS 38 Great season, you gave blood, They managed, All are winners, We are so proud of you, Next year, no score, right? Right, Here we go, No! No trophies, No! No trophies, No trophies this year, We always won trophies, Trophies mean nothing unless they deserve, They are just pieces of plastic, look, No! My childhood bedroom is filled to the ceiling trophies and I have not won anything in my life! You would have to have born already comatose to do as little I as in life, - Excuse, - Listen, stop, stop, Listen to me, Listen, boys, Listen to me, I lost five years of my life practically living dyed in a sofa sperm, I smoked marijuana $ 200 per week I used the same pair of socks for so long the fabric stocking It has become literally one with the skin of my little finger, It's because? Because? Because when I was growing up, They gave me trophies for losing, See what I mean? No trophies, Sam, Kwan, no trophies, - No trophies! - No trophies, No trophies! No trophies! Thank you, Charlie, Do not call me Charlie, Call me Coach, - This place is offensive, - I know, - Do pornography everywhere, - I know, Look, it's only temporary, I have a good steady job now, I do not want agorar, but they are talking about The Employee of the Month, I do not think it's something people still do, Still is, and will get, For us, What I am saying It is that all will be well, Will, this is your girlfriend? Jillian, this is Katherine Dunn, - Hello, - Hello, Jillian, I think Jillian should thank me, do not you think? - Thank her for what? - Whereby? Whereby? For turning you in charge working bee you are, - It was very good to meet you, - Equally, Enjoy the party, children, I know, but she He made me Vice President, All signed, I just need to deliver, Where did you find it? I called Lon Zimmet, He spoke directly to you and used the word "stick" thousands of times, Yeah, he does that, I need to tell you something, 12:00 pm What? I'm 22 years and I have no idea what I'll do with the rest of my life! And I'm okay with that, I have much to offer the world and this is just the beginning and if you want a job in a start-up suspected that does not offer you anything plus stock options it is a dream, then you should do it! You know maybe we may not be geniuses, we are not the brightest generation, so what? Are our lives, and we enjoy the best of them! I love you, Jillian, Come, come, do not be shy, Katherine, I can speak to you for a second? Of course, I would like to thank you for this opportunity, It was a pleasure, But the job, he is not really for me, - Is playing, - No, I quit, Brat into, What is? Will play house with that his ugly girlfriend? - Maybe yes, - Maybe you go? But let me tell you something, you will not, because you will not a job, all right? So I want you to prepare for how the feeling of being unemployed because now on, I will do everything in my power to ensure that you never work in this city, Put this in your Facebook, WILHEIMER GROUP That, This, I must put my shelf here, sir? Yes, it could? I found that working late and thought it would be a good opportunity to be able to express myself, - I make the decisions! - I say ,,,! - I make the decisions! - I say ,,,! Merry Christmas, Take this stick minotaur! It's hard out there? No doubt, But all need a job, So what to do? Drink, drink, drink! Find jobs you were born to do, Work hard to achieve it, Never stop believing, Never give up, Hello, Skeezy D blowing up the Internet, All coming to me and saying: "How can I have the style Skeezy?" Look, SWEA Sweat Get your sex, It's so thick! Wonderful, Will, I would like to officially give you welcome to sweat team Thanks, Lon, but I must decline your offer, What? I started my own production company, but I would be honored to Sweat was my first client, In other words, not only feel special Be special, You love your wife? Of course yes, But when she tells you to go shopping, how do you know that it actually will not a sordid motel like this? - Hello Love, - Hello, Her husband says she is working late? What kind of work we are really talking about? Jezebel, Peque me, Come and join the most 150,000 satisfied customers who used iPerseguidor, Let your loved ones know that you care never leaving leaving your virtual visual field, And cut! - We did it, - Nice! Subpack by: LAPUMiA
