 

                        He is the brain behind He is given a high security cover. He has neither kith nor kin Weve scrutinised all his It took five years of for 'target' countries The Project details This satellite is not for routine functions like weather forecasts. It has a different purpose. When launched, it can monitor even the smallest activities in the 'target' countries. He hasnt set foot outside You figure out a way Where is he now? As long as a man wants to take the life of another people like me will have jobs. Sethu is calling you. Why dont you respond? Why should I? Hes going to say he cant handle the smell. Father The stench is unbearable. Didnt I say so! Hurry up, father. I am very hungry. Thats fishy curry for you. You said it wasnt spicy enough Try it now. Its fiery! Why are you glaring? Are you angry because I cook non-vegetarian food the whole week? After all, we work hard only to enjoy a good meal and live a good life! You need to be fit as a fiddle to produce masterpieces. Can I see those masterpieces? One is gobbling food here. The other is on the way... Ive been thinking about working on the third Oh, my god! Is she shy? What is the fuss? Eat well. Empty the plate. This is the age to be feasting on meat. When I was your age, I could finish a large steak in a split second. Meat-eaters didnt do a thing. The man who lived on goat milk and peanuts got us our freedom. We are a free country today. This library was started so that everybody has free access to books. These many books have gone missing. A number of them havent been returned. Its a collection of rare books. No one should go back disappointed. Make sure all the books in this list Do you think Kanagu stole them? - I dont know. You can suspect me This is a library! I wasnt interested in books even when I was in school. Thats true. Who could have stolen it then? Dont, Nandhini. It will look bad. Dont steal. Im trying hard to give up this habit. Dont steal. The graveyard is close by. I will dig a grave for you brothers. You better watch your mouth! Dont you dare underestimate me! I will kill you. You cant take over this place with a mere advance. Youve even hung a family portrait. It has been two years. You havent given a single paisa. Because you are a Councillor and your brother a Bar owner, do you think Ill be scared? Tear up that Agreement and vacate this place immediately. No one should be here tomorrow. That was a bad throw. Come here. We shouldnt spare these fellows. Keep quiet. It didnt fall on you. If it had, I wouldve killed you. Pick it up, throw it in the bin. That was my bin. Do you know the penalty for this in Singapore? Do you know the exchange rate for a Singapore Dollar? I think it is Thats a big difference. I will set myself right after that. I dont want to Throw that in the bin. Its a Friday. How dare you! Come on, brother! Do you know who he is? Go ahead and apologise to him. I am sorry. I messed it up. I am very sorry. I will make sure Its my job now to turn this place into a mini Japan. Brother, will you please put in a word? I will take care of it. How did you manage that? Come on! Tell me. I lied to him that his girlfriends father How do you know he is in love? Didnt you notice the scars on his hand? Crazy guys! Why would someone in love slit their wrists? Mother has told me. You did crazy things when you were in love with 'Jennifer teacher'. This is a school zone, you cant have a Bar within a 200 metre radius. You cant extend it further. It will become a big issue We will handle that when it happens. You collect your tip and leave. Theyll have to learn the hard way. If youre expanding the business, Yes. What about that? How about a contract for supplying chicken? A contract? I know someone who can supply good chicken. I can help with the supply. Can you supply chicks? They should be young and inviting. Can you manage that? They have reduced me to a pimp! Bye, father. Hey, Sethu. Why are you in a Bar now? Are you here for your bribe this early? Dont irritate me. Start the bike. Arent you working today? Its my time off today. When have you ever worked? Ill take you to an important place. Not to the library, please. I am from the library. Do you have the book Ponniyin Selvan? - I dont want any book. Did the old lady just shoo you away? Let me show you the power of my uniform. I cant watch Watchman, didnt you take your salary yesterday? What do you want now? Go away. Its the police. Who is Nandhini Ramanujam? Whats your name? Vatsala. What? What is your husbands name? We arent here to gather data for the census. Lets take the book and leave. How can you be rude to the man who owns the book? What was the name of that book? Bring Dharmathin Thalaivan'. Thats Ponniyin Selvan. I am a voracious reader and mix up the title sometimes. Are you thirsty? I dont want anything. Here is the book. This is 'Sivagamiyin Sapatham'. But, the librarys name Is the old lady not co-operating? Where the hell is my gun? I wasnt wearing my glasses. Come inside and find it yourself. Come in. I will become a news reader with DD this year. (DD-Indian television channel) Signed S. Ramanujam. That was Nandhinis father. He wanted to be a news reader on DD at least for one day. That day never came. He could have tried for another day. He died. Was that covered in the news? She wants to fulfill her fathers dream. This girl seems very young. She is grown up now. We even have a video of her pretending to read the news. Do you want to watch it? Shes greeting everyone. This is Nandhini Ramanujam. A man arrested for stabbing a steward for serving an undercooked egg. Tell her to turn it off. A drunken man irritates the Collector requests that the Bar be opened early. Gets arrested. Will she become a 'Shobana Ravi'? - She can become a 'Radha Ravi'. Please give me the book. It must be on this book shelf. This is a big collection. Hold this. Ponniyin Selvan This looks like one of our books. She has stolen this whole lot from our library. What are you saying? Is it a good collection? She spends all her pocket money on books. Hold it. Did you find yours? We found it all. Can I take a picture? He wants to make a book shelf like this. Should he give it your name or your granddaughter's? It should be in my name. - Definitely. Can you please help? Commissioner, lets take a selfie together. Which library is he from? Why the hell did you allow him into the house? What did you tell him? Why did you tell him? Crazy old lady! Who asked you to tell him? Hang up. Do you know Nandhini? I am from the Pennycuick library. Nandhini, granddaughter of S. Vatsala. You can find her in that class. The one that you see there So, what is your name? Its Saranya. You are lying through your teeth. You are a thief and a liar. Please calm down. Why the hell should I? What were you thinking? And you were so rude over the phone. I was just playing the fool You called her a crazy old lady. Yes, my grandmother is crazy. You better come along with us right now and return all the books. I have a request. I will return all the books, but Did you borrow her money to buy books and use it to eat out instead? I did. Poor girl. She just bought something to eat. Dont forget you are a policeman. Tell her to return the books. I am a policeman. There are many more books missing. Just three more books. Where are they? Ive lent it to my friend. So, you are running a library of your own. She borrowed it to read. What is your friends name? How will she look? I dont care about her looks. Listen, that babe is mine. Keep quiet. Weve come past my jurisdiction. Does it make any difference? Please wait here. I cant trust you to come back. My bike is here and I will come back for it. I didnt come here to look after your bike. Im here to see your friend. Her family wont approve of being seen with a policeman. I will bring my friend here. What is wrong in being seen with a policeman? I dont know. Do you think her friend will be a good match for me? I am not here to find you a good match. They insisted on seeing you. Is she the beautiful one! Wheres the book? Marital Harmony. You look like a harmonium and you want to know about Marital Harmony? How to tame your husband. Are you married? Try reading a cookery book instead. And her family will get upset if shes seen with a policeman? One more book is missing. Thats with another friend. Is she good looking? She is plain looking. When you say she is plain looking, I know what to expect. Where does she live? She lives far away from here. I dont care how far it is, lets go. We cant go today. I am busy tomorrow. I cant follow you around every day. You have to take me there now. I cant. - Why? My bike will struggle to go uphill. My police jeep will go uphill effortlessly. Fetch my bag. Here it is. You said your friend borrowed it. lntimacy, sacred or secret. What are you reading? Are you Dr. Mathrubootham's fan? - No, Director S.J. Surya's fan. Dont overdo it. Let us leave. Girls are well prepared these days. Wonder who she is getting ready for? Not you for sure. Why have your grades slipped? I couldnt buy the A boy who studied here Hes never given excuses. Buy him the books he needs. Please wait outside. Dont forget. The bird gets agitated when it sees strangers. This looks like that librarians bike. Bye, grandmother. What are you doing here? Ive returned all the books. Ive told your grandmother everything. Get ready for a spanking You read lntimacy, sacred or secret! Face the music. Oh, god! Grandmother will bore me to death with her advice. I have to somehow get out of this. Was the boy right? I am a big girl now. Whats wrong? That doesnt mean you give away all books to charity. They are poor people. In that case give them some money. You cant give away all your books. This was inside your book. Where are you going? Thank you for not telling on me. Is he going to give me money from his wallet? Go, meet this person. Is your name Uma Padmanabhan? No, it is 'Thengai' Srinivasan! Go and meet her. Is he trying to flirt with me? Are you the famous Uma Padmanabhan? And, youre Nandhini Ramanujam? Come in. How come youre here? We were bored with life in the city Gudalur is my hometown. Sit down. Sethu told me youre trying to Yes, I want to read the news on DD at least for a day. Reading news for a year won't help, how will one day work? My father wanted to be a news reader on DD. Hes no more Ill train you. Starting tomorrow, come home every evening. Whats the fee? Sethus my nephew. I dont want any fees "I played no tricks "I made no fuss "Our eyes didnt meet "I didnt touch you, "I didnt frequent any corner shop." "I didnt while away time either." "I smoked no ciggie "Beautiful babes walk by "Why dont you understand?" "You are my first love, baby." "Why dont you give me a look, baby?" "I am the best lover ever, baby. "I didnt go to parties. "I didnt hangout with my buddy. "I didnt wear ripped jeans "I didnt drive around the city on borrowed bikes" "At the sight of you, I am exuberant, "To speak face-to-face Ive no mettle. "You are in my heart forever. "You are the one for me. "I am a simple man, baby." "Why do you want me to be single, baby?" "I am Mr. Clean, baby." "Why refuse to be my Mrs., baby?" "Its Monday and the times not good, dear. To express my love, I fear." "You are young and arrogant." "Wont you fall in love this moment? Were you born to torment?" "Why did you conceal your beauty?" "Why should I not appreciate you?" I don't have to steal anymore. This is like my own library now. Stop! You cant come in. Why? Sethu has told us not to let you in. - Why? If you steal all our books, I didnt come here to steal books. I came here to say Thanks You can hand it over to me. No way! I will give it only to Sethu. What? Dont use that as an excuse to come in and steal books. Just accept her Thanks and check her thoroughly before she leaves. Will do that. Sethu has bought this just for you. Get lost, idiot! What is it? I warned you not to expand the Bar near the school. You didnt listen. A man has complained now. I will lose my job if I dont take action. Whos he? Thulasi Raman, the Physical Education Teacher. Go! Ill take care of it. I might as well beg instead of being his slave for his measly bribe. I can't find a place to relieve myself. Why is the book thief calling me? What are you doing? I am on an urgent business. I saw the urgency. You saw it? Enough of looking around Where are you? Take a look at WhatsApp. What could she have sent me? Damn! From where did she take this picture? Why did you click my picture? For me to look at when I get bored. You think this is funny? Dont you have manners? Dont you have brothers? I am the only child. I dont care how many children your father had. Delete that photo right now. - I cant. Would you have stayed quiet If youd kept quiet, How dare you raise your voice Ill upload it on Facebook. Whats your problem? Me? I came all the way to thank you And you put up a poster calling me a thief. Be ready at 9 pm. I want to have fun Why should I get ready? I cant step out alone. Even the not-so-beautiful girls I look like some pretty English chick. I want you to come along. My father is a strict PT Teacher. Hell lock the gates at 8.30 pm. Thats no lndia Gate. Ill wait in front of your house. Even if youre late by a minute, Thats not enough. The Headmaster is calling you. Work on the stretches. Well have fried prawn tonight. Are you Thulasi Raman? You filed a complaint objecting Yes. Go. Withdraw your complaint. - Why? Why? Ive spent Rs. 17 Lakh to get the Bar ready. What if they act on the complaint Youre right. Thats tough. Girls come here to study. The drunkards lie around there awkwardly. I feel bad about that. Its normal for drunkards to do that. Arent the other teachers keeping quiet? Whats your problem? Theyre not lying drunk in your house. If hes a Man, Will you or will you not withdraw the complaint? I will not. Even when someone litters the streets, How will I let you litter my school? Do whatever you can! Would she have uploaded the picture? I dont think so. Its 9 pm. Oh, my god! She has come home. My parents What is she looking for? Shes ever ready to pelt stones. If only my father had found out I had another stone ready Drop me back after a round. "Even muffin-faces fall in love these days." "What?" "Even muffin-faces fall in love these days." "When is Genima ever gonna declare her love for me?" "Has taken days to lay the railway track" "When is Genima ever gonna declare she loves me back" "Were on a roll!" "Girl, you give me a high" "And make me dizzy, oh, my." "Come home, sweetheart." "Youll see its only you in my heart." "Hey! Cool dude Are you trying to turn a deaf ear?" "I am shouting my heart out "Hey! Cool dude Are you trying to turn a deaf ear?" "I am shouting my heart out "It can be as quick as making a paanipuri. You just have to say yes and we can marry." "Gloating over my misery, youve bloated. But Im a bag of bones, my efforts wasted." "My dear, youve cast a spell. Come along, Ill buy you a jewel." "Ive spent years wooing you. Another painful anniversary, a drink I will toast to." "Hey! Cool dude. Are you trying to turn a deaf ear?" "I am shouting my heart out "Hey! Cool dude. Are you trying to turn a deaf ear?" "I am shouting my heart out "He is bad, a crook and has fallen in love." "Hes been braying his heart out." "A wisecrack from an old hag, you cant bear. Youre just a lovelorn piece of junk, my dear." "When in love, the gazing will tire you, deary. After a while, all the tiffs make your mouth weary." "When will you come online on Whatsapp?" "I wait anxiously from morning on an empty stomach." "If you walk away, my heart with sorrow will burst." "When you walk away alone, ghosts will haunt you." "Love has turned my life a joke." "My melancholy has people amused." "When will you come online on Whatsapp?" "I wait anxiously from morning on an empty stomach." "Hey! Cool dude. Are you trying to turn a deaf ear?" "I am shouting my heart out "Hey! Cool dude. Are you trying to turn a deaf ear?" "I am shouting my heart out and indifferent you act." Whats this? Who are you? The teacher dared us to come home if were men. I am a man. I am home. Who the hell are you guys? The teacher wanted to shut the Bar down. Thats why Ive shut you all out of the house. Ask him to withdraw the complaint If you dont withdraw your complaint before 6 pm... I will set the whole family ablaze. What is it? Do you want to see me chop your father right here? Come on, stab him. Try touching him. Dont do that. Where are the keys? If you have a Bar here ever again, Ill kill you. I swear on your mother Ill kill you. I've told you not to poke your nose in other people's business. See, they've broken your nose now. Because of you my son has picked up a fight with these drunkards. You must have seen it to believe it. 'I'll stab your father right here' lf you have the damn guts, try it! Thats my son! You even lost your ring. That was the most loving coffee Thats milk. A teacher has got you scared You should call yourself a woman. Weve spent several lakhs! Open the place. Make way. Go back. Whos Thulasi? The teacher has done what he said he'd do. Isnt this ring yours? How did you get it? The dead man, Kandhan had it in his hand. Hes dead? Someone killed him and Why are you changing it to someone? I am not connected to it in any way Werent you the one Come to the police station. Father Facing trial under Section 302 I.P.C... Thulasi Raman is to be sent Take him. Father. Father. I didn't kill your brother. I swear I will kill you. I will kill you for sure. Stab him now. You killed my son. Leave me. I will kill you. Where is he? I dont care what you do, Ill give you all the comforts here. I am not here to relax. That's difficult. Why are you here now? What is it? Rajendran is in your father's block. Your father is in danger now. Try to bail him out quickly. An unintentional threat to kill him has led to something this big. You arrange the bail amount, I'll manage the rest of it. Don't worry. Be brave. This is worth Rs. 275,000. Could you round that off to Rs. 300,000? - That's not possible. Take this too. No, I'll manage. Why are you treating me like an outsider? I, Thulasi Raman, teacher at St. Allosius school... do hereby state that Ill cooperate with the police in this case. I will not travel outside I state this voluntarily and in full consciousness. He is out on conditional bail. Make sure he doesnt get into trouble. I'll take care of it. Give me a call if you need anything. I wont take it. Are you treating me like an outsider? "A sweet breeze wafted through..." "A tender verse embraced by loves hue." "To caress both of us, it wafted through." "Why did it embrace just me though?" "A sweet breeze wafted through..." "A tender verse embraced by loves hue." "To caress just you it wafted through." "But loves hold crushes only me though" "Will this day ever come? Or will it never be?" "Countless times I wake up, "Am I the dew drop? Are you the suns ray?" "Would you exude warmth just right for me to melt?" "A sweet breeze wafted through..." "A tender verse embraced by loves hue." "To caress both of us, it wafted through." "But loves hold crushes only me though" "Youve a heart of gold. It's as large as this world" "Theres no measure" "To say I am your treasure, "As we get familiar, the beauty of your face blooms and grows, I am not sated." "Your loving nature "As we walk together "Is it because you are carrying me in your arms, dear?" "A sweet breeze wafted through..." "A tender verse embraced by loves hue." "To caress both of us, it wafted through." "But loves hold crushes only me though" "Will this day ever come? Or will it never be?" "Countless times I wake up, "Am I the dew drop? Are you the suns ray?" "Would you exude warmth just right for me to melt?" Please come. Father is just getting ready to leave for school. Whats this? A suspension order? He can get back to work only when proven innocent. Hes so well respected in school. I didnt want to give this there. I am already late for the Zonal Sports meet. Lets leave. Why do you look upset? Try and understand the situation. What wrong did we do? My father is heartbroken about the suspension. My sister is scared to leave home. And you guys are not finding the real murderer. Dont get worked up. Wait. Your fathers ring... The police need no further proof. Even if he didnt murder him, thats what theyll say. Whats all this? They found this at the site of the murder. Whats this? A lighter. Whose is it? It must be Kandhans. Are you sure? Does he smoke? I dont know. You dont know? Kandhan doesnt smoke. Neither does my dad. Wont the police check to see who this lighter belongs to? Theres a chance it could be the murderers. We could get leads from shops that sell lighters or fill gas. No one brought this here. We dont sell this here. Never seen something like this. You dont get this in Kumily. Try Solar Shoppe. I told you we cant refill gas for this. Why is everyone asking? Is it the same model? Yes, left-handers use it. Its from abroad. Someone brought this the other day. How did he look? He was tall. He had coloured eyes. Can we see the camera footage? It hasnt been working for a while. If only the camera was working, we could have got him. Lets make him come back here. What are you saying? Only we know the camera is not working. Well let him know theres a camera installed and that its working. How? Hurry up! The tea will get cold by the time you come up. Why dont you come down! Ginger Tea? A new twist to the Kandhan murder case The murderer is suspected to be a left-hander. His lighter found. The police have confidential information about him visiting a store located at the junction. 'In recent times several crimes have been captured with the help of security cameras.' Hence the police have requested all establishments to install security cameras by the month end.' Once they zero in on the shop, they can easily nab the murderer... believes a source in the police.' Sethus plan is working. Who is this source? Make sure its locked. Ive troubled you all too much. Dont say that. If we get hold of this guy, everything will be fine. The murderer will want to ensure the police dont get the footage. If were right, the murderer will come here in search of the footage. Father You go, catch him. What happened? He cannot get away now. Father! Sir, look there. Whats happening there? Catch him. Father! Hes losing blood. Even before his first wound has healed, his bail has been revoked. How can he be put in jail in this condition? What wrong did he do? I dropped it somewhere here. Is it this? This is the one. What is this? Its a luggage tag used on flights. I want the list of people who took this flight. See if you can spot a tall man with a brown back-pack. A lot of them are tall. Re-wind that a bit. He looked like this guy. Are you sure? Can you zoom in? This is the guy. Hes using the phone with his left hand. He is the guy for sure. Have you seen this man? - No, I havent. You didnt even see the picture. - I dont remember, sir. Have you seen this man here? Did you drop him anywhere near Kumily on the 23rd? I dropped him. Where did you drop him? - Near the church. Are you sure? I had a flat tyre. He waited for a long while and then left. The taxi dropped him here. He must be staying somewhere here. What are you doing here? - I am taking pictures. Who are you? - I am related to Mr. Mathew. What do you have in hand? - Binoculars. What happened? - We know where he is. Based on the flight manifest, we've come to know that 173 passengers travelled on that flight. For further investigation we contacted all the passengers. A man by the name David was the only one not reachable. A man by the same name has checked in to the Fort Cottage in Kumily. Do you think we can catch him if we go there now? -We can. If these are binoculars, what are laser view finders? You've calculated the range for an Alpha sniper rifle. You have a 'sniper mark' on you right elbow. Are you a left-handed sniper? I served in the Dogra Regiment for sixteen years before taking this job. What is a sniper doing at a graveyard? He worked as the guard at the graveyard. He knew something. Thats why the guy killed him. Why has he burnt these things... This looks like a map of Kumily. He has underlined something. He has been stabbed with a knife. The autopsy reports say that the carotid artery has been severed, leading to blood loss. Do you think you are James Bond? Did you want to run your own investigation and get a promotion? The guard has been killed, that landlord was murdered. At this rate how do we run the station? What do we say to the bosses? Did you check the guest register at the cottage? - I did. Did you gather details? - His name is David. The David at that address has been dead for three years. He is staying here using the dead man's identity. Loot at him acting innocent. 'I will be happy if Abdul Kamaal takes on the role of my son and performs my last rites when I die.' Why has he highlighted Mr. Mathews foreword? How is Mr. Mathew connected with this? Thank you for making it here at such short notice. The ISRO Chairman, Mr. Abdul Kamaal will be here in Kumily in four hours... to participate in his teachers funeral. The Information Bureau has warned him about threats to his life from some countries. Despite that, he is adamant about taking part in the funeral of a man who is his father-figure. It is our responsibility to ensure his safety. I want the police to be updated about every detail of everyone attending the funeral. We should have no untoward incident till the time he leaves. Seal off all entry and exit points to Kumily. No one should enter or leave without your knowledge. 'A boy who studied here What are you doing in this rain? Unlike what you all believe Mr. Mathew didnt die a natural death. He has killed him. What are you saying? He knows Abdul Kamaal will definitely come here if Mr. Mathew dies. He has made this entire plan to kill Abdul Kamaal. Its not that easy to get near him. Hes got a seven-tier security cover. You cant get within 1.5 kilometres of him. Then, he will kill him from beyond that. We have to find him before Abdul Kamaal gets here. Else, my father can never be proved innocent. Ill call you later. Do we have blood donors on standby? - We do, sir. I want to go into the graveyard. Whose house is that? Whose house is that? That is Bar owner Kandha's house. Did he kill Kandhan to get access to this house... They have crossed the fourth checkpost. At an age when I could barely walk, you encouraged me to dream of flying. I was able to accomplish all this only because of you. Its been 22 years since I left this place... I am sorry I never came back. The world must consider a father fortunate to have such a worthy son... a sons duty to a father lies in leading a life like that. ln line with that, I'll be happy if Abdul Kamaal performs my last rites as my son.' 'That house on the Kerala border was the vantage point for killing Abdul Kamaal.' 'So, I needed that house.' I will kill you. 'To divert the police's attention, I made use of the fight between the Bar owner and the teacher.' What are you doing here? What is a sniper doing at a graveyard? An assassination attempt was stopped by under-cover operations Investigations reveal that the sniper, discharged from the Indian Navy. Mr. Thulasi Raman, teacher at St. Allosius school... who was facing a murder charge is now acquitted. Since there is involvement of external forces Hope the children are coming. Where is father? Look around. He must be here. Careful! Sorry, my children interrupted me. Arent we paying taxes too? Why wont you clear the garbage here? You better clear the garbage regularly.
