 

                        Now you see me Now you don't - You need to get closer up underneath your nose. So I just found out that Lala's family has a haunted bar in Virginia City and I told her that I demand that we're gonna stay the night there and film it and it's going to be awesome. And everybody's excited about it except for Lala, but you want to do it right Lala? Lala? - No I don't want to sleep there. - [Man] But you're gonna do it? - No, I'm going to just go. - So we're going to to and we're going to go stay the night in this haunted hotel in Virginia City. This is come to, this is Superbowl Sunday 2015 and we just came up with the best idea ever. Mark Sitco. - My name is Bill Doty. I'm a filmmaker, I'm a father, and I'm a professional show-off. I love a lot of things, my kids, all things geeky, and my amazing girlfriend Emilee Duncan. - I'm Emilee Duncan. - [Bill] And I think she likes me too. I love my life. So many things fascinate me in my life. One of those things are ghosts. But the weird thing is, I don't believe in them. But when you're a filmmaker and you're given an opportunity to prove yourself wrong, you take it. (dog barking fiercely) And when it becomes a ginormous project, you don't do it alone. You volunteer your awesomatic filmmaker friends. - I'm Sean Small. - I'm Angela Derisio. - I, wait, I am. - I am a student of BSU, in the film department. We don't have a film department, I'm just a student. - And I'm with Angela. - [Bill] Just like Emilee and I, they have a super amazing life. And they're also a bit show-offy. - It's time to ghost face in. - This huge ear kit, he starts to dig around in my-- I'm so nervous, ugh! - [Bill] So I present to you, our Ghostumentary. - (imitating record scratching) Um. - They always look at me like are you gonna buy those cookies you just squeezed. I don't ever buy them. - I was creeping out, he was just sitting in the car. - It's better, it's better notice. Part of our research was watching every ghost documentary that we could. - I don't have ghost experience my self. - I believe in ghosts. - Gullifat. - I believe in ghosts. - True believers. - I absolutely 100% do not believe in ghosts. So heading into it we knew we had to do something different. Which meant, no fake footage. Oh beautiful, oh wait a minute go back and do it again. I wasn't recording. - We knew that we had to talk to as many professionals as possible. - I would have to say we are not professionals. I don't think there are any professionals in the paranormal field. - We utilized the latest in ghost hunting technology. - We just had a ghost over here a second ago. And hours and hours of the setting footage. I'll just play along, I'll just play along And I'll just play along, I'll just play along And when all is said and done, hopefully we all learn something. - Remember kids, don't drink and ghost hunt. That's this whole lesson and that's end of the movie. That's the end of the movie. We just got it, there's our end. - [Bill] So now it's time to load up the car, hit the road and make our first attempt at finding a ghost. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What are you guys doing today? - Oh nothing, what are you doing? - [Bill] I don't know, want to go catch a ghost? - Yeah, let's go catch a ghost. (pages flipping) - [Bill] Tell me about your super power again. - Um, I can find hair in food super fast, and I can pee at any moment at any time. - [Sean] Um. - [Angela] He's dog man. - [Sean] I'm dog man. I can attract and love any dog and they will love me back. - [Bill] And you can lick yourself. - [Sean] And I can lick myself. - She compacts easily. - I can grow my hair really long, that's my superpower. - [Bill] What did you get? - Chili mango ball sack. - [Bill] Yes. (laughing) That's it, they completely smell like a ball sack. - It's like a really spicy- - [Emilee] Balls. - It's like a hot ball sack. Natural flavors. It's got silicone dioxide to prevent peaking. - [Bill] Shawn what are you eating? - I think it's a bar of cookie dough. So there's that. - [Bill] Yeah. And I Will always love you - [Bill] We are just a few miles away. - [Angela] On the same road. - [Bill] We're on the same road, that one Zak Bagans has travelled, twice that we know of. - [Angela] It's called murder avenue. - [Bill] Murder? - [Angela] Yeah didn't they get murdered? Everyone in the town? - [Bill] Did the whole town get, I don't know. Do you know more history about to his town than I do? - [Angela] Nope I just have a feeling. (group laughing) Every single person. - [Bill] What if with showed up now and they were all dead? - Every shot, like Jessica Lange and American Horror Story. - We got to Virginia City. - Number one, the girls were hungry. - Is this scary? - [Bill] At least you're not eating any ball sack any more. - Not yet. - This is the funny video that gets made before you go into the haunted location, where everybody gets murdered in their sleep. Enjoy it. - Number two, we had to meet Dawn. - My first impression of Dawn, was that she was. - Not that close, not that close. Get the (bleep) off me. - Loud. - She definitely was a character. - But she was goofy and nice. - But I knew it was going to be interesting. - We just wanted to show up in Virginia City and find the damn ghost as soon as we got there. Bill and I were out here looking at the brewery. And the lights were on upstairs. We were kind of looking at it as we turned to walk away that door right there, just slammed closed. - [Sean] Oh the scary looking one, - [Angela] Yeah the scary looking one. Just slammed closed. So that was fun. - Angela and I split up from the rest of the group and we went down to the world famous Washoe Club. - We were lucky enough to meet up with Tom and Debbie with Bats In The Belfry and they gave us a lot of information about the Union Brewery that we weren't able to find anywhere else. - To my understanding, it's been a saloon or bar for a very, very, long time. - Yeah. - They danced in the downstairs area and the basement, that was also another bar down there. That's where Tom saw a full body apparition. - I saw the apparition peak from behind the wall. Stick it's head and upper body. - So we headed back to the union brewery. Everybody else went down into the basement, I did not. - [Sean] I don't like this. - [Emilee] Everything all right? (footsteps) What you gonna do? - [Sean] I swear to God somebody's standing in the stairway. - [Bill] Where? - [Sean] Behind me. - [Bill] Take a picture real quick. - Then we went to investigate the upstairs apartment. - [Sean] What do we have here? - [Emilee] Something really cute, I like this wall here. - [Sean] I love the brick. Anyway is this HGTV or is this a. - [Emilee] It's really cute. - [Bill] I really love this wall over here, I'll take it. - [Sean] I feel like the building is leaning to the side. I feel like I'm gonna fall over. - [Bill] Well it's what 8,000 yours old. - [Sean] Yeah. - [Bill] I like that fan too. - And then we went to the main floor to play with the spirit box. - [Dawn] I can hear you on that so I know you're trying to come through. - Now we never really worked with a spirit box before. - There's was a lot of interference with the light and where she would put the spirit box, the noises that were coming out of it. - Can you put that back down a minute, just so I can look. Put it back down for a minute so I can look. - [Bill] That's what's giving interference. - [Dawn] No, please put it back down. - [Bill] See. - [Dawn] We just had voices. Please put it back down. - [Tom] Honey you keep getting interference. - Please but it back down. - I will say, we were all very excited about this. I will also say, we didn't know what the hell we were doing. - It was really interesting, I sat down next to her for a while. Did you hear it. I heard it. - Dawn kept asking questions, a lot of questions over and over again. There were a couple of responses that we got. - [Dawn] How many more people? (spirit box crackling) We've already heard you three times. What? - [Angela] Right, right. - Did you say right? - The spirit box was really active. - I thought the spirit box was interesting. I didn't know how it worked, but we seemed to be getting responses out of it. (Dawn mumbling) - So I listened, and then I realized that people are going to hear what they want to hear. An example being right here. - Did he say kill you? - [Angela] No. He said sure. - No, I heard kill you. - [Emillee] I heard killer. - [Angela] I heard sure. - Sorry can you say it again? - I heard kill you. - [Sean] I heard jeweler. - [Angela] They just said something. - [Spirit Box] Jeweler, jeweler, jeweler, jeweler. - We were excited and we were engaged with it. We were asking questions, we were getting responses. - [Dawn] Are you annoyed with Nick? (Dawn whispering) - [Angela] It's just the music from the channels. - [Dawn] It said something. - There was a study recently that if you play either EVP or statements from the ovilus or the spirit boxes to people randomly. Just grab a bunch of people who don't know anything about this subject and ask them what it says, they'll come up with different things. And then if you tell them what it says, they will all hear the same thing. The moment you tell somebody what that pattern says, if the pattern was not extremely clear to begin with, they will hear something else. They will hear what you tell them to. So there`s that issue as well. All of those things are a problem with this. Not to mention that you never know if these things are gimmicked in some way too. - So Bill and I slept in the brewery. - Originally Sean was going to sleep in the brewery with Emilee and I, but somebody wimped out. - I was not going to stay the night in the Union Brewery. And I was also not going to stay the night at the Silver Queen hotel by myself. - I was told I was staying in the hotel room with Angela. - Although we didn't hear anything as we were sleeping, the digital recorders actually picked up some things that we actually couldn't explain. If you actually listen closely enough you'll hear are they still sleeping. And another one that we like to refer to as (bleep) storm. (static crackling) Because you can hear a piano, thumps and drags. I didn't hear it until we heard it on the EVP, it's an old building though it could have been anything so. Slept through the night, I didn't hear anything except for that little clangy thing that was going. And what did you hear, I won't film you cause you haven't gotten ready yet. - I had my earplugs in and it sounded like somebody was whispering in my ear, without earplugs. So I ended up taking my ear plugs out, so I could actually hear things. - And so for the scariest thing that I have witnessed all night long, is the coffee place doesn't open until 9am. After breakfast, we took Bill and Emiliee up to show them our room, they were going to be checking into the hotel that day as well. And while we were doing that, something pretty interesting happened. (stars creaking) - [Brunette Lady] I'm getting funny noises in here today. - [Sean] What is that sound up there like that woman's cave that's making all that sound? - [Brunette Lady] It's the broke water main. - That's why there was no water? - [Brunette Lady] Yes ma'am. - [Angela] That would be why the water main broke. (whirring noises) - [Bill] What? - Yeah, look it. (laughing heartily) - [Bill] That's awesome. That is awesome. - [Angela] Since we're here, I'm gonna put better eyeliner on. - [Bill] All right. So what happened? - [Angela] It locks automatically. - And when we went to go upstairs, I closed it tight and pushed and pulled and double checked cause I'm like I'm leaving the camera here blah, blah, blah, the door's latched, yep we're good. Angela you got the key, she said yes. - [Emilee] Who closed the door? - [Sean] I did. - [Bill] So what just happened? - So we left to go look at your room. - [Bill] I just want to get your hair while you're doing this. - Made sure that we had the key, Sean closed the door, it locks automatically, came back downstairs, and our room was open. (Sean coughing) - [Seah] Ah sorry. I got a thing. - [Emilee] And then what happened last night? - So last night I was standing right here, doors locked, it automatically locks. You close it, it locks on it's own. Standing here reading, all of sudden the door just goes like that and I probably went sat in that chair over there and cried. - [Bill] Thanks Ghostbama. - [Bill] So how easy is this not to close? (door slamming) see this, so this turns. If it manages to stick and it doesn't. Let's do lunch. - [Emilee] You're in front of the camera. - [Sean] Oh . [Angela] The size of our room and-- [Emilee] Oh yeah. - [Angela] Sorry. - [Bill] Am I too fat to just wear this t-shirt? - No. - Define fat. We left one camera focused on the door of our room to see if we could capture anything and we headed back across the street to the Union Brewery to get our first interview with Nick, the other owner of the brewery. - [Bill] My son Austin's now here. Say hi Austin. - How's it going? - [Bill] Austin's going to be joining the crew, came in from college for the weekend to film. - I didn't actually believe in ghosts before I bought it, I was a non-believer. We have a very unusual collection of stuff, like balls of shadow men and noises, voices, etc. It never felt like I was alone. I got thrown down the stairs off my ladder. I was in the basement moving boxes down to the back room where the old brewery used to be. I saw a shadow. We already had a psychic that said it was a woman living in the attic and three children that have the run of the building. - [Bill] Are you trying to get the ghosts to be more friendly with you now? - Yeah, I even bought them a bottle of bourbon with couple of glasses and they didn't drink it so I had to. I couldn't waste it. It still scares me to go down the basement. - And on that cue, to the basement. Okay we're recording and heading down. See if the night vision works. Okay not very well, I can't see anything. - [Angela] Good? - [Bill] Yeah. Oh the light vision wasn't on, there we go. Night vision's on now. We're in the basement. Daytime session. We just did a really quick EVP. - Electronic voice phenomenon, EVP, electronic voice phenomenon was first popularized during the spiritualist movement at the turn of the century when audio recording technology first appeared. EVPs are basically voices of the dead captured on tape. According to some experts, spirits use the energy of the recording device to communicate through white noise. EVPs are classified into three groups depending on their intensity. EVPs are not generally heard at the time of the recording, but can be identified during playback. Usually an EVP is just one word or short sentences or phrase ad sometimes it's just a groan, grunt, or growl. There is not scientific evidence to prove an EVP is actually a communication from the deceased. - We tried to do an EVP session but this was about 1:00 in the afternoon and Virginia City is a party town. - There was just no way that it wasn't going to be completely contaminated, so we called that off. Where do you think we should put these little stuffed animals. - Angela brought some target props for the little girl downstairs. A puffin and a teddy bear and we set those up in the stairs to see what would happen. - Dawn had mentioned to Lala a few times before our trip that there was a little girl that resides there. A little girl spirit, she actually sent a picture of what to me, does look like a little girl standing on the stairs that go down into the basement. - It does look like a little girl. it looks like she's balding but it is a good picture. - We're placing the trigger objects, we've got a puffin and a teddy bear. If you move them then we'll know that you're here. And as Bill was filming the trigger objects, these tiny little white sparkles started to appear on the stairs around the stuffed animals. He saw them first, and then showed me on his camera. And it was pretty amazing at first. It seemed to be responding to Bill. - [Bill] Who's here can you tell me your name. Y'all see that? - [Angela] Yeah. - [Bill] Now something just keeps flying in front of it. Did you see it? (whispering) Awesome you see it? - [Sean] I've seen it once. [Bill] See that sparkle that keeps happening? Can you walk by or sit by or be by the animals again? [Angela] Oh yeah. - [Bill] See it, that. The same spot every time. - [Angela] That's cool. - [Emilee] Yeah. - [Bill] Right when I ask you to do it. - After that we went upstairs and began immediately reviewing the footage. Bill of course being the skeptic trying to debunk it. Me of course, being the true believer going but wait, it answered your question, it responded. - [Bill] That's it, does it right when I say that. - I feel like they would be moving slower than they would be moving if they were kicked up with wind. - It was happening when I asked it to happen and there was that flash in that spot, that glitter little sparkle but then again it's a camera, a digital camera. - But look the orbs moving. - The orbs was not a glitch. - [Sean] If it's repeatable, dust doesn't follow a track. - Again I'm not going to say it's a ghost. It could be dust, we mentioned dust. - [Sean] It could be magical, intelligence, repeating dust. - It could be fairy dust and now we're going to call this fairymentary so it will be interesting to do it again tonight. Do you want to know the history of orbs? They were (bleep) made for a very long time a big deal about his statements on ABC news that ghosts were everywhere. He was getting orbs in haunted places and his logic was, ghosts are everywhere, orbs are everywhere, therefore orbs are spirits. That is incredibly illogical because you know what, chairs were there too, so if there's a ghost in the house, and there's a chair in the house, then the chair must be the ghost. All right so now during the 1990s something else happened. There was a shift toward digital photography and there was an increase in the power of flashes, so reflective surfaces and when you have the short focal length, we're getting semi reflective surfaces would cause flashbacks. So just because you're getting orbs doesn't mean you're getting ghosts. You have to have some independent verification. If that's the only thing you've got, you've got nothing. - Earlier that day, Lala, Dawn, Nick, and I took a little bus tour of Virginia City and one of the things that I thought was really interesting, was the cemetery. - Okay here we are at the cemetery. Here we are at the cemetery, she took the tour today. - The most famous prostitute, she was murdered for her jewelry and furs, and they buried her at the base of the mountain. All the men wanted her buried in the cemetery with all of their families type of religion and all the women said no. - Doesn't it seem like the beginning of a horror movie, like a new one now. Hey guys let's go in the cemetery it's gonna start getting dark. - So they said the prostitute had like a thousand people at her funeral because she was very much loved. - As we were walking in and she was telling us the story, we heard nothing. - Not a sound coming from anywhere. Our footage has the recording of what we can only describe as a cattle drive. (rocks crunching) We knew that there was another group of people, like three people quietly walking down the hill from us. - It was nothing but quiet. It was beautiful, we got amazing footage. (cellphone ringing) Hold on. Hey honey we're shooting, we're up on top of the Boato parking garage. - This is why you turn your phone off when you're filming. - Yeah. - [Bill] If any of us would have heard that, which appeared to be some sort of cattle drive going right by us, we would have said to the camera hey there's a cattle drive going right by here. - You can actually here yee haw, you hear horses running, you hear men shouting. (garbled audio) - it could have been anything but the fact that the five of us did not hear it, and how clear it was on the camera, it seems a lot. Is that the cult down there? It's a house. - That was the, what did they say that was? - That was the John Cooper milling camp. - It does sound like a cattle drive. It also sounds like crows. We were also in a giant valley, that is full of people who might be hurting cattle. - We miss so much by not allowing the quiet and the stillness of the now to fully envelop us. And by doing that you become this incredible listening device, a device that can see and you can experience beyond anything that I can describe. - All right so scanning on a different frequency here, I don't know if you know what that means, but it might help us hear you better. Can you say hello? - Okay, well. - All right, ghost we're gonna go cause you're not here. - What's over there? - So I really wished you would have talked to us. So we went back to the union brewery and I wanted to play with the spirit box a little bit more. So I was just messing around with it, asking questions, seeing if I could get any answers out of it. PS37 ITC research device. - [Sean] Do you want to go downstairs or do you want to try again later? - Is there anybody in here right now? Please tell me yes on this spirit box. (static crackling) there's a viking in here. Is there anybody else here that wants to say hi? - [Spirit Box] Sounds like. - Sounds like what? - I'm just going station by station now. (static crackling) (garbled Talking) - [Voiceover] Nothing. - [Voiceover] How can you think about nothing? - [Voiceover] I do it all the time. - We're haunted, we're haunted by a married couple that has a laugh track. - [Voiceover] Will you tell me the truth? - I mean that's not the way that it is used. People don't use it by going one station at a time. I mean that's not-- - Do you see it -- - I mean I have seen it used where there is no chance of a radio signal being picked up at all. - Okay I'll admit, I could be wrong but I don't believe the stuff that we're hearing in here is a spirit, I think it's a radio. If you randomly get a DJ saying certain words, you're going to hear that, or a commercial or whatever. You're gonna hear what you want to hear. - I'd have to say my least favorite, unfortunately, and it's very popular out there is probably going to be the ghost boxes. I've taught classes where I've actually recorded like a two hour cycle and I presented it to my students, and I said we're going to try this experiment and I'm gonna turn this ghost box on and I want you guys to ask questions and see if you get any answers. And sure enough with something that was pre-recorded, they didn't know that it was pre-recorded, they were still able to pull out answers out of questions that they were asking live at that moment. Unfortunately in this field, it's so easy to point at shadows and flickers of lights and strange noises and say oh that's a ghost. - PSB7 Spirit Box. The spirit box captures spirit voices in real time. Using a millisecond adjustable forward and reverse frequency sweep, and using high frequency white noise, the box scans AM and FM frequency ranges from 76 mega hertz to 87.9 mega hertz. The first spirit box is said to date back to Thomas Edison, who is rumored to have been working on a variation of the box wile inventing the phonograph. Frank Sumption, inventor of the modern day spirit box, claims spirits helped him invent the device and white noise creates raw audio that spirits can use to communicate with the user. The SB7 is a spin-off of Sumption's invention and was originally created to communicate with extra terrestrials. There is no scientific proof, that the spirit box does what it's claimed. - When we were finished with that, Angela and I had the opportunity to go back to the Washoe and have a private tour of the second floor. Here we are in the stairway heading upstairs of the world famous Washoe Club. I was scared, but I was excited, I was scared excited. I was excited scared. I didn't know what I was. Thomas was gracious enough to take us upstairs and as we moved through the location, there was a physical change in our bodies. You feel it up there, you just feel it. He took us through all the hotspots in the areas where things have been captured on film, where things have been reported. Thomas took us into a room that we stood at the entrance, he says. - Go in that room. - [Angela] Okay. No thanks. - When we got inside, Thomas said tell me if there's an area in this room that feels different. - I always leave it up to the individual. - I walked up, I put my hand on the spot and I said, right here? - [Thomas] Yes, you're exactly right. - He then told us the history of the room. - [Thomas] This spot there was a woman that was in this spot. She was so terrified, she was not killed, but she was so terrified and it imprinted in that corner. - It wasn't until later, reviewing the footage as I'm standing there with my hand on the wall, we have the glowing white light anomaly come out of my hand and Float up my arm. I can explain the feeling, and I can't give you the feeling on film of what was happening in that room. I will say it was intense. It was one of the most intense paranormal experiences I've ever had. It was emotional and it was scary and it was exciting and it was draining. - [Bill] What you did however, the guy had you do to go to that spot, that actually, going back to Gertrude Schmeidler, she pioneered an experiment you can conduct in the field which is you take a bunch of people who don't know anything about the ghost story into a house, give them a floor plan and say see if anything feels weird in this house. And you do it in two houses, one haunted and one not, and see if they mark the spots that actually match what the witnesses say. And you get these great responses that people always pick the stuff up, so back to your question about how we prove it to a skeptic, explain that. - [Thomas] Have you ever watched Ghost Adventures? That floor of the Washoe Club was what really started it all for Ghost Adventures and every TV series, every ghost television show has been there at one point or another, so we felt incredibly lucky to be there. - [Thomas] Remember the first two or three seasons, they showed a noose? - [Sean] Yeah. - [Thomas] There it is. - [Sean] What. - [Thomas] Yep. - [Angela] That's the noose. - [Thomas] Yeah that's the noose. It's old phone cord. (laughing) I don't know maybe Zak and them did it back in 2004. - [Sean] Okay tell me what's going on right now? - Oh with went to the Washoe Club, I just got really, really cold and my head just started killing me and I'm not a headache girl. As a believer, I do think that spirits and entities can draw your energy out of your body. I don't know, but I do know is that when I came back downstairs and asked the bartender for some aspirin, two other people in the bar with her, both all turned around and said, "That is not uncommon up there." So I don't know if there's asbestos or something that causes people to have headaches or if the ghosts are just grabbing the back of my neck really hard. That could be it, I don't know. - [Sean] Or aliens. - It could be aliens, that's a possibility. - While Sean and Angela were at the Washoe Club we stayed at the brewery to investigate the basement with a San Francisco based paranormal group. - We asked to just quietly come along and watch. - I think I would honestly say, after this weekend you probably will be convinced. - [Ill] That was Dawn on the stairs tagged. - [Blonde] You saw something Dawn? - [Dawn] Yes. - [blonde Lady] What? - [Dawn] Sorry. - [Blond Lady] Are you by Dawn right now? - [Dawn] Cold chill right through my body. - [Blonde Lady] I felt a little bit of that too. - So the ovilus starts spewing out random words. - [Blond Lady] Sultry, are you a woman? - [Dawn] No it's a man. - And apparently there was a ghost behind her. - [Blonde Lady] If you want to show us, digging it said. - [Dawn] It's right behind us, right behind me. - [Blonde Lady] Are you behind her? - [Dawn] I'm stuck here with you. - [Blonde Lady] It said cleansing. - [Dawn] I don't want to cleanse. I don't want to cleanse you, unless you want me to. Hey Jim can you come and sit next to me right now? - Jim would you like to cuddle Dawn? - [Dawn] I wouldn't mind a cuddle. At least it didn't say you're horny. - [Blonde Lady] Jim, Jim. - It's like the ghost is Steven Hawking. - [Blonde Lady] We're now in phonetic mode. - [Dawn] I'm not that unattractive. Come sit with me. Who's down here, Bill are you down here? - [Bill] I'm down here. - [Dawn] Are you believing yet or not? - [Bill] All I'm doing is trying to capture everything I can, that's my best bet. - [Dawn] That's a narrow yes. - [Bill] That's a I haven't figured it out yet. When you start hearing worlds like, - [Brunette Man] We're trying to contact-- we know you can use those. Come over here, don't mind all that screaming. - [Dawn] No, okay so I'm here - [Brunette Man] Automatic. Well that's a very unusual name. More talking, fiddle. Did you play the fiddle. - [Dawn] Are you a crazy fiddle player, or part of a band and a banjo? - You realize this is about as random as it's gonna get. And we call it a night. - Ovilus voice box. We may as well get this one as perfect as we can. Ovilus vice box, created by retired electronic engineer Bill Chappell. The ovilus voice box convert environment readings, electromagnetic frequencies, temperatures, etc to real words and phonetic responses. The device contains a database of over 500 stored sounds, words, and syllables. Users combine environmental readings with the word database to receive audible responses which generally come one word at a time. There is no scientific proof, the validity of the the ovilus. - Dawn comes walking upstairs with her spirit box and starts screaming at it. - Do we have anybody here tonight? (static crackling) I can't hear. Can you hear it? Did that say ugly? I hope you didn't call me ugly, it's gonna piss me off. You're saying yes three times. - [Bill] Can't figure it out? what is that? - You have to listen to it. That's what you're getting. - That's not right, no way, no way. Party is okay, party is okay. That was a male voice that just came through. Look I'm old and tired and going to bed early so give me a name. (pacman music) - [Sean] If anybody else wants to tell a story they can crawl in bed. - Okay, so we are not. - I don't want you to smell my feet. - So the story goes like this. - We get settled in for our delicious pizza and-- - Which was very delicious. - It was so good. - [Sean] It was good pizza - I was happy with it. - Dawn begins to yell. - First she asked, so do you believe yet? - Do you need to go down to the basement by herself? - What was it? An hour an a half. - [Sean] An hour an a half. - I'm not going going to smell your feet. - I can smell them. - Oh, you're a weenie, you're scared to death, no balls. - So the only reason I was able to go is cause you actually stood up and started pointing at her and talking to her too. And I was like 'cuse me. - That was good. - You guys talk, I'm gonna put socks on cause my feet smell. - Yes they do. - Our plan for the evening, wish was going to be an extensive investigation of the brewery is now out the window, but this does not discount this trip. I did have experiences at the Union Brewery in the basement and stinky with the donkey. Back up the pack, the Union Brewery is haunted. - I had fat sticking out. - Bill you know what? - I have to edit that out, my fat stomach sticking out. - You know what you should do is you should go back to the brewery and spend a half and hour in the basement by yourself. - I, first of all Dawn would be there. And I would kill myself and then I would haunt the place. - So it's a win-win. We've got, will you come back and say I'm Bill, I'm a ghost. - Get on the speaker box and I'll have a station that'll play all the top 10 ghost hits. Is this Lady Gaga, I heard your name said on here. Actually I want to get, we're going to do a quick shot of Austin sitting in the barber chair cause his chair, his jacket matches. He'll be camoed in to the chair. Here we go. Does it turn? Okay that's it, done. After Virginia City, I realized that if you want to see a ghost, you're gonna see a ghost. - A couple of things happened to me personally in Virginia City that made me believe a little bit more. But a lot of things also made me a little more skeptical than I was going into this. - I actually left Virginia City believing ghosts less than I did before. - On leaving Virginia City we realized a few things. First of all we realized, we didn't really know what we were doing. - We were barely scratching the surface of what we wanted to do with this film. - But we were interested in learning more and figuring out how to do this the correct way. - We wanted more. - I think we just needed more experience. - I mean are we really investigating correctly? - We were sure we even knew what a ghost was? - [Bill] Okay what's a ghost? - A ghost is a soul, and your soul wants you die. - I don't know what a ghost it. - Once you're dead you turn into someone else. - So assuming that you do believe in ghost. - Yeah. - What exactly is a ghost? - I think a ghost is someone who doesn't realize they're dead. - I don't know it's like someone else in the room but you can barely see it. - Probably a spirit that is stuck here after the person's body is dead. - Most of my knowledge comes from the cartoons like Scooby Doo. - You know that's always usually just a guy though in a mask. - Yep. - The whole time. - Unmasked. - It's like a really angry guy, so. - If it wasn't for those kids we would have gotten away with it. - We'll both stand close to him, that way. How many, yeah it looks like Sean ate four cameras. - The word ghost is not actually what we typically use in parapsychology cause in many cultures it has different flavors, different meanings. But most people in the United States would take the word ghost to mean someone who has died or has come back or who stuck around after their death. We would use the word apparition for that. It's an older term but it actually is a little bit cleaner than ghost because it doesn't have the same cultural or cross-cultural connotations to it. The apparition or ghost in that case, would be someone's consciousness, personality, spirit, mind, soul, whatever you want to call it that survives the death of the body and is still here. Typically has not moved on to wherever it is they go, but is still here and is capable of interaction. That's the interaction that's the most important piece for us, because the other side of the coin is what people still use the word ghost for. Which is some sort of repeating pattern, what a lot of ghost hunters call residual energy or psychic imprint. We like to call place memory, it's a haunting. Places are haunted, objects are haunted, they seem to have memory of people and events that were kind of recorded by living people, not by dead people that can be seen as ghosts. It can be seen as holograms or however you want to see it. And those are not interactive, so on the one hand we have consciousness which is interactive after death and the other we have pictures, imprints, of us who are potentially still alive in fact. - So we did a online survey. - 70% of the people said that they do believe in ghosts. - But only 30% say they've actually seen a ghost. - What makes you believe in ghosts, although you have zero personal evidence. - Maybe people want to believe. - I think they believe in them because they've heard other people's stories. - Part of me, when somebody tells me a ghost story, deep in my head I'm thinking, all right okay you think you saw something, but then I don't think anybody's lying when they see it because reality is, people I love and respect have ghost stories. - Several us of had unexplained things happen to us. And the one that I can tell you about, happened directly to me. - And I have a ghost story to go with that story. When I was a teenager living with my parents. - So my ghost story takes us back to fifth grade. I was there with my then best friend. - We were staying alone in the house, this is a big four story house that houses about 80 guys. - We had this old piano in our basement. And it had come across the United States on a covered wagon. - His parents we're out for the evening so we grabbed his dad's Ouija board. - So we were gonna go relieve ourselves in the sump pump. And I said as we were doing this, wouldn't it be weird if the door shut and the lights turned off. - Black, ivory keys, I mean it was really worn and old and I would learn how to play piano on it. - Then the thing literally did start moving. - Right after I said that, and right after he said that, the door slammed shut and the light blew out. - I hear a woman singing, thinking it's my mom and I just kind of snicker and laugh as I'm playing along and m7y mom and my sister look at each other and they said, "No, we were not singing." - All the cabinet doors started just banging. The window opened and shut. - So we ran out of the there like Shaggy and Scooby. - And that's when I ran the rest of the way up the stairs and I did not go into the basement for a good month. - We ran and hid in their parents other car until they got home. - [Bill] Ghosts! - [Sean] Ghosts! - Like what you will hear is an intro. Where I live, what I do, do you need any of that stuff? - [Bill] I would like your social security number and mother's maiden name. - Well that's a good reason, let me check my bank card I have it all written on the back. - [Bill] Give us some history. - It is super haunted. Well actually I do know bit of history. What are you, I'm not doing this. I'm not going to chase you with that. (laughing) - So why are we here today? - Well cause you wanted me to tell, you wanted people to tell ghost stories and I have a ghost story about this building. I know a lot of people do but I have one. - [Bill] So I go, hey come with me an then walk off camera. - What is this, MTV Cribs? - Yeah. - Come check it out. I walked off camera and then you followed me. (laughing loudly) Does it work if you keep? - I'll try it again, okay. Here we go, here we go. I'm not going to say ghost but ghosts right now. - [Voiceover] I'll wait. - [Bill] It's not porn. - So I got up to the top floor with my little heat bag thing with my pizza delivery and I got out and came out here. I finished up with the delivery and I got back in the elevator to go back down and I pushed floor one and the elevator door closed. The elevator starts to go down I feel that little lurch in your stomach right, and it goes floor bing five bing four bing three waiting to get off the elevator and the elevator doors open. The elevator doors open and I step out and I'm still on the sixth floor. I haven't moved, I mean I found the staircase and I took the stairs down like five, six at a time and I got back to the pizza place and I told my manager never again. That was the scariest thing I've ever done. I'm done, that's it. - [Bill] Hence end your career delivering pizza. - It did, also the place closed down cause it wasn't very good but mostly ghosts. I'm sort of skeptic myself, I don't know necessarily that I believe, I just know what happened and that certainly did happen. - [Bill] So around the sixth floor. - Yep top floor of the building that you can go to besides the roof. Okay floor one, and it just literally every single floor. - [Bill] Well apparently we skipped four. We skipped four. (elevator beeping) And number two. (elevator beeping) okay I felt it, there's no-- - [Matt] There's no ghost hate even- - [Bill] If we woke up and if we see Brian. Oh. - Congratulations. - [Bill] Are you real? Is this the first floor? - I'm really glad we're on the first floor right now. Because literally if that happened again, I'd probably have a panic attack. - I just ran into Aaron from Ghost Adventures. - Hello. - What's the scariest thing you ever encountered? - The scariest thing I ever encountered would be my house. I tend to bring things home, I don't say stay there. I say if you wan to come home with me, come home with me. I've got part of a social experiment already. So my house, stuff I bring home. I'm talking spirits. (loud laughing drowning out Nicollete) okay, I took my finger and I scraped it across the grave of this witch in Jamaica and I broke a piece of her grave and I said since we did this, you've got a piece of me, I've got a piece of you and pretty much after that she followed me home and still live there. (laughing) I probably shouldn't have done that. No. - I don't think you're stuck with your body. I think that's the peak of your ego collapse where you have to leave your body behind. You've spent your entire life being attached to your body and when you die, you have to give it up. - You died and somebody goes, there was like a ghost travel agent and they said we'll take you anywhere you want to go and that's where you're gonna go and you can do anything forever, what would you do? - I'd hump my wife for the rest of her life. - So he's gonna go before you. - I guess so. - I feel sorry for the next guy. - I'd go to Hawaii and hang out on the beach and eat a lot of donuts. - What are my powers? - Ghost powers, standard ghost powers where would you go? - First I'd go to in and out and then get some fries. - Floating, going, scaring people. - Ghost are more of locked to where they died or they had unfinished business, so that more like-- - So it'd be better to die at Disneyland. - Yeah, yeah. - Than like an insurance seminar. - I don't know I'd probably go haunt people on the bridge. You know and just like they're sitting on the bridge and just be like whoo and they're like, oh no did somebody push me? - That so funny, that's not what they would be thinking. - Yeah. - Ah did somebody push me? - So you'd murder people. - There's a rare, rare cases where you might find a ghost actually attached to a location. They become so connected to that location for various reasons. Often times it can be a location of tragedy for example. Extreme violence took place in their transition when they died and often times they can be so connected to a location because of their addiction, if I can use that, to their previous life. (video game music) - We went to the Cottonwood Cemetery which was started in 1906 so it's in Fort Boise. There have been reports of horse hooves and babies crying. - We brought our really good friend and film maker Ron Torres to come with us. - [Ron] I will say that from a distance is a weird noise. - For no other reason than he had nothing better to do. Okay this is session one, Cottonwood Cemetery. Friday night. Did we lose Emilee? I actually do have a story. When I was I guess 19 or 20 and I was up there with a buddy of mine, late at night just sitting on top of the picnic table cover and we heard to this day probably the scariest most blood curdling scream I've ever heard in my life. It was to where we literally jumped to the ground, ran to the car, raced down the mountain, went to the old 7-11 down on the corner of Broadway and called the police. - [Bill] It wasn't I would say I'm an in danger? - It wasn't like an I'm in danger scream, it was more like - (drums drowning out Bill) - Yeah it was like. - I'll swallow your soul, I'll swallow your soul. - Pretty much. - [Bill] We've come out tonight to talk to you. Let you know that we're here. - There's this little red light at the end of these, if you come and talk into them we'll be able to hear you. - [Sean] I keep hearing something. It's that way and it's not Bill and Emilee. - Angela and I had heard a sound off in the distance and seen a light coming from the same area. So we walked over to the corner of the cemetery closest to it to investigate. I see it right now. - [Sean] Yeah. Again it's not coming from the fence. - You see the fourth row of tombstones? - [Emilee] Hmm-mm. - [Sean] Follow it down and just go up. - [Bill] If we find EVP we go to do it here. - There's a lot of wind and oh 50 yards away. (flag flapping) Oh there's a flag pole and you can hear the flag whipping in the wind and then the chain hitting the pole. So it's kind of understandable that somebody might think that they hear horses. - There not by chance ghosts? - This really kind of happened when we reviewed the footage, we didn't get any thing but this looks great so we started thinking about other ghost shows. - And the thing that really bugged me is the presentation. - You know how easy is it with a little bit of music and night vision to kind of make this stuff up or make people more anxious. (scary music) - Did you see that? - Reality ghost shows are super cheesy and definitely scripted. - You know I've turned down shows myself because the producers, directors, they want me to look the other way if they decide to alter a story or alter the evidence. - And all of a sudden I got pushed in the small of my back down and it was only three stairs. On Ghost Adventurers they made it seem like I fell all the way down. - One of my colleagues Barry Taft was asked, originally he was approached for the show before Jason and Grant was and the producers, Barry said the producers actually asked him how he felt how comfortable he feels about faking things? Flat out. That's why he didn't do the show. - [Bill] I just realized I'm Scooby Dooing this scenario. Can you do an impression of a ghost? - Ah no. - I think you can, I think you're hesitant. - Like ooh. - The answer I'm looking for is boo. - Boo. - And then maybe some arm failing like ah like that. - Maybe. - When a ghost has got the hand thing. Do it make sounds? - I don't think so. - Chains, chains, that was an acceptable answer if they had chains on. - It's like dangling stuff or moving, I don't know at all. - You don't want to the do an impression do you? - No, I don't. - An impression of a ghost. - Well usually they're trapped in their daily activities. A lot of people don't understand what a ghost is or a lot of people don't believe in it. And when they do experience it, it freaks them out to the point where most people can't recover from it. I am a pultic master. If I could talk to somebody who was dead and I needed to give them some information to help them exist better, I would tell them realize that you have no limitations on what is tangible. What it is that they did in their regular life, they usually still do it and you can penetrate thought, you can penetrate mystery, you can penetrate mass and energy, you can penetrate time and location, I'm not afraid to die, I'm actually looking forward to it. What I would understand if someone was murdered, they're forced to relive that over and over again. Even if you die in your sleep, anytime your soul leaves your shell, anytime the soul leaves it's shell, it's always painful. A regular person who dies from regular old age or something just walking around their house they don't really realized what's going on. They haven't been told or they don't realize that they're dead so they just go about their day lives and when they finally do realize that they're dead, they usually leave as soon as they realize it. - They go oh what's that light in the corner they been looking at his whole time and they been walking through. - From what I understand it's not really a light. It's more like a tunnel. - Maybe we need to go where people have peacefully died in their sleep. - Growing up here, we had heard stories for years about the old tuberculosis hospital over in Gooding. - Tuberculosis. - [Sean] Tuberculosis. - Tuberculosis. - They heard footsteps, upstairs in the attic, a little girl singing. Some of the people there said they've been able to look upstairs when they're outside and see someone looking at them through the windows. - Tuberculosis, say it one more time, hold on. - [Sean] Tuber. - Tuber. - [Seean] Cu. Cu. - [Sean] Losis. - Tuberculosis. - [Sean] Tuberculosis. - In the early 1920s, the tuberculosis (bleep). Okay we got it. (traffic flowing) - [Angela] The secret to ghost hunting is Mexican Candy. - [Sean] Oh. - Hi. - [Angela] Hi friend. - [Sean] What do you want to tell us about the candy that you bought? - [Man In White Hoodie] You've been eating this? - [Angela] Yeah. - [Man In White Hoodie] It's just powder. - [Emilee] Yeah, it's like cocaine for children. Go, go, go, go, go. - Oh God. (laughing loudly) - It tried to get sweet but then it just tasted like nasty shoes. - It's like sweet hot leather. - [Angela] Okay, here are your rusty suckers. - No. - [Angela] I think I have shoes for gold. - [Emilee] Does it have watermelon in it? - [Angela] I have shoes for gold. - That's pretty (bleep) far from watermelon. Oh there is watermelon, yes right underneath the ass. - [Angela] You must love ass. - Well once you start you can't stop. - Tricalcium phospate was added to make it free flowing. That's sad. She just had a seizure. - It taste kind of like those essential oil bath salts that you put in your bath, not the bath salts that make you eat people's faces. But I don't think it's that bad really. It taste kind of like soap. - [Sean] Soap? - But I kind of like it. - I'm still not sure why there's a peanut in that. - [Austin] LinkedIn don't want to eat it. I want to go scrub my tongue off. (loud footsteps) - [Sean] Okay we're getting radio station nearby. - I want to take the antenna off completely. - [Sean] It isn't screwed in. - That is an option. - [Sean] All right. - With can make a tiny unicorn horn for your cat. - I already have an inflatable one. (static crackling) (garbled voices) - [Bill] All right should we just shut that off for now and then, all right so much for the spirit box. - Okay we're recording, this is session one. The attic of the University Inn. Up here there's kids. Is there anybody here with us tonight? Can you give us a sign, can you let us know? - [Sean] Is there anybody who'd like to say hello? Or would like to communicate with us. - [Bill] It was a hospital in 1947. - [Emilee] And it was a university before that for quite a long time. - [Bill] So it's close to, it's got to be pushing a hundred years old if not a hundred. - [Sean] Can you do something to let us know you're here, like make a sound or move something. Anything you can do to show us you're here. Do you want us to go? (suspenseful music) (giggling) - That is so creepy, what is that? - [Emilee] We'd sing with you if you want. - [Bill] I saw a flash - [Emilee] Do you have a favorite song? (suspenseful music) (quietly laughing) - [Angela] Get it away, ah get it away. - [Sean] It's Ghost Adventures. - [Emilee] What did it feel like a spider or like? - [Bill] You know what it felt like? Like a piece of wood fell from something, a little light fell and touched the top of my head. - [Angela] Why does it have to be a piece of wood, maybe it was a ghost. - [Bill] Cause I'm a woodist, a materialist. I'm a racist towards other materials. Okay see, (bleep), ah. - [Angela] You're the only one it's talking to. Check Bill for spiders. - [Bill] Check me for spiders. Is there a spider on me? - [Sean] No there's no spider. - [Bill] Is there anything on me? - [Sean] This is the first place of everywhere we've been that I feel I'm losing it and I don't know if it's because I felt something tapping me. - [Emilee] That'll do it. - When we first got up here, I didn't feel anything and now I've just got this like-- - [Angela] I did, when we first came up here with the lady that owns the place, I felt like something was watching us from over here. - [Sean] Something just got me in the back of the head. - What did it feel like? - [Sean] It felt like somebody tickling me in the back of the head. - [Enilee] Are you playing with the boys? - [Sean] Do you want us to go or do you want us to stay? (croaking) - [Sean] Can you touch me? I almost pooped my pants right there. (chair falling over) - [Angela] What? - [Sean] Can you do that again? Brushed chills over me and then something touched my shoulder. - [Bill] Um-hmm, that's exactly what happened to me. - [Emilee] Yeah we got chills too. - [Sean] Did anybody notice that it just got a little cooler in here? It did over here. - [Bill] I've got a pretty steady state of chills going down me. (loud footsteps) Somebody doesn't know how to spell redrum. (laughing) - [Voiceover] Quick you turn left. This is the OR, that's the original sinks. - I feel like the OR is the question. - [Bill] We are in the basement in the nurses lounge. - [Angela] That's my ankle popping. - It its not a demon coming from the depths of hell. That is arthritis. - [Bill] Flash. - [Emilee] Let's take this ball upstairs when we go. - [Sean] All right go for it. (chips crunching) - You want some? (door dragging) - Yeah. (laughing loudly) - [Bill] Ghosts! - Put your hand, why are you not even touching it? - I am touching it but what do we ask? - I don't know. - Okay so we're going to ask a couple questions. The first question being, is there anybody with us right now. (loud footsteps) - Okay. - It's broken. (laughing loudly) - We met our friend David and he told us about a ghost tour in Pioneer Square. - [Bill] Hey everybody it's our friend, David Mead. Hi David, why are we here today? - Hi, well a while back I went on one of the tours here in Seattle. It's a great tour showing all kinds of interesting places around Seattle that could or could not be haunted. So I actually went cause I was asked out on a date and she brought me down here and as our date we went on. - [Bill] And how did the date end? - Spectacularly. - Where is she now? - I don't know. - [Bill] So it went well. All right let's go inside. - Well I'm Ross Ellison, president and founder of A Ghost, which stands for the Advanced Ghost Hunters of Seattle Tacoma. I'm also the owner of Spooked in Seattle ghost tours. I've been in the field of paranormal research for over 25 years. I started Spooked in Seattle ghost tours due to the fact that I was doing ghost tours on all my trips and I'd find out that they made up a lot of stories and dramatized a lot of stories on these tours. So when I decided to do my ghost tours, I decided to get the stories real. The first sound you hear is that of Ross, the second is that of the entity. And show evidence that we had actually collected on our own personal investigations. That fan is too loud. - [Bill] Did you hear something over there? - And it's become so popular that we were actually voted as one of the top four tours in Seattle. Well when I started my ghost hunting group back in 2000 we were one out of a hundred nationally. And now due to the popularity of ghost hunting, it's easily that each state could have over a hundred groups or more. But unfortunately the problem that we have today is there's a lot of what we call paradrama, or a lot of these groups don't know what they're doing. They're territorial and they will do anything they can to get their 15 minutes of fame. Before I got involved in ghost hunting, there was a few names out there that of course I followed. You had, you know Lorraine and Ed Warren. Hans Holzer, Loyd Auerbach, those are the names that I grew up, reading their material and watching their career. So for me, I've always respected our roots, where ghost hunting came from. For me, I like where it's going as to becoming more scientific, more equipment's coming out there. But I will never forget our roots and I always have respect for those who have been doing this a lot longer than I have. - So Ross brought up a name that we kept hearing and it was Professor Loyd Auerbach. - I was lucky enough to be introduced to a man named Renny, who actually had worked with this professor before. - So at that point we knew that if we were ever going to attain Jedi level, we needed Yoda. - Super nervous, so we're calling Loyd Auerbach from the Rhine Institute, the Winbridge Institute, he's the director for the office of paranormal investigations. He's kind of a big deal. What do I go, Professor Aeurbach. - [Sean] You're basically talking to the Brett Favre of paranormal investigations. - I know, ugh. (phone ringing) - [Voiceover] Hi this is Loyd. So yeah, he's excited. We are going to San Francisco to meet with his majesty, the president of ghosts. That's what he is. (clapping) - I had to stay in Boise, while everyone else went to San Francisco because I had to adult. Be my girl, can't you take things You love and leave the rest behind I know you think, you're (car revving) - We've decided to scrap Ghostementary and we're going with the remake of Magnum P.I. - What's Magnum P.I? (laughing) - You're dead to us. You are no superhero's girl You are no superhero's girl You are no superhero's girl You are no superhero's girl You are no, you are no (record scratching) - I want to throw up. - [Bill] Why are you gonna throw up? - I don't know, it was probably those baby octupus, octopi. - [Bill] Is it octopus, octopussy. - Octopushwa. (speaking foreign language0 Fish? (speaking foreign language) - What? - We finally got to go and meet Professor Loyd Aeurbach. We drove to Lafayette, California and went to his office at the HCH Institute where he was gracious enough to give us pretty much an entire afternoon of his expertise and brilliance. - Okay, I'm Loyd Aeurbach, I'm a professor at John F Kennedy University, Atlantic University, and an instructor at HCH Institute which is where we are right now. I'm a parapsychologist, I have a master's degree in parapsychology going way, way back and have been around the field for over 35 years. Actually a lot longer than that. I've been an investigator, mostly an educator but I've also been involved somewhat in research in a number of different places. I'm on the board of director at the Rhine Research Center. I'm president of the Forever Family Foundation. I'm an advisor to the Windbridge Institute and the Forever Family Foundation and I'm also a professional magician and mentalist. So I've got the other side of things covered as well. Written a whole bunch of books, what else would you like me to talk about. - [Bill] That's it. - I can keep going if you want. - No that's good. He just told us the coolest stuff. I think what led me into parapsychology was mystery, so I'd watch shows like the Twilight Zone, and One Step Beyond and Topper which was probably hugely influential on me. The fact is that neuroscience is going in one direction to understand consciousness, other folks are going in a different direction in the sciences to understand consciousness, physics goes in a different direction. There is no agreed upon definition. You can't rule it out, until you rule out that consciousness has a presence outside the body. You have those correlations, you rarely ever get high magnetic field with ghosts around unless you're like getting the ghost to walk right in front of you. And it's the same with EVP is the phrasing that comes through has to be very clear otherwise it really shouldn't count. Sheepgoat effect is actually one of the most repeatable affects of parapsychology outside of ESP experiences. I wouldn't watch a do-it-yourself show and then go out and hang a shingle as a plumber because plumbers have to be licensed, they go through journeyman training, they do a lot of stuff and I think that certain ghost hunters that used to be plumbers would be very upset if anybody did that. - He was amazing. - One of the locations that he brought up in the interview was the Moss Beach Distillery down along the coast. - I have certainly favorite locations, I have two favorite locations. One is the Moss Beach Distillery, which is a restaurant I've been working with since 1991. One of the reasons it's my favorite, well the food's great, the view's great. I love going down there to the coast but more importantly I've had, from the first time I was there, the ghost was cooperative. - [Bill] Angela where are we? - [Angela] We are at the Moss Beach Distillery. - [Sean] You've got to talk to the camera. - Where'd you go? (laughing) Apparently it's a pretty hot spot. - [Sean] Car! - [Angela] For ghosts. Game off. - [Sean] Game on. - Thank you. See my mustache? - No you're good. They let us come in, they let us film, they let us do interviews. They were wonderful. - At one point we're were at dinner and my hand got so freezing cold, now where I'm sitting to the table, the Sun is jut glaring in on me and Sean couldn't feel it. And then all of a sudden he did feel it and it moved around behind him to his back and had left me. So we went downstairs and we were able to get an interview and film and we tried to do an EVP session but it's a restaurant obviously with music and things and that really wasn't going so well, but we were able to talk to some people and get their experiences with the blue lady. We were filming the hostess. - And she told stories of electrical happenings in that area and how things light up. - And both of the boys cameras just drained. - My battery and his battery was full when we got here. I barely been filming. When we were setting up, put a brand new full battery in and in the short time we were inside. - Completely drained batteries. We go upstairs right by the entrance dead. - But I also love the USS Hornet, that's another, the aircraft carrier, I do love going there as well because there's a lot of ghost there. - So now under the guidance of his majesty, professor Loyd Aeurbach. - We learned some things. - We were going to use this newly received knowledge to go out and conduct a proper investigation. - We learned that the last thing we should be doing, is investigating like every other ghost show on television. (scary music) (electric screaming) - The ghost shows from entertainment perspective, if you like that if you find them entertaining that's what they're supposed to be. They're supposed to be entertaining. If you find them entertaining, great. if you are watching them to learn your craft, get a life. - Don't film with the lights off. - Because no one in science does an investigation in the dark. That came straight out of TV, that was because of Sony Nightshot cameras, if it were not nightshot cameras ghost hunters would not be working in the dark guaranteed. - It's important to work with a psychic. - I'd work with a really good medium or psychic and have them have a direct conversation than maybe get out of five hours of audio two things that don't do anything for me. - With any type of paranormal investigation, I totally agree that you should have if not one psychic, medium, sensitive, or clairvoyant, you should have multiple. Our current technology is not advanced to such a degree that we can pick up all of the different types of energies from these beings, from these ghosts. A psychic is somebody who can be intuned, question can hear, can feel, can sense, they come from a sixth sense and often even as seventh sense. Clairvoyants simply put is clear vision. Clairvoyants have an ability to see internally within the mind's eye the third eye it's often called. Sensitive can, oh my, they can sense the most subtle shifts and change in their bodies with their environments and when you have the interaction of spirits and ghosts around a sensitive, it is amazing what they can experience. But from my personal perspective, I believe almost every human is psychic or has a sixth sense. And often we are blind to it. - [Bill] Angela what's today? - It's my birthday. - [Sean] And where are we? - We are in the tenderloin. - [Sean] Did you witness anything good last night. - I was talking to a prostitute, saw some drug deals go down, a lady was removed from the building across the street by an ambulance. She was in a wheelchair and she was wearing a wedding dress maids costume. Then we're going to go investigate the San Leandro train depot. {both] Yay. - [Sean] And are we going to have a special guest with us today? - We are going to have a special guest, his name is Karl Fisher. - My name is Karl Fisher, I work on the USS Hornet in Alameada, California during paranormal tours. - He's one of Loyd Aeurback's students. He's a sensitive, he's going to join us out there for his spidey sense. - [Sean] I'm so excited. - I'm excited too. - [Sean] And all of your birthday. - So we get to the train depot, we get to look around and kind of scope things out ourselves before Karl shows up. Karl gets there and we start asking him basically how he does what he does or the things that he feels and prepares for before going into an investigation. - I definitely feel anxiety. I felt anxiety since I left the house and then felt pretty good when I was standing out front talking to you guys but as we talked about coming in and stuff, I definitely have the in my chest and that's a huge sign for me. - That particular depot in San Leandro, California when you go into that area, I think first and foremost most people will be aware of the energy of the historical vibes that are coming from that location first and foremost. There are also, if you get quiet enough in that area, you can hear people talking as if they're still living in a different time and so it makes one wonder about certain theories of time continuing and that the early 1920s is still existing at this very moment as we experience the year 2015. - I would feel that there's definitely a residual imprint here for sure. - So we grab our cameras and now that we are armed with our trusty sensitive. - [bill] Karl kind of walked around and showed us how things work. What item will give him a feeling or something that somebody has worked off of. A personally handwritten note, these are all things that give him feeling. - We head through the building, go to the back and start doing some EVP work. - The first thing that happened changed our minds to the point of changing our minds on a lot of things. - The footsteps. - Te footsteps. - Loud footsteps, that everybody on the crew, Angela, Bill, myself, and Carl heard. - The camera was focused on Karl as he was talking. - They're feeding off of your energy. - As we were filming, we heard somebody walking up. - High spontaneous peaks of energy, that's like, that's helping them combust and like be able to break through you know. - [Bill] That's really interesting, I like that. - I'm the first one to react to the footsteps. I look down the hallway to see if anybody's coming. I ask if anyone hears that. - Then be able to break through. be able to break through. - [Bill] That's really interesting, I like that. All what do you want us to do, listen I'm super excited about this partially because we've never done this. - [Angela] We did, what's that. - It was so distinct that I actually stopped my camera and turned to look to see who was there. - And nobody ended up being in the hallway. - [Sean] I just went up front, you heard it? - I heard footsteps too. - [Sean] I heard footsteps right here in the hallway. - Yeah. - [Sean] She's been sitting up in the front corner. - Did you hear footsteps? - Yeah I did. - [Sean] They were right here. I thought she was right here. - [Angela] I thought they were right here. - Are you serious. - [Sean] Yeah. - There was just somebody walking right there. - [Sean] And I just got massive chills right there. - Well I just got massive chills, the thought of, now I have them. - [Angela] Because you heard it right? - I heard somebody walking right there - We went outside onto the boardwalk to try and recreate those footsteps. - [Bill] What are you going to do right now? - Okay well we all just heard footsteps clear as day walk right up to us, to the point where Angela actually stopped and said was that Teresa. I went up front to see if that was Teresa, Teresa's still sitting in the front corner of the entrance room. Now I'm going to do outside and walk the entire length of the patio and see if it sounds the same. - [Bill] All right, so there's your problem. This is exactly where we would have heard the footsteps and there is your motion sensor light. So if there was somebody walking out here, the light would have gone off. I don't know, when we first got here, I didn't feel anything and now I'm just ooh. - [Karl] It definitely sounded more like distinct like that for sure. - I heard it to, I thought somebody was right here. [Sean] So did I. So what are you feeling right now. You still feeling? - Do we talk about when I heard you talk when you weren't talking? - [Sean] Yeah it uh. - What? - What did you say? - I didn't say anything. - Bill comes up behind me and I swear to God on my children's life, I hear him talk and say something behind me as if he's trying to whisper and get my attention. - What did you say? - I didn't say a word. You really did just hear something. - Yeah you just said something. (laughing) - are you serious? - Yeah. - Are you still recording this Joe? I'm holding a recorder, she's holding a recorder, the camera obviously has a recorder. - [Sean] Yeah. - What did you say? - I'm standing here listening to you, she just turned around to me and she goes what, what did you say, she swore I just said something. - You did. Of all three of those recording devices, Bill's was the only one that didn't catch the voice that I heard. - It maybe that a couple of people starting seeing or having an experience in the house and the disbeliever will actually block their experience psychological. When we talk about hallucinations, we always think about seeing things that are not there. That's what people think about for hallucinations. But the late Harry Blackstone Jr pointed out there a negative hallucination and that is not seeing things that are in fact there. And he wasn't necessarily even talking about paranormal stuff. You put something down on the table for a moment and it's gone and your perception somebody else can see it but you can't, we are not seeing with our eyes we are seeing with out brains. That's perception, so just because your eyes sees it doesn't mean your brain is gonna see it. And you can have the most powerful ghost in the universe appear in front of people, even create an image that's reflecting light, which is not what's happening, they're connecting mind to mind. But even if they did that, the disbeliever could block that image completely and not see it. Because they don't want to believe it's there. - So apparently something got, you want to turn the camera towards Sean. - [Angela] Oh that's scary though. - [Bill] Sean what just happened. - Is there anything, honey is there anything. - [Karl] He has some red marks on his neck. - [Angela] Well he's also injured. - Something just ticked my neck. - Uh-uh you don't have anything. I don't know. - So if there's somebody here with us right now, sense I've walked in this room, I feel a strong male presence and obviously he feels something too so, if there's somebody here can you try and make yourself apparent to us. You can light his K2 meter up. All you have to do is get near it. We're not here trying to invade your space or bother you or anything like that. We just want to talk to you and we want to know why you're here. Do you feel any different right now? Do you want to try going upstairs and see? - [Sean] Yeah we can go upstairs. - [Karl] Let's go up there. So these people are here filming a documentary so if you have a story or any unfinished business now's your time to talk to us. - [Angela] Is that you that I heard whisper, I thought it was Bill talking behind me while you whisper. Yeah, thank you. - So do you work here or did you work here? so are you angry, I've heard people say that they've got EVPs of swearing is that you cursing and swearing? - [Bill] If it wasn't you is there somebody else here that's swearing? Was that a yes or a no? Is there more than one person here with us right now? - Do you hear that knock too with that? - [Bill] Yeah. I just heard a loud breath. - Whoop. Why are you doing there? All right, allow me to, you want me to do this now? Okay, the mel meter is an intelligent microprocessor based instrument specifically designed for paranormal investigations. It was built by paranormal investigators for paranormal investigators. It has a built in EMF radiating detector and a flash light, basically it's the iPhone of paranormal ghost hunting technologies. It's designed for quick captures of key readings with the ability to quickly record and clearly display the correlation of EMF and temperture change in the surrounding area. It's the only device capable of doing this. However, there is no scientific evidence that the Mel Meter detects any paranormal activity. Are we done now? - [Karl] You want to try talking with the flashlight? - We were getting numerous hits off the EMF. When we began the flashlight experiment, that was one of the most interesting things that we saw. - People are really skeptical about this. I do this on the ship a lot, it seems to be a very easy way of them being able to communicate. As with everything it's just, nobody really knows what's going on. It could be us making psychic impressions and willing things to happen. So if you're here talking with us and you're the person making the K2 light up, can you try to turn that flashlight off. If that's easier. Okay. - [Angela] I think that it's really funny. He's like, I think he's really funny, can you turn the flashlight off? Yeah I can turn the flashlight off very easily. Thank you so much. - And this went on for five or ten minutes. We asked a question, a light will turn on. We ask it to turn on or off, it would turn off the EMF would go, it was actually pretty entertaining. - [Angela] Do you want to try and communicate to us and talk to us, we can't hear you with our ears and still hear you possibly on these recorders when we listen to them later. - But then as we moved away from that and we started talking about other things, the light still seemed to flash periodically and the EMF kept going - [Karl] Around and wanting, willing these things to happen right now but random surges, it doesn't seem like it's consistent with a situation like this where we're asking questions and we're getting responses. - [Sean] If this place is important to you, can you turn the flashlight back off. - Thank you. - That's what I'm talking about. If it was random like wouldn't it be happening while we just sat here having conversations too. (laughing) - I told you, I think he's really funny. - Was it just by chance, was it somebody still trying to get our attention? - But the number of times that it happened, led me to believe that something was actually going on. Moving right across down here as I keep walking and hitting the stairway, and came up. I'm nothing, just a big ball of light. Flash or consistent. - I don't get the impression of an angry person. I get the impression of an old working class male. - [Sean] That's awesome. You think he'll come back sometime. - Yeah definitely, I think the more and more people. I don't get the impression that he doesn't want to communicate, I think that sometimes you go places and you can kind of tell that they're angry and it's annoying to them. But the impression I get off of that and the general feelings I get is the guy seems like he would be a friendly individual and open to people people coming here and trying to communicate with him. - The one thing that made me believe that we were actually having a paranormal experience didn't happen until after the investigation. Angela and I realized we were so exhausted, so extremely exhausted, it was almost to the point of sickness. - [Bill] So anyway talk to me for a second. - That was crazy, every bit of energy is drained out of my body, I feel like I could fall down right now. And I can't even think right now, I am completely drained, completely drained like a battery. - Can you unlock the car please so I can? - [Bill] What do you think? - Yeah I just feel super drained like I just said. - [Bill] The lights, the ghost just made the lights go on on the car behind you. - Oh, I think it was really interesting in the very beginning when we were asking if you're the one who made the footsteps turn the light on, the light went on. Are you the on who touched Sean, light went on. Are you the one who I heard whisper behind me when I thought it was Bill and I was kind of going on with that question and it waited until I was done with that question and then it turned on, so that was pretty great. I was just getting really tingly and then just sucked the life out of me. - [Bill] I still have a lot of energy. - Which led us to believe that Bill is in fact a ghost. - I really do think the footprint thing, the footstep thing is something. The flashlight thing and the, what was it called, the K2 meter. - [Angela] Yeah the mel meter. - [Bill] That thing was just going off to randomly go off. So, anyway, it could have just been a ghost trying to talk to us, I did feel very staticky when I ask to take me energy I felt like not hair was actually raising but you know when you walk in a room and you feel just static. I felt that but the mind is a pretty powerful thing. So anyway. - [Angela] This mic is making an amazing shadow on you right now. - It is, where? That's it, that's all I have, just not sure that we saw anything. But it was really cool, well anyway that's it. (happy music) (laughing loudly) - So it's been a few months, I have been editing like a mofo trying to get this movie done reexamining footage, seeing things that I can't explain. As you've probably all ready seen cause we put them in this movie. That you know we got some interesting stuff. - At the beginning I was nothing but excited and amped and hyped and thrilled to be a part of it. That has not changed. - From when we started until now, honestly I do believe a little bit more in ghosts. (screaming) - I think I'm more skeptical of evidence from ghost sightings from our investigations. (meowing) - But I believe less in ghost hunting techniques and ghost hunting equipment that I've seen on ghost shows and ghost documentaries. (restaurant chatter) - Did we get a ghost? I don't know. - [Sean] Oh look, it's me eating again. - The best piece of advice I can give to somebody going to hunt ghosts is just to follow your instincts, because really that's the best thing we have. - I believe in ghosts more since we started this project. Which is almost impossible because the amount I believed in ghost when we started this project was I completely believed. Now it's not just a belief, now I know. - I believe in ghost the same, - I wouldn't say that I believe in ghosts more, and I wouldn't say that I believe in ghosts less. The one thing I do believe is people's desire to see ghosts is more than I thought. And if you want to see a ghost, you're going to see a ghost. And if you want to have your explanation be paranormal, then that's what it's going to be. I also at the same time believe that if you're so closed-minded as somebody like me, you might miss that ghost which is right in front of your face. - Let's go. I really think that it comes down to trusting your senses and your own personal experiences over all the technology. So a few places that I would love to investigate, Waverly Sanitarium, it's that scary. - I'd like to work our way across the country and end up on the east coast and culminate the holy grail of all haunted places, Europe. - I think out next film should be aliens. - That's an easy one, I'm coming after bigfoot. - You know I don't think it's the role of science in general to make people believe, in anything for that matter. It is the role of science to provide the evidence and let people decided for themselves to a point. The idea is to come up with a preponderance of evidence to show that there really is an effect here and to try to find some explanation for it. I don't think that there's anything, if a true skeptic, a doubter, not a disbeliever, because a lot of people call themselves skeptics when in fact they're total true disbelievers. We're never going to convince the true disbeliever, never. The true disbelievers are only going to find out if there's life after death when they die. - Okay. Now you see me Now you don't Now you se me, now you don't And if you don't believe me. Think I'm a ghost of your imagination Then keep hide and seeking And I'll just stay along I'll just play along I'm not only in my dreams But the way it seems, that's the way it seems I haunt you in your sleep So you can think you're crazy And seeing things And seeing things Now you see me Now you don't Now you see me Now you don't I'm not only in your dreams But that's the way it seems, that's the way it seems I haunt you in your sleep So you can think you're crazy And seeing things And seeing things And seeing things And seeing things And seeing things I mess with your mind So you question what you find, yeah If you don't believe me Think I'm a ghost of your imagination And keep hide and seeking And I'll play along I'll jut play along And I'll just play along And I'll just play along And I'll just play along I'll just play along And I'll just play along I'll just play along I'll just play along And I'll just play along 
