 

                        MICHAEL JACKSON's GHOS WELCOME TO NORMAL VALLEY SOMEPLACE ELSE Why don't we just leave him alone? He hasn't hurt anybody. Can we just go? Your fault jerk, just couldn't keep your mouth shut. He did the right thing. He is a weirdo. There is no place in this town for weirdos. Hey ...that ...that is no good sign. It's like last time. It is the ghost. Shut up. Do not hit your brother. There is no such thing as GHOST, honey. Got to prove it to you kid. Lets go! Did anyone call and made sure this is a good time? Maybe we should come back later. No, I thought his light is out. No light? It is daytime. O Damn! Who is there? Did I scare you? That's him Mom! That's the Gh... Hi! Sorry. No, you didn't scare me. maybe you scared them, but you didn't scare me. That's too bad, isn't it? I guess I'll have to try harder next time. There won't be a next time. Oh Really? Oh Really. No next time, huh? Why is that? We want you out of town. We have a nice normal town. normal people, normal kids. We don't need freaks like you telling ghost stories. So you don't believe in ghosts ... I do. Me too. You see what you've done? Aren't you ashamed? Young are impressionable. She only means stuff you did for us! Shut up, that is supposed to be a secret! Don't hit your brother! You're weird. You're strange. And I don't like you. You are scaring these kids. living up here all alone. I am not alone. You are right, I do like to scare people, yes. But it is just for fun. Don't you kids enjoy when I do my little ... you know ...? Well, the funs over. Back to the circus, you freak! And do yourself a favor, okay? Don't force us to get rough with you. Because we will, if we have to. You trying to scare me, aren't you? I'll tell you what, we'll play a game! Anybody here likes games? Hello? Game time! The first person who gets scared, has to leave. How about that? I'll go please ... I don't play games with freaks. There is no need to be rude. Yes, I agree, there is no need to be rude, you have a very lovely home ... but I am afraid we have overstayed our welcome, so we are kinda go. Can we go? Are you gonna leave? ... or am I gonna have to hurt you? You are trying to scare me, I guess I have no choice, ... I guess I have to scare you. Watch this! Tell me ... do you think this is scary? That is ridiculous. That is not funny. Okay, fine. What about this one? That scared you? Did you hear what I said, freaky boy? It is time for you to go! Is this scary? Are we going somewhere? Hello? It is too late ... you are my guests. and by the way ... ... did I tell you I wasn't alone? Meet the family! Told me that you're doin' wrong Word out shockin' all alone Cryin' wolf ain't like a man Throwin' rocks to hide your hands You ain't done enough for me You are disgustin' me, yeah yeah You're aiming just for me You are disgustin' me Just want your cut from me But too bad, too bad Look who just walked in the place Dead and stuffy in the face Look who's standing if you please Though you tried to bring me to my knees Too bad too bad about it Why don't you scream and shout it Hell all up in Hollywood Sayin' that you got it good Creepin' from a dusty hole Tales of what somebody told Too bad too bad about it Why don't you scream and shout it Look at that one! Is that scary for you baby Am I scary for you oh Am I scary for you baby Am I scary for you (I don't wanna talk about it) Is it scary for you I'm tired of being abused You know you're scaring me too I see the evil is you Is it scary for you baby Are you scared yet? There's a ghost down in the hall There's a ghoul upon the bed There's something in the walls There's blood up on the stairs And it's floating through the room And there's nothing I can see And I know that that's the truth Because now it's onto me I don't understand it There's a ghostly smell around But nobody to be found And a coughin' and a yawnin' Where a restless soul is going I don't understand it And who gave you the right to scare my family? And who gave you the right to scare my baby, she needs me And who gave you the right to shake my family tree? You put a knife in my back, Shot an arrow in me! Tell me are you the ghost of jealousy Stooooooppp! Who is scary now? Who is the freak now? Freaky boy! Freak circus freak! Who is scary? Who is weird now? So ... ... you still want me to go? Yes! Yes! Fine, I'll go. Good riddance. Let's go. ... let's go. ... let's go! ... shove that freak. Hello! Did I scare you? Yes, yes ... ... for a minute I thought I was gonna lose ... Did we have a good time here? Hello? ... what Did I scare ya? No! ... well, maybe. How about that? ... maybe? Excuse me ... ... Excuse me ... Is this scary? Subtitle by j0!j0 There's a ghost down in the hall There's a ghoul upon the bed There's something in the walls There's blood up on the stairs And it's floating through the room And there's nothing I can see And I know that that's the truth Because now it's onto me I don't understand it There's a tappin' in the floor There's a creak behind the door There's a rocking in the chair But there's no-one sitting there There's a ghostly smell around But nobody to be found And a coughin' and a yawnin' Where a restless soul is going Don't understand it And who gave you the right to shake my family? And who gave you the right to shake my baby, she needs me And who gave you the right to shake my family tree? You put a knife in my back Shot an arrow in me!
