 

                        This is a simple story. And it did not begin here. This thing of beauty, a joy forever rising. This warm glow in darkness like a harvest Moon. A Khmer proverb whispers- celebrate when the Moon is bright. But for years she was a child of the dump. A place where smoke blackened Sun and Moon. And eyes seldom looked up from the world of things tossed aside. An orphan discarded, learning lessons no school would teach. Hunting the rot for glints of light, metal containers, silver spoons. Listening for the sound a prong makes when it finds a plastic bottle. Careful not to step on used syringes, rusty nails or broken glass. In daydreams she pictured freshly sharpened pencils, rows of desks, the chant of the alphabet. Wandering visions to pass long empty days in a place where a girl is simply one more thing the world has thrown away. And when they found her, when this girl's dreams came through she had not dreamt of gold, she had not wished for beauty. Hers was a simple dream. The bright white shirt of a school uniform. The crisp pleats of a skirt. Shelves full of books. A dream of school, and how she dances behind a contented smile because she knows this is no longer a simple story. Now this is her story to write. She is the author and this is not the end, it is just a beginning. This is Wadley. She's 8 years old. She plays herself on the story from her own life that you're about to see. Just like Sokha did. And just like the other girls you will meet. Senna. Azmera. Suma. Mariama. And Ruksana. Two others who we'll call Yasmin and Amina could not appear on their stories out of concern for their safety. Each of these girls was paired with a writer from her own country to help tell her story. These are true stories. If sometimes we imagined to capture the things these girls and these writers wanted to see. And their stories are important. Because these girls hold our future in their hands. If they and the millions of girls like them succeed in getting the kind of education they need incredible things will happen. For them, for their families, for their community, for their country. For all of us. Here's the hard thruth: In spite of the fact that educating a girl is one of the highest return investments available in the developing world millions of girls just aren't making it. Right now there are 66 million girls out of school. And many more who struggle every day to simply remain where they belong. In a classroom. WADLEY, Haiti The morning of January 12th 2010. was bright and beautiful, In a way that Wadley could not remember any other morning ever having been before. It was the dry season when wild flowers bloomed and flowers that bloomed on their own without rain fascinated some little girls. It made impossible things seem possible. Unachievable things appeared doable. And the flowers, the hibiscus, the azaleas, the bougainvilleas, they all looked even brighter when Wadley was happy. Wadley! Wake up. You're going to be late for school. That morning Wadley was working to memorize Toussaint L'Ouverture's final speech as he was removed by Haiti by the French, after he tried to win independence for the country. Wadley liked to imagine herself defiant, like brave Toussaint L'Ouverture. But she also wished she'd be given some words by women to recite. Brave and strong women like her mother. Wadley, one snack is enough! Every day Wadley brought two snacks from her mother's tray. One for herself and one for another child. That day she chose a new friend, Shelda. A girl whose father had been killed the week before. He was a taxi driver and someone had gotten into his car with a gun and asked him to get out. He had refused and the person had shot him. Soon the moment came for Wadley and her classmates to recite big words from the history lesson. Wadley watched some of her friends recited or failed to recite. The stammers, stutters and hesitations seemed to her like a long poem. A love poem to history. Wadley! "In overthrowing me you have cut down in Saint Domingue only the trunk of the tree of liberty. It will spring up again from the roots, for they are many and they are deep." That afternoon all Wadley could think was... It was the dry season when wild flowers bloomed. And these words seemed a perfect beginning for her composition and a fitting book end to her day. For they seemed to emerge somehow out of the dream that she had been having that morning. Wadley could not remember how she and her mother got to the open field near the University. It was still the dry season but wild flowers no longer bloomed. In the tent camp she often heard the most days that the adults say: "Ashes to ashes, dust to dust." This they said when they were finally resigned to the fact that their missing loved ones would never be coming back. Life tried to return to normal, except now her mother roamed the city during the day looking for friends and family for whom to seek help. And instead of school Wadley went to the water fountain with a bucket. Every day now, as she passed through the camp and the ruins of her neigborhood she tought about school. Sometimes as she walked by the rubble of the school itself she tought she heard the voices of her friends reciting the lessons that she now missed so much. Mama! Mama! What happened, Wadley? The school! The school is open! I know. Please go get the water, Wadley. The school is open. Why can't I go to school? Because we have no money. Money was still not completely clear to Wadley. She knew that there was never enough of it. That some people have more of it than others. And that it determined in many cases how people looked at you. And talked to you. And treated you. It was the reason some people ate three meals every day, while others ate every couple of days. It was why, she was learning now, some kids went to school and others did not. The next morning Wadley decided that she would go to school and sit on the bench in front of madame Lorry, along with the others no matter that there was no money. That's what she would do. Do you go to school here? For a moment Wadley wondered how madame Lorry could not recognize her, but, remembered Wadley, the earthquake had twisted a lot of people's minds. Many people did not even recognize themselves anymore. Yes, Madame, I was your student here. I know that, Wadley, but actually, this is a new school. Did your mother pay the money? No, there is no money. Well, I'm sorry... But you have to go, Wadley. Come back when she can pay. Wadley decided that even though money could do many things, it was also a curse. Because only a cursed thing could keep her out of school. But she was not cursed. Hadn't she been hearing from her mother and the others in the tent camp that those who had survived the earthquake were blessed? Surely it meant that she was supposed to do something special. Ashes to ashes, dust to dust - she thought to herself. The next morning Wadley started for the tent school again. She wasn't sure what she was going to do. But she was determined to go and stay. Has your mother paid yet, Wadley? Has your mother paid the money? No. Will you leave, Wadley? No. You need to go home, Wadley. No. This is the last time I'll tell you. If you send me away, I will come back every day until I can stay. What's this? Even if you send me away, I will come back every day until I can stay. And the flowers, the hibiscus, the azaleas, the bougainvilleas, they all looked even brighter when Wadley was happy. They even seemed to thrive from it. Girls who go to school see immediate benefits beyond the things they're learning. Being a student enhances their status in the community. It improves their health. It makes them safer. But in the developing world, getting an education is not what people expect girls to do. Girls are expected to work, expected to fetch water. To care for younger children. To get jobs. Or worse. It happens to girls like Suma. Suma's parents didn't send her to school. They sent her to work. It's called kamlari. I write songs to remind myself that my memories are real. And often because there's so much sadness behind me what comes out is sad. Both of my parents were bonded as kamlara and kamlari in their childhood. That's the way things have been around here. That's the way they have been for the poor. You have to bond yourself to a master, otherwise how will you live? SUMA, Nepal This was the house of my first master. My mother and father bonded me just so that I would have somewhere to live. And enough food to eat. I was 6 years old. Fabu Tauru was a landlord and a miller. He made me work from 4 in the morning to late at night. I had to clean the house and wash the dishes, and go to the forest to fetch firewood. When I wasn't minding the goats, I had to mind the children. The goats were nicer. The daughters made fun of me because my clothes were torn. They teased me. They beat me. I wanted my mother and father to take me back. I wanted them to let me stay at home. And go to school like my brother. But when I thought about how poor they were, and how much they too had suffered, it made me feel weak. I couldn't ask. This was the house of my second master. Johna Kamala wore a uniform to work. He and the mistress of the house were very hardhearted. Unlucky girl - they used to call me. Hey, Unlucky girl, do this! - they'd shout. They made me sleep in the goat shed, and wear rags and eat scraps from their dirty plates. I can't really talk about everything that happened to me here. But I will never forget. This is where I began to write songs. Only the songs got me through. Selfish were my mother and father They gave birth to a daughter They gave birth to a daughter My brothers go to school to study while I, unfortunate, slave at a master's house. It's a hard life, being beaten every day. This was the house of my third master. I was 11 years old when I arrived at Chitai Tauru's house. I had been a kamlari for 5 years. It wasn't as bad here. I mean it was bad because there was a lot of work. But there was a lodger in that house. A school teacher called Bimal Sir. He changed my life. Bimal Sir convinced my master and mistress to enroll me in a night class. All of us would gather after finishing our day's work and we would learn to read and write. I loved that night class so much. It was run by social workers for girls just like me - kamlaris. We'd also talk to the teachers about what it was like to be a kamlari. And as we talked we began to realize that bonded labor was, and isn't it - slavery. The teachers who ran the night class began to go from house to house. There is a small girl working here. - I am here to take her. - Why? They wanted to liberate us. One teacher, Sita Didi, told my master that he was breaking the law by keeping me as a kamlari. She talked about the law against bonded labor, and the law about children's rights, and the law on labor rights, and the law against domestic violence and trafficking. She talked to him about justice and injustice. And she demanded that he set me free. My master said no. Once maid a bond couldn't be broken. Sita Didi didn't give up. She kept arguing. She came back day after day. And in the end she'd led me home to my mother and father. I am my own master now. I have no mistress. I was the last bonded worker in my family. After me, everyone will be free. I feel as though I have power. I feel like I can do anything. And I have important things to do. Inside this house is a girl like I was. Away from her parents, working morning to night. Wanting so badly to be free. We have come to this house, the house of her master to say - We know you have a kamlari working for you. You must set her free. I've seen where change comes from. When it comes it's like a song you can't hold back. Suddenly there's a breath moving through you and... You're singing. And others pick up the tune and start singing too. And the sweet melody goes out into the world and touches the heart of one person. Then another. And another. The practice of kamlari has been illegal in Nepal since 2000. Now with the help of girls like Suma it's finally coming to an end. For Suma it is not enough that she herself is free. She's using her education to make sure all girls are getting to school. Because Suma knows that when parents have to choose they usually choose to educate the boys. So girls have less opportunity. Less freedom. And less education than the boys they grow up with. This means that girls suffer more hunger, more violence and more disease. It's a simple fact: There is nobody more vulnerable than a girl. In far too much of the world girls still suffer uspeakable things. Girls like Yasmin. YASMIN, Egypt Sit here. I'm Sergeant Saif. This is Officer Mansoor. How old are you? 12. Do you go to school? No. We have no money to send a girl to school. She works with me. What do you do? We sell tea by the Sixth of October Bridge. And your husband? Jail. She's just a street kid. No, I'm not a street kid! She's probably trying to shake down a customer... Can you tell us why you're here? I'm a superhero. A superhero? Stop this nonsense, Yasmin. Tell them what happened. I was with my friend Aya. We were going to get juice. The juice from a man at the roundabout. He has the best juice. Aya had 80 piastre and I had 2 pounds. It was hot and we didn't wanna walk. A man with the donkey cart said that he would drive us to the roundabout to get juice. But then when we were nearing the roundabout he turned off. We didn't know where he was going. He said don't worry, that it was a fast way. Aya got scared and ran away but I was not scared. You were not scared at all? No. Why not? Because I am strong. I can fight. He said we had to stop at his house for a moment. He said he had juice at his house too. When we got to his house I saw that his wife was there too. So I didn't think anything bad would happen. He told her to bring us some drinks. And then leave us alone. There was juice like he promised but... It wasn't good. It tasted sour. He was drinking some beer and I don't like it when people drink beer so I got up to leave. But he stopped me and said he would take me home. We got back in the cart, but he didn't take me home. He took me to a very dark place. He told me he would not hurt me but that he wanted to be with me. He wanted... And I said... I told him I was not an ordinary girl. That I was a superhero, that I'm powerful. But he did not believe me. He drew his sword and told me it was time that I should fight for my honor. And I told him that I did not want to kill him. Because a true hero does not kill. He swung his sword at me, but I was too fast for him. I drew my knife from beneath my clothes and let him feel the sharpness of my blade. He was strong, but I was stronger. He was fast, but I was faster. I wanted to teach him a lesson. To show him that girls are... And then we... He just... This man - he was a bad man. And he left me no choice. We fought in that dark place for a long time. He begged for me to spare him. So I spared his life. Your mother said... there was blood on your clothes when you returned home. Yes, it was a hard battle. Could you show me your knife? I promise I will return it to you. Why don't you go with Officer Mansoor... and let me speak to your mother. Hungry, aren't you? Go ahead, eat this delicious cookie. It's good you didn't kill that cart driver. I'd hate to put a smart girl like you in jail. These are very difficult cases. Very hard to prove. Perhaps... We can get you some money. The man has a cart and an apartment. Some means. My God. What are you saying? I would rather die than touch any of his money. She is my daughter. You see how she was hurt. I only want justice! Justice? Nowadays? I'm sorry. Yasmin, can you show us where he lives? Well. You know, I have a daughter a little bit younger than you. But I'm afraid... she's not as strong or brave as you. Perhaps you should meet her. I would like her to learn to be a superhero too. 50% of all the sexual assaults in the world are on girls under 15. 50%. The risk of sexual assault is one reason parents keep girls at home or marry them off young. The man who raped Yasmin is still free. She has never been to school, cannot read or write. But is now engaged to be married. And did we mention? She's 13 years old. Early marriage is the future for millions of girls. 14 million girls under 18 will be married this year. That's 38000 girls married today. That's 13 girls in the last 30 seconds. AZMERA, Ethiopia Look up! There is a child in the sky. There are angels. There are beliefs to chalenge, wishes to be fulfilled. And here is a girl named Azmera. Feet grounded in Ethiopian soil, in young girl's life. Her eyes turn toward possibility. Azmera - named for harvest, golden crops, bounty. Loved by family. Intensely curious, painfully shy, stubborn and kind. Not yet 14. Trapped. Look up! There are myths among the clouds. A myth about a boy locked in a prison tower with his father. A famous maker of labyrinths. The father made his son wings from wax and feathers and told him to fly out of the window, to freedom. Don't fly to close to the Sun! - he warned. The wax will melt and you will fall. But the boy rose up, flew too high, and fell to the ground. The burning Sun, the only witness to his descent. This is a myth. This is a lesson about limits. It reminds us that man was not meant to fly. We cannot reach the Sun with wings crafted from feathers and wax. And desperation. But look! Here is Azmera. She is in a life that is not a myth. Living in a world with its own limits. She is the only living daughter of Etenesh. My sister - she is called. Etenesh was once the wife of a loving man and the mother of three - a son and two daughters. Azmera - her youngest. Her life was full. Then her husband died and then her eldest daughter. And Etenesh became a widow. And a grieving mother. Left with nothing to remind her of those she lost. No photographs, no drawings, no letters. What she has is Azmera, and an older son - a young man who loves his sister with the same devotion as their mother. What she's left with is the determination to give her surviving children what she can. The elders warned Etenesh that Azmera too would die unless she was married young. Give her hand - she was told. Give her possibility. A chance to live. How much fear can one woman carry? How many children can she stand to bury? So when a man, 20 years old and a stranger, came to ask for Azmera's hand, Etenesh opened the door and let him in. She'd turn to the man and said: "Here is my daughter." And she held Azmera and said: "Here is a chance, here is possibility." "Go." In Ethiopia this is how it was done when Etenesh was a girl. And when her own mother was a child. And when her grandmother was barely old enough to do more than play and fetch water. Here it is said that if a girl is married too young, she is in danger of being split by her husband. 13 is considered to be a safe age. Though the law says 18, Girls as young as 7 have been married. What does it mean to split a girl? Is it like tearing a photo down the middle while each half witnesses the making of a ghost? What if a girl's life could be more? What if a mother's hopes could mean something? What if a boy could look up into the Sun without falling? Look at this young man. He is not a myth. He is not a stranger to failed dreams. Meselu was the son to a dying father. He left school at 7 years old to do the work of an adult. A farmer who wants nothing more than to be able to read. He once tried to leap past the edge of his world and fly away from it all. But here is the heart of a man strong enough to return to his mother and his sister. He was in the fields working the day the man came for Azmera's hand. He walked into the house and saw stranger's talking to Etenesh. And he knew what was happening. Each of our stories pivot on a single moment. That short pause between what is and what could be. In a breath we can decide between what we wish to be true and what we can make happen. Meselu said he would sell everything he owned to keep his sister in school, to give her the gift of a life with choices, to give her chances he never had. He told Etenesh - No. And Azmera stepped forward and told her mother: "I want a better life." Together they refused this marriage. I want to tell Azmera the most important parts of this story. About a boy trapped in a tower. Same Sun that brought this boy down, raises you up and gives you strength. You can go as far and as high as you want, as you are able to dream. It is not ambition that destroys us. It is not hope that leads us astray. You are a girl who has used her voice to say: No. And every time you open a book, you continue your journey forward and up. We are from a country full of split girls. We must reach out with firm hands and hold them until the peace is fit again. You are showing them how to live by letting them hear you say: I want a choice and this life is mine to make. This is how it happens. One girl follows behind the other, until together they move forward, towards something. A future. Here's an unsettling fact: The number one cause of death for girls 15 to 19 it's not AIDS, it's not hunger. It's not war. It's childbirth. When girls marry young, education ends. And the old cycles continue. Cycles of poverty, cycles of violence, cycles of ignorance. But a girl who gets an education starts a different kind of cycle because she's going to stay healthier. She's going to get married later. She's going to have fewer and healthier children. And most of all, she's going to have educated children. And it's not just mothers. Fathers too have to invest. So their daughters can dream. It was always hottest before the rains came. Sometimes even my daydreams seemed ready to burst, blistering beneath the city's crushing heat. And I remember how my mother's eyes would shine when my father talked about moving back to the village one day. "In the city", she used to say, "life rushes through the streets like a thousand rivers." "But in the village there's only one river." "And it's real with cool waters flowing besides mango trees full of parrots." I would love to live besides a cool river and eat free mangos all day. But I was so far from that river. I was born here, in the city. In our house on the sidewalk. RUKSANA, India My mother had her parrots in the village. In the city I had my own friends. Stop dreaming! You'll get us all killed one day! Ruksana? Come here. Bring your notebook with you. Drawing pictures? Drawing pictures in math class! Do you think this class is a joke? Get out! No more trouble! That's what my father said last time. And I promised - no more. But somehow trouble always found me. Mama and Papa are home. You're going to get a blasting. Papa's calling you. Come on. You know how hard I struggle to send you to school so you can study and make something of yourself. I don't send you to school to draw, do I? How many notebooks have you ruined with your doodles? I won't do it again. I'll only draw this in this book and I will study really hard. I promise. That was the happiest day of my life. After that I would have promised my father anything. Somedays there wasn't even enough money for food. But today there was a notebook, colored pens, no punishment. Had there ever been a girl as lucky as me? I remember thinking that one day I would take my mother and my father and my sisters in an aeroplane. We would fly high above the city and the country side, and see every part of Earth. After we landed we wouldn't live on the street anymore. We would live in a big house by the river in the village, and everyone would have their own bed, and my father would have many cows, and my mother would have her parrots. And I would have a monkey who I'd call Musty, and I'd teach him to do all my math. Hey, what are you doing? Drawing? Show us. Don't be scared, we're your friends. We won't hurt you. Just relax. Why are you scared? Come on. Come with us, we'll play in the alley. Papa! Daddy can't help you! We won't do a thing to you. I want to go back to our village! No. I won't leave. We came so far to educate our girls so they can lead better lives. I won't give up now. School! What's the point if street thugs attack them? We've come so far... Our girls are doing well in school and learning fast. We can't go back. After that my sisters and I spent our nights at a shelter. My father said it wasn't safe for us to be on the streets after dark. Who do you think you are?! We run this night shelter while you watch TV! Go and do some work! The rest of you as well! How could so much beauty and so much meanness be together in one world? Where was that magic place inside the television? And inside my head? And why was I stuck here instead? Maybe I was being punished after all. After that long terrible night the monsoon rains came. My favorite time of the year. But this time the rains came with more tears. Hey go, go, go all of you... Come on! Tear down this slum! Everybody out! These are our homes! Please don't do this! A thousand rivers flowing with life. And us adrift. No place in the soaking world for roots to take hold. Everyone was crying. Even my drawings. You were right. Let's go... Back to the village. No. You were right. We've come this far with such difficulty. Why should we let them drive us away? Even after all that still we were together. A family. I felt in my heart that everything would be OK. My friends were still there. That's when I learned to never give up. Because after the rain there's always sunshine. Ruksana is one of the lucky ones. She's still in school. Her parents can't afford a place to live, but they somehow find a way to get their daughters to school. It's not easy. Because even though it's a great investment, in a lot of the world school isn't free. Parents don't just have to pay for school. They have to buy books. And uniforms. Sometimes they pay for exams and report cards. For millions of families it is simply too much. A girl born on planet Earth today has a 1 on 4 chance being born into poverty. And without a good school that is where she'll stay. But the right education can change all that. Knowledge is power. Just ask Senna. SENNA, Peru "The Black Heralds" by the great poet Cesar Vallejo. "There are blows in life, so powerful... I don't know! Blows as from God's hatred, Like a riptide of human suffering rammed into a single soul... I don't know!" The first time I read that it took my breath away. The rhythm of it. The force. For me, it was unforgettable. Poetry is how I turn ugliness into art. Dark into light. Fear into will. I didn't learn this over the years as I learned math or history. I learned it all at once. In a swift kick to my heart. My name is Senna. I am 14 years old. I live and study in La Rinconada. La Rinconada is a gold mining town in Peru. Perched on the side of a dead volcano, 17000 feet up. In the perpetual snow of the Andes. They tell me my town is harsh. Hazardous. The highest human habitation in the world. I don't know. My father named me after a famous warrior - Xena. He had seen her on TV but since he could neither read or write he didn't know that her name started with an X. He said that like ker I would grow up to be a fearless defender of the poor. A heroine prepared to go to war against ruthless men, if honor demanded it. If a warrior's name was my father's first gift to me, a brave heart was his second. There is nothing I can't overcome. My father knew something about brave hearts. For he, like all the men of La Rinconada, was a miner. He comes looking for hope and finds nothing but misery. For every golden ring, two thousand tons of rock must be moved. For 35 years my father drilled and dug. Hunted tirelessly for a glimpse of glitter winking in the ground. But this mountain, she will tremble the fiercest spirit, shatter the strongest back. I still don't know what happened that day. But I imagine it. The slam of ice, the rock of grove, the crash, the grind, the sudden black. He survived but he never returned to the mines. And each day after that he died a little bit more. I was barely 5, but the memory of that day still haunts me. As if a shadow had fallen over my father. As weeks went by and we grew desperate for money my father became a cook, and my mother took his place on the mountain. Every day she and my sister joined the women who scrambled their way up steep inclines to pound that rock, looking for gold that miners had missed. Until night fell and cold stiffened their fingers. Still my father insisted that I go to school. Learn all the things he hadn't. "There's no hope for me", he would say. "But there is for you." "Make a better person of yourself, Senna. Study!" He made sure I saw what became of many girls who did not go to school. It was impossible not to. Beside every gold buyer store was a loud rocker's canteen. Above every canteen was a busy brothel. Miners squandered their gold as fast as they could find it. Drunks staggered out of whore houses in the full light of day. I had heard about the thousands of girls sold to men in those places. Many of them infected with AIDS. They seemed hard-faced, veiled eyed, with an infinite sadness about them. Don't die. I love you too much! But the corpse... Ay, he kept dying. I went to the man who owned La Rinconada's public toilets. And begged him to give me work. My job was to get to the stalls by dawn, flush down each cubicle, scrub up the holes in the floor and take 20 cents per person. I could add the earnings in my head, as fast as the owner with his calculator. My father beamed when he heard of it. "You see", he cried, "you have all the makings of an engineer." In La Rinconada the engineers are the bosses, the owners. And the ones with all the money. In truth, I was having a hard time at school. I was too worried to do anything but think about my father. With every day his health sank to new lows. I told myself I was a warrior, a defender of the weak. He needed me to stay strong. I sang to him... Did all his sums. One day my mother told us that she would take my father down the mountain to find a shaman, a herb, anything to slow his racing pulse. Stop the cough that was threatening to claim him. I never saw my father again. He collapsed and died in my mother's arms, shortly after they got out of the bosk at the foot of the mountain. When my mother told us this it was as if I had been punched in the chest, as if the ground beneath us had fallen away. For all the years that my family had climbed that frozen rock, for all the gold that had been dug out, burned clean, sent to glitter around the world, we had never owned a fleck of it. We were poor. The poorest family in the mudhole of poor people. I cursed the mountain, cursed the mines, cursed the gold bearing beneath my feet. And then I found this, this poem about the black heralds of death, about the powerful blows that fate can sometimes rain on us... I don't know. Those poems, those words altered something in me. It was as if I had chance upon a cache of buried treasure. Each page opened a world, each line stopped my heart. I memorized every word on every page. Then all the people of the Earth surrounded him. The sad corpse gazed at them, touched. Slowly he sat up, embraced the first man and began to walk... And so I say. In time I saw that my father had been right all along. I was a fighter. Brave. And words made for mighty weapons. I began writing poems. I recited them for all my schoolmates to hear. I even won a poetry contest. I will be the engineer my father always wanted me to be. I will be a poet. I know now that the fortune my father sought so helplessly was always buried in me. It was just a matter of finding it. Fewer than half the girls in the developing world will ever reach secondary school. By beating the odds, Senna is writing a new chapter for girls in Peru. Girls need good schools. And they need to stay. Because a girl with one extra year of education can earn 20% more as an adult. Because women operate the majority of farms and small businesses in the developing word. If India alone enrolled 1% more of its girls in secondary school, their GDP would rise by billions. Educated girls are a powerful force for change. And this kind of change - it happens fast. MARIAMA, Sierra Leone You're probably wondering - is that an ad for some charity? But I actually have a normal life for a teenage girl. I get up, I brush my teeth, I listen to Rihanna, I pick my outfits, I text. Welcome to my world. This is Freetown, Sierra Leone. This is my Mom. And this was my Dad. My Dad died when I was really little. I like to think he still watches over me. This is my Dad's younger brother. He had to marry my Mom because she was his brother's widow. She could have said no. Or she could have become a praying wife, which is sort of like being a wife, without the fun. But then my Uncle was really quite handsome, so he became my stepdad. A few years later Papa married Hava. Now that was a love match from the start. I guess you could call us a perfect family. And it's true. Isn't my school cool? I'm the first person in my family to go to school. Everyone says I'm the lucky one. This is our physics teacher. He told us about Isaac Newton, the biggest problem solver all time. Lots of people think science is boring. But I don't. Science is about asking questions and solving problems. Just like Isaac Newton. The most exciting change in my life was when I got my first real job. I was so happy when I landed a spot as a host at Eagle Africa 91.3 These days radio is the biggest thing in Sierra Leone. Almost everyone listens to it. On the radio show I'm able to talk to lots of girls all over the country and help them. Every week we discuss a problem. I don't mean a physics problem, I mean real stuff. One time a girl named Esatu called in. She lived with her aunt who used her to run errands instead of letting her go to school. Even worse her aunt's boyfriend had a really bad wandering hand problem. Poor Esatu didn't know what to do so she called the show. I thought about what I would do. I told her to tel her Mom everything, to not be afraid. She wasn't doing anything wrong and that she should be going to school. A few weeks later she called to say she was back at home living with her Mom and going to school. She said I helped her solve her problem. When I'm older my plan is to have my own TV show solving the greatest misteries in the world. Welcome to Dr. Mariama's Miracle Mistery Show in which I, Mariama, find solutions to the planet's most vexing problems. Filmed here in Freetown in front of live studio audience. My big dream is to go to outer space, to be the first African in space. But the truth is, I've never been on an aeroplane. Actually, I've never even been to another country. But I'm not afraid to dream big. While I was busy dreaming, Papa was having some problems of his own. He was being criticized by other people in my town about me hosting the radio show and staying out at night with my friends from the radio station. One night when I was out he found out where I was and stormed in. I've never seen him so angry. Papa refused to let me host the show. I tried to talk my way out of it, which is something I can almost always do but he didn't wanna listen. That night I didn't sleep. I told you my parents never went to school, right? Well what I didn't tell you was what Hava told me. That people in those days thought kids who went to school lost respect for their parents. I worry that maybe my father thought I'd lost respect for him by having a job at a radio station. For the first time I had a problem I couldn't solve. I thought - what would Isaac Newton do? For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction. Newton's third law. I needed to find a force equal to my father. Someone my father would listen to. Maybe Hava could be my force. So I borrowed a radio and turn it to Eagle 91.3 I hated to hear the show going on without me. Hava really listened. She liked what she heard. She told Papa that he might have made a mistake. He agreed to hear me out. I told him all the good things the radio show is doing like the way I was able to help Esatu go back to her mother. By being on the radio I could help even more girls like her. Hava said I should have another chance. Finally Papa agreed to let me carry on with the show. Only if I promised to come straight home afterwards and always let him or my Moms know where I was. I was back on the air. Now everything is cool again. So you out there, watch this space because one day you're gonna see Dr. Mariama's Miracle Mistery Show. Now there's nothing to stop me. Nothing in the world. Nothing in the universe. Because I am the lucky one. Girls are not the problem. They're problem solvers. You want to slow the spread of the heat? Educate a girl. You want to grow the global economy? Educate a girl. So what exactly changes when the 600 million girls in the developing world get a good education? Everything. If my husband heard these words he might kill me. So might my father or my brother. Or anyone of thousands of my countrymen. Killed because I want to learn. Killed because I want to read. For? my own truth. Because I am a girl. Now that I am no longer a child I cannot show you my face. I must wear the shroud of blue. A shell. I am a girl masked and muted. So what can you truly know of me? AMINA, Afghanistan But I will speak. I will not be silenced. My story is like thousands of others. Millions. No one bothered to record the date of my birth. As a girl I was considered unworthy of a record. I am told my mother burst into tears when she learned my sex. Set me aside in a dirt. She already had one son but wanted another. Wanted a status of being a bearer of boys. My mother never learned to read or write. She's never opened a book, never written in a diary. Can't even decide for the scribbles on the bag of rice. From the age of 3 years old I spent my days working. My hands and face were chapped from carrying icy mountain water to wash men's hands. I woke before dawn, cleaned the house, washed the clothes, the dishes. I carried my siblings on my back until they were old enough to walk. I learned early to serve. I learned early that this is the way things were always intended to be for the women of my family. A lifetime of servitude. My happiest times were the few short years of my education. I learned to read and write on an old blackboard fixed to a crumbling stone wall. Girls in other parts of my country where the Taliban were in tight control weren't allowed to go to school at all. Weren't allowed to step outside their homes, so I was always aware of my privilege. I was 11 years old when my father arranged for me to be married. My mind was of little value, but my body could settle a dispute, pay a debt. My body is a resource which can be spent for men's pleasure or profit. Who will care that I have been married against my will for 250000 afghanis, roughly 5000 dollars? For that price my father offered me in marriage to a cousin. My empty-head mother approved the match. When the transaction was complete they spent the money to buy a used car for my brother. I'm an Afghan woman and I know from history that it hasn't always been this way. On my wedding day I tried to think about all the many strong Afghan women before me. I've heard about Malalai, Rabea Balkhi, Zarghuna Ana. Women who lived a hundred years ago. They could read and write. They spoke their own minds and were heroes for my country. But now I'm imprisoned in marriage. Only allowed outside in this cover. There's no opening for my mouth to talk. My eyes are hidden beneath this embroidered cage. The first night of my marriage my new husband barely spoke. And the seed he planted was not only the son he wanted, but the anger that has grown in me ever since. I vowed that night I would find a way not only to endure, but to prevail. The midwife who delivered my son without complications said I was one of the lucky ones. More women die giving birth in Afghanistan than in any other place in the world. When I birth the baby, prays Allah, a boy I behaved dutifully. As I suckled his innocence at my breast, cupped his tiny feet in my hands, all I felt was impatience. Impatience because we are poor, because we are silenced, disenfranchised, beaten, cut, married as children, sold, raped. When we seek freedom we are burned. When we speak the truth we are stoned. When we go to school we are bombed, poisoned, shot. Don't tell me it's simply has always been so. I don't believe in your resignation. I refused the ignorance long ago. Don't tell me you're on my side. Your silence has already spoken for you. Don't tell me the blame lies in my religion, in my culture, in my traditions. I have not forgotten my vow. Change is coming. I will read, I will learn, I will study. I will return to school. I dare you to tell me it's a waste of time. If you try to stop me I will just try harder. Put me in a pit, I will climb out. If you kill me there will be other girls who rise up and take my place. I will find a way to endure, to prevail. The future of men lies in me. And this is the future I see. I am the beginning of a different story in Afghanistan. And when my grandaughter explains how I withstood the odds against me, it will become legend. Oh yes, perhaps it will only be whispered at first but just you watch. It will grow into a roar. An inexhaustible voice that will usher in a brighter future. Do you doubt me? Do you underestimate my will? Look into my eyes. Do you see it now? I am change. Amina joins millions of girls in Afghanistan who have returned to school there in spite of the dangers. Thanks to a new generation of leaders, men and women, there are more girls in school in Afghanistan now than at any time in its history. Because she refused to give up. Just like Suma. Wadley. Like Senna. And Azmera. Like girls everywhere. There are more stories. There are more facts and figures. But the simplest is the most important: Educating girls works. While making this film we met hundreds of girls all over the world. Our partners in this journey were organizations large and small, filled with extraordinary people who spend every day helping girls, trying to fill the gaps between what girls have and what girls need. Each day they see what you've just seen: girls with fortitude and courage, spirit and drive. Girls succeeding against the odds. Girls are rising. But there are millions who still need your help. So what can you do? As an individual you have enormous power. Change can spread like wild fire when minds are moved to make it so. Right now help the next generation of women grow up strong and sure, aware of their rights. You can make a difference by giving just one girl renewed faith in herself. And if you're able the girls of the world need as much financial support as you can give. Yes, they need money. Any donation however small will change a young life. This is for sure. The 10x10 funds for girls' education supports the organizations that support girls, including our partners in making Girl rising. By contributing to 10x10 you send a powerful message that you strongly believe that we all strongly believe that girls are worth the investment. Please, join us. title by allynat23
