 

                        1 I'm sorry, I'm waiting for someone. You are Uh, under normal circumstances, I'd never turn you away, but this is a business meeting. What kind of business are you in? Um, I work in real estate, corporate real estate. What's your name? Look, I don't mean to be rude. I swear if you knew me, I'm the last guy to say no to a beautiful- Wow, you can't even tell me your name? - Dennis. - I don't believe you. - Pardon me? - Let's start over. No, let's not- I'm not- I can't- I, I is this like, uh... You're - are you a professional? A professional what? - I don't.. - I'll tell you my name. My name is Driver. You're kidding me. No, I don't have a sense of humor. - You're Driver? - Yes. - Frank didn't mention that.. - I had a vagina? It's not his job to talk about my genitals, Nick. Jesus I don't know how I feel about this. Oh, if it changes things for you. Well, yeah, it changes things. By all means, pay attention to that. How do I know for sure it's you? You have a dental practice on Wilshire and Doheny, you've been married two and a half years to Karen, second marriage for you, Your dog is named Hendrix, you drive a Land Cruiser, you hired Frank eight weeks ago. Okay okay You're not a cop, are you? Do I look like a cop? No Frankly you look like a Playmate of the month. Want to frisk me? What? Do you want to pat me down? Are you messing with me, I can't tell. I already told you, I have no sense of humor. - Are you wired? - What? Are you wearing a wire right now recording our conversation? - Of course not. - Open your shirt. Here? You go to the gym three times a week, what's the problem? My turn Jesus Christ, what are you doing? It's LA, Nick, nobody notices some chick lifting her shirt. So how do We uh how does this work? Frank didn't walk you through it? He said the less I knew the better and it'd be done within the week. That's pretty much all there is to it. If you knew me, you'd realize I'm really the most harmless guy. We're all pretty harmless until we're cornered, Nick. Sometimes we find ourselves in an unbearable situation, options dry up and we resort to drastic measures. It's called survival. I'm not a shrink, I'm not a priest, you don't need to justify yourself to me. But I'm no idiot, I realize these things go south more often than moi Well, not exactly more often than not, but yes, there's always a risk. Thing to remember with cops regardless of what you read in detective novels or watch on TV, theyre pretty dumb Until they're not. If you feel so strongly about it, maybe you should get up, walk away and we never had this conversation. I'm passed that point... and Frank says you're the best Well, I don't like to brag, but you're welcome to ask around. How did you learn to do this? Why, you writing a book? No, I'm sorry, I'm just- It helps me to talk this through. The less you know about me, the better all around. Yeah I helped liberate Kuwait. I learned on the job exactly how to be all that I can be. Strange Work! Safer for you trust me How do you mean? In this line of work, you can't imagine the amount of guys who fall for their targets and then you've bought yourself a world-class headache. No kidding? Most men see themselves as saviors, they want to fix things. Main problem between men and women right there, women like to talk about their problems in detail ad nauseam Men just want to fix them and move onto something more stimulating. - Yeah. - Like blow jobs, sure. Why did you say that out loud? A lot of guys don't have the ovaries for this job. Now, what's it gonna be? Do it. That's 20K But half before, Frank said. I remember what Frank said. Well, I don't have it on me. I can go, I can get it. I can be back within two hours. I'll be here. Ah, so that's it then? Until you bring me the first half and I give you instructions on how to get me the second half. Frank will handle that. After tonight, you'll never see me again and your wife will be dead. No misunderstandings, let me hear you say it. No misunderstandings. I want her dead. No misunderstandings. I want her dead. - Sam. - Did you get it? - I got it. - Great work. Just hold on to that tape, let's see where he goes. Right, he said he'd be back here in a couple of hours. Perfect - Hold on! - Sorry. Just sit back, relax, have a drink on me. Two even Talk to you soon. Hey sorry about that Oh, no problem. I'd like to make it up to you. No need Here you go I see you're the kind of guy that takes initiative. Is that bad? No, it'll serve you well. Don't they card people any more? I'm older than I look. - 12? - Cheers. - Henry. - Francine. Can I ask you a question, Francine? It depends By some miracle of circumstance, I happened to look over there and you were lifting your shirt for that guy. Hmm, that's not a question. My question, and call me a hopeless romantic, is about the extraordinary possibility of those being real. Could they be? You need a girlfriend. I have a girlfriend. - Where is she? - Stood me up. Aw, a tale of woe, playing on my sympathy. Good luck with that. Are you waiting for someone? Nope, just gonna sit here and watch you shoot some pool. I'm not very good. Hmm, what would a pool shark say? I could teach you. How do you know I'm not one? That's a good point. Maybe you flash guys and take them for all they're worth. You'll never know. But what I love most of all is photography. Some of my teachers say I have a real knack for it. I get myself into dangerous situations and document them People seem to trust me. Like gang bangers and bikers, weird-ass freaks who by all means should be kicking the crap out of me. They don't find me threatening. They tell me stuff. It's a weird talent. What? You remind me of my ex-husband. No, he had some good qualities. Okay, he's a son of a bitch, but he once had a great ass Wow, I feel objectified here. Tell me the truth, did you pick the bathroom lock earlier? Because I know for a fact that I locked it. That sounds all wrong. Truth is I was just looking for an excuse to talk to you. You weren't trying to get into the bathroom with me? No, that's not very gentleman-like. Not to mention unhygienic. On that note, I'll be right back. Which way did he go? I don't know. She just walked out on her bill. - Is he a regular? - No. Hey, your friend said you'd settle it. He is not my friend. Well you looked pretty friendly to me. Yeah, well, he stole my wallet with my keys, everything. Jesus, do you want me to call the cops? No! no cops You have never seen him before? No I have. - Really? - Yeah, a couple weeks ago, I saw him hitting on this little hottie at the Tonga Hut. Okay, do you know her name? No, but she has a tattoo on her shoulder. it says "Lucky you " Listen, here is my number, you hear anything, you call me. And the tab? I just told you he stole my wallet. Yeah so you say - What, you think this is some elaborate routine to not pay you, I'm a cop. - You're a cop? - Ex-cop. And he stole your wallet. Save it, I'll find him, I'll be back in an hour. Teri: The roaming eye alights a solitary, young woman walking through a den of ill repute. You know this place or surely know one like it. These so-called palaces of sin where young women in flimsy underwear gyrate robotically while male patrons with an otherwise catastrophically moldy grasp of male-female communication skills try out their studliest one-liners amidst a barrage of staring and drooling and wagging of tongues. The clientele at these places is fairly interchangeable. You've met one peeler bar customer, you've met them all. These guys seem to only listen to Motley Crew or maybe Zeppelin and love to play golf. They usually vote for the most conservative politician as long as he looks and sounds like a jock. Now that we've established our setting, let me take this opportunity to introduce the young woman with what the consensus of the day, would surely deem an extraordinary behind and a practiced strut. That would be me, stage name... Trix. Catholic name... Teresa Augustina, preferred name... Teri. One look at me, all supple youth and feline affectation, you'd correctly assess I neither stand out nor blend in. Appearing by all conventional notions to simply be one more apathetic skin-trade participant. The type of girl with little or no connection to the bra burning activists of yesteryear. Lucky you, says dare number one. Dare number two occupies a more private place. Although here the term private is relative, like all my lucid revelations are relative, like my loathing for gentlemen such as this one, is relative. What do you say I take you far away from all these creeps and I show you a dozen tricks I can do with my tongue? Loathsome because, well, it's just hideous how he assumes everybody else is a creep but not him and his horrifying invitation. And relative because I'm pretty sure he's my second cousin. However, none of this occupies my thoughts as I apply my war paint and tuck and cover all my fetishized bits, those parts deemed the most exciting in the fashion of the moment. No, what occupies my thoughts is the reminder that I'm not a woman of action. I'm a woman of will, but I can't believe in my will unless I act from it. Onstage is where I truly come alive, where I shine, where I kick serious ass. You're coming for drinks after, right? I can't tonight, sorry. This is the highlight of my day. The rest is paste. When their eyes and crotches are hot-wired to my every tiniest single move, that's when I stop time and I become myself, the real me. Theresa the Astonishing! But you already knew that. Cunning feats of mentalism and supernatural amusements performed with the drop of a hat. Theresa the Astonishing can tell with the blink of an eye that Ricky here is obsessed with his neighbor Colette and that her complete dismissal of his pathetic advances has caused him to purchase some gamma hydroxyl butyrate to slip into her drink later tonight. That Jimmy is secretly, deeply in love with his best friend Roger, even though he's assisted his sociopathic friend more than once in bashing what Roger here so sweetly calls, "Dumb-ass homo pussies." That Emir Horsain beats his mistress. That Regis Blackburn Senior raped his wife repeatedly. That Marko Castillano is deep-down a sensitive man who could potentially learn to respect women, but then he does that and you realize he's got a Way to go Maybe he doesn't need all this trust fund cash. That in his longing for female companionship, Nestor "Needle Dick" Molina, has been harassing a mute, young clerk at the public library, humiliating her with his dirty insinuations. - Are you sorry? - Sorry? I'm doing her a favor. What's the problem? No problem, Needle Dick. Lei me see it See What- Hey what are you- Sometimes Teresa feels mischievous. Sometimes she can go too far. But that's why she's called astonishing, people. Hmm, three inches. I suppose he could be a grower. Sensitive question, Nelson, are you a grower or a show-er? Don't lie now, this is vital. I'm a grower. You lyin' Too bad The whole game is rigged against us. Somebody's gotta tip the scales once in a while. Pow pow pow Die, little douche bags. The women of the world sleep a little cozier tonight. They are such world-class jerks tonight. I don't know how you do it. Gotta lighten up, babe. I hate this job. Hey baby cakes No, perfect timing, I just finished. Okay celosita. Eye A wife wants to take her husband to a strip club for his birthday, all right? So they go to the strip club, doorman sees the guy he says "Hey Dave how you been?" Walking in, the wife says, "How did he know your name? You been to this strip club before?" He says, "No, no, no, that guy's on the bowling team. We bowl every Thursday night together," right. Sit down at the table, waitress comes over and says, "Hey, Dave, you want the usual?" She brings him over a Budweiser. She says, "Wait a minute, how did that woman know you drink Budweiser?" He says, "Well, she's on the ladies bowling team, they all know what I drink. Come on, relax." Next thing you know, a stripper comes over, jumps right on his lap and says, "Hi, Davey, you want the usual lap dance?" That's it, the wife picks up her bag, leaves the place. Dave runs after her, he goes outside. She's just jumping into a cab. He opens the door, he jumps in behind her, he says, "Look,honey,honey, I'm telling you, that...that woman must have thought I was somebody else." She's not having it, the wife, she's screaming at the top of her lungs, calling him every name in the book. The cab driver turns around at that moment and says, "Looks like you picked up a real bitch tonight, Dave." Bill - Billy, Billy, can't you see we're playing cards, you know? This guy's giving me a headache. He said it's urgent. Aw, Billy All right, be right back. Don't look at my cards. Hey Mr. Aldo, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. I know you? Yo, it's Nick. Nick. Nicholas, your dentist. My dentist? Nick, you almost gave me a heart attack. I'm in the middle of a game, my mind is elsewhere. What are you doing here? Um, actually it's about the funds. The funds? Yeah, you know, the money I gave you to hold for me to invest. The remember the 20 grand? Yeah, I remember. - You need it? - I do. Right now? Yeah, sorry for the late notice. I tried to get in touch with you, I left you - a couple of messages, but... You called my house? Yeah You speak to my wife? Yes How did she sound? Did she sound out of breath? What? I'm just kidding you. I trust my wife implicitly on all matters. Give me ten minutes, I'm finishing this hand, I'll get you your money. See I'm in a little bit of a hur- No, no, no, just have a drink Tommy, give my dentist a drink. There's a singer coming up, really good voice, relax. Dress Excuse me? Dress mess Uh, I got no idea what you're talking about. Down with the manners up with the dress. Johnny sweet-talked Alice into this mess. Is that some kind of a rhyme? Into duress. You some kind of poet? Now, now she's depressed - Now who's depressed? - That could work. Down with the manners, up with the dress. Johnny sweet-talked Alice, now who's depressed? It's ambiguous. Could be Johnny's the one who's depressed. I get it, you're the singer here. Teddy Wright. Nick. Are you in some sort of trouble? Why do you say that? You just got a puzzling way about you. You know, you should mind your own business. Well, I didn't mean to antagonize you. I was just under the impression that a bar is like a church, a place where a guy can go to be left alone and think in peace. One would think so. Yeah, one would be wrong, wouldn't one? Don't get all riled up now. I'm just saying. Man: One more time, Teddy Wright. Farewell, my sinking ship. Down with the manners up with the dress Johnny sweet talked Alice into this mess No you don't bring checkers to the big game of chess You know that only bad can come Down with the shutters up with the lights Johnny sweet-talked Alice all through the night No world full of kisses gonna make it all right. You know that only bad can come Listen to your ma Listen to your pa Listen to your heart Listen to the law Only bad can come Down with the manners up with the dress Johnny sweet-talked Alice now who's depressed Now you don't bring checkers to the big game of chess You know that only bad can come You know that only bad can come " Dentist, I got the good news and I got the bad news. The good news, I have your money, don't worry, but I can't give it to you tonight. I don't see how that's good news for me. No that's the bad news Um, okay, I just really- I need that money tonight. I - I know, but I don't have it here. Yeah, it's right there. I can't get it until tomorrow. But I- I just- I need it, I really need it tonight. I understand. That's why when Billy told me his idea, I said, "Ah-ha! We kill two birds, one stone, everybody's happy." What idea? Billy has to go pick something up for me tonight, but he can't go alone. So he said, why don't you go with him? This way you can get your money. What does he have to pick up? - Money. - Money... for you. Yeah money for me Look, Mr. Aldo, I mean, all due respect here, I don't want to get involved in your business. What business is that? It's none of my business. Don't get cute with me, what business is that? I don't know, I'm a dentist. Oh, oh, so that okay, you're a dentist. That means you're not accountable for what you say? What business? Look, all I'm saying is, you know, you know some guys. I know some guys? Yeah, sure, I know some guys. BMW knows some guys Everybody knows some guys Well, for example, I don't. I don't know any guys, that's all I'm saying. All you're saying. Yeah But it's how you're saying, is a little... I don't know. A more sensitive man might think you might be insulting him. No no no no-no no That is the last thing I want to do. Good, then the quicker you go with Billy, the quicker you get your 20Gs - Howdy - Howdy What can I get you? I'm looking for a girl I here comes here, she's got a tattoo on her shoulder that says, "Lucky you." Oh, well, lots of people come here. I can't check out every tattoo. Is that her? No How can you be sure? I'm not, I don't know. Why pick her and not her? You didn't look surreptitiously in her direction when I mentioned the tattoo. You want a drink or what? Look, she's not in any trouble, but a guy she knows is and I don't have a lot of time to find him. I just serve drinks, you know? Help me out? Some of the girls from Chick Planet come here after work. I think maybe I've seen Lucky eat with those two. You are a princess. What are they drinking? Uh, Tonga Lei and a Zombie. Lei's do two more of those I'm looking for a friend of yours with a tattoo that says "Lucky you" She's not in trouble, but a guy she knows is, and I need to find him right away. What did he do? He stole my wallet... but that's not what I'm after. - Sorry it's not funny - Yeah, Sorry He took evidence from a case I'm working on. - Did you do him? - Excuse me? Friggin' Henry mam That's him. - Did you do him? - Excuse me? - He's really suave. - He's not a bad kid. Are you gonna arrest him? He just loves himself the ladies. I don't care about him except to get back what he took. I don't know where he is. Well, what about his girlfriend? What girlfriend? The one with the tattoo. - Teri? - That's his sister. Can you call her? She should be here any minute, but I don't know that she knows where he is. Okay, this is a life-or-death situation. Henry's secret is that he's a really talented photographer. So he said. He did? That's unlike him, he's usually very modest about that stuff. I think it's because he really cares about it. What are you good at? What do you mean? You look like you're really good at something, and I can't figure out what it is. Me, I prefer to be amused than to be amusing, but this weed is making me so paranoid. I'm usually really articulate. No problem. It all goes back to my fear of being buried alive. You're afraid of that? I think about it a lot. Detective! Yeah yeah second Worst What's worse? Dying in your sleep. Why... that seems like the best way. That's what they want you to think. - Who? - Grown-ups. The people running things and the church, you know? They don't really want you to stop and think about it. How so? Well, everybody thinks that dying in your sleep is the best way to go, but it scares the hell out of me. I mean, what if you're having a nightmare and you're being chased by someone or you're about to jump off a cliff and then you have a heart attack and die? I mean, everybody just thinks, "Oh, they went peacefully, it's so great. Okay, I have a problem with authority, I admit it. Blah blah blah. It is the worse way to go. I just left her a message and I texted her, so We just gotta Watt Thank you No friggin' way, look who just walked in. Oh no Who is it? A real creep from Chick Planet, he must have followed us. He's in love with Teri. Don't look over, don't look. Detective Francine Driver. He's coming over. Lathes hey, do you know what winks and screws like a tiger? No I'm Ralph. Detective Francine Driver. Okay, pirate captain Ralph, expert at pillaging booty. We're off work, man, give us a break. It's a free country, right? We didn't ask you to sit down. Now if I told you that you had a beautiful body, would you hold it against me? Those are the worst pick-up lines I've ever heard. You're bothering my friends. But moi you? Me, oh no, I'm enjoying this. See, I could tell from across the room that you were a woman of taste. I'm Ralph. You already said that. Did I? Well, it is so hard to concentrate with the three of you, you're like a club sandwich from heaven. Maybe this is the time. Maybe I should introduce a more personal note. You married, Ralph? Yeah,you love your wife? You got kids? You carry their pictures around in your wallet? You want to see 'em'? No, what I want is for you to apologize to my friends... I'm sorry. And never see them again. I won't. - Not even at the club? - Not even at the club. See, one loser approaches them, pretty soon all losers assume they can waltz right on over and strike up a conversation. It's a slippery slope, and they can't afford to lose that kind of credibility. So no more Chick Planet for you. But I'm a VIP there. Not any more, stop living in the past, Ralph. It's time to go. Okay Get up mow Okay All the way to your car, yeah, keep walking. You just blew my mind. Detective! I love you. I just remembered where Teri was going tonight. Just came to you, huh? Okay, I have a problem with authority, I admit it. Don't tell her I'm a detective, just let me talk to her. Okay Bottoms up, partner Can I buy you one? So, how you doing, Katie? You getting some on a regular basis? My name's Camilla. Creature as good looking as you, I sure hope you're getting some. Well, thanks for the concern. Wait, stay. I'll bet you we got something in common. My name is Dodge, in case you were wondering. I haven't gotten some in so long. Might tonight, though. I don't know. So, what, it's your birthday? Coming out party. You're gay Coming out from someplace else. Oh you're a tough guy Let's not put labels on a man. Life is unfriendly enough as it is. You want another one? I want you to tell me what's bothering you. Me? Nothing. You were on the phone earlier. What was that all about? You eavesdropping on me? I read lips real good, little talent you develop inside. You're bluffing. Are we playing cards? Bluffing to try to get me to reveal something about myself. "Emmet, it's me again. I don't mean to be a pest." Now first of all, a woman like you could never be a pest. You don't have the tone of voice for it. You know, you gotta have a certain screechiness, you know? How did you hear that? "I meant it when I said I don't need a commitment, "but there is a game being played I don't want to be any part of." - Okay, okay, stop. - Who is Emmet? Nobody Some guy, my neighbor. You're having a fling with your neighbor? Is he married? Divorced. T gotta get back to Work What work? How long you been dating this guy? Weeks, months? It's been seven, eight months. He's not your upstairs neighbor? What if he is? Bedroom isn't just above yours? It is. That's your trouble right there. So, when you're not out with him, he says he's at home, you hear his bed springs creaking. He's got some other broad up there? So what do I do? You have to move... and you might want to put up a couple more of those, my kids are about to show up. How do you know? I can feel them. Teri: All words have double meanings, even the small words all bundled up in death and sex and- What is this? Just take a deep breath You're an asshole. Teri! Let her go! Do yourself a favor and never have a daughter. Cuddliest little things until about the age of 12, then be prepared to be banished forever. I once dodged a bullet from her. True story, not a figure of speech. Sorry, Dodge, she gets so emotional. Lei her be Ah, Tatiana, Annabel? This is my kid. - Thanks - Mm-hmm I've been dreaming... that I can't sleep. I wake up exhausted every morning. I got this bag for you. Yeah All words have double meanings, even the littlest of ones. That's why you can't trust words, Henry. I got this for you, too. It's Spanish, antique. It's for food. I'm glad you're out. Women are the most resilient of creatures. You can do anything you want to a woman, and maintain her respect. You can forget a romantic anniversary, you can cheat on her with her best friend. You can pop her in the rear once in a while just to change the pace of things. But you must never never let her smell your poop. This is my gift to you, son. Never forget it Thanks, Dad Keep it tight. I'll cherish it. You ready for another one? Do you mind if I ask you something? What's in the suitcase? Bones What is that, like, slang for domino bones? Human Skeleton. So why does he like - carries those around? Puts them together and he takes them apart. Helps him relax. He used to be a science teacher. You okay? Are you close with your dad? He died last year. Thai sucks Yeah He had Alzheimer's. I spent all Christmas with him watching soccer on TV. European League He had no idea who was playing. He'd start rooting for a team and them ask me who it was I'd leave the room and walk back in and he'd greet me with this huge smile. Ask me all sorts of questions. Soon enough he didn't know who I was, what anything was. Suddenly you realize that all we are is our memory. Life doesn't mean anything unless you can remember it. Excuse me Hello? You Henry? Yeah It's your sister. Nice going. Because he wanted to surprise you. Look, Teri, I'm still trying to figure this out myself, okay? How many years ago was that? The man beat me, too, but I got over it. You stole his Cadillac and he got mad and so he shaved your head while you were sleeping. It wasn't the most fatherly thing to do, but it happened Okay, I'll be right over. Family. What was that for? In case I get Alzheimer's and I forget that I really wanted to do that. Hey, guys! - Hey, June! - How you doing, girl? Oh, you know, can't complain. How's the acid reflux? Way better. I switched to white wine like you suggested, and, oh, my God, huge difference. Well, I told you. Yeah, but I gotta admit... I'm still eating chocolate. Well, some things you just can't give up. I know, I mean, I've cut way down, but it's just so hard. Y'all feeling limber tonight? Ready for trouble, baby. Oh, well, have fun. Hey Mr Trombone How you doing, sweetheart? Not too shabby. Where's the missus? Aw, she's upset with me. Oh, what did you do this time? Don't don't - don't get me started. I took her to the race track, Hollywood Park? Yeah? I like to humor her with some bets and she always picks the horse with the cutest name. I mean, Fluffy Banana. Who the hell names their horse that, huh? I mean it kind of makes you wonder, right? So you didn't place the bet? No, I couldn't, you know, I put the money on Silver Prelude, now that's one hell of a damn horse. You know, you've been through this before, Mr. Trombone. That son of a bitch beats my horse out by a nose in a photo finish. Muriel almost crapped her pants. 30 to 1 odds on Fluffy Banana. I mean, how could I put money on a horse like that? Aw, I'm sorry, Mr. Trombone. Ah, anyway, you know Muriel. I'm getting the treatment. Yeah, she'll come around. She always does. At least the house is quiet. I got that to look forward to, and I, you know, I got my health. Have you lost weight? Yeah, maybe, I mean she hasn't fed me since that happened. But, you know, I'll probably put it back on. Don't worry. I'm not. Have fun tonight. You too sweetheart You should probably wear this. Hey, guys, it's members-only night. Well, that's a good thing, because this is a members-only hold-up. - Jesus Christ! - Jesus Christ! Wallets, purses, jewelry, go, go, go! Hey, you should probably put that on or she's gonna pick you out in a line-up. It takes an average of 15 seconds to form a personal picture of someone in a crisis. Or would you rather I just shoot her? Jesus Christ, put it on! No, no, no, don't, don't, don't. I'll put it on, you don't have to do that- -why- Shut up, why don't you just go watch the door, okay? Right. Hey, fill up this bag, fill it up, watches, watches, okay? Here No, not that one, the gold one. Okay Okay were you go What the hell would I want to do with a plastic watch? I don't know. Hey,hey, what are you doing? I told you to go watch the door. I don't want to have to kill this bitch. No, no, don't - don't, don't kill her. Not that door, go park your ass in front of the curtain, make sure nobody is peeking in. Ah, phones, too, the phones? Oh here Great, great, you're doing great. You've got great eyes, by the way. Yeah, they just hit you like, bam! Spring-loaded glove to the face, ha-ha-ha! I'm sure you've heard that before, though. Please don't hurt me, okay? I just work here part-time. Well, what do you want to be? I'm studying to be a dental hygienist. What are the chances, he's a dentist. I'm a dentist. Hey, by the way, how are we looking in there? I - I don't know. Why don't you check, Einstein? Make sure nobodys peeking in, okay? What? Can you believe these perverts? Are you thinking what I'm thinking? I doubt it. Aldo always says I don't see the big picture, well, now I see it and it's panoramic. What's panoramic? You know, like a wide-screen TV with the black bars at the top and the bottom. Yeah, I know what the word means. All right, then let's take some pictures of these yahoos. We already have their names and addresses. I will bet they would pay beaucoup bucks to make sure those pictures don't get to their kids' schools, their bosses and whatnot. Why don't you just let them be, okay? Because blackmail never works. What do you know about it? Because I tried it once in high school. You should listen to her. - Take your clothes off. - What? - Get in there. - What are you doing? This is a robbery, people! What are you doing? All right, get in there, take 'em off. She just Works here Why does she have to take off her clothes? Because I want to see what she looks like. I am not taking off my clothes. Okay, look, listen, just- All right, leave her be, I'll take my clothes off. Why would I want you to take off your clothes? True Well, if you're gonna pick on somebody, pick on that guy over there. Why him? He looks mean. No,see, I like his girlfriend. That is not his girlfriend. Hey, you, come here! - Me? - Yes, you. - Let's be gentlemen about... - Hey, shut up Yes you come here come on sugar ms We don't have all day. Don't call her sugar tits! You think that's loaded? What am I, stupid? You're just saying that. That one's for show, this one's loaded. So if I squeeze this trigger, nothing happens? Squeeze away compadre. Damn it All right, doll face, let's see what you got. Leave her alone! Get out of here, run, everybody run! Oh, my God, is that you? No no shh So you know about Otis? Is that really you? No no Karen no that's moi me This isn't me. It's not what it looks like. I am so ashamed. No, no, don't cry, Karen- No, no, no, not here. But when those guys came into the bar, before I realized it was you, a single thought came into my head. First I thought terrorists, but then it just hit me, like a hammer, and everything became clear. I have been so misguided and so selfish, telling myself that I need something more from life, something dangerous, something exciting, and you are the most exciting thing that's ever happened to me Okay, I'm here, you big baby. You set me up? I didn't know she was gonna do that. Now get off him. - Oh, shit, she's a cop. - Ex-cop. - You ripped off a cop? - Ex-cop. I didn't know. How stupid could you be? Can I just say you look really great from this angle? See where your hand is, that's a felony. I was right, though: real. This better be intact. I swear, I didn't touch it. The cash I did spend. It was an emergency, I'm so sorry. You spent her cash on Dodge? Hit him again. Hey, stop trying to help me, honestly. Is that me, where is it? Yeah, it's right there. Sam, hold on one sec. Oh, really? Stay He fessed up to the whole thing. What, to you? No, he fessed up to his wife. How do you know? He came clean, soup to nuts, and she forgave him. She forgave him? That's not all. In the scuffle, a gunshot went off, and guess whose leg got hit with the bullet? The wife's lover. Bingo. Okay, so we got him on manslaughter. No, an accident. Oh. come on. I have a room full of naked witnesses to corroborate it. Why are they naked? Wait until you get a load of this. There is a nudist ping-pong club in Silver Lake. The shooting was at the Cracker Shack? You've been there? No, I've just seen the sign driving by. There is no sign, it's members-only. What can I tell you, I love ping-pong. A Chopin martini up, olives, not dirty, bruised. Two I felt really bad stealing from you, but I just want to say one thing. What? I bet you're the kind of woman that looks great naked. Unbelievable, that sounds like the guys from my work. Better than you can ever imagine. I have a highly developed imagination. Oh, barf city, Greedo, you're killing me. I mean way beyond. But you'll never know. Oh poor baby Turned down by Officer Mucha Muchacha. Shut up. Golly, articulate. Thank you Shut up. So willing to engage. You do, however, owe me big time. Anything, name it. You know a bar called the Bigfoot Lodge? - Cop bar? - Mm-hm. What of it? I want you to pick a cop's wallet for me. Intriguing, is this like some kind of test, pick a cop's wallet? Not just any cop, my ex-husband Wow, this idea keeps sounding worse. Why, he won't pay alimony? Well, he has a picture he won't give back and he keeps showing all his friends. It's really starting to piss me off. Are you naked in it? What's with the one-track mind? Maybe If I steal it, am I allowed to see it? You're not exactly in a position to negotiate here. Hope strings eternal. Okay, who writes your dialogue? Okay, you steal it first, you get it back to me without him noticing, then we will discuss further terms. But first, we gotta make a stop. - Yes. - Thank you. Yes Yeah, I think you can give her a little more considering. Sorry for the inconvenience. So where's this Bigfoot? It doesn't get going for another hour. What do undercover detectives do for fun? Teach me to shoot some pool. Him? I taught him everything he knows. She's right, you guys start without me. First round of beer is on me. Is he gonna make a run for it? Nah, he's totally dishonest until he gives you his word, then he's the most loyal puppy dog in the world. Thanks What's a smart girl like you doing taking off her clothes for pocket change? What's a smart girl like you doing playing cops and robbers? I need the medical. Profound me too Go for the three Is he really a good photographer? His portraits are surprisingly good. It's impossible for people to not let their guard down around him, it's weird. So if he asks to take your picture, beware. Don't do it? No, do it but you've been warned. Who is teaching me here, you or your sister? go for the ten, You're not going for the ten, are you? Leave her alone. The nine is all set up. Who is teaching me here, you or your sister? I thought you asked me. Come on, pilgrim, go get us another round. Who's the shark here? Beginner's luck. You're full of shit, Detective. - Doing the sweet slide. - Thin Cap. - Erin Yorkid. - Thin Kitty. Getting the little man in the boat to go fishing. - You made that up. - Sounds legit to me. Oh, God! Okay, checking for depth. Cleaning my fur coat. Petting the petunia. Baby in the kitty. I already said it. Okay, automatic pilot. Uh, finding yourself. Digging for gold. Gilding a lily. Letting your fingers do the walking. Coming into your own. Tickling my fancy. Uh, uh, spelunking in the mystery cave. - Time! - What? Spelunking in the mystery cave. Let's go steal a wallet. That's moi a Word It's a word, it means exploring. Okay, triple or nothing. No, I say we pick this up later. Let's go steal a wallet. That's mine. Thank you So we should just sit down and,uh... can I get you a drink? Anything, as long as it's whiskey. Two Macallans, rocks I just had a near-death experience, officer. Yes, you did. Uh, Detective. It's the kind of thing you imagine happens to somebody else, never you. It can be very traumatic. I read somewhere that when something horrible happens, you know, like a senseless tragedy or a terrorist attack or, you know, an incident where you suddenly realize that you could die that very instant, that all you want to do suddenly is eat and drink and smoke and have sex Is that how you feel? No Well, it could take a little while to kick in, you're still on shock You know, that's what they mean when they say life is cheap in all those third-world countries. But they just keep on drinking and screwing. Even in India where they just did this study that the average penis is shorter than in other places. Did you read that? I can't say that I have. Okay, the BBC reported that condoms made according to international sizes are just too large for most Indian men. She'll have another one. Actually make it two. So, you had some more questions for me? Yes, basic stuff. I just don't want to miss anything on my report. It's so lucky you were right outside when that gun went off. Not just luck, I was there on a case, June. I was following one of the perps. Do you mind if I call you June? What I don't understand is why he wanted me to take off my domes I mean, you're right in the middle of a robbery, adrenaline pumping violence, greed. Do you really have time to stop and admire a girl's cha-cha? These guys they're psychopaths Yeah They get off on fear and entry What I don't understand is the coincidence of Nick's ex being there. Uh, who are you talking about, Silas? Salazar. Never heard of him. No, I'm Salazar, Samuel Salazar. The perp's name is Billy. Karen is the other perp's wife, Nick. Oh yeah Karen She's his ex? They're still married. Have you seen them there before? Never Otis seems to have a lot of luck bringing women there on their first date. It takes a certain kind of, I don't know, je ne sais quoi to bring a first date to a nudist ping-pong bar. Would you? I'm not much of a player. Unless he couldn't help himself. Otis? BMW the perp Maybe he just couldn't help himself and that's why he was willing to throw away all that careful planning, just to get a peek at me in my birthday suit. It's kind of like a Greek myth, you know? I think you're romanticizing it a little, which is perfectly natural. I don't think that he planned it all that thoroughly. I hear the words coming out of my mouth and I want to cry, but I can't remember the last time I cried. I make eye Contact and not when I'm supposed to, spewing platitudes plausible enough right after the baby is born. but what I really want to say to her is- Did I mention you set my heart a-flutter and make me feel all funny inside? Heaven forbid I go through with it. I'm the kind of guy who always bets on the wrong horse. Me, Samuel Salazar, at your service. They say women forget the physical pain of childbirth right after the baby is born. That's how come they can start all over again, have another child. I guess I'm not like a woman at all, because I have a crystal clear memory of every heartbreak I've suffered since the age of nine. I was only conversational then. Still, I can't help but wonder if this could be a true happy ending, or one more false hope. It's like a traffic accident, I know I shouldn't look, but I can't turn away, because in my heart of hearts, wherever that is, I know the answer does not lie within words, but within her eyes. The world is made up of a billion little mysteries, but it's not words that explain them. Of this, I'm sure. Do you think I could have developed Stockholm Syndrome that quickly? No I've always wanted to go to Stockholm. I've never been anywhere. Have you traveled a lot? A little, mostly in the United States. I want to go to Europe... and Egypt and those raves in Greece where the music is really bad and everyone is on ecstasy and theyre all so super tanned that it doesn't matter. Have you been? No My friend went once and she said that nobody spoke the same language, but no one had anything to say anyways, so the DJ played the music so loud that even your eyes hurt. Thank you for saving my life, Samuel. I wouldn't go that far. Is it true that Mexican men love cunnilingus? Um Oh, I'm sorry, that came off really forward. I just suddenly feel like I have this new lease on things, you know? And there's just no time for pleasantries and being polite. I mean, there's barely enough time to go out there and get what you want. My grandfather was Mexican, I was born here. Oh, I guess it'd be an awkward question to ask him. Yeah, he's - he passed away anyway. Took the secret with him. Do you want to dance? Not just yet. I'll be right back. Mmmm' Ready for another one? Probably. So how's it going, officer? Detective. Not going so well, actually. You seem a little uptight if you don't mind me saying so. Actually, I do mind, I'm trying to figure some stuff out. - What stuff? - Personal stuff... about courage and what makes us special. Oh I thought it was about the girl. Her too What's wrong with her? She's sending me mixed signals. Hey, Officer Salazar? Detective. I'm not wearing any underwear I wouldn't read between the lines so much. You are unique. There are, I'm sure, uncommon things that you are particularly good at. Play to your strong suits, shine. Don't concentrate on things that other people have told you you're no good at. Relish the talents you have. And always... always surround yourself with people who appreciate you. Sam? But if I'm gonna be completely honest with you, I haven't had a real piece of ass since El Paso. That was one hot, little lady you had there. Jewel. I suppose you banged her, too, after I left. Well, I was with my wife at the time, remember? She gets manicures, doesn't she, she goes shopping? All wives do. Just saying, where there's a will there's a way. Point is I didn't do anything. Yeah, you wanted to, I can tell. Empty again. You ready for another? No, still working on this. Mikey did, though. Chafes me to this day, you know why? Because if I hadn't told him she was hooking, he never would have had the balls to ask her up to his room. Guy is a complete pussy when it comes to talking to women, especially women with cans like those. I don't know what you're talking about. You never noticed how intimidated he gets around women who got a great rack? Never noticed. He-he-he can't talk, he st-st-st-stutters. It must be something in his past. Mother, I don't know. You remember how he could never talk to your ex? No disrespect. Nome taken Guy can't see past a decent-sized double barrel. Great looking girl, though. We're talking about Francine now? No, I mean, her, too, but, no, Jewel. What was her real name? Nice Jewish name. Oh, man, let me tell you, that is a lethal combination. Nice Jewish girl drops out of school, starts hooking. Unstoppable. Night you saw her, what was she wearing? To be honest, I don't remember what she had on. More the shape underneath didn't leave so much to the imagination. She had me up like a rock for five days. Blue steel, I don't mind telling you. That's a lot of information. Yeah, I'm not kidding you, man. We've known each other ten years? Six. - A long time. - Long time. - Long time - Long time At least among the guys on the force, I consider you a fairly knowledgeable connoisseur of ass. I don't know where you're going with this. Look, after the divorce, you've had your fair share of tail. You know, I'm just going by the red head with the boots and the cousins down Cucharacha Way? Who was that chick you were with the other night? Camilla, she's my neighbor. What did you do, ring her doorbell, ask her for sugar or something? She's a good girl. She's got some issues. I'm just trying to loosen her up a little. Point is, you like it. What? Ass! You mean the actual buttocks or the general region? What? The royal ass, women, dames, skirts. Sure, I like them. Yeah, well, see, these guys today, young guys on the force they don't seem to think about it all that much. Maybe it's a generational shift. Porn on the Internet, I don't know. You know, maybe I didn't think about it as much when I was younger. One day it just hit me: Wham! Full-blown epiphany. Went from being a hobby to a full-time occupation. Chasing skirts. Yeah, I don't know when it happened. I don't know why it happened. At first, it was because things were terrible with me and Eileen. Terrible... and then it was because she found out, things between us got worse. If you want ass, there is no ass in the whole wide world like Jewel Kazinsky, El Paso. I'll keep that in mind. I gotta go. Ooh! - You gonna be all right? - Sure. We should call you a cab, Captain. Speak of the dew That your ex-wife? Yes, it is. You still got that photo? The photograph you showed me? Yes, sir. - You got it? - Excuse me. What are you doing here? I was thirsty. A thousand bars in this county, you gotta come here. Yeah, I like the way they mix their drinks. You're something else. Bar is big enough for both of us, so why don't you go back to your corner and I'll be right over here. You checking up on me? What is there to check up on? What is it, you like the aggravation? Why are you so aggravated, Emmet? What is it you're not telling me? I'm not telling you anything, don't have to any more. I know you, you're here, it's because you want something. Well, rest assured, it isn't you. Hi. Emmet. Yeah, I'm not really a prick, I- We just have a really bad history of horrible chemistry. What's your name? Teresa - You? - Henry. Hi, could you do me a favor? You don't have anything. We're not so good when we're around each other. Okay, if I back you up, what do I get for my trouble? What do you want? We're hoping to score some back rubs. Funny, keep it up, Junior. Now What? Now I got him. You don't have anything. He's on high alert, he hates your guts and he's a cop. Watch and learn. Get Us a dark booth Hey, man, where do you get off calling me junior, huh? Get your hands off me How would you like it if I called you senior in front of your lady friends? Lei go of my arm Why are you so jumpy, man? What part of this are you not understanding, punk? You come into this bar again, I will kick your ass. How'd it go? We're even Not until you put this back. I said pick his wallet, not steal it. Such a sweet sweet mam Why would you ever divorce him? It's not here. This a bad time? I was out of line. It's no big deal. It's a pretty big deal, let me finish. As Francine may or may not have told you, I've been battling anger management issues for quite a chunk of time. Emmet, this is not the time. I respectfully disagree. Now I jumped on your friend here and made an ass out of myself and I like to think that we're all grown up enough that I can rectify it and we can all enjoy our evenings at the same location without it being awkward. How's everyone doing over here? - Another round? - No. Sure, my treat Emmet, you really don't have to do that. I'm sorry I insulted you, man. Hey, it happens Have we met? Uh, I don't know, maybe. - You a dancer? - Here we go. - Yes. - Exotic. Yes I think I've gotten lapped by you. Emmet has a photographic memory of every exotic dancer east of the 405 Now, now, now, let's not exaggerate. Welcome to paradise. Emmet, Teri's going through some stuff right now and I really, as much as I appreciate the gesture, I need some alone time with her and her brother. Her brother? No disrespect. All righty, that'll be $16 even. Okay, let me get this. Why don't I get this? No, no, no, no, I insist. Okay You can keep it Thank you You know, we gotta get going anyways. No, no, stay I'll get out of your hair. You guys, drink in peace I said what I came to say. You look like a million bucks, Detective Driver. I guess that's that. That is that. You guys can go Why don't you come with us? Where? There's an after hours, starts in a few minutes. Ah, no, I'm done for the night. The night hasn't even started. You guys are really going somewhere else right now? We haven't even danced yet. Can't call it a night out without a little dancing. What do you say, Francine? Lei's get out of here This place is crawling with cops. I have something for you. What? - You are a son of a bitch. - I didn't look at it. - Right. - I swear to God. You look like an atheist to me. Oh, no, I'm a believer. I knew what it was right away, but I figured if I looked at it, it would wreck my chances. Of What? I've been trying to get the nerve to ask you all night. I want you to pose for me, for a portrait. Why me? You have this intangible quality. Try harder I'm cursed by the blossoming knowledge of my feminine ideal and she looks suspiciously like you. That's not bad It's pretty good, you mean. Not a total waste? How about the truth? The truth is you're not my usual type. And what's your usual type? Gaunt, fashionable and dumb with a big, square Appalachian ass and obsessed with country music. Jesus Will you at least consider it?
