 

                        I love Glee! My favorite character would be Rachel, Yeah, the best character is Rachel, Because she was very Barbra Streisand-esque, Well, I'm warming up before the show, I generally start with a lukewarm cup of hot water with lemon and honey, It can't be too hot because it will hurt your vocaI chords, My favorite character is Finn, Blaine, He is so adorable, I just love him to death, My favorite character is Brittany, because she's so dumb, But she's so pretty and she can dance so well, I think it has a lot to do with my hair, because look at how long it is and how beautifuI it is, My favorite character is Sam because he's really cute, Finn! I think the hottest character is definitely Santana, I ingest Latisse, It's normally supposed to be applied on your lids to make your lashes grow, I just took it one step further and started drinking it, - Puck! Puck! - RacheI! RacheI! - Blaine, Blaine, - Actually, Blaine, - Sam, Sam, - No, Puck, Puck, He's so funny, He's super, super cocky and just totally into himself I heard that this haircut might make me go a little faster, have a little edge on the competition, And, you know, the ladies like something to grab on to, time and time again, Artie, for me, because he makes looking geeky look so cooI, It's crazy because I can't believe that people actually like us enough that we could make a 3-D movie, - I'd have to go with Blaine, - Definitely Blaine, We've gone from Lima, Ohio, to Dublin, Ireland, And we've done four countries, And it's just been an amazing experience, That means my face is going to be in 3-D, And my pimples, - Sam! - Finn, Everyone is my favorite, I can't choose just one, I like Quinn because she's really hot, I need more... Could you turn the camera off? I need... Oh, God, 3-D? Kurt is my favorite character, I love his sassiness and how he's not afraid to tell it exactly how it is, Thank you for loving me, But I want to thank everybody who has been with me since day one, All my Glee Club members and Mr, Schue, We made it, Don't stop a singer in a smoky room a smell of wine and cheap perfume For a smile they can share the night It goes on and on and on and on Strangers waiting Up and down the boulevard Their shadows Searching in the night Streetlight people Living Just to find emotion Hiding somewhere In the night Working hard to get my fill Everybody wants a thrill Payin'anything to roll the dice Just one more time Some will win, some will lose Some were born to sing the blues Oh, the movie never ends It goes on and on and on and on Don't stop believin' Hold on to that feelin' Streetlight people Don't stop believin' Hold on to that feelin' Streetlight people Don't stop What's up, everybody? How are you doing tonight? Hi, everybody! Sing it out Boy, you got to see what tomorrow brings Sing it out Girl, you got to be what tomorrow needs For every time That they want to count you out and use your voice every single time You open up your mouth Sing it for the boys, sing it for the girls Every time that you lose it Sing it for the world Sing it from the heart Sing it till you're nuts Sing it out for the ones that'll hate your guts Sing it for the deaf Sing it for the blind Sing about everyone that you left behind Sing it for the world Sing it for the world Cleaned-up corporation progress Dying in the process Buy yourself the motivation Generation nothing Nothing but a dead scene Product of a white dream I am not the singer that you wanted But a dancer I refuse to answer Talk about the past, sir Wrote it for the ones who want to get away Keep running Sing it for the boys Sing it for the girls Every time that you lose it Sing it for the world Sing it from the heart Sing it till you're nuts Sing it out for the ones that'll hate your guts Sing it for the deaf Sing it for the blind Sing about everyone that you left behind Sing it for the world Sing it for the world We got to see what tomorrow brings Sing it for the world Sing it for the world Boy, you got to be what tomorrow needs Sing it for the world Sing it for the world Guys, we've got free Glee tattoos, Free Glee tempos, I think it's made me accept myself better, I like performing, but I was never comfortable doing it, I have three daughters, two boys, and we all watch Glee every week, and it gave us all something in common. Everybody watches Glee. It doesn't matter what race, gender, what your sexuality is, Anybody can be a Glee fan, It inspires me that you could write your own life story no matter who you are, Glee has definitely changed the way that I look at certain groups of people, and short people and tall people and fat people and skinny people, really popular and nerdy people, The clique that I hang out with is the Jock clique. I guess it could be the popular clique, also. I would say I am a real life Cheerio, but I'm not a stuck-up Cheerio. But I am a Cheerio because I am a cheerleader, Here we go, Ready? Five, six, seven, eight, One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, Coach Page, she is Sue Sylvester. Let's do it for Sue, Kanae is our secret weapon, and when we went to Nationals, people underestimated our squad because we had her, And she was the one who actually saved our routine, She can go pretty high, She's small, but she's like a little ball, I would say I'm popular because I am different. Everyone does know me. I stand out. Go, team Glee! I know you know this one, Rocks in the sky! Get them up, Let's go! Bounce with me, Bounce with me! Hey! Hey! Up top, Let's go! Yeah, yeah, I'm out that Brooklyn Now I'm down in TriBeCa right next to De Niro But I'll be hood forever I'm the new Sinatra and since I made it here I can make it anywhere Yeah, they love me everywhere I used to cop in Harlem all of my Dominicanos right there up on Broadway Pull me back to that McDonalds Took it to my stashbox, 560 State Street Catch me in the kitchen Like a Simmons with them Pastrys Eight million stories out there in it Naked City, it's a pity Half of y'all won't make it Me, I got to plug Special EdI Got It Made If Jeezy's payin'LeBron I'm payin'Dwyane Wade Three-dice Cee-lo Three-card Monte Labor Day Parade rest in peace, Bob Marley Jigga, I be Spiked out I could trip a referee Tell by my attitude that I'm most definitely From New York Concrete Jungle where dreams are made of There's nothin'you can't do Now you're in New York These streets will make you feel brand new Big lights will inspire you Let's hear it for New York New York, New York One hand in the air for the big city Street lights, big dreams, all lookin'pretty No place in the world that could compare Put your hands in the air Everybody say, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah New York Concrete Jungle where dreams are made of There's nothin'you can't do Now you're in New York These streets will make you feel brand new Big lights will inspire you Let's hear it for New York New York, New York It's your boy! My favorite character would have to be Brittany, - Brittany, - Brittany, I hope they have an overwhelming sensation about my boobs in Slave because they are 3-D and they look really good, My favorite character is Brittany S, Pierce, I'm the biggest Glee fan in the world, I'm getting a Glee tattoo, My cat's name is Santana, my dog's name is Brittany, I'm wearing Glee shoes, I have a Cheerios jacket, my entire house is Glee, and my car was named Quinn untiI I crashed it, This is Brittany's hat from Blame It On the alcohol). I have definitely made friends because ofGIee, It's changed my whole social life. And it's off, It's still on, - Am I a girI? - Yes, - Am I a student? - No, - Am I Gwyneth Paltrow? - No, not in this, - Am I a guy? - No, - A girI? - Yes! - Ready, Kackie? - Go, - Am I blonde? - Yeah, - Am I Quinn? - No, - Am I Brittany? - Yeah! - I got the Brittany card? - Yes, Okay, I can't believe I just got the Brittany card! - Okay, What did she do? - I don't care, I got the Brittany card! I've never got it on my own without cheating, It's a huge thing for me, honestly, to have people over and in my house because I never had that before. It makes me feel normal. I was 15 years old when I was diagnosed with Asperger's, It's common to have anxiety, panic, any kind of just "meltdowns," is what we usually call them, The more you get to know me, the more obvious it is. It's just like this crazy madness in my mind, But I do have one thing that is my pick-me-up and gets me through it, and that's Brittany S. Pierce. Brittany has, what we like to call, '"The Brittany Effect'" on me. When I see a Brittany video, it's like something switches in me, and I'm happy, I am the biggest Brittany fan. I will fight for that. There's no doubt about it! My dog is named Brittany, Come on! I know I may be young But I've got feelings, too and I need to do what I feel like doing So let me go, and Just listen all you people look at me like I'm a little girl Well, did you ever think it'd be okay for me to step into this world? always saying, Little girl don't step into the club Well, I'm Just tryin' to find out why because dancing's what I love, yeah Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it I'm a slave for you I cannot hold it I cannot control it I'm a slave for you I won't deny it I'm not trying to hide it I know I may come off quiet I may come off shy But I feel like talking Feel like dancing When I see this guy What's practical is logical What the hell, who cares? all I know is I'm so happy when you're dancing there Baby Don't you wanna dance upon me To another time and place Baby Don't you wanna dance upon me Leaving behind my name and age Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it Get it, get it I'm a slave for you Here we go now I cannot hold it, I cannot control it Do you like the way I move? I'm a slave for you Here we go I won't deny it, I'm not trying to hide it Like that? Like that? I'm working on a new technique to where more women have the ability to get into the Puckerman Zone here, Pretty popular with the moms, so, you know, I clean their pooI, give them a discount, help them out, We're working hard, Hey! I was Just a skinny lad Never knew no good from bad But I knew love before I left my nursery Left alone with big fat Fanny She was such a naughty nanny Hey, big woman you made a bad boy out of me I've been singing with my band across the water, across the land I've seen ev'ry blue-eyed floozy on the way, hey But their beauty and their style Went kind of smooth after a while Take me to them lardy ladies every time Come on! Oh, won't you take me home tonight? Oh, down beside your red firelight Oh, and you give it all you got Fat bottomed girls You make the rockin' world go round Fat bottomed girls You make the rockin' world go round Get on your bikes and ride! Finn Hudson on the drums! Barbra Streisand is going to be here tonight to hear you sing, How do you feeI about that? Did they tell you anything about this? You seem overwhelmed, - Which song... - I knew she would come, I did, Which song on the tour is the most demanding for your voice? I mean, I've been singing Don't rain On My Parade since I was about two years old, My dad's played it for me when I was in my birth mother's womb, And I'm still singing it to this day, And I knew Barbra would show up, Don't tell me not to live Just sit and putter Life's candy and the sun's a ball of butter Don't bring around a cloud To rain on my parade! Don't tell me not to fly I've simply got to If someone takes a spill It's me and not you! Who told you you're allowed to rain on my parade? I'll march my band out I'll beat my drum and if I'm fanned out Your turn at bat, sir at least I didn't fake it Hat, sir I guess I didn't make it But whether I'm the rose of sheer perfection a freckle on the nose of life's complexion The cinder or the shiny apple of its eye I gotta fly once I gotta try once Only can die once, right, sir? Life is Juicy Juicy, and you see I've gotta have my bite, sir Get ready for me, love 'Cause I'm a comer I simply gotta march My heart's a drummer! Don't bring around a cloud To rain on my parade! I'm gonna live and live now Get what I want I know how One throw for the whole shebang One throw That bell will go clang Eye on the target and wham One shot, one gunshot and bam Hey, everybody! Here I am I'll march my band out I'll beat my drum and if I'm fanned out Your turn at bat, sir at least I didn't fake it Hat, sir I guess I didn't make it Get ready for me, love Because I'm a comer! I simply got to march My heart's a drummer Nobody No, nobody Is gonna rain on my Parade This is Mike Chang as a robot, Let's be real. Between Mike and me, we run this whole ship, Let's be reaI, Where did you come from, baby? and ooh, won't you take me there? right away Won't you, baby? Tenderoni, you've got to be Spark my nature Sugar, fly with me Don't you know now Is the perfect time We can make it right Hit the city lights Then tonight Ease the lovin'pain Let me take you to the max I want to love you - PY - Pretty young thing You need some loving - TLC - Tender lovin' care and I'll take you there Yes, I will, yes I... I want to love you - PY - Pretty young thing You need some loving - TLC - Tender loving care and I'll take you there Pretty young thing You make me sing Pretty young thing You make me sing Come on, sing it with me! Pretty young things repeat after me Say na na na Na na na - Na na na na - Na na na na Sing it Say na na na Na na na - Na na na na - Na na na na Let me hear you Say na na na Na na na - Na na na na na - Na na na na na Oh, I'll take you there I'll take you there I want to love you - PY - Pretty young thing You need some lovin' - TLC - Tender lovin' care and I'll take you there I'll take you there I'll take you there I want to love you - PY - Pretty young thing You need some lovin' - TLC - Tender lovin' care and I'll take you there PY Oh, baby TLC Oh, baby Oh, baby Hey! Pretty young thing Thank you, Mike! I'm a very Judgmental person, and at first glance I could definitely write somebody off. And Glee has taught me that everybody has a story, I think that we're the maJority. We're the quirky, weird kids. We don't all look the same way. I've been the shy kid always, And especially Kurt being so out and being able to just be him, and be trendy and fashionable, it really helped me kind of want to Just be me a little bit more. I can connect with Kurt on a very personal level. I came out when I was in eighth grade, And I'm like, "I can go through the same thing as he does," So it's like reaI life, Well, in the first semester of eighth grade, my whole life changed dramatically, I did not come out by choice at all, I had a Journal. My Journal was someone that wasn't going to Judge me, no matter what I told it. It would Just listen. I had this crush on this guy named Brian. He had the most gorgeous eyes ever, I wrote many letters to him that I would never give him, It would start off with, "Brian, hi, "I know we don't talk very often, "but I've liked you since the seventh grade," Brian found out that I had a crush on him because my best friend at the time took my Journal, and set it on his desk during class. And he just opened it and just started reading everything, Everything, And I was so embarrassed, ain't no way For me to love you If you won't let me No I know that a woman's duty Is to help and love a man and that's the way it was planned I said stop trying to be Someone you're not and if you need me to love you Say, say you do Oh then, baby, baby Baby, don't you know that I need you? It ain't no way How y'all doing over here? It ain't no way What about back here? It Just ain't no way, baby Over here? It ain't no way, baby It ain't no way For me to love you If you won't Let me Thank you for letting me sing for you tonight! Have fun! Jessie is a friend Yeah, I know he's been a good friend of mine But lately something's changed That ain't hard to define Jessie's got himself a girl and I want to make her mine and she's watching him with those eyes and she's lovin'him with that body I Just know it and he's holding her in his arms Late, late at night You know I wish that I had Jessie's girl I wish that I had Jessie's girl Where can I find a woman like that? Like Jessie's girl I wish that I had Jessie's girl Where can I find a woman Where can I find a woman like that? and I'm lookin'in the mirror all the time Wondering what she don't see in me I've been funny I've been cool with the lines ain't that the way love supposed to be? Tell me Where can I find a woman like that? Like Jessie's girl I wish that I had Jessie's girl I want Jessie's girl Where can I find a woman like that? Like Jessie's girl I wish that I had Jessie's girl I want, I want Jessie's girl Well, sometimes I go out by myself and I look across the water and I think of all the things What you're doing and in my head I paint a picture 'Cause since I've come on home Well, my body's been a mess and I've missed your ginger hair and the way you like to dress Won't you come on over Stop makin'a fool out of me Why don't you come on over, Valerie? Valerie Valerie Valerie Well, sometimes I go out by myself and I look across the water and I think of all the things What you're doing and in my head I paint a picture 'Cause since I've come on home Well, my body's been a mess and I've missed your ginger hair and the way you like to dress Won't you come on over Stop makin'a fool out of me Why don't you come on over, Valerie? Valerie Valerie, Valerie Valerie Why don't you come on over, Valerie? - Kanae! - Coach! How we doing today? - Good, How are you? - I'm doing fine, - I wanted to bring these for you, - Thank you, Because you were nominated for kind of a big deaI, Prom is tonight, and I'm nominated in the top five for Prom Princess, And I really hope I make it and I win, Are you nervous? Yeah, I'm the only cheerleader in top five, Isn't that crazy? I'm so excited, You haven't showed me a picture of him yet, I was like, "What?" He's cute, This year, I'm going to prom with reed Cook. He's known for Just being fun. and he's a football player. He's of average stature. Yeah, he's handsome, I don't usually go to dances with average-sized guys. I usually go with a little person. I was looking for a date to prom and I didn't know who to ask, And Kanae has been telling me, "Coach, I don't have anybody to go to prom," Because I was like, "It would be fun to go with him," I was just throwing it out there as, like, "Wouldn't that be cooI?" Thinking it would never, ever happen, artie, he's in a wheelchair, he's got two girls. Finn and rachel, she's a nerd, he's a Jock, it worked out. Puckerman and Zizes, she's big, he doesn't care. He likes her. and Janae, she's small, but I don't care. I don't think that should matter. She's just a fun person to be around, I was kind of afraid to ask her. I was nervous, I didn't know if she'd say yes or no, Just one day during the break, I decided, '"If I'm going to do it, I've got to do it right now. '" and reed came walking up. I was Just like, '"I think it might happen. '" and he got down on one knee, and he Just asked me to prom right then and there. She was... I don't know. She was surprised, definitely surprised. She didn't know if I was serious or not. UntiI I was like, "Yeah, will you go to prom with me?" Said it a couple of more times, but... I was just like, "Yeah," Because I was so nervous, also, I never thought I had any chance in the world to have him ask me to prom. Do you ever feel like a plastic bag Drifting through the wind Wanting to start again? Do you ever feel Feel so paper thin Like a house of cards One blow from caving in? Do you ever feel already buried deep Six feet under screams But no one seems to hear a thing? Do you know That there's still a chance for you? 'Cause there's a spark in you You Just gotta ignite the light and let it shine Just own the night Like the Fourth of July Cause, baby, you're a firework Come on, show 'em what you're worth Make 'em go Oh, oh, oh as you shoot across the sky Baby, you're a firework Come on, show 'em what you're worth Make 'em go Oh, oh, oh as you shoot across the sky Boom, boom, boom Even brighter than the moon, moon, moon It's always been inside of you, you, you and now it's time to let it through Baby, you're a firework Come on, show 'em what you're worth Make 'em go Oh, oh, oh as you shoot across the sky 'Cause, baby, you're a firework Come on, show 'em what you're worth Make 'em go Oh, oh, oh You're gonna leave 'em goin' Oh, oh, oh Even brighter than the moon, moon, moon Boom, boom, boom Even brighter than the moon, moon, moon Say thank you Thank you! Say thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you to all our fans We love you Even though this was not planned I want to be a Warbler really bad, And I would potentially shave my hair off so I could be a Warbler, I love all of them so much, but my favorite is definitely Blaine, I would have to say Blaine, I love Blaine, - Why? - He's the man! Blaine Anderson, My favorite character is Blaine, period, I feeI kind of discouraged that I've auditioned for solos against him six times now, - Blaine, definitely, - Kurt, Kurt, - Blaine, Sorry, - Kurt, Hey, man, when your front man's that guy, you've got to roll with the punches, We're comfortable with ourselves, so it's okay, I'm confident in myself, - It's definitely Kurt, - It's Blaine, Go, Blaine! My four-year-old daughter loves Kurt and Blaine so much that she wants them to be her two dads, My favorite character is Blaine, Hi, Blaine, I'm the Mini Warbler, You make me Feel like I'm living a teenage dream The way you turn me on I can't sleep Let's run away and don't ever look back Don't ever look back Let's go all the way tonight No regrets Just love We can dance until we die You and I We'll be young forever You make me Feel like I'm living a teenage dream The way you turn me on I can't sleep Let's run away and don't ever look back Don't ever look back I might get your heart racing in my skin-tight Jeans Be your teenage dream tonight How are we all feeling this evening? Let's hear you, Sing along if you know it, Let's go! You make me feel Like I'm living a Teenage dream The way you turn me on I can't sleep Let's run away and don't ever look back Don't ever look back No, no, look at me Just one touch Now, baby, I believe This is real so Don't ever look back Don't ever look back I might get your heart racing in my skin-tight Jeans Be your teenage dream tonight Let you put your hands on me in my skin-tight Jeans Be your teenage dream tonight Thank you so very much, Let's hear it for the Dalton Academy Warblers! This next song is for all the lovers in the house tonight, Enjoy, You'd think that people would have had enough of silly love songs But I look around me and I see it isn't so Oh no Some people wanna fill the world with silly love songs and what's wrong with that I'd like to know 'Cause here I go again I love you I love you I can't explain The feeling's plain to me Say can't you see? ah, she gave me more She gave it all to me Say can't you see? Love doesn't come in a minute Sometimes it doesn't come at all I only know that when I'm in it It isn't silly Love isn't silly Love isn't silly at all Not at all All right, I want you to sing along with me, It's three words, very easy, It goes like this, I love you Let's hear it, Your turn, I love you Keep it going, let's sing together, This is beautifuI, I can't explain The feeling's plain to me Say can't you see? ah, she gave me more She gave it all to me Say can't you see? right, right, turn off the lights We're gonna lose our minds tonight What's the dealio? I love when it's all too much 00 a. m. turn the radio up Where's the rock and roll? Party crasher Penny snatcher Call me up if you a gangsta Don't be fancy Just get dancey Why so serious? So raise your glass if you are wrong In all the right ways all my underdogs We will never be, never be anything but loud and nitty gritty Dirty little freaks Won't you come on and come on and raise your glass Just come on and come on and raise your glass Just come on and come on and raise your glass Just come on and come on and raise your glass Oh, my glass is empty That sucks So if you're too school for cool and you're treated like a fool You can choose to let it go We can always We can always Party on our own So raise your So raise your glass if you are wrong In all the right ways all my underdogs We will never be, never be anything but loud and nitty gritty Dirty little freaks So raise your glass if you are wrong In all the right ways all my underdogs Oh we will anything but loud and nitty gritty Dirty little freaks Won't you come on and come on and raise your glass for me raise your glass For me After class, he rushed out of class, He was the first one out, And he took the notebook with him, actually, He shared my Journal with everyone. I felt like everyone was looking at me differently already. They all knew, It spread like wildfire, And when I heard that, I never wanted to come back to the schooI, And that was on a Monday, at the end of the day, I got my Journal back, and I wanted to rip it up because I didn't want my family to find out about me. But I Just thought they would still find it, so I decided to burn it instead. That's when I became very bottled in, even when people teased me and made fun of me throughout the year. And, it's just hard because it's hard to deaI with it, It's hard, Kurt taught me a lot because he was the only out kid at his school. and he was proud. and Just like in the prom episode, he did go off running, but he came back, and he held his head up and smiled. The sun is shining Come on get happy - Shout it now, there's no one - The lord is waiting - Who can doubt it now - To take your hand Shout halleluJah So let's tell the world and Just get happy about it now - We're going to the promised land - Happy days are here again We're heading across the river Soon your cares will all be gone There'll be no more From now on From now on - Forget your troubles - Happy days - and Just get happy - are here again - You better chase - The skies - all your blues away - above are clear again - Shout halleluJah - So let's sing a song and Just get happy Of cheer again - Happy times - Happy times - Happy nights - Happy nights Happy days are Here again Is it true that you told Mercedes that you sing better than her? Yes, because I do, But that's okay, Mercedes, what do you think about this? She doesn't have to answer that if she doesn't want to, Well, I'm going to lock her in a closet, I mean, who even would try? Do you see her? - Is it war, RacheI? - No, She might act like she's all nice and fun-spirited and whatnot, I can't even say these words because my ears are too innocent, I was minding my own business, I just decided to go for a stroll on stage, sing a song, When, out of nowhere a woman that looked like she should have been caged in the zoo had somehow escaped and grabbed me with her giant bear hands, You wanna make out? Brittany, are you flirting with my man? Tina, I just want to push her, She doesn't want to get a smackdown, She's afraid of the wrath, She knows what I've done to people, I've beaten you up, I've beat her up, It's kind of crazy, I thought I would be super famous, And it happened, I'm just really thankfuI because somebody has to compete with Kurt, Everybody's got a dream, And this is mine, S a F E Y Safety Dance You can dance if we want to You can leave your friends behind 'Cause your friends don't dance and if they don't dance Well they're no friends of mine I say we can go where we want to a place where they will never find and we can act like we come From out of this world Leave the real one far behind and we can dance Come on! We can go when we want to The night is young and so am I and we can dress real neat From our hats to our feet and surprise 'em with the victory cry I say we can act if want to If we don't, nobody will We can act real rude and totally removed and I can act like an imbecile I say we can dance We can dance Everything's out of control We can dance We can dance We're doing it from wall to wall We can dance We can dance Everybody look at your hands We can dance We can dance Everybody's takin' the chance Up top! It's safe to dance Well it's safe to dance It's safe to dance Come on! We can dance if we want to We've got all your life and mine as long as we abuse it Never gonna lose it Everything'll work out right I say we can dance We can dance Everything's out of control We can dance We can dance We're doing it from wall to wall We can dance We can dance Everybody look at your hands We can dance We can dance Everybody's takin' the chance Come on! It's safe to dance Well, it's safe to dance It's safe to dance 'Cause it's safe to dance It's safe to dance Sing it! It's safe to dance It's safe to dance It's safe to dance High school guys, they're kind of self-conscious. And I'm very short, and so it's like, why take me when you can take this beautiful 5'4" tall, blonde girI? You know? Come on, two steps to your left, All right, guys, Okay, all the girls in? All right, we're set, I'm excited because reed had enough courage to ask me. and he's not self-conscious about it. And he's like, "Yeah, I'm taking a dwarf, We're going to have fun," We honestly danced the night away. It was just fun because I dance like a maniac, And so does Reed, actually, It's 10:30, so half-an-hour untiI they announce Prom Princess, Oh, no, Okay, now you have me nervous, They lined us up, and we were standing backstage. And my stomach, like, kind of turned into knots and I Just got butterflies. And, last but not least, we have Anthony Banas and Kanae Meraz, And your Prince and Princess are... Haden Barrow and Kanae Meraz, I was really shocked, And so, I was just like, "Did they mess up, or is that actually me?" And then they came and they put in on my head, and I was like, '"Oh! It's me!'" Congratulations, guys, She has tons of friends. and I have absolutely no idea why nobody who is an average-sized person has never taken her to a dance. But reed didn't think twice. He absolutely didn't think twice. I think, for the first time, he proved to her that people see her as just her, not as a little person. I guess you could say Glee has changed my life, because it's opened my eyes that people are different. And I'm like, "I have to remember that," Because it's like, I know I'm different, but I'm not realizing that everyone else is different around me, also, I'm lucky I'm in love With my best friend Lucky to have been where I have been Lucky to be coming home again They don't know how long it takes Waiting for a love like this Every time we say goodbye I wish we had one more kiss I'll wait for you I promise you I will I'm lucky I'm in love with my best friend Lucky to have been where I have been Lucky to be coming home again Lucky we're in love in every way Lucky to have stayed Where we have stayed Lucky to be coming home someday When I was a little girl I had a rag doll Only doll I've ever owned Now I love you Just the way I loved that rag doll But only now my love has grown and it gets stronger In every way and it gets higher Day by day Do I love you My, oh my river deep Mountain high Yeah, yeah, yeah If I lost you Would I cry Oh, how I love you, baby Baby, baby, baby I love you, baby Like a flower loves the spring and I love you, baby Like the robin loves to sing and I love you, baby Like a school boy loves to play and I love you, baby river deep, mountain high Oh, baby Oh, baby Oh, baby Do I love you My, oh my river deep Mountain high Yeah, yeah, yeah If I lost you Would I cry Oh how I love you, baby Baby, baby, baby Mercedes, Do you hear the sweet sound of all of that applause for me? You know, that's really been my favorite part about this tour, because the fans have spoken, And I am now officially the sexiest member of the Glee Club, Not so fast, hot cheeks, Give it up for Holly Holliday! Hey, is anybody here in the mood for a little Cee Lo? Because I know I am, Hit it! I see you driving 'round town with the guy I love and I'm like Forget you I guess the change in my pocket wasn't enough I'm like Forget you Yeah I'm sorry I can't afford a Ferrari But that don't mean I can't get you there I guess she's an Xbox and I'm more an atari But the way you play your game ain't fair I pity the fool that falls in love with you Oh, she's a gold digger Just thought you should know it I've got some news for you Yeah, go run and tell your little girlfriend I see you driving 'round town with the guy I love and I'm like Forget you I guess the change in my pocket wasn't enough I'm like forget you and forget her, too I said if I was richer I'd still be with ya - Ha, now ain't that some shh - ain't that some shh and although there's pain in my chest I still wish you the best With a forget you Now, baby, baby, baby Why d'you wanna, wanna hurt me so bad So bad, so bad, so bad I tried to tell my mamma but she told me This is one for your dad - Your dad, your dad, your dad - Yes, she did Yes, she did Why Why Why, baby I love you I still love you I see you driving 'round town with the guy I love and I'm like Forget you Forget you I guess the change in my pocket wasn't enough I'm like forget you and forget her, too I said if I was richer I'd still be with ya - Now ain't that some shh - ain't that some shh and although there's pain in my chest I still wish you the best With a forget you Let's go get some tacos, At the time in my life when I got into Glee, it was just hard, It was dealing with losing my father, It was dealing with the being different, and Just so many things were happening. And she kind of just popped into my life when I needed someone, when I Just felt so negative and down on myself. When I met her in person, she fully embraced me and my quirks, And she sat there, and she held my hands and listened to me talk to her. I never felt more understood than in that moment when I looked her in the eye and had this conversation with her, And it was that moment I really wanted to change and be a better person, and be a positive, happy person because I looked at this girI and looked at what she had done for me in such a short time, and knew I want to be like her, and I want to be a positive light in peoples' lives, I think I have to cry, Oh please Say to me You'll let me be your man and please Say to me You'll let me hold your hand Hi, I wanna hold your hand I wanna hold your hand and when I touch you I feel happy inside It's such a feeling That my love I can't hide I can't hide I can't hide Yeah, you You got that something I think you'll understand Hi, sweetie, When I Say that something I wanna hold Your hand I wanna hold your hand I wanna hold your hand I wanna hold your hand I transferred to a new school when I was a Junior in high school, and I got into the theater department, and I started doing musicals. The theater department here is like Glee Club because we're a family just like Glee Club is a family, And all of us are different in some sort of way, and we all Just come together as one. I actually did wish that I had someone to look up to like Kurt. I feel like if he were there, like, out, when I was in eighth grade, I could be like, '"Look at him being gay, and he still gets to live his dream. '" But now I'm 19-years-old and I'm all grown up, and I completely accept myself. And I'm a person with no secrets now, I am open to the world, everyone, If you ask me if I'm gay, I am proud to stand up and say that, "Yes, Trenton Thompson, I am gay! " And I couldn't do that before, And now it's like I have no secrets, So if I write something down and someone finds it, it's like, "You could have just asked," I'm really not a big fan of my nose, ever since I was really young, For me it was either this or "Little One," because I'm really short, I can't sing, but I can dance, I was kind of, you know, the weirdo with red hair, For me it was either this or "Perfectionist," Mine says "Brace Face," - We're Lebanese and proud, - And proud, Out and proud to be Lebanese, And love softball, I wanted to be like RacheI in high schooI, But instead I joined the Navy, so I'm not on stage, - I am obviously Brittany, - Santana, We're waiting here for this girI, She just got into a car accident on the way here, And she has our tickets, It doesn't matter if you love him Or capital H-I-M My mama told me when I was young We are all born superstars She rolled my hair Put my lipstick on In the glass of her boudoir There's nothing wrong with loving who you are She said 'Cause he made you perfect, babe So hold your head up, girl and you'll go far Listen to me when I say I'm beautiful in my way 'Cause God makes no mistakes I'm on the right track, baby I was born this way Don't hide yourself in regret Just love yourself and you're set I'm on the right track, baby I was born this way Don't be a drag,Just be a queen Whether you're broke or evergreen You're black, white, beige, chola descent You're Lebanese, you're Orient Whether life's disabilities left you outcast, bullied, or teased reJoice and love yourself today 'Cause, baby, you were born this way No matter black, white or beige Chola or Orient-made I'm on the right track, baby I was born to be brave I'm beautiful in my way 'Cause God makes no mistakes I'm on the right track, baby I was born this way Don't hide yourself in regret Just love yourself and you're set I'm on the right track, baby I was born this way There ain't no other way Baby, I was born this way Baby, I was born this way There ain't no other way Baby, I was born this way right track, baby I was born this way I was born this way, hey I was born this way, hey I'm on the right track, baby I was born this way, hey I was born this way, hey I was born this way, hey I'm on the right track, baby I was born this way, hey - Glee - Glee, Glee Did they really make us do that? - Did we really do that? - That was too easy, I think that everyone can see themselves in the cast of Glee. I think it's really cooI that people are able to peeI back the layers to find something that was already there inside of them, Glee is like my medicine, It makes me happy, It puts me in a good place, It can be very difficult with asperger's because we have maJor social anxiety. I wouldn't even really go to concerts or anything. I was very much a homebody. I didn't even go to school. Glee is the reason I got out the door that first day, and went to my first class. One thing I did learn is to be proud of yourself. Don't be afraid, Stand up for what you believe in, For me, I'm small, so that's my challenge, Glee helps you realize that everyone goes through their own struggles. You've got to notice the little people in life, You may think that I'm a zero But, hey, everyone you wanna be probably started off like me You may think that I'm a freakshow I don't care But, hey, give it Just a little time I bet you're gonna change your mind all of the dirt You've been throwin'my way It ain't so hard to take That's right 'Cause I know one day You'll be screamin'my name and I'll Just look away That's right Just go ahead and hate on me and run your mouth So everyone can hear Hit me with the words you got and knock me down Baby, I don't care Keep it up and soon enough you'll figure out You wanna be You wanna be a loser like me a loser like me Push me up against the locker and, hey, all I do is shake it off I'll get you back when I'm your boss I'm not thinkin' 'bout you haters 'Cause, hey, I could be a superstar I'll see you when you wash my car all of the dirt You've been throwin'my way It ain't so hard to take That's right 'Cause I know one day You'll be screamin'my name and I'll Just look away That's right Just go ahead and hate on me and run your mouth So everyone can hear Hit me with the worst you got and knock me down Baby, I don't care Keep it up and soon enough you'll figure out You wanna be You wanna be a loser like me Just go ahead and hate on me and run your mouth So everyone can hear Hit me with the worst you got and knock me down Baby, I don't care Keep it up and soon enough you'll figure out You wanna be You wanna be a loser like me a loser like me Like they say on the show, they are all losers, well, we're all losers, too, All these different lifestyles can actually come together, a loser like me a loser like me It gives a story to the people who don't have voice, And everyone always underestimates the nerds, - But the nerds have the power, right? - Nerds! Thank you so much for coming out, Thank you, guys, so much, I mean, everything that the characters go through, it's really nice to see that and have it be related to a song, And so, it's like a playlist of my life, Just a small town girl Livin'in a lonely world She took the midnight train goin'anywhere Just a city boy Born and raised in south Detroit He took the midnight train goin'anywhere a singer in a smoky room a smell of wine and cheap perfume For a smile they can share the night It goes on and on and on and on Strangers waiting Up and down the boulevard Their shadows Searching in the night Streetlight people Living Just to find emotion Hiding somewhere In the night Don't stop Can anybody Find me Somebody to Love Each morning I get up I die a little - Can barely stand on my feet - Take a look - Take a look in the mirror and cry - at yourself in the mirror Lord, what you're doing to me I have spent all my years believing you But I Just can't get no relief, Lord - Somebody, oh, somebody - Somebody, somebody Can anybody find me Somebody to love Got no feel I got no rhythm I Just keep losing my beat I'm okay I'm all right I ain't gonna face no defeat I Just gotta get out of this prison cell Someday I'm gonna be free, Lord Find me somebody to love Find me somebody to love Find me somebody to love Find me somebody to love Find me somebody to love Find me somebody to love Find me somebody to love Somebody, somebody - Somebody, somebody - Oh find me, find me Find me somebody to love Can anybody find me Somebody to Love Somebody find me Somebody to love Somebody find me Oh, somebody find me Somebody love Somebody, somebody - Find me - Somebody, somebody - To love - To love English - US
