 

                        The following contains scenes drama not appropriate for all audiences Discretion is advised I'm Matthew Goode, and this is Masterpiece Contemporary. Three, eight, four, eight, three. Three, eight, five, one, one. Three, eight, five, three, two. It has that prisoners created a and conducted a trial court They thought was judged to primarily responsible of what had happened. God demands a holocaust. A trial to God??! Who is charged? Yo. What he is accused? Can not you see? Murder. God on Trial Tonight Masterpiece Contemporary. How did this happen? God does not listen our agony? Why does anything about it? These are questions asked in great distress, questions the believers have since the beginning history, Questions that remain have answers. Tonight, these are questions asked in a barrack Auschwitz concentration, where a group of ordinary men jailed and sentenced to death without committing any crime do what they may think expressing the agony of their situation. Prosecute God .. They are Jews, the chosen people, who have made a covenant with God, and in return God he promised to protect them. How can they accept this broken promise? God has the right to abandon and get away with it? Even atheists among them believe humans moral right to know the reason for the evil around the world .. Your questions multiply. But silence persists. God on Trial. I regret to say that entry is not included the tour price. Sorry. Here must pay. But, good news are only 10 szlotys. So no so bad. Sorry Trial Of God It is forbidden to take pictures. Photography groups are by appointment only. When you get there, give him your card the good doctor. The examined. Free. Do not say that I care about you. This is a typical hut. They had to thousand people here. When I got a new transport made space for ... well, you can imagine. Were a selection. Each cabin in was given a card for older on the block, the overseer, and then go the selected area. Straight. Come on, shoulders back. Stop. Do not move well. You look like dead. Leave me alone. ... You're dead. Try not to see you angry, or be the next .. (I'll be fine) I taught my numbers? See? Add them, 18, 18, is the number of life. You can meet up soon Lord your God with. It's very cold here, yes? Imagine the day selection. Nobody knew what was the selection criterion, so all afraid. Well, this way. I do not understand. Do not see how this could happen. How could afford? You know there a story that prisoners set up a tribunal here and conducted a trial. Prosecute they thought was mainly responsible for what happened to them. Can you imagine the look my wife? Suppose if I need someone to wash dishes. Move. These people wait see the doctor! Become Wait and see by the physician. Jewish 85 years in my house. What I do with her? Some things he can think. Move. Send the old Kuhn left. If you go left, you'll to heaven with the old Kuhn. Other live. Silence. Just point out the facts. live. you die. Have you sent the right? Right. And you? Left. Was nice meeting you. Come here. In! In! In! In! Come on. In! In! Your notif ..! Come on! Move! Move! Move, move!, Thanks to the efficiency rail system of the Reich this pile of steaming Polish garbage has arrived a day early. Those of you that have been selected, know to which sleep morning in their beds. See this? You know what I mean? It means that I am a criminal. A convicted criminal. What are you? Lawyers? Doctors? I spit out there. Well, here, is the opposite. Here I am king. Chancellor. I am president. Fuhrer. God I. The world just flip them and you will have fallen into. It is better become accustomed. This is a terrible place. But if you help us, it did. The day of liberation each day is approaching. War will end and with the aid of God will see. frankly, should sleep on the floor tonight but if either of you sick, are those who give their beds. Monsieur, In what part is? Lyon. I had a cousin there. Contini was called. Do you know him? Everyone knew him. He was a doctor. A very fat, with lots of money. He escaped, Any idea? Maybe. I have not heard. Open your mouth. Lucky you. Let me grab this gold tooth, I'll give you half my weekly ration yeah? I need my tooth to eat. Do not worry for that. Not to eat much here Do not worry, keep your tooth while you can. Let me get him out. It only takes a minute. Here. You'll need it. Soup is the only food .. You'll need every drop. How about you? I was sent to the right. Take it. If you do not, one of Kapos will. He has expressed their favor ... Kuhn We are his people. He has shown his favor. What are you praying for? What will these praying? That is not you? That will be me instead of you? Of course not. Moshe?, Let him alone. Who then? If not me, who? C'mon, name them, choose Moshe?, Shut up. At times like this, You should pray for you. Someone else reads? Someone else is helping God to decide? I'm praying for him. It is the rabbi of Zamkevitz. Melamed and is a healer. Healer! This interrupt his work, no? All we are healed. They say it is one of 36. that groan? The Lamed-vovnik. The holy secret We carry on their shoulders They have put their souls in God, and for their sake, He does not destroy. Gypsy piece of scum! Please. The Lord our God can hear you, even here. He listens to me, not does anything about it. Moreover bastard I thought. He listens to me and not nothing. It's an evil bastard. He should be here not us. We should prosecute the bastard. So perhaps we listen. And what will you do if is guilty? Arrest him? Or wait to be delivered? They can stop this? They can stop this blasphemy? In fact, there be blasphemy. Abraham negotiated with God for Sodom. Jacob wrestled with the angel. The name, Israel, means "he who has struggled with God ". Basta. Tomorrow, we could be facing our creator. And tomorrow, our Creator could enfrntanos. It is a very old story. Many who are know the story. It gives some sense. Why not prosecute? At least had to listen. Not needed judges and others? three justices. For a rabbinical court, need to three. Part of the tragedy this place is that it was packed of scientists, artists, lawyers. Baumgarten. Yes, I was professor of criminal law in Berlin. Teach bright students and admired. I ate at a large table. Coffee, brandy and conversations with men who are now .. in their government. I do not know much of the Torah. There are many here who know the Torah. But I know how lead a court. Sorry. "I knew you ... a teacher in college? Excuse me, ... Could you ... I do not have much time. I do not want to waste my last hours on this. Look, if we are to continue through with this, we can at least ask the saint, that God has someone to defend him? .. Rabbi .. Rabbi. They ask whether talk to them. It is a fool. Look, I'm a rabbi. I have translated psalms. I've written several books on law. I wrote a piece for our theater in Wotchz ... Sorry Professor Schmidt? Idek? They said that they had come to America. Nobody has escaped? I might serve Dayan. Idek is the best student I have taught. I'll stand up .. he does not. please. Please stay out of it. Strictly speaking, the dayan should be a rabbi. Are you a rabbi? The dayan is the question, right? I have a lot of questions. Idek is a brilliant scholar. His knowledge of Torah is ... Auschwitz was not mentioned in Torah That's the point. So I am a father of this court, Baumgarten is the boss of the court. And our friend here is, dayan, the Inquisitor. For a point of order, for that this court is lawful, should have a copy of the Torah. ... We as evidence ... of its existence here. Well, I'll sniff at the library and get one, no? They want something more while I'm gone? Girls? Cigarettes? Cushions for their bony back? Rabbi Akiva has been learned all our holy memory writes. Recites constantly. In these sad days, we have been a source of freshwater He is called "The Living Torah". Sorry. Over here, Rabbi. So, for starters. Who is charged? Yo. I will. What are the charges? Of which he is charged? You see? Murder ... collaboration, murder! You know what did to my mother? My sister? My brothers? Murder, partnership, and more murders. I think we should be more precise. Suffering is part God's plan. A child knows that. "If we take happiness the hand of God, we should not take pain, too? " It is not an indictment. Are you saying that no reasons? The charge would be breach of contract. The Jews have a ... have a contract God, some kind of special arrangement. A pact. Well, the accusation is that broke the agreement, the pact. Therefore, God is a cheating bastard! That is fine with me. Please, please. They can stop you? In the desert, Moses led a covenant with God. He said the people obey God's law, and on the other hand, God said of all peoples, we would be theirs, his chosen a priestly nation The psalmist sings "I agreed with the chosen one, I swear my servant David. "I did sign your dynasty forever. Your throne will last from age to age. My own translation. Therefore the case before us is not fulfilled with this covenant. Who wants to start? "No enemy will able to mock him, "No evil overtake. "Crush his enemies before him, annihilate opponents. So? Has the His promise? No. Well, it's hard to see and refute the charge. What defense can there be? Continue? Bad Things have happened before. Read the Torah. Lean ... read its history. We are Jews. We suffer. We suffer. Please. Identify at the court. My name is Kuhn. I'm his father. I'm his father, and However ... he joins them this shame. It helps knowing it hurts. That is the kind a son he is. Got something to say, father? Apart from usual? Look ... when we were released of bondage in Egypt, find land fiancee, What happened? We were taken captive again in Babylon. When we released again and rebuild temple, what happened? The Romans razed. What happened on Massada ... Spain ... Russia, and now here? I think the witness is saying that his failure the contract is common. To clarify the position, God defend or attack Mr. Kuhn, think this saying ... .. he can speak for itself Our ancestors, our ancestors, our parents all suffered. But it aired. That is the reason that we're still here. This is a test of our faith. We pass our test as they passed his. Do you think we be here? ... (Please ...) They kept the light of Torah on in times of darkness. We must do the same. We must keep the faith. We maintain pure our hearts, and we must pray. Why? If God has betrayed, why? The point is ... The point is to be a good Jew. A good Jew. The point is to keep the faith. Why? We are tested! Tests are part of this covenant? Did someone mention evidence to Moses? In the same psalm, we are told, "If their descendants deserting my law "and not follow my commands, "if they violate my decrees and does not keep my commandments "I will punish their offenses with the rod, his guilt with his whip Mr. Kuhn said, before blaming God, we look at ourselves. Perhaps it is God who breaches the covenant, but us. Yes There is ... he knows. Es .. is mipnei khata'einu because of our sins. Or your sins. May be you who is to blame. Thank you. I agree with the court. It is a punishment. The court has not said such ... (Still) I agree. Some Jews have turned their backs on the Torah They thought they knew better. Our children have left to cities. He bought a fancy hat, a good costume, they became socialists or Zionists capitalist or anarchists. God only knows what. Forgetting everything of the precious scriptures. So you're saying that this is my fault; is that? God is destroying all the people Jew because you're disappointed in me Is that it? Look what you're doing! A trial to God? Do not you think can hear you? Do you think not here? We must maintain order here. You are Jews, no? If nothing else, must respect the law. Well, since I am accused, I call a witness. Forward. This gentleman. Name? Ezra Shapira of Zamkevitz. Did I do something wrong? No, Ezra Zamkevitz. He came here with Rabbi believe, from Zamkevitz. Tell me, Ezra Shapira turned their backs the Torah in Zamkevitz? No, sir. In Zamkevitz, loved the Torah. On Shabbat, the windows of the shops were all closed. The Scriptures wrapped its wings of quiet about us, and the world simply vanished. Every man had his prayer book. On national holidays, festivals, workdays, the Torah was ... The air was that breathed. In our poverty, We dressed and housed us. He was our palace and lived in its splendor. So what went wrong? They came. They killed all the elderly. And they did the rest bury them. I buried my own mother. I did remove the ring fingers and give it to them. See any reason why God would be a good Jew desecrate the grave your own mother in order to punish a poor Jewish For example, I? I said that was a good man. I try, but I do not know if I am a good man, I do not know if you are an evil man. For example, he. I do not know. Know me already Do not worry. So God reserves the right to punish the wicked. This is in the covenant. The question is, why did you choose punish this good man here ... ... and not, for example, Hitler? Does anyone have an answer? God is just; so we have done something wrong. We should examine our consciences. In law, the punishment should be proportional crime. What crime may justify a punished like this? And children, some children on the field. What punishment is deserves a child? If I may? Not long the punishment is proportional. The flood engulfed Worldwide with the exception of Noah. God asked Abraham to sacrifice his own son. Sir, my mother was a good woman. The mistake is to make it's personal. God does not work against the person. His alliance is with the Jewish people, Ezra not of Zamkevitz. This is not personal. Can I ask you, Ezra, see any object in a God is not personal? God as the object? Does it depend on me use to find God? Do you know what is a god that is not personal? No. Is the weather That's all. Maybe we should eliminate the word now punishment procedures Can I ask a question? Ezra, let me ask you, Your mother was a good Jew? How can you ask So even here? Let me talk about something. Let's talk purification. Twice in history, and perhaps here today again God has done events occur of such destruction, that after this, nothing was the same again. Nothing was the same because, over time, we come to understand all improved. Imagine that God is a surgeon, and has to remove a leg or an arm with gangrene to heal the body. It is a violent act. It's painful. But it is love. What would if we were living through a moment like this? No punishment, purification. Let me ask you ... of its time. Time is what we have. These purifications are in your covenant? You say, occasionally, no more betting, e inundare the place? Sometimes, just for a change, you're ... surrounded and you'll be whipped, you bring dogs, and I cornered in a field ... since you ask ... The first purification was the flood. The second was the destruction of the temple by Nebuchadnezzar. We were taken into exile in Babylon. We were one nation without a country. With no land, went to the world, and take our knowledge of the Torah and only God Almighty, into the open. If we had stayed as we would have achieved so much? We would be a tribe the desert, nothing more. It was painful, but also was wonderful What if we were going other catastrophic event? What if those who survive this will be the holy remnant, and live in an age of wisdom, understanding and knowledge? What if something good would come out of this? What great good? How do we know? Already some say that the Messiah himself. Perhaps a return to Israel. So what? So it might be something beautiful. So you see, maybe There is a reason Why a good woman like your mother was taken, and not some evil. Because she is a sacrifice. A holocaust. And when a man sacrifices something must be better. The most beautiful thing. Can I call Idek? Can I interrogate him? Can I call first to Idek? The point is related. Can you tell the court what happened to our Masada ancestors? Masada was. .. one fortress in the mountains built by Herod the Great. It was a kind of self-shelter in case of war. Of course, anyone can build a wall against death. Herod died, and the Romans arrived, destroyed the temple. There was a great uprising. A revolt. And the rebels ran into the mountains, this Masada. The Romans besieged. They wanted the rebels starve. So they built a huge wall around the base of the mountain. There, 15,000 Roman troops. Less than a thousand Jewish fighters. That spring, rebels decided that was better to die to be enslaved. Ten men were chosen for homework to kill all others. When you have 10 one was chosen to kill the other nine. The latter had to take his own life. Two women hid of this slaughter and lived to tell this story. These fighters do kind of men were they? The bravest and better. The ... Israel flower. They were martyrs. And yet, were crushed by the Romans. Well, in a sense, yes, But what did the Romans? Jews live like Romans, and abandon the Torah. And where are the Romans now? They are dust. And the Torah? He still lives, still ... blooms. Still illuminates the world. Thank you. So we should not despair. Our suffering is a privilege if it is part of God's plan. We are fortunate purifying the people living through our grief. Do not let would take away their faith. If this is strong, grow. A small fire is extinguished by the wind, but a major fire only grows stronger. Hitler die. The war will end. The people and the Torah live. Precisely. There is, right? If. The Torah will live. Therefore, we trust God. Can I question the witness? Not this. The previous one. Ezra Zamkevitz. Sorry, I'm a witness. know, do not testify nothing of God. manufactures and sells gloves. I used to make and sell gloves. Do you feel better at that the judge has said, your mother is a sacrifice? Yes, sir. Although the judge you have said God demands sacrifice, a sacrifice of the best Jews. You want me to feel better or worse? We just want the truth. Well, I know the truth. I do not know why such things happen. " I used to make and sell gloves. Can I sit now, please? I do not know how to respond these questions. Thank you. So the suffering is God's work, is that true? In other words, Mengele work for God. Hitler is working for God. Is that true? It's unpleasant, but it is possible. When Nebuchadnezzar invaded Israel, and plundered the temple and led the people into exile in Babylon, God called him "My servant Nebuchadnezzar. he was the scalpel and God Surgeon. We hate the scalpel, but we love to surgeon. If Hitler is doing God's work, then logic says stand in the way of Hitler is lodged God's way. Take up arms against Hitler is wrong Now, do you think someone here in that? Is there any way that it can from somehow be true? Is not that ... madness? Who you are heading? We must maintain order here. We should try to maintain order. I would call our foreman. Call me anything you want. You can call it he is not Jewish. I would tell the court what does all day. Do you know what I do. I take care of you. They are like my babies. I am like a mother for you. Why? "Dinos why you took a job like this? I got the chance. They asked me because I speak German, and because I have a brain. And if any of you were sufficiently smart, do the same. I think you could have said no. I want to live ... That is I do this. Want to Live! Not like you scum already dead, delivered as soon as they got here. Not ashamed what you do? I have no answer for. Or your court or to your God. I do not care know God. Because what I do, let me tell you what I do is nothing, nothing compared to what the Sonderkommando ago! Sent to other Jews to the gas chambers. The push within and close the doors. I removed the spoons and sell them to other Jews. They have cornered the entire market spoons closing the doors those of the same species. I signals. Do you think survive this? Maybe, maybe not. And Professor Schmidt says that when ... Look, let me tell you about your God. I leave here alive, okay? One day the war will end. They might even lose. In which case, I will be out of here. All I have to do is stay alive until that day. How? What is it that going to kill me? They. How do I stop them? Pleased. And how do I do that? Keeping you locked in order. What is the worst thing I can go? To be left without Jews who kill. Then kill me. When they are finished to kill them. When this transport arrived today that transport these Poles. You know what I did? Cheers. That's what I did, and then custom, said, "Thank God." Wait! listen! Listen! Look! Did I hit? No. Do you know why? Because I'm making work the bastard. Here I am God. I am! And your God, your God of Abraham, do not care a damn! Otherwise no I have given them. I'd like to make another question. Got that? We can not to some other witness? I'm not sure this is helping. Professor Schmidt you said when the disaster ends world could be better. Perhaps the Messiah comes. Perhaps return to Israel, but who will survive this? The foreman, the Sonderkommando Who else? The vicious the crafty, the scoundrel, ruthless ... What kind of Messiah want these as his people? What kind of Israel will built by such people? "Build a nation of wisdom and understanding and knowledge? Not them, God. How? We can not know. He can do everything. 'He can do everything. " Well, if you can do However, why can not purify your people without gassing? He is almighty. How can it be powerful and just? Or is all powerful, in which case could have stopped this, but chose not to because he is not just, o.. would have liked to end to this, but could not. The answer is very simple. They should know of the Yeshiva. The answer is free will. Yes, there is evil in the world because God gave man free will and opted to make the evil is very simple. Simple? We are not puppets. We choose. We can always choose. Free will? Free will, my ass. I will give you free will. Where is Liebler? Liebl, arise. Wait for the Judges call you Ask Liebler for their children, and then tell me about free will. I call Liebl. You can not call anyone. Judges call witnesses. I called Liebl. Tell the court your children. I will not. If he tells them, I'll tell him. The court did not I asked to speak We have order here. When they arrived to their village ... I'll tell you. If you can tell, then I who should tell the tale. I come from Hoengen. Near Aachen. And the Einsatzgruppen came. When? It seems like hundred years ago. They broke the doors of the synagogue. They burned the Torah and the ark. And then we cornered inside. We thought we were burn there and then ... If only it have done. Were carried children. I have three children. The greatest Will have seven now y. .. They're so beautiful. That does not ... never mind. Placing children in a truck. I ran after them and shouted, "Please give me my children! Give me my children. " And this officer, I listened. She stopped and said: "What are yours?" I thought I would to give it back. I showed my three children. The eldest, was crying, and the other two ... No, that's not all. He said, "Three cute guys. "I tell you what you can do. "Choose one. "Pick one. Choose one and you can stay with him. " And the boys, listened. Spread their hands. Were so scared. They tried to get to me and said, "Please, my eljeme. Eljeme to me. " This gentleman, you always said can choose. Which should choose? The youngest? At most? The weakest? The fittest? To Choose? To which I should choose? I can not say. The court has heard what is supposed is to have free will, but ... Sorry, I do not want free will. I love my children. Of course ... You talk about free will. Where was then my will? What choice had? That official, could choose, not me. Where was my Free Will? The war will end. Hitler die. The people and the Torah survive. You say that the people survive ... ... but tomorrow morning half the people in this room will be dead. They do not share them in his covenant? His part is to witness, keeping the flame alive Does anyone have something to say in defense of God? Rabbi did not ask it was ... difficult. I asked him why you said earlier about what beautiful it is. I would like the final was beautiful because my children are beautiful ... ... and tried to care for them. Of course it does. God knows that if. Have you heard anything? Are they here? Two of them are ... twins, and I understand that ... likes to Mengele twins. They are treated better because it has interest in them. A Mengele interested and God no .. Stop. She is in heaven and can not see beyond the clouds. Job, chapter 22. What? Your argument that God is indifferent is not unprecedented as it happens. It is written in Job. Good. You say also God should be here in the gas chambers, not us? They can detain you to put these thoughts in my head. There is a possibility that this confusion is the precursor of some great event, the fire that burns us is a refining fire ... ... to create a golden age. If your children were taken by it, were taken as martyrs. To be a martyr, a man should choose martyrdom. We are not being martyred by our faith, but because of our race, not by the Torah, but by our ancestors. But He's here. Who? God. I know he's here although he does not understand. Some days in spring, fell ... snow and the first rays heat of the sun since ... who knows. Do you think the guard did not feel the sun on your back? The sun on your back, yes, but that's not what I felt. I felt Him The guard did not felt that. That heat is not enters his uniform. I would change with him. But maybe what you said about God suffering in the gas chamber. Maybe that's what is happening here. Perhaps he is suffering us. Who needs a God suffering? We need a God to send the angel of death to our enemies. Where ... is? I do not know much about God. Maybe God never changes. Perhaps if. Perhaps it is not almighty. Maybe we need to be complete. Maybe that's why we did. Well, it's hard to see how could be of some use in our present condition. Yes, but even so ... ... in the city of Baranowicz, We killed a Purim, and the rabbi shouted, "Do not forget it this day means! L'Chaim! " And singing, while shoot him. But your ... you keep asking, "Whence comes all this evil? " But where does all this goodness? And you thought that while he took your children? Even the foreman I think. He thinks the war will end and the Nazis lost. Even he thinks good win. What do I know? I do not know what he can do and not do. "I've ever given orders morning ... " ... or sent to his post dawn? "Have I ever walked at the bottom of the abyss? "What is the way home of the light? " "What gives light frost ... " Here you are sir, just as I suspected. Yes, silence. How many are you? Twelve. This is a place very well directed. Yes, there were complications this morning caused by the rapid arrival of transport, which makes his induction is not yet complete. My apologies for the inconvenience. Auschwitz is not a nursing home. You work or you die. The choice is yours. Come on. Up! Arise! Come on. Arise! Stand up. Arise! Remove it. I have to use for health reasons Just remove it. This is the dentist. Come see early in the morning. Excuse me, Rabbi. Can I? I think the trial I listen to an end. Please. No. It's important. For me is important. You started the trial. should complete it. Should continue the procedure and cite precedents and. be men. They think that we are not men, but if you are. We removed that from us. Yes, true, but I have reached a natural conclusion, and may be a case of ... He gave us the law, and debate the law, even in such a terrible topic is a kind prayer ... No No, no, listen discuss this ... ... comforted us. I felt I was listening, who was with us. If. Well ... in brief ... we know that ... we can not know the mind of God God is too great. And all we can do is pray, have faith. Hitler die. The war will end ... No, no, no, That's not going to be. Ask us to accept predictions as evidence .. no, no, no The argument returns to its beginning. If you take it to a vote now, I vote guilty. It is certainly true of we can not understand the mind of God. His ways are not our own ... It touches us understand the mind of God. ... and therefore ... We are not concerned his mind. ... we must respect. It is his covenant. We have to understand that. All this writing. We just have to determine if broken their conditions or not. Where is ... Where is the scholar? Where is the scholar? Psalm return the psalm. Tell us the psalm. Everything? Is, is very long. We were getting somewhere when spoke on Psalm I forget. Psalm which was? David's throne will last for all time and their descendants ... The ... The throne of David shall at all times, and their descendants ... It has begun Beginning in block 7. I took a couple of hours to get here. I still have time to smoke a cigarette, sleep with a few women, write a sonnet. Schmidt continues to say that people survive. That's what it says in the pact. God guarantees the survival the Jewish people. I say that God is guilty because survival the people It is not safe. No, not you .. How can our people cease to exist? Oh, believe me, that's the plan. Destroy us. That's ridiculous. When I came here, He had lived all my Zamkevitz life. When I walked through these doors, that was the largest number of people I had seen in my life. I saw more people in an hour that in all my life. I thought, How is it possible that many people are alive? But now ... ... How is it possible that many may die? Please surely know that the numbers are not important. When a child dies tuberculosis, this is terrible. "It's worse if a million die? When a child dies, Can you believe that happens for a purpose, or do not pass the test. We can not know the mind of God. We are not talking of his mind. We are talking covenant, a deal that promises we will survive. Survive as a people and not be annihilated. But there are Jews all over the world, not only in Europe My brother has a friend in Woudge - he told me ... Do you think if they kill us here Left alone to friend of your brother? We may be the last. Maybe our end is near. We consider that we in this room, we are the holy remnant. It is therefore important what we decide. If you're the last, We can finish the story. We can finish it here, the story that started with Moses at Sinai We can finish it, we can break the covenant. So I think that when they come you, they'll say, "Oh, no we are Jews. Open the doors. We're going home? " We're still Jews, will always be Jews. Nothing changes for us, because we are not defendants here. It is God who is being defendant, not us. Aah! Taisez-vous, imbeciles! He says to shut up. I understand. vou et les nazis sont tous pareils. Says we're like ... no, we belong to a. .. have something in common with the Nazis. I am translating. Maybe wrong. Scream all you want. Kill me if you want, just I will die in the morning. How many stars do you there in the universe, Excuse me, but before ... ... before he dies, I was physically in Paris. A hundred thousand millions of stars in our galaxy. Only in our galaxy. "God made all those stars? Very likely. The prophet Amos tells us ... Why? Pardon? He created one hundred thousand millions of stars in our own galaxy. How many of them have planets, we know. And yet, his whole attention is focused on a small planet just the outer edge of a spiral. And even with whole planet, no. Only the Jews. This man, I believe one hundred thousand million stars, signed a contract with Jews. Only Jews. And even with all Jews, no, no .. because Jews I do not count. So tell me this. If so loved the Jews, Why do Anything else? Why not filled the universe with Jews instead of stars? What is the point? We do not know the point. It seems incredible, too, that throughout the universe, should choose us. It is not surprising. It's crazy. It is simply wrong. Newborns think that are the focus the universe. They think they do sucking milk believe that the world fades when they close their eyes. They are wrong. In the Middle Ages, men viewed that the sun orbited the earth. They were wrong. It is an illusion caused to the point where you are at that time. And it's the same with God. The same. So, think. Please think. In the past, a nation could have 50 gods, one to grow corn; one for the river to rise .. I do not know Men make their societies the image of their gods. Therefore, companies many gods have many leaders, different centers of power. welcome you to strangers and to new ideas. As the Egyptians. Then next to them came the Jews ... ... with his great idea. A great idea. There is only one God. Amazing. And what happens? create a society where, all powers are concentrated in the hands of a man, a king. An effective partnership. An efficient ship. And he has this idea that God loves them more than anyone. Thrive. They maintain that God for themselves. They try to isolate themselves. But then someone comes even better idea -- Christians. They say, yes, there is only one God, But not only He loves the Jews. Love all. We must conquer all ... The Romans They loved it. Developed. They conquered all. A god. A king. This is how it is. It is the power and control, and what lost. But midway the Romans are gone ... Because Because someone had a better idea. Hitler ... had the idea, there is one God, and that's me. Here, Hitler is God not? But still we're here. We are still here tonight. You deny God. What has given you? What? There are many here who have denied God. They became, taken by wife a goya, turned their backs to the Scriptures ... Sorry. Is talking about me. We're here to point die, and what you dislike the most is the fact that I married. But where did he give? Where you feel you are different from me now? What you got? Please. Please point out one point. These kids educated Like my son, like this man said they saw a truth that we did not see. But here they are, all equal Facing death. Look at Ricard. Outside was a rich man. He had many friends. But here, is scared. He can not believe he will die. Because I will not die. Your going to die, pious idiot. He has been selected. I've been selected! You were sent to the left like me, and now you're scared. The cheats and steals because he thinks have more bread than the rest of us will make you happy. And think the pray going to save your life. hats and still continue its course to death! There is a wasp. It is called Ichneumonidae. The eggs are laid in the Caterpillars. The eggs hatch and then the larvae wasp eat the caterpillar from within. Eat out offline. What kind of God would design something? And yet ... Sorry. Y. .. my grandfather planted figs. There is a wasp ... I'm sure you know. And this wasp lays eggs on the flower. And when the young wasps are ready to fly, collect pollen. Not accumulate against the as another wasp or a bee or wind. They stop and collect pollen. You can see them. And then carry pollen the other trees. This did not help. They can not eat. They do .. It is a beautiful arrangement. Surely God ... Say, this wasp. Does this for all figs or only for the Jews? They laugh at me ... I laugh at you. Just do observe things not like babies, but as men Men of reason. Use your right. We speak of reason. What is the reason? When caught you at your university in Paris, where you looked as not Jewish, spoke as a Jew, thought as a Jew, and you put here with us, that part played reason in this? What is the use of reason in a world governed by madness? The decision be voted of judges. Sorry, judges court, You were wrong about my children? Is there anything hope after all? Nothing. Get used to this. Nothing. The judges granted. I'm not Jewish. I never knew my father. I did not know he was Jewish. He died when I was still a baby. " My mother was a ... a good German. He returned home and resumed her maiden name. They thought that every had been forgotten. At school I was a good boy. I became a good father. My children joined the Hitler Youth. It was a year ago The Gestapo came for me. That was the first I heard from my race. I thought it was a normal German. I was German. A German hated Jews. He knew nothing about their customs. The learned here. I have never heard a word of the Torah before coming here. But I am not alone. They must understand that ... ... I grew up learning that Jews were dirty, misleading and disorganized. And when I got here, I saw that everything you thought was true This place was chaotic, dirty and disorganized; I thought I was because of the Jews. How could this be another dirty thing? There is only one latrine for 5,000 people That's why. Think is a mistake? Do you think German engineer not put adequate plumbing by mistake? No. This is not how it was. Nothing here is accidental. The soil is part of the system, like ... the fence, spotlights y. .. the other equipment. It serves a function. This is where they take away their dignity, their humanity. Our dignity. Our humanity. It is part of the process. So they can ... Germans get Common kill us, should show that we are what ordinary Germans to are taught to think we are ... dirty, and without a God-fearing. When they arrived here, took away their property; people took their names; cut their hair; took their children ... wives, mothers ... even filling in their teeth. All which were removed made them to be men Do not let you remove your God, too. No matter how ... how stupid and useless may seem, the pact is his. God is his God. Even though there is. Keep it. Leave something that not be removed. Us. Judges are three in number to always have a decision. To be unanimous or has a majority for a point of view. The accusation is God has broken his covenant with the Jewish people. Who brought us out Egypt? Finally some common sense. God brought us out of Egypt. Another question. Why at first were in Egypt? There was a famine, and by Therefore we take refuge. Who sent the famine? Well, hunger, not know much about ... God sent famine. So God sent to Egypt and God out of Egypt. Exactly. And then we got Babylon, in order to .. And when we out of Egypt how did? With words? Visions? A miracle? Moses asked the Pharaoh ... And when Pharaoh said no? Pests. Moses became the first Egyptian water into blood, then God sent the plague of frogs, then the plague mosquitoes, then, a plague of flies, then killed their livestock, then the plague the rash then hail, crops that abused and even the trees and structures everywhere except in Goshen, where the Israelites lived. And yet Pharaoh disagreed. And so the plague locusts and then the days of darkness and, finally, what? God killed the firstborn of Egypt and us out of Egypt. He killed the firstborn, from the firstborn and heir of Pharaoh the firstborn from the slaves in the mills. Murdered them all. God killed Pharaoh? No, I think because then ... He was the Pharaoh who said no, but God let him live and killed their children instead. All children. And then the people of Israel could leave, taking with them gold and silver and jewelry and clothing dress of the Egyptians. And then God drowned soldiers who pursued them. It closed the waters to the soldiers could not follow. He waited until were following and then closed waters. And then what? Then the desert Finally, the promised land ... Now, the Promised Land was .. is empty? A new place, fallow? No. There was ... As written, "When the Lord your God "I take you to land, "sacrificed many nations before you, "much bigger countries "and more powerful you. "You "will annihilate and completely destroyed "and will do no covenant with them and will show no compassion toward them. " He showed us his favor. We are his people. And gave us a king in Saul. Now, when, the people of Amalek fought town of Saul, that's what ordered the Lord God? I ask the student. "Crush Amalek. Put it under the curse of destruction ". Saul showed mercy? In save someone? "No, unless ..." "I do not salves, "but kills. "Murdering men and women, "babies and newborns, oxen and sheep, camels and donkeys. " Therefore, Saul prepared to do so, and on the way, is met with the Kenites. However, these were not people of Amalek. I had no lawsuits with them. He urged them to flee. And the Lord our God, was pleased Saul's mercy? For justice to Saul? Was not. And when Saul decided not all cattle slaughter, but take it for feed its people, God was pleased by his wisdom, his charity? No. No, it was He said: "You have rejected the word of Adonai. Therefore, he will have rejected as king. " So please search the Lord our God, Samuel brought the King Agag and tore it to the Lord in Gilgal. After Saul came David, who took Batsheba, the wife of Uriah the Hittite for himself making arrangements for Uriah kill ... against God's wishes. God punished David for this? In a way to speak. Batsheba punished? In the sense that when ... Adonai said, "Since I have sinned the child will die. " Questions before, who punishes a child? God does. Now, the child dies suddenly mercifully, without pain? In Chapter 12, we learned that in reality ... Seven days. Seven days, children go die in pain while David wrapped himself in bags and ashes and fasted and tried to show their pain to God. He listened to God? The child died. He knew that child God was fair? thought the Amalekites that Adonai was fair? Did you think the Mothers of Egypt mothers ... thought they that Adonai was fair? But Adonai is our God, segur .. What .. God did not create the Egyptians? Do not set up its rivers and grew their crops? If not him, Then who? What ... some other god? And what created them? To punish them? To die hunger, fear, to massacre? The people of Amalek, the people of Egypt ... as it was for them when Adonai turned against them? Was. Today, there a choice, right? When David defeated the Moabites, What did? He had to lie down on the ground in rows, and chose one that will live and two who will die. We've become in Moab. We are learning how went to the Amalekites. Faced be extinguished by Adonai. They died for their purpose. They fell like us 're falling. They were scared as well us. And what did they learn? They learned ... that Adonai, the Lord our God ... our God ... not good. He is not good. It was never good. He only stayed on our side. God is not good. Oh, at first when He repented that it had created human beings human and flooded the land, Why? they had done to deserve to be annihilated? What could have done to deserve such slaughter? What could they have done that was so bad? God is not good. When asked Abraham to sacrifice his son, Abraham should have said no. We should have taught him to our God Justice was in our hearts. We should have faced. He is not good, simply has been strong. It has simply been on our side. When they brought us here, they brought in train. a guard slapped me. On their belts, wrote, "Gott mit uns". "God is with us." Now, who says who is not? Maybe it is. Is there another explanation? What we see here? His power ... His majesty, its strength. All these things, but against us. He is still God ... but not our God. It has become ... our enemy. That is what happened to the pact. He has made a new deal with others. We are now entering to the gas chambers. So ... him guilty. Found God guilty, yes, for not complying with the agreement, for breaking your covenant with us. Every day 6,000 people were taken to the gas chambers here. I thought I was going to calling and called my son. Lucky you are. Please. I'm ready. He is not ready. Please, Do this for me. Send me, not him. Shut up. Just move. Please look at me. I can be me. I am young, might be useful. How can they be to them and not me? Please Nonsense. Making Sense not my job. Well, then, who is? I think you're reading wrong cards. Please, just checked the cards. Please checked cards. You. What now? What now? Now that God is guilty, What now? Now ... now pray. "From time to time, "before the mountains were born, "before the Earth will become, "from everlasting to everlasting, "You are God. "You bring us back Dust saying ... " Not the best bed in place, but ... is out selection. "We bring back to dust saying, back to me ... " "It's blooming and growing. At night, it was is withered and dry. " Please. move your butt! No, no, you the wrong person! We same surname. The boy is very useful. It's me you want to. It's in my ... Look, you've heard numbers. I! I'm fine. You, there. Move. Good man. Good man. It is not their number. It's mine. Back ... back! "Who knows the power of your anger? "Since your anger is so great ... as the fear that you intended. " "In the morning, will as the grass grows. In the morning, grows and flourishes. "... It is as long as time ails us, the years in which experienced disasters. "terror ... by your indignation. "Since we passed quickly, and we went flying. "Who knows the power of your anger? "Now that your anger is so great as the fear of you properly. "We will sing and be happy all our days "May our joy is so long "as the time that affect us, the years in which experienced disasters. " And their prayers answered? We are still here.
