 

                        1 Golgo 13: Nationality unknown. Age unknown. Real name unknown. Golgo 13 Produced by Yutaka Fujioka Original Comics Written by Takao Saito and Saito Production Script by Shukei Nagasaka Animation Director Akio Sugino Directorof Photography Hirokata Takahashi Art Director Shinichiro Kobayashi Original Composer Toshiyuki Kimori Key Animation by Shinji Otsuka and Atsuko Fukushima ComputerGraphics by Toyo Links CG Executive Producer Koichi Ohmura CG Director Satomi Mikuriya Featuring: Tetsuro Sagawa as Golgo 13 Goro Naya as Leonard Dawson Toshiko Fujita as Cindy Kumiko Takazawa as Rita Kiyoshi Kobayashi as Jefferson Reiko Muto as Laura Directed by Osamu Dezaki There are clear skies on the coast tonight. The windspeed is 3. The barometric pressure is 1018 millibars. Temperature is 22c. We're expecting 10 mm of rain before daybreak. Now we continue our music program... Thank you everyone... Thank you Vice President Ralph, and Governor Rosen... Senator Prescott and Congressman Miles. And... all my life-long friends... thank you. I'm grateful that I could have this wonderful birthday party tonight. After living for 62 years, I feel truly rewarded. And now my greatest happiness is that I can introduce the new president... of Dawson Corporation. Oil Baron Leonard Dawson As C.E.O., I will hand over most of the authority to our new president. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the youngest president in the history... of this company. My closest friend and best student... My only son, Robert Frederick Dawson! Now, I have received the greatest present I could from my father... by becoming the newest president of this company. As a small token of my appreciation, please accept this flower bouquet. Thank you, Robert. A bouquet of anemones and white verbenas to symbolize 29 years... of appreciation for my father. Robert! Robert!! Robert!! Robert! Robert! Bishop, you don't have to worry about it. But... but, it's already the time, Pago. That man will never break a promise. Are you Bishop Meletti? Yes I am, Sir. Talk to me. It was the third Tuesday of last month... My parents, my brother and his wife. My sister and her family... In an instant I lost everything, in my hometown of Sicily! It was the local Mafia and Dr. Z that murdered them! Marchel was just nine years old! Maria just started to walk last year. As you may have already realized, my family was also part of the Mafia. We had often fought with our own flesh and blood. I hated that fate and decided to become a bishop, however... this I can not endure... I've already deposited the amount we agreed to in your designated account. I heard you are a man who makes the impossible... possible. I accept. Lord... my heart burns with unforgiving vengeance. Please punish me! Amen! Bishop!! You have a very hard target, Duke. The fact is, that even the highest levels of people in the Mafia... don't know who Dr. Z is. Yet despite this, he still controls a large number of Mafia bosses... and completely controls every political party in Sicily. The research costs twice as much as usual... because they're such a new organization. This is the entire map of the town of Messina, in Sicily. This is the floor plan to Dr. Z's mansion. Also, this is a video of Z's family. I snooped around and shot the video. That's all I got so far... I'll tell you, with my years of experience and intuition... this assignment is... Well, good luck! This is Dr. Z's mansion. You should consider the whole cape of the Ionia Sea as Dr. Z's mansion. They have an unusually tight security system. Since the brutal murder of the Meletti family, all the underlings... now carry a 1976 model Ingram M11. It's a high-powered sub-machine gun that was used on the Cambodian front. This is my own conclusion, but... I'm sure that Dr. Z is in this mansion. They're spending too much money on security... so I doubt it's a decoy. This is Dr. Z's only daughter, Cindy. She's the only person who's actually in contact with Dr. Z right now. Dr. Z's orders are given to Cindy first... and she passes them along to his executives. I had a hard time taking this footage. You know, 8 professional bodyguards are with her wherever she goes. There were many men who've made a pass at Cindy... but her people killed most of them, after she finished playing with them. Currently, she isn't seeing anybody. Any customers? Yes sir, just one. Miss Cindy wants to have lunch. Why don't you have him go someplace else. Yes, I will tell him. What?! He doesn't want to leave?! Yes, he said he was here first. All right... I'll tell him to leave. Miss Cindy, let's go back. I'll take care of this. That man... Huh? Bring that man. Welcome home, Miss Cindy. Welcome home. You're the first Japanese man I've ever met. Why don't you drink, too? Chavis, Valentine, Cognac... I can make world class drinks in this room. Until I get bored of you, I'll kindly keep you in this room. Who hired you? Duke Togo! I know your other name is Golgo 13! I know you have just one purpose! To take the life of my father, Dr. Z! If you know everything, why did you invite me here? I'm tired. My father's tired, too. He said he's tired of this bloody business. But nobody can kill my father. Even if you are the best professional assassin. How was it? Do you wanna push me more? Perhaps I might confess to you where my father is. I burned... It's been such a long time. Please keep quiet for a while. Yes, father. Well, yes. Yes... Yes... No! It's not what you think. I wanted to know how much information he has about you. No! I will never do that... What?! But he's unarmed. No! I have to tell you this. Why are you afraid of someone who doesn't even have a weapon? Father, you've never been like this before... Father! Father... Duke, can't you back out from this job? My father said he couldn't let you live unless you back out. Duke... Local time, 7:35 PM. Messina, B blocks. G has left Dr. Z's mansion... and heading to the Anton Hotel, where he is staying. Roger, give me an update ten minutes from now. He got close to Cindy. It seems like we can begin our plan. We will do the one thing that nobody could have ever done. The legend of Golgo 13 will be ending soon. I brought the item you requested. Set the time, to start the fuse. Then just insert this terminal. Today is my birthday. Duke! Nobody has ever escaped when they tried to kill my father. Take this horse. I want you to leave Sicily, ride from here to the harbor. Well, good luck. Who's there? Duke! I tested the phone in your room. The phone rings exactly 15 seconds after you open the locker. I discovered the door was a time-lag switch. You were just doing a one-woman show with the phone. I know Cindy. You're Dr. Z. Duke! Duke! Adjust the sighting! Target... two-four... eight-four... G showed up! Everybody, stand by! Duke! Three! Two! One! Now shoot!! Target has moved!! Pago, did you tell anybody about this job? No. Then who did this to you? They weren't Dr. Z's people, were they? I'll ask one more time. You've never told anybody about me, have you? I understand. I believe you. Dr. Z is dead. Die! Die! Shoot! Shoot! Shoot! Blow up the church!! Who is it? Duke! Somebody's after you. They're a huge organization that I've never seen or heard of. Our strategy was perfect. So was our information! We predicted his actions perfectly. We hunted down our target. But we still failed to catch him, even after badly wounding him. Are you saying that I have all the blame for this? General. You assured us that the Pentagon would commit the most skillful people. Yes I did, Director! My loyal aide, Braygan, led a team of our best men. We did everything we could do. Everything you could do? Does that also include getting 3 of our special CIA agents killed? Your loyal aide interfered when our 3 agents were about to kill G. The ends justify the means! I don't care what happened to your 3 agents, as long as we could kill G. Don't act that way to me! You failed! This is an undeniable fact! Stop it, both of you! We're partners!! We are tied together to the same goal. Take care of all your emotional problems after we take care of G. Besides, we have a lady present. He is the information broker who helped G! Our team got rid of him! Good job, Braygan. I found it, General. What? The dog! The hunting dog! He's the best in the world. He's incomparably stronger than the three CIA agents. Incomparably stronger? Would you like to test him... Assistant Chief?! Why don't you look at him? Where is he, Braygan? Big Snake! Over here! As you can see, he is in a different class. I want you. You like it? Brand new car! Isn't it great? It seems like you're doing well, not as usual. Well, the situation didn't change so much. I just started a car dealership this year. I consider myself to be like brand new car, too. I want you to think like that, Duke. Can I also have a cigarette? Everybody, why don't you go get a hamburger! I want you to use this car. There's no charge. It looks small, but as a former F-1 circuit mechanic... I did a high performance tune up. Everything's exactly the way you requested. Why don't you check my work? The trigger is an electric push button. It can rapid-fire 15 shots per second. And the balance change caused by the recoil is set under a decimal point. And this silencer kit is... I understand, Rita. You don't have to explain anymore. I trust your work. Tell me how much the modifications are... and the cost of the car, too. No... you don't have to pay this time. But Duke... Can you pull my trigger just once? Quietly, and gently. Your left shoulder's wound is still fresh. I heard a rumor... You're in danger. I've heard a dangerous enemy is going after you. But... Im not worried about you. There were so many times... ...but every time it happened, you created a legend. The immortal man... The man you never want to aim your gun at. The real professional... Duke... What is this? I told you I don't need it! Duke, I'm not that kind of woman! Don't misunderstand it, Rita! I insist on paying you for your excellent work. Duke. Besides, you better stay away from San Francisco for a while. Why? They work very thoroughly. Are you worried about me? Get out now. Change taxis 3 times to go home. Oh, I'm so happy. We identified Golgo's target in San Francisco. Target. He is a former Nazi, Hitler's chief bodyguard. Currently using the alias, Don Hughes. The client is a Jewish-American. A survivor of the concentration camps. Don Hughes is currently living in the penthouse of the Don Hughes building. The building is surrounded by 50 mm thick tempered bulletproof glass. He never leaves his residence. We predicted G's shooting points. The rooftop of the USA building... or the rooftop water tower of the S.S. Hotel... or the JR Tower observatory. There is one more possible point within a 1 mile radius. The Super Beer company's billboard has the same height as the Hughes building. However, the USA building is between the billboard and the Hughes building. So it's impossible to shoot from there. Therefore, we will remove this place from the list. Next is the means to destroy the 50 millimeter bulletproof glass. A special shooting needs a specially remodeled gun. Most likely he would use a M-16 type, recoilless, full automatic silencer gun. He will get this weapon... from the illegal gun maker, Rita. Age, 29. American citizen. 7:58 PM G started to move. All right. Everybody, begin the operation! To all groups! Open communication circuits immediately! "A" group has set position at the USA building. This is "B" group... Positioning completed at S.S. Hotel! This is "C" group speaking. JR tower observatory is OK... over. This is "D" group. We've lost sight of G's car at A. B. B. zone. Damn! All right, then join the other group from there! It's all right, G's destination is limited to a few choices. We've got the penthouse of Hughes building in sight. Don Hughes' presence is confirmed. It's been 125 minutes since we lost sight of G. But he hasn't shown up around the S.S. Hotel. There is no trace of him approaching the USA building. Same at the JR tower. He may have given up on shooting tonight. Can't be! According to his clients... tonight is the last day of this assignment. Has G ever broken his word? He'll do it. He must do it tonight. Stop the car!! Say that again! I found G! He's at the Super Beer billboard! It can't be... What's he doing there?! He's preparing to shoot! Impossible! What's he aiming at?! You can't even see the Hughes building from the billboard... because the USA building is obstructing the view. But... but... I can see he's clearly preparing to shoot. He's aiming approximately at the 48th floor of the USA building. 48th floor? Wait a minute! Emergency! Computer one, come in! This is lead vehicle! This is lead vehicle! This is computer one. Lead vehicle, come in! What's the status on the 48th floor of the USA building? Just a moment. Hurry up! I've got it. The Union Company booked the entire 48th floor of the USA building. The whole floor for one company? Yes, sir. Does that mean someone can look through the north-side window... from outside the south-side window? Huh? Sorry, could you repeat that? I'm asking you if there are any windows that you can see... straight through to the Hughes building... when you look at the USA building from the billboard?! Roger!! Checking now! Don Hughes was just shot a moment ago! Confirmed! There is one window! The 18th window from the right can see straight through... to the penthouse of the Hughes building! Don't let him escape! Stop G at all costs! All vehicles, surround JBR area! Attention all groups!! I found G! He's now running from JBR area to E block. All vehicles! Use police car camouflage, and drive to E block! G entered the 14 freeway where it's currently under construction. We'll hunt him down there! The 14 freeway quickly becomes a dead end. Fire! Check the body! Yes, sir! Come in, Braygan. Braygan! Come in, Braygan! Come in, Braygan! Duke, is that you? Who's there? Duke. When I came here as a poor immigrant from Italy, the first job I got... was as a shoeshine boy. After 53 years, I did all kinds of hard work to build up this fortune. And when my wife passed away 13 years ago... the one reason I had for living was my only son, Robert. Robert... Robert... He read poetry. He loved painting. He fell in love with all of his heart, like a young boy. Then he married and had finally grown up. My long cherished dream, to give all of my business to my son... was about to come true. At the moment I felt my dream come true... my life was destroyed!! With just one bullet... from Golgo 13!! I swore revenge on him! I used my enormous fortune and bought all of you from the government! Because you are the experts in this field! I bought your organizational abilities and brainpower! You see! I bought you! However... look at the mess you've gotten into now! I forgave failure the first time. But you have failed again! There's no more forgiveness for a third time!! Take my words to heart! The next time you fail, is the time you all die! Braygan is dead. But you came back alive. You may still have a chance to beat him. Listen!! Next time, either he dies or you die! You good-for-nothing! Listen to my words carefully! That woman... That woman... Why don't you give me that woman? You! You monster! Miss Laura. Master Dawson wants to see you. Father? Sir. I would like hot tea, Albert. Certainly, sir. I will kill Golgo. Robert used to love the view from here. Yes, sir. I've heard the clockmaker was killed, but I didn't know about Rita. Rita was a good girl... Who...? I want to know who's controlling everything behind this. I'll pay you double. Any clue? Braygan. Is that the name of the boss? No, the name of the man I killed. I see. You can find the boss if you investigate Braygan. I assume he's an experienced member of the US army special forces. Well, if you know that much, I can do something. By the way Duke, how's the wound? I'll see you at the usual place, two weeks from now. He's frightened... A man like him... ...is frightened! So, Golgo left the Amazon? He's in Miami now getting treatment for his injuries. Now is the perfect time to attack him. So why is Dawson calling us here? I don't know. He made us come all the way here. Who does he think he is? All of you pledged loyalty to me! You said you would do everything you could. The CIA provided three agents and their elite unit. The Pentagon gave Braygan's Special Forces and Snake. But there's one man who didn't provide anything. B... but we don't have anything to provide you. Why don't you look for something? Even inside the federal prisons! Prison? What are you talking about? Well, if you're playing dumb, I'll explain it to you. It was the summer of 1970. There was a joint secret experimental project by the Pentagon and CIA. It took place in the jungles of Banjibal, Central America. 40 professional assassins were gathered from all over the world... and abandoned in the jungle... Abandoned to fight against 2000 guerilla solders. Unfortunately, the 40 assassins were not given any food or weapons. It was a cruel experiment to see how long they could survive... without weapons, while fighting guerillas and wild animals. The time limit on this experiment was 80 days. 20 people out of the 40 were killed within 3 days. 10 more people were killed within a week. Another 4 people died after 10 days. Then after 13 days... 2 heads and the scalps of 2 others floated to the surface of the swamp. Even though the time limit was 80 days... 38 people out of 40 died 13 days after the experiment started. Everybody felt the experiment was a failure. But shortly after, an expedition confirmed a surprising fact. The 2 missing people who were considered dead, were still alive. Not only did they survive by drinking rainwater and eating tree roots... but they also killed all 2000 guerillas. I don't know what their real names are... but people called them "Gold and Silver." Yes, Gold and Silver! I want these two! Chairman Dawson! I've listened to your unreasonable requests for a long time. We even overlooked it, when you had chosen to make that one decision... in Dallas. But now, you are out of control. This is not for the same reason of mutual profit... like what happened in Dallas. This is just a personal grudge!! I refuse to let them out of prison! I'm asking you to lend me the 2 people who survived in Banjibal. That's an impossible favor, Chairman Dawson. After they came back from Banjibal... they were arrested for continual acts of mass murder! They're in federal prison, condemned to death! I know all of that. That's why I'm asking you. Don't be ridiculous, Dawson! They're too dangerous. I want their dangerousness. That's enough, Dawson! I can't support your silly and insane ideas! Well everybody, let's leave! You bastards can't talk to me like that! You're rejecting my request? Why don't you do it, if you think you can! But I'll stop operation on all of Dawson Empire's companies... for as long as it takes! Tell your superiors what I said! If I stop operations of Dawson Oil, Dawson Bank, and Dawson Shipping... everybody knows what will happen to our country's economy. I'll really do it! Nobody can say "No" to me! I'll kill Golgo 13, no matter what it takes to do it! Even if I have to destroy a city! But if you agree to my request... I'll make sure no innocents get involved. I swear to God! Chief Garvin, I must explain the special procedures you're to follow. They must wear handcuffs while you are transferring them. You must never be left unguarded, until they feel that you... are on their side. You see, they look at people in either one of two classifications... friend or enemy. Emily is doing very well. And she's polished her skills very well. You're doing great, Emily. Grandpa! You may feel lonely, but it will only be for a little while longer. Good girl... Good girl. Laura, what are you doing in my room? Give Emily back to me. Albert, can you leave? Yes, sir. Now, what did you say, Laura? You didn't just make me a tool of that monster. You also took Emily away from me. I need Emily for strategic reasons. I'll never forget to appreciate you, the woman who loved Robert. I want you to know that. You've completely changed since you lost Robert. But this may well be your real personality. You've frozen your own heart to achieve your goals. One thing... Can I ask you one thing, Mr. Dawson? Golgo 13 is a sniper who works for hire. There must be a client who asked him to kill Robert. But you are only obsessed with revenge on Golgo 13. You never tried to look for the person who hired him. Why is that? I can't answer that question right now. I see. Goodbye Robert. Goodbye Dawson. My brother will pick up my belongings to bring to my parents' house. Please tell Albert any amount you desire, as consolation money. He is already prepared to pay you at anytime. Goodbye Emily. You know Golgo will arrive here today?! We'll start the strategy I've planned so carefully and thoroughly. We will finally get to see Golgo 13's dead body in my castle! Ladies and gentlemen... Global American Airlines flight to Los Angeles via Chicago... has now started boarding. Attention please... Canadian Pacific Airlines Fight 803... is delayed one hour due to bad weather. Albert! Albert! Let's hear the information, Pablo? I'm sorry Duke. It happens all the time... So tell me about the information. They're getting very close to you. They've got condemned criminals who were just days before their execution. The FBI, CIA, and even the Pentagon are helping. This is a secret operation on a nation-wide scale. What's the name of the boss? The chairman of Dawson Enterprises, Leonard Dawson. I thought so. Two people at the airport attacked me yesterday. Dawson's butler, and his granddaughter, Emily. both were at Dawson's yacht party. Is that true, Duke? That's means... Since he's willing to use his own granddaughter, he's desperate. He's desperate to set a trap for you. A trap? Sure, it's a trap. He's planning to lure you to Dawson Castle, by revealing his identity. Dawson Castle is the headquarters of Dawson Enterprises. It's in New York, but stands as a shining symbol throughout America... and the world. This Dawson company building has 67 floors. I'm sorry Duke. It happens all the time, Pablo. I can't believe this. There isn't even slightest possibility of doubt about it. They took my wife and children hostage. Not even the slightest possibility of doubt they won't kill them, unless... Mr. Dawson, let me introduce the twins, Silver and Gold. Well. I'm Dawson. Your enemy is only one man, Golgo 13. Kill him! Helicopters, Jefferson!! Did you prepare two divisions to go into action?! Don't worry! I've had all the residents around here evacuated! You just follow my orders! G is about to pass 34th floor. Yes, go Snake! G is on the 40th floor. OK, begin! Now Silver! Go Gold! Both of you, finish him off! Scoop his brains out and dump them! He went inside the "morgue." It looks like he's badly hurt after the fight with Snake. That's enough! That's enough! No one else should fight with him anymore. I understand. Do you know the symbolism of anemone and white verbena flowers? These are the last flowers that Robert gave to me. Anemone is symbolizes "a hope that's fading away." And white verbena means "please pray for me." It's all right... It's all right, Robert. Golgo 13. You were the best man for me to burn my last passions on... darkness, despair and anger. No... It seems though, enviably, you're not even human. Father... Please forgive my selfishness for leaving my suicide note like this. This is my first and last... rebellious act against you. Father, thank you very much for giving me... your tremendous love over the last 29 years. The birthday cake you baked for my 6th birthday was very delicious. The day of my high school graduation, was the first time I saw you cry. I felt so happy. And thank you for caring for my wife Laura and my daughter Emily. Father... You've always had great hope for me. It's very painful to me, because I couldn't respond. I rejected the great hope that you had for me. I'm sorry Father, I don't even have the courage to kill myself. Therefore, I decided to ask someone to kill me. I believe he will do a good job. To my great father... the oil baron, Leonard Dawson. From your ungrateful son, Robert. "The Oil Baron", Leonard Dawson has died. The US authorities have officially announced... that it was an accidental death. Do you wanna play with me? Hey, young man, do you wanna play with me? Don't you wanna play with me? Hey, if you're not in a hurry... I'll show you a good time for less than $200 dollars.
