 

                        Thank you. (Shouting) (Man) Howzat! (Second man) Well fielded! (Man) Keep the pace up! (Man) No running! Colley! Good Lord. Where do you imagine this one's from? By Jove. Those ears! You think his mama used them to hoist him out of his crib? (Laughs) - Sir? Follow me to the Headmaster. - Thank you. Chipping? We've never had a Chipping here. Indeed, Headmaster? It's Chipping as in Chipping Norton. Or if you prefer, Chipping Camden. I've never been to Chipping Norton or to Chipping Camden. Which, as you say, I may well prefer. Now, the agency says you're worth a second chance. And here at Brookfield we believe in giving the second chance. Now... The boys are, I warn you, most energetic. Most. And if in your previous school discipline proved a problem...? - If I might explain... - The fact is, Chipping, our Latin master's gone, came into a huge inheritance, but there's still a month of term. Ideal trial period! We can always think again, I mean, after that. Can you take the Lower Fifth now? Declensions, conjugations - - no striving necessary. - Yes. Thank you, Headmaster. Thank you, Chipping, we are rather desperate. (Headmaster) Ah, Rivers. Good man. Mr Chipping is taking the Lower Fifth. Would you show him there? - Yes, Headmaster. - (Door opens) We'll get you accustomed to Brookfield's language or you shan't know what we're talking about. A boy shan't ask for a glass of milk, it's "a tot of dolly." He mustn't wear "gutties" in dorm, "gutties" are for cricket. Nor can a boy wear his "pigs" in dorm either - "pigs" are his boots. - (Chattering) - (Rivers) Walk! The Upper Third. Like all young beasts they need restraint. Ahh! Henshaw, you burnt my toast again today. Sorry, Rivers! I won't do it again! That suggests you did it deliberately. You should say, "I shan't let it happen again." I shan't let it happen again, Rivers! Ow! The standard of fagging this year is deplorable. This is Mr Chipping. He will take you for Latin. All the books you shall need - in the drawer. Sir. Good afternoon, gentlemen. (Boys) Good afternoon, sir. (Chipping) Possum - I can. Potes - you can. - Potest... - (Thud) (Laughter) May I enquire as to the nature of your unannounced recreation? (Boy) Please, sir, he's playing possum. - "Playing possum"? - Like opossum - the animal, sir. He's pretending to be dead, sir. Take 100 lines and resume your desk. Sir, I can't, I hurt my arm when I fell. (Laughter) 200 lines, and sit, please. Oh, I think... I feel ill (Imitates vomiting) (Boys groan) 300 lines, after school, in this classroom. (Pretending to cry) (Boys) Ohh... 500 lines and sit! - Oh, no, sir... - Right! - Get back here! - (Boys cheering and banging) (Muffled shouting and banging) Get back here, boy! Go on, Colley, run! Gentlemen! (Silence) Where is your honour?! Is this the spirit of Brookfield? From two o'clock tomorrow every boy will come to my office for caning. Alphabetical order, one boy every five minutes. Resume your books. Er, the staff room, I think. - Good afternoon. - Afternoon. (Chuckling) - How do you do? - How do you do? - Burnley, Geography. - Chipping, Latin. - Glass of brandy? - Thank you, no. (German accent) What was that row? Shh. Hello! I'm Staefel. I do German. Chipping. I do Latin, I hope. Was that your baptism of fire? I say, if you're Latin it's your night for Prep. Ah, Metcalf, a change of plan. - Could you possibly take Prep? - Headmaster, please! In the light of the scene I just witnessed... Headmaster, you've only just put my name down. I should dearly hope... A second chance, I believe you said, Headmaster? That at Brookfield, er... - Forgive me, I've already asked... - Headmaster, if the boys hear their behaviour proved coercive... Oh, very well. As you were. - Metcalf. - How do you do? Hm. (Chuckles) They put a pigeon in my desk on my first day. Said it was a homing pigeon. Called it Friedrich. I do know how to teach. You have some hours before Prep. Go out, out there under the sky. Look around. What is the saying? "Distance lends enchantment to the view." Go out, come back refreshed. (Boy) Bravo! - Bravo! - Hard luck. Seeking inspiration? No, sir! Henshaw, isn't it? What are you doing? Sir, a prefect gave me a ha'penny to pay for an errand and I've lost it, sir. If I don't find it he'll thrash me. Well, you should be more careful, shouldn't you? Henshaw? Be more careful with that, hm? Thank you, sir! - Howzat! - (Scattered applause) - Chater. Cherry. - Yes, sir. - Clarke. Cochrane. - Yes, sir. - Colley. Copeland. - Yes, sir. - Deverill. Dexter. - Yes, sir. (Sniggering) (Giggling) Would the boy at the head of the table behind me please stand up? - Do you mean me, sir? - I do, yes. - What is your name? - Colley, sir. Colley? Is not a "Colley" a dog? (Boys sniggering) When I was a boy I had a dog of that breed. His name was Rover. Very well...Rover, for slamming down your book twice and denying other boys their right to study, you will stay behind, and in your detention you will write 100 times, "A dog will never behave like a boy "but a boy will sometimes behave like a dog." - (Laughter) - In Latin. I shall be interested in your translation. Well now, Rover... Sit! (Laughter) (Man) Get a move on, you chaps! Oh! (Man) Go to it, hounds! Bailey. Eastham. Bell. Watson. Hope you're getting them all! When you consider that Metcalf is a housemaster does one want to be a housemaster? Pick those feet up, Brookfield men! - Pick those feet up! - Still, I should like to be asked. So should I. Good, keep going! Collins, well done. But I shan't get it, I have become philosophical about my ambition. It makes me avoid disappointment. Have we done? Er, yes, I think so... Oh, no, Alderdyce. (Gasping and coughing) (Chipping) Oh! That's enough. Let's get you back, Alderdyce. Please, sir, I want to run. (Coughs) - Don't talk nonsense. - Watch out. Alderdyce! Get back on the trail at once! Chipping, what are you doing? Oh, come on, he's been in the sanatorium since Term Day. Do not mollycoddle him! Do you want him to be ill again? No, this is not good. Very well. Alderdyce, be a milksop. See how that will profit you. Really, Metcalf! - Come on, Alderdyce. - (Metcalf) Come on, boys! Alderdyce is on holiday! Fifteen minutes to full change, everyone! Well done, Hounds. Very well done. Well done, Hare - where are you? Jolly good trail. Well done. - So well done everyone. - Thanks. Or nearly everyone. (Jeering) (Coughing) And expect Cicero. They're obsessed with Cicero at Cambridge. Yes, sir. You should feel very confident, Hawthorne, I've not had a student who prepared so thoroughly. Come on, Hawthorne, what is it? Sir, I've been a scholarship boy at Brookfield and been made to feel pretty low on account of it. Hawthorne, scholarships honour the intellect. Our bursaries here make Brookfield very, very special to me. But sir, everyone here knows they only go to...to the unwealthy. And everyone at Cambridge will know that too. Doesn't the quality of the mind outweigh all social considerations? When you graduate from Cambridge, and you shall gain entry, then I am certain you shall graduate with distinction, help whom you can to use their minds well. That will level the score, hm? (Floor creaks) (Yells) Ow! Get off! Get off! Ow! (Gasps) (Banging from outside) Ouch! Cease this! Now would be a good time to feel ashamed, gentlemen. Sir, this is our house initiation. It's barbaric, Rinehart. Barbaric! I've said so before and I shall go on saying it - until good behaviour supervenes. - But, sir, I was barrelled. Precisely! And it made you a barbarian! Now get to your house! (Rattling) - Alderdyce. - Sir... Come along. (Sighs) (Metcalf) Come on, come on! Quietly! Straight to bed. What is this? Chipping, what have you done now? - Alderdyce, were you barrelled? - Yes, sir. You have to stay there until fetched. Now you have to do it again. Please, sir, it wasn't my fault, sir. Alderdyce is innocent in this. Alderdyce, go to bed. Put some dry clothes on, Alderdyce. Did you halt the barrelling? - Interest omnium recte facere. - Speak English! It is for the good of all to do right. I am Alderdyce's housemaster, not you! (Whispers) Good luck, Hawthorne. Ah, Chipping. Beastly this waiting, isn't it? The housemaster thing. Not for me. I've no wish to spend every day of every week, month, year, decade mollycoddling the little beasts. Can you imagine? Runny noses, stomach aches - urgh! Not for me, I've told the headmaster as much. - Oh? - Oh, no, I didn't mean... - It'd be quite the thing for you. - Oh, no. Yes. Hey! Give it back! - Give it back! - Over here! It's not funny! (Excited laughter and shouting) - Oh, no! - We've lost that. (Boy) What's going on? (2nd boy) Someone's on the roof! (3rd boy) Come on, you're nearly there! (Boy) Oh, well done! - Hang on, Sexton! - Be careful! (Cheers) - Sexton! - (Screams) (Yells) - He's safe, sir. - Well, fetch a ladder! Quickly! Sexton! Are you all right? - Yes! - Hold still! Do not move a muscle! (Boy) Sexton, hold on! (Excited chatter) Here! What is going on? A patch of misdemeanour, Headmaster. A boater, a roof and a boy who ought to know better. Address it, would you, Mr Chipping? I shall want to know. Headmaster. Main prep room, Sexton. Ten minutes. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. (Knock at door) Come! Close the door, Sexton. Come and stand in front of me. Put your boater down. Raise both arms and hold them out with the palm upward. (Coughs) Now, it is a distinct contravention of Brookfield rubric to climb a roof. Why, Sexton? Because danger lies inherent. Therefore I must address this wilful misdemeanour of yours. You heard the Headmaster, hm? Very well. (Yelps) (Sobs) (Whispers) Get out, Sexton. Thank you, sir. (Door opens, closes) Sir! Sir... I'm in! Cambridge has accepted me. - I'm in. - Oh, well done, Hawthorne. - That's wonderful news. Well done! - No, sir, well done to you. In life there are matters of character and matters of behaviour. Passing that examination was a matter of good character. Highest praise, Hawthorne. - (Knock at door) - Er, come in! - You sent for me, Headmaster? - Ah, yes, Chipping. Do sit down. I sent for you regarding the position of the new housemaster. - Yes, Headmaster. - It's a position of some gravity. The position requires an egregious range of values. Duties in a house extend far beyond those of a classroom. A different dedication, a redirected perception and so forth. You do not, I feel sure, require a recital. Indeed, I find myself so in agreement that a recital would be superfluous. Good, I'm grateful. So, bearing in mind all things, I've offered the position to Staefel. Yes, Headmaster. An excellent choice. Thank you, Chipping. That will be all, Chipping. Headmaster, may I enquire as to why...? I mean, so to speak, why I was not chosen? Oh... Do you know, Chipping, I sometimes think that giving reasons for one's actions is a rather futile gesture. You do understand what I mean, don't you? Yes, Headmaster. Thank you. (Boy) Come on! (Indistinct chatter) Alderdyce! Alderdyce, come here! I haven't seen you since your ordeal. How are you? - You going home for the hols? - Please, sir... Come on, Alderdyce - race you! I wish I were going with you. You will be careful? I must avoid being careful, Max, it has availed me little. Nor, if I'm truthful, has being careless proven useful. If you were my housemaster, how would you now advise me? Goodbye, sir. When I stopped judging myself harshly the world was kinder to me. Remember I told you once, go out, look around the world? Do that now, only this time let the world look at you. My friend, I assure you, the world will like what it sees. Cheerio, Max. (Lark singing) (Panting) Madam? Is everything in order? Hm? You appear to be in a position of possible peril. Um, no peril, thank you. - Do you know why I'm up here? - I don't. It's my vantage point. You see, from up here I can see the fish perfectly. Fish are so much more visible when viewed from above. Indeed, there have been murmurs to this effect. Oh! Oh! Hold on! Keep quite still. Now, steady. That's it, I've got you. Just fall. Thank you. - Are you all right? - I am now. Thank you. Who are you? Oh, just...someone on holiday. Nobody really. Nobody's nobody. Or is nobody actually your name? Richard Nobody? David Nobody? Actually my name is Chipping. I was with a walking party but...I escaped. They didn't want to look at the fish, I did. What are you, Mr Chipping? A solicitor? - No. - Are you a stockbroker? - A dentist? - No, not a stockbroker. Nor a dentist. Not a stockbroker, not a dentist. Are you a man with a cotton business in Manchester? No, er...I'm a teacher, I hope. Oh, how wonderful! (Chipping) Shelter, perhaps? - Here, in here. - Oh! (Giggles) Good heavens! - (Sighs) - Oh, here. I have a cape. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Do you know, a teacher is the very best thing to be! Well, I used to think so. Oh, yes. Think of the wonderful gifts you give. "Gifts"? Think of the gift you gave when you told someone where Mesopotamia is. Or you taught someone the length of the Nile. - I am Latin, not geography. - Well... Think of the gift you give when you teach someone Cicero. Or Lucretius. Do you truly think teaching's like this? Truly. It's terribly important. It is the most important thing there is. - Madam... - I'm not madam, I'm Katherine Bridges and everyone calls me Kathie, Mr Chipping. "Mr Chipping". I expect your pupils call you "Chips". No, I don't believe they call me that. Well, I shall. How do you, Mr Chips? (Chuckles) - ..quite categorically. - (Laughs) - Is that your walking party? - Oh. (Man) Come along now! There they are. (Man) Good evening! I hope you've something tasty for dinner. We've a hearty set of appetites, I promise you. (Man) You're very lucky, most of our rooms are booked well in advance at this time of year. Room 22. And do not smoke your pipe in the bath. (Indistinct chatter) Ah, the celebrated Maud - that's very convenient. I wonder if...? Ah, the pianist! (Woman) I'm sorry, nobody wants to play. They're having a soiree, they say. We can't play with three. Oh! Excuse me. Forgive my intrusion but... could you bear to make up a four? How kind. I'd be delighted. - I'm not very good, I'm afraid. - Neither are we so that's splendid. (# "Come Into The Garden, Maud") Um... Would you mind most awfully if I sat in that chair? - Oh... No. - Thank you. Thank you. (Man, singing badly) # Come into the garden, Maud # For the black bat, Night, has flown # Come into the garden, Maud # I am here at the gate alone (Grandly) # I am here # At the gate alone... # - He deserves to be there alone. - # ..spices are wafted abroad # And the musk of the... # Play, young man? No, I don't, but I am quite musical. No, play your hand - we're waiting. # And the planet of Love is on high # # Beginning to faint in the light that she loves # On a bed of daffodil sky... # - Your lead. - Mm? Oh, so sorry. # For I am here... # - Yes? - # ..at the gate # Alone # They're grateful he's finished. My husband was a much worse singer. Shh! Listen. (# Schumann: About Strange Lands And People ) - Morning. - Morning, sir. Oh, good morning. - Hello! - I didn't know... - Are you staying...? - Yes, I am. It's very pleasant. Well, you are up early. - Much to do, Miss Bridges. - Kathie. - Kathie. - Yes? No, I was just repeating your name. What is your "much to do", Mr Chips? Oh, I'd heard there were some ruins nearby. You mean my walking party? Well, I wondered if... Is it possible... Could you join me? It's not very interesting and I'm dull company - dry as dust, I fear. I shall join you. I shall sweep off! Do you bicycle? Careful. (Laughs) - Don't look down. - Don't look down? I'm looking straight ahead, does that help? - (Kathie laughs) - (Chipping) Oh! It's almost fun. - Watch that... - Whoa! Take care! Yes, don't you think if you had a wife you would respect her enough to believe she could vote? But women have never voted. I fear we're too late for supper. - I'm most awfully sorry. - Women have a right to be doctors. - I hope you're not too hungry. - Oh, do stop changing the subject! Women would make good doctors. We're wonderful healers. And we civilise matters. Well, yes, I suppose, if you put it like that, yes. Do you like Mr George Bernard Shaw? I have never asked myself that question but the answer is no. But he says wonderful things. He says very unsettling things. Like women should be allowed to vote? (Both laughing) Thank you for a wonderful day. Oh, to the contrary, thank you for making such a wonderful companion. Good night. If we were to, um... Well, I mean, were we to meet... Let us shake hands. Like we did before. You know I leave tomorrow? Katherine, the train leaves at twenty past seven, remember. (Laughter indoors) I'd no idea. Do come and bid me goodbye. (Horse and carriage outside) - Morning, my dear. - Morning. Come along, time to be off! (Bearded man) Katherine? (Church bells tolling) Blast! (Hotelier) Mr Chipping! Miss Bridges has just left. She asked me to give you this. Would you mind? Thank you. (Panting) (Yells) - (Horses neigh) - (Driver) Whoa! (Man) Good heavens! (Second man) Gracious! Good morning! (Bearded man) Extraordinary! What is the fellow doing? (Woman) Good heavens. I hope you're not going to forget yourself? I believe I already have. (Man) Well, I never. (Driver) Walk on. Your bag! (Laughs) Have you heard? Chipping's got married! That must be her. (Man) Did he tell you, Staefel? No, but I'd say, "Well done." Imagine what she must look like. I mean, marrying Chipping? Oh, good! Gentlemen, may I introduce my wife, Katherine? - Welcome, Mrs Chipping. - Max Staefel. - Well done, old boy. - Thank you. - Congratulations. - Metcalf. Exquisite! Hold that - carefully. Wonderful, wonderful. Now, you must be the photography club, hello. What is the Latin term for "dark horse"? I told you, my friend, the world would like what it saw. She is adorable. - (Thunder rolls) - Oh, Mrs Chipping, come. You must all come to tea. All of you. And you, Herr Staefel. Now one of me. (Chipping) The chronicles of the Romans in Britain were written by a scribe with first-hand experience. To whom do I refer? - Yes, Colley. - Sir, it was Tacitus. Indeed, it was. Who was Tacitus's father-in-law? And Colley, please do not say, "Well, sir, it wasn't me." (Laughter) (Colley) It was Agricola, sir. Very gratifying, Colley. I hope you will impart this to your brother - I failed to do so. Good morning, Headmaster. - (Boys) Morning, Headmaster. - Morning, gentlemen. Letting some fresh air into the classroom? - Yes, it was my wife's idea. - Jolly good idea. - Is she settling in? - Very much so, sir. Still exploring. I'd like to find something for her to do here. You'll find her most receptive, sir. (Bell rings) Gentlemen, dismissed! Quietly, please. Festina lente. Colley, translate, please. - Er, hasten slowly, sir. - As words to deeds, Colley! (Indistinct muttering) (Boy) I'll give you something to really blub about. - Come on. - Stop it, Wallingford! - What are you doing? - Chipping's coming! (Thud) What is the meaning of this? (Wheezing and coughing) Gordon, Cooper, Park. (Clicks fingers) Be ashamed! Wallingford. Fifth form prep room, this instant! Yes, sir. Come here, Rushton. Here you are, Rushton. Good boy. Now, Anthony, I shall be very gentle. Hm? Rushton, is there anything you might have done to make Wallingford think you had provoked him in this action? Please, sir, my mother has died and I was blubbing, sir. Thank you. (Whispers) Chips, this is frightful! Why does this boy Wallingford do this sort of thing? Are you going to cane him? I don't know. (Door opens) (Sighs) Sit down. What is your model in all this? What - or who - convinces you that this is the behaviour of a gentleman? Wallingford, I shall be seeing the Headmaster this evening. He may wish to expel you. (Staefel humming happily) The Headmaster likes to sit with his elbows on the table. So we allow him room to do so? No, Mrs Wetherby doesn't like him to have his elbows on the table. So as ever you have to judge how far he wishes to take the matter. Therefore...we leave him room enough to take the decision should he wish. (Knock at door) (Chipping clears throat) (Laughter) - Soup is the most natural food. - Oh, Max! I believe it. It returns us to the point whence we sprang. - Mr Darwin says... - Not him again. Mr Darwin says we all rose from a kind of primitive soup, with all the ingredients that make Man what he is. - Not too much salt, I trust? - (Laughter) Mrs Chipping, I hope you did not encounter Mr Darwin's soup in your education, which I gather was a private one? Two governesses, Headmaster. - Miss Flint and Miss Steel. - Most promising names. Thank you. As for...school life, I find some of it quite surprising, Headmaster. Oh? My husband and I... we loathe bullying. (Humming, gently) Some theorists suggest that a great school like this should mirror the world the boys will encounter outside. But...bullying is uncivilised is it not, Headmaster? Mrs Chipping, I find the idea of private education intriguing. Your governesses, were they generalists teaching all subjects or did they specialise? Headmaster, forgive me, I saw poor Rushton. I saw him this afternoon. Rushton? Enlighten me. He had been most horribly bullied. A great school like Brookfield needs a number of hierarchies, it helps keep order. It's why we have prefects. Max, he was in a dreadful state and all because his bullies found him weeping. Rushton's mother had just died and the poor boy was being bullied for grieving. That is unconscionable. - Do we know the culprit? - Wallingford, Headmaster. I trust you caned him, and jolly severely. - No, Headmaster. - Why ever not?! It...hasn't worked in the past, not with Wallingford, anyway. Nor anyone else, really. I feel he must be a deeply unhappy child. No, Wallingford has behaved appallingly since he came here. If you can't punish him, Chipping, I can. Headmaster, may I suggest this is the wrong action? - The point is... - There must be some means of...well, altering Wallingford's behaviour? I do think, Mrs Chipping, that the running of the school ought to be undertaken by the teaching staff. Headmaster, do you know the fable of the Sun and the North Wind? The Sun and North Wind were arguing as to who had the greatest powers. "Observe that man," said the North Wind, "I shall blow his coat from his shoulders." So the North Wind blew but the man simply wrapped his coat even tighter round his shoulders. And then the Sun, gently, said, "You've had your opportunity, "please, allow me." And the Sun shone, warmer and warmer... and the man took off his coat. (All) Good night! (Door closes) Oh, Chips, have I ruined everything? Oh, now, none of that, of course you haven't. I had something so good to tell you. What? You're going to become... something else. Something new. Oh, well...what more do I want to be? I'm a Latin teacher and a husband... Think. - No! - (Laughs) - Really? - Mm-hm. - Are you certain? - Mm-hm. Oh, my word! (Laughing) Oh, well done! - Good morning, Mrs Chipping. - Good morning. - Wallingford? - Good morning, Mrs Chipping. Could I have a word with you? (Kathie) It's ready! Would you take some of this round to Chips? (Wallingford) Like this? (Chipping) That's it. Very good. Why, thank you. - Let me give you a hand. - Thanks. Gentlemen, I shan't keep you a moment. Er, Mrs Chipping has proposed that we invite some...girls from Meadowland Academy er, for a social evening. I find the idea rather progressive for my taste - but perhaps it has aspects... - Headmaster... I don't want to stand in the way of progress but this is a boys' school. And furthermore, the school is run by teachers... - under your guidance. - (Teachers muttering) Headmaster, in France, boys at a school like this are encouraged towards social skills. They're even taught to dance. Well, happily we are not in France. - (Kathie) One, two, three, four. - (# A Wandering Minstrel) And turn - imagine Jonathan's a young lady. - Chips, will you help demonstrate? - By all means. Always turn inwards, in towards your partner. Madam. Thank you, Max. - (# A Wandering Minstrel) - Chins up! One, two, three, four, turn in. Now, remember, you are young gentlemen. You must uphold the reputation of this house. - (Giggles) - Miss Robbins. Good evening. Come along, girls! (Staefel) # ..by the river a little tom-tit # Sang, "Willow, titwillow, titwillow" # And I said to him, "Dicky-bird..." # (Burnley) Chips, I think I know what you and your lady wife are up to. (Chipping) Up to? (Burnley) Yes. You want to get everyone married, just like yourselves. Well, not me, old chap. Not me. (Laughs) Do you know Miss Robbins from Meadowlands? This is our Mr Burnley of Geography. Excuse me. - Miss Robbins, how do you do? - Delighted. # "..in your little inside?" # With a shake of his poor little head # He replied, # "Oh, willow, titwillow, # "Titwillow!" (Applause) Boys! Boys, return to your dormitory at once! Mr Metcalf, do you dance? Dance? Mrs Chipping... # A wandering minstrel I # A thing of shreds and patches # Of ballads, songs and snatches # And dreamy lullaby... # Headmaster, Mrs Wetherby, welcome. This seems to have been most successful, Chipping. Well, everyone seems to be enjoying themselves. Wallingford! Thank you. Good man. # I tune my supple song... # Mrs Chipping. I'm also called Kathie. Kathie...Mrs Chipping, I feel I... I feel I do owe you an apology. No apology is needed when you dance so beautifully. Chipping, a word. # On maiden's coldness do you brood? # I'll do so, too... # Now, look here, Chipping, I'm making some changes. I want you to run Wellington House - with Mrs Chipping, of course. An essential cog in the Brookfield machine now. - Thank you, Headmaster. - My congratulations, Mrs Chipping. The Sun again has triumphed over the North Wind. Oh, thank you, Headmaster. And you'll find Wellington House very special. Wellington? Oh, Chips! Yes! - Miss Johnson. - Thank you, Headmaster, for allowing us the pleasure of meeting such well-mannered boys. The Headmaster has charged us with Wellington House! Congratulations, Chips! Congratulations, Kathie! You will also observe how Latin informs you in other disciplines. For example, who has not yet heard of the geometry theorem we call Pons Asinorum - "the bridge...of donkeys"? We call it this...because it is... a bridge of learning at which so many donkeys falter. Second door on the left, please. Would you both like tea? (Boys) Yes, please, ma'am. - Oh, my dear, let me... - I'm all right. I had no idea you had so many books. You gave me that one. We could call him Albert. Yes, or Victoria. - Or Edward. - Or Edwina. (Kathie) Alice! (Chipping) I rather like Leopold. (Both laugh) (Kathie) We shall be fine. Don't worry, I'll tell you the good news. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor. (Clock chiming) (Footsteps approaching) Doctor? - Victoria or Albert? - My dear fellow... - Boy or a girl? - There were complications. My wife is very straightforward. No. - No? - I'm sorry. Mrs Chipping did not survive. We tried to save both, we saved neither. My wife is a very heavy sleeper, we joke... My dear fellow! Not just yet. And...the child, hm? It would have been Albert. (Door opens, closes) He's coming! Hurry! When he looks up show the April Fool sign. (Boy) Quick, hide it! - (Boys) Good morning, sir. - (Softly) Morning. Er, today, gentlemen, we will return to the familiar territory - of the Gallic Wars. - Please, sir... - We shall... - Please, sir. You've received rather a lot of letters, sir. Er, book two, from the beginning. Who shall volunteer? "When Caesar was in yonder Gaul..." Hither. Hither Gaul. (Boy) "In Hither Gaul, in winter quarters..." Sorry I'm late, sir. "Frequent...rumours..." - (Inaudible) - "..were brought to him "and he was also informed by letters from Labienus "that all the Belgae, who have said..." - (Whispers) Mrs Chipping's dead. - "..are a third..." (Boy whispers) - "..part..." - (Boy) Dead? (Honks horn) Mr Ralston?! Welcome, welcome. We were not expecting you until later. - And you are? - Chipping. I... - Latin. - Indeed, Headmaster. Long-serving, I believe? Therefore an excellent guide for my tour of the school. (Mumbles) Ah... Oh, yes. (Staefel, indoors) Don't look so depressed! (Boys laugh) (Staefel continues, indistinct) This must be Herr...Steefel...Stifle? Staefel. Max Staefel. - How long has he been here? - A wonderful teacher. Came here straight from Oxford. Never taught anywhere else. Am I right that Brookfield does not field an Officer Training Corps? We're trying to keep violence out of the school, not bring it in. I would remind our Latin master that German is a living language. Which, of course, to many of us remains its chief problem. Is our esteemed chairman in this debate aligning himself too closely with the traditions he teaches? After all, the Romans believed in dictatorship and in the opposing of belief and opinion under the guise of impartiality! (Laughter) Gentlemen, I shall be brief. I've spent the last few days touching the very fabric of Brookfield. I regret to have to tell you I find the fabric somewhat frayed. We shall have some economies. Stringent economies. Perhaps merge a house or two. We must all understand that Brookfield is a school, not a charity. As of next term our fees will rise - substantially. And we need to go out and persuade people of, dare I say it, newly substantial means that their boys will profit from attending Brookfield. With this in mind the curriculum will be modernised to meet the needs of such, shall we say, practical parents. Therefore, gentlemen, change all round. That's all for the moment. Er, Headmaster, Brookfield has an honourable tradition of bursaries for boys of humbler means... Indeed it does. Thank you, gentlemen. My report will be circulated. In the meantime, my door is always open. Wetherby visited the staff room often. Mr Ralston has been once in two months! What on earth? (Tuts) We shall deflect previous forms of expenditure into buildings for new disciplines - science, sport - the future. (Man) That's all very well, Mr Ralston... (Boy) Fix bayonets! The target will not be sitting, waiting, he will run at you or away from you. Troop! Bayonets at the ready! By the right, quick march! On stride! Charge! (Yelling) Evans! Highcroft! Discipline this idiot! Sorry, sir. Evans, fall in! (Chipping) That was beyond impertinence! (Evans) Yes, sir. (Laughing) Slowly, boys, slowly. - (Laughing) - One moment, please! (Ralston) Come! Headmaster, I wish, if possible, to have a word. Actually, I was wishing a word with you. - Do come in. - Certainly. He said he had Brookfield's best interests at heart. "Must look around to see what is happening in the wider world. "Climate of opinion." Chips... he more or less asked me to resign. - And did you? - Of course. I'm alarmed - dismayed - but I'm not surprised. What do you mean? You must have divined that I and the subject I teach - have fallen from grace in England. - You mustn't think like that! And Brookfield must not be like that. The King himself is of German descent! There's going to be a war. None of us can help such things. (Door opens) Morning, Chipping. Max Staefel must not be allowed to leave. - Is this your concern? - This is monstrous! You dismiss a fine teacher on the grounds of prejudice! Herr Staefel offered his resignation. Under appalling moral pressure! You admit his position is difficult - boys will be boys. An English public school has a duty to foster patriotism. - Would you not agree? - This school is above... Herr Staefel at least realises that if there is a war with Germany his position will be intolerable. Anything else? For those of us... like Max Staefel and myself, who have devoted our lives to Brookfield, your record thus far is disgraceful. "Disgraceful"? Do enlighten me, Chipping. I have asked you more than once how many scholarship students we may expect this year, I have received no answer. I suspect you mean to cancel the bursaries. I can tell you myself, I'm obliged by the governors to make economies. Headmaster! At Brookfield boys of lesser means are given a wonderful chance! Why are you destroying this?! This is monstrous! How old are you, Chipping? I have no wish nor any need to retire. - I may not see it that way. - I beg your pardon? It seems to me, Headmaster, that you do not possess the capacity to understand or respect the qualities inherent in a school such as Brookfield! Are you trying to provoke me, Chipping? I am charged with modernising Brookfield. We cannot adhere to styles of education from the last century! You do not understand them. I find them most effective. Not in the new Brookfield. Sir, must all your movement be towards the lowering of standards?! This is intolerable! I disagree with you profoundly and I do not see that I can continue to serve under you. In that alone, Chipping, we are of one mind. (Boy ) Yes, boys, I'm as upset as you are! But we've got to think of a plan. We must have a plan! Do we want Chips? (General agreement) - Do we rally?! - Yes, we rally! (All) Yes, we rally! Yes, we rally! (Boy) Are we ready?! (All) Yes, we're ready! Yes, we're ready! Yes, we're ready! Yes, we're ready! - Do we fight?! - Yes, we fight! - Yes, we fight! - Gentlemen, please! Is there not enough talk of fighting in the world? Sir, we're having a convocation to prevent your departure. Oh...really, Atkins. All of you... That is...most kind. But I fear you mustn't. - But, sir... - No! The Headmaster has spoken. He is charged with running and improving the school. His authority cannot be questioned. We must have hierarchies. We must have...points of reference. I thank you but you must dismiss. Go on. (Staefel) Here it is now. Yes! Shall I accompany you to the station? No, thank you. No. (Boy) Drill in five minutes! Does your cousin have need of a... slightly experienced Latin master? My dearest Chipping, I greatly appreciate the sacrifice you have made but you must retract your position. I beg of you, reconsider, please. Do it for me. Too late, I fear. (Ralston) Sir John. Max, you're a marvellous friend. Please...take good care of yourself. (Ralston) He has become a focus of discontent. The boys are openly rebellious. I've known him eccentric but never dramatic. Suppose we allowed a limited number of bursaries? - You mean I should back down?! - No. No, my dear fellow. The governors wish me to surrender to insubordination? No, of course not, the governors do understand. It's just... I just worry. Chips has taught generations of some families. I showed him round on his first day. Sir John, the boys and the masters are all aware of this confrontation. Were Chipping to be reinstated, my authority... Gone. No leader governs by ultimatum, as you know, but in this case, I fear it has come to a choice. Morning, school. (Boys, mumbling) Good morning, Headmaster. Good morning, school. (Boys, slightly clearer) Good morning, Headmaster. In the few weeks I've been here we've achieved a great deal. But there's more to do. Some of you may recognise our guest today. A pleasant surprise, the chairman of our governors, Sir John Rivers. I'm sure he will have a few words to say to us about the necessary changes which Brookfield must now embrace. Sir John. Good morning, gentlemen. My time at Brookfield shaped my life and I'm pleased and proud to be here today to acknowledge that. The headmaster has spoken of change and we must all embrace change, however unpleasant. But we at Brookfield must also be aware of that sense of continuity and tradition that has made us what we are - Brookfeldians. As you are aware, one of the pillars of the school has been your - and my - Latin teacher, Mr Chipping. You are also aware that we have been in danger of losing him. I now invite him to change his decision. And to confirm that he will stay with us by leading us all in the school prayer. (Boys whispering excitedly) You have placed me in an impossible position. You've done that for yourself. (Boy) Come on, sir! (2nd boy) Yes, sir! (Boy) Chips! (Boys begin chanting) Chips! Chips! (All boys chanting and stamping feet) Chips! Chips! Chips! (Chanting stops) O Lord, shine your light on Brookfield school... (All) ..on her teachers and on her students. Grant us the enlightenment of eternal knowledge that we may proceed along a path of learning that has been illuminated with your grace. - Amen. - (All) Amen. Colley, isn't it? Yes, yes, I always recognise a Colley. How are you, sir? Oh, my dear fellow. The mud is grey... not brown like ours. It makes sucking noises... It sucks men down. You're not supposed to drown in mud, you're supposed to drown in water. (Machine guns) (Colley) 'Lost a boot, sir. 'Stepped on something. 'His body, sir.' (Chipping) 'School, we have informed the War Ministry in London 'that we have ploughed our playing fields 'and we now await their directions 'as to which crops we shall be required to grow.' (Rivers) Come in! Oh! Gentlemen. Heavens. Sir John. - Hello, sir. - Oh, it's young Sexton, isn't it? Yes, it is. More down to earth than I remember. Yes. I avoid roofs, sir. So good to see you. Shall we all sit down? Mr Chipping, we want to thank you. Since Mr Ralston decided to rejoin his regiment, you've accepted extra responsibilities at a difficult time - and we appreciate your efforts. - (All agree) We know that retirement could and should be your reward... but my fellow governors and I would like formally to offer you the position of Headmaster of Brookfield. It's an appointment that's long overdue. I shall be honoured. Thank you. Thank you. - (Knock at door) - Come in. (Boy) Good morning, Headmaster. (Chipping) Yes, it is rather, it is. Sir. Pet centipede, Callender? - Sir? - All these pigs. - Sir, I fag for Beccles. - Oh-oh, please, don't tell me, Callender. (Humming happily) (Man) And do you know why? The quartermaster had a wooden leg! (Laughter) Headmaster! (Sighs) Beccles, make me some toast. Lancaster, see if you can't put a shine on these pigs. Sir...we don't fag. - We're not... - Precisely. Nobody fags for me and I'm more senior than you. Pass it on. (Drill Sergeant yelling indistinctly outside) You wanted to see me, Headmaster? Yes, come in, Morgan. This wretched war has taken such a heavy toll on everyone. There isn't an easy way to say this, Morgan. I've received news that your father has been killed in action. I'm so sorry. I feel certain that he made a fine soldier. He was a fine student. Brilliant linguist. He spoke perfect German. He had a good teacher. I hate Germans! I hate them all! I'm so sorry. 'It is a matter of pride, but also sad, 'I fear I must announce the death of more Brookfeldians 'who died fighting for King and country. 'Captain Robert Mitchell Rivers, 'a previous head boy of this school 'and the eldest son of Sir John Rivers, our chairman of governors.' Subaltern Andrew Anthony Grenville of the Suffolk Regiment, killed in action at the Somme. 'Edward Charles Peter Hawthorne, 'captain in the 1st Somerset Light Infantry, commendation for bravery, 'mortally wounded at the Somme. 'Lieutenant Michael Jeremy Atkins, 'missing in action with the Grenadier Guards, presumed dead. 'Lieutenant Colonel Stephen Charles Alderdyce, '119th Battalion of the Royal Field Artillery, 'special commendation for bravery, killed in action. 'Captain James Asquith Highcroft, Oxford and Buckingham Light Infantry, 'missing in action, presumed dead. 'Lieutenant Colonel George Arthur Wallingford, Lancashire Fusiliers, 'missing in action. 'Captain Robert William Willis, Royal Engineers, missing in action. 'Lieutenant Colonel John Henry Rinehart, Royal Horse Artillery, 'killed in action. Second Lieutenant Graham Sidney Evans...' (Man ) 'Ebbersley, Ferguson...' And finally I regret that I have to announce the sad death of a beloved colleague and a fine teacher. Those of us who knew him will be sorry to hear that Maximillian Friedmann Staefel - was killed two weeks ago. - (Muttering) Filthy Hun. This school...owes him much. Such capacities as a teacher - and human being - must not be clouded by issues of nationality even in such crucial times. Individuals are not nations. Let us remember Max Staefel. Let us remember them all in our thoughts. Today we will call upon Mr Gibbon and his Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire to show us that history repeats itself. Will you turn, please, to chapter nine of volume two. (Aeroplane engine) Wars and the administration of public affairs are the principal subjects of history. Thank you, Warburton. Who will continue? Mr Lancaster. "But the number of persons interested in these scenes is different..." (Machine-gun fire) "..according to the different condition of mankind." (Bomb explodes) Now what Mr Gibbon is saying here, or is about to say... (Aeroplane passing, explosion) ..and Mr Gibbon would hope for fewer lightnings from the gods when saying so, is that people who are calm and occupied in peaceful countries never make war. Continue please, Mr Lancaster. "But the state of freedom and barbarism, - "the season of civil commotions..." - (Machine-gun fire) "raises almost every member of the community into action "and consequently into notice." (Bullets ricochet) Gentlemen, take cover under your desks! (Machine-gun fire) (Aeroplanes fade) Now, gentlemen, this next passage I count important enough to have you repeat after me. "The irregular division and restless motions" (Boys) "The irregular division and restless motions" - "of the people of Germany" - (Boys) "of the people of Germany" "dazzle our imaginations and seem to multiply their numbers." (Boys) "Dazzle our imaginations and seem to multiply their numbers." (Chipping) "The profuse enumeration of kings" Vailes! - (Crash) - (Boys yelling) Stay put, boys! Nobody get out from the desks! Stay there! Nobody move! (Boy) It's one of theirs! (All yelling excitedly) (Bells ringing, whistles blowing) (Coughing) - Hier sind Sie in Sicherheit. - Danke...sagte... (Distant cheering) (Chipping) The German boy sent me a letter when the war was over. I recall thinking at the time that he was a sixth former somewhere. - They lost their young men too. - We all lost someone. (Doctor) Is it true you gave him walnut cake with pink icing? Mm. My late wife, Katherine, believed it improved people. I think she was right. Wonderful to have the photography club. Do you remember Staefel? I'm certain he would have been here for today's celebrations. Beautiful singing voice. I think that's why old Wetherby was so fond of him. Chips, how are you feeling today? I'm hale again, thank you. I, er... I do feel, sir, that you ought not to overdo it today. Poppycock. Let us...celebrate our history. - My dear Sexton. - Sir, you haven't met my wife. Darling, this is... Well, you know who this is. I've heard so much about you! Thank you. - Hello, Chips. - Sir. It's Callender. How are you? Callender is single-handedly responsible for the end of fagging. (Laughter) Oh! My dear...Colley! I'm so very pleased to see you. It's so good to see you, sir. Why don't you have a seat, sir? Yes. (Breathing heavily) I think I will, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now, Mr Chipping - Chips - the very first copy of the new history of Brookfield School with all our best wishes. (Man) - Well done, sir. - Thank you. Sir. Sir, I hope you remember me, I'm Rushton. Of course I do! Rushton. How very nice to see you. How are you? I'm awfully well, sir. I'd love you to meet my daughter. She knows all about you and, er, Mrs Chipping. I've called her Kathie. Oh! Kathie. You see, Chips, everyone loves you. (Doctor) My father attended his wife. (Rivers) They were very happy by all accounts. So sad, they never had any children. Oh? But I do have children. Hundreds of them. All boys. Unsley... Vailes... Wagstaff... Watling... Warburton... Waveney... Yates... Yelland... Young... Come along! In before the bell! Oh... Kathie. (Hand bell ringing)
