 

                        Now we just have to deal with the cold and the wind for the party tonight at Times Square High wind warning in effect till midnight acting with temperatures below zero. Senior Correspondent Stan Brooks says folks are already camped out on in Times Square. It's going to be freezing. It's going to be jam-packed... 'Out of the Blue' by Ray Guntrip & Tina May So I was with her for a long time... I think she's kissing someone now. Dude! Shut. Up. What the... Yeah? So, you are not a hooker... You are not a chick I could pick up at the bar obviously because you had eight sets of guys hit on you all night and you still just sat there. You might have been five drinks but you spoke in perfectly beautiful sentences. You probably did get bored in your room and came down for a drink. What does that tell me? I don't know. But... My name is Turiya and guess what? Happy New... Oh, f off. Thanks dudes. Will you look at this guy? That is sweet. You know what you could have just stayed home if you were going to pass out. You know what I mean? Think she's calling now... Aah, I'm not usually this creepy but I had a little bit to drink and then JC introduced me to the prettiest girl I've seen... ...this year! I'm flattered. Ummm... Which one of the eight sets of guys are you? I guess the 1.45 bunch Oh yeah. The two guys and the dope-head. Uh... Which one of the two are you? Oh, I'm the cute one. My friend's always grumpy. Kiss my a. See what I mean. Hmmm... How did you get my number? I'm glad that you called. Why did you call? I'm glad... Insomnia. Jet lag. Quarter-life crisis. Ah! So you are in need of my entertainment services then. Well, considering you woke me up in the middle of the night just as I had fallen asleep, I guess that does make you responsible to entertain me... ...Or put me back to sleep. Oh, you are in luck then because when I entertain people they fall right back asleep. Which is good enough. So what can I do? I can play some music. Do you want to listen or something. You know I have an IPOD here and a TV set. What I really want to hear about is that bit where you said you saw the prettiest girl that you ever seen and I am going to forget you said this year. Ah yeah. She was gorgeous, she had the most beautiful eyes and she was hot. What do you mean hot? Hot... you know, hot. No, I don't know. Actually she was just okay... I mean she was like average... I am just kidding. She looked really beautiful and I am sure if she just took a little better care of herself it would be impossible for anybody to take their eyes off of her. What do you mean I don't take care of myself? No... I mean... It's New Year's Eve and there you were sitting alone swigging shots of Tequila wearing an overcoat that screamed "Leave me alone, I'm boring". It was written all over you that you did not want to look pretty tonight. And what would I wear if I wanted to look pretty? What would you wear if you wanted to look pretty? Speaker dude, put it on speaker. What do you have? Oh! Okay... Let me look. Ok I have a dull gold mid-length sequined dress, a Moroccan tunic, beige corset, a couple of tees, jeans and you know G strings. I am sorry... What? What? - What? Yeah... what is a sequin? Never mind. You know what, why don't you wear a corset? I think that is body hugging top sort of thing. Really? - Yeah How long have you seen me? All of a minute? Uh... Yeah but you had my full attention. Well, I like that. So how often do you drunk-dial random strange women? How often do you call back random weirdos? First time. Ah virgin random weirdo-caller backer. You haven't answered. Oh, I am a virgin drunk-dialer. Well, Mr. Virgin drunk-dialer, where are you? Uh... I'm at the l-can't-wait-to - break-the-ice-with-you stage. Go on. So what's your name? You haven't told me that yet. Oh, you can call me anything you like. I'm yours for the night honey. In that case, I'm not telling you my name either. Turiya. And your friend's name is HUSSAIN And the other one said his name doesn't matter. That's JC. But wait a second, I thought you didn't remember which set of guys we were Okay, so you were the only set of guys to hit on me tonight. Oh! Just one of those nights huh? No, I mean seriously what is a girl like you doing alone on New Year's Eve? That's lame... Or it's OK, I guess. Travelling. Who travels on New Year's Eve? Someone who doesn't like New Year's. Travel to forget about it, huh? Well, I have to get back in Mumbai by the 2nd and actually my connecting flight got late so I have a stop over for eight hours. AH! So this is kind of like a one-night stand, huh? I thought guys liked one-night stands. Not over the phone. Okay, curious... what would you have done if I had joined you at the bar? Spiked your drink. Just kidding. Just kidding. Just kidding, I would have asked you your name of course. I'm not crazy. Ok. Let's say my name's Nona. Nona... What kind of a name is Nona? Stripper name What kind of name is TURIYA? Is that even real? Yeah, It's the absolute truth. In what language? I don't know. You have to ask Mr. Omprakash about that. Think I should sue? He was the one who... Omprakash? - That's my Dad. Daddy - Daddy It means the fourth state of consciousness. Yeah. The other three are sitting in the car with me. Thank God the sober one is driving. Driving to where? Philly What's going on there? My life. I am a male escort. Experienced women dig me. They get laid. I get paid. And I'm a stripper from Vegas and a noted porn star. In that case you get my entertainment services for free from now on. Tempting but I'll pass. I'm not really a stripper incase you didn't get that. I just landed a corporate job that is going to pay me obscene amounts of money. That's too bad. I was looking forward to coming to Vegas and being your pole. Just a pole? God, I thought you would want to be more actively involved. Well, why don't you suggest something else for me to wear? Lingerie... G-string For that, I have to look in your lingerie compartment... Hmmm... You wish. Hang on... Ok She's naked. What are you doing? Just changing my top. It's too tight. Okay, you shouldn't have told me that. Why not? Because when you tell a guy that you are changing your top a guy pictures you changing your top. We see everything. So did you like what you saw? Mmmm... Tasty. Thanks, JC Dude! So is this a telephonic orgy? Look, I changed it back from... It's alright. I went to high school too. So did you like what you saw? To tell you the truth, I didn't see much. What do you mean you did not see much? I had my eyes closed. Isn't that exactly how you guys picture naked women? Ok... This is the first time I am doing something like this Oh you poor boy. That's ok. I have got enough experience for the both of us. Yeah, I don't really want to have an orgy, a threesome... I mean phone sex What? I can't hear you. You want to have sex with all three of us now, you sick b! Dude, I got a dead body back here. My hands are full. I wasn't implying phone sex Mr. Virgin drunk dialer or is it Mr. "L-have-never-done-this-before". Aah yeah, well! Boy! Looks like it is going to snow. Oh my God! You are a... Virgins do exist? You know if you worked for my escort company I would've had your a fired a long time ago. I have a bad feeling about the weather you know... I bet you do virgin boy. How old are you? Tell me your name. Don't change the subject. Ok. I'm gay. I'm gay. I'm gay! So gay. Alright. Too much information for a one-night stand. You got to pull over. I got the munchies real bad. I could eat a horse. An ostrich. A piece of A. We're hungry. We should've eaten at the bar. All of us. Are you hungry too? Yeah. Me too. Let me see what's in the fridge. Get something for me too please. Slim pickings. Oh, there is a long banana here. I bet you would like that! No, I am more of a melons guy. I like melons. Ouch!! That's below the belt. What are you talking about? Wait a second. No, I wasn't trying to say... We know what you really meant! It's ok. I don't have melons. No, I wouldn't know anything that. About what? - About you know... you know... - Boobs? Well... I wouldn't know... No. I don't know they... Oh you poor boy. Would you like a preview? Look, that's not what I meant. I wasn't talking about... Right! You said I was hot. You said I should wear a corset. What does that mean? That means you checked me out. No, no... I was just saying it just like that. You know, just words. So, then I am not hot? No... So then, tell me. Tell you what? Do you think I am hot? Yeah. So, what did you mean you prefer Melons? I just was saying it because I liked... You could've said mangoes or apples or oranges I mean why did you say Melons. Who thinks of Melons? I do. I like Melons. I have always liked Melons since the time I was a kid. I liked watermelon, winter melon, muskmelon. I like jackfruit. I like honeydew, cantaloupe. I like them all. I mean... It was nothing to do with you or your physicality. I wasn't even talking about your physicality. So my physicality has nothing to do with Melons? What is the right answer to this? I don't even know. How do I answer this? The truth. The absolute truth. I like Melons and I think I need another look. So you admit there was a first look? Oh boy you should have been a lawyer. You would have been a great lawyer. Thank you. But answer me. You admit you looked. Yeah, I looked. And... And they are nice. They are perfect. They are beautifully round and gorgeous globes. On a scale of 1 to 10? Eight. Eight. Why eight? Well because I like the number eight. There is two round things that is together... I like that. Ok rapid-fire question time. What's on your mind? Actually you first. What is on your mind? I'm thinking they are fine too. And I'm thinking I would love to have some Waffles with White chocolate and maple syrup fresh from the oven. Or mint and chocolate huh? I love that. Do you? Mint and Chocolate. I love that. After eight. No anytime of the day. My friends got me for my birthday. Bailey's Mint & Chocolate. Sex in a glass. Sex in a glass. And how would you know? Oh! Who is hitting below the belt now? No but seriously, I love liqueur. I'm not saying that just in a please be my friend kind of way. But I can just picture myself sinking into a tub full of Creme De Menth. Now I can picture you doing that too. Remember? So how old are you? You didn't tell me. You didn't tell me your name. Do you remember that movie where two strangers spend the entire night in the streets of Vienna and just talk? Before Sunrise! It's my favourite movie. I love that movie. Hey maybe we're doing this coz we saw them do that right? Okay, that's lame. No wait. Just hear me out. Everything we see in the movies, read in books, things established as facts by society and the news, all become a part of our existence so that somewhere down the line we forget where we even heard it or saw it. So the entire length of the movie Before Sunrise, I have been in Ethan Hawke's shoes. I have lived his life. I have become that. Oh God! Somebody thinks he's Ethan Hawke. No, no. Wait, wait... You have seen When Harry Met Sally. You must have thought you were Meg Ryan when you watched the movie. I got it the first time. You are not Billy Crystal short either are you? Elizabethtown - Cameron Crowe. It's like he knows me. Oh is he on the other line? Is that him on call waiting? No Cameron Crowe is the director who made... Yeah, I know I know. Jerry Maguire. It's a cute rom com (romantic comedy). Aargh! Jerry MaFing Guire is not a rom com. It is the celebration of being the man who you want to be. Which happens to be being the man we want him to be. Hence, it's a rom com. Oh God! So wait, according to you, The Godfather is some family soap drama and the Matrix is what some fashion show of black trench coat with technology thrown in or something like that. Just when I thought we were starting to have something in common. Anyone who likes the Matrix is suffering from a serious case of the Emperor's New Clothes. Oh, Anyone who doesn't like the Matrix is suffering from Oh, Poor Me, I got left out of the cult, so let me bitch about it. I dare you. Explain The Matrix to me in four lines. No more. No less. Explain the Matrix in four lines. It's not that simple. Trinity, we need to find a hard line. Look in your pants Mr. Anderson Thanks Morpheus and Agent Smith or JC and Hussain. See Matrix has that effect on us. Think about it, we grew up in the nineties name a film that went to be the Star Wars or The Godfather of the nineties. You can't name one. The Matrix is the single most definitive film of our time. Amore. I think Friends is the most single most definitive show of our times. Well Friends... That whole sitcom, it was on TV. I am talking about film. The Matrix is deep and loaded like Star Wars. Stories are meant to be simple. No matter what kind of bells and whistles they come with. Harry and Sally. They meet. They become friends. Over time, they fall in love. Now explain The Matrix to me. The Matrix is not just a sci-fi action film. It's about how everyone has a chance to search and find the truth and that's what Neo does. He has a chance to find the truth, he takes the pill and finds out that's the truth is a dream fabricated by someone else... Hello... Blah Blah Blah... I said simplify in English. Oracle. Clones. Conflict. Bullshit. Lets just agree to disagree. You know even love stories are about conflict. The conflict being? Well some loves flourish because of the conflict not in spite of it. Through all the disagreement and going through all the hardships together some loves become great love stories. Love stories also end because of conflict. Hmm... That's true but it might not have happened if not for the conflict. Are you in the mood for a story? Considering I am talking to a stranger about absolutely nothing sure, why not? Just throw in some sex and I'm good. Ok, here we go... There was a boy... Why is the geek always a guy? Ok. You're interrupting. Come on, that's a silly stereotype Ok, fine... See, it's not working. Yeah, ok So what kind of music do you like? Techno - That is so nineties I used to like techno but now I like the other stuff. Like pop? Yeah, yeah like pop That is so gay. I know. I'm sorry but what kind of music do you like? Rock... the new rock. Like Coldplay? Yeah, like that. I love them. Hey do you listen to Floyd? You know I was going to ask you the same question. I do actually. Ah, so you are into boy bands too then. Pink Floyd is not a boy band. But it is "PINK" isn't it... Not funny. So what's your favourite number? It's like you know me so well. Really. Yeah well I know. So when do we take it to the next level? You can come over tomorrow if you want, Mom's not going to be home. Yeah, I would love to come home tomorrow. That would be great. But what time because I am free all day. It's not like I don't have a job or anything coz I do. I am very employable but I am free tomorrow all day. Ok For now. Guys often pretend to be who they are not and girls always want to be wicked and crazy because that's their idea of romance. We just like to challenge the natural order of things. You know gives us a sense of accomplishment. Plus everybody wants a taste of the forbidden fruit. Apples. Or in your case Melons. Hey, do you believe in God, faith, destiny. Do you think God knows why things happen. I don't think God knows. I mean what if God is reinventing as he goes on? I think God has a plan for us. He probably doesn't want us to know but he wants to roll it out to us in good time. I roll it out in good time. I mean think about it religion was invented what about 2000 years ago but the full truth is about 13.7 billion... There is no full truth. Everything would disappear if an asteroid hit us tomorrow. Exactly, Dinosaurs... Gone. You know when I was a little girl I thought asteroid was a gland. Because it rhymes with Thyroid? I was so confused Back to religion. Actually have you studied accounting? No. Okay, in accounting, there's something known as Suspense Account. When you can't explain where the money's gone and you are unable to balance the sheet, you create a suspense account temporarily and put all your money into that... so that once you investigate and find where the money is gone you can transfer the money from the suspense account to the actual account. Now as science starts explaining various phenomenon you immediatelytransfer credit from the God account to the Science account. So Let there be light becomes the Big Bang Theory... I love that TV show. Oh my god it's about these geeks who live next door to a blonde waitress who works in a cheesecake factory. Yeah. You know men are the smart ones. Well yes, of course. You know we women we prefer to stay home and watch life happen in a little pictures while you big boys you are concerned about the big picture out there. Exactly. Us big boys. Kidding, you jerk. Ever heard of radium? Madame Curie. Helen Keller. Mother Teresa. Ever heard of Britney Spears. Paris Hilton. Sex tapes Justin Timberlake. George Bush. Bill Clinton. No why are you talking about our differences. We are all the same race. We are all born with the same raw materials... a little sperm, eggs a little sex and weeks later, there's this seven pound form of life that is ejected from a vagina. Vagina How different are we really? I object. We could want different things. We could want different things from the same relationship Like for example what if your geek boy wasn't geeky and what if the girl really liked him and what if they had a great honeymoon period getting to know each other but then things don't turn out so rosy Do you want to hear a story? Straight from Bollywood. Bollywood! I love you. I love you. Shit. I never thought I would say this to someone. But I... I really love you. Shit... I hope I get myself to say this to her. I wanted to say this to her so often but couldn't get the courage and whenever I meet her I decide to, but... somehow... Tell who? Tina... who else? Let's do this again, I will be Rahul, you be Tina. Look up. I love you I love you too. She will say the same thing won't she? Yes Come here. Shall I tell her? Shall I go right now? Do you really believe this shit you are selling me? I mean what did you think? You had no idea that I liked you all this time and you are just leading me on for this? I mean who do you think I am? Some kind of doormat that you can just wipe your feet over every time you come and go. Some sorry story who is going wait around for you and cry and come to your wedding and wish you all the best. Well you know what, FFFUUC BEEP People are different. Some times, they just want different things. No I'm talking about the bigger picture. You know life is much more than one or two failed relationships. We all want the same things... We all want happiness, love, family, friends... I'm sure you want love. I'm sure you just want to get into her pants dude. I heard that! No thank you. I'm done with romance. Besides I don't think we have to take love out of one person to give it to another. Love is a bottomless glass. Oooh, so you are a sensualist. You like believe in free sex. That's why you didn't want to pay for it. I wasn't talking about sex. All I am saying is that we need people. So why not just make great friends all over the world? Why do you need romance? Well I don't know. Life is short. We are all insecure. Love makes us feel secure, committed. I used to be you. You know when you call in a friend they are always there. It doesn't matter if it has been eight years, it doesn't matter if it has been 20 years. They welcome you with open arms. Yeah, they may welcome you they may want to have coffee with you, they may invite you in for dinner they may even have you in for 2 weeks... ...in their house but at the end of the day everyone goes their separate ways. But seriously, you don't believe that there's a love of your life? No. I mean I used to. I used to think that the love of my life is a guy who made me nervous. Then I found out that Prince Charming only belongs in fairy tales. Some time after that I thought the love of my life was a guy who made me happy. Tall, Dark, Handsome, great sense of humour. Then I found out he belongs in Mills and Boons and your rom coms. Some years after that I thought it was just about finding Mr. Compatible... Mr. Right for me. Then I found out people change... and sometimes in a drastically pull the rug right out from under you kind of way. So change being the only constant I know... ...now there is no such thing as a perfect match. The only person who is the love of my life is Me! Wow! I think I'm more of a giver. I want to give everything to the love of my life. I want to give unconditionally. You are like a doormat, right? The shoulder to cry on... I'm sorry. I have no right judging you. It's okay. I mean guess I have thought about that too. Is giving all yourself to someone being a doormat? Love is a form of faith, it's like a religion. You give unconditionally to someone. You make a commitment and then you hope that it pays dividends. What did that work for you? Yes. It took it eight years but she finally said Yes... It lasted one year. It was best thing to happen to me ever. And then? And then she came up to me and she is like You obviously love me more than I love you... Long story, we will talk about it later. But anyway I mean seriously I had enough love for both of us... No... That doesn't work like that. It has to be equal. How would you like it if she did that to you... I would've loved it. It would have been perfect. No, no, no... You have to actually image switching places. If you were her and she was would that would that feel right. I don't think so. I mean in any relationship even a beautiful friendship... ...people have to have to you know give equal effort. Effort! Love should be easy. It's not about effort. Work is effort. Maybe it started becoming work for her. I don't know I just think if things have to work out... both people have to have equal intentions for each other. They have to meet halfway. Halfway. Actually I think we are halfway from you. 50 miles right. 50 miles. So in that case if you and I had a long distance thing... you would be the kind of guy who would travel 50 miles... to see me and if I were the love of your life I would be like Oh My God, why is he doing that. Please don't do that. I can't get myself to do that. Right? Are you talking about yourself or are you putting yourself in her shoes? Well, I'm speaking for her obviously. Well, What about you? If we lived 100 miles away from each other, would you meet me halfway? I would come 50 miles but you know that's just me. Or we could meet each other 100 miles every other week. Long distance success stories are a work of fiction my boy. Oh! Pessimist. Pessimist! You are the pessimist, I'm the optimist. I mean there's so much love in the world why would you hold back... for somebody who is away. No, no people come and go and you know we are all meant... ...to be companions for a little while or a longer while. It could work if you wanted it to. I am sorry my boy but long distance relationships don't work. I don't know what you're thinking, I dont know if you think I'm serious coz I am not. I mean its not like I am trying to pick you up or something? Not trying to make you fall in love with me over the phone... Long distance success... - You are not? No no... I don't even know your name. Does it look like I want to? Does it look like I am interested? You are not? No. I mean you brought up this whole hypothetical long distance relationship sort of thing... Yes, yes... I mean it was. It was completely hypothetical. I was just trying to explain... how long distance relationships require equal effort... to sustain a healthy relationship. I mean I don't even believe in relationships forget long distance. That was really what I was trying to say which has nothing to do with you. Yeah. It's no wonder that you wouldn't meet me halfway, where I am is like middle of nowhere Timbaktuland. We are at a lookout point in a town called New Hope. I guess George Lucas must be the Mayor. Because Star Wars. Episode 4. A New Hope. Stop. Okay, what you just basically said was that I'm not interesting enough... ...for you to want to know my real name. Right? No, that's not what I said, I mean obviously I have a lot of baggage... ...that I cant put down and you are probably just thinking about getting... ...a good night sleep and make that flight in the morning. Right? Hang on would you. I mean I didn't even say... I was interested and you are like rejecting already me. What are you talking about?! I am not rejecting you. Who would reject somebody as hot... ...and as intelligent as you are? Seriously. You know what I need to go to bed. Oh, is it something I said? No! I don't even know you enough to take offense to anything you say. I'd really don't care. Wait! Hold on a second... What's the point? Give me one good reason ...and make it quick, I need to catch some sleep. No, I just think it is rather awkward for us to after... ...this to long conversation to hang up so abruptly... I want to get to know you. I'm boring and I am tired and I have a lot of luggage. So I need to get to the airport early. Okay, what about Facebook? No but I don't know your name and I don't know your email. How am I going to find you? Good question. I guess you have a lifetime ahead of you to find out. True happiness lies in pursuit of truth anyways right? Must be something I said. Keep guessing. Good bye. No don't say Good bye. Hello... Good bye. Hello... Bad connection. Leak-time. Me too. Let's go feed those fish. Yes, I finally have signal. Yo T, take a time out man. I got to listen to some music. Rest your battery, yes? Yeah, I probably should save my battery, but maybe I can borrow JC's phone. You can borrow my underwear, man. Guess what? What Nona... Okay, first of all, my name isn't Nona. Well, you are Nona to me. Well, that wasn't the real me. I'm MOIRA. So how's MOIRA any different than Nona? Well, for one thing she's not wearing any clothes. So how do I get to know this MOIRA? You wouldn't like to know MOIRA. She would've never have done anything as crazy as this. She's a cynical bitch. Oh come on, she sounds interesting. I mean no clothes and all. Why don't you introduce me to her? Please. And what would the intro be? Meet TURIYA, virgin escort? Actually, I am an insurance agent, but don't tell other girls that. Every time I tell that to somebody, it's over. Game over. They would walk away. - You're kidding? No, I am serious. I am an insurance agent. I make a living telling people What would happen to them if they died tonight? So when you saw me at the bar, you weren't thinking hot chick, you were thinking Ah, potential client. She looks like the kind of girl that would go into the next room and slit her wrists. No, I wasn't thinking that. But maybe I saved your life. You owe me one. I wasn't going to kill myself. Are you crazy? I love myself too much. So are you really going to India or was that something you just said? Well, I don't really know anybody in this town and you when you called honestly I was so bored and I just thought nobody knows me here so I could be anybody and I became Nona. Did you like being NONA? Yeah, you know because Nona has no past and she has no future. Her validity expires at 8.30 in the morning when she boards the flight. She travels light. You could be Nona every single day of your life. It's not that simple. We have our responsibilities, you know you see insurance all day but tonight you are the world's only virgin escort who specializes in entertainment services over the phone. Okay, lets play a game. Twenty questions. Okay. But wait, what is this for? You are still not over your ex right? Just say Yes, No, Maybe, I don't Know. Yes, No. Maybe. I don't know. Just answer one. Ok. But let's make this more interesting. Whatever you ask me you have to answer first yourself. Fair enough. I am not over my past. You? Completely over it. Really? Hmm. How can you be sure, so sure that you are over something? Okay. Let me tell you a story. Fictitious, of course. Hope it has lots of sex All right, I am not going to tell you the story Why? Is it something bad or dark? Yeah... too dark. Well... dark sex. I like that. Okay, I'm definitely never going to telling you the story. Come on, please tell me. You can't stop now. Okay, boy meets girl. Boy is a rich and pin-up politician. - Oooh! Pin-up! - Boy and girl have sex. Lots of sex. - Ah aah. Good good. More sex than you can handle. I don't think so but... Listen! Would you? - Ok. She survived to live another life. The girl I was talking about was the love of my life. He wasn't. I thought he was but I know he wasn't. I mean how do you know? How can you know? It's funny you know. We live like 70 or 80 years and we meet somebody in our twenties and we decide that they are the love of our lives. And that we would never love like that again. At least not with that much passion, not that much depth. That's true though isn't it? I guess, ...in the sense that you don't love your Mom the way you love your Dad... or you don't love your flings the way you love your soul-mates. Each is different. But I don't think you can attribute the accolade the "love of my life" so quickly not when you have life 2/3rds of your life left to live. I think the love of your life... . is going to be the woman you are sitting with... ...on your veranda with a cup of coffee in the sunset of your life... and you tell her how you almost mistook someone else to be who she is The love of your life. I invested eight years of my life in that relationship. Are you telling me my faith in love was misplaced? This isn't one your insurance policies that... ...matures after a few years and pays you your dividends. Cheap shot. You still haven't told me what you do. Legal consultant. - Aah! I knew it. I was just kidding. I just completed my thesis in Chicago... ...waiting to get my Ph. D (doctorate)... ...and I am headed to Mumbai for a new project. Wow! Dr. Moira! - No, not yet. Not at least until the panel makes sense... ...of my dissertation on New Media ...and it's impact in shaping personalities... ...and influencing human relationships. Okay that went over my head obviously I am not a Ph. D (doctorate). Well it's just about how New Media Technology... ...basically has made our lives about instant fixes. Control C, Control V, Control x, Control Alt Delete. We pretty much live our lives on those principles. System failure? Reboot. And also New media technologies has made it possible for us... ...to transcend beyond geographical and physical boundaries, ...beyond zeroes and ones and make personal connects... ...across nations, across cultures, ...across even religions and cultures. Yes, sort of like this phone call... ...we are talking across so many miles of open space. Yes. Sort of... Now just imagine if I was a robot designed... ...to respond to your most deepest interests... based completely on a comprehensive behavioral study of your personal preferences and choices... I would ask you first what did I do wrong? What's wrong? Well. You didn't. You just haven't found the love of your life. Relationships take time to be defined. Sometimes, even a lifetime isn't enough... Enough about me. You still haven't told me since you love yourself so much... ...what were you doing alone on New Year's Eve? Being with myself. I mean its not liking I am living in the past. I am only remembering only the good stuff. I mean the bad stuff is done with. It's buried. Think of it this way. If you really did everything you could... ...then you know absolutely that it's not your fault. It's not that easy. I haven't been able to delete... ...her messages from my inbox. How long has it been? Since what? Since you guys broke up. Three years. Hang on. Are you serious? Dude, she could have had a baby by now! Don't say that. God! Look at me I have so much baggage. I have baggage. You have to let it go. I don't want to. Okay, here's something from my thesis. The SMS inbox reflects your mind-space... It has every bit of memory you want to hold on to. The reason you have not able to start afresh is because you haven't deleted messages... You have to empty your inbox... ...in order to make space for new memories No. It's a part of me. I need to keep it. I can't just let it go. Well, keep the good stuff. All I am saying is let it rest. Give it its funeral. Forgive unconditionally. Get over the mourning period and just come alive and stay alive... ...instead of digging up decomposed remains that haunt your life. I don't want to run away. I can't escape reality. And the reality is I still love her. She was the love of my life. Do you realize you always keep saying she "Was" the love of your life. That's the point now isn't it? The scars would remain but you need to learn to live with them. They are like the sign of a warrior. They heal over time but they become a part of you and one day... ...someone notices and asks you and it all comes back to you... ...the motion picture of your life in surround sound... The love story you were once a part of... ...you smile because you remember the good times... ...and you feel a little bad that it had to end... ...and then you put the DVD back on the shelf. You put it back on the shelf and you let it go. You're crazy. Si Amigo So New Year's Eve is one of your scars huh? Well, it was until now. From hereon, I am going to remember New Years Eve as this... ...night that I had this wild conversation... ...with a random strange boy. Seriously, aren't you going to remember tonight as this night when you got a little high and called a girl in the middle of it to talk about boobs and existence in one breath. I mean what would existence do without boobs? There we go again... so then, how come you didn't get any? Love me. I do. Show me. Okay. Not like this. You're drunk. God! What's wrong with this boy? Do you think you will ever love me? I do. No. That's not going to work. How am I supposed to love you if you don't do me? Did she really say do me? Let me rephrase that. How am I supposed to know where we are going... ...if you don't make love to me? How am I supposed to make love to you if you don't love me? Ok. I'm convinced you are gay. Oh Absolutely, I'm with three guys on New Year's Eve and I am feeling happy and by the way that story was completely fictitious. Sex complicates relationships. Well, after everything you turned out okay. Well, he wasn't the first guy I slept with. That's different. The first guy I slept with was when I was nineteen years old... ...and that was a horrible breakup. We were together for 5 years... . and that's when I realized that... ...the most important part of a relationship... ...is not how it starts but how it ends. How many boyfriends have you had? Okay, I know I sound like a slut... ...but I've really only had like two... ...serious relationships. My first one was really cute. It was in high school and we were just holding hands... ...and pecking each other on the cheek, really really cute. I've just had one. I guess my life is simpler than yours. Hmm. And you have a full inbox. Okay. I will do it in my time okay. Hey don't do it for anybody else but yourself. It's really just a matter of time before you realise that... ...Iove is something that human beings just concocted to find security. No. Love's not just about providing security alone... You know we talk about love like it's the most natural thing and the puritans would jump up with the argument that child loves its mother before it even knows her but that's not true coz a child wouldn't have love gushing out of its veins if it saw its mother on the streets one day if it never knew her. I mean love is always a choice... ...and love by another definition is at best hypocritical. I mean think about all the cities that have been destroyed... ...all the lives that are ruined... ...all the shrinks that are paid... ...for something as un-definable as this feeling... ...which is relative at best... ...and yet when you are in love its supposed to be incomparable... which throws out the test of relativity too. I mean I used to believe in love and Santa Claus, but you know you grow up. Yes. No the great thing about love is that it's... ...about the road trip it's not about where you're headed. It's as wonderful as a birthday... ...but you get to experience it every single day of your life. Its that warm feeling in your heart... ...the knowledge that you have something that can make... ...the worst possible day turn into something awesome... And what's Christmas without Santa? You know you should start writing for Mills & Boons... . give up your insurance selling job. Go ahead, sell it to 16 year olds... ...con the world of the product that doesn't exist. Yeah, I know I sound like a loser holding on to some girl... ...who didn't even want me and probably didn't care... ...anything about what I had for her. Can I be completely honest with you? Yes You know I think it was sweet of her... ...to even try to respect your feelings. Most of us we just... we just settle for love wherever we get it... . if we don't get it from where we want... like water you know when you are thirsty or a burger when you're hungry. Do you really believe all the things that you say? Yeah. 200 per cent. I mean you could convince yourself of anything in a second. You could decide that you are going to be a great actor or a singer. Sign up for classes and actually believe you are. Exactly, and you can just believe... ...you are going to start falling in love. And by the way, I'm a great singer. Oh boy! Is that a threat? Okay. Let's see. Who do you like? I can sing anything. For the moment, Elvis. Okay, I am now tuning into my Elvis channel Going way back to 1958... Oh wait, wait... I want Britney Spears Hit me baby one more time... - Pussycat dolls. Wait, wait Shakira Shakira. Actually, I found the perfect song for the occasion. Guys! Oh my god... That was awful,? But your energy saw you through. Thank you! And you were also Ok. You know I'm so glad I don't have that endure that again in my life. I don't think I could take it. What are you talking about? You are just scared... ...of my charm and sex appeal. Did you say sex appeal? - Yeah. All right, that is the funniest thing you have said all night. You know I've been saving myself for someone special. I don't think you even know how. I do. I've been practicing on walls and trees since I was 13... Okay, no, no. Kidding, kidding, kidding. I don't know if you are kidding but... ...the surface of walls and trees is very different from women. I mean I could tell you more at the risk of endangering... ...your retail store mannequins. Well, please enlighten me. Okay, The world out there it's round not flat and there is dangerous curves ahead. Mmmmm! Yummy! Down boy! I'm sorry, go on. Ok, so then imagine this was our first date. How intimate would you get? We stop in front of my house. What next? Would you ask me to come in? Hmmm! Maybe. And only because the conversation was interesting. Damn! If I was there, I would've got to first base. I would've gotten you to first base just to get done with it. Purely as charity. High time you got there, man. May your tribe increase. Especially since I'm ready now. You are? - I think I am. Okay, kiss me. Yes and close your eyes. Whatever! It's dark out there anyway. Kiss her, man. Kiss her. Boobs. Ask your friends to look outside the window. They are all asleep except for HUSSAIN who I hope is not. So you ready? Music! You realise you suck at this right? You got to seize the moment, not wait to arrange background score. It's my first time in a long time. Ok. You there? Hello! Did you hang up one me? Shut up and kiss you ass! Hey! But you made the jump. Yes. You know I feel stupid kissing a phone. I am sure the guys are very happy you stopped with the phone. Is this just a phone thing or would you have actually kissed me if I saw you tonight? I would have kissed you. My good deed for the day. You would really kiss a guy like me? What's wrong with a guy like you? I probably would've cried all night. I would have cried asked you to hold me and never let me go. Mayday... Mayday... Going down. Abort! Hold on, I got to pee. Hey, sorry I had to go. That was uncontrollable. Hey, when you got to go, you got to go. I hope the snow doesn't delay my flight. What time is it? It's five minutes to six. What time do you have to go? I need to be at the airport by seven thirty. Which means I need to leave in a half hour. Are you done packing? I'm in transit. Just have to change. We are almost home and my phone's dying. Soon we'll go back to our own worlds... ...and remember the crazy night that almost changed our lives. Yes. It changed mine for sure. How did it change yours? Well, that will always be my little secret. Hello? Hello - Hello Hello? Damn it! Dudes, my phone died again. Dude! Don't look at me. Come on dude. You don't need your phone anymore for GPS. I need my phone. No. Come on. Give it to me please. What do you need it so much for? Dude! Is this any phone call doing you any good? Not sure yet. You want to complicate your life? No, man, no. Just help me out huh. Just help me out. One condition. If you ever... ever talk about your failed fing eight year romance... It's over. It's dead. I'll never do it. Ever. - Never. You can kick me in the bs if I ever do... Kick me... Just hard. In the bs. Like a little girl. Hey sorry, JC's phone died as well. This is HUSSAIN's. I thought I said something wrong. No, no. Hey truth or dare? Ok... Dare. I dare you to tell me what your little secret is. Ok, what's Truth? I want to know the truth about what your little secret is. And please hurry up this is going to die as well... Okay, I wish you hadn't said what you did. But you did. And that makes this that much more difficult. What are talking about? You make me feel like it's my birthday. Do you have to go? Can you change your flight? Go some other time, go tomorrow, day after I don't care. Don't go tonight. - I wish I could. Actually, I could but I shouldn't and I wouldn't. Because? Because, that would make this that much more difficult. Ok. I know I am going to feel stupid saying this... ...and it might be extremely irrelevant... But all I want from life is to be anywhere... ...and be a bum but be with the girl I love... ...and that she loves me. You know I have always needed wanted to prove myself to my Dad. I have always needed him to understand that I am ok and I am going to go places. He was so proud of me when I told him that I am almost done with my Ph D and I am finally coming back to India. He was so happy and everything felt so right. My life was like back on track. And suddenly... ...now... ...it doesn't seem to matter remotely. Life's a bitch, right? Hang on. I need to change. I told you, you shouldn't do that... You are harmless. Besides, we've done this before. Hey, wait. You are a beautiful woman. I'm not sure if this is even real or what ...but I'm scared that I'm going to wake up... and find out that this was just a dream. Beautiful. Dream. All it takes is a moment for them to start doing something. All it takes is a moment for them to stop. Yeah. I know I sound fickle. ...beginning of this phone call... ...I was holding on for dear life to some girl... ...for three years ago and now I'm pleading with another one. Are you? No, I am not pleading but... Thank God! I would've felt like the world's cruelest bitch if you told me not to go. No... When you got to go, you got to go. I will always cherish tonight. No matter where we go. Nothing can change this. It's been the most perfect night. I want you to do one thing before you go. What? Call me from the landline. Why? - No, my phone's going to die in any moment. Just call me from the landline ok. Okay. - Ok. Bye. Hi - Hello. May I speak with Mr. Turiya Omprakash? Wow. You remember my surname. I remember every bit of tonight. I wanted you to clear your inbox. Oh. You didn't really send me any messages, loverboy. That's true. Okay, you're never going to use this phone again, are you? No. - Ok. I want you to remove the SIM card. - Okay. Ok? - Taking out the SIM card Thank you. Now go to the bathroom. Alright. Going to the bathroom. Good. Now just flush it down the toilet. What?! Why? Because. What if I want to call you again? That's why. You don't want me to call you? No, I want us to have a clean break. I want us to travel light. Okay. Fast learner. Oh guess it is time for you to leave... ...and my battery is going to die in any moment. Thank you for doing that. I know you did that for me. What? Help me clear my mind space. So, I guess this is it. Yes Goodbye. - No. Don't ever say Goodbye. Goodnight. Good Morning. Put on some music guys. Think she would've gotten it by now. What's that? - The Waffles. You actually got those delivered? - Yep. Well I got to say I am impressed. But she's gone and you are moving on and I am glad that you are. You know I have never said this... ...but I am so glad that you were right... ...all those times that you abused me. Thank you brother. Do her man. Do her. Ok. Hi. This... This is TURIYA, single and alone on New Year's Eve. Just like you. LISTEN! I am not a hooker. I am not some chick you can pick up at a bar. I'm not the girl that you are going to take home. I am not even going to give you my phone number. I am five drinks down and I can still speak in complete sentences... ...making total sense and perfect logic with flawless grammar. Did you guys consider the possibility... ...that maybe I was just sitting in my room bored... ...and stepped out for a drink. Well... Well... You are like the eighth set of guys to hit on me over the last two hours and I am still sitting here, ALONE! By myself. What does that tell you? That... you talk a lot, sister. It's always a great ride while it lasts. Most people know when to get off. But me, I am a sucker. I do it every time. Despite the futility of it all. The icebreaker The honeymoon. The reality check. The break up. The patch-up. The confiding. The great friendship. And the killing confusion. We always want more but we can't have it all. So we run away from the very things we once chased. And then one day, you find someone you can walk with. We are all companions anyway. For a while. Or a longer while.
