 
 We're gonna do what we do. We're gonna attack as aggressively as possible. We don't take what defenses give us. We take what we want. I don't coach tentatively, and I don't coach cautiously. Look, I'm excited about football. I get excited to wake up in the morning and come down here and coach these fine athletes. It's the culmination of my week, of my life. I came here to do a job, and that job was to resurrect one of the most storied programs in the history of college football. And I'm doing it. But we could not have accomplished what we have accomplished so far without our fans. Hey, you fucking loser! They have built a reputation as college football's most knowledgeable and most passionate. The average length of a barrel on a 357 is 51/2 inches. This particular barrel is 3. Oftentimes, when gun of this power is fired from the inside of a mouth, the head will literally come apart. This is caused by the expanding burning gases that escape from the muzzle when the gun is fired. Its power is significantly increased when the barrel length is shorter. In the event that one's head does not come apart with the shot, they'll likely be found with stretch marks and breaks in the skin, particularly around the mouth... Like the elastic at the top of an old pair of socks. If my life were a movie, this would be the end. And this would be the beginning of nothing that went right. Jason. Come on, I'm gonna miss the game! Sorry about that. $8 on the cheapest. What's that sign say out there, huh? "The only full-service station with self-service prices. " So take my 800 pennies and pump full-service gas with self-service prices into my truck. I'd like to see the game. Yes, sir. You know who Jones is starting today? I haven't heard if Strickler's recovered, have you? No. No? Yeah. No. No, you don't know if Strickler's gotten over his injury, or, yeah, you're answering me and, no, you haven't heard, or, no, you don't know? Yeah. No. Smart-ass. The fuck was that? Oh, man. Half of these are- Oh, fuck, dude. Great. Oh, man. What the fuck? Stop giving each other hand jobs and get over here and pump my shit. Awesome. What kind? What? What kind? Huh? Fill her up, no cheap shit. Do they look like they need to be washed? Get the fuck out of here. So Tina says you're pretty fucking funny. I'm not that funny. Tell me a joke. $4.53. That wasn't funny. At least round it off, dumb-ass. I bet you're older than me. How old are you? Oh, that's my business. Okay. If we fought, I'd kick your ass so easy. Here you go. I gave you $50. No, you gave me $20. No, I gave you $50, and you best come correct with my change. Hey- I will pound a mud hole in your ass. See, I know what I gave you. But it ain't gonna save you. You fuck with me, your ass is history. Number one high school draft choice to a college of my choice. Everybody wants a piece of my voice, including all the women who get moist when I get on the field, bitch. I'll be playing football next year, where you'll still be pumping gas right here. So keep your motherfucking change. You're gonna need it for your mama, who's got mange. Quit talking to Tina. "For your mama, who's got mange"? He's in high school? Five years ago, yeah. Every year he says he's gonna play football. Why doesn't he? Would you let that fucking psycho on your team? Hello? The Bible says we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Not only soul, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance; perseverance, character; and character, hope. I hope to leave here someday. But like the snowflakes trapped inside a snow globe, I wasn't going anywhere. After you die, nothing you ever owned matters, and everything you ever did does. You can't sell what you did to your family at a garage sale. Mom? His head drooped over the side. I found this. It's for you. Open it. Well, my bus is gonna be here in a few minutes. Jason? They're gonna turn off the electric sometime next week. When, exactly? I don't know. Well, I don't get paid for another two weeks. What about your moving fund? It's gone. I'll figure something out, okay? Your bus is gonna be here in a half hour. It's number 16. Jason? Never mind. They say when your dad dies, a piece of you dies with him. But what about all the pieces he leaves behind? How do they die? Who kills them? Gus? Gus? Hey, Gus. Hey, is that for me? No. Gus, it's five minutes to 8:00. What happens at 8:00? The movie. Oh, yeah. Which movie? The Harvey Girls. Oh, yeah. All right, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna write you a note so you remember what time to pop the popcorn every night. And I'm gonna put it on the fridge, so you don't forget, okay? Okay. Good, 'cause I'm gonna write you another note to keep in your pocket that says, "Look at the fridge. " Now you should get dressed. All right. Put it on. We're gonna play the movie. Well, you need to tell me what time. "Look at the fridge. " It says, "Popcorn, 7:30. Movie, 8:00." That's in three minutes. Yeah, so you should get dressed. Hello. Can I help you, slr? Hey, you know, I got a friend who lived here his whole life and never even been inside this place. I moved here three months ago from Omaha, never been in here either till now. You believe that? I have no reason not to, sir. Yeah, I guess you wouldn't. You don't. What's the price of admission? $5. I'll take a ticket. Great, just give me one second. Do you hear that whistle down the line?  I figure that it's engine number 49.  She's the only one that'll sound that way  on the Atchison, Topeka  and the Santa... Fe.  It's from Easter Parade. No, it's not. It's from The Harvey Girls. I was just testing him. I'll have one ticket for The Harvey Girls. Do you have any popcorn? Huh? Best thing about these old theaters is, they smell of popcorn, but, uh... I don't smell any in this one. How come? Do you hear that whistle down the line?  I figure that it's engine number 49.  She's the only one that'll sound that way  on the Atchison, Topeka, and the Santa Fe.  See the old smoke risin' around the bend.  I reckon that she knows she's gonna meet a friend.  Folks around these parts get the time of day  from the Atchison, Topeka, and the Santa Fe.  Here she comes.  I'm ready to go. Let's go. It's all right. I took care of it. Popcorn? Everything. Oh. Gus, I can't get here any earlier. And people won't come here any later because of across the street, so if you don't remember to make the pop- I remembered to pop the popcorn. No, you didn't. Well, you didn't tell me. Yes, I did. Why doesn't Catharine pop the damn popcorn? Because Catharine died five years ago. Yeah, I know that. I remember. Nobody told us anything about it. I remember. See that little plant? I water it every day just to keep it alive. Maybe I shouldn't think just because it's still breathing that it wants to live. Gus told me one time I had my whole life in front of me. Gus, let's get ready for bed. No, no, no. In a minute. All right. I'm sure at one point someone told him the same thing. But now his life wasn't only behind him but above him, somewhere in the heavens with everyone he knew and everyone he cared about, if he could only remember. Whoa, whoa! Hey! Fuck. Did you just tell me to fuck off? No. What did you say, then? I said, "fuck. " Why did you just tell me you didn't say that when you just admitted you did? I didn't. You just told me you did. I missed my bus. Oh. Come on. You didn't see me, right? Right? I don't even know you. The gas station. Yeah, besides that. I don't know you. I was starting defensive tackle at Lincoln High. I didn't go to Lincoln High. You know me. I know you know me. Look, I've always been taught not to mess with the wrong people. And you told me in your rap, you're the wrong person. I'm the wrong person? I'm not Tad Tokas? Is that what you're saying? No, I- I didn't start defensive tackle, and I don't know who I am? I don't know me? I don't know who I am? Are you calling me a liar, telling me I'm not who I say I am? I'm more than you will ever be, little faggot. Yeah, get up. Go ahead and get up, pussy. What the fuck is that? It's a present. Now it's the past. How come everywhere I see a great big motherfucking pussy? Did you see that? One punch. The little baby bitch only took one fucking punch. I had a bloody nose once in the hospital. Six guys had to pin me down to give me my meds. One of them had his knees on both my arms and his balls right in my face, so I bit him. He punched me. I almost had to have plastic surgery. I used to sing in a theater like this. Children's theater when I was seven. One of those childhood stars. Sold out every show. But you've heard of the show, haven't you? I don't know who you think I am, but I don't think I'm him. I don't know you. Yes, you do. You just don't know you know me. I don't think you want to know me. I already do. You're hard on yourself, 'cause a lot of people depend on you. And you're afraid to of letting them down. You've got a great deal of unused potential. Something bad has happened to you recently, besides that. Some of your aspirations are pretty unrealistic, considering the fact that you live in Nebraska. You care a great deal about a select group of people. And you love this theater. You can tell that by looking at my palm? I can tell that by looking at your face. What's in the box? I don't know. It's a gift. For who? For me. From who? My dad. Why don't you open it? When my sister was two, she almost died. My mom found out she was allergic to peanut oil. And when she turned 12, my dad wrapped her birthday present in a small box a lot like this one. And then he wrapped that box in another box and that box in another box and so on. And after she opened box after box after box and finally got down to her gift, she started screaming. Why? Because my dad's gift to her was a jar of Peter Pan peanut butter. He thought it was funny. He must be a hard man to live with. He's not living anymore. I found it today when I was cleaning out his apartment. When you said something bad happened to me recently, I guess you were talking about that. You can just drop me off up here. Don't you want me to drop you off at your house? No. Okay. My dad used to tell me that the people I meet will never care more about who I am than they will about what I look like. And because I look the way I do, people may never care about me at all. Hello? Somebody stole my television. What do you mean? My television's gone. Okay, I'll come right down and find out what happened. You just stay there. Okay, I'll be outside. No, stay inside and get ready for church. I'll find your television. Okay, I'll meet you there. No, Gus, stay inside and get ready for church. Okay, bye. Every week was the same. Gus would take his television to the pawn shop, convince them to put it up for sale, and by Sunday morning, he'd forget. What's that? Your television. I don't watch television. Well, I'm gonna put it here just in case you want to. Yeah, but I won't want to. Well, just in case you do. You been in a fight? No. Now, why aren't you dressed? Dressed for what? Church. Gus, it's Sunday. Okay. Hey, you know who Amelia Earhart is? The first woman to fly over the ocean? Yeah. They say she wore men's underwear. Oh, yeah? Who's they? I don't know. You know what I saw on television the other day? I thought you didn't watch television. I didn't tell you that. Yes, you did. I did not. Yeah, you did. Who's that? Hi. Hi. No movie today? We don't show movies on Sundays. Why? We go to church. Oh, you do, do you? I'm Gus. I own the theater. Gus. I started working here as an usher when I was 14 years old. 14, huh? 14, yeah. And then I went to World War II, and I was a film projectionist on army transport ships. Uh-huh. And when I got back, a fire had left just a skeleton of this building. And the owner didn't want to resurrect it, so I figured out a way to buy it and did it myself with my own hands. Wow, that's Impressive. All right, okay. Excuse me, you're interrupting me. I'm sorry. It's just that you got to get inside, because I got to go. Oh, are you sweet. Thank you. How come he doesn't show new movies there? It's too expensive. And he feels of all things that people should forget, old movies aren't one of them. Oh. How long have you worked there? Since high school. It was supposed to be temporary, only a few weeks, just until his wife, Catharine, got better. But she never did. Then he started losing his memory, so I kept working. His memory seems fine. Sometimes it is. Sometimes it isn't. Why are you here? Um, because I wanted to say I'm sorry for lying to you. I do the same palm reading on everyone. It's a lie. And I can't get over how mean it was to lie to you, because you're probably the nicest person I've ever met, and you're dying, and I- Wait a minute; wait a minute. Wait. I'm not dying. Then, um, how come you don't have any hair? It's my immune system. Something in it that triggers it to fall out. Everywhere? Almost. There's no cure? No. But they say it could grow back at anytime. The sad thing is, it doesn't. Well, dying would be much sadder. Yeah. I guess it would. Well, you're still the nicest person I've ever met, even if you're not dying. And I promise you, I'll never lie to you again. I got to go. I can't miss my bus. Sorry. What's your name? Frances. Tina was so pissed when I told her what happened. She knows where he lives. She said we should go over there. Who's Tina? His little sister. Oh, God. She said we should go fuck his car up. He fucking loves that thing. No, it's all right. "It's all right"? Your face looks like a jar of smashed assholes, and it's all right? You're all set. I topped it off at $12. It's all right. It's all right. And for the first time in a long time, it was all right... For about five hours. Mom? Mom? You're lucky the baby's awake. Can you just put Dana on the phone, please? Dana. It's your uncle, yeah. He probably wants to borrow money, but we can't give him none, 'cause I'm saving to go see the boys play at the Fiesta Bowl, aren't I? Dana! It's your brother. Hey, I told Mom we have a space heater. I don't think you know how cold it is in here. Well, we can give you a space heater, some electric blankets, and $80. $40. You are not going to the Fiesta Bowl. We don't have any electricity. That's all we have. I'm sorry. But what about your moving fund? It's gone. Oh, yummy, yummy. Would you just quit it? What did you say? Nothing. I didn't say anything. There's hairs on the nipple. Oh, Jesus Christ, I got to go, okay? I'm sorry. I'll bring the stuff over tomorrow. Where were you? I was at Bushwhacker's. What are you wearing? Oh, that's my skirt. For what? I bought you a hamburger. Why were you at Bushwhacker's? Dancing. With who? Fred. Who's Fred? He's really nice. I'm gonna bring him home, and you can meet- Where'd you get those boots? These are nothing. Everybody wears them when they dance. How much money did you spend on them? I didn't buy them. Fred bought them for me. He wanted to make me feel part of his group, and so he bought the boots that I tried on. He just wanted me to feel good about myself. If he really wants you to feel good, Mom, tell him to use the money that he spent buying you that hamburger and those boots on your feet and help pay for the $400 electric bill, because I'm out of money. $17, please. Thank you. I've worked here for seven years, Max. I'm just asking this one favor. Look, you can take the full amount out of my next check. Because I don't have any heat in my house. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, yeah. I understand. Damn, it's cold. Is Andy Hardy your son? Well, I have heard something to that effect. Grandma always writes about him. Isn't this neighborhood just so beautiful? Look. Look. It would be fun to have a family like that. Your family's not like that? No. Holy shit. What? That's Frank Jones. Do you like him? Everybody around here likes him. Do you like him? I don't know. Then why "holy shit"? Because my brother-in-law, at the beginning of the season, stood for 50 hours with one hand on a pickup truck that that guy used to own. It was some contest to get people excited about the idea of a new coach. Did he win? It was between him, a mom, and someone else. And when he thought no one was looking, he tried to knock the mom's hand off the truck, got caught, and they disqualified him. It was on the news. Yeah, he talks about it all the time. He says that if he would have won that truck, he could have sold it for five times what it's worth because of what Frank Jones has done for football. I hate football. I hate that I don't love it. I don't want to watch or talk about anyone else's life anymore. I just want to live ours. Hold this bag. I don't get what we're doing. We're gonna pay your electric bill. Okay, push when I tell you to, all right? Okay, now. Voil. You can empty the whole machine like that. That's stealing. It's surviving. It's better than sitting in a cold house, isn't it? Push it. That's how you make money? This and other things. Like what? Push it. Didn't you make money from singing? Look, I was married two years ago for one year, and my therapist says that I married a homosexual because my father was one. I never believed it, and he's not alive anymore for me to ask. When you're famous, people try to take everything from you. And my husband took it all. Can't you start singing again? Who I was then and who I am now are two totally different people. I'll never sing again. Maybe it was the Nembutal or the Seconal or the electroshock therapy. I don't know. Hey! Shit, let's go. When my neighbor died, he asked his family to be cremated. And his last wish was to have his ashes poured into the concrete of the new stadium. When I die, I want to be cremated, and I want my ashes to be scattered in the ocean far away from the fans. He couldn't do that. He couldn't do what? To blow him back like that, he should have a rifle. It only takes a ten-pound weight dropped from about an inch to equal the impact of the gun he's holding. My dad's a- my dad was a cop. Is that how he died? In the line of duty? No. He killed himself. That's how I almost died. I caught my husband in bed with another man, and- and, um, I couldn't- I couldn't take it. I scare you. No. Yes, and I'm not gonna tell you any more, because the less you know about me, the less you're gonna hate me in the end. In the end of what? When I said that you knew me, you just didn't know you knew me. It wasn't because I'm a famous singer. It's because we're soul mates. Don't. Do. No. Yes. Please. Please. I've lived in the same house for 25 years, and every Christmas, the only thing I've ever wanted was to be somewhere else until now. Oh-ho. Awesome. The Irony. Shampoo. I'll trade you me beautiful pizza cutter and Q-tips for your shampoo and soap. Hey, man, I'll give you my AA batteries and change purse for your shampoo and soap. I'll take Darryl's deal. Right on. Thank you. Oh-ho. Damn! I hid that there. I hid that there. Whoa, whoa, whoa, I had that first. That ten bucks is mine. Darryl, you didn't look for it. That's your fault. But it is your turn. Oh, shit, a coffee mug. I don't even drink coffee. Hey, Jason, that old guy, he likes coffee, doesn't he? Yeah. Trade me that coin purse for the coffee mug. If you put it that way. Thank you. Deal. All right, dude, cough it up. What, the money? Yeah, what do you think I'm talking about? You don't get the money. Fuck that! Sorry. You traded the purse. You don't get the money with it. When I traded it, you got the money. Because you didn't find it. Because he's retarded. You know what? You better watch who you're calling retarded, especially you, Terri. You're not getting the money, Darryl, again. It's Jason's. All right, Fred, it's your turn. Darryl, I'll trade my turn to you if you give me the shampoo and soap. Look, man, I know you're all Lucky Charms and shit, and you want to make a good impression. But, dude, I'm not gonna take it easy on you. I'm serious. All right. Hell, yeah. Shit, I'll make that trade. You better not cry about it. I'll go for the big box. Tampons, man. What the hell am I gonna do with tampons? God damn it, I didn't get one good thing, and the only thing I liked I traded to Jason. Oh, I'll take them. I need them anyway. You can have my turn. Yeah? Oh, I kind of got a good feeling about this one. Whoa, it's a lottery ticket. Ooh. Oh, man. Come on, Super Scratch. Come on, baby. $10,000. $10,000. Oh, man, I got a good feeling. Whoa-ho. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God! God damn it! Oh, my God! I just won $10,000, man. I'm not fucking around. I won $10,000. Holy shit. God damn it! Baby, I won $10,000, man! God damn it, I just won 10,000 fucking dollars! Fuck, yeah, bitch! Whoo! I don't need your $10, asshole, 'cause I just won $10,000, man. You know what I'm gonna do, baby? I'm gonna buy a plane ticket. Fuck that; I'm gonna buy a plane. I'm gonna fly down to Arizona, and I'm gonna go down to the Fiesta Bowl and watch NSU kick ass while you're down here fucking jacking off, pussy. Wait a minute; let me see it. I don't believe you. Fuck you, man. See with your eyes and not with your hands, bitch. Whoo, read it and weep: ten grand, man. Ho-ho, baby, yeah. Fuck yeah, man! I won $10,000! Shit! Okay, okay, fine. How do you collect your money? Huh? I bet you there's like a place I guess you go to. Look on the back. It probably says on the back. Oh, shit. Oh, man. Oh, this is awesome. Uh, "The $10,000 prizes may be claimed at Yomama's House"? What? "Or by mall using a claim form suppled by the tooth fairy. " What the fuck? "Please sign and mail your winning ticket and claim form to Santa Claus, North Pole. " Fuck. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. You guys are so fucking funny. "All winners are subject to people laughing at you. Valid only in your dreams. " You're a great family. You're really good people. All right, okay, okay, okay. I think you made Darryl feel bad enough. Oh, I'll get it. Oh, no, I got it. Hello? I need to see you. When can I see you? Well, after we open presents, I'm gonna go over to the theater and spend some time with Gus. Go now. Frances, we're right in the middle of opening presents. Please, go now. Just- I can't take any- Can't take what? I just- I can't take it. Please go. Okay, I'll leave in five minutes. You don't have to take care of me anymore, Jason. And I'll never leave you. But you can leave me. Shut up! Gus? Help! Shut up. Take any fucking thing I've got, man. Jason! I'm right here. I'm right here. Jason! Jason! Come here. Shut up, shut up! Shut the fuck up. Catharine! Catharine, help! Catharine! Call the police. Lock your door. Grab your coat and get your hat.  Leave your worries on the doorstep.  Just direct your feet on the sunny side of the street.  Just direct your feet on the sunny side of the street.  I used to walk in the shade with those blues on parade.  I used to walk in the shade with those blues on parade.  Now I'm not afraid.  This rover crossed over.  If I never had a cent, I'd be rich as Rockefeller.  If I never had a cent, I'd be rich as Rockefeller.  Gold dust at my feet on the sunny side of the street.  Gold dust at my feet on the sunny side of the street.  He's only gonna get worse. At the hospital, I would gather a room full of ailing memories and the loved ones whom they'd forgotten, and I would sing. And for a few hours or sometimes only a few moments, they'd remember. And they'd talk to their sons or their daughters or their spouses like they were never sick, like nothing ever went wrong. I don't care if I ever sing professionally again. I had done some good. You should sing again. I can't. What are those? I need to be calm. I lied to you when I said that I would never lie to you again. I'm not even supposed to be here. They just gave me some time off so that I could visit. Who gave you some time off? What are you talking about? I'm sorry I lied to you. Do you hate me? No. I would rather kill myself than have you hate me. Hey, George. You all right? Hey, what's the matter? Now get out of here, Burt, or I'll hit you again. Get out of here. What the sam hill you yelling for, George? "George"? Burt, do you know me? Know you? You kidding? I've been looking all over town trying to find you. I saw your car plowed into that tree down there, and I thought maybe- hey, your mouth's bleeding. When I was three years old, I used to sing in these shows with my sisters. And when I was on the road, I would have a hard time sleeping, so my mother would give me these pills. Then I would have a hard time waking up, so she'd give me these other pills. And after that, pills were the only thing in my diet. Jason, before you, I felt closer to the end than I did to the beginning. Now I don't. You say they need you to stay. But I need you to go with me. Come on. Get up. I got to go. Get up. I'm gonna sing again. You made me want to sing. Hey, Gus. What are you doing? It's time for the movie. "Popcorn, 7:30. Movie, 8:00." Right. Um, I'm really glad you remembered, 'cause I was running pretty late. They were massacred? Yes, ma'am. Your whole family? My mother and father and kid brother were scalped and mutilated. My two sisters, 12 and 14, they weren't killed right away. They were captured. They didn't last long. The Indian women got jealous and stoned them to death. Maybe my folks wouldn't have approved of me becoming an Indian planter. I never had the chance to ask them. I suppose you wonder why I sent for you. I was educated as a soldier, so I know a fighter knows best the meaning of peace. This is a big-game atmosphere: a lot of noise, a very talented team we're playing. I've looked at all their films, gettin' to know a lot about them, very athletic team, excellent speed, both sides of the ball. A lot of great athletes on that team. And they, uh, they've got a good kicking game, so it should be... it should be an excellent game. And what will the team do tonight for New Year's? The guys will enjoy themselves, but we will have a very calm New Year's Eve, get to bed early, you know. I hope they lose. Hey, I know where this party is tonight. The thing about this party is that Tina and I weren't invited. And the thing I'm gonna love most about not being invited is that we're going anyway. You can come if you want. No, that's all right. All right. But you let me know if you change your mind, 'cause it's gonna be sick. Hey, Andrew. Hmm? I'm leaving. Yeah, me too, in a half hour. No, I mean I'm leaving for good. When? Soon. What about Gus? I got to tell him. I'm sorry. But I don't want to be an emperor. That's not my business. I don't want to rule or conquer anyone. I should like to help everyone, if possible. Jew, Gentile, black man, white: we all want to help one another. Human beings are like that. We want to live by each other's happiness, not by each other's misery. We don't want to hate and despise one another. In this world there's room for everyone, and the good Earth is rich and can provide for everyone. The way of life can be free and beautiful. But we have lost the way. Greed has poisoned men's souls, has barricaded the world with hate. It has goose-stepped us into misery and bloodshed. We have developed speed, but we have shut ourselves in. Machinery that gives abundance has left us in want. Our knowledge has made us cynical, our cleverness, hard and unkind. We think too much and feel too little. More than machinery, we need humanity. More than cleverness, we need kindness and gentleness. Without these qualities, life will be violent, and all will be lost. Gus? Hey, Gus, wake up. Are you sure you don't want us to take you home? Hey, this is Andrew. I'm not near my phone right now- You've reached Darryl, Dana, and Tommy, Jr. You know what to do. Hey, there. How's it going? Fine. What are you doing? You going to a party? Where's the party? What's going on? It's New Year's Eve. No, I'm just trying to get home. Are you sure you're all right? I could- I could give you a ride. Do you want a ride? Is that what you're doing? You're trying to call somebody for a ride? Who are you calling? I don't know. Let me give you a ride. Come on. It's better than calling people who aren't home. How about a little music? Hey. What's that? You're kidding me. You're kidding me. That's just great. Holy cow. I'm just about to- I know, I know. Calm down. Okay, okay, okay. I'll meet you there. We had to pay someone $300 to take a double shift so we could have the night free together. Do you mind if we stop by my apartment real fast? You see, it worked out for us, so we're gonna meet there. And then we can give you a ride home. Yeah, okay. That's fine. The kiss that's waiting for you  Are you sure you don't want to take off your coat? No, I'm fine. He should be here any minute. You know, this is still considered by many to be the greatest night ever in the history of show business. It was the number one album in 1960, won five- five Grammys. It was ranked number nine for the entire '60s, which is pretty unbelievable, considering the decade was ruled by rock and roll. As of 1990, It still ranked the 29th best selling album of all time. And it's never been out of print. What is it? Judy Garland live at Carnegie Hall. Oh, Judy. Judy, Judy, Judy. She was- she was dark. Eight years old, her mother had her singing in shows with her sisters. Gave her amphetamines in the morning to pick her up, downers in the evening to put her to bed. Her father was a homosexual, would move the family around constantly, because he'd hit on all the teenage boys and get them run out of town. Flash-forward to her second marriage to Vincent Minnelli, director of that movie. She comes home one day to find him in bed with another man, runs into the bathroom and tries to commit suicide. Every little thing would set her off. The drugs probably didn't help. The electroshock therapy probably didn't either. She would fall in love with men, telling them that they were her soul mates only to have affairs with her costars and cheat on every man she ever told she loved. But there's something about her that's just- it's just magic. And hold me close in your arms  all through the night  I know tomorrow morning  you will say good-bye and amen  We have a tied football game: NSU 17, Tennessee 17. And there are about 80,000 eyes down on the sideline looking at Frank Jones for the key play to come up here, and I think this is really where he's gonna deliver. He stands in the pocket, steps up, fires down field. Caught, Sean McNabb, at the 50. And now R.J. Ventimigila can be the hero for NSU. This is a 48-yard field goal attempt. Okay, we're set to go. The snap, ball down, kick up. Kick is on the way, and it is-it is-oh! And the game is over, and NSU are the Fiesta Bowl champions. Wow, NSU, you have the best college football team in the world right now. And you also have the best college football coach. I got to tell you, Frank Jones came through with a perfect season as he makes his way through the crowd with all the congratulations. Ladles and gentlemen, you're looking at the guy, the man of the hour. Frank Jones and his NSU team are now the college football champions of the world. Look at the fans. They're going crazy. They've been waiting for this for a long time. Yes, five long years in the making, and this man delivered tonight with a perfect season. He certainly did. The signs- there they are. Wow. You got to be excited for Frank. Definitely the man of the moment. What can you say? It's been a great year, hasn't it? There's his son, his wife, and there's his daughter. And that's his home team, and they're proud. The fans, the family, they've all just certainly played an integral part of Frank's career here and definitely for this entire season. What a season. Little did we know... "Jason, the brain has enough oxygen "to support full awareness for 10 to 15 seconds "after the heart is destroyed. "Go for the head. A lifetime full of pain, who needs 10 to 15 seconds more?" Now we have more reaction coming in, John, from the capital city. Let's go to Brian Blanford in Lincoln. He's at 14th and O Street in downtown Lincoln. Brian? Now, this is the scene here at 14th and O Streets, a few blocks away from where fans broke into University Stadium and tried, unsuccessfully, to tear down the goal posts. However, they were able to do about $2,000 damage to the gates, and some of the artificial turf was burned. They call the hole left by the passage of a bullet through the body a permanent cavity. A permanent cavity is what cops strive for when shooting someone dangerous. They say the best bullet for the job when trying to incapacitate someone dangerous is the one that's bigger, the one with the most velocity, the one that creates the largest permanent cavity, the one that kills faster. What I think what would be worse is being hit by a smaller caliber bullet over... and over... and over... A lifetime full of pain. Who needs 10 to 15 seconds more? I hope everyone's here. But it's not pain. It's laughing with your friend at a time when you shouldn't. It's the sweat in your palms wanting to know someone you see and the pit in your stomach when they actually see you. It's being touched by hands that aren't your own. It's the thrill of an escape that almost wasn't. It's the embarrassment you feel naked for the first time. It's helping a friend find something they lost. It's a smile, a joke, a song. It's what someone does that they like doing. It's what someone does that they like remembering. It's the thinking of things you may never do... and the doing of things you may never have thought. It's the road ahead and the road behind. It's the first step and the last and every one in between, because they all make up the good life.   Lately, words awkwardly fall out of me  like your first at bat, missing and all that.  And I can't seem to finish a simple sentence,  a thought progression.  Guess I need not mention when I stop to think,  I forget everything.  And you can't write it down.  It's no verb or no noun.  It's like a story told before you ever felt old  or like a seventh sense.  Or is it coincidence?  Then we think we're torn when really, we're just worn.  And when we understand it's like some divine hand.  And as the days do pass, nothing in nature lasts.  And I can't swallow it.  It just seems way too big to fit.  And when the darkness come androgynous and numb,  say, "No more in '04."  Be like you're heaven's door.  Thank God for chance meetings.  Chances are our best things.  They're up there with ocean waves and sleeping in all day  and staying up all night and knowing you're so right  and oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,  oh, oh, oh, oh.  They're only words.  Just leave them out.  Ain't no cynicism gonna get me down.  They're only words.  Just leave them out.  Ain't no cynicism gonna get me down.  They're only words.  Just leave them out.  Ain't no cynicism gonna get me down.  They're only words.  Just leave them out.  Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.  Ah, ah, ah. 
