 

                        1 When I was a little girl Grandma told me The most interesting story I've ever heard Every night The Guia Lighthouse turns and turns Illuminating the night skies of Macao But there's a secret no one knows about At some point the lighthouse will stop turning for a very brief moment and shine its light beam towards the post the Northern Jetty "Waiting is an awful desert" When that happens The treasure hidden underneath the post will be uncovered and whoever is brave enough to row a boat out there will get the treasure Really? Have you ever gone out there, Grandma? What's the treasure? Tell me! What's the treasure? Which means... If you get the treasure, you won't be afraid of anything How about my dad? Has he gone out there? I've heard of that story long ago My cousin said he's been out there He went by himself? That's so brave Lucky him. I wish I could have the treasure That's no big deal Even my grandma's been out there Grandma I want to go out there You think Dad will go with me? Your dad is learning to do business like everyone else, so he has no time Besides, he's not brave at all Grandma loved me very much She knew I loved milk, so every day after school She would heat up some milk for me Here, have some milk She practically raised me No one knew me like she did There's some coins on the table Go get yourself some game cards Hello? Hello, Dad I want to go see something, can you go with me? You know how busy I am, honey. I don't have the time But Grandma said... Hello? I'm busy now, let's talk later, okay? Lok-yi, It's time to set out Set out? Tomorrow I'll go with you Don't you be afraid I'll be shining this light on you Mr. Lin? I'm Lok-yi Peng from National Realty Any thoughts on the house we saw yesterday? Didn't I tell you to leave work on time? You still went over at the expense of your personal time Is it worth it? Don't you feel tired? Carol Of course I'd like things to go my way if possible But it's not up to me Don't you know Money isn't everything But without money you can't do anything I don't want to end up with nothing but a dream I bet you'd be a great teacher What you said makes a lot of sense But my dream is different from yours I WANT TO -- MAKE BIG BUCKS!!! You're exaggerating - Gold digger - No, I'm not Nope Greedy for money, you do LOVE money True. Just a little, not much at all Are you worried about not finding Mr. Right? Of course not, you're losing it Honestly? Yes Okay... Bye bye Excuse me nurse, where's the emergency room? End of the hall turn left Thank you Ma'am it's getting late Dad If you won't work with us I'll have to take you back to the precinct Officer You don't need to ask her anymore Who in her right mind would take her granddaughter out to the sea? The kid's only ten she doesn't know anything Your grandmother took you out to the sea? I see I'll return to my post, then Thank you, officer I thought you were too busy to come visit I don't know why you're so obsessed with that story Yes It's true I don't have the time to take care of her I'm not brave enough to take her out to the sea She said she really wanted to do it But she was afraid to do it alone That's human nature If this goes on How do you think she'll turn out when she grows up? But it's for the two of you that I'm working so hard She's my only child Can you promise not to take her out to the sea again? How many people can remain true to themselves until the very end? Actually I was the one who wanted to go out there Had I found the treasure then would I be any different now? After Ponte de Amizade was built The society Became more and more profit-minded And with it went... My childhood HEY Want me to come give you a lift? No, thanks I'm home already Okay Come home to eat whenever you have time Okay By the W3Y Yesterday a client gave a really good offer for grandma's house Grandma gave you that house You do as you see fit You should get some rest, it's late Don't sleep in the car all the time Alright I go work now Talk soon, bye Bye Hello? What? You mean my client, Mr. Lin? He signed with Carol? I forgot to dye my hair Dad Yes? Am I a useless pushover? Of course not When you were little You went out to the sea Even though you didn't reach the destination I couldn't even get in the boat Your grandma used to call me a coward If I sold the house she left me Do you think she would be upset? You've decided to sell it? Either way is fine with me Your grandma and I Do not have much to leave you The house will be our way to make it up to you Do you still remember... When you were young, you said you wanted to teach To be a good teacher But now you're working in real estate The world we live in makes us change So... Whether or not to sell the house It's entirely up to you If Grandma were still here Would she be very disappointed to see how I've turned out? No, I'm sure of it I always feel... You've inherited the good things from your grandmother If you stick to your guns It's only a matter of time that you will find the treasure "The Waiting" "Waiting is an awful desert" "Between where we are and where we want to be" "People do not like such a desert" "We want to get out by doing something..." "Something awful to ourselves" Hello, it's me I was out yesterday, I'm calling to tell you that I'm fine, you don't need to worry Even if we hadn't broken up, I didn't suppose you were really going to wait for me for 10 years, I just want to... I just want to... I want to thank you for visiting me for the first 9 years I don't know how to thank you Even though you didn't come for the past year But I completely understand I'll work hard and start a new life You have to keep chasing your dream too Even in different corners of this city Together, we shall forget what is behind and... Forget what is behind and strain toward what is ahead Strain toward what is ahead Goodbye Hello? Hello, it's me Who is this? When did you come out? Just yesterday l. Can you come out now? I'm in the middle of something now I won't take up a lot of your time I just want to see you, for just a little while I'm sorry, I just can't today I'm waiting for you at Antonio's "7I34am" Sorry, I'll clean it up later The waiter just quit, it's chaotic It was packed during lunch And now it's dead Get busy living Or get busy waiting The clock stopped running for years It's now 2:45pm You've been working the whole day, eat something Whenever it rains, the roof leaks Mom and Dad have arthritis I want to fix it before I leave Towel, toothbrush, I've packed everything for you I'm going to prison, not camping Have you been to prison? You know how it is inside? Of course it's better to be prepared HEY HEY I made this You have to be looking sharp when you come out And Sometimes, when I smell you on my clothes I feel that as if you're beside me Why aren't you eating? It took me the whole day to make it The whole day? It must stink now? I don't care, you finish it You really are not telling your parents? They'll be worried about you I'm not telling them, because I don't want to worry them But 10 years is such a long... It's not the right time to talk about it now Then let's talk about something which is also not the right time Do you have US$10? HEY HEY We will register once you get out Promise me You will wait for me "Waiting is painful, Forgetting is painful" "But not knowing which to do is the worst kind of suffering" Hello there, may I sit down here? Not really I've noticed you haven't eaten anything since this morning You only drank coffee, that's bad for your stomach I ordered too much food, and I can't finish this Could you help me eat it, if you don't mind? C'mon, help me out here, okay? C'mon, why don't you eat? Have some I really don't have the appetite, thank you Oh, I can order something else for you Don't worry about it I really can't eat anything now, thank you I've been watching you since this morning You had 5 coffees, didn't eat a single thing You know this is very bad for your health? If your parents see you like this They will be extremely heartbroken Why do you do this to yourself? A perfectly nice home you abandoned Rather sit around at a restaurant the whole day Granny, why don't you take it home, and please take a hike You snubbing me What? You want to hit me? What have I done wrong? I saw you looking all confused over here And brought you something to eat How ungrateful of you Granny, I'm actually a convicted murderer You're threatening me? Pretending to be murderer Your parents will be devastated if they heard this You take it back Sorry, excuse me Sit down, I'm not finished It's still warm, eat some, or it'll be cold C'mon Have some There's no rush, don't choke yourself Just like my son Waiting for someone? If not, you won't be only drinking coffee And looking at the door the whole day Waiting for your girlfriend? You're also waiting for someone? I'm waiting for my son For almost 11 years When you came in this morning I almost mistaken you as my son 11 years? Where is he? If I knew, I'd go find him I used to be a school headmaster But I couldn't even handle my own son He was always drunk and making trouble I rarely saw him at home But he called me up one day And wanted to celebrate my birthday with me He told me to meet here at this restaurant So I waited here until it closed, and he never came Never went home either As a parent, what could I do? He asked me to wait, so I'm waiting Driver, just wait here for a minute Keep the meter running, I'd be back soon "Not everyone could understand our choices" "But I believe in your choosing" "That is for the better" Congratulations Do you remember me? Years ago, my boyfriend and I saved up for a long time to eat here But we only had enough for one dish And you treated us to some deserts too You guys are getting married? No Can you help me return this to the man inside? Okay Your son must have his reasons, he just didn't know how to tell you Maybe he didn't want to worry you You think he really doesn't want to come home? I also slept in the park last night What can't you tell your own family? Leaving without even saying one word How'd it make us parents feel? Try stepping in our shoes and understand our concerns? So, you'd tell your son everything? Good or bad, even if it'd hurt him You'd tell him, right? If you're so sympathetic Why don't you step into your son's shoe And figure out why he left without saying anything Don't hit me again You're very punctual everyday Did Headmaster trouble you today? No, the young man kept her company the whole day Headmaster, let's go Thank you Goodbye Not goodbye, it's 'see you later' See you later Nobody knows where her son went? He died a long time ago Does she know? She went crazy This is her son She's been handing these out to everyone She went bald from chemotherapy But she still wears a silver wig, "Waiting is an awful desert" "But I know you're with me throughout this journey" "And you're waiting for me on the other side of the desert" "Dad" Telephone for you Hello I know, I'm trying hard already Sure, let's have supper tonight Oh Mom, Dad's medicine is on the cupboard I've got to go now See you tonight Good morning, Headmaster "Directed by Clement CHENG" In all the time I've lived here I have never seen the place like this before Every time I come home I walking on the streets and would wonder if the picture is real This is a computer-generated dream Of course it's fake I think this world is full of fakes just like both of us standing here now it isn't real either But they could start building at any moment, actions are quick Maybe it will soon become reality "Counting on Hong Kong - Serving the Mainland Facing the World" Mr. Lee Mr. Lee, are you 0k? Do you need to go to hospital? I'm fine, thanks! I'll be ok in a minute, thank you No, you should go to the hospital Trust me, I'm fine I usually see my doctor in Hong Kong it's safer So Hong Kong doctors are safe... but not the doctors here? Oh, that's not what I meant I never see any doctors here You always eat take-out, it's so unhealthy I cook myself, let's bring the food and eat with you? Eat with you? "I'm having dinner with my kids for the winter festival" (Talking to older daughter) What's up? Sure, never mind... Work comes first How late will you be? Call me when you're done (Talking to younger daughter) Where are you now? Still at work? Should we go ahead and eat first? Okay I want you to have the winter festival dinner with your mother in law that's why I want to have dinner with you before the day it's Okay, I mean it Work comes first Okay Dear, No need to rush home your sisters are not coming so I didn't cook anything You too, Happy New Year I am going to get through the costoms Are you asleep yet? Happy New Year "Qianhai welcomes all benchmark enterprises" "Together we build the future" In all the time I've lived here I have never seen the place like this before Every time I come home I was walking on the streets and would wonder if the picture is real This is a computer-generated dream Of course it's fake I think this world is full of fakes just like both of us standing here now it isn't real either But they could start building at any moment, actions are quick Maybe it will soon become reality How long it will take? Twenty years, thirty years We can't see it until we die "To the line, dare to do, do it quick, just do it!" "Innovation is the heart and soul of Qianhai" Can I smoke? Sure I didn't know you smoke I didn't before I only started when I lived alone I used to smoke too but I quit a long time ago I also quit drinking and eating sweets My health caught up with me after retirement but the truth is if you are not happy, it doesn't matter what you quit it's true! If you are happy, you will never get sick That's why I'm completely healed now Yes because I'm happy Were you happy just now? You've been living here for so long now Do you miss Hong Kong? Can't really say if I miss it Hong Kong is not my home anymore In the past, everybody wanted to go to Hong Kong but now they say Qianhai is the new Hong Kong We might even have to dial 852 to call here later and we'll be able to go on Facebook here too You know how to use Facebook? Not a clue Then what difference does it make to you? It doesn't matter If it's fun, I could open an account People say that we'll be under Hong Kong Law a special, special administrative region And you believe what they say? I choose to believe Maybe gay marriage will be legal here before Hong Kong What does gay marriage have to do with you? Didn't you notice? It doesn't matter as long as they are happy, it's fine More happy people make a happier world Maybe... maybe marijuana would becomes legal here Crazy! Isn't it great? Of course not Weather update is next The current temperature is 35C with humidity at 94% a heat alert is in effect The UV index is at a high of 10... Our target was 1 minute but we finished in 58 seconds Not bad for a bunch of old guys? We used 2 cars... one to escape, one as a decoy You could count the crew on one hand "Arrested for shooting" "Directed by: Tong Ka-wai" The robbery suspects: Pow, Picnic... and their leader, Yip Foon... How did you meet them? Isupposeu. Common interests "5 Jewelry Stores Looted during Armed Robbery" "Followed by Police Shootout..." Mr. Yip Foon It's an honor to meet you I'm here today... for a consultation on robbery I'm a film industry veteran I've worked as a PA, AD... every post imaginable Now I'm preparing to shoot a major crime drama Everything is in place except funding Sir, do people ever cancel prison meetings? Mr. Yip Foon! Please sit How are you? Are you Tsui Sai-man? Yes, I am It's an honor to meet you I'm here today Sir! "FELONS - the synopsis" Wow, so many typos Sir! I guarantee no misspelling this time I went through it You've got... "drilling" "Tunnefing" "Detecting infrared beams with red wine" Why waste good wine? And... where's the helicopter you talked about? I'm taking a minimalist approach this time To achieve the effect the production has been scaled down Just admit you have no money - Foon, how have you been? - "Long Walk to Freedom" I've thought about it Why am I letting others cash in on my script? I'm entering the Post-Wave Film Contest I could win a movie deal You'll soon be released from prison I was thinking... consulting is a waste of your talent You should consider acting Be my lead actor Let's collaborate! Sai, life isn't just about one thing There's a whole world out there You either have it or you don't Don't limit yourself... to stupid gangster movies Stupid? I grew up on HK gangster films! You call that stupid? You were one smart thief But who's in prison now? I know nothing... except making movies I must see this project through... even if it costs me my life Do you have a death wish? Then let's do it We'll shoot this - See you outside - "The Perfect Heist" Guys, let's go "Today" "8 days 89" Sha Tsui Road turning onto Chuen Lung Street... 90, 120, a total of 2 shops Wow... It's a red light! Switch You're good... Picnic, slow down Keep your distance, do you copy? We'll block traffic at this speed Why not let them pass? Sir, Car B's cover might be blown Act natural, overtake them Go past them Turn at Sha Tsui Road Circle around and tail them again Roger that The bakery unloads at 10:25 The egg tarts come out at 10:45 Are egg tarts important? No, but the delivery truck is The truck will block the entire lane It's the best time to act Fewer cars means fewer variables But there are cars here all the time Busy traffic Figure it out, Mr. Filmmaker "8 days 89" "Today" We're not supposed to stop here Our view is blocked Go to the next intersection Get out, keep watch Tzik, follow me Everyone, stay calm Keep the channel open Don't lose the bosses - I'm ready. - Walk slowly Everyone, stay calm Cheung, Sir The sign says "shooting in progress" But the proposed shoot is for the day after tomorrow! The delivery truck finished unloading What's the hold up? The truck is leaving! Take action! What're you waiting for? Chun, check out the car Sir, they're dummies! Sai, roll camera! You pretended to shoot a film to rob a store! No! We faked the shoot... I mean we staged the robbery to shoot a film! You switched cars The schedule was pushed up 2 days When did you start planning this robbery? It wasn't a robbery! We were filming a documentary This film will be awesome I'm shooting it semi-documentary style In other words up to the day of the robbery... I'll be living with you guys Can you please turn off that light? The color seems off Never mind, just be yourselves Wow... even thieves are vain about their nails Pow, please move to the left a little No! To my left, your right Right Good 5,June I followed Foon and his two henchmen to... What "henchmen"? "Brothers" sounds better, don't you think? 5,June I followed Foon and his two "brothers"... to their den The big heist is happening in 20 days HEY What's the prize if you win this film contest? A million bucks? No... but I could win a movie deal to direct What? No money? Why bother? He's filming, shut up Don't interrupt Young people have dreams Money isn't everything If I give you a million dollars can you go buy me a dream? Alright, I'm sorry, Boss Keep shooting Okay Picnic Did I say something wrong? It's not you - Okay - Foon just hates blabbermouths Never interrupt him Okay Also I'm not vain Drivers need to keep their hands in shape No calluses Okay "Form and Ideology in Crime Films" You used your filmmaking expertise to help the suspects plan a robbery... under the pretext of making a film Some people strip for their art I committed a robbery Sorry "staged" a robbery Fine, let's say you were filming Does it give you the right to endanger lives? Even your permit was fake FSO never approved your application! Falsifying a government document... is a criminal offense under section 73... of the Crimes Ordinance, Cap. 200 The maximum penalty is 14 years! As if FSO cares... Everything I did was for the shoot Those guns were fake The stolen jewelry were props Jewelry was missing from the shop They're still tallying If the jewelry doesn't turn up you'll be charged as an accomplice Your sentence will be just as long So where are the goods? Ask your Brother Yip Foon! He used you Idiot When the operation begins you two charge in Take care of the display cases Smash them all Sai Stop playing I'm working on car stunts You have 1 minute to complete the operation - I'll keep watch at the entrance... - Foon! Can you repeat what you just said? I didn't get it on camera You have 1 minute to complete the operation I'll keep watch at the entrance I'll alert you if there's a situation You have a 5 to 8 second window Okay? Good! "Director: Tsui Sai-man" Not sleepy? What are you watching? A film What film? Never seen "A Better Tomorrow"? HK movies... I haven't been a Big Brother for a very long time Between brothers... Just like this? Why not let Mark finish his sentence? "Between brothers," then what? What kind of ending is this? You call this art? It's the director's approach What I hate the most... is when someone interrupts me It's been 23 years For 23 years, the police never let me finish Like you said once you start something you must see it through to the end Right? Right! Not to show off but to prove you can take back what you lost! 23 years ago I had over ten police guns pointed at my head Why? For the money! You people are something else You blow your money on a pipe dream Hah... I may have a dream but I have no money I've got a hundred dollars in the bank I can't even rent fake jewelry I have to pay if they break Each of those prop glasses cost thousands What now? This... forget it Cut that out too You've got money! Pow and Picnic kept this for me It's not dirty money Use it Remember This job... isn't just about you It's about us "Jewelry store" Yip Foon treats you well because you see him as a movie outlaw He's been using you He switched cars without telling you Because he used you as bait to distract us He exploited your passion for cinema You even wrote the script for him You helped him with a robbery like a fool We're shooting a training video about ethics You say you'll give us... a $200,000 security system in return How is it different from the one we have? It's safer Safer... Actually it doesn't seem safe... to let you shoot here WhY do you say that? You can trust me How can I trust you? Well, you relax because we'll replace everything... with fake jewelry and sugar glass and restore everything afterwards So you'll switch everything to props I'll hide the real jewelry first... Actually, I'm a cinephile myself I admire young people with heart I'll find a way to help you It's a deal Freeze! Stop! There's a camera over there Turn to the side so it gets your face As for you show your strength Get down! Cut! You must look like you're aiming Director! How did we perform? - Very well - Those gentlemen were very intimidating Of course, they're pros I only forgot the seatbelt No need to draw your guns, sir! Damn! Stop the car! We're investigating! Go! What? Watch that taxi - Freeze! - Behind you, find cover! Watch out, they're armed! Put up your hands! Freeze! Put up your hands! Step out slowly! Freeze! Put up your hands! Freeze! Cut! I said cut! Director We did okay didn't we? Good take! That's a wrap! Wow! Yeah! Yeah! If you confess your crimes now and return the stolen goods I'll consider... going easy on your two brothers Excuse me I have three I lost a brother... 23 years ago Today I gained another brother I'm happy that... I've helped him realize his dream Give me a break Stop pretending As a Big Brother, at least... don't drag them down with you Sir I haven't been a Big Brother for a long time I didn't steal a thing I even invested my own money All I did was help a kid fulfill his dream If you still don't believe me, so be it When I finished my script... no one believed I could pull it off Only Foon believed in me Now it's my turn to believe in him Wake up, kid You still think those crooks are your brothers? I believe cinema... can do more than inspire me I can also use it to inspire others Sir, Customs just intercepted the jewelry shop manager He tried to skip town with the stolen jewelry He confessed to everything Chief is angry He's on his way Sir! What's wrong with you? The reporters are camping outside The management thinks you're targeting "reformed citizens" Know what "reformed citizens" means? Remodeled? Not "remodeled" "Re-formed" "Reformed citizens" Repeat after me Remodeled Not "remodeled" remodeled means updated They can't be updated! "Reformed citizens"... after serving their sentence they should be given a chance... to re-enter society What are you charging him with? I'm a filmmaker Filmmakers are valuable to society! How can you arrest him... for being a filmmaker? You used the Bureau's resources... to persecute reformed citizens for making films If the word gets out, it'll be... shame on you! And shame on me! We must work with the People Support the HK film industry! Understand? Yes, sir! Follow procedure, take them to the cell Yes, sir Come sit down... What's the fuss? I want to... record a message for your loved ones Look at the camera Say whatever you want to anyone you want Hey, kid We have work to do I don't have time to play with you Foon, wait Jane, I'm sorry... for disappearing for a month I've been working Not that kind of work I promised you I'd go straight and stay straight I'm helping a young man to make a film I know you won't believe me... and you'd yell at me Imagine yourself... about to die What would your final words be? Can you try to look more sincere? More serious? With more heart? Morn You loved watching movies, remember? Grace Kelly, Cary Grant and so on A director hired me... to act in his film I'll be a movie star! Awesome? I have no family ...except for Pow and Picnic ...and you Sai Remember when we were watching... "A Better Tomorrow"? In the end, Mark says: "Between brothers..." and BAM! he was shot dead Remember how pissed off I was? Why couldn't they let him finish? After thinking about it, I finally understood Between brothers - says it all! Hmm Between brothers... Hmm
