 

                        (INDISTINCT CHEERS) (APPLAUSE) CROWD: (CHANTING) Johnny! Johnny! Johnny! (MUSIC PLAYING) JOHNNY: (SINGING) Under the surface We're all the same Searching for purpose Running from shame I'm sorry I'm not all the things that you want All the things that you thought I should be I guess I'm not like you Not something you're used to Maybe something brand new you've never seen Wish I could read your mind Come on, let me inside I'll never waste your time Misunderstood Wish you could somehow see that I will always be All that you want from me - Now? - MICHELLE: No... No. Keep 'em closed! All right? - You ready? - MICHELLE: Ready! All right, open 'em! No way! (SQUEALS) (LAUGHS) Well, you've been rocking out on mine, I thought it was time you had your own. Oh, my goodness! Hey, I'm not gonna let you quit piano that quickly, but... Happy birthday, baby. Thank you! (ALL LAUGHING) MICHELLE: All right, let's hear something! Play it! You've gotta let it You, you've gotta let it go You've gotta let it You, you've gotta let it go You've gotta let it You, you've gotta let it go You've gotta let it go (GUITAR STRUMMING) Even though I walk Through the valley Of the shadow of death Your perfect love is casting out fear And even though I'm caught In the middle of the storms of this life I won't turn back, I know You are near And I will fear no evil For my God is with me And if my God is with me Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? Oh, no, You never let go Through the calm and through the storm Oh, no, You never let go Every high and every low Oh, no, You never let go No, You never let go of me Yeah And I can see a light (INDISTINCT CHATTER) - Hey, Miss Grace. - Hey. Where's my hug? (CHUCKLES) - You been practicing? - Yeah. Good. The recital's coming up soon, you know. You gonna be there? Of course, you're my star student. I wouldn't miss it. - Cool. See ya later. - See you, bud. Hey, superstar. Hey, Rach. You rocked today. (SCOFFS) Yeah. Glad you thought so. - Hey. - (SIGHS) Her light's still on. Should I do it? - I think it'll be encouraging. - (SCOFFS) After what she said in the car and what she pulled in church, she needs encouragement? Go do it, John. (SIGHS) (RENAE SINGING INDISTINCTLY) (KNOCK ON DOOR) - (MUSIC STOPS PLAYING) - Come in. - Hey. - Hi. Listen, um, about what you said in the car... Dad, I get it. You're right, I'm wrong. I get it. - Please, don't give me that. - What? You've obviously made up your mind. We're not forcing you to go to college, Grace. It's just that music is unpredictable. - I said I'll go. - (SIGHS) We're done? No. Okay. Look, I know your birthday was last week. And, um, I don't know if this is the right time or if any time's the right time anymore, but this just came today. - It's called a... - I know what it is, Dad. I probably should have done it years ago... So, now that I'm 18, you think I'm gonna start sleeping around or something? - Is that what this is? - No, of course not. We just... Dad, I know what I'm supposed to do or what I'm not supposed to do. I don't need a ring to remind me. What is the matter with you? Every time we talk lately, everything I say, it's a battle. Like at church. When I want you on the piano, you play the guitar. Today, we rehearsed a certain way, I asked you to play it that way, and you still just do your own thing. I have my own style. Have you not noticed that? It's worship, Grace, we're there to worship! The rest of us are doing Chris Tomlin, and you act like it's a Renae Taylor concert! Yeah, well, everyone else likes how I sing. Well, I'm the one in charge of the band, whether you like it or not, and you're either part of the team or you're not. And I didn't come in here to fight with you. Well, then don't. RACHEL: It just doesn't make sense to me. I mean, you guys have been playing together since you were, like, six. Yeah, and he still treats me like I'm six. He's always in my face. And it's like, every second has to be this brilliant teaching moment. Yeah, but all dads do that. No, not like mine. See, everyone thinks 'cause my dad was this rock star who got saved, that he's cool. Trust me, he is not cool. Grace, you have the best life ever. No, I don't. Yes, you do. I mean, look at you. You're drop dead gorgeous. You have this amazing singing voice. And now you get to make an album. His album. That's what I'm saying. It's his songs, played his way. I mean, I get that he hasn't made an album in forever, - right? - Yeah. But he'd never even think about doing one of my songs. You don't have any songs. I'm trying. But it's in my head and it can't get out because he suffocates me. - Is it really that bad? - Yes! And I'm sorry, I don't wanna be the sidekick of the great one-hit-wonder Johnny Trey the rest of my life. For once, I wanna do things my way. (GUITAR STRUMMING) I feel like worshipping I wanna hear you sing You give me everything It's all about you, God It's all about you, God, I hope you hear me out. I wanna hear... I feel like worshipping I have a song to sing I wanna hear you sing... No. I feel like worshipping, I have a song to sing. I feel like worshipping (GROANING) So help me, God, write this song (GROANS) No, but I grew up 10 minutes from Graceland. Oh, now I get it. That makes sense. My parents wanted Hank Williams, - (IMITATING ELVIS) but I gave them Elvis. - (ALL LAUGH) - Oh. I loved Elvis. - Mmm-hmm. Yeah, he was just gospel enough, my parents didn't worry about me too much. At first, anyway. Hey, have a good night, you guys. - Hi, sweetie. - Hey, baby. You going to youth group? - Yeah. - MICHELLE: All right. Hey, can you fill the car up? You can use the card. - Yup. - Don't forget. - I won't. - Hey, hey, come here. Why don't you do it on the way so you don't forget tonight? Dad, I won't forget. Okay? (CHUCKLES) Your kids ever act like that? Come on, I'm a pastor. My kids are perfect. - SHARON: Yeah, that's funny. - (ALL LAUGH) We're ready to eat. Let's do it, come on. Let's eat, baby. MAN IN MOVIE: Whoa, is that a potbellied pig in our apartment? - (ALL LAUGH) - Dad, he's our new roommate. I thought that was your sister. That's disgusting. I taught him a trick. Watch, he can shake. Come on, Bacon. That's impressive. Is Desert Song the one you wanted to do? Yes, I love that song. Hi, babe, how was youth group? Fine. It was really good. Good. Did you eat something? Yeah, I grabbed something. All right. Oh, I talked to Rachel's mom. Do you know Rachel is starting Monroe this fall? She got a scholarship. Yeah, I know. Um, anyway, she said all the classes are listed online, so if you want to check it out. Okay, cool. I'm gonna go crash. All right. Good night, sweetheart. Good night. You fill the car up? Uh... No. Dad, as soon as I got in the car, Paige called, okay, and she was sobbing. There was nothing else I could do. Look, it's fine, I'll fill it up right now. Nope. - Okay. - (KEYS JANGLE) Do you see what I'm talking about, Mom? Grace, honey, this one's on you. You broke your word. Again. Okay. I'm gonna go to bed. Good night. (KNOCK ON DOOR) Come in. (DOOR OPENS) You left your Bible in the car. Oh, thanks. Is there something you wanna tell me? What? No. Nothing? Nothing at all? Okay, I'm sorry. I didn't put gas in the car, I'm a horrible person. That's not what I'm talking about. Then what, Dad? This is unbelievable! I don't fill the car up and you look at me like I'm a serial killer! Ditching youth group for a movie is not the point, but that little song and dance that you gave your mother... Look at me. That little song and dance you gave your mother down there about youth group was great, uh-huh... You will not disrespect my wife like that, not in this house. These lies, this pattern. You know it's sin, Grace. Is that how we raised you? Is it? No. No. You always wanted your life to be about God. And these days you're just all about you. And I always thought that we'd be a team, but if this doesn't stop, I just don't see how you can stay in the worship band. Or be on that album. ALL: I will bring praise, I will bring praise No weapon formed against Him shall remain I will rejoice, I will declare God is my victory and He is here This is my prayer in the battle When triumph is still on its way I am a conqueror and co-heir with Christ So firm on His promise I'll stand I will bring praise, I will bring praise No weapon formed against me shall remain I will rejoice, I will declare God is my victory and He is here All of my life In every season You are still God I have a reason to sing I have a reason to worship Johnny Trey, still pulling his own cables. Mossy? - In the flesh, mi amigo. - (LAUGHS) Come here, man. Dude, what in the world? (LAUGHS) Hey, hey! Let me look at you. (LAUGHS) - Man, you got old. - Yeah. - (LAUGHS) - MICHELLE: Mossy? Michelle! (LAUGHS) Oh, my gosh! (CHUCKLES) Oh! Now, she's not aged a day. Well, I'll have to take your word for that. Oh, trust me. And who is this, if I may? - JOHNNY: That's Grace. - Hi. What? No. Our daughter. No, no, no. (LAUGHS) Yes, yes, yes. This beautiful woman is baby Grace? - MICHELLE: Yes. - (LAUGHS) How did that happen? When I saw you last, you were in diapers. I'm not kidding. Grace, this is Frank Mostin. He was my manager. He discovered your old man back in the day. Pleasure. You sang beautifully. Oh, thanks. You completely got me. Okay, tell me, what brings you out here? MOSSY: You remember Larry Reynolds? Oh, yeah. Publicity at MCA. Well, he's moved up in the world. Two months ago, they made him the president of Sapphire Music. JOHNNY: (LAUGHS) Wow, good for him. I always liked Larry. MOSSY: He runs the whole company now, yeah, so I went by and paid my old friend a visit, kissed the ring. And the first thing he wants to talk about is the Australian American Idol kid who sang the song. You don't... How do you not know about this? (CHUCKLES) Foolish me, assuming there's Wi-Fi in the South. - (JOHNNY AND MICHELLE CHUCKLE) - Uh... A couple of weeks ago, a young kid wins the Australian American Idol show singing Misunderstood. - MICHELLE: You're kidding! - (JOHNNY LAUGHS) - Yeah, and the video goes viral. - What video? Your video of you at the Greek, singing the song a hundred years ago. (LAUGHS) Wow. MOSSY: How did you not hear about this? JOHNNY: That's the thing Bill was talking about. MOSSY: Okay, good, you scared me there for a moment. Anyways, so Larry and I, uh, you know, dinner becomes drinks, before the sun comes up, I've got an office at Sapphire Music. Oh, that's great. Wow. Congratulations. It's nice when friends help out friends. So anyways, the best part of the whole thing, and what brings me here today, is that although Larry and I have not quite hammered out all the details, Sapphire is ready to offer you a deal. Mmm-hmm. It's a one-off for now, but I got Larry to agree, in advance, to a full domestic tour in support of a new album. As far as the songs, hands off. All right? (EXHALES) You can do whatever you want. I mean, not the religious stuff, of course, but as long as you sing Misunderstood at every gig on tour, Larry said, really, the album is completely up to you. - Wow. - Huh? That is, uh, humbling. Humbling? It's huge! Do I have to point out, they don't make offers like this anymore to guys like us? (LAUGHS) - Johnny, we're back! - (CHUCKLES) It sounds like an incredible opportunity. Oh, it is. And you're welcome. I worked real hard on it. (CHUCKLES) I'm sure you did, man. I'm sure. And, uh, I really appreciate it. But, uh, I'm gonna have to pass, man. (STAMMERS) You're messing with me. No, that's just not my thing anymore. Not your thing anymore? I don't understand. You're looking healthy and great, you've got your life back together. I love what we're doing here. You do? Listen. May I speak freely? Absolutely. You can say whatever you want here. You remember the airport bars? The coffee house open mics? Who gave you your shot? We had a good run, man. Yeah. Passed out drunk onstage, waking up in county? You remember that, too? And who was there for you? You. You did a ton for me. That's why I gave you my publishing. And I would love to help you out here, Mossy... Fine, then just say, "Yes, and thank you, Mossy." All right. (CHUCKLES) Um... - If Misunderstood is all hot again... - Honey, come on, come in here. Just do a remake. You own it. Get the kid from the Idol... Nobody wants the kid. Larry wants you. I want you. Everybody wants you. I am sorry, Moss. Just seeing him again brings me back. Me too. He'll be all right. - He's a survivor. - (CHUCKLES) He'll be fine. (SIGHS) I just haven't thought about it in so long. What? The past. How I shouldn't even be here. The drugs alone should have killed me. Mmm. I'm just glad that life's over. Then after the guy leaves, right, my dad launches into this, like, 10-hour speech on motives and temptation, and how that world was so empty for him. And everyone has a different calling, and now he's so fulfilled and everything. - What's wrong with that? - Nothing! I've heard it a million times. He said it at every church we ever played at. I'm serious. He acts like I've never heard it before. Yeah, but I mean, it is pretty cool that your dad's song is getting so many hits. What difference does it make? He turned him down. He told the guy if Misunderstood is that hot right now, he should get someone else and do a remake. What'd the guy say? (INAUDIBLE) JOHNNY: I choose the music very specifically. (TIRES SCREECH) GRACE: Fine, it's your music. And whenever I do anything different, it's wrong. Grace, that is not the point and you know it! You don't leave the piano in the middle of a song! Dad, I don't feel it on piano! I don't care how you feel! If I wanted you on guitar, I would have put you on the guitar! But that was not how we rehearsed it, and that's not your call to make! Do you know how much better it was than the boring thing we rehearsed? - And everybody loved it! - Grace, your father's right. It was not your call to make. I know. I know, Morn. He's said it a hundred times. Maybe you should just start listening! (YELLING) That's all I ever do is listen! And you will not talk to me that way! I am the authority here. Not you! Oh, you're the authority? You're also the one who used to get wasted and went to jail for it! You're done. You're out of the band and you can forget the album. (YELLING) Good! I don't want to be on your stupid album! (CELL PHONE RINGING) (BREATHES HEAVILY) Hello? MOSSY: Grace, Frank Mostin. (PANTING) (BREATHES HEAVILY) MICHELLE: John! MALE ANNOUNCER: Welcome to Los Angeles International Airport. - Hi. - Hi. Can I help you? Yeah, I'm here to see Frank Mostin. Your name? Grace Trey. (CELL PHONE RINGING) (VOICEMAIL) Hey, it's Grace. Leave a message and I'll get back to you when I can. (KEYPAD BEEPING) I gotta tell you, I'm not real crazy about doing this without your dad knowing. I mean, I get it. Some parents just don't appreciate that their children grow up and have dreams of their own. Yup. That's my dad. Maybe he'll come around once you're on iTunes, Spotify and Pandora. I gotta ask, best case scenario, what happens? What do you want? Um... I wanna blow people away with my music. I know I have what it takes. A million other girls got talent. You do have one thing that they don't. A dad who has a hit song, I get it. No, you have me. A daughter singing her dad's hit, that's our angle, but if you're willing to work really hard and do exactly what I tell you, I'll get you your shot. Who's your favorite artist? Probably Renae Taylor. Yeah, I see a little Renae in you. If things go well, maybe you'll open up for her. No way. If things go really well, she'll open up for you. (CHUCKLES) Shut up. It wasn't that long ago that Justin Bieber was opening up for Taylor Swift. I'm just saying, it happens. So your other songs, they're not religious, right? Mmm-mmm. - I mean, I write. - Right. You know, I write songs. I think they're good, too, I just... I don't think they're necessarily ready to record yet, you know? Oh, don't worry about that. I mean, I'll push for an album, but it won't happen for a while. - Okay. - Any questions? Mmm-mmm. Oh, wait. Actually, yeah, I do have one. Where am I, like, gonna stay? This is mine? Yes. For now. What do you mean, for now? Oh, it's all about delivering. You know, when you do well, you'll buy a place in Malibu. (CHUCKLES) (CHUCKLES) Get out! - This is amazing! - Good. So then, no regrets? No. None at all. How long do you think you'll be there? GRACE: Uh, I don't know. I mean, hopefully forever. I mean, not forever, but, I guess however long it takes. That's neat. "That's neat"? I mean, yeah. What do you want me to say, Grace? You've always been amazing. I didn't expect it to happen like this. - Like what? - Like this. Are you even gonna call your parents? Are you crazy? And get the biggest lecture of my life? He needs to see that I can make it on my own. Let them hear your voice. Let them know you're okay. You know what, Rach? Maybe you should move in with them and be the perfect daughter they always wanted, huh? I gotta go. (SIGHS) (APPLAUSE) Thank you, Ashley. Our next performer is in his second year of study under the teaching of Grace Trey. Playing And Can It Be, please welcome Noah Ramos. (APPLAUSE) (PHONE RINGING) (SIGHS) Hey, Johnny. How are you? This is wrong, man, and you know it. What's wrong? My only kid, Moss, and you just rip her right from under me. Settle down. No... First of all, I'm taking a chance on her, okay? And secondly, I came to you, remember? And you kicked me to the curb yet again. I honored every agreement we ever had. This has nothing to do with that! I poured my life into you. Even when you fell apart, I stuck by you. And I gave you my publishing! I never asked for that! What I did ask for, after 20 years, was one favor. And you said no. How can you do this, man? Do what? Your adult daughter came to me. What do you mean she came to you? Yeah, she didn't tell you because she knew you would lose it. So when you turned me down, she went off on her own and demo'd Misunderstood. And by the way, it's brilliant, and she's amazing. (EXHALES) C'mon. Don't do this, Frank. You know, she's really got you pegged. I understand that this isn't your thing anymore, but now you also want to kill her dream? Shame on you. You know what? I've got a new talent that starts gigging tomorrow, and I've got an awful lot of work to do, so give Shelly my love, will you? What are you doing? What does it look like I'm doing? You honestly think she's gonna listen to you? I'm not going there to talk. What are you gonna do? Are you gonna drag her back home? Yeah, I might. Johnny, would you stop? I don't get you! Are you okay with what she's done? Of course I'm not okay with it! But she's 18 years old! And maybe if you hadn't been so hard on her, she wouldn't have left! This wouldn't have happened! (SOBBING) - (CLUB MUSIC PLAYING) - (INDISTINCT CHATTER) Here we go. All right, I'm gonna take this to stage. I gotta talk to Tommy. - You get a lay of the land, all right? - Yeah. - You must be Grace. - Huh? - You're Grace, right? - Yeah. Larry Reynolds, Sapphire Music. Big fan of your dad's. And I loved your demo. Good luck tonight. - Mossy. Mossy. - Calm down. Seriously, - just breathe, just breathe. - I don't understand, you didn't tell me he'd be at my first show. I didn't know. It wasn't my plan. These people just show up. They don't call first or anything? No, they don't. This is the bigs now. You just need to relax and forget that he's here. - Tonight is about you. Listen to me. - Yeah. You've heard this song your whole life. - Mmm-hmm. - Your whole life. You rehearsed with the band for almost an hour, and it felt good, didn't it? - It felt good. Say yes. - Yeah, yes. It felt good. Okay, then just go out there and be great and relax, and don't screw it up. GIRL: I love your dad! (INDISTINCT CHATTER) (FEEDBACK) Sorry. (WHISTLING) One, two, three, four. Under the surface We're all the same Searching for purpose (CLEARS THROAT) Running from shame I'm sorry I'm not all the things that you want All the things you thought I should be I guess I'm not like you Not something you're used to Maybe something brand new you've never seen Wish I could read your mind Come on, let me inside I'll never waste your time Misunderstood Wish you could somehow see that I will always be All that you want from me I got your letter Telling me who's to blame Do you feel better Causing me pain? So much pain I'm sorry I'm not all the things that you want (CROWD CHEERING) All the things that you thought I should be I guess I'm not like you Not something you're used to Maybe something brand new you've never seen Yeah, come on! Wish I could read your mind Come on, let me inside I'll never waste your time Misunderstood Wish you could somehow see that I will always be All that you want from me Misunderstood It's my time, it's my turn and I'm ready But I need to make this on my own You're not right, I'm not wrong so just let me Go (CHEERING INDISTINCTLY) I'm sorry I'm not all the things that you want All the things that you thought I should be Wish I could read your mind Come on, let me inside (INAUDIBLE) I'll never waste your time Misunderstood Wish you could somehow see that I will always be All that you want from me You've gotta let it You, you've gotta let it go You've gotta let it You, you've gotta let it go You, you've gotta let it go (CHEERING INDISTINCTLY) Under the surface We're all the same (CHEERING INDISTINCTLY) Oh. my gosh! Larry Reynolds said for me to call him tomorrow morning. - Are you serious? - Settle down, we don't have a deal yet, but he said to call him in the morning. Trust me, you blew Sapphire Music away. (SQUEALS) I was so nervous. I was really nervous. You did great and you have to remember that you absolutely crushed it. Oh, my gosh. This is incredible! I don't want to leave, Mossy. Don't leave. Go enjoy your new fans. I've gotta talk to Marketing anyways. - Listen to me. I'm proud of you. - Yeah? (INDISTINCT CHATTER) You rocked it. Oh, thank you! Thanks! - WOMAN: That was great! - Thank you so much. You guys, that was incredible. Oh, thanks, man. You were awesome. Thanks. If you ever need a band, we're your guys. - Wait, you would do that? - Absolutely. I'd love that. You have no idea how good at... Did you see me up there? Yeah. Grace, I know I have made every mistake you could possibly make as a dad. But, baby, think about what you're doing. Or better yet, why you're doing it. Look, if you want to go solo, you want to sing my song, whatever, fine, I don't care about any of that. But if somewhere deep down you still care about pleasing God, then, sweetie, running away and doing it behind our backs, that's not the way you wanna go about it. Oh, you are not ready for this. (SCOFFS) Were you watching me, Dad? I mean, like, really watching me? No one has ever questioned your ability. (SCOFFS) This is not about the music, it's about everything else that goes with it. (EXHALES) Honey, just come home with me. Johnny. I didn't know you were here. I would have had the band announce you from stage. Hey, man. Dad, did you really come all this way just to tell me I'm wrong again? No. (CHUCKLES) Of course not. Can we just go somewhere? Let's go and talk. No. This is what I want. I don't care what you think. Tell Mom I love her. She's really amazing, Johnny. If you hurt my daughter... It's me. Okay? I'm truly sorry that this is painful for you. I really am. Let me know if you need anything while you're in town. All right? (SIGHS DEEPLY) (MUSIC PLAYING) (INDISTINCT CHATTER) - Champagne? - Yes, thank you. So I have a lot of respect for your dad. He has conviction. And you bring a fresh, young new sound to his music. It's terrific. Champagne? - (CHUCKLES) - Well, champagne... MOSSY: Nice timing. To, um, the success of Misunderstood. - MOSSY: Perfect. - Cool. Speaking of which, you got a timeframe for the album? Um, no, not yet. I think we'll record the single, see how that does, and if it goes well, we'll shoot a video. Fair enough. How about a follow-up song? Maybe something original? Yeah, well, I think we wanna see how the reaction to the single is, then do a radio tour, and, uh, if all goes well, we definitely wanna have a follow-up in place. Absolutely. Would you be able to record an original demo for us? Maybe something that you've written? Yeah, no problem. Good. I can't promise anything. It's all about the numbers. - MOSSY: Always is. - Mmm-hmm. Well, well, well. Frank Mostin. Haven't seen you for a while. Kendra. How are you? Very well, thank you. Kendra Burrows, meet Grace. Kendra is with Artist Development. She will be your image maker. Hi. Your photos do not do you justice at all, you are stunning. Thank you. Grace Trey. You ever go by Gracie? Sometimes, yeah. Gracie Trey, it sounds better. Yes, it does. Champagne? No, thank you, darling. Blackwell's rum, iced, splash of pineapple. WAITER: Yes, ma'am. We are gonna have so much fun with you. (CHUCKLES) I can hardly wait. I got a little something for you. What? - Here you go. - What is it? Don't open it here. It's your first advance. - What? - Yeah, settle down. It's gonna be enough to get you a car and get you by for a little while. As long as you avoid Rodeo Drive, you'll be fine. What's that? Perfect. You're on your way, Gracie Trey. Welcome to daylight Open your eyes for the very first time Look in the mirror See yourself through Heaven's eyes Look beyond the old you Everything you held to Flirty, but not too trashy. There's a perceived innocence. Yeah, let's keep that. I want every boy and girl to fall in love with her. We'll get there. For now, let's go for daddy's little girl with an edge. When the light breaks out like a midnight sun Blazing right in front of you Life is here and now and it's just begun Your destiny is breaking through Welcome to daylight Oh Whoa Welcome to daylight There's no looking back now Oh, we're moving full speed ahead We're leaving the past now For the life we're meant to live Thanks, Jay. - Jay! Hey, how are you? - What's up, buddy? This is Grace. Grace, this is Jay. He's on a very popular television show. - Yeah, I know. - Thunder Falls. She's gonna be a giant singer. Welcome to daylight Oh Welcome to daylight Oh Welcome to daylight Oh What? MOSSY: Tell me about the car, what'd you get? Uh, it's a Fiat 500. What were you saying before, Mossy? Oh, that's a nice image car. Good one. Okay, what were you saying? Something about downloads being flat? (STAMMERS) I don't understand. Tell me more. - (CAR ALARM BEEPS) - No, no, it's fine. It's fine, don't worry about it. The, uh, radio play is good, it's just that downloads are a little flat this week. It happens, don't worry. Yeah, yeah. The video will help, right? You just worry about your follow-up song. When are we gonna hear it, by the way? Um, it's almost done. I want to make sure it's perfect, that's all. Yeah, you know, Sapphire just needs a demo. You understand that, right? Yeah, all right, okay. Hey, Randall's book. I looked through the photos... Yeah, he's amazing, isn't he? Yeah, the girls aren't really wearing anything. Come on. It's all classy stuff. He's a great guy. Look, once you start charting, we need some great images and he's the one. Yeah. Um, I don't know. What's to know? He's taken Renae's next cover. Look, Grace, I know you don't like to think about this, but you're a beautiful girl. We just want to make the most of it, that's all. And by the way, I'm not the only one who thinks so. I got a call from Jay Grayson's manager. He wants to take you out. What? Yeah, apparently when you met, you charmed him. Are you kidding me? GRACE: Hey, Jay. Cool to see you again. I'm looking forward to this. Hey, Jay. I watch Thunder Falls all the time. You're my favorite character. So, Jay, how did I charm you? Hello? (BOTH GASP) - Oh, I'm so sorry! - Who are you? (STAMMERS) You just get home? I knocked, like, 10 times. Who are you? Get out! (STAMMERS) Sorry. I'm Quentin. I'm interning with Sapphire. Kendra, she had me drop off clothes for your video. How'd you get in? Here. They gave me a key. They weren't sure if you'd be here. Why didn't anyone call? I don't know, I don't know. They totally should have. And I don't know why it's night. And I'm sorry, I don't know why any of this. They just make me do things. I'm sorry. Okay. Uh, sorry. Anyway... - You okay? - Yeah. Thank you. Yeah, okay, uh... Um... This is the last of it. Uh... I. uh, put the rest in your closet. I hope that's okay. - It's fine. - Okay. (CHUCKLES) That's a mango. What? You put a mango with the ruffled cami. Oh. They'd probably clash. Yeah. (CHUCKLES) Okay. Okay, I'll put the rest away. That's fine. Uh... - Nice to meet you. - Mmm-hmm. MOSSY: Sally, Frank Mostin. How are you? SALLY: Hello, Frank. Listen, how would WideSpin like an exclusive on Jay Grayson's latest love of his life? (CHUCKLES) I'm listening. Evening, sir. (CAMERA CLICKING) (CELL PHONE CHIMING) - Hey. - Hi. I'm sorry about that. My manager freaks out if I don't pick up his calls. Oh, that's okay. No worries. (CLEARS THROAT) Gracie Trey. Gracie Trey, thank you for hanging out with me. (CHUCKLES) Hi, welcome. What are you drinking? What am I what? What are you drinking? Um, Blackwell's. Please. Um, and pineapple juice. Just a splash of it. And ice. (CHUCKLES) That's nice. I'll do the usual. You bet. No, seriously, thank you for coming to hang out with me. I've been working so much lately, and the hours on the show are crazy, and I don't get to ever get out, so it's good. I haven't stopped thinking about you since I saw you the other day. Oh, wow. MOSSY: Oh, there it is. Now it's just a mock-up, but... I do love the photo. It's very provocative. Yeah, it's a nice photo. I just thought we agreed that Grace's name - would be in the headline. - (CHUCKLES) For a guy who hasn't had a hit in a decade, you're awfully pushy. We laughed a ton, and he was a gentleman and so sweet. - And it was just... It was perfect. - All right, I am officially jealous. Please, you can get any guy, Kendra. It's getting the right one that's the problem. So, when are you going to see him again? I don't know. Should I call him? - No, absolutely not. - Okay. You let him call you. You're Gracie Trey. Yeah. Yes, I am. Yeah, I'm Gracie Trey. That's right. Can I go to the bathroom? I have to pee. Of course you can. Hey, even Sally Benson can wait for you. Sally, hi. I read your blog for years. I knew we'd meet eventually. Sally, I'm sorry, um... - Whoa! - What are you doing in there? It's the men's room. - Sorry. - Is this gonna be a pattern? Huh? Oh, no, I mean, uh, us bumping into each other, not... Never mind. (CHUCKLES) So, you liking it? What? L.A. I mean, the life. The whole scene. I was born for this. Cool. (STAMMERS) You know, I was actually kind of surprised when I heard you signed with Sapphire. Why? Oh, no, no, nothing bad. No, I just... You and your dad played at our church a couple years ago. Yeah, we were living in Florida at the time, my family and I. Yeah. Um... I mean, I guess I just sort of assumed you'd still be doing that sort of thing. I mean, listen, don't get me wrong, I think it rocks that you're here. You know, we definitely need light in the industry. Yeah. I like it. Yeah. And it's actually a better finish for Jay. Okay, let's move on. Uh, let's talk about your dad for a minute. Mmm-hmm. We all know he gave up his career for religion. So, uh, what's he doing these days? My dad's a full-time music pastor now at our... At his church. So I imagine he brought you up religious. - How has that affected you as an artist? - (KNOCK AT DOOR) Come on in. (SIGHS) Hi. Sorry for the interruption. These are for Grace. Oh, they're not, uh, from me. (CHUCKLES) Wow. Those are beautiful. Stick around, she might need you. I'm sorry. I'm just gonna check who it's from. Who's the secret admirer? They're from Jay. (LAUGHS) Of course they are. That rascal. That is priceless, but the readers will love it. So where were we? Oh, right, your dad. How has his religion affected you? Yeah. Um... Well, he's... He takes his faith really seriously. And, um... He's all about God and stuff, you know, which is awesome. And he is really happy that I'm here, you know, doing what I'm doing. It's exciting, you know? He's happy for me. JAY: And I'm gonna get you a fresh one of these. Thanks. Um... (CHUCKLES) You know what's crazy and very scary? Well, you can't tell anyone, though. - But there's a... - (LAUGHS) - Are you laughing at me? - I'm not laughing. Sorry, go ahead. Misunderstood. There's, like, this follow-up song that happens if Misunderstood does good and everything, Mmm-hmm. And I'm supposed to write it, but I haven't written a song in my life. (LAUGHING) - I haven't. - (LAUGHS) Not anything good, you know? I don't... You could just use another one of your dad's songs. - No. - I mean, what's wrong with your dad? - JAY: Thank you. - What is not wrong with my dad? He hates what I'm doing. Thank you. - He hates this? - Mmm-hmm. Mmm, not, like, what I'm doing, but how I'm doing it. Mmm. (STAMMERING) Just how I'm here. It's my life. You know? Mmm-hmm. And his baby girl is not a baby anymore. I don't know, in his mind, I've, like, totally turned away from him and God and stuff. But I haven't. You know, I haven't. I just, um... Maybe I just wasn't into the whole God thing as much as he thought. Mmm-hmm. I'm sorry. Come on, it's all good. I wanna hear everything you have to say. So why don't we get out of here and go to my place? You can tell me everything. Oh... (CHUCKLES) (CLEARS THROAT) I shouldn't. - I really shouldn't. I have... - You should. I can't, though. I have to get up really early tomorrow. I should probably just go home. I should. That's fine. All right. Johnny still blames himself. I wish I could encourage him. I'm sure you do. No, I don't. (SIGHS) I just make it worse. I miss her, too. Lately, I think I miss him more. Days are easier. Probably 'cause I don't have so much time to think. (SIGHS) But nights, some nights are tough. Sure. But you can't let this paralyze you, John. I believe God has a lot more work for you to do. Even beyond our church. I'm trying, man. But when I think about her and everything that's out there that she could be getting into. Maybe she already has. God may not be using you in Grace's life right now... (CHUCKLES BITTERLY) And He may never. But He is in control. Sometimes, when our kids grow up, the best thing we can do is just be faithful and trust Him to take care of them. - Good morning, Sleeping Beauty. - Mmm, what? Come on, rise and shine. - What time is it? - 10:00. - Must have been a fun night. - (GROANS) But I'm determined to finish today, so you, out of bed. Okay. Come on, Gracie Trey. (GROANS) KENDRA: People need to see you. When they see you, then they're going to buy you. Which is why we need you looking hot for this video. Well, that and a certain young actor. (CHUCKLES) All right, that's it, I'm done. I'm happy. We're gonna leave the boxes. The intern's gonna bring them to the shoot. Okay. Hey, um, can you actually not give him a key this time? It's just standard, baby. Here. - What is this? - Just a little something from me to you. - Open it. - (CHUCKLES) It's more for Jay, but... Isn't it gorgeous? (CHUCKLES) Um... Yeah. (CHUCKLES) It's... Um... Do you really think he's that kind of guy? (INDISTINCT CHATTER) Mossy news alert! This just in... Huh? the WideSpin bump was bigger than expected. You just got green lit to go on the radio tour. Oh, my gosh! Get out! Are you kidding me? It gets better. They wanna do the follow-up song. Okay. Yeah. They want to record before you leave. - All right. - You feel that? - Yeah. Feeling it. - Bring it onstage! All right, I'm doing that. Using it. Thank you. - (CROWD CHEERING) - Goodbye. (KNOCK AT DOOR) - Hi. - QUENTIN: Hey, sorry to bug you. I just need to bring the clothes for the video. (CLEARS THROAT) - Yeah, that's fine. It's all this stuff. - Okay. I'll just keep the flies out. (SIGHS) Okay. Well, these are from my mom. (CHUCKLES) (CLEARS THROAT) She, well, um, actually, both my parents remember you really well from that, uh, night, you know, at our church. Oh, that's nice. Thank you. Thanks. She made you those. (CHUCKLES) (QUENTIN SIGHS) What are you up to? I'm just working on a new song. (CHUCKLES) Oh, yeah? That's cool. How's it coming? Good. (CHUCKLES) Oh, my gosh, I'm sorry. That's not... (CHUCKLES AWKWARDLY) Kendra got me these by mistake. It's not going anywhere. - Yeah, no, it's... I don't... - Sorry about that. - Okay. - Mmm. You know what? Uh... I made a promise, and it's gonna sound so ridiculous because you don't know me at all, but, uh, it's my mom. I don't know, we know you're new in town and everything, and if you ever want just, like, a good home-cooked meal, you know, she would love to have you over. Anytime. - Aww. - There. Promise kept. (CHUCKLES) Okay. Tell your mom thanks. For the cookies, too. - It's nice. - Yeah, and honestly, don't even worry about it, because I told her that you're, like, a really big star and you'd never spend time with somebody like her, so... You said that? (STAMMERING) No. No, no, I didn't. - I was... Yeah. - That was a joke, right? Sorry. I was trying to do a thing, but... (LAUGHS) Yeah. - Yeah. It worked really well. - Okay. It did, you got me. Yeah. Okay. - See you over there. - (LAUGHS) I'll be praying for your new song. Thanks. (SINGING INDISTINCTLY) Okay, let's cut it. Sorry. Don't stop for me. You're Renae Taylor. (LAUGHS) Hi. I've heard a lot about you. Wow. I love your song. Thank you. You're a huge reason why I'm here in L.A. I'm a really big fan. That's very kind. - You're probably wondering why I'm here. - No. I mean, I'm just pumped meeting you. Uh, he mentioned... Well, my manager mentioned that you might stop by and that you were possibly considering me for an opening act, which would be, like, insane. I'm considering several girls. Oh, yeah. Totally. I like to get to know a person before I think about traveling with them. - Yeah. - I read your WideSpin spread. Sally's so convincing, it's hysterical. Yeah, yeah, she's cool. I loved the flowers. Who's idea was that? Uh, they were from Jay. (CHUCKLES) You're funny. Guys like Jay Grayson wouldn't send their dying mother flowers. Yeah. (SIGHING) Well, now you just have to beat them at their own game. And use them more than they use you. You'll get there. Oh. I appreciate that. Remember, your body is the biggest asset you have. It's your currency. Sometimes you have to spend it. Yeah. GRACE: Yeah, I mean, it was incredible meeting her. I still am kind of blown away. She's thinking about me possibly opening for her. - That's awesome. - Yeah, I know. I mean, she's looking at other people, too, so I can't get my hopes up. Take that out of your mind. You would kill it. Thanks. Yeah, it would be insane. Um... (CHUCKLES) You know, she said something else - that was kind of weird. - Mmm-hmm. - (CELL PHONE RINGING) - I can't stop thinking about it. - Sorry. - That's fine. Do you want to get that? No, no, no, no. - I do, kind of. Is that okay? - Mmm-hmm. I do want to talk about that, though. Okay. - So one second. - Okay. Yeah. No, I can't tonight. JAY: No, she thinks that you're my manager. Hmm. No, her manager actually set the whole thing up. Scotty owed him a favor, so he wanted us to hook up, get some publicity shots, which we are, and, uh, I said, "Yeah, whatever, man. She's hot." Mmm-mmm. No. She believes anything I tell her. No, I would've, but then she got all weepy about her dad or something. But tonight, I am sealing the deal. Uh, I will call you after. I might send you a picture. Yeah, buddy. Okay, I gotta bounce. All right, bye. (SIGHS) Uh... So you did set it up, huh? Even the flowers? Who cares? Yes! Because of Jay, we got WideSpin, and because of WideSpin, we got a 29% bump in downloads! And that is why Renae Taylor's people are considering you to open up for her! What else do you want? I want you to leave my personal life alone. Your personal life? Yes. You're about to go on your first radio tour. You've gotta record a second song before you leave, which none of us have heard. I'm sorry TV Punk broke your heart, but you have to deliver an original song in one week. The last thing you need is a personal life! (INAUDIBLE) (GROANS) (SINGING INDISTINCTLY) (GUITAR STRUMMING) Hey, there, boy I wanna know your name I know you're not the boy that I... Hey, there, boy I wanna know your name I know you're not the same as every other man I can't feel... I'm so tired of feeling uninspired I wanna feel the fire Would you hold my hand? You're the one true thing I have... Sorry. (SIGHS) That was something. Gracie? Gracie? (SIGHS) KENDRA: I have dropped pans in the kitchen that sounded better than that. At least Daddy wrote a song she can gravy train. I know, right? Well, if she can't handle the pressure, on to the next contestant. Oh, Grace, I... Hey. QUENTIN: You okay? (EXHALES) Did you pray for my song? - Yeah. - Yeah? Well, it didn't work. At all! - Gracie... - You do not talk to me! Come with me, please. You know, you're the one that lied, okay? Tell everyone you could write songs. Now everyone knows you can't. One hit and you break down. Terrific. The apple doesn't fall far from the tree, that's for sure. Get yourself together. Let me see what I can do. (SIGHS) (KNOCK AT DOOR) Grace? - (KNOCK AT DOOR) - You in there? (KNOCK AT DOOR) (EXHALES) - What do you want? - You all right? Uh-huh. Yeah, I'm fine. What is it? Listen, Grace. Look, if you need anything... I mean, anything, you know, if you just wanna talk, you know. I'm here. I'm here for you. You hungry? You know, my mom's offer still stands. (EXHALES) - I can't do this. No. - (ENGINE STARTS) - QUENTIN: Oh, Grace. - Hi. No, that's fine. Pull on in. So, this is my favorite spot in the house. WOW. (CHUCKLES) Do you read all these? (STAMMERS) Oh, no, I'm not that smart. Um... (CHUCKLES) No, I'm sure my dad probably has, though. I don't know, I hated reading as a kid, but, um, I really, really love it now. This one here, you know... (CHUCKLES) I'm, uh, on my fourth reading of this one, I think. Fourth time? (CHUCKLES) Yeah. I'm kind of a dork like that. (LAUGHS) (CHUCKLES) So how about you? Do you like to read? Yeah. I do. Mmm-hmm. Um... Yeah, I'm just so busy and everything, I don't really get to anymore. You should have time on tour now, right? All those, like, super long, boring bus rides? (CHUCKLING) Yeah. I hope so. Uh, Alabama, in Birmingham. We moved there about three years ago. - How's your dad doing, anyway? - He's good. Must have been scary to leave your mom and dad and move out here all by yourself. Yeah. Definitely. But, um, you know. It's, like, an opportunity that came up, so... You know, when you guys played our church, he and I had such a great chat. He's such a great guy. And I'm sure you heard that was a big night for Quentin. - No. - I will tell her later. (CHUCKLES) - Sorry. - (CHUCKLES AWKWARDLY) RICK: Let's pray for this fabulous food, shall we? - RICK: All right. - (GRACE CHUCKLES) RICK: Great God, Father in Heaven, we thank you so much for this day. We thank you for friends and family. We thank you for this time together. (INDISTINCT CHATTER) (ALL LAUGHING) (INDISTINCT CHATTER CONTINUES) DONNA: Welcome to our home, honey. But it's not like my parents tried to make me or anything, I mean, I'm sure I wouldn't have if they did. I, uh, was kind of a punk. (SIGHS) And your dad... (EXHALES SHARPLY) I don't know, I don't even remember what he said, but his words shook me. I can't describe it. I just went home that night, and it was like my whole world was just flipped on its head. I had a really nice time. Thank you for having me. (GRACE SINGING INDISTINCTLY) Baby, what are you doing? She's incredible, Shel. She's incredible. Yes, she is. (MUSIC STOPS PLAYING) No, I mean really. She's phenomenal. She had the best teacher. In every way. Come here. (GASPS) (SOBS) She's yours now. GRACE: What does that mean? It means Misunderstood just hit Top 20.1 Wow. How does this not make you happy? It just makes it official. I'm a one-hit wonder like my dad. With his song. Okay, yes. I spoke to Larry about that last night. And given the circumstances, he does not wanna go forward with a follow-up song. They want a full album. (CHUCKLES) - What? - They have writers. Larry would have brought them in sooner, but you said you had songs. They're not dropping me? You're Top 20. So you can't write. Big deal. Britney, Rihanna, they don't write, they sing. And that's what you're gonna do. This is your next hit single. It's called One Fast Night. It's fantastic. It's brilliant. It was written by one of Sapphire's top guys. He wrote it for Renae, but I convinced Larry to give it to you. You learn this on the road, all right? I'll have the rest of the songs when you get back. But you learn this. You got it? (INAUDIBLE) Forgive me, but pop star. That's what I see. Whatever you did for Gracie, that's what I want. Okay. Hi, Mom, it's me. Um... I'm just calling you back. I got your message and, um... Uh, text me or something, let me know that you got this. I'll see you there. Hi, babe. - Hi, Mom. - Hi. (CHUCKLES) +m - Hi. (BOTH GROAN) (ALL CHUCKLE) Thanks for coming. We just wanted to say hi. We're gonna go give you guys a chance to catch up. You know what? I'm gonna go, urn... I'm gonna go with them. I'll see you after. - Okay. - Bye. (SIGHS) (CLEARS THROAT) How are you? Good. I'm good. (SIGHS) I guess since we're now part of music history, - congratulations. - (CHUCKLES) Yeah, you too. Mossy treating you okay? Mmm-hmm. I guess. Yeah, he is. Um... I watched your video. And, um, it made me realize that maybe I never gave... I never did give you the credit that I should have. You have been gifted in ways I can't even describe. I think somewhere deep down, I always knew it. And maybe... Maybe that's why, in my heart, I just never wanted you to grow up. (CHUCKLES) And I never gave you any space, (SNIFFLING) and that was, for me... Because nothing ever made me happier than playing music with you. (CLEARS THROAT) (CHUCKLES) (CHUCKLES) - You still playing this thing? - Yeah. - Wow. - Uh, it got me this far, huh? (GUITAR STRUMMING) (CHUCKLES) Still sounds okay. Keep playing, Dad. (GUITAR STRUMMING) MAN: Hey, we're on. Okay. Uh, I better go, or else I won't do this interview thing. (INAUDIBLE) I just don't like the song. - It's a hit! - No, Mossy. It's a song about a girl manipulating a guy and a one-night stand. - Can we pick another one? - I've picked other ones. Eleven other ones that are all going on the album. Along with this, your follow-up single! You're not listening. I'm not singing it! You sound just like your father, and it's pathetic. It's one song. Larry and I had an interesting chat this morning. - What? - He didn't want me to say anything. Clearly I need to. What is it? I should. We got it. You're opening for Renae Taylor. Yeah. She's going in the studio next week. They wanna release your album the same time as hers, right before the tour. They're already working on it in Marketing. - She picked me? - She picked you. So, whatever's going on inside your head, let it go. I'm opening up for Renae Taylor? Yes. Because you are the next Renae Taylor. I need you to go in that studio and nail this album. And then go on the photo shoot with Randall and be great there, too. And you know why? - Why? - Because this is why you came out here. This is what happens when you do have what it takes. Grace, this is what it feels like when you make it. Hey. I can't explain it. Yeah, but... I mean, you don't have to do anything. No, Quentin, I'm opening up for Renae Taylor. Okay, this is huge. I mean, Mossy's right. This is... It's is why I came out here, you know? I should be really happy right now. I don't... I don't know what's wrong with me. Yeah. (CHUCKLES) I think you do. No, I don't. That's the problem. - G race. - What? Why do you want this? Why do you want any of this? Because if you want it just for yourself, there's always gonna be something missing. You sound like my dad. Grace, he's right. You could sell millions of albums. You could be bigger than Renae. That's not what really matters. Did you read that book? Yeah. (CHUCKLES) Good. Do you think maybe it's like he says? We know it in our heads, but do we really own it? Is Jesus Christ really who you're living for? 'Cause I don't think your problems are just with your dad. I think maybe you're fighting God. I mean, that was my story. So open for Renae, don't open for her. That's not... That's not what's important right now. Just stop running. Stop running from God. Make things right with your dad. And I promise you, you do that, I'm pretty sure you're gonna find what you're looking for. TIM: And after speaking with her for some time, I was pleased to invite her to join us this morning. So please let me welcome back to our family a very special guest. (QUIETLY) Hi. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor Tim. Hi. You probably didn't expect to see me here this morning. Most of you know I didn't exactly leave on the best of terms. And I know along the way, I hurt some of you. And for that, I wanted to ask if you could please forgive me. Please. The real issue, it wasn't with you. It was me. I was the problem. So this morning I asked Pastor Tim, and he said it was fine if I could play a song for you that I wrote. My first song. (CHUCKLES) (TEARFULLY) And I want to dedicate it to my mom (CRYING) and my dad, who I love so much. (PLAYING PIANO) Honestly, it's time for honesty My heart is on my sleeve Oh, will you hear me out? I've got nothing left to give of me I gave up everything So there is nothing left to lose for me now Could you forgive me somehow? I chased a million things Bright lights and empty dreams Now here I am Right where I thought I wanted to be But I'll trade it all right now Leave it all and lay it down To get back to where I belong Lord, all I've ever needed was your love GRACE: Dear Mossy, I can't even begin to thank you for all you've done for me. I've given this more thought than you'll ever know, and I realized you were right, the apple doesn't fall too far from the tree. I hope someday I can explain all my reasons for doing this, but right now, I just know I need to go home. With all my heart, I wish you the very, very best. All my love, Grace. 'Cause all I need is waiting In your arms A place to hang my heart Where I am home at last You're the one true thing I have I chased a million things Bright lights and empty dreams Now here I am Right where I thought I wanted to be But I'd trade it all right now Leave it all and lay it down To get back to where I belong Lord, all I've ever needed was your love All I've ever needed Was your love (APPLAUSE) (INDISTINCT CHATTER) Yeah, I don't know, I mean, we want something small and intimate. You know, something special. What did you and Lauren do? For our wedding it was the same. We wanted something small. And so it was just our friends and family, all the people closest to you. - Not so much pressure, too. - Exactly. Oh, hi, guys. You talking about me? Always. (LAUGHS) Are we up? Yeah, but, uh, I have a little bit of news. I just got off the phone with Larry. Third quarter reports are in, and, uh, Sapphire's newest division is here to stay. - Oh, my gosh! - Congratulations. - Isn't it amazing? - That's huge, man. It's your stellar leadership. It's your amazing singing, honey. - Stop. - Everybody good? Yeah, we're good. Well, let's go. It's gonna be an amazing night. Thanks, Chris. - Go get 'em. - Love you, Rach. Who said you could hold my daughter's hand? - I believe you did, sir. - Oh, yeah. So my boss is gonna be my son-in-law? - Afraid so. - One big, happy family. - I love you, baby. See you onstage, Dad. - I love you, sweetie. Go get 'em. (CROWD CHEERING) MAN: We love you, Grace! Even though I walk Through the valley Of the shadow of death Your perfect love is casting out fear And even when I'm caught In the middle of the storms of this life I won't turn back, I know You are near 'Cause I will fear no evil For my God is with me And if my God is with me Whom then shall I fear? Oh, no, You never let go Through the calm and through the storm Oh, no, You never let go Every high and every low Oh, no, You never let go Lord, You never let go of me Yeah (VOCALIZING) And I can see a light That is coming for the heart that holds on A glorious light beyond all compare And there will be an end to these troubles But until that day comes We'll live to know You here on the earth And I will fear no evil For my God is with me And if my God is with me Whom then shall I fear? BOTH: Oh, no, You never let go Through the calm and through the storm Oh, no, You never let go Every high and every low Oh, no, You never let go Lord, You never let go of me Yeah 'Cause I can see a light that is coming For the heart that holds on There will be an end to these troubles But until that day comes, oh Still I will praise You Lord Sing it out! Oh, no, You never let go AUDIENCE: Through the calm and through the storm Oh, no, You never let go Every high and every low Oh, no, You never let go Lord, You never let go of me Yeah (CROWD CHEERING) Oh, no, You never let go Through the calm and through the storm Oh, no, You never let go Every high and every low Oh, no, You never let go Lord, You never let go of me Yeah You never let go of me You never let go of me Yeah (CROWD CHEERING) (GRACE SINGING HER ORIGINAL SONG) (GRACIE SINGING CHRISTIAN ROCK SONG)
