 

                        Are you asleep, love? Are you asleep? Love... are you asleep? I think somebody is looking for her bedtime story, is she? How about your favourite? Sleeping Beauty. Now, where is it... Let me see... Once upon a time, in a kingdom far away... a princess was born... And she was very beautiful... ...so they called her Beauty. Beauty was indeed, very beautiful. Just like yourself, love. But! She was soon to learn... when it comes to the harsher lessons of this live... beauty is not going to get you very far... very far... very far... Anyway... Soon it was the day of her Christening... and everybody in the kingdom had gathered for this joyful occasion... including the lovely, pretty fairies of the forest... who are soon to be Beauty's glamorous Godmothers. Oh, yes. Everyone was invited to this Christening... everyone that is... except maybe the one person who might have done with the days. You know who that was, do you? I'll tell you. It was the elderly fairy. And do you know why nobody had thought to invite the elderly fairy? Well, I'll tell you... because she was old and grumpy... and not one bit useful in the eyes of all the... younger and more exciting fairies... who had still their mother tongue! Oh... Let's not invite this stinking old fairy, they probably said... she smells of dirty bedsheets... and all she ever talks about, is her bad knee. She's so old, and probably falls asleep after 10 minutes anyway. Why should we care about someone who's spent her live... working on behalf of the entire community? So... the elderly fairy felt a little bit rejected and... left out... as well she might... So she decided... She'd show them a thing or two... about how it feels to be old and constantly sleepy. First of all, she surprised them... by appearing in the middle of their 'ladida' christening party... in a huge cloud of toxic, green smoke! Of course, they had excuses for why they hadn't bothered in inviting her... Oh, I thought that you wouldn't want to be out and about with your knee... giving you so much trouble, said the queen. I thought you had died months ago... said one of the stupidest young fairies! Now... You think... the elderly fairy... being older... and wiser, was... able to forgive them? Don't be ridiculous! Of course, she wasn't! She loomed over the cradle in a menacing manor... and laughed for a very long time! It was for longer then that! Oh, look at you, little girls... with your smooth complexions and your social calendars... dancing around on your working legs. You make me sick! And they looked at me... and they found me so old and repulsive. Well... I've learned a thing or two in my time. Try this hand for a size! And with that, she put a terrible curse on the party... that each and everyone of them would die... in the instant deliver bell asleep! Allright so, love. That's me for tonight. You sleep well... and I'll see you in the morning... with the help of God. # Sleep, go to sleep # # Go to sleep # # If they ever fell asleep # # They would die # # They would die... They would die # # Die, die, die, die... # Will not be good for them. Contributor: PaulAl
