 

                        (CLANKING OF CHAINS) (GEESE HONKING) (CLANKING OF CHAINS) - (CRIES OUT) - Hold your noise! Hold your noise, you little devil, or I'll cut your throat! - Tell us your, name! Quick! - Pip! - Once more! Give it mouth! - Pip! - Shh! - Pip, sir! No, sir, please. Got wittles on you, boy? You got wittles on you? No, sir! Come here. What fat cheeks you got. Darn me if I couldn't eat 'em. Where's your mother? (STAMMERS) There, sir! Also Georgiana, sir - (GRUNTS) - My mother and brothers too. Orphan, eh? Who d'you live with? Supposin' I let you live. My sister, sir, Mrs Joe Gargery, wife of Joe Gargery, the blacksmith. Blacksmith, eh? You know what a file is? - You know what wittles is? - Yes, sir, food, sir I ain't alone, as you may think I am. There's a young man hid with me in comparison with which I am an angel, and he has a secret way of getting at a boy, and at his heart, and at his liver, so that they may be roasted and ate. It is in vain for a boy to hide from that young man. Now, you bring me tomorrow morning early, in this graveyard, that file and them wittles, neverdaring to say a word, and I will do what I can to keep that young man out of your insides. Understand? - Speak it out! - Yes, sir! Now get you home. There you are, Pip! Ah, Your sister's been out a dozen times looking foryou. Now, listen, she's on the rampage and she's got Ticklerwith her. Now, I'll do what I can but you best get in there behind the door. - Now... You ready? - WOMAN: Where have you been? Wearing me out with fret and worry! - I said, "Where have you been?" - (MAN GRUNTS) - The churchyard. - The churchyard! If it weren't for me you would've been to the churchyard years ago, and stayed there! - Who brought you up by hand? - BOTH: You did! Why did I, I should like to know! Fetch the tarwater! There's no need fortarwater, my love. It's Christmas. - Fetch it! - (PIP GROANS) Bad enough having to be a blacksmith's wife, without having to motheryou, too. - You're driving me to the churchyard. - You all right? You'd like that, both of you, I suppose. Tar water. You be careful. Table! Now! (DISTANT EXPLOSION) There's another convict escaped from the Hulks. What might he have done, the convict? Murder most likely. That's why they put them in the Hulks, because they murder. - Murder? - Murder and robbing. That's too many questions! Where's that bread gone? I ate it. - You did, did you? - (MOUTHING) (SNORING) Sir. Sir... - (GRUNTS) - (GASPS) Did you bring it, boy? Yes, sir Here What's in the bottle? - Brandy. - Here. Here. (GASPS) (COUGHS) - You brought no-one with you? - No, sir! - And you asked no-one to follow? - I wouldn't do that, sir I'm glad you enjoy the pie. Oh, thankee, my boy, I do I do - There'll be none left for him! - "Him"? - Who's "him"? - The young man you spoke of. Who wants to eat my liver. Oh, him (CHUCKLES) He won't want no pie. (LAUGHING) He looked as if he did. Looked? What d'you mean, looked? I saw him. - When? - Just now. - Where? - Down by the river. What with... Dressed like me with a bruised face? - Here? Badly bruised? - Yes, sir Give me the file, boy! Hunt him down like a dog I will. - Goodbye, then, sir - Let him go free? Merry Christmas, sir - Let him make a fool of me again? - Goodbye. That villain. I'll take him to the bottom of the river... # On Christmas day, on Christmas day #And all the souls on earth shall sing # On Christmas day in the morning # Then let us all rejolce and sing # On Christmas day, on Christmas day # (CHEERING) Beautiful. (ALL LAUGHING) A beautiful piece of meat, that is. Forthe great feast we are about to receive, - thanks to you, ma'am... - Hear, hear May the good Lord make us truly thankful. - Amen. - ALL: Amen. Did you hearthat? Be grateful! Especially, my boy, as tothose what brought you up by hand. Why is it that the young are never grateful? (SIGHING) - Naturally wicious! - Wicious little ferret. - What? - (ALL LAUGHING) They're not lovely. They're wicious. More gravy, Mr Wopsle? (INDISTINCT CHATTERING) Mmm-hmm Mmm Oh, I nearly forgot! Ladies and gentlemen, please do leave a little room forthe savoury pork pie so kindly provided for by dear Mr Pumblechook. No more than you deserve, ma'am. I'll get it now Shall I get it now? I'll get it now. I often say, a slice of savoury pork pie will sit on top of anything you care to mention... Are you all right? ...and do no harm. Especially with a little brandy. Wise words, as always. It's in here somewhere. At least it was here. It's gone! (SPLUTTERS AND COUGHS) There's tar water in the brandy! Pip! Where do you think you're going, boy? (GASPS) (CLAMOURING) Oh, that is hot, yeah Well done, blacksmith Well done Nasty vicious characters, both of them. Not the kind you'd want to stumble upon alone, eh? Anybody here seen anything of such a gang? - Nothing, Sergeant - Thank you, ma'am. Your health, sir - Thank you, sir. - Afine job. We found them filed clean through. But no matter. We'll have 'em back on him in no time. Course, if any of you gentlemen fancy some sport... - Oh, yes - Willingly. Right, outside. Fall in. Jump to it. Come on, let's be having you Out you come, Pip I hope we don't find 'em, Joe. I hope so too, old chap. I hope so too. - (SHOUTS) - MAN: Over here, Sergeant! Come here! SERGEANT: You, man, break it off Break it off. Get them. Go. (GRUNTING) Get out there, you cowardly bastard Move. Move. (GRUNTS) MAN: I've got him! - (GRUNTS) - SERGEANT: Break it off! Break it off! What are you waiting for? Get out there! (GROANS) Go on, get in! (GRUNTING) CONVICT 1: Let me at him! (SHOUTS) Let me at him! He tried to murder me! (SHOUTING) - I took him! - Get those leg irons over here. He tried to murder me! Let him go free? Let him profit from me again and again? Let's put him down. CONVICT 2: He tried to murder me! SERGEANT: Quiet, you! CONVICT 2: I should have been a dead man, if you hadn't got here. CONVICT 1: I wish to say something - A confession if you like. - Wait. Go on. A man can't starve. I took, stole, some wittles up at the village. And a file too. And I'll tell you from where. The blacksmith's. Brandy and a pie. Have you missed such an article as a pie, blacksmith? - My wife did. - So you're the blacksmith, are you? Then I'm sorry to say I've eat your pie. God knows you're welcome to it We don't know what you've done, but we wouldn't wish you to starve to death for it, would us, Pip? No. Pip? Move on! MAN: Swing your legs in there I say, Pip, old chap! What a scholaryou are! I should like to be, some day. Here, read it, Joe Read it. Read it. My dearJoe, I hope you are quite well. I shall soon be able to teach you, Joe. - And what larks! - Larks. It's a J. An O. (STAMMERS) That's the best O I ever saw - It's astonishing! - (PIP CHUCKLES) How interesting this reading is! Perhaps I could teach you one day, Joe. Perhaps. Be it so, be it so But I fear I am most awful... Awful... Dull. (SIGHS) - Not like you, young scholar! - (BOTH CHUCKLING) (SIGHS) Everthe best of friends. Thanks, Pip. Everthe best of friends, Joe And when you're apprenticed to me, what larks. MRS JOE: Gargery! - She must be, what, two mile off? - (LAUGHS) MRS JOE: (SCREAMING) Gargery! Best be getting back, old chap. You're not too quick for me yet. MRS JOE: Now, if this boy ain't grateful, he neverwill be. I only hope he won't be pampered. She ain't in that line, Mum, have no fear. - JOE: "She"? - Well, Miss Havisham ain't a he, is she? Even you ain't as dull as that! Well put, ma'am Good indeed - Mr Pumblechook... - Hertenant, don't you see? ...goes to pay his rent and Miss Havisham says, does he know a boy who might go and play there for her pleasure? And Mr Pumblechook always being considerate and thoughtful of us... No more than you deserve, ma'am. ...mentions this boy prancing here. To go straightaway! Forall we know our fortune might be made and all he has to do is play! PIP: I don't want to. - You listen to me, ungrateful wretch. - (PIP GRUNTS) Want to mix with people of quality and breeding orstay here and rot with this great lumpen noodle? - Stay here - What? What? (GRUNTS) (GASPING) Breathe in. Breathe. PUMBLECHOOK:: Six sixes. - Minus 35. - One. Plus 119. Um, 120 Divided by 84. Your answer, please, boy. Your answer. So start again Four times 17. Too slow. 68. Nine times 13. Now, boy, rememberyour station and let your conduct be a credit as to those which brought you up by hand. Ow! (GRUNTS) PIP: Look, the clock's stopped. PUMBLECHOOK: Never mind the clock... - What name? - Pumblechook. Quite right Do you wish to see Miss Havisham? - Well, if Miss Havisham wishes to see me! - She don't. Come along, boy Boy. Are you frightened? (STAMMERS) I don't know Go in, then (NERVOUSLY) Afteryou, miss Who is it? Pip, ma'am. Pip? Pumblechook's boy, come to, uh, play. Oh. Ah, yes. Um... Come nearer. Let me look at you. Look at me! You're not afraid of a woman who's neverseen the sun since you were born? (NERVOUSLY) No, ma'am Then come closer. Hmm Now, I sometimes have sick fancies And, um, I have a sick fancy that I want to see some play. Um, so... play. Go on, play Play. - Are you sulen and obstinate? - No, ma'am! I am very sorry for you and sorry that I can't play. But if you complain of me I will get into trouble with my sister, so I would play if I could, but it's just so new here. Call Estella! Estella! Estela! Mmm (CHUCKLES) (WHISPERS) Your own one day, my dear, and you will use it well. Now. Let me see you play cards with him. (WHISPERS) But he's a common labouring boy. (WHISPERS) You can break his heart. What do you play, boy? (NERVOUSLY) Nothing but Beggar My Neighbour, miss. So... Beggar him. (CACKLES) PIP: The jack of diamonds. ESTELLA:: "Jack"! He calls the knaves "jack", this boy. And what coarse hands he has, and what thick boots. He's nothing but a stupid, clumsy labouring boy. What do you think of her? You say nothing of her. (NERVOUSLY) I don't like to say Whisper in my ear. Hm. What do you think? I think she is very proud. HAVISHAM: Anything else? PIP: I think... I think she is very pretty. HAVISHAM: Anything else? PIP: I think she is very insulting. I think I should like to go home. What? And never see heragain? PIP: I think I'd like to see heragain. HAVISHAM: Then you shall Then you shall. But when, when shall I have you here again? Today is Wednesday. No Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays here, no days of the week, no weeks of the year. No Come again aftersix nights Estella, take him down Feed him. - PIP: "And the Lord said unto... Unto... - (CLAMOURING) "Unto Aaron, "Thou and thy sons and thy father's house... " - (CHATTERAND LAUGHTER) - (PIP CONTINUES) BIDDY: Good gracious, what is going on? Enough! Enough, I say! Back to yourform, Pip. (SNORING) Now, let us read together. Quietly ALL: "And the Lord said "unto Aaron... - (BELL TOLLS) "... Thou and thy sons... " (INDISTINCT CHATTERING) I wonder if you might teach me. Teach you what, Pip? Everything. I want to know everything. (LAUGHING) Everything? Goodness, well, that might take a little time. Pip, whateverfor? Do you know the name of the house, boy? It is Satis House. Is that Greek or Latin? Greek or Latin or Hebrew orall three, for "enough". Enough House. That's a curious name. Don't loiter! It meant, when it was given, that whoever had this house would want for nothing else. They must have been easily satisfied. WOMAN 1: Is this him? Is this the boy? - None of your business. - MAN: Well! Of all the... WOMAN 1: Will she see us today? We have been waiting! - WOMAN 2: Waiting all morning! - MAN: Waiting all morning! - We only wish to help. - We only wish to help. Miss Havisham's poor relations. She calls them her vultures. - The little bitch. - ESTELLA: Ignore them. PIP: So are they your relations too? ESTELLA: Certainly not. I have no relations. PIP: Then Miss Havisham is not your... ESTELLA: Well? PIP: Well, miss? ESTELLA: Am I pretty? PIP: (NERVOUSLY) Yes. You are very pretty. Am I insulting? No. Well, not so much as last time - (GROANS) - ESTELLA: Why don't you cry? Because I don't want to. JAGGERS: Whom have we here? Ah So you're the boy, are you? Well, I have a pretty large experience of boys, and you're a bad set of fellows. Behave yourself. You're to wait here in the ballroom. HAVISHAM: What do you think it is? A cake. A bride's cake. Mine! Take my hand, walk with me. Today is my birthday. - Many happy ret... - I will not have it spoken of! No On this day of the year, long before you were born, this heap of decay was brought here... We've worn away together. Mice have gnawed at it. And sharper teeth than mice have gnawed at me. When the ruin is complete, when they lay me dead in my bride's dress, on the bride's table, the curse will be finished on him. On who, Miss Havisham? (MURMUR OF VOICES) Miss Havisham. How well you look! - Happy birthday. - MAN: Indeed. (LAUGHS) Ah, the vultures Estella, feed the boy. (ESTELLA HUMMING) HERBERT: Who are you? Who let you in? Who gave you leave to prowl about? Estela. Estella? That witch! - Take that back! - I will not! - You will take that back. - Fight me, then. Regular rules. Come to the ground! (HUFFING) (GRUNTING) Fight me, fight me. (GRUNTS) (GROANS) That means you won. Honour is satisfied. Much obliged. Good afternoon! You are to return the day aftertomorrow at noon, alternate days afterthat. Expect no reward. You may kiss me. If you like. BIDDY: Now, then, the Klngs of England. - Henry lll, Richard... - Edward I. - Edward I. - II and Ill. PIP:: Richard. BIDDY: Richard the... - PIP: Richard II. - Henry the... PIP: How do you manage it, Biddy? - Manage what? - To know so much. I suppose I catch it. Like a cough. (WHISTLING) # Old Clem, beat it out, beat it out # Old Clem, with a clink for the stout # Old Clem, with a... # Something wrong, old chap? I wish you hadn't taught me to call knaves jacks. What's that, Pip? I wish my boots weren't so thick and my hands so coarse. I wish I wasn't common! - May I tell you a secret? - BIDDY: I suppose you may. I don't... I don't want to be a blacksmith. I want to be a gentleman. Oh, I wouldn't if I was you Aren't you fond of the forge? - And Joe? - Yes. Then don't you think you'd be happier as you are? I have particular reasons. To do with a certain young lady, I suppose. Your princess. One, two, three, four One, two, three, four BOTH: One, two, three, four One, two, three, four One, two, three HAVISHAM: Estella. What are you doing? Teaching Pip to dance. Like a gentleman. HAVISHAM: Bring the blacksmith to see me PIP: Joe. Oh. So you are the husband of the sisterof the boy? Being that I have been married to your sister... Just say yes, Joe. - JOE: By which I mean to say - Joe. Yes, Miss Havisham And you have reared the boy with the intention of making him yourapprentice? You know, Pip, as you and I everwere the best of friends, and it were look for'ard to betwixt us as being calculated to lead to larks. The boy has made no objection to the trade? Larks being the great wish of his heart. Oh, enough! Estella Um, bring me that purse. Yes, um Pip has earnt a premium here. Here are five and 20 guineas. Give it to your new master, Pip Now... You are now a blacksmith. Goodbye You are not ashamed of being a blacksmith, are you? No. Then you are a blacksmith. Goodbye But... Am I to come again? No. Goodbye, Pip. You have been a good boy. Goodbye. Goodbye Come on Let's go Perhaps we shall meet again. One day. It seems unlikely. JOE: Pip Pip Come on, boy Pip. Joe, may I? (LAUGHING) Biddy, I wish... Go on. Pip? Biddy, I wish I could fall in love with you. Oh. - Can I say this to you? - Don't mind me. I wish I could love you and my work and that I could settle down with Joe at the forge, and that we could be sitting here together, two completely different people. I do Wish I could be content, but You cannot. Might you be content with me? I might. But then I'm easily pleased. Do you think of her very often? (CLANGING) JOE: Pip Pip! Gentleman to see you. You are Philip Pirrip, more commonly known as Pip, am I right? - Yes, sir. - And this is your brother-in-law... - Joseph, or "Joe" Gargery? - I am that man. - And yourwife, Mr Gargery? - JOE: Dead, sir Bad heart. Passed away five years since, while on the rampage. I miss her. - I miss her. - Condolences, yes. My name is Jaggers. I'm a lawyer in London. I'm pretty well known. And I have some unusual business to transact with you. Joseph Gargery, I am the bearer of an offer... To relieve you of this young fellow, yourapprentice. I am here to inform you that he has great expectations. He has come into a handsome fortune, and it is the desire of the present possessorof the fortune that he be removed from his present circumstances and brought up as a gentleman in London. Do you have any objections? - I don't think so. - (CHUCKLES) There are conditions, of course. The first being that you always retain the name Pip. You've no objections to that, I dare say. I have no objection. And the second stipulation, is that the name of the liberal benefactor remain a profound secret. You are positively prohibited from making any enquiries into this question. Do you understand? I understand. - Mr Gargery? - Hm? Mr Gargery, this is foryou As compensation forthe loss of his services. Very generous, I think you'd agree. If you think money can make compensation forthe loss of the little orphan what come to the forge and was... - It's time for us, Joe. - Yes, yes, yes, very noble sentiment. Very touching, I'm sure. Do you want the money or no? - Lf you're a man, come on! - PIP: Joe. Bear-baiting and badgering me in my own home. - Come on, I say! - Joe! - Come on, I say! - Joe! Enough! Enough! - Joe! - (CHAINS RATTLING) JAGGERS: Well, Mr Pip, the sooner you leave here, the better. Shall we say one week? And what will I do in London? Do? What will be my trade? My profession? A gentleman. You will be a gentleman. You will please consider me your guardian now. Good evening PUMBLECHOOK: Thing is, I always say, you need your inexpressibles in something fine, clingy! - A nice lute string, ladies. - (LADIES CHUCKLING) No point your inexpressibles being in nankeen, now, is there? No point at all. Nothing clings. Nothing is expressed. - (LAUGHTER CONTINUES) - Mr Pumblechook. Oh, seven times sixteen, your answer, please. - Mr Pumblechook. - Too slow, too slow - Mr Pumblechook, I have some news. - Oh? I've... Well, I've come into some property. WOMAN: Oh. This is a very sweet article for light summerwear. - May I? - PIP: You may. Ah (CHUCKLES) Feel the knap? D'you feel that? (WHISTLES) Yah See how it catches the light? Extra super fine and quite in vogue amongst the London gentry. Number five... This is you as well. This is very you. That will be evening and that will be daytime. So, best to get them both What about some gentleman's boots? We don't do boots. JOE: Astonishing - Oi! - (JOE LAUGHS) For uck! JOE: Bye, boy BIDDY: Bye, Pip. (SOBS) (BELLS RING) Sowe thought you might like a little erm... WOMAN: A little something to tempt yourappetite. MAN: A cup of tea? You might enjoy the chocolate... Pip. Come closer, coome closer Come join us How handsome you look in yourfinery. You remember my cousin Sarah Pocket She works for me now. I employ her. PIP: Miss Havisham, I I came to take my leave of you. - You see, I've... - HAVISHAM: Yes, yes. I've seen Mr Jaggers. I know a about it. You are adopted by a mysterious benefactor? (ALL GASP) Yes, Miss Havisham Isn't that wonderful news, everyone? - Yes, quite... - Wonderful. - Wonderful. - Go now. Everyone, go. All of you, go. Hmph. I was, uh, hoping that... HAVISHAM: She's abroad, Pip Educating fora lady. Far out of reach. Prettierthan ever. Admired by all who see her. Do you feel you have lost her, Pip? Be patient. I'm sure your paths will cross. - I hope so. - Mm Miss Havisham, I wished to say how grateful... Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. (WHISPERING) Hush now, Pip. You will always keep the name of Pip, you know. Go. Goodbye, Pip COACHMAN: Hey! Hey! (HONKING) (VENDORS SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY) Here, sir, you want some offal? (CROWD CHATTER INDISTINCTLY) MAN: Get off! (BLEATING) Excuse me, sir VENDOR: Meat! Lovely meat! WEMMICK: Mr Pip? MrJaggers will be with you shortly, Mr Pip. He's at the Bailey, getting evidence together. Whose likenesses are they? Likenesses? Why, this is theirtrue selves! Casts made in Newgate, fresh from the gallows. Murderer, and a forgerof wills. Very crafty in particular, this one. But the evidence was too strong. Not so crafty now, are you, my friend? This was his as well. Made a gift of it to me, just before the end. They're not worth much, but they're portable, and they're property. That's my guiding star, Mr Pip. - Get hold of portable property - JAGGERS: I have no more to say to you. That's MrJaggers now. (MEN ARGUING INDISTINCTLY) I wish to know no more than I know. Good day, Mr Pip. WEMMICK: Any more news, Mr Jaggers? MAN: Get your hands off me! - Have you paid Mr Wemmick? - Yes. Now let go of my coat. I trust your journey was satisfactory. MAN: MrJaggers, have you had any feelings about my claim? Feelings? Feelings? We'll have no "feelings" here. Come on in, mr Pip Move back! You've met Mr Wemmick. Sorry, sir He keeps the money, so doubtless you will be seeing a lot of him. Dear Lord, is that your new suit? Here. Tailor, hatter, bootmaker, hosier Yourcredit will be good with all of them. I've taken the liberty of enrolling you in a gentlemen's club. The Finches of the Grove Just the thing for gentlemen of distinction. Your allowance, Mr Pip. I trust you will find it generous. Your temporary lodgings will be at Barnard's Inn. Quite near here, so I might keep an eye on you. WEMMICK: There you are, sir And pull you up when I find you going wrong. And, you will go wrong, Mr Pip, not through any fault of mine. (CROWD CHATTERS INDISTINCTLY) HERBERT: (SINGING INDISTINCTLY) - Mr Pip? - Mr Pocket? I am extremely sorry, but I thought that, coming from the country, you might like a little fruit. - Strawberries! - Oh. Oh Strawberry jam! Mm. Have you seen your lodgings? - No. - They're by no means splendid, but I'm sure that we shan't come to blows. Put them up. Come on. Come on. Come on. Stand your ground Regular rules apply. I beg your pardon? (LAUGHS) - (GROWLS) - The prowling boy. The pale young gentleman. (CHUCKLES) I was there with my Aunt Sarah on a trial visit. Miss Havisham fancied that she wanted to see me play. (KNOCK ON DOOR) Clearly she didn't take much of a fancy to me. Poortaste on her part. But just as well. Otherwise, I might have been what-d'- you-called it to Estella. Affianced. Betrothed. Engaged. But, it was not to be I'm very sorry. Sorry? The girl's a Tartar. Hard and haughty and... Thank you. Capricious to the last degree Brought up by Miss Havisham to wreak revenge on all the male sex. Why should she wreak revenge? Lord, Mr Pip. Don't you know? Miss Havisham was very rich and very proud, a spoilt child. Her motherdied when she was young and herfather married again. His cook, would you believe? And they had a son, Arthur. Who was... How might I put this? ... Not entirely legitimate. At this point, I might break off and mention that in London it's not the custom to put the knife in the mouth, - forfearof accidents. - Sorry. And also the fork is not generally used underhand but over. - Of course Of course - Do you mind? No, not at all. I'm gra'eful. (MOUTHS) Er T's, mr Pip You are grateful. Grateful Sorry Now, um Miss Havisham met a certain man and she loved this man, devotedly, passionately. Idolised him. And soon they were engaged. He persuaded herto buy her half-brother's share of the brewery at an immense price, so that when hewas her husband, he could hold and manage it all. Well... The happy day arrived. The wedding dresses were bought, the weddlng tour planned out. The weddlng guests were invited, my parents among them. The feast was laid out. A great bride cake made. And the groom wrote hera letter. And she recelved the letter from her brother, Arthur... - As she was dressing for marriage? - At 20... Of course All those stopped clocks HERBERT:: It was a conspiracy between the groom and herbrother, to defraud Miss Havisham and break her heart. HAVISHAM: No! (SCREAMING) And, in that they most surely succeeded. PIP: So, 'erbert, what's your line of business? HERBERT: Well, trade That's where the money is. In the future, I shall trade to Egypt forsilks and spices. Ceylon forelephant tusks PIP: But for now? (MEN SINGING INDISTINCTLY IN THE BACKGROUND) HERBERT: But for now, I am a clerk in a counting house, with a sweetheart whom I can't afford to marry. - Is there profit in being a clerk? - No. None whatsoever. Not a penny. (BOTH LAUGH) You know, I don't much care for the name Mr Pip. I'll tell you what I should like. Seeing as we are so harmonious and you have been a blacksmith, would you mind Handel fora familiar name? The Harmonious Blacksmith. It's by Handel. (HUMMING) - Do you mind? - I would like it very much. Good! As Bullfinch of this Grove, and in the name of the most honoured Chaffinch... - ALL: Fringillae! ... Goldfinch... ALL: Carduelis! ...and Hawfinch. Coccothraustes! May the present promotion of good feeling ever reign predominant among the noble Finches of the Grove. Gentlemen... ALL: Huzzah! Huzzah! Forthe Finches of the Grove! (GLASSES SMASHING) (ALL CHATTER INDISTINCTLY) I am assured that they are the most fashionable people. Believe me. Oh. You there! New boy. Yes, you there. Partridge. Throw me a partridge. Come on, come on (LAUGHS) Oh, dear I don't think he shall do well here. FINCH: Pip, isn't it? - Er, Pip? - (IN A POSH ACCENT) Pirrip. Pirrip? Pip Pirrip? Oh. How remarkable. And where are your people from? - My people? - From Kent. They're the Kentish Pirrips. You sound like some sort of apple. (LAUGHS) (ALL CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) (SHOUTS) ALL: (CHEERING) Huzzah! Noble finches of this grove! (CROWD LAUGHS) HERBERT: This will just take a moment, my dear. - He seems very keen. - CLARA: I'm sure. Handel, this is my beloved fiance, Clara - Aren't I the lucky one? - Herbert, please. So pleased to meet you Shall we? CLARA: This is fartoo expensive foryou, Herbert. What are we doing here? MAN: There you are, sir. Well? What do you think? It would be at my expense, of course. You're a clerk, Herbert Pocket Well? Well... (MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY) Hurry. I'd like to meet these extravagant Finches of yours. Tomorrow evening. No ceremony. No dinnerdress. Six o'clock, say? Give him the money, Wemmick Very well, sir. (MAN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY IN THE DISTANCE) PIP: What shall I make of him, Mr Wemmick? He's a deep one. Deep. As Australia. Don't take it personal, Mr Pip. It's professional. Only professional I say, if tonight you have nothing betterto do, why don't you come home to Walworth with me? I don't have much to show you but there's a garden and one or two curiosities. - PIP: What? - Watch this. I know what you're thinking. It's like living in the country. All my own doing. - (CHICKENS CLUCKING) - Please, now Let me introduce you to the aged parent. - Well, Aged P, how are you? - All right, John, my boy. All right. This is mr Pip, Aged P. Not that he can heara word I'm saying. Just nod away at him, if you don't mind. Nod and wink. - AGED P: Now, John - Nod. - Now... - And wink. Keep nodding. One more. Nearly time, Aged P. You keep nodding, I'll heat the poker. Down the stairs, that's right. (CHILDREN CHATTING INDISTINCTLY) NoW, John Now Mr Pip. Mr Pip, if you'd care to do the honours. Ooh! - (CHILDREN SHOUTING) - (ALL THREE LAUGHING) I heard it! I heard it! - PIP: Does MrJaggers admire it? - Neverseen it. Never heard ofit. Neverseen theAged. Never heard ofhim. When I come into The Castle, I leave MrJaggers behind. And if it's not in any way disagreeable to you, you'll oblige me by doing the same. Of course. I understand. I will give you one piece of advice, though. When you dine with Mr Jaggers tomorrow, you take a look at his housekeeper, Molly. PIP: Hls housekeeper? Why? WEMMICK: Just take a look at his housekeeper and see, a wild beast tamed. Now, gentlemen! Gentlemen! Our generous host, Mr Bentley Drummle (ALL SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY) Oh... May the present promotion of good feeling ever reign predominant overthe Nobe Finches of the Grove. MAN: See, Bentley, I told you, you could do it (GLASS SMASHES) Tell me, Pip Who is the Spider? That blotchy, sprawly, sulky fellow? That's Bentley Drummle. The richest young man in England. - Is it now? - He owns most of Derbyshire, apparently. JAGGERS: Bentley Drummle, you say? Most promising. Molly. Make sure that fellow does not have an empty glass all evening. - MAN: Come on! - (ALL CHEERING) MAN 2: My money's on Bentley! I raise you five! ALL: Oh! A fluke. Pure chance. Come, come, Bentley, conceede defeat Pip beat you fairand square. I was underthe impression that the Finches was a club for gentlemen. I can't be expected to compete against country boys. What do you mean, Mr Drummle? No slight, I assure you. In fact, I salute you, Kentish Pirrip! You have the arms of a blacksmith! Molly, more wine here. You talk of strength. I'll show you strength. Show them yourwrists, Molly Come on. - Master, don't! - Show them both. Show them. Showthem. MAN: What is that? JAGGERS: Mm. There's power. Very few men have the power this woman has. Gentlemen, I propose a toast I drink to you, Mr Drummle. - To your good health, Bentley! - (SPEAK INDISTINCTLY) PIP: I apologise if anything disagreeable... Oh, no, no That's all right - I do like that Spiderfellow, though - Do you? I don't. No. No, you're right, of course. Stay as clear of him as you can He does have great promise, though. Indeed, if I were a fortune teller But I'm not a fortune teller. You know what I am, don't you? Go to bed, Pip Good night - (KNOCKING ON DOOR) - BOY: Sir. Come on! Come on, sir! - Get up! - (PIP MOANS) Someone to see you, sir Pepper, I've told you I'm not to be woken unless the... How are you, Pip? I brought you a toasting fork as a present, you know, forcrumpets and the like. But I see you have no need. That's... It's perfect, Joe. Thank you. - Tea or coffee, sir? - Oh! Tea, sir, please, if you don't mind. I find the coffee a little powerful. - Us two now being alone, sir... - Sir? Joe, how can you call me sir? Us two being now alone, Pip, I might tell you the reason for me being in the abode of a gentleman, which is that I've had a communication with a certain Miss A. Miss A? Joe? Miss 'Avisham She wishes to see you on a matterof great import (DOOR OPENS) Joe, this is my good friend Herbert Pocket. - Mr Gargery, I've heard a great deal about you - Nice to meet you. Oh? What is there to say? A very great deal. Now, suppose we have a celebration? (CROWD CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) PIP: It takes some getting used to, eh, Joe? Now, this place may look a little rough but don't be deceived In my opinion, this is the finest place in London. Oh, and the pressed duck is superb Let him take it, Joe Joe. HERBERT: How do you find London, mr Gargery? London! What a place! What a place! Course, I wouldn't keep a pig in it myself. Biddy sends her regards. She's a teacher now, a good one. She taught me Fork. F-O-R-K. - Knife. N-I-F-E. I know it's not! - (CHUCKLES) - More wine, mr Gargery? - Yes, please. Joe, please. There's really no need to be so conscientious in emptying your glass. The rim should nevertouch your nose, Joe. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse me Well, business concluded, I'll be off. - You're going now? - Yes, I am - Please, put your money away, Joe. - No No, I insist - You will not stay the night? - No, I won't Sir! (WHISTLES) Sir! For God's sake, Joe, put your money away! (CROWD CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) Joe! - At least, let me walk you to the coach. - I'll find my way. But we have barely spoken, Joe. I wished to show you some sights. You and me are not two figures to be together in London. I'm wrong outside the forge, and the kitchen and the marshes. You come sometime and you, put your head in at the window at the forge and you'll see Joe the blacksmith, and what larks we'll have! But here, Pip, here I am most awful dull. So God bless you, dearold Pip, old chap God bless you! You know the way. (GASPS) Pip How do you do? You kiss my hand as if I was a queen. - You wished to see me? - Mm Pip. ESTELLA: I am to be sent to London. I am to go on show, myself and the jewels. Do you wish to go on show? Why ask? We have no choice, you and I, but to obey instructions. (ESTELLA GIGGLES) I watched you, you know, that day. Fighting for my honour. I must have been a strange little creature to hide and watch, but I did I enjoyed it very much. You rewarded me very much. Did I? You kissed me. Poor Pip. You imagine yourself a young knight from a child's story, tearing away the cobwebs and thorns, letting in the sunshine. Marrying the princess. But you must know, Pip, I have no heart. I don't believe it. How can there be beauty without a heart? Oh, I have a heart to be stabbed in or shot in, and if it ceased to beat, I should cease to be. But there's no softness there. No sympathy. Sentiment. Nonsense. I've been made that way. - Oh, I - I am serious, Pip. If we're to bethrown together, you must believe me. For both oursakes. I'm sorry, I cannot. I will not. Very well. It is said at any rate. Come, Miss Havisham will be expecting you at yourold post. HAVISHAM: Is she beautlful? Is she graceful? Is she well-grown? Do you admire her? - Of course - Then love her. Love her, Pip. If she wounds you, love her. If she fails you, love her. If she tears your heart to pieces, as it gets older, it will teardeeper, but love her, love her, love her! I adopted herto be loved. I bred herto be oved. I educated herand I developed her into what she is. You knowwhat love is, Pip? It is blind devotion. It is self-humiation. It is degradation. It is uttersubmission, giving up your heart and soul as I did to that man. JAGGERS: Miss Havisham! Enough excitement for one day. Pip, you've been requested to escort Estella to London in the morning. I suggest an early night. Miss Havisham. Shall we take a trip? Once round? (HUMMING) # Old Clem, wlth a thump and a sound # Old Clem # Beat it out, beat it out # Old Clem with a... # (HUMS) ESTELLA: Mrs Brandley is to be paid a large sum of money to introduce me to society. Thejewels and I. - We are to be shown to people... - Hurry up! ...and people are to be shown to us. - And may I come and see you? - Of course. Miss Havisham expects it. If my time permits. I see bills from vintners, bills from jewellers, from bookmakers. I suspected you would go wrong, Pip, but really you are excelling yourself. I'll endeavour to show more restraint. Oh, do as you will, it's no business of mine Will you make sure that Mr Pip gets the money he requires. Thank you, Wemmick? Excuse me. Ah Good day to you, sir Please come into my office. So good to see you again. (STRADELLA QUADRILLE PLAYING) (CROWD CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) Finches, Finches, I would like to raise a glass to a lady of my acquaintance. ALL: Ooh! A lady of Richmond. A peerless beauty. Miss Estella Havisham! - FINCHES: Miss Estella Havisham! - I know that lady. Do you? Oh, Lord! And you know nothing of her! Well, on the contrary, I've had the pleasure of dancing with her. - Several times - You lie! Steady now, Handel Indeed. Then perhaps you might care to follow me. (FINCHES CHATTER EXCITEDLY) (MUSIC CONTINUES) MAN 1: Out of my way! MAN 2: Out of my way! MAN 3: Out of my way! - (MUSIC STOPS) - (AUDIENCE APPLAUDS) MAN: Step away from the lady, sir Awaltz! (WALTZ mUSIC PLAYS) - The dance is not yet over. - Remove your hand, sir. Oh, hard luck Come on ESTELLA: Pip Pip, will you nevertake warning? - How can you do it, Estella? - What? Give youraffections tothat man All sorts of ugly creatures hoverabout a lighted candle. - Can the candle help it? - No, but you can. Perhaps. If I cared. But you must care! To encourage a man as despised, as unworthy and boorish as Bentley Drummle. And this is a man who has nothing to recommend him except money... Pip, don't let it affect you so. I can't help it! To give that man the looks and smiles you nevergive to me... Do you want me to deceive you? - Do you deceive him? - Yes! Yes, him and many, many other men. All men. All men but you. And why am I to be spared? Why do you think? JAGGERS: Lovely evening, isn't it? A storm later, so they say. Estella, Mr Drummle requires your presence. Urgently. (THUNDER RUmBLING) (FIRE CRACKLING) (CLOCK CHIMES) PIP: Hello? - (DISTANT BANG) - Herbert? You're back early! Who's there? (GASPS) Who are you? Wait, wait, wait Shh Wait How'd you get in here? Good God. What are you... You acted noble, my boy. Noble, and I have neverforgot it. Look, if you're grateful to me for what I did as a boy, it's not necessary. - Really. You must understand. - What must I understand? That I cannot renew our acquaintance. My life has changed since then. Now, I'm glad that you're well and you've repented But really, you must go. Please. How about a drink first? Before I go. How have you been living? A sheep farmer, stock breeder, in the New World Many a thousand mile off. - You've done well? - I've done wonderful well. Seems, you've done well, too Yes. Yes. No, I have. Thank you. I would like, if I may, to give you this gift. A token. Forold times. Before you go. (WHISPERS) There's yourgift Might a varmint make so bold as to ask you, how you've done well... Since we were on them marshes? Mmm? I've come into some property. And might he ask whose property? No, I cannot say her name. There are conditions. CONVICT: Conditions? Could I make a guess as to your income? Might the first figure be a... Afive? - How could you... - And you would have had a guardian? A lawyer, maybe, with a name beginning with a... A J? AJ, perhaps, who might have sent me your address when I landed in Portsmouth? MrJaggers, perhaps? Yes, dear boy. Yes. I've made a gentleman of you. I swore that time as sure as I everearned a guinea, that guinea should go to you. No... I lived rough that you should live smooth. I worked hard that you should be above work. I made you! I'm your, your father, Pip. No. No, no, no. You are not my father! No, no Your second father, then You're my son. No... No, you're more to me than any son. Look at you, dear boy! (CRYING) Look at these lodgings. They're fit fora lord. And yeah, this watch and this ring and your linen and your clothes. And your, your books, too. Oh! You read them all, have you? You shall read them to me... And I shall be so proud, to think that I'm the makerof such a man. I must sleep, long and sound. It's a long time since I slept. You'll keep watch, dear boy? Cos, look here Here Caution is necessary I was sent for life. It's death to come back. I should be hanged if took. You risked your life to come to me? That's right, dear boy. (STAMmERS) I I don't even know your name. Magwitch. Abel Magwitch. PIP: Well, is it true? JAGGERS: Do not commit yourself. Do not tell me anything, I do not want... - Is what I've been told true? - "Told" implies verbal communication. You cannot have verbal communication with a man in New South Waes. - I was always led to believe... - Nothing. Nothing. You believed what you chose to believe. Mmm-hmm? It's not my responsibility. Now, I understand you have an uncle staying with you. Yes? Yes? - Yes. - Right. May I, suggest you buy him some new clothes, advise him to spend most of his time in your rooms and perhaps have a haircut. Yes? Meanwhile, if you are writing to yourfriend in New South Wales, you may choose to send him that. The balance of our accounts. Mmm-hmm? My services are ended. Good day, Mr Pip All that time, in Satis House, I was just a A mechanical heart to practise on. Estella was never meant for me at all. And you, my "guardian", have known this all along. (WEMMICK CLEARS HIS THROAT) JAGGERS: Well... You may as well hearthis from me as anyone else. Um... The Spider has played his hand DRUMMLE: Can I help you? - Open this gate, Drummle, or I swear - Why, it's the smithy's boy! Don't lose yourtemper, smithy's boy. Seems to me you've lost quite enough already. Pip? - Pip. - Oh, enough! What I have to say to Estella I will say before you. But, Miss Havisham When you first took me from my home, I came as a kind of servant, to gratify a whim and be paid for it. Yes. And when I fell into my mistake of imagining that you were my benefactor... Yes, I... Let you go on. Was that kind? Kind? Who am I to be kind? No, it amused me To punish my relations. You were adequately paid, I believe. What else do you want? Estela. You know I love you. I have loved you since I first saw you in this house. Foolishly, I had hoped that Miss Havisham had meant us foreach other. Clearly the idea was absurd, and I hope Miss Havisham will take what pleasure she can in knowing that I am as unhappy as she ever meant me to be. ESTELLA: These are sentiments, emotions that I am unable to comprehend. When you say you love me, I understand it as a form of words but it touches nothing here. - I don't believe you. - Did I not warn you? - Yes. - Did you not think I meant it? - No. It's not natural! - It is natural in me! And yet still I love you. I know that I'll never call you mine, Estella, yet still I love you. I love you and I beg you do not marry Bentley Drummle. Someone else, anyone, but not that brute ESTELLA: Too late. It's too late. I am going to marry him. The preparations are already underway. - You can't let Miss Havisham... - It is my own act. Miss Havisham has urged me to wait, to reconsider. But I am tired of my life. We will do well enough. Give me your hand Be happy, Pip. This will pass in time. I'll be out of yourthoughts in a week. Out of my thoughts? You're in every thought. You're part of my existence. Part of me. You're in every thought, in every line I have ever read since I first came here. You're in the river, the sails of ships, the sea, the clouds, the stones of London. Until the last hours of my life, you will remain in me... Part of the little good, part of the evil. And I will always think of the good. Goodbye God bless you HAVISHAM: So proud, so hard I am what you have made me! You are my mother, and yet I have never seen yourface by daylight. Since I was a baby, you taught me that there was no such thing as daylight, that it had blighted you... And it would blight me, too, if I let it. Well... I am what you made me. This is what you made me. PIP: Estella... Come with me now. I'd like to help Mr Pocket. He has been a loyal and decent friend and I'd like to use the money that remains to do one good thing. I'd like to purchase him a position. Without his knowledge. Allowing for debts, which are substantial, I might add, that's 500, sir. - All invested in a friend? - Yes, yes. Every last penny. What's your advice? (SCOFFS) Well, sir, if I was in the office, I would suggest that you take that 500, and choose your bridge. There are six to choose from up as high as Chelsea Reach and throw the money off it. You'll lose it just the same, but it will be quicker and less painful. Those would be my sentiments, in the office. But your home sentiments, your... Your Waworth sentiments? My Walworth sentiments... Would be... I'm gonna see what I can do. (CHURCH BELL RINGING) - (MAN GROANING) - (CLATTERING) (SHOUTING) - HERBERT: Let go of me! - Magwitch! - PIP: Leave him! Magwitch! - (GROANING) He wishes to buy us a house! In Hyde Park! - A coach, horses... - Can't you accept? How can I? I've seen him try to murder a man. He might have murdered you. HERBERT: And yet, he risked his life to find you. He says I am the son he's never had. The idea appals me, Herbert, but even so, he must not be captured... Gentlemen. Now, I ain't gonna tell you my life like a song or a story book, but give it to you short and handy. In jail, out of jail. In jail, out of jail. That's my life... Until I met my boy here. I've been done everything to except hanged. I've tramped and begged and thieved, poached... Anything that doesn't pay and leads to trouble. And then a matterof 20 years ago, when I was out of money and out of luck, not that I'd been in it much, I met a man. At Epsom races. His name... Was Compeyson - HERBERT: Compeyson? - Compeyson. I'm sorry Go on MAGWITCH: A gentleman was Compeyson, a smooth one, good-looking too, went to boarding school. He was youngerthan me but he'd got craft and he'd got learning. He and hls missus had a plan... Involving the defrauding of a certain lady by her half-brother. It weren't much of a plan to my mind, but I played my part... I played my part in a small way. I can't say I'm proud of it. Well done, Abel I had a missus, too, at that time - You were married? - No matter. That was a dark time, that time with Compeyson. Always in debt to him, always under his thumb, always getting into danger, always working, for years and years, till I was his black slave. The short of it is, we got committed for felony, putting forged notes into circulation. "Separate defences," Compeyson says "No communication. " (LAUGHS) I sold everything but the clothes on my back so I could get Jaggers, forall the good it did me. Says the counsel for Compeyson, wasn't he the younger and well brought up and of a good school? - Wasn't he... - A gentleman of a county of Shropshire... A gentleman? BARRISTER: Given your persistence and yourmalign influence... And when the verdict came, wasn't it Compeyson as was recommended for mercy on account of good character and bad company and all the damn'd lies he'd given up against me? And wasn't it me as never got a word... - JUDGE: But to find you guilty - Guilty. (GRUNTS) - Guilty - JUDGE: Order! Order! Guilty PIP: For how long? He got two. And a few months on, he turns up on my prison ship. I swore to the Lord, I'd smash his facee in And I did. And then, thinking, hoping, that he'd drowned, I swam to the shore and was hiding among the graves there, envying them that were in them... And my boy here found me. My boy. - Is he dead? - Who? PIP: Compeyson MAGWITCH: He'll wish I am, If he's alive. And he'll wish he was, if I find him - And the lady he defrauded. Her name was... - 'Avisham. Miss 'Avisham. PIP: I need you to tell me about Compeyson. JAGGERS: Cleverfellow. Dangerous - PIP: Is he stlll alive? - To my knowledge, yes. I would strongly adviseyour uncle to pack his bags. If he's found, he will hang. And it's fairto presume that Mr Compeyson does not wish him well. - (FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING) - MOLLY: Abel's come back! - You told me he'd nevercome back. - Calm down, Molly. He mustn't find out, ever. Poor, poor, Abel. What did you make me do? It was wicked, wicked! JAGGERS: Abel will neverfind out I'll shall ensure that. - Did I not swearat the time... - You swore that she'd be safe! You swore she'd have a brand-new life! PIP: Jaggers, you must tell me. Who is this "she"? Magwitch and Molly had a child. A girl. A pretty thing. But Molly was a fierce one, wild and passionate like herhusband, and not a woman to let injustice go unpunished. Compeyson, of course, was safe in prison Hls wife, however, was not safe. Molly found her. A terrible crime. (GRUNTING) Cold-blooded and ruthless, assuming, of course, that Molly did it. But to be guilty and to be found guilty are different things. Put the case that a woman accused of murderwent to see her legal adviser... And put the case that same legal adviser holds a trust to find a child foran eccentric and rich woman to adopt and bring up. Put the case that the legal adviser said to the mother of the child... Give the child into my hands, I will do my best to get you off. If you are saved, yourchild is saved. If you are lost, your child is still saved. And the child was your fee? And what of Magwitch? - The father was told... - No! You say his name! Magwitch was told that the child had died. Consumption Put the case that she is now safe and wealthy, and about to marry one of the richest men in England. And one of the vilest. Estella is not the Spider's reward Estella is his punishment. And you arranged it. As instructed by my client. Only as instructed PIP: And what did Mlss Havisham want with the chlld? JAGGERS: Well, you, uh, must ask heryourself. PIP: What dld you want with the chlld? I just wanted a little girl, to love, and to rear, to save from my fate. HAVISHAM: One night he brought herhere And I called her Estella. Plp, she was so gentle. She was so beautiful. Plp, believe me, when she first came to me, I just meant to save her from misery llke my own. But as she grew more beautiful, I gradually dld worse. And with my praises and my jewels and my teachings, I... I stole her heart away... And put ice In Its place. (WHISPERS) I stole herheart away And put ice In Its place. Pip, are you very unhappy? Do you hate me very much? I know you must hate me, but if you can ever bear to forgive me... (SHRIEKS) (SCREAMING) (WHIMPERING) (WHIMPERING) - (WHIMPERING) - (COUGHING) HAVISHAM: Forgive me Forgive me. Forgive me. Forgive me. Forgive me. Forgive me. I won't deny there have been too many secrets. But who would the truth serve? If Estella... Were to discoverthat herfather is a convict, her mother a murderess, would she thank you, do you think? (CRINGES) Hmm? (DISTANT BELLS) Sir A note foryou Most important, the gentleman said. (PEOPLE TALKING INDISTINCTLY) WOMAN: Bastard! Where are you? Show your bitchy face! (SPITS) - Did you destroy my note? - I did. Best not to leave any evidence. They're on to him, Mr Pip. - (WHISTLING) - (SHOUTING) Police. The reward on his head is substantial. Every copper and cut throat in London is on the hunt for yourAntipodean Uncle. It was all your Mr Herbert and I could do to get him out in time. How do we get him away? There's a steamer leaving for antwerp at midnight. You and your Uncle find a way onto it. Portable property, Mr Pip. Try and lay hold of portable property. All is well, Handel. He's quite safe here. Though he is keen to see you. - Goodness! What happened to your hands? - Where is he? Listen, the steamerdeparts at midnight. We'll intercept it shortly after. The further from the city we can get, the safer it will be. It's not long now. Thank 'ee, my boy. - I love you. - Herbert... Clara, I will return your fianc safely, I swear Apologies, Handel. She thinks you have rather a malign influence on me. And she's right. Herbert, are you sure you want to... Handel, I don't think I've ever been more excited in my life! (RUSTLING) PIP: "The rain pattered dismally against the panes, "and my candle was nearly burnt out, "when, by the glimmer of the half-extinguished light, "I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature open... "It breathed. " Something wrong, Abel? Not a bit of it. To sit here and have my smoke along with my dear boy... I had a little child once. I didn't tell you afore. Pretty little thing. Agirl. Died while I was in prison. But there weren't a day, as I was rotting on that hulk, when I didn't think on herface and what a dear, pretty thing she were. And when I saw you on them marshes, well, you brought herto my mind. Maybe that's why I took to you so strong. I hope I've been a friend to you this ittle time we've had. You speak as if we're parting. In an hour, we'll be safe aboard We can no more see to the bottom of the next few hours than we can see to the bottom of this river. Which I catches in my hand. And it's run through my fingers and gone. You see? Listen! Can you hear? (DISTANTWHISTLE) Get the oars We'll head down the river and wait. (DISTANTWHISTLE) (STEAM ENGINE CHUGGING) Go, boys Go! (GRUNTING) Come on, boys, row! - POLICEMAN: Stop! Stop that boat! - There they are! MAGWITCH: Go on, boys! Put your back into it! Row! You have a returned convict there! His name is Abel Magwitch. I apprehend the man, and call upon him to surrender! Keep going! Compeyson Row! POLICEMAN: Stop! Stop that boat! MAGWITCH: Nearly there! Turn! MAGWITCH: Come on, boys! They're closing on us! No! No! Get off! (SHOUTING) HERBERT: Handel! Handel! - Hang on! - HERBERT: Magwitch, grab my hand! - Look out, Pip! - Aargh! HERBERT: Pip! - Magwitch! - We have to get overthere! No! Magwitch! (GROANING) (MEN SHOUTING) Up you come Give me your hand Give me your hand. MAN: Just get in there! Come on. - Abel! - Handel, don't No. Abel! (WHEEZING) JAGGERS: All is lost. All is gone. You've let the whole thing slip through yourfingers. - PIP: Will he be tried? - Yes. He will be tried and found guilty, too, and hanged. The best that we can hope for is that he dies before it comes to that. The money, the land, are all forfeit to the crown. You have nothing, Pip. Not a penny. Can we keep that from him? I'd like him to think I'm a gentleman still. BARRISTER: I must, amongst you, single out a miserable man who, after many years of living a peaceable and honest life in exile, decided, in a fatal moment, to return to the country where he was expressly proscribed. Whatever the motive for his return, there can only be one punishment. A punishment he shall share with all of you here before me today. (ALL MUMBLING) JUDGE: By the power vested in me by this court, I sentence you all to death by hanging. (PEOPLE SHOUTING) May the Lord have mercy on your souls. Are you in much pain today? (WHISPERS) I don't complain, dear boy If only you had stayed away... And not seen this face? I... I wish I had been more deserving of your love. Hush. A gentleman. My very own. Magwitch, I must tell you. Your daughter... Whom you loved and lost... She lived. She lived, and found powerful friends She is living now She is a lady and very beautiful. And I... I love her. (WHEEZES) (GASPS) I don't know you. MAN: Concerns a debt, sir 125.15s. 6d. - I don't have it. - We didn't think so, sir So we've come to arrest you Would you come with us, please, sir? Yes. Yes, of course (GASPS) - Hello, there. - Is itJoe? Which it is, old chap. Forgive me, Joe. Dear old Pip, old chap, you and me was everfriends. Now, you sleep... And when you're well enough, what larks! (DISTANT BELL RINGING) "Paid in full. " "Paid in full. " "Paid. " (METAL SQUEAKING) (BIDDY HUMMING) I came as quickly as I could. I wanted to tell you... Oh, Pip It's my wedding day! MAN: Biddy, I can't forthe life of me get... (FOOTSTEPSAPPROACHING) Pip. (LAUGHING) Oh, Pip! - Oh! - Biddy! Oh! JOE: Right, this way! Come on! - Forward, troops! - (BIDDY LAUGHS) Come on! Or I'll carry you like a big bird and fly like a bird all the way over there. (ALL LAUGH) Come on, Mrs Gargery One, two, three, four Oh! Oh, my poor old back! What have you been eating? Pip! Whoo! PIP: Your life savings, Joe! JOE: It's only money, Plp. Nevertheless, I will Work I will pay you back every penny, if it takes me... Pip. That's enough. - Father! Father! - HERBERT: Charles, be quiet. How many times do I need to tell you, this is a place of business, not a nursery! I have a letter Given by a lady Oh, a lady How intriguing! Handel! You've a letter. (LOW CHATTER) (CHILDREN TALKING INDISTINCTLY) ESTELLA: Drummle died two years ago. He was kicking his horse, and the horse kicked back. PIP: I'm sorry to hearthat. ESTELLA: Pip PIP: I'm sorry for anything that brings you sorrow. ESTELLA: Well, rest assured I feel none My husband and I made each other perfectly miserable, just as intended. I have been bent and broken... But I hope into a bettershape. I've been travelling a great deal. I had heard that you were here, and thriving... And I had a desire to see my old friend. My only friend. When we last met, you said that you would always think of me. And I have. - That you would think of the good in me. - Always. You are a part of me, Estella. "You are in the ships", you said, "And the river. " I love you, Estella. I'm glad.
