 

                        Music to me, it's the air that I breathe. It's the blood that pumps through my veins that keeps me alive. So without it, I don't know what I would do. I'd probably have a job or something like that, but... People ask me, "What would you do if you didn't have Green Day?" And I said, "I'd be in Green Day. I don't really know anything else." When people say, "What do you think of people that only talk to you or like you because you're in Green Day?" And I say, "Well, I am Green Day." That is me. That is my life. Let's go, hey-ho, let's go! Hey-ho, let's go! Green Day! Green Day! Green Day! Green Day! Don't want to be an American idiot Don't want a nation under the new media And can you hear the sound of hysteria? The subliminal mind fuck America Alright, Welcome to a new kind of tension All across the alien nation Where everything isn't meant to be okay Television dreams of tomorrow We're not the ones who're meant to follow For that's enough to argue ENGLAND!!!! Well maybe I'm the faggot America I'm not a part of a redneck agenda Now everybody do the propaganda And sing along to the age of paranoia Alright, Welcome to a new kind of tension All across the alien nation Where everything isn't meant to be okay Television dreams of tomorrow We're not the ones who're meant to follow For that's enough to argue Alright, England! I say hey-oh! - Hey-oh! - I say hey-oh! - Come on! - Hey-oh! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Alright! Are you guys ready to sing along? Well, I want you to sing so loud that every fucking redneck in America hears you tonight! Alright? Don't want to be an American idiot One nation controlled by the media Information age of hysteria,GO It's calling out to idiot America Welcome to a new kind of tension All across the alien nation Where everything isn't meant to be okay Television dreams of tomorrow We're not the ones who're meant to follow For that's enough to argue Welcome to the Green Day World Tour 2005! I think to do something that you feel in your heart that's great, you need to make a lot of mistakes to get there. Anything that's- I think is successful is a series of mistakes. With "American Idiot," I mean, it started off with having band practises in- we came back and we started getting back into band practise down in Billie's basement and stuff. Literally after two or three weeks, we we're just like, "This sucks. We know how to have band practise. This is not how we want to approach making a record." I mean, even to the point where Billie called me at one point and was like, "Do you even wanna do this anymore?" "American Idiot" was sort of a whole new let's-take-on-the-planet sort of vibe. You should do it at least once in your lifetime. I think we were kinda scared when we were doing demos, but I think there was some point that you know, fuck it, if people fucking hang us, fuck it. Day one of the record, the first thing we did, everything was about setting the goals of this record, you know? "American Idiot," after recording it, we knew we had accomplished something that was completely... above anything else we'd ever done. As soon as we wrote "American Idiot," we kinda looked at each other like "This is better." We set that bar, and then we sorta looked at ourselves like, "Okay, now we have a mountain to climb." I write a lot of songs when I'm going on walks. And I was kinda thinking like, "Who is the American idiot? What is this person? Who is that guy? What kind of character is gonna come out of that? Who is it?" And I just remember going on this walk, and then thinking, "I'm the son of ragin' love, Jesus of suburbia." Those two lines right there for me were, "Oh my God. Here we go." It was opening up something that not only was completely a new thing, but there was something about it that dug up some past, like... demons that- that you- it seemed like you closed off a long time ago, but you never reconciled with, and then those two lines came out, and it was- they excited me and scared the living piss out of me at the same time. Every single line that you write, you hang on every single word, and you hang on every single moment. And for "Jesus of Suburbia," when people are singing it back to you, they're not just reflecting what you've- the things about the song that you're wrapped up in, but it's also whether their lives are wrapped up in it too. It's too much of an emotional moment. It's one of the most emotional moments in a song that I've ever written. That's the only way you can look at a song like that. You can't sit here and look at it and say, "This is a catchy number. Oh God, I'd love to dance to this song." For a song like "Jesus of Suburbia," there's too much emotion at stake to just simply say it like that. You don't even have to say you love that song. I don't even think that's the way to describe it. It's not about- It's about all the emotional baggage that you come with and that you are- just you finally have an outlet for. That's what "Jesus of Suburbia" is to me. And when it's reflected back at you by 65,000 people, it's, um... I don't know. It's a feeling you can't even describe. This song is dedicated to everybody who took the train to get here tonight, alright? This song's called "Jesus of Suburbia." I'm the son of rage and love The Jesus of Suburbia From the bible of none of the above On a steady diet of soda pop and Ritalin No one ever died for my sins in hell As far as I can tell At least the ones I got away with And there's nothing wrong with me This is how I'm supposed to be In a land of EVERYBODY That don't believe in me Get my television fix sitting on my crucifix The living room or my private womb While the moms and Brads are away To fall in love and fall in debt To alcohol and cigarettes and Mary Jane To keep me insane And doing someone else's cocaine And there's nothing wrong with me This is how I'm supposed to be In a land of EVERYBODY That don't believe in me Ladies and gentlemen, Tr Cool. At the center of the Earth In the parking lot Of the 7-11 where I was taught The motto was just a lie It says home is where your heart is But what a shame Cause everyone's heart Doesn't beat the same It's beating out of time Get those fists in the air! City of the dead At the end of another lost highway Signs misleading to nowhere Alright! City of the damned Lost children with dirty faces today No one really seems to care Get those hands up! I read the graffiti In the bathroom stall Like the holy scriptures of a shopping mall And so it seemed to confess It didn't say much But it only confirmed that The center of the earth Is the end of the world And I could really care less Get those fists in the air! City of the dead At the end of another lost highway Signs misleading to nowhere One more time! City of the damned Lost children with dirty faces today No one really seems to care --"{(I don't care if you don't-x2) "--x4 I don't care Everyone is so full of shit Born and raised by hypocrites Hearts recycled but never saved From the cradle to the grave We are the kids of war and peace From Anaheim to the middle east We are the stories and disciples Of the Jesus of suburbia Land of make believe That don't believe in me Land of make believe And I don't believe And I don't care! I don't care! [x4] Dearly beloved are you listening? I can't remember a word, that you were saying Are we demented or am I disturbed? The space that's in between insane and insecure Brothers and sisters, get those hands up in the air! Oh therapy, can you please fill the void? Am I retarded or am I just overjoyed Nobody's perfect and I stand accused For lack of a better word, and that's my best excuse England! Ladies and gentlemen, Mike Dirnt! To live and not to breathe Is to die In tragedy To run, to run away To find what you believe And I leave behind This hurricane of fucking lies I lost my faith to this This town that don't exist So I run I run away To the light of masochist And I leave behind This hurricane of fucking lies And I walked this line A million and one fucking times But not this time I don't feel any shame I won't apologize When there ain't nowhere you can go Running away from pain When you've been victimized Tales from another broken HOME (You're leavingx4) It's like a big gallery of someone else's nightmare, you know? You want your bible with a bullet in it. That'll be me. - You have a bible with a bullet in it? - Oh, yeah. Bible with a bullet in it. Bible with shrapnel in it. - Man, let's go. - Okay. This next song is a big fuck you to all the politicians! This song's called "Holiday." This song is not anti-American. It's anti... war! Hear the sound of the falling rain Coming down like an Armageddon flame (Hey!) The shame The ones who died without a name Hear the dogs howling out of key To a hymn called "Faith and Misery" (Hey!) And bleed, the company lost the war today I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies This is the dawning of the rest of our lives On holiday Hear the drum pounding out of time Another protester has crossed the line (Hey!) To find, the money's on the other side Brothers and sisters... Can I get another Amen? (Amen!) There's a flag wrapped around a score of men (Hey!) A gag, a plastic bag on a monument I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies This is the dawning of the rest of our lives On holiday (Hey!) Lights out! The representative of the United Kingdom now has the floor. Sieg Heil to the president Gasman Bombs away is your punishment Pulverize the Eiffel towers Who criticize your government Bang bang goes the broken glass and Kill all the fags that don't agree Trials by fire, setting fire Is not a way that's meant for me Just cause, just cause, because we're outlaws yeah! I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies This is the dawning of the rest of our lives I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies This is the dawning of the rest of our lives This is our lives on holiday England! You know, it's- the way it feels on tour is like there's always certain smells and there's always the certain things you see every day, whether it's body odour to the smell of the trucks outside to seeing the crew and the guys every day. It's a travelling circus in a lot of ways, and you see the same characters every single day. Wait! They don't love you like I love you. Wait! They don't love you like l- We got to countdown about 30 minutes before we go on. Usually have a little practise amp and one guitar and one of us will pick it up and we'll kind of sing through- we all sing some vocals, and get our vocals in line, and there's usually a lot of goofing around in that. There's that struggle to stay healthy. There's a struggle to party, to not party. Oh, yeah! Right here. Sorry, Mike. Everything that you do during the day leads up to what your evening is going to be like or not be like, because it could be completely unpredictable. You could be having the worst day ever. Your girlfriend broke up with you, your dog got hit by a car, your life is in complete turmoil. And then that night you have this great show. There's that feeling of "Fuck everybody. Who cares? I don't give a shit. Fuck the dog. Dog's dead, but all these people are freaking out." And then you walk offstage, and then all of a sudden you're worried about what's going on at home, and you're back to your life and trying to communicate with people at home. Sometimes people use touring as a cure-all for their problems. It's a great place to run away from all of your problems. - I love you. - Which bus is Billie's? It's a different reality altogether, but as soon as that reality's over with, or that fantasy life is over with, all of a sudden, you're at home again. There it is. Home is right there, and you're forced to deal with things. And then you have a terrible show and everything sucks. That day sucks. You throw your guitar at somebody or your bass at somebody or your drumstick at somebody with bad intent. Then there's those times where that is your family. That is who you are. That is your home. That's my jam, yo. We've been a band now- we've been a band now for the last 16 years. And not only is this the best fucking tour we've ever had... but in the past two days we've played to over Thank you. That's the biggest we've ever had. But remember one thing: The second day is always better than the first. This song's called "St. Jimmy." Starry nights city lights coming down over me Skyscrapers and stargazers in my head Are we we are, are we we are the waiting unknown This dirty town was burning down in my dreams Lost and found city bound in my dreams Come on! And screaming Are we we are, are we we are the waiting And screaming Are we we are, are we we are the waiting Forget me nots and second thoughts live in isolation Heads or tails and fairytales in my mind Come on! Are we we are, are we we are the waiting unknown The rage and love, the story of my life The Jesus of suburbia is a lie Come on! And screaming Are we we are, are we we are the waiting And screaming Are we we are, are we we are the waiting unknown Are we we are, are we we are the waiting And screaming Are we we are, are we we are the waiting unknown Are we we are, are we we are the waiting unknown St. Jimmy's comin' down across the alleyway Up on the boulevard like a zip gun on parade Light of a silhouette,He's insubordinate Coming at you on the count of 1,2,1,2,3,4! My name is Jimmy and you better not wear it out Suicide commando that your momma talked about King of the forty thieves And I'm here to represent The needle in the vein of the establishment I'm the patron saint of the denial With an angel face and a taste for suicidal England! Cigarettes and ramen and a little bag of dope I am the son of a bitch and Edgar Allen Poe Raised in the city under a halo of lights The product of war and fear that we've been victimized I'm the patron saint of the denial With an angel face and a taste for suicidal ARE YOU TALKING TO ME? ST. JIMMY! Let's go! My name is St. Jimmy I'm a son of a gun I'm the one that's from the way outside I'm a teenage assassin executing some fun In the cult of the life of crime. I really hate to say it but I told you so So shut your mouth before I shoot you down ol' boy Welcome to the club and give me some blood And the resident leader at the lost and found. EVERYBODY It's comedy and tragedy It's St. Jimmy And that's my nameeeeeee... And don't you fucking wear it out! Yeah, I mean, we were just approached to play Milton Keynes. They told us how many people it was gonna be in front of. At that point, we had played arenas before, you know, we were nervous about filling a place like that. We didn't know what people were gonna think of us. With Milton Keynes, all this touring had been leading up to the eventual playing of stadiums for us. These were like our first two huge stadium shows. We're looking at 65,000 people two days in a row and sold out way in advance, so we know they're gonna be exciting. Is playing 60,000 people, does it feel different than 15,000? I think a lot of bands have a problem with is playing in front of that many people and trying to create intimacy, and when you play in front of that many people, you don't try to create intimacy. You try to create an event. You try to create a spectacle or a splash. It's about just having something that's massive. This is the biggest gig pretty much in the history of punk rock. We're aware of it, and we don't take it lightly whatsoever. We're gonna play for 65,000 of our fans. And then do it again the next day. in two days. - Is England important to you? - I think when a band makes it- when an English band makes it in the United States, they feel like they've really made it, and when an American band makes it in England, they feel like they've really fucking made it. To have such a historical monumental point in Green Day's career, being in England, it was an honour, really. I get nervous before every show. I've always said it. People always go, "Oh, no, you don't." One of the worst things I hate hearing- I actually just told my girlfriend to say that. I'm like, "Don't say that 'cause I'm really nervous," and they always go, "You always do great." I'm like... We're ready to go on now. Thank you. I'll be here all night. You go into a song like "Longview," and you look into the crowd and as many people know it, there's a lot of new faces that are kind of like, "What's this?" And that was the point where I knew that we had- we had gotten out of that shadow of "Dookie" entirely. We're a whole 'nother place, you know, and I think at this point, Green Day is synonymous with good music. Alright! Sit around and watch the tube,but nothing's on Change the channels for an hour or two Come on! Twiddle my thumbs just for a bit Go! I'm sick of all the same old shit In a house with unlocked doors And I'm fucking lazy Bite my lip and close my eyes Take me away to paradise I'm so damn bored I'm going BLIND!!! And I smell like shit Peel me off this velcro seat and get me moving I sure as hell can't do it by myself Alright! I'm feeling like a DOG IN HEA Barred indoors from the summer street I locked the door to MY OWN CELL And I lost the key Bite my lip and close my eyes Take me away to paradise I'm so damn bored I'm going BLIND!!! And I smell like shit I GOT NO MOTIVATION WHERE IS MY MOTIVATION NO TIME FOR THE MOTIVATION SMOKING MY INSPIRATION England! Sit around and watch the phone, but no one's calling Call me pathetic,call me WHAT YOU WILL My mother says to get a job But she don't like the one SHE'S got Go! When masturbation's lost its fun You're fucking lazy Bite my lip and close my eyes Take me away to paradise I'm so damn BORED I'm going blind And loneliness has to suffice Bite my lip and close my eyes I was slipping away to paradise Some say,"Quit or I'll go BLIND." But it's just a myth Hardest-working band in rock ever. So hot. Mmm, dirty. I really like that. It's all good. They're gonna be all backwards and stuff when I'm done with them. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. This one's my favourite. There's gonna be front truss fireworks that fire off from the top over the roof. - Good job! - You did good. - That's good. I like it! - You did good. Good explaining. That was good explaining, Bill Schneider. Yeah, coffee for six and a latte as well. No, a latte- caffe latte as well. Yes. - What's up, Ringo? - Thank you very much. Yeah, right. Give me another cig. Some more of that sweet wine, mate. You like that, bitch? No man can eat 50 eggs. Alright, England! Hey mister, where you headed? Are you in a hurry? I need a lift to happy hour Say oh no. Do you brake for distilled spirits? I need a break as well The well that inibriates the guilt. Cold turkey's getting stale Tonight I'm eating crow Fermented salmonella poison oak, no There's a drought at the fountain of youth, and now I'm dehydrating My tongue is swelling up, as say 1, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4 Troubled times, you know I can not lie I'm off the wagon and I'm hitchin' a ride Alright, England! Well say, "Hey oh!" Come on! Hey oh! Well, say "Hey, hey!" Hey, hey! I said hey oh! Hey oh! I said hey, hey! Hey, hey! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey... Now that's how you do it in England, baby! I said a-one, a-two, a-one, two, three, four. Alright! - I said ah! - Ah. - I said oh! - Oh! - I said ooh! - Ooh! - I said whoo! I say whoo! - Whoo! Whoo! - I say whoo! - Whoo! - I say hey-oh! - Hey-oh! - I said ahh. - Ahh. - Ahh. - Ahh. Ahh. - Ohh. - Ohh. - Oh. - Oh. - Ohh. - Ohh. Ohh! Ohhh! Ohh! Oh! Ohh! Ohh! Oh! Oh! Somebody fuck me! Are you ready? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. One, two- one, two, three, four. One, two- one, two, three, four. - One, two- one, two, three, four. - And stop! Now you sound like you're fucking ready! This is what I need. This is what it's gonna take. This is what it's gonna take. I need every single person here at Milton Keynes to freak out. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. But first, I need everyone here at Milton Keynes to scream, "One, two- one, two, three, four." You ready? One, two- one, two, three, four. One, two- one, two, three, four. One, two- one, two, three, four. One, two- one, two, three, four. There's a drought at the fountain of youth, and now I'm dehydrating My tongue is swelling up, I say 1,2,1,2,3,4 SHITTTT Troubled times, you know I can not lie I'm off the wagon and Come on! Before a show, I don't even really like being talked to. You gotta get your heart racing, and you gotta get in that frame of mind where you have to skew your own reality and you have to really embrace and concentrate on everything that is going to happen on the stage and be ready for the unpredictable at the same time. You get pumped up, you get ready. You can't be just sitting on a couch and goofing around or playing Playstation then go up and rock a zillion people. You gotta be pumped somehow. That includes- like I said, I gotta break a sweat before I hit the stage because, you know, it's like jumping onto a moving train. You just gotta be ready for it, you know? Otherwise, you can get run over. Rock and roll outfits commence. Form of a supergroup. Next hour's going to be a long one. But the two hours after that are gonna fly by, and they're gonna last forever. I am so beautiful! You just get rid of everything that's going on in the outside world and you just focus on this gig. But there's just all this stuff that's going through your head, but all you can do is channel it. You just get rid of everything that's going on in the outside world. Hey-oh, let's go! Green Day! Green Day! Green Day! Green Day! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! It's a place of worship. It's a place of rock! - What kind of place is this? - This is a holy place! Why are there no clouds in the sky? 'Cause God wants to watch his favourite band again. For the next two hours, this is where I'm gonna be. I want to treat it like as if it's the last time I'm ever going to play. I'm having trouble trying to sleep I'm counting sheep but running out As time ticks by And still I try No rest for crosstops in my mind Everybody! On my own here we go My eyes feel like they're gonna bleed Dried up and bulging out of my skull My mouth is dry My face is numb Fucked up and spun out in my room On my own here we go My mind is set on overdrive The clock is laughing in my face A crooked spine My sensed dulled Passed the point of delirium On my own here we go My eyes feel like they're gonna bleed Dried up and bulging out my skull My mouth is dry My face is numb Fucked up and spun out in my room On my own here we go Alright, England! Are you ready? Ol, ol, ol. Ol, ol. Ol, ol, ol. Ol, ol, ol. Hey! How are you guys doing up there on the lawn? How're you good guys doing back there? How's all my friends down here on the floor? I say, hey-oh! Come on! Hey-oh! I say hey-hey! Hey-hey! Now, I would like to introduce to you a band called Green Day. Over here on the guitar... originally from Little Rock, Arkansas, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jason White! Standing to my left, on the trumpet... originally from London, England. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ronnie Blake. And standing right next to him, on the piano, on the saxophone, on the trombone, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many pornographic websites on the internet... Come over here, Mr Freese. Come over here, Mr Freese. Give me some of that- give me some of that UK Blues. Come up here. Bring me some of that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jason Freese! Alright. On the bass... a man I've been standing next to for the last 16 years. A man who looks really good naked. And the best fucking bass player in the history of punk rock music. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mike Dirnt! Mike Dirnt, Mike Dirnt. And on the drums... a man that's very personal and close and a lifelong friendship with Mr Michael Jackson. A man I like to shower naked with. And the greatest drummer in the history of rock and roll. Ladies and gentlemen, Tr Cool! And my name is George W. Bush! Actually, my name is Asshole. I fully promote and love watching Tr be the greatest rock drummer - in the world. - I concur. Tr is... he's pure drummer and way too much energy. Orange Mocha Frappuccino. Tr Cool plays the drums in Green Day and he snorts... ...doughnut sprinkles and- oh, that's- ah, that's a sweet drain. I don't want you to get the wrong idea. I mean, not all liberals smoke lettuce. You know and he's... how can l- how can I place it? I know, he's- he's just a little catalyst, you know, for good, bad and everything in-between. Hey, dear, come here. I can count to four and repeat. I'm a drummer. Yeah... yeah. See, I made you think about hot tubs and stuff. Gonna be an ongoing thing, it'll be funny. I judge all you drummers. I'm watching you, hey! Do you have the time To listen to me whine About nothing and everything All at once I am one of those Melodramatic fools Neurotic to the bone No doubt about it Come on! Sometimes I give myself the creeps Sometimes my mind plays tricks on me It all keeps adding up I think I'm cracking up Am I just paranoid? Am I just stoned? I went to a shrink To analyze my dreams She says it's lack of sex That's bringing me down I went to a whore He said my life's a bore So quit my whining cause It's bringing her down Sometimes I give myself the creeps Sometimes my mind plays tricks on me It all keeps adding up I think I'm cracking up Am I just paranoid? Uh, yuh, yuh, ya Grasping to control So I better hold on Sometimes I give myself the creeps Sometimes my mind plays tricks on me It all keeps adding up I think I'm cracking up Am I just paranoid? Am I just stoned? We didn't even know that we were going to make a video, let alone a concert movie in front of 65,000 people. Best laid plans go right out of the window when there's a rock concert and there's 65,000 people. If you can't talk back to the control booth- Slow- this is nice. Something doesn't feel the way that we set it up. I need something to go to Tr - where is Tr? Yeah... Um, j-jiggle the wire. It's not working. No, no, no. Steph on wide and Al all the way. Where is that- - George, find something else. - We don't have the helicopter. You might get a few simple directions throughout the show. You're doing some racks like that. That was nice. Good, that's great, hold that. Tell everyone he's on the squirt gun right now. - Now, guys- - So get off that fucking side. - Off the side. - That's beautiful. Look at that. Man, that's fucking great. Making sure they're getting the slates. That's awesome. I've called them twice. I'll call. Guys, make sure you get your slates. Don't forget your slates. Thanks. Yeah, stay on Jason. No, hold it, you dumb fuck. Okay, give me a fast move. Jim, come off of black. Hold that. This fucking camera- - Mario, hold that. - Awesome. Right, hold that, hold that. Right there, good. That, hold that. Oh yeah, good, good, good! Awesome! Fuck! Beautiful, Mario, keep that. - Fuck, man. - George- George, is good. Reload it. - How was it? - It was good. It wasn't great? King for a day! Started at the age of 4. My mother went to the grocery store. Went sneaking through her bedroom door, to find something in a size 4 Sugar and spice and everything nice, wasn't made for only girls. GI Joe in panty hose is making room for the one and only. King for a day, princess by dawn. King for a day in a leather thong. King for a day, princess by dawn. Just wait 'til all the guys get a load of me. England! My daddy threw me in therapy. He thinks I'm not a real man. Who put the drag in the drag queen. Don't knock it until you tried it Sugar and spice and everything nice Wasn't meant for only girls G.I. Joe in pantyhose Is making room for the one and only King for a day princess by dawn King for a day in a leather thong King for a day princess by dawn Just wait 'til all the guys get a load of me England! Get those hands up in the air! Go! Sugar and spice and everything nice Wasn't meant for only girls G.I. Joe in pantyhose Is making room for the one and only King for a day princess by dawn King for a day in a leather thong King for a day princess by dawn King for a day in a leather thong King for a day princess by dawn King for a day in a leather thong King for a day princess by dawn Just wait 'til all the guys Just wait 'til all the guys Just wait 'til all the guys get a load of me Hey, you! - Said hey, hey, hey, hey. - Hey, hey, hey, hey. Said hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey. - Said hey, hey, hey, hey. - Hey, hey, hey, hey. Said hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Said, hey-oh! Come on! Hey-oh. Alright. Said hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! And stop! Now wai-ai-ai... ...ait a minute. Yeah-yeah! Yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah- yeah-eah-eah! I want you to know I want you to know now You've been so good (You've been so good to me-x3) You know you make me wanna Shout! (Keep my hands up and Shout-x3) Keep my hands up and (A little bit softer now-x14) (Shoobedowop bop bop-x6) (Always look on the bright side of life-x4) (A little bit louder now-x14) (Jump up and shout now-x4) (Shout-x9) (Shout-x8) I have never put so much emotion into any... record than I have into-into "American Idiot" and in every song that's on "American Idiot." There are times where I feel like I get choked up and feel like I get a frog in my throat, or I feel like it's hard to sing the next line because even though it's- the record isn't necessarily about me but everything comes from some emotional place that l- that I've experienced in my life. And it resurfaces every time that you play those songs. You're not just putting it out there. You're performing it, but you're living it at the same time. Then when you see all those people throwing it right back at you at the same time, you know, it's just such an emotional level where it's- you know, it's- the whole show is- and everybody is almost levitating. This song is called "Wake Me Up When September Ends." Summer has come and passed The innocent can never last Wake me up when September ends Like my father's come to pass Seven years has gone so fast Wake me up when September ends Here comes the rain again Falling from the stars Drenched in my pain again Becoming who we are As my memory rests But never forgets what I lost Wake me up when September ends Summer has come and passed The innocent can never last Wake me up when September ends Ring out the bells again Like we did when spring began Wake me up when September ends Here comes the rain again Falling from the stars Drenched in my pain again Becoming who we are As my memory rests But never forgets what I lost Wake me up when September ends Summer has come and passed The innocent can never last Wake me up when September ends Like my father's come to pass Twenty years has gone so fast Wake me up when September ends Wake me up when September ends Wake me up when September ends I'm a manager of a printing factory with over 100 employees, and they think it's absolutely brilliant. They think it's absolutely hilarious that I'm here today and trying to get into that mosh pit right down in the front to see my band. I wanna be right in there, right in the mosh pit. I don't wanna be in a mosh pit, but I wanna be in the front. Crowd's off to the front, right at the front. Oh, about that bit there where everyone will be jumping up and down, I think. Jumping around, jumping around and jumping forwards and jumping backwards and getting very sweaty. Generally, right there. This is gonna be the best gig of my life, definitely. Best day of my life. It's 'cause of them that we got together. We met working together in a bank, and not many people in the bank liked punk music. So we kinda saw each other and started talking about Green Day and then started becoming friends and then went to see them. - Yeah. - After September the 11th, there was a lot of- the radio over here took all of their kind of political songs off the playlist, and it seemed like mainstream rock bands were scared to say stuff honestly because they wanted to get on the playlist. Green Day came out with "American Idiot" recently. They've been all over the place and just proved that rock bands can be honest again, and people wanna hear it. People want the voice. With "American Idiot," they're really laying down the gauntlet and challenging people to think about life and what's happening. It's not easy listening. It's not songs about masturbation anymore. Like they've grown up and they're talking about something important. The fact that they don't give a damn about anything. The way can just tell President Bush to fuck off. It's just nice to see there are punk rock bands out there who still care about it, 'cause it's nice that... 60,000 people here today who care about Green Day, who care about "American Idiot," all agree with it, to buy the record to come and see the band. Both equally the same massive Green Day fans. - Definitely, we are one. - Been listening to them for years. And Billie Joe started talking to me, and he said, "Are you coming to the London show tomorrow night?" I said, "No, I'm sorry. I haven't got a ticket." He said, "Matthew, don't worry. I'll sort you a ticket out." The next day, lo and behold, he's put me a ticket on the door. They've been with me all my life, and I love them to death, love them. So it's obviously not just a phase like my parents thought at first. I've been listening to Green Day for the past 10 years. And Zoe's grown up with them, so that's how Zoe likes Green Day. - They got it all. - He's a beautiful man. It's just an amazing day. They're definitely gonna go down in history with the likes of the Ramones and the Clash and Bad Religion in the punk circle. When someone mentions Green Day, everyone knows a Green Day song. They're the biggest band in the world right now. Green Day's all about being who you are, being a minority and not being afraid of anything else for... nothing. You gotta be who you are. And you shouldn't be scared about that. Listening to Green Day just brought out something that I never knew I had before, and if anyone tells you otherwise, you just gotta give them the middle finger. I want to be the minority I don't need your authority Down with the moral majority 'Cause I want to be the minority I pledge allegiance to the underworld One nation under dark There of which I stand alone A face in the crowd Unsung, against the mold Without a doubt,Singled out The only way I know I want to be the minority I don't need your authority Down with the moral majority 'Cause I want to be the minority Stepped out of the line Like a sheep runs from the herd Marching out of time To my own beat now The only way I know One light, one mind Flashing in the dark Blinded by the silence of a thousand broken hearts "For crying out loud" she screamed unto me A free for all, Fuck 'em all You are your own sight I want to be the minority I don't need your authority Down with the moral majority 'Cause I want to be the minority Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! We're Green Day from Oakland, California. But I just want to say that England is now the official home of Green Day from now on. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you! And remember one thing. Regardless of who the powers that be are, the people that you elect, the people that I elect into office, remember, you have the fucking power. We're the fucking leaders. Don't let these bastards dictate your life by trying to tell you what to do, alright? Come on, I say hey-oh! Come on! Hey-oh! I say hey-oh! Come on! Hey-oh! Well, I said hey-oh! Hey-oh! Well, I say hey-oh! Come on! Hey-oh! I say hey... ...oh! Come on! Hey... ...oh! You guys fucking rule, man, thank you. I said a-one, a-two, a-one, two, three, four. Alright! Ladies and gentlemen, Mike Dirnt! Jason White! Jason Freese! Ronnie Blake! And Mr Tr Cool! One light, one mind Flashing in the dark Blinded by the silence of a thousand broken hearts "For crying out loud" she screamed unto me A free for all, Fuck 'em all You are your own sight I want to be the minority I don't need your authority Down with the moral majority 'Cause I want to be the minority England! Green Day! Green Day! Green Day! You need a break when, you know, you're... it's just when you're done, you know? How do you know when you're done having sex? It's like you're finished, you know? It's time. The cycle is over. And that's usually like a combination of where you start getting tired of being on the road and you want to embrace your home at the same time. There's a feeling of the chaos and being out of control that you have to embrace. Can I give a kiss? Please don't film me right now. When you feel like your legs are gonna fall out from underneath you, you know that it's all going to the right place. There's a greater good that's happening, and you're getting a chance to play your music in front of people, and thousands of people are reacting at the same time. That's, you know, a great feeling. I walk a lonely road The only one that I have ever known Don't know where it goes But it's home to me and I walk alone I walk this empty street On the Boulevard of Broken Dreams Where the city sleeps And I'm the only one and I walk alone I walk alone I walk alone I walk alone I walk a... My shadow's the only one that walks beside me My shallow heart's the only thing that's beating Sometimes I wish someone out there will find me 'Til then I walk alone Ah-ah, Ah-ah, Ah-ah, Aaah-ah, Ah-ah, Ah-ah, Ah-ah I'm walking down the line That divides me somewhere in my mind On the border line Of the edge and where I walk alone Read between the lines What's fucked up and everything's alright Check my vital signs To know I'm still alive and I walk alone I walk alone I walk alone I walk alone I walk a... My shadow's the only one that walks beside me My shallow heart's the only thing that's beating Sometimes I wish someone out there will find me 'Til then I walk alone Ah-ah, Ah-ah, Ah-ah, Aaah-ah Ah-ah, Ah-ah I walk alone I walk a... I walk this empty street On the Boulevard of Broken Dreams Where the city sleeps And I'm the only one and I walk a... My shadow's the only one that walks beside me My shallow heart's the only thing that's beating Sometimes I wish someone out there will find me 'Til then I walk alone... We really had no idea what our career was going to be like or if we were going to have a career when we first started. All we knew is that we wrote some songs that we really enjoyed and we loved. And we knew somewhere that we would enjoy playing these songs when we're older, that they would make sense. It was about having the biggest Green Day concert ever. And that's really what it was. To me, that's a perfect show. This is the best tour that we've ever been on by far. I loved being on the road every single time we've been on the road. But this has been one of those special moments where... the things that you're doing onstage are transcending into another arena altogether. You don't really- you have no control over something like that. It's complete chaos. All you can really do- you can't really- what's the expression? You can't control the wind, but you can set your sails. And you just kinda keep going that direction, you know, and wherever it takes you and see where you end up. Another turning point, a fork stuck in the road Time grabs you by the wrist, directs you where to go So make the best of this test, and don't ask why It's not a question, but a lesson learned in time It's something unpredictable, but in the end it's right. I hope you had the time of your life. So take the photographs, and still frames in your mind Hang it on a shelf in good health and good time Tattoos of memories and dead skin on trial For what it's worth it was worth all the while It's something unpredictable, but in the end it's right. I hope you had the time of your life. It's something unpredictable, but in the end it's right. I hope you had the time of your life. It's something unpredictable, but in the end it's right. I hope you had the time of your life.
