 

                        [Mrs. Beale] What are you doing down there? Just standing there? - [David Maysles] Just filming the main room - [Edie] Whiskers! [Mrs. Beale] Well, did you know that Whiskers has disappeared? - A cat got out I'm trying to get him in - [David] Has he? Ah Yeah, we don't know how he got out I think he got out in that hole there - No, I knew they were coming, and l... - I think he got out in that hole - He can jump up there - I knew they were coming and... Yeah No, he got out in that hole, Edie I put them all out You told me to No, dearie, he got out in the hole, babe "Take the cats out,"you said - Did you hear what I said, woman? - What? He got out in this hole here That was the noise we heard That raccoon did that to my new wall Isn't that terrible? They'll have the whole house down soon [Edie] Yeah, we'll be raided again We'll be raided again by the village of East Hampton You know, they can get you in East Hampton for wearing red shoes on a Thursday and all that sort of thing I don't know whether you know that I mean, do you know that? They can get you for almost anything - [Edie] It's the Maysles! - [Albert Maysles] Hi, Edie - [David] The gentlemen callers - I saw your car - One of my cats just got out - Edie, you look fantastic David, you look absolutely terrific Honestly You've got light... You've got light blue on Well, Al, you're still... Mother says you're very conservative [Laughs] Brooks, everything looks wonderful - Thank you - Absolutely wonderful This is the best thing to wear for the day You understand - Yeah - Because I don't like women in skirts and the best thing is to wear pantyhose or some pants under a short skirt, I think Then you have the pants under the skirt and then you can pull the stockings up over the pants, underneath the skirt - Uh-huh - And you can always take off So I think this is the best costume for the day - Okay - [Laughs] I have to think these things up, you know Mother wanted me to come out in a kimono, so we had quite a fight So what did you do, photograph Brooks cutting right down here? - Yeah, I've been through the jungle - Oh, for goodness sakes What do you want to do now? Where do you want to go? Upstairs? Do you want to go up and photograph it from the top porch? - Okay - Okay They're gonna photograph from the top now, Brooks [David] It's a beautiful garden back here Did you see the wall garden? - Oh, you mean the patio You mean this - Yeah That's a Spanish wall garden over there, you know - Oh, yes - The Hills put that in They imported everything from Rome Mrs. Hill, she was a famous horticulturist That was one of the famous gardens of America Brooks, next summer, if we're all living I think a vegetable garden would be a good thing in here You don't get enough sunlight in here Yeah, Mother says she doesn't mind if you have to cut down some privet for the garden - Would be nice - Yeah Because food's going up We heard that on the radio last night Do you think my costume looked all right for Brooks? I think he was a little amazed - He's probably seen it before - No, no This is the revolutionary costume I never wear this in East Hampton [David] He seems okay He seems like he can handle it [Edie] You can't be too careful Know what I mean? That was the original living room You know, people go back to a kitchen now Though the washing machine was always put in the maids' dining room You know, the washtubs are in the maids' dining room - Let's go up - It's very difficult to keep the line between the past and the present Do you know what I mean? It's awfully difficult [Mrs. Beale] That is a beautiful ocean today, isn't it? What color would you say that was? Sort of sapphire? I've never seen anything like that ocean The 50 years I've been here... the best in 50 years Oh, Edie, are you around? - Oh, Edie! - I haven't been out of this goddamn horrible place in two years God, if you knew how I felt I'm ready to kill Well, they're not going to take you to the beach - Brooks wants his his check, Mother darling - All right, give me the... - He's at the door - I told you I should do it now Twenty-four bucks for three cuttings Just a minute I told you... Better bring the pen I locked all the cats away - [Cats Meowing] - Don't be so mean They don't wanna be locked away The poor little kitties You know kitties adore sun I suppose I won't get out of here till she dies or I die - Who's she? The cat? - I don't know when I'm gonna get out of here - Why do you want to get out? Another place'd be much worse - Any place will be much worse - Here - Any place on earth - Yeah, but I like freedom Well, you can't get it, darling You're being supported - You can't get any freedom when you're being supported - You can't? - No, you can't - I think you're not free when you're not being supported - It's awful both ways - Well, you don't look it You look very young for 56 years of age Don't you remember what you told me... - I'd just like a couple of days on the beach, that's all - What was it you told me? - Twenty-four bucks - You don't have to scream that out When are you gonna learn, Edie? You're in this world, you know You're not out of the world [Edie Sighs] Let's see if I can remember the date Is it the 12th today? - Well, there are certain compensations, I guess - Is it the 12th today? The old woman, she has to remember everything, you know that I think this is correct Brooks Hiers H-I-E-R-S - Oh, I didn't think it was necessary - Yes Why didn't you let me do this in the house for? Why did you make me do it here? Mother, you don't have enough clothes on Well, I hope... I'm gonna get naked in just a minute, so you better watch out - That's what I'm afraid of - Yeah, for what? Now, why? - I haven't got any warts on me - But the movie, the movie - I haven't got any warts on me - That isn't the point, Mother darling Well, you know where you got, being like that No husband, no babies, nothing I can't help it I like to wear certain things - Is that H-Y-E-R? H-Y? - She likes everything without girdles - H-Y, Edie, or H-I? - H-Y-E-R-S - H-Y? - Yeah She and Marjorie don't believe in wearing girdles I haven't worn a girdle since I was 12 years old - Here you are - Mother has certain ideas about, uh... - I certainly have certain ideas about living a long time - About clothes - That's what I got ideas about - [Door Closes] It's very hard to live nowadays Living is very difficult "The Libra husband is not an easy man to please "The monotony of domesticity is not to his liking but he is a passionate man and a respecter of tradition" All I have to do is find this Libra man "The Libra husband is reasonable "He is a born judge "and no other zodiacal type "can order his life with so much wisdom" My God! That's all I need... order That's all I need... an ordered life You know, a manager But he's got to be a Libran [Man] Hello Yeah? - That sounds like Jerry - Oh, is that Jerry? For goodness sakes - [Edie Laughing] - What are you doing? Jerry, you're Aquarius, aren't you? That's what I saw when I met you, Jerry - Remember I said the Marble Faun, and it was terrible Terrible, the tragedy connected with the Marble Faun - You know, I call Jerry "the Marble Faun" - Nathaniel Hawthorne - Yeah - Yeah Do you have that book here, Edie? I haven't been able to find it If you run across it, I'd like to read it It's very deep I don't know whether you... Well, I guess you're up to it They used to have it on all the, uh... I think it was on the high school reading list The Marble Faun "The Libra husband does not seek divorce "unless the conditions of his life are not adjustable" I don't believe in divorce at all - I think divorce... - Was your mother divorced or no? - No - Separated Yes, and then my father got a, got a fake Mexican divorce and he did have, you know, what he called another wife But we didn't recognize it It wasn't recognized by the Catholic Church They don't recognize it, you know Say, are you bossing me around, Edie? All afternoon? - [Edie] I think that's terrific - Oh, Edie, it's not the best one This is the worst one of my wedding pictures The others look worse I was gonna be a singer, you know A professional singer When I met Mr. Beale, the jig was up Do you remember this? - May I see that, please? - The villain of the piece "To my best friend and most delightful comrade "to my only sweetheart and wonderful wife "I tender this likeness of her husband Phelan Beale, 1929" - So we did love each other - Did I laugh when I read that Aren't kids terrible? I just roared When the people don't speak, they never get divorced - You just can't tell - I've been a very happy woman all my life Shall I tell them about Gould? Gould was Mother's accompanist He was a boogie-woogie composer who had the most terrific style He was the most brilliant man I've ever met That's including Mr. Beale and Mr. Bouvier Completely brilliant This is cute, Mother I like that very much Don't you, David? You said Michelle Beale stole this, didn't you, Edie? I never did She'd never do that See how fat I was, Edie? Did I look like a good mother? Was I a good mother? - [David] It looks like it - What? Looks like it I didn't starve my children, did I? What? Fed 'em Fed 'em well [Mrs. Beale] They were very nice children I enjoyed them tremendously I'm crazy about my two sons, absolutely mad about them - [David] Who's the little girl? - [Edie] That's me [Mrs. Beale] Well, the boys were, were not hard to handle at all - They were very easy to handle - Oh, my mother never saw my brothers I saw them every minute, every single minute - Oh, they never got any discipline, my brothers - They didn't need it - They were absolutely perfect - They never got any discipline This was taken with a tiny little Kodak Number Two That was Kodak Number Two Cost two dollars, that camera - Mother, I'm mad about these pictures of you - Oh, no, don't take those - We'll just put them right over here - Oh, no, I want those out - Will you give me those, please? - No, you can't have them I want them, Edie I will never see them again Now, I want those pictures - I want those pictures, Edie - You can't expose them to the light in here No, give me those pictures I don't want to ask 67 times - Come on - I want to show that to Al - No, I want... - I wanna show it to Al! - It's my picture - Look what you made me do Well, you did it Look what she did - Mrs. Beale had a classical face I want you to see this - Look at what she did - Look Very few people have this - Don't touch that! Al, I want you to see this - [Edith Laughing] - Now look, this is my mother This British blood, maybe Jewish, I don't know In the Leaman family, I'm not sure - I don't want that photographed - Scotch blood... the Ewings - Imagine showing those horrible things I don't want you to show But it's just a girl from a good French family It's a very beautiful face [Mrs. Beale] I lived alone at least 30 years l-I didn't mind You get very independent when you live alone You get to be a real individual - You can't have your cake and eat it too in life - Oh, yes, I did I did I had my cake, loved it, masticated it, chewed it - and had everything I wanted - You can't have your cake and eat it too I had a very, very happy, satisfying life Well, you had a rich husband You should have stayed with him - Now you might as well face it - What! For money? - She was bored - Why, I was not I was a great singer I had a perfect marriage, beautiful children Terribly successful marriage Never had a fight in my life - I never threw anything at Mr. Beale Never - [Laughing] They threw the bull around, as they say No, I never had any words with Mr. Beale at all I came down here to live in this, in this house because I did all my singing here I was so happy I was happier going out and singing than anything I've ever done since I was born I liked it better than anything I ever did - I can't find it, Mother - Well, you could let me help you - Let me... - Listen, kid I'm extremely organized I know exactly where to look for this stuff I've got it under control right here, but I can't find it Get it? Well, bring in the... bring in the orchestration of"Tea for Two" I can't do it My feet hurt Just try, babe They're beautiful I have to get my voice exactly back the way it was when I was 45 years old - You can't, Mother darling - Oh, yes, I can Oh, yes! - Something happens, face it - I never strained my voice ever in my life - Oh, but I strain my voice from yelling and screaming - What is the matter with me? I could never speak again Why, I can get it back in about a month, just about You know, good hard work (music) When we are together together, hmmm (music) Gould and Mother made this record in 1934 - Sing it, babe, Just sing it - He was Mother's accompanist (music) We belong together (music) (music) We're happy together (music) (music) And life is a song (music) (music) When we are together (music) (music) We know we are where we belong (music) (music) When we are together (music) - (music) Like birds of a feather (music) - (music) Of a feather (music) - (music) Together we thrive (music) - (music) Together we thrive (music) - (music) Little caring whether (music) - (music) Little caring whether (music) - (music) The rest of the world... (music) - (music) The rest of the world... (music) - [Record Sticks] - Oh, my heart, what happened? - That's pretty, that note - Terrific Oh, that's terrible Oh, I see It repeats Yes, that's very important, that last - That's the "cazenza," "cadenza," whatever you call it Do you want that? Aren't you mad about your record? I was very serious about my singing Loved it After you hear that, you realize nothing is... - Important - No, it isn't Nothing Well, my mother, you know, she gave me the right slant on my voice She told me to leave everything, to leave everything No man could compete against Mrs. Beale and Gould - We were pretty good - No man in the world Well, I worked hard I wish you would play "Laura" Imagine bothering about anything when she had a talent like that? Well, I had to take care of this house I lived on no money You were able to save the house on account of me - Yeah, I think that... - I didn't want to live in East Hampton but I had to on account of Mother's house Well, now you see why you lived, because you had music all the time That's why And you went to the beach too - That's what you liked - Those are the only things Well, I think you liked your dancing - You were very good at that - (music) [Phonograph: "Tea for Two"] [Edie] This is Kostelanetz Did you see the, uh... the play on Broadway? "No, No, Nanette" (music) Tea for two, and two for tea (music) (music) And me for you, and you for me (music) (music) Alone (music) (music) to hear us so see us or hear us (music) (music) No friends or relations and weekend vacations (music) (music) We won't have it known, dear that we own a telephone, no (music) (music) I'll awake and start to bake (music) (music) A sugar cake for you to take (music) (music) Mmm, for all the boys to see (music) (music) We can raise a family (music) (music) A girl for you, a boy for me (music) (music) Oh, can't you see how happy (music) (music) We could be (music) (music) Tea for two (music) If Edie was any good, the soft shoe's out If she was any good at all It's all soft shoe now, you know - This is a dance Come on, Edie - [Laughs] I used to do it myself, you know I did that... the soft shoe (music) See us or hear us (music) (music) No friends or relations and weekend vacations (music) (music) They won't have it known, dear that we own a telephone (music) (music) No, no, no (music) (music) But I'll awake and start to bake (music) (music) A sug-sug-sugar cake-cake-cake (music) (music) See for all the boys to see (music) (music) We can raise a family (music) (music) A girl for you, a boy for me (music) (music) Oh, can't you see (music) (music) How happy we would be (music) Edie, dance to that A waltz Come on Get Edie up Dance A waltz How can you resist that? [Coughing] How can you resist that? (music) Oh, la-la (music) (music) La, da, ah, ah (music) (music) Oh, can't you see (music) (music) How happy (music) (music) We would be (music) - (music) Would be (music) - Terrific Isn't that terrific? Isn't that a beautiful chord? I'm mad about Kostelanetz [Laughing] Do you think I'm gonna look funny dancing? - [Both] No - I do terrific dances I only care about three things: The Catholic Church, swimming and dancing - And I had to give them up - Dave, it opens from the bottom I've got enough I almost die with the fleas in this place I can't go on another year I have to get to a hotel room Well, I have... I brought a lot of stuff for your fleas and I'll be more than willing to put it down All I want is a little room [Laughing] I can't stand a country house In the first place, it makes me terribly nervous I'm scared to death of doors, locks, people roaming around in the background under the trees, in the bushes I'm absolutely terrified I'm not a bit terrified of the city, not a bit I like the terrible noise you hear at night and all these terrible drilling sounds I never go to sleep unless the whole pavement is jumping outside and it's a hundred degrees and that drill is just going... [Makes Grunting Noise] And then I just go to sleep [Propeller Plane Overhead] [Laughs] I only hope it stays up (music) At the Balalaika (music) I haven't got my makeup on [Whispering] My God, do you think it's gonna stay up? I feel something slipping I feel something... [Edie] What am I missing? We'll almost have to listen to Peale in about five seconds She doesn't like the Catholic Church She gets mad whenever I go Oh, go on What the hell? I worship the Catholic Church I'm gonna invite Father Huntington over to spend the whole entire night with me - That's what I'm gonna do I love the church so much [Giggles] - [Radio Tuning] - Here it is [Radio: Norman Vincent Peale] To get on top of things and to stay there - Does that mean women too? - For if you do not do this it is very likely that things will get on top of you Isn't he terrific? And since I always believe in a simple formula that is workable I have a formula for you now First: Try, really try Try, really try Second: Think, really think Cute Think, really think And third: Believe, really believe - [Radio Tuning] - Well, you may say, "How many times Why, it may be a good many times For example, I have in my pocket here a letter from a man in London, England "Dear Dr Peale, Over three years ago "I was in your great Marble Collegiate Church for the first time "and I was having it rough - [Snickers] - "The job I'd been doing - [Laughing] - [Mrs. Beale] Your age, old gal "Your suggestion lived with me, plus the advice to try, really try, : - He lived I never lived - "think, really think, : Believe, really believe "I did think I did work very hard to find a job Eighty-eight interviews" So did he or did he not get the job? He did Will he or will he not handle himself in the years that are to come? He wasn't emotional He didn't get upset - He wasn't nervous - He wasn't me He was cool Now one thing is sure: The human mind will not function when it is hot - Only when it is cool and dispassionate - Dispassionate - That was the word I wanted to other day - will it produce I couldn't think of what it was I think it would be a good idea if every day every individual would look at himself in the mirror earnestly, and ask the question "Who am I? Am I a weak person? Am I a defeated person? Am I an inferior person?" Not at all I am a child of God and I was intended to get on top of things and I was intended to stay there - (music) Amen, amen (music) - Very good That was very long - Very long - You notice how he went on and on and on? Let's hear the prayer I mean the song You sing the song now - Doxology - Sing it [Announcer] You have been listening to Dr Norman Vincent Peale - as he spoke this morning from his pulpit - No emotionalism - at Marble Collegiate Church - Never give up You want to keep on top Way up high up on top Wonderful way to smother somebody [Laughing] Would you pass your mirror over here? I've got to see what I look like - [Laughing] - Don't drop it - Uptight - That was wonderful I see why I've got cataracts I have astigmatism, one eye pulled against the other and I should've worn glasses and I didn't - Oh, I told you to wear glasses - Is there anything else you want to know? - You got with the glasses about four years ago - I'll tell you about my teeth Four years ago, Edie You got the glasses, and you didn't wear them - My teeth are still all right - You have to wear the glasses You have to [Laughs] And my hair will grow I hope Here [David] You're dressed for battle, Edie Mother's telling Marjorie how spoiled I am, how terrible I am And Marjorie knew my father and my uncle and everybody Mother's giving her all this S-H-l- so I went and told her some things about the family But, you see, in dealing with me the relatives didn't know that they were dealing with a staunch character And I tell you, if there's anything worse than a staunch woman... S-T-A-U-N-C-H There's nothing worse, I'm telling you [Sighs] They don't weaken no matter what But they didn't know that Well, how were they to know? You know, my father had made up his mind about what Farmington produced and what the Sacred Heart Convent produced I don't think he was so down on the Spence School but he certainly was down on Farmington I don't know why Farmington was a junior college You could choose what you wanted to study Perhaps that was what made my father dislike it so... that I could choose But I chose what I thought he'd want me to choose... you know, English literature and Oriental philosophies and, uh well, I always took French, but nothing ever happened there I can read and write in French, but I can't speak it I had years and years and years of French Terrible [Laughs] This was taken by Amy Dupont my last year in Farmington I was 17 - [David] Edie, that's so beautiful - Mr. Wainwright did that He was an artist from a very good family He was in the social register He did it in the solarium of Grey Gardens David, look at this I was in a fashion show - [Laughs] - [Mrs. Beale] Let me see that [Albert] Oh, beautiful Look at that, David - [Mrs. Beale] May I see that? - Wow! Look at that [Edie] I thought I was the cat's pajamas in that! [Mrs. Beale] You did, Edie See how pretty Edie was when she was young? It's perfectly foolish of her not to look that way now She could, you know, if she didn't worry about everything Didn't she look like a girl that had everything? Huh? [Edie] This has inspired me I'll have to get another brown tailored suit and grow my hair My God, I have no hair [Mrs. Beale] You never put any lipstick on for this picture, did you? - I have another kind on - You look horrible Why didn't you put lipstick and makeup on? [Edie] Mr. Beale smashed the window of Burt Bacharach when he put this in the window on upper Madison Avenue - [Mrs. Beale] For God's sakes - He offered me a job He didn't say to get out of that family situation but he said, "You need a job, Miss Beale" [David] Didn't you expect that Edie might get married someday? [Mrs. Beale] Oh, I did I wanted her to Oh, I picked out some nice men She didn't like the men I picked out [Edie] They were horrible [Mrs. Beale] She could have married this Gerald Getty He was a millionaire, : He gave her a gorgeous ring She decided not to marry that guy She had to give the ring back She has a proposal of marriage from Paul Getty Remember Paul, the richest man in the world? [Edie] He married Teddy Lynch [Mrs. Beale] Then you could have married Jordan McClanahan He was another millionaire, and he wanted to marry you She just didn't want to get married That's all blamed on me [Edie] No, I never fell in love until I was 31 [Mrs. Beale] Well, how old are you in these pictures? - Twenty-four - Twenty-four That old? - 1940 - Very young looking for twenty-four France had just fallen to Hitler - But you never fell for a man - Paris, Paris, excuse me France fell, but Edie didn't fall That was the thing See, l... They didn't tell us that when we studied World War I that everything was so awful with the Versailles Treaty that we were soon going to get into something four years after I got out If I'd only known it, I would have just... just enjoyed every single minute, just done everything [David] It must've been tough on people I remember as a kid so many loved ones being killed But you were the dating age A lot of my friends went overseas and got married They went in the Red Cross They went to India, Australia They all got married One of my best friends went to Australia If I'd have been able to go, she might have persuaded me to go with her And she met somebody in the hospital She was working for the Red Cross, and she never came back to New York But I never had a chance to do anything like that 'cause Mother wasn't well during the war She had her eye operation I missed out on everything I missed out on the reunion of my graduating class in Farmington because that was the fall that Jack Kennedy campaigned to get in and I was stuck here with Mother, the cats, the house and T Logan and I couldn't go - No, you said you didn't want them to know how old you were - No, I think... - "Well, I didn't want them No, I would have enjoyed that, Mother, because Jack Kennedy campaigned to get in and won Get in the Farmington School? That'd be a good place for him I don't know I think it would have been a lot of fun Yeah, everything's good that you didn't do At the time, you didn't want it - I couldn't get away - Well, that's the choice - You can't go back and say... feel gorgeous right now - and say, "Oh, why didn't I do this?" - I couldn't leave Because you didn't feel then the way you do now Everybody thinks and feels differently as the years go by, don't they? - Yeah - Yes - What time is it, chickens? - [David] What time is it? - I want to go in now - It's, uh, 1:30 - I may need David's hand to get up - You have it Where is it? Can you come around this way? - Sure - Are you taking pictures? Always Here [Edie] "Two roads diverged in yellow wood "and pondering, pondering both or pondering each... "pondering one I took the other and that made all the difference" - [Mrs. Beale] Robert Frost - Isn't that wonderful? - Did he say that? - That's all you need... just three lines like that - Come on, Edie, is that Robert Frost? - Who else? I thought it was you I think your poetry is better - "Two road diverged in yellow wood - Come on, you said that - We want something else - "and pondering one, I took the other - Edie, you're not teaching us - and that made all the difference" - We don't want to learn it It's very pretty - Isn't that amazing? No, I don't think it's half as good as your poems They looked the same, and he probably couldn't tell and yet he... I wish I could remember the correct lines I'm absolutely exhausted I danced eight hours last night practicing the, uh... the marching song - [Albert] Great - My God, my muscles! I can't do it, I'm telling you What am I gonna do? They're gone with this soft life [Laughing] (music) We all march together for love is behind (music) (music) We all stand together United we die (music) (music) We all march together for we love the land (music) (music) It's the spirit of VMI (music) (music) We all march together for life is unkind (music) [Laughing] When they do that, that's when the plane goes by, see? So I'm doing the VMI marching song which is a ground maneuver Anyway, I've got to get it all coordinated in my mind Hey, Mother, I'm working on my dance - [Mrs. Beale] I'm starving - (music) We all march together (music) - (music) For life is unkind (music) - You see, she doesn't want to eat so I have to sit here and starve all the time - How can I eat and look sexy too? - I think I lost five pounds - I'm gonna die - Well, don't live with me I want to eat - Will you eat some liver pate? - It's not awfully good - lf you put lemon with it, it's all right - I'm gonna die with this diet - I don't like it at all - Don't do it Have a sandwich I got fat not wearing clothes for two years Oh, that wasn't it at all It was the quarts and quarts of ice cream My bill was $ 171 just for ice cream - Here's your liver pate - You have to make it I can't No, I can't I ate in front of the Maysles the other day You have to make it I was very embarrassed No I ate all that chicken... - Oh, Mother, I should have stolen that blue... - Take it out, babe You like the green? That's chartreuse there - What do I do with this? - You have crackers somewhere - Should I put it on crackers? - Yeah You should... It needs a lemon or mayonnaise or something When am I gonna get out of here? [Laughing] Oh, she's always talking like that When I get to New York, you're never gonna get me back to East Hampton - Oh, that's silly Oh, Edie, that isn't nice - Ever Never! Edie, the man is doing this For goodness sakes! That's terrible! When I get to New York, brother, I'm not ever coming back Well, you got in awful trouble there It's a good thing you had a place to come to - Recuperate at Mama's for about 15 to 20 years - [Edie Grumbling] She had a horrible time I used to have to send her big boxes of groceries She was starving From my grocer's thing down there - I was discovered - Sent her big boxes of groceries - but I needed training - And I always put a bottle of wine in her bag I thought she'd have a terrible accident Well, I was discovered, but... well, never mind Oh, I wouldn't say anything good happened to you in New York - Are you kidding? - No I was discovered by Mr. Gordon He was a friend of Mrs. - Well, what is it? - What was that woman's name? - People discover me every time I go out, but - What was Ruby Chapman's... - I don't think anything of it - This is serious! He went to pieces! - Mr. Max Gordon went out of his mind - Oh, not Max Gordon - He never went to pieces in his life - He did! - He did not A very... - Now, what was the woman's name? She gave me the letter Mrs. Hitchcock - I can't go back to ancient history - Ruby Chapman's partner! How can you remember so long? Now I'll have to get drunk - They gave me the letter to Max Gordon - I'll have to start drinking I can't take it Ah, she'll make a drunkard out of her mother What crackers do you want? We'll take these Do you mind? They're very good - Do you want these? - I don't like crackers You know that Just put a lemon on it Little lemon Don't you know who Max Gordon is? He's a famous producer You've heard of him, haven't you? - He discovered Judy Holliday - [Mrs. Beale, Indistinct] He discovered Judy Holliday He said I was much funnier Well, you haven't been funny today, boy You're lacking in humor It's how you are when you grow older I needed training Where was I to get the training? - You start when you're 12 I had mine when I was 12 - Oh, stop (music) [Humming March] This cracker's for the photographer Tell me what, what I should have done Here, could you put this away, please, Edie? - I should have immediately tried to get into something? Until it gets frozen, will you? David, instead of coming home I should have tried to get into something, is that it? David, do you think you and Al should have told Edie to lose weight? - She's been impossible - Do you think I should have [David] What does your mother think? - [Mrs. Beale] I had everything picked out - My father was alive! - That was it My father was alive - I was going around with a... - My father was alive - Do you want to hear what I have to say? Mr. Beale would have had me committed Gould and I were at Edie every day to go to Traphagen She could do anything She could learn toe dancing She could learn radio She could learn all sorts of stage dancing - Why was I gonna do this? - She could do... The things we told you We told you to go to Bendel's - I couldn't go with my mother sitting here, David - and model earrings - I couldn't go with my mother sitting here - You were so gorgeous in hats and you had such a beautiful face and we always adored you And we said, "Why, she should do hats," and she had gorgeous feet And Mr. Beale always made her wear a certain kind of shoe when she was a little girl Orthopedic shoe And she, she could have... I had deep responsibility for you, Mother I was taken care of for 25 years! Ah, the hallmark of aristocracy is responsibility, is that it? [Propeller Plane Overhead] I'm not gonna spend this winter in East Hampton In the first place, I can't I just can't I can't spend another winter out here in the country I can't do it I don't enjoy it Furthermore, I'm telling you, I can't get my figure back unless I hit New York City You know That icebox is too near I've gotta get away from that icebox (music) [Humming March] [Edie] They all want luncheon Come on We're gonna have luncheon [Yells] What? - [Mrs. Beale] Edie! - What? I fed the cats! I just have to leave for New York City and lead my own life I don't see any other future [Mrs. Beale] Will you shut up! It's a goddamn beautiful day! Shut up! Paris is the place for you Get on stage in Paris at the Follies Bergere The point is that I came down here to take care of my mother I'm sick and tired of worrying about her night and day - Well, I had a very good... - I was away from her for five or six years - I had a very good man - And I was sick and tired of lying awake at night - He took care of me for 25 years - wondering what was happening to my mother She didn't have to worry [David] Who was the man that took care of you for 25 years? - Twenty-three years - Nobody took care of her for 25 years - I took care of this damn house for 25 years - I'm, I'm on the air Dare say my mother was ever taken care of by any man but my father and I'll push you under the goddamned bed! [David] No, Edie, I think Al was referring to Gould Yes, he was He took care of Mother by accompanying her to the movies and playing the piano Took care of me and the washing... No one took care of Mrs. Beale She had my father's money and her own money - What money? - The Bouvier money And another thing, Mrs. Beale wasn't taken care of sexually I think he was nicer than anybody I've ever known in my whole life He was a writer He wrote seven books at one time He was brilliant And he played the piano magnificently and composed exquisite music and dedicated about 80 songs to me - So Edie didn't have to worry - No, she didn't have to worry the way she did, no She made me leave the Barbizon Well, I thought you'd been in New York long enough - You were getting lines in your face - But I didn't want to leave - I was getting my big chance - Oh, no, you were not That married man was not going to give you any chance at all - I was getting my audition in 1952! - You were not - I was going to get it! - Well, you didn't get it You missed out I was just getting up what you call a little nerve Now, listen, you're wasting that thing on this, 'cause it's just nuts - When she said I had to come home - I thought you should come home - She started high-pressuring me to come back in March of 1952 and she kept it up until the end of July - And July 29th, I check out, got on the train - Well, you should come down - came back, and was never able to get back - It's very hot in New York It's very hot in New York on July 29th [Meowing] [Mrs. Beale] "You and the Night and the Music "It's beautiful - Do you know that one? You do know it? - Mm-hmm Sure Do you really? Sing it for me Sing it (music) The night was young and you're so beautiful (music) No "You and the Night and the Music" Sing that song - I don't know that I thought you meant... - You thought you did - [Albert] (music) You and the night and the music (music) - He knows it - Go on - I don't know the rest of it "Fill me with flaming desire" The words are wonderful (music) Love like yours and mine (music) (music) Is a glowing thrill (music) (music) Of sparkling wine (music) (music) Make the most of time (music) (music) Ere it has flown (music) (music) You and the night and the music (music) (music) Thrill me with flaming desire (music) (music) Setting my being (music) (music) Completely on fire (music) (music) Oh, you and the night and the music (music) (music) Dance till the music is through (music) I forgot Oh, listen, this is it "Love" (music) Till the moment is through (music) (music) After the night (music) (music) And the music die (music) (music) Will I have you (music) [Mrs. Beale] Edie! Oh, Edie! - Where's Jerry, Edie? Edie, where's Jerry? - I don't know, Mother - That's what I'm wondering - Don't you think you'd better find him? Mother wants me to watch him the whole time he's in the house - No, you told me not to have him back here - Like I watched Tom - No, thanks - My eyes dropped out Mother and her friends I never cared for the three people that my mother liked I couldn't get on with Mr. Beale and I didn't care for her composer friend and as for Tom Logan, he drove me crazy in the house [Mrs. Beale] I loved Tom He played the guitar so beautifully He sang and was in a rodeo, and even was in Hollywood You'd have to admire somebody like that - She was a pushover - He had no place to go And then he asked my mother, he said, "I've just been fired from the Sea Spray Would you like a maintenance man?" Mother took him home I didn't want a maintenance man I said, "I'll take you home for one night" - That's the story of Tom Logan - That's what I said There wasn't a thing he didn't know how to do He could fix anything Lights, plumber things He knew how to do everything Just one of those terribly clever men He couldn't do any work He made good salads, but he was drunk all the time Oh, no He came up here every morning at 6:00, knocked on my door We talked over the menu for the day Including a half a bottle of rose vin or wine or whatever it's called Naturally, we couldn't get rid of him, and I had to stay here What I should have done is leave, and he would have left right away All right, you don't believe in religious compulsion It was a religious thing - If I had left, he would have left - No, I deserve... - Because the work would have been too much - He didn't want to go All alone in the house for Tom All I had to do was leave I'm so stupid that I... Well, where would I have been? I'd have been all alone in the house I think you would have, Mother - [Mrs. Beale] Edie! Yoo-hoo! - What? The Marble Faun is at the door He can wait Let Jerry in. Hurry up I'm gonna look at this path without Jerry (music) [Humming] This is a sea of leaves A complete sea of leaves If you lose something, you can't find it again, : It drops to the bottom I lost my scarf I'll never get it again Best scarf I ever owned The most beautiful color of blue It dropped You know, it fell off my head [Whispering] To hell with the Marble Faun - Hello? - Hello, Edie Oh, hello, jerry darling Do you want to come in? I just came for the faucet so I can get down to the hardware store - Yeah, Mother said you called Was that you on the phone very early? How are you? I'm looking at you now Really well I'll come down and let you in Do you want to come up here? - You want to come up? - All right, for a moment Mother's screaming to have me let you in I'd better do it I'll be at the back door here, okay? I'll come right down - jerry's puffing and blowing - No I'm tired, and I don't want to get any tireder. What do you want, jerry? Who wants a nice piece of corn? No I don't want any Thank you Jerry, you didn't get enough to eat tonight - Well, I can't resist I'm sorry - The margarine Jerry, you're gonna put some of this on, aren't you? - You wanna do it for me? - Why, yeah The pleasure's all mine If I don't burn myself Which piece of corn do you want, jerry? - Doesn't matter - See how polite he is? You want some, Edie? Where's your plate, Jerry, for it? - I couldn't eat in front of the camera - I've got very big hands - [Edie Laughs] - This corn is out of this world Oh, did I do it nicely? He always compliments me on the way I do my corn [Mrs. Beale Chuckles] - [Clattering] - [Edie] There they are There are your raccoons Run away from your drinks and do that to your raccoons [Albert] Hear him? [Edie] Yeah, he's there I can hear him Everything's in the attic, everything from sloths, otters badgers, uh, possums, raccoons I don't leave the bags anymore 'Cause I had to get up to 200 cellophane bags this, uh... Horrors Somebody's removing the books from my room Where did this little book come from? [Jerry] Edie! [Mrs. Beale] That's Jerry He locked himself out No, jerry hasn't locked himself out [Chuckles] He locked himself out [Mrs. Beale] Who's knocking at the door? [Jerry] Who is it? [Whispering] He's around there Who got this book out of my room? I cleaned this whole attic up the other day Now, who's been dropping books around is what I want to know I would have seen that book He evidently has been up in that room reading it All right, Buster, old pal, come and get it [Mrs. Beale] There's somebody knocking at the door, Edie Yeah, all right, Mother - [Heavy Knocking] - Yes? [Man] Is Jerry here? Oh, yes I'll get him for you Just a minute Hey, jerry - Yeah? - I think your friend's in the, in the, uh, front I found a little book dropped in the attic, Mother - He's been up there - Well, you should keep him out He told me he was working on that thing, : He wasn't at all - Want a little bit, Edie? - No - You don't want a little bit? - [David Mutters] - My God! - What? - I just thought of something - What? Give me that What did you think of? What? Come on [Whispering] The guy was standing outside the window and he was passing books out to him - You think so, Edie? - Yes - I don't believe all that - Yes! I don't believe it Want a taste, Edie? - I don't want any - No We lost the glasses The glasses are gone Next thing, those antiques will all be missing See, you shouldn't have a contact with the outside world because how do I know that there isn't something up in that room? If you get what I mean You can't tell what's been put up in that room or what's been taken out - [Sighs] - Don't worry so much, please This cat's going to the bathroom right in back of my portrait - Oh, isn't that awful? - No, I'm glad he is I'm glad somebody's doing something they want to do [David Laughing] I was frozen this morning when I woke up Were you, Edie? - I did drop It dropped It dropped quite a bit - I missed you last night I was so lonely She only left me one little kitty to keep me warm And all these blankets were on the floors, all this pile of stuff here Jerry's pretty good at waiting on me He can find things here that I wouldn't find for half an hour - [David] Jerry, the majordomo - I'm so sick of that kid - I have great pity for him - Lois says... Well, you know the trouble - And I like him, but... - Lois says... You know the trouble - [David] What? - The trouble is, he's madly in love with Edie I said I thought Edie was madly in love with him Pardon me He might as well leave right now, 'cause he's never gonna get it - So that's it - Get what? Sex with you? - What he's after - He doesn't want any sex with you - Well, that's all they're after - An old person like you? Good God! - So why don't you tell him right now? - Unheard of Unheard of - You should tell him right now so I'm not bothered by him He's got about six girls in East Hampton He's so busy - No, but the point is, he thinks... - I don't know what he's doing He's out every single night with a different girl - Yeah, but that's, that's the point, you see - He had a wonderful time - He's gonna be here for years and years I see this coming - I hope - The guy's gonna be here for years and years - I doubt that - It's gonna be one of those things Like Tom Logan Aren't you gonna feed Whiskers, Edie? Come on, go in and feed Whiskers Now, don't eat it Give it to Whiskers, please - You're thin You want to get thin - She's very mean to me No I have to be very strict The priest said she needed a very strict hand [Laughs] What the priest told me [Imitating Irish Accent] "She sure needs a very strong hand, your daughter" And I tried to give it to her, you know that? After Mr. Beale, you know, stopped living in East Hampton I had a terrible hard time with Edie She just went wild after her father wasn't living here She went wild, absolutely wild I couldn't do anything with her at all Isn't it awful when a dancer gets fat? Isn't it awful? God It's awful, I'm telling you It's awful! God! My father believed in running the children's lives, you know? He wanted me to get my master's degree, be a junior partner in his law firm - Take the ice cream - He was 165 Broadway on the ninth floor, and my knees would start to shake coming down on the ninth floor of Mr. Beale's office My knees were rattling My mouth was dry You were scared of your father And I'd go in, and he'd come forward out of his office with his watch in his hand and then he'd look at the clock on the wall, and he'd say "You're five minutes late," he'd say Oh, my God - No, he had a very... - And then he'd sit down and look at me like this and say, "Take it off Take that hat off "Take that lipstick off Take that nail polish off - How dare you wear those high heels!" - Oh, she's just acting Don't you want some of this? Butter pecan Mmm Mmm He said the only thing to be was a professional woman He did say that Didn't he, Mother? Well, I wouldn't say it's the only thing He didn't want me to get married I don't think people should get married I don't believe in it at all If you can't get a man to propose to you, you might as well be dead - Oh, I don't think it's important - I think it's disgusting - Aunt Mary had the most wonderful life - absolutely disgusting - Lived to be 94 years of age - to live alone What are they proving? They have to around with dogs or other women or something - Dogs are lovely - I, I think it's terrible I'll take a dog any day [Chuckles] Why didn't you marry the man you wanted to, like I did? I think the saddest thing was my not marrying into the Obelensky family 'cause I adore them - Any Obelensky is wonderful That's all I can say - He's a very sweet man If he's related to the Obelenskys, he's okay - I didn't know he was any relation to them - Yes - I never knew it - Serge's, uh, nephew by his half-sister Now, there was a boy I might have married Why didn't you marry Paul Getty? I said, "How did you happen to come here?" And he said, "Oh, I saw you at a dance," he said, "in South Hampton" - I said, "You did?" He said, "Yes" - He was just a kid He was 32 And I said, "Eugene, what you need is a girl" And he said, "No, Edith, I'm looking for a wife I wanna get married" - He wanted to take Edie to Westchester - Wasn't that cute? Tom had just died, and I did not want another man in my kitchen - I went downstairs... - He'd just made a cookbook - Mother got rid of him in 15 minutes - Don't want any cookbooks Mother got rid of him in 15 minutes because he came from a celebrated family The Tyszkiewicz family And I suppose mother didn't want me to have anybody that was decent - You understand - I didn't want anybody in the kitchen It would have been perfectly all right for me to marry Tom Logan Why did you want to marry a kid 32? - I forgot to say that Eugene was a count - He didn't have a nickel I would have been Countess... Countess Edith I didn't want my child to be taken away I'd be entirely alone Do you know what I go through with this awful stuff? Listen, I've got to eat lunch I'm starving Well, you know me... always hungry - [Door Closes] - I'm not gonna gain the weight back I didn't have any breakfast - I'll put some lipstick on - You want to give me something to put on, Edie? [Giggles] I'm beginning to laugh - These are my brother's drawers - Give me something to put on And I feel so strongly about mementos and everything because of Mother that I was never able to ever clean out these desk drawers and throw the stuff away - Would you believe that? You know, it's childhood stuff - Oh, Edie, yoo-hoo! - "Memorabalia" or something - Edie, yoo-hoo! - I couldn't throw anything away - They're looking at this room - Oh, Edie! Yeah, just a minute They discovered something terrific in here - Come on I've waited long enough - Is it from Austria? - Why, what happened? - Never mind about me [Edie] "The moving finger writes and, having writ, moves on" I was going to write another line from Omar Khayyam: "We come like water and we go like wind" Edie, yoo-hoo! - Well, I got that one up - Edie, bring me the telephone That's the man This is the woman - I can't tell - Are you getting me the blue kimono, Edie? I'm putting up the silver masks Edie, come here a minute Hurry I can't get the thumbtack in the wall - I think I have the saddest life - Oh, Edie! I have to go on with the redecoration of this room - Yeah - Can you get me something to eat? All right [Edie] I made this Those are roses of all different years That's my shell collection You can't see it, it's so dirty Isn't that tragic? That's... These... Then I have two things to go there And "Around the World" is supposed to go there Edie, I can't do it - Open it I can't do it - I'm just gonna put that up there 'cause I like red in this room for some reason And I was gonna hang the birdcage right here and have "Around the World" there But I haven't gotten to that Perhaps I'd better begin taking care of Mother and bossing her and cooking her some food - What do you boys think? - [David] Bossing her around? Yeah I let her do what she wants I think maybe I ought to give her cooked meals at certain hours What do you think? I don't have any clock You know, I never know what time it is You think she'd eat them? I don't know You know her better than anybody I give her her head I let her do what she wants to do I think it's awful She should eat, you know, chopped meat and a baked potato at a certain hour for luncheon Then have a nice little dinner But that takes timing No, I'm not ready, and I have no makeup on! - [Albert Laughing] - But things are getting better! Did you find my sign, "In bathtub"? Right I couldn't believe it Come on in We're not ready - [Mrs. Beale] Is that Al down there? Hello, Al - [Albert] Yeah Hi - Take your time - Oh, God! I almost tripped I almost broke my neck then God, these stairs are dirty Oh [Giggles] [Indistinct Chattering] How could Edie leave these stairs like this? Don't I look funny coming down these stairs, hmm? - [David] No You look great - Don't I? I feel funny I feel funny - Just like a night at the opera - Is it? The night at the opera will be when I get in that chair in the dining room That would be the night at the opera - [Edie] Mother, Lois and Jack are here! - Hello, jack - [Lois] Happy birthday! - [Chatters, Indistinct] I say, where's the cushion, Edie? Get the cushion I'll ruin my dress - Oh, yes She puts it here - Oh, God, and those chairs Are they dirty, those chairs Hello, jack - Hi, how are you? Happy birthday - [Mrs. Beale Giggles] Well, you're very cute to celebrate with me today - [Edie] I like you in that costume, Lois - Oh, why, thank you [Edith] I see Edie hasn't... You better not sit on those chairs - They look very dirty - They can sit on paper I thought you were gonna clean up, Edie I tried I swept the, uh, hall Well, I'm kind of disapp...Jack, you don't mind sitting by me, do you? I swept the floor We have wine I'll bring down the glasses Bring down the wine, please - And Edie is due... Lois is due ginger ale - Okay But don't let the cats out How do you like that thing Lois did for me, jack? Are your eyes good enough to see that? - Oh, sure - How are your eyes? [Edie Giggling] - She's no waitress, I'll tell ya - [Giggling Continues] Well, she's got a pretty heavy tray Leave the tray here, won't you? Oh, no, she's not gonna She's gonna do just as she wants, you know She's a Schrafft's waitress They always do just as they want Here's to Mother May she live to be at least 80 - [Mrs. Beale] Oh, it's one more year Ha, ha - She's in her 79th - She's in her 79th now... 79th year - [Radio Announcer, Indistinct] She's gonna tell that to everybody in East Hampton, you know - [Jack] Well, that's life - Everybody's gonna know my age - Well, happy birthday - Thank you very much - [Lois] (music) Happy birthday (music) - Sing me "Happy Birthday" Sing it - I sang it - Do it again - (music) Happy birthday to you (music) - (music) Happy birthday (music) - [Lois] Very good - (music) Happy birthday (music) (music) Dear Mother (music) - [Mrs. Beale Laughing] - (music) Happy birthday (music) (music) To you (music) Why do we have to have paper cups when I wanted my... I wanted my green goblets with all the gold on 'em, and she wouldn't bring 'em down - [Radio: Commercial] - So disappointed on my birthday (music) Sugar-free Diet Pepsi is here (music) [Mrs. Beale] Oh, what a beautiful... I knew I wanted to look at that cake! Did you ever see anything like that? - "Happy Birthday" Gorgeous! - [Phone Ringing] - Imagine having red... Somebody's calling me, Edie - That's terrific - My sister ordered that out of Sag Harbor - [Edie] Hello? Yeah - Hey, Mother, can you move your chair a little bit? - Yeah This is the first time we've used the long wire in the dining room Oh, hello, Polly Thank you, dear Are you gonna sing it all the way through? [Giggles] Listen, I got your beautiful present - Uh, Edie, have you brought the present down yet? - I haven't opened any presents We're sitting down here in the so-called old... - What, dear? - We haven't opened anything There's a great big box up there Tremendous box, but we haven't opened the presents Well, you sent me a card I got that I don't think she did send Mother a card Michele sent the cards I haven't started the cake, but I'll read you what it says It says, uh... What does it say, Jack? Edith, happy birthday... Oh, it says, "Happy birthday, Edith" - And that's all in red - [Jack] Yes And then the flowers underneath are... Well, yellow flowers and green It's a perfectly enormous cake Oh! [Laughs] Thank you, dear Hang up - Did you say good-bye? Did you say good-bye? - That's the girl you hated [Jack] Are they having eye trouble? They freeze your eyes - Both of them have been operated - [Edie] They had to have operations - They both had two operations - And then they weren't good, either One lost her eye One girl Yeah, the eyes disappeared... dried up and disappeared She has double vision She has to wear dark glasses over the cataract glasses She's absolutely cured, Edie! - She's cured now - Did she say she was cured? She said, "I feel wonderful" The really nice thing to have is to get deaf and get blind and then have some cancer come in your face and your lips - Cancer? - Cancer of the tongue or something like that - Yeah, cancer is worse - Yeah [Lois] You want to open my little presents and then... Yeah, I am Edith, you ever see anything as cute as this? [Lois] A little pad there you can write your requests on I need that more than anything to write things down I have my things written all over boxes, all over the bed, everywhere I got Epstein's address I've got... Who have I got there, Edie? All the electricians in East Hampton - All of'em Isn't that a nice book, Edie? Look - Terrific I can't be late now and I can't forget And I can't hate anybody and I can't do anything The little book is gonna keep me straight Straight as a die Isn't that nice? I haven't had a little thing like that in ages - I had a wonderful time - Your hands are cold It did you no good, my food - Oh, no - Your hands are cold, lady [Jack] Well, I must be on my course, I guess - [Edie] Good-bye - Well, so long, fellas Thank you for your card and your ice cream I love you very much Oh, especially the ice cream [Door Closes] [Mrs. Beale] Bring me my yellow cushion, Edie - Yeah - The cats are in here Did you know it? The cats are in with me Will you turn the heat off? It is terribly hot in here [Edie] Your room is terribly dirty It's got to be cleaned - Not tonight, Geraldine - There's a horrible smell I can hardly sit here I love that smell I thrive on it Makes me feel good We have to hang the portrait and clean the room No! Pull the chair out! He wants to look at it! I'm not ashamed of anything Where my body is is a very precious place It's "concentrated" ground [Giggles] [David] Consecrated [Mrs. Beale] What are they doing? Take a picture of Edie I'm trying to think of... Oh, I know what I can have Oh, for goodness sakes, he is My God They see me as... You know, you don't see me as I see myself But you're very good, what you do see me as I mean, it's okay - Are you pleased with those? - You know, I see myself as a little girl - And all that - What I see is a very immature child She sees me as a baby, and I see myself as some kind of a little girl They see me as a woman I don't see that But when I get out of here, I do - You gonna babble on? - When I go to New York City, But in here I'm just, you know, Mother's little daughter I doubt that very much You wanna play Al the record I bought you? Virginia Military Institute! Oh, my God I can't get over this I really can't And you can't dance at all - Why can't I? - I never saw you do anything military Never Are you absolutely crazy? There isn't anything I can't do (music) [March] [Chuckles] [Music Ends] [Laughing] Darling David, where have you been all my life? Where have you been? Where have you been? Where have you been? Where have you been? (music) [Humming Marching Tune] Only thing I needed was this man! - [Mrs. Beale, Indistinct] - What? - What did you say? - All I needed was this man David! (music) [Humming Continues] - (music) David (music) - [Whistling] I wish I'd had David and Al with me before this [Mrs. Beale] Yeah, well, you had your mother Yeah But they're more interested Good Lord I can't believe it It's 145 Here, kitty, I got a big, nice piece of white... Here, kitty Here, kitty You like that? That's nice No bones on that one (music) [Humming] Oh, that's a pretty song "Don't Throw Bouquets At Me" You know, that was... I was trying to think of the words to that - (music) Bouquet (music) - (music) No, don't throw (music) - (music) Bouquets at me (music) - (music) Bouquets at me (music) - (music) Don't (music) - Don't what? - Hurry up Don't what? - (music) [Humming Continues] - (music) Your lips to mine (music) - Oh, no That's not it - No, you're way off the beat there No - (music) Don't (music) - (music) [Humming] - Bad Go to the bottom of the class No, that isn't it - (music) You're mine (music) - No, that isn't it either (music) People will say (music) - (music) We're in love (music) - Her voice is improving She didn't say "lahve" You're not Czechoslovakian "Love" - (music) [Humming Continues] - You don't say "lahve" You say that... You see, she knows that she sings so badly that she has to wiggle about 20 times to every note you see, to distract the people, you know, but she really can't sing it right - I can sing like mad - You sing beautifully You're singing incorrectly Very ugly Always must do everything correctly - Now start at the top now - (music) [Edie Humming] - (music) Don't (music) - (music) Don't (music) (music) Throw (music) (music) Bouquets at me (music) - Don't make funny faces - (music) My... (music) - (music) [Hums] - Now that's what I want The next line - (music) Are much too much (music) - Oh, no Way off there No, that's not it - (music) Ha har hee (music) - No "Ha har hee" doesn't make up for a lot of words you can't remember - (music) People will say we're in love (music) - No Oh, don't do that Omie thing again..."lahve" Where in hell did you come from? - I'm going to bed, kids I love you very much, both of you - But, you know, she took my pillow, and I'm in agony - (music) Mona Lisa, Mona Lisa (music) Why did you lose my pillow, Edie? (music) I'm warm inside so I can sleep (music) (music) And then I (music) (music) Want to weep (music) (music) I'm a-getting tired (music) (music) So I can da-da-da (music) - [Edie Babbling, Laughing] - I didn't know you were going - (music) Down around the lamppost (music) - [David, Albert Laughing] - (music) In the something (music) - (music) [David, Albert Humming] (music) [Humming] If I only knew the words Marlene Dietrich (music) Down around the lamppost (music) (music) It's Lily Marlene (music) That's an old war song, Mother [Edie] I tried to get you I called and called and called - [Albert] Oh, yeah? How's everything? - I guess you went out Then I called again You were busy - Guess what's happened - What? What I had felt was in the cards I'm telling you, I'm not gonna spend another ten years with this You know, I spent ten years with the last - You mean Tom Logan - What is it now? The Marble Faun is moving in - Who is? - The Marble Faun - Oh - He just gave us a washing machine That cements the deal I gotta get out of here I'm not gonna spend the rest of my life washing clothes in that goddamn... - I don't blame you - It's a very nice washing machine It came from this house they're gonna sell You know, he had a job as a gardener's assistant at this house And they're gonna sell the house, so they gave him the washing machine [Whispering] But he's moving in Oh I can't watch him, I'm telling you Of course, he's still gonna have the gardening job, you know But I think he gets home at 4:00 So, Mother says... Do you wanna come in and speak to Mother? - She'd like to speak to you - Okay Come on in I'm pulverized by this latest thing Well, you do! You have a beautiful face, like a girl Like, you look like my mother The absolute image of my mother, jerry Jerry, you're not going to drink anything, are you? - No - Well, what are you gonna have? - I'll wait for the chicken - You're waiting for the chicken? You mean to say you're not gonna have soup or a drink or a highball or something like that? Don't you think we better have some rum? Oh, no She didn't put any papers on that thing today? I asked her to Jerry, I'm badly treated all along [Edie Whispering] I think my days at Grey Gardens are limited I think my days at Grey Gardens are limited - (music) When do we start (music) - Oh, God, please! - (music) The scene is set (music) - Oh, Edie, take that scarf off - (music) That I'm in love with you (music) - Grab that scarf for me Oh, Edie, quit it, for God's sake [Edie Giggling] There's an extra knife I'll put it in the middle - I forgot the forks - Do you mind getting my slippers, Will you, please? You know where you put them You have to get very tough with Edie She won't do anything till you get very, very tough A strong hand, says the priest Said, "She needs a strong hand" I said, "I know it I brought Edie up without her father It was very difficult" Then she went to New York and did what she wanted to do You know, I wanted to get Mr. Beale back and have him come back She said she'd leave the house forever if I had her father come back (music) Well, the moon is high (music) - (music) The breezes sing of it (music) - Would you bring my little radio? Edie, will you bring my little radio? It's on my bed Will you bring my little radio, please? I've got to have some professional music - (music) [Edie Continues Singing] - She found the slippers Quite remarkable You got the radio, Edie? - You got my radio? It's on the bed - (music) The night is young (music) - (music) [Humming] - How did you happen to find it so quickly? Put this up there Will you, Edie, please? Put that up there This thing All right, if you're gonna stay there and eat, I'll eat here (music) When did we start (music) Now I'm gonna put that terrible racket of Edie to bed (music) And I'm in love (music) (music) With you (music) [Radio: Static, Indistinct Announcement] - She's always hated Marlene Dietrich - I can't stand that music - She has She absolutely loathes Marlene Dietrich - She makes me very ill - (music) The scene is set (music) - Oh, Edie, I can't take it, Edie I'll go right into the room, and I won't have any hot food or anything Don't do it, Edie! I'll get so mad! - Listen, will you stop it? I'm going in the next room - I'm singing it in American - I'll never see you again, as long as I live - I'm singing it in American I don't care You're not gonna sing that song Stop it, will ya? - Why not? - 'Cause I don't wanna hear it - Well, I stood for yours all these years - Come on Well, my voice is beautiful and trained - (music) [Edie Humming] - It was beautifully trained, my voice - I never tried to attract men with it - (music) The scene is set (music) - Edie, stop it I'm going to get up now Good-bye - (music) I'm in love with you (music) I'm going right in the other room with the cats where I'll be happy - (music) [Humming Continues] - I'm not gonna take it I hope it does Something fell off just then Get out of here Don't make me mad Get out! - You're making me very angry! Go out! Go away! Stop! - Mother, look at your chest - Well, stop it! Stop that silly nonsense! - Quit it! Go away! - I can't have any fun in this house - You had enough fun all your life - I've never had five minutes' fun Not a minute - I never had a minute's fun - Go away! You don't look at it! Well, you made a rotten breakfast Horrible You spoiled the whole thing I can't go over to my seat now - There's no back to this bathing suit - [David] We won't look Mother, do you realize that your whole chest was showing in that movie? [Mrs. Beale] Yes Everything is perfectly disgusting on account of you You did it You sure do bring out the worst in your mother [Door Closes] (music) [Radio] I think Mother's very mean to me I'm glad I stopped you Thank God I'll have a little peace here Yeah, but I do several versions of that She's got a beautiful voice, but you never heard it You never heard her voice She can really sing decently Sings very well Better voice than I have But not that song Now sing "Only a Rose,"now, Edie You ought to be able to do that Go on Sing it (music) Only a rose (music) (music) Only a rose (music) (music) Another day (music) - (music) Only a rose (music) - (music) [Humming] (music) I give you only a rose (music) - Dying away - (music) Dying away (music) (music) Only a rose (music) To keep in harmony - [Laughs] (music) To keep in harmony (music) - (music) To keep in harmony (music) - (music) Only... (music) [Laughs] - [Mrs. Beale Laughs] I don't think there's any point in my meeting anybody that doesn't like music, do you? 'Cause I can't stand them Finally, I can't stand them There's something lacking, and it's music, isn't it? I mean, in a man Well, it is nice to have a man who can play the piano for you - No, that isn't all She doesn't get it - You can practice Unless a man understands music, there's no point in my even meeting him 'cause I never could figure out what was wrong You know, with stockbrokers and tennis players and... I tell you who was a songwriter and a dancer and a playwright and everything Eugene Tyszkiewicz But Mother got rid of him in 15 minutes - He didn't speak English well He'd only been here seven years - He might've poisoned you - He was Serge Obelensky's nephew - You wanna marry a stranger? - I mean, he was a very, very decent guy - I looked up his horoscope He was born November the 14th - I have to go in now - He was a very wonderful boy - Who was this? - Eugene Tyszkiewicz He was a twin - I couldn't stand having another cook in this house - That isn't the point And he actually proposed, under the window - He had no home He was living in a third-class hotel - Under the window - He didn't have a thing - He said, "Edith, if you want - Not one single nickel - And I think that was decent, don't you? - I don't see why - He probably wouldn't have, but just the same Not one person had entered Grey Gardens for many years before Eugene Tyszkiewicz came around So I credit him with all the nerve in the world Why, no one would even speak to us People who I had walked to the Maidstone Club with for years - Don't believe a word of it - Admiring all the other people - Don't believe a word of it, kid Not a word - All the other people... - [Rambling] - If your father could hear you, he'd turn in his grave He'd say, "My God, Edie!" Well, anyway, I think you were very cruel, Mother - Well, I don't think it's nice - He came from one of the best families in Poland And he was related to the Obelenskys And I think it's terrible that she wouldn't give me a chance with Eugene Tyszkiewicz - That was absolutely cruel to drive the only beau away! - Do you want to marry a man 32? - I don't care! That was the only one besides these horrible people that came around here! - Have you got your thing lighted for that? - [David] Yeah, we're all lit - He was only 32 and from a very good family! - 32, and she's 52! And she got rid of him in 15 minutes flat! - No, he didn't He said... - I'm bored with all these awful people like Jerry! - And all those people! - That wasn't the truth No Tell him the truth That was not the truth Uh, no, and that was not the truth He said, "How could such a warm, lovely person over the telephone turn into anything so cold?" That's what he said right down on the porch So I said, I said, "You'd better go home" Never said good-bye or anything "How could such a warm, lovely woman over the telephone turn into something so cold?" I thought that was just a little too much Uh, I'll tell you the whole thing You might as well face it It's my mother's house, and she owns it and she wanted the people she wanted in it and she didn't want the people that I wanted in it But God knows whom I wanted in it I mean, besides Eugene, and Mother wouldn't allow Eugene to stay even 15 minutes But I had to spend ten years with Tom Logan And now we have Jerry who is Mother's friend So, you just can't do anything about it So I can see now why girls get married You know, they're forced into it It's all a question of who you want to stay with Of course, I'm mad about animals, but raccoons and cats become a little bit boring I mean, for too long a time [Laughs] I don't know I don't know I better check on Mother and the cats She's a lot of fun I hope she doesn't die I hate to spend the winter here, though Oh, God Another winter [Whispering] Very depressing, you know, when winter sets in here You know, 'cause I don't like the country, and I don't want to be here Any little rat... Any little rat's nest in New York any little mouse hole, any little rat hole even on Tenth Avenue, I would like better (music) [Phonograph: Big Band] (music) Beneath the moon and the sun (music) (music) Too near or far (music) (music) No matter, darling where you are (music) (music) I think of you (music) (music) Night and day (music) (music) [Continues, Indistinct] (music) Silence of my lonely room (music) (music) I think of you (music) (music) The magic (music) (music) Of dreams come true (music) (music) [Humming]
