 

                        Now, this area is pretty much the same way it was when the Indians wandered around in it That's because of this country's national parks system centers It's so much in the the national park system to protect the wildlife, the forest from thousands of campers coming here every year Now, I know that my opinion don't mean too much but, I think if we get any further encroachment on these park areas we're going to destroy the natural beauty of what you are looking at If the government could somehow manage to protect these areas, we just might be able to keep this difficult, completely American landscape like this forever Never thought you'd make it! I would'nt miss a Kelly briefing for the world Alright. This is the largest post-season crowd we've ever had There's no way with this crummy crew that we're going to handle them What Kelly's concerned about is we got more backpackers pitching tents than raccoons in the woods Okay, now everybody goes out on patrol There's no way we can keep an eye on all those backpackers! We'll just have to do the best we can Okay, everyone knows where they're supposed to go. So, so let's deal with it Kelly... My apologies. Accepted I'm going up to R4 You know, maybe the two of us should go! It's really loaded up there, Kell' Hey, come on I can use the help Well now, see, Hayes called in sick So I'm going to need Gail here to help hold down the fort We tried! - Look, I'll talk to you later for dinner - Okay Okay girls, keep it moving Even though the season's closed, but that's no reason to lit out If you get any complaints about cold food I want to hear about them right away Dad! What are those? Unpaid bills, I believe Aw, I must have put them in the wrong drawer I'll take care of them right away And I've been looking over the wine list You know, you haven't been charging nearly enough Look what you've been paying! I know what I've been paying And? Well, good wine at reasonable prices brings the customers back and they've been coming back I know you've had a really good season, but ... Allison. For the last two weeks you've been trying to help me run my business That's not true Dad, every man needs a helping hand You told me that you were coming up here to shoot pictures of the changing seasons! Well, I did. I am. That's what I've been doing Yeah, well keeping check on how your old man is doing is not going to help you meet your deadline I only got maybe a third to go I mean, maybe thirty or forty more photographs I got my publisher's note. He'll wait Allison Why don't you write a how-to book "How to avoid responsibilities" Oh hell, I was supposed to meet you Kelly, I'm sorry Well, let's go See you, Walt It was really sweet of you to come and get me. I really appreciate it I should be angry I mean, I said I'd take you around but, I just might be needed I'm an important person around here Guilty as charged You know what the problem is? The problem is you're spoiled And.. your father did it How long have you known me? Oh, a few weeks Then, why don't you just reserve judgment. I mean, spoiled is a pretty heavy word First of all, I don't feel spoiled. I feel needed I mean, Dad's taking a lot more than he can handle so.. I feel just a bit torn between career and father You know, I think your father can handle his end It's yours you should be worried about Somehow I always manage to get it together At last -We're here -Finally We must have walked 10 miles today We got to do something with this I want to sit down and get out of these boots I feel a lot better What's that? Theres something out there Hey. You scared us Sorry, I didn't mean to What can we do for you? Stay out of trouble What kind of trouble? Well, just don't take any unnecesary risks This is a pretty tricky area How long you girls going to be up here? We're leaving shortly. Right after we eat Don't forget to check-in at the ranger station before you leave Don't worry, we'll be down before it gets dark Okay Come on, boy Well.. better be moving. It's going to get dark pretty soon You're right You start on the tent and I'll get the fire Okay, but I have to go first Whenever it comes to cleaning up you always have to go Ha, ha I'll be right back June? June? You never stop shooting, do you? Most of what I shoot I don't use. Wrong angle, wrong light Wrong faces No, the faces are never wrong Remember, every face tells a story Oh yeah? What story does this face tell you? You're desending.. You hide everything behind that tight jaw One day it's going to break See, it's cracking already How you doing, Tom? Hey. Where you going? Up to R4. Got a couple of missing girls Oh? Come on.. They said they'd be down before dusk. They have'nt made it yet Ah, they're not going to make it. The sun will be down in a little bit -Hey, you want to go up with him? -Aha.. -We'll follow you, go ahead -Okay They were back there, past the shack. Maybe a hundred, hundred fifty yards Let's walk on in Hey, hold it Tom. I'm going to check out this shed What the hell..? Find anything? No How about you? No, nothing Tom Yeah? How far down are you? Ah, about quarter of a mile from the shed There's just nothing here I can't tell wether a bear came through or not Well, keep looking Roger, out We better keep looking You all doing a hell of a job You find anything? -No sir, not a thing All right. Keep at it Remember, we're probably not looking for a full body Kelly.. what the hell's going on? A bear He attacked and killed a girl That's all we need. A killer bear on the loose Well, there were two of them. We haven't found the other one yet Reckon she made it out? No, too much blood around here for that Well, what you want us to do? Look, I got a bunch of guys up on the western slope So ah, you guys go on up north He just might go back up country Check Allison.. Where are you going? Back here to get another angle on the cam Okay, but don't go too far Hey, Kell.. -Yeah.. -Parker and I came up empty-handed Well, look. Get 'em back out there Nobody sleeps until we get that son-of-a-bitch Hey, come on Kelly, you can't... Tom we got a killer on our hands, now no excuses, please It was a big one alright It seems to me.. the girls came across the cub, got too close, and the mother attacked They didn't find any sign of a cub They didn't find a sign of the bear anywhere Well, she ate and buried the rest of her meal for later Why would she come down? She came down for food Oh shit. We hauled them up to the high country last season ... There is more than enough of food and fish for them up there Maybe she had enough fish Hang on to your sick, Doc It's not sickness. She was hungry enough to eat two women Bears don't eat people This one did Hallitt, do me a favor Just put it in writing for me Who's ah.. going to contact the family? Me, I guess Why the hell wasn't I notified? Well, obviously you got the message I had to hear it on the goddamn radio Hey, I'm glad to hear that uh, you turn it on these days If youll excuse me, gentlemen Aw, thats okay, Hallitt, I was just leaving I want to see that report on... Kelly.. Okay, lets hear it What the hell happened out there? One of our bears got lonesome It wanted a little action Its not funny Not supposed to be What are you going to do? Well, I've got men out on the field I put R3 and R4 off-limits to campers And I think we can contain it in that area Okay This time, you keep me informed all the way And when this thing is over with I want a full investigation Investigation? What kind of investigation? We have a responsibility to the public. I mean it's my head This bear is supposed to be in the high country That's where we put it Two possibilities.. Either he came back.. or you didn't do your job No way We tagged every one of those bears Arthur Scott knows every bear that's in this forest No way he could have missed one Okay, then Scott's the man I want to talk to Now, you get him on the wire and get his ass down here Kelly! I hope I'm not talking to myself I read you... loud and clear We interrupt this program to bring you a special news bulletin Two young women were savagely killed last night by what the local authorities believe to be a large bear Michael Kelly, ranger in charge of operations orders all backpackers in the high country to evacuate the area immediately Campers in all other areas of the park should not venture in the upper regions until the rangers are certain the bear has been apprehended and the areas declared safe If anyone should see this animal please contact your local authorities or the park ranger service immediately Stay tuned to 1060 NEWS for further up-to-the-minute news bulletins If Scottie is not in the office, where is he? I was on the field.. You mean you... won't connect me or you can't connect me? Well, you listen to me you little.. I've got 2 girls, aages 19 to 20 broken to the bone So don't give me any of your bullshit about regulations Now, you get Scottie on that field phone or you're going to be in the unemployment line tomorrow morning. You get that? Yeah, I'm still here Sit down No.. no... What the hell's the matter with you down there. I gave strict orders.. Who is this? It's Kelly, Scottie. Kelly! Kelly, do you know what you just did? I had a whole family of deer up here I've been following them, living with them and you scared them off What happened? Its a bear.. killed two girls, but.. a funny thing happened is that he buried one of them But bears do that anyway They cover their kill in a shallow grave Then they go away. They come back later and finish eating Look, Kittridge is holding you and me responsible, so.. just pack it up and get your carcass here as fast as you can Alright Who's Scott? He's a naturalist attached to this department You know, I think he knows every bear in this forest personally You guys really love what you doing, don't you? Yeah.. I do I really do It sure has changed my values around Changed your values? How Kelly? Well... I had a perfect plan for fame and fortune So what happened? I took a shortcut I married this beautiful lady Just by chance she was filthy rich Trouble was, we were both mercenaries And after a while, I just wanted out. I couldn't take it anymore You left? Well, it was a little more subtle than that I made believe I was having an affair Got turned around So I sold all my holdings. Gave to the Salvation Army, and became a ranger That turned her off You're lying , aren't you? What do you think? I really don't care Well, were down in Area 3 already. I dont think hes going to come down this far These woods are so damn thick you can't see anything anyway Yeah, he could be hiding anywhere Well, one thing's for sure He's not around here Look, why don't you go over and take a break I'll go up to Powder Ridge and check it out and be back in fifteen minutes Good. I'm going to set my feet in the stream Okay Have another drink? When will I stop remembering? It should tke about 25 years Jesus.. Poor Tom He liked her, didn't he? There's something I'm not doing! Sure, you're not killing the bear I don't think I'm cut out for this You know what I enjoy? Giving lectures around a campfire ... showing slides ... Taking long rides in the woods... Watching the animals For a man who thought of himself a mercenary you did pretty fine Oh yeah. There is a killer bear out there and I'm sitting right here crushing ice cubes in my mouth Where the hell is that damn Scott? He'll be here. And there's nothing else you can do but wait Oh yes there is. Except I'm too paralyzed is what it is You better have another drink No How about another ice cube? Yeah You know Don, I want to thank you for helping us out Sure going to make finding that bear a lot easier Maybe's got some kind of favorite cave No, the reason we can't find him is.. he's moving And he has a few million acres to cover his tracks Well, if it goes near a clearing we might just pick him up Can you get this thing any closer? No.. negative Too much downdraft today It might push it into the trees Feel like I've been.. wearing these things permanently Have you locked into any of its patterns yet? You know, bears got patterns Patterns, yeah patterns. He likes women.. keeps moving -Sort of like me ... -Always trolling Yeah, yeah What about that fillly you been riding? Oh.. I didn't know it was that way now No offense, my man Hey.. take her down. I think I see something Oh boy! That might be our baby Hold it, Kelly! Are you crazy? What the hell are doing up here? Trying to find your bear! Well youre supposed to be down at camp. Kittridge is been all over me! You better tell him that man that bear is not one of ours - You sure? - Positive! Well you.. still should have come on down Why? I can do better on my own You almost got your tail shot off! Hee hee. Almost! Well, if you ain't a big bag of grits What the hell you'd done if you had caught that big brown? It isn't a big brown It's a grizzly! Grizzly? There ain't no grizzlies up here I used to hunt these woods for years. It can't be a grizzly Come on Scottie, they were killed off years ago. Big bounty hunt, remember? This one survived I.. I'm telling you. It can't be I'm telling you we got a grizzly, and thensome Guys, I'm a little bushed Can I hitch a ride back with you? Yeah, come on You know, the average grizzly, he's about 7 feet tall Some are shorter This one here is at least 15 feet Oh no. Maybe in Alaska, just maybe, but not down here Right here. I just checked the claw marks on the tree Now, that means he's established his territory ... The whole damn forest? What you talking about is unreal Wait, I got a little more ... According to the depth of his paw prints he weighs over 2 thousand pounds You boys want a bite? Look Scottie. You may be some kind of authority on all this but what you talking about is science fiction, a fairy tale! Science? yeah. Fiction? no See the only known grizzlies that large were called Arctodus Ursus Horribilis And they were the mightiest carnivores in the Pleistocene era Well, when was that? About a million years ago Ah, he's a mere baby then! Ah well, he was a mighty ancestor that managed to hang in there What the hell is a million year old grizzly doing here? He's looking for food They were.. strictly carnivore, those things They sure do love meat Well, in that case let's get the hell out of here No! No! Stay away from her! Stay away Somebody, help Alright people, step back Let's go now. Go on back to your campsites We got it here. Go on back Come on now. Get those kids out of here Let's go. The show is over, come on Everybody back to your campsite. Let's go Keep it moving. That's it Mr. Walker? You can ride in the ambulance Sally loved me, mister She really dead? Come on What the fuck happened? You said it was in the heights! I said that? Well, it came down Kelly, this is your baby, your responsibility I wash my hands Yet this is your park, Mr. Director! This is your area So it's your bear It is not the case You have not done your job, Scott You are wrong, was a grizzly killer on our hands Scott, you're mad running with these costumes There are no grizzly! Scott. Come, let's go Kelly, I want the fucking bear! Send me the Washington reinforcement! To make it a scandal? Listen, let campers hang their food, bears the feel, end of story! Here, it's different! This monster eats his victims! I have to say, Four people were killed, then stop these ridiculous quarrels You have enough men available Do your job or I'll take care! Yes. of course -If theres a bear out there Im going to get him -Not if I get him first You be careful You got the ammo, Charlie? Yep, I got plenty We'll flush thet old-boy out Easy boys, easy. Don't get rambuctious Damn dogs Hunters What the hell are they doing out here? They're probably looking for your bear Who opened up this forest for the hunters, huh? You know that those clowns they're going to shoot everything in sight Well, let them. They might get that old bear for us Yeah, including some of my rangers Let's head back Sheesh! What claws! My God! There are chairs in this room I will not sit ... What do all those hunters out? I have no choice You just opened hunt all the animals of the forest My instructions are clear, they hunt a bear It's not a bear, it is a grizzly It's not the same thing A bear is a bear A bear is not necessarily a bear, believe it You have now a band of drunks outside These are not professional hunters That I can not help it, there are always a few freaks I want them out of my forest This is not your forest, Kelly These woods are full of campers Not in R3 and R4 sectors You think they are on marked trails? There is no danger Bullshit! I'm done with it No. I have a question for you Why are you on my back? I'm glad to hear you say Kelly, You are a rebel There is no room here for the rebels Listen up, Kittridge ... While glandiez on your fat ass ... I invested this forest cout... No, you listen to me! These hunters are in my area And I take care of them as I see fit Try and stop me! Scottie, wake up - Tom? - Yes - You okay? - Fine Bastard got a hold of a hunter. He managed to get away Where is he? Over at the clinic He's really beat up He was also one lucky hunter Yeah Okay, let's go Hey Scottie. Will you take that over to pick up his stuff Load in some extra rifles. We'll need em' I was feeling unloved Well, so was I Glad you stopped by. We're just getting ready to take off I'm coming with you Look, it's a butcher shop out there and you just couldn't handle it I couldn't? Alright, maybe I couldn't handle it Look, I'll stay out of your way Honey, it's not safe out there, and I don't want to see you get hurt I mean, for both our sakes Is that a line that's supposed to make me feel grateful? I don't feel like playing little boy-girl games You just said the wrong thing! Right, well just pack it up. You're not coming with me Damn, Kelly! I'm glad you see it my ways Really! This just might be that old Grizzly's cub No way It's possible Hey. Hey listen... That thing might come in here after that cub Lets get him outta here Hes right. Put him back in the wood Hey, I got an idea Well use this cub as bait Well take it back in there. Find us a clearing.. We'll go in the blind.. When mama comes back... Pow! Its a lot different from deer hunting Yeah, that damn thing fights back Hey, we gonna have to hold the noise down. Damn thing won't come around Shh Whose stupid idea was it to use that cub as live bait? It was mine Now, thats the kind of bait we need to use, Kelly It really doesnt make any difference anymore, does it Anybody see it happen? Nah. She just grabbed up the cub. That was it We know one thing for sure What's that? Our grizzly is a he instead of she Now, how the hell you know that? You been peeking? Don't have to. Only the males are cannibalistic They'll eat a cub if they are hungry Yeah but.. does that help us any? Sure does. He's going to retrace his route That means he's going to come back the scene of his crime So then, he ah.. could still be around here He could be listening to us right now Well, if that's the case maybe we can flush him out Can we help? Yeah, but we go by the book Everyone follows orders Call the shots, mister What's your name? Pat Okay Pat. You and the rest of the guys go up the north ridge That's ah.. Pinto Pass I know where it is Alright. We're going to spread and hold the line at Culvert Basin Now, if he comes down ... That's were he's coming down Hey listen! You ole boys come down that ridge and make like a war party. Make a lot of noise, will you Maybe that crazy will head towards us Alright. We'll expect you to be in place and ready to go at, ah.. -Daybreak. -Well, let's get with it Okay Tom, you're not going to be coming with us What? You're not leaving me out of this, man. No way We're not leaving you out of anything. I'm assigning you to Arrow Tower Don't do me any favors Look, I can handle myself down here Look. Cool off and listen Now, you know how thick it is down there Now, from up there you might be able to spot it. And you might get a crack at it Yeah, and I might just get left out of all this damn thing Tom.. You're not going to be left out of anything Okay? Wish the hell it would hurry up and get daylight It won't be much longer Tom? It's still a little bit chilly this morning, though. Ain't it? Yes. Sort of cool for this time of year, anyway - Come on - Alright Let's go Let's keep it quiet, okay Kelly, I 'd like to have the first shot Well, I can't promise you that See, we got a grizzly out there that's at least 15 feet tall Weighs maybe 2, 3 thousand pounds, right I want to capture it You what? You want to capture it? That's right He's not kidding I've been developing these brand new tranquilizing shells Oh Christ... That shell won't penetrate a hair of its chinny-chin-chin Not trying to kill him with it, mister. Just want to put him to sleep Oh yeah well.. that's fine. But first you got to knock him down. That baby won't do it We'll see about that I sure hope you ain't out there alone You're liable to become its friends I figure, that old grizzly's hungry by now For a while. I told you he just ate the cub. I doubt if he's hungry now Oh yeah? Well, that was merely an appetizer, my man I figure that old grizzly got his taste for human flesh and he's eating nothing else That's pretty ridiculous It is, huh? Well, let me tell you a little story, boy A long time ago this tribe of Indians came into these woods They's was all laid down with the pox, uhh something I can't remember.. Anyway, this herd of grizzlies smelled them out They come in, they ate 'em They tore them all up Little children.. the sick.. everybody There's a few braves just healthy enough to go out on the hunt They came back.. and the grizzlies turned on themed So, they had a new situation A whole herd of man-eating grizzlies was just parading around tearing up the Indians That's pretty hard to believe Unless you happened to be one of them Indians Kelly I can still root him out my own way Hell, I can look like him.. I can smell like him Now, give me a chance. Let me go in You got a dime? I'm going to call his mama! I mean, does your mama know that you're running around out here in the woods trying to act like a bear.. smell like one. You scratching around on the ground like one? I mean, does she know that you're making a damn fool of yourself.. you're chasing something about the size of a V8 Cat with teeth? You know, I think your mama would be a little disappointed Maybe But not nearly as disappointed as she would be if she had you for a son Sonny! Scottie Scottie! Who spotted him first? You get a crack at him But I don't want you going out in those woods alone Post, here You see anything moving out there at all? Only your hunters tearing up the forest Well, keep looking. He has to be out there someplace Jesus It's the grizzly! Hold on Tom, just hold on. We're on our way Come on Don We're there.. we're almost there ...how the bear thing is being handled? Okay, I guess. I mean, they kept the bear away from here ... if that's what counts I surely feel sorry for that poor forest ranger, though Yeah, I think we all feel the same way I'm sorry So am I Is there anything I can do? No, he had a family Send some flowers I've got a plan But I need time and men Kelly, I'm not... Listen! Just listen to me He got Tom here Now, his first.. his first killing took place up here He circled and killed.. circled and killed.. He circled and found and killed Gail here And he circled again, got behind us.. ..and killed Tom Now, I think he's gonna continue heading down looking for human food That thing seems to.. ..know what we're thinking Now, I'd like to get the jump on him this time A grizzly is an animal, Kelly. Don't give him human qualities He's not even listening to you, Kelly See, he doesn't understand that we're dealing with a.. ..highly intelligent beast Scottie.. Scottie! Will you take that sandwich outside and eat it Please? Charley! Close the park and give me another crack at it There is no need.. to close the park Do you know that there are more.. more reporters out there and TV cameramen.. ..than there are animals in this goddamn circus I invited them You invited them? I want them to see the kind of clean, thorough job that we are capable of doing You're kidding! We have five dead people. One raving, almost dead man And you call that.. clean? We are doing everything I... Bullshit! Kelly! You know, I just figured you out You don't give a good goddan if we get that grizzly or not As long as you get your press so you can go to Washington and get one of those nice dark brown plastic offices Get out! Well, you just lost your office 'cause when I'm finished with you.. ..there's not gonna be anybody there waiting to shake your gooshy, bloody hand! You are finished, dismissed, removed! In your... Does not the weight of the world on your shoulders ... They are not wide enough Yeah, I mean ... What they know these fighters? The rangers know hunting You know what, Scottie? You know the real kick I could do with this property? Finally, if it was a private property ... I would divide while plots Do what you want If you want to give up, That's your problem. Scottie, do me a favor Go back home I have this grizzly What? You heard me Stay out of the forest What for? This is not just a job for me The forest is like home I love it and I'll find it You're crazy, completely crazy It's possible Meanwhile, you can stay here, and whining about your little pride Not to mention your Scotch I'm going to find our ursus horribilis Robert, you stay close now.. you hear? Do you hear me? Yes, Ma'am Mommy! Help! No! I am lone... Yes Everyone goes? Yes That includes the press, mister Park is closed People have a right to know Oh, you got your story The story is about greed I do not want him to go to Washington I'm feeling sorry for myself Hey, that's a good lead line for the story Well, your hands aren't clean either, pal You and your cameras made it so exciting.. so attractive.. We tell like it was There's only one person who can tell t like it was And that's little Bobby He's alive? Part of him is If we get him to the city hospital in time.. ..he will... It feels like Nam all over again That special excitement Ah, we'll get him this time You think so, huh? Well, I don't got a choice Hey listen, I wanted to thank you, ah.. I'd be in over my head without your help You getting it Alright If this ain't all ironic Now, in Nam I had about 100.. ..maybe 200 Gooks People.. We called them Gooks so it wouldn't get personal But it did get personal, anyway So I stopped counting and tried to stop caringe You know.. ..now I don't kill nothing no more Not even a fly Made myself that promise I'm sorry No, sorry ain't necessary It's my choice. I could've said no Where's Scott? Ah.. he went out to ride on his own He's crazy You know, that boy is weird What makes you think this old bear booted back up country? Well, what we know about grizzlies. They don't like to stray This one made it into town I call that straying No, I think he is just lost He wants to go home where it's safe We gonna help him go home? Here! I got one No. That Army Rem you got ain't gonna get what we need This here is 30.06 with a K4 scope on it for fast shooting You gonna need it Hold this, will you I wish my mom had taught me how to tie a knot Just take it over there somewhere Good You get kinda downwind. That old bear might smell us now and won't come on after it You could help Ahh.. that mother's heavy Okay HoHold it right thereld it right. I am holding it right there Don, would you... Lift? What do you think I'm doing? Come here, sweetheart Okay Here I'll going back to get the rest of the gear Alright I'll start on the blind Don! Right here. He's on the run We lost him We were right behind him I don't know about that He's gone Christ! We must have run a mile Only thing to do is to go back to.. the copter Aw.. son of a bitch He figured us out He took us out and then circled back That's what he did Just like, ah.. a couple of his toys We are You know, he could circle back and try again Well, don't even say that. We gotta try and get some sleep It's too late for hunting now. Let's go on back to the chopper Alright Are you sure you wanna take the first watch? Oh, ah.. by the way... ..just in case you should fall asleep.. ..and feel a wet snout on the face.. ..whatever you do don't move ..and don't kiss it back because it ain't me Hah.. that ain't funny You know.. you're right! Kelly.. come in Kelly This is Kelly, Scottie Where the hell are you! Never mind that. Just listen to me I found a partially eaten buck That must be one that we gutted What are you talking about ? Never mind. Where are you? I think it was our that was our grizzly that was doing the eating Where the hell are you, Scottie! What do you want.. topos coordinates No, a street and zip will do Alright I'm above R4 and Zone 821 Okay. Stay there No. Listen, on second thought get the hell out of there He might be coing back for the rest of his meal That's just what I'm hoping for Look. I got a roll. I'm going to put a rope around his neck and haul him through the woods to where you fellas are With any luck our friend is going to follow Negative I'm leaving right now. I'll meet you halfway Scottie. Scottie! Disseminates details and tell them to pick him up ..goes up and down like some kind of yo-yo I'm getting ready to kill again and can't hardly wait I kinda liked that old boy You know, when I was kidding around with him I never meant him no insult I know You know, Don.. ..you two were a lot alike Let's have another look at that grid map There Right there. That's were he's going Back to his first kill It's incredible! He's programmed. Like some kind of damned computer How? Why man? Hell, I don't know Why do salmon swim back upstream where it all began? You're getting kind of close Have faith, brother! Ooh man. He's really moving Let's give the son-of-a-bitch a run for his money I think we lost him I see him. I see him It's a mother-lovin runner Just takes one rocket. We'll get that damn launcher and blast it Set her down You sure? Yeah, let's go in after him He's tired, he's scared. He needs to come back out Alright Oh shit.. Aargh.. Kelly..
