 

                        To rid Qing of its final threat When death is distant we know no fear Without blood on our swords we know only fear Only when our hands are bloodied and we conquer our fear can we hope to fight our enemies! The Herders will gather in Beijing to present a special gift to Qianlong We've been betrayed Leng, Field Commander Chen Tai, Vanguard Su, Intelligence, Defense Buka, Vanguard Shisan, Defense Musen, Defense Attack I've seen you before Why don't you just kill me? The Guillotines were a covert operation created at the start of Qing Dynasty to quash the resistance Guillotines were all of Manchurian descent They posed as the Emperor's groundskeepers taking care of the Imperial court's surroundings with mysterious identities To ensure their loyalty they were forbidden to learn to read and write control by trigger before the advent of firearms Who defied orders and put the team at risk? Tell me! I just reacted to the situation You will not take part in tomorrow's mission No! Sir Sir I'm responsible for their mistakes Musen is always the last to leave training As a female Guillotine... The late emperor issued an edict before I was born Boy or girl your command was to be passed on to your offspring Sir! Dismissed Leng stays Musen Take it easy No one will reproach you once you're the Chief That's right When your father passes everyone will obey you When the late emperor sent you here did you ever imagine reaching these heights? I'm nothing without the Guillotines If only you are my son Watch over Musen tomorrow Yes, sir I waited for you my whole life Just get to it What do you have to tell me? I've seen you before How old are you? Are you Manchu or worse? Do you think you have me trapped? Do you really think I could be captured so easily? And you? Who do you think you are? A false prophet of the lowest caste! I've had a recurring dream In the dream, a man kills me until last night I finally saw it It was you No, no, no Even if I don't kill you now tomorrow, you'll be executed in the market The time's not right So I won't die tomorrow... except if you are the executioner I can be You can't Guillotines can't be seen in broad daylight What if you die tomorrow will my fate change? The rebel Wolf and his cohorts have been convicted of treason Sentenced to death by decapitation Execute the Herders! As caution to others! Kill all the Herders! Long live the Great Qing! Han man? How much? Five taels You're Han slaves without souls I'll come back to free you! Wolf! I'm sorry Wolf Rest in peace Attack! Do it Attack! Attack! Now! Emperor Qianlong, born Hongli Musen Musen If we dispatched the firearms squad Wolf wouldn't have escaped Today my daughter, Musen, is dead to me Now she's dead you're free to hunt down Wolf Yes sir! Remember your lives belong to the imperial court and to your fellow Guillotines I was liked you Joined the Guillotines as an orphan The Guillotines is my home Now I entrust everything to you If possible bring back Musen's body We'll take the female Herder Bailan along when the chance comes we'll exchange her for Musen The emperor assigned an imperial guard named Haidu to accompany you Beware of this man We're spending the night here? Do you have a problem? Dogs! They call themselves Guillotines? Are they for real? Didn't we play like this as children? You compare them with us? Your Majesty we've gathered children from the Eight Clans Their star signs are aligned with Prince Hongli Hongli, Qianlong Emperor Yongzheng Your Majesty, please choose two to serve the prince He's Feimo Haidu of Zhenghuang Clan His stars are the most auspicious match for the Prince But... Your Majesty Which one should we send to train as a Guillotine? Haidu is staunch and loyal tell me that he's ready and willing to die for Hongli Guillotines have no identity, no position Haidu should stay with Hongli Send Leng to the Guillotines Leng Haidu You will be remembered for your contributions to the empire I wish I were send to the Guillotines instead of you You are too soft How can you treat those thugs like brothers? Stand her up Pull the rope Hit her We are in Wolf's presence already? "I'm waiting for you" Wolf It's just the beginning Let's go Get down, bitch Leng What is this? We tossed her into the well If we can't find Musen we'll return and finish her off You weren't part of our plan Want to be part of the team? Alright... Watch the female Herder Let's go We're thugs We're thugs You die U Yes, Leng Wuguan Region on a white tiger in white armor we strike back twofold If someone kicks us we chop off his foot If someone bullies us we'll show him how it feels to be bullied It's Wolf StOP Move over! Wan Jiang Base Commander, Green Army Where're you from? We're from the Capital What's your business? Tea merchants We're just here to do business Please let us pass The Capital Retreat! We need to be careful We're surrounded by Han Chinese they consider us the enemy Come out here Let me go Don't move! Sit down! Run! It's smallpox! Run! I found out Where do the Herders keep their explosives? Can you pay me first? Thank you You must know that one of us was killed you don't stand a chance against them Stay here You trust a man like him? You may 99 You trust that thug over me? I only trust my men Where's the female Herder? I killed her him too Idiots Let's split up check for signs of activity in the East Market Buka Search the residential area Shisan Take the crowds in the North End If someone strikes us We strike back twofold If someone kicks us we chop off his foot We'll show you how it feels to be bullied If you stay You die If someone We strike back twofold That's loads That's a lot of money Run! Thief Don't hurt my father Don't hurt my father Don't hurt my father Don't hurt my father "Peach Blossom Spring" Bravo Buka can read quite a few words You spied on my brothers? Your brothers? I taught them how to write their names ls his name "Peach Blossom Spring"? Do you want to get them killed? Leng Once you capture Wolf you will rejoin me at court On the 15th day of the 8th month the Firearms Squad will be made official I'll assign you two to lead the squad What about the Guillotines? Your Majesty I beg you to spare my brothers are your only brothers didn't send me to the Guillotines to destroy them My father sent you to the Guillotines to work for me You serve me Have you forgotten? Come on Haidu will assist you in this mission and succeed They work for Gong-e It's their fate We work for His Majesty That's our fate The shadow plays are all about Wolf I found these leaflets circulating in the market Who in this hellhole would read this stuff? This one stands out among all the paper stencils we've found There's a Herder symbol in the center Leng Don't pretend you can read Hand it over Why did you burn it? Leng, stick with me tomorrow Who do you think you are? Forget him, Leng Let's go How did so many people die here? They all died from smallpox I studied medicine before I know how to treat smallpox Thank you Bring the patients to me now Thanks Tomorrow atone meet at Wine Springs Do you know what I saw in the Capital City? Our homes were still there Some of our families were still there The bustling market was still there Everything was the same But I broke down and cried Because our homes were no longer ours The families left behind were forced into slavery The market was transformed into an execution site for our people Those left in the city lost their souls They are slaves And those who are not slaves also can't raise their heads Our people are no longer treated... as human beings How did we lose our homes? Fea How did we lose our land? Fea Are we to lose the last vestiges of our humanity to fear? O The heavens tell me I'll die soon But I'm not afraid I want the heavens to know I refuse to die at the hands of a Han Chinese You won't Forget your Han name, Wang Lei From now on, you're Nala Leng Leng You're one of us Leng, you outcast! Leng Leng Leng Your words are poisoned! Wolf! Wolf! Wolf! When we were little, we braided each other's hair Do you remember? I thought you had forgotten Just let the Guillotines finish off Wolf as a favor to my brothers? Your brothers again When will the firearms squad arrive? I promise to capture Wolf before they arrive Haidu Help me just this once Green Army Base, Wuguan Haidu Help me just this once The rebel Wolf to surrender and other captive Herders will be executed He's going to get Musen killed Mister if I give this to you It's Su's badge What about my rice? U U U U Shisan Bravo Where is Wolf? Stay over there! Tell me Where is Wolf? Tell me Shisan, stop it! Calm down They killed Su! Leng Don't move! Come on I'll kill whoever comes near Come on Get up We're brothers Leng Shisan Leave some wine for me Give me Smallpox victims are always around Wolf No one goes near them Their homes are ideal hideouts for the Herders If they want to play cat and mouse we'll play along Tomorrow at noon In exchange for Gua-erjia Musen If Leng fails to appear Musen will be executed you can't go tomorrow I must go I promised Musen's father to bring her back You're going to exchange your life for hers? Our lives don't belong to us They belong to His Majesty to replace the Guillotines Tomorrow Let the Guillotines behead Wolf then let my brothers go free I'll go back with you Looks like you've had enough of being bullied Eat I think you're ready for my story As you know Han weddings are grand, joyous occasions One day the wedding day of Zhuang's daughter Qing soldiers barged in and arrested everyone in the Zhuang family Master Zhuang pleaded I'm only a book dealer What have I done wrong? The captain asked Have you ever sold a book titled "The story of Ming Dynasty"? Master Zhuang recalled "The story of Ming Dynasty" cost six coppers each It sold well The captain said the book appears to be about the achievements of the Ming regime but in truth, it's an attack on the Qing court Master Zhuang pleaded innocence "I didn't write the book!" The captain said he didn't order the arrest. It was His Majesty! The wedding banquet turned into a funeral His four older sons were to be beheaded The youngest son just turned 16 The judge took a year off his age so that he could be spared The young son was devastated "My father and brothers are to be executed How can I live on?" But I did live My story does not end there a court advisor He bribed officials to save Zhuang's four sons When Guo took them across the river a group of masked men ambushed them That's what The Guillotines did That month your father was appointed Chief Commander I've always wondered whatever happened to the heads of my brothers? Perhaps you can tell me? We exchange heads for a bounty The heads are kept in the Tunyang Pagoda as a record of our achievements How much do you get per head? Ten taels Ten taels of silver Ten Only ten? Is this true? Is this true? I'm not that kind of person I'm not Wolf Leng, come over and she's yours Musen! Stay where you are Move Scatter! Damn it! They're too far away! Musen is still over there! So is Wolf Do you remember your promise? Let's go Get inside Musen Wolf Leng According to His Majesty's edict Officer Gua-erjia Musen colluded with rebel leader Wolf Sentenced to death Gua-erjia Gong-e and members of the Guillotines are guilty of conspiracy and to be executed at noon today How dare you shackle the Chief Commander! Gong-e, you've suffered unjustly Do you blame me? These days... People see the Great Qing Empire as backward unable to keep up with the latest advances Imagine... If we had cannons like the British Does Your Majesty need cannons? Aren't the Guillotines enough? Armillary sphere, terrestrial globe air pump, pulley system, steam engine... Do you think they're hard to build? They are would sacrifice the Guillotines for cannons Gong-e, take a look In this library of mine there are hundreds of books chronicling the Qing Dynasty My legacy will be recorded among them pass on for generations I will not allow it to be tarnished by this dirty chapter ensure the survival of the dynasty... without the help of the Guillotines? Can we rely on the tricks of Westerners to pacify the Han Chinese? Didn't you say That a guillotine kills any target within ten paces? The range of a firearm far exceeds ten paces Cannons can strike targets a thousand paces away Do you see? Your Majesty Damn Haidu, I'm going to get him! Look at yourself How are you going to fight? Musen would never betray us report to the Chief Commander The headquarters no longer exist All we can do now is run As far as possible What? No longer exist? What do you mean? The Guillotines are now considered a dirty secret Now they think we're a dirty secret? They trained us to become Guillotines! Besides being Guillotines what else can we do? Leng How do you know so much? What else do you know? Don't let us die without knowing why Tell us the truth Haidu and I are a team We work for His Majesty Buka Stop! We're brothers! Drop your sword! Leng Why? Leng Are we still brothers? You've always been my brothers When his late Majesty sent me to the Guillotines I never imagined this would happen You must all leave now and never return Why? Move back Step aside! Letusleave Step aside! Want a good time? I've got a room I'll find medicine Don't come back Move back Go back! No one is permitted to leave! You thief! He's a wanted criminal There's a 100 tael bounty on his head I'm back Don't move! You know why! But they don't need to die! The Guillotines are a stain His Majesty's legacy must be clean The stains must be erased Su also died at my hands I must do what you won't Understand? Did His Majesty also say If I don't return with you you must kill me too? His Majesty has hoped that you'll return Lap C109 I said lap C109! Didn't your master order you to kill me? Shoot me, lap dog Go on Lap (109! The Guillotines are a stain His Majesty's legacy must be clean The Guillotines are a stain You are a stain I wish you were my son Are we still brothers? You're one of us Your name is Nala Leng Wang Lei Wang Lei What's your name? Wang Lei Hold it Don't be afraid Tell me What's your name? Nala Leng Mister Constellations of stars Wolf! You can kill me after you recover Why did you save me? Because you had nowhere else to turn Same as everyone else here I was like you in the beginning but I kept moving found my place here I found a refuge for all of us Now, I'm not sure how long we can eat and live in peace You have nowhere to go but you're not alone Musen has died I hate her ls my father dead? I got my brothers killed I got your father killed You're all I have left No matter what happens you must stay alive you're all accomplices Tell me where Wolf is hiding I'll spare your lives Otherwise you'll all be dead The one with the baby That one on the hill Let go of me Move back! Let me out Over here Run Don't take my child! That's the wishing tree The locals hang ribbons on it to bless the crops It's so sweet this is the sweetest yet I wonder... if I'll ever taste it again After sweetness... comes bitterness It's a cycle Why are you smiling? A smile can conceal fear You are my greatest fear I dreamed that you kill me then I met you It's a sign from the heavens I carry the hopes of many I've made promises to too many I do not fear death But that day when Bai-Ian was shot dead Those guns dashed our hopes and dreams I could do nothing but watch helplessly I was so sure of myself once... our dreams would come true one day When the firearms squad arrives everything here will be destroyed How much time do we have left? Great Father, come play with us Commander Wan Who should I kill next? Don't kill my child! StOP "Map of Wuguan, Ming Dynasty" This map is so intricate No wonder you didn't share this earlier Your servant remembered it just now! I too just remembered that... Commander Wan and the Green Army soldiers are also Han Chinese Certain mountain paths are drawn differently Do you really think we are born killers... who hate Manchurians? We just want to live like everyone else Farm Work Provide for ourselves It's our dream If we didn't find this place we'd still be slaves out there And that... is the life I promised them Equality for all cold and starving A slave being bullied everyday What would you think then? I was brought up to serve the Emperor ready to die for him Your Majesty However he's Han Chinese his name is Wang Lei How ironic for my son to carry on our golden legacy with the help of a Han Chinese I suppose it's fate I am Han Chinese I lived on the other side and believed what they said It is my fate to serve His Majesty Haidu and I will serve as his right hand men H is Majesty said he wants to create a golden age A golden age where no opposition exists He also promised The Guillotines would no longer have to kill I now see why it is you who kill me in my dream Great Father Great Father Allow me to propose a toast to you Drink up We're not leaving Evacuate the women and children take the southern path The rest of you gather weapons and meet at the peak When I was a Guillotine I never had a choice For the first time I can make my own decisions I'm staying I will escort them to safety Musen This is the last guillotine Use it for a cause you believe in at each gateway to the village leave none behind Once prepared meet at the town hall It's there... Get to safety Mother, take good care of him Leave now! Order Prepare the cannons! Hurry! Run! Run! Run! Hurry! It's the right time the right place and the right man Take my head to them I must die by the hand of a Han Chinese to end this carnage Go back and tell him what you witnessed here Tell him when Manchurians and Han Chinese are equals the day we've both been waiting for will finally be here I've waited all my life for you Do it Go back with me The three of us are still brothers Leng Haidu I bestow upon each of you the title of Batulu Warrior Thank you, Your Majesty Your Majesty What will the golden age look like? I've finally understand the mistake Wolf has made that destined him to fail Because as long as people have food shefier and peace How dare you! Continue Whether it's the Herders or other rebel groups people only revolt when they have nowhere else to turn If they were living in a golden age enjoying the peace and prosperity they would never revolt They're rebelling against injustice and inequality When everyone is equal as people of the Great Qing there will be no dissent against Your Majesty That's when the golden age truly begins What makes you think I'll listen to you? Because Your Majesty is a man of vision Then tell me... will that day come? Your servant will not live to see that day The day I joined the Guillotines at His Late Majesty's behest and die as a Guillotine The Guillotines was killed off to erase a dirty past And now... I am the last remaining stain I hope after Your Majesty end my life will heed my final words today Forgive him, Your Majesty Leng had a momentary lapse and spoke out of turn Please forgive him He lived longer than any other emperor in the history of China During his reign he created harmony between Manchurians and Han Chinese in the official history of the Qing Dynasty
