 

                        Rei Kikukawa Interview - March 25, 2002 What do you expect of this project? I think the best part about action movies is how cool they are, That's what I like about action movies. Speedy development of the story, coolness, rhythm, and non-stop thrills, I love those feelings. I'm really looking forward to the final version of the film. What is the image of the main character? She is a lawyer who learns the limits of the law. In the scene where the man with guns breaks through the wall, she has to face that in an instant, and she thinks she might be able to find a way to do what she really wants to do, and from there she is pulled into the underworld. This lawyer, Yuki, who I played in the movie, is a person who rushes into things head first and is full of passion. She can't stop herself to confirm whether she is right or not, thinks to herself, and figures out what to do from the results. She is very powerful, but I'm sure she is incredibly sensitive, and easily hurt. What to you think about playing a lawyer? If the character was a researcher or a doctor, I might have been able to better relate, since I took some science courses in college. However, playing a lawyer wasn't very familiar to me at all. What was your impression of Mr. Muroga, the director? While I was around him, I came to understand that he loves action movies very much. I think his passion becomes a source of energy on location and it makes people move. As for me, I also obtained power from him, and was influenced by him, and I was able to hurry forward. Since he had such passion for this movie, What do you think about the directing methods of Mr. Muroga? How he pictured things in his mind, such as thoughts about guns. or his explanations of each scene of the script, and how each one has it's own meaning... He told me about these things in great detail, and I realized quite a lot because of him. In each scene, he told me about the meaning and the flow of the story, It meant a lot to me and it helped me devote myself to each scene so I really appreciate him doing that. What was the most impressive scene for you? Well, the scene, the duel scene was the most impressive. We went to the location early in the morning on that day, and we had a very hard schedule all day. The scene was shot at last but it was the end of the day, and it was really late and so quiet. Also it was very, very cold. I was shaking because of the excitement and cold, It was very hard for me to do that scene, although, I was very tense. so I guess that environment was too tough for me and that's why I was able to do that scene with a feeling of high tension. But I still haven't seen the actual film of that scene, and I am looking forward to watching it. Anyway, I hope that scene is what I expected. I can't wait to watch it. What was your most impressive line? Close to the end, after the duel, after I kill Takita, I say, "You were absolutely right, judgment takes only a moment." That line contained various meanings and feelings for me and I could feel my body shaking. So, that was the most impressive line for me, and I still thrill myself just thinking about it. Were you able to enjoy being on location? Most scenes were pretty much either serious parts or high tension parts. I more enjoyed the fact that we were shooting an action movie. I wonder if understand what I mean? Good, good. What was enjoyable to me was the fact the fact that I was in an action movie. However, whenever I was actually acting, I had to be so serious that it was beyond enjoyable. But anyway, the atmosphere on location was very enjoyable. The director was too. I was able to feel secure... I felt at ease and was able to relax while I was acting. During the break, I was also able to talk with various people there. I really enjoyed the time off during shooting. Have you taken any lessons for the action scenes? In my previous movie, I did have a small lesson on swordplay, however, there were no scenes of swordplay in that movie, or in this one. I'm trying to hold on to those experiences, but I'm starting to forget them. I hope I'll be able to re-learn them so I can use them sometime. Did you become familiar with guns? When you hold a gun in your hand, the feeling that the gun and your hand are combined together into one eventually starts to come, and the more time you spend with it, the stronger the feeling becomes, so I can't really tell you clearly. Compared with my previous movie, I did feel some intimacy with guns. Or... how can I describe this feeling?... I do think a feeling of familiarity was born inside of me, and I was happy about it. Are you confident about your athletic skills? I'm pretty good at sports. Well, I'm good at sports, like I said, I was good at jumping rope, and the horizontal bar, and, what else... roller skating, and acrobatics. I challenged various techniques in those sports, and every time I got the hang of it, I was proud of myself about it so I guess you could say that I was good at sports in general. I would love to use the sports that I am good at in movies, or if I couldn't do it, I would want to overcome that wall. Anyway, I love sports. What do action movies mean to Rie Kikukawa? I love action. I love both watching action movies, and acting in them. I love acting very much. I really want to do an action movie again. What kind of action movie do you want for your next opportunity. I want to learn more swordplay, and I would like to act as a female who is strong with guns or without guns, like with martial arts, and I want to do a part that only a woman can do because of flexibility. But, if there are any plans like that, I'd be up for the challenge. A message from you to Mr. Muroga, the director... Gun Crazy, thank you very much. I really appreciate you for many reasons. For accepting me in various roles, I really enjoyed it very much. Thank you very much from the bottom of my heart. This movie that we all worked so hard on... I'm really looking forward to watching it. This movie is filled with our sweat and blood, and it is my treasure. Thank you so very much. A message from you to your fans... You don't see me like this ordinarily, but I worked very hard in this action movie. I hope you enjoy it. I wonder if you will? and I'll be really happy if you enjoy it.
