 

                        - I'm done. - It's clear. Come out. Sir, I--I appreciate you offer me this job now ah. - So, whats the extraction point? - Las Vegas. Ahh, Shit! That's far. - Ahh - Let's go. Do you mind? So who is the target? Job a friend of mine left unfinished. Where you on the firstnum package? No, never been there. The Pittsburg deal. Look, why don't you just drive? I--I am sorry man, are you gonna-- Have been a longsome from this for a while. Ever heard the Hamazaki story? Yes. Tell you what! Hamazaki didn't have a such a fucking monster for a kid. Coud have made a name for himself in Japanese Politics. Don't you think? Young, old, male, female anyone, could have been the victim. And at the end, they are all lost their lives. No matter what he did, how many perople he killed... Hamazaki who glamours was able to wipe out all the traces. Money. Money is the best right clean shit, don't you think? Think about it though. Happen to be as it his the only son, a monster, violent, crazy ass sex vanishes. Maybe Hamazaki is a vicim too. Mr. Hamazaki died in Yokohama, the people hasn't wasted any time. They gave the son a massive inheritence and cut him out of Yokohama immediately completely. One condition for him to inherit the money was he couldn't able to repay him. So in other words, they greasefully kicked his ass out of the country. Son travelled through Asia, Europe and Australia. And then finally they are in Los Angeles. L.A.'s melting pop was a huge appeal for this crazy son of a bitch and his violence. - Do you know who is after Hamazaki's son? - I heard it was Doctor from Japan. Right, he had a grudge against Hamazaki's son. It was unfortunate that his wife became one of his... toys. Let me go! Let me go! No! It hurts! Help! Somebody! Let me go... Help... - Keiko! - Honey... Stop! You must live. Live and tell the world what I am. I am a Legend! Isn't that true? Natural, I heard that the Doctor tried to commit suicide. Look its no use arguing how the docor became crippled. What ever! Tell me something I don't know already. Why did Hamazaki's son killed doctors's wife? I heard there was a reason. Mr. Hamazaki was this doctor's patient. Hamazaki's son thought the dotor killed his father. Completely unreasonable. Man, at stage 5 cancer no one could saved him. So even if this guy is a total fucking monster right... he is still the son and he loves his father in his own way. So, what was plan for the revenge? Hamazaki's Son, he had body guards 24/7 right? His house is like... its like a fucking fortress. On top of that, the bastard is crippled. He was a mastermind. His plan was perfect. She is a meth addict... Going through withdraw... She is barely fuckable You can't train her to do anything exciting. You mean number 4. What the hell? Why did he pick a junkie? You think its me? its not like I was there. - He probably saw something in her. - May be. Eat this. Eat. Eat. As the season started to change, the woman broke from her addiction. Eat this. You talk about an epic revenge starting up with a rehab. Oh... this mastermind. He is either part of cult or... ...just stupid. Her name is Mayumi. Typical story of a young women's downfall. She grew up with normal parents. Normal childhood, she could have had a normal life. The guy she dated is a bit of a bad boy. She learned to drink at 17. She fucked guys she liked when she got drunk. She fucked guys she didn't liked when she got drunk. Next guy was even worse. She started sniffing popers. The guy after that she started smoking marijuana. Now you know what comes next. Last guy was the worse. He turned her into a meth head. She started selling herself to make money for meth. She couldn't get enough and eventually... She became a property. That was the guy's plan from the first. When life had no more worth, she was sold overseas. Told she would fetch a good price, because she was a Japanese. Whatever. Enough about the chick. What about the mastermind's plan? What's he-- What's he planning on doing with her? I had enough with the story, let's get something to eat. The mastermind planned to turn Mayumi into the perfect killer. What is this a Japanese mongo? Or a Luc Besson film? You don't just train some chick to be perfect assassin. You just... pay chuck a money to some mercs and you know-- that's how you fucking do it Of course! But if it has to be Mayumi. Or some attracted women to get even close to the target. Remeber mastermind's target is Hamazaki's son. The man lives in a fortress It's impossible to break in. He is got professional body guards around him at all times. All right, I am with you, I am with you. I see it, so-- Where did he find the compremise? - Have you heard of Necrophilia? - Ah! Fuck! I am not into that shit. Necrophilia is been around for ages. Dates back to Romans, Egyptians, the Chinese. Ancient times. It's not such a peculiar fetish. It's defenitely a peculiar fetish. Whatever. Proceed with your talk oh tell. The secret place was created with an enormous fund from warped minded nobles from around the world. Which is called the place "The Room" It's a club for a Necrophilic. Deadbody Lovers. Hamazaki's crazy son was a member. He love to rape them live, but he loved to fuck the dead one's even more. The caretaker of this place had quite the operation. He created this secret Necrophilia room inside a nuclear waste disposal facility. This facility is in radiation control zone, so civilians are off limits. Police where on the payroll, so if anything would have happen they could coverup anything and everything. In other words, "The Room" does not exist. It is in somewhere a parallel world-- thats the very reason mastermind shows this place the very reason to get Hamazaki's son. One of the few places on earth that the bastard's fortune couldn't help him. Client's bodyguards are not allowed in. No exception. Once the client gets dropped off, the bodyguards retreat 5 km away from the buiding. And they return 4 hours later to pick up the clients. Also, no member of this club is allowed to bring in any kind of weapon. All of them get thourough body check up, everytime they go in. Every corner, every hole in their body is searched. But they are not allowed inside. Please take your time to enjoy every bit of this fine lady. Oh oh oh oh-- stop. I don't want to hear all that shit. All right. Cannabalism cost extra. In any case the mastermind shows this location to assassinate Hamazaki's son, some place... free of all the high level security and the boduguards. All right, all right. I get it. So, the idea here is to put Mayumi into her apparent death, sneak her body in to the room-- and... hit the target. But wait wait what about the weapons? All right, well... let me finish the whole story. Still got a way to Vegas. Let you tell you about the masterminds training propgram. What did he put her through to make her into the perfect killer. I didn't buy you and save your life just for fun. I saved your life so you can become my tool. For me, you are not a human being. You are my tool. I have no interest in your past, nor your future. I'm training you to make the best assassin. You fail my training, you die. You die, I buy another woman. Simple as that. I see you wanted to die... but it's not your decision to end your life. Now I own you. You die when I tell you to die. Got it!? Use your whole body. Again. With you body. Again. Focus... and go. I don't care how you do it. Hit his face. Hit him! Look at the gun. Shoot her. If your bullet can hit her... I will set you free. Next, I will teach you how to use a handgun. First thing you need to learn is... a bullet will miss you in most cases. Only the highly-trained ones can hit their targets. So don't fear the gun pointed at you. That's the basics in gunfights. Make a precise decision even at gunpoint. That's how you survive a gunfight. Understand? In fact... even a trained individual can hardly hit a moving target. Keep that in mind. You were just shot 3 times from 5 meters away, and none of the bullets hit you. You will be using this handgun. It's called an automatic pistol; it uses the pressure of the gas when fired, pushes the slide back, pushes out the empty shell, brings the next ammunition into the chamber. It has two kinds of safety locks. S is safety position. Trigger is locked. When it's down, it decocks, but you're still able to fire with double action. This gun is made in Germany, but is used by military and police around the world. It's acclaimed for its accuracy and endurance to fire over 20,000 times. Its superb quality, small size and lightweight make this gun perfect for our mission. The number of ammunition you can load is 13. Another feature of an automatic pistol is it can easily be taken apart into several pieces. Take the magazine out, pull the slide back, take it to the unlocked position. Take out the holding pin, then take out the slide. Disassemble in 10 seconds, reassemble in 10 seconds. Hold up the gun. Bend your arms. Support your hands. Don't touch the trigger. Learn to line up the sight and the target. Keep your feet apart. Cut the meat in three areas and stick the parts in. Take out the parts, assemble the UPS, load the magazine, and shoot at the target. Empty the gun. All in 20 seconds. Now start. 19 seconds. Now there's only a few things left to teach you. The guy you're going to kill... is this guy. Your reward is that you get to live. If the assassination succeeds, I will give you new nationality. To live free in this country. If you fail, it means death. I shall explain the plan. This is a nuclear waste disposal facility. Inside, there's a place called "The Room" where lunatics come to rape and eat the dead bodies. Your target is one of those lunatics. When the target's visit is set, I will get informed from a certain contact. When that happens, I will put you in a state of apparent death, and deliver you to this place as a dead body. When you wake up, kill everyone in the room. Man, woman, young or old. No matter what you do, do not fail to take down this target. If you fail to kill him, I will kill you. I know only a few things about this place. But one thing for certain is he is the caretaker of this place and he is definitely inside. I don't know how many work for him, how many are armed, or what they're armed with. I have no data on that. This place seems unbreakable. But I've found one blind spot. The body check on the dead body that's delivered here is outsourced to the body provider. That means, if you could bribe the body provider, you can hide a weapon inside the body, and deliver her into this place as an assassin. I've succeeded in bribing the body provider. I'll hide the gun inside your body through surgery. It's the only way to get a weapon inside "The Room". When you wake, you open the sewn stitches, take out the gun parts, assemble it and pursue your mission. You're only able to bring one magazine. So you will only have 13 bullets. The wounds on your body that I'll cut to hide the gun won't be fatal. Only if the bleeding stops and you get a blood transfusion within 22 minutes. Based on your weight, height and volume, it takes 22 minutes for you to die from blood loss. Get out of "The Room" before this time limit runs out. I assure your safety once you're out. A helper that I've hired will be waiting for you. He's my best friend and can be trusted. He will have this emergency blood transfusion kit in the car. A man dies when one third of his blood is lost. But a woman can survive even if she loses two-thirds of her blood. God created women superior to men. So? Will you do this? If you survive, you are free. I will hide the slide above your left breast. The body of the gun inside your right torso. She has about the same volume as you. Watch for the next 22 minutes as she dies from blood loss. By knowing what will happen to you, you can avoid much of the danger. You start losing a lot of blood, the brain tells the body to shut down. Stay strong here, or you'll pass out. Fight the shock! If you pass out, this mission fails here. 10 minutes have passed. You've lost about half the blood in your body. Physical capacity declines, and the brain lacks blood. You feel like you're drunk or in a bad dream. You won't be able to tell delusion from reality. Be aware! Bring yourself back to reality. 15 minutes have passed. At this point, your eyesight starts to go. Your vision comes and goes, like a light turning on and off. Use your other senses that are capable. 22 minutes have passed. I'm not doing this revenge for justice! I'm doing this for myself! I'll take revenge and go to hell. That's how this ends. If I have to, I would waste her life, or yours, or mine! Understandl? If you want to, shoot me. I won't be able to finish my revenge, but maybe it's not so bad to join Keiko now. This is my wife. The only woman I've truly loved with all my heart. Keiko! Honey... I've been informed the target will come to "The Room" tomorrow. We'll use local anesthesia for this. With general anesthesia, it takes time to recover, and you won't be ready to fight right after you wake up. You may feel slight pain and discomfort during the surgery. You're fine. The internal organs aren't damaged. The surgery was a success. You have a gun and a magazine with 13 ammo hidden in your body. I will now put you in a state of apparent death. When you wake up, that is it. Kill everyone, everyone in "The Room", no matter what happens! Now, farewell. If all goes well, you will never see me again. Sir, our guest of the day has arrived. Supervise the body check please. I will be right there. Number 3, come in. Number 3, come in. We may have been compromised. This way, please. Please take this just in case. It's me. We have an intruder. We cannot assure the guest's safety on our own. Get here, ASAP. I repeat, get here, ASAP. En Route. Fight the shock! If you pass out, this mission fails here. Number 3 is done. I repeat, number 3 is down. The body wasn't there. Acknowledged. Take her down. Now! 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. You feel like you're drunk or in a bad dream. You won't be able to tell delusion from reality. Be aware! Bring yourself back to reality. 15 minutes have passed. At this point, your eyesight starts to go. Use your other senses that are capable. 9. 10. 11. 12. That magazine holds 13 ammo of 9 mm, eh? You... You're out of bullets, aren't you? That's why I took this job. To find the helper. - Where is she? - Who hired you? - Now--now, where is she? - Who hired you? I thought the Hamazaki can glamour up wouldn't care, if the son was dead or not. Oh, you didn't know? Hamazaki's son... had son. Had a kid, he always loves his father, no matter what hopeless fucking piece of shit he is. He hired me to take his revenge. Isn't funny? Funny isn't? Hamazaki's son's son. The grandson. That's my fucking client. Now fucking tell me where she is and you get to fucking live. Where is she? OK. Let's find some place more quiet to talk. Hands up. Gun woman-- where is she? Sorry-- she was my extraction point. The mastermind was my son's doctor. Even though I was told that he had a... only 5% chance for survival, he cured him. Saw him today, he didn't even know that he had been sick at all. Whatever-- The last hit? Who was it? The job a friend of mine left unfinished. Need a job?
