 

                        My bullets whistle like They fly right past your dome My bullets whistle like A hundred shots, a nigga's gone My bullets whistle like I got the typewriter Tommy Gun just like Capone My bullets whistle like Six feet deep, another homey gone Beamer, Benz or Bentley Beamer, Benz or Bentley My jeans are never empty, bitch I'm fresh, I'm fly, I'm so damn high More than 500 horses when I roll by - Vodka. - Okay. Beamer, Benz or Bentley Beamer, Benz or Bentley Beat it I bet she let me Here you go, girl. I'm the coolest shit Especially when I throw on all my Gretzky Got my Sm-Sm-Smith and Wessie to protect me, so respect me This is heavy new Bentley color vanilla and cherry Andretti-O Pirelli make a movie out the Getty Yo, Ali. What's up? Listen, man, this nigga Massimo keep banging me about this delivery, man. What you want me to tell this dude? What is he stressing for? When I get 'em, he gonna get 'em. - Let him know that. - Enough said. Beamer, Benz or Bentley Beamer, Benz or Bentley Beamer, Benz or Bentley My jeans are never empty, bitch Beamer, Benz or Bentley - Let's do it! - Bring it on! Bring it on! Fuck this shit! - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch I just want to fu... Go! Go! Go, go, go, go! Oh, shit. - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch Now we ain't got no competition. Would you open that bag? - Good morning, Detective Jenkins. - Good morning. - What do you got? - Something I've never seen before. initial reports sound like gunfire went off inside the club around 1:00 am. Looks like multiple shooters... took a position here and opened fire as the crowd rushed out. We got 12 wounded. - How many fatalities? - Six. Including a cocktail waitress, took one in the stomach. - Doesn't look good. - Jesus. All right, start getting statements from the witnesses. I want victims all ID'd. One of them had to be the shooter's target. I'm gonna get a trace on this thing started. Something this exotic shouldn't be too hard to find. Detective, this is the club owner. He's ready to give you his statement. - After you. - Right this way. Barrett, come over here. This is gonna be a long day. What's this guy's name? My bullets whistle like They fly right past your dome My bullets whistle like A hundred shots, a nigga's gone My bullets whistle like I got the typewriter Tommy Gun just like Capone My bullets whistle like Six feet deep, another homey gone Violence erupted late last night... at the Showgirls Strip Club at the corner of Rosewood and Wealthy, where over 17 patrons were hit with gunfire. Seven of them were fatally wounded. Police spokesmen refused to comment. Police Chief Robert Schilling found himself in the hot seat today... when public reports surfaced of the ever-rising crime rate. At a press conference this afternoon, he attributed the escalation of criminal activities to an onslaught of illicit firearms that are flooding our city streets. State unemployment rose to 15.1% this month, the highest rate in the nation. But one business that seems to be booming... in this economic downturn, gun sales. Which have reportedly increased by over 125%. I'm far from a legend, I'll never be one... Street hall of fame, die with a big gun We got a prisoner exiting the main gate. Copy. Mmm-hmm, mmm-hmm. It's the shit. Ali offered the same quality at 30% less than you want to charge me. Yeah? I think Ali would give it to you for 50% cheaper. If you can get him on the phone. But he ain't answering his phone. You ain't the only game in town. There are other suppliers. Not that could get you this. See that? Saiga-12, automatic shotgun. Twenty rounds in 3.3 seconds. See that infrared beam? See that? The infrared beam right there? See that white light? You see that white light, you see your loved ones. Your lost loved ones. Impressive. These things are tough to get. Well, you're dealing with a whole 'nother level of businessman now. - What do you got that goes through a vest? - What are we talking? Close range? Long distance? - Five, ten yards. - Give me a PS-9. P90 carbine. Uses 5.7 millimeters. Designed to penetrate Kevlar helmets, vests and CRISAT protection. Extremely low recoil, virtually no muzzle climb, resulting in every shot on target. This the shit right here. What else you got? We got assault rifles, shotguns, semiautomatics, automatics. Revolvers, Scorpions and handguns of your flavor. Got whatever you want. Thumpers, launch a grenade a mile out. Glocks, 40 millimeters, 9 millimeters, if quick and disposable is your style. But if you really want to be creative, we got M-16s, MAC-10s, P90s... All off Uncle Sam's back. And I got them three cases of AKs, AR15s, and MP-5s, plus the ammo you ordered. It's a good start locally. Can you handle larger quantities? - What kind of numbers we talking? - Ten times this amount. Then I could hook you up with my affiliates nationwide. Guns and ammo. The price got to be right. Give me a month. Let's roll 'em out. - Hey, Jenkins. - Hey, June. Guess what. More budget cuts. You believe this? Fucking ridiculous. I mean, really, how the fuck do they expect us to do our job? We're not given the proper support or resources, and we are in the middle of a fucking crime wave here. - Come on. - Let's go. - Hey, this is Lisa. - And Hayley. We can't get the phone right now, but if you leave a message, we'll get back to you. All right, everyone. Well, at least everyone that's here. Let's get this thing underway. Excuse me. What's going on? Agent Peterson, ATF. You must be Detective Rogers. This is Agent Monroe. Detective. Yeah? And? And the mayor has a target on his ass from every reporter in this town. We're here on his behalf to help clean up the mess. Well, this is the first I've heard of any ATF involvement. I apologize if you didn't get the e-mail. I'm sorry for interrupting you. Please continue. Time is money. We certainly know the city doesn't have any of that to spare. Okay, gentlemen, why don't you have a seat? Have a seat. Okay, Detective, why don't you continue? Let's get these ATF guys up to speed. Here's what we know so far about last month's club shooting. We've got over five dozen spent shell casings. Mostly 9 millimeters and 556s with a handful of small-arms fire that we think came from the shooters' intended victims. Of the 17 people that were hit, seven are now confirmed dead. Including our friend, Mr. Ali Tyrell, who has been our primary suspect... in at least a dozen illegal firearms transactions over the last two years. It is our belief that Mr. Tyrell was the intended victim of the shooting. - And everyone else? - Collateral damage. Whoever did the shooting wanted to put the warning out on the street. You get in our way and we won't hesitate to kill you. Also recovered from the scene, was a Smith & Wesson 500 revolver, the world's most powerful handgun. Now, get this. The serial numbers were untouched, which allowed us to trace its origins back to its original factory inception... back in August of 2008, to when it was purchased by a Dan Evans. He was a high-school mathematics teacher and avid hunter, and he bought it at KC Sports in October of that same year. The revolver was then reported stolen in January, 2009, by Mr. Evans. After running a ballistics match on the firearm, it was determined that it was the same weapon... that was used in at least one fatal shooting incident... down on College and Franklin last May. A background check into the system... was tracked back to a pawnshop over on Burton Street, where an attempt was made to sell the firearm. The pawnshop owner, however, said no exchange was ever completed. And that the seller allegedly took the gun elsewhere. Well, why would the shooter leave the weapon behind? To make a statement. - To who? - To everyone. Whoever killed Mr. Ali Tyrell... wanted the law-enforcement community to know that that would never lead back to him. The pressure's on us to get a conviction in this case. I want you all to circle around the streets to all your contacts. Wherever this guy is, that's where we want to be. - All right, let's hit it. - We'll be in touch. - What you want? - Whiskey, straight. Another. My man Johnny D asked me to stop by and ask for a guy named Clinton. What's up? You looking for company? Yeah, I'm looking for a guy named Clinton. You know what Clinton looks like? Are you Clinton? Then fuck doesn't matter to you? You need to back your ass up out of here before you get fucked up. Hey, yo. Come over here. It's cool, it's cool. I know him. Go get Dante, man. - Angel Hawkins. - Richie Taylor. Have a seat. Times change. It's been 10 years, brother, - Man, I ain't seen you since... - I remember. So what's up? Talk to me. How you been? You know the drill. Got out, went back in, out. I get it. So what you into now? - Crime. - Crime? Crime. Hey, this is my man Angel. This is Clinton. You already met Dante. - We're gonna talk about that shit later. - That's a nice hit. Hey, Mona, think we can get some cognac over here? - Here you go, babe. - I appreciate you. No doubt. Let me know if you need anything else, all right? Thank you. Let me tell you about this motherfucker, man. About 10 years ago, I was working muscle for this cat Carl Stewart. Used to run blocks south of 44th Street. Angel here was running point for his distribution. Suddenly, the cops show up. Had to be a rat involved. Don't nobody know how the fuck they knew where we was at. So shit go crazy. Motherfuckers start shooting. Pow, pow, pow! You know me, I hit me a couple niggas right away. Boom, boom! They light the joint up before the cops could actually kick the door in. Come on. Angel here helped me out of there. - Got me out of a 20-year stretch. - At least. That's one thing all us street niggas got in common, hear me? No matter what color we are, we all hate the cops, man. You got that right. So what you say you came in here for? Looking for something clean. You still enforcing? No. It's personal. You looking for somebody to handle it for you? No. No, I can take care of it. Me personally, I'm more of a revolver guy, but this should do. Toss it in the river when you're done. No, this one's on me. Thanks a lot. If you're ever looking for any work, anything like that... It's here, man. I could use a guy like you. - Thanks, Richie. - You got an open invitation, man. Thanks a lot. How the fuck did you let that nigga do that to you? He caught me with a good one. Caught you with a good one. Ask him how that shit happen. He almost got popped. - Hey, this is Lisa. - And Hayley. We can't get to the phone right now, but if you leave a message, we'll get back to you. I think the lady's gonna have a mojito. I'm not interested. You don't even know that yet. Yes, I do. I think the lady asked you nicely to leave her alone. Next one ain't coming out my hand. Can I have an apple martini for the lady? Hennessy Black on the rocks. - You're late. - I didn't know you cared. I care about my time, which you're wasting. You have your sales report? Opened a few new trade routes, merged with a few high-profile clients. But what I really need to do is expand my inventory. Thank you. Think you can handle this load? Pushy and greedy Living, deceiving I knew we'd end up this way Now I undress you As I assess you Making it all seem okay It's going down, 'cause I'm around 50 Cent, you know how I gets down, down What up, blood? What up, cuz? What up, blood? What up, gangsta? What up, blood? What up, cuz? What up, blood? What up, gangsta? - You know something, partner? - What's that? We work for the same system that helps protect guys like that. You know it, I know it and he knows it. But we have to sit back like a couple of fucking assholes... while innocent people get killed, until we can prove what we already know to a court of law. Well, that's what makes this country great. Un-fucking-believable. Oh, shit! Detective Rogers... Wow! Still on the force? Thought you retired by now, man. - Ain't it pension time? - Yeah, you're right, Taylor. I am getting too old for this shit. There's just one more scumbag I got to take care of. Yeah? You don't like me, do you, Jenkins? Does it look like I like you? So what's got you old dogs snooping around here? Well, you know, I just felt like purchasing some high-powered firearms this afternoon. You know, I thought I'd come in, maybe pick up an AK with my bourbon. - Oh, you got the wrong address. - How's that? Me personally, I hate guns. You know? But I did hear there's some high-powered weapons on the street. - Oh, yeah? - Yeah. The type that'd shred a car like this from a mile away. So you guys be careful out here, you know? 'Cause people crazy, man. You read the newspaper? See you around. Motherfucker. - Dante, let me know how these eggs taste. - I got you. - About time. - Let me know if y'all need anything else. Um, yeah, I'm gonna need you to really stop playing around with me and let me live. - Y'all crazy. - Hey, boo-boo. - Richie Rich, what's happening? - What's up? - What's good? - I don't really know. - Everything. - Yeah. Well, well, guess who's back. Sorry to interrupt. Can I talk to you for a minute? Yeah. When my food come, tell 'em to keep it warm for me, all right? All right. Sure not Mona? The food? - Both of 'em, all right. - I gotcha. Hey, what's up? What's crackin'? How'd that thing go? Good. You know I'd have handled that for you if you needed me to, right? - Yeah. - I love that kind of shit, you know. It's tough out there, man. Yeah, I know it's tough out there. It's like the Reagan era all over again. People starving, man. People hungry out there. - But we got to survive, right? - Mmm-hmm. You got to do what you got to do. Yeah. You know, if that offer stands... Yo. All right. Okay, I got it. Yo, come on. Let's roll. - Yeah. - Go get the car. Go to the car, man. Listen, there's only one word, and that's mine. - You understand? - Yeah. Welcome to the team. Shit changed over the last 10 years, man. That money over there on the East Side started flooding over here about five, six years ago. - And with that came a little bit of crime. - What's the angle? - This is the angle. - What the fuck is that? That shit crazy, right? So me and my boys, we linked up with some pawnshop owners a while back. These motherfuckers losing money. Niggas coming in there selling hot pieces on the cheap and shit. They're required to do a quick check on the serial numbers. Problem is most of the guns ain't reported stolen yet. When they get flagged, the guns get confiscated. Or worse. They sell 'em, they've been used in a shooting, and bam! Just like that, they're out of business. - Is that where this came from? - And several like it. Kick like a motherfucker, man. The muzzle velocity on one of these would take out a grizzly bear. That's why I keep a couple in supply. Anyway, when they come across this kind of shit, man, they buy 'em on the cheap, sell 'em to us for a small profit. We turn around and mark 'em up 30, 40%. In through the front, out through the back. Clean 'em and ship 'em. What's up? He rollin' with us now. There's no way you should be showing him this shit. Relax, man. All right. Are you gonna set up in the middle of the city? Temporary storage facility. We're constantly moving this shit around. Check it out. This didn't come from a fucking pawnshop, man. It's military. You got a military connection? What do you think pays for the lifestyle? I told you it was just the beginning of the hustle, man. The real shit is right here at our fingertips. It's a big connection. Well, don't worry about how big the connection is. The guns are here. The buyers are out there just waiting for us. Look under your seat. Cool. It's showtime. Who are these dudes? Some Mexican cats out of Chi-Town, man. First time I'm doing business with 'em. I met this cat Frankie Makina briefly about a week ago. Connected to him through some niggas I knew from Cabrini-Green Projects. I used to move some coke with 'em back in the day. But, you know, I don't give a fuck if they're my cousins. I ain't sleepin' on nobody. Yo, you know I don't know this nigga, so be on point. You know I live for this shit. I wish the motherfucker would act up in this motherfuckin' cold. That revolver's old school, man. This is power right here. Some motherfuckers take four or five of them 9 millimeter bullets, don't go down. One of these, I knock a motherfucker off his feet. Where these motherfuckers at, man? There you go. You're late, man. - I got caught up. - Yeah, I bet you did. You got the money? Well, who the fuck are these guys? Don't worry about them. You're doing business with me. Yeah, well, you were supposed to come alone. Well, you ain't alone. You don't see me shitting a brick about it. - Hey, I don't like changes. - Look, we gonna do this shit or what? - Cuantos tienes? - Enough. If you need more, I'll get it in about a week. - Let me see 'em. - Clinton, get this man a machine gun. Hey, hey. I said you let me see 'em. I don't know this perro. I know him. Man, get this man his shit. It's good shit. We're running out of night, man. We got a deal or what? What the fuck do you want to talk about, man? Hey! I said, "Calmate. " Gun! Bring the fucking car around! Motherfucker tried to sneak me. Is he crazy? I told you, we can't trust nobody out this motherfucker. It's a good thing I brought you, bro. You see me hit that nigga? That's what the fuck I'm talkin' about, man. This shit right here is the shit! Sent that motherfucker to see God! Oh, shit, man! Way to have my motherfucking back, man. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. All in a day's work, baby. We got the guns. We got the money. - That's right. That's your cut. - Yeah, yeah. That's your cut. You did good out there. I'm gonna give you Dante's cut. Motherfucker should've seen that coming. He don't deserve to get paid. Man, give me my fucking money! You think I'm... Shut the fuck up. Go ahead, say something... So I can blow your fucking head off in here. Go ahead, give me a reason. You're right. It'd be my pleasure for you to have my take. I'm glad you agree. So we ain't got to clean your ass up off the floor in here. Y'all get out there and y'all make sure y'all get seen, all right? You, I want you to go out to Plainfield. I'm gonna drop you off. Go in the bar, grab a drink. Get on the surveillance camera. Make sure you take a cab back down, all right? Hey, babe, is that you? Hey, this is Lisa. I was starting to worry about you. How'd it go tonight? How many bodies do we have? Three bodies. Yeah, he's done. He's more than done. - Black, no sugar. - Thank you, brother. So, it looks like neighbors reported hearing a series of gun shots around 12:30 am. There's also a description of a black Chevy van... leaving the vicinity around that same time. - We get ID's on the vics? - Mmm-hmm. We got a confirmation on Frankie Morales, aka Frankie Makina, here. The others are still partials. - Frankie Makina. - You know this guy? I busted him a long time ago. He was a small-time Chicago hustler. He did a piece down at Jackson for drugs. Last I heard, he was working for a guy named Prosper. You know, in the projects on 44th Street? Gateway between Detroit and Chicago. Well, ballistics just started their canvass. They pulled a couple of spent 9 millimeter shell casings, but... whatever hit this boy, whatever hit this boy was big. Looks like something exotic. That's our guy, Jenkins. Hey, Tyler, Rivera! I want statements from everyone within a four-block radius of this place. And I want you to get me the surveillance tapes... from every security camera on all these buildings. Most of them are probably blanked out, but, maybe we'll get lucky and get a hit on one of these guys. All right, hop to it. Frankie loved his shoes, huh? Check this out. All right, I'm gonna break it down real quick. When we 13 years old, we all meet up at this group home, right? And the group home is crazy. I mean, everybody's worrying about who's gonna watch what on the TV, when, it's crazy. So we get a regiment. We get a regiment. We decide exactly who gets what night. Now, Rich, he gets Friday night. His show happens to be The Golden Girls. - He tells this story all the time. - Cool. You know what I mean? It's love. All of a sudden, we got a new kid on the block. He walks in. He's a lot bigger than all of us. Okay. Walks right up to the TV channel, turns it. Wow. I'm looking at Rich. We all looking at Rich. Rich don't do nothing. He just nice and quietly gets up and walks right out the room. Two minutes later, he comes back with a little dusty-ass little black-and-white TV. I'm, like, "You gonna watch the little black-and-white TV?" - Yeah, a little 13-inch joint. - Uh-huh. Mmm-mmm. Blam! Like a motherfucking hat, it's right over his head, like a fucking hat. Yeah, right after that, though, the nigga got to be knocked out. Rich turn around and say, "How you like that for Growing Pains?" I can't even make fun of you, man. Golden Girls became my little favorite show after that. - Really? - You had me on point with it, too. I'll be right back. Cheers. Cheers to that. Everything okay? Who's the girl? None of your fucking business. That's an important thing, ladies, knowing how to mind your business. I'm gonna pee. That was a stupid move to make. Lower your fucking voice. You forgot who you talking to? You're bringing too much attention to yourself. They threw down on us. You don't know what the fuck went on out there. So don't worry about none of this shit. We in the clear from last night. You better be. I went to bat for you, Richie. You want to make it to the next level, you have to keep your shit out of the papers. Rich Taylor, 30 years old. Only known residence is 1442 Griggs, over in Easttown. But he spends most of his time at the Plaza, where he's reported to have a suite almost every night. According to his rap sheet, he's got priors for burglary and assault, but nothing that's ever resulted in any hard time. Taylor's been a mid-level distributor of guns for the past five years, but we've never been able to put him and his weapons together at the same time. Is this accurate? Those are estimates of the quantities we think he's moving. Can we tie him back to any of our crime scenes? Not yet. But we stay on Taylor. We stay on Taylor and we can then hopefully connect the dots between the supply line channel and the buyer on the street. And then the distribution, the whole distribution network is ours for the taking. That's when we make our move. Now, I need your guys to be on the same page as mine. That's the only way we're gonna get this done. Call us when you have something concrete. Hey, just a minute, Peterson. This guy is a low-level street thug at best. So, until you bring me some solid evidence... that I can go get a Federal warrant with, you are fuckin' wasting my time. Fuckin' work that I put in on that thing and I'm wasting his fucking time? You said the motherfuckers were clean. You said they wanted to establish a long term contract. You know, they say all a man's got is his word and his balls. And now you ain't got either. You set us up to get jacked, motherfucker. What'd you say? What'd you say? I think he said he wish he never met me. You set us up to get jacked. You see that? This is what you don't wanna be in life. A scumbag motherfucker, who word ain't worth shit. What you tryin'... What you tryin' to say? Straight ruthless shit, man. I like that. You motherfuckers could learn something from this man right here. Y'all clean this shit up. Come on. Let's get this motherfucker down. Fuck that, you carne asada eatin' motherfucker. I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll... I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll, I'll pull it Your name's on a bullet I'll get the jump on you in front of my gun Your ass is good as done You gonna catch a bad break Bullets, bullets, bullets Break your bones Bullets, bullets, bullets Crack your domes I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll, I'll pull it Your name's on a bullet I'll get the jump on you in front of my gun Your ass is good as done You gonna catch a bad break Bullets, bullets, bullets Break your bones Bullets, bullets, bullets Crack your domes I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll, I'll pull it Your name's on a bullet I'll get the jump on you in front of my gun Your ass is good as done You're gonna catch a bad break Bullets, bullets, bullets Break your bones Bullets, bullets, bullets Crack your domes I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll, I'll pull it Your name's on a bullet I'll get the jump on you in front of my gun Your ass is good as done You're gonna catch a bad break Bullets, bullets, bullets Break your bones Bullets, bullets, bullets Crack your domes I'll, I'll be the shooter So, what's this all about? I've been hearing some things about you from our friends over at the department. Like what? They're ruffled up over the shootings in the last couple weeks. Clearly, information is being leaked. You have to start watching who you're dealing with more closely. We've stuck our heads out far too much on this. Why you keep saying that? I made this business. I got your guns onto the street. Without me, none of this exists. Whatever it is you got your hands into, just think twice where you're setting up shop, that's all we ask. - None of this can lead back to us. - I know. It's just business. Goddamn business. Just make it right, and I swear to you, we'll open it up. I promise. Angel Hawkins, is your wife Lisa Greener? What the fuck do you want, man? Angel, I'm afraid there's been a real tragedy. Your wife was working down at Lady Godiva. You got the wrong girl. My wife doesn't work at Lady Godiva. Angel, she's been working there since last August. And there was a shooting last week, and... she was hit. Your wife bled to death. I'm sorry. Your release was contingent upon your ability to provide credible information. My word has been good. I've kept up my end of the deal. So how is it, after all this time you've spent with this guy, you've come up with nothing? I'm trying to help you. You do exactly as I say or you will go straight back to prison. It's as simple as that. Now, I have got over a dozen dead bodies I have to account for. And I would give anybody a 100:1 odds... that you know something about what went down! So, you'd better start talking real fast, or I will bounce your ass straight back to the cage, where it belongs! We're running out of time, brother. We need names, people, places, times of deliveries. When the weapons are going out and when they're coming in. Fuck, man, come on! You got to give me something! Where are the weapons being housed? He ain't talking. Look, man, don't forget who you're doing this for. You got a little girl. Haven't you put that little girl through enough? All right, fuck it. - What? - 1448 Griggs. Now, do you have any new information about who's supplying Rich? Whatever is going down, it's going down soon. All right, I'll take it. You can go. Don't do anything stupid. That's 1448 Griggs. We'll need backup at 0500 hours. Whoa. Whoa, wait. What are you doing? We already have enough evidence against Rich to arrest him without his supply. We need his source. The Mayor is up your ass on this investigation, and we cannot afford any more dead bodies 'cause you're playing possum with your fucking C.I. My fucking C.I.? This isn't your call anymore. - Hey, this is Lisa. - And Hayley. We can't get the phone right now, but if you leave a message, we'll get back to you. Hello? What's up? It's Rich. Hey, Rich. Yo, I'm getting ready to leave the hotel right now. I need to holla at you for a minute. All right, what's up? I just need to talk to you about this shit in person. Okay. Yeah, sure. I need you to come somewhere, man. Okay. Where? The warehouse. I just want to talk to you about this shit face-to-face. Uh... yeah, whatever. - What time? - 10 pm. Don't be having me waiting and shit. Okay. I'll see you there. Angel. What's up? Nothing. How you doing? You look like somebody killed your dog, you all right? Yeah. No, just... I got a cold, and I'm fucking tired, you know. You need to loosen your nuts a little bit. So, uh... what'd you want to... talk to me about? Walk with me. Been hearing some things, man. - Yeah? - Yeah. Word on the street is my time is tightening up. One of my people got a link down at the department. Say they trying to put a stop to my whole operation. Say they on my ass. You don't believe that shit, do you? Say information leaking from the inside. You know anything about that? No, man, I... I don't know nothing. Well, this shit is driving me crazy. Hey. A lot of people don't know this. Back when I was a little kid, about 10 years old, my pops used to run numbers for some niggas over on division. So one night, they came by the house. Okay, shh. My mom, she hid me in the closet when she seen 'em coming, 'cause she knew when my pops came up light with their money, they was gonna throw down on his ass. Yo, what's going on, dawg? Man, I don't even trying to hear that shit, man. See, my pops used to carry this old Browning high-power 9 millimeter. Where the fuck my money at, man? But this time that Browning jammed on his ass. No! I sat there and I watched them blow both of my parents away right there in front of me. Can you imagine what that feels like, to watch the only people you love die right there in front of you and you can't do shit about it? If my pops had a revolver, shit would have been different. Hell, I would have been different. There's nothing in this world worse than having your hands tied, seeing the ones you love die. The only thing left now is to get to the top of this thing. I'm right there, man. I mean, we right there. I'm gonna take this shit to a more sophisticated level. No more selling little pieces to gangbangers on the side and shit like that, man. I'm thinking bigger and better shit. I need a guy like you by my side. The people I'm dealing with would be way more comfortable with you than Dante and Clinton. Them niggas is way too unpredictable, man. I want to make you my number-one guy with this whole thing. What do you say? Uh, sure. What's wrong? I don't mean any disrespect, but why did you bring me here? I mean, here. I'm stressed out, man. It's tough. I wanted to come in and bust some shots, get my mind right. Well... What, you thought this was some kind of setup and shit? No, I... I... Don't start bitchin' out on me, all right? Come on, man, you're supposed to be my number-one guy. After I'm done shooting, I'm gonna take you to the mall and shit, fix you up and shit. How you be dressing like that, man? What's wrong with my clothes? Everything. What the fuck you doing with your money, man? Do you honestly feel he is ready for this? You've gone down the road with these street thugs before. - It's never ended well. - He's different. Trust me. Hmm. Cartel wars in Mexico are heating up. Rising demand for powerful assault rifles, firearms... Means big business for us. And in this economy, nobody on my end wants to see that money disappear. My family's been in the gun business since the Hoover administration, and we cannot afford to bring in anybody who could put that at risk. Sam, I have worked with Rich for over a year now. I watch the way he moves. I watch the way he works. He's ready to move to the next level. And no one knows how to handle the streets better than he does. That your professional opinion? Well, there's none other. You seem more attached to this one. You do know that I'm not gonna be the one that takes the fall if this goes wrong. If anybody takes a hit, it's going to be you. You understand? Do you understand? There is a Rich in every hood in America. The nigger is the expendable part of this game. Yes, I understand. Set the meeting. But... First, go take a shower. I'll be there in a second. Absolutely. Let's turn this place upside down! Okay, Moore, Veton, and Vance, come with me! What's up? You been acting strange all night. It's nothing. I just have a lot on my mind. Chill out. You said everything went well with Sam, right? Everything we've been working hard for is about to pay off. It's supposed to be a celebration. Yeah, it is. I'm happy. I promise. Sir, I'm sorry, but the place is clean. What the fuck, Rogers? We don't have enough here to shake a limp prick at. My C.I. couldn't have been wrong. Either someone tipped Rich off or he's moving a shitload of product tonight. Or your C.I. is giving false intel to keep the heat off somebody he's protecting. If you don't start to pull together this investigation, you are as over as your C.I. - Hey, you got a cigarette? - Yeah, sure. - Thanks, man. - Here you go. ATF fucking asshole! - What's up? - What the fuck is the deal, Angel? Peterson just busted Rich's warehouse. I guess someone gave Rich the heads-up, 'cause I got no suspect, no weapons, no blood, no nothing. Hey, hey, hey, calm the fuck down. Now, I am on my way to the one guy who should know where he is. Guess who that is, asshole. Shut the fuck up. Don't talk to me like that. You've got five seconds to tell me where the new den is or your ass is getting thrown back in jail before the sun sets! And that is a fucking promise! I told you to wait. Fuck! Are you fucking with me? I told you, you were moving too fast, but you wouldn't fucking listen to me. Don't even try to bullshit me, Angel. He knows shit. I don't know how, he just does. - Now, they moved... - When are you seeing him again? I'll know when I know. Well, your time is running the fuck out. Yeah, well, fuck you too. - What's poppin', kid? - Hey, man. Who was you talking to? Oh, just some dumb cunt. - It seemed like some heavy shit. - Yeah, well... Well, you look like shit. You need to be on your A-game tonight. This is what we've been waiting for. Welcome to the gun show. Dante will pick you up first. Cool? Cool. Hey, man, I'm... I'm straight. I got your back. I know you got my back. To the team. We're in position. We've got movement on the perimeter. Copy that. They're moving in from the south side. This is my boss, Sam Boedecker. - A pleasure to finally meet you, Rich. - A pleasure. Gabriella here has told me you're one of a kind. Oh, I am your guy. And I plan on this being the beginning of a long and lucrative relationship, sir. Well, between the Mexican drug wars and the ongoing turban strife, I'm sure there won't be a shortage of business. You can trust that I have the contacts to move whatever goods you have. And I have the firepower to enforce my will on the streets. Remember, discretion is survival. But mercy is weakness. And collateral damage is just the price of power. So, do you have my donation? It's all there. You have my Christmas gift? All there. Now, there's no need to check. All the material is there, just as promised. But feel free, if you want. No disrespect, but I'd rather take a look myself. Be my guest. Show the man what we got. Wow! Oh, shit. Wow. I didn't even know they made these in automatic. Armor-piercing, highly explosive incendiary rounds. You gonna be my new best friend, Sam. Give this man his money. That's it. That's the signal. Go! Now! Now! Now! Shit! Oh, shit. Come on! You want some, motherfucker? Hey, yo! Let's go! I lost visual on the suspect. Copy. Let's get the fuck outta here. Oh, shit! Shit, no. Saving my ass just like old times. What the fuck? You a fucking rat? The cocktail waitress in that massacre, in the club... - She was my... - This is over some pussy? She was my wife. You gonna shoot me? Don't act like you ain't got your share of widows, man. Everybody you shot was somebody's son, somebody's brother, somebody's father. - You innocent? - Shut up, Rich. - You're just like me, man. - Shut up! Man, put the motherfucking gun down. Well, go ahead. Go ahead, shoot me! Ain't nobody gonna miss me. I ain't got nobody. You ain't got nobody. We all we got. You just like me, Angel. - You just like me. - I'm not like you. You wanna be something different now? I'm not like you. You motherfucker! Come get some! Come get some! Yeah? You shot me. I got a little girl. That's all I got. You took her mom away from her. Do it. Do it! You think... You think you're different from me. You're a fucking killer too, Angel. I'm not like you, Rich. Well, I'll see you again in hell, motherfucker. Detective Rogers, do you have any comment on Sam Boedecker's plea-bargain agreement? Please get out of my way. Detective, can the streets of Detroit feel safer now... that Rich Taylor's ring has been disbanded? - No comment. - Are the rumors that you're resigning true? - I said, "Get out of my way"! - Detective. - Detective, please. - Detective. Detective. Detective! Detective! I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll use the Sig, the pump or the German Luger I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll use the Sig, the pump or the German Luger I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll bang out I, I, I'll bang out Find out shit is real when I'm at you with that thang out 'Cause all kind of commotion when a nigga get blast on The spot he get his cash on Let off with no mask on Pussy, your heart pumpin' But your brain gone Leave somethin' sweet I snatch the heat And get the flame goin' I stuff two different caliber shells in my revolver 38 and 32 long ones You got a problem. Start me, I'll never stop I'm layin' at your mama's spot Squeeze till the llama hot I'll have your ass in drama op I cause havoc if you come in my vicinity Motherfuck the police Officer Rick the enemy I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll use the Sig, the pump or the German Luger I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll use the Sig, the pump or the German Luger It's been deeper than rap I eat shit, go to sleep with my gat It's us three against the industry Let's kick it like that Click-clack, get your goons Fuck all the talkin' Niggas yappin' about who dress the best Get 'em Gucci coffins, Louis tombstones Bullets hurt Come around you, fool And my shorty's takin'jewels home Follow 'em, then hollow 'em Take two these and goggle 'em You ride with 'em You die with 'em Chances of survival thin The sharks is out, you divin' in? Dare you niggas try to swim There's no odds, I gotta win Wobble 'em with the whop-whop Shaky background You're probably with the cops You ain't street, you need to stop I breathe the hood, I be the block I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll use the Sig, the pump or the German Luger I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll be the shooter I'll, I'll use the Colt, the Taurus or the Ruger I'll pop some through ya Dirty is what I'll do ya I'll, I'll use the Sig, the pump or the German Luger Yeah Niggas want to kill me I'm gettin' money for God sakes That Purple Urkle fucked Phelps up with cornflakes Kick in the door, man Big 44, man Mortician morgue man Fill you with straws, man. Black President, I voted for Obama Yeah It's really not complicated I mean, don't complicate it When I get you off the floor You and I'll be fornicatin' You know you want to come with me Come on, girl, come with me You want to have fun with me Come on, girl, come with me Right now if you take it off Right now I'll break you off I'll be nice and hard And if you play your part Baby, you should be nice and soft Work till your drippin' wet Every time I come correct Yeah, every time I come correct I make it nice and hot Every time I'm up in the spot Shorty be makin' it drop From across the dance floor I liked you so much But now you keep talkin' I just want to fuck, fuck Shut up, bitch Shut up, bitch Shut up, bitch I know what you're thinkin' I had too much to drink I'm just doin' my thing And I don't care what you think Shut up, bitch Shut up, bitch Shut up, bitch Your girlfriend, she wants me I see it in her eye Now I'm walkin', quit talkin' I'm tryin' to say good-bye Shut up, bitch Shut up, bitch - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch - Enough is enough - Shut up, bitch - I just want to fuck, fuck - Shut up, bitch I heard you talk to yourself When there is no one to talk to You talk so much, bitch That don't nobody want you I ask myself "Why the fuck did I approach you?" I asked around Seems like don't nobody know you Shut up, bitch Bitch, bitch, bitch, bitch Bitch, bitch, bitch, bitch
