 

                        The end of the third war between lndia and Pakistan The months-old Bangladeshi freedom movement finally won A new country was born. Bangladesh As the lndian army left Dhaka... ...two friends stood behind the barbed wire Two orphans. Bikram and Bala What had come to pass? Was it right or wrong? Would this new country give them a new life? That question echoed in their minds When Bangladesh was born... ...thousands of people of lndian origin lived there With no food or shelter Faced with conflict many countries can forget... ...it's their own people who pay the highest price Thousands were lost in death's darkness That darkness was soon to engulf Bikram and Bala When hunger is overwhelming There's only one answer to this question Want to eat? Will you work for me? You'll feed us? We'll do as you say That was a time when there were more guns than people Lateef bought guns from the army... ...and sold them to ordinary folk Bikram and Bala were his new recruits lnnocent looking children aren't suspected Or checked As time passed, the boys got smarter Bikram and Bala were soon Lateef's best gun couriers Lateef! Your gun trade is well cared for What about my needs? How will l satisfy them? Sir, you know full well. Only skeletons in the camp You're right Tell you what Leave a boy here Sir? Leave a boy here They're children Your daughter isn't a child Nor a skeleton But, sir? Uncle, you take Bala and go. l'll stay Smart kid l said go! My sins are many And Your heart All-forgiving Say something, Uncle What will he do to Bikram? Let's go and get Bikram Stay here l'll go alone l go nowhere without him Bala! Sir, let me go l beg you, sir He who accepts me as master, Ali is his master What you doing here? - Untie him - Gun down! Untie him. Or l'll blow your head off Bikram, get dressed Don't move! Put that gun down Bala, run! Bala, wait Who fired? Bikram! Run Stop them! Uncle, we killed the moron - Who? - The moustache man - Gone! - Shot him He was an army officer. They won't spare you A refugee train is leaving for Calcutta. Take it Take some money May God protect you both Run! At Your door l bow my head You are my saviour Protector and Guardian Look everywhere! Maybe they were run over Pull the chain! We request all passengers Not to leave the station without their lDs checked lf anyone tries to leave without verification... ... they'll be severely punished Your order. Fish and rice Bala! Who cleans table three? Do you expect your mother or father to do it? Go on! These dimwits don't get it Good-for-nothing The moron Bala, what's wrong? l can tell you're boiling with rage l could kill someone, that's why You boil over like hot milk Learn to use your anger lt's very useful Forget it Look over there! l made you something Go on! What is it? A dream. lt'll come true one day Meaning? A palace. For you and me You'll see. We'll live in a palace some day Like true princes - Sure? - Take my thumbprint The top floor is where... ...l'll live And l'll stay in your heart You live there anyway Damn idlers! Having fun? You're glaring l'll pull your eyes out Get out! You Bangladeshi refugees lnfesting our Calcutta. Out! Let me go! l'll split his head in two, burn his shop down Fighting won't get you anywhere. Your brains will l have no brains. But l know... ...one survives by grabbing We've escaped bullets, but hunger will get us The restaurant owner swore at us, but never fed us How do l calm my belly? Wait a minute Brother, how much for the coal? 10kgs for 2 rupees That's a lot The market price The price will fall today - Come - Where to? The coal once saved our lives. lt'll feed us now What now? Bala, hurry! Give me a break! Done. Pull me up This coal will make us rich one day. You'll see - Sure? - Take my thumbprint Buying coal? From you? Does the star Rajesh khanna supply you then? - How much? - What's the market price? - 10kgs for 2 rupees - We sell at half price 20kgs here Here! Two rupees Put the coins in my hand Put them in my hand Don't mess with him. Do as he says What's this? Remember the cups l broke? Buy some more l see! So we're even now? Now what? Next time a child... ... breaks a cup... ...before you swear at him... ...remember this small hand and my tight slap Now we're even. Let's go, Bala THE OUTLAWS Celebrate the joys of love Diwali again! 200 quintals of coal here We started with 20kgs ten years ago With interest, we must own at least 200 quintal, no? Here comes your Tina! l'll be riding Tina one day Sure? - Take my thumbprint - You liar! Tina scares you Or do l tell you? Tell Tina instead Or do l say nothing? What's up, brother? Found no one to play hide-and-seek with? You Bikram and Bala? That's what they call us. Any objection? You robbed Dibakar's train That train belongs to the don Dibakar Does this don Dibakar rule lndia? Own the railways? Think it's funny? This coal trade is Dibakar's Trade? lt's called thieving And the coal l rob... ...belongs to me And so does the trade Tone down your attitude. You'll regret it Attitude runs in my blood. Your barking won't change that One minute Tell me something When is Dibakar's next train? At 8 tomorrow. Why? Tell your Dibakar We're robbing his train again lf his guts are where they're meant to be... ...let him stop us Hey brothers! Tell me something Which of you rascals... ...is the rascal Dibakar? You look angry. Must be you How come this train belongs to a petty pickpocket? Let's not argue Let's clear up something Ask what Well, what? The man who unloads the coal off the train... ...owns the train and runs the coal trade You dare show me attitude on my turf? Antics done? The train and the coal are mine Rum? Now watch me! Whose train is it? Mine lt was mine and always will be lt can never be yours. know why? You scum are Bangladeshi refugees Fugitives! We're not refugees. We're lndians Are we to blame if the country got divided? This side of the line makes you lndian That side of the line makes us refugees? We didn't draw the line But now we will And our first domain will be the city of... Calcutta The flames of pride are more dangerous than poison Fan those flames and they destroy all souls The poison of being refugees tormented Bikram and Bala They had only one aim To rule over all of Calcutta They controlled the coal The fish market Burma teak Steel scrap yards. Gas Wheat and oil. Controlled every black market in town Calcutta was in their grip The one-time petty coal thieves were now... ...the city's big shots With one remaining desire The desire to become lndian citizens Your ration card Now you're legally lndian No one can dare call you refugees l can't read Bikram Bose. Bala Bhattacharya ln the eyes of the law, they were criminals Yet benefactors to the needy They were illiterate Yet they built schools in their names, hospitals, too They lived by their own rules No one could match their attitude Calcutta was now famous for teo things: The Howrah Bridge And Bikram and Bala The city's toughest outlaws Long live Bikram and Bala To every force there's a counter force l am the equilibrium in this tale Transferred me overnight? ls Calcutta safe and sound? lf it were safe, would l call my best officer? l'm under great pressure, Satya The elections and Durga festival are 3 weeks away Every political party has one concern: To get the unemployed youth back on the right path Clean up the city That's government work. Why us? So many files? Only two culprits. Bikram and Bala They're behind everything illegal Calcutta's biggest outlaws in the eyes of the law Yet benefactors to the needy Roaming scotfree. Outlaws since they were 14 You called me to help them grow up? Shall l try? Yes. But we have no proof or witnesses Two peas in a pod Break them Your thumbprint here l keep saying: "Take my thumbprint." Now you won't stop Your work is done. These deeds are for Bala's shares He wants to be an artist. Won't stop painting Goddess Durga's eyes Try it, uncle. A good deed You'll go straight to heaven - Where are they? - lnside Where to? Another word and l'll pull your tongue out What do you call them? Lions? Bikram and Bala? Show some respect Scum! Giving advice to sir? Where are they? Upstairs Das called from Dhanbad He wants us to sign the coal mine deal Put it down Who is Bikram? And Bala? Can't he tell? A man stands before Goddess Durga and asks... ...are You the Goddess? Smart, very smart l'm Satyajit Sarkar The new Asst. Commissioner Police Calcutta's top cop? But Calcutta belongs to us and we belong to Calcutta A drink? What will you take? Take? l'm here to give you... a warning You see these files? A saga of your black market deals The names of politicians are in files too The law doesn't need files. lt needs proof and witnesses Teaching law to the law, sonny? The law can get it wrong We respect the law The day you have proof and witnesses, we'll come to you Right, Bala? Right Smart. Very smart l'll take your word for it Let's take your files... ...and so be it l'm opening a new file The day we have evidence against you l'll drag you two like dogs out of your kingdom See you soon Sir, you're a man of the law, but you act like an outlaw This will be fun Sure! We'll see - Mr Bose, how are you? - All well l came to return your money. Many thanks Has your club opened? Not till you cut the ribbon Sure. We love cutting Thank you Another request Wow! You drew that? My nephew Himanshu Just graduated from college lt's difficult finding a job l can't hire him at the club. His mother will kill him He respects you so much Let him work for you This is no football team so anyone can just sign up No football team for me Why not? l don't like football, sir The first Bengali l've met who doesn't like football Tell you what keep him He'll come in use l'll be going l've explained everything. He'll obey you Stay here Thank you Uncle! What is it? Do something for me lnvite Das to the club We'll do the coal mine deal Have you lost your mind? Do the deal there? ln a public place? Didn't you hear the ACP? See a sign: "Do not urinate here" That's where men pee the most The ACP won't come there. Just call Das What a great club Hey! This is European style How do we use it? Please come Lift your dhoti You're an Englishman now Madam! This is the gents. Can't you see? Sure, l can What? This is the gents The ladies was full. l had to go. So? Ladies aren't allowed l said sorry This is wrong Does the door have a sign... ...saying women need a license to enter? Just relax Get back to your business. Nice and quiet What was that? A bomb! Exploded right in our face Love is... ...a fire, O Ghalib That burns without burning That cannot be extinguished My peace of mind ls in your hands, O beauty l salute love, O friend l salute love My looks pierce like an arrow l have you in my aim l salute love, O friend Bikram and Bala are at the club Doing a deal with Das Sure? kill me or spare me keep me or discard me Change my life's course Fill it with joy Fire burns in my heart Meet me in some lonely hour Under the beauty's shadow Nature comes alive Many fall under my spell Crazed with love for me l salute love, O friend lmagine a night like this lmagine a moment like this lmagine rain falling on us Drenched by love are we ln night's lonely journey Love is unstoppable Tossing and turning Burning without flame The beauty has set me alight Take a deep breath and sigh l salute love, O friend Can we raid the club without a warrant? lf we catch them with Das, no need of a warrant We book them. Get it? Finish? Done? What is it? Looking for something you've lost? That's right l won't be lucky today lf you're not fated to find it, you won't. Even if you tried Luck was on their side today. Yours, too Luck has a way of turning. When it does, they'll be mine Take care of yourself There's something l want to tell you Same here Let's say it together l've fallen in love with the bathroom lady Two hearts, same likes Bikram, she's so gorgeous Absolutely delicious What do we do? We toss The winner tries his luck first The loser tries his luck after that Then it's up to the girl She'll decide who is her star, her Rajesh khanna And l'll be Vinod khanna Oh my God! What's up? l see Goddess Durga in her l swear it She looks like Goddess kali See for yourself l see Durga in her, you'll see kali l'll see who l see Yes, you! Stop grinning What are you doing here? Nothing Why were the police after you? Police! After me? Where's your friend? Waiting his turn Meaning? You here to buy fish? l'll find you the city's best Brother, the best hilsa for madam lt's fresh How much? Just a thank you Meaning? l mean the fish is a gift from me You're gifting me a fish? A hilsa at that? ln Calcutta it comes in a bride's dowry So accept it as dowry Dowry? You acting smart? Shall l call the police? l'm off O beloved, let us go Let us journey beyond the moon l am ready to journey with you Sarita, come here Sarita, answer me! Hurry up! Tie this up Hurry! l'm on next Your hands are shaking Sarita! You? l didn't mean to touch you. You told me to l came here because... You came into the gents by mistake l made the same mistake We're even, no? l'll make it even right now What time did they get back last night? At six this morning Drunk as skunks And what were you doing? Drinking too? Do Bikram and Bala live here? Yes Where? Upstairs You want to see them? How about tomorrow? Today, right now Get up! Sleeping giants Let us sleep, uncle l'll be back later What's going on? What are you two doing? So you're Calcutta's biggest gangsters? That doesn't mean you can do as you please What did you think? l'm a cabaret dancer, l have no honour l'd happily end up in bed with one. Then the other We're honourable folk We love you You both do? Yes! l see One lover and one for free? That's a new one Love doesn't run on a single track lt needs two tracks To go straight to the heart... ...you need to win the heart So? We'll win your heart So confident? Ok Agreed l'll give you a week Try winning my heart if you have the guts What if we manage it? l, Nandita, give you my word l will belong forever to the one who wins my heart You made an entry in my heart, bells rang out Listen to my heart's commentary Don't delay Love can't be stopped. lt'll soon engulf you No warranty against heartbreak You made an entry in my heart, bells rang out What? You're supposed to be a big time gangster l'm in love Sure? Take my thumbprint All right! No whistling No winking No hitting on me Great lovers are sweet liars Telling tall stories of love Take from me Vows of fidelity We're under your spell. Our hearts are yours Many are my lovers From all around the country When l made my entry... ...bells rang out Trying to win me with your sweet talk Trying to get closer You simpleton! You don't know me Mistaking an ember for a star l want you as you are You're my very life l want you as you are You're the one l shall win Sentiment is making you go all sentimental You made an entry in my heart, bells rang out Please, madam What? Did you hear bells ring? Meaning? lt's been a week So it has Give us your answer l've made my mind up l like one of you l've given my word to Goddess Durga l'll worship Her with the man of my choice What's this? A ticket To my heart Such a big question Deserves a fitting answer Tomorrow evening, at 6 Metro cinema - Got the ticket - ...to her heart Their gangster talents are gone All for a girl Drunken swagger, rosy cheeks Not rosy...red The colour of love is red The colour of blood, too When a bullet or passion hits you, you're a goner Meaning? Mister! Tread carefully on the path of love A treacherous path it is This path of love Shall we? - Don't feel like it today - Neither do l l am light-headed without alcohol My sweet Bala One of us becomes her hero tomorrow And the other is a round zero He'll cry. And believe that... ...he is a sinner for desiring his sister-in-law Bikram, promise me Whoever she chooses must not ruin our friendship - Promise? - Sure? Take my thumbprint You're so alluring l am drunk with love l'm drunk with love too! She means me She says she loves me Hey hero! She's my bride. Touch her and l'll bury you alive You'll bury me? You'll shoot me? Nandita, go! Stop! He's shot him Bala, run l'll see Nandita home. Meet me under the bridge Run! What does life want of me? When l try to be human... ...life explodes in my face lt wasn't your fault You didn't mean to kill him. lt was a mistake A mistake? Durga festival is next week The police will be everywhere. The ACP is after our blood Leave town for a few days - Go to Das in Dhanbad - And Nandita? l can't go without knowing her decision - You nuts? - l love her You're mad. Stop talking like a kid You shot a man in full view You'll be arrested if you stay Ok, but promise me You won't see or talk to Nandita till l return She belongs to us both l promise She belongs to us both till you return - Your thumbprint? - Want a slap? The Goddess's idol is almost ready She's incomplete without a weapon So l did the needful Hail Goddess Durga! Smart. Very smart What did you say? This will be fun. So, is it fun? One friend is here, the other is on the run l came here to tell you l know full well Who murdered the man in the cinema This time l have proof and witnesses Tell your friend if he wants to stay alive... keep away from Calcutta lf he returns... ...he'll be welcomed by a police bullet. Mine Why don't you change your ways? We're like coal Scrub as hard as you want But you can't wash away the dirt When we walk on the street, there's a question in every eye Who are you? Why are you here? Where are you from? We have no answers l don't know about the others But in my eyes l see no difference between you and me Come with me. lf you stay alone, you'll go crazy No, l'm fine Why? Bala isn't here So? l made him a promise That l wouldn't see or talk to you till he returns What's this childishness? Not childishness. Friendship l respect your friendship But l came here to tell you... l love you, Bikram And yes l made a promise too To Goddess Durga That l'd worship Her with the man l love So this evening you'll pray with me Or else... l'll never see you again ls that the truth? l swear on Goddess Durga What now? Calcutta will explode like this coal mine Why are you here, Himanshu? l told you to stay away Bala is back, sir His eyes are red with rage Let's go play Holi Hail Goddess Durga! Ghosh, surround the temple Chatterji, cover the ghat. You, come with me Sir, look there What are you doing here? Happy Dusshera! Bala, what are you doing here? What difference does it make? You did as you pleased What do you mean? You could've waited Why the big hurry? l would've happily got you married - Bala, let me explain - Nothing left to explain lt hurts me to know... You didn't once think of our friendship or your promise lt's all over, my friend As a boy you used to say... l was hotheaded l boil over like hot milk Today l won't boil l'll explode Got you! Bala! Over here Look over there We've got him Stop. Bala! Come up! O Goddess! The scum escaped Smart. Very smart Bala was saved from my bullet But can he shake off the guilt of shooting his love? What shall we do? We do nothing Newton's law For every action there is an opposite reaction Things will just happen. Let's go Cursed by the evil eye Maybe mine l am both Durga and kali Goddesses do not fear the evil eye This is the first time in my life l'm scared For my sake? Don't worry. l have two bullets for breakfast every morning Did the doctor mix hash in your glucose? No, l mixed... ...poison... ...in your friendship Bala was always like this Hotheaded l'll explain things to him. He'll understand Can l say something? You must forgive Bala Satyajit Sarkar You've stirred up a storm The phone hasn't stopped ringing There's chaos in Parliament A shoot out in a public place? And during Durga festival? Explain this to me lf you have proof against these two... ...why not arrest them? What are you waiting for? War The war of love has great power They were once inseparable Now they're ready to skin each other alive Bengal's gangsters are divided, sir Cooperate with us They are mere pawns in our game lt'll be fun Uncle! Bala? When did you get back? Why didn't you let me know? - You didn't tell me either - Tell you what? Did Bikram blindfold you too? What are you saying, Bala? Where is Bikram? To hell with Bikram! Disaster has struck What's happened? He escaped my bullet lt was you? Nandita got hit l missed for the first time. Wounded my own heart l love her a lot Find out if she's all right l can't go The police are after me. Go, see how she is lf anything happens to Nandita, l'll burn Calcutta down - How is she? - She just made it - ls Bala all right? - No, he isn't Did the police...? Not the police. Love will destroy you both l could slap you! Destroying your friendship - For a girl you just met? - Nandita... Her name is Nandita Yes, l know He chants her name all day He sent me here to find out if she's ok He says he adores her. He'll burn the city down if she dies - What did he say? - You heard me right Bala knew exactly what he was doing l thought he was just being childish Go and tell him l am a bigger gangster than he is l love Nandita and she loves me lf he utters her name again, l'll pull his tongue out lf he wants me to forget what he's done... Tell him to apologise Apologise! My foot. Let Bikram go to hell l'll shove it up his... l'll see what a great gangster he is There's nothing left between us And what's left we share Fifty-fifty Calcutta swears by your friendship - They'll swear by our enmity now - Don't be crazy lf you two part, it's the end of our business Think it over l have Bikram drew the portrait But l'll colour it in With dark red Smart. Very smart Never mourned my brother Dibakar l promised his wife we would l took an oath l swore on Dibakar l shan't be at peace till l kill Bikram and Bala That's right. keep your word That's why you're part of the game Who is the bishop in this game of chess? You are, Himanshu Careful. lf they suspect you... ...they'll kill you with more relish than they killed Dibakar Stay close to Bala. Work for us But l make the moves l say: "Check... "...and mate" - You kidding me? - Dividing what business? How is it possible? That's the way it is The coal, the gas, the wood all in Bikram's name He's the sole owner of the business We own nothing Am l right? Yes, Bala? Bikram, well done! Never have imagined it When they list the greatest cheats in the world... You'll top the list l was busy painting the Goddess You put your thumbprint on it all. Stole my share l thought you were a tiger But you're a fox Real smart You're the king now The business is yours and the girl So? l won't let your happiness last. l want my share lf you have guts where they're meant to be, come here Give me my share. Or else l'll come to Calcutta And if l do... l'm on my way Your ration card You're legally lndian citizens now Bikram Bose. Bala Bhattacharya What are you sharing? We have equal rights on everything Ten for you Ten for me And this ration card in both our names l don't need it anymore - So we're even - One minute You forgot the most important thing What? Nandita l told you we share everything You'll have to share Nandita l'll bury you if you take her name Can't l talk of her? You tricked her into loving you For years l cared for you more than a brother l gave you my share of food l held you till you fell asleep l forgave your childish deeds You turned out to be worse than an enemy - You shot at me - keeping score of the past? You can't change my mind with your talk lf you're so angry with me, then kill me l'm not keeping score. Just reminding you When l was a boy you once saved my life l was indebted to you. But now we're quits l will let you live But if you take Nandita's name again... ...l'll rip you apart l mean it, friend Take my thumbprint Bala and l started off here, 15 years ago To think l hit him You tried explaining. But he wouldn't hear you lt pains me, Nandita He believes l took you away from him by deceit l know lt's difficult. But we must make a fresh start Will you marry me? Nandita, l love you very much l'll make you very happy Remember you once said to me You were like coal Scrub as hard as you want You'll never be rid of the dirt lf you stay with me, you'll have to be rid of it You must choose Between a life of crime... Or me This is the first time My soiled hands have ever touched an innocent girl l won't let her go l promise l'll change Never lived before l met you My heart is in shreds l was an outsider. A crazed one Your love has tamed me Never lived before You know God loves me so much That He drew only one line on my palm A dark line of dark destiny l'll turn so bad. Even coal will seem white next to me l shall write your name in the blowing breeze Embracing your slender shadow Holding your shadow in my arms You are love itself l will encircle you in the embrace of my arms Your eyes are beautiful My world resides in them l am lost Like a wanderer in the desert You fill my every breath ln this world and the next l will seek you out, O beloved Happy Diwali! Sarita, get my clothes. l need two minutes You? Here? The gents was full Don't need a license to use the ladies Let go! l had to talk to you. No better place to talk Our story began here, right? l mean in a ladies like this Our story? lt was over ages ago Sita belongs to Ram You forgot one chapter of the Ramayana. know which one? Sita's abduction You're in a big hurry, Bikram l hear your warehouse was burned down And a young cabaret dancer was kidnapped Suspect anyone? A hurt friend is more dangerous than an enemy You look as if you could pump him with six bullets How will you destroy him? lf you get him, the law will get you You'll gain nothing He played a treacherous game A blow to your head and heart lf you're smart... ...make sure he lives, but wishes he were dead How? Stand witness against him l'll prepare the charge sheet with you as prosecution witness l'll have him imprisoned He's inside and you're outside with Nandita Honeymoon How do you know where Bala is? How many members in your gang? Tell me About 40 l have 40,000. And they're everywhere l can arrest him any time l want We'll be waiting for you in court at 1 1 tomorrow Be there What are you doing? Why bring her here? Why? You'll force yourself on her? You think she'll fall in love with you? Bala, you were right Coal looks cleaner than you right now Bala, enough. Stop now! l'm talking to you. Understand? Did she eat? No Eat something This is a new place. Must feel odd You'll get used to it You'll like it here Stop being angry, Nandita Stay a few days. You'll fall in love with me soon We'll marry. All will be well What rot are you talking? You crazy? My head is all there. lt's my heart that aches l have no peace Swear on Goddess Durga l'll love you so much, you won't think of Bikram again Have you gone mad? - Think what you're saying - l have Forget about Bikram or else... - Or else, what? - Or else l'll kill you What about your manhood? Aiming your gun on any pretext? Want the truth? You're very brave, right? So let me clear up things lf l stayed with you for a few days... ...or a few months or years l'll never stop loving Bikram Want to know why? He knows what's right and wrong. You don't You came from the same coal mine But he's a diamond and you're just coal Bikram didn't sweep me off my feet He didn't seduce me either l fell in love with him l wanted him to love me But he wanted to wait for you He promised a friend. But what did that friend do? Aimed a gun at him You want to love me? You never cared for your friend. Would you care for me? Tell you what Shoot me Go on! l'll never be yours as long as l live Meera once pined for krishna Leaving shame and the world behind To yearn and pine in love ls krishna's turn now l lost my life lt was a game for you Estranged from myself Broken inside l was loyal to love Robbed myself of everything lt's all gone now Life has no meaning without my beloved Why do l see only my beloved? When she hurts me Rejects me so Sorry Madam, l love you too You'll bury me? My dreams were shattered By the blows of sorrow l cannot escape desire's whirlpool No one to save me, none to call out to me Yet l hear a voice beckoning from beyond the clouds How lost l am without my beloved Don't know how to apologise Never had to before This is the first time l've loved My pride was hurt Now my heart is broken Try and forgive me Who are you? Who do you work for? Good job, officer l can't do this anymore l want out of this mission Why? Have you fallen in love for real? Have you lost your mind? They're criminals. Outlaws lt was all an act to bring them to court You're right. That was my plan too But l got to know them Behind their bad name They're innocent souls with love in their hearts They're children, sir l can't play this game with them anymore So they must have some virtues l can hear their voices behind your words lt's the truth, sir They're not responsible for their bad deeds Circumstances were bad Two wrongs don't make a right Who doesn't face hard times? What if everyone took to crime, blaming circumstances? lt's no longer about them, Nandita lf we let them go, we set a bad example for wayward boys They're trapped in a dark tunnel with no light at the end lt's the law. l'll do my duty. And so must you Control your feelings. Do your duty You'll know what's right Bannerjee? Tell Himanshu, it's time to take his revenge Where is Bala? At the coal mine with Das - Who is with him? - Our men - What is it? - l'll explain later. ls Nandita ok? Nandita? Bala left her at your place this morning What? The man in the cinema who Bala shot is alive He's a cop A trap Satyajit Sarkar set for us He knew full well To divide us he had to first break us To cause a rift between us No point in going over the past Let's plan our next move The law will help us So it'll be on our side? There is law and order and a system here Like hell there is! What law and order and system do you mean? The system only grabs lt snatched away our childhood and put guns in our hands We tried to do the right thing, but it blackened our faces Nandita, your system gives birth to outlaws like us lt plays with us Then plots to kill us Everyone has the chance to redeem themselves We made no mistakes We only wanted our rights We grabbed them when we didn't get them What will you do? Grab them again l must call Bala back No, Bikram You promised you wouldn't break the law again l never promised not to help my innocent friend l'm going You're coming with me l can't come with you And you're going nowhere lnspector Nandita Sengupta Calcutta police Damn it! l get it! Satyajit used the finest fish to trap a crocodile Listen to me Surrender yourself. l'll help you What are you made of? l'm only doing my job, Bikram That's the truth. lt's also true that l love you You must believe me And l'm the Prime Minister? You believe me? We would've died for you from day one We would've surrendered, just for your smile But you're the system, too We were born when the country was divided And you divided our hearts Mine and Bala's Give me a chance to help you And Bala? Who saves Bala? Think of yourself first We'll worry about him later - lf you go now... - That's what l'm about to do We're outlaws, madam Once we live with someone We die with them too Stop, Bikram - What's Das doing here? - Don't know. He asked us down Where's Das? Life's cycle ends where it started Who are you? Eh? You want the whole story? Listen The train... Full of coal? Remember Dibakar? Remember the boy whose face was covered? Dibakar was my brother l'll bury you in the coal you stole from Dibakar and killed him Never should trust a Bengali who doesn't like football Don't laugh, scum. Remember lf Bikram hears of this... ...you'll die a worse death than Dibakar Do you think our plans are so flimsy? The girl you wanted to kill one another for... ...she's the ace in the pack Nandita is a police inspector Satyajit Sarkar sent her to divide you adoring friends Bikram and Bala And as far as l know... ...Bikram has died at the hands of his lover And l bury you here A perfect tragedy. Push him in! Who'll save you? See who's there Find them! lf you're reborn a Bengali, make sure you like football Forgive me if l apologise? Since when did you need to? l made a terrible mistake l didn't think straight. Don't know what l was doing Forgive me, friend Done! Sure? Take my thumbprint l didn't know this mission would take such a toll on you But the job is done You don't have to come with me. Go No, sir Until they surrender... ...this mission won't be over for you or for me Don't laugh Stupid idea we had! Toss and the winner is her Rajesh khanna Her hero! Like hell Now eat her bullet. Be the bad guy We really loved her When we first saw her our lives turned rosy Now we get shot and our rosy lives will turn red Whatever happens, we regret nothing Forgive Nandita She loves you. l swear on Goddess Durga Forgive her lf you don't forgive her, you won't forget her And your heart will torment you - l hit you because of her - l shot at you. We're even Forgive her For my sake We're big-hearted, even if they aren't - l forgive her - You haven't l said it - l forgive her - Liar! - You haven't - Want my thumbprint? That's more like it! So the brothers unite. Happy ending Surrender! You forget, we're outlaws No one has managed to arrest us. Nor will they Born from tragedy. Emerging strong God is on our side We belong to Him We are outlaws. The outlaws Bikram! Stop this madness, Bikram You'll gain nothing No way out, Bala. Finish. The end l'll give you another chance. Surrender. You'll be ok Our hearts won't listen. What's the point now? Repent and you'll live a peaceful life We don't have cool blood in our veins, sir We've been running since we were kids Still running Nonsense talk! You can try, you can change What about our names? How do we wash away the dirt from our names? We never had anything. We gave you all we had Anyway you can't shoot me Or you would've already How could l kill you, Bikram? How would l have convinced you... ...that my love was true? l couldn't shoot you. My love stood in the way Today a criminal stands in duty's way My aim won't miss l know you endured much injustice in your life But life is giving you another chance Take my hand. Come here Listen to me, Bala Thank you for offering to help me lf we were offered help when we were helpless We would not be outlaws today l love you very much l love you too Forgive me What can l do, sir? We're stubborn. We can't change our ways l must go Life has no meaning without You l lack nothing without You With You l can overcome every obstacle Without You l am lost We were stars of the sky Descending on earth, we found ourselves Found faith, found colour. Found our voice We sought heaven But at every turning We found hate, war and borders But the world will change one day A new dawn is bound to break Courage will be ours. We belong to God We were outlaws. Still are. And always will be
