 

                        The one who shot me was The one who killed me was... Yogi Yanni Mother? Ace Attorney This clock has been set 2 hours late therefore, your testimony that you left the victim's room at two is clearly questionable. You can't tell whether the clock was set late on the day of the incident. That's true Hey!! Do not rise from your seat Mr. Butz! Attorney Wright Of course, as you may know The number of criminal cases is now There is always a big parade of criminals in the court If one were to hesitate like you There would be no point in adopting the Bench Trial System - A system where, over three days, a defense attorney and prosecutor face each other in an open court, to determine the defendant's guilt Wright~ It's over... Objection! We already know that you, wearing this 'Steel Samurai' costume, headed to studio 1. The script writer very clearly testified when we dropped hints that you are trying to get the script writer fired. what are you talking about? I've never said such a thing All i did was let them know my personal view the script writer spilled everything shut your mouth! Are such dirty tactics allowed?! Prosecutor Edgeworth! this.... this.. such an absurd method cannot be accepted!! My methods do not conflict with the law Judge I'll settle this matter quickly this is the one thing that should be prioritized in ???? Wai.. Please wait! Let's discuss this matter thoroughly There are still 3 days left in the hearing. Judge The verdict.. Objection! Mia The victim had just returned home to Japan the day before the incident. The time difference between Japan and New York is 14 hours When you look at a clock, it appears as 2 hours. The victim did not change his clock Your Honor Any further discussion is a waste of time. Please give your verdict right away The verdict for Mr. Larry Butz Not Guilty. Hey hey hey hey... It's a different guy No no no! I'm the guy who won the 'not guilty' verdict, Larry Butz Don't you have to do an interview? huh? huh? wait!! Mr. Camera man! here roll the tape!! This is a special moment ! Hey stop it! What is that?! - Does that look like a toy to you? which newspaper are you from?? - This is a court! Quiet down! - You're in court! shut up!! Whatchu lookin' at?!! Figures... It's Butz!? and Mr. Wright you ignorin' me?! argh Congrats on the not guilty verdict ah.. um.. how can i say this.. All this, everything i owe it to you Mia I will never forget it Hey! I'm the attorney! But we would've lost if Mia didn't show up. That's true. Right! Wait just a sec I want you to have this! What is it? beep beep I think it's about 11:25 Here That's stupid It's a clock oh you, making this useless thing He's selling them in his own shop Say if you don't need it Shut up! This right here, is not just any ordinary clock! it has the ability to think with you in times of trouble When you ask it for answers then BOONG! Come the answers... It's that kind of system! Stop trying to push such absurd systems Well then here yes extra edition- It's extra- extraaaaaa extraaaaa That was outstanding Edgeworth. Prosecutor Edgeworth turns the tables and wins the case The golden boy of Prosecution redeems his reputation Prosecutor Edgeworth turns the tables and wins the case The golden boy of Prosecution redeems his reputation Prosecutor Edgeworth turns the tables and wins the case The golden boy of Prosecution redeems his reputation Never thought he'd win such a difficult case I heard you won the case again Heard it was a trial with not enough evidence... I want to be like you Mr. Von Karma like me? Not a single case lost during your 40 years of being a prosecutor. always wins... that is just a result, not the goal let me tell you one thing your reputation, is not that great It is definitely important to win at a trial but That doesn't mean it's okay to do whatever you please Okay I'm asking you Please show up no way~... This is it DL-6 Case With this we'll know everything Mr. Wright I've actually been investigating this case for awhile now and just a moment ago, an important piece of evidence was found I think we are about to have ourselves a big trial and I need your help Tomorrow night can we hold a meeting at the office? Hey how's the new product? Steel Samurai Bun Even if it's a 'new product' i bet the insides are same as before -Steel Samurai red bean bun- There's no other way than to jump on the Steel Samurai bandwagon! Wright do you get it Wright? Life's all about bandwagoning! mugwort or wormwood mugwort..it's mugwort y'all! Fey & Co. Law Offices. Mia, sorry i'm la... Mia! Mia! Mia! Mia!! um... you are? ah..I'm..ah.. I'm..ah.. Just call an ambulance!! Don't move! Ah.. no i'm just.. No! I'm just... this firm's...! You're not it The witness saw the moment of the crime. The criminal is a woman! Maya Maya Maya? Maya A receipt for an electric lamp You are... Who are you? Fey Maya Maya? It was Fey... Then Mia's?! Maya Fey! You're under arrest! 'Fey' is A family of spirit mediums Spirit Mediums? Then... you too ? Well i'm still in training My father passed away when i was little and as for my mother I don't know where she is for me I only had my sister left by my side Um... If it's okay.. Will you let me defend you? I will be on your side What do you think? I'd like that Then first and foremost Why were you at our office last night? I got a call from my sister I think there might be a message left on my cellphone You're gonna come back here for Christmas right? It's been a while since I've seen your face Ah right... I received something amusing yesterday (it was a clock then...........@)#$@#) It is a table clock in the shape of The Thinker (le Penseur) It even talks You like toys like these don't you? Not anymore, not clocks then I'll be waiting Um... About Mia What did the autopsy show? You want to know? Ah..yes Well it's okay Mia Fey's Autopsy record I'm sorry You're going through a lot too It doesn't matter what you find You can't win this trial The prosecutor in charge of this case is Miles Edgeworth Prosecutor Miles Edgeworth Finally we meet Edgeworth What are you doing at such a place? Phoenix Wright What made you become a prosecutor? I'm certain.. Edgeworth is? I will be a great attorney just as my father was Attorney? Attorney?! You don't really mean.. Attorney?! an Attorney... and Phoenix? That's a secret! Tell me~! More like There's nothing to tell He changed Why are you here?! Bench Trial Admission ticket The Japanese government, taking action against increasing numbers of heinous crimes adopted a new judicial system: Bench Trial System Attorney and prosecutor directly face each other in open court A system to determine Mr.Wright's innocence within 3 days. A system to determine Mr.Wright's innocence within 3 days. A system to determine Mr.Wright's innocence within 3 days. A system to determine Mr.Wright's innocence within 3 days. Fey Murder Case A system to determine Mr.Wright's innocence within 3 days. A system to determine Mr.Wright's innocence within 3 days. Based on the Bench Trial System amendment Defense Defense is ready your honour Prosecution Prosecution is ready The prosecution has prepared evidence Mr. Wright has committed the crime and a witness Mr. Wright's is Without a doubt guilty We'll hear from our first witness Witness Detective Dick Gumshoe Detective Gumshoe, You had Maya Fey, who was at the scene, placed under arrest Witness Detective Gumshoe Witness Detective Gumshoe Why is that? Why is that? Yes! There was irrefutable evidence. Words written in blood... Words written in blood... Written by the victim in her own blood while on the verge of death as a 'Dying Message' - as a 'Dying Message.. - I know! (doesn't say who knows... --) The word "Maya" was written in blood Blood stains were found on the victim's finger Test results confirm that both blood samples were from the victim, Mia Fey That is all Then the defense Then the defense may begin cross examination of the witness Yes your honour Detective Gumshoe Are you claiming that the victim, Mia, wrote these words? Are you claiming that the victim, Mia, wrote these words? Of course There's no one else that could have done it. Objection! Overruled This word Mia could not have written it Take that! According to the autopsy report, the cause was "single blunt force trauma. "Death was instantaneous. According to the autopsy report, the cause was "single blunt force trauma. "Death was instantaneous. She died instantly! huh? What do you mean "huh?"! Objection! Defense Attorney That autopsy report is outdated A second autopsy was performed yesterday... Wha?? "there is a possibility the victim lived for several minutes after the blow." This sentence was added h.. how could that be So, there was time to write "Maya" Your Honor! I have not even heard of this report. Silence! Unfortunately, this report is an official record. I'll accept it as evidence. Then we'll proceed We'll bring forth the witness who reported the crime. Witness Red White Witness Red White State your name and occupation Red White I'm an entrepreneur doing magazine reports Red White? Red White? trial report written small medium and large article Red White written small medium and large Red White The night of the incident I was looking out my window drinking lemon tea when i saw a strange looking girl strike the victim I was extremely shocked when I saw this Did you definitely see a weapon used in the crime? The thinker (le penseur) It was The Thinker without a doubt Yes that's right this clock That is all Judge No further useless questions... Objection! Defense, what is it? Your Honour The witness has now said something profoundly important Mr. White You called this "a clock" Is that right? Yes Your Honor Does this look like a clock to you? No, now that I look... even on the court record it is recorded as a "statue of The Thinker" That's right! At first glance, it's just a simple statue When you flip the head open, only then you know it's a clock A very unfriendly system. Then how is it that you knew this was a clock? That's because... of course! because you heard the clock talking the hotel and the crime scene are very close to one another It is not unreasonable for one to have heard it. huh? Defense Can you explain this? ah... well.. well... Defense Your explanation? No..wait... um.. Please wait just a moment Well, I think this is it then I remember clearly... my sister said "It's not a clock anymore" It's a table clock in a shape of "The Thinker" and it talks too but it isn't a clock anymore Then no further examination of the witness Hold it! I'm sorry I would like you to investigate this clock right now The clock was, at the moment of crime already nothing more than a simple statue How is that? Witness Even after hearing this would you say you heard the sound of the clock? Please answer to the court I've seen it being sold somewhere Where did you see it? For your information the store that sells this very inconvenient clock there's only one place in the world. Well.. Your answer please! witness I forgot I forgot.. or not That's it I forgot! I've forgotten where. Stop lying you bastard!! I have seen it sold somewhere though.. Silence! Somewhat doubtful, but If the witness has forgotten, there's nothing we can do. Defense Is there anything else? Yes well Yes Why were you looking out the window in the first place? f Outside the window I heard glass breaking Glass? Well you know.. a desk lamp made of glass that fell over Did we have such a thing at our firm? There were pieces of broken glass all over the crime scene Objection! If you looked out the window because you heard glass breaking, you wouldn't have known that it was a desk lamp because it would have already been broken by the time you got to the window Small details are irrelevant Anyways, I saw the lamp before it fell That is not possible Do you see? When viewing the firm from your hotel room The visible areas are like this Witness Where was the table lamp? You can tell by the placement of the glass shards that it was.. here so as long as you were in the hotel there's no way for you to have known of the existence of the glass table lamp At the moment of the crime were you not at the scene of crime?! You're so annoying! When I say I was in my hotel room, it means I was in my hotel room! Period! I told you I was drinking my lemon tea! Witness Why don't you just admit your crime? Actually, this witness was tapping the victim, Mia Fey Telephone covers were removed, right? This is the wiretapping device that was placed in the telephone It was found during the spot inspection When the witness broke in to install it He saw the table lamp. That's probably also when he heard the clock talking. Indeed... Witness Do you admit to placing the wiretap? I admit it Okay I snuck in a week before the crime This witness committed trespassing and wiretapping however that has nothing to do with this case okay then we shall end the cross examination I'm sorry a short time.. I mean Please give me just a moment! No Mr. Wright Don't give up you've already won Defense Is there a problem? Ah no... well...this! This this this your honour What is it? You've already won Mr. Wright the truth is in your hands... Defense what is it? There's nothing more pitiful than an attorney who doesn't know when to admit defeat When the witness saw the table lamp it was when he was installing the wiretap Take that! If this is about the words, that's already over The problem is not here but on the back side Is this the receipt of the table lamp? Yes! According to this date it was purchased the day before the crime at around 4 in the afternoon. So, when the witness broke into the firm which the witness says was a week before the crime, the table lamp was not there yet! Mr. White when you saw the table lamp, it was the night of the crime at the site of the murder!! the defense believes that the 'witness' is actually Mia Fey's murderer! Hold it! What you have proven, is just that I was at the site of murder. It doesn't mean I killed her! You nonsense spouting bastard! Wou got that?! I didn't kill anybody!! You asshole! with that dumb look on your face! Huh?!! C'mere! I said come here!! Silence! With this, the witness's testimony that he saw the crime is proven incorrect. Prosecutor Edgeworth is there anything else? Mr. Wright The court will now declare the verdict of Maya Fey. Not Guilty! NOT GUILTY That attorney's pretty good isn't he? It's just a coincidence! Arghh screw this I'm outta here You can't leave just yet! We will secure your affairs immediately. Why did you kill my sister? It's related to the wire tapping isn't it? Please answer me It's because of the incident 15 years ago, isn't it?! You destroyed my mother and now my sister...! Maya! White! Why.... Why did you kill my sister?! Answer me! Answer me White!! In the court, you said "the incident 15 years ago".. Can I ask you about this? Mia said in her last phone call that there's this case she has been investigating for a while now The one... who... shot me was... Yogi Yanni Yanni Yogi arrested The suspect has come out! It's been a week since the incident and finally he's under arrest! White Since the article that ruthlessly criticized White's investigation method created a stir DL-6 Case Spirit medium cooperated with investigation. My mother.. The people are in shock my mother.. The people are in shock hid herself from us Fraud spirit medium Misty Fey denounced Mia said soon there will be a big trial I guess she was referring to the "DL-6 case" To tell you the truth, I was going to help out too So... I'm thinking of following in Mia's footsteps Um.. Can I... Would it be okay for me to help you? Huh? Now that I think about it, that day, Mia said "I got my hands on an important piece of evidence"... Did you hear anything about it? With this, I'll know everything I everywhere in the office but couldn't find it. White could have it and could have already destroyed it... DL-6 Case In the evidence storage room in the basement of the court, an attorney was murdered. the weapon was... a handgun that was a piece of evidence for another case. Mr. Wright Yanni Yogi was 'insane' He was judged to not be criminally responsible therefore not guilty. Merry Christmas Murder victim Attorney Gregory Edgeworth (age 35, at the time) The victim is Edgeworth's father...! Mr. Wright! Mr. Wright! Mr. Wright!! Mr. Wright!! TV TV TV! Turn on your TV quickly! Huh? Wha? What is it? What?! We were standing here like this to take a picture when there was a huge noise coming from behind us. So we turned and!... it was HUGE!!! and this gigantic creature since it came out of Gourd Lake was named Gourdy. Gourdy? Wow that is sca... Ugh this isn't it Here at Gourd Lake, an unheard of murder case occurred. under arrest is Miles Edgeworth Suspect age 25 Prosecutor Prodigy Prosecutor Prodigy He is under arrest! In the middle of the night there were anonymous reports that two gun shots were heard The police caught the suspect Edgeworth with his handgun fleeing from the scene.. Tell me this is a lie... Based on the suspect Edgeworth's testimony the lake was searched The body of a man with bullet wounds from a handgun was found this morning. The victim's identity is currently being determined at the police station I didn't want you to see me like this not you Edgeworth I want to save you Save? me? Stop being so cocky You've only been to court twice you are a new attorney If i wanted a competent attorney there are plenty Guard! This is the end Hey wait! Hey Edgeworth! This time I...! How did it go? He says he'll get a better attorney I guess that's only natural huh? No it ain't There are no attorneys that will represent Prosecutor Edgeworth Well, he is an enemy to those whose clients were found guilty because of him Um.. about Prosecutor Edgeworth's defense.. I want you to do it! Ah.. But Edgeworth... it seems he has no intention of asking me Um.. Why all this for Prosecutor Edgeworth? The reason prosecutor Edgeworth gets his conviction at all costs is because he believes in the investigation of the police like no other. So so I, too want to return the favour of believing in him He is a trustworthy person. Hey what happened here? There's usually no one around here Could be because of that thing, that monster named "Gourdy" Could be because of that thing, that monster named "Gourdy" Well well Mr. Wright over there is that a device that activates a shutter in reaction to a sound? R..i..g..h..t.. You're embarrassing me will you stop that? Stupid! Stupid ! SHUT UP!! What are you doing?! Don't play with my camera! I'm sorry Maya let's go Isn't that broken? It doesn't react to cheap girls with no dreams like you This right here, Its looking for a bigger sound with romance She called me cheap ... you ARE cheap you don't even have a powder of romance! This romance you speak of is? At Gourd Lake mysterious gigantic creature Whoa no wayyy Gourdy really exists The name Gourdy Let's see... Person A set the automatic shutter and when he stood beside his lover a big cry was heard Gourdy appears with the sound "Gah-ohhhh" then this camera reacts taking the picture right away is my plan does that mean even if it's not the cry of Gourdy it reacts to any loud enough sound? For example a gun shot perhaps..? Well, at first there's this.. there's nothing it should later in the hour ones taken after it turned 25th are... It's clearly been taken! the gun Wait a minute what are you guys up to anyways? He's an attorney at the moment So then it means you on the criminal's side huh? I should go to the police station now It occurred to me after seeing the photos I witnessed the incident! Could you maybe tell us about it too? Dumbass! I am on the side of justice I am on the side of the Police There's no way I'm telling you guys Well then bye now~ I think we got ourselves the identity of the victim Ow! The victim is Robert Hammond age 58 Mr. Hammond with his amazing talent Hammond was a famous attorney Robert? It wasn't over yet This case and the case of Mia is connected..! but the criminal who killed my sister has already been caught by the police no no there's something something bigger that we aren't seeing Robert Hammond, who was murdered was Yogi's attorney right? in the DL-6 case... you.. investigated? yeah stop these useless actions this has nothing to do with you yes it does my teacher Mia kept on investigating that case Mia and Maya.. the daughters of the spirit medium who was involved in the DL-6 incident. is that right.. besides Edgeworth the one who was murdered was your father I have to investigate this about Mia Fey I feel deeply sorry from the bottom of my heart but just leave me alone I'm sorry that's not possible I owe you a large debt It was when we were elementary school students he was nominated for a class trial lunch money 3800 yen robbery case ok everybody take your seats! You're the only one! who sat out on gym class! I bet it was then when the lunch money disappeared! thief I didn't steal it liar Give Terada his lunch money back ! Yeah give it back! Thief! lunch money thief! Kids! Okay everyone be quiet Mr. Wright is not such a bad kid! It's just a bad thought that occurred to you for a second right? so let's just apologize to everyone and be forgiven Objection! It wasn't you who stole it right? then you should act more confidently the only meaningful object in court is evidence there is no evidence that he did it therefore teacher, he is not guilty! That's right! He says he didn't do it! You believed in me then and saved me because of that trial I am here right now Wright You're wright that I still lack skill But I'll fight with all i've got! So I want you to let me defend you lunch money 3800 yen Was that why Mr.Wright became an attorney? You never know what's gonna happen in life huh? Edgeworth too, I wonder why he became a prosecutor... Do as you please Nobody's going to take it on anyway I want you to tell me about the case Tell me as is Whatever happens I'll believe you until the end That night I was called upon by Robbert Hammond "I have something to say about the DL-6 incident" "on the 25th at midnight" "come to the boat rental place at Lake Gourd Park" Merry Christmas I didn't know what had just happened Is that person that great? He holds a record of no losses in 40 years What's more, is that he works so hard, to the point that it becomes a problem for others During those 40 years he only took one vacation One vacation in 40 years! Took a single day off 15 years ago and that's it. Prosecutor von Karma! Mr. Wright Yes.. yes! I'm glad such a great attorney as yourself will be with Edgeworth Well, let's try our best, fair and square. Aaaaaand Now The case of the shooting of an attorney at Gourdy Lake The case of the shooting of an attorney at Gourdy Lake The case of the shooting of an attorney at Gourdy Lake The case of the shooting of an attorney at Gourdy Lake Court is now in session The case of the shooting of an attorney at Gourdy Lake Defense The defense is ready, your honour Prosecution The prosecution is ready The prosecution has prepared crucial evidence and a witness I'll call our first witness to the stand Witness Lotta Hart Witness Lotta Hart It was on the night of Christmas Eve Witness Lotta Hart A little past midnight I was in my car when I heard this "Pang" sound coming from the lake I looked out the window and there were two men on a boat. that's when I heard the sound one more time and then there was only one man left on the boat She happened to photograph the situation This is literally crucial evidence Defense your cross examination please Power within Mr. Wright! So... When you say it was a little after midnight on Christmas eve If we were to be more exact it'd be.. Christmas ? You ask really useless questions Answer my question please Yeah it was Christmas So what? So what's next? and... Are you certain that you saw two men? Look at the picture they're right there in the picture! I'm asking whether you saw it or not That's.. yeah i saw them You're just repeating her testimony Your Honour I always think useless questioning counts as contempt of court therefore if the newcomer attorney proceeds further with meaningless comments I ask that he be removed immediately from the courtroom! Defense be careful what you say from now on Ah... yes Defense Anything else? Yes Ah Yes well... Um... I see there isn't Then with that we end the cross examination Please wait! Are you an associate of the defendant? Ms. Hart Tell us the truth Witness The question is out of order! There's no need to answer that question Are you sure you saw it properly? That prosecutor Edgeworth was shooting the gun! Conjecture is prohibited! Maya! Please tell us! It's a matter of life and death! What! Treating me like i'm the bad guy! I saw him I'm certain i saw him! Your Honour I request that the defense be held in contempt of court we ask the defendants to leave the courtroom Objection! Unlawful comments were given by her It was not the defense The one that should be leaving the court is.... Ok then There's only the verdict left to be given then... Wait! the witness's exact words a moment ago were "I'm certain I saw Mr. Edgeworth" This is new testimony As you can see the faces of the men on the boat are not visible at all here then how did you clearly see Mr. Edgeworth's face? I.. saw it with binoculars! It was extremely foggy! You were at the lake to see Gourdy to begin with right? That's right but... then you who heard such big noise at first would have looked for any signs of Gourdy with the binoculars So! You would not have given much attention to the boat I didn't mean to lie I thought I could be the witness to a murder case so I was a little bit happy about it I've made a mistake thinking that I saw the man on the boat Ah.. i'll be going then! Gourdy's waiting for me! I'm sorry What kind of a hectic trial is this... Prosecutor von Karma what is your opinion? The People that were in the boat were Prosecutor Edgeworth and the victim Attorney Hammond. Only these two. Since the one that was shot was Attorney hammond, the shooter can only be Mr. Edgeworth. There's no other possibility. Objection! There was another that could have shot Attorney Hammond on the boat Who could that be? Attorney Hammond himself. He could have shot himself with the handgun.. That's absurd Silence! This court cannot ignore a new possibility the cross examination will continue tomorrow Court dismissed Thank you! anyhow we delayed the sentencing No This much is all i can do Okay then lets go investigate It's a gourd dipper well it is Gourd Lake Squid France~... There there there I wonder what it is Ugh seriously! WTH! What.. is that? Mr. Wright Let's not go in there I have a bad feeling about this place It's the Steel Samurai Mr. Wright! Hey Didn't you get rid of that useless thing? - Steel Samurai Chop! - Ouch! That sounds stupid. When you set it up here, little kids buy manjoos like they're under a spell or something kids like her Steel Samurai's hurt Oh that? I really had a hard time with that Was it a few days back? with this pump I was gonna put air in this guy and Whoa-!! Nessie? well this is Gourd Lake... Gourdy?! does that mean Gourdy is really just... a deflated Steel Samurai.... ? Metal detector! The Steel Samurai just flew off with the air tank still attached I managed to find it with the help of this guy May This! Suspect White Eavesdropping on the client? White's just a puppet Hiding in the shadows There's someone controling him...! How about you start talking now! Screw you! Silence! The person who reported the incident? I thought I heard they went "missing" ? It's impossible to escape from us We summoned him as our new witness He's the caretaker of the boat rental shop at Gourd Lake Witness caretaker of the boat rental shop Witness caretaker of the boat rental shop Witness caretaker of the boat rental shop State your name and occupation Witness caretaker of the boat rental shop ...uh.. At the lake I rent out boats and sometimes if I feel like it, I ride in them Witness Please state your name too The thing is.. ????? ???? I'm not sure.. What do you mean? Your Honour This witness has no recollection of any memories prior to a few years ago Objection! Objection! He is not in any condition to testify Ihe incident in question took place three days ago. He can testify. Very well The defense's objection is overruled It was the night of the 24th, just after midnight Thank you Right after I called the police the boat comes back to shore, and a man walks by my window. It was the person right here yes It was probably really foggy that night Can you be sure that it was Mr. Edgeworth that you saw? Yes It was definitely that fluttery guy Yes that's right He said, while fluttering "Never thought I'd shoot someone" yes Objection! I've never said such a thing moreover... I don't flutter to that extent! Hey you're still fluttering Silence! Edgeworth, do not interrupt the testimony Your Honor! this testimony is... too suspicious! suspicious? Well that's great So what are you basing that upon? A basis? and the evidence that backs it up? Evidence... Big sis Mr. Wright Help me...! I'm guessing you have nothing? No... Hey wait... Well, then this is the end of the cross examination Mr. Wright we will deliever the verdict to Miles Edgeworth Guilty! Wait a minute-!! - what is this person? - who is that? What.. what are you doing? I just remembered today the sound of gunshots! gunshots? Yeah Judge! He is a witness of the defendant The defendant? That's nonsense the verdict has already been decided! Dismiss the court! Mr. Wright! Of course, It's our last chance Your Honor! As long as we have a witness we must listen to the testimony. That is unnecessary! It's impossible to reverse a judgement! Your Honour! A verdict given without listening to all testimony is unacceptable! Enough testimony was given to declare a verdict! There's no problem here your honour I'll tell you what I think In any case or situation An incorrect verdict should be avoided I withdraw the guilty verdict just given. Witness, please come to the stand Yes! Witness Larry Butz Witness Larry Butz You know I... Witness Larry Butz that night was riding a boat I was looking for something and after I found it I secretly returned the boat to the rental house and when I was about to go back home I heard the sound After that one gunshot nothing happened so I went back. The gunshot you heard.. was only once? That's what I'm telling you But the other witnesses all heard it twice! Are you sure you heard it correctly? To tell you the truth I'm not absolutely sure Wha?! Well you know I listen to the radio and whatnot with my earphones So I might not have heard the other gun.. ..shot Hey!! What's wrong with listening to the radio!? It was Christmas Eve! I wanted someone to whisper into my ears nicely! Well the DJ was an old man with a horrible voice He said "so in 30 minutes Christmas Eve is over" "Coming up is everybody's favorite, 'Jingle Bells'" "Check it out!" Uhh he's just... kidding around like that ~ Butz! What you just said, you're certain of it? Can't be wrong Your Honor He just testified that when the DJ said "in 30 minutes Christmas Eve is over" he heard the gunshot... It was before midnight that he heard the gunshot Up to now, all the witnesses have heard the gunshot after midnight This is clearly a different situation Objection! It's just an illusion There was a photo taken at the moment of the gunshot Look Both were taken after midnight Objection! Butz too This witness is not mistaken Take that! The photo taken that night There was one more photograph There's nothing in this picture It's not what has been photographed that's important The question is... why does this photograph exist in the first place? The camera that took this photo was set up to take pictures in response to loud noises Therefore! The time when this photo was taken, at 23:30 There was a loud noise! This matches the time the witness heard the gunshot Objection! Prosecutor von Karma! The situation has already changed What do you mean? As this photo points to There is the possibility that the actual time of the crime was 23:30 Then attorney Mr. Wright who is this man that was on the boat with Miles Edgeworth? Of course disguised as the victim, Attorney Hammond it was the real criminal There is one person I suspect as the real criminal in this case But I don't know their name You don't know? Because he never said it DL-6 Incident Do not forget Just before I request a cross examination of the caretaker of the boat rental shop! Order! The witness from a few moments ago? Well... He's nowhere to be found Uh.. It seems that left What if he ran away? The prosecution and the police Will ensure the whereabouts and of the witness Today's questioning ends here Your honour What happens.. if they can't find him? Tomorrow is the last day of questioning If that is the case the trial will continue on as is Court is dismissed for today Polly That took awhile huh? Mister Attorney! Yes We have made immediate arrangements I will find the caretaker ofthe boat rental shop Thank you Let's go!! Excuse me! Mister! Mister! Are you in there?! I'm coming in! Nobody's around I smell something sweet Maya? This is dangerous If we get caught it's gonna get complicated Mr. Wright Here The plan of this murder case is all written here Well that sounds like you but with this some things are certain Behind the case is a dark secret yeah Red White, who killed Mia He was instructed by somebody to wiretap the firm Probably the same person related to this dark secret I'm going to call upon White at the court tomorrow I've just finished filing the request Wright There's something you didn't tell me yet What was written on the letter that was taken away? "This is the time" "to take revenge on Robert Hammond and Miles Edgeworth" "The ones who destroyed your life" "Don't forget the DL-6 Case" When gathering all the information given there was no chance for Edgeworth to obtain a handgun is our argument Objection! This morning At Mr. Wright's House This was found Here is a film of the bullet left at the crime scene. I'll compare the ballistic markings with those on the bullet from the handgun we found Combination Match rate This can't be.... This is Mr. Wright's hard evidence that supports Mr. Edgeworth's violation of the bayonet law Father... Is there somebody in here? Who is it? Attorney Edgeworth What were you doing? The evidence ! Stop it-! Miles! Were you there too? Miles What do you think my father was doing there? The handgun He was going to destroy the evidence for the trial I have no intention of being such an attorney as my father! Mr. Wright! What's going on? White Damn it! Beat me...! Didn't know the dark side would affect me even here... It's okay Edgeworth as your defense I'm on your side until the end I will never give up! Wright There's something i've been thinking the caretaker of the boat rental shop that disappeared May be... "Yanni Yogi" The suspect's wife is "Polly" Just now Attorney Wright has arrived ! Attorney Wright I meant to speak with you about Mia Fey's case since the investigation is over I want to return you the evidences.. I'll go then Okay then Detective How is Detective Gumshoe doing? The police did their best to find him but the whereabouts of the caretaker could not be secured Then I gather yesterday's theory could not be verified? Defense what's your say in this? well... then Witness Larry Butz to testify once more! No ! I can't do it anymore! Attorney Even if you drag on to buy some time the witness will not come Nnnoooooo wwellllll bbbbbbuuuuuuuutttttttt Stop trying to buy more time! Okay then So the Final verdict You... You are! a... the arrested? Sorry it took so long! It wasn't like I ran away or anything I just went to buy food for Polly Yes What do you mean by Polly? It's the name of my parrot Polly Witness Today let's start with you telling us your name for the first time Objection! It was testified yesterday that this witness lost his memory Well then, I will help you remember it Witness Your name is Yanni Yogi? Isnt it? Yanni Yogi was the defendant in the DL-6 case that took place 15 years ago Right? That's right Witness You murdered Hammond to get your revenge on the DL-6 case and didn't you try to place the blame on the defendant? Wait a minute, Attorney This is a court. Witness Before you start calling him Mr. Yogi Present your evidence first The name of Mr.Yogi's deceased wife is Polly the same name as that parrot Objection! it's just a simple coincidence I agree Wright the fingerprints That's right! I request the witness's fingerprint sample I'm sorry That can't be done It can't? I'm sorry, I don't have any fingerprints They were removed by the chemicals from the factory he worked at before If there are no fingerprints then.. it would be hard to prove your case.. Wright! Dude! In times like this it's my thing's turn! yes.. the thing! This this this! What nonsense are you talking about? At a time like this! Just shut up and believe in it! The answer might come out like BOONG Maybe? Polly It's gonna be over soon so let's go back home Polly Shh Shh! If you can't prove that the witness is in fact Mr. Yogi then any further questioning is meaningless If there are no other witnesses Wait a minute! If you want witnesses there is one..... Shhh be quiet! And who would that be? Polly Shut up! Polly!! POLLYYYYYYYYYY!!! It's polly.. what did you say? I request Polly as our witness!! What are you gonna do Mr. Wright? What do I do Maya? Witness Polly Then witness What's your name? Hungry Defense Isn't this a bit ridiculous? It's not fit to be a witness more like You're not fit to be an attorney! That witness could not state his name either! Hungry Do me a favour Polly Safe Safe Cell phone Oh really... Your honour, the cross examination is OVER 1 2 Safe Cell phone Please wait! please take a look at this Polly Yogi They all match the numbers this Parrot remembers with the dates related to Polly Yogi Objection! Stop this nonsense! Mere coincidence It's nothing! They are nothing more than a mere coincidence! Certainly It seems.. it would be difficult to take them as evidence Polly Is there anything else? Talk~ I beg you You are a parrot? Oh I get it you said you were hungry right? Do you have food for him? Food.. Yes Polly You'll talk for us won't you? Polly I guess not Yes Polly Thank you very much Thanks Thanks~ well i guess that was too much to ask... Polly I'm sorry I love you Yanni Yanni What did you just say? I'm sorry I'm sorry Polly I love you Yanni Your Honor! Mr. Yogi's first name is Yanni this also links the witness and Mr. Yogi together... Attorney Edgeworth What are you doing? That's enough I've fulfilled my purpose let's end it at that I knew it you ARE Yanni Yogi like you said I killed Hammond But why? At the trial 15 years ago, Attorney Hammond Your suspicion of murder... I didn't kill him!! the one one killed me is... Yanni Yogi That's not true-!! I did not Kill Attorney Edgeworth!! But! Hammond!! that bastard was! You want to be not guilty right? If I get the guilty verdict at such a trial my firm will not be impressed so.. admit your crime and claim that you're insane I really didn't do it! whether you killed him or not has nothing to do with me! Mr. Wright The verdict of Yanni Yogi is Not guilty At the time of the crime the defendant was... due to excessive labor and lack of sleep in an unstable mental condition which prevented normal judgement Murderer Get Out Do not forgive murder Yogi is a murderer DIE Leave immediately you murderer Murderer off limits criminal Yanni Yogi I'm home Polly? Polly? I'm sorry I'm sorry Polly I love you I love you Yanni I'm sorry Polly I love you Yanni It is now time for you to have your revenge on Robert Hammond and Miles Edgeworth who destroyed your life. Don't forget the DL-6 Case. I no longer have any regrets What's left is.. going to Polly's side I'm sorry Polly I love you Yanni I love I love you Yanni I love you Yanni I love you Yanni Then.. who might that have been? The defendant's Father the one who murdered Attorney Gregory Edgewoth.. Your honour I'll confess here no matter how it happened my Father the one who murdered Gregory Edgeworth is me What are you talking about? Silence! About this murder of Attorney Hammond, Mr. Wright It is safe to say the charges against Miles Edgeworth are dropped However, there has been an important confession regarding another case in close relation to this one We'll have a recess here and we will continue shortly cross examining about the DL-6 case Wright It's useless I told you already This time I will believe you until the end I will prove your innocence Even if you doubt yourself It is time My father, who as trying to destroy evidence - the handgun was interrogated by Mr. Yogi and they got into a fierce physical fight Stop it-! That's when something touched my hand It was the handgun Miles I threw it at him I just wanted to save my father The handgun i threw was triggered and a bullet went piercing through my father There was a loud scream I can't forget it even now The truth about the case 15 years ago Has finally been revealed Objection! Before the incident according to the record of the evidence storage room, the handgun had in its magazine two bullets and after the incident the magazine was empty so it means the gun was fired twice If one shot was the time Edgeworth threw the hand gun then who shot the remaining bullet? Objection! The remaining bullet? There is no such thing! If two bullets were shot They would have been found at the scene Were they found? Yes There was only one bullet found at the scene Please wait! For... for example the second bullet was..uh.. That's it! How does "someone took it' sound? How's what sound? But who? That's of course The.. the criminal The criminal you speak of Must not be very intelligent Just like like you Mr. Wright It's okay You are not wrong Just one more step forward... that's it reverse the concept Reverse the idea? What... What is it? Reverse ? Defense? The criminal Had no intention of taking the bullet... Ah.. No, that's not it What if he had no choice but to take it? "Had no choice?" What does that mean? For example The criminal was shot If he was shot, then he has no choice but to take it with him But there were no injuries on Miles Edgeworth or Yanni Yogi who were in the evidence storage room.. So then there had to have been one more person in the rroom Yogi I really didn't do it! Yanni There's a dark secret behind it all Father... It is hard evidence supporting the violation of the bayonet law There's one more person, other than Miles Edgeworth or Yanni Yogi who is related to the DL-6 case That person is the one who fought the victim, Gregory Attorney Edgeworth in court! It is... Prosecutor von Karma It's you! Silence! Ah.. well Prosecutor von Karma? A workaholic like yourself, in 40 years you have only once taken a vacation Wasn't it because you were shot then? If we find the doctor who treated the injury... There's no use Prosecutor Von Karma is a person who always aims for perfection A record of treatment Such evidence would not be allowed to exist I feel no need to make a counter argument against this but let me make this clear to you there are no treatment records or doctor witnesses Th..then! you went and dug out the bullets with your hand... Does that sound similar to what happened? That would hurt Mr. Wright! It's impossible! Then what happened to the bullet?! What is it? Prosecutor von Karma Did not get treated by a doctor Then maybe.. the bullet may still be left "there" How stupid.. What.. What the hell are you talking about Whether it's a stupid idea or not It can be easily determined Butz! Lend me that That's enough Just give it! Prosecutor von Karma I will check your body with this metal detector I refuse! What? Your Honour Checking is necessary to find out the truth! To refuse is like admitting that he has a bullet in his body Defense I permit the use of the metal detector. What is this? Clearly Clearly there IS a bullet stuck in my body However this has nothing to do with the DL-6 case Evidence is everything in a courtroom If you think i'm the criminal present a piece of evidence that connects this bullet in my shoulder to the DL-6 case I request an inspection of the handgun used in the DL-6 case If we were to combine it with the bullet's ballistic markings left in prosecutor von Karma's body it would be a complete match Officer! Get to it right now! The handgun would be in the evidence storage room Wright that is amazing Your Honour! The handgun is nowhere to be found! What? Well isn't that too bad for you attorney? There is no way to prove it like this I came all this way... Mia... I'm sorry That's it! This is it! Mia the evidence Mia got risking her life she hid it here...! Take that! This is the bullet taken out of the body of Gregory Edgeworth With this we have no need for the handgun If it matches the ballistic markings of the bullet in your body That is the conclusive evidence! I admit I was in the evidence storage room when it happend and I was shot But, that's it Why is it that you accuse me of shooting the attorney? There is no reason? There was a reason to silence Gregory Edgeworth! He found out about it... no losses in 40 years the most powerful prosecutor about the secret behind it all.. the one taking illegal action was not Attorney Edgeworth Prosecutor von Karma It was you! Don't make me repeat the same words over and over again !! Evidence is everything!! This bullet!! will explain everything The handgun used in the DL-6 incident. Was, when you think about it, presented by the prosecution at the trial between Attorney Edgeworth and Prosecutor von Karma Prosecutor von Karma combined the bullet found at the scene and the handgun's ballistic markings with matches on both sides supported the defendant's violation of the bayonet law the ballistic marking data at the time is this Mia Fey Attorney left it in the data Now I'm about to reenact 15 years ago But the handgun present then was disposed of by someone so instead we will use this bullet that was shot from the very handgun Of course just like 15 years ago it will be a 100% match on both sides It'll be a 100% match on both sides right? Judge Stop Stop it right now!! Reading... match rate 0% Prosecutor von Karma This is the evidence that conclusively proves your dishonesty Miles a perfect record over 40 years revealed to be a fraud To keep it a secret you murdered Gregory Edgeworth and! put numerous people in misery!! your effing face resembles him so much when you don't know anything... so young just a young little attorney Do you know why you get to live everyday so peacefullly When all you do is act and show off how righteous you all are? It's because of us, the prosecutors, putting every single scumbag in the world in jail!! Damn it! Argh! Damn it! Hey Do you even know? Scumbags always.. like it's nothing.. chat away pleading "not guilty"? Those bastards do just about anything So..... We can't!! just sit here pretending like we're ever so elegant!! Damnit!! Uuaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaargh! Uaaaaarrrr... aaa... oooh. Worrrrrrrggg... aaa... oooooh... Fabrication? Concealment? So what? What about them!? If it's for putting those bastards away I did anything Overlooking their crime Can never happen! That is our mission I object! our mission is to seek the "truth" Officer Take him away Then Mr. Wright I find Miles Edgeworth Not Guilty! Not Guilty my mother failed and because of that Mr. Yanni was wrongly accused and so many people were caused so much pain That's not true your mother just delivered exactly what my father said The one that lied would be my father's spirit the last thing he saw was his son holding a gun ... Maybe that's why he lied? to protect his son... I'm thinking of taking on Mr. Yogi's defense till the end You've saved me Wright Isn't it obvious? What is it? There's an unsolved case left What is it? What? The class trial Who was it that stole the lunch money! Why don't we just consider it solved? I didn't mean for Wright to get blamed for it I bought a plastic model. It was 4000 yen and I remember I was 200 yen short ... It's not "ah"! It was you! Was it me?! Seriously?! What does that make me?! I became an attorney only because I was so moved by what you guys did for me!! I don't really know your situation But it was 15 years ago right? The statute of limitations has passed then! I'm pissed Where's the statute of limitations on friendship? You jerk!!
