 

                        How's he going to tell us anything now? He's not But his nephew will Plan fucking B I'm Sims I do a bit of gear I deal a bit of gear Now, the thing about heroin is... ...it's pretty moreish I've got a regular job, just like everyone But now and again I pass on a package Got to pay those bills All you need's a trustworthy source And reliable buyers Works out pretty good As tong as you don't get any unwanted attention Police officers Some of them just ain't nice people! I think the Paki fucker's had enough Enough babe I've got my wheels I've got my girl Life's good Morning, sex pest Morning mate Ok you beautiful people, Sirus is here Me gone Good morning gents & lady. I'll take the plot-sheet first Bravo two-one My first empty in the West End Over Alpha one-four empty EM Charlie two-six Can I go home'!? Charlie two-six, is that you? Charlie two-six, yes. Can I go home now, please? Charlie two-six, go forth and multiply Just T m Suns Tell him you're on for tonight We'll leave the room, you can have a shot Then you're on your merry way He won't go for it This is my good mate Asif. His uncle's a fruit & veg importer... ...who realised melons make a Io! more money when they've got heroin in them Now you listen to me, you fucker Hackney police force is blessed with many upstanding officers This isn't one of them Detective inspector Malcolm Priestly The baddest pig in the pen You do exactly as I tell you Or you will spend the rest of your life wishing you were dead And then just because you've pissed me off I'll get nasty with that Amanda I know you two are tight You know I'm beginning to suspect you of being a fucking sausage jockey You would not believe the nasty fucks I could send round to her And it would make you sick to know what they would do And I wouldn't stop there Asif I'll go after your cousin Your uncle And all the rest of your fecal family These are no idle threats boy I promise You will lose, at the very least, one of your dirty little fingers... ...in the next ten minutes If you don't send that fucking text! Bravo nine-one, it's Wardour St, over Was this guy dropped as a baby? No it's... ...it's a street It's called Wardour Find someone to sign for it, you gormless twat What can I say about Jane'? Equal opportunities employer of the year Sirus you cunt Why aren't you giving Bravo nine-one that job on Wardour St? I am He thinks you're prejudiced against him because he's a Paki I thought he was from Syria He's from Iran. His wife's from Syria He's still a Paki Ragweed, Jane What? Kebabs, not curry Really nice shoes Jane. Where did you get them? You can fuck off, Sirus! You should know all about Pakis That mate of yours, Asif. He's a Paki Afghan I thought his name was Asif It means he's from Afghanistan, Jane I want you to have a nice buzz, boy, but we can't have you going over can we Find the number Send the text Sort yourself out Or... ...don't... ...send the text The pain will get worse And you will die All this can end Asif If you don't use the right code We will know Yeah it's 25 Canada Square. Get a move on, mate, he's really grumpy. Cheers Over Alright people, let's burn some rubber and make some money Jane, can you cover this for me'? I've got to release the brown otter You're fucking disgusting Alright mate Alright nigger! Mm Tony t B Welsh-Jamaican... ...entrepreneurs Distributors of the finest smack in the Valleys It should be. They get it from me We on for some dinner tonight? Sweet, man. What time you gonna be here? You flying? Fuck that flying shit. I can't stand airline food. Can be with you by 5 Whoa, I don't finish work till 7 I'm sure us country boys can occupy ourselves in the big city You just tell Amanda to get the tea on as soon as we get there Yeah, alright man. Ok We is wanting 2 whole chickens There's a right awful clucking around these parts No problem. I'll text you when I'm done LEWIS Right you horrible fuckers. We're gonna drop you on the estate What you lovely boys are gonna do is find out who wants what for tomorrow Can we go with you? Not this time You ain't no player yet Why didn't we send the text ourselves? Then we'd be further along with all this It's not just about the sending of the text It's about getting that dirty cunt to accept being fucked We are fucking him Terence If he hadn't sent it himself how could we rely on him? I think we went too easy on him. We could've removed a few teeth Terence We've got to keep him looking normal Sirus will bolt First sign of trouble He's done it to me before This time though I'm gonna get him He's not going to embarrass me again I don't just want the Paki's gear I want that fuck Sirus dead or down They all went to Dave's house Can you lot stop fucking yacking just for one minute! No, I'm gonna get a Pomeranian Oh he's back now Amanda's on line 2 Alright there, gents & lady The plot-sheet has been diligently taken by the lovely Jane Give me 2 seconds Hello babe Not tonight, I've got B coming over No, it'll be all done by about 11ish ll will be I've got to go, babe. I'm at work Alright, I'll speak to you later. Bye Sign here You alright for a lift home? All taken care of, Bill. Don't worry about it Ok Don't get any ideas You'll be being watched even when you think you're not Just to remind you I will blow you away in a fucking heartbeat Deviate from what I tell you... ...and my own personal brand of hell comes to everyone you give a fuck about Plus a few randoms, for good measure Get the fuck out What's next, boss? Leabridge Road I want to be there when Sirus gets home Yes rudeboy We're just about to drop off the end of the motorway Well, if you insist on 4 wheels, mate. Do you want to hear a wheelie? You are crazy, man. You get your shit together & hurry up Don't want this to take all night. Some of us got homes to go to Relax. I'll be home in five Make that three Alright, laters We're gonna get this shit and he out of here Driving hack like stuck-up law-abiding peeps If I have to dump this car I'll be right miffed Better not be too late I was hoping for a quick pint before we get the lads round There's lovely! I didn't know you had a daughter Well yes, I'm the grand mother now The thing is, the phone is in the living room, opposite your house Ok. What would you like me to help you with? I was just wondering if you and your wife could... She's not back yet Who's he talking to? I don't know. A Chink I haven't seen her before It's my husband; he had a heart operation last year Ever since, I'm so worried for him, so... ...I was just wondering... ...if you G your wife could... Yeah? Could what, Mrs Nishi? If you could keep your bedroom curtain closed... ...when you are... ...with your wife Oh Ok Yeah Sorry about that Thank you. Bye bye - We still good for tonight? - Can I call you back? Yeah, just don't leave it too long Who watches the most TV? Alright nigger! Where are you? Easy man. Right near the yard We, came on over Alright. Laters Hurry up Tony. We have to get a move on 2 more questions I'll be winning 5 pounds You'll be costing us more than 5 pounds if you don't get a wriggle on It's not the money It's the achievement Who was Henry Vlll's third wife? That tart Martha from Swansea. Now come on I got it wrong Sure we haven't got time for another pint? Finish that one quick and we is out of here Alright matey boy. Jane mentioned you today Who's Jane? The BNPs we! dream Never mind. We still on for tonight? I got the farmers heading here right now Yes, but I must ask if I can bring the package to you directly You alright? I'm fine. My uncle insists on it being done this way Everything else is the same Easy Terence. It's a good thing He's being a good boy We should have got his house bugged He'd never have checked He might have For fuck's sake, I haven't even put the shopping away How long are they staying? As long as they need to. Think of the money, babe How you doing, man? I missed you man Come on in Yeah man! Everything crisp? - Hello gorgeous - Have a seat guys Sirus, when's the food gonna be here? Soon And when's our boy gonna be here? Imminently Got a little thing me and my man here can boot? I'll sort you out a little taster It's alright babe Tea anyone? Coffee? Tea would be lovely. White, 2 sugars Tea please. 3 sugars Coming right up, boys! You've got a good girl there, you know Help yourselves Tea's up, boys I'll be in the bedroom if you need me Wahey! If he needs me, not you - 2 chicken curries - Chicken Madras Can we have some of that bread with coconut in it? Peshwari? No, just bread with coconut in it - Hey Asif - Amanda You're sweating, darling. You alright? I'm fine Is Sirus here? Yeah, of course he is Welsh contingent's here an' all - Heyyy - Alright man Hey, the main man's here My friends Someone is trying to kill us Someone's trying to kill us! This is not a joke! The police, they are in a car outside These men are coming for the drugs & the money What the fuck is that? Tracking device There are 2 policemen in a car outside They do not intend to arrest anyone They come only to steal & to kill Are you being serious? Sirus. It's Priestly Oh fuck Who the fuck is Priestly? Oh fuck, I thought I got away from him They are coming after you Sirus, and they said they would hurt Amanda Calm down for a minute If this is serious We might be able to sort out your little problem When he gets back from the doctor he says he's got 4 different types of cancer - He's riddled with it from the neck down - Hang on What's the spade doing? Bag with the money in it? Not that big Fuck Just chill now man Keep the change Maybe they're picking up the whole stash Either way, I'm calling for backup 'NM, COW? What are you going to tell them? Not them Curry's here lads We're gonna need a lot more than fucking curry I think what we have in this bag is gonna sort out your problem Fucking hell This is fucked Fuck Do I smell cu...? What the fuck? Er, yeah... Amanda, you must go. It's not safe for you here Oh, it's not safe for me here? With all these big strong men waving guns about? I've been thinking how much better our living room would look... ...all full of guns! Is that a fucking hand grenade!? No, love, it's just a lighter that looks like one. My mum gave it me We're just taking a few precautions What did you do? Did you piss off the Israelis? This is it, Sirus. I'm going None of this shit better be here when I get back And to be quite honest, I don't know if I am coming back Amanda, let Pari take you You can fuck off as well. I thought you were alright This tea's lovely Shall we have her followed? This is not the time to be thinking about girlies, Terence I was just thinking she might be useful I've been saved. The Lord protects me from temptation I think I preferred you when you were a nonce Good evening Mr Priestly How would you like to owe me nothing, and have a little fun at the same time? I would like that very much Why don't you come round for a cup of tea, and we can discuss? There is no time for tea, you fuck All of you, in the van, with all your toys, on Leabridge Rd Yes, Mr Priestly What a cunt What a cunt Why do you talk to that man? Why you talk to that man? Because he's useful Because he's useful I wonder if he'll bring Boris along Where's Boris? Boris! Sirus, you're going to straighten up, and then we're going to war Why don't we just do nothing, and see what happens? They are going to kill us. That is what is going to happen If they're doing this unofficially... ...they won't want to get too many other people involved, will they? Are you saying it's 4 against 2? I am, plus... ...they probably don't know... ...that we know what they know Pay attention Sirus! This is what's gonna happen You're gonna take that tracker and draw them in So if you know a place nice & quiet We will lead them there And then we will deal with the problem Movement Easy Terence He's going ahead to the stash We wait for the Ruskies Hello Mr Cunt. This is Mr Boris Gimme that. Stupid Chetnik Hello Mr Priestly. I'm very sorry for the language of my associate What do you want us to do now? I would like you to park up outside 35 Manor Rd... ...so that you can keep an eye on number 22 for me. Got that? And where is this Manor Rd? It's the road opposite where you are! Now get a move on Boris. Go. Drivel Ok. We're in the road now 56... 42... 36... 30... stop! Stop, you fucking idiot. Stop! You villager, Boris! Twat That wasn't the most subtle entrance, was it! You see that house with the black motorbike outside? Yes, I can see That's what you're to keep an eye on Don't make any kind of move until I say so. You understand? Ok, Mr Priestly I hate that cunt I like cunt Cunt is good You are a fucking arsehole. You know that? Arsehole is good too I'm not sure about this... Terence, why are we not moving? God willing You think he's gonna hold his nerve? Don't worry about his nerve. We're gonna hold that He just might need a push We can do that Sirus doesn't realise how useful he is She's not picking up Ready Sirus? No. Course I'm not ready Sirus, you realise you can't actually kill anyone with a handgun? That's just television What? This'll be alright, won't it? No it won't This is for you, Sirus You have to be careful where you're pointing it, obviously See here, that's the safety catch See? It's probably best if you keep it in the 'on' position for the forseeable I'll just keep this one as a backup then, yeah? I don't think Amanda's gonna be pleased if you go & blow your own cock off What are you guys gonna be carrying? Fuck me, have you had this on you every time you've been here? Well this is London innit. Dangerous This place Asif'll lead us to, is it fit for purpose? He said it's Tilbury Docks It's an abandoned warehouse in the middle of nowhere No one goes there Tilbury. I like the sound of that. Sounds Welsh I can'! believe we're just gonna kill some police officers With extreme prejudice But don't worry. Bent coppers is something we understand, back in Wales Now I'm overflowing with confidence That's the spirit, man Sirus, we need a separate car. They're expecting us all to arrive in this car I know, I'm on it, mate. She's just not picking up What I? Is that any way to speak to your best customer? I know your number. What do you want? I just called for the pleasure of hearing your voice Fuck off, Sirus! I need a car What do you expect me to do about it? I was hoping you could get me one What would I do that for? I thought that was what car companies did Not for cunts like you. What do you want a car for? Oh come on, Jane, I need a car. Please Kiss my arse! I'm not having you take... ...one of my cars round the drug haunts & brothels of East London Your low opinion of me is really hurtful Please, I need a car. Thomas Rd Oh, fucking... 20 minutes Now fuck off! And don't he late tomorrow Ok, so seriously... What do I do when I get in the taxi? I think we need to stick together. Convoy kinda thing How the fuck can anyone follow you when you're driving at this speed!? How about we drop you off, sit in the shadows & follow at a safe distance? Can you do that? What you saying? You having a dig at my driving? Easy, Tony. You won't even know we're there When you go past... we will follow Nice and easy. Right? Just try and be a bit discreet Otherwise there's no point getting a separate vehicle He isl He's having a go at my driving I think what he's suggesting is that... ...perhaps you might drive in the manner of a law-abiding member of the public Yes Mr Priestly, we've seen 10 signs for Tilbury. We're nearly there Look there's Tilbury. Everywhere I see fucking Tilbury! Alright. There's the taxi. Did anyone follow us? M, thankfully Due to my man's driving that you were so quick to criticise I think you can safely say no one has been following us Having a go at my driving, though, wasn't he! Right. Better get in the cab then Got your shooters? Kind of I think you're gonna need a bag for that Now... we have this from swimming Cover that with a towel Remember, when Mr Safety Catch is off... ...Mr Shotgun is not your friend Alright, ok You know what Shall we have a quick boot first? Small one, mind 1 w'! Is that your phone? No Mine plays Dam Busters Is it your phone? No I have the William Tell Overture on mine Oh, I think it might be mine My arse is vibrating Hello Where on Thomas are you? I've got this fucking car waiting Tilbury Docks, please Uh, M, er... You do realise we don't actually know where we are going Ea$Y We just follow the car Sirus is in Alright But discreetly Tilbury Dock, yeah? Cheers mate Looks like you've been having a heavy night Look, I don't want any vomiting in the car I just had it all cleaned. 5 pounds extra, if vomiting Amblin Wharf. Don't talk, just come Where the fuck is Amblin Wharf? Cedar Rd Where? What are you doing in Cedar Rd at this time of the night? Just family stuff Family Do you remember playing in the poppy fields when we were 4 years old Collecting the opium for my father? I had no idea it was turned into this powder... ...that people in big shining cities would kill for Then they came to Afghanistan to kill for this dirty powder from a pretty flower People here don't even know what the flower looks like ...wife back in Pakistan, you know I tell her to stay there. No point coming here Life is too hard here. Why come to this place? - How far is this place? - Not very far But she's still in Pakistan. I'm finding girlfriend here now And get plenty jooking here I keep my jooking here & my wife over there. That's the best way to do it What's flocking'? Jooking! You know what 'jooking' is You put it in, and you jooka jooka, Jooka jooka, jooka jooka What you shoot? Man in car What car? You are just fucking wasted. You are shooting at nothing - The car - What you smoke? Smells like shit Smack and weed Why you waste good smack? Give to me Hello Mr Priestly. We stopped for a little refreshment Why the fuck are you shooting? It's just Boris. He's a fucking Chetnik He's blown the head off a taxi driver There must be some mistake. Boris couldn't blow his nose There is no mistake. You've fucked up! Get down there and hide that car Yes, Mr Priestly Fuck Oh fuck Little prick Sirus! Stay the fuck down They're fucking shooting at us! Cover me! 2 guns! Reloading! Looks like we got here just in time I've just been shot at Tony. Cover me Covering Skirmish! Popped your cherry have we, lad? Fuck! I think we got the one in the car You just shot a policeman! Those pigs were shooting at you first Are you with us or against us? You should be with us lam... you know... with... you lot That's it, just stick with us Without giving them smoke signals! Where the fuck's Asif? I don't know. I'll call him I've left my phone in the taxi Use mine Do you know his number? Why would we need you if we had his number? Can't you remember his number? My mind's gone a hit blank Get your phone. We'll cover you Cover me with what? This ain't an American film! Who even says that? I don't think its current occupant... ...is gonna put up much in the way of objections, is he? Right. Ok. I'll... back in a minute Oh fuck Sirus, I have heard gunshots. Who is shooting? I'm fine, mate. Tickety boo. Never been better Who is shooting? All sorts of people! Come to the other side of the warehouse. I will open the big doors. It's safe here Ok, I'll just wander round Let me know if I'm mincing. I'm damn close to shitting myself I'll bring the Welsh arm of Desert Storm with me, shall I? We can all have tea Tony. Go see if we got him Why me? Let's send Sirus. We'll cover him Good idea. Off you go, Sirus What was wrong with the first idea? Go and have a look Sirus, man. You've done precious little so far. Go and have a look He's moving Let's go get the fucker You are doing the manhandling I'm not really the manhandling type Move it! I'll have that Right. Get him out What? Oh fuck! Oh, fucking hell Hello Where the fuck are you? I'm here, Mr Priestly You're supposed to be by the fucking taxi. Move it! You want me to buy you a taxi? Listen you Cossack cum. Get your van full of fuck-ups down here now Meet me by the white container Don't drive by the front of the warehouse. Don't let them see you Yes of course, Mr Priestly Who phoned? Cunt We go meet him by white taxi he want me to buy He said go to front of warehouse Find a taxi for the cunt... I drive. We kill Hey! Wait for me! Boris! Oh fuck, I piss on leg. Boris! Wait! Hello Who the fuck is that? Ah, that'll be that lucky-to-be-alive shit Sirus Speaking Is Terence alive? Kind of That's the caring & sharing over Give me the money & gear Huck off& we'll say no more Why are you doing this? This is not a matter that's up for discussion Time to get past the illusion of choice, Sirus Wanna die, pussy hole? Go home to the Valleys and put Sirus back on Now, that thing ain't gonna happen You can'! stop me There is nothing you can do... ...except look on as I take everything You and whose army? Oh, I've got an army Not the most law-abiding, mind You know, I can see you, right now Nice sheepskin collar You almost look pretty Right. We move. Now. Fuck Clear Fucking hell, man Get the big rat-ta-tat gun! We kill everybody! We kill every motherfucker!! Get all fucking bullets!!! We kill all the motherfuckers!!! Bastard! Fuck Get us in, Sirus What's that? (SWAG Get down! Who the fuck was that? Maybe that was the army Well, the van's kinda green! Sirus, get that tucking door open You ok? - There is more shooting! - Where have you been? - What is he doing here? - Not much There's a dead guy in the van I know. I saw you shoot him! One of them was dead already. Junkies We can't leave corpses lying about Bring them in. There is an elevator to the top floor Oh brilliant! Everybody, grab a body! Shut up You take Mr Bleeding Policeman in. Asif, give me the key Me & Tony will have a tidy-up down here. Then there will be words. Now move Watch your step I'm sorry I did not mean for any of this to happen It's just all a bit out of hand, mate There - What the fuck is she doing here? - Sirus, come! Fucking hell You can't leave those 2 outside. Go and get them - I'm not going back out there - Go and get them, Sirus! Pari Just what we need. More guns Best not to leave this kind of hardware lying about I see you brought some friends Grab the messy one Ah fuck, really? I think I'm gonna be sick Where is my uncle? What have you done with him? You fucking pig! Fucking sinner Pari What did you do to him!? Yeah He was a sinner, just like you And the Lord judged him And found him wanting Hey! Asif, what the fuck are you doing? We need him alive He deserves death Who the fuck is she? Pari is with us. I'm going to kill this man We need him alive Asif Do not shoot Puck's sake, put the guns down Stay back Guys, it's Pari. It's alright. Put the guns down He killed my uncle. He deserves to die That might be true, but would you mind killing him later? Put the fucking guns down! We're all on the same team, yeah? Listen to me, mate Asif, put the gun down Fucking hell We cool, Missy? Is anyone else coming to this party that you neglected to tell me about? - She's fine! - True that I presume you know how to use that little thing? I will kill anyone who tries lo hurl my family or lake what is ours Well, that's lovely But let me be clear; nobody is to kill anybody just yet, ok!? Fucking hell, ok! Good Get these bumba klarts out of here Move your arse! Come on Fucking darkies! Where's the rest of it? Asif. You've got some explaining to do These fucks wouldn't go to all this trouble... ...over what you have here I don't know what you're talking... Blood klart It means there's a whole lot more you ain't telling us He doesn't know anything I think he does Sirus, even you ain't worth killing over 2 kilos We are prepared to be helpful Isn't that right? Tis right. We love to be useful I think it would benefit all if we stayed But we ain't going to Asif? Somehow they know how much my uncle had How much? About 50 kilos 50 kilos!? That's over a million quids worth of gear How much do you want? We're taking all of it In return for the saving of your lives Me & Tony are gonna have a scout outside Sirus I think you should ask that tucker about this so-called army Can I leave you to do that? I can ask him With extreme prejudice Don't go easy on him Ok. Alright Good Back in a shake of a lamb's tail I'm gonna call this Priestly Don't be stupid It's good to talk - Sirus - Shhh Good evening Good evening? For who, exactly? Sirus, you little poof. I'm looking at your niggers right now Well I'm staring at your pal, all tied up & bleeding He's expendable What do you mean? This is your friend & colleague He's a nonce & he's expendable He won't even mind; he's a Christian! So as that little threat didn't work out, boy... my turn I have the entire police force at my disposal I can find your Amanda in a matter of minutes So why don't you & your Paki chums just hand over his uncle's stash? Listen. We can talk this out Goodbye Sirus, you twat! Oh fuck Sirus called Priestly He's gonna get Amanda The best thing you can do for your girl is find out what the fuck is going on Him You go and ask him Now go, Sirus Go! ...mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. My cup overflows Your only way out... ...is to let me go Your only way out is to tell me who else is out there and if he's got Amanda Jesus fucking Christ, I'll fucking kill you! The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want Just tell me who else is out there before I kill you! You're not a killer You're too much of a coward Prick My soul he doth restore... ...again You're going to Hell, Sirus You're going to Hell Help me Fucking help me Which one looks the least dead? - Him - He's had an overdose Good. Tie him to that chair He ain't going nowhere Shh, I know he's dead. Just help him tie him up Tony, help him Alright, alright Keep your hair on I'm only keeping you alive for information Your Russian mate doesn't know anything. He's no use to me So in a moment, I'm gonna shoot him... ...unless you tell me exactly what I want to fucking know, right now There's nothing you can do to me And the Lord will have mercy on his soul Fine Puck's sake! You couldn't help him? I'm calming my nerves - Is he ready? - Yes You just tied up a dead guy Yeah. Distinctly lucking unhelpful Last chance, Terence! This is on you - You can't scare me - I'll kill him You can'! scare me Yeah? The Lord will have mercy on his soul Fine Our Father who an in Heaven Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom cum... Can't you shut this fucker up'? I've had a right tit-full of his crap He's crazy ...as we forgive those who trespass against... How the fuck's he gonna tell us anything now? He's going to write it down There might be a problem. He hasn't got any fingers What do you mean? He can't be a copper without fingers What the fuck did you do that for? I didn't know you would shoot his tongue out! There's no point keeping him now. We'll finish him together I'm not shooting anyone You are either with us or against us We're gonna finish this cunt now Point your fucking gun at him (Sn me scum oi 'A One Two Three Sirus man, sometimes you're such a twat Right. We move What did you find out? Lord was his shepherd Useless! I want to go home We have to go get this fucker. Asif, can you use that weapon? Good Sirus, you're the bait What? You go out there, draw him out, then me & Tony will put him down I'm not going out there Don't worry. I'll cover you Right, I will give this Priestly a tinkle Don't worry, Del. We'll get them back for Boris But Mr Cunt Boris only friend There there Pull yourself together Sirus No, it's the handsome one What do you want, nigger? That ain't playing nice I thought we could come to a deal in a civilised manner Go on We give you half the gear, you let us walk away You think you're in a position to bargain? Well I've got the gear and you want it I kill you, chocolate face motherfuck I cut off your balls & make you eat them You motherfuck!! I piss on your head, I cut off your balls, cunt... Well That could have gone better Fuck, fucker, fuck, piss! Oh, Mr Cunt You wanna kill them, eh, Del? Kill them all for Boris? I kill them all I guess you'll be needing these then What? Keys to the warehouse - Give me - Easy now, Del boy You need to get your head straight I think maybe I'll hang on to them Easy now, boy You wake up a little now, yeah? Do a bit of that charlie of yours Pep up a bit Oh, Mr Cunt Before we go any further, we have some unfinished business What my man is referring to is the whereabouts of the 50 kilos Asif? Only my uncle knew & now he is dead. He never told me where it is Bullshit Tony, he doesn't know anything Then why are we still fucking here!? He doesn't know! I reckon if I was Asif's uncle I wouldn't tell him either Let them take it When we are all safe Deal We want to see it first I will bring it. But you must wait here There are things that belong to my family. Things you cannot see I must go alone You've got one minute What? Pari? Well now This is nice, isn't it? Nobody move except to... lower your weapons We ain't lowering shit Tedious So tedious Delski here's a bit tetchy Partly because He's upset about his friend Boris Partly because He's a psycho And partly because he's just shoved half of Columbia up his nose. Point is... ...he could go off at any moment If he hurts her, you will die Well I wouldn't expect anything less Asif, you little faggot Want a light, Sirus? No, I'm alright thanks So polite My little fucking sunflower you are Watched you grow What makes you think I give a fuck about her? You haven't done anything so far So I don't think you will I kill little girl Cut chocolate face motherfuck Kill hatty man Fucking brains everywhere! Control him! Easy now, Del. Remember Funeral for Boris All the angels Angels for Boris Kill every fucker Then little angels for my Boris Angels Now listen carefully Me & Del & the young lady are gonna get the gear; oh yes I listened in for a bit And you're all gonna stay here Right here Until we've gone I'll drop the girl off somewhere And I'm sure she'll give one of you heroes a tinkle Come on now, Del son Nice and easy Little angels For Boris Kill fuckers! Oh and er... If it's any consolation I'll probably leave Del here I think he likes you Pari Asif! Shut up and listen Kill time, chocolate face motherfuckers! Shit! Sirus man I am well impressed Oh shit, I'm sorry mate Pari? He's getting away Where are we going? Sirus So you're the fucking hero now, huh? Not a step closer, Asif You're not gonna wriggle out of this one, you slippery cunt You cannot escape Put the gun down. I know it's empty Come round here Slowly I'm disappointed in you, Asif You're gonna bring me a car And in exchange I won't kill The girl Show some fucking enthusiasm Asif, I'm being reasonable here - You let her go, first - No I'm enjoying her company too much See who your friends are now, eh Sirus? Looks like... ...you're gonna die after all Pari, get out of the van Fucking whore! Well well Never borrow a gun from Sirus Not very frightening now, is he? Nice work there miss Fucking wogs Check out the mouth on him Alright there, Sirus? Yeah, skew Mo, mam You done well, boyo B What shall we do with him? Leave him be, man He's not going anywhere Where's the gear? Keep an eye on him Sirus No way! This is crazy, Bl What you gonna do, Sirus? You little prick I think our friend could use a bit of pain-relief Tony Right you are, B How do you think we should give it him? Apply liberally to all affected areas It has worked out nice for all of us But all good things must come to an end Right then Me & Tony gonna clean up around here. So don't you worry about a thing Asif. Pleasure doing business with you That should hold you till next week Whatever you've got there, you've earned it See, you did alright Sirus Now get back to that girl of yours LEWIS We should do this again Sirus - You alright to get home? - Yeah I am sorry for what happened today Sorry about your uncle I'll call you So I'm Sims And We had better days I suppose you want a moral m the story We don't ask me Not a fucking word You'd think after at! that I'd give it up Get out of the game Did I, though'? Did I fuck I have learned one thing though There's no place quite like Hackney Welcome to Wales!
