 

                        (children) Trick or treat! (excited chatter) Trick or treat! (girl) Hey, wait a minute, What about this house? (boy) Forget that house, Let's go to the next one, (whispering) Somebody's coming, Come on, Sophie, You know nobody ever comes here on Halloween, But, Mom, it's just a costume party, You've gotta let me go, The whole world is going, If I don't go, I'll be a freak, You know, the odds were 50% I'd get one normal sister, Mom, I'm 13, OK? I'm practically a grownup, I'm certainly old enough to make my own choices, Right? - Yeah, I guess so, - Is there an age for that? Look, Marnie, I am sorry, but you are not going out on Halloween, Why? I have my reasons, and I will explain them to you when you're,,, taller, Mom, you've been saying that for, like, my whole life, OK? It's just one night, What is the big deal? It does seem a little unfair, I mean, seeing as how Marnie likes weird stuff so much, - Yeah, Halloween is, like, made for her, - Skeletons, witches, vampires,,, She spends our whole math class drawing ghosts in her notebook, - Guys! - All right, that's all, Thank you all for coming, You've been a lovely audience, but the show is over, Marnie will see you all tomorrow, - Mom! - See you later, Marnie, - Here's your broom, - We'll bring you some candy, Your pumpkin, Good night, I am so sick of this, I want to know why we can't be like other kids and go out on Halloween, My poor little sister should be out trick-or-treating, But look at her, You've kept her from a normal childhood, and it's turned her into a wall ornament! I think it's obvious why Halloween is bad, That whole razor-blade-in-the-apple thing was an urban myth, of course, But then, all that candy causes cavities and gum disease, and those masks everybody wears have these weird kind of toxic fumes inside that make your arms go limp, and,,, and,,, It's totally too late for him, Marnie, I'm sorry, I know that you want to go out with your friends, but there are just some things about Halloween that you don't understand, Oh, right, Like there's some big, mysterious reason why we can't go out, Face it, Mom, You don't trust your own kids, - That is not true, - Oh, yes, it is, You keep us all in this big bubble, How are we supposed to grow up if we can't explore the world, try new stuff and take some risks? Marnie, I am just trying to protect you, Yeah, you're protecting us from being anything but a bunch of vegetables, Hey, look! I'm a potato! Are you happy now? Maybe I'll put down some roots in the carpet, (mocking) "Oh, no, Marnie, It's too dangerous," "There are things about vegetables that you don't understand," Somebody's coming! Come, my little wall ornament, Let's get you washed up for dinner, - Somebody's coming! - Come on, sweetie, Why are you so obsessed with Halloween? I mean, it's just like Mom says: It gives little kids dumb ideas about there being magic, Like that helps them prepare for life, Personally, give me a good nature documentary any day, Halloween is cool, nature boy, I mean, it's exciting, strange and ancient, Plus, Mom and Dad met on Halloween, Shh! What are you trying to do? You know how talking about Dad always bums Mom out, I mean, why can't you pick some other holiday to get hung up on, like Arbor Day? Trees are important too, you know, (children chattering) Hey, guys, wait up! Wait for me! Oh, come on! Come on! Suit yourself, Oh,,, (chuckles) No, no, no, no, no, no, - Come on, Mom, It's just one cookie, - Not before dinner, Sophie, Marnie's right, You never let us do anything fun, Oh, you can have a cookie after dinner, I want that cookie, I really want that cookie, Not again, - Are you eating a cookie? - (muffled) No! Go sit down, Good thing she doesn't like liver, eh, dear? - Mother! - Grandma! - What are you doing here? - (both) Grandma! It's so wonderful to see you and the children again, Ooh, my, my, my, my, How you've grown! Oh! - Did you bring us presents? - Oh, presents, presents, presents, What kind of a grandma do you think I'd be if I didn't bring you presents? They're right here in my suitcase, I just,,, I don't know where that thing went to, Just a minute, Ah, there it is! Where did you get to, my little darling? Come on, Here it is! How come you've been gone so long, Grandma? Well, you know, one thing and another, But the important thing is that I'm here now, And I'm so glad to see you,,, all, Come on, come on, come on, Come on! Hey, Mom, do you think you and Grandma could, like, not fight for once? I mean, we haven't seen her in over a year, Grandma Aggie's the one who always starts it, - Does not, - Does too, - Does not, - Does too, Does not! Eureka! Whoo! Candy! - Ooh, that's the spirit, - Wow, Put on our bikinis and go swimming in it! Oh, and then we'll put up the decorations so we can get this party started! Look, Grandma dressed up for Halloween! What? Oh, Oh, yes, of course I did, I always do! Oh, here, honey, I want you to go and hang this on the doorknob, Ew, It annoys the vampires, This bag defies logic, - How does all this stuff fit in here? - I don't know, You know, dear, if I'm not mistaken, this is Marnie's 13th Halloween, Mm, a wonderfully lucky number, 13, Totally, Yes, I'm well aware of what number it is, Mother, - Hey, look, a pentagram! - Wow! Lon Chaney had one of these on his palm when he got bitten by that werewolf, So he did, I've always said the movies can teach us about life, Mother, as I just got through telling Marnie, Halloween is not,,, What else can I do, Grandma? Well, now, why don't you put out the pumpkins, you see? They have such cute little faces, just like yours! Neat! Oh, and I thought you'd appreciate these, - Hieroglyphics! - Mother! You know, these look like the ones from the Egyptian Book of the Dead. Very good, I'll bet you get A's in school, Actually, she gets B's and C's, I get the A's, Ow, You know, Grandma, this is totally awesome! I mean, nobody around here really appreciates my taste in weird stuff, - Encouragement, not good, - No, And you know what else? I have dja vu a lot, I mean, like, all the time, Really? - Well, you know, if you could practice,,, - Mother! Could I talk to you in the kitchen for just one minute? Absolutely, dear, As soon as I get the children into their costumes, Costumes? - Whoo! - Wow! And the ghost! Oh, there! - What? - Ooh, ooh! Yes, now this is the winner, This is so awesome! Ah, I'm a wiccan! I'm a ghost! I think I'm a big pimple, All right, that's it, Mother, these children are not going out trick-or-treating, and now it is time for dinner, - But Mom,,, - No, no, She's right, She's right, - (whispering) We'll eat the candy later, - OK, Come on, here we go, Whoo! Ooh, Ooh, ooh, ooh! Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh! Oh no, dear, It's more like a moaning sound, You know, ghosts tend to be very depressed creatures, anyway, Like this: (moaning) Well, Mother, your visit's been very educational, - But it's time for bed, - Oh, Mom! She's right, Your mother and I need to talk about grownup things, anyway, - Can't you at least tell us a bedtime story? - Yeah, great idea! Yeah! I mean, horrible idea, - Come on, Mom, please? - Just one? - Please, please? - Please? Well,,, - All right, but just one, - Yes! Oh, good, See you upstairs, Grandma, You guys get ready for bed, We'll be right up, Oh, I missed them so, You know, dear, I've been thinking, I'd love to have you move back home, Gwen, I mean, there's plenty of room for all of you at my house, Mother,,, And since William's passed on, there's nothing to hold you here, Nothing has to hold me here, Mother, I like being here, I can have a normal life here, They can have a normal life here, Oh, being normal is vastly overrated, Well, I like being normal, You know, Mother, as much as I want the kids to know their family, the fact is,,, you're not normal, Hm, Every time you come into this house, it's-it's chaos, And the candy and the decorations and the,,, (sighs) Mother, Mom, Let's not fight again, I know you're only here for a couple of hours, Go and tell them a story, Talk to them and get to know them, But on your honor, don't tell them about home, Your home, I mean, Oh, don't worry, dear, I won't tell them a thing, Thank you, Ah,,, Whoo! Boo! Hi, Just came by to check that everyone's got their thermostat set to 68 degrees, because it's important to conserve energy during the evening hours,,, Dylan, just get in here, Which story are you gonna tell us, Grandma? Is it one I know? Oh, no, I wouldn't think so, My story is about a magical place where many sorts of different creatures live together in peace, Like Cleveland? I hear they have a nice school district, Well, actually, the place I'm speaking of is called Halloweentown, And the residents are a bit more,,, exotic, Monsters, goblins, ghosts, vampires, gnomes and skeletons, Do they have dybbuks and banshees there too? By the dozens, And of course, a few very fine witches, I don't like witches, They're mean and scary, Oh, no, no, no, sweetheart, I mean, they're just like everyone else, Some are kind, some are mean, That's the way they use their magic, You can't tell what's in a monster's heart just by looking at 'em, I mean, sometimes, some of the slimiest, raunchiest, ugliest little monsters turn out to be the nicest, - I want to go there! - Oh, Excuse me, but we have an impressionable young child here, I think we should make it clear that this place we're talking about is just pretend, Oh, yes, yes, Well, actually, I have to confess that I didn't make it up, I read about it in a book, So you see, maybe it is real, - A book? What book? - Oh,,, There, Halloweentown. - Let me see! - All right, Look, a ghost, - Just like we were playing, Grandma, - Mm, Oh, look, and there's a werewolf and a vampire and a gnome, Dog Man, Oh, Grandma, this book is so neat, It has, like, all the stuff I'm interested in, Great, the weirdo encyclopedia, Ew, Snot Man, - Look, it's Marnie! - Uh-huh, It is me, She doesn't look anything like you, She's way too cute, Oh, yeah, and this is from a guy who could win an ugly contest, Well, there is quite a resemblance, Perhaps Marnie has a secret life we don't know anything about, Well, if she is a witch, she's got the weird part down pat, It's just the magic powers she's missing, What about it, dear? Have you cast any spells or taken midnight flights through the sky? I wish, But the truth is,,, there's nothing special about me, Oh, no, dear, You're very special, You're a Cromwell! And since the dawn of time, the Cromwells have been the most powerful,,, Mother, It's getting late, You wouldn't want to miss your bus back home, Aw, Grandma has to go? But can't you stay overnight, Grandma? Oh, no, dear, Your mother's quite right, If I don't head home by midnight, well, it's just,,, it's a long time until the next bus, So kiss Grandma good night, And good night, dear, Don't let the bogeyman bite! And I'll be back to see you all as soon as I can, That's "lights out," you two, Mother, I am going to put Dylan to bed, and then I will meet you down in the kitchen in one minute, Of course, dear, Good night, Grandma, Bye, And after I specifically told you not to tell them anything about it, I was only trying to do what you should have done long ago, Why, you're on the verge of breaking a tradition that goes back more than 1,000 years,,, Your tradition, Mother, Not mine, Marnie is my daughter, and if I decide not to train her like a witch, then it's none of your business, A witch's 13th Halloween is supposed to mark the completion of her training, If Marnie's training doesn't at least begin tonight, her powers will be lost forever, (Gwen) Yes! And she'll finally be human! She'll finally be normal, like her brother, like her father and like Sophie will be after her, (grunts) Gwen, a human father, Why, you're only lucky that you have two children that are showing powers at all! Do you really want them to go through life doing things the hard way? I mean, look at you, with your plastic bowls, when you know leftover chicken keeps better when it's back on the bone, Mother, get that thing out of here right now, (squawks) (Gwen sighs) For years, you have been coming here, You've been dropping hints to Marnie, and you've been badgering me to start her training, I know that that's why you came here tonight, Mother, But the fight is over, You know that? The clock has finally run out, and you can just go home, Gwen, as much as I think you're making a terrible mistake with Marnie, you're wrong about why I came here tonight, The fact is, I came to ask for your help, My help, With what? Well, something is wrong at home, Something's happening, Every day, I find another neighbor has changed, Turned hateful, it's frightening, And soon after that, they disappear altogether, Please, Mother, My neighbors disappear sometimes too, It's called moving, Oh, Gwendolyn, I'm quite serious about this, It's as though something or someone is trying to return us to the Dark Times, And I fear my powers alone may not be enough to stop it, I need another Cromwell witch, I need you, Mother, there are plenty of other witches and warlocks in Halloweentown, Why don't you recruit one of them? Oh, I've tried, You know how it is today, No one wants to get involved, Mother, I'm sure that you believe that there's some kind of problem, But I can't just leave my kids to go fight some nameless force in another world that I have nothing to do with, Nothing to do with? Hm, Well, fine, Bury your head in the sand of the precious Mortal World of yours, Perhaps the Cromwell line will end with you, But let's just hope that Halloweentown doesn't come to an end along with it, Enjoy your leftovers, dear, (squawks) (chickens squawking) (sighs) Mother, Then she talked about all this weird stuff that's happening in Halloweentown, like it's a real place, And then she turned our leftovers into a live chicken, standing right there in the bowl, And that's why I knew that she is a witch, and so is Mom and so am I! Because they both said so, What do you think? I think it proves insanity is hereditary, I just hope boys are immune, (door closing) It must be, um, one of those radio-controlled models, She's leaving, She's going back to Halloweentown, I gotta go after her, Go after her? Are you crazy? I have to go, If she doesn't start training me as a witch tonight, I could lose my powers forever, You don't really believe all this witch stuff is true, do ya? Dylan, haven't you ever wondered about the stuff that goes on in our house? No, Like why Mom won't let us talk about, watch or read anything that has the word "magic" in it? No, Haven't you ever wondered why we pretend Halloween doesn't exist? Or why I have dja vu all the time? Or why stuff seems to fall off the shelves whenever Sophie has a tantrum? - No, - Well, I have, And now that I've found out the truth, I'm not gonna stay here and turn all boring and human like you, What do you mean, boring like me? (man on TV) Tired of that dank, musty odor in your cellar? Try the new Spore Buster Deluxe. It removes mold and fungus just like magic. No, it doesn't, (woman) The house doesn't smell like mushroom omelets anymore! (man) Thanks, Spore Buster! Marnie, wait up! - What are you doing here? - I'm the man of the house, I gotta keep an eye on you, Plus, I'm gonna have a hard time getting back to sleep till I find out if you're crazy or not, Then help me find her, She's gotta be around here somewhere, There she is, Get down, - Where'd that bus stop come from? - I don't know, Can I put my shoe on now? - I'm having the dja vu feeling again, - You knew I was gonna put on my shoe? No! This whole thing - the bus stop, Grandma, Wait, Maybe it's not dja vu at all, Maybe I'm seeing the future, Right, Now you can see the future, Tell me, what am I gonna have for breakfast? - Why are you such a downer? - Why are you such a nutcase? - Downer, - Nutcase, - Dow,,, - (bell ringing) - Where'd that bus come from? - I don't know, but I'm not missing it, - Hi, Skinner, - (man) Hello, Aggie, Ah, made it, Why don't we go sit up front with Grandma? No, not yet, I don't want to take a chance of her stopping the bus to send us home, (loud rumbling) What? Stopping the bus where? (man) So anyway, there I was, trying to spook this fellow, He was buying nachos at the minimart when this smart-aleck child with a dreadful little monster mask runs up to me and yells, "Daddy!" Ooh, I ask you, where is the respect? It's not like the old days, People are jaded, I raise a demon from the underworld, and they say, "Big deal, I saw the same thing on Jerry Springer." (laughter) I've always loved a good scare for old time's sake, Must be, you know, one of those charter buses coming back from a costume party at the Moose Lodge, Or maybe,,, Oh! (whistle blowing) (bell ringing) (man) Hey, good to see you! - We're here, - Yeah, but where's "here"? - Oh, oh! - I'm very sorry, Aggie! How are you, dear? Oh, Harriet, I'm fine, Been to visit the mortals, eh? Didn't have time this year myself, Doing some volunteer work down at the headless shelter, - Poor dears, Care for a muffin? - No, I baked them for the folks at the shelter, Didn't occur to me they couldn't eat them, No heads! Oh, well, Must be off, Take care, Bye, Harriet, - Wow, - Whoa, I don't get it, Monsters are just pretend, - Dylan, this is it, - Mom said they were just pretend, Dylan, this is Halloweentown, just like the book, Or maybe we fell asleep on the bus, Yeah, that's it, It's all a dream, The decorations, the goblins, the witches, the ghosts,,, And Grandma - she was a dream, too, Oh, no - Grandma, Where'd she go? She's gotta be around here somewhere, We've got to find her, What are you doing? We're gonna lose,,, Sophie! How did you get here? - Careful, she could be a mirage, - Would you stop? - How did you get here? - I followed you onto the bus, - But you were asleep, - I was pretending, See? You're a bad influence, The pumpkin doesn't look very nice like in the book, You're right, It is different, - It's the bad thing, - How do you know about that? What bad thing? Well, hello there, I don't believe we've met, And that means I'm in trouble, 'cause the mayor's supposed to know everybody, I'm Sophie, - Pardon? - Sophie, - What? - Sophie! I can't hear ya, I seem to have a,,, huge lollypop in my ear, - There you are, Soapy, - No, thanks, OK, - Neat trick, I'm Marnie, - Well, Hello, Marnie, And that wasn't a trick, I'm a warlock in my off hours, And you are,,,? Human, This is my brother, Dylan, We're Aggie Cromwell's grandkids, Wait a minute, Does that mean,,,? Are you Gwen's kids? You know our mom? Well, I did a long time ago, Is she here with you? Um,,, No, but that's OK, See, we came with our grandma, We kind of lost her in the crowd getting off the bus, Do you know where she lives? Oh, of course, She's lived in the same house for 200 years, I'll get Benny to run you up there, (whistles) (tires screeching) Come on, We really appreciate you doing this for us, Howdy, Mayor, What's the rush? I'm on my lunch hour, Filet-O-Fish, Ha! Just kiddin', What's the ticket? Well, I found a bunch of Cromwells in the town square, Need you to give them a lift up to their grandma's place, Sure, it's just over the river and through the woods, Ha! No, actually, it's just two streets over, up a quarter mile past the old movie theater, Say hi to Aggie for me and,,, There you go, He's a much better driver than he is a comedian, - Hey! - Thanks for you help, - So long, Soapy, - (Sophie) Sophie! (whispering) It's not polite to stare, Polite? Let's talk about how legal it is to drive with no eyeballs! So, first time in town for you kids? Yeah, we just got here on the bus, It's so amazing, Yeah, it's a pretty nice place, Better than a lot of graveyards I've hung out in, But that don't mean you kids can go running around here by yourselves, Why not? Well, let's just say that there are characters around here that ain't the most savory, Like that kid - Luke, - Who is he? - Ah, he's just a local punk, Thinks he's a big shot just because he got a nose job and had a few warts removed, Claims some shadow creature gave it to him, Ha! Well, here we are - chez Cromwell, Cool! Uh, thanks for the ride, Do you take dollars? Ah, don't worry about it, Catch me in the next life, Ha! Thanks, - See ya, kids, - Bye, He's probably animatronic, Disneyland's full of stuff like that, Yeah, when Mr., Lincoln drives me to the store, we'll talk, - Well, it's locked, Better head home, - No way, This is the perfect chance for me to try my powers, Powers? What powers? Well, I don't know, I haven't tried them yet, Uh, abracadabra, Open sesame? Uh, let's see, Big iron lock that keeps us out, open up your big iron mouth! You call that a spell? - "Out" and "mouth" don't even rhyme! - Will you be quiet? You couldn't open a can of dog food with a spell like that! Look, I'm trying to concentrate here, - Sophie, how did you do that? - I pushed, Plus, I wished the lock would turn into a frog, (croaking) Ooh! Well, this should do it, Mm-mm, There, "Hubble bubble, toil and trouble," Somebody's coming, - This place is awesome, - There she is! Hi, Grandma! - Oh, my stars! How did you get here? - On the bus, I came to start my training, Grandma, Your train,,,? Oh, it was you outside the kitchen, I thought I heard someone listening, Well, I suppose I can assume your mother doesn't know you're here, I dare say that she's going to be very upset when she finds you're gone, - Can't we just call her? - No, no, dear, I'm afraid we haven't worked out long-distance calling between worlds yet, No, I'll have to take you home myself, But you can't take us home! Yeah, We want to help you fight the bad thing! Yeah, the bad thing or the force field, Whatever it is, You said you needed another Cromwell witch, That could be me, You can train me! Yeah, well, I suppose it would be all right if you could stay a little while, As long as we get you home before it's midnight in the Mortal World, But that's only two hours from now, Well, don't panic, dear, You see, time works differently in Halloweentown, Two hours there might be two days here, or two weeks, if we're on vacation, - What's this, Grandma? - Ah, you've discovered the witches' glass, It's been handed down through the Cromwell clan over many generations, I've been using it to keep my eye on things, Now the glass shows me that some evil force is at work here in Halloweentown, (evil laughter) Also, the worst is yet to come, (evil laughter) What can we do to stop it? I'll show you, (sighs) Follow me, Merlin himself used this talisman to end the Dark Ages over in the Mortal World, and I think it's just the thing to tackle our troubles here in Halloweentown, (beeping) Ooh! Hm, Are you cookin' chowder, Grandma? I like chowder, Oh, no, dear, This is witches' brew, It's a little recipe that I picked up in the sixth century, - Around King Arthur's time, - King Arthur?! How's this stuff gonna help? Oh, By bringing this talisman back to life, Pretty! Are you gonna use your magic to raise some spirits, have a big sance and call on the forces of darkness to get it going? No, I'm just gonna fill it up and see if the light goes on, Ooh, If I can get it lit and install it properly, it should suffice to drive away this force that threatens us, That's it? You just fill it up? I do have to say a spell over it, That's why I came - to ask your mother to help me, You see, spells are much more powerful when more than one witch joins in, - Especially if they're Cromwells, - Well, I'll help you, Oh, that's very sweet of you, dear, but you haven't been trained yet, And since your mother isn't of the mind to help, I guess I'm just on my own, (moaning) Bet y March, bet y Guythur, bet y Gugaun, Cledyfrutm anoeth bid! Ha, Oh, drat, That's what I get for trying to use instant, Mm, (sighs) Just doesn't work like it does when you make it from scratch, Well, that's something I can help you with! I can cook! If you count pouring cereal, Ow! Well, let's look at the original recipe, Come, come, Come over here, Now, let's look, Let's all look, Quick, Now see,,, That's it! "Vampire's fang, hair of a werewolf, sweat of a ghost,,," I suppose we could get these ingredients in town, But we have to be careful not to reveal our true purpose, I can't be certain who to trust anymore, - Let's do it! - Yeah! Oh! - All right, - Yes! Then it's settled, Oh! (man on TV) Are you fighting a losing battle with hair loss? Is hair growing everywhere but where you need it? Stop losing, stop thinning, start winning with our special formula for hair replacement. Works like magic. Now that works just like magic, Dylan? Marnie, Sophie?! Mother! - Nice to see you, - Hello, Joe, Is there gonna be a Halloween party today, Grandma? Everybody's all dressed up, Well, this is the way we always dress, dear, The people who started your Halloween just imitated our traditions, Mortals see, mortals do, That's the way your mother ran into your father - by crashing a Halloween party! He loved her witch's costume, - Hello, Aggie, - Hello, Sadie, (Dylan humming) What are you so happy about? I thought you didn't want to come, I decided this really is a dream, so why worry? I like Halloweentown, But why do you have to live so far away, Grandma? Well, there was a time when humans and monsters and witches and vampires and all the rest of us could be together, It was the Dark Times, That was a bad mix, because humans feared us and tried to destroy us, So we did our best to make them miserable in return, But it was turning us evil, which we are not! So, we decided to create our own world, Oh, kind of like when Marnie and I got separate rooms, Precisely, From that day on, we were able to settle down and have homes and children and jobs, And an excellent bowling league, We get really good movies, like It's a Wonderful Death. Oh, it's closed! (screeching) Harriet, The mayor,,, Oh, children, - Here you are, - Thank you, Mayor, Calabar, could I speak to you for a moment? - Of course, Well, hello again, Soapy! - (together) Sophie! Sophie, You know, I think I have an extra sundae,,, oh! Ahh, Ha-ha! - Calabar, - Yes, I just ran into Harriet, and she's completely changed! Her face,,, She was like a wild animal, And she was fine a couple of hours ago, - Really? - This is what I've been telling you about, If she's like the others, then by tomorrow she'll have disappeared altogether, I have to apologize to you, Aggie, I didn't take you seriously about this thing at first, I think you've uncovered something very serious, What is it? What's wrong? Well, I don't have all the details yet, but I do know one thing - I want you to leave this alone for now, Especially with the children, It's much too dangerous for you to be involved with by yourself, Oh! Promise me that? You Cromwells are impossible, Just give me two days, Just two days, that's all, Mm, Come along, children, but let's be real careful, And Marnie, not a wor,,, Oh, Marnie! She's found the brooms, Cool, Flying brooms, Wow, Well, Marnie, Oh, Grandma, look at these things! Yes, they are a bit more snazzier than when I was a girl, Can I get one, please? Please, Grandma? Please? Yes, well, it is the rite of passage for witches your age, Yes! Well, it looks like you got your eye on our WindSweeper 5000, - Is that a good one? - Well, let's see here, Unibody construction, Whoo! Chrome detailing, A microchip directional system, Well, it's the top of the line! If you think you can handle it, Oh, handle it, This is a Cromwell you're talking to, dear, She'll be an expert in no time, Check it out, Well, um, how do you make it go? Oh, you know, by magic, Oh, right, I knew that, How sweet, Buying little Marlie here her first broom, huh? It's Marnie, This is a local boy, Luke, Hey, don't sell me too short there, Grammy, I'm something of a big cheese around here, Maybe I could show you around sometime, Buy you an ice cream, The Abominable Snowman has a little shop down the street, You know, I was kind of hungry, but then,,, I smelled something stinky, It must have been the big cheese, Perhaps another time, Yeah, like never, You know, if you people were smart, you'd be nice to me, I'm friends with some very powerful creatures around here, you know,,, Oh, that Luke dude - he's turned into such a wiener, All right, now, If you want to be totally rad,,, you've got to have the Day-Glo bristles, Now, the Purple Dragonfly here - it's awesome, But I prefer the metallic blue myself, Uh, this one, It's perfect, Can I get it, Grandma? Please? Well, you want me to wrap that up for you? No! We'll fly it out, Whoo-hoo-hoo! Whoo! (laughter) Whoa! Grandma, this is so totally cool, Well, there's a reason why witches don't drive minivans! - Well, how does magic make it go? - Magic is really very simple, All you have to do is want something, and then let yourself have it! Hang on tight, Let's see what this can do, - Ooh! - Whoa! Yee-hoo! - What a witch's life it is, - Yeah! Hi, guys, Whoa, Whoo! - Watch that curb, - Yay, Grandma, Me next, me next, - You next, you next, - I don't think so, Mommy! Oh, I'm sorry if we worried you, dear, I was gonna get them back just as soon as I possibly felt that I could,,, Mother, I cannot believe that you brought them here in the first place, But I didn't, They came to see me, I wanted to help Grandma fight the bad thing, - And I came to get my training, - Training? And I tried to stop 'em, Mom, but they hypnotized me, - And I thought you were brave, - Hey, this is Mom, Stop it, I don't want to hear any more excuses, I want you all just to get back on that bus, because we are going home, But, Mom, Grandma needs help, And since you won't help her, she needs the only other Cromwell witch there is - me, - You are not a witch, - Oh, yes, I am, no thanks to you, You were gonna let my powers go away forever, Marnie, there is so much more involved in this than you understand, I understand that I am here, And I've got a broom, and I'm gonna learn everything that Grandma can teach me, - You will not! - It's her birthright! She was born in the human world and human is what she'll be, No, I won't, You put that broom down right now, young lady, You are grounded, Say goodbye to Grandma, everybody, It's time for us to go home, (sighs) Bye, Grandma, - Come on, - Bye, Marnie? Thanks, Grandma, It was a great ride, Come here, sweetie, - There's nothing wrong with my tie! - Look at it,,, I can't look at it without taking my head off! I'm never talking to you again, you know, Excuse me, I'm so sick of you drinking all this caffeine, You're giving me a headache, - Excuse me, - It's upsetting my stomach, I'm tired of this, - You don't even know which hand,,, Ow! - Excuse me, Excuse me, - (both) What?! - Excuse me, Will you please tell me what time the next bus leaves to the Mortal World? - The bus? - Which bus? - Mortal World? - Isn't that the number six? - That's the only one we've got, - Hey, hey, That's my espresso, - No, no, Hey,,, - And I'm never going to school again! And I'm gonna move someplace really far away and join a motorcycle gang, Marnie, this is not our world, Now drop it, (men arguing) - Excuse me, - I'm on break! Well, it used to be your world, Are you gonna get tired of us too? "Oh, sorry, Those aren't my kids," "They used to be my kids, but I've moved on," - Marnie, not now, - You have the schedule, I don't have the schedule, Why do I have to do everything around here? - Excuse me, What about the bus? - (overlapping) itll be several hours, - Engine trouble, Yeah, that's it, - Scheduling problems, itll be fine, Don't worry about a thing, Well, what do you know? The bus isn't running! - I guess we can't leave after all, - Yay! - What time is it? - There must be some way, Hey, the mayor seems like a nice guy, Maybe he would know, - Dylan! - Ow, That's a very good idea, Let's go, I don't care if the bus is coming, That's not our job, My job is to sell tickets, What do you know about it? There you go with the caffeine again! - What's wrong with the caffeine? - You're killing me! (bell tolling) (cawing) Someone here to see ya, boss, (wolf whistle) Gah! Gwen! Calabar! You're the mayor? (Gwen laughs) Well, I'm,,, Yes, - You didn't hear about the election? - No, It's just a title, really, I have big plans for all of us here in Halloweentown, You are the last person I ever expected to see here, It's been a long time, huh? (Gwen gasps) You always did let your magic do the talking, Thank you, You used to like it, Or have you forgotten that part? Uh, no, - What's goin' on here? - I have no idea, You know, I always hoped you'd come back, Now here you are, Say, I ought to show you around, We could take the Styx river cruise, Have a little dinner, Then I could show you all our old haunts, eh? Um, actually, I'm trying to leave, Uh,,, It seems the bus was delayed, and I was hoping that the,,, You were hoping the mayor could help you out, I'm sorry, (grunting) Excuse me, sir, Miss Sticky here, I'll get right to the point, Have a very urgent message, Ooh! Somebody's on pins and needles! (laughs) Pins and needles, (cackles) Ooh-hoo! (Calabar sighs) This is an emergency, Won't take long, Just stay put, I'll see what I can do for you when I return, Thank you, Kids, What was that all about? Well, obviously he's Mom's old boyfriend, Marnie! I guess you like magic when he does it, huh? That's enough, Oh, and if you marry him, I am not calling him "Dad," I'm not marrying anyone, and this discussion is over, We are going home, - (sighs) - Go away, Luke, I'm not in the mood, Family trouble, huh, Grammy? Guess it's just you again, You know, it must get pretty frustrating, fighting this thing all alone, no one believing you, What do you know about that? I know you've got Merlin's talisman, And he wants it, "He," Who is "he"? Don't know, huh? It's funny, because he knows all about you, And about that brew you were working on, too, Well, if he's so powerful, why is he hiding? Why doesn't he reveal himself? You see, that's why I'm here, He wants to reveal himself,,, to you, Come on, Grammy, admit it, You're dying to know, right? Or is the big, powerful Cromwell witch afraid? I don't fear him or any creature, Take me to him, But, Mom, I mean, you can go home if you want to, I mean, Sophie probably doesn't belong here, and Dylan thinks he's hallucinating anyway, I'll be all right by myself, Marnie, you're 13, But all the other witches get to do all kinds of stuff when they're 13, Just because your grandmother said that you're a witch doesn't make you one, She didn't have to tell me, I-I could feel it, I am a witch, right? Right? Shh, So it's true! I am a witch! Well, how come I never knew? All this weird stuff's been happening to Sophie, Did that stuff happen to me? Yes, Yes, you showed signs of having the powers, and I hid them from you, just like I am doing with Sophie, And I did it for you, Because this is not your world, Your father was human, and that is the world that we live in, Period, Look, if you want to give up your roots, that's fine, but I don't, And it's not right for you to try to make me, Look, Grandma's going somewhere with the wiener dude, I gotta help Grandma, Marnie, you get back here! (sighs) Guys, come on, Why do the troublemakers get all the attention? (door hinges creaking) (door slams shut) Harriet? (laughing) Welcome to my museum, (laughing) So this is why so many have disappeared? First you put them under an evil spell, and then you turn them into statues, No, not statues, They're very much alive! Merely frozen in time until I need them, To do what? To destroy our world? Ah, I know you have Merlin's talisman, Give it to me! I do have the talisman, And soon your hold over the creatures of Halloweentown will be broken forever! No, you foolish witch! You think your magic is more powerful than mine? Yeah, as if that could happen, There is nothing you can do to stop me! Zip, nada, zero, goose eggs, I will bend the creatures of this world to my will, one by one, Two by two and three by three, Will you shut up?! Sorry, Give me the talisman! Never! Then suffer the consequences, No! No, You said she'd be safe, You cannot escape me, old woman, The creature hasn't been born that's quick enough to catch a Cromwell! - Mother? - Grandma? - Get them! - That's it, - Leave my family alone! - I'm out of here, Wastrel youth of benighted hours, be thee vanquished by my powers! Hm? I said "powers," not "flowers," Way to go, Mom! This is your last chance, Give me the talisman, Never! Keep your brother and sister back! Mom! (panting) Gwen! Sleep now, Agatha Cromwell, and when you awake, I will be your master, No! - Come on! - We've got to save them! We can't save them unless we save ourselves first, Come on, Argh! - Marnie,,, - Grandma! We'll be all right, Go! It's just an evil spell that freezes us, Go! Marnie, let's go, Ugh, What are we doing? We gotta get back to Grandma's house, - No, not yet, - Not yet? Are you crazy? That shadow thing is gonna turn us into statues, It isn't gonna follow us, Didn't you see? It can't stand the light, I want Mommy and Grandma, (sighs) Don't worry, Your big sister is gonna get Mommy and Grandma back, - You are? - Well, duh, Of course I am, But there are some things we need to get first, You're gonna do some shopping? Can't this wait? No, we have to finish that witches' brew, Getting that talisman lit is our only chance of saving Mom and Grandma, Here, I copied the ingredients from Grandma's cookbook, - Hair of a werewolf, sweat of a ghost,,,? - Come on, Dylan, We're Cromwells, Together we can conquer anything, (sighs) I don't know, Come on, (overlapping chatter) (hair dryers blowing) Take a gander! Look at you, sweetheart, You are coming along like a fast bride, baby, First stop, Wolfie's, We're gonna start by conquering bad hair? - Well, he is a werewolf, - Can I help you kids? Oh, yeah, um, I was just wondering if you had any part-time jobs available, - Maybe, like, after school or something? - No, no, No, I'm sorry, We don't, Oh, this sulfuric acid treatment is coming along nicely, It's really gonna split your ends and bring out those roots, baby, But I've always wanted to become a beauty technician, Oh, careful, Loki, Careful, She's an herb, not a shrub, OK? Think salad - light, crispy, Well, you know, um, I could really be a help maybe, uh, sweeping the trimmings around the shop, - Maybe even doing some hairstyling, - Don't touch that, OK? - Don't worry, I use these all the time, - Put that down, The other button! Turn it off, Will you please just turn it off? - I'll get it off, I'll get it off, OK? - No, no, The other button, What I need you to do,,, It's only to be used by a trained professionals so just put the thing down, I got it, I got it, The other button, sweetheart, Put the thing down, (howls) - Hey, hey, hey! - Call me if you need me! Come back here, you little hum,,, Hey, this could be a good look for me, Yeah, baby, Round, Round, Run around, Turn and turn, and number two, and turn and turn, And stir the cauldron, One, two, three, With your left hand, now we're gonna stroke and stroke, Keep those hips moving, and stroke, Keep on going, now, Stroke, And, dogs, keep on up with the others, No slobbering on people, huh? Please, Stroke and stroke, Keep on going now, Stroke and stroke, There's gotta be a ghost around here someplace, Come on, (Sophie) Snot Man! Ghosts are dead, Why would they worry about fitness? Come on, - Look, a real ghost, - And a real sweat box, All right, distract him long enough so I can get the sweat, Would you get a grip? He can't sweat, He doesn't have a body, Just distract him, So, uh, did you know that Sea-Monkeys are actually shrimp? No, Keep going, Um,,, Did you know that there is no proper name for the back of the knee? You don't say, (moaning) Very funny, kid, Now go back to your mommy, (moaning) Hey, kid, I don't appreciate stereotypes like that, all right? (Sophie continues moaning) Sure, sure, Make fun of the transparent guy, Just 'cause you can see through us doesn't mean we don't have feelings, Whoo, is it getting hot in here, Hades was nothing compared to this, Can I get some help over here? Burning up! - Attendant! - Yes! Got it! OK, come on, Attendant! Attendant! - Thanks, - Attendant! (high-pitched) Attendant! (screaming) Oh, my, I'm afraid that one's gonna have to come out, Is it going to hurt? Don't hurt me, doctor! I'm not very good with pain, Oh, now, now, Don't worry, you won't feel a thing, Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! (squishing sounds) Wow, doc, That didn't hurt at all, Well, after all, I am the tooth fairy, Vampire's fang, yes! - There she is, Come on, - I got it, I got it! (tires screeching) Say there, if it ain't the Cromwell kids, I hear your mother's in town, Um, well, yeah, she just, uh, she's hanging out with our grandma, We just came to do a little shopping, but we're done now, OK? So, bye, Hey, I got a fare up that way anyway, Why don't you let me give you a lift? On the house, Hey, that'd be great, Thanks, - What is it, Sophie? - The bad thing is in him, - What? - Little kids, What an imagination, huh? Come on, get in, I gotta go, - Wait, who told you our mom was here? - Hey, what's with the third degree here? - Get in the cab! - (screams) Hey, let him go, Help me, Get me out of here, Let me go, Let him go, Let him go, you bonehead, Stop, Come on, you little Cromwell punk, You think you're so smart! Fetch the bone, (screams) Not the dog! (barking) - Thanks, Soph, - Come on, let's get going, All right, here it is, Vampire fang, ghost sweat, werewolf hair a la mode, Here, - What are you waiting for? - I can't remember Grandma's spell, What do you mean, you can't remember? It was Old English or Welsh or something, I mean, give me a break, I have trouble remembering agua. I thought you said you're a witch, The least you can do is remember a dumb spell, OK, OK, Uh,,, "Betty March, Betty Gunther, Betty, uh, Guggenheim, is all that's bid?" OK, um,,, "Better march, better get there, better get going before there's no more beds," That's the best you can do? Why didn't you write it down or,,,? Bet y March, bet y Guythur, bet y Gugaun... What is it, Soph? Bet y March, bet y Guythur, bet y Gugaun, Cledyfrutm anoeth bid. That's it! How did you remember it, Soph? It sounded pretty, so I made up a song for it, Bet y March, bet y Guythur... I like to make up songs, You know, Grandma says that spells are stronger when you have more than one witch, You wanna help me? - OK, - OK, (both) Bet y March, bet y Guythur, bet y Gugaun, Cledyfrutm anoeth bid. - Oh, drat, - Great, it's not working, Now what? Um, let's see, (sighs) Grandma says that spells are simple, That you just have to want it and then let yourself have it, OK, let's do it, (both) Bet y March, bet y Guythur, bet y Gugaun, Cledyfrutm anoeth bid. You did it, you guys, It's lit, I did it! We did it, We're witches, You can celebrate later, Come on, let's get out of here, - Keep the door open, - Duh, Are they gonna be OK? I think so, I can hear her heart beating, Grandma, too, (rumbling) It's the bad thing, Work, you dumb thing, work, Why isn't it working? I don't know, Grandma said something about installing it, What? Installing it? Installing it where? Mortal see, mortal do, What? Remember what Grandma said about our traditions being an imitation of theirs? What about it? Well, when it's dark on Halloween, where do you put the candle? Come on, You can't be serious, You're not actually thinking of going into that thing, I have to, It's the only way to save Mom and Grandma, But what are we gonna do? Stay here, And wish me luck, Good luck, Marnie, Good luck, - Marnie, it's a trap, He's waiting for you, - Out of my way, Luke, Look, about what happened earlier, I didn't know he was gonna do that to your mom and grandma, Save your tricks, twerp, OK? I'm busy, No, I swear, He said all he wanted was the talisman and that he'd let your grandma go, I said get out of my way, He's coming, My fellow creatures, your moment of destiny has arrived, I offer you the chance to return to our days of glory, to end this exile from the Mortal World, which the humans have stolen from us, Follow me, my fellow citizens of Halloweentown, Too long have we been exiled to this second-class world, Forced to live here in this Halloweentown, I've got to install this thing before it's too late, No, he'll see you, You'll end up just like the others, ,,, to our true natures, to celebrate the evil within us, to reveal ourselves as we really are, Calabar? (Calabar laughing) I can't believe Mom dated that guy, Follow me, and together we will reclaim the Mortal World which is rightfully ours, - You knew? - Look, I made an awful mistake, So let me try and make up for it, It's our only chance, But before we can be sure of success, we must find the one who would stop us, The one who is half human, Oh, young Cromwell, you thought you could hide from me? Stop, Give me the talisman, I said stop! Give me the talisman! How dare you disobey me? (crowd screaming) Fooled ya, No! (groaning) He got her and it's not working, We've lost,,, Ow! You see, my friends? The power of evil is stronger than good, Join me, Join me, (Gwen) You are not a witch. (Marnie) Oh, yes, I am, no thanks to you... There's nothing special about me. (Aggie) Oh no, dear. You're very special. You're a Cromwwell. Magic is really very simple. All you have to do is want something and then let yourself have it. (Marnie) Believe. It's working! - Gwen, - Mother, Gwen, the children, (crowd cheering) (grunting) - You did it, - Guys! Good going, Looks like you got more than the weird part down, Ah! Mom! Oh, thank goodness, - Grandma, - Oh! Oh, thank goodness you're OK, Oh, you've got all the power of the Cromwells and twice the guts, - Grandma, it was,,, it was Calabar, - What? So, it was you, Why, Calabar? You could've had me, the most powerful warlock of all, You could have ruled with me as my queen, but you chose a human instead, Well, it turns out she was a pretty good judge of character, Your days of rule are at an end, Calabar, Do not underestimate me, Agatha, Now my darkness will spread unchecked and I will be ruler of both worlds! (laughs) Dictu jubentis vivida... (both) upitidas... Repelle, quod cupidinis ciente vi nos impetit! Don't waste your energies, witches, Your precious talisman is nothing more,,, Man, that jerk, I'd like to,,, I'd like to,,, (Calabar laughing) - Dylan! - What? Looks like we just added another witch to the family, Or should I say warlock? (Calabar),,, like a dark shadow over,,, No way, I don't have any powers, I'm the normal one in this family, Hey, Chocolate Bar, you better give that talisman back or you're in big trouble, You half-human brat, Do you think that your magic is any match for mine? Hm, no, But let's see if my powers and my mom's and my grandmother's and my sister's and my brother's might do it, Hit it, guys, (all humming) Silly witches, You Cromwells have failed, Come on, Dylan, we need you, Believe, (all continue humming) No, No! (screams) No! Oh,,, The talisman! Oh! Ooh! You did a fabulous job, all of you, I'm so proud of you, - Mom? - Yes, sweetheart? You were right, There was a lot about Halloweentown that I,,, I didn't understand, And I'm sorry about the things I said and did, And I'm sorry that I didn't trust you, You are everything I could've ever hoped for in a daughter and so much more, Thank you, Oh, my, you've got quite a coven here, my dear, - And I thought they were a handful before, - Hey, it wasn't me, That stuff coming out of my fingertips was probably just static electricity, Or maybe that aurora borealis thing I was reading about, You know, something like that, I forgot about Luke, Luke? Hi, Wow, So this is the real you? Want to know the worst part? I wasn't even under a spell or anything, I did what I did because he made me handsome, Guess it wasn't much of a reason for being all evil and all, huh? Especially since even when I was good-looking, I didn't have a chance of getting a date with you, - A date? - Yeah, it was stupid, Wow, I guess I didn't turn into a handsome prince though, huh? No, But you did that before when you decided to help me, I never could've done it without you, Thanks, Hey, if you ever come back to Halloweentown, look me up, - I'll do that, - Great, Marnie, we have to go, Luke, we have a job for you, Well, I suppose I'll have to give the children back now, You know, Mother, I have to admit, you're really very good with them, - Thank you, - You know, I was thinking, I could use a babysitter on Thursday nights, You know my PTA meetings, sometimes they go on forever, Well, dear, you know that I can't cross over, Only on Halloween night, Hm, Well, then I guess you're just gonna have to come live with us, That is, if you want to, Grandma's gonna come live with us? Oh, that'll be so cool, OK, I can show you all my books, and I have all the Frankenstein movies on video, And then you can show me how to,,, Oh, no! Where's my broom? Oh, don't panic, dear, don't panic, (whistles) Yes, follows me everywhere, Open it up, open it up, open, My broom! - I thought we could continue your studies, - Yes, - Uh, no, - What? I'm gonna be finishing your training, Oh! (ringing bell) All aboard for the Mortal World! Oh! All aboard, all aboard, Come on, the smallest first, I'm gonna figure out how this thing works, We've got the bag, On you go, on you go, Watch your step, - Bye, bye, - (applause) See you, everybody, Bye, (Dylan) Bye, Bye, Thanks, kids, See you in the afterlife, Ha! Bye, Benny, (all) Bye! See you later, I can feel it in my bones, Ha! See ya, So long, Bye, kids, 5@y3
