 

                        Look, it's a nice place What if we move here? If we really move the Palace here... I wonder if Royal Father will scold us? I don't care if he scolds us or not Most important is I can fight You're a girl, can't you be a fair lady? You have nothing in mind but fighting! I've learnt martial art for years so I want someone to fight with me No one dare to fight with me in the Capital A stupid king! Bullshit! Martial art is an exercise, not for fighting But I really want to meet some robbers... Now that our bodyguards are back in town... I can show them my ability if there're robbers Better still if they're masked and with good kung-fu skills Boatman, wait! Wait... Boatman, can you row the boat back here? Sister, they don't look like robbers, shall we let them get aboard? No! I've paid for the boat You go away! I beg you, Miss Yes, please Beg me? You jump over then Okay, we'll jump! You robbers! She said you're robber Miss, we're not robbers! Master, here Please don't be misunderstood Shut up! Miss, please listen to me Sister, stop at once Miss, sorry, excuse us You hear? They apologised already Is it apology? What is your name? I am Chin Chiang, from the Capital Excuse my asking, where are you rushing? I'm Mi-chi, I live in Hangzhou I have urgent matters at home, so I need a boat Please excuse me It's okay, it's good you live in Hangzhou I'm going to Hangzhou as well I don't know the place, could you be our guide? Sure, of course Wait finish my affairs, I'll show you around town Good, come and have a cup of tea now Good, thanks You've got what you want now Don't kill him! Stop! Stay put! Don't move! Miss, are you alright? I'm fine, you're kung fu expert You're flattering me, Miss Now robbers have gone, who will play with me? What do you want to play? Fighting! Miss... Who is that lady? My sister, Piyue What? Your sister is barbarian, you're not a good brother either, look! Okay, I will teach you a lesson if you come again Why must you get involved? Miss, don't be too much! I like that! Teach her a lesson, plank her asses! He bullies me! You deserve this, I think you should be punished You're unreasonable, apologise to Mi-chi now I won't apologise! You conspire with outsiders to bully your sister, what brother are you? Brother Chin, thanks for giving us a lift Come to play at my home when we arrive Hangzhou, okay? You must come, it's a deal Miss Piyue, goodbye I must show you around town when we arrive Hangzhou It's a deal Piyue, dare you play at his home? Why not? He will beat you I wonder who will be suffering then Brother, we must have those robbers... No, if we alert officers here, Royal Father will learn, and we can't play on Right...I forget that Look... Proprietor, we've tried our best You're rubbish! You failed to do what I asked you to! We didn't know Mi-chi and Mi-an interfered with We could not fight... with the 4 of them I won't spare Mi-chi, he spoilt my plot! Mi-chi has been travelling for 3 years He must have made progress in martial art Proprietor, you must be careful A man as simple-minded as he... can't be up to anything at all Mi-an, how's the funeral going? Mister, don't worry With Uncle Kang here, you needn't worry He can handle even 3 funerals at the same time Bullshit! Master! Excuse me Master! Uncle Kang! It's bad... Uncle Kang, what's on? The dead jumped out from the coffin... to order you about? Why...you bullshit? Master, you must control him I'll slap myself! Uncle Kang, what is it? Master, many guys come for the funeral No problem, the more the better Old caretaker worked for us for ages, he had no sons or daughters Those guys will surely cheer him Old caretaker is dead, you still cheer everybody? No...I mean... it's good if the funeral gets grand You mean you want to make the funeral hectic I see... Go ahead Master, listen to me... Now that old caretaker is dead... you must take good care... of your huge property You must care about it... Uncle Kang, let's talk about that later Okay, yes...but first listen to me... you have such huge property... Uncle Kang, someone wants to see you outside... Uncle Kang... Someone wants Uncle Kang? Yes, someone wants to see you, it's Sister Ho Uncle Kang, someone wants you, it's true Uncle Kang... Go at once, it's true Coming! Master, you must remember my words... Go at once... You must remember... It's troublesome We can't play anymore Master, you've played for a long time You should start work now I only like martial art, I know nothing about business How can you fight all the time? This is not fighting, this is an exercise Pretext! Chen, Cheng, how are you? Master Mi, we've been buddies But you've been away for 3 years... We rush here as people say you're back We're buddies, stop the politeness We come to see... if there's anything we can help Yes, we have too many people but not enough money Do you have any? Don't bullshit, we Mi family has lot of money Old caretaker was in good luck He died on a very lucky lunar date He was luckier than most people Chen, you mentioned his death happily... do you want your family to die too? Don't be so rude! Master Mi, I was sad when I heard the news Old caretaker looked after you so long and was kind to us all It is as if my family member had died Pretend that you were his son and perform his funeral? Right...you might perform his funeral I... I was only joking Master Mi... Stop kidding No joke Let's stop the talking, and pay our lost respect to old caretaker Sure... Come on Let's go this way Master, you mustn't run about outside all day These are ledgers of Mi family You must do them up well Uncle Kang, how can I handle them? You do them for me Master, how can I do them for you? I have to cook 3 meals, clean up... and to serve your guests I still have to check the servants... I...I don't know accounting at all How can I manage them? Uncle Kang, I haven't learnt accounting either Master, you've been away for so long How come you haven't learnt it? Mi-an... Look at yourself... What have you done with Master these 3 years? Uncle Kang, he's Master, I can't control him You speak back? Let's do while learning No way... Forget it...don't talk any more You go and find me an accountant It's a deal... My Master... We Mi family has such huge property... how can we find just anyone to manage? If so... Master... A Chin brother and sister looks for Master Ask them in at once! Stay away from this... Go and tell that guy... Tell him Master has gone on a trip... No... Uncle Kang, he's my guest, he's my friend Master, I know he's your friend... So rude! Run...we're going now Just try it myself... Hello, this way please... Get refreshment now, go Yes! Brother Chin, where've you been these few days? I don't know Hangzhou well, I haven't been to anywhere special Okay, let me show you around when I have time That's perfect Where are you staying now? At an inn How come? Move and stay here It's bad to bother you It's nothing serious... Piyue Do you like Hangzhou? Yes, I do But brother doesn't take me anywhere West Lake and Lufeng Pagoda, are tourist spots, I can show you there Perfect! I can also take you... to visit bazaar Right, is there kung fu house in Hangzhou? Sure, there are lots of them I like martial art indeed, I want to practise with you if you have time You mean it? It's a deal! From your performance on the boat that day, you can learn martial art well Can I? I want to know what level have you learnt? I'm not good at real fighting Brother Mi, you must teach me if you have time Fists ask for force Force? How to practise? You're a girl, you can't practise fist styles from Northern China Fanman, do you feel bored? Of course, they keep chatting and chatting Let me take you out for a walk Sure Come on You might practise Ahwei Sword, it's feminine I have a friend who practises Ahwei Sword Can you...take me to visit your friend? Sure, maybe another day I want to practise more Why so eager? I can beat you if I succeed I won't take you there then If you don't take me there, I'll beat you now No way, you are not up to me That boat is very nice Right, if you like, I'll give it to you Miss Chin, Master will give himself to you sooner or later What do I need him for? Tie him by bed as a toy Shut up! Shut up! Look, you both talk alike But you will soon quarrel Why? You must first quarrel then become husband and wife You... You're looking for trouble? Never mind him, let's go ahead He's too much! They both act alike as well Here comes the fish! Eat more I don't want to eat Why? I never expected Hangzhou is such a nice place It's good if we don't have to go home I have an idea What is it? You might marry our Master You go away! Go! Go away... Don't... Go away with your debts and misfortune! Go away! Beat it! Mistress, but I... Go away! But I am so ill now I never ask you to be ill Take your illness away with you, go! Even an injured dog should receive mercy I am indeed a poor dog, it is exactly as you After eating the food I gave it... it turned to me and bit me! Mistress, I... Mistress, I beg you... If you touch me again, I'll show you what a heroine is You... Go away, at once! This is too much! You're not human being! Master, she's starting a fight again You stay out of this! I must interfere with this! Stop that! Hey, Master Mi Mistress, just take it easy You beat him so hard Are you alright? You are too much It's nothing much indeed I just pushed lightly, and you acted the same... It's good if my dead husband was so kind-hearted as you Mistress, you pushed him lightly and he's bleeding already So if you push him hard, he'll die instantly? You mustn't say so! Let me revenge for you! Master Mi, look at this, these scoundrels are like flies, they paster in my inn and never leave, they owe me rent and even borrow from me How can I take up such tortures? You mean it Master, don't be taken in by her lies Mi-an! Sir, I am a scholar too Something occurred in my home so I was forced to stay here I beg you to help me, please Don't worry, Master will help you out Hey man, you never pay for your room and food here, you have very good excuses Master Mi, just because of these scoundrels... that I suffer much loss I say you're the scoundrel! It's hard for a woman to run an inn When do you see the hardship she confronts? Forget it! Master Mi, you're most understanding Mi-an, go get 100 taels and give them to this Mistress I'll pay for the 10 taels this master owes her But remember, you must help those poor scholars in future Ever a hero will have a hard time one day Master Mi, you're correct... to invest your money with me Mi-an, help this master home, and find a doctor for him Thanks, Master Master, I hope when one day you're in bad luck... someone will help you like this Let's go I'll take it... I can handle If this tigress lives in the Capital... I must send her to jail I must lock her in jail for ages Don't act rashly If you reveal our identity, we must go home at once You want to go, but I don't I don't want to go home either Okay, I'll be more careful in future I say Brother Mi is very kind-hearted, he's a real hero Mi-chi is very good, but he must know well the person he is helping There should be a limit of generosity Master Wu is much better now Thanks for Master Mi and Miss for helping me I am so grateful to you It's a trivial... We practice martial art, we must help those poor people We should help you Master Wu, since you're recovered, you should pack things and leave You keep occupying my room, so I have nowhere to sleep Shut up! Don't blame him, Master Wu, he's just like a kid I won't Master Mi, I admire you, you're a real kind person That's why I say this treasure finds its owner What is it? During Han Dynasty, people fought hard for the world... There were battles everywhere in all those years And this jade witnessed all those historical events People say this jade can cast evils away It can also cure diseases and has de-toxic effect But its owner must be... a real righteous hero... in order to make it efficacious It sounds magic Of course It looks very valuable, right? It is that piece of jade... Han's Emperor Liu Pang gave to Hang Yu Who is Liu Pang? A fairy Master Mi, I paid 3000 taels for this piece of jade Even His Majesty... will want to possess this valuable jade Master Chen, I say you want to possess our Master Master Mi, this jade... ...is my present to you No...how can I accept such valuable thing? It's my present to you Master Mi, don't refuse Master Chin, what do you think? I'm ignorant, I've never seen such precious thing Then...I will take it Mi-an, get 5000 tales for Master Chen No, it's my present to you, how can I take your money? You must take it Take it, you long for it already Chen, take it Okay, I'll take it I still have a precious horse Master Mi, come and take a look outside Right... Come It's this horse This horse is very nice Master Mi, this is a royal horse It's hard to get it from Palace Master Mi, let me give this royal horse to you as present No way... How can I take this good horse from you? Take it What a good horse! Very pretty! Master Mi, go take a ride It can run very fast, and long distance too Mi-an, go get 5000 taels and send it to Sisa Chateau Master Mi, you're too generous You get lots of money again Someone come! Take this royal horse to Master Mi's stable Yes! Do you know this royal horse? How come I know a horse from Royal Palace? As long as Master Mi knows it is enough This Mi-chi is a naughty boy He doesn't take us along when he goes for a ride We'll leave if you don't like, okay? No need It's a good place here... The food here is good as well I don't want to leave here You don't want to leave here or Mi-chi? I can't help if you like that Look Mi's family collection is... as good as in the Palace Hey Miss Piyue, why aren't you riding with Master Mi? Master Mi is a careless person He doesn't know how to take care of others He needs to be taken care of Does he, brother? I hear Master Chin is from the Capital I wonder what you're doing? I'm only doing small business in the Capital I hear Master Wu is also from the Capital I used to be accountant in Yungpao Shop Others say Hangzhou is a good place, so I come and take a look here I never expected I'd run into poverty here I say Master Chin you're a very special person What special person? Let me tell you frankly I suffer loss in business and even run up with debts I nearly got arrested So I am on the flee to Hangzhou You take it seriously? I was only joking with you Master Wu Master Mi This... Just then Uncle Kang was doing the ledgers He felt faint so I sent him for a rest And I'm helping him to close up the ledgers I'll finish it soon You can do accounting? Yes, I used to be accountant in the Capital Were you? I'm not a competent accountant at all Perfect, I'm looking for an accountant right now Help me, I'll let you handle all my ledgers Master, I fear I am not up to it It's okay...you can do it well Don't turn me down, I'll hand all the ledgers to you I get headache whenever I see these ledgers Master, I fear... Don't panic...I'll let you handle all the ledgers in future Help me check the entries Okay, it's a deal, I'll leave now Thank you What good luck! Mind your steps, Master Congratulations on becoming caretaker, Master Wu Thanks I need help from you two in future You're welcome Proprietor, today's Treasure Meeting is a success Right We must be generous to Master Mi Only Master Mi is generous, while you two get the reward What do you mean by this? Treasures from you two really make me excited Of course Proprietor Cheng, you mustn't be too happy Your so-called royal horse... is not much better than a donkey Why didn't you crack my plot just then? Though I'm timid, I am an ambitious man I see, you must have your plot by entering Mi's family? I say you're biased against we two! Of course not, though I am ambitious... I dare not do wrong to you, Officer Chen I dare not do wrong to you either, Proprietor of Sisa Chateau I like obedient pets Wu Yan, just keep on like this I'll feed you up when I feed my horses Cheng, don't speak that to me I never fear a barking dog On the contrary, I'll bite it before it bites me How dare you talk to me like that? Cheng... There are only greedy people in this house So don't pretend you're an honourable person Master Wu, you count me in as well? Of course But the most greediest guy is me I'm ungrateful, I'm sly I never help others, I never harm the innocent And the second...is you, Cheng And you, you're wicked You ask for nothing but money Gook, straight to the point Good... Being a sly guy who speaks frankly... is much better than... being a righteous person Proprietor, do you agree? Wu Yan, I'm beginning to like you We've been here for a long time So we must go back to the Capital tomorrow I...I don't want to go, it's boring at the Palace It's different here, as Master Mi accompanies me Don't you fear he beats you? I like him as he dare beat me Aren't you shy? You always complain to Royal Father... whenever I scold you... This is so unfair You're a Princess, you must marry an Imperial Highness I said I will never marry an Imperial Highness Okay, you said so, you mustn't regret that I will never regret that I swear We have to leave now Do take care, Brother Chin You must take care too This fan is my beloved belonging, I give this to you I've written some words on it When you arrive at the Capital, you can find me by holding it Hangzhou 12? What does that mean? You will know when that moment comes, don't ever lose it Sure Put it away properly Sure, thanks, Brother Take care Take care Piyue You must come You must come in one year I'll be waiting for you Goodbye Fanman, don't forget what you have said You must show me around when I arrive the Capital Sure, goodbye... Master Mi... I've been looking for you Master Cheng, come...sit down Get me some tea, and snacks too Coming! Come on, please... What do you want me for, Cheng? Master Mi, I have a transaction, which will bring me much profit But all my money is invested on elsewhere I hope you can help me out We're buddies, I'll help you How much do you need? Only 300,000 taels? I'll send it to Sisa Chateau tomorrow Let me write you a promissory note No... No need, with our friendship I must thank you then, Master Mi Master Cheng, have some tea Please Shoot the arrows! Yang, what's up recently? In Suzhou Master Chen, I've been looking for you Master Mi, your shop has been robbed Is there any news? Have the robbers been arrested? Master Mi, we're buddies I must help you this time How is situation? I've arrested some guys, I'm questioning them now I'll inform you once there's news It's too good, thank you Pay your debts, or I'll report to the Officer! I have to leave now I can't look after you any more, take care yourself Uncle Kang, don't you worry... Mi-an, come here... I'll hand Master to you You must take good care of the Master Remember this I will remember, don't worry, Uncle Kang Master, I got to go now He's annoying All aged men are like this Master, let's pick Uncle Kang back... once the incident is over It's not that easy You mean it Look, nothing is left Master Mi How is it, Master Wu? All the debts have been paid off Great! Do we have money to pay the debts? I have sold the house You have sold the house? You sold the house? It's property of Mi's family! Right, how can you sell property of my family? Yes, I know, it's property of your family But the debtors reported to Officer I don't want to see you to be sent to jail Okay...it had to be sold, how much did you sell it for? And after paying off the debts... Only 20 taels left Why didn't you discuss with us first? Do we owe others so much? Let me check Look, have we paid off all the debts? Yes, it's all paid off It's good to have paid off all debts It's better to owe others money Master, the new owner of the house will come soon Go pack things now I have bothered you for a long time I have to leave now Master Wu... You're all alone, this 20 taels... Master... Please take it I mustn't take it Give it to me instead of him... Shut up! He's a stranger here, he's poor Pick it up... Keep it, for your life Master, how...can I thank you? I must leave now Take care We're running into difficulties, and you still gave him the money? Why don't you greet me, the King? Your Majesty What are you thinking about? I am wondering about Brother Mi You're biased! You never miss me when I leave the Palace You have so many wives and concubines, I needn't miss you You never care about me Master Cheng, you have sold the goods already? Yes, I have Okay, we have money to buy back the house now Master Cheng, please pay back... What do you want me to pay back? Master Cheng, you did borrow money from me, you forget? Master Mi... You mustn't joke with me We Sisa Chateau is doing big business We never borrowed... any money from you! He wants to deny Be furious to him! I borrowed your money? Is there a promissory note? If you have, I'll pay you back double I trust you so I didn't ask you for a note Shit, even brothers must be clear in money affairs Well, you and I are just ordinary friends No one would trust you if you haven't got a promissory note Cheng Fa, are you serious or are you kidding? I never joke with a nuts Cheng! I know you deny the debts, let me teach you a lesson! Shut up! Who are you to speak here? Let me do it! Don't be lenient! You always pride yourself on your martial art, I must see it today Why didn't you kill him? The hair sticks on me You're hungry after the fight, let's go eat something You should settle up your rent today Pay her the rent now Mistress, where's the 100 taels we gave you? That 100 taels, this... It's settled up for the poor scholars, no more left I'm so sorry You have finished? I'll clean it now You'd better go away I'm sorry... Sorry to bother you Mi-an, let's go to Uncle and see if he can help Uncle, our Old Master did help you before Uncle, for the sake of Master... No... You go away... Say no more! Go elsewhere if you want to borrow money, go away... Do you have any conscience? I want to borrow from you but you treat me this way? Remember how well my father treated you in those days? I must buy all your shops in future You...eat shit! It's Mi's House We haven't seen Wu for a long time, so we want to see him Wrong... It's not Mi's House, it's Wu's House Right... It's hard to predict I wonder who become rich tomorrow Master Cheng, if you want to do the same tricks in Wu's House... you can never achieve that Though we're sly, we're never as dirty as you, Master Wu Master Cheng, you're flattering me, we're the same kind of people Master Cheng, where's your pigtail? You cut it off? Why, you want to be a monk? Don't hurry, I have a present for you You deserve making a fortune If we co-operate, Hangzhou will belong to us Look, no one lays an eye on you anymore Forget it... Even they have money, they never pay you back Say no more You used to be too generous... Wu's House? How come it is Wu's House? Except for Mi's family, there's no other rich family in Hangzhou Who's the Wu family that bought my house Let's find some food I really don't want to scold you... Say no more Clean the place all over Wu Yan? Go away if you don't want to work! Wu Yan, so it's you who bought my house? You... Why? If turn away the money I'll be punished by Heaven You ungrateful, it's you who stirred up all trouble! Master Mi, as you never stir up trouble, you become a poor guy now Wu Yan, you are too much! Our Master saved your life... and gave you the 20 taels left after selling the house And now you treat him this way? If an honest guy must become poor... while a wicked man becomes rich I'd rather become a wicked man I now understand It's you who made me lose my properties You sly! You lousy servant I'll beat you up if you speak on again! I tell you, I bought this house with real money What can you do to me? Report to Officer if you can Mi-an... Let's go! Why did you stop me? Why didn't you let me beat him? Beat him? How can we beat him with the way we are now? We're only hungry, remember we have always fought with others We can fight even when we are hungry I fear you will be killed as you are hungry, it's too bad then What is it? Buy some red potatoes What is this? Grilled red potatoes How come I have never eaten this before? Master, your leftover was even better than this, how come you ate it? How much is a catty? Okay, I'll buy them all Wait... What is it? You have money? No No? You have money? I don't have You have a little I don't You have a little I really...have a little... Let me handle I now have 2 cents He's Master Mi, you know him? Let's buy one first If it's delicious, we'll buy them all Haven't Mi's family gone bankrupt? What? Don't bullshit! Don't bullshit! Don't bullshit We only sold the house and moved away A bigger one, we want to try one first Here 2 cents for you Wait, put it down... This one...is better I paid you 2 cents already Don't choose about Isn't this too small? Okay...take this Go... Sweet and tasty red potatoes Very sweet... Red potatoes! We can't really fight when we are hungry We can't fight I must kill you as you cut off my pigtail, beat them You alone? Is there any problem? No problem Go! Master, get a pole as weapon! Give me! Chase them! Master... Master, I've bought red potatoes, eat it now I have no appetite What's on? Nothing You're ill? Don't bother me, I won't eat! Master, you'll have no strength if you don't eat Come on, you eat the big one while I eat the small one I won't eat, don't bother me Master, don't be peevish We mustn't spend our money so fast We need it as expenses to go to the Capital I won't eat Come on, eat it I said won't eat, didn't you hear? Why not eat it? You still think you can eat whatever you like now? But you just scold at me! Come on, eat it Come on, it's getting cold now Don't be peevish You must be hungry You're just like a spoilt kid, come on Let's go to the Capital Master, get up... It's dawn Master, you must be starving? I have some food here Eat it I won't Eat a bit, Master Eat it then we'll set out for the Capital Where did you get this? What is this? How can I eat this stuff? Look...what kind of house is this? What house is this? It's a broken house! You want me to sleep on hay; there're bugs biting me It's cold and with no food! You're useless! You're rubbish, I was so good to you! Why...are you losing temper to me? Did I bring all this misfortune to you? Why don't think for yourself? Others brought you a horse and you paid them 5000 taels They brought you a jade and you paid them another 5000 taels Did I spend up all your money? All those who cheated your money have left you Now only me is by your side taking care of you Why are you losing temper to me? Did I do anything wrong? What did you say? How dare you say that to me? Who do you think you are? You're only a servant! You think you're a Master? Go away! I didn't ask you to accompany you, you made that decision yourself Go away, leave me if you want! You keep losing temper to me, and now cast me away? Who takes care of you if I go away? Very hot... Mi-an, red potatoes are cooked, very good Mi-an, what's wrong with you? You have a temperature? Your hands are cold, what's on, Mi-an? I've just...been bitten by a snake... Bitten by a snake? Where? On the leg On the leg? What shall we do? What shall we do? Mi-an, what shall we do? Open the door... Help! Open the door! Doctor... What is it? Doctor, my friend is in danger, come and help him It's late He's over there, come on Do you have money? Do you have? I...I've no money... No money no way Go away... Doctor... You're inhuman! You're a doctor, if you don't heal patients, why do you become doctor? Help...Help... Mi-an... How do you feel? Master... I am useless...I can't take care of you, Master Master, you have never... never treated me...like a servant It's my happiest days in my life to be with you You were born a good man But you must be a clever good man in future You mustn't let others cheat you anymore Keep this red potato for yourself I can't eat anything now... Mi-an... Mi-an! You mustn't die... Mi-an, I'm ignorant... I'm too capricious, I've harmed you now... I'm so sorry to you... Master, I haven't died yet You're still alive! Get up...get up now! You scared me to death... It's good you haven't died... You scared me to death... Doctor...open the door... Doctor...open the door, quick... Open the door, doctor, open the door! Why are you here again? He's dying, doctor... No money no talk I beg you...doctor, I beg you... I kneel and kowtow to you, doctor! Help him, save him, doctor! Okay, come in Thanks...thanks for rescuing him! Mi-an...Mi-an, quick... You can survive now... You needn't die now Come on, I'll help you inside Mi-an, drink the medicine Thank you, Master How is it now? Why is it so hot? Hot medicine forces the snake poison out You force my urine out too Good if it's out, the urine brings the poison out Pretext! Go make the soup now Okay...I'll go... You deserve this today Quick! Brother, there's no reason at all A year has passed and Brother Mi hasn't come yet He may be on a trip with his friends No, Brother Mi won't eat words Trust me, he must be having a good time now I say he won't Yes, we can We can eat? Get me some! Don't waste it Master, is it cold? Yes, a bit cold It's...Uncle Kang! Uncle Kang... Uncle Kang! Master! Get up at once! How come you're here? Uncle Kang, how are you? Master, why have you become like this? We... Do you live nearby? I live not far from here, come to my place now Is it delicious? Yes, it is... Master, don't eat so quickly Eat it slowly It is really delicious! Uncle Kang, what...is this? What is this? It's very tasty Master, you really don't know? I don't know It's delicious, I don't know what this is It's the food you left over You're kidding, Uncle Kang How come the leftover is so tasty? Master, listen to me In those days, whenever we ate dumpling... you only ate the filling and not the pastry, right? You still remember? I dried the pastry and took them home What you're eating is the pastry you left over When Old master was alive... our family was so big and influential Now you've lost all the properties within just a few years Mi-an, you're to be blamed for that too None of my business, Uncle Kang Master only ate the filling and not the pastry... was indeed your idea, you think I didn't know? Eat it... There're lots of, eat it slowly Mi-an, take this money Uncle Kang, no, Master will scold me if he learns this Speak softly... don't let Master hear this Mi-an, it's a long way to the Capital You need money for expenses But, Uncle Kang, this... Take it Where are you going? To the Capital To the Capital? Sitting for exams or meeting Officers? It's not easy to meet Officers We're not meeting Officers You're sitting for exams? If you become Officers, you must understand our difficulties No... What no? You're irresponsible this way Whether you're Officer or not, you must take up responsibility... ...to yourself and others Do you agree with me? Let's talk about this after we become Officers Hey, anybody home? Nobody here, Master Let's take a look in front Is there anyone in? The door is not locked, is there anybody How is it? Master, no one is here Master, this place is not bad Not bad, really not bad Master, come...sit down I'll see if there's any food Find some food, I'm starving Who is it? Come out! No... No, I have a baby It's a girl Sorry Don't be afraid Don't panic, we're not thieves Because it is cold outside... Yes, because it's so cold outside... We come in to take shelter We...take shelter, don't be afraid... Is this your house? You live here? No I'm also taking shelter here even it's not my place We've only just arrived We're looking for food We're very hungry indeed I have some congee, take and eat it How can we eat it? We mustn't eat it Help yourselves Thanks, let's help you We'll help you clean the place How come you're alone here? Why? A guy cheated me My family cast me away because of this You're poor How come you're here? I even took you as thieves She said you're like a thief We walked a long time outside... Miss, how come there was no one in the street? I used to live in this village Not long ago robbers arrived here They robbed us and killed many people All villagers fled for life They now live in a neighbouring village I see So she used to live here Miss, what are you...going to do? I want to... give birth the baby, then go home This is the only thing you can do Yes, this is the only thing to do If you need help, just call for us, we can help you Right, call for us It's done, the congee is ready Come...and get the congee Very good Eat it Miss... What's on? Miss, are you alright? Nothing, I just feel unwell You need help? I can handle, eat the congee... What's happening to her? She seems to have belly-ache She ate something wrong? She hasn't eaten anything, no way She has...belly-ache? Is the baby coming out? Miss, what's happening? Miss... The baby is coming out She's giving birth! Miss, you're delivering? What shall we do? Master, what shall we do? She's delivering! What shall we do now? You want a mid-wife? Boil water... Mid-wife? Where to find a mid-wife? No villagers here, where to find a mid-wife? Miss, tell us what to do, what shall we do? Go boil some water... I'll ask Master to boil water Go...boil some water... Miss, what's next? We've boiled water already It hurts... What shall we do? Bear it... Come on... It has come out! Thank you. Masters Miss, shall we give the baby a name? Give her a name... I have never received education What if you give her a name? We? Sure... What name shall we give her? What's her father's name? Right, what's her father's name? Her father dumps her... It's better if she takes your name Take our name? Good, terrific... Our name is Mi We were eating rice when she was born, let's called her Mi-fan (Rice) Mi-fan... Bullshit! Let me do it You the same What name shall we give her? Be good... What name? Piyue... You only have Piyue in mind Piyue means moon and goose Let's called her Goose, okay? Goose...Goose Mi... Good name! Is Goose a good name? Mi-fan is not bad either It's done Miss... Okay, let's call her Goose Don't shout... Miss, take a rest Tomorrow morning we'll go to the neighbouring village... to find something for the baby Thanks Be good, Goose Mi... We're back We're back, we've bought a lot of things We've bought a lot of food... Goose's mother Let's sit down first Where is she? Where? Goose... She's left alone here Where is her mother? She's crying, help her up Take her legs up, be careful! Her head! Turn around... Don't block my hands! You're careless, what do you mean? Goose, stop crying...why are you crying? Look, there's a letter... Stop crying, Goose, stop crying... Mi-an, her mother has gone! Gone? It's bad this time Why is she crying hard? Has she pissed? See if she has pissed, look... Stop crying, Goose... No, it's dry Is she hungry? Right, she may be hungry, we're hungry too What shall we give her to eat? What did you eat when you were a baby? Milk of course, or else red potatoes Let her bite your fingers for the moment Fingers are dirty Just let her bite anything, take off your clothes... Are you mad? Let's go and find something for her Okay She never stops crying, what shall we do How come I know? Figure it out I have no idea Let her suck the fingers Don't, fingers are dirty What shall we do? I have an idea Wait! Wait...don't go... What are you doing? Don't be afraid Has she had enough? She has had enough Enough? Good... Be careful Mi-an, put this on... Thanks No thanks Thanks Be careful You've had enough, not crying? Good girl... Goose, sleep now Moon shines on the ground Are you thinking of homeland? Thanks No thanks Thanks very much Mind your steps Sorry to bother you She finished one so soon? Look, she's smiling at me Don't shout... Where have you been? Why did you dump Goose behind? Where have you gone? Say! It's hard to say I...I want to get Goose back Do you know it's dangerous by doing this Do you know it's dangerous by doing this You're lucky with us here You'll regret... if anything happens to Goose Listen to me You're irresponsible by doing so! One must be responsible... not only to oneself, but to others too It's wrong to be irresponsible like this It's wrong to do this, you know? When did you learn such things? Just now Do you understand? Do you understand? Goose Goose... Mi-an, how much money do we have? Just a little Take it No... Goose needs it, even if you don't Take it Be careful, don't let Goose catch cold Thanks Right, it's late, go home Thanks, Masters! Get up Remember to take good care of Goose I will I'll pick up Goose when we finish our affairs Go home now Thanks! Go now We've arrived the Capital Master, open the fan and see Yes, open the fan and we might find Master Chin Sir, excuse me... Lunatic! Princess has arrived! Who is it? Master, she looks like Piyue How come Piyue is Princess, nonsense! Take a look, Master, it's really Piyue! Lower your head or you'll be beheaded! Excuse me, do you know... Hangzhou 12 Excuse me, do you know it... Excuse me, do you know this Hangzhou 12? Sir... I don't... I don't No one listens to us Right Master, it's getting dark What shall we do now? Let's get a place to sleep It's cold, where shall we sleep? Sir, do you know it? No one knows the owner of this fan, let's get a place to sleep now You scared me to death! Why still playing? Master, look, it's horrible Right, it's dark and dim here Master, look, there're some statues It's only a coffin, why shout? Go and take a rest there We can sleep a while Who? Who is it? Mi-an, don't panic, it's human Why are you here? Say! Don't be misunderstood We happened to pass by It's cold and we have no place to sleep So we're taking shelter here Sorry to disturb you Right... Where are you from? Hangzhou Hangzhou? Where is Hangzhou? I don't know Boss, I know It's behind our temple They went there only last night Hangzhou is in southern, far from here Very far away? I don't know Let me explain We come all the way... to find someone Find me? Who are you looking for? Who are you looking for? Master, show it to them It's a long story, look at this Zhouhang...20? What does that mean? What is this? Right? I don't know either I'm looking for the owner of this fan Owner of this fan? You come to the right place You know him? I know the Capital best I'll bring you there tomorrow, sleep now Mi-an, you believe them? We must believe them now We already found him for a whole day Let's see when morning comes Hangzhou is a good place Hold it... Be careful! What's special with a cart? Must I kill you horse? I know Hangzhou very well Didn't you say you never went to Hangzhou? You blamed me when you disturbed me sleeping last night They don't look reliable Master, it's better with their help than walking about ourselves We don't know this place at all Aren't you taking us to the owner of the fan? He's in front... In front? Leave protection money Leave protection money What are you doing? Give you a bowl, beggar You should make your own living, we can't support your life You think you're Imperial Highness? Go get some money yourselves Let them beg for money I'll go! I'll go too You... Have mercy on me You, have mercy on me, give me some food Have mercy on me... I say they're stupid They get no food but a quilt You told us last night you know many people here, that you can help us find the owner of the fan We looked a whole day but to no avail You know no one, you only know lying! We're not lying, aren't we looking for him? But he has left home You're unlucky, we're not cheating Right, you're in bad luck But you said you know him and would take us there Now you fail and you said we're in a bad luck? We really know him You're in bad luck not to find him Okay...say no more! Do you know where we can find the Princess Sure Where? You can see her every First and Fifteen of the month Right, go and see her then If you don't believe it, ask His Majesty When His Majesty sees us, he has to call us brothers Otherwise, you can never find them Chau Chau, Nau Nau Yes, Your Highness Say, is being Princess good? You never need to worry life... and can enjoy everything, of course it's good Then what's the weak point of being Princess? Your temper is bad Why is the temper bad? As her lover has gone, so... Nonsense! I only worry about Brother Mi It's a year...and he hasn't come yet I hope he can come soon Princess, look, it's snowing Yes, it is Master, don't think anymore We will surely find Piyue Go in and eat something Have mercy on me... Have mercy on me Don't touch me or I'll beat you! Old master, have mercy on me Okay, take this Thanks... Mi-an...I've got it, look You said the Princess will come, but she hasn't Do you mean it today? Don't cheat us again Don't worry, the Princess promises to come today I am familiar with her It's good if she will come Right, don't hurry His Majesty has arrived! Kneel down...His Majesty has arrived, kneel, don't look... Lower your head! You'll be punished! Hey, don't look! It's she, Piyue! Protect Her Highness! Mi-an, be careful! Brother Mi? Fanman! Piyue Fanman, you're really His Majesty? Piyue Brother Mi, you come finally! You say? Brother Chin Brother Mi Master, he's really the King! Greet you, Your Majesty Stand up How come you're like this? It's hard to say It's a long story, Your Majesty, let's sit down Let's go inside Sure, come in first Come on Your Majesty, Hurrah... Long Live Your Majesty! Send them in Send Mi-chi, Mi-an in! Greet you, Your Majesty! Read the Imperial Edict His Majesty has decided to... assign Mi-chi to be Hangzhou Imperial Highness and Mi-an to be Butler of His Highness Palace You now know what Hangzhou 12 means? Move the strokes, it's Imperial Highness Hangzhou Imperial Highness Thanks, your Majesty His Highness has arrived! You deserve this today! Cheng Fa, lift your head and see who I am Cheng Fa, do you know you must die as you assassinate me? No, I haven't assassinated Your Highness He said he hasn't Give him a chance then Okay, you have a chance If you defeat me, I'll spare you I'm innocent... You're so many, I can't defeat you Give him some allowance then Okay, you have some allowance I'll tie my hands behind me If you can defeat me, I'll spare you Don't move If I were you, I'd assassinate him He'd tie both hands behind him? I never lie, don't move I haven't moved Guards, give him a sword! Take up the sword... Chop him, kill him, assassinate him! Come on! Kneel down! Didn't you say we'd have a duel and spare me if I win? Have I said so? No When did I say so? You asked me to kill you I asked you to kill me? You have a note for that? He said so too Are you mistaken? You said that just now You're wrong, I saw you assassinated His Highness Do you know you must die as you assassinated His Highness? I haven't...assassinated His Highness You're wrong, I really saw you assassinate him Listen, did you see him assassinate His Highness? Yes! Do you hear? Arrest him! I'm innocent... You Highness, I am innocent! Master Mi, he assassinated His Highness, I'm not involved Your Highness, do you know him? I don't know him His Highness said he don't know you... I know you'll become... important person one day What are you doing? Get down! Catch him, lock him up, take him outside I'm innocent... I'll question you later What have I commit? First, you're take bribery, Second, you conspire in the assassin Third, you cover the convicts The rest of life in jail? Right What shall we do now, Your Highness? This house is even prettier than before Look: "Obtaining easily" It suits the house Break it! No, don't... You must think it over What? Breaking it means breaking your ancestors' property I mean breaking that plate Break this plate! Bring Wu Yan in! Your Highness Wu Yan, it's said you became rich suddenly Tell me what your secret is Your Highness, I've always been keen and hardworking... and this is my secret You must have capital, where did you get it? My friend gave the money to me Your friend gave you? What a generous friend he is! My friend is called Mi-chi... As I saved his life, he gave his house to me Mi-chi? Where is he now? Master Mi is tired of his life He wants to live in the countryside He has gone wandering already Is what you said true? I can guarantee that with my life Lift your head and see who I am! Your Highness! Wu Yan, you cheated my properties and occupied my house While I was so good to you! I then take your life as guarantee! I was forced to do that by Chen and Cheng I couldn't help doing that Master Mi, have mercy on me, spare me Take him out! Master Mi... Take him out! Yes! Move! Master Mi, I dare not again... Master Mi! I am a bit hungry Yes, let's eat something Piyue... What happened to the figure of this month? We spend 20 taels for the dog Make it clear for me It needs a lot of money for the child Studying, visiting doctor Why are you crying again? You take care the dog rather than the child Stop it How could you let your relative to live here without charges They are Piyue and her relatives It's nothing to do with me Come over here...over here... This is your son Hold the dog please You don't need to take care of it
