 

                        [Miley vocalizing] OK, again. - Ow! - [chuckling] - [man] Go, take it! - [Miley laughs] [continues vocalizing] Hold on, huh. - [cracks] - Ah. [laughs] - That crack, I think it's good. - Hey, watch this. - [cracks loudly] - Ah! [ Hannah Montana: We Got The Party] Come on guys tell me what we're doing We're hangin' around when we could be all over the place The sun is shinin' just the way we like it Let's get out of this hallway Show the world our face It's Friday but there's nowhere to go Anywhere is cool but we're not going home And we can do anything we wanna do It's all up to me and you Turn this park into a club The stars are lights and the moon is the vibe from above Skateboards here's our ride so pull on up Oh look everyone is waiting for us So anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Oh oh oh oh oh oh Oh oh oh oh oh oh We got the party with us Oh oh oh oh oh oh We got the party with us [crowd screaming] Hannah! Hannah! Hannah! Hannah! [cymbals sounding] [Rock Star] [woman] Are you ready for Hannah Montana? Sometimes I walk a little faster in the school hallway Just to get next to you Some days I spend a little extra time In the morning Dress to impress you Guess you don't notice Guess you don't need this Sad you're not seein' what you're missin' On the outside shyin' away On the inside dyin' to say I'm unusual Not so typical Way too smart to be waiting around Tai chi practicin' Snowboard champion I could fix the flat on your car I might even be a rock star Sometimes I wish when the phone rings That it would be you Saying "Let's hang out" Then you confess that there's something special between us Why don't we find out You don't even know me Guess you don't need me Why you're not seein' what you're missin' On the outside shyin' away On the inside dyin' to say I'm unusual Not so typical Way too smart to be waiting around Tai chi practicin' Snowboard champion I could fix the flat on your car I might even be a rock star Rock star If you only knew who the real me I might even be a rock star I'm telling you that we are meant to be That wouldn't it be nice if you could see That I really am a rock star Yeah Yeah Yeah, I really am a rockstar Hey Hey Hey! A rockstar! I'm unusual Not so typical Way too smart to be waiting around Tai chi practicin' Snowboard champion I could fix the flat on your car Rockin' it wherever we are Yeah yeah, 'cause I really am a rock star 'Cause I really am a rockstar I am a rock star Oh-oh oh-oh [car starts] - [Billy] To the studio, James. - [Miley] His name is Kenny. I know, but I always wanted to say that. You are so lucky to have such a great band. You know that? - I know. - I mean, everybody in that band is a A-time superstar musician. That's coming from a guy that plays every Indian casino between the Atlantic and the Pacific. - Candice, this is my dad. - How's it going? Jaime. - Nice to see you. - Nice to see you again. - I'm Candice. - How are you? - She makes me sound good, dad. - I'm Jaco. - Hey, I know you. - How's it going? - Your dad was fantastic. - Cool! This is my bass player! This ain't your bass player. This is my bass player. Dude, you're matching my shoes today. This is beginning of rehearsals and there's a whole lot of work to be done. But this is the way you build a band and the way you build a tour, and you just got to take the time to get prepared. - What if we start it just with you? - OK. Just something that just brings the stuff out of the ceiling as it's coming down. Maybe, four bars of that. And then... Then go into the... [ Hannah Montana: Pumpin' Up The Party] Get up, get loud Start pumpin' up the party now - Are you ready to meet Miley Cyrus?! - [man] One, two, three, four! And the girls doing a... Hey Miley you're so fine You're so fine you blow my mind Hey Miley - That is killer. - Yeah? Ow! You're stepping and shift your left. You're gonna just step your right over. - Change. - Yep. [bass strums] I think they overlap each other a bit. If you keep singing that, I'll have time to do that. She'll probably have on a trench coat, sunglasses and a cool hat. And she's underneath the stage making her transition, and we're gonna have some illusional fun with the audience keeping Hannah alive for as long as we can - while grabbing important seconds. - That's a good idea. - James Brown stuff you got going. - Remember... - Don't hit myself in the face. - More like that. Right here. OK. - So good! - Whoo! I am getting a blister [ Hannah Montana: I got nerve] [Jones] I wanted to make sure the band was tight on everything before Miley came in. We'll get her for a little while, and she'll have to go and do school or go do the dance or go do her TV show. So she's working a lot harder than we are. I'll tell you that much. Whoo! Whoo! Raise your hands in the air. I'm a good driver. - [shatters] - [laughing] [Let's Dance] Now it's about the production. We're tying up the whole show, band, dancers, lights, video, pyro, the whole deal. So this will be our first real run-through before we leave for St. Louis. Put the line in front, here, as opposed to here. - Kick... and then down. - Yeah, so you go... Kick. Go up on your toes. Go. Kick, up. Here. Boom. We're doing a cheat sheet. This is all the stuff we have to do. [imitating an electric guitar] - Oh, yeah, yeah. The raver part. - Right. All right. Nice. The place goes crazy. The Jonas Brothers are gonna walk onto the stage, and at that moment the band's gonna move in and we'd start We Got The Party. - You good? - We're good. - Thank you. Ears, please. Thank you. - ...for making it easy. - You guys playing tonight? - Yeah, we just got here like... [We Got The Party] I totally do this for you. - You taught him that? I hate you. - No, uh... - Mom! - And Miley, relax. Dancers, relax. And we're gonna come back in about ten minutes with you and your dad having a little rehearsal for your duet, OK? [Ready, Set, Don't Go] She's gotta do what she's gotta do And I've gotta like it or not She's got dreams too big for this town And she needs to give 'em a shot Whatever they are Looks like I'm all ready to leave Nothing left to pack... - Actually, push there. - OK. - Feel that? - Right, yeah. I can really give you a spin if you get me like, uh, uh... - Hold on tight - [chuckles] And just strut... We pack up everything today at 6:00 and we ship out. [crowd cheering] [cheering] - [man] Thank you, everybody. - [man 2] Yeah! - [man] Miley Cyrus! - Whoo! Pop off! [man] Just walking to the stage right now. Bye, loser. OK, I'm not hearing any static. - You hearing anything at all? - No. [man] 'Cause of the concrete walls. OK. I shouldn't hear static at all. No, you'll hear it around the corner. [crowd screaming] [crowd cheering loudly] Are you guys ready to rock tonight? - All right, let's do it! - [man] One, two, three, four! [Life's What You Make It] Everyone, put your hands together! Aye aye aye oh aye Aye aye aye Don't let no small frustration Ever bring you down No no no no Just take a situation And turn it all around With a new attitude everything can change Make it how you want it to be Stayin' mad, why do that? Give yourself a break Laugh about it and you'll see Life's what you make it So let's make it rock Life's what you make it So come on Come on Everybody now - Aye aye aye oh aye aye - I can't hear you guys! Aye aye aye Why be sad, broken hearted? There's so much to do Yeah yeah yeah yeah Life is hard or it's a party The choice is up to you With a new attitude everything can change Make it how you want it to be Stayin' sad, why do that? Give yourself a break I know you wanna party with me Life's what you make it So let's make it rock Life's what you make it So come on Come on Everybody now Let's celebrate it Join in everyone You decide 'Cause life's what you make it Things are looking up Any time you want All you gotta do is realize that It's under your control So let the good times rock and roll Ow! Da da da do it now Aaaaaaaaaaaaaah All right Yeah yeah yeah Yeah yeah Life's what you make it So let's make it rock Life's what you make it So come on Come on Everybody now Let's celebrate it Join in everyone You decide 'Cause life's what you make it Life is what you make it Thank you. Thank you guys for being here tonight. I'm so excited to see you guys. I've got some friends in the audience. Hey to all you guys, I'm not sure where you are. It's good to see you all. [gasps] I hope you have a great time tonight. We do have a couple rules. I never want to look out and see anyone sitting. Get up on your feet! Be singing and dancing along with me! Come on! [drumsticks tapping] [Just Like You] [chorus] Yeah, yeah So what you see Is only half the story There's another side of me I'm the girl you know but I'm someone else too If you only knew It's a crazy life But I'm alright I got everything I've always wanted Living the dream So yeah, everything I've always wanted Isn't always what it seems I'm a lucky girl Whose dreams came true But underneath it all I'm just like you Yeah, yeah Don't wanna be treated differently I wanna keep it all inside Half the time I've got my name in lights The other half I'm by your side It's a crazy life But I'm just fine I got everything I've always wanted Living the dream So yeah, everything I've always wanted Isn't always what it seems I'm a lucky girl Whose dreams came true But underneath it all I'm just like you Yeah-ee yeah Can't you see I'm just an ordinary girl Living in an extra-ordinary world Whoo oh oh Trying to live Trying to learn Trying to just be who I am Who I am I got everything I've always wanted - Living the dream - Living the dream - So yeah, everything I've always wanted - Always wanted Isn't always what it seems I'm a lucky girl Whose dreams came true But underneath it all I'm just like you I got everything I've always wanted - Living the dream - Livin' the dream So yeah, everything I've always wanted Isn't always what it seems I'm a lucky girl Whose dreams came true But underneath it all I'm just like you [crowd cheering] Thank you, guys! I'll be right back. - I think she's pretty. - She's pretty. She's funny, she's smart. She's a great role model. She's a great singer. [girl] Whoo! [crowd cheering] My favorite Hannah Montana song is... Life's what you make it So let's make it rock Make it rock Nobody's perfect! I gotta work it! Again and again 'Til I get it right Mix it all together And you know that... The Best Of Both Worlds Start pumpin' up the party now I say, I say That I know I can Who said, who said... We got the party with us I don't know any of her songs. You know, I didn't expect so much screaming. [screaming] It's like standing behind a jet when it revs up. Actually worse. How many of you think you could be some of the biggest Hannah Montana fans? I can't hear you, what'd you say? Think you could be the biggest Hannah Montana fans? You have to wait and see. Gonna test you out with this next song. I'm hoping you guys know every word. This song is called, Nobody's Perfect. Hannah! Hannah! Hannah! Hannah! [Nobody's Perfect] Everybody makes mistakes. Everybody has those days. One, two, three, four. Everybody makes mistakes Everybody has those days Everybody knows what what I'm talkin' 'bout - Everybody gets that way - That's right. Everybody makes mistakes Everybody has those days Everybody knows what what I'm talkin' 'bout Everybody gets that way Yeah! Sometimes I'm in a jam I've gotta make a plan It might be crazy I do it anyway No way to know for sure I'll figure out a cure I'm patchin' up the holes But then it overflows If I'm not doin' too well Why be so hard on myself? Nobody's Perfect I gotta work it Again and again 'til I get it right Nobody's Perfect You live and you learn it And if I mess it up sometimes Nobody's perfect Sometimes I work a scheme But then it flips on me Doesn't turn out how I planned Get stuck in quick sand No problem, can't be solved Once I get involved I try to be delicate Then crash right into it My intentions are good Yeah yeah yeah Sometimes just misunderstood Nobody's perfect I gotta work it Again and again 'til I get it right Nobody's Perfect Ya live and ya learn it And if I mess it up sometimes Nobody's perfect I gotta work it I know in time I'll find a way Nobody's perfect Sometimes I fix things up And they fall apart again Nobody's perfect I might mix things up But I always get it right in the end You know I do Next time you feel like it's just one of those days when you just can't seem to win, if things don't turn out the way you plan, Figure something else out. Don't stay down! Try again! Yeah! Everybody makes mistakes Everybody has those days Everybody knows what what I'm talkin' 'bout Everybody gets that way Everybody makes mistakes Everybody has those days Everybody knows what what I'm talkin' Everybody gets that way Nobody's Perfect - I gotta work it - Work it! Again and again 'til I get it right Nobody's Perfect Ya live and ya learn it And if I mess it up sometimes Nobody's Perfect I gotta work it I know in time I'll find a way Nobody's Perfect Ya live and ya learn it 'Cause everybody makes mistakes Nobody's Perfect Nobody's Perfect No no Nobody's Perfect Thank you, guys! You all sound great out there. How many of you guys out there are ready to party? Me too. But if I'm gonna party with you guys, I gotta change into my party dress. I'll be back. Say "hello" to the dancers. [Pumpin' Up The Party] Who is ready to party tonight? Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now It's the same old same grind But we don't feel we're wasting time Not so bored that we can't find a better way My friends, my kind No one's gettin' left behind If they did it'd be a crime That's why we say Let the music start a revolution Revolution No time to play it safe Come on! Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now They can't We can Parents might not understand Having fun without a plan But that's what we do - We're all here - [chorus] Let's go! Gotta make this party grow Together we can make it blow right through the roof The music's gonna start a revolution Revolution Too late to play it safe Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now We don't have to paint by numbers Let our voice come out from under Hear it rise Feel the thunder It's time to lose control Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Pumpin' up the party now Party now, party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now Hey Get up Get loud Start pumpin' up the party now - I didn't tell you... Were you in Utah? - No. - I got dropped. - You did? - I got totally dropped. - How? You know in I Got Nerve when I had the stunt? I got dropped. - [Miley] It was terrible. - Hurt yourself? [Miley] No, but it was terrible. [I Got Nerve] [Ortega] We worked on it. Gonna put you in a better position. You've got two spotters now. There's no way anything like last night'll ever happen again. This flip is gonna be gone after tonight. - Why? - I hate it. - It's great. - No. - It's rock and roll. - Mommy! He's saying we have to keep the lift after tonight. - Baby, you're fine. - [Miley] Woman! Think back to cheerleading. It's fine. And his hand is never gonna let go of your butt. - Your butt. - It will constantly be there. - He's cute. - I know. - [chuckles] - It's all right. We're gonna go five, six, seven. - [Ortega] Spotters? - Ready? Five, six, seven. I got nerve. - Look at that! You almost went down! - [laughs] You almost went down. [woman] You have to know... He's gonna catch you. Absolutely catch you. So here we go. Five, six, seven. I got nerve. [Ortega] Boom. It's fine. But you have to trust them. - You have to trust them. - [Ortega] Solar plex. - Good. - Cross your legs. - And... - [woman] Here we go. Ready? - Here we go. - [woman] Five, six, seven. I got nerve. See? They always have their hands on you now. You're never airborne. [I've Got Nerve] We haven't met And that's OK 'Cause you will be asking for me one day Don't want to wait in line The moment is mine Believe me Don't close your eyes 'Cause it's a chance worth takin' And I think that I can shake you I know where I stand I know who I am I would never run away when life gets bad, it's Everything I see Every part of me Gonna get what I deserve I got nerve I got I got I got Electrified I'm on a wire Getting together we're on fire What I said You heard Now I got you spinning Don't close your mind The words I use are open And I think that I can show you I know where I stand I know who I am I would never run away when life gets bad, it's Everything I see Every part of me I know I can change the world, yeah, yeah, yeah I know what you like I know what you think Not afraid to stare you down until you blink, it's Everything I see Every part of me Gonna get what I deserve I got nerve - And you - You - You need to discover - [chorus] To discover Who can make you feel free Yeah, and I I need to uncover The part of you that's reaching out for me Hey! I know where I stand I know who I am I would never run away when life gets bad It's everything I see Every part of me I know I can change the world, yeah, yeah, yeah I know what you like I know what you think Not afraid to stare you down until you blink, it's Everything I see Every part of me Gonna get what I deserve I got nerve [chorus] I know what you like - Yeah yeah yeah - [chorus] I know what you think I know what you like I know what you think I know what you like I know what you think Not afraid to stare you down until you blink, it's Everything I see Every part of me Gonna get what I deserve I got I got nerve How many of you guys'd like to see the Jonas Brothers? I'm gonna need you guy's help. How about everyone stand up and yell, "Jonas Brothers"? Let me hear ya! Jonas! Jonas! Jonas! Jonas! Thanks! This next song is called,We Got the Party With Us. Come on! [mouths] I'm tired. [We Got The Party] C'mon guys Tell me what we're doin' We're hangin' around when we could be all over the place The sun is shinin' just the way we like it Let's get outta this hallway Show the world our face It's Friday and there's no where to go Anywhere is cool but we're not goin' home We can do anything we wanna do It's all up to me and you Turn this park into a club The stars are lights And the moon is the vibe from above Skateboards here's our ride so pull on up Everyone is waiting for us Anywhere we are, anywhere we go, everybody knows We got the party with us Anywhere we are, anywhere we go, everybody knows We got the party with us - Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh - We can't hear you! Oh oh oh oh ohh ohh - Oh oh oh oh oh ohh oh - We got the party with us Radio, let me be the DJ I'll turn you up, keep us moving till we're on a roll Everyone is dancing to their own beat And letting go Everybody here's got a soul It's Friday and there's nowhere to be We're kickin' it together it's so good to be free We got each other and that's all we need The rest is up to you and me Turn this park into a club The stars are lights And the moon is the vibe from above Skateboards here's our ride so pull on up Everyone is waiting for us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us We got the party with us We got the party We got the party Life is for dreamers And I'm a believer That nothing can stand in our way Today let's find a place to play Turn this park into a club The stars are lights and the moon is the vibe from above Skateboards here's our ride so pull on up Everyone is waiting for us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Turn this park into a club The stars are lights And the moon is the vibe from above Skateboards here's our ride so pull on up Everyone is waiting for us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Anywhere we are Anywhere we go Everybody knows We got the party with us Oh oh oh oh Oh oh oh oh - Oh oh oh oh ohh ohh - We got the party with us - Oh oh oh oh oh ohh oh - We got the party with us [crowd cheering] Whoo! Are you guys having fun? Hannah is going backstage right now to turn into Miley Cyrus. And is it all right with you guys if we play some more Jonas Brothers songs? [crowd cheering] All right, then. This is for all the ladies in the house tonight. [When You Look Me In The Eyes] Ooh hoo, yeah Ahh ahh If the heart is always searching Can you ever find a home? I've been looking for that someone I'll never make it on my own Dreams can't take the place Of loving you There's gotta be a million reasons Why it's true When you look me in the eyes And tell me that you love me Everything's alright When you're right here by my side When you look me in the eyes I catch a glimpse of heaven I find my paradise When you look me in the eyes How long will I be waiting To be with you again? Gonna tell you that I love you In the best way that I can I can't take a day Without you here You're the light that makes my darkness disappear When you look me in the eyes And tell me that you love me Everything's alright When you're right here by my side When you look me in the eyes I catch a glimpse of heaven I find my paradise When you look me in the eyes More and more I start to realize I can reach my tomorrow I can hold my head high And it's all because you're by my side When you look me in the eyes And tell me that you love me Everything's alright When you're right here by my side When I hold you in my arms I know that it's forever I just gotta let you know I never wanna let you go Cause when you look me in the eyes And tell me that you love me Everything's alright When you're right here by my side When you look me in the eyes I catch a glimpse of heaven I find my paradise When you look me in the eyes Oh, yeah Ohhh Bu-yeah Thank you very much. Once again, we are the Jonas Brothers. We couldn't leave you tonight without taking you... [drumsticks tapping] [Year 3,000] ...to theYear 3,000! [mouths] Ready? Go. One day when I came home at lunchtime I heard a funny noise Went out to the back yard To find out if it was one of those rowdy boys Stood there with my neighbor called Peter And a Flux Capacitor He told me he built a time machine Like one in a film I've seen Yeah, he said "I've been to the year 3000 Not much has changed but they lived under water Sing it now! And your great great great grand daughter Is doing fine Is doing fine" He took me to the future in the flux thing and I saw everything Boy bands, and another one and another one And another one Girls there with round hair like Star Wars Float above the floor He told me he built a time machine Like the one in the film I've seen That's right! Come on! He said, "I've been to the year 3000 Not much has changed but they lived under water And your great great great grand daughter Is doing fine Doing fine" Here we go! I took a trip to the year 3000 This song had gone multi-platinum Everybody bought our 7th album It had outsold Kelly Clarkson I took a trip to the year 3000 This song had gone multi-platinum Everybody bought our 7th album That's right! He told me he built a time machine Like the one in a film I've seen Yeah, come on He said, "I've been to the year 3000 Not much has changed but they lived under water That's right, where are my ladies at? And your great great great grand daughter Is doing fine Doing fine" Are you ready? Go! He said, "I've been to the year 3000 Not much has changed but they lived under water And your great great great grand daughter - Is doing fine - Doing fine Doing fine" He said, "I've been to the year 3000 Not much has changed but they lived under water Sing it out! And your great great great grand daughter Is doing fine Doing fine" He said, "I've been to the year 3000 That's right! Not much has changed but they lived under water And your great great great grand daughter Is doing fine Doing fine" Ha! - Thank you! - Thank you very much! [Tish] This tour, because it's her own show, and she's got such long sets, it's more like I worry about her. I'm totally proud. She's an amazing performer. Still, as a mom, it's just so nerve-racking. This year, so that doesn't happen, they kind of put me to work. Actually, every time she changes clothes, I'm the one backstage changing her clothes. [timer sounding] It's crazy. There are three of us. They're pretty timid with her because they don't know her. I'm, like, ripping her clothes off, and it's so funny. She's, like, "Mom"! We, of course, banter back and forth. It's funny. There's one change I have to get her changed in, what, 30 seconds? Thirty-seven seconds, I think, is... It has to be choreographed to where we know what we take off first. [Miley] Like left foot, right foot in, skirt out first. [Tish] We have hair and makeup people who, while we're changing her, they're trying to do a little bit with her hair. But that's crazy. [timer dings] Are you ready to meet Miley Cyrus? [drumsticks tapping] [Start All Over] [crowd] Miley, Miley, Miley! I have to wonder If this wave's too big to ride Commit or not commit in such a crazy tide It's sooner than I thought But you called me out I've lost control and there's no doubt I'm gonna start all over Out of the fire and into the fire again You make me want to forget And start all over Here I come straight out of my mind or worse Another chance to get burned and Start all over I'm gonna start all over Fantastic and romantic - All a big surprise - [chorus] Big surprise You've got the warning hesitation pushed aside It's sooner than I want But you caught my heart I guess I'm ready now to start Start all over Out of the fire and into the fire again You make me want to forget And start all over Here I come straight out of my mind or worse Another chance to get burned and Start all over I'm gonna start all over It's so easy You disrupt me Can't complain It's so easy You disrupt me Can't complain It's so easy You disrupt me Can't complain It's so easy I'm gonna start all over Start all over Start all over Out of the fire and into the fire again You make me want to forget And start all over Here I come straight out of my mind or worse Another chance to get burned and Start all over Out of the fire and into the fire again You make me want to forget And start all over Here I come straight out of my mind or worse Another chance to get burned And start all over I'm gonna start all over [Miley] Thank you, guys! [drumsticks tapping] [See You Again] [laughing] I got my sight set on you And I'm ready to aim I have a heart that will Never be tamed I knew you were something special When you spoke my name Now I can't wait to see you again I've got a way of knowing When something is right I feel like I must have known you In another life 'Cause I felt this deep connection When you looked in my eyes Now I can't wait To see you again The last time I freaked out I just kept looking down I stu-stu-stuttered when you asked me what I'm thinkin' 'bout Felt like I couldn't breathe You asked what's wrong with me My best friend Leslie said "She's just being' Miley." Then next time we hang out, I will redeem myself My heart can rest till then Whoa, whoa I, I can't wait to see you again I got this crazy feeling Deep inside When you called and asked to see me Tomorrow night I'm not a mind reader But I'm reading the signs That you can't wait to see me again Come on! The last time I freaked out I just kept lookin' down I stu-stu-stuttered when you asked me what I'm thinkin' 'bout Felt like I couldn't breathe You asked what's wrong with me My best friend Leslie said "She's just bein' Miley" And next time we hang out I will redeem myself My heart can rest till then whoa, whoa I, I can't wait To see you again I got my sight set on you And I'm ready to aim Let me hear ya! The last time I freaked out I just kept lookin' down I stu-stu-stuttered when you asked me what I'm thinkin' 'bout Felt like I couldn't breathe You asked what's wrong with me My best friend Leslie said "She's just bein' Miley" And next time we hang out I will redeem myself My heart, can rest till then Whoa, whoa I, I can't wait To see you again See you again Whoa, whoa, I I can't wait To see you again [female DJ] Parents are gonna do whatever they can for their kids. You've got this girl looking at you with her eyes, "Daddy, this is gonna change my life. I will never ask you for any other toy or anything ever again". What are you gonna do? [Rock Star] [male DJ] Gonna be a huge day. The high heel derby for Hannah Montana tickets. Dads are running in high heels. It happens at noon. The winner gets four tickets to see Hannah Montana. Sold out show. High heel derby for Hannah Montana tickets. - Go! - [whistle sounds] I'm unusual Not so typical Way too smart to be waiting around Tai chi practicin' [announcer] Ladies and gentlemen, this is it. [whistle sounds] Rockin' it wherever we are Yeah Yeah, 'cause I really am a rock star... Here's our winner, ladies and gentlemen. Four tickets to see Hannah Montana at Scottrade Center tomorrow, and four backstage passes. Matt Austin, ladies and gentlemen. Winner! Hannah Montana, baby. Hannah Montana. [Let's Dance] The weekends almost done The moon is low in the sky I feel like goin' out Before the night passes by I won't just sit around When life becomes a drag I dance I like the bass Turn it up turn it up turn it up I like the boom Turn it up turn it up Turn it up I need guitar Turn it up, turn it up, turn it up I like that drum when it goes Let's dance, for the weekend What the night is all about Let's dance, grab your girlfriends, grab your boyfriends, sweat it out Let's dance move your whole body Let's start the party [rapping] To a number one girl, can make a girl go crazy I need someone to dance with me baby, dance The music's on Turn it up Turn it up Turn it up My favorite song Turn it up Turn it up, turn it up The beat is strong Turn it up Turn it up, turn it up We'll dance [Miley] Come on! Let's dance For the weekend What the night is all about Let's dance Grab your girlfriends Grab your boyfriends Sweat it out Let's dance Move your whole body Let's start the party [rapping] To a number one girl, can make a girl go crazy I need someone to dance with me baby Dance Back it up! When the night says hello Yeah get ready to go Turn it up Turn it loose Yeah you got no excuse Just take a chance Get out on the floor and dance Let's dance, for the weekend What the night is all about Let's dance Grab your girlfriends Grab your boyfriends Sweat it out Let's dance [chorus singing] Let's dance For the weekend What the night is all about. let's dance Grab your girlfriends Grab your boyfriends Sweat it out Let's dance Move your whole body Let's start the party [rapping] As soon as my album goes number one We'll be livin' like a roller with 40 diamond, Ha! Thank you, guys. Are you guys having a good time so far? You guys aren't ready to go home yet, are you? Well, I got to tell you. The reason that you guys are having fun and I'm getting a chance to live my dream, is not all because of what you see up here. There's a lot of stuff that goes on backstage that everyone doesn't have a chance to come out and tell you what they do and everything that makes them part of the show. But I can tell you that their jobs can be a lot harder than mine and they put this whole thing on, allowing me to live my dream. So this next song, I'd like to dedicate to everyone here tonight. Thank you. [Right Here] La de da de da Put your hands together. I'll be right here where you need me Anytime just keep believing And I'll be Right here If you ever need a friend Someone to care and understand I'll be Right here Off your feet! All you have to do is call my name No matter how close or far away Ask me once and I'll come I'll come runnin' And when I can't be with you dream me near Keep me in your heart and I'll appear All you gotta do is turn around Close your eyes Look inside I'm right here Isn't it great that you know That I'm ready to go wherever you're at Anywhere I'll be there All you have to do is call my name No matter how close or far away Ask me once and I'll come I'll come runnin' And when I can't be with you dream me near Keep me in your heart and I'll appear All you gotta do is turn around Close your eyes Look inside I'm right here Whenever you need me There's no need to worry You know that I'm gonna be Right here Ask me once and I'll come I'll come runnin' And when I can't be with you dream me near Keep me in your heart and I'll appear All you gotta do is turn around Close your eyes Look inside I'm right here Oh yeah yeah I'm right here What Miley writes about is what is real to her and what she lives. When you hear the things she writes, you hear the honesty of Miley's heart. I mean, it's... The music is real and the songs that she writes about is what she lives. That's what, you know... That's what I love about her music, is that it's real. This song was written for my granddad who passed away a few years ago, but he's never gone to me and my family. He's here with me every night on stage. This is a song that I wrote just for him. So this one goes to my guardian angel, my pappy. [I Miss You] Sha la la la You used to call me your angel Said I was sent straight down from heaven And you'd hold me close in your arms I loved the way you felt so strong I never wanted you to leave I wanted you to stay here holding me I miss you I miss your smile And I still shed a tear Every once in a while And even though it's different now You're still here somehow My heart will let you go And I need you to know I miss you Sha la la I miss you... The cool thing about this song is it can go either way. But me and my family know what it's really about. So it could be about a relationship you're having, about your parents. Anyone. Um, going away from home. It can be about anything. But why it's really important to me is because it's about my granddad. Everything that's happening for me I'm thinking back on the past It's true that time is flying by too fast I miss you I miss your smile And I still shed a tear Every once in a while And even though it's different now You're still here somehow My heart will let you go And I need you to know I miss you Sha la la I miss you... - She's teaching me the song. - I've never done that. I know you're in a better place, yeah But I wish that I could see your face, oh I know you're where you need to be Even though it's not here with me, yeah I miss you I miss your smile And I still shed a tear Every once in a while And even though it's different now You're still here somehow My heart will let you go And I need you to know I miss you Sha la la I miss you I miss your smile And I still shed a tear Every once in a while And even though it's different now You're still here somehow My heart will let you go And I need you to know I miss you Sha la la I miss you I miss you [crowd cheering] Thank you, guys. [acoustic guitars play] A minor. A. - OK. - Wanna try it? Yeah. You used to call me your angel... - She stand here? - [man] Yeah. Folks at home, this is Miley's double. This is her stunt double. Currently enjoying the new wind machine. We really don't know why he got hired. That's why. Look at that face. - The Superman wave. - That hair. - You're doing a really good job too. - It's been a long morning. How many girls do we got out there tonight? [crowd cheering] All right, I need all you guys to get out of your seat, throw your hands up in the air because this is a girl's night out! [Girl's Night Out] Don't call me Leave me alone Not gonna answer my phone Cause I don't No, I won't See you I'm out to have a good time To get you off of my mind 'Cause I don't and I won't Need you [chorus] Hoo hoo - Send out a 911 - [chorus] Hoo hoo - We're gonna have some fun - Hoo hoo Hey boy, you know you better run 'Cause it's a girl's night It's alright without you I'm gonna stay out and play out Without you You'd better hold tight 'Cause girl's night's without you Hoo hoo - Let's go GNO - Hoo hoo Let's go GNO - Hoo hoo Let's go GNO let's go It's a girl's night I can't hear you, ladies, come on! I'll dance with somebody new Won't have to think about you And who knows what let go Will lead to Hoo hoo - You'll hear from everyone - Hoo hoo - You'll get the 411 - Hoo hoo Hey boy you knew this day would come 'Cause it's a girl's night It's alright Without you I'm gonna stay out And play out without you Hoo hoo - Let's go GNO - Hoo hoo - Let's go GNO - Hoo hoo Let's go GNO Let's go Hey boy don't you wish you could've been a good boy? Try to find another girl like me boy Feel me when I tell ya I'm fine And it's time for me to draw the line, I say Hey boy don't you wish you could've been a good boy? Try to find another girl like me boy Feel me when I tell ya I'm fine And it's time for me to draw the line ' Cause it's a girl's night It's alright without you I'm gonna stay out and play out Without you You'd better hold tight - Cause girl's night without you - Hoo hoo - Let's go GNO - Hoo hoo Let's go GNO Let's go It's a girl's night Hoo hoo Hoo hoo - Come on, girls! - Hoo hoo Hoo hoo Did you girls have fun? [loud screams] Thank you guys so much. This is the end of the night, but you guys cannot sit down and stop screaming and dancing quite yet. 'Cause this next song, I have the feeling you're gonna know the words. [loud screams] Come on, you guys, let me hear ya! - [screaming] - All the way up top, come on! All right, you guys, this last song is called... ...Best Of Both Worlds. [tapping] [Best Of Both Worlds] [Miley] I wanna hear you sing along! Oh yeah Come on You get the limo out front Ooh oh Hottest styles every shoe, every color Yeah, when you're famous it can be kinda fun It's really you but no one ever discovers In some ways you're just like all your friends But on stage you're a star You get the best of both worlds Chill it out take it slow Then you rock out the show You get the best of both worlds Mix it all together and you know that it's the best of both worlds The best of both worlds You go to movie premiers Is that Hannah Montana? Hear your songs on the radio Livin' two lives is a little weird, yeah But school's cool 'cause nobody knows Yeah you get to be a small town girl But big time when you play your guitar You get the best of both worlds Chillin' out take it slow Then you rock out the show You get the best of both worlds Mix it all together and you know that it's the best of both You get the best of both worlds Pictures and autographs You get your face in all the magazines Hey, Miley ! The best part's that You get to be whoever you wanna be Best! Best! I have the best of both Best! Best! You've got the best of both Best! Best! Come on, the best of both Who would of thought that a girl like me Would double as a superstar You get the best of both worlds Chillin' out, take it slow Then you rock out the show You get the best of both worlds Mix it all together and you know that it's the best You get the best of both worlds Without the shades and the hair You can go anywhere You get the best of both girls Mix it all together Oh, yeah It's so much better 'cause you know You've got the best of both worlds [band plays We Got The Party] Goodbye! Thank you! I'll see you guys real soon! Goodnight! [crowd cheering] Thank you guys for coming out tonight. See y'all soon. [ Hannah Montana: If We Were A Movie] Uh oh There you go again Talkin' cinematic Yeah you You're charming You got everybody starstruck I know, how you always seem to go For the obvious instead of me But get a ticket and you'll see If we were a movie You'd be the right guy And I'd be the best friend That you'd fall in love with In the end we'd be laughin' Watchin' the sunset fade to black Show the names Play the happy song Yeah Yeah yeah When you call me I can hear it in your voice Oh sure Wanna see me and tell me all about her La, La, I'll be actin' through my tears Guess you'll never know that I should win An Oscar for this scene I'm in If we were a movie You'd be the right guy And I'd be the best friend That you'd fall in love with In the end we'd be laughin' Watchin' the sunset fade to black Show the names Play that happy song Wish I could tell you there's a twist Some kind of hero in disguise And were together It's for real Now playin' Wish I could tell you there's a kiss Like somethin' more than in my mind I see it could be amazing - Could be amazing If we were a movie - You'd be the right guy - Guy And I'd be the best friend That you'd fall in love with In the end we'd be laughin' Watchin' the sunset fade to black Show the names Play the happy song - If we were - If we were a movie You'd be the right guy And I'd be the best friend That you'd fall in love with In the end we'd be laughin' Watchin' the sunset fade to black Show the names Play the happy song If we were a movie You'd be the right guy And I'd be the best friend That you'd fall in love with In the end we'd be laughin'...
