 

                        As a doctor... The most regretful thing could be when the one you care for most Has physical problems... And there's nothing you can do about it This experience can be very terrible S he once said S he wished I would be a brilliant doctor If I weren't in the past, I must be in future Now this is the thing... That I can still do for her S he left all of a sudden S o sudden... when you think of it later... You can still feel the pain If anyone wants to know... How the pain feels I can tell them It's best you don't ever have a chance to know One more round? That's enough for tonight You are on dirty jokes every time S he's been staring at you all night Did you really not notice or are you just pretending? Okay? May be I'm not Please give me a glass of water Is the pager yours? Yes, thank you Thanks You really don't want another glass? No Bye Bye Are you okay? My neck got hurt I am a doctor. I'll sent you to the hospital right now What's up in the ER? Police-gangster gun fight, serious There's a cop upstairs waiting for you to do surgery There are two cops in there we're trying to save Thank you He always thought I was responsible for... The death of his brother Up till now, I still couldn't make him understand S ometimes what a doctor can do is very limited I've found the bullet I heard you were in a car accident just now Again it's heavy rain And a driver who is hit-and-run What's different is that this time I did not die The most important thing is that you are safe What about the car? Need to replace it? What's the fun about it? I don't understand what's so ex citing It's human life! It's your own business if you want to kill yourself Why get others into trouble too? Everything in life seems to remain unchanged The books and magazines she ordered Are still delivered at the right time The cat she took care of Although it had run away It still appear before me sometimes The most incomprehensible difference could be... When she was beside me in the past, I would dream of her After she's gone S he never appeared in my dream Mandy? Are you looking for Tse Yuen-han? You must have long... The phone call the other night May be she wanted me to know I could have understood her a bit more Dr Ching Tak It was such big trouble last night, if you weren't around We'd have a headache Did you see Dr Fong? He's left, didn't he tell you? No Right, Dr Fong asked me to tell you If it's convenient for you, can you lend me a thousand dollars Bye Yes I'm at the bank now You call me when you are done Okay, bye What a coincidence! Ex cuse me... The bank is closed Are you busy? Not too busy It's happy even if it is busy in the delivery room Yes S ir, please queue up here What? Do I have to queue up to rob? Freeze! If you shoot, I'll kill her! Put the gun down! Put it down! Put the gun down! Put it down! Come here! Come here quick! Give me all the money! Who is it? Who pressed the alarm? Come out! Come out! Go over! Go over! Who? Who... Buddy, it's like this, don't be nervous... If you rob, someone would press the alarm I'm not afraid of them! You just shut up I'll finish all of you! The thinner is very dangerous, don't do anything silly! You can't light it! Please stay calm! Everyone stay calm! Don't run around! The door is locked, what shall we do? Everyone move away! S lowly, don't be nervous Hold on, I'll ask my colleague to help Thank you S it here for a while Karen Are you okay? I'm fine Can you come here to help Don't worry, my colleague will help you You are hurt too I'm fine You take care of her Relax your feet, right Give way... Don't worry, it'll be fine, hold on Paul! Are you okay? Why are you here? I heard there was trouble at the bank you went to I was worried you might be sent to ER S o I came over to see I'm a good guy, I'll be alright S ince you are here, why don't you help Do you need to tell me? The people here are all conscious? Everyone don't panic Miss... S omeone here has crashed! Help! Take to Room 3! You're here too? Don't ask now ?? Give way... Be careful, mister! Go away! Give way... Sandy, drip! Miss, hold out! Need help? Cut the crap, move! Doctor, the one just sent in is a suspect We need to keep custody of him We don't care who he is, our duty is to save people We don't care what you do, just don't interfere with our work What's the BP? How is he doing? BP 90/50, pulse 142, S AO276 Traver 8.5, get the machine ready TIDE volume 500cc, Peep 6, Rate 12 The larynx is swelling, tracheotomy needed S calpel Trachea-dilator Trachea-tube Okay, connect to machine BP 90/50, pulse 130, S AO292 S end to ICU How's he doing? Just did an ultrasound. The baby's gone Her family is outside, we haven't told them yet Take her to the ICU Checked with ICU, they have only one bedspace left Who shall we send first? This woman How about taking a bath first? S ure Thereafter would you drive me home? No problem Give me some time What do you want? S o much has happened, I need to talk to a friend A girl friend is a girl friend, friend? Get to the point Just a little while, it'll be quick Wait and see. A few days later I'll show you some of my childhood photos And you'll know how I different look now You plan to chat with your girl friend through to dawn, right? I'm leaving No, we're almost through I don't want to disturb your rest It's you who needs a rest, you still need to come back for surgery It's morning Yes I'd better go What are you up to? Don't you get bored listening to the same song over and over? Everyone who sits in my car say that It must be your problem, or people wouldn't say that What's my problem? It's no different from playing with the same toy Please pay a little respect Human feelings need to be ex changed, do you understand? We do interchange feelings! I don't understand what you are up to Wasting your time and effort doing something which leads to nowhere S o long as I am happy who cares if it leads to nowhere Only you are happy now Do you think she is happy? S he will be, we ex change feelings I also hope she can live like a normal person There are lots of things which we don't get even if we want to Dr Ching, you're here to visit Mrs Cheung again? Yes Her things are still here Yes, we have looked everywhere What should we do? What happened to Mrs Cheung? Dr Ching, can we talk outside? Do you know where Mrs Cheung is now? Of course I don't, haven't you been looking for her? S he had been very depressed earlier S he even goes around saying she wants to commit suicide S hould we consider calling the police? S he is depressed because of you, Dr Ching What has it got to do with me? Because you told her that she has a tumor in her brain and only has two more years to live I did say that But as a doctor, I have a duty... to let a patient know of her situation Doesn't your conscience feel bad? What if she commits suicide because of what you said? I think you should call the police first Nurse S hek, Dr Ching, they found Mrs Cheung S he is on the roof-top What shall we do now? You talk to her first Mrs Cheung Don't come over I am going to die, why are you still bothering me? Don't be so agitated Everyone in the hospital wants to help you There's nothing that can't be resolved, right? How can it be resolved? I have cancer And see how my husband treats me now There's no one to look after the child after he's born What's there left to live for? Nowadays cancer is not incurable Why lose hope so soon? It's you doctors who told me that! Don't bother me! You come closer and I'll jump! Don't! Go away! Okay... Don't be agitated We'll move away Don't come over! Don't come over... You come over and I'll jump! Calm down... Don't come over! Don't be so tense, I just want to train my guts in this good weather I'm more scared than you are Don't come over! Okay... don't move... I'm not moving Normally I wouldn't choose a place like this to chat I'll give in to you today You told me I have brain cancer... and I only have two more years at most Now you tell me that I can be cured? You just say whatever you like! We are not driveling We are telling the truth Do you still remember? The other day I told you the worst result but it may not happen My husband is afraid I might get cancer He left with another woman He will know about your illness sooner or later If he doesn't support you he doesn't deserve to be your husband Why should you do such a silly thing because of him? What about my child then? Who would take care of him after he's born? If you have recovered, you can take care of him You told me I would die Do you believe so much in what I say? What if I tell you that the tumor in your brain... may not be that desperate? What I said the other day, is so that you would not be like other people... Who die before they have time to do something for the people they care Can I really be cured? My legs really feel a bit weak chatting like this Why don't we go inside first? Come escort Mrs Cheung to her room quick Count yourself lucky this time As a doctor, please be careful with what you say to your patients Just now it was me who persuaded her to come back Talking to you is a waste of my time! Kelvin is coming up to find me You must remember You haven't seen me Where's Dr Ching? We haven't seen him Then call him immediately! This is crazy! What does he think he is doing? S orry for interrupting I'll be leaving soon Paul often tell me... That you can hear what he says And can communicate with him I have some reservations about this I know, what doctors can do... can be very limited sometimes We have all worked hard during this time Still she hasn't improved S o I pray for her everyday May be that's the only thing we can do for her Don't laugh, miracles sometimes happen that way I won't disturb your sleep Paul! Your girl friend just woke up! What? Your girl friend is awake, she regained consciousness How could that happen? I don't know. May be it's a miracle Let's not talk, and go to see her Congratulations! This time you waited till she wakes You should buy us a meal Right, we should celebrate We need to have a few tables Everyone in the hospital is happy for you If won't be enough if you don't have a few tables This time girlfriend really becomes your girlfriend You have to treat her well in future Is it my turn yet? What else have you to say? I'll look for a place I'll arrange the menu That's settled Where shall we go? You're coming too? What about your girlfriend? In good condition I don't mean physically, I mean emotionally Well... not bad Wake up, press the button You won't get up by tomorrow if you just stand here I was just about to press People who are easily satisfied are the most happy S uch kind of relationship, which starts from wishful thinking Could have such a happy ending Hello. Hi Busy? Haven't seen you all day You have to take care of someone, so I took over your place It's lunch I went to visit her in physiotherapy and then drove her here Did you wake me up? I don't think I need to introduce Can you tell me honestly what did you do to me the other day in my room? Paul know me very well I... I can do anything, so... Think yourself Lawrence loves to make jokes in front of old friends Gotta get back to work Bye Why are you here? Don't ask You can't just run away like this Paul will be worried Please, I'll have these You listen to me first You listen to me... Did you drive? Can you drive me to the cemetery? I feel comfortable here at the cemetery I have a friend buried here too Why didn't you go and say hello to him just now? Can we go back now? Today is the anniversary of my grandma's death I thought I should come and see her Who are you calling? I am calling Paul to tell him what happened I know you care about me But I need some privacy too Can you give me a little time... S o I can do what I want? It's not that I don't let you have your private time It's not right to sneak out Can you give me back my mobile phone? Let's go Health is really very important To be honest, the food in your hospital... Is terrible That's about all for today? Have I given you trouble? S omeone is worried about you Did you regret waking me? You really think it has to do with me? I presume it has Without you, I wouldn't have today I'm not the one who's helped the most Let's go Tell me honestly did you do anything to my brain? What do you mean? It's very complicated, I can't get it right I just feel that I wasn't like that before But if I really am different from my past I shouldn't feel like I have changed myself Do you understand what I'm saying? To make it simpler... What were you like before? S ee that girl over there? I was like her in the past Where are we going? I only know I have to take you back to the hospital How can someone drive like that? What are you doing? That driver could be my buddy I don't get it Stop playing! I'm not playing with him I want to see who kill my girl friend Take a rest I said it before That's the end of your car I'm sorry It's lucky I am not marred Or I won't let you get away with it They are arranging for you to do a CT-brain Not again? Only Paul knows how to handle you You take a rest first This time I brought you good luck Next time don't act on impulse again Dr Ching, I heard you hit your car again I'm not in a good mood today! Don't make me angry of I won't be easy on you! You hear that? Doctors can be in a bad mood too Learn from others when you have time I believe in retribution, it's just that the time hasn't come Don't stretch yourself too much, it's hard What are you doing here? Working Can you disclose? A relative of one of our patients here... #NAME? You think they have a case? The deceased is the robber in the bank arson case They want to sue the doctors here for discriminating against him S uch that he did not receive proper treatment... #NAME? Would we? I won't interrupt you, I'll call later for lunch Okay You know each other? Yes, bye Miss Tsien, please come to my office to talk Okay Kelvin is looking for you, he wants to see you He must want to talk about the suicide incident Tell him I don't have time I told him already, but he is coming up now Then say I am not here How can I say that? You are here Can't I just not be here immediately! Christina! As you wish Kelvin! Just want to find you, you're looking for me? Please come in Okay I want to talk to you about something That fire at the bank, you helped saving people, didn't you? Not only me, a lot of people helped S. Y... he is in trouble this time What trouble? One of the patients died and wants to affix responsibility How can I help? I want to know more about the situation that day Will you help him? Anyway I believe him, I'm sure he can pay He's a friend Okay Worst come to worst, you just pay It's nothing Doctors can be a high risk business It seems that the risk of a patient is higher? How can you say that? I won't argue with you, I'll be more worried if I win Hi, haven't seen you for a long time Hello You know Anthony? Hello Hello We haven't been formally introduced I won't disturb you, let's have lunch when we have time Okay He is not a good guy That Anthony is a triad member Really can't tell from his looks S o you can also be very hypocritical Look! Are you fishing or feeding the fish? That's not where the fun is The most important thing is to enjoy the process It's like drinking and not be drunk Playing mahjong and not winning Courting a girl and not having sex with her? You really know how to console yourself What else can I do? S he said to me Thanked me for taking care of her these days But... That nothing can happen between us S he's right It's just my wild fantasy What are you doing here early in the morning? Looking for a place to live Here? It can't be S houldn't be a problem, right? Would it be inconvenient? There's no other way, the rent is cheap How long are you planning to stay? Until I find a job I think I can still survive a week Why don't I help you look for a decent hotel? Would you pay for me first? No problem, you can pay me back when you find a job Thanks in advance But I'm not used to borrowing money from someone I don't know too well S o what do you want? I am okay Bye Now what? You're right, it's really not that convenient here Well, if you really want to help me can you find me a place which is free of charge? I just need a place to take a bath and sleep Dr Ching Jessinta S he comes here a few times a week to help Hello Okay, I'm leaving Why are you leaving? I don't want to disturb you No problem Miss Kong is my friend. S he is staying here for a few days Then should I come here these few days? Why not? I thought... Okay, I understand S it over there There's no place to walk around, it's all in front of you This is a special place You collect old books and magazines? I didn't collect them on purpose This is my study room This is a sofa bed, you can sleep here for the time being Your study room? Would I be interrupting with your work? My job is very simple, I just need to cut people up Thanks, it's really for the time being only I won't interrupt you too long Jessinta! Yes, Dr Ching? Please open up this sofa bed for me And see what else Miss Kong needs Yes S orry to trouble you Never mind. It's alright But this thing hasn't been opened for a long time I guess it is not that difficult to open By the way, how did you meet Dr Ching? We met at the hospital S o you are a doctor too No Nurse? No Pharmacist? No Jessinta Dr Ching? What is it? I only asked you to help I didn't ask you to play Q & A with her We were just chatting Have you picked up the suit from the laundry? Okay, I'll get it in a minute Miss Kong, did you see that? S ee what? He was so sarcastic at me I think he must be in a good mood today Usually he doesn't talk to me Is he that funny? I have worked for him so long This is the first time he brings a woman home Really And you are staying here too You don't worry, Dr Ching is a gentleman It's only me and him in the house all day and he was never impolite to me Okay. I'll get you the blankets I don't understand why you won't let me clean the table I just don't want you to mess up my things What's wrong with this? Nothing? Don't you have any manners facing me with your back? S o what do you want me to do? If I sit like this, my feet hits the table This way I have to hold up the noodles and face you It's unnatural and my hands are tired S o the dining table solves the problem, doesn't it? Actually it won't take more than Why bother with so many things? You have to be conscious about your mood too when you eat If the atmosphere is not good, it affects the appetite Most importantly I never faced anything with my back Did I wake you? You take so many books to the room? Can you finish them? That's none of your business You've to go back to the hospital tomorrow, go to sleep quick Did you clean up for me? I have to count on you for my food and lodging now I ought to help you clean up a bit You won't be able to help me that way Trust me, when you wake up tomorrow morning you would find the world more orderly If you're not satisfied, I'll revert everything to its usual position You don't have to I do I really said no I really must Okay You are a bit late today If your girl friend needs some place to stay Would you let her stay at your place? Even if I would she may not be willing to stay at my place S o... I guess I probably wouldn't That's what I think too That's why I let her stay How come? You say you understand people I am sure you don't realize she is that... That... That what? That interesting Forget it, she hasn't many friends anyway Help her as much as you can That's true I think she won't trouble you too long That's true I need not worry if you help her Do you know that she loves to sing? I don't know And she sings everyday, I'm sure you don't know that You understand people? Thanks Dr Ching That thing is not over yet, I still need your help But there is nothing else I can say I have said what I have to say Not you, I want to kook for Yeung Ying-ming He's not back, has he got to do with it? That day at the ER He was the one who took the pregnant lady to ICU S o his opinion... #NAME? The whole thing Don't you fear scaring him? I am more scared than he is S orry, I'm late Never mind, there's still time Caught by Kelvin to chat? Yes Big trouble? Anyway I don't want anyone to be in trouble because of me More so, I don't want anyone to be hurt because of me Don't think too much Just tell them clearly what you know about the facts You can't control who would be in trouble or get hurt What would you do if you were I? Why not ask what would I want from you if I were S.Y.? I want you to tell the truth What would be the result? Everyone would blame you You don't trust S.Y.? No, why wouldn't I? Why not trust me? If one feels no shame He wouldn't care what others have to say Give you five minutes to get to work To be honest, how much are you drinking tonight? Ask yourself, how much do you want to drink? I'll want to drink as much as you do Why isn't Crystal here yet? May be she is enjoying herself elsewhere S he is cruel to herself Last time she told me she had an affair with the photographer And now she can only drink alone There are good and bad times What do you want to tell me? Nothing, you should be happy when you come out to have fun Is men's happiness always sex related? What about you? Do you mean we as women or just me? I am only interested in you tonight I want to go to the washroom Just now... Okay... don't mention it You must be out of luck tonight What are you talking about? I just saw a girl sitting on the floor in the washroom Looks like she's in the same field as you What? You feeling sick? I'm okay... Is my face alright? What happened? Nothing If I were you, I'd take a rest Why did you follow me? Are you happy today? Can you leave me alone? I never thought you could get that wild Don't think that just because I smoked your cigarette... #NAME? I tell you now, definitely not S o what happened? Why do you men... Think so easily that a woman... S itting with a man drinking and chatting... Could then sleep with him? I don't know about other men The women I met, sometimes don't even need a drink Did someone hit you? You want me to accompany to call the police? That's right, that's not your first time You still think it's very funny Do you know your are very disgusting? More disgusting than the one who hit you? Please stop following me, can you? Can you drive? None of your business! The food is ready What food? Did you cook? It's my turn Have you ever stayed in a hotel? Are you being sarcastic again? You must be a person who likes to move the hotel furniture around Be honest, don't you feel more comfortable? I am correct After such a big operation, you still end up having instant noodles I will have a good appetite I can cook well There's just nothing for me to cook here But don't worry, I'll solve this problem for you Please inform me first next time you think of anything Because there is not much food to eat... #NAME? Is it your habit to shout at people? Look what you've done? What have I done? Please. Be good I had such a hard time cleaning up It's not like the past now You must understand everyone has his own living habits What you think is messy to me may be... Another kind of order I have been used to this kind of order you call mess a long time It's difficult to cope with your kind of "' order in a short time I want you to understand too Let's forget about messy or not first I don't think your place is particularly orderly now I still think it a bit messy Just like this sofa if I may I would not put it here S o how long do you plan to stay here? That's not important I think that you, as a doctor S hould have an orderly life You should live in a clean place I understand that it is difficult for you to adapt in a short time I'll give you time, don't worry Hello! You didn't think it would be me? What do you want? I have been busy this morning, I don't have breakfast to serve you You eat two eggs before you go out Why don't you speak? How come you have so much time? I did a lot of things today You don't have do so much for me I sit in it too I feel happier if it looks more handsome You don't have to do that It's for you You know, you always hit your car That can secure your safety And see how pretty this essence looks If you put it there, you would feel happier What are you doing? It took me a lot of trouble to find it Please show some due respect I think we both got it wrong It's not Jackie who needs to be taken care of It's my car I just want to tell you, your car looks cool If not for your previous relationship with her I wouldn't have ended up like this Don't say such things Good friends can become enemies too I find that you still lack a bit of sense of humour If you get along with her more I'm sure you would progress Just right, time for a fight Go away! Is it really locked? Jessinta can't do anything else her best dish is fried crab That's really nice What are you up to now? Jessinta saw me for less than 4 hours today and she already knows I am not well You're a doctor, can't you feel I am not well? I only know you look angry I have a toothache, it's been bothering me for a whole day And you ask me to eat crab? Why don't you go to the dentist then? It's no use losing your temper, I can't help you It's so late now, where can I find a dentist? I am hungry and I can't eat this What should I do? You go to the dentist tomorrow morning then I'll fry two eggs for you now Now what? I'll fry the eggs myself You eat your fried crab If you can't bite, you cook some crab congee Are you crazy? S o you are really crazy You are crazy, laughing in front of the fridge You can be quite humorous I don't know what you are talking about Can you eat the crab now? It's not hurting now, is that okay? I have been infected lately I love to draw on round objects Say that again I just found your two kneecaps as my new objects What did you do to my toothpaste? To scrub the pan Do you know how much dirt your pan has? I scrubbed for half a day Really? You bet, I don't know what your toothpaste is It can't clean the dirt My hand still hurts from the scrubbing The toothpaste is used for brushing teeth Who told you to use the toothpaste to scrub a pan? Do you know that I don't have any toothpaste to use now? I have half, you can use it I have nothing to say You're so fierce, I'll buy one for you I'll buy it myself I've been watching you for a long time You don't do that when you buy things from the supermarket S ee, it's a fleeting pleasure You don't have to buy that much if even gives you a fleeting pleasure You won't finish it in a year Come on, watch over for me I still have something to buy Buy toothpaste The toothpaste is over there Would you consider? Is that your business? I think you would look nice wearing this I don't think I will wear it for you to see Forget it You would be grateful in future Where's my toothpaste It's there, look for it No It's here This is yours, where's mine? Don't you like this one? Don't tell me you only bought this one No, I have this one I said my gums are sensitive, I can't use normal toothpaste You're a doctor Can't you take some medicine? You're insensitive to everything, ex cept your gums are sensitive I have no time to discuss the medication issue with you I only want to know where my toothpaste is Then... we'll go buy it again We again? I fear I might get it wrong What are you doing? Come in You are in a bigger hurry than me, you want to try it now? No rush yet, come out and see Haven't I seen it just now? What's there left to see? Cup noodles and instant noodles are here Here are the snacks, biscuits and canned food Here are the spices Here are the spring water Your personal stuff, you put it yourself This looks more like a real home now Not only like a home, it's become your home already That's exaggerating Later the security manager will call you Mrs Ching I warn you, don't tease me I'll take a bath Turn around What are you doing? I said you would look nice wearing this Don't you have manners? Coming in without knocking? You look great Get out! Get out! Why do you have to be so fierce! Great? Almost forgot... You're here again? I want to borrow some shampoo Wait, I'll get it for you in a minute No need to look Add a tie, you can go to a banquet There's nothing to feel troubled about Either you tell the truth or you lie Do you still have another way to handle this? I said it What did you say? I think the fact that S.Y. Is suspected of being prejudiced against the robber... #NAME? If you really suspect S.Y. Even if we don't agree... I believe they would respect your opinion Lately a lot of people do think S.Y. Has a problem S o you said what everyone felt was the truth I didn't Even you don't trust me? It's not that I don't believe you Trust is based on understanding And understanding takes a long time Although we've only been together for 2 months I feel you are quite... ...interesting... #NAME? But I don't really understand you Would you feel... ...feel that I... Don't have my own views? If you don't you wouldn't ask Anyway... We will respect your views Waiting for your ex-girlfriend's secret call again? I remembered something It might help me find that secret guy How? I don't have any information I don't even know who called I have heard that telephone message... How can you do that? You listen to me first Do you realize that every time he calls... The background is noisy and there is music I know That must be a disco or a pub Do you know which one then? You know? Yes, I know May be you have not noticed The two times he called The DJ was talking I am familiar with that voice I think I know where I can find him Hope you guys enjoy the music S o, should you be thankful to me? What do we do now? Find a place first May I help you two? Please ask a male to come over Just a minute I am afraid they might call the police Of course not What would you like to order? Can you say that again? What would you like to order? Can you ask another male to come over? S he is joking, 2 glasses of red wine please Yes You are really scared? Let's find out ourselves We can't just stand here Could it be that one? Is this called a man's pride? You have to look for the most handsome one here Red wine for you two Thank you Look What are you doing here? Who's that lady you are getting along so well with? Don't you have any place to go? Can we go now? You don't want to know what happened to your girlfriend? You are great, it's half bent I really don't want to know now S ometimes there are a lot of things... Which you don't want your closest friend to know It may not be because we have betrayed them May be we are just afraid it would hurt them more if they know Anyway, we can have a lot of reasons... for hiding so many things Do you understand what I am saying? I do, but... If she does not want me to know S he must have her reasons, I shouldn't ask so much I should let you know what I did That guy just now is called Ronald He also knows your ex-girlfriend But it is Kenneth who is dating your girlfriend Ronald gave me Kenneth's number It's here If you want to know... Give him a call What are you doing? What do you mean? You can really let go? After all this effort... It's a pity to burn it Not really, I have straightened out my thinking But it doesn't matter if you regret it I remember the number You are great I was just away for a while And you have women chasing after you I'm used to it, it's been like that since I was small You come all the way in the middle of the night just to scare me? You are so late too? What did you say? They are all saying, you and Jackie... S ounds funny You testing me? Just regard me as being curious Come on Don't be curious about this You are telling everyone you still feel for Jackie just depends on whether I have anything to do with her S o do you? I am disappointed with you Not now, but may be in future Future? I may have something to do with you in future Actually, I just want to tell you I don't care whether what the people say is true or not I don't mind Don't talk to me about this, buddy Go tell everyone What can there be between Jackie and me? Things are never absolute You're early I'm used to it, it's not that early You seemed to be back quite late last night What time were you back? I don't remember May be 1:00 a. M I thought you didn't have any friends ex cept Paul They were all ex-colleagues Thanks You're not eating? I have eaten already They even found a job for me Really? Where are you going? I don't know how to use knife and fork to eat macaroni S orry, wait a second What kind of job? In an accountants' firm Thanks When do you start work? Next week I have good news for you What? I found a place to move at last Really? When will? S oon I thought you would laugh I will I'll laugh when you are really gone S o I think I should buy you a meal Breakfast doesn't count? We have to go to a high-class restaurant with good food... Where you pay a lot of tips S ince you have been Jessinta, you haven't broken my underpants I should buy you a meal That's alright too, where do you want to go? Are you dating me? Just a meal, does that count as a date? If that's not a date, what is? Dating should be done by men If you are good, you don't need me You're leaving? How about dinner together? I am having dinner with a friend Next time then I am seeing Jackie You aren't off yet? You don't have to tell me who you are going out with Have you anything to say to me? Actually, I... I don't want you to leave I want you to stay If I don't see you when I come home I think I will be very depressed How does that sound? I know there will be other people saying these things to me But they will be more sincere You wait and see Having lived here for so long I have never taken anyone for a walk here I really miss this What do you think I miss? Probably me A little bit But I miss the place here more If you miss it, do something. That's why... I want to take a walk here What about me? I only miss you a bit What do you think I should do? Do you think I am troublesome? You used to be Would you treat me as your good friend now? You don't treat someone as a good friend Either you are or you are not S o, am I or am I not? Yes or no? Still awake? I have to pack What are you looking for? Do you know where the needle and thread is? I have them, what do you want it for? Nothing I cut myself while fixing the cabinet door You're so careless Found it? Can You manage? Looks like the cut is very deep Look, you know how to do a brain surgery and you can't even pick a thorn out Let me help you S orry I'm okay Okay Thanks Need to put some medication on? No It seems I still haven't told you whether we are good friends Yes Of course we are But there are many kinds of good friends Which kind are we? I think it is... The kind which, if you can't be my friend I would regret it I get it You can get even with this, you are wonderful I have done my best Yours? I haven't noticed in the past Can't I have a look? No You should say that earlier What's there to hide? Everyone has privacy, okay? You just have that much? Yes, I just need to call a cab You don't have to drive me there I didn't sleep well last night You have company Don't you want to know why? I have heard too many insincere words Then shouldn't you do some self-criticism? You insist on escorting me S o that you can have some more time to drive me mad? If you suddenly remember the surroundings here in future and you miss it, would you... come back and take a walk? I think... I wouldn't There's a kind of people with a strange charm It can influence you gradually Though I still cannot feel... That kind of fleeting pleasure when one buys unnecessary stuff I would even try it The conclusion is that it is irrelevant to the charm Because something's has happened The problem is... When can we convince ourselves to accept it Still awake? Am I your youngest patient? You have been thinking about this all night? I am young, and energetic I'm even studying medicine May be I'll be a good doctor in future Now I have AVM, would you feel sorry for me? Every patient has his own story You can't say who shouldn't have what kind of disease S o that's not a question of being sorry, understand? My family loves me and I love them They can give up anything to cure my disease I don't want to see them take so much pain If you know they love you you should take good care of yourself Go to sleep You're off today? You don't look well, you're okay? I'm fine, just a toothache Did you go to the dentist? It's okay If someone can make me laugh... I'll be fine Mom, I dropped my ball No! It's dangerous! I'm going Look out! Be careful! The miss picked up the ball for you Thank you, miss Thank you. Are you okay? I'm fine Okay, bye Jackie! S it down first S omebody, help! Help! Please, call the ambulance Yan Ping Road, Causeway Bay... What do you want? I can still manage to get a glass of water Let me help you By the way, when can I leave? Isn't it comfortable here? I have stayed here for so long Even if I have to live in the streets I wouldn't want to come back You can go after the CT-brain I just shed two drops of nose blood, it's nothing Two drops? You bled all over I have been suffering from toothache And didn't sleep well, it's because my internal heat is rising I'm fine really We won't keep you too long You understand? God would not be too cruel to me I wouldn't be that out of luck If I didn't die last time, I'll be okay this time You don't believe it? Take a bet Don't make fun of your own health What if I win? You'd better be careful I would if I am sick, but I am not Don't think as if you are a doctor If anything happens it would be dangerous Anyway, I don't want to do the CT-brain You still haven't left at this hour? It's Jackie's It's AVM It's too unfair for her A criminal can start a new life after serving his sentence Why can't she have one more chance? There is still something we can do Look carefully Even if I do this surgery I am not sure if I can help her Have you thought about how to tell her? Tell the truth Tell her she could die any moment no one can help her? S ometimes I really admire you There are a lot of things which you can do and I can't What if I can? It doesn't make a difference how I tell her The truth is the truth Everyone is the same You can also tell me that I may die any moment Who knows what will happen in the next minute? May be a van hits over and we will all be dead How long since you have been that troubled? Remember the last time... Who and what are you troubled with? Good, looks like it's a person It's a good thing S o... Even I couldn't do this... Telling the one we love about such a cruel fact needs great courage May be more than telling her... How much I need her Where are you? Can you do me a favour? I drank too much and can't drive Can you come out and take me home? You can't drink, so don't drink so much How's it? Where's the car key? How are you doing? You seem to have drunk more than I have How can you drive? I can I really can Give me the key Don't Take a rest in the car No need to look after me I'm really okay What's so happy about tonight? You drank so much? A lot happened I don't know if it's happy... or unhappy... What about you? Why did you drink so much too? I lied to a good friend What kind of good friend? Like you and me... or another kind? You are honest At least you admit you lied What's up? Why did you lie to your good friend? I said it before there must be a reason... for hiding things You never treated your patients like this in the past Patients are another matter Why do you do this to me? What do you know? I think... everything which I ought not know... I know already You are afraid I would be unhappy if I knew so you lied to me I would be happy It's not worth it I lost The heavens... can really be very cruel Time and time again... I thought I would be lucky S o it may not be a good thing to have another chance the result would only hurt you one more time The problem I have to face... is the same as yours Why are you so late? This came so sudden, I have things to do too What do we do now? The deceased's family are all over there They have decided not to proceed Let's talk inside Okay S orry for interrupting at this hour Never mind What's the position now? They are very reasonable so the problem has been solved I wanted to get back justice But my husband is dead already, it's no use how much you pay me S ince you have apologized, I don't want any more trouble Mrs Wong is very understanding Ex cuse me, I have some important things to do I won't see you out Let's go We may not lose this case S ome people... choose to use the simplest method to solve their problems What about dignity? This may not be important to a lot of people I am very sorry this time Never mind, I'm going Thank you Forget it, sister so long as we have accounted for this with brother, that's it You so back first Thank you Thanks, goodbye You have a lot of friends They need to discuss something with me I have no reason not to let them have my views Are you helping me then? What psychological problem do you have? You like to put on acts so much You don't seem to need help If you think that one can put on an act whether it's for good or bad then it's you who has a psychological problem It's me S orry, I was busy just now and couldn't call Okay, I'll wait for you here Call me when you are here Jackie! S ir, you know her? S he is my friend, what happened? I don't know, she suddenly fainted I called the police for you Don't worry, you'll be fine Don't be scared, it will be alright Jackie... Do you know where you are? Am I in the hospital? Right Can you move your hands and legs? Any pain in the neck? I can move Can't I leave? I want to give you something, hope you like it If it is a ring, the box seems a bit too big If you would take our advice and do the surgery This present would be most suitable S o if I take your present I'll have to let you open up my brain What's so precious you have? Open it My hair is much more beautiful than this If you can get back your life Just put up with this for the time being Actually, I feel happy about something Which is... You never had a chance to see my ugly looks before S o if you want me to become bald headed... You can open up my brain I think there's a problem here How about this? If you would do the surgery... I'll wear this wig And let you see my ugly looks Quit this mediocre talk Just one line lmagine everything will be fine when you wake up Don't worry I'll try to help you too Now we'll inject the anesthetics Let's begin Pulse 79, BP 90/140 Hemorrhage S uction Pulse 135, BP 30/70 More pressure, transfusion Continue If this continues Her problem would become more and more serious Wrap the head, I couldn't do the surgery Anything you want to tell me? S eeing you being tortured by this disease I feel hurt You talk to me like that You know I am easily touched? I have tried my best But couldn't help you Never mind Before the surgery... I had thought I may never wake up and see you. Now I can see you and even chat with you I should be happy Trust me, I'll never give up Trust me too If I don't become too ugly... I really don't mind Whey isn't Dr Ching here? Never mind, we can come back to visit him later Let's get a cab We don't need to take a cab, a bus is fine Has Ms Kong been looking for me? Yes, I said you were not around S he's waiting for you in the office Anything wrong? S he has been discharged It also happened in a sudden I don't know why, she decided to leave Because she never gave me the chance to find the answer I want to let you know, I have decided to leave Because I know that you have no other solution Nothing else you can do for me Ex cept for staying with me... And waiting for that day You are different from me You see the people you care leave one by one And you have to continue with your life I can imagine it is a sad thing S ometimes I think you are more unfortunate than I am If God wants me to leave this world I know there is nothing I can do But I wouldn't just give up There was once a miracle that woke me I have confidence there would be a second miracle I don't know where she is now But... I know if there is this day... When she remembers all that has happened here Remembers... The surroundings she missed I'm sure I'd still have a chance to see her here
