 

                        Miss Kono firstvisited us in mid-March Aftera snowfall rare forspring Ourvillage, Matsuo, is in lwate prefecture One hour by train from Morioka Then 20 minutes by bus Wait a moment Miss Kono is with the Toitsu Troupe She visits different districts where the troupe might perform Hideko Kono, Toitsu Theatrical Troupe The superintendent told herwhere I lived She decided to walk all the way This was most surprising It would take a man one hour to coverthe distance In Miss Kono's case, she probably plodded along Singing merrily along that hilly road Takashi's back Are you the group's leader? The village office phoned about me She's been waiting for you for one hour I called the doctor Difficult delivery Birth expected tonight A birth? Then you're going to be busy If a female The first child could well be a boy We'd sell a male for cD3,000 cD3,000! It's our cow She's giving birth I thought it was yourwife I'm not married yet I'm Hideko Kono ofthe Toitsu Troupe I'm Takashi From Tokyo? This milk is fresh from this morning It looks good Do you know Kichijoji? It's near our headquarters About 15 minutes by train Is there someone? My niece lives there Married a man named Murakami The house is in Midori-cho Tokyo's too big a city There'll be a birth there soon Keeping a cow? Why, no, this is a human baby Can't keep a cow in Tokyo By then it was time forthe last bus Miss Kono summed up her request and left hurriedly I'll phone in April She wanted to bring a show here And asked for our youth group's cooperation The idea was both sudden and startling Our house seldom has visitors during wintertime A charming person had come, laughed, and left Kayoko Why, Susumu! What are you doing here? I returned on vacation Why? I wanted to see you Brought your mail Same oldjob? Did you get fired? This is a vacation Tokyo has spruced you up Why don't you come to our board meeting tonight? Who's the president? Takashi Takashi? How did he become the president? No one wants to be Those gone out to work returned A meeting was held A cook? In Kabuki-cho Where abouts? Near Koma? Know the place? That was when I was in love with Kayoko Let's proceed The final item I'd better leave Stay until the end Then we'll drink Let me introduce the guest From the Toichi Troupe Toitsu Hideko Kono ofToitsu I'm glad to meet you The purpose of hervisit is to have a play staged here She wants us to sponsora musical called Native village Right? What kind of a play Didn't ljust tell you? Native village A musical that the young and old can enjoy Who are the stars? Not mentioned here Who are the leading actors? Ourtroupe isn't that famous It doesn't appear on Tv We have no famous stars No Sophia Loren Any opinions? How about Kikuchi? I've nothing to say I think it's a good idea to have a play performed here What must we do? Takashi said for our youth association to sponsor it What does that mean? Miss Kono explained it to me Supporting the performance in ourvillage Means accepting responsibility Responsibility? In case there's a deficit Deficit? But why? It costs money to put on a play Must we pay for it? If we sponsor it Our youth association will sell tickets I understand This group will pay money to buy the performance A deal? How much? Miss Kono says the troupe's performance fee is cD450,000 That isn't all, is it, Aiko? Lodging expenses forthe troupe's Then posters, circulars, tickets and so oncD200,000 Total: CD650,000 For one show? CD650,000 for one night Can ourgroup assume the responsibility? Any opinions? I don't see how we could ever do it I thought it would be around cD20,000 May I say a few words? Chujijust said that he thought it would costs about cD20,000 We'd like to do it forthat, if it's possible Butjust think a moment Sets, props, lighting and sound equipment To entertain the audience with songs and dances for 3 hours What we earn as living expenses comes to less than cD200,000 Nor is that every day Only about 8 performances in one year That's what ourtroupe is living on The show is expensive Meanwhile, utilities charges are going up We'd like to do it for less but this is the bare minimum We're not doing this forthe money We love the theater We want people to see our performance A large number of people gatherto laugh and cry together They talk about it a long time afterward That's the kind of experience we want to create This is last year's ticket from Nagano cD800 Even at cD1,000, you would need to sell 650 tickets In orderto raise cD650,000 That won't be easy It will be difficult But don't give up too easily That can be done at any time please considerthe idea carefully Any opinions? Something, Chuji? Why not do it? Come to my place Welcome Susumu The last train has left The train for Morioka? Is there an inn here? Well, there is butKayoko! Can you put up Miss Kono forthe night? I was wondering what she'd do Sure, she can stay I'd be troubling you too much Her house is big Dirty too Yes, but Going to Chuji's place, Kayoko? Let's all go Shall we? In my car Nice drive-in Modeled it aftera place in Ueno where I once worked I thought it had a Tokyo atmosphere Handsome bartender Are you staying in Morioka at an inn? Rented a house for our office visit us sometime Living alone? There are five of us We visit different youth groups Been doing it long? About 10 years Revealing my age Our youth group lacks strength It's shameful but we've never done anything worthwhile With such a leader Why you! Tetsuyafarmer? Public servant postal worker Chuji, tell herabout him That story What? You see, he wrote a love letter to a certain girl What happened? Mailed it, then had to deliver it himself It was part of my work The girl wrote a letter of rejection Which he then delivered to his own house Let's be friendly I'll prepare some food Dance, everybody Will you dance with me? Great, Tetsuya! What about Tokyo? Takashi, when are you going to start work on that field? That field's no good Carrots look promising Last year's garlic was a big loss The same thing with cabbage 2 years ago So what? Hopeless Sit there Do you intend to be a farmer or not? Which is it? I told you on New Year's I'm not forcing it on you If you're unwilling, I'll quit my factoryjob The important thing is for you to make up your mind Do you or don't you want to be a farmer? Despite what you say, you're forcing me into it Is that so? Then quit! I'll give you money Leave tomorrow forSendai! OrTokyo! You shouldn't say that Mother, you pamper him He's tired from the meeting president ofthe youth group, eh? Can't farm decently What a president! Not my desire Then quit! I will! After ourfather's death My brotherworked hard to send me to school I'm fully aware ofthat Three years have passed since Brother's wife died Hasn't remarried It's hard fora widowerwith two children To find a bride who'll live on a farm It's a painful situation for Brother I can understand how he feels You worked forawhile in Tokyo? When was it? After high school Forabout 2 years Where? A small but nice boutique I wanted to stay there but Father kept telling me to return Worried? Ourfamily has only girls He wants me to marry an adopted son I've made the bed Thank you Bath is ready Nightgown I have my own nightgown with me I always carry it because I never know where I might stay Towel? Towel too Do you have parents? Yes, in lbaraki Why? When you began working, what did they say? They didn'tjust say, go ahead I'll have my bath I do this quite often Goodbye! Oh, I forgot that Regards! Haven't installed a pipeline yet? No money I guess you'd need 40 cows I'm going back to Tokyo You're not staying very long Had a quarrel I told my old man to sell the farm and start a drive-in When I said I'd be the cook there, he punched me That still here? We went aftergraduation to a Hokkaido ranch fortraining We talked about starting a Danish-type farm together Just a dream Guess I'll go How long to Tokyo? Fasterthan a train If you come to Tokyo, look me up at my Chinese restaurant Drive carefully Listen, are you fond of Kayoko? Not especially I see Then it's all right Goodbye Many board meetings were held about the show Kayoko's depressed look had me worried I didn't care too much about the show It will promote culture How can we tell if it's a good show? Miss Kono explained it in detail Avillage like this is the locale A musical with young people who are in love Land prices rising as factories come in To sell or not to sell Enjoyable play Easy to understand Not interesting at all I heard you telling Miss Kono That it was interesting and you'd like to see it That was flattery July is a busy month Any opinions? Kikuchi, when will yourgarlic be shipped out? End ofJuly It's the time forspraying chemicals on rice plants Cucumbers to harvest It's a bad time Only firemen are idle And mailmen I'll be busy too Doing what? Washing fire engines? Kayoko, you seem depressed Because Susumu went away? Why do you say such a thing? I have a headache I think I'll go home Good night We ought to reach a conclusion How about it, Kikuchi? It wouldn't be right to do that when Miss Kono isn't here She's been so enthusiastic about it That's right Then what? What about you? Your opinion, Takashi Give me a little more time It's late now and so We'll decided at the next board meeting That's all fortoday We very much want to sponsor it You spoke at ourfirst board meeting Eversince then, I've been waiting to do it Do you mean that? I'm glad But when it comes to the way of going about it They all get cold feet Those men! What is it? You sound so severe What does Takashi think about it? He seems rather listless these days Kayoko insists on going to Tokyo Takashi is fond of Kayoko Is that what you mean? What about Kayoko? She has no intention of marrying a farmer Quite a problem Are you in love? Is it someone I know? It's hopeless because he likes someone else Someone else? Surely you don't mean It can't be helped You mustn't say that Goodbye We'll be waiting for you I'll do my best We asked Miss Kono to come during the rainy season in June Kayoko was absent I couldn't help worrying about it Miss Kono phoned from the station She'll be here soon Well? We've reached a conclusion So we'll have our president inform Miss Kono In what way? Just that the Matsuo Youth Association can't cooperate That's too blunt Miss Kono is coming all the way here in this rain Consider herfeelings That's right Say it in a nicerway Forexample? First of all, we sincerely have the desire To have the performance in this village Forthat reason, we've held many meetings at night To discuss the matterthoroughly There are 3 difficult problems First, the end ofJuly is a busy period Second, what if a deficit occurs? Third, how can we tell if it's a good play? Therefore, although we really feel sorry for Miss Kono Our youth association is unable to cooperate That's the polite way to say it Understand? Of course Do it well We all have the feeling of wanting to do it but I'm sorry to be late The train was delayed Soaking wet! We could have And so? We've talked it over Everyone sincerely wishes To have the performance staged here in some way Really? I'm very glad If you all feel that way, only the method remains After many nights of discussions, What are they? July is a busy time Then how to take responsibility forany deficit No one has seen the play I understand The 3 points are logical Wewe intend to discuss the 3 points from now What is it? Nothing Any opinions about the first point? Busy? People are busy all the time Except in winter when they go elsewhere to work If you keep on saying busy, then you can't do anything We were back at the beginning The meeting went on But no conclusion could be reached Late at night I drove Miss Kono to Kayoko's house Miss Kono wants to stay tonight I'm imposing on you Have some tea Kayoko was absent Is she ill? Not here? She's here She quarreled with herfather last night and Staying here tonight Sorry I was absent How did it go? Come to my room Miss Kono, what do you think? My daughter insists on going to Tokyo to work Do you think she'll be happy? There you go, crying again Tears won't alter my decision You've wanted to go to Tokyo from before? I don't want to get married and live in this village all my life What! Takashi is carrying on his father's work on this village Yes, but I'd like to go away too if I could See! That's the dream of all the young people Miss Kono quarreled with her parents too and left It was when I was about yourage I said about the same things you are saying I quarreled with my parents too Although I don't think my way of life was mistaken I've regretted many things Some words which I wish I had neversaid And did I have to go that far? They bother me Then what is there for me to do? Can't I be free? Be patient! I'll go to Kayoko's room Maybe I said too much Thanks foreverything Best regards to Miss Kono Be happy Kayoko, I love you very much How many times did I try to say it? That night I drank heavily in Morioka All I remember is that I phoned Miss Kono heard hervoice Were you awake? Come down When I woke up, I didn't know where I was Sit down Coffee will open youreyes Recall anything? I fell down somewhere What you said? Not at all I said something? They're all doing the same work? Yes, why? Why do they laugh so much? So this is your office Expected a building? Not exactly Toitsu Troupe ov Morioka Office Can I ask a question? Are you married? I was married once but I'm divorced now I shouldn't It's all right I felt then forthe first time That I wanted their performance in my village The general meeting day From early in the morning Miss Kono and I called on every board member persuading those who were reluctant The board members were won over What about the general members? On going around all day, I realized one thing How spacious overvillage is The meeting began at 8 Only natural, but the general feeling was That a cD650,000 performance was reckless The board meetings' arguments were repeated It continued until midnight Quiet! Be recognized by the chairman first Isn't there some simplerway to promote regional culture? There's no need to pay so much fora boring performance What makes you think it's boring? A performance is bound to be Have you everseen one? No, I haven't but Then how can you tell? Chuji, have you seen this Toitsu show? Nope performance sounds too formal Just think of it as being a show Chairman! I'd like to ask the board This is a big project Isn't it reckless that no one has seen the show? We're trusting Miss Kono Even if it is uninteresting Staging a show here would have significance Drive to Morioka and see one We could do that but what about the old folks who can't go? Have you ever had your patents in your car? Sure How often? Once The main problem is selling the 650 tickets, isn't it? How many heard the singing? As I've told you, our purpose is not to make money But don't you live on that income? We do Then it's a business Why do we have to feed them when we're busy? Hideki! Aren't you ashamed to say such a thing? Miss Kono is doing hervery best To have you seen an interesting, enjoyable show Isn't it properto pay money for it? CD650,000? Ask herto reduce the price It's their business Can you? Please understand We're not selling merchandise It's not mere buying-selling This will be yourshow You're the ones to decide whetherto do it I'm confident that you can I know cD650,000 is a big sum for you But this is the absolute minimum of what we'll need It's raining It's raining heavily Where's Takashi? As the meeting He'll be late Can't be helped I'll check the vinyl house Go to sleep Chairman! Do something This meeting will neverend It's 2 am We ought to reach a decision There are many problems remaining but Everyone's had his say The final decision depends on our personal feelings What about a deficit? That's a practical problem Stop it We don't want to rehash that Now, then, is it all right to vote? Wait! Before voting, let's hearfrom our president Well, Takashi? The same as everybody else I'd like to do it but I lack confidence Miss Kono has done this work With tens, hundreds of youth groups If otherassociations have done it? Why can't we do the same thing? Has any ofthem suffered a deficit? Some ofthem have We might have a deficit too Why say that? Let's gamble once I'm thinking ofthe association's finances You've always been stingy Be positive! Let's vote! Then we'll vote Just one thing If successful, that'll be fine Even if it fails, I think it's betterthan not trying How shall I say it? Not trying is in itself an admission of defeat Ratherthan not to tryby fearing failure It's betterto tryand fail Like farming I'll now call a vote Any objection? The Toitsu Chairman! I must ask one thing What will our president do ifthere's a deficit? That's a question? Will you answer? I'll sell my cow and make good Good for you! Spoken like a man I'll sell all my cucumbers too We'll pitch in Let's all do it! We'll vote Any objection? None Our youth group's sponsorship ofthis show Opposed? Those in favor? Clap your hands Unanimous approval has been given to the plan! The next day Superintendent Koyanagi hurried over It's reckless beyond words The project's too big forthe youth association Reconsider It was decided at a general meeting Even then Can't you cancel it? The village will pay the cancellation fee Brother heard it too It's fine if all goes well If it fails, you as president will be blamed Not only you It will mean Your motherand me being criticized also Realize that? You won't be troubled Just don't come crying to me afterward The other members ofthe board Were reproved also by parents ortheirsuperiors The feeling was: No retreat! On August 2 there will be a performance Ofthe musical Native village It's easy to understand and enjoyable for young and old Advance tickets are now on sale at every one ofthe playguides ltjust had to be successful Everyone was trying hard Half a month passed quickly Not one ofthem has been sold? How many sold so far? That's all No more than 85 Only 10 days before the show I told you! I opposed this plan That's not manly It was decided to sell the tickets individually The 1,700 households were divided into blocs The youth association is planning to put on a show What kind of show? Musical It has music and dances A show that everyone can enjoy How much? CD800 A musical with songs and dances Even an uneducated person can understand and enjoy it Too busy Can't go Buy 2 or 3 ticketsjust to be sociable High-pressure sale? What do you mean by that? It's to promote culture that we're making House-to-house calls at night This isn't a money-making proposition You wouldn't understand Afterthe daily work, we visited every house One call often took much time Sometimes after 1 or2 hours: No sale We're publicizing it every day by wired radio So I'm sure you know all about it but Counting the money, making plans took us until 1 or2 am I had to be up at 5 am to milk the cows Only 2 or 3 hours of sleep This continued fora whole week Tickets selling? Not so good? Miss Kono, I'm sorry, but won't you cancel the show? Don't be discouraged3 more days We'll all try harder It's a lie Look! Just look at this 850 sold Why, you rascal! You tried to fool me! It was funny to see herasjoyful as a child The final 3 days were like a madhouse The police and others have all been notified Invitations? The necessary ones have been sent out Smoking places? Ashtrays? Borrowing 3 buckets Where were you? Calf born Which? Male Good for cD3,000? Forget anything? No sleep that night The day ofthe show dawned They've arrived! Matsuo villagers, the Toitsu Troupe is here The musical Native village will be presented At the high school gym from 6:30 pm Be sure to come and see it with all yourfriends And the actors? Not here yet? Takata, the producer Supervisor Koyanagi Fire chief is strict He's coming? Of course A No Smoking sign? This will do Good evening, everybody We thank you all for coming To see our youth association's show The farming villages ofJapan have become greatly mechanized But has the standard of living been raised? Culturally? Hurry and eat s time to make a report on the situation Miss Kono Members ofthe troupe: Today is Saturday, August 2 This is Matsuo village As you saw from the bus, this is a spacious village It has a population of 7,500 To the west is the Matsuo sulfur mine It has closed down but at one time it had 10,000 workers The young man who met us in thejeep That's Chuji He worked at the mine too aftergraduation The performance is at 6:30 tonight This is ourfinal request to everyone We'll do it! Why be afraid of cD600,000 orso? When Chuji said that, striking a heroic pose, they kept silent But afterthat objections were raised Forexample Can we trust an unknown troupe? Orsell 800 tickets? How can we get people to come? Many board meetings were held The group's president, Takashi, is a poortalker He generally kept silent and listened to others arguing But when it finally came to a vote And his responsibility in case of a deficit was questioned He freed his folded arms and said firmly That in such a case he would sell his cow and make good! Be sure not to blunder in front ofthe people Hiroshi and I will go at 6 Drive carefully Shigeru's eyes are bloodshot He's only slept 2 or 3 hours Young men keeping cows have to get up at 5 am Marvelous to be young! But that sounds as if I weren't young Actually, although I'm joking I may not have been able to face you luckily I was there Takashi phoned, asking me to cancel the show He would not tell the reason, saying it was too shameful Only 2 days left before the show So I took a taxi and hurried here What's happened? Chuji, what is it? You tell her, Takashi It would be terrible to halt the show now What is the reason? There must be a reason I want to know Won't you tell me? They finally told me The principal had been away The vice-principal had forgotten to tell him The principal refused permission Saying the gymnasium could not be used if admission is taken I asked again and again for permission He refused Insisting that there was no such precedent Throw a rock at him! Isn't it? Ourschool Let's do it in the open air I decided to go with them And beg the principal to reconsider his decision I didn't have any special plan in mind The principal sympathizes with your position You could have prevented this by consulting us priorto the decision I made a full report to you the next day But afterthe decision I knew nothing until then I beg of you please give us permission I'm sorry The gymnasium is an educational facility It can't be used for money making This is different Charging admission, aren't you? Too bad but you'd betterforget about it May I ask a question? You say money making because admission is charged? Supposing it's free The gymnasium is usable ifthere's no charge? That stands to reason Then we'll perform free! But that means that you'll get nothing For performing in this village Can't be helped That sounds absurd Giving a performance without charge We're not doing thisjust to make money performing for people who will enjoy ourshow Gives our lives meaning Afree performance will be a big blow financially But this show must be given Forthe sake ofthose expecting it And the young people who have worked so hard We can't let you do that You'll be in an awkward position It's all right If I explain everything frankly, they'll understand Don't worry I was excited when I said that Aftergoing outside I began to wonder how I was going to report this to you I was feeling more and more gloomy Had I made a mistake? Should I have acted differently? Everything began to look pitch-dark Just then The principal sayshe'll give you special permission! What! Special permission! Kaneko Kudo She can outdrink everyone in the group Still single Etsuko Onodera, the belle ofthis village Now the members ofthe troupe Takata first I'm the producer, Takata Miss Kono has told us of yourefforts We intend to give a show that will meet yourexpectations I've a question When will the actors come? I'm an actortoo Most of us are actors I'm sorry that we're not better looking They'll look betterwith make-up Orworse Temporary Nursery I'll wait inside You're from? Yuzawa Guide her! This way, please My vehicle Came in a car? There's a parking lot Where? Practicing yourspeech? I'm getting worried Will those who bought tickets come? I'm sure they will I feel more and morejittery They tell me to take it easy Shouldn't we go around with the loudspeaker? The last time the owner of a gasoline station Shouted at me: Shut up! And the wired radio? Isn't it about time to send out the bus? A bit early but shall we start out? All right, let's go Be careful This is the youth association The bus is on its way to transport you to the show Check with the schedule of stops Hurry, Grandma The bus is here Get ready Takashi! What are you doing here? I'm worried and nowhere else to go Anyone arrived? Take a look We've done it! Make a good speech Let's do a goodjob In that youth group scene A packed house A bell will signal the start When the opening announcement ends I'll give you the cue For yourspeech Tonight the Matsuo Youth Association is sponsoring A performance by the Toitsu Theatrical Troupe The president ofthe youth association Takashi Saito will delivergreetings Good eveningeverybody We thank you all for coming here tonight To seeour youth association's show Ourvillage is very spacious Nowadays people can go easily to Morioka forshopping They can go to Tokyo orOsaka to work Ortravel in Hokkaido But they know little about the village where they were born While living in the same village Many people have nevergone outside their own district This is the first time forthe people Ofthe entire village to gathertogether like this I feel deeply moved We thank all those who made this show possible Many cooperated, including village officials Education Commission and The principal of Matsuo Junior High School The members ofthe fire department too We thank them all The Toitsu Troupe's Matsuo Show will now begin Native village in 3 acts Written by Katsuhiko Ishizuka Music by Kyoko Okada Native village, native village Our dear native village swallows in the zelkova treetops sunny spots and pools of water in the yard Why aren't the birds of passage returning? What does it mean to you? Mountainswith flowers everywhere Riverswith pussy willows growing Windblowing through yellow barley fields power lines and fields of barley The morning wind blowing from the southeast Rice-planting hasn't ended yet! Lmotaro! Festival? Old folks? Nostalgia That's right Remember, this may be the last festival Many have gone to work on that project Young people don't go to shrines nowadays Speak that way to the teacher? We turn our backs toward him Such impertinence! It's terrible poorteacher! When I was young, we had discipline in the home But now! How is it now? Topsy-turvy! That's how everything is The father rides on a bicycle, his sons drive cars It's the generation gap, Father Born to be unlucky That's you, Father How is it now? Topsy-turvy! That's how everything is The father has to do his best to please his children This won't do The father is the head ofthe household! So it was a long time ago, Father To be respected is a burden if strength is lacking, Father They're all happy Which scene now? The girl Mugiko and that fellow just back from Tokyo Yoshitaka They're going somewhere Sweethearts? Yoshitaka really loves Mugiko's sister It's unrequited love for Mugiko But Hideki loves her The pigkeeper? He's a good actor I want to see it Mugiko! Why have you fallen for Yoshitaka? A clevertalker Wears Tokyo clothes But a man's worth lies elsewhere It's his heart! His affection! Can't be helped I don't have money My house is like a pigpen The truck I drive is small and smelly I toil in the mud How can I expect to be loved by a girl? It's asking too much There must be 1 or2 out there just like me Right here! After Mother's death, I only talk to pigs Hardly everto people pigs don't cheat me Raising pigs isn't easy Feed prices are up What's going to happen to farmers? When the sun is setting, the mountain is silent presenting differentviews You intend to keep on farming? They are being denuded, torn up without mercy The paddies and vegetable fields that were once so green It pierces my body through and through The engine ofthe bulldozer ov the sound it makes Oh, mountain soaring, soaring so high In the dazzling light ofthe sun You must be weeping to see the changes taking place The mountain is grand, the mountain is gentle The mountain remains the same; it is always constant The mountain is our native home to which we always turn Sunset mountain and Ineko have changed There's nothing to keep me here I'll go back to Tokyo Ineko, be happy! When you marry Who told you that I was getting married? To a prefectural assemblyman, I was told What are you saying? That's utter nonsense It's not true? Of course not Don't be foolish I'm so glad to hearthat Splendid mountain! Summer orwinter It's always grand! In the concretejungle ofthe big city Where people appearso small What I wanted was the wind That I could breathe to my heart's content The wind blowing from beyond the leaden skies The wind blowing from the sunset mountain that I love The wind blowing from the sunset mountain Forthat is where you live Back in the village where the people seem lonely What I want is the wind That I can breathe to my heart's content Farming is all that Father and I are good for If we sell the land ov but you've already sold it Afarmerwithout land! Why they try to make us stop farming? Father, why did you sell? Farming ov what does it get you? Work until you back is bent Then a poor harvest During times of good harvest, prices decline That's right Good harvest and be poor And yet The soil absorbs fertilizerand the sun, rain and wind The soil is alive Cultivatorengine lts vibration enters and pulsates with the heart The waves that form behind the cultivator New furrows made as faras the eye can see In spring all the seeds awaken and turn into buds Togetherwith the May wind Togetherwith the June rain Togetherwith the scorching summersun Togetherwith the farmers' sweat All that is transformed into heavy ears of rice Blessed ears of rice that extend on and on We've let ourfields and cows go What are we to do now? At the breakfast table, spinach with soy sauce Such tough spinach! It's fit only for cattle At the luncheon table, only eggplants and string beans Eggplants lack phosphate pick string beans earlier No meat in the rice curry Nothing but potatoes The potatoes from the field back ofthe shrine taste very good Afteran evening shower, we rush out ofthe house to look Look at what? You don't have any land left You don't fool me I'll take care of lmotaro and Nanako A love match We don't need help They think nothing of living together Both in summer And in winter Oh, mountain in the sunset There it is, almost in our backyard Yoshitaka, play the flute What are we to do now? We won't be hearing this music much longer The villagers are scattering Thank you very much! Yourwarm laughterand applause have encouraged us We have done ourvery best Great efforts have been made By Matsuo Youth Association members to achieve this success We are deeply grateful We intend to study harder and prepare an enjoyable play So that we can come again to this fine village Keep in good health! Thank you once again! Chuji, can't you see her yet? What happened? I left the money behind at the hall Such carelessness! Sad moment I always hate this A Matsuo souvenir We were in the black So we discussed what to give you as a present Your bag ov it looks somewhat worn out and so If you like this, please use it Looks countrified Not at all person using it is so nice When I first came to this station, it was mid-March I was amazed to see so much snow And so few people I walked in the snow, met Takashi He seemed so remote I doubted whethera show could be given here I've been engaged in this work a long time One never knows until it is actually tried out Yourstrength, your potentialities are really marvelous I've learned another lesson Thank you! Say something, Takashi Well, I didn't have to sell my cow When I first met you, it sounded like an impossible dream We can never do it That's what I thought Even now, I can't understand how we were everable to do it But I feel, in all sincerity, that it was good that we did Many things happened So many things You'd betterget on Thanks, everyone! Come again Let's go hiking The tape! Keep healthy! Do your best! Letterfrom Matsuo Send it to Hokkaido Miss Kono: How are you? Two months have passed already Autumn in Matsuo Thank you for your letter We're all happy to know that you're thinking of us It's harvest time now The busiest period ofthe year My brother, motherand I are working hard every day During the past few days Aiko has been coming to help We often talk about how we prepared forthe show We were so frantic It seems strange now We hope that we can be that enthusiastic again Maybe that's what happiness in life consists of Aiko keeps on telling me that I'll see you next month again THE END
