 

                        Johnny Office Co., Ltd. and avex inc. Present An IMJ Entertainment and Ogura Jimusyo Production Asai! Asai! Yes? Come here What is it? Just come Hurry - I'm screwed - Huh? It's late What? It's too late! You okay? What am I going to do? I don't understand Like I said, it's late! Late...? It's late! Oh! That's serious trouble! Exactly You should meet her parents to discuss it Her parents? What're you talking about? It's late, right? What's late? Like you said, it's late, right? What're you talking about? Well, don't make me blurt it out Just say it You know, um, your woman's... monthly cycle thing... is late, right? Idiot! I'm talking about the opponent being late! - Change into these - Huh? - We don't have time so hurry! - Wha...? You're the closest thing To what? A Thai This won't work You'll look the part Go find one on the streets Find what? A Thai person We don't have time for that! But I've never kickboxed Just go down in round 2 It's fixed? You moron! Don't talk so loud! I appreciate it Hey, wait a sec... I'm sorry, sir...! And now for tonight's main event! In the blue corner, at 118 pounds, the legendary warrior from Thailand, Mori Champur! No way, man! And in the red corner, at 126 pounds, the underground kickboxing champion, Tiger Ishikura! The champion? Yup, the champ Jesus, you didn't say he was the champion! This is serious shit! He means business! What is it? - Dance... - Huh? It's the ritual before every Muay Thai match I don't even know how to do it! Just go out and shake your body! - Now pray! - What? Pray Make it stop! This guy's serious! Don't worry I can't win No need to win But I'm scared Go down in round two He's staring me down! You're Thai so quit speaking Japanese or we'll get caught Easy for you to say! Two rounds, got it? I can't! Sure you can! Just go out there! Go, you moron! The winner is Mori Champur! Outta my way! Move! What do you think you're doing, punk? Huh? Take me for a fool? I'll kill you! Wait! Shit! Go after 'em, go! That way! Come back, you punk! Jesus, you almost killed me! Who are you, anyway? How'd you get in here? Cars aren't supposed to come in here! Now hurry and back up! I said back up! Don't you understand? Get in! Hurry! Shit, they're coming! What're you doing? Can't open it... The gloves... Dammit! What're you waiting for? Get out of the way! Shit! Why in hell do I have to go through this crap? You shouldn't have won! That's not the issue! That is the issue! If you had... They're back! No way! Jesus Christ! Oh, shit! Hey, step on it Shit! What're we gonna do? Faster! They'll kill us! They'll kill us! What should we do? Hey! Quit fidgeting! Stay cool! I don't wanna die! What're we gonna do? We can't do anything! You're the one that said you're hungry You chose that restaurant It's over It's all over See, I know how to pick a place Never would've known, a restaurant like this... There's just something different about a classy joint, huh? Different? Something about its air It's different Must be the owner's passion being manifested The passion for valuing customers Not everybody notices these things, but I have a knack for picking up on it I'm not interested in places you find in magazines I like to discover them Or rather, it's like they're beckoning me, you know? Mind if we share the table? Um, sure Boss, go ahead Pardon us Give him a light when he brings out a cigarette! Good place, huh? Uh, yes I own it Who'd you guys bet on? Who'd you bet on? I'm talking about the match Um, we didn't really... Damn, that's boring Sorry, sir You ever seen one? It's our first The kicks are awesome, you'll see The sound of bones crunching It's great! Last week's fight was amazing It was great, sir - Tell 'em about it - Yes, sir So first, the guy comes running out and gets hit like "boom," right? Then when the other guy goes "switch," he goes "bam!" But then he takes it like ''smack,'' and he's all wobbly So the other dude comes in with kicks and punches like ''ba-ba-bamm!'' Unbelievable Tell 'em about that other one The other one? It was crazy! So when the guy comes out, he goes "thwap" on him The dude's just tottering and shit, going "oof," you know? Then he goes, ''I'll fuck you up!'' and rushes in for the kill He was all messed up after that Awesome, isn't it? Yes, sir Hey, there's that other one Tell 'em That one? Spare me on that one, sir Just the thought makes me sick... Yeah, that was pretty intense, huh? Yes I'm sorry, sir...! Boss, it's about to start And now for tonight's main event! In the blue corner, at 118 pounds, the legendary warrior from Thailand, Mori Champur! No way, man! Thais are just a different breed from Japanese, huh? Where's he from? Chiang Mai, sir Chiang Mai, huh? Brings back memories Wonder what that gun dealer's up to Probably dead by now And in the red corner, at 126 pounds, the underground kickboxing champion, Tiger Ishikura! Can't you see Boss clapping, huh? Which round is it? Second round, sir Must be a new style Looks like it Muay Thai has variations? I guess so, sir Must be Never seen anything like it - Now pray! - What? Pray You boys businessmen? Yes Tough being a businessman, eh? Well... Don't work too hard Yes, sir Aren't you guys watching? Come on! Uh, yes The winner is Mori Champur! Outta my way! Move! What do you think you're doing, punk? Huh? Take me for a fool? I'll kill you! Shit! Let's go, let's go! Wait, my briefcase is gone Hey! Where is it? Don't move! Get out of the way! Nobody move! We're the police! Penal code section 186, you're all under arrest for illegal gambling Everyone line up! You right there! Don't move an inch Hey, that's... my... my... Oops Get 'em Stop! What're we gonna do? We can't do anything! You're the one that said you're hungry You chose that restaurant It's over It's all over It's over between us, isn't it? You've changed You used to glimmer back when you dreamed of racing cars Why'd you give up? You were so close You'd never understand Hey Hey, what should we do? Hey! What're you...? We're in pursuit of an out-of-control vehicle, currently heading for the harbor Can they keep up with me? Not too shabby Slow down! Hey... Hey... Which round is it? Second round, sir Must be a new style Looks like it Muay Thai has variations? I guess so, sir Must be Never seen anything like that You boys businessmen? Yes Tough being businessmen, eh? Well... Don't work too hard Yes, sir Aren't you guys watching? Come on! Uh, yes The winner is Mori Champur! Outta my way! Move! What do you think you're doing, punk? Huh? Take me for a fool? I'll kill you! Shit! Let's split What's the matter? C'mon, Kudo! What's wrong? Let's go! Hey! I got shot... Project Proposal Hospital... Where the hell's the hospital? Hospital... Hospital... Hospital... What's his problem? Get out of the way! Hello? So? Did you get it? How'd it go? Shut the fuck up! Who's car do you think you just trashed, huh? His dad's yakuza, understand? What're you gonna do? I'll pay him back Pay him back? You know how much that car costs? Say, how much is that car, anyway? The car was 3.2 million yen, additional parts were 800,000, add labor... Total's around 5 million Holy shit, 5 mil! You got that kind of dough? What the fuck are you gonna do? Can you pay it? Well, you got no choice since you got it totaled The brakes were fucked Complaining after you borrow the car? It's your fucking fault! You better pay up! What're you gonna do? Say something! Hey, you should go hold up a liquor store They don't have 5 mil... Then what's he gonna do? My old man mentioned there's tons of gambling loot coming in tomorrow... Bring it to me and I'll let you go You talking about that underground kickboxing place? Yup That's hardcore! They'll kill him if he gets caught! Besides, this pussy doesn't have the guts - Tons of sketchy guys, right? - Oh, yeah - That's shady shit - No fucking way We'll do it We can do that shit, right? It's impossible, man Shut up! I'm not talking to you We just gotta bring back the loot, right? Don't chicken out Just watch Hospital... Slow ass! Oh, hey, there's one coming up We're almost there, man Hey! Hey! What's wrong? Hey! Which way? Which way? Left! Left! You're just making circles! You even planning on escaping? Why don't you drive, then! You try driving with these gloves on! Fine! I'll make the left turn! Now here comes the real speed! But a split second error would mean the difference between heaven and hell Now here comes the real speed... Oil temp 110... Water temp 90... Now let's settle this for good! I'll take us to the max! Don't die, now Don't you die on me! Hey! You hear me? Hey! Hey! Damn! Hey! The first corner should be approached at top gear, 310km The entrance is very difficult, the braking area is rather bumpy with a descent Take the corner in second gear, 105km, curve right and accelerate to the second corner Don't brake, but maneuver throttle to third gear, 150km Then a long curve left leads to a back straight Take the corner exit at 240km, go from fourth to fifth, then hit then brake hard and drop to 135km in third for the left curve Maintain balance at the long corner with careful throttle maneuvering, reduce speed for the difficult entrance for the tight right corner, then take the second half at full power and exit in fourth, 240km Then take it back up to top gear and head for the finish line! They're still on us! You serious? Don't die on me Don't die! Don't die! Don't die! Alright, bring it! OK, one more time! Alright, gimme another! Good job! One more time! Good, one more! Alright, keep it up! OK, gimme more rhythm! Rhythm! Jab, jab, jab, jab... Smash! Good, good, good, good... Smash! Do it, do it, do it, do it... There! OK... Last one, a minute! Do it! Project Proposal As you can see in this report, I focused on the auberge phenomenon The auberge first emerged in 19th century Europe when traveling became popular These establishments, where one can eat and sleep, are typically family-owned, and since the proprietors are very hands-on, the places reflect their unique personalities They offer quick-witted service, rather than that of manuals The food, the design, hospitality... Everything has individuality These are the basics of the auberge What I would like to propose here is a restaurant where you can sleep Patrons can enjoy a meal and then fall asleep, intoxicated by warm hospitality To provide a private and leisurely space where adults can relax and savor the good life... That is my aim Restaurants in the city emphasize visuals We need to offer food that speaks to the soul That is why the auberge concept becomes important Now, please turn to page 5 in your report Yes! Ow, that hurt Don't die, man! Don't die on me! I always wanted to be a racer You'd make a good one I mean it Sorry for getting you involved Don't worry about it Don't die on me! I don't wanna die... Masayuki Sakamoto Hiroshi Nagano Yoshihiko Inohara Go Morita Ken Miyake Junichi Okada Naomi Nishida Arata Furuta Susumu Terajima and Sansei Shiomi Cinematographer: Masao Nakabori Written by: SABU Johnny Office Co., Ltd. and avex inc. Present An IMJ Entertainment and Ogura Jimusyo Production Executive Producers: Johnntyo Co-Executive Producers: Julie K.Fujishima, Shintaro Higuchi Special Coordinator: Tom Yoda General Producers: Shinji Hayashi, Katsuro Oshita, Hiroaki Miki Producers: Masahiko Tan, Arishige Shimomura, Koji Yoshizawa, Satoru Ogura, Taro Nagamatsuya
