 

                        Harishchandra's Factory 14th April 1911 Yes, correct. Who was the king of Ayodhya? I don't remember Mahadev, what did I tell you yesterday? Shri Ram! The one before him? His father His father, grandfather... much before them Who? Ha... ri... ...chandra! Correct! Listen to me first then write King Harishchandra, Queen Taramati... ...and their son Rohidas were kind-hearted... ...and very popular too Sage Vishwamitra had heard all about them Sage Vishwamitra was very hot-tempered - Who is this? - Saint Dnyaneshwar Correct. Here's another one - Who is this? - Saint Tukaram King Shivaji - Who are they? - We don't know A priest? No A man with a beard - We don't know - He's Aryabhatt a And he's Jamshetji Tata - Do we recognize them? - No Do we care enough about Science? - No - No Is that why the British rule us? Yes - And so... - You teach nonsense Nonsense? Teach them what you want to The British rule us because of your progressive crap So perform your rituals and kick the British out You have no right to talk about rituals Why shouldn't we quarrel? Wait. Don't fight This program is over. Father, ready? On Kurukshetra's holy plains, my sons and... ...Pandu's sons met. What did they do, O Sanjay? (Mahabharat) The demons then att acked Vishwamitra... This is Dhundiraj Phalke's house He's looking for him He's out Mrs. Phalke Greetings, sister. At least you talk to him. He avoids me What can I say? He doesn't listen to anyone. Not even to her Crazy fellow I told him, I'll invest in his printing press He won't accept my money nor will he see me Where has he gone? He's performing magic tricks in the next lane Professor Kelpha will show you an amazing trick Why is he called "Kelpha?" Pha-la-ke... Ke-la-pha He has lost it Enough! Babaray, pack up! And now Professor Kelpha will vanish! Hurry up! Phalke! Where are you going? Wait! There's another 15 minutes to go The next performance isn't ready I'm not feeling well - Children, sit quietly - Phalke Phalke! In that tram? Who were they? Babaray, look over there Don't call me Babaray. Call me Bhalachandra Look! What is it, father? - Shall we see? - Yes Let's leave Why are you scared? Look. So many Englishmen They won't eat you Relax! Our Parsis and Bohris are here, too But I won't understand, if it's in English If you don't, we'll leave. But let's give it a try - Come on - No, let's go We'll look at the posters and then decide Listen to the gramophone - "Picture Palace" - Is this Jesus Christ? Yes. You remember I used to take photographs? - It looks like a photo - Yes Let's see Jesus Christ It's on tomorrow, you fool. See? Tomorrow 15th April 1911. Life and Passion Today's the 14 of April 1911. This is showing - Thank you. Want to see it? - Yes - How much? - Two annas - You have the money, right? - Yes How beautiful! Now let's see Take off your towering cap Couldn't you have reminded me about my cap? What's this? What? I'm really frightened Don't be frightened, my dear It's a picture. Nothing is real - Really? - Don't worry - Oh my God! - Don't run! Why so late? I've only cooked rice You forgot to buy vegetables He fainted and fell I told you not to take him with you He's just recovered from a fever. Come here Listen - Give me back the money - What money? You didn't buy the vegetables But I did buy him medicine Where is it? Where is it? The bott le broke when I tripped on a dog I suppose the dog gave you a receipt They're tickets. We saw this today I was about to tell you but you started scolding... So, we lied. I was afraid of you, Saraswati What did you see? A drama on the screen Photographs. Moving images Are you out of your mind? We saw moving animals on the screen What? Tomorrow I'll show it to you Will you believe me then, Saraswati? Yes - Saraswati - Now eat! What are you doing, Dhundiraj? Brother Shivram - Brother-in-law! - Uncle Quiet! Playing a word game? You avoided the businessman again today I was in a hurry, brother. Did he come to see me? Enough! How long can you go on like this? You left your government job You ran a good printing press, but fought and left And now people offer you money but you... I gave my partner my word... ...I wouldn't start another printing press Sure, I fought with him. But I won't compete with him You gave your word? I just don't understand it You used to live in a nice house. And now! Look at the state you're in. Please tell him, Saraswati I agree with him It's me who's wrong He's the selfless Harishchandra And you... his faithful Taramati And we are Rohidas! I know the story, too I'm going Did you come here only to admonish me? Yes! It's late. Your wife is tolerant. Mine is tyrant Will I understand? What's there to understand? Just keep your eyes open and watch - Don't get angry - Do I ever? - Stop it! - Mahadev... What do we do now? It's starting I want to pee. - Again? - Yes What is the Marathi name for this thing? It's like photographs. Photo serial? No. A drama on the screen Or moving pictures? No. Pictures moving - Let's play in the water - All right Saraswati, I'm thinking of starting printing again That's good You saw Christ today Would you like to see Lord Ram and Krishna on the screen? I'd love it Then let's make it happen. We'll create a screen drama But you were talking of printing It's all the same. It's a kind of printing Then it's fine You go home. I want to see that machine again - But... - There's one last show Come down. Hurry I am Vishwamitra. I've heard a lot about you, Harishchandra Truthfulness, generosity. Very good Say it dramatically! I am Vishwamitra Taramati, Rohidas and I are at your service What do you command, sir? I'm going to test you Like at school! Not that test, you fool! A test of character And don't spill the beans yet You'll get it in the end Donate your Empire! It's yours - Donate two baskets of gold - Donated! But we've given you everything How can we give you gold? The last 57 rupees It won't even be enough for the basics Wait It's 59 now Aren't we also short of rice? - Do you want my jewellery? - Not yet Don't you think our house is stuffed with things? Saraswati, you have to be strong Don't be sad. It's part of life What happened? We heard about the cupboard Cupboard? You're behaving as if someone had died Idiots! Granny, nothing serious has happened. Go! Why are you crying? I'm not crying They were grieving so much, so I also felt like crying Go away! All of Taramati for 4 annas! I heard about the cupboard I'll invite you for the last rites I don't understand what's going on. Poor Mrs. Phalke! What can we do? Why are you shouting? We're selling one another Please. Carry on Finish it. My friend is waiting for you Yes What is this? These are our friends - Let go of me! - Stop him! He's running away Phalke, listen. Wait! They drugged me and took me to a mental hospital - Don't be angry - Am I angry? We did what any good friend would do Did you expect us to do nothing about this craziness? Craziness? Why are you doing this? Especially when you can't afford it - Remember Godhara? - What? - You told me yourself - What? About your photography business. Remember? It closed down in two days Now you want to start a moving photographs business I closed it because of rumours They said a camera sucks the very life out of a person - Rumours! Spread by people like you - Like us? Never mind. Your business went bankrupt And now it's moving pictures What can we say? He's gone mad I am not mad You're scaring the children. Don't shout! Babaray! Mahadev! - Let's get something special - What? Let's do something special before that - What? Professor Kelpha's amazing trick At least tell me what you're about to sell - A bird. - Bravo! Giant eye! Great! It's a miracle Open the door - Granny is scared - Don't laugh. So that's it, is it? Rubbish! Come What is it called? Black magic This is only a toy They show moving pictures from a real machine Where's that? In theatres and tents. It's like a play on the screen - On the screen? - Yes - Phalke, you want to do this? - Yes Why? Why do people make plays? Right! No one has asked that question before We're under British rule and he's playing with their things He'll get arrested and sent to Mandalay prison. Like Tilak And you'll sell tickets for these shows? How else can I get my money back? - How much will it cost? - Thousands It won't make any difference if they aren't made People watch because they are made I don't have thousands. But you can have ten rupees Brother... It'll save a few household things Don't do it, Phalke Go on, Uncle Uncle Pathan, have you seen my father? He's a regular. So I let him sleep He looked unwell Wake up, father I can't see It's dark in here. Let's go outside Get up, father. Easy Come on I can't see at all, Bhalachandra Father! Come Be careful - I've lost my eyes, Babaray - No I'll get a job, father Then who'll make the screen drama? You can tell me and I'll instruct everyone The drama will be made. But first apply the balm Mother will do something Get up, father Stop crying! Tell me where your brother went? - Why didn't you wake me? - Mother! Where have you... Doctor, look at this. We want to make a screen drama Can I? What nonsense! You've lost your eyesight So what? Do as I say. And I mean it Will it be possible then? Yes. You're not completely blind Even a drunkard can be cured... ...do something for him Eyes can be cured. What about his head? Granny! Is this the way to talk about a blind person? Don't be angry Am I angry? Don't shout. It's bad for you That's exactly what they want If I lose my eyes, I can't make a photo-drama And then their society will be safe and sound They don't care if our country will lose a good business - Calm down - You're conspiring with the British Conspiracy? And this old Granny? Calm down. Nothing is wrong with you No matt er what, I'll make a screen drama Is that why you want to regain your eyesight? Not for the litt le one on its way? What a way to announce good news! Great! Then take care of all the children Follow the instructions. See you I get it. But what can we do? Saraswati, I think a white man has done some black magic Granny, it's no black magic. It's an infection Don't shout! Take your medicine Saraswati, can you tell me your news again? I didn't hear properly Cursed me! I am accused of killing my own son And I am supposed to behead her How much more will destiny test us? A character test! - Be quiet! - You die Your Highness, behead me No! My head instead Sever my head - My head - I wore a sari - But I'm a real girl What are you doing? Beheading Later. First get me the medicine - You can all go - All right Is that a game? Beheading each other! Which one is for what? I can't remember You've started again? The doctor said there's no danger now Don't strain yourself Saraswati, aren't we so in tune? You have a baby moving inside you... ...and I have a moving picture inside me. We're both pregnant No point in studying anymore Now it's time to put it into practice But how? I must go abroad. To London London? I must. There are no facilities here. And the money? How much? Ten thousand - To get to London? - Yes Do your eyes work well enough? - Yes - And your head, Phalke? That can't be cured, Nadkarni That's why I like you. We'll see if we can fool my father-in-law Why must you do this? No one has a clue about it There's a first time for everything But we already have plays with live actors and live music Who is going to watch your dumb pictures? My insurance policy as security Go on And go to hell And good luck! All that's left is your jewellery, once that's gone... ...he'll sell you and the children too That "Harishchandra"! Is "Harishchandra" an insult? Who is this? She comes here every day When your husband is done with it, can I borrow it? No need! He'll probably be staying with this dame in London Be quiet! How is he travelling? By the morning boat Give it to me We'll photograph the newborn with a London camera I'll still be on board when the baby arrives - Come on - Let's go Take care Get me a nose-ring from London Mine is broken Let's go. We're gett ing late Hurry up! This is happening all because of you I wanted you to see me off. Alone If something happens to me, you have the insurance policy Never mind that Don't send me a lett er or telegram. Even if someone dies I can't return home at once anyway You said you knew people there That was for the family's benefit I can't speak the truth all the time, you know What? Look at this magazine. It's about cinema They call it "cinema" over there. All I have is their address - This is my only contact - Bravo! So I'll be the only one worrying about you for two long months Great! He didn't bother to wait till the baby arrived He didn't need to stay for my sake Work is important Forgot the umbrella But we can prepare you something Are you Marathi? I'm Marathi, too - You, too? - Yes I guessed it from your English My name is Abdulla I'm Phalke I'll make something for you. Potatoes? And keep this umbrella It can rain anytime in London Feel free to ask for anything While you're here, you must eat with us Pure vegetarian! Mother! What is Harishchandra's full name? Sleep now, Babaray Bhalachandra! I'm sleeping Mr. Bhalachandra. Sleep Go to sleep, children Brother, tell me Harishchandra's full name Harishchandra Ayodhyekar - What? - You're back So? When? Early morning. The children opened the door You were fast asleep. Are you unwell? I'm all right. I sleep a lot these days She does too. She forgot to say "good morning" to her father She didn't know Get ready! Have a bath It's for you, Saraswati. We're going out How would I know? Your mother is so silly And as you so desperately wanted to know... - What? Your daughter's name is Mandakini What's this? I arrived and went straight to see Mathuradas I told him: "I'm starting a new business I want to use your Dadar bungalow" And he gave it to you? That's where we're moving. Hurry up Too many shocks in a day. Is everything packed already? What had I left to pack anyway? We'll come to see your play. In the theatre We'll start saving money from now And if you save a lot, you can pass it to me Have to make drama first! Goodbye. Let's go How will we play the drama? - Come to our house - It's huge Granny! Come on, let's go I believe Dadar is a jungle No people live there This wild animal will love it there The equipment will arrive very shortly from London What about the money? The ten thousand rupees are almost over We need to surprise people. Money will follow Will people like it? Absolutely. Don't worry The train... Take the railways... no one boarded a train at first They were scared. They called it an iron demon And now just see People will get used to the pictures too But we haven't decided on a story Yes! Ram Krishna Lokmanya Tilak But he's still alive! Are we supposed to make a play... ...based only on dead people? We need a story that everyone will like It should reflect our culture What is culture? No one asked me King Harishchandra and Queen Taramati! Are you home? - Uncle! - Brother! That's it. Harishchandra! What brings you here? - How are you? - Fine - "Harishchandra" - But I'm Ganesh I know. But how about "Harishchandra"? We've enacted his story I know his whole story Me, too Me, too. But I'm here to see my niece Have something to eat first The story first! Forget it. I don't feel like eating I've heard a lot about your new venture People gossip! I know They call me Harishchandra, as if it were an insult So let me show them the real Harishchandra My friend tells me a play based on Harishchandra... ...is a big hit nowadays In Marathi and Urdu That sett les it! How is your theatre company? Doing well I saw a screen drama today I wanted to see what you were up to And the judge's verdict is? It isn't madness at all Tell me, I'll get my theatre troupe to come here It's here Careful! Take care Bring me a war horn that I'll blow with all my might Mother passed. I failed. Now no matt er what... ...our work won't stop But alas! There's no money It's impossible to eat this It isn't that bad. Finish it Don't behave like that in front of the children What if they start wasting food too? Reap what you sow They're good boys I've sown only good things - Yes Except for today's dinner On the contrary I've sown many things in this meal too Raw wheat, raw rice, raw peas A plant will grow out of Mahadev's navel Don't make him cry Not from his navel. From a clay pot What? I'll sow a green pea You'll abandon your work and start farming now? I'll farm a single green pea The camera and the pot mustn't be moved an inch Understand? Turn the handle at exactly the same time everyday Everybody salutes a miracle Very good. - Excellent! - Unbelievable! This is Devhare It was very good. Amazing! - How was it? - Wonderful! It was excellent Phalke, an astonishing feat! What can I say? You're willing to lend me money But I don't have anything to mortgage My friends aren't rich But we've managed to raise... ...twenty-five thousand rupees between us - Right Nadkarni? - Yes I understand your position If only we could mortgage our brains We'll find a solution Didn't we talk about my jewellery? Here Problem solved. Give it to him The advance Sleep, my child So many women around me, but I love only thee - Let go of me! I don't care. She's my wife He's my brother I have a sister too! Please let go! Now, for an advertisement Carpenters, washermen, painters, barbers... ...and actors required The deaf and dumb are also welcome But only the fit and healthy need apply Two legged creatures like addicts, tramps and the underfed... What? The undernourished... addicts and tramps... ...need not apply Write Have you all read the advertisement carefully? Any carpenters here? Any washermen? Painters? Barbers? No? Actors? Oh no! No more adverts What? Are you deaf? Go away! Oh yes! "The deaf and dumb are welcome" Can you act? Can you act? Well, can you? Show me Come. You could be useful Over there. Some food No more ads! What then? The theatre companies will give us the right actors Excellent, Phalke. Amazing. It's very good - Did you like it? - Yes So, sir? No No, I can't He's scared The casting is taking far too long It's good we've already found King Harishchandra To play Prince Rohidas... Mr. Saney What about Mrs. Deshpande's son? According to the story, Rohidas is exiled... ...and dies at the end. So Mrs. Deshpande said no But did you tell her Lord Shiva brings him back to life? She didn't want to go beyond the death scene She said she couldn't bear to see her son die They all say the same thing Mahadev played Rohidas in our play He's too young. Mr. Dabke, if only you had a son Why the ifs and buts? You do have a son Babaray! How could I forget? Bhalachandra - Will I get new clothes? - Absolutely! We'll find hundreds who can play the king and prince But it's difficult to find Queen Taramati I want a woman to play Taramati Not a man in a sari It's no joke being a woman Women don't even go to watch stage plays Leave alone acting How about the new drama company? Their female impersonators are good But they refuse to act in moving pictures And those who do agree, demand too much money Phalke, the casting of the Queen is taking far too long Never mind Don't be stubborn. Let a man play the role Why not me? You? I don't want a muscular queen. A woman must play the role Babaray, drink your milk Don't even think about it I've already asked her How will this art ever be respectable if you refuse? Respectable! If I started acting, who'll feed you? Respectability or food? Food! - We'll hire two cooks - No Go inside Just like the first lady doctor, Anandibai The first actress of moving pictures, Saraswatibai And what about these moving kids? Plus, you need my help in developing, printing and camera Most importantly, I don't want to act All right, don't I want a woman to play Taramati But... There's only one way out You idiot! Give me my money You cheat! Pay up No, that isn't it Will you act in a play? A "Harishchandra" play Photo play A picture! Acting? She doesn't understand Marathi The Queen is shy and noble How much will you pay? 40 rupees a month That's what we earn in a night! Sister Come here. Three rupees You mean a play on screen? It's a "White Man's" drama We're making the story of King Harishchandra Do what you want But if I let my daughter act... ...the community will shun us We'll lose our honour So what's the solution? Marry my daughter and do as you please Wait! Take me. I know about the pictures Let's go Carefully! Look down! Behave like gentlemen Get back to work! Wake up! Leave us Come in. We will... Dabke! Shankar, order some tea Let's rehearse He's your husband, Harishchandra You say: "Dearest, the great guru Vishwamitra has arrived" Come on. Speak up Not there! Fine. Now try Dear, that guru... he came... No, the line is... Why do you people send messages through him? Is somebody at the door? - Laila! - Who is there? - What do you want? - Laila You took my girl and now you question me? How much did you pay? I'll pay double Don't get me wrong I'm offering her a moving picture What did you say? A picture? Laila, you shameless girl! Acting in a picture? No, sir - But the picture... - I don't want to hear a word Let's go Do you want to work in the pictures? You're teaching her dirty things You offered her a role? Forget it! You stupid woman! Have you gone mad? Is our profession so low? Phalke! It's me Listen to me. Please, sister. Madam! - Sister! - I know Black cap! One anna two paise! You like young boys, eh? Will you act in a play? Free Lokmanya Tilak! Freedom fighter Tilak must be released. Free him! Victory to our leader! Will you work in a play? Will I get food? Yes Take this That's too much. They weren't married We need strong expressions. Like here Feel the music. You're good I had a marriage proposal today They asked me what I do - And so? What could I say? I said that I act in a play They asked: "You must travel a lot?" I replied: It isn't that kind of play... ...it's a screen drama" Then? They said I was mad I started to explain the camera... ...and they got scared and ran away Then? How will we get a bride? People don't understand what we're doing You will marry one day, Ganu You're a nice person, sister We didn't get a woman to play Queen Taramati We had to sett le for Salunkhe Times are bad. But don't worry What shall we say? Where do we work? "Karkhana" Say you go to a "karkhana" Of what? Of the pictures "Picture" is an English word. It'll impress people They won't disrespect you as much... ...if you use the English word "Karkhana..." No. Say "Factory" Ready? Come in King Harishchandra, life is full of mishaps But every mortal must overcome them Gajabhau! "Get lost!" is all you had to say! But how can I convey the story? Or Vishwamitra's thoughts? We'll show cards in between The audience will read and understand Anyway, nothing will be heard. No sound at all That isn't possible as yet Oh yes, it slipped my mind Let your acting speak, not your voice It's no use blabbering Gajabhau, show more anger - Should I enter again? - No. Do it now Ferocious! Let the music affect you Enough! Don't overdo it Dabke, enter! O Sage... Did Harishchandra tremble like that? Start again Straight! Do you want to wrestle with Vishwamitra? Be fierce! Be courteous too Lower your head. Queen, come here Why does he have a moustache? His father is still alive And so? Taramati alias Krushna Salunkhe A moustache can't be shaved off till a father is still alive - Isn't Taramati a woman? - Yes Then how can you have a moustache? Some women do But would the King deliberately... ...marry a woman with a moustache? My father is alive. He's right here Bring him here No food till you get it right Special food is ready for the ones who are fasting I give them an ultimatum and you... Not over my lines - Don't get angry - Am I angry? - What is it? - My father So you're alive And you'll die if he shaves off his moustache No, sir, but... King Harishchandra and Queen Taramati... ...were a virtuous couple, right? - Yes Wasn't Taramati beautiful? Like her? We could get away with it on the stage, but not on the screen Then why show a moustache? It will look as if a man has married another man How would the real Harishchandra and Taramati feel? Shave it off! You saved me from sinning Shave it off The other "women" are throwing a tantrum too Moustaches will go. Or heads will roll Fix it with glue And you! Your acting must be more natural Become your character A King's traits? Refined and responsible A prince A mix of mischief and humility - Yes Not just yes. You're a sage. Do yoga and fast - What happened? - It's broken Show it to me Here Why? I have another one You play Lord Shiva from now And all the "women" Sit down! You'll wear saris from now on And help in the kitchen Shave off your moustaches, but let your hair grow You five must get used to having long hair Where is the fifth woman? Where is he? A cigarett e? At your age? The painter said they smoked cigarett es in those days I was only rehearsing Were there cigarett e factories in ancient Ayodhya? They must have had some bad habits - Actors and addictions go together - Nothing doing From tomorrow everyone will exercise - One... - One... Hold it lower Hold it lower Careful You'll get used to it You'll get used to it Hail to Lord Hanuman! To the left Phalke, your film and chemicals! Careful! Put it in the darkroom Have you developed the film? Let me first develop the rice I think you should ask someone to share your burden You two are overworked - That's right - Where? Outside. I'm coming Pradhan, bring me a pen and paper No one has any technical know-how First listen. Then write. "Dear friend, Tryambak Telang... "I am starting a new business "If you're still alive, come at once to Mumbai" Who is Telang? A childhood friend. From Tryambakeshwar He was a chaste priest. But my still camera seduced him Father, a lett er from Uncle Phalke Come on. Let's pack What a misfortune! What a misfortune! Om! No Hold her carefully! It's me, sister Brother Telang? Come in A woman has fainted I see! Saney, please Get up! Faint somewhere else Is this a place to rehearse? Please come Be careful Let's go outside Where is he? - He's inside. I'll join you Repeat after me... Go inside No, later Look who's here Salunkhe, your medicine is ready Tryambak What's all this, Dhundiraj? A play! Meet Salunkhe who plays Queen Taramati Bless the poor boy Not boy, girl! Never forget you're a woman So many women! I wonder what's going on Professor Kelpha presents... A Williamson. Moving pictures And from today you take charge Influence of social reforms! Please, stop! Aren't you going to take the photos tomorrow? Are you packed? Absolutely. Is there enough light? We'll see I'll join you later You won't get anything at Wangni Saney, keep this money for now I'll bring more! Get everything arranged before I arrive We'll start preparing on the train Ready? We're at Wangni. Let's get down We're here. Come on - Be careful - Have you got everything? Yes. Let's go I shall tear the heavens apart... Saney! Tryambak! What's happened? The police have arrested everyone. I managed to hide Father, save us They had swords and spears. Bandits robbing in disguise - Is this your gang? - No, Inspector But do bandits usually carry cameras? This is a camera. To take pictures - Have you seen a photograph? - Yes We're photographing a play Constable! He's a member of our troupe. Come, Shankar Let's perform for you. We aren't bandits Come on. Move the table - Put it over there - Come out, everyone! Easy! Wait here Tryambak, put the camera over there This is the scene where Lord Shiva appears Yes, I appear Tryambak, ready? Start! - Dear... - The camera is here I am enslaved to duty - Stop, my King. I am pleased - Are you watching? Vishwamitra, did the test satisfy you? Enough! He's a perfect Lord Shiva My mistake Convinced? Start! Everyone, understood? Take your positions Hurry up! Ready? Start I am enslaved to duty. Forgive me, my beloved Stop! No one move Lord Shiva, on this mark. Got it? On screen it'll look as if he appeared from thin air Ready? Start! Stop it, King. I'm impressed Hold the axe right Stop it, King! I'm impressed Aim accurately. Start! Stop it, King! I've caught it Who'll say the next line? The real Lord Shiva? Be quiet! Dhundiraj, what about those jackfruit trees? Didn't they have jackfruit trees in those days? - Jackfruit? It's the story that's important That's true Listen to the calls of tomorrow... Start! Stop! Start! It's jammed The manual The upper wheel's screw? The gear belt? The spring? It's turning. It's working Start again Bring me such a war horn... Is the pyre ready? The next scene has Rohidas on the pyre - Remember? - It's ready Are you ready? Bhalachandra! He's playing Rohidas Uncle, he's hurt - Babaray! - Let's stop What time is the next train? Wait. It's nothing serious. Put him on the pyre The sun is sett ing We must finish today. We can't come back Do as I say. Lift him Quick! Bring him here Careful Mind the sun's direction The sun's over there Start! We couldn't have come back you know... And I wouldn't have died of a tiny wound I've checked the whole film And it's completely... ...perfectly printed! But it doesn't end here We have to take it to the people If they like it, a business gets established Victory to moving pictures! At least, they can't say even a stray dog didn't show up The advertisement was prominent enough 3 May, 1913 Day One - "King Harishchandra" Let's start the show. Come There are more actors than audience Never mind Now it will start - Excellent - Congratulations! Dhundiraj, should we re-do some scenes? Lmpossible The numbers are pathetic. The numbers are pathetic. Five shows. Fifty-seven tickets sold Fifty-seven tickets. And one "very good". Not bad! What shall we do? The first Indian picture ever! "King Harishchandra" What is a picture? It's 3/4 inch wide and a two-mile long strip of photographs That long? How many pictures in a strip? 57,000 moving pictures Day Three Day Five Another idea Watch "King Harishchandra" at the Coronation Theatre A lucky ticket wins you a nine-yard sari A lucky ticket wins a nine-yard sari Day Ten and the Last Shows Extended Houseful The 23rd day and truly the last/ Releasing in another theatre soon Calm down! What's next? "Bhasmasur Mohini" "Bhasmasur Mohini" Running houseful. The demon Bhasmasur turns to ashes when touched by Mohini Now presenting "Satyavan Savitri" The loyal and brave Savitri She rescued her husband from the claws of death Long live Tilak! Tilak has been set free Europe on the brink of a big war. A very big war Indian pictures go beyond the seven seas Phalke's pictures in London. Buy! Savitri with a moustache. A grammar mistake, too - Shall I carry it? - No, we'll manage Let's go Babaray, you hold her I didn't recognize you London people offered me a lot of money I'm glad you refused. Did they want you to stay there? Yes. A film industry must be created in India - What use is it if we work there? - We'll carry on here "Phalke!" Four annas. "Phalke!" for a quarter So that's how much we're worth! Why do you call these toys "Phalke"? Because they move! Moving toys! "Phalke!" Four annas. Four annas only "Phalke!" Four annas. Nice
