 

                        - Felipa, hurry up - Yes, coming Mother, please look after them Mother, we'll just stay there for two years so we could save up Don't worry about us Mother, don't leave We're doing this for you So we won't have to depend on your grandma forever Just take care of your sister. Look after her - Yes - Promise to take care of her Let's go, we'll get caught up by traffic Airport is far Okay, take care Okay, okay Take care We'll leave them up to you Let's go, let's go Go ahead, you might get stuck up with traffic Let's go, Felipa Let's go Come That's the only time I remember that I cried because of my parents I've spent all my time taking care of my sister, Cecilia She's well now Doc, are you sure? You just gave her water I am so sure because she just had a hiccup - Actually, it's you who is sick - What do you call my illness? O A She just had a hiccup and you brought tension here in the hospital Next time, just give her water at home I'm sorry, I just love my sister so much You can get used to this kind of set-up of living It's just the two of you of the person whom you can depend and hold on Kiss your sister, kiss - Bye - I'll be the one in-charge here Please Rica, how many is that Four, they got four Rica, I'll just leave I'll collect those money borrowed from Look after your sister I know, I will Check how you give change on bills. Count it - So we won't lose money - Yes - Take care, grandma - Noel Come here, my grandchild Watch over your sister, she might disappear again She might go out with her boyfriend Bong - That street bug - I don't agree - Promise - No - I'll go ahead, watch her - Yes, bye Bye, grandma Ces, Ces You're big enough, right? You can watch over the store. We're about to close now - You can do this - Yes, sister I'll just buy something from the store... I'll be back immediately You'll just go out with Bong How could you say that? I haven't even thought of that I saw him hiding Brother Bong, you can go out now Brother Bong Just keep quiet from grandma, we'll come back This is just a quick date Quick like we'll just have a snack then we'll go back Is that okay? Give me my bag - Bring me something - Sure Lots of rice cakes for the two of you. Bye - Okay - Enjoy Brother, brother, brother Okay, brother, okay brother - Good evening - You're late Garbage has been collected this morning - Yes - You idiot I'll buy firecrackers What is the strongest firecracker that you have? This one, Judas' Belt. It has unstoppable blast - Okay, let's test that - Sure But you stay inside the store and we'll go out I'm just kidding. You easily believe me Give me that sputnik Hey, you can't smoke here. Put it off Hey Get it. We'll all explode Cecille Help me Help Ouch, my hand Help Cecille Ouch Shut up, shut up - Cecille - Ouch Noel, hurry up - Are we there yet? - We're near God, please don't let something bad happen to my sister Hurry up Just save her and I'll leave Bong I'll be good I'll take care of my sister even for all of my life Just don't let anything bad happen to her If something bad happens to your sister... you'll be responsible for this Drive faster. Hurry I've told you long ago to close that firecracker store lt'll cause accident. Where is Rica? Let me talk to her Hello, my child The reason why we work hard here in Libya... is to give you a good life What we're just asking is for you to study hard... and take care of your sister Here's your mom See, it's good that the only thing that happened What if your sister got blind or lost her leg? Right, my child I've told you not to bother your grandma to take care of your sister Rica, you're old enough I'm going to have miscarriage because of you What? You're pregnant Yes Pregnant? Give me that What did you say? You got yourself another child You can't even take care of your two children here Hold it there, are you really working... or that was the only thing that you're doing there Mother, that's enough. This conversation is too long I'd be paying much for the long distance bill What? Wait up, hello Hello... what the... No one's there anymore, grandma You don't have to worry. She's safe Just make sure to clean her wounds so it wouldn't get infected Thank you, doc I'll go ahead Thank you, doc Rica, don't blame yourself. That was an accident How? How could I not blame myself? I'm an irresponsible sister Grandma was right, you're still a boy And I am stupid to fall for you Rica, it has happened. At least Cecille is okay now I don't want this anymore, Bong Rica, that's enough I mean, I don't want this anymore I'm sorry but... I couldn't give my attention to you and my family all at the same time What? Are you serious? Just because of what happened? I'm sorry These are okay, a lot of people will order these Grandma, are we closing the store? What are you? We'll earn big on New Year, let's talk about that after I'll get one more, Grandma Check your calculations How many firecrackers are you getting? Are we closing? It's the month of May... firecrackers sell best especially during fiesta season Here, this one. It'll blow up to heaven Be good Grandma, mother's asking if we're closing the store Oh, no. It's the fourth of July Americans front the embassy ordered firecrackers We'll earn dollars Grandma, grandma, five sputnik please Cecille, stand up and get me five sputnik - Hurry up - Yes, grandma This is the best What else do you want? A few months from now and it's Christmas That's our peak season Just ignore your father and mother... they're far anyway Mother, we're just selling the remaining stock You've been saying that for 10 years now You can't do that anymore when we get home Mother, you've been saying that for 10 years now Don't worry, we'll just finish our last contract soon Hold on, didn't you take up Accounting Why aren't you applying for a job in a bank? By the way here's your brother, he's big now Say hello Take care of this Stop, I don't like it Don't you get tired of what you're doing? This is just fine, life now is dangerous... that's why you have to be careful lt'll take the robber till morning before they get in Go ahead, suggest that so you could give the robbers an idea Come here, you might get tripped there Dude, look at Cecille, she's got a smooth skin Just looking at skin complete the meal What did you say? - Are you throwing desire on us? - Not you, just Cecille Can we court her? Hey, the three of you are shameless... you want to court my sister while you haven't brushed your teeth yet Your breath stinks And before you eat somebody else's skin... Iook for a job so you could buy your viand! Ride now, ride now Take care Move, move Hey, remember, if there's a robber or snatcher... whatever's in your bag like your laptop, cell phone... even your wallet, don't hesitate to give it Don't fight anymore, you just might get hurt Take care Yes, sister. Thank you Whoever in here robs would definitely know what to steal from me Really? Hold on Driver, don't move yet, I'll just do something Smile Sister Wear your shades to hide your ugly face Sister, stop that Hey you, brother, you newly dyed Sorry Next in line All of them? You're sitting beside my sister, fix your self... or you're going to get something bad from me, I know you All of you, compress so you'd fit in my cell phone's frame There. Okay. That's clear Remember, I got all your photos Try to steal, I'll send this to NBI Brother, drive safely. My sister's riding your jeep Go ahead, sister Your eyes will be the only parts of your body unharmed... if something happened to my sister Be careful, I'll pick you up later - Don't talk to boys - Yes, sister Bye Where's your sister Out to deliver, but she told me about your order Prepared already But she told me that I won't give it to you unless you pay You're becoming like your sister, unfriendly - You'll be like her, an old maid - So? I have someone to introduce to your sister Brother, stop introducing her to whoever The last one you introduced with her... has bombing body odor like the Super Lolo firecracker we're selling Cousin Make sure the firecracker powder is better next time Cousin, I have someone you could date with I mean I have someone to introduce to you, he's Mark - My cousin, Rica - Hi, Mark How did you guys meet He's my classmate back in high school and college What happened? I've never met you if you were classmates in high school and college We're not in the same group. We're just seatmates by chance Seatmates That's not true that you were seatmates by chance He does that on purpose so he could copy from you during exams That's it, cousin. You're smart You two would go along together I'll get something to eat. Come up here - We'll just stay here, cousin - Okay - Don't leave. I'll be back, Mark - Sure She looks like a snob but she's nice - Who's that - That's Mark Beauty, can you serve them snacks Hold on, sister. I'm going to do something I've got visitor downstairs Don't forget to serve snack, Beauty I'll put some colors on you. Sit down - Do we have to do this now - Yes, sister lt'll be better if your fingernails has nail polish Beauty... ...this is Mark Do we really have to do this now? It's a shame for Noel's visitor You told me he's not your type He's not my type but I shouldn't be rude at him Let him stay there so we'd know if he's patient Let him wait I heard you studies in US, is that true Yes. Masters Wow, you took up masters. I also took up masters Master Cutter in Arthur's. Do you know that? And also Deneche tailoring I made Germs' outfit Those glittery and shiny... those that have broken bulbs and broken glasses... I made it Did you see megastar, Sharon's wedding gown? Did you see it? I didn't made that Cecille Sis, is it your first time to have foot spa? Why? Because it tickles me No, sis. Dirt is too thick O A. Enough of that, I need to go downstairs My visitor is waiting for me Sis, look. They are all laughing hard I'm sure, Beauty's taking care of him Come here, I'm not yet done with your other foot - She's not yet here? - She's here. There Can you see her. Of course, she's not here Coz' she's not yet here. Can't you wait Is she coming down yet No, she's going up 'coz she's on second floor... she's going to the roof Of course, she's going down... that's second floor, the last floor so she's coming down You can't wait. We're giving you food There. Just a second, sis You should look glamorous when you go down... your guest will be so in-love with you You're teasing me What's taking her so long What happened to my cousin? Done, I'll go down Beauty, what now, how is Mark? I'll go down now - He's gone - Why? Where is he? - He went home - Why did he go home? We're on Yes Salvador, Maria Cecilia Thank you Santos, Perfecto Santa Cruz, Elena, Torres, Geraldine Are you the mom? You're over reacting Grandma, I'm her mother It's because our parents, the one who gave birth to us are abroad That's why I'm her mom Zaragoza, Maria Elizabeth Big sister, thanks for every sufferings that you did for me It's me who should be thanking you because you didn't disappoint me... I'm very proud of you Thank you, sister Go back there Picture - One more - One more Are you part of our family Enough, enough, it's our chance to take pictures, where is my sister? Sister just a second, let's take a picture - Get in, get in - What are we gonna do there? Don't ask too many questions just go inside - Get in, get in - Are you sure cousin? - Yes - Bye, Jenny We'll do the picture taking here? At least, it's peace and quiet here to take pictures - Picture - Okay, go One more Hi, good that you made it, come on let's eat Congratulations, did you get what we send? Yes, thank you What is your plan? Nothing for now maybe I'll help my big sister here You might be laid back like your sister? She didn't apply for work right away Okay, I'll apply for work right away. But maybe not in Makati It's far from here, maybe around here for the mean time Daughter, we're just waiting for you to graduate We're tired already That's why your mom and I decided not to renew our contract Really? Really mom? Is that what you're saying is true? Yes mom, because you told us we have to take care and watch over the kids... that's why we're going home They're not kids anymore Don't worry, we're doing well here When are we going to live in the house that we are paying in Pasig? You have a point So now what, we'll going to see each other? Where is your sister Rica? Not here, I went out She went outside Okay, just tell her to get what we send Okay mom, we'll get it at Cebuana Lhuillier Thank you mom and dad - Always be careful - Yes - Congratulations, my child - Bye. Okay What did she say? They're going home They're going home, they'll get you, I'll be left alone Grandma, don't make a scene, we're not going to separate We are not leaving, we'll live together... we'll stay here, no one's leaving I hope - My grandma's putting on some drama - Beauty, what are you getting from there Here you go, ma'am Thank you - Here's the your receipt - Thank you Hold it No please, put it aside No, you hold it, I might lost it. Please I'll take it? Just kidding Hold it, it's better if its with you Wow! Your cooking smells good, makes me more hungry Cecilia, it is obvious that you're teasing me I just started cooking From the looks of you I know what you want from me No, as early as now I'm telling you no If its moving to the new house, I don't like, okay, I don't like Aren't you excited and happy that we finally can be with our parents I'm only thirteen years old when they left... you don't even know how to speak yet They're working for us For themselves, to have a better life We're part of it? And I'm excited that our family will be whole again And Kuya Noel says that the house is beautiful and classy It's not like grandma's house that any moment we'll be thrown out You're a bad kid It's up to you, you decide I'll decide, is it okay It's up to you Thank you - I'm so excited - Okay Cecille, I'm not coming Okay, I don't intend to convince you coz that's going to make me tired I'm just joking you're too sensitive I'm packed already, let's go, what time is it, run! Hurry We're here, that was fast - That's your house - Be careful with the furniture's Here, ma'am - We need some assistance here - Mom and Dad's house are big... we should have lived here Because you haven't finished school before You know in fairness we fit to live here In fairness I have bigger space to clean That's why I should be getting more pay from now on - Really? - Come in - Wow! - This is the living room... - and this is the kitchen - Rica, it's beautiful Bedrooms are upstairs - In fairness, it's beautiful - Here's the dining - Look - It's big Dining is big Did you like it? Are you okay here Yeah, you? I'm not used to my new room And the bed is a bit hard. I'm sleepy You've been talking a lot You can sleep beside me Sis, can you? Can what? Scratch my back I knew why you're here. You have a bad motive That's my favorite Joseph don't move around too much, you'll sweat a lot, go inside Wake up Beauty, is there a fire More than a fire. Terrorists are here What is it? - There - Surprise! Hi - Cousin, they're here - My babies are all grown up Kids - Mom - Kids Dad That's Beauty You came home early Yes, we want to surprise you. Surprise, right? Yeah, we're surprised You've grown, Cecille I'm Rica You're wrong. We've been seeing them through web cam... and you've still mistaken her for her sister Got room for some mistakes You know, because you've two were grown up - I bought something - Yeah, grown up - Huh? - Nothing Here are what I brought for you. I'm so excited to give this to you I personally chose these Here's' for you. This just for them Beautiful This one's for you Come, fit it. I've chosen these for you I'm excited to see you wear it Okay Go with them - Yes, coming - I'll just get something to drink - Go fit it, you've grown a lot - Thank you Sweetheart, it looks good on them What happened? You look like B1 and B2 What are you? That's new. They look like Wea Twins - Who? - No - Who - Funny. Yes, I'm laughing My tummy aches coz I'm laughing hard Wow, good target Try it You... - Ouch, mom - Aw sorry - It's okay - Is there a space for me Yes, there is Great, there's still space, I'll join you. Come here Come here, move my child I miss this. Miss so much Mom, we don't have this before for you to miss it Oh, we don't? I dream of this. This is my dream... dream This is mom's dream I'm sorry but I feel uncomfortable with your dream Come here Felipa, you're kid is a spoiled brat He doesn't want to take a bath nor get wiped, I'll spank him - Mom, I'll take care of it. Go on - Spank him Mommy, let's sleep Baby, this is the only time I could catch up with your sisters Take a bath, I'll follow Ouch He fell down, poor kid Are you okay? I'll just leave Hurry up, your sister is waiting for you downstairs Yes Where is it? You forgot How can I forget this, I use this everyday Thank you Don't worry, I'll put up a business... while you're working. Let's save up money So we can get a rent-to-own condo That's okay, right? What for, sis? With our parents around the house? They are driving us crazy Plus a very bad kid Sister I'll talk to him No - It's embarrassing - I can't take this anymore - I'll hold on - I can't No, I can Excuse me, brother Yes? By any chance, is your deodorant's brand named seven dwarfs Yes. How did you know? I think one of them is dead, can you check coz it stinks I don't think so. You're too sensitive I was hurt. I am sensitive Really... then Sis What now? They said "We'll call you" They'll call. Come on What? They said "We'll call you" We have telephone, they'll call later What took you so long? We will call you Let me guess, they said "We'll call you" again No, sis It's Tagalog this time "We'll call you" That's just okay There's no good job for you It's their loss We can put up our business There are a lot of products that we can sell from Bulacan Let them be Why did you take me in applying for a job Bro, we've been to all of the companies here in Makati but I can't get a job I have a feeling that my sister got jinx... coz she's got birth mark on her butt So you think I am your lucky charm Oh, no. Brother It's because you know how to drive Where are you going to look for a job? Here? I don't know Just anywhere as long as it's a job Test mic You're fired! What? You haven't hired me yet but you're firing me You failed You didn't know that I am the manager here I'm sorry, I thought you were kidding... when you told me that you're the manager Truth is, you don't look like a manager You look like the owner Don't pull my legs. I'm looking for another sales person Someone pretty just like me Someone who's as good as me Someone who's trustworthy like me Someone who looks like him Maybe he's looking for an alien, not a salesperson - What? - Why? Even just for a day, try me. I bet you'll like me When I say no, that means no! I need someone who has good voice. Who knows how to sing With your looks, you can't even carry a tune What do you mean I can't carry a tune I'm a champion in all singing contest in Bulacan Hold it, give me that Let her do it, Miss, she can do that Go, cousin Go, cousin Come here and shop Come on and shop What now, boss? Come on shop - Here comes my chicken barbecue - There you go - Thank you - You're welcome Thank you I told you, my sister has jinx Now she's not here. I got hired That's why you have to treat me Pay me, okay I haven't had my salary yet, hello Are you hungry? This is so good Jollibee's chicken barbecue tastes really good Let's bring home some for my sister Rica lt'll lessen her bad mood You shouldn't just bring her chicken barbecue What? Boyfriend What are you, brother My power is just for chicken Your lunch break is 1 pm. You might get ulcer It's okay, sis. I had heavy breakfast You want something else? It's okay, these are enough Let's share with this burger. It's too big Eat well, so you won't starve You're standing up the whole day on that store... what if you faint they won't bother to look at you Would take you to the hospital, I guess not, so eat - They'll be glad - Nice car, it's smooth Isn't it nice let's show them - Surprise! - Is that ours? - Wow, it looks good - Rica, look. It's nice So you won't have a hard time to commute I'm okay taking a taxi No. You can use this as your service going to Makati Come, let's go for a joyride. Let's try it Come Cecille, aren't you tired yet No sis, you wouldn't get tired here. We'll just sit down. Let's joy ride - Come on - Come on I'm tired. Go ahead. Enjoy Don't mind her. She's just tired - Come on - Hop in Hop in Good morning, grandma - Good morning, sweetheart - Where are they? They're all done eating You're the only one who hasn't eaten breakfast yet Come, you need to drink milk Okay I don't know Kids will always be the parents' baby forever Grandma, am I still your baby? Of course, I love you Grandma, you're so sweet Rica, Rica, Rica, Cecille Your mom has something to say Rica, your mom has something to say Rica, your mom has something to say What Rica, your mom has something to say What is it - Your mom has something to say - What does mom want to say Why don't you want to stop? I've been talking here a lot while running - What is it Beauty? - What is your problem... why don't you want to stop I had a hard time speaking Sorry, ma'am - That's enough - What do you mean, sorry? We've gone so far, I can't say what I need to say What is it? Your parents just want to tell you... to go back there because they're driving you to work That's just what I want to say You've gone far - You'll just get off here? - Yes, mom - Take care - I'll see you later Okay, okay I'll get off here, too Wait, where are you going? To Meycauayan Then you'll go back in a bus carrying all the jewelries I've been doing that before, mom. It's okay No. Times are hard today Okay, take me to Meycauayan. End of conversation No I ask Noel for an errand in Bulacan, ask him to drive you there Let's go home first. Maybe he's there already Yes, that's it Why did you take me to drive Cecille here... when you could have left me at home Joy ride Don't you like it? That's our bonding Yes, that's happy - Come on - Oh, really happy You're driving me crazy They were gone for 20 years Now, they came back and they want to take over our lives Now, they didn't tell me... that they ask you to drive for me every time I go out That can't be The truth is They're guilty They're too guilty because they left us I became Cecilia's mom and dad You know what they did to me now? They gave me a tour House to mall to house. For what? Just to say that I'll ride with you That is so irritating Maybe that happens sometimes to test your patience Like now What? I left my license at home Maybe we could go back - Sorry - Sorry Cecille, what we ate was a bit short for me - You were short? - Coz it tastes so good That's him, that's him. The one I am telling you Hi! Today is your lucky day Because violet is the color of the day And because your headband is violet you've won Just sign here, come on You'll get a chance to win a trip from banville family plans It maybe trip to Boracay or Hong Kong Even you're unlucky, you can still win a flat iron Come, sign it. Sign, come on Okay, if it wasn't for your cute looks Seminar? What kind of seminar Banville family plans, yes They have instant prizes... and they have other prizes that you can get when you attend their seminar What if it's a scam? No, sis. No obligation You can even take the whole family with you No charge for food We can even spend overnight at their resort... just bring at least 3 family members to attend the seminar - That's cool - It's not bad to be careful Your sister has a point No. Cecille might be lucky Let's just go with her - Like a family outing, right? - I like outing Sure I haven't gone swimming for a long time Go! You'll wear two-piece, grandma - Sure. - So, I can wear my bathing shoot Bathing shoot - Bathing suit! - No, it's trunks Come on, it's so nice here It looks nice Go down Come on, let them do that I thought this is a scam. Why are we here? Me, to witness the scam You, to carry all their things Come on, hurry up Welcome to the Banville Family Conference Sis, he's the one who invited us That's Edzel That's him. No wonder Come one Where are we going? There Thank you Welcome, everyone to the Banville family conference Give yourselves a round of applause Thank you very much to all of you who came here Of course, those who are here today, you are the ones who won the raffle Or your companion won the raffle But the most especial happening tonight is that all of you came here That's why we're happy here in banville Of course, Banville doesn't only... - Something's wrong - give you prizes There's something wrong with that man... I don't know what it is but I feel really different What's wrong? His shorts Maybe you're thinking that this is a scam, gimmick or some lies I am telling you that Banville is not like that We're serious Look Cecille nods like her neck's gonna break And especially this is not vacation time sharing Banville is more than that The house is in mess Oh, God. What happened? Did you leave this open? I swear with my life that I left this locked before we left Wait, I'll check upstairs We were robbed Obviously, Grandma What's this some field trip? I've told you I knew this will happen. You didn't believe me I knew it all along. You didn't believe me You think I'm fooling you What happened? Mom, all my jewelries are gone - All of it? - All of it My TV's gone it was also stolen You don't have a TV You're still planning to buy one Even the paintings are gone Hold on No one wants this to happen - We should report this to the cops - We we're robbed. What can we do? It's good that we're not here No one was hurt Of course, grandma How can they hurt us, we're not here Why don't they try to hurt us when we're not here That's why we're not harmed because we're not here Beauty, you're funny That's scam. We were scammed Robbers knew we're not here They planned this Cecilia, did you give Banville our address Yes, Sis. Sorry That's what you get You were carried away by that cute guy Life now is so hard They'll do everything to scam other people What did I tell In fairness, your sis was right. That's what she told me Sorry Now, you'll say sorry Our furnitures are gone. We can't do anything That's how life is just clean the mess coz it's embarrassing Sir, this is Banville family plans... just sign and you'll win lots of prizes You can even win free trips I never thought that I'll be fooled - You have - Sir, that's not me Has a raffle scam No one will trust you or things will be lost Because of you I lost all my thing, because of you I was robbed Because of you... Mr... Mrs... that's scam That raffle was a scam He'll just fool you Go away from that man, he's a scammer Be careful. This is heavy Rica, what are you? Shouldn't we change the lock only Why are we replacing the whole door? Grandma, it's better to be sure You wouldn't know if those robbers... has duplicate keys of all the doors in this house Let's just replace the whole door, end of discussion I think that's a bit O A Mom, that's not O A You weren't here in the Philippines for 20 years A lot has changed in 20 years I'll do it Even a rotten old cellphone, they steal it Noel, come here and fix the lock Add some more. Leave my toolbox If you misplaced one of the tools, I have to look for it again Please don't be so stubborn Mom can you tell your son to behave. He can't understand Tagalog Why? I often call my son's, your brother's attention Why do you have a heavy heart against him? I'm not, your son is just misbehaving So please call his attention in Arabic Rica, we're out here Cousin Oh, make it two Two turon Thank you Eat fast, we might not finish eating before your lunch break's over Cecille, what's the problem? You shameless scammer You still have the nerve to show your face to us... like you don't know anything Robber Your Banville's front You'll take us to seminar and rob us Bring back our things, bring it back Bring back our things I don't know what you're saying I don't know You're chaotic. I don't know what you're saying What's going on? Why all of you are leaving? As long as I'm here all of you should be working All of those were ours - This painting, this is ours - These are my jewelry box - Who owns this - That's mine I invested that, nuts! Why are you asking me? Excuse me I've got all original parts no value added Excuse me, can you show us who robbed us... so we'd know how the y look like Okay, Sergeant please take them here Okay go ahead, those idiots You've got big body Why don't you just work Hold on, officer Just them? No mastermind? No one. Just them Are you sure coz we know the master mind? Fair and good looking - No one - None Sis, we were wrong It's embarrassing to Edzel Give this to him Edzel, I want to... Edzel Edzel, wait Edzel, let's talk Edzel, what the? Hey Edzel, let's talk. Don't do this to me Where are you? Edzel, please talk to me Edzel talk to me. What we're doing is hard? Edzel, Edzel Edzel this too far Why don't you want to say it straight to my face... that you don't want to talk to me than to let me chase you like this You're not just pretty, but you're stupid It's obvious that I don't want to talk to you We're not going to reach this far if I care on what you'll say Cecille, I resigned already I'll transfer to another branch. That's okay with you? - Happy now? - No I am wrong. My sis and I were wrong You didn't do anything bad You're not the mastermind of the robbery in our house What mastermind? I'm a salesman. What mastermind are you saying? Cecille, I am good looking Have you ever seen a handsome mastermind There's one. In the movies Edu Manzano. He's handsome yet plays the villain You're right You're changing the topic What are you thinking about me? You don't even know me I can't forgive you You step onto my pride I want to know you You're not just stupid. You're flirt Just tell me if you want to go on a date with me What do you mean go on a date? I just want to know you What flirt are you saying? Okay But can we fix ourselves Look what happened to my shoe Come with me, I'll have it repaired Come with me Where are you taking me? Are you getting revenge against me? - Are you going to salvage me? - No - Looks like we're in Romblon - We're near Is this yours Go ahead and demean me, let's get inside - These are all yours - My grandma owns the house and lot Even if balot i sn't selling well, I can't just let down They might rose from their grave... and scare me if I won't take care of this balot b usiness - You're selling this - Yes - Edzel you cooked this - Yes That's my specialty Adobong Balot. The best I was 11 years old when I learned to cook, iron and wash clothes Everything - Where are your parents? - Mommy died early Daddy has his own family in Davao That's okay. Eat now - Taste my specialty - Okay Thank you Thank you Dad this is Edzel, Edzel this is my dad - Good evening - Good evening He's my workmate Thank you, thanks for the balot You're welcome, next time I'll bring more balot - For you and your family - Thank you Hey, you've been there all along... your sister is looking for you, she's going out now Get inside hurry - Hi, sis - Why did you just get home? I had a longer chat a while ago I was texting you the whole time and you don't reply What happened to you and how did you get here? She took a cab... I told her it's dangerous to take a cab alone... so next time she should call and we'll pick her up Sorry, sis, it won't happen again It shouldn't happen again, you got all of us worried You and your sister has lovers quarrel I'll sleep in her room She's not there. She left coz she feels bad With whom? Because you're now closer to your mom and dad Before you're close to her but when your mom and dad came... you're now closer to them That's why she feels bad... because you're now closer to your mom and dad Sir, did you know that you can watch movie... listen to music and store pictures using the SD card... aside from your favorite karaoke Here's our new model, If you want to have duet You want to test it, I'll do a sample - You're really beautiful - Don't say that, I get uncomfortable Cecilia That's my sister - Ces - Sis - Who's this - No one He just asked something. Let's go sis It's you I've been waiting for, join me Are you texting? What? Are you texting? No, sis I'm sleeping here Get a rest Who are you texting? You've been doing that for hours now It's just my friend. He's rich I'll introduce him to you Noel, please stop introducing me to your friends Stop it, please Did Cecille know that you're picking her up No, I want to surprise her... then let's ask her to come with us for dinner - You want me to fetch her there? - No No need Cousin, where are you going? Have you eaten. Come on let's eat No, I'm full - Cecille - Sis This is just right, I'm hungry Cecille, let's talk Noel can you go to lanai, Cecille and I will just talk - Is he your boyfriend already - Who? That robber... climb up your house... gang agent... is he your boyfriend? No, sis, he's just a friend Noel, can you go to the dining - What are you saying? - Sis, he's just my friend Friend? You two don't look like it... you were holding him Cecille and you look really excited I'm just taking care of you... I don't want something bad to happen on you Noel, I'm sorry but were not yet through talking, go to the kitchen You don't understand me, right? Yes, sis but there's really nothing going on, no And what's the problem with that, I'm single, he's single I know... Noel, please I know, I'll just go home and eat out... you keep on following me I'm telling you Cecilia, don't lie to me Sis, Sis Leave your sister alone Grandma, what did I do wrong? She's just like that Especially when it's about you, she's too careful You should be used to it Grandma, I don't know what's her problem She rejects men who are being introduced to her She doesn't have interest in dating Why does she hates men? It's a long story I think she became bitter when she split up with her first love What's the name of that damn boy - Bong - Bong! You're good I think he's a big influence to your sister - Where is he, grandma? - I'm friends with his aunt I know the place, I've been to their house before There - That one - Here? Drive slowly We keep on coming back Where is it? I've been driving around, where are we going it's dark already? Relax, you're too tensed - You don't know where are we going - Wait Hold on, I'll go down - Grandma, is that it? - Yes. That's it - There? - Who's house is that? This is it. Get down, quick You're not going down? Hurry Friend, friend Hey my friend, Amor good that you've dropped by - You're beautiful now - How are you? I went somewhere to collect payments... I thought of dropping by here to check how are you - Come in - No, I just want to say hi and hello - Who are you with? - I'm alone - My nephew is a seaman - Who's nephew? Is this the little boy who's the boyfriend of my granddaughter? Yes, he's the one Grandma, let's make sure - Is that Bong? - Yes, he's Bong - My nephew - Hold on, is he there? He's in Manila, preparing his documents - Do you have his address? - I have - Really. Give me a copy - I'll just get it Yes You're good, grandma What's taking him so long? Lt'll be Christmas now before we know it Patience What happened? He used to be handsome Yes, brother He used to be my crush what happened to him? Maybe firecrackers exploded on him You're wrong. There he is He's still cute He's cuter now. I bet sister will like him more Hello, dude, how are you? Okay, let's see each other one of these days I'll call you. Bye Bong? It's you. How are you? Wait, do we know each other? Don't you remember me? I'm Cecille - Cecille? - Cecille - You're my ex? - No. My sister - Rica - Rica? Rica Cecille? Cecille! Cecille, that's you already I'm surprised. You've grown up You'll be more surprised if I didn't grow up Anyway, fancy meeting you here You live here? Yes, while waiting for my papers Drop by our place Your sister might not want to see me No. She'll be happy I caught her one time talking to your photo - Really? - Yes You better go to our house before your photo answers her back... that's scary Wait. Do you still live in Bocaue? Not anymore. Here In Pasig. Here's the sketch You can ride there, straight ahead Just ask around If ever you get lost... here's our telephone number and cellphone number - Just call us - Thank you Thanks, too. Nice bumping into you Thank you. Bye. Visit us Bye - Good afternoon - Come in Wow. Bong - Your suitor, too - No. That's my sister's - I'm yours, okay - Come in You're sweet, you brought balot. Thank you They're here Mom, Dad They'll just stare at each other If you don't want to talk, then just eat Those were delicious Here, balot Edzel brought this, tastes good When did you learn to eat balot? What's wrong with eating balot? It's nutritious, just don't eat too much I was about to say that there's nothing wrong in eating balot... just limit it with two pieces a week Give me two Wow, sexy. We succeeded At least even if we've drive around Bocaue to find him... our efforts didn't go to waste What did you say? You can't find that kind of food in the ship Just eat Get yourselves stuffed then wedding after - I mean, let's all chat - Right Chat Go on and eat Give him rice - Good morning, cousin - Drive Cecille to work - You're blooming today, cousin - I know - What? - You have a visitor Tell him I am not in the mood, I've got hot head Not now Take care, okay Good that you came How are you? What are you doing here? I want to talk to you We've talked last night already. Isn't that enough? There are a lot of things we missed to talk about Okay - I'll drive for you - Good. No one's driving for me today That's a beautiful plane - I'll have this resized to size 6 - You're going to choose more, yes? Wait for this, I'll have it done first Okay. Thank you Miss Medusa, what's up? What are you doing there? I remember something, some 20 years ago - What are those that you bought? - I buy simple jewelry designs Grand solo jewels are hard to sell coz it's too expensive Why did you break up with me? I asked something from God in exchange of you Really. That's unfair That's been long ago. Just forgive me I don't keep angst especially to those who I love But I may say, I was really hurt So it's not true that you cursed my lovelife Maybe you cursed my lovelife You're annoying Don't look at me like that Thanks for accompanying me. I should have not bothered you I know you've got a lot of appointments Come on Come in - What happened? - Nothing That's too high Nothing Grandma, do you know how to play that? This is just game and watch Did you eat already? Yes, we'll just have coffee - You'll just have coffee? - Yes Okay, go ahead, I'll just clean up here I've got a lot to wipe off Okay. Bye Bye You're always taking me somewhere surprising I thought we'll just eat Come with me so you'd see my other jobs aside from Banville Hear and accept my plea, prayer and sacrifices... to lift the holy soul in purgatory from sufferings Especially the soul of Zoila Parilla Holy soul in purgatory whom I dedicate this novena Through the love of Virgin Mary Lift up these souls to the house of the living Free them from all the sins And grant your grace through the sufferings endured by your Mother When you were guided to the path of bitterness Until you reached the mountain of Calvary And grant our request in this novena for your great glory Amen Mic test [llocano Song] Hi, Beauty Don't get in, you can't get in I'm nervous, so don't get in Your sister is so mad, something might happen so don't get in Okay then No, go ahead get in or she might look for you, get in I'll be the one to go out Sis Are you sure that my friend will like this? Yes, I'm sure. It's so beautiful That's so okay If he gives this to his girlfriend, can he make her answer yes? I'm sure. You don't trust me Okay. Beautiful. This is just right for your taste Yes, you're stubborn. I'm hungry, let's eat. - Can we? - Come on This is a cool place Sister Come on Rica, come here. Join us No. Iooks like I'm not really invited Obviously, there's no reserved seat for me. Go on with your happiness - My daughter - Sis Don't come near me, Cecilia You wouldn't like what I'll do to you if you try to come near me Sister, don't go You'll all be peaceful if I'm gone Sis? The family's not complete without you. You're my family, too Too? Family, too, Cecilia? Before, I was your only family Sis, I don't understand you We don't understand each other Then make me understand, I want to understand Simple, my role to your life is done, Cecilia, I'm tired I can't stand as your mom and dad anymore, you don't need me Rica, why? Why don't you answer all your "whys"? Since we got here, you've shown us nothing but hate... you would do it You're not here for 20 long years, what do you want me to do? Go cart wheeling in happiness I don't know what to expect or should we expect at all But I hope you would let us into your life We're still your family, don't let us suffer like this You're having a hard time. Sorry. But when you left us, I had a harder time How long will you keep on saying that to us I don't know But this is what I know When you left us... I never did anything but to wait for your return Until I got used to it, that you're not here Why, mom? Who's kid on earth who wouldn't want to have a mom and dad? Who's kid would want to stand as a mom and dad to her sister? We didn't let you unsupported With some things, no But with one thing, yes Every time you call, I hear only one thing from you Take care of Cecille Did you ever try to ask me? If I need to be taken care off too? Or who's taking care of me? Now, you're coming back Just like that Like everything's okay. We're your parents again And one more, there's a bonus You have a new brother Shouldn't it be that easy? Because we're family Whatever you've done for Cecille, I'll be forever grateful about it That's for the family And I'll be thankful for it as long as I live Now, whatever our shortcomings are... I ask for your forgiveness But if that's the reason why you hate the world and our family, I feel sad Because we were the ones who's causing you to be like that Yes, it's sad, mom Rica I know her sacrifices and I value it so much But I think she doesn't understand me That the sister she took care of has grown That I have a mind of my own and I know now how to decide Cecille, don't be match your sister's angst with another anger Of course, she feels alone That you're ganging her up You should reconcile with her Anyway, you're both like that You want to be courted, you want to be treated nice It's impossible for her to turn you down... because we both know that she loves you so much Wait, how about me, when will you answer me? - When did you court me? - When did I court you? All our ducks nearly died just so I could give you balot... now you'll ask me when did I court you? Maybe that's why my sister's got high blood... because were feeding her a lot of balot When are you going to answer me? Tomorrow, if you'll bring more balot So bring some Sister, please answer me - Cousin, sorry - It's okay - I just drive them here - It's okay Let's not talk about it. Let's just talk about the list here Where are the receipts, did you bring it? - It's in the car - Okay Bong, come in Are you really giving me a hard time? We used to be here in Bulacan. I left And when I came back you were gone I found you, but you came back here You were the one who's giving yourself a hard time Why me? Well, in a way you're right What are you saying? Do you remember when Cecille got into an accident? I felt so much guilt at that time I promised God that if He won't let anything bad happen to my sister... I'll split up with you If you'd have said that to me before, I wouldn't agree I know, that's why I didn't tell you You wouldn't hurt yourself if you'll choose to love again And nothing bad will happen to your sister... if you'll have your mom and dad back again I admire what you did for your sister But it's about time to choose yourself now I'm selfish I'm narrow-minded I didn't understand how you felt I didn't understand you I missed you so much Sorry, sis Sorry, too What are we doing here? I thought, we're having dinner I'll show you something There, in that electronic billboard Just watch You brought me here just to watch a commercial at this hour I don't like how you laugh It's just like you're texting me By the way, I went to my placement agency today... I got my contract renewal I can leave anytime That's what you want, right? That'll depend on you Why me? Why are we looking up? Just watch, it'll come anytime now It's coming now - There - Ouch Did you see it? - Which one? - The one that just came out Which one? You didn't see it. You closed your eyes Sorry, we're here along EDSA... you asked me to stand up here for so long... then you'll just ask why I closed my eyes Because some dirt got in Why did you close your eyes? You didn't see it? Why? What? Why did that stupid dirt got into your eyes No, you can't return that to me That's paid with my supplier already Tell your stupid friend that he can't return that That's paid already This is not for my friend I bought this for you You didn't see what's written there It says will you marry me You didn't see because you closed your eyes Cause dirt got into it Sorry I didn't know you're proposing Do it again - You're proposing but you're mad - What - Rewind it - I'm not mad Rewind it, I didn't see it I can't coz it's expensive You don't know how expensive it is Propose again This time not mad, calm, sweet. Do it I'll think about it Come on, propose Okay Will you marry me? Aren't going to kneel? Here Will you marry me? - Okay - That's it. Just okay You let me chose it Welcome home Let's eat - Come on, let's eat - I'll follow Come on Joseph God, help my granddaughter Lord, get me now, just make Rica live I told you to close that shop Joseph, you stubborn kid Lord, I'll do anything, even if I split up with Edzel Sis That's why we're getting into trouble because of that promise Stop it, okay. My back just aches I'm okay Bring me to ER so they could treat me immediately Come on Doctor, hurry Don't worry, she's safe now Just make sure to clean her wound so it won't get infected I've heard that from you 20 years ago With all the patients who got exploded, we really repeat what we say Next time, I'll record it Doc, you're waiting for another one I'll go ahead Thank you, doc We hope no one follows after this Doc is good Since everyone's happy now And Rica is okay now I want to announce something Rica and I are getting married lmmediately. Can you wait for her to get well Mom, I'll get well first Not now Not now - Hospital then get married... - Don't be choosy It's a good thing she's able to catch up the last trip Now that we're all happy And that Rica's okay I got something to... announce I'll treat all of you Oh, there, he's gonna treat us Come here. Since you're getting married, sit beside her Sister You're crying out loud Louder than mom Is it really loud? One question, one answer Do you really want me to get marry, because if not, let's just go home Edzel will understand Now that all pigs we're butchered, go on Get married Really Go ahead Okay
