 

                        Falling in love is not allowed in school Tonight at 11pm A No. 3 alarm fire broke out at the Narranmoda Memorial School One of the 2 casualties is the wife of the school Principal Someone is still up there! Sir... You can't go up there Someone is still up there! Sir Calm down! There's no one up there. The firemen have checked Calm down! Was in the office... Trust me! The school is haunted! Ho Yiu Leung please report to the school office now I was a student of Narranmoda Memorial School That night I was preparing forthe School Open Day We wereworking late Suddenly a student was summoned to the office I have neverseen that office before It doesn't exist Are you sure? How of them? How many of them are accepted? Got four My God! That's not enough! Wait! Are they in boarding school? I think so... Shit! I need time to get ready What for? I... Don't you dare! Yat-Man Is it true? Therewill have 4 boys in our school? I'm on duty now. Don't be silly! Come on! Please tell me, I can't wait Yes! Are they cute? How do they look like? Go check by yourself Let's go! Where are they? In the school office We have an impeccable record all along the time If now we have the 4 boys in ourschool I can't imaginewhat is going to happen Nowadays many schools have gone co-ed Why can't we do the same? We just can't You're over reacting, Miss Fong We need students to keep the school going I'm putting you in charge Please keep an eye on them I'd betterget ready Bye! Call me! We're roommates again! We're in the same room! Me too! Me too! Your skirt is more than 2 inches above the knees You broke the school rule! How about this? What are you eating? Nothing Miss Fong... Ho Yat-Man, please come with me Good morning teachers and students Welcome to a new school term This yearis ourschool's 30th anniversary I hope you'll adhere to the school's motto Confucius once said... Shit! Mobile phone is not allowed in the classroom Put it away! My name is Dick, and you? Let's get to know each other My name is Lau Chek-bun Ko Hon-keung and mewere old classmates What's your name? Li Kwok-chung, call me Charlie. And you? What's your name? Ho Yat-Man That's a nice name Where are you going? To the toilet! Wait for me! Let's go! Why must you follow us to the toilet? Hurry back! It depends... What the heck! Where is it? This is a girls' school Not anymore We're like unwelcome here I won't be leaving Hey, let's take a look overthere Alright... Let's look at the menu What menu? Come on, idiot! Thanks principal forgiving a significant instruction Now I have an announcement to make Ourschool will be different this year We will have 4 boys in the school Quiet... please be quiet! I'm sure you'll remember Ourschool main objective is to have a good learning atmosphere... Over here! Keep a simple school spirit and carry out our motto of pursuing the truth You cannot... You're not allowed to... Quiet please! Quiet please! I know him! It's Ben! Ourschool rule Fong-fong Falling in love is not allowed Falling in love is not allowed $1,000 forthis dorm?! The girls' dorm looks much better Are there any vacancies? That's none of yourbusiness The girls' dorm is off limits to you You'll be expelled right away if you break the rule The superintendent must sure go to sleep... That's me! Normally I sleep late Dare you to try? Is there any boys' toilet here? Yes, but not in use for a long time We're cleaning it up now I heard there's a haunted toilet here It wouldn't be the same one, right? Don't be stupid! That's nothing to dowith us. The school is not haunted Here's a copy of the school rules Memorize them by heart Don't be late forclass tomorrow Any question? If not, I'm leaving Goodbye, Miss Fong Have you heard any stories of this school? Well no need to worry! Let's go! Where are we going? What do we do next? During lunch, there must be lots of food in the canteen Cool! Let's go! Wait... let me put this down first OK... Before I forget Yourmeals will be brought to you everyday The canteen is also off-limits! What? That's a jail sentence! You either choose to withdraw or go by the rules Betternot break the Rule No. 2 I don't want to kickyou out so soon Let me out... Come on! Tell me or I will make you drinkthis shampoo No... Have you held Ben's hand before? Or kiss him? No! He's just a classmate from grade school Were you in lovewith him? Tell me the truth or eat this soap! You're so vicious! I have never in lovewith him before Fancy meeting you here We have to prepare something forit, right? See, here you are. Spiral style sensation This is from the U.S.! Thanks! You knew it well. You seem like the first one to use it Why? What about that Fong-fong? She's my classmate from grade school Didn't expect to run into herhere Do you have large size? You don't need a large! Give me back, idiot! Hey, catch it! You... Try this, Yat-Man It's an essence mask I don't need it Look! So dehydrated you are! Use it afteryou shower, it's moisturizing Cat puts this on her buttocks too! I don't! Try it! Why were you with those boys today? Miss Fong asked me to keep an eye on them You were blushing No, I was not! I just fell down Did they touch you? What? It's normal, especially when you all fall down I think Ko Hon-keung is cute I'll take him if you don't I'm interested in him! Just leave him to me You can't compete! With what? What's wrongwith you? Please don't force me to do anything to you as you keep smoking overhere! Yat-Man, please don't do that! Don't let hercopy homework anymore Ben, I need the laptop formy notes Can I have it back? School starts tomorrow! Lay off yourstudies! Have you ever been in love, Charlie? You want a good start? I don't mind to have a try Practice makes perfect! Then you must follow ourwords to do Come here! Learn this good stuff This was really an unbelievable movement!! That's nothing special I have something better Let's watch it together Really? So Dick, from now on otherthan Ko Hon-keung, You're my buddy Same here! You can't smoke in here! Mind your own business! Please! I can't take smoke Please smoke outside Please... We can't go out after 11pm I'm already taking it outside Shut yourmouth! My nose... Miss Chungwill be yourhome room teacher Miss Fong, why are there only fourof us here? Because you're the only ones in the class We can focus on ourstudies Next class is PE lesson I'll be your PE teacher Great! Let's go Where are you going? Look at them They are funny I go to toilet Make it quick! Why hula hoops? We should play volleyball Shit! Who is it? Did you drop your cigarette? Which one of us is in the wrong toilet? We're only in here to take a drag Here, have one on me I'm Dick, you are...? Call me Si. You're from the boys' dorm? That Miss Fong is a maniac! Here you go! I said it's my treat I didn't askforyournumber Call mewhen you want to have fun. Will see then... Give me yournumbertoo We can chat orSMS for keeping in touch Si... Si... Go... Are you alright? Damn! Just left without a word! Wow! So muscularand handsome Miss... Let's go! The Head prefect is coming That petite one is cute Too short! She suits you, Charlie Go get her number... What? Now? Where are you going? Time for lunch! Very well! Let's eat! What the hell is that? Don't waste yourfood! No, Keung This pork chop is awful! It's cold, stiff and salty! You try this! We have to complain to Miss Fong Let him do the talking Keung, you must talkto her I really can't take this pork chop Sometimes I really feel like we're in a zoo It's alright! Just take it easy! Who threw me the banana? Fong-fong? You want me to eat this? No! Look at it! I'd ratherlook at you Teacheris coming No Call me! What were they doingwhen you arrived? Waiting fortheirfood Remember! From now on I want to know all their moves I'll expel them if they break the rules I don't think it's a good idea... Listen to me, Ho Yat-Man There's a reason for every rule You must listen to me, understand? It must be 4, alright? I'm going to practice boxing She's gone! Take yourbuddies to the forest Let me talk to him! Please do it with low profile. If Keung can't make it, the deal is off! Bye! Don't say that! It's misleading! You'll thank me for it! Show me the stock! You'll get fat, stupid! That's not enough foryou! I'll go out fora smoke Don't forget to dress up yourself nicely. See you later! Bye! OK Are you coming? You'd betternot go The deal will be off if you don't go! Fong-fong is bringing 2 girls to ourwelcoming party That's a great chance Don't screw it up please! They're being friendly Don't be such a prig I'm talking to you Please look at me! Don't be such a party pooper Take it easy Keung, I ain't with Dick on this But wejust want some fun It's not a crime! Come on! Do you have a DC? Yes What are you doing here? I didn't set foot inside and it's before 11pm, I didn't break any rules What do you want? I came foryou... What for? I wanted to tell you something But didn't get the chance Stay right there or I'll get Miss Fong I'm here to talkto Ho Yat-Man Listen up, everybody! Just say what you want! When I first met you I felt you are pretty Although you're pretentious I knew you didn't mean to be That's none of yourbusiness Everyone also wants to get out of that hideous uniform And put on make-up to meet guys, right? Are you done? We can give it a try What do you mean by that? It means I hate snitches I heardwhat Miss Fong and you were talking in the forest If any one of us gets kicked out Everyone will get a copy of that picture Don't you dare! Want me to try? Let's go! Where are we going? We're having a party with your pals I'm warning you, Cat and Fong-fong are nice girls Leave them alone! Theywon't leave us alone! I'll feel safer if you join us Forget your punching bag Do what normal girls do You only live once! There was a big fire 20 years ago The disciplinary master died in the fire but they neverfound herbody Soon afterthat, the Principal hung himself on a tree Which one? That one right there! Why did we still come here? The most dangerous place is the safest No one will lookfor us here And it's just a rumor Who knows if it's true? Don't be scared! I want to know more. Please carry on Since then, the intercom kept summoning someone to report to the school office Peoplewhowent there eitherdisappeared orwere found dead in the toilet Some even jumped down from the school building. Cat please report to the school office now! You scared me! Let's go if you scared! You're late! I brought you something What? Yat-Man! Shit! We ran into them Andjust looked for a late snack Don't tell Miss Fong Please... Why so scared? You see ghost?! It is great that the head prefect comes tojoin us So let's have fun! Ben, what have you done to her? She'll be taking my orders from now on Let's take a picture forproof... No, I mean as a souvenir Take a photo You didn't take that right, did you? You told me not to, it was just the flash Get in line! You broke the rule, go! Hurry up! Come on... What do you want? One more time... I go first, listen Forget it, I'll take this swig Cool! What a drinker! I neverthought of doing this by challenging the school rules overhere The most dangerous place is the safest Don't you know that? There's a girl jumped down from the top and died Even Miss Fongwouldn't come here Is that true? Of course! Do you know where she died? Where? Right here! Don't scare me! Hey! Stop... it's late, let's go No, I'm just getting started Let's go, before you get out of hand Let's stay forawhile more No, let's play that again tomorrow night Hey! Stop it... You expect me to hit the brakes now? I have a boyfriend! Stop it! You're lucky I fancy you, bitch I maybe a slut, but I draw the line with you Crazy Come back! Don't fool me around, bitch! Go, hurry up! Dick Chi-hang, report to the school office School office! There is somebody there! Hello! I'm here! Dick Chi-hang, report to the school office now. Dick Chi-hang Come in Principal Thank you About Dick Chi-hang's disappearance I hope you'll keep it to yourselves These officers are from Missing Person Unit Theywant to ask you a few questions It's odd. Dick left his things in the dorm Where did he go? No need to care about him The officer also said that he's a druggie Maybe he's too high and sneaked out until he couldn't find his way home Step aside... Step aside... Ben! Call an ambulance! Sure... Help me Patients who are in a coma for over20 years seldom regain consciousness You have to prepare She's still in a bit of a daze There she is! Auntie! It's me, Siu-yee! Auntie! Talk to her It might be helped Excuse me Are you alright, Auntie? Why so secretive? Exchanging gifts with Charlie? No! I just borrow reference bookfrom him Just don't want anyone to misunderstand You two are being naughty! You're always on the phone! It must have something It's the Head Prefect! Did you get it? Told you he's dedicated! What a surprise... They're not match at all! Let's go Yat-man What is it? Look! I'd like to hearwhat you have to say, the school is... Cut the bullshit! I knew you want to expel me It's all my faults I'll take the fall, ok? You think this is the triad deal Even the triad can be reasonable! Call up the Education Board Is it a crime to take pictures with a fellow classmate? Look at this picture! I didn't kiss her She'll neverlet someone like me to kiss her I want you to mop the floor afterschool I'm not punishing you forthe picture It's yourattitude I have no right to stop you from taking pictures I just don't want you to be regretful This is obviously a prank I'll punish whoeversent this I wanted to see you because I want to know who did that Do you know? Yat-man, tell me! You'll be punished forwith holding information I don't know! I thought you'd named Si Miss Fong is very nice! I was even worse than Si before Form 3 I almost got kicked out forpicking a fight But Miss Fongwas on my side So you practice with a punching bag? I need to ease my stress Some people really had it coming Thanks! Forwhat? Fortaking the fall! That's the least I can do I don't want to be punched by you Were you in the triad? I don't know about before But now I'm definitely not You handle this floor I'll take care of the downstairs Rule No.2, no smoking and drinking Light out and in bed by 11pm No loitering Rule No. 3, the following are off-limits... Rule No.4... Dick! What are you doing? Help... Dick! What are you doing? Yat-Mn, Miss Fong expelled Si Help... Si, don't Yat-Man has nothing to dowith this Nothing to do with her? She's Miss Fong's running dog She blabbed about my smoking, drinking and my skirt And I am the person who sent out that picture Get out of the kitchen if you can't stand the heat What you want to play on? I'll go all the way with her I'll strip her clothes and take pictures Leave her naked on the stairway Let people have a feast tomorrow I want to scare herup only Are you crazy? Leave me alone! Don't do this! Stay out of this! Stop it! Lai Hei-si, report to the school office! I thought you said the school is empty It should be no one here Lai Hei-si, report to the school office! Who is it? Come out! Man... we'd better go I've neverseen this school office Are you crazy? That was just a story! Man, let's go! Get lost! It's just a room! How scary could it be? Si! It's me! Sorry! I was just kidding You brought me here? Don't take me to the school office What school office? No! The school office... no! Calm down! Follow me! Sit down! Wait here! Don't go away! Don't go! Someone was calling my name I told Man not to go, but he didn't listen Wait here! I go get you some water Who's Man? My boyfriend... Remember, don't open the doors Don't go to the school office What did you say? Si... Why are you here? I saw someone coming in, so come and check it out Did you see Si and herboyfriend? No! What happened? I don't really know They're missing Help me look forthem Why there's two more shadow here? Haunted Tales of Narranmoda Memorial School Fong-fong couldn't find Si Her mother hasn't seen herforthe last few days You saw herthat night? I don't know, I only know one thing Someone knocked me out while I was boxing and took me to the sick room Then whoever did this disappeared Every time someone disappeared therewill be a new shadow on thewall Did Si see that missing school office? What did you found from the internet? Just some old stories Shadows on thewall and the hanging... wait! Abide by school rules within the school Falling in love is strictly prohibited Run away if summoned to the school office Whoeverfinds the inexistent school office Burn it down at once Chapter20 of the "Book of Revelation" And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever A Narranmoda Memorial School formerstudent I heard about this website before but it was terribly done Everyone thought it was a joke We'll find out soon Time to eat! He has a sweet lunchbox We have pork chops everyday Thanks, Yat-man! I don't feel like eating Let's eat, I share mine with you That's better You don't want this, let me have it Whatever... Shit! You have sashimi for lunch! I meant to share it, but not now This is from Cat! Thanks Cat is a smart girl I know. Honey No matterwhat I'm doing this forherown good I understand. She gets distracted easily She should focus on her studies I found hera school in Canada Why is this happening? Let's go... Go Why? He's still crying. Ben is with him now How's Cat? She's packing up, and crying too I told Miss Fong about them I know Am I wrong? I'm scared! I don't want anything to happen to Cat Will they be summoned to the school office? I've never believed in it But now I realize it has somethingwrong I just want to tell you something Sometimes things have happened No one or nothing can stop it Sojust don't let it happen It's totally out of control Maybe you don't even know it has happened Charliewent to the girls' dorm. Cat! It's Charlie! Cat! Come out! I need talkto you! I don't care if Miss Fong expels me I really need talk to you All I didwas just study I haven't tried anything at all I don't know what's going on forthe past few months But I know now That's something happened between us Orelsewewon't play, laugh and cry together If nothing happened between us a simple goodbye is good enough Why did you just write me a letter? Why? Come out, Cat! I'll pretend I've never read that letter Come out and tell me what's going on Come out and say goodbye! I don't know I just know it was something very, very special... I mean it Cat Shit! Don't make it public! No... Charlie... Where are we? I don't know! No gambling, drinking orsmoking Lights out and in bed by 11pm No loitering Why are you here, Si? You two are well behaved, why both of you were here? We also don't know You both must have broken the rules So did I... The disciplinary mastersaid I can go if I copy the rules 100 times I'm working on it I can go soon Rule No. 4, school uniform is a spiritual symbol All students must be neat and tidy The skirt can't be more than two inches above the knees Anyonewho broke the rules will need to face the punishment The skirt can't be more than I broke the rules Run! I'll neverdo it again... I broke the rules Run! Why you come back? What now? No... No... l've been copying the rules... Why did you break the rules? I didn't... I really didn't I didn't... Yes we did We broke the Rule No. 1 We have fallen in love Don't be scared! Cat Come down! Cat, don't scare me! Please come down! I broke the rules. The disciplinary masterwants to punish me No, she won't! Please come down! Come on! No, she's standing behind me... She's standing behind me... Cat Call the police! Please don't die! Ben, call the police! Do something! Charlie Why? She's back! Who killed Charlie and Cat? Miss Fong, on that night I heard you said "She's back" Who's back? The psychiatrist has already explained You're all undertoo much pressure It was a collective hallucination Bullshit! Cat and Charlie were dead! Right in front of us That's not a hallucination! Please, Miss Fong! My Auntie was the school's music teacher Shewas also the Principal's wife She set the big fire 20 years ago Because there was a new disciplinary master, Yuen Si-yum She set all the rules She used to summon the students to the school office Nobody knows what punishment they'll face My Uncle neverinterfered You seduced my husband, bitch! I'll burn you alive... Let me out! Help! What are you doing, Ping? Open the door! You broke the school rules, too! You're screwing around within the school They'd neverfound her body No one knew if she was dead oralive When the school re-opened, weird things began to happen I discovered the inexistent school office I was secretly admiring a boy but he liked anothergirl That girl died one night It was then when I found out whoever broke the rules would be summoned to the office According to a website created by a former student The onlyway to stop the curse is to find the right location of the office and burn it down Was that you? A priest taught me that But afterthe renovation Nobody knew where the original office was Anywway The school board has decided to close down the school That should be the end Goodbye, Miss Fong I hate that disciplinary master Me too! You're lucky you don't remember anything I'll neverforget that day I reallywant to burn heragain That's the onlyway to save the students Time foryourmedication! Sit down! I'll take you for a walk later Dick, Si, Cat, Charlie Watch over us We'll avenge yourdeath! Ho Yat-man, Ko Hon-keung, Lau Cheuk-bun Plan A Law Siu-fong, report to the school office I have more if you need it It's the holy waterfrom the Cathedral We'll finish heroff! Rememberthis Mind your safety Before we burn that school office Don't open any door Any doormay lead to the office! Ho Yat-man, Ko Hon-keung, Lau Cheuk-bun We're here. Come and get us We're already over broke the rules by dress up like this. Come and get us! Behind you, Fong-fong! Don't let go! Help me! Fong-fong! Let herout, bitch! Calm down, Ben! Go to plan B What do you want? Stay away... Remember how I used to pull yourbraids? That's because I want to stay close to you Ben! Do you know when I was young I didn't dare to tell my mom though I had a fever I worried I couldn't see you if I missed the school When I met you again overhere I was so excited I want to tell you I'm really in love with you! It's true! Follow me to the school office now! I'm counting on you, Keung! Fong-fong! Yat-man! Hurry up, Ko Hon-keung! Run along! Where's the lighter? Lookfor it! Hurry up! She's catching up with Ben! Shit! I can't open all the doors! Did Keung get her? The lighter! Are you alright, Ben? We burned the office! I'm in the Biology lab I'm coming to you Sorry! Wrong one! She's still here! How did that happen? Ben's walkie talkie! What now? Miss Fong said if we burn the office We'll finish heroff! What now, Yat-man? I don't know! Maybe that wasn't it! Where's the real school office? Fong-fong! Plan B! Ben, I knew it You were in love with me since grade school I made sure Mom gave me braids so you could pull them Then I'd have an excuse to talk to you When I found out you're coming I was really happy See? She's crazy about me! Fong-fong, say it again! It won't work! She'll know I'm lying I hated him forpulling my braids I was never in lovewith him! I was never in lovewith him! Yuen Si-yum, come out! Calm down, Ko Hon-keung I was sent to a boys' home in Form 1 Everyone thinks I'm with the triad Pick on a rotten student like me. Why Ben? Let him go! Calm down... I don't want anyone to get hurt, especially you We'll be fine Are you alright? Yat-man! Yat-man! Calm down... Follow me Staywhere you are! I'll go back for Yat-man Ko Hon-keung Yuen Si-yum, let hergo! She's always abided by the rules She didn't do anything wrong Why her? I broke the rules I fall in love with her I'm saying this again, I fall in love with Ho Yat-man I have broken the cardinal rule Come after me! Don't believe him! He's lying That was me falling in love with him! Was me! Leave him alone! Punish me! Run! Ko Hon-keung, run! Yat-man! Please run! Come out! Yat-man I won't love you Yat-man! No need to worry about me Yat-man! Miss Fong, Yuen Si-yum got Ben Only Ko Hon-keung is left to save Yat-man Why did you come back? Auntie, we're here Do what you have to do They took down one floor during renovation Miss Fong! Where is Yat-man? Inside the school office I won't let you harm my students Yat-man... wake up Yuen Si-yum, I hate you! Don't mind us, run! Are you alright? Watch out! Cat, Charlie Keung, Yat-man, run! Come one, Fong-fong is waiting outside Is it true, what you said? What? You said you fall in love with me It's true! What about you? Are you telling the truth? Yat-man! You break the Rule No. 1 Falling in Love is not allowed
