 

                        Heinrich after documents, letters and writings by Heinrich von Kleist cast ... Stimmings near Potsdam 1811 ... Berlin 1806 - 1811 ... Aspern 1809 Fortress Mainz 1797 - 1799 Frankfurt/Oder 1799 - 1811 the Theatre de Soleil Paris 1801 ... Weimar 1808 ... the Riebisch couple, hired laborers Henriette Vogel Ernst von Pfuel Ulrike von Kleist Heinrich but I swear to you ... it is quite impossible for me to live any longer. My soul is so injured that I, I'd almost say ... whenever I stick my nose out of the window the daylight is hurtful to me that shines upon it. Some people might think this morbid and eccentric. By having been in constant contact with beauty and decorum since my earliest youth, in my thoughts and writings, I have become so sensitive that the slightest attacks a person's feelings are subject to during the course of things are hurting me doubly and triply. [letter to Marie von Kleist, 10 Nov. 1811] Mummy, let me in! Mummy, let me in! Highborn Freiherr august august Herr Privy Councilor State Chancellor Even though ... even though the distance far away from ??? who certainly certainly is solely guilty guilty of the disgrace highborn highborn Freiherr damages claim for damages since the fatherland fatherland is threatened by danger highborn Freiherr born Freiherr without doubt will succeed Your venerable Excellency, to ... to ... to convince convince that convince Berlin, 19 Sept. 1811 Herr von Kleist asks for ... a private loan of 20 pieces francs d'or. To be filed since the persona von Kleist, is no longer alive. Berlin, Hardenberg to be filed to be filed to be filed to be filed to be filed K ... K ... K Kleist In the midst of this triumphal song my soul starts singing at this moment of death, I think of you once more and want to unbosom myself to you, as much as possible. Everything else on earth, the whole and the lonely, I've totally overcome within my heart. Yes, it is true: I've cheated on you, or rather, I've cheated on myself, but as I've told you a thousand times that I won't survive this, I'm giving you now, by taking leave of you, the proof of it. I've exchanged you with another woman friend, but if this is of any comfort to you, not with one who wants to live with me, but who, sensing that I won't be true to her either, like I wasn't true to you, wants to die with me. I can't tell you more, my relationship to the lady doesn't permit it. Only know that much: that my soul, by being touched by hers, has wholly ripened to death, that I've measured all the splendour of the human soul within hers, and I die because on earth, there remains nothing for me to learn or acquire. Farewell. [letter to Marie von Kleist, 19 Nov. 1811] in pairs - and not a word! good morning, Frl. von Kleist good morning, Frl. von Kleist I cannot die, feeling as content and gay as I feel now, without having reconciled with the whole world, and therefore, before all others, my dear Ulrike, without having reconciled with you too. Really, what you've done for me was beyond the forces of a sister, but within the forces of a human being, in order to save me. The truth is: on earth, no one could help me. And now farewell. May ... Heaven ... grant you ... a death ... with only ... half of the joy ... and ... inner serenity ... resembling mine. Stimmings near Potsdam, on the morning morning of my death. Your Heinrich. [letter to Ulrike von Kleist, 21. Nov. 1811] more coffee! wait! more coffee! That's Madame. yes? and now you can help me get dressed Monsieur don't bother, Heinrich I'm embarrassed the robe afterwards the lady and the gentleman came down, paid the bill and when I enquired if they would be here for lunch they refused. then we'll have a much better appetite for dinner won't you have a nice cup of broth? with pleasure in the evening the guests ... when two people say the same thing they'll stay together for another year as the saying goes on the morning of my death how many are there today? good morning how late is it? it's half past eight I must know the exact time the bell will ring right now you see thank you it's half past eight Heinrich on the morning of my death the landlord isn't in? they've both gone out can I do something for you, sir? how late is it? I don't have a watch it must be about 11 like the Persian king's bride, anointed with oil, when she is led to his chamber, pouring down over all his carpets what a weird phrase It's from a play. [Kthchen of Heilbronn] a play? oh my! on the morning of my death how late is it? past 12 then the messenger's been here already? yes, just now. Did you want to send a message? no, not really no. you can still see him ride off from your room on the morning of my death that Vogel woman in this tragedy, like some stupid accident Ernst? I shall never get married. You be a wife to me, my children, grandchildren. Besides, after the remarks I made earlier, I claim that between the two, there existed a sympathy of souls and a spiritual love, and that both considered the dissolution of their bodies as the highest good and strove towards it. The Lieutenant of the Royal Guards Regiment Herr von Kleist the former Lieutenant my dear Kleist I brought new sheet music I used to sing this as a child go on, play something sing something [Ich steh an deiner Krippen hier] # I lay in deepest deadly night # you were my sun # the sun which brought me # light, life, joy and bliss # O sun, you've prepared within me # the dear light of faith # how beautiful are your rays. you may have her, if you like I cede her to you that wasn't necessary # take away the straw, take away the hay # I want to gather some flowers # for my Saviour to rest upon them # upon sweet violets # with roses, carnations, rosemary # from beautiful gardens I shall ... # bestrew him from above this is so beautiful one could shoot oneself it is isn't it so dead what is death? it's like sleeping only much more beautiful much much more beautiful it's an incurable disease Vogel has been finding me repugnant since two years he'd be glad to get rid of me that was the reason for his act forget about it now I distinguish neither colours nor shapes and now all lies in darkness below me [Prinz Friedrich von Homburg] it takes more diligence I don't have that hue ... blue ... bluer one ... mine ... his yours ... new ... his Napoleon stood here the Austrians advanced but there wasn't any snow no, it was in May pardon me I'm sorry you were there I was but you didn't fight no, we just came ... we we took a walk across the battlefield we? Dahlmann and I I met Heinrich Kleist in 1809 shortly before the outbreak of the war between France and Austria he didn't know what to do with himself in this Napoleonic world Heinrich! leave the dead alone! they're defeated! Napoleon is defeated! they're defeated! here's it's all ??? and there are cart tracks on the riverbank hey, old man! did the French pass through here? the French? yes, from there to here? from here to there? the French? do you understand? he misunderstood you your passport [Austrian accent] - are you together? - together it's valid - Frenchmen? - we're Germans I'm a German, I'll read something to you if you allow me he's a German poet from Prussia a former Lieutenant of the Royal Prussian Guards he's left Prussia because Prussia doesn't fight against Napoleon we're enemies of the French Heinrich, you don't have to read something they'll understand me they've shed blood for the fatherland I'll read a dialog to them here on the arch-enemy question: who are your enemies, my son? answer: Napoleon, and as long as he's their emperor, the French question: is there nobody else whom you hate? answer: nobody in the whole world question: all the same, when you left school yesterday you fell out with somebody, if I'm not mistaken answer: I, my father? with whom? question: with your brother, you've told me yourself take him away answer: yes, with my brother he didn't ... my bird, like I told him to question: so your brother is your enemy, who did this to you? not Napoleon, the Corsican, not the French people he rules no, my father, what is he saying answer: I don't know how to answer this silence! he can even shout! question: what do the grown-up Germans have time for now? Lieutenant von Kleist from Prussia but a great admirer of the Austrian Emperor answer: to restore the empire which has been shattered question: and the children? answer: to pray that they may succeed Herr von Kleist? I even have something better if this wasn't to your liking wait I only must search for it here here answer: I am a German A German? You must be joking. you were born in Meien and Meien lies in Saxony I thought you were a Prussian? von Kleist? a relative of the Kleist of Magdeburg? he mustn't get involved in politics either he joins the fight or he's a civilian and a subject and he's to await his fate but that's just the point what makes the Frenchmen superior, that they're no longer subjects he's still a friend of the French we won't decide the matter here take him to Fieldmarshall Hehler ??? this is the new drama the Battle of Hermann [of the Teutoburg Forest] and those are poems to the Emperor Franz to the Archduke Charles Germania to her children and this is rather nice "furry bear and panther beast - the arrow ... how goes it - "the arrow has vanquished. "only for money in the wire trellis "the young are still on display. "you no longer see any snakes, "otters and the like, "nor the dragon's ghoulish host "with swollen stomachs. "only the Frenchman is still around "in the German Empire. "brothers, take up the mace "so that he too shall yield. nice, nice splendid oh you bridegroom of the goddess of victory ... what's the matter with your friend? he's dreaming a dreamer a dreamer, yes a poet and daily, like fir trees before the storm [Robert Guiskard] the heads of your faithful sink into the dust he who fell won't rise anymore and where he fell, he fell into his grave he struggles, with infinite ... Heinrich got us the passport which bound us like a married couple Heinrich during those several days of wandering we actually permeated each other took possession of each other you see him bare his horrible teeth against God and men against the friend, the brother, father, mother, children, against even the approaching bride he was raging. I always think that you fought in the first campaigns of the Revolutionary Wars as Prussian Guards officer and that you didn't stay with them what did you say? you didn't listen I did you could have served the fatherland better yes yes no no do you want to die with me? live, Heinrich ah victory or death the Corporal of the Prussian Guards Regiment Bernd Heinrich Wilhelm von Kleist is promoted to Ensign the Ensign of the Prussian Guards Regiment Bernd Heinrich Wilhelm von Kleist is promoted to Second Lieutenant does he know the penalty for desertion? I do and why has he ... what's the Prussian Army to me! I wanted to get back to my potato fields I wanted to get back into bed with my wife I wanted to see my children if the Officer knows what I mean the punishment will teach him the value of the Prussian Army they made me drunk they sewed me into a sack and when I woke up I already wore the uniform that's the Prussian Army! take him away ??? - my dear Rhl ... - Ernst von Pfuel, you've been with him a lot lately more than with us we hardly see you anymore don't worry worry? why? because of Pfuel? you're jealous Herr von Pfuel - Ernst - Heinrich he's from a good family you don't like him? but I expect great things of him he's my friend, like you are [Mozart - clarinet quintet KV 581] Heinrich? I shall never get married you be a wife to me, my children, my grandchildren Ernst don't throw yourself at fate's feet it's ungenerous and it will crush you let one sacrifice be enough preserve the ruins of your soul let them remind us of the lust and romantic times of our lives and when one day a good war calls you to the battlefield ... your homeland, then go they will appreciate your value when the emergency calls to arms accept my offer if you don't ... then I shall feel that nobody in the world loves me I want to tell you even more [but it's not fit for a letter, to Pfuel, 7 Jan. 1805] Heinrich you've handed in your resignation yes I have yes yes yes yes through these observations the soldier's profession [letter to Martini, 19 March 1799] which I never liked, became hateful to me because it carries inside itself something unnatural to my whole being, so hateful that by and by it became annoying to me having to participate in its aims. The most miraculous feats of military discipline which are a cause of astonishment for all connoisseurs, became subject to my heartfelt contempt; the officers I took to be only drilling masters, the soldiers to be only slaves, and when the entire regiment was performing its routine, it seemed to me like a living monument to tyranny. Heinrich to have a life-plan means [letter to Ulrike, May 1799] a voyager who knows the destiny of his voyage and the road to it he has an itinerary what the itinerary is to a voyager, the life-plan is to a man to leave for a voyage without an itinerary means to expect that pure chance will lead us to our destiny which we don't know ourselves living without a life-plan means to expect from pure chance to make us as happy as we ourselves couldn't imagine Heinrich! my soul, you're in Berlin! my God, Heinrich I've handed in my resignation I want to study but not right now! how did you know I was here? I've already been at home - but when did you set out? - this morning without food? Heinrich! Heinrich! what are you writing, Heinrich? something on physics for the Zenge girl? yes what trouble you're taking for her wait I'll read to you what you wrote to me about her recently my dear Ulrike the only company I see daily are the Zenges [letter to Ulrike, 12 Nov. 1799] and I would have given up on this company too, because of my embarrassment, if I hadn't been resolved to get rid of this disagreeable emotion because during my life-path I'll encounter all sorts of people and I must be able to make use of everyone of them. the eldest Zenge girl, Minette even displays some fine feelings which are occasionally receptive to beauty at least, I'm content when she's listening to me with interest even though I get nothing from her in return Heinrich? yes? but of all this there remains nothing once the whole crowd has gathered one couldn't call their intermingling babblings a conversation that's her I'll open the door good day, Herr von Kleist I've come to fetch today's composition what about the composition, Wilhelmine? won't you read it? I will then take it out Wilhelmine - yes? - what are you reading? - from Herr von Kleist - what's he saying? - he says ... - what is it? - that the girl ... - yes yes, what next? that he's been fondly in love with me for a long time and that I'd make him happy by giving him my hand in marriage aren't you glad? it feels so strange what does he want of you this time? Wilhelmine? he's such a noble person with the patience of an angel read it to me when a woman is adorable, it doesn't automatically make her interesting [letter to Wilhelmine, summer 1800] and how can a woman obtain and sustain her husband's interest? don't you know? go to him and ask him he's your fianc after all but he already wrote it so ... the answer with interest it's like with all things on earth it's not enough that they were created in Heaven: He must also sustain them if they are to last and nothing needs the most careful nourishment more than that mysterious thing which produces it, we don't know how, and which often disappears again, we don't know how, the interest. and then he goes on and on he means it more in general yes I know but it still hurts and then there are other questions he wants me to answer question: what is more desirable? to have been happy for a short time or never ever? question: when the husband uses his brutal right of the stronger against the wife, with the weapons of violence doesn't the wife too have a right against the husband? one might call the right of the weaker and which she could exercise with the weapons of meekness question: what binds people more to each other with the bonds of trust, virtues or weaknesses? I want to do everything right what do you say to this? when a girl is asked what she demands of a future marriage in order to be most happy in it, she must decide first: 1. what characteristics her future husband should have: whether he should be extraordinary in mind and body, or ordinary, and to what degree etc. furthermore whether he should be rich, noble etc. what office he should hold: whether a military office, a civilian office, or none at all none at all? whether in town or in the country and how, in each case, its location ought to be arranged, whether in the mountains or on the plains, or at the seaside, etc. your composition has been returned it couldn't be delivered the Kleists have left it doesn't matter we'll send it on all you did was write to each other anyway even while he was here Heinrich laughed ??? my heart is not ??? it is a ??? of my heart since all this is nothing but a wish fantasy has its unlimited field of action and must not bind itself to any fetters of reality Pannwitz is dead Pannwitz with whom you had lessons as a child he's killed himself because of melancholia, they say Heinrich, sir, this is not the carriage it is a part of my heart ??? we promised each other we'd die together children promise each other many things marriage and death Butzbach my horses! my horses! so a human life would depend on a donkey's bray [letter to Wilhelmine, 21 July 1801] and if it had been terminated I would have lived for this? that would have been the Creator's intent, regarding this dark mysterious earthly life? hey there it's nothing come I should have learned this, done this, and nothing else? from Frankfurt to Potsdam from Potsdam to Dresden from Dresden to Leipzig from Leipzig to Halle from Halle to Halberstadt from Halberstadt to Wernigerode Ilsenburg and Goslar then ... then to Gttingen Kassel in Butzbach the accident then Rdesheim Frankfurt on the Main Mannheim Heidelberg Dorlach Chalons-sur-Marne and then ... Paris a fellow student? travelling companion in eight days, without a stop, we'll make Straburg-Paris, 120 miles yes, young man but with a wife, you can't do that it will be impossible it's my innate failure never to be able to grasp the moment [letter to Adolfine von Werdeck, 29 July 1801] and to live always in a place where I'm not at the moment and in a time which has passed already or hasn't come yet when I was staying in my fatherland I used to be in Paris almost all the time and now, even though I'm staying in Paris, I'm almost always in my fatherland you really are bitten to death? [Penthesilea] not kissed to death? so it was a mistake kisses, bites, that's a rhyme and he who loves dearly may well take the one for the other you, my dear sweet bridegroom, you forgive me by Diana, I just mistook one word for another because I wasn't master of the swift lips but now I'll tell you clearly how I meant it this is, beloved, what I meant, and nothing more, by Jupiter if you were a man and not my sister write a letter to Wilhelmine yes you really want to ... me, when I was stifling you, like a dove, quietly no limb you possess, out of lust, insatiable Odiana touched none of your limbs, doing it will you write to Wilhelmine? no I'm writing about you look, Prothoe, look the remains of a lip, speak doesn't it seem to you as if he were smiling By Olympos, he's reconciled with me and that other part, it's smiling too so be it, you're right too your idol, if you consider everything carefully I've devoured you out of love kisses and bites, that's a rhyme heart and pains too come, Heinrich I attended the 14th of July, the anniversary the storming of the Bastille [letter to Karoline von Schlieben, 18 July 1801] they celebrate on the same day the feast of regained liberty and peace I am not sure myself how such days could be met with dignity, but this I know: that there can hardly be a more undignified fashion. they didn't lack any obelisks, triumphal arches, decorations, illuminations, fireworks and aerial balls and cannonades on the contrary but none of those efforts reminded one of the principal idea. the intention to distract the people's minds through a nauseating series of pleasures was predominating and if the Government had the impudence to oblige a man of honour to attend, through the mts de cocagne, the jeux de caroussels, the thatres forains, the escamoteurs, the danseurs de corde, to be reminded of the gods' sacred gifts of freedom and peace, this would be more insulting than to hit him in his face with a fist. c'est bon, la fte, la libert, regagner de la paix nous allons vous interprter pour la dernire fois l'histoire difiante de notre grand Consul Napolon Bonaparte la France est enfin enceinte Ajaccio, une jeune femme ??? et qui sert de ??? met au monde un bel enfant qui reoit le nom de Napolon dj l'enfant Napolon est trois personnes orgeilleux et rvolt il ne daigne s'associer aux jeux de ses compagnons que pour ordonner de batailles la ville de Toulons est occupe par les Anglais la jeune Rpublique Franaise est en danger Bonaparte, jeune officier prend le commandement de l'artillerie et investit Toulons il n'a que 24 ans, il est nomm Gnral de Brigade venu de si lointain une belle Crole un produit de Barnabass ??? elle ??? la vie de notre grand soldat c'est Josphine de Beauharnais vos papiers, Messieurs c'est mon frre son nom est inscrit sur le papier about Heinrich's and my stay in Paris I can't say anything but that we were staying at La Place and that I accompanied him in male attire nobody in Paris except the blind flute player recognized my female sex and addressed me as Madame vour jouez comme un dieu vous tes un veritable artiste, Monsieur merci, Madame c'est pas une dame c'est un Monsieur c'est une dame. I'm as good as a man there's no great thing in the world Ulrike wouldn't be capable of [letter to Adolfine von Werdeck, 29 July 1801] a noble, wise, generous girl the soul of a hero in a woman's body and I would have no part of all this if I didn't feel this intensely. but a person can possess much, give much still, one cannot always, as Goethe says, rest at his bosom. she's a girl who writes and acts orthographically, plays and thinks according to measure, a being who has nothing feminine but the hips, and she never felt how sweet a handshake can be. there is no being in the world I honour as much as my sister, but what mistake did nature commit by forming a being who is neither man nor woman, and like an amphibian is tossed between the species. what is remarkable in this creature is the conflict between the will and the force. but let's keep silent about it, it almost sounds like an admonishment, and even the slightest remark sounds too bitter for a being who has no fault but this one: to be too great for her sex. Heinrich if you were a man then I could talk to you couldn't you pretend that I am a man? c'est bien, la maison est pleine s'il vous plat, vous venez la voir, c'est celle l-bas sometimes I walk through the city with open eyes and see a lot that is ridiculous [letter to Adolfine von Werdeck, 29 July 1801] and even more disgusting and from time to time something beautiful I walk the long, narrow streets, covered with excrement and dust, passing the narrow but high buildings carrying six floors, as if multiplying space I wriggle through a crowd of people who scream, run, push and turn each other, without taking offense on my way back I pass through the Palais Royal where one can meet all Paris with all its gruesome pleasures here, every sensual need can be satisfied to a nauseating degree every virtue is mocked with abandon all infamies are committed as if on principle then it's evening and I feel a burning desire to get away from all this from all those roofs and chimneys and from all those disgusting things and to see nothing but the sky all around but is there a place in this city where one doesn't see them? vive la Nation # vive la vie # vive l'amour my dear little Ulrike, I am worried when I think of your lonely voyage [letter to Ulrike, 16 Dec. 1801] perhaps you're writing to me at this moment that you forgive me everything because it's your unconquered virtue, I know, Ulrike, how unhappy this voyage had to end which never gave you much pleasure depuis le temps que tu passes par ici, regarde, qu'est-ce que c'est que a et a, qu'est-ce que c'est que a? - veux-tu me donner le journal que te le demande? - je ne te donnerais pas, de toute faon, je ne l'ai pas is he dead? yes did Heinrich write? yes from Paris? yes, but he isn't there anymore he wants to become a farmer and you a farmer's wife? yes, that's what he writes do you want that? ah oh you whom I still love above all [letter to Pfuel, 1 Jan. 1805] how we flew into each other's arms a year ago how the world opened up for us, unlimited like a race course, trembling with the desire for the contest on our minds and now we lie on top of each other our glances reaching out to the race's finish which never seemed so brilliant to us as now wrapped in the dust of our fall that you're here! and I have nothing further to say to you? [letter to Lohse, 29 Dec. 1801] ah yes, there is something but don't worry, you shall never hear me complain I want to say farewell to you, for ever and while doing this I feel so peaceful and full of love, like in an hour close to death I ask for your forgiveness I know that there is guilt upon my soul too not an ugly one but one, this one, that I didn't honour your goodness according to its dignity because it wasn't the best oh forgive me it's my foolish exalted character who can never enjoy what's there, but only what's not there don't say that God shall pardon me you pardon me, it will suit you divinely I forgive you everything oh, everything I don't love you? how could you ever convince another that I don't love you! what else have we been looking for, on our beautiful path! wasn't it repose before the passion? why did it have to be you? why you? everything in the world was so indifferent to me even the highest things, so indifferent how could it happen, that often I sat down and occupied myself with nonentities as if my life were at stake oh, it's disgusting, disgusting again I feel so bitter, so hostile, so ugly and yet, you could have enticed all the noble notes from the instrument which you just tore apart you know ... what the old men do after they have been courting for riches and lucrative posts for 50 years they settle down onto a hearth and cultivate a field tell me couldn't one be wiser and go earlier to that place where in the end one is bound to go but that's what we're doing right now among the Persian magicians there was a religious law one couldn't do anything more useful to the Goddess than this: to cultivate a field to father a child and to plant a tree you've restored the age of the Greeks in my heart [letter to Pfuel, 7 Jan. 1805] I could have slept with you, my dear boy that much all my soul has been embracing you I looked at your beautiful body, when you got into the lake at Thun, with truly maidenly feelings your small wiry head upon a thick neck a pair of broad shoulders a sinewy body the whole an exemplary model of strength as if you'd been modeled after the most beautiful bull that ever was bled for Zeus Now Lycurgus' laws on the love of adolescents has become clear to me, through the feelings which you awoke within me come to me! I can't I'll write him that I can't be a farmer's wife I'll write him that ... defiled! You must be mad! [Robert Guiskard] Do I look like one who's got the plague? I who stand before you in the fullness of life I who am in control of each of my limbs You don't want to drag me, in the bloom of my youth, to join the putrescent on the field Heinrich defiled by the plague's breath You must be mad, you! Do I look like one who's got the plague? I who stand before you in the fullness of life I who am in control of each of my limbs defiled by the plague's breath You must be mad, you! Good day, Herr von Pfuel take me across the lake ??? then vintner the would have heard something ??? [Swiss dialect] on the ??? running up and down reciting Ernst Ernst Ernst! Ernst Ernst Ernst I'll come with you to Geneva Milano, Paris wherever you want we'll get your things that would be very nice, till death you've burned the Guiskard, Heinrich Aeschylus and Shakespeare your greatest work Ernst? Ernst? this is no good, Herr Kleist this isn't smooth enough and you've fined down too much already but this isn't your true profession Napoleon has entered Hanover with his troops or rather, his General Mortier they say he's now got both kings ??? what do you say to this, Herr Kleist? I don't know which side are you on? I don't know he's going to abolish serfdom - yes - but he's drinking the people's life-blood that's also true go home to your family Herr von Kleist I don't want to watch you ruin yourself all those circumstances [Wieland to Wedekind, 10 April 1804] his pride, violently pressed down by fate, his terrible tension, the eccentricity of his whole life, he's been moving in restlessly to and fro, ever since he quitted the army, his fruitless striving for an unreachable mirage of perfection, his Guiscard which has become his ide fixe, on top of it, his ruined health, force me to believe that his good genius gave him the idea to work for a carpenter in Koblenz allons enfants de la patrie, le jour de gloire est arriv contre nous de la tyrannie, l'tendard sanglant est lev! L'tendard sanglant est lev! Entendez-vous dans les campagnes mugir ces froces soldats? Ils viennent jusque dans vos bras gorger vos fils, vos ... sit down behind me otherwise, I cannot think Heinrich! I'm working on a strange phenomenon listen to this: [On the Gradual Production of Thoughts Whilst Speaking] Often I sit at my desk over the files and search in a complicated legal suit for the angle from which it can best be judged. I usually look towards the light as the brightest spot I can find, striving to enlighten my inner being. And look what happens: As soon as I talk it over with my sister, sitting behind me, working, I realize what I wouldn't have found out by brooding for hours. It isn't as if she was telling me herself. Neither does she lead me to the decisive point by skillful questioning, even though the latter case may occasionally occur. But since I have a vague hunch which is somehow connected with what I'm searching for, then once I have embarked on the formulation of the thought, it is as if the need to lead what has been begun to some conclusion, transforms my hazy imaginations into complete clarity in such a way that my insight is completed together with my rambling period. didn't you mention that we're invited at Wilhelmine's and her husband's tonight? as you like, Heinrich she used to be your fiance she didn't make a bad match her husband is the successor of Prof. Kant, after all Prof. Krug in return, we've kept you you're knitting, Wilhelmine? - my wife is ... - Wilhelmine? I've written a play about a woman who is loved by a man and a god Amphitryon Wilhelmine is expecting a child Heinrich! we are very happy aren't we, Wilhelmine? - your predecessor ... - Herr Prof. Kant his philosophy has deeply moved me four years ago I told Wilhelmine about it in a letter I remember Heinrich read it, Wilhelmine she showed me all your letters, Herr von Kleist you're quite a brain one must admit yes, a brain if all men had instead of eyes green glasses [letter to Wilhelmine, 22 March 1801] then they would have to judge: the objects they see through them are green and never would they be able to decide whether their eyes show them the objects as they are, or whether they aren't adding something, belonging not to them, but to the eyes. Likewise it goes with the intellect: We cannot know if what we call truth, is truly the truth or if it only seems like it. I was desperate at the time. those thoughts ... so my great predecessor has confused your youthful mind. I strive towards a good relationship with my students and towards happiness at home, which is ridiculed so often I hear you belong to the so-called patriots you have my sympathy my sympathy, but you see ... since the Frenchman is in the country and since even Herr von Goethe comes to an arrangement with them "voil un homme!" he's supposed to have said so you see: Bonaparte to Herr von Goethe after all "voil un homme" you're no longer wearing male attire, Frl. von Kleist? this way you look a bit more feminine really more feminine please, let's have some harmony, at least in here this is a fight you're fighting with other weapons than I do you possess the language be silent so be it as if my eyelids had been cut off [Feelings in front of C.D. Friedrich's landscapes of the soul] the lonely centre inside a lonely circle take care, Heinrich, that they don't arrest you they're searching for me they might know that you're my friend your friend? Heinrich stayed for another half year and then went to Berlin, accompanied by Pfuel and two other officers Pfuel parted from then before they reached Berlin Heinrich what shall we do now? they'd never let him enter Berlin he hates the French and they hate him come I hate them too because of him? because Pfuel hates them? Napoleon? the three arrive, are arrested and taken to France without having given the slightest reason for arrest this is our city we're officers of the Prussian Army, everybody knows us je ne comprends rien du tout il dit que nous sommes des officiers de l'arme prussienne que c'est notre ville, Berlin et que pour cette raison, nous n'avons pas de passport c'tait jamais ncessaire d'avoir un passport pour nous vour parlez bien franais trop bien pour un officier de l'arme prussienne il dit qu'il est prussien mais il parle franais come un Parisien en plus ils n'ont pas de passports, parles-leurs I speak a bit German you speak German with me are you German? we're former officers of the Prussian Army we've resigned voluntarily this gentleman is a poet a German poet his name! his name is von Kleist I want to know from this gentleman il parle franais comme sa premire langue s'il est prussien je suis Galles ??? gentlemen, I hope you understand that we'll have to arrest you unfortunately we cannot let you pass you've no passport, no documents please don't put up any resistance je suis un officier prussien je demande tre trait comme un officier according to some, they mistook him for Pfuel whom the French knew quite well and feared too, being an important patriot according to others, he aroused suspicion because he got embarrassed so easily, stammering, blushing had a baby face and in fact, spoke French more fluently than German des papiers! de l'encre! I want to write! I want to roll the Ida onto the Ossa [Penthesilea] du papier, de l'encre! when, with golden flaming hair, Helios flies past my face flees ... je veux crire! Mlle de Kleist I'll get up, travel to Berlin, go to the French administration and won't rest until I have freed Heinrich vous tes courageuse, Mlle de Kleist il parat que vous aimez votre frre he isn't a spy he's a poet he hasn't done anything against the Emperor he's been writing that's all but the written word is all-powerful sometimes it is a more powerful weapon than all the guns but he isn't successful with his writings nobody wants to read it he isn't dangerous that might be the shortcomings of his readers so you like his writings? it is ... I'd say ... very German my dear Mademoiselle we must consider carefully whether we can release him from the fortress according to the report of the commandant at Fort de Joux, he's busy writing from morning till night perhaps he's never been so industrious before and will never be like that again but this is ... inhuman! but true those prison cells are like graves perhaps this is just what he needs Toussaint Louverture has died in such a cell he wasn't a Prussian like your brother I'll see to it that he is released soon a bit against my convictions my girl companions [Penthesilea] ten thousand suns to ... one ... ball of fire molten down molten down so brilliant nothing but a victory my victory over him M. Kleist vous tes libre you girls, approach, with baskets full of roses [Penthesilea] where can I find the wreaths for so many brows? out with you, into the fields and breath upon the soil to make the roses grow which spring is yet refusing me, rush to your office, priestesses of Diana, open up the temple's gates let them fly open like the gates of Paradise, filled with brilliant light and incense oh let me, Prothoe, let my heart, for two moments, dive into this stream of lust, like a soiled child with each break of its splendid waves, a stain is washed away from my bosom this is for Heinrich Heinrich won't come but he's been released Heinrich won't come and he doesn't need cake, he needs money he always needs money well ... then ... you should marry, Frl. von Kleist no! never! Heinrich! what's the matter? what's happened? she's dead she's dead who is? who else but Penthesilea but you've killed her yourself yes ... indeed the Erinyes are fleeing, the horrible ones [Penthesilea] a storm is raging, as if the gods were near I want to join their chorus right now I never was as ripe for death as now they say, misfortune purifies the mind I, beloved, I didn't feel it that way it made me feel bitter towards gods and men, revolted me in inexplicable passion how strange, each joyful face I saw was hateful to me the child playing in its mother's lap seemed to conspire against my pains how much I want to see everything around me content and happy oh Prothoe, a human being can be great, a hero in suffering but he's only divine when he's blessed Heinrich von Kleist the greatest poet of the Germans for his 30th birthday the father said, before he died: [The Broken Jug] listen, Marthe, find a brave husband for my girl and if she turns into a wanton whore then give a penny to the grave digger and let me turn over with my body upon my soul, I'm turning in my grave do you want to honour father and mother, according to the fourth commandment, my Eve? speak up then, I let the boot maker into my chamber, or a third man but it wasn't the bridegroom I pity her. Leave the jug, I beg of you I am to have broken it? you mean man, shame on you very well, I broke the jug phooey, Ruprecht, shame on you that you didn't trust me didn't I give you my hand and said "yes" when you asked for it "Eve, do you want me?" Mlle Elsermann is wearing an excellent costume, Herr von Goethe tonight's sorbet didn't agree with me [Saxon accent] too much lemon - too sour Weimar - The Prisoner - The Broken Jug this is really boring, Privy Councilor exceedingly boring It always pleases me that you're willing to promote young talent but this pitiful ... who is the insolent person who dares whistle in my presence Constable, arrest the fellow my dear Privy Councilor, this is getting unprofitable fortunately, at the Weimar theatre anything like that hasn't been staged yet it won't happen again venerable highborn sir [letter to Goethe, 24 Jan. 1808] esteemed Privy Councilor on my heart's knees I present to you ... [the play fragment Phoebus] may the feeling which makes my hands tremble, compensate for what they are offering may the feeling which makes my hands tremble, compensate for what they are offering on my heart's knees I present to you ... on my heart's knees on my heart's knees I'll ... I'll challenge him to a duel even though he's a civilian and not noble I'll challenge him it's his fault he's turned one act into three he's destroyed everything you're unfair, Heinrich no, it's his jealousy but I'll tear the laurel wreath from his head Heinrich! serve him my challenge I won't but I'll leave you alone you're unfair and ungrateful I have a right to criticize him because I've raised him and loved him but either his development has been disturbed by the times, as has happened to many or whatever other reason there may be enough he doesn't keep his promise the Kleist of the Broken Jug has a lapidary style somehow clipped, with much humour, wit and a bit of talent, he's amusing himself without having the slightest idea how others feel about it exactly the Berlin Evening News a cent for the Nation editor: Heinrich von Kleist the Berlin Evening News a cent for the Nation, editor: Heinrich von Kleist In the last issue I read the story of the brandy tippler and the bells of Berlin pomegranates ... pomegranates caraway ... caraway ... caraway that was first class, first class what's the Lieutenant busy writing? still the play? true, a sun [Prinz Friedrich von Homburg] people are saying is also shining there and over more colourful fields than ours. I believe it only a pity that the eye is rotting that is supposed to look upon such splendor. My, Lieutenant, that's beautiful and there's a lot of truth in it too but the parson would call it profane who's talking like this in the drama? a Prince of Prussia oh the Court won't appreciate it do you really think so? I do good workmanship when I die, you may have it Heinrich sit down so this is the gentleman your brother yes I've come to say farewell Heinrich always comes only to say farewell or when he needs money you do need money, don't you, Heinrich? I do so you still haven't entered a proper profession yet? I ... I'll take up an office again what would he do if it weren't for the family and in a higher sense, the great family of our Prussian fatherland who also takes a lost son to her bosom and even slaughters a calf for him just listen to her, Heinrich we all have supported you long enough it's high time for a change it will change very soon the good roast it mustn't be wasted Herr von Kleist I thought you were with your sister in Frankfurt I've done a few errands you still want to? I've done an errand too I've had it made for Vogel his birthday will be three days later and he shouldn't go empty-handed, after all then all preparations have been met yes yours ever, Henriette and we'll proceed as agreed III miles from Berlin # the dawn shines upon my early death # soon the trumpet will sound # then I will have to part from life # I and some comrade # hardly imagined, hardly imagined # there was an end prepared to lust # only yesterday sitting on proud horses # today shot through the chest # tomorrow into the cool grave # oh how soon, oh how soon # beauty and shape will vanish # are you proud of your cheeks # shining like milk and purple # ah, the roses will all fade hey! hey! they shot themselves tell the master to call the police Anna! let your wife carry them go on with your search but this is all take it to the table don't touch them, they might still be loaded I suppose he knows about pistols it's still loaded here you are, there's no more danger a man like him used to be an Ensign in Mainz his name had an L, Leih ... but I may be wrong do you have a statement to make for the police? by God, no, only that the pistol on the table was loaded the two corpses lay 100 yards from the road, to the left near the so-called Little Wannsee, on a hillock which is covered with trees at its noon side the male person a coat of brown cloth a white muslin waistcoat pants of grey cloth and round soft boots the mouth covered slightly with blood the female person in a white cambric dress over it with a coat of blue cloth dressed and a blood spot the size of a Thaler below the left breast on her dress which at this spot seems to be burnt name? Ribisch Johann Friedrich tell me what you know thus I saw the two strangers who shot themselves here on 21. November right after their arrival on 20. November, I saw them here myself because the landlord ordered me to make a fire in their room after that, I didn't see anything of them except on the afternoon of 21. November when I met them on the path the dress is brand new, Heinrich I've had it especially made what if one is dead and smells of manure? please move aside how silly you are but try to understand, Heinrich for you such things are unimportant thank you just imagine the foolishness the two people want to have coffee up there in November I guess the people are paying for it that's what I said to her and ... went my way Your Grace ??? your turn will be later careful what will happen to them? they'll be cut up to see what's inside Jesus! proceed shortly afterwards my wife called me and asked me to help her carry table and chairs to the lake I took the table, my wife the chairs and carried them up the hillock where the two strangers stood still yes, that's right one might almost call it festive in fact, I've rarely seen two people who were so friendly with each other like those two on the hill they kept on calling each other "my child, my dear child" and were extraordinarily cheerful old man, tell the landlord to fill this bottle with rum my dear child, do you want to drink more rum, haven't you had enough? my dear child, if you don't want to, then I don't want either leave it, old man, don't bring us anything wife, take away the dishes but you haven't had any milk drink it, just drink it just look at her milky beard little mother, here's the cup take it with you, wash it out and bring it back thank you very much, madam, sir and now farewell May the Heaven grant you a serene and fresh morning a shower of rain during the heat of noon and a quiet cool star-filled evening under which one can fall asleep softly and easily Heinrich Kleist Heinrich
