 

                        ...Ultra-spacious living area! The unique design creates the sensation... of living in a villa Your quality of life is improved! You'll have e new personality! And plenty of room to move! You won't even notice how beautifully life flows! New Sun City it's the sun in my heart! Have you fixed his car yet? It still goes okay You don't lift a finger Hem, Brother Shu Not busy, then? The Prime Minister is busy, I'm not What are those people up to? That's the Ruiyang Mining Group office Nicely decorated place They're opening any day new Have one They move fast! "They'll probably ask you to out the ribbon" Don't laugh! If they don't make you e leader... it'll be a Waste of your talents Those We bastards Hooligans Lock You hooligan Let go You're disrupting social order! Who the hell are you? You We bastard Mind your own business! Damn you! Disrupting social order! - Brother Shu - Xiao Zhuang - What's happening? - Are you get off work, Give me a ride Okay Why are you doing that? T dreamt about your father and brother They're short of money So I'm burning some hell-money for them "Er Zhu's taking our farmland for his mine" Why don't you raw to mm? Ma My eyes hurt What have you been doing with them? Nothing I can't get Dad out of my mind "Wearing e big black coat, looking for my elder brother" "Back in 86, they arrested my brother for hooliganism" Dad lust hanged mm from a tree And my brother died What the hell else can you do... except make trouble? So what? Mind your own business Here is one thousand You take care of the rest Hem? Receptors bad Where? Provence Gardens I know I'll be there in twenty Okay Ma, come and stay with me in the city Couldn't do that Your second brother's still here Well, I gotta go, Ma... Something urgent come up See you again in a few days I don't know... Always in such a rush Hang on, I'll guide you Miss, What's your family name? Don't you know me? I'm Ping-Ping Ping-Ping? It's you! Wang's second daughter, right? Clever Uncle, you know me from my voice! Around your eyes Shu, how are you feeling? Third Uncle! It's fine, all good now I'll be back to Work in no time You there's no rush Just take a good rest I'm fine. I don't need more rest Look, my eyes can see everything I'll find someone else Give me back the key The garage Key Give me This one Here, this is two thousand You keep it Maybe later Take it back, Uncle You'll need it Wont Come on, new Must see a We more Don't waste the two days youre rested them Come on Never mind, give me e moment Just one more minute "What are you staring at? What's so interesting?" Uncle, what are you doing? Let me go! What are you doing? Shu What are you up to? Xiao Zhuang I was looking for you at the mine Must get off work Come to my place for a drink Every time see Xiao Zhuang he reminds me of my elder brother When my brother died... he was about Xiao Zhuang's age Around twenty But I can't remember his face What's up, Shu? Why are you staring at me? It's nothing Come on, cheers Cheers More firecrackers at the mine Come on, Brother Shu Nothing As mandated by the Jitai City authorities "To guarantee Ruiyang Mining Group's smooth running..." "mend to secure the lives and prosperity of local people relocations are already in progress "Wangdu Village residents are moving to the southern part of Jitai..." where New Sun City is under construction Brother Shu Over here it's you! Gao Peng I-How's your Wedding coming on? Ready! Next Saturday... So get there early to lend a hand Of course. No need to remind me Will you join us? No, I have something to do You? Have something to do? Bullshit! Er Zhu is inside Join you guys? We're different generations Don't be silly, come on! I'm busy Bullshit! I know you Bottoms up Right. Bottoms up Come UN Finish off That's the ticket! Great! If you ever need any help... I'll be there for you My new HQ is right opposite your house When you sleep in your own place... it's like sleeping in mine I know... Bring your bedding and you can... Sleep in my HQ Then you can be my gatekeeper We'll be unassailable "Who in the village would dare look down on us?" You don't Want a gatekeeper! You want Shu as your nightwatchman Damn clever! Don't give it away! Er Zhu, your car's been scratched Who did it? What scumbag? Who was it? It's a big enough car .... Didn't you notice it? Are you blind or something? Boss, I skidded So you mt my car? Let's leave it there Lock You Know how much my car cost? Give me three thousand and leave Or I won't let it pass Pay up, okay? Did you hear me? Boss, I'm broke Then Why did you hit my car? There isn't much damage Compensate him by cleaning it, okay? Mac Zhuang is my dose friend Do me a favor Shut up! No Way Pay up; Leave it, Er Zhu You trunk he has three thousand? Let mm off Apologize before you go Boss, I'm sorry Clear off Never again! Clear off! I'll be there later Go slowly Nothing It's slippery Where are you? In the place across the road? Okay, I'm coming Who's Gao Peng's mother talking to? Who is it? How should I know? I'm not an all-seeing eye! Anyhow, they're going into town And so is she m the back Where are you heading? Into town, I just told you! See a pretty girl and you lose it! Keep your voice down Speak louder! Louder! She's deaf San Leng, drive my aunt into the city Don't Worry, Mr Gao, I'll get her there What are you doing here? You're crazy Are you coming along? I have things to do Must get on What's up, Brother Shu? You changed your mind! We something to do m town Something wrong in your head! Come m and get warm Thanks, but no Then stop by when you have Mme Thanks, I will Take care Hey, Brother Shu Fancy a massage m there? "Massage by the Blind" How much will your Wedding cost? Don't distract me Gao Peng Who's that girl your mother knows? Who? The mute gm, the one m the van The girl from the massage place? So you like her! Ask your Ma about her Okay, but new have me to do this I'll ask my Ma I'll count the notes for you Put them back! I said, put them back! Lend me some money I'll pay you back in a couple of days Another man? I just paid your hospital fees for you I bought a new pair of glasses And I'm going on a date I should invite her to dinner or something Otherwise I couldn't introduce him to Xiao Mei Sounds good Where have you been? You're so late Youre brought gifts! Such a good boy Come on, let me introduce you This is Shu I-lees been Peng's close friend since they were young I-lees a good fellow Mac my mother And her father Sn down Young man, sit here Have some water You get to Know each other I'll go fetch Xiao Mei That's good Uncle, have e cigarette Where do you work, Md? Hmm he's a technician Very skilled Xiao Mei... He's here Go and take a look at him Stop playing Get up and greet mm What took so long? We have been Waiting for ages! What kept you? Why don't we go out so the two of them can raw m peace? Let's go Your business is good? "What's your job?" Gao Peng and I... We grew up m the same Wage We're good friends Come out with me later, okay? I'll treat your family to dinner "I don't understand" Eat together Let me think about it What ts there to trunk about She's such a nice girl Look at yourself... and how We you have to offer Everythings good, except that she's dumb If she could speak... Xiao Mei would never choose you Village head! A crack has appeared in the Wall of our house! And the Windows keep shaking and groaning Sister Zhang... You're not the only one! Our Windows are groaning too! But it's affecting all six of us very badly! Our house isn't bullet-proof either Our rooms aren't shock-proofed isn't that right? Live with it! Watch your step! You dirtied it before the Wedding! Yixin Don't scatter ash! Here Gao Pings Wedding candy Stay for a few days So We can chat a bit more I have a class tonight, I have to get back Our me offers you a great future "And education for life" "Headmaster of Jingrun Olympics Math School" Great! You're a headmaster! That's amazing! No Wonder your old number doesn't Work You should have told me you changed it it's a business thing Later on I'll have something to tell you What? Something from the bottom of your heart? Listen, everyone... it's time for the groom to say something Okay? Yes! Come on, Shu You say something I-lees my representative Alright? Yes! Did you get a marriage license? Got it yesterday Nonsense You didn't come to me to get it approved! What are you talking about? Damned retard! What did you Want to tell me? Nothing special Just Wanted a chat Tell me, Whatever it is Come on Well, do you still need staff? Staff? What can you do? I could be your assistant I'll think about it, let's talk later Okay! Everyone, have fun! Shu Fill his glass, and mine Hurry up om may You're taking over my land Without notice Let me tell you... What I'm doing... is giving you a much better new life Get it? So that's enough from you, some on Bottoms up Come UN Just a We I'm supposed to be helping out Don't embarrass me Well... Why don't We get drunk together later? That's another thing... Bottoms up Come on, don't push me What's Wrong? You feel embarrassed? What's wrong with you? I'm talking to you! You hear me? Calm down Just because your brother-in-law is the village head... you can boss me around? I'm bossing you around? Apologize to me Apologize, right now I'm talking to you, apologize! Kneel down! Kneel down! You hear me? I'm telling you... Don't say I didn't give you face Out of my Way! I'm telling you... You hear me? Come back! You are drunk again Look at you! Go to bed Let me be I'm fine Stop it! This is Gao Peng's Wedding day You are good f mends Out of my Way! Don't be so stubborn Still no apology? It's my Wedding day, can you stop quarreling? You refuse to kneel Brother Brother Let him speak! There were too many people outside I'm sorry Shu, get up What are you doing? You two are buddies Why are you kneeling to him? You really make me sick Never forget this Er Zhu, calm down Gao Peng, don't Worry Getup! I'm okay Getup! Don't pull me Y\m, Y\m I Wanna talk with you You quit? Yes It was a boring job Life had no point Run after the bride! Get off his back! Not very sexy! What about this? Better! Where's Chen Yixin? I-He left early Where to? Changchun "Jingrun Olympics Math School Star-level special training" "Principal: Mr..Chen Yixin, Well known teacher in the provincial capital" Eve; And don't forget your revision Shu Why are you here? I was looking for you You really came! Hei Xiao Lu. Eve; Hei, Shu Pupils... Today I have a puzzle for you all On the blackboard are... three pairs of balls, one red, one yellow, one blue How many balls do We need to pick... to be certain that We'll have a matched pair? In other Words... to be sure We end up with two balls... of the same com? This is how We Work it out If We take out three balls... then the next one We pick... no matter which color it is... Will be the same color as... one of the first three What is that called? It's known as the Pigeonhole Principle You didn't bring any other clothes? Was m too much of a hurry During class-time, stay out of sight Just stay in the office Or go outside Okay Try to rock smarter Sure Dad To Zhang Xiaome You Know what" "The best thing in the world is to look into your eyes" "l Wouldn't trade that for being a village head!" Who is that" Shu "He\\0' Mr Shu" Don't tell my Wife H she asks you tell her We Went to the bank Whose phone number is this? It's one of the parents A parent? I'll Call it What the hell are you doing? You're m a hurry to stop me In such a hurry, Chen Yixin I slave to keep this home together... I'm so tired of struggling to keep this school afloat And my reward is that you have all these affairs on the side! Watch what you're saying You're just the same as your father! We father, We sow Watch your language! I don't Want to talk to you We touched a sore point, have W Touched a sore point, have I? Just like your father turned away from your mother Now your mother lies paralyzed And who Waits on her, hand and foot? Who does it? And While I'm doing it, your're out having affairs! And I'm telling you, this isn't the first time! When have I blamed you? Show some respect! You never change, do you? Chen Y\m Show some respect! You have no right to demand 'respect' If you Want to stay, stay! If you don't, leave! You bastard! "Pining for you is a cigarette" "Remembering you is Wine" "You are just like cigarettes and Wine" "A cigarette that's always in my hand" "Wine that never leaves my mouth" "Quit smoking and drinking..." "...then We can be friends" "From: Zhang Xiao Mei" it's not good for girls to smoke "Talk to your parents, and then let's marry, okay?" "My marriage is my business, nothing to do with my parents!" "To find out if they impose any conditions" "Letting others decide your destiny, isn't that sad?" "Let me take care of your destiny!" "You fool" San On my Wedding day... can you some over m your boss's 'Crown We need a Wedding car I'll try to ask him Our dreams are ready to depart "What's their destination?" "Are they heading for the kindergarten?" Our lives  are ready to depart "What's their destination?" "Are they heading for Dream of the Red Chamber?" Move you Saw San How it going? Can your boss's car be here tomorrow? It's the only thing We still need Get e fucking move on! Behind schedule! This car? Where's the one with the 'Crown'? This one only has a circle on the hood San, it's the wrong car What about the crown? Not available, this one will do Hurry, your brothers had a few too many I know Did you borrow the car? The 'Passat' You are such e useless brother Good for fucking nothing Causing me embarrassment What did you say? Have you completely lost it? As promised, I borrowed a oar for you What the hell? Fuck off! I put up with your stupidity What are you doing? San! Getup! Let go! Are you crazy, San? Dad! Go away! Leave me alone! Brother, Why aren't you in my dreams? I'm getting married Come back to me God, I'm begging you... Help me! Brother! Here I'm here, brother You left home? You're living there now? Youre been away for so long And you suddenly show up The world outside is Wonderful Are you sure? Todays my wedding day, you Know? Yes, Dad told me So I came back to see you Who's that? Who is that? She's from the Cultural Troupe Sister-in-law You hired a band to play? Yes, I paid They're good, check them out Why did you spend money? I'm here She is a dancer Leave the singing and dancing to us "You're like a fire on a Winter day" A We that warms my heart Every Mme you creep up on me  you Might me up Your mg eyes  "Bright and flickering..." "Just like the brightest starlight" "You're like a fire" "A fire that lights me" "You're like a fire" "A fire that warms me" "l like it..." "But I never told you..." "l know you like me too" "You're like a fire" Get up, quickly San behaved so badly Such violence on a Wedding day Get up, quickly Or your mother will Worry Something wrong in your head? Excuse me The village head is coming, talk to him Let me see Shu, my son Today is your wedding day Cheer up a bit Okay? Don't you recognize me? I'm Liu Ge You want a fancy wedding car I told Er Zhu to bring over his 'Crown' Get up, quickly Give me a hand Get mm changed Open the door! They arrived All in brand new US dollars! Open the door, quick! Pay more! Find the bride's shoes You can't go until you find them! Not here! Let him find them The shoes, the shoes! What the hell? What's Wrong? What are you doing? Why did you do that? What's Wrong? Come UN Brother Shu That's the wrong Way! Three bows! Slowly Wait! Carry her on your back Catch him! Kiss her Do it, do it! Quick, or a ghost will follow you! Shut up, you're scarring her What the hell? You scared me to death! Something happened to Mac Zhuang Just one hour ago, there was a mine cave-in... in Wangdu village, Jitai County As we can see there's a rescue operation to save trapped miners Doctor, can you tell us... about the current situation? Doctor? How are the injured men doing? Were you in the mine? What's the situation with your colleagues? You helped the doctors to bring them here, right? Don't be scared We are here to help you Mac Zhuang isn't that Shu? You just got married Why are you Wandering around here? I-lees terribly busy Busy with nothing We can store the new coal in that field over there H there's too much, there's more space over there Something WM happen soon The Jade Emperor will punish you You're A ghost is following you Are you alright? He's been possessed, hasn't he? Shu Shu Shu What are you doing here so late? Er Zhu is your mine running Well? Why Wouldn't it? Have you said something to someone? Don't jump to conclusions You Know what? The village Water supply will be cut soon On the 21st, water WM be cut Who told you that? The Taoist master Lao Tzu told me Head Work out a summon It really Worries me There's no water Water's run out again it's because of the new mine, the Water's leaking into the mine Hey, it's Shu You predict better than God What you said came true You said Water would go today and it has! Amazing In future, We'll always look to you Hello Mr Shu What's your new prediction? What are you doing? Where's your Wife? She Went back to her mother's Get her back as soon as you can No need When I move to a new house in the city... I'll take her back and We'll be happy You two come and live with us When that day comes We'll live together Together You get her back as soon as possible Or she'll be very sad Attention, villagers! The mining company has reached a decision Beyond the original agreement... to provide earn adult who moves with there will be an additional reward for everyone who moves The mining company will provide... Now, listen carefully... The reward is A fridge and a 29-inch color TV, with a total value of 8,000 yuan! Both rewards for each family! Each family hearing this... should rush to send a representative to the village committee office Uncle! What's going on? Moving to Qianyao village Ma and brother San have moved They're living in New Sun City One time I saw Xiao Mei in her room using cards to read the future lives she trying to predict our future as e couple? It won't be long before she's back with me Shu Shu Why are you using that flashlight? Shu This is your 50,000 yuan compensation for moving I got it for you Take it Come on When I got married... I borrowed 3,000 from you, have you deducted it? No need to While Look What's happening to him There seems to be something wrong with him I-lees been very unlucky recently Come on, we've always been close Take it Take it, Brother Shu And these, a small gift No, I stopped smoking I stopped Where's my mother's share? Your younger brother already took it I-He shouldn't have People shouldn't care so much about money Right! This guy... shouldn't think that Way... money is all that matters His body's not dean Something's following him Goddess He Spare one of your petals... for my humble self... to save my friend I'll have him... bow down m from of you Your mine must close for a While I'll close it Brother Shu I'd like to introduce e new friend i-He's the deputy director of Ruiyang Mining Group Han Ming Brother Shu We're old buddies Come Sn here Let Brother Shu divine you You're about to re-open the company Master Shu really knows everything! I need your advice on the most propitious day to re-open Master, What's your advice? Your boss Mr Jia When was he born? At6pm Tell your boss... to scream three times at the mine entrance on opening day Scare away evils Re-open on the 18th day of the 13th month at 8 am We WM Master, you must be there on the day I will pick you myself Good mow By the year 2012 our daily yield will top 10,000 tonnes! Aren't you the master of the Wage? I'm busy all the time... but We some to support Mr Jia We're all about sustainable development! A return to the glory days! Renewed excellence! Guests, please pick up the scissors now... the Open Ceremony of Ruiyang Mining Group is about to begin Let's hold our breath Ladies and Gentlemen Are you ready? Five... Four Three Two One! Master Shu Let me show you around Mr. Jia, just look... at the old mine there It has polluted so much of our land Plough money into scientific research I can introduce some world experts to you The coal residues can be used... to manufacture atom bombs Our country has Four Great Inventions to its name Let's add a fifth at a stroke! What a Wonderful suggestion! I will look into it seriously As I see it... there are abundant resources on the moon We must go to the moon as a priority Steal a march on capitalist countries We have a mug way to go I hope We can join hands and Work together Xiao Mei! Xiao Mei! Let's move into the new flat We can have the baby there Let's go Let's go Hello Brother Shu What are you doing? Xiao Mei... Our new home is right over there
