 

                        Go over there to that building. Brother, can you break this bill? -Yes. Please help me today God. I applied for a job here. My dad used to work here as well. He died in the 1992 fire. I should be the one to get the job. Go there. Shyam I had applied for a job. - Go there. I had applied for a job. - No, no - go there. I don't understand. Why are you shuttling me from here to there Hey, come over here... what's the matter? Who was the former employee? - My father The name? - Shyam. So when did Mr. Shyam die? - Shyam is my name. My father's name was Sunderlal... he died on December , 2. There was another person who died with your father in the hospital - Shiv Shanker... - Yes. His next-of-kin has also applied for this job. As he was senior to your father so he gets the preference. Sir, my father died first how can he be senior? I see, but in the hospital both died on the same day. As per hospital seniority my father died min 28 sec sooner So he had the first right? - Perhaps . Similar problem arose 0 months ago as my father was 8 min late Now I've the death certificate and sent a copy to head office. Give some time to resolve it. - Some time? - (Yes.) It has already taken 6 years - I'm indebted to dogs and cats. I'll rather commit suicide than return to my village - No don't take your life, I'll recommend - rest is your luck. What is this, yes tell me...? - Sir, it's the suit. Originally it was a suit - it is no longer a suit! I thought you're educated so I put you on ironing job, but ... you burnt a blouse, then a trouser and now a suit You're progressing negatively - what thank you - in fact you working hard to destroy me - work hard to progress you idiot Idiot, I won't work hard but earn a lot by shortcut methods. Sorry boss! - That's all right. Hey ... Give me my purse ... I'll kill you! Take out ... - What? Give me my purse ... - Oh you idiot! Over there - get him! Can I talk to Devi Prasad? - This is not his home! What? He's not home? Where is he? Go to a temple for goddesses Prasad - this is a garage. This is star garage and I'm its owner Baburao Apte. Is Devi Prasad home? - He died 0 minutes ago! Died! - Idiot, can't dial correctly. Hello, is Mr. Baburao home? - No Devi Prasad here - speak! Sir, I want to rent... I see - where are you from? - Gurgaon. Very good village - people are sweet like sugar. - Yes ... Maruti... - You can get everything here... Maruti, Esteem, Tata but at this time I've only one. But sir I don't need a car! - What? You don't need a car? Brother Maruti has sent me. - Which Maruti? Who has a restaurant in Matunga - Oh Maruti Rao, he's good man. He said you're also a very good and sympathetic man. Tell me what's your problem? - My name is Shaym If name is your problem change it! Why have you come here? I came in search of job. - I've no job for you. Actually job is not my problem I've no place to live. First be sure about the problem is it name, job or house? House sir! - Go right, you'll find many. I don't have money to rent any. You changed your Problem again! Please allow me to stay here - your heart is like ocean. Only my heart is ocean, rest is like salted sea. That's Problem I won't increase your problem. - The pay 000 rent a month. But I came with only 500! - Well, 500 will be fine. But I've already spent 200. - How much is left? Three hundred - Well take out 00. I need 00 for pass. - Okay give me 200. God you gave for wine tonight. For lowering rent compensate me by helping me with work - Can you cook? - (No.) Okay then clean the utensils. Come, I'll show your room. My neighbor's hen, it's like me - Does it drink? lts heart is like ocean - lives there but lays eggs in my home. In fact I don't need to take any rent from you. But if I don't you'll think you own this house. I've to keep this room closed. It was rented to a dram company Mohini Theaters was their name. Didn't pay rent for 8 months. I threw them out and confiscated all their materials You will share this room with another man. This is his bag. You'll live here Don't go to his side. You will get your drinking and bathing water from this well. It is very deep. - You don't have to dip inside. Let me show you the toilet. Why don't you hold the door or show presence by singing. Can you sing? No. Better learn, otherwise you walk 2 miles to rail line. Why? - Toilet has no lock. Earlier there was no door. Don't follow - go to your room. Can't you put a Lock on Toilet? - It's nothing worth locking. Then at least don't allow garage visitors to use it. He has come to Live in home not in garage. You gave room to this crook. - Crook, he said he is Shyam. He's not Shyam. He's a pickpocket. Baburao he's a misunderstanding - Get out of here, now Don't push me your with hands Hands! I'll push with my feet. I want to hear from Baburao. - Really? I'll see how you won't get out from here. I swear to God I'm not a thief. Don't be influenced by him. If I was a thief, would I come this far to seek a job. Please trust me and also make him understand. Don't make pathetic stories! - Babubhaiya please stop him. Raju, what's this? Come out. Why are you doing this. You don't say word. I mean don't speak in between us. Hold a minute what's your name? - Babubhaiya... That's my name not yours. I'm I'm owner, I've right to speak You may be anybody - pick up your luggage and go inside. If he goes in, I'll go out... - I've no Problem with that. Why you're so keen to keep him? - Because he pays rent. I'll pay his rent. You've not paid your rent for two years why will you pay his? I warn I'll go. - (Good.) I'll go. - (Okay.) I'll go myself tomorrow. - Yes, you go. Okay, I'm going. - Why don't you go. No, I won't go. I'll go after paying two years' rent. That means you'll never go. Are you sure you're not thief. - No Babubhai. Take this. Don't thank it's for buying a khamba (wine) for me. What's Khamba - A bottle of orange wine. Hi hero - Living on film buds. - Yes. When will you cook rice? I'm very hungry Ask your new friend to cook. Good idea. He'll pay rent, do cleaning and dishes. Now he should cooking too. - Yes. Should he do laundry tomorrow? - Yes. And you'll rest all day. - Yes. What day is tomorrow? - Friday. It's very auspicious. You pack clothes and vacate your room. Where will you roam in the night - leave in the morning. I'll cook only rice. - then better leave now. I'll cook dal but I won't fry. Okay, I can Live with non-fried dal. What's this indecent behavior? - You won't see indecent... Why are you standing here Like a watchman. See Baburao... What's there to see. Ask him to come out I've to go for interview. Toilet isn't a place for interview. Raju you come out, let him go. - You don't interfere He isn't doing anything in there. He's just teasing me. I've kept the door open just come and have a look. You're a mature man you go in. - Oh God - do I have to see? Oh, he broke my chest! Pick up. I don't know her how can I pick her up? She's about 40 kilogram If you've some problem I can come later. Not really - we're practicing karate. Who is Shyam amongst you? - I'm Shyam. Would you come here? You've some work with me. She has come for me. Saw? - No, I had covered myself. I'm not taking about this. There are girls after Shyam. Maybe she is his sister. - And so fair! How do you know? Because she's wearing glasses. - You would be their father! Why do you always go to ICI Bank and create scene? For getting a job! It doesn't look good for a man Like you. It's their mistake! They want to give my job to someone else. Bank manager knows who deserves that job. You just sign here. I was confident of getting this job one day. Where do I sign? What does this mean? - You no longer need this job. So that Shiv Shanker's next-of-kin can get this job. I'll not sign. As long as I'm alive he won't get this job. I'll get the job as I'm next- of-kin of Shiv Shanker. But think by defeating me you can be happy in this city. Why? Are you the city queen? - I'm the Bandit Queen? Sister, please listen. - What is it? I want to help you and you are being rude to me. I don't want your help. - Only I can solve your problem How? - I can get you the N.O.C. I know he'll not give that letter but I can get it for you If you don't want my help it is okay. please wait... Can you really do it. I never lie. You Look Like my sister so I want to help. Shyam is my childhood friend. he'll do whatever I tell him. But I saw you two fighting. This goes on between two loving friends. But we have fought on this matter. You don't worry. Tell me what you want in the letter. In Borivili a tenant has beaten his landlord and kicked him out A tenant choked his landlord because of his girlfriend. Affair with women is very bad - men kill their parents... it's so easy to kill a landlord Homeowners are fools. They take tenants for money and don't get anything in writing. Do you have a house in village? - No, why? What if Shyam throws you out of this house? Where'll you go? hold your tongue! - See he is so defensive. he'll bring so many girls that they'll throw you out of house. According to my horoscope I must commit one murder... And must murder a murderer. - See, he's taking murder! For your safety ask him to sign on a blank paper otherwise you'll read a tenant broke his drunken landlord's head with Bottle of wine and siphoned off his property. He's Taking All nonsense. Maybe he is right. You sign a blank paper. Don't you trust me? - He's some trick in his mind. I pay rent you don't. - So what, I'm ready to sign. I'm ready too. - What are you waiting for? You both go out and bring the paper. Oh God! Why have you trapped me in their fight. Call me to yourself. - No, call them to yourself. See, I've signed the paper. He has not signed. There is something in his mind. I'm signing. Now what? Sign it. What do you want? Did you hear the song? - Song? He is making excuses ... - You sign. You really don't hear the song. I hear it so clearly. He's very cunning - he's not going to sign. Can I talk to Mr. Devi Prasad? - No. Now what will you do? Sir, what happened to my fish. - I fried and ate it. What are you doing here? What's that girl doing here? - She's our new employee. With whose permission? What's this nonsense? Sir sweet balls. - For what? To celebration Anuradha's appointment. So you're impressing everybody by offering them sweets. Go and ask the manager. - Surely I will ask? You're misusing your position. - What's the problem? How did you give my job to that girl. hold a minute. You reply is in this letter. Isn't it yours? Letter! Yes sir. You've written that for now you don't need this job I've written no such letter! No! Then how is your signature? Isn't it your signature? Stop him! Govind! Rajaram! Security! Get that letter. He ate it! - Sir open his stomach. You just wait and see what I do to your bank. I will tell everybody you took bribe to appoint this girl. I'll get you both terminated so there'll be two jobs for me. I'll be trapped. So you better terminated her and appoint me here. I've appointment letter - nobody can terminate me. I'll see you, first Let me deal with man who gave you Letter. You bastard I'll kill you today. I'll take your life. Have you gone mad? What're you doing, you're breaking everything... He has gone mad... Abu bhaiya you don't interfere You're bent upon destroying whatever is left of garage. Babu bhaiya counsel him. - About what? Where's my signed paper? - What paper? The paper I signed and gave you - Look into the cupboard. He wrote on it that I don't need job and gave it that girl. You move from here. - Please stand between us. Shut up! I'm not afraid of going to jail but I'm sparing him because I want to see myself working in a respectable job. You go from here. And remember if you break anything I'll make you sleep with Ramlal - Who's Ramlal. The street dog! If you had not come between us I would have broken his teeth. Did you steal that paper? - Yes. Well, you're not hurt, are you? - No, not at all. Then why were you shouting? - It's Raju's style. And this is Baburao's style! So you planned this together. - Don't touch me. In the bank I'm a manager - but here we are friends. Then Hold hands and start singing a duet. You can make good jokes. Don't bore me. My last warning... terminate her, give me my job Otherwise you'll lose your job and retirement benefits. Now our Life is in your hands. - What can I do? You can do a lot - - just think, you're a woman. What should I think? You're cute and young. You can control him Like Menaka. I don't know anything. - I'll train you for that. Assume he is Vishwamitra who's praying for job. Like Indra I'll dress you Like Menaka so you can divert him No I can't act this love scene. Try to befriend, otherwise we both will Lose our jobs. You did a nice setting for them - It was hard but God helped. Can you fix me with someone. - What? Have you some other beauty? - Who do you think I am? Pimp. - I'm a manager not a pimp. Okay, I'll treat you with respect - show me some pictures Listen, money is no problem I'll pay as much as you want. Go away or I'll beat you. - How about tomorrow? Why are you following me? - What a manly gait! Mine or yours? - Your anger is attractive. Aren't you ashamed - may I shout to call police. No need to be rude. If you Like I can resign from the job. Just give me 50,000 for this favor. What? Fifty thousand! Don't shout, I'm asking 50,000 not 500,000. People are ready to pay 00,000 for this job. You're trying to cheat me. I won't give a single paisa. Can I dial a local number from here? There is a call from Calcutta for Savitri from her son. Hello, my son. - How are you mom? I'm fine, when are you coming? As soon as my leave is approved I Will fly and come to you. I want to see you son. - I'll come, you don't worry. I want to talk to your son. - Matron wants to talk to you. Don't give phone to matron aunt - I'm in great hurry. Bring 25 blankets from Calcutta - Hello, I can't hear anything. Can you bring 25 Blankets? What? - Blankets? She has been shouting Blankets and you say you can't hear Could you hear? - (Yes.) - Then you send the Blankets. You may hide anywhere - but I'll find you. What's this noise? What's going on? Who's this man? Not you. He's my friend. He has borrowed 5,000 from me. Are you looking for Shyam? - His name is Ghanshyam. But he doesn't work here. - I know he works here. Stop. Get out - what type of man he is? Come out Ghanshyam otherwise I'll ruin your office. Sis Ghanshyam took 5,000 and promised to return after getting a job. You Help me get my money otherwise I can't arrange my sister's marriage. He said he got a job in bank. Now he isn't here. - Shyam Lives in Borivili. Where? Either east or west Borivili. Go to your seats and work. He has created so much nuisance And this Shyam has made my Life miserable. Where does Ghanshyam Live? - Second house in first street. Will be in his home? - No, he died 5 years back. How can he die. I'll kill him after recovering my money. Are you Looking for Shyam? One who wears glasses... If I show you where he Lives will you beat him? I will beat him. Don't tell him my name otherwise he'll run away. Shyam some one has come to meet you. Come soon. I am coming... You left village to hid here. - Why you get angry to see me. You bastard.. you disappear whenever you see me... This is his style to show Love... What a strange style to embrace till other chokes. He should have broken his bones you spoiled the wrestling show. I had given him 5,000 rupees at the death of his father. Brother Khadag in this world Love is important not money.. Your introduction.. - Baburao Ganpatrao Apte. You've money today, you may not have tomorrow. Can you give me money now? Now only one week remains in Bano's marriage. If I don't get money then the marriage can't take place. You didn't intend to return money so you Left village and came over here. Do you know what Bano said when was coming to search you? She said don't compel my Ghanshyam brother You idiot she treats you more Like brother than me. If a girl's marriage doesn't take place you'll have to suffer for Lives. Don't say such things - Bano's marriage will surely take place I will definitely pay you by Sunday.. this is my promise.. Don't you trust me that much. - This or that I don't trust. I want to hear from him Can you give me the money? Why will he give you money? He did not borrow from you. Come on Friday.. I will make arrangement of the money. We'll get her married together. - God! Can it happen. Okay I'll come on Friday - but I'll bring 4 persons with me. Not for beating you, but if you don't pay I'll kill myself and they'll carry my body. How will you pay on Friday? I'm sure I will get money.. But how ? My heart says Bano will be married definitely. Oh God you give him money.. I have to Talk to you... what? can you come out Please... you remember having said to me that if I pay you 50,000 then You'll Leave this job. Will you do it? I had said that because of your troubles. But I don't have 50,000 - not even five paisa to give. Whether you remain on the job or pass it on to someone else. I Will sign on whatever Letter you want. But can you give me 5,000? You can Lose the job. Are you willing to take this risk You're a clever Girl, that is why I am accepting the defeat. You recognized my cleverness so soon. Okay, come to my home to get the money. My son where have you brought me.. Last time you had taken me to some other place.. Yes that was our bungalow see I have made this Office.... Sir petrol.. What is the rush. Welcome! So you've come from Calcutta. Was train in time. I came by morning flight and picked up my mom. Mother he is our contractor for bricks and mortar. Namastte mother... He always talks about you. Do you also Live in Calcutta? - No in the Koliwada... No mommy I phoned him to ask how work was progressing. Come out. You were over acting... Give him 200 deduct 50. Why should pay? You pay to him we'll adjust. But what about petrol? You add the water, please. give me money.. come tomorrow. This is my personal cabin and here I'll put daddy's photo. Raju when did you come from Calcutta? My son who is he? I'll tell you mom. Raju is my best friend. When I first met him on road I thought he is a pickpocket. Pickpocket! Yes he looks Like that... Why are you so shy before mom. The job I had been searching for 6 years he got me in a day. I touch your feet mom. - Long Live my son.. I'm Shyam. Raju's room partner. - He's also business partner. Remember we decided to start the wine shop behind office. Wine shop? He means the crackers factory - we required the gunpowder... Why are you hiding from mother I had said I'll repay all you have done to me. Now give purse for Ghanshyam Baba. Ghanshyam Baba? Yes we seek his blessings for our progress. Ghanshyamji is a great saint... he isn't giving the money.. you give 00 for the petrol. I can reveal your real self but I don't want to spoil the happiness which I see in her eyes. Okay mommy... Hey Babu! Babu instead of Babubhaiya! I must increase your rent. Babubhaiya today is the happiest day of my Life... What are you happy about? My sister will never be wedded. and village house won't escaped you could not get the money. Babubhaiya there is nothing with that woman... no don't throw me out... After father's death her mental condition deteriorated. I couldn't pay the rent of the house for 2/2 years. landlord threatens to throw us out from the house That's why I asked 50,000 from you. When I realized that you too are in debt, I smiled. I'm resigning my job for you. You may be able to do something from that position. Now if I take your job, God will never forgive me. So she has nothing except the big heart. Don't talk about big heart. I've big heart - but no money. Oh God - hearing all this burns my stomach. Babubhaiya may I tell you where I got money for wine! Raju - he's the biggest cheat and he'll cheat us any time He is cheating his own mother. Is it true Raju? Where are you going? Why don't you tell me... I doubt whether that lady is his real mother. Not a word. She's my mother. I cheat her to make her happy. She think her son works for a very big company in Calcutta. and earns lakh of rupees. he'll build a house for her. But why did you lie to her. So, what else could I have said? That her son is unemployed and does petty jobs I remember my mother use to do cleaning jobs at school She remained hungry to .. feed me. I cannot see my mother in distress And that is the reason for all the lies. Then what should I do? tell my mother that the dream she has will never come true. I want to see her happy. I need money for that. And I will cheat anybody for Money.. If you would have told her the truth today Then she would have probably died. please.. Forgive me for all the trouble I have caused you. You are still angry with him? See we all have worries. My father.. built this house and garage after hard work. Then my mother became sick and my father Had to take a Lot of loan and he died repaying the Loan. I have to fulfill my fathers dream. Before I die I want to pay the debt of my father Then only I can relax in peace This is my dream.. Happiness increases by sharing sorrow decreases by sharing Who is it hello. Kabira speaking Was it correct? Idiot it was wrong, Check the number Before disconnecting the phone tell me... Devi Prasad your Rinku is in my custody. O.K I will tell my son to rescue Rinku. What happened? It seems that the old man has gone mad..... I need to go and pee Babu bhaiya get up... Listen, whose phone is this? It seems as if someone is crying Yes she is my granddaughter.. Your granddaughter. When did your son get married? First Let me marry... That is allright but whose phone is it? He was repeatedly saying Kabira speaking It's a good name... Why Devi Prasad you are stunned? You have earned so much money in Star Fisheries. If you want your daughter alive... keep 0 Lakh rupees ready. Kabira will call you again tomorrow morning at 0 a.m. I will tell you when and where to deliver the money Don't try to inform the police or find us. Otherwise I will make small pieces and feed it to the dogs Whose phone is it? And what is he saying? Some Kabira is on the Line and he is saying that if .. he does not get 0 Lakh rupees then he will kill the granddaughter of the owner of star fisheries. Is it his father's rule? I feel that we should call Devi Prasad and Let him know everything. But where will we find the number for star fisheries? call up Kabira and ask him Yes, ask the thief where he is planning to do the theft. Check in the directory Let it be. See this... What? You go and get your eyes checked. This is the number for star garage. No this is the number for star fisheries. There are two lines for the same number. this is star fisheries... This is problematic.. Now I know why the phone Line has been bothering me. They have listed Star Garages number against star fisheries. And Star fisheries against Star garage If you call star industries the phone will ring in garage if you call star garage the phone will ring in star fisheries. You go and telephone. What will you tell him? That his granddaughter has been kidnapped. Why not we play a game? Which game... What do you want to say? I want to say that why did all this, happen to us only... Why did it happen? Because this is Ishwar(God)'s will... Which Ishwar? That merchant... The merchant that sits in heaven If he wants us to become rich then what is the problem? The game is simple. Kabira thinks that we are Devi Prasad. We can call... Devi Prasad and tell him that the girl is with us And we will take the money from him and Give it to Kabira. But what will we get out of this? We will ask Devi Prasad for double amount of money... No, this is a wrong way to get money Babubhaiya see god has chosen us to save girl's Life. If we get some money what is the harm in it. The Goddess of wealth has chosen us and you don't want it This is not wrong. What do you think. Shyam you go and call Did you people hear something. You dial it.... hello - Kabira speaking - Who? Are you giving an interview? Talk in a strong voice. Kabira speaking ... - Which Kabira Your granddaughter is in my custody. hello.. Babu it seems he went to call the police.. What happened sir? Nothing.. you go to sleep. I said go back. hello from where are you speaking? Do you want the address? Write down Ganeshwadi ... What're you doing idiot. He is asking our address I asked where are you speaking from? Give him the same message that Kabira gave us for him If you try to trace us or call the police Then we will kill your dog and feed it to your grand daughter. What are you saying? Who cuts a dog to pieces? We will kill your grand daughter and feed her to dogs. See, I will not call the police.. But don't do anything to my granddaughter. He is weeping... Okay tomorrow morning we'll call you again at ten. we'll tell you where and when to bring money. I'll give you whatever you want. I'll give you all my wealth. You tell me how much you want. How much? 20 for Kabir, plus 2/2 for me - say 20 Lakh... Twenty Lakh. - Yes 20, I'll give even more. What happened? Didn't agree? - He agreed. It seems that now all our problems will be over. How? I'll get Lot of money soon. Oh. So you'll be able to marry Bano. Oh. So you'll be able to marry Bano. And also I'll pay money owed to your house owner. Won't you accept my money? No I was thinking how I will return such a big debt. So you don't return. - Then I'll not take the money. Okay, I'll think it is Loan to you. and that will give me an excuse to see you. How will you get all that money? Don't ask - I don't want to Lie. But I'll tell you the truth after I complete this job. What're you doing. - Checking if phone is working. Are green leaves ready? - Green Leaves? Do you want money or betel Leaves? Stop taking rubbish. Is money ready? tell him it's ready. - Yes it is ready. Okay, come at 2 p.m. behind Videocon factory. You bring the money we'll bring the girl. And Listen - come alone. Don't bring your driver. Have you ever seen Devi Prasad? - No. Ask him... - What? Have you seen Devi Prasad before? I mean have you seen me before? No. I've not seen you but if you come alone I'll identify you. Otherwise we'll cut your grand Daughter to pieces and feed her to dogs. - I'll come. I was waiting for your call. Where and when do we meet? Exactly at :0. You come behind the Videocon Factory near Hanuman Temple. well you come alone and don't bring your driver. I'll come. What's the matter? Why did you call? Rinku is missing. She has been kidnapped. What nonsense are you taking. It's true, she is not in home You can search the house. Is Devi Prasad home. - He has locked himself in room and asked servants to go home for -4 days. It's a very serious matter. I'll hand it over to Police. Owner of Star Fisheries is my Neighbor. His grand daughter has been kidnapped but he is not telling anybody. You watch him, who he meets, what he does, and inform me. I know you're a great tailor but stitch my clothes urgently. I've dhoti, give me silk Kurita, a silk cap. Why do you need to measure? Make dress, measure later. Paint everything don't Leave even a small corner. Use plastic emulsion on whole house. And put wall paper on both Sides of the well. It will cost 5 per feet. - Don't worry about the cost. Why don't you show your faces? Why are you ashamed of asking your own money. How much do you want? Mine is 7,200. My 8,00. My principal is ,00 - with interest it comes to Rs.0,000. But I can forget the interest. Why? You take 0,500, you 000 and you 8,000. Remember to take it tomorrow as I don't want burden on my head. And Peter I don't want to buy a bottle each day You bring a tanker of wine every fortnight to fill my overhead tank so whenever I want I'll fill a glass from tap. Raju, Babu bhaiya is happy as if he is getting married. It seems that policemen will be part of his procession. And change tires on all cars. Take the money as advance Have you won any lottery? No. Nobody called me? Not even wrong number. Potatoes are ready come and eat You're calling them tomorrow? Cow is eating grass and you're inviting them for yogurt! Don't build castle in air. call after money is in your hand. There is change in program. You come on Sunday. Babubhaiya you're drinking wine so early, what is the matter? Tomorrow dreams will come true I want to remain in my dreams. But why are you wasting money... - No problem Like rain, when God gives He gives in abundance. What're you doing to my head? How are you rich Shyam? Let's wear helmet today tomorrow it'll be gold cap. But if we don't succeed it would be prisoner's cap! Oh god I will have to take my medicine again. Why are you drinking wine so early in the morning... It's not wine, it's medicine for controlling tension. he'll bloody increase our tension also. Why did you abuse? - tell me. Don't mind he abused me - Never say it. Can't you see? How can I see with helmet over my head and no glasses on eyes. Don't shout I'll find your glasses. You wait here. I'll go and see if he pays money we will go back otherwise you may carry my dead body to my village. The name of the God is true... - Oh shut up, I'm not dead yet... Who're you people? - Oh Khadag Singh! That's my name... how can you be Khadag Singh? We're Sham's friends. - Friends? You all Look alike - are you twins? No, we're triplets. - I know. Where's Ghanshyam? If I don't get money today I'll put bullets in my head. No don't do this. Shyam Left.. - Where did he go? He went to return your money... - He asked me come here today! He got the money yesterday so he Left for your village. Then I will rush back to otherwise he'll make an excuse. Oh God saved us. Come into the care let's go. I've reached but nobody's here. - Just wait... he will come. It'll have the money. As soon as you get money call me I will bring the child... Sir Mercedes went elsewhere. - Another will come. What's this place ... - Just sit quietly. What's this sound - - He is peeing. I told you not to drink - Didn't we sit for peeing. It's quite natural after drinking 4 liters of wine. Shut up and don't call each other by name. Yes. You are correct and Don't take anyone's name.. Seems this is Devi Prasad's car. Did you bring the money? - Yes... Where is my granddaughter? - Give money quickly ... you'll get your granddaughter first give the money. Give me bag I'll count the money. Stop - return the bag. He wants empty bag. Take out the money. Come on where is the girl? Child is not with us. - tell me otherwise I'll shoot. No, who called you here? It's my personal matter.. I came here to perform my duty And you Let me do my job... I don't need your help... I want my granddaughter. You will get your grand daughter. tell me where's the child otherwise I'll shoot all three. No.. actually a man phoned and he asked us to.... Drop your guns! Go Quickly and get my Child.. What're you doing - run - I'm sitting on the motor bike Stop otherwise I Will shoot you.. Oh god Devi Prasad has Called both the army and the Police... You army men may go now. - Remove your helmets. I'm not with them I needed some money and they trapped me. Babu bhaiya come on - - I can't run..... Oh god I will do the coolie work sweeping, beg on the road - but I will never adopt a short cut to make money... I was mad to go with your plan. This happened because of you. Why because of me? You needed money too. I needed it but I didn't know police will come to share it. I think this is Kabira's phone. Bloody....his... No Shyam it is dangerous to talk on this phone... I know what I have to tell him.. Raju get aside..... Grandpa, they will kill me ... please save me... Devi Prasad did you hear? For dirty trick you played by calling the police, I can break granddaughter's leg and make her a beggar or sell her for prostitution. I'll give you one Last chance. I'll phone you again and Tell you where and when you've to come with money. but this chance Will cost you Double the original amount. Shyam what happened? What did he say? Because of our foolishness the Life of an innocent girl .. is in danger. I cannot tolerate the burden of this sin.... Now where are you going? To tell Devi Prasad that he should save his granddaughter.... Shyam you cannot go now... - Raju get aside otherwise... My specs You idiot Leave him! What are you doing? I will kill him.... Neither he nor I need money obtained by wrong means - why are you so adamant? Because I promised my mother to move her to new house. Very good.... - You know her? Yes I know her very well and she is a good dancer. She would be very rich... - No she is very poor.... How do you know? - I'm her father. She's unlucky. At birth her mother died - her elder sister become widow - younger brother got TB - I'd loss in fish business It's very kind of cub people that they call her for dancing If you arrange such programs, can you please engage us. At Least give me your name and address so I can contact you. What are you doing? My five rupee bill. Why - it's half - now you keep it! Tore off 5-rupee note! What a man - wait I'm coming... Oh Shaym - come her. - I've urgent matter to discuss. Yes have a seat - - Anu I want to tell you... will you take some tea? Take a cup it's ready! Anu I wanted to say ... Don't ask us to Leave if you want take all our stuff. Cool down mommy don't worry. he'll give money tomorrow I'll give that to the landlord. - Why doe he come to trouble us? Sorry - what is the matter you wanted to discuss. That it's important to pay to the landlord. Yes - Okay, I am going. I made a mistake, but I'll pay the money within 4-days. Sure - I swear to my mother. Babubhai Always tells the truth He Will even Sell his garage. Shut up Always Taking nonsense you go I Will pay you the money If we don't get consequence Will not be good. Yes the money is hanging on trees - you come and get it. Think about the Village debt and your sister's marriage. Wash hands food is ready - There is hot and tasty dal too. Some people will Live in poverty, and die of starvation. but will not give up their honesty. Here's Kabira's call - I'll tell him only honest people Live here so go ahead and cut the child - feed her to dogs, we're busy. What is this Raj, - I am ready. Me too.. - Final? Final. Then pick up the phone - see who is calling ... hello Devi Prasad ... what's today's rate for the fish Disconnect you... we're going for Life and death - you want fish. Devi Prasad, this is the Last chance to see your child alive. Tomorrow night you come to Bhaidas Stadium with 20 lakhs If you try any mischief you know what I can do with her. You Listen now... This is your Last chance... This time the ransom is 40 Lakh. If you try to be Clever... No, don't do any such thing... I'm bringing you the money. This time we Should not fail. We must catch the criminals. This time I don't want to take any risk. Absolutely not. We'll be caught if we go in Helmets Like the Last time Let's go without the Helmets. - So Police can shoot my head. I don't want to go with you. - Then Tell me how We'll go.. Let me show you the treasure. Treasure? It's artificial - not saleable. Okay what do you want to wear? Babu bhaiya it's all useless. - You don't Talk - your planning failed - this time do as I say. You don't know about kidnapping. Babu Bhai how about this one? If you put on this God Will make you Ravana in next Life. This - material is good. - Forget this. It's Draupadi's sari! It's so so long that by the time you wrap it Devi Prasad's grand-daughter will grow up. These are most appropriate. Where have I to go. - you'll misdirect the police. I'll go there another way. - I am so afraid. You are not doing anything just sit in the car. Brothers you Listen carefully And no one will make any noise Otherwise he'll run away. Do you understand? Be happy by taking Name of True God. What's this procession. It's the Death procession Whose? - Yours, Khadag Singh has come. Now what shall we do. You guys do watch here... You come with me... Shyam come out of hiding or I will break everything Are you Sham's uncle? tell me or I will break your mouth. I am his friend.. he befooled but I'll not go without taking my money. - I'll give you. Why will I take your money? Am I a begging? He means we've to get money if he gives we'll pay to you. Thank you brother - Let's search him. Uncle you go and search inside and I will search outside... tell me brother why you all wear same kind of dress. So that you'll not recognize us What? So that Shyam will not recognize us. Your goggles have fallen. Ghanshyam now I won't Leave you... Sir Devi Prasad dodged us. He sent his servant in car. This means he's gone in other car - find out from the servant It looks Like Devi Prasad car. Shyam come over... This is your money.... Stop! First you bring me my granddaughter - then money. First you've to give money... No - first my granddaughter. She is here but you've to wait for sometime... Police is all over the city - what if you're killed, what'll happen to my grand daughter. There is no time for discussion. - But how I could trust you... you'll have to trust us There is no other way. Our main concern is to bring your granddaughter safely. If you still don't believe us then you Look at us I am Shyam - I am Raju I am Baburao - Baburao Ganpatrao Apte If you still don't trust us - you can take back your. Okay I believe you people - okay you take the money. You wait here while we go and get your granddaughter. Shyam you keep half the money and give other half to me... If you will take half each then what will I get... Shut up we have to pay to Kabira also... Who are you? - Devi Prasad. Why did you come dressed up Like a joker? So that nobody can recognize. Where is my granddaughter? Granddaughter! Yes. Where is my granddaughter? When did you marry? In childhood - but where is my granddaughter? Have you brought the money? Yes, as per your demand, but first bring my granddaughter. Grandpa. Give money and take your granddaughter. Ghanshyam you have become so wicked after coming to the city. You don't have money to give my sister you are giving lakhs here Do we start shooting? Let's first see their drama? He does not have any money and he is buying this girl... How are you my daughter? - He is not my grand father! Seems Like he's a policeman. No one will move from his place. you give bag and baby to me... He is killing - he is killing my friend. Let's do something. - In the Name of the True God. Whose gun is this? Take it. Don't tell later that I stole it How did you get the second bag? Yes total forty Lakh. You take her to Devi Prasad I will meet you in home... Grandpa! Hi Babu Bhaiya - who're you Looking for - nobody followed us We are safe - and we're millionaires! No one has seen us and no one has identified us! we went for 20 lakhs and came back with forty Lakhs. Oh God whenever you give you give generously. Don't stop me today... it's Last time for home-brewed From tomorrow I'll have imported. Where are you? - Raju the millionaire! Raju the millionaire... Perhaps he counting the money. It has been five hours but Raju has not come! Yes! - He should have come by now! Whom are you calling? hello kasturba Vridhashram. please call Raju's mother? Raju took her 4-5 hours back.. What happened? He Left with his mother! What? His bag is also not here.... What are you saying? Yes Babubhaiya I think he ran away. We were waiting for him and that man cheated us We were waiting for him here and he has Left the city He has cheated us... he has betrayed us. He had dishonest intentions. He could do anything for money. No we will not spare him. He would be trying to Leave the city before morning but we will stop him. You call the police.. Here we'll die in starvation and he'll enjoy Like a king. No you call the police.. Three more people were involved in the kidnapping case. You don't know them - names are Raju, Baburao and Shyam. My name is Shyam. Star Garage.. Borivili west. Myself and Babu are here. You can come and arrest. Our friend Raju has run away with the money. The car number is B.M.W 25. There is a old woman with him. She is his mother. Babubhaiya we are lucky! We got 40 Lakhs! Now there is nothing to worry.. There is so much money.. Whenever the God gives He gives in abundance. What happened brothers? Why such long faces? Where have you been all this time.. I went to so many places. First I went to Khadag Singh. Gave him 0,000. His sister's marriage will be performed. Then I went to my mother in that rotten car without a spare tire. It took five hours to get a tire fixed. But you were gone with your bag. My mother's papers were in bag I took those to get discharged. When we didn't see you we thought you've cheated us. Then what? We informed the police. What? Yes. police will be here any minute and we cannot escape. What have you done? My mother is sitting in the car What should I do now ? Arrest them.. Shyam I don't want to see my mother in this condition. Inspector Sahib please take us out from the back door. These people are not the criminals.. The money they have has been give to them by me. You please Let them go free. My grand daughter says they risked their Life to save her. I am very thankful to them.. It was our need that made us do this.. I understand. You guys k keep the money with you. You saved my grand daughters Life, take this as your prize. What? - Yes. Oh dear police officer, can you do something about this. According to Devi Prasad's statement there's no case. Constable - release them. Sir, this phone is for you. No, its for you. Pick up otherwise it'll be disconnected.
