 

                        God, please keep me safe Oh, God... Have you understood? - Basha... -Yes... You can start now l'm really hungry Can we eat something and then start with it? 1st and foremost, you have to show me all what l just performed You can eat afterthat The money that you earn from teaching him... ...must be spent in the hospital Don't increase your blood pressure unnecessarily From my experience in all these years... ...1st time l'm seeing a specimen of this sort Big brother called Yes, Ramabhadran did call me as well They liked our daughter ...and they want the wedding to be conducted soon Deepam God, please keep me safe Can l say something? lf you can get a movie... ...something can be decided about our daughter's wedding None of the producers want me, Dharmaraj, who is old now A stunt master who was once famous, is now destined... ...to beg in front of people to get his daughter married How can you decide nobody wants you now?. Have you approached anyone with your needs? You cannot blame just anybody! lt is not like that They are all affluent today Who knows how they will behave when they see me today? Why do you talk like this? lt is not offending to approach them l heard Basha mention Adityan is starting a movie soon Why don't you go, meet him? - lt will not work out - lt will Please go, meet Adityan We are leaving right now l will call you back later Suresh, keep this inside Yes, sir Satyan sir, the script You have been walking with this, for ages now! l have told you several times that Adityan sir, will not do a movie... ...with someone else's script Just 10 minutes, sir Adityan sir has already signed up for 6 projects On top of that, there are 10 to 25 producers waiting too You can go now and come back after 15 years Don't create a ruckus here Sir, Adityan sir... He is inside busy with an interview He will come out now Right now, my craze is with action cinema That does not mean l will not change tomorrow l'm enjoying making action movies now There are lots of my friends, smart directors out there... ...who can make romance and family oriented movies But, the hero in your latest movie is Premanand He has only been gifting flop shows of late His 1st movie was the only one that did well My friend, you should never under estimate anyone Asingle Friday can turn a person's luck in cinema ...by a whole 180 degree circle Amitabh Bachchan delivered a hit after 13 flops There are several others like that too That doesn't mean they are bad! There is a rumor that Premanand, being the home minister's son ...is the only reason that he is being made a hero again lf that 's the case l should be making ...the chief minister's son a hero Premanand is a good friend of mine lt is good friendship that has made good Malayalam films too lt's notjust Premanand Gowri Menon... She is a leading actress in the south and was the heroine ...in my 1st movie as well So, the same familiarity repeats again lsn't that good! Think good and good things will come your way - Shall l take leave now?. -Yes, carry on Satyan, what's happening there? Please help me, sir Satyan, leave him alone Sir...my name is Krishnan l've been trying to meet you for the past 1 and half years now l wanted to read out this script to you But, these people would never allow me ...to even come close to you l kept telling you that you can't get close to him... Krishnan, leave now and come back in the evening l cannot read such a long script Put it into a nutshell l will consider it if you can impress me ...with the story in 10 minutes - See you again - Okay, sir -What have you done, sir? - Let them also succeed You are taking the curses of so many young people out there He must have boarded the bus from home ...with so many dreams in store You too had similar dreams ...when you boarded that red bus from Thiruvananthapuram long ago But, there is a problem What problem, sir? You are still sitting in the back seat of that bus ...looking behind with your mouth open like this You have not got down at any of the stops So many have got down at several stops and ...tasted success today You have been an associate directorfor 15 years now You will never change Try to change, Satya lt is good to improve yourself Sir, there are some people waiting outside to meet you Producer Devdas Writer Valsan Kodapankunnu And that old stunt master, Pushparajan... no... Dharmarajan Master, Dharmarajan? - Hmmm... - Go, call him in! You have put me in a very difficult spot now Premanand is the hero for this movie Leave alone the fact that he is the home minister's son Both, he and l, lived like rowdies in Maharashtra for 3 years He was the hero for my 1st movie as well But, all his movies afterthat have flopped l could not deny him when he came to me crying l just agreed without considering anything else Master, you know how bad an actor and fighter he is There are 6 fight scenes in this film And he happens to be my friend too lt is of utmost necessity to choose a good stunt master Or else, it'll be a disaster! The stunt master is none other than your disciple and nephew, Udhay How can l avoid someone to whom l've committed ...by giving him an advance? Please do not hesitate to ask me for any monetary help you may need That is not what l wanted l wanted a job Don't you worry, sir Considerthat l have not requested you about this at all Let me get going for now Hope you understand my situation... l will not trouble you hereafter Satya... Yes... Why have you called me, sir Call up the Personal Assistant to the Home Minister and tell him... ...that the producer wants to meet him soon Greetings, sir Yes, l'll come in the morning Since you've been out of films for a long time... ... it was difficult to convince Premanand and the producer As l had mentioned yesterday there are 6 stunt scenes One is foryou l am truly touched You have helped an old man l will make sure that you never regret this The only problem is that all the stunts are risky The producers have agreed ...if Udhay's assistants can help you out Premanand is a person who can't jump even a small brick wall So we must use a dupe for him Since the other stunts are by Udhay, he will help me with this He is more my disciple than my nephew lt is solved then Master Dharmarajan! - Hope you are fine, Muthu? -Yes, am fine l need to meet Udhay He is there inside He has got work today Don't you worry, Mohan sir You need the stunts done in 4 days time l will hand over the phone to the master lt is Mohan sir l am just leaving right now lt is not a good morning l need to see off someone and l will be there soon - Tea... - Thanks, dear Uncle, do not feel bad hearing what l have to say Why do you want to do this at this old age? The producer had personally requested me to handle this film lt is very cheap of you to interfere like this in between ...with the director's recommendation l thought you wanted to collect money ...for your daughter's wedding lf that is the case, l can help you with... l have not come to beg you for money l do have financial difficulties But, right now l have a job to do after so many years And l am here requesting you to ...help me out regarding that l do not want anything else Can't you help me out by giving me 2 of your assistants? Are you out of your head? Don't let me bore you by talking about my name ...and fame in the industry today You should be sitting at home and reading the Ramayana at this age l cannot help you with some foolishness that you thought of l will not let go of any of my assistants But, l can help you l need experienced people in my team to help ...with pulling and holding the ropes lf you are interested, l can get you daily wages Do you want tojoin? l am happy, my dear So, full of happiness! When your own teacher has come to you... ...asking for help after so many years ...you are offering him a job with wages on a daily basis No teacher can be more happier than this l am very happy Hope God forgives you Let me take leave, Muthu l heard it all, master He is really heartless Otherwise, how can he shoo away someone ...whom he should be treating as God l wish l could help you out in some way You know if l go against Udhay, it will affect my bread and butter lt is pointless... that he and l have both learned the same trade together Muthu, ask the driver to bring the car Hmmm... lt is okay l can understand Satyan, Manoharan, Kannan Haven't you seen all of them, Basha? l have gone to all these places All of master's disciples gave me all the respect too But, nobody was willing to come with me Father, do you remember an Antony who left after a fight with Udhayan? Yes, Basha, He is really efficient Efficient! But, there is no point in saying this now Have you forgotten all that happened then? So, he will just come the minute we go, call him l've told you a 100 times Udhayan was only being egoistic! But, nobody listened to me! Aman who came here with lot of dreams in movies ...had to walk out with a broken heart lf you had not shooed him away, listening to your nephew... ...he'd have be in a better position than Udhayan today Stop! When l realised that the problems between Udhayan and Antony... would affect my bonding with my sister... ...l was forced to ask him to leave He did understand it then Even if he understood it then, his fate was sealed anyways Will anyone accept someone dismissed by master Dharmarajan? How can you go back to him after doing all that then? Where is he? Five Star Colony, Gandhi Nagar - What is it? - Look overthere Basheer! Take off that stick Hammerthe stick in l will decide whetherto sell or dig my place You can decide But, if you sell, it should only be to someone from this colony There are people here to buy it even if it is at the price of gold l do not intend to sell it to anyone here Don't be adamant, Basheer You knowthis colony has its own set of laws This place will be registered at the sub-registrar office ...at 11:00 A.M today l will get the money that has been fixed as well No, Basheer, you will not There has never been a case when we have sold a piece of land ...from this colony to an outsider We have all grown up, playing here This soil has lot of peace and happiness in it lf that is destroyed by an outsider... who comes into this colony because of you... Yes, if so...? l will break his legs Break it! We will break it We don't have to go in search of an outsider Hejust has to shout out for him You know that, don't you? Let him come The land that you are measuring ...will be right here with you under it too Get lost! ls everything ready forthe registration? Ask them to get lost l know why they are being so audacious! l have brought better guys from Kodungalloor Stop there! Stop l say! Get hold of him Don't let him go Given the opportunity you are even capable... ...of quoting a price for your own mother in a market But, you will never sell even a pinch of sand ...from Five Star colony to anyone outside it l will chop off your hands if you do Take this as gospel from Antony!! Don't you know me? The word l say and the father who made me is same forAntony Give one to Akkiri too This was all unnecessary lt could have been settled verbally l heard that Basheer has broken his back bone The other 3 with him had their stools taken out ...with the help of tubes Palla, why do you have to talk about crap ...when making my tea? They have been hit on their back side They will start to crap blood in 2 days from now ...and that is when they will realize their mistakes Where does Antony live? Who? Tarzan's? Why do you want to see Antony? l have some work for him What is your name? Basha (language) l did not ask what language you speak l asked your name My name is Basha You could have been named as something else Work? ls it a stunt or a murder? lf it is a murder you had better escape ...because he will not take up that kind of work Where is he now?. He was doing some missionary work yesterday He has gone to take care of those shepherds now He will be back soon Has he become a Reverent now?. He will not take up the confessions of those who self-confess But, those who have decided to never confess at all... ... will be taken to confession by force Where is Antony's house? Master, please take a seat - Come, sit down! - l will be here You are a Malayalee too... l was also into movies long ago l was a driver l met with an accident and had to take rest for some time My son did not allow me to go and work after that - l have seen you - Seen me? - Hmmm... -Where? At the sets of 'Kolilakkam' 'Kolilakkam'... Did you work in that? No, l had come there to meet Jayan sir We had gone to the hospital in your car So, it is you, who killed my Jayan You pushed him off the flight and here you are sitting innocently! Take her away! Leave me! Please sit down, master l will kill him She is my sister She had dreamt of marrying Jayan, ever since her childhood days She was with me in Madras as ajunior artiste for some time But ever since Jayan passed away... lt was Jayan's luck... What is it? l meant to say we have not seen Antony Mary, where is he? - Did you call me? -Yes, of course! You mean to say that every time your son goes out ...he asks my permission? Oh... Why do you want to see him now? This is his mother This is master, Dharmarajan Who is he? You will not understand if l explain She never watches any movies She will try to plant tapiocas with the price of a movie ticket No way! Long ago, when we had to watch movies sitting on benches l have clapped a lot ...when Dharmarajan's name appeared on screen Oh, this is Antony's stunt master! Yes, stunt master Go, get tea for them - Tea for both of them? -Yes, that is his assistant l was not aware! - Daughter! -Yes... This is Annie, youngerto him Carry on Do you want tea? Or...something else? - No... - l have a stock of it! Master! He has been waiting for so long Why are you here, master? Who are you actually? Tarzan Antony or Brother Antony? These kids havejust nicknamed me like that Come in, Master Mother, please get tea ready You can sit now l will also become a master soon So, you can sit with confidence No, master, l will not come with you l had lot of dreams with movies long ago But, you had requested me to forget all that for someone else And l had accepted it that way lt is not that l find happiness in the labor work that l'm doing right now But, there is peace in my small world without big dreams That is all l want, Master l do not have the right to force you or advice you today You knowthat l had lots of disciples l went and met all of them and waited with tears and folded hands Nobody had anything nice to say or saw me with a glad heart This is destiny! lt is the same fate that has brought me here today Please consider this as my repentance and forgive me l do not have the mental strength of the old stunt masterthat l was Today, it is the plea of a father who is trying to make ends meet ...to get his daughter married Master... l knew that you would not come with me But, l did not want to feel that l missed out on asking you about this l was expecting you to shoo me away when you saw me You have been kind enough to not do that Wish you all success, my dear l will hand it overto him lt's sister... Yes, Sarojini, l met him But, he is not willing to come l can only request, l cannot force! The person who cried in front of me with folded hands some time back, was the person who, once upon a time, was equal to god for me l cannot carry the burden of those tears anymore l will come with you Hereafter, Antony will be with master, Dharmarajan Considerthis word as an offering from me Tarzan Antony is going back to the cinemas! lf impulsive may be his nature ln looks, he is handsome and calm Though he looks like an ocean of arrogance To those he's close, know he's just a simpleton lf he promises he delivers Keeps his word A confrontation and he sure gives his blows lf he promises he delivers Keeps his word A confrontation and he sure gives his blows l am a friend dude and l will die for my friends Haughty...l am This is a trend my dear guys, casual wear l am trim with my 6-pack body dudes lt's hot news guys Simple it may be but really hot lf it's a hit somehow Then you will be number one dude Need attitude...no...no Need a car...get lost dude Need glasses that hides the eyes Oh son of a star don't show off For the dreams lying innermost in our hearts, you are A star born to share the light of stardom Come dudes Get lost dudes lf impulsive may be his nature ln looks, he is handsome and calm Though he looks like an ocean of arrogance To those he's close, know he's just a simpleton Dude, dude Enough of your manipulations Dude Now let's throw our nets into the sea The city of Kochi is good Don't need a wife here Mackerel, a good fish Bro, don't use a kitchen knife Breeds of 5 to10, that are most mature Minds that are bent/crooked Dressed in colors bright and clear Walking straight and right into us One look at that And lightning strikes the chest Weaving stories and narrating jokes The heart splits open Wrenching away the windpipe, my bro Need attitude...no...no Need a car...get lost dude Need glasses that hides the eyes Oh son of a star don't show off For the dreams lying innermost in our hearts, you are A star born to share the light of stardom lf impulsive may be his nature ln looks, he is handsome and calm Though he looks like an ocean of arrogance To those he's close, know he's just a simpleton lf impulsive may be his nature ln looks, he is handsome and calm Though he looks like an ocean of arrogance To those he's close, know he's just a simpleton Fighter You should cut it where he turns around Why do you close it so soon? Suresh, keep all the 5 cameras with wide lenses We need to see howto work out the grandeur of this place Since it is the dupe of Premanand, we cannot go too close either That is true Do we have to shoot with his dupe on the first day of the schedule? Yes, we need to All the television and news reporters are here We have to make it big lt is necessary forthe marketing of this movie Let them all be surprised Satya, where is the master? He is setting up the frame Greetings, sir! We need to plan the hero's entry after the villain and his gang have hit his friends inside the factory We can shoot the fights between the villain and the gang later on How can we make the hero's entry a little different? l had read the scene and the plan is to keep it as a bikejump like what you have suggested These bike jumps are very common in movies So, l plan to make it a little thrilling When the bikejumps from the ramp, there will be explosions with bombs on either sides That will be added through graphics The bike then lands after overtaking 3 cars lt sounds good The bike overtaking 3 cars, the explosion... The idea is charging me up already But, l have a fear that is bothering me lf any mishap takes place on the first day of the shoot, it will be a black mark on you and the movie Don't you worry, sir l have full confidence on the dupe artist whom l have brought with me From my 40 years of experience, l have not come across such a brilliant artist who can do a risky scene like this lf you are fine with it, l am 10 times more fine about it He is here! The superstar, Premanand The rumor is that he has begged Adityan sir for 1 and half years, and his father, the home minister has initiated this project But, the way he is coming looks so ordinary, isn't it? Eldho, isn't that Honeydas? Honeydas, why are the escort cars not too efficient? l have spoken to my dad about your transfer lt will be done soon You should be around when we have to go back We will need escort to keep away the crowd What c..r..owd, bullshit! There will hardly be 7 people in the theaters to watch his movies What does he need police protection for? Such a shame! Have you lost weight? Yes, it is your movie, isn't it? Father has sent his well wishes because he has got a cabinet meeting to attend Good that he could not make it He is such a bore You have not changed one bit The heroine is here, Gowri Menon Look who's here! Gowri Menon l can excuse you that you did not call me forthe 5 movies afteryour 1st one But, what is the need for so much of formality? - Hope your parents are fine -Yes, they are fine They have gone on a European trip with theirfriends after the Dubai shopping festival They will be back next week Prem, you have reached early! l got late because my flight was delayed Hey, that's okay ln cinema, it is common that small time actors like me... ...will have to wait for big time actors like you lt was to avoid this mockery that l had apologized in the beginning itself - How many shirts do we have? - 3! ls this a laundry? Greetings sir l am Murali Decentmukku, makeup man for Gowri madam ls Decentmukku, your father's name? No, it is a junction in Thiruvananthapuram, where my father had a workshop l am Satyan, the associate director forthis movie l know that Lust, anger, happiness, sadness, joy, fun, beggarly... l want to know what style of makeup do l have to do for her now She is born with natural beauty Please bring her without destroying that Carry on, Decentmukku Let us have a rehearsal now Master, shall we start with the crane up shot? Yes, like what we had discussed earlier Gowri, Prem, this is master, Dharmarajan He is handling this fight sequence forthe movie lt was only because of Adityan's insistence that l have agreed to this lf it does not come out well, we will have to re-shoot it all over again We will have to think about that! No sir, l'm positive that, it will turn out well Sir... Can you please move this camera a little behind? What for? lt is a bike jump and sometimes the vehicle might lose control after landing My dear son, stop threatening me and carry on with your work You will not come anywhere nearthis l have seen lots of bikejumps before Suresh, move it to how he wants it to be Let him do it comfortably He is the one doing thejump and the priority is, his confidence Move it behind Let me see howfar hejumps! Carry on We will shoot once you have changed into your costume Wasn't it nice that you had moved it a little behind? Master, who is this guy? Tarzan Antony, he is my disciple You were excellent! You surprised us What ajump that was! Clean this seat for me Are you ready? Efforts are yours and the appreciation is his He doesn't feel bad about it too Why should he feel bad? He is doing his job and we are doing ours' You are a tiger l was only worried about you tripping when you came walking in slow motion - Can l notjoke? - Come on, l need a touch up You are all nice people But this is a movie camp Antony, it is not healthy to get close to someone by offering them a drink! Pour me another drink! l wonder what is wrong with this fellow! This is his room He makes decent money by breaking someone's hands or legs He buys liquor with that money The 3 of us will damage our livers drinking that liquor - So, why don't you all just eat me up? - Huh? Why don't you come to the point? Tell us if we can get Gowri Menon's autograph What did youjust say? Autograph? Whether it's possible? She grew up in these hands When she was in grade, 13... Grade, 13? No, l mean when she was 13 years old, she did not have anyone to help her take part in some cultural events lt was me, Decentmukku, who helped her with her makeup and thus she rose to become a star then So, if l request her, leave alone an autograph, she will even give you her life - ls that so? -Yes... Forget about the autograph Shall we try the other alternate? What is the other alternate? l don't mind dying if l can get the life with her, as youjust promised me now Let us go right now A life with her! At this hour? For you! U Makkri (frog) - l'm not Makkri, l'm Akkri - lt's the same, anyways! Gowri Menon is staying in the suite room at Holiday lnn lf you go there at this hour asking herfor a life with her, -Your present life will be destroyed -Who told you that? l will take you there l, Murugan Decentmukku, will drink only after l get you Gowri's autograph - Come on, let us go - Come on, Antony - l am not coming with you - Come on, it will be fun Just accompany us You are all drunk, you will create problems and l will be answerable Nobody should puke here You can puke inside This will become a problem Come on, all of you This way...no, this way... We have not even called to find out Trust me, this will become a problem Just, come on, will you? l'm going to get a new life You started this! - Sarla, see who that is -Yes, dear Sarla, where is our Gowri? Why do you want to see her at this hour? What do you want? l don't want you Won't you call her unless you know the reason? Ask my little girl to come here What is it? What is the matter? Tell her what it is! Don't tell her that it's because of me My bread and butter will suffer l will never repeat this again Why are you all here at this hour? Antony, please tell her Me? Tell her! What is the matter? - He is a friend of mine - Mine too... He wants a life... No...a photograph... Autograph... Yes, if you can give him an autograph... Nothing at all, madam... We will leave now and see you at the sets tomorrow Please wait! Give me that book and pen lsn't your name, Antony? Yes The bike jump in the morning, was simply awesome We were actually terrified, but, it was outstanding l have trained him, madam So, he will not go wrong You? l am Basha, assistant to master, Dharmarajan l was behind the scenes, hence not seen! Take this l am Akkri... Sorry, Sunil Kumar l am a great fan of yours' l keep watching your movies, a minimum of, at least 3 times What is it? What is happening here? Who are you all? Here is, Premanand sir We have come to get Gowri madam's autograph Autograph, at this hour? Who allowed you all in here? Gowri, call up the security You get drunk and create problems like this at night We will not create any problems for you, sir All that we wanted is madam's signature and we have got it We do not want your autograph You sat idle at home for 1 and half years and finally got to work now Stop talking too much and get lost Or else, l will call the police and get you all behind bars - Don't threaten us -Just stop it Madam, we are really grateful Come on l like the way you act but, you need to improve a bit Are you okay, Gowri? Did they trouble you? Nothing at all, Prem They were very nice people They just wanted an autograph Sarla, don't open the door if someone disturbs like this Just ring up my room Go to bed, Gowri ln 2 to 3 days time, my dad will be coming to meet you at the sets Will the home minister, who is ruling the state, find time for all that? He has to find time lt is the question of his son's future l will call you back What is it, master? What is it, Basha? The fighters who were supposed to reach here last night, have not yet come When we called up the fighter's union, We were told that, none of the fighters are willing to work with Dharmarajan lt is Udhay He must have told them that none should come here What is the way out, master? We should neither be a burden to Adityan sir, nor the movie We should leave Let Udhay, himself do it The shooting has to happen l will go and inform Adityan sir Just a minute, master lsn't this a combined fight between the hero's friends and the villain's gang? We have our artists as one gang and the fighters planned, were the opponents Master, how will this sequence look if it is shot with 3 to 4 cameras as a single shot? l could not get you You can get ready for the shot, master We have a way out Get down soon... Take whatever fits each of you Give me one l will! Please be patient lsn't there one for me? -Are they ready? -Yes, master, they are Ayyappa Start hitting! Master, they have not understood what, Ayyappa means Say, 'action' They have told 'action' Start hitting Why is that old man shouting out, 'action'? What is this, 'action'? Who knows? Master, can l have the microphone for a minute? Brothers, start hitting Keep hitting... Hit down all of them What are they doing? Come on, hit Master, they are actually hitting each other Oh god! Stop it They have asked you to stop They are asking you all to stop! Master... - Police...escape... -Where are you going? What is this, Antony? They are my friends from my colony Come back all of you These are all rare lucks in cinema This looks so much better than what we choreograph using those fighters lt is shot live lt was nice of Antony to think of calling people from his colony l, never expected it to be so successful That boy is a good one! He is yourtrue disciple Udhay, will never succeed fighting He, who wins fighting, will always be good at heart There is no need to praise him so much for some fight that clicked good by fluke l had not planned the fight like this The Jimmy jib should be compressed... Hey, stop, stop First and foremost, learn what you have been assigned to do You can climbjibs and cranes later on There are other people here to do it now Gowri, l'm leaving now There is a solitaire exhibition at Kirtilal's Thanks, Prem! Hey, just come here There is no point in telling her that you will buy her a solitaire or an earring lt doesn't work that way She has grown up seeing money You will have to try something else! Get lost! Have you given the list of the art properties for tomorrow?. At the time of the shot, you should not be saying that, something is missing Yes, sir - Have you arranged for the crane? -Yes, sir Please re-check on that Greetings! l am Prabhu Solomon, president for the fighters union Yes, greetings sir l want to meet the fight master for your movie, right now What is the matter, sir? Why should l tell you the reason? Call out that old man! What have you planned fortomorrow?. lt is Gowri's jump from the building The climax Can youjump from the building? l can try that, sir lt is the drive that you need The male lead for the movie is a person who will not even come near a chit with the word, 'jump', written on it So, it is you, the south lndian actress, who has to balance that Sir, we have a small issue here Udhay is waiting down with people from of the fighters' union One issue afterthe other! He will not leave without getting it from me today Come with me, master The problem will worsen if you go, see him now We will go, handle it amicably Satya, whether it is dealt amicably or not, Udhay will not be doing this movie hereafter All the fights will be handled by master, himself l don't care even being, banned by the fighters' union Go on! You cannot justify this in any way When we have a very efficient fighters' union How did you have the guts to do a scene with non-members of the union? lt was just hours before the shoot, l got to know that the fighters whom l had booked for my fights will not be coming forthe same l checked with the fighters' union and l was told that the fighters are not interested in doing the movie if, Udhay is not handling the fights in it l did not have a choice then You should notjustify this after having done the job using people from the streets We will block the release of this movie if, Dharmarajan, who has violated the law is going to continue doing this movie further Yes, let me see what you can do! Who has called you here, right now?. l did! He will talk for me, hereafter lt is true that, if a person wants to act as a fighter in a movie, he has to be a member of the fighters' union But, if a new actor is being given a chance to act in a movie, it is not necessary that, he has to be a member of any of the unions lf my friends from Five Star colony, who have done the fights for Dharmarajan are also characters in the movie... Characters? What characters? l will... Yes, Udhay, they are uncles, cousins, aunts, neighbors to the heroine in the movie You can clarify your doubts with... ...Satyan sir, associate directorfor the movie Huh? Yes, they are all very important characters in the movie But, after the final edit, they might be seen only in this fight scene That freedom is left to Adityan sir, who is the script-writer and director forthis movie Exactly! lt is the same union that has told that the fight master and his assistant have the right to decide a scene which does not involve the hero or his dupe in the movie This is the reason why l had told that, you cannot do anything to block the release of this movie We have good beef cooked by the production today You can have your share of it, burp 4 times and get lost Basha We had fought like this, long ago You went on your way and l am back on my way There is a style of fight outside cinema which you fighters and fight masters are not aware of Don't force me! l will hit you Udhay, leave! Get lost! Leave it Don't create problems over here That was a good one There has never ever been a twist like this in any of Adityan sir's movies Gowri, these people will tell you many such things But, nobody can guarantee you complete safety l mean to tell you that, in case of an accident, nobody will be there to help you out lt is not offending to use a dupe artist to do the act We have arranged for all the safety equipments, sir There is a new harness and rope which was specifically ordered forthis movie During the first discussion itself, Adityan sir had mentioned that, Gowri madam will be doing this shot all by herself without the help of a dupe Who asked you to interfere into this? You want to shoot this by making the heroine, herselfjump from the building, isn't it? You have lot of your fighters who wag their tails and work for daily wages You can make one of them jump for you lf the camera is kept here, one cannot recognize the person who is jumping You don't have to teach us where to place the camera You, l, Gowri and master are very much aware of the risks involved in this shot But, good action movies and good actors are born ... ...when the actors involved are willing to take risks like this The audience know who the actor and the dupe is You cannot do it without a dupe Why do you want to spoil the confidence of someone who is willing to do it without a dupe? This is one among the most important sequences that lead the movie towards its climax lf Gowri, herself, does this jump, it will have a very good impact on our movie But, l will not force you The decision is yours' Aditya, what l mean to say is... Prem, it's Gowri's decision Antony, tell me whether my safety is guaranteed if l do this shot Yes, 100 percent lf we had any doubts regarding the safety aspects, we would have never allowed you to do this shot lt is quite natural to feel scared about it l can do a trial shot for you lf you are confident afterthat, you can go ahead with doing the shot - Basha, -Yes Get me the harness Antony, are you ready? l will do it Madam, are you alright? ls it true Or was it only a dream of mine Who, who can you be ls it true Or was it only a dream of mine Who, who can you be Like an unknown poem Like a heart in search of desires, all alone Now beside me, you are Oh divine woman Sprinkling showers of magical stardust With melting tenderness Adorning me with that grace For the first time Have the gardens of heavens blossomed As love within the heart broke into rhythm Like a tiny little firefly With fluttering wings, simply come away with me Will you come away Like a tiny little firefly With fluttering wings, simply come away with me Will you come away ls it true Or was it only a dream of mine Who, who can you be Like an unknown poem Like a heart in search of desires, all alone Now beside me, you are Like any other movie, the success of this movie cannot be owned by me, alone The fact that, master, Dharmarajan, who introduced me to movies, has worked with me in this movie, makes the success more pleasurable There will be many to own up a success But, failure, is a lonely man, all alone l hope that, there will be many more good movies and personalities in Malayalam cinema Greetings to all of you l request producer, Major Ravi to hand overthe momentum to our superstar, Premanand Forthe past 3 years, l have been experiencing the pain of one's talent going unnoticed This movie, 'Fighter', is an answer to those of you, who have told that, Premanand doesn't knowto dance, fight or even act The action sequences that you have enjoyed seeing in this movie is the result of my efforts forthe past 2 years When doing the extremely adventurous scenes, l have avoided using a dupe even when the director had requested me to - Can l howl forthis? - Stop it l believe that, l was even the motivation behind Gowri Menon's decision tojump from the building in the climax scene The shots l did risking my life... Come, let us go There is food for all, after this Please listen to me Where is Antony's house? Which Antony? Tarzan Antony? Huh? Aren't you, Gowri Menon? Oh god! Gowri Menon is here to see Tarzan! Move away Come this way Do not touch the car Look who's here Someone's here to see you, father! - Welcome madam! - Greetings! - Get that chair, please move away - l want to sit here too - Please wake up, brother - What is it? Come outside There is a lot of commotion out there Who is it? l'm... You will get it from me! That's my son No, no... l'm his father! Madam, why are you here? l am here to see you, Antony To see me? You could have called me and l would've come to meet you ln that case, l would not have been able to see your house and this colony Why did you leave early, yesterday? l did not stay back for the dinner l wanted to get back home before it got too late Yesterday, everybody spoke about the action sequences in our movie There is a notion that a movie is made up of... ...only the actors involved and those names in the end credits Yesterday, those people who rejoiced the success of our movie might not have seen Antony in it But, that does not nullify all that you have done for the movie That movie would not have happened without Antony and l know that better than anyone else does This is my gift for you, Antony, who had put in the maximum efforts forthis movie This...for me...madam... Why can't you accept a gift from me? Shall l take leave now, Tarzan...Antony? This looks good! R O L...sex, rol sex! lt is not rolsex, you pork lt's Rolex, a very expensive brand of watches - 10 to 15 lakhs? -Yes, of course Why look at the price now?. We have understood! What have you understood? Brother, there is an English film with a similar story l can't remember the name now There is a scene in that, where the heroine falls in love with a beggar The affair started with the heroine gifting the beggar a watch lt's yourfather, who is a beggar! Get lost... Muthu, do you still remember this route? Don't be sarcastic You knowthat, hell will break lose if, Udhay comes to know that l've come here now Come on So, how are things with you? lt's all the same Hey, St.Antony! You, little chilli, you are here as well?! She looks really happy Where is the guy from? He is from Canannore and works for KSRTC His parents were really adamant about the dowry But, he was willing to just marry her without it She is handicapped and l cannot just send her off like that How are the preparations forthe wedding going on? lt's happening slowly but there is a lack of 1 to 1.25 lakhs more There will be a way out lt is the first marriage in the family and it has to be well conducted Please wait Take this money for now l will try on my behalf too There is no need of this l do need money but, l can borrow only what l'm sure can be returned back l am not sure l can pay back this loan Who told you that, this is a loan? She is my sistertoo l want to conduct her wedding with the money that, l earn Okay, fine But, if you are in need, l should be the first one to whom you will ask for help l am glad that, there is someone to say this to me l am more confident now Come in, sir Has the birthday party started already? lt is just getting started, sir Please, take a seat inside Who gave you this news about your sister? Basheer, from the colony told me this There was a huge crowd, it seems! She went driving on her own, without informing anyone Gautham, don't create a problem because of this l will deal with it, myself - Son! -Yes Come down, the VlPs are all here Come on Yes, dear What is the need for all this? l am happy you are here Why are you talking too many dialogues? He is the leaderfor our group lf l had not come for his invitation, l will continue to be only a MLA even next year Who is this? l don't know him He is my friend, Gautham Menon You have seen him before He is Gowri Menon's, brother Oh, is it? What do you do? - l am planning to start a new business - ls Gowri, not here? She will be just reaching now Yes, come in l am a little late Since the person you were awaiting has reached, shall we now cut the cake? ls it okay if we just keep the kids going on like this? lt is an outdated practice that, we need to interfere in all this Let they, themselves decide about it The wedding should happen when you are still in power l did not think of all this! The scene that l did without a dupe, had got a well applauded response from the audience So, l wanted to gift him for that ls that a big problem now?. Why did you have to go alone to such a place, to gift him? Prem, why are you talking to me like a guy, who is suspecting his wife? You can consider that, he has rights over you like a husband Whom did you go, meet at that Five Star colony today? Gowri, you should be aware of the fact that, we are celebrities Petty issues of today, can become big news fortomorrow and it will be misinterpreted Prem, he doesn't have sense Why make a big issue of a silly thing like this? This might look silly for you Gautham, this is not our house! Right now, he needs a friend who tells him what's right and wrong, and not someone who keeps entertaining him by taking care of his expenses Prem, l have realized that, you are not being a good friend to him They will be going to the guys house after the wedding today Won't you reach before the auspicious time? Okay Greetings, welcome in Master, there is absolutely no news lf he had boarded the bus that he was supposed to, he would have been here by now He was supposed to call me once he reaches the station But, his phone is switched off There is a car waiting for him at the station Where has he gone? How far is it? St.Antony, you are looking really smart, today! Ever since childhood, it was decided that, your wedding chain will sponsored by me But, since your brother who is so prestige conscious, will not agree to that, please keep this from me Has brother, Muthu reached? No, not yet, he will reach soon Why did he have to go forthis shoot on the eve of my wedding? lt is his job We cannot plan it the way we want to Get ready soon There are lots of rituals to be conducted - See you in the evening -Yes, of course -You had reached yesterday, itself? -Yes Where has this Muthu gone? What is wrong? What is it? Master, what is it? What happened? Antony, Basha had called up Muthu...yesterday... an accident at the sets... What is it, Basha? What happened? lt was last evening, whilejumping from the top of the building Muthu, was not used to doing all that But, it was a deal agreed for 75,000l- So, he must have... The safety net and the air bed was all arranged But, some miscalculation somewhere! He fell on his head... Our Muthu is gone forever... l want to conduct her wedding with the money that, l earn We cannot keep him lying here like this We have to take him Yes, but, there are procedures for that ln the case of accidents like this, it is the fight master... ...who has to reach the deceased fighter home l have been requesting Udhay for so long But, he says he can only do it once the shoot is over lt is 6 to 7 hours now, since the post-mortem Hit him here and then, this way Come this way Who has turned off the lights? What business do you have here, at my set? Do you want to shoot when the body of a person who had risked his life for you, is lying there? That is my assistant and this is my set You don't have to teach me what to do here He is no more because of you and your movie We all grew up together That is our Muthu, who is lying there Stop talking and get off the field The hero for this movie is flying off tomorrow morning to New Zealand for his honeymoon lf the shooting does not happen today, do you know how much of money will be at loss for me, the producer of this movie? There is a little sister back home, sitting at her wedding altar, awaiting her brother's return Will your loss be more valuable than her tears? l request you to kindly stop the shoot Please reach him home and do the needful for his family My job is not to solve such petty issues Go, get 1000 or 2000 from my manager and leave right now He jumped for money lt is his loss that, he had to die How can l compensate for that? Get lost, you wretch! Get out! Get out, l say! You are a cheat who has betrayed your own sibling A producer can consider it alright to just throw money over him and deal with it But, you should not support that, Udhay He did the same profession as you and me lt has truth and respect in it You forgot that now But, you will think about it one day There will be a day... Sir, l was only aware of an accident at the set yesterday l did not know that, someone had died l have never known of a movie which had to be rushed up even when someone working in it has died during its course This is simply too much and l cannot work forthis anymore You told me that, only you would be coming here Gowri, is it a problem for you that, l am here too? l did not mean to say that Afterthe last movie, you have gifted me a name that, l cannot do a movie successfully when Gowri Menon, is not there in it So, l just wanted to show you my face Was the shooting cancelled today? Yes, a fighter had died in an accident at the set Did you go to the house of the deceased? Yes, l did! Why do you ask? You will be the first heroine, who has cancelled shoot and gone forthe cremation of a fighter who was killed on the sets Who is that deceased for you? What is the relationship between you and that Antony, who had come there to stop the shoot? Gautham, you are really drunk Let us talk tomorrow morning Leave now Who are you to ask me to leave? l will not go till l get to know all what l want to know Gowri, you are a big star today Stopping the shoot because a fighter was killed there, talking disrespectfully to the producer will only fetch you bad names There is a lot of gossip about you in the industry today l am more concerned about you than what a co-artist should normally be That is what your mom has expected of me as well lf you had at least considered me as your co-artist, you would have avoided this situation of coming here with him at this hour l have not given anyone the permission to interfere with my personal matters So, please leave with him now Gowri, l'm... l will... Get out! Gautham, come on Ask her to get lost l know how to live without her l have found ways to finish her off, if necessary l will kill you, you, son of a donkey! l have been taking care of your expenses and entertaining you only because of your sister who has been the bait l have been thinking of her for years together l will not keep any of you alive if l lose her - Have you understood that? - Leave him! There is no point in both of you fighting against each other Today, how does she have the guts to ask you to get out? You considered her as your girl Today, if she does not feel the same foryou, it is only because of him, Tarzan Antony! He is the priority for her today For her, both of you, come only afterAntony So, don't waste time Think of something soon! Eldho, is right She has changed after she met that, 'stray dog' He should be dealt with He is the cause of our problems But, how do we? l can suggest a way forthis Basheer sir's movie, 'Asurapada', that had stopped in between, is having its patch work done at Vazakala tomorrow Dharmarajan is the fight master for the same Antony will be there too Can you? Finish him off tomorrow?. - Basha -Yes, master The industrial crane has not reached yet lt was supposed to be here by 7'o clock l've arranged for another one through our production manager - lt will reach soon -Where is Antony? He is putting on the harness jacket - ls the harness tight enough? -Yes, it is lt should not go loose once youjump - Have you put on the strap? -Yes, master Have you given him everything? Master, crane has come l have reached here Okay For the jump that, you are going to do, there's a voice to depict the shout like this in the dubbing studio - lt is funny to see that - Okay - ls the crane ready? -Yes, it is Basha, is it ready? Yes, master Antony, are you ready? Antony, my dear! Move away, all of you! -Are you hurt, my dear? - l am alright, master What was the problem? That crane operator let loose the lever on purpose - The rope will break otherwise! -Where is he? He is not to be seen He has escaped! Escaped? Ask them to get the car Go on! What are you all watching? Stop there! Don't make us run like this Stop there lf l catch hold of you, l will... Catch him l say! Brother, just tell us the truth Or else, Tarzan has a very good treatment for you He will cut in between your ribs with a rusted knife He will then, put in a handful of mud into it Mud, from Five Star colony which will decay there Sabu dear, both of us do not have a problem with each other You have nicely done thejob that was quoted to you Tell us who ordered you to do this and we will give you your fill of rice cooked with meat and help you board the vehicle home Otherwise... l will tell you... Hey, stop there! l will kill you, if you try to stop me Who are you to hit him? My son! Gowri, call the police My dear son What are you doing? What is the matter? Ask him what the matter is You might not be aware of it, madam! There was an accident at the set, yesterday l was acting as the dupe to the hero... ...l fell 200 feet down the rocks because the lever of the crane was left loose l guess it is only because of my mother's prayers that l am still alive But, l caught hold of that crane operator When he was questioned the way he should be... ...he owned up that, it was this cheat who wanted me to be killed Haven't you understood? Your dear brother had paid him to kill me l know why he wanted a stranger like me to be killed Leave that aside Madam, you need to be careful as well He will not hesitate to do the same to you tomorrow He is a bastard who cannot even recognize his own blood This real life drama is even betterthan those in my movies! Astunt man who enters the heroine's house and hits her brother The heroine leaves home, deciding to stay alone in a flat Amidst all this, the heroine has some kind of an infatuation for the stunt man -Antony is... -What? lnitially, l had considered it as a filmy mischief Afancy that, a girl could feel for a stunt man who was effortlessly doing his job and outshining the hero Or, a time-pass at the sets of the movie We, often see a lot of it happening But, l feel that, this is like none of those, am l right? So, this blush is the reply to my question l know you are not the kind who believes in, 'a rich girl meets poor boy', kind of romance l am sure you have thought of all the consequences involved in this You will not have excuses that other heroines have like, ill treatment at home or not being loved at home You feel secure with him Does he know that you feel this for him? l guess he feels it too - Haven't you told him? - No, l have not You should tell him 99 percent of the affairs get destroyed because of the lack of communication The guy keeps expecting the girl to approach him first, or vice versa Finally, both of them walk away on different paths l should tell him, but... But, you are worried that, it will end up being a one way traffic Let us ask him about it l will ask Antony to come over Yes, sir l am alright, sir l will come, sir l will come there Okay Nobody would have let him go The only consideration l had, was because he is Gowri madam's brother l had even suspected it to be Udhay, who has done it lf they had offered lakhs to get me killed, it is evident that, their intention was something else They have the doubts that, there is something between madam and me l can take care of myself But, you should tell madam to be careful She might not be able to escape from them l did not call you to ask you about all this Why are you so agitated? ln madam's case... Yes, why be so considerate about her? Gowri, is not the first actress that you have come across What is the matter? l did not mean that, sir... Some time back, l saw a similar, 'groping for words', from her too With this nature of yours', it is natural for her to be scared to approach you lt will also be so embarrassing forthe south lndian actress if she doesn't get the same response from you too But, you can tell her You should tell her if you too feel the same for her lt is not that l don't feel the same l am not eligible to! l should only desire something that, l'm eligible for lt is only the society that says you should not desire and you are not eligible to Forget the society! lt is the both of you, who have to decide She does not want someone with herto guard her She wants to know, if you can be hers' ou remain forever etched in my memories l see only you in this entire world ou are the unspoken words in my heart Like happiness that fills my life The music that awakens Like a smile that never fades in my memories l see only you in this entire world ou are the unspoken words in my heart Like happiness that fills my life The music that awakens Like a smile that never fades in my memories Like the love that steals in silently Filling my whole being unknown to others Like a beautiful dawn that comes whistling in As a fresh new season of flowers our desires bloom ln my memories you remain like a smile forever HERO Yes, it is 'Hero', the next movie by Adityan sir, after 'Fighter' with the same team, Gowri and Prem Shooting will start on the day after tomorrow The photo shoot is happening here right now So, please come to the location on the day after tomorrow Their photos with the cowboy attires have to taken -Yes - Can you click those? Please trust me, sir l am going to the guest house now Master, Dharmarajan is waiting there to plan out the first fight Hey producer, are you coming with me? Come, let's go Let the producer be here l need to discuss some things with him Haven't you finished discussing yet? You have to bear with it So, see you at the location, tomorrow Prem sir is here Be quick! lt is very difficult to see through this black glass l wonder which side he is getting down from l will call you back Basha -Yes, sir - l will show you Look here, first punch on the stomach... Satya, is it a fight that has been planned for the first day? The shooting forthe movie, 'Fighter', had also started with a fight lt turned out to be a good luck lt went onto 100 days of show Oh, l see! lt was luck and not because of my performance that, the movie did well is it? - l will... - No, sir, the... Whole of last night, when you drank from me l had told you that this beggar... ...should not be assisting master, Dharmarajan in this movie After agreeing to all that, have you brought him here... ...this morning to prove your disrespect for my words? Will l do that, sir? When master, Dharmarajan was particular that he wanted him... Adityan asked me not to change the same When the director himself says that, how can l disagree to it? Who is this Adityan and Dharmarajan? This movie is sold in my name People do not come to the theaters to see them Go, right now l should not see him around here anymore Prem, go, get your makeup done instead of creating a raucous here Why, show off your ego like this! l will not go for my makeup unless a decision has been made about this l can't understand why you want to fight forthis slum dog You... lf the same slum dog was not there with you, you would have flopped with your last movie Don't forget that The audience may not know, but we all know who owns the reason for all the applause that you had got in the theaters So, keep away all your ego and go start with your makeup like a good boy This movie is different lt will be sold with my rights too So, you cannot decide it all by yourself You have to decide right now, whetheryou want Premanand or a fighter, working on daily basis for this movie l, Premanand will not do this movie if he is going to be there in it So, will you not act in my movie if, Antony is around? l will not! So, what do we do now?. Shall we decide it like that? Shall we, master? You are not required for this movie Antony will assist the master in my movie lf you agree to it, go, wearyour costume and come Or else, take all these black cats, who have accompanied you and leave l will see how you can finish this movie without me Do all the tricks that you can We will see Leave! Come on! There he goes... l will go, beg Prem to come back lt is very sad that, this had to happen on the first day of the shoot itself lt is good that, this has happened on the first day itself What if it had happened after several days? What do we do now?. There is not a single scene in this location, without Prem in it Boss, if you have the guts to carry on, we can go ahead with this movie Otherwise, this movie ends here, right now and l will pay you all what you have spent on this No, sir, we have to do this movie But, how can we, without Prem? We have made a successful movie with Prem, who did not have any movie to his credit So, it is not the actor, but, the movie that's important l feel it was destined that, he had to leave like this We can try a new actor Are you ready to trust me? But, whom can we get in such a short notice? lt's him! He is my Hero! ln the last movie... ...his faceless performance is what the audience had applauded for We will give him a face in this movie A newface! He is my hero As the news channels have reported, Adityan did not deny Premanand of this movie Premanand walked out of it by choice This is howthe news should be reported Did you hear that? Welcome to the entertainment news for today There is a new actor in director, Adityan's latest movie, 'Hero' The new actor had acted as a fighter in his previous movie, 'Fighter' At the beginning of the shoot, when Premanand had reached the location as the hero for the movie, there was a disagreement with the director regarding the new hero in it Antony, who had been the fight assistant in the previous movie, is the hero for the new movie Did you see the new celebrity couple, Tarzan Antony and Gowri Menon? Do what you have to do right now... before you end up seeing their posters all around the place lf you have thought of such a poster, tear it off right now itself l know what has to be done No matter who acts in that movie, instead of me But, Antony will not Yes, l will not act Me, as a film actor! Acting in a movie is not like being the dupe in it l will tell you what the biggest drawback is ln case l act in a movie and that becomes a hit... can l come, sit and drink somewhere like this? Can l go, stand in a queue somewhere? Can l go, stalk girls from the church choir? Unemployed people, like us, are these with you for all that Afilm actor, from amongst us Please agree to it, Antony! Luck does not wait for anyone lt's okay, let it go it's way No matter how talented a person is, cinema is a very rare opportunity Those who get the opportunity, might not be lucky enough Those who are lucky, might not be talented enough lf you agree to it, there are so many lives that will be changed Yes, lots of lives will be changed, including mine! l am in deep love with my current life Won't you grant me my last wish? Yes, l will Pay this bill fortoday Do something nice, before you die - There he goes - Come, let's go This is 1000 bucks! Cinema, is for people who have not passed the 10th grade in school Mathew had warned us that, today is the last day to pay off the interest He has been saying that for long now lf he acts in the movie, all our worries... Who is Antony? Not me lt's me Who are you? Antony... Brother, Hakim... Luckily, that guy had tripped when he was attacking you Otherwise, your bone would have got cut They are new boys They got petrified, seeing blood Antony, what has gone wrong with you? Nothing at all, brother l am wondering who has... You can hang up l will call you back lt was Jaffer's call The boys were from Themaanath They were paid by Premanand's manager, Eldho Suni, get all our boys l want to go and teach them a lesson today Wait there Where are you off to? lf you want to actually teach them a lesson, you should not go and hit them back You should hit him where it matters You should, act in the movie Hakim has a point lf you go and act in the movie in which he was thrown out from, it will prick him hard We can enjoy seeing that We are at the shooting location of Adityan's, 'Hero', a movie which had seen a lot of controversies recently Adityan had avoided superstar, Premanand, the reason to which is not yet revealed and has introduced Dharmarajan's assistant, Antony as the hero in this movie This is a mega cinema which is being looked forward to by the malayalees This is probably the first time that, a fighter has been made hero in a movie We hope to see a big action film from Antony, who has been the dupe for the fight sequences in several of Adityan's movies so far This movie will be a favorite among the news and television reporters because they have lots to gossip about it What do you want me to do? Should l allowthem to stay or ask them to leave? Let them be here lt is good that the audience get familiar with Antony's face l have removed an existing hero and introduced him So, they will be curious to know who he is lt is always good to create a build-up Suresh... Keep a straight racket and charge in on a compact frame We can ask him to say a dialogue first This is the one, isn't it? l wanted to be here because it is the first time that, Antony is acting like this Though he has done a lot of fight sequences, this is the first time... ...he is acting by saying dialogues in a movie He will feel more confident when he sees you here Satya, where is Antony? He has been ready with his costume and makeup since morning He had come and taken the dialogues from me, last night Since the shooting is in front of the Church... ...he wanted to go and light candles inside He will be coming now There comes our hero! You have spoken to Christ and prayed Are you confident? lt is easierto jump from buildings and run through fire But, learning half a page of dialogues and delivering it, is scaring me l am not expecting a great miracle from you in the first shot itself Just say your dialogues without mistakes Rest of it will be alright The character is very much evident on your face and your body language Be bold! l will try, sir Yes, try it Wish you all success, my dear Have you learned the dialogues? Carry on At the age of 16, it was near a shed at Vyasarpadi, that carpenter, Murugan had first given me a weapon in my hands But, before it could destroy lives, she came like a candle light at the altar She has not asked me to forget anything She has not tried to correct me with her words or deeds Her silence was enough to calm the evil in me and to teach me obedience All that my actor has to be is, bold and sincere to you job But, be careful When you are becoming a hero, there are lots of villains getting ready foryou Outside this cinema! Your security is the main responsibility of every member of this set lt is more my need than yours, to complete this movie lt is a revenge You have to promise me that, you will not leave this set till this movie gets over Oh black serpents that touch the darkness of dark Lord Krishna Oh black serpents that touch the darkness of dark Lord Krishna With menacing canines bathed in blood and dancing to the rapid rhythms of drums With the figure of the frightening eight curved demon Dancing on earth the dance of death The heart within writhes in pain With a yearning that this rain of tears will soon stop Oh black serpents that touch the darkness of dark Lord Krishna -Antony, 9'o clock tomorrow - Okay, brother See you tomorrow Antony, we are shooting inside your colony tomorrow - So, l hope food will be from your house -Yes, we can get that done Brother, Hakim! -Why are you here? - Come with me Father, did they lay their hands on you? No, they don't have the guts to do that - Come on - Okay, let me take leave now You should not have come here, amidst yourjob Father, don't make me talk too much! You took my vehicle to the beverages corporation, without my permission, isn't it? There is no rule which says that, we cannot drive... ...a vehicle to the beverages corporation lt is true that, l had gone to the beverages corporation But, l wasn't drunk when they arrested me l swear on you! See, am l drunk? Get on, l will drop you l will get on, but, on the way, you have to... My purpose of going there was not solved Hmmm... You are a big star and can't you do this for your father? Get on, father Shall l? l will... They have left this place l will slap you tight l have told you all a 100 times that, no matter what, he should not be allowed to go outside the set Everybody here is aware of what is awaiting him outside the safety of this set ln spite of that, why did you?... We were not aware of it, sir lt is only laterthat, the production manager had informed us that, his dad has been taken by the police and he has gone to take care of that Does he, himself have to go, get his father out from the police station? We would have handled it with the help of an advocate One problem, after another! l am walking on pins to do this movie All the planning should happen only afterfinding him and getting him back Go, right now... l am on leave l have taken a room in heaven Father, please hold on tight Else, you will fall! No, l will never fall when you are with me How is mom? She is too much She has stuck your pictures all overthe walls, like howthese young girls stick pictures of their favorite stars Anyways, Mary dear will be surprised today Father, it is you who will be surprised She will be waiting in front of the house, with a stick l am sure she has come to know of all this The shoot is supposed to happen in the colony tomorrow So, she will be surprised to see you there today You are using Mary's surprise as a reason... ...to start celebrations even before the shoot ends tomorrow They have just passed by Catch them there l am following too Start off Who is it? - Move the car - Father... l am talking to you Move the car Move this way, father - Father! - My son... My son... Father... - My son - Father... Stop there! Father... Get up, father... lt's okay, father They have killed me l have taken a room in heaven They are jealous, seeing the love between the father and son You should become a famous actor That's my desire! Come on, mother... We know what you are thinking, right now l am not asking you to forgive those who have killed yourfather But, if you do something now... ...yourfather who had dreamt of seeing you as an actor,will be the loser The people who have done this, will be winning all what they had wanted to ls that what you want? l'm not asking you to forgive them l'm only requesting you to be patient We have the final day of shoot tomorrow, in your colony Can't you wait till then? l had expected him to come here after his father has been buried l was wrong Adityan's shoot is starting again, tomorrow One more day of shoot for Antony and that movie will be complete lf that movie is a success, Premanand, the superstar, will be washed out Shut up! First time you missed your target and hit his friend The excuse you gave me then, was that, they were new guys Then, l spent lakhs and did you hire people to kill his father? Last and final day tomorrow! Watch how l, Premanand, will play the game We will teach them, sir There you are, Assistant Commissioner of Police Come up His shooting will not happen tomorrow lt is my personal revenge too l, Thomas Alex, will not let that happen! Come on! This way! Come -Was it okay? - Okay, sir -Was it okay? -Yes, it was lt's getting cut at the top near the panel We can take care of that while editing it Shall we shift? Where is everybody off to? Move away! How can you stop a police car? What do you want? No police can enter this Five Star colony There is no such law This is the arrest warrant for Antony, who lives here Don't try to stop us Why do want to arrest, Tarzan? Don't stand there, answering them Just hit them all! So, you are back in town! Do you have to be so enthusiastic? The result of the last time you entered here, is still evident on your face -What is the problem, sir? - Tell him what it is lt is not a problem Long back, the police were here once, to arrest a guy, who was involved in a fight They had attacked 5 to 8 policemen along with sir, who was the Circle lnspectorthen Since it was dark, we could not identify the accused then So, the case was postponed to identify them later One of the accused has surrendered now and has also told us the name of another involved in it Bring him out! Walk! lt was Tarzan Antony who had hit me along with him that night So, we are here to take him with us You, bastard! Sir, it's just a matter of another 2 hours for this movie to get over This is the bread and butter for a lot of families This is life forthe producer who has sold off everything for this movie This, Tarzan Antony, is not a terrorist who is a threat to our country, isn't it? Both of us know what the issue is So, do we have to treat it like this? Yes, we have to take him to the court before it is adjourned and remand him at the sub jail today itself He hit me then and has been having fun for 5 to 6 years now So, what do we do now?. They are very adamant and not willing to listen to us Let us do something! Don't send them in till the shoot is over You have to keep waiting here till this movie gets over But, if you can't, you will have to arrest thousands of us, along with Antony, from this colony Does the Kerala Police, have so many policemen today? The Assistant Commissioner and the other policemen have been stopped by people from the colony They are not willing to let him go till the shoot gets over The mud in my father's grave has not dried yet lt is not that l can't pull out the weapon pierced below your heart But, it is the word that l had given him l will come back to take revenge - Okay? - Okay -Was it okay, sir? -You were excellent - Satya, is everything over? -Yes, sir - ls there anything remaining? - No, sir - Can l say? -Yes, of course! Come on You can take him now, sir lt is not the military court in Taliban that, you will hang him right away! lt will either be the districtjail in Kakkanadu or the sub-jail in Ernakulam 7 days of police custody and then judicial custody after that lt is the law l have not lost my trust in the law l will bring him out before the release of my movie You saw it for yourself The whole of your police force could not take Antony from his land lt is our decency that, we are handing him over to you So, we expect the same decency in return from you when he is in your custody lf you hurt him, these people will attack you and yourfamily Do you want that? Carry on, Antony All the shows will have 100 of our fans to hoot every time he comes on screen They will hoot non-stop Those theaters showing prints, will not be provided with the prints l have made arrangements for that too They tried a lot to keep you from coming out The producer had to even go to court to release the movie But, Adityan sir was very adamant that... he will release the movie only after you have come out lt is time for the first show Come on Sir, you asked me to be patient l came back to shoot as soon as my father was buried They did not leave me alone They got me arrested l went to jail l kept waiting for the day l come out Our movie is releasing today Tell me sir, should l still wait? No, you can go Go, finish off all your accounts... ...and come back as a new Antony with a lighter heart We will be waiting foryou at the theatre Brother, Hakim, where are they? At the hotel at Ruis centre His father, the home minister, has bought it last month That is his new hide-out now l will not kill you Death, will be an escapism for you You should be there to see me living the kind of life that, you had desired to live You should die seeing that, every day There he is, ourAntony! The movie was superb lt was excellent! Gowri, it would have been a problem if you wanted to be with a guy, who was just a fighter Today, yourfriend is a hero, accepted by all So, you can be his friend, or romance or even get married to him Nobody, will have a problem with it Master, it is just one Friday that decides everything about a movie Today, is his Friday
