 

                        1 "One, two, three, four, six." "Could I melt this heart into a tune?" "Get my heartbeat to croon." "Am I smoking hot or what? Come on, guys. Focus in It takes so long to take focus Check the sound ABC 123. 123. "Darling, I don't know what to say." Have you booked my return ticket? It will be done No, no, get it done And Business Class I only fly Business Class "God help whoever gets bitten by this bug." "Oh god, your beauty, your love and your emotional blackmail" Along with all the famous personalities of the city... ...the district collector, opposition leader... ...and everyone else is here to congratulate Chaudhary Suraj Singh... ...because today is his daughter's wedding. "I became crazy about you." Greeting, Mr. Minister, please come An Ant was climbing up the hill Ant climbed up the hill Ant climbed up the hill When is he going to get on the hill? It will. It will... An Ant was climbing up the hill for a grain Bachelors find their destiny in love lane Son, this is village Hekri The Jat Land. Here, love happens after marriage. We ask our wife's name after producing two kids. Get lost Uncle, start with our traditional rituals. And that's Pappi Jat DLF's famous goon. That's Mr. Chaudhary's younger brother. The bride's first uncle. But I read in the papers... ...he's suppose to be behind bars Technically, he's still in jail. Who's he? We've called him from Mumbai to shoot the marriage video He started three movies with Chunky Pandey. Suspen... ders! Wonderful! Shoot a nice video. Please book my flight ticket. Economy will do... And that's famous encounter specialist... ...Bhupender Singh Chaudhary Aka Bhuppi Blackberry The bride's second uncle. He's committed 42 murders till date. And If I hadn't been suspended... ...I would've completed my half century. Get me suspended Get me a train ticket Bhuppi brother He belongs to the brick mafia Rajjo Fauji Rajjo Pappi brother So they all serve in the army! No, they have their own army. They supply bouncers in all the disco's of Delhi. And if any owner doesn't agree... ...then Pappi and Bhuppi bro... ...raid that place. Disco closed. I'll take a bus. Just tell me the number, I'll go myself Tenne Sir Tenne? Sir What about the booze? Like always, sir Grandpa, you're the eldest in the family You start. Sukhi, he's my son-in-law How can I drink before him! So? Why aren't you drinking? No one respects me What's wrong, brother-in-law? What's this? - I don't drink this. - Then what do you want? Get me Black Dog. Black Dog. "There's a black mole on damsel's cheeks." "On damsel's cheeks." Listen Better change your shirt The guests are about to arrive. I am wearing a shirt. Get lost! If he was not our sister's husband... ...l'd have killed him... Drink up, brother-in-law Have this before Black Dog You'll love it, Come on Fine... At least say cheers first Chee... chee... Chee... chee... Cheers... cheers... Chaudhary sir is coming Hide it quickly. It was a mistake, son Next time it won't happen... Chaudhary sir Chaudhary sir. Focus on him - Greetings. - Bless you Is everything okay? Why is everyone calling him 'Bapu'? They are all orphans Chaudhary sir pays for their education... ...and their family's expenses He's doing such a good deed, right? Actually, Chaudhary sir killed their fathers. What is this family? Mukesh Wasn't there a cycle parked outside the main gate? You know, Renu First time your mother stepped in this house... ...she looked as beautiful as you. Where's Dimpy? Dimpy's getting her photos clicked... ...wearing Renu's jewelry Dimpy seems to be enjoying Renu's wedding Go call her Renu, child Brother You can't see her going away, can you? You love her too much People from 36 villages draw inspiration from you Why are you scared of sending her away? Come, Renu Take your papa's blessings What happened? Don't be scared, child I have selected a fine groom for you They are a reputed family You'll be showered with love... ...and soon you'll even forget your father. The wedding procession is here Time for the rituals, brother Go on Get ready Hey, shutters down Hey go from here Show her face, quick Let's put him in this fire... This teacher's son... ...eloped with our daughter I didn't know Rakesh would do such a thing If I had any clue... ...then I would've strangled him myself. Get up Who is he? Rakesh's friend Three years ago they Studied together in Delhi Get lost. - Whenever someone elopes... ...their friends definitely know. Hey, who are you? - Move aside. Hello, who are you? Are you Jitesh Jaiswal? Yes... Hi, I am karan You must have heard my name I am an actor Two serials, few films... Whoa, I quite like this music Nice club What the... Tell me, where is Rakesh? We don't know anything. Please... - Tell the truth. - I beg you, listen to me sir... Sir, please don't hit me... Tell me, where is Rakesh? - Please... - Speak up. - Tell me, where is Rakesh? Speak - We don't know anything. Bablu... Bablu knows - Bablu knows. - Speak. Sir please, ask Bablu sir Who's the one they are speaking about? That boy seems clever He's very cunning We sent our boys after him. But he's never at home Kidnap him... get him. Okay sir Sukhi Get the cars Take few more along What did you say? I said take few more along Take few more along... Is he so tough? No, he's an entire army. Are you Bablu? You didn't have to corner me to ask that Where can we find Rakesh? Which Rakesh? Rakesh Gupta? Rakesh Tiwari? Rakesh Roshan? Which Rakesh? The one who studied with you He eloped with our niece. What are you saying? Rakesh! Rakesh eloped with a girl! This calls for a celebration. I'll have to tell everyone about it. Listen up... Son... this is Blackberry Doesn't give miss calls Connects directly. Don't push Mister, why use your hands when we can talk? Why? What will you do? Will you hit us? Hit us? Hit I didn't think about it But I will have to now Oh... so you've a big attitude What to do? Others can't use it I can't lose it. Son, just tell us... Otherwise we'll waste you Fine Okay I'll tell you Choose one Hold on. No one interferes - I'll choose - Yes please This one. Where are you hiding those two? Who hit me from behind? Tell us where's our daughter? First who hit me from behind? Tell us. Where's our daughter? Tell us. Tell us where she is. Quiet! Speak one by one. Or let it be. Look. Your daughter eloped from home, didn't she? She didn't runaway to become P. T Usha I'm sure she eloped with the boy she loved She eloped to get married. She wouldn't have eloped... ...if you would've allowed her to choose her groom. He was showing the same attitude back there Back there I hit you on the head from behind But here I will knock your head off. Hey enough... Come on... ...give me Rakesh's address You want Rakesh's address Okay Let's do one thing Whenever he calls I'll let you know. Give me your cell number What's wrong? Don't have one Okay... I'll post a letter for you See you... Okay. Thanks. Wait! Understand one thing clearly Until I don't find my daughter... ...you will stay here. Get in Close the door Bablu... Bablu... You too? With friends like you, who needs enemies? Who took my name? He did He... Come on Bablu... What happened? Thank God you're here Save us Don't be scared I am here I won't let anything happen to you They ruined my face If you show your face only on Facebook... ...then this is bound to happen to you You're joking Bablu Rascal We are in such a situation and you are thinking about reunion - You... - Leave me Excuse me Can I join in too? Who are you? I am Kiki I live in London I came to India for the first time All I asked these Jats was a lift... ...but they thrashed me up And kidnapped me. It's all because of his red pants. The Jat's tantric must have told them to find a man... ...wearing red pants in the north direction. He'll know Rakesh's address - Kiki - Yeah! Do you know where Rakesh is? I don't know about Rakesh How would he know? Yeah! - We thought you do - I don't know Oh hell We are in a big trouble See I warned you in college that he's a big flirt Fine, let's just sit around here Listen. Listen. Listen. You can find a way out Yes, please Get us out of here Yeah, please Then choose one Enough of you Can I choose? No This one Good Let's party tomorrow... in DU He started again Like old times The same attitude again. What to do? Others don't use it And you can't lose it We know. We know. But you don't know... ...that your hero has found his heroine. "Like the lost moon... shying away" "A shattered dream... which was only for you" "An incomplete hope... which found reason again" "Since I found you... we've still been miles apart" "My heart's restless..." "Without you. Without you" Who is she? - What's her name? - Where does she live? That's all I don't know Everything else is all set Excuse me. Excuse me. We were making a plan to runaway So what is the position? Simple A slow train leaves from the outskirts of this village Tomorrow morning we escape from here And then we get on the train In the train I will tell about rest of the plan. Listen... Any plans on coming back? Are you crazy? Why will we come back? I need to take care of business. Bablu, hey stop. Hey, who is there? - Take this - Hey I... - Help... Help... - Move quickly Who is there? I will not spare you, who are you? "I yearned for you always" "Your memories were fresh in my heart every moment" "An incomplete hope... which found reason again" "Since I found you... we've still been miles apart" "My heart's restless..." "My heart's restless..." "Without you. Without you" "Without you. Without you" "Without you. Without you" Quickly, train has come. - Where is Bablu? - I don't know He was behind only, along with us - Where is Bablu? - Bablu! The train's leaving Some one stop it Come on, Bablu! - Bablu! - Bablu! The train has left, oh no Bablu the train is leaving - What are you doing? - Oh no Bablu, It's gone. Come on. Bablu... - The train is leaving. Bablu, let's go! - The train is leaving. Hurry up! We'll miss the train Come on hurry up! Stand in a line. So... these are the fools that escaped. Fatty Scoundrel You... Don't you dare! So you're their hero! I'll burn you in the furnace No one will know where you disappeared Rajjo enough! You're a big goon, aren't you? What? They were in your custody, aren't they? They were in your custody, aren't they? How did they escape? These boys will die sooner or later. But I might end up killing you. Don't ever think of running away again. Don't worry We won't leave until that girl isn't found He has an attitude Let's see Look, enough of your big attitude. Why did you have to stop? I didn't, she stopped me Who? That girl She lives in this village Bro... this is Jat Land It's forbidden to even think about their girls. I can find you one if you come to London. After meeting her... ...I don't need anyone else. Have you lost your mind? Maybe... I don't know Feels like everything's stopped You mean constipation types Will you shut up? Okay, okay. I'm shut up But what is the position now? First we must find out who that girl is No, no This news shouldn't be out in the newspapers. Bless you, dear May you be successful in your efforts today They are relatives of master... ...keep an eye on them. There was a shootout! Few died on the spot It was fun Where is daddy's dearest girl going? College To submit my Home Science Project Your sister submitted many such Home Science projects Aren't you ashamed? Your sister ran away and you're going to college What nonsense? Renu's the one who ran away Shut up! Wild one. Go inside. And no more college Home Science She ran away and they are stopping me from going to college. Dimpy Stop going to college Learn cooking Brother Rajjo, don't you have a home? You're always lying around here Listen Don't call me brother Soon we'll be related in a different way How's that? Are you making me your mother? I will make you mother of my kids. See papa, they are stopping me from going to college. Everyone suspects that... ...even I will run away like Renu. No, my child I trust you Renu wouldn't have eloped either That boy misled her Fooled her How can my daughter elope? Remember... ...when you were small... ...you used to play with my moustache. I used to keep my moustache down... ...and you turn it up. You couldn't see your father's moustache down. I wish... ...my daughter had not eloped. Papa, I'll never do what Renu did. Do you trust me? So please let me go to college. Let's talk later Papa, please... Okay, papa Go. Yes, you were saying something Tradition says those who indulge in love marriage... ...will be killed by their own family. My daughter didn't run away, she was misled And if she eloped willingly, then I'll burn her alive. You don't do anything These uncles and aunts... ...they had fun when it was their time But when it's my time they declared an emergency. - As if... - Why? Don't you have fun secretly? What do I do? I just lie to go to college I don't lie to go around with boys That's exactly what I am wondering Don't you want to? I don't have time for such nonsense. I have two years, for myself To enjoy my freedom I've to complete my college Learn dancing Become Miss. Haryana And then marry whoever papa chooses... ...and have a kid every year. If I stop going to college... ...then what about my two year plan? I hope Renu gets caught Her husband leaves her on the night of their honeymoon I hope she comes back crying That bh. She escaped herself... and left me in a coop. They made me leave college You can resume college only after Renu is caught. And those boys know where Renu is... ...and they will never tell us. Of course they will. I'll deal with them. So what is the position? Good. There are just 300 houses in the village It's not that difficult to find the girl There's a crematorium as well Your cremation won't be difficult Excuse me - Hello! Listen! Excuse me. - English in Jat Land? A girl? Although I never entertain boys... ...but now I have no option Just tell me where my sister is. I am not interested in your waist Show me your face You... Look. Tell me. I won't tell anyone. Honestly! Okay, listen Yes Your sister... Okay And her boyfriend... Okay The place they are hiding... - We don't know. - Okay. You think you're a hero? People say it I can't stop everyone from talking Look... my entire family is in trouble because of you. Not because of me, blame your father. Don't dare insult my father There can't be a better man than him I see Then why did your sister leave him? And if I tell you... ...imagine what will happen to them when they are caught? So? They ruined the family name They will have to be punished If they are wrong then who's right? Me. And my papa There's one more - Who? - Me Then we should help each other I mean we're both in trouble... ...because of those two Right? - Then do one thing - Hold on. Please... - Come on... don't... - Let him speak Whatever it is, we'll do it together. Speak up. Okay, I'll find your sister. Okay And you find that girl Girl? Who girl? He's in love with a girl from your village. Love? No, not yet But maybe Who knows... How dare you You want some other family to face the same plight as ours And again some girl will be stopped from going to college. Just wait and watch I'll go tell papa - Okay - Then we will see - Stop - Hey, she is going - It's not true You'll get us killed. - She is going. Stop her. "Paste this photo on your chest" He's been here for just two days... ...and already in love. And look at his audacity He's asking for my help I felt like kicking him. What are you doing? What were you doing up there? You kicked me What's all this? My love Renu Love letter? My lips on yours Kiss Love Two bodies one soul! Oh my! Yours, Rakesh! Why did that bh hide it here? Pick everything up quickly Switch off the fan It's scattering everywhere Oh no This is serious Bhuppi uncle has got his hand's on one of the letters. Hide them They even kissed "Touch me! Touch me! Touch me!" "Kiss me..." This isn't the time to enjoy. Hide them quickly. Quickly! What are you doing? Where's Dimpy? She must be in her room Why? What happened? Here Throw them away No. Burn them. Burn them. - Who me? - No me. Go quickly Dimpy What's this? What? Your sister's love letter. I see So that's how they look. I never saw one... You... stop What's in that? Nothing - Tenna - Sir Check what's in the basket. Ok sir What's in the basket? Nothing Nothing It's nothing, just rubbish If I find out someone else was involved... ...l'll shoot them This is amazing Love letters in the age of mobiles - How romantic - Show us - Love letter. - See Rakesh was really desperate Time to show off! Hey Kiki, we can get out of here... see the letters Look here Call that Chaudhary Quiet! Call your father These letters clearly indicate... ...that you played a role in your sister's love story Now we'll tell him We'll... tell... him You will do whatever we say Listen. Please. See... We don't want to see all this God! Look... Look, don't try to blackmail me Till now I didn't But now I will But I had no clue about Renu's affair. But... it's clearly written in these letters... ...that you watched English films with them Sometimes... And also took your sister's share of pocket money to keep quiet Sometimes... But I didn't know she would run away I see Yes honestly, I didn't know So you mean to say... Falling in love is right... ...but love-marriage is a sin! Now I get it Whatever tarnishes family honor is a sin. So why did you help Renu run away? Where's that written? It's not But what if I write it? What nonsense God. You're such a rascal Liar, blackmailer But it's true that... ...you got a secret tattoo on your body You also took modelling classes... ...to become Miss. Haryana You also took Salsa classes... You were saying something Girl... village Can't we make a deal? What's the offer? Wait. Wait. Write it down I want a mirror. I haven't taken a bath. I've irritation all over my body. And... I want a laptop with internet connection. And... yes... - Three underwears - Underwears? Ask for food Who cares about underwears! - Ask her for food - You hungry dog Do we get Dominos over here? Do we get to eat something. And please give me my passport Please... Please get us free quickly Wait, one second Listen, girl - Yes. Think of a scheme... ...so that I get to see the face of every girl in this village What nonsense? I mean... I've no experience in such cases Now you will. If papa finds out he'll kill me Forget your papa and think about me Think about the one I love By the way... ...how does she look? "Her eyes are a bit like hazel..." "...and a bit dark like kohl" "Her eyes are a bit like hazel..." "...and a bit dark like kohl" "My world... smiles on her lips" "I want to feel her..." "I want to keep hidden away from everyone" "O Lord" "O Lord... just show me a glimpse" "O Lord" "O Lord... take my life in return" "How do I say what happened?" "I'm no longer in my senses" "I wander around lost in thoughts" "Remind me who I am" "Life was meaningless till now" "But I've found a reason now" "My heart never slipped before" "Never melted like a candle" "Are these your eyes or two stars?" "The moon never rises in the day" "I want to burn up" "I want to burn-out too" "Under those lamps" "O Lord" "O Lord... just show me a glimpse" "O Lord" "O Lord... take my life in return" Idiot you are making fun of my acting. You show me. Okay I won't, don't do this lts over acting What are you doing? Hey you... Choose one - I won't - Come on please do it Can I? Okay. This one But what is the position? I am going Where? Chaudhary's house Why didn't I think of it before? Hold on What if we had chosen the other one? Then I would've talked to Chaudhary directly. You're crazy Why you always put us in trouble? You may listen if you want. I... Love... I love what? I'm not in the mood. "Without Dimpy's love Rajjo is sad" Shut up! Dimpy was just in 5th grade... ...when I decided that she'll be my wife. If her sister hadn't eloped... ...we would've been enjoying our honeymoon I would be kissing her Chaudhary sir has given his word What will I do with his promise? Oh God! What happened to the lights? You're drunk, brother-in-law - Tenne - Let me check sir Finished? Yes, sir The TV's switched off It was a nice song "Without Dimpy's love Rajjo is sad" "This chaudhary doesn't listen to what is being said." Where's the bottle? It's next to the glass Where's the bottle? Empty The glass is empty Forget it Here. Have some fritters Give me the fries Brother-in-law, you're trying to fool me What are you saying? There were some fritters left Right - Who said that? - I did. What will you do? You slapped me! Turn your face that side while talking, you spit while talking. Do you have any respect at home? Go home Brother-in-law, I will teach you a lesson Go home. Hey... Listen up, girl You didn't find that girl You're good for nothing. Now... ...l'll tell your father... ...that you had a role in Renu's love story Now get up Couldn't even find a girl. What are you doing here? Are you crazy? Damn this electricity! You? Who was that? You fool... that was Shalu. Ohh... yes... Wait here. I'll go apologise. What are you doing? Can't even see anything You'll get us both killed Where has she gone? You're drunk Maybe? Where did you get it? Coming Stay here - Don't move. - Okay. I'll be right back Don't move I can't see his face Did someone call the emergency helpline? There's electricity in the village. Why don't we? Sukhi, go check the meter. Where did he go? "The water is chilly..." "And the day is sunny..." "Come to the beach, click my photograph" Stop singing Sorry Did you come here to take a bath? I've been locked up in that coop for so many days What if I find that girl tomorrow? He and his damn girl She won't like me Yeah right If she wants to embrace me then? But you haven't found her yet, you good-for-nothing. It hurts Get out We'll all die. - Here - What are you doing? Just giving you her memorabilia Find her in 24 hours Fine, leave Or else I'll tell your father I know. Now go or we'll die I am going Don't know about her beauty but figure is good Stupid. Fool Listen Put a lantern in Dimpy's room Sukhi. He was here Who? That... Bablu - Bablu? - Yes He hit me again How? Like this? The boys are locked up in the shed You have been drinking too much Please Lord... help that crazy boy find that girl And spare me Please. Please Please. Please. Please do it for me Hey, take these guys out of the shed Come, take these guys out of the shed Put them in the jeep Come on, quick Where are you taking us? So that you witness your friend's death. He had a knack of eloping with girls How did you find where he is? The rascal called his mother He's hiding in Mohali Where will he run now? Come on, move Where are they? C Wing, 12th Floor - Tenne - Yes, sir - Look after the boys - Yes, sir Bro... I need to pee - What happened? - Where did he go? Forget it. Take the stairs Hey what are you doing? - Where are you going? - Who is this? Get down. Bablu, what are you doing here? I couldn't take the front door Where's Rakesh? What's going on? Bablu, what are you doing here? Why didn't you stick to the plan... ...why did you switch off your phone? I didn't switch it off. Her family broke it. My family? Sir, this side After you fled we were all abducted Why did you call your mother? Her family found out. Reception committee's outside Open the door Open the door, otherwise we will break it. Renu, come on Renu, come on Renu, open the door You go, I will handle them Bablu, take care You will fall down Bablu - Renu carefully - I will fall down - Renu! - Carefully - Yes? - Bablu. - Move. - Who are you? Pull her up Renu... Sir... this way Hey Rajjo, search the balcony Where are they? I think they went to Goa Quiet! Come on Renu, move Come on Stop Come on Come on Give me your hand Don't worry No need to be scared Just don't give up You two aren't wrong. And yes... Keep this Don't worry I am there. I'll handle everything Thanks, Bablu And yes. Tell me something Are you two happy? Yes. Okay. No need to be scared I'll handle everything Okay, don't lose hope Listen Look after yourself too Take care He ran away He ran away - Sir, he ran away - I know - Why are you screaming? - You know Bablu ran away? "Found an earring" Find those love letters "Is it a puzzle of love" What are you doing? Are you crazy? By God. What a love story So... have you seen him? How does he look? Is he handsome? I am not interested. And anyway... he's the same boy... ...who has put our family in crisis Hey, Come on Lock them - Shalu - Yes What are you doing here? Nothing Just cleaning up The place is so dirty No need Get lost Get out Okay. Get in. Go on Bablu you cheat Forget it You knew... where Rakesh and Renu are You knew when they will elope and where they'll hide You knew everything. Why didn't you tell us? Why should I? Few blows and you spilled everyone's whereabouts Another blow and... ...you would've told them about Rakesh and Renu. But, Bablu, why don't you understand? That girl has a family They must be worried I don't care about them Rakesh is our friend, that's it. I want to see him happy. We don't have a big attitude like you - We're your friends too - I know And when the time comes... ...l'll do what I did for Rakesh. Bablu we don't mean that, try to understand. Idiots, people used to quote our friendship If you can help us all escape from here... ...then why are you risking our lives for that girl? Do you want to die for her? I haven't thought about it yet? You have gone crazy about that girl Someone please explain to him What spell has that girl cast on you, that you don't even care about us? He has gone crazy You'll get ruined after her and will also drag us along. That... that girl She heard everything - Who was she? - Oh, no - Oh, no - Someone stop her You're amazing You got all the letters Actually that boy is amazing... ...who's been helping Renu and Rakesh. He's been guiding them all along How they will elope, where they will go Where they are... He knew everything... Who is he? I don't know Who is he? I don't know, uncle I asked who is he? I don't know, uncle Bring those boys out Come on Come on Tell us... ...who's the boy? - I don't know Speak up - Is it one of them? - I don't know - It's hurting - What? It's hurting you You see only your pain Look Look at your father He raised you two with such love and care... ...only to be humiliated like this I really don't know, uncle Tell us One of you knows where Renu and Rakesh are Tell us where they are... ...and which one of you know Speak up or I'll shoot each one of you. Leave me. Speak up. Who is it? Is it him? Is it him? Speak up Get lost. Move him aside - Leave me. - Get up. Look at him! - Speak up! - Sir I don't know sir I haven't done anything Please - Speak up - Sir forgive me, leave me Sir I don't know sir Sir, please trust me, I don't know anything sir Is he the one? Speak Dimpy Look at him Is he? It's not me, sir Is it him? Speak up We've been wandering around all these days We've gone crazy Speak up! Is it him? I don't know, uncle I really don't know You know everything Tell us. Is it him? Speak up! You will not say like this Come on - No uncle - Come on Come on Come on Is he the one? The same guy? Is he the same guy? Speak up, Dimpy! Where have you hidden those two? Speak up! Speak up! I'll beat you blue and peel off your skin. Where have you hidden those two? Speak up! Hey... ...why did you stop? I was having fun He's stubborn I am still the same Sooraj Singh... ...who murdered 18 people in a single night. I'm helpless because of my daughter Had she been at home, I'd have killed her by now Have you thought why she isn't at home? You're a good friend, aren't you? How much more beating can you take for your friend? How long can you beat me? Kill him Not him You are trying to maintain friendship Bablu, tell them buddy Bablu knows, Bablu, tell them buddy Bablu, tell them buddy Bablu, they will kill us Bablu, tell them buddy Bablu please, tell them buddy Bablu, tell them buddy Bablu!! Speak up!! They are in Delhi. Delhi. Delhi, sir "My heart's restless..." "Without you. Without you" "Without you. Without you" Come on. Come on Come on Get them in the car Come on - Tenne - Yes, sir Idiot, you had to fall in love... ...with Chaudhary's daughter? Please don't look, please don't look Let him Anyway, this love story's going to end in two days Come on Yes We are leaving now Yes Get in the car, come on Listen Do you love someone? Confess if you do? Otherwise someone might get beaten up again like us. You are talking nonsense in front of Mr. Chaudhary. There's nothing wrong We're all going to Delhi. What if she elopes behind our back? Same thing will happen that's happening now. Be brave if you do Speak up - Don't you dare speak like this... - Rajjo He's too hot-blooded Get him in Come on! This attitude looks good only on screen In real life the villain always wins. Understood? Stop the car. Let's take Dimpy along - Will we take Dimpy along? - We'll take Dimpy along Dimpy The hero wins even in real life. The love story begins now. "Whistle with me" "Whistle with me" "Hey baby... be my lady" "Why do you drive me crazy?" "Sweetheart, I'll love you daily" "I'll hold your hands and take you away" "Hey baby... be my lady" "Why do you drive me crazy?" "Sweetheart, I'll love you daily" "I'll hold your hands and take you away" "What's the world going to say?" "I'm not going with you" "I fear you'll make excuses..." "...and leave me alone." "Don't talk about leaving me" "I plan to marry" "Come closer pucker your lips and..." "Whistle with me" "Whistle with me" "Whistle with me" "Why do you worry, baby?" "I am your love, baby" "Now is your change, hold me tight" "Otherwise you're going to lose, baby." "Learn the love's ABCD" "You take 100 out of 100" "Just pucker your lips and whistle" "Blow the whistle" "Everybody blow the whistle" "Blow the whistle" "Whistle with me" "Come shake a leg with me" "Steal my heart and keep it, sweetheart" "Be careful" "My heart's fallen for you" "You can't lay a hand on me" "I am just going to be yours" "I don't want to be crazy like you" "I desire to do something" "To take a step closer" "Come closer pucker your lips and..." "Whistle with me" "Whistle with me" "Whistle with me" "Whistle with me" Oh my, God We're in Delhi But what's the position? Make your will, it's time to die. I didn't understand one thing You revealed their secret So now they will be caught. They'll be caught if they were in Delhi. I lied. You're such a scoundrel. Friends who aren't scoundrels, aren't actually friends. They boarded the bus to Shimla Sir, these are the details received from the other police stations of Delhi. Will you not speak? Come on, tell me. Inspector, this will not do Stop it Hello, Chaudhary sir Any information? We've rounded up every local goons, gangsters... ...pimps... drug-peddlers... ...from every nook and corner of Delhi But we didn't get a clue yet. - But we're trying... - Trying... Get lost! I am sorry Sorry Just... find out my daughter as soon as you can Otherwise I won't be sorry next time. Please I am really scared Bablu, can't we run away? Here very good We won't run anymore We'll make these Jats run from one end to another How much are you going to eat? This is the first one The first one's just like the last one Green chutney Forget the green chutney... ...or else they'll get married Hey... Get to the point As far as I know Rakesh He'll first go to a temple to get married. What did you say? Let's go to the temple Community wedding! I want to get married too Do you have a heart? "I want to get married" God... Get my Renu back Don't show me the day when I get to know... ...that Renu eloped willingly. I beg of you Renu... What are you doing? Are you crazy? I haven't thought about it yet But I guess I'll go crazy now. Do you know why I brought you here? Because no one lies here. Honestly... ...I like you And if you try, then I guarantee... ...you'll start liking me too. Attitude again What to do? Everyone doesn't use it. I can't lose it. Let go of my hand Okay What's going on? Don't look at Shiv-Parvatiji Look at Hanumanji. Wait, I'll tell Chaudhary sir. - No! - Tenne. Come here. Why are you beating him? He's getting fits. Then make him smell leather boots. - Do you have one? - I do. I do. Then do it No! Check properly See her face Please find someone else I won't find one like you Of course you will There are so many girls in this world At least try. That's what I am doing? But I can't find one I am not handsome. You are... Really? Yes. You're very handsome. Really... Look... you have a good height What are you saying? Proper face-cut Anything else You have a good nose too. What else do you want? I don't have proper lips They are fine No one's going to kiss me, what's the point? She will Of course she will. She will? Then what are you waiting for? This network... See. He held her hand. Didn't I tell you he held her hand? What are you doing, Chaudhary sir? You left her all alone. It's so crowded. And the kind of people... Please hold on to her. We couldn't find anyone here, brother. She isn't here As far as I know Rakesh... ...he may have gone to the court to get married. Let's check there Hey love commando, you're acting too smart Stay within your limits or else I will burn you... That's what I am going to do to you Better stay away from me Brother, you sit here We'll check inside You two wait here, I'll make arrangements inside. Sit. Sit. Be comfortable, sister We're comfortable, brother Why are you crying? Soon we'll be together forever The judge's asking where are the parents? Tell him... her father's busy looking for us. Don't cry Don't cry Excuse me Why is she crying? She's missing her father She has a cheap father Sorry He makes millions, drives a Mercedes But he has a tiny heart. Don't cry And who are you? I drive her father's car I am his driver. In fact, I was. Her father paid me less He beat me up He said "Why do you love her?" I eloped with his daughter Now let him search. Won't your father be worried? He will. For few days. He'll look for us. Go to the police station. But what then... We'll already be off to Manali for our honeymoon. Don't worry He'll come back to me begging He'll say "Son-in-law, let's go home" Where do you get the courage? From friends Best friends Love you buddy Haven't you heard that saying... "Love can't be controlled..." You must have, it's a famous one By the way, what do you think? The lady sitting next to you... ...will never fall in love Tell me sister, will you stay all your life with this man! I mean with your father! Listen, her relatives are looking for her Damn these relatives That's their nature Looking for them means squandering money Pepsi's, snacks... having fun Am I right, mister? Rascal... You think you can substitute marriage... ...by getting married in the court? Don't you have a soul? You eloped with the girl Didn't you think about her parents? And you? Do you like hurting your parents? You should be ashamed. - And you - Brother... Brother, they aren't inside Their application isn't even in the register Don't cry Don't worry. That man's worried I love you, nothing will happen "My heart's restless..." "My heart's restless..." Mister Have you seen them? No, sir. I haven't seen them. Go away or you'll die. Listen to me I told you, we have no future Thank God you told me I don't like easy jobs anyway That's why I made you my wife Look Marriage form I already signed 50% marriage is done Now we need just your signatures What? Chaudhary sir, Renu is in that van Hey stop, you Idiot Hey stop, you Idiot Stop the vehicle Come out Come out everyone Come on You too, come out Keep moving. Keep moving. Come on, get down You too, out You... Come on - Renu! - Didn't you hear me? - Get down - Renu! Renu! Move! What's this hooliganism? Troubling people Madam... forgive me... It was a mistake Everyone makes one Let's go Dimpy! Dimpy! There was a girl sitting here. Did you see her? No Mister. My daughter was sitting right here. Did you see her? She was dressed in blue... - Dimpy! - Look there Chaudhary sir. It's your mistake. Why did you bring her along? Now you've lost both your daughters. NO, leave me, help Move, what are you doing? No, No, No... Help, leave my hand Save me, help Leave me, help Oh Almighty lord! Let me go, help Let me go Save me, no Leave my hand, leave my hand Leave me, no... no Hey, move on It's a small word 'Nahi' in Hindi 'No' in English And 'NO' means 'NO'. Bablu... "My heart's restless..." "My heart's restless..." Dimpi Search there Papa... How dare you touch her! How dare you! Are you a kid? Don't you know that you should stay together? If anything happened to you then? Hey... stay within your limits Rajjo Thanks, get fixed Come on Listen... ...so much happened I couldn't even thank you What for? For saving my life No one can save you, Dimpy Your life's already over. I never got along with my father He would ask me to do something And I always said no. Have you ever said no to your father? No, right? Have you ever lived the way you wanted? No Your family treats women like animals Have you ever revolted? You have to fight That's when you get equality. You just have one life, do you get it? We only live once. Bablu, I want to live too - But... - No ifs and buts... Be brave Admit to your father that you love me. But you do love your dreams, don't you? Yes So choose Choose? Go ahead "Tonight" "Tonight" "Let's not go home" "Tonight" "Tonight" "Let's not go home" "When you're here... there's nothing to worry" "Let's not go home... Tonight" "Let's go wherever the heart says" "Who knows where we'll meet again" "Let's live a lifetime tonight" "An entire lifetime" "Tonight" "Tonight" "Let's not go home" "Let's not go home" "Night is telling me..." "...to change myself completely" "Taste the moon" "Gulp down the stars" "Let's live" "So let's set out" "Fall down and stand up again" "And fly" "Let me give you my wings" "Let's live a lifetime tonight" "An entire lifetime" "Tonight" "Tonight" "Let's not go home" "Tonight" "Tonight" "Tonight" "Let's not go home" "Let's not go home" Sir, this is the guest house. Clean the mess, and vacant room number 2 Open room number 7 Tell their whereabouts I never ask who's eloped with whose daughter? Or whose wife? I just charge them for the room per hour. But who are you guys? What's the matter? Just tell us where we can find them. They ran out of money The girl kept her chain as collateral And then she had nothing left. But I said "No, first pay the rent..." "...only then I'll let you stay here". Are you going to pay that money now? Rascal Don't touch him How do you know it was them? Did they look like this? That's them It was them Now pay up Come on Hey... do you want to die! Come on! What's wrong with you? Come on! What's wrong with you? Calm down Come on! Let's go home, Chaudhary sir. Everyone is looking for you. What home? Yes The lodge, where my daughter stayed... You saw, didn't you? Where he kept my daughter Is this why they eloped from home? Is this what you call youth? Don't these teens understand? Even I was young 25 years ago I was so arrogant that I never listened to anyone No one Mother, father, wife, no one But then I became a father Of my Renu. She was this small when I held her first. I left everything I slogged hard Earned wealth, respect... I even learnt English for her And then someone took her away from me. Love... Is this what you call love? No money No capability Just took the help of his friends and eloped with her And became her hero Is this how you become a 'Hero'? When there is no money, he sold her gold chain And if they don't get along... ...will he divorce her, leave her? But... ...I can't leave my daughter I am a father For 20 years I took care of her, raised her Fulfilled every responsibility of a father I just wanted to see her married I wanted to see her happy. But where's my daughter? Where is she? I have lost. I've lost my respect, honor, everything. I want my daughter Where's my daughter? Where's my daughter? Where's my daughter? Where's my daughter? The day I find her... ...l'll kill her I'll kill her on the spot Listen Do you think they will be caught? I don't know You know... ...earlier, even I wanted them to be caught. But everyone has a right... ...to make decisions of their own life. I should too Because we only live once, right? Will we keep running around like this? I can't tell papa But I'll tell you I love you! I love you, Bablu Renu Renu stop Get the car Renu Renu Renu Stop the bus Renu Papa! Renu Stop the bus Renu Renu stop Renu Renu! Renu, come on - Renu - Renu, come on Renu Beat him Let him go... Leave him... No papa, don't beat him Leave me - Move... - Now hit me Papa please leave him Move back Don't touch them Forgive them, please Chaudhary sir, please forgive them - Move. - Papa, please Papa, please Sir, please... Beware Don't you dare touch him? I'll file a complaint with the police. He's my husband Would you let me marry him? Why don't I have the right to take any decision? Why? Dimpy Tell me... what was my mistake? Is it a big sin to fall in love? Why don't you let us live in peace? You've been chasing us like dogs. Like dogs. - Renu - No! She's right She's right I am a dog We're all dogs You ran away from home I used to wonder... ...where you'd be, in what condition I've been wandering from one city to another looking for you. Fighting with people Barking at them I am a dog Thanks for reminding me who I am. I was thinking I am your father I am just a dog worrying for his daughter. Dog Dog Forgive me, daughter I was wrong I am a dog. Forgive me Enough, Renu Now apologise Say that he kidnapped you Say it Your life will be spared Otherwise... you know our law. Say it Brother, please turn around Sit down. Sit Lower your heads Look at your shoes, down, come on Hey you, look down Lower your heads Papa I am pregnant. You are dead for me I'll consider that I had just one daughter. Yes we are about to reach Dimpy get in the car Bablu Sorry for what we did with all of you. I have no enmity with you... ...I just love my daughter too much Please don't say that If you get the time... ...do attend Dimpy's marriage. Kiki, here's your passport Now you can go on an adventure tour. See you, buddy Bye Kiki. Goodbye Let's forget all differences I spared your life, because of Chaudhary's presence Otherwise I would've burnt you in a furnace. Bablu. It's alright It's alright "Why are you upset... with me Lord?" "What mistake... did your lover make?" "For we were separated" "For we were separated" "I'll be destroyed" "I'll be destroyed" "The kohl stings" "The bracelets entangle" "The bangles are being stubborn" "They want to jingle and chime in your courtyard, beloved" "I don't want to deck up..." "If it isn't for my beloved." "What mistake... did your lover make?" "For we were separated" "For we were separated" "I'll be destroyed" "I'll be destroyed" Just tell us one thing Can you live without her? Then... ...let's get her. Come on Hold on, Stop the train Where's Dimpy? How many times are you going to ask, grandpa? Let's go play Come on. Come on I always thought that... ...nothing will ever happen to me in this house But today... Today I am scared. Papa took me to Delhi... ...because he didn't trust me But I was completely sure that... ...l'll never do what Renu did But when I left Bablu I understood why Renu eloped. In this family a girl child is killed right after birth. Papa didn't kill us then... ...but he is killing us now. What do I do Shalu? Hey brother, the guys have returned from Delhi Brother, look who's here Wow! Even after what happened you are all here Good, very good. Till now you've only witnessed our fury Now you'll see our love. That's what we're here for Come on, come inside You look so happy Yes He is here now I am not scared anymore Bhuppi, where's that boy? Stop him - The wedding procession? - No Bablu Bablu? Why, brother? Forget it, I'll see it myself Where are you going? Nowhere Where are your friends? They must be around here somewhere Are you looking for someone? Actually I... You're free, aren't you? Come on. Let's talk Bablu, how about a cold drink? He'll help himself Offer it to someone else. Come Sit. Sit Sit - I... - The weather's so pleasant Everyone's really happy The boy's nice He is rich and handsome - If you... - How's your papa? Parents - They are fine. - Okay. I didn't expect you'd show up uninformed But... you did the right thing Because everyone's busy with the marriage... ...and I am all alone Now that you're here... I have company. Stay with me till the send-off. Till the send-off Please Will you? My hand My hand Sorry Sorry - Is everything ready? - Yes I've given the message to Shalu the maid She'll deliver it to Dimpy There you are I've been looking all over for you The guests are about to arrive, Brother - Get changed quickly - Leave him alone? No... he's alone Brother, he's here to attend the wedding... ...not to chat with you. Come on You go, I'll just have a chat with him. You see... Brother, he isn't going anywhere... ...until the wedding isn't over. Come on No, no... The guests are about to arrive. Come on - I'll be right back - Come on Not this... this... Brother. Your turban Brother - Where's Bablu? - I don't know - Where's Dimpy? - We don't know Forget it... - You look there - I am looking for her Bablu Has anyone seen Dimpy? Remember... you always said... ...that you stopped because you saw me. You inspired me to live my life. I started flying I started living How do I tell papa... ...that I want to choose my love? He knows everything Oh my God What is our position now? Their position is worse than ours. Have the sweetmeats arrived? Let's go What happened, papa? What are you staring at? Nothing You took such good care of me Yes Like a shadow Today you're sending me to an alien place... ...where you won't be there. But you must have thought right I can see my entire life, papa But... I will live it Don't worry, papa. What happened, brother? She has to leave someday Enough Get up Get her ready You know what's going on in my house My daughter's getting married And you are also aware that... ...a boy eloped with my elder daughter And now you Why are you here? Be honest You came here to elope with my younger daughter, didn't you? Eloping isn't difficult, Chaudhary sir Nor am I scared When Renu ran way... ...your plight amused me But when I saw you... I gradually realized what a father feels... ...when his daughter runs away. Today... ...your plight scared me. I was never like this before I was happy I was always happy But today... Today I am sad There is no one... No one to share with... And no one to understand either But you can understand. That day Dimpy went missing for 20 minutes... ...and I was worried Then I realized that... Renu was missing for 20 days. Do you know what's going on in this house? The girl I love is getting married And also the daughter you love. You're wishing that nothing obstructs this wedding And I am wishing that this wedding doesn't go through. You want to save your honor And I, my love. We're both in the same condition You love Dimpy more than me But if there's anyone who loves her... ...after you, then that's me. I came here to elope with her But I am not going to elope with your daughter. What are you doing? When it was your turn, you got scared One needs courage to do what I am doing Chaudhary knows that Dimpy loves you Still he's getting her married to that Rajjo This is wrong Fathers are not always wrong. Love commando. Where are you going? As soon as I found out that you're here... ...I came here to welcome you personally. You came here for Rajjo's wedding... ...so you got to have something. Choose What would you like to have this or this? Please let us go You can't leave alive You came prepared Brought these three boys along too Kill him Don't beat him Bablu Bablu Bablu! Bablu! Only that much strength you have. That's it! Was that all the attitude you had? I'll put an end to you here. And back there, it'll be Dimpy's opening ceremony. You... Bablu, kill him Beat him. Don't spare him Beat him Bablu, kill him Stop! Mr. Chaudhary... What's so special about you? Why does Dimpy love you? I can't understand The wedding procession Is about to arrive... ...and I'm standing here Why? Because you love your daughter a lot I don't want to take away your right... ...to decide whom she marries. But wherever she's getting married... ...if she is troubled... ...then I won't spare you. ...lf she faces any trouble... ...then you won't be spared. Go on She is yours But, brother, what about family honor? I just want to see respect in Dimpy's eyes. You mean... love marriages are okay in Jat Land? If the boy's worthy, then okay. Brother, I am having an affair too Me too, sir Bless you, son Please forgive Rakesh and Renu too, please Yes You've a big attitude What to do? Others can't use it I can't lose it. "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "Whoever, black or white, just give me." "Anywhere you can give me, on left or right." "Leave all this fight. This is season of love." "Set your lips, and wet both the cheeks." "When you give, you get, this is the season of love." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad, come take a free kiss." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad, come take a free kiss." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad, come take a free kiss." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad, come take a free kiss." "Today I've washed the face, I've made my cheeks clean." "Give me a kiss and make my cheeks colored." "Give me a wet kiss or a dry one. Add to the beauty of my cheek." "The field is empty play, you know what I mean." "What is the scene? What's the delay?" "Making me wait so much, why aren't you giving me?" "Are you angry with me or are you a tantrum thrower?" "O the one with big laugh, why are you teasing me?" "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad..." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad, come take a free kiss." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad, come take a free kiss." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad..." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "This is the pappi (KISS) song." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you..." "Leave being sad. All be happy." "If you're feeling bad..." "This is the pappi (KISS) song."
