 

                        SyncFix by divx.NeKryXe.com Imprisoned in 1952? Almost 50 years in solitary. That's a record. One gold ring. One handkerchief. One wooden figurine. You carved this? It passed through the 4th and a 5cm long 2cm wide abrasion. Injection marks above the right talus... Must be a narcotics addict. Now I'll begin. No left kidney, right kidney... 150 grams. Right lung, 500 grams. It was found at the crime site. Looks expensive... can't be the victom's. It's peculiar knife. Dae-Ryang Judging from the angle and depth of the wound, the murderer is a 175cm tall man with strong arms. The suspect remains unknown, and we haven't identified a source for the knife yet. Any clues about the word 'Dae-ryang' found on the victim? We're searching through personal and company names. There are 29 people nationwide with the name Dae-ryang. We're checking one by one. Well then, follow up on the narcotics angle. And you do a futher search of the crime site. Yes, sir. What about the black market for organs? The victim had no left kidney. He probably sold it to buy narcotics. All right, let's investigate that first. Detective Oh! You know what'll happen if you get another reprimand? You'll be sent to a district office and stripped of your gun. Leave your gun in its holster. Yep. Organs wanted Oh my poor Byung-ho, how will I live without you? If I let you die, how will I face my parents in heaven? I want to live. Please, help me. - Do you need an organ? - Yes, we need a kidney. Here's a down payment. Hi, there! I knew I smelt something bad in here, it's the cops. It's me, Detective Chun! I'll ask you an eight-word question, and you give me a one-word answer: Only three possibilities: 'Yes','Yeah' or 'Yep'. Do you know the home of Yang Dal-Soo? This place is a dump. He's got moonshine here. Your phone is now disconnected. Please pay your bill at once. These are the documents of the victim, Yang Dal-Soo. Address is Geoje Island, but his national ID has been revoked. What a record... smuggling, fraud, assault, narcotics. So splendid! Anything from his phone records? On the day he was murdered, he made eight calls. - One was to shilla Hotel. - Shilla Hotel? Yeah, and the other 7 were made in a space of 10 minutes. Were those calls for drugs? So I asked my informer to look into it. I have to go. It's my daughter's birthday. She's waiting for a present, so I need to get her one. I hope I don't get any emergency calls. Hello? Detective. Oh, it's me. If I get caught ratting, you gonna bail me out? Start talking. It's Kim Jung-Cheol's number. The dead man bought drugs from him. and worked as a dealer. Don't look for me often. You shouldn't play with fire. Kim Jung-Cheol, I'll ask you a five-word question. And you give me a one-word answer. Only three possibilities. Yes', 'Yeah', 'Yep'. Did you kill Yang Dal-Soo? Start talking. You'll regret this. I'm sure you will. - Hi, honey. - Hi! Stop, or you'll regret it. I said that you'd regret it. I never even touched a hair on his head! Damn! I just sold him some stuff. Where were you at 10:00pm on May 9 and 1:00 the next morning? - I was... somewhere. - Where? I had something to do. What kind of thing? Not a big thing. Do I have to beat it out of you? - I was chatting on the internet. - Really? Ask the owner of the cafe, he'll tell you. Chatting with whom? With a middle-school girl. What a guy. How could the dead man afford the drugs? He had money. I heard he got it from his rich friend. Friend? Last time I saw him, he was bragging about an appointment with his rich friend. So I asked who his rich friend was. Who's your friend? So he said... Agimo or Yagimo, something like that. To our friendship 'Big Jaw', 'Sweet Potato', 'Giraffe', 1940. Geoje Island Elementary School Yang Dal-Soo, Kang Man-ho, Han Dong-Ju... They all graduated together. Yang Dal-Soo left Geoje Island the year the Korean War ended. He led a group of local anti-communist radicals. Han Dong-Ju, a friend in the album was recorded dead in 1952. The other friend, Kang Man-Ho, is said to have lived on Geoje. Supposedly it's near here. Freeze! Put your hand down! My father, Kang Man-Ho, died last year. He drank all his life, and the booze rotted out his liver. Did you ever hear of Yang Dal-Soo from your father? My father never talked about his past, not even a word. This is all my father left in this world... I should have just burned it. What's he doing packed there? Something wrong with your car? Need a hand? No, I don't. You're from Seoul. Sightseeing? Hunting. Hurry up and move your car. It's not hunting season. Police. Open the trunk. Kim Jun-Yeop, who was murdered while fishing on Geoje Island. was found to have been an ex-policeman. Investigators are focusing on revenge as a possible motive. A black narcissus in the shadows. 'I once asked you to show me your face, and you answered me so: I am a narcissus,' April 27, 1952. Clear. The rain stopped last night. The wind blew from early morning. The apricot petals vanished on the wind one by one. I was given a new task by the party. When other need us, pain often follows. A sudden fear came over me. I rode to Gohyun-Ri as if carried on the wind. The war brought huge numbers of North Korean POWs Geoje. They were divided into pro- and anti-communist groups. The two groups often fought each other. Their fighting was more serious than their struggle to survive. There were some prisoners who were trying to escape. My task was to help them. After the successful escape of the prisoners, turmoil spread through the camp, but was soon quelled. The search for prisoners left our town in shambles. After my father, a communist party member, was executed, the only person I could depend on was Seok, son of our servant. Seok seemed not to realize I was also a partly member, nick named 'Black Narcissus'. To me, Seok was like a tree, when I could take shelter from storm and thunder. Where is Sohn Ji-Hye? I don't know. - I don't see her. - She's not here. This is your last chance. Where is Sohn Ji-Hye? ? My hometown is in the valley with blossoming flowers.? ? How I miss the times when I used to play there.? Seok and I joined the prisoners. A 16 year-old prisoner whose home was Changshin-dong, Seoul started at his mother's picture all day long. In the starry night, after the day had gone, he cried, calling out for his mother. Then the other prisoners, who seemed to have fallen asleep, sobbed together in silence. The leader of the prisoners was Han Dong-Ju. He was a former captain of guerilla unit, who was a radical prisoner of partizan. Kang Man-Ho was his fellow student of elementary school. He was a fierce communist, a partisan of Mt. Kumhwa. I didn't like demeanor. I managed to survive hiding under my former classroom. Some nights the prisoners went out to get food, taking Seok. They call it 'supply operations'. And our pursuers never noticed our hiding place. One more step and you die. That's enough. From now we'll dig towards 2:00. You think you'll survive two days on this gruel. Look at your face, it's already bloated and dark. We're walking corpses here. If they find us, you think we can escape through that tunnel? Idiots! Soldiers and policemen are all over the town. We'll all starve before finishing that tunnel. That is all the food we have! What's going on here? He tried to escape. Execute him at once. Why aren't you sleeping? A full moon again. You want something delicious? Seok, I'm not a rabbit. Get down! Promise me, Seok, you'll be with me always. Promise! Ji-Hye, if you no longer exist, then neither do I. We will survive this. I promise. Excuse me. Who is it? Detective Oh Byung-Ho from Seoul. Come in. Whose face are you carving? Someone you love? If I carve the face of someone I love, I make a face of sadness. It turns into the face of one love. You mean, Sohn Ji-Hye's face? If you'd renounced your ideology in prison, you'd be released. I know you are not communist. Then why? Long ago, there was a boy. Because he had been born as a lowly servant's child, the boy had no hope for his future. One night, the landlord's daughter at night suffering from fever. The boy ran a long way to call a doctor at night. While running he promised to himself: If she dies, I die. If she dies, I die. As the boy who ran all the night so fervently wished, the girl survived. At that moment, the boy found meaning in his life. I'll ask one last question: Did you kill Yang Dal-Soo and Kim Jung-Yeop? According to records, Han Dong-Ju was Excuted in 1952. ...and Hwang Seok was sentenced to death for espionage. What happened to Shon Ji-Hye, codename 'Black Narcissus'? She was set free, even though she was a Communist party member. Strangely enough, Sohn started living with Yang Dal-Soo, who had arrested her. Yang then abandoned his family on Geoje Island, and disappeared with Sohn. Hwang Seok, after serving 49 years in prison, was released last May. I didn't notice anything suspious when we met. You can't tell he's innocent. Kim Jung-Yeop, who was strangled at the lake, was the policeman who falsely charged Hwang Seok. Moreover, Yang Dal-Soo took Sohn Ji-Hye, who Hwang loved. So Hwang Seok has a Motive. Then how can we explain the murder of Detective Suh? The man was a gangster from L.A., wanted by F.B.I. He was a professional killer. So why did you kill him? We could have made hum talk. What was Hwang Seok's alibi? He refused to give an alibi. But there is one coincidence. The murder took place the day after Hwang Seok was released. Let's take Hwang Seok in for questioning. Hwang Seok. I'll ask you again. Where were you from 10p. m. on May 9th to 1am the next morning? If you refuse to answer, we'll have to take you into custody. I'll ask again. Where were you from 10pm on May Can I speak to Ms. Sohn Ji-Hye? - Can I help you? - I've come to see Ms. Sohn. - Can I ask who you are? - I'm a police officer. I am Sohn Ji-Hye. You were the one who called yesterday. What would you like? I came to ask about Hwang Seok. Sun-hee, could you go out for lunch? Yes, madam. What did you say? Hwang Seok? - Is he alive? - Yes. We are currently investigating him. Is he well? How is he? He's fine. If you want to help him, please cooperate. I want to hear what happened after the end of this diary. It happened a few days after my diary vanished with Kang Man-ho. Lay down your weapons and come out! You are completely besieged. If you surrender, we'll let you live. Surrender right away! Don't stop! Keep digging! You, dig! Now! All the prisoners who ran out died. I could hear their screaming among the flames. All of them died so. The 16 year-old prisoner, who only wished to go home and sleep by his mother, he died, too. Seok, look at the flower. It can live, even on the rock. Hwang Seok. Sohn Ji-Hye. I will kill you first, and then I will follow. We'll be remembered as heroes, dying for the revolution. Goodbye. While I distract them, you take Ji-Hye out of here. Go to Jiri Mountain, you know the direction better than me. You must keep Ji-Hye alive! Seok! I'll survive, to meet you again. Until the next time we meet, keep this for me. Seok! Seok! Seok... Han Dong-Ju barely managed to escape with me from the mountain but we couldn't get off Geoje. Han Dong-Ju was shot then? Han Dong-Ju is not a man to die so easily. Han Dong-Ju came to see Yang Dal-Soo of his own will. There must have been some transaction between the two. Han Dong-Ju informed Yang where I was hiding: ...the fireplace in my kitchen. Finally, I was caught by Yang Dal-Soo. When they took me in, Seok was already there. Destiny treats those who resist harshly, and it drove Seok and me to ruin. I decided... to accept my destiny. Kim Jung-Yeop suggested a way to get Seok release: It was to transfer all my property to him. I could give up my property to save Seok. Seok was released, not knowing anything. There was another condition in the deal. Yang Dal-Soo wanted me. At that moment, my only thought was to save Seok. And this was the only comfort I had to get me through my life in darkness. Can I ask what happened to your eyes? Death was the only was to escape from Yang Dal-Soo. I took some poison. Instead of my life, I lost my sight, and he discarded me. Quite an old story. Have you ever heard the name 'Agimo'? Excuse me. I remember now. When we lived together, Yang Dal-Soo often visited Japan, perhaps for smuggling. He told me an old schoolmate in Japan helped him a lot. His name was 'Shintaro'. Han Dong-Ju was also Yang Dal-Soo's schoolmate... Han Dong-Ju, buried in 1952' I solved the puzzle of the word 'Daeryang', found of the victim. Tea-rang- it's the Japanese nane 'Taro'. Suspecting that the murderer might be Japanese, I sent the frame of the glasses found at the crime site to Japan and it was found to have been made in Miyazaki, Japan. The man who ordered the glasses is Maeda, Shintaro. His given name ends in 'Taro'. We neglected one thing. Yang Dal-Soo called Shilla Hotel once on the day he was murdered. Maeda Shintaro was visiting Korea at the time on business. He was taped on CCTV from Shilla Hotel. He's surely Maeda, Shintaro. Han Dong-Ju faked his death in 1952 and moved to Japan. This is him. We must go to Japan to complete our investigation. I'll get evidence to indict him. We must be cautions. He is Japanese and a former politician. - I can do this. - The meeting is over. Lieutenant! I said meeting is over! - Yes? - It's me. I'm giving you a week's vacation. I don't care where you go, Japan or wherever. But keep your head. Understood? Your first time in Miyazaki? How do you like it? It's beautiful. The lieutenant called, asking me to help you. Japanese drug smuggling ring. I was falsely accused of being involved, but the lieutenant proved me innocent. Hello. Yes, yes. Mr. Chairman, a call from Mr. Nakata in the Diet. How are you, Mr. Nakata? This is Maeda Shintaro speaking. Thanks to you, all is quite well. You have a Directors of Commerce meeting at 3:30, Mr. Chairman. Welcome! It's very hot, Mr. Kim. Yeah. One beer. Another bottle? Yes. I inquired about Maeda's family register. Sure enough, he bought it. I called his hometown, and asked about the real Maeda. He was placed in a home for the insane after the Pacific War. 'Yakiimo Kudasai'. Sweet potato, please. Yes, one minute. - 'Yakiimo' is sweet potato? - Yes, you want one? Big Jaw, Sweet Potato Giraffe Yakiimo Agimo... 'Yakiimo' Ask in only the man who came from Korea. Yes, sir. This way, please. So, what brings you all this way, from Korea? The children in the picture are cute. I came to see the man who murdered Yang Dal-Soo. The murderer was an old friend of Yang Dal-Soo. His name is Han Dong-Ju, and his nickname, Sweet Potato, ...or in Japanese, 'Yakiimo'. Myself, I like playing paduk alone. Because, regardless of if I am black or white, I am always the winner. Nowhere to move... Shall I cede? This is what vexes me. I always know the next move. Yi hyang ji gui I will be buried in foreign lands as a ghost So,there were only stones in the coffin in your hometown, Mr. Han Dong-Ju. Let's speak in Korean. Meet me tomorrow at 4:00pm. At the entrance to Takachiho Gorge. Here is what you requested. Have you ever been to Mt. Jiri? I lived there 3 years as a partisan, officer of Jiri's 15th district. One day, after not eating anything for a week, I glanced outside the cave where I was hiding, and saw the sun rising in a sea of clouds. It was breathtaking. I promised myself, I will visit here again, not as a patisan. ...Miyazaki is also beautiful. I didn't kill Yang Dal-Soo. Please don't bother me. Please, bury my past. I don't want my past to resurface. I had one question before coming to Japan: why did you kill Yang Dal-Soo? When I first saw you, you looked familiar. The answer to my question lies in this picture. Yang Dal-Soo threatened to bring back your past, using this picture. Han Dong-Ju! I arrest you as the murderer of Yang Dal-Soo. You silly fool. I am not the culprit! 'Hwang Seok Arrested After Confessing Crime' If you got the parcel, you know Hwang Seok is not the culprit. If you want to catch the true culprit, bring Hwang Seok to the central lobby of Seoul Railway Station ... on August 14, 11:00pm. If not, other innocent people at the station will be hurt. Falcon 1, 2 Keep your positions. Hello? Why didn't you do as I asked? I said the central lobby, not in the square. Bring Hwang Seok to the central lobby immediately. Send Hwang Seok to the central lobby. Hwang Seok is going to the central lobby. Let Hwang Seok board the train for Jinju leaving at 11:30. No one should accompany him. If you don't do as I say, innocent people will be hurt. No one should accompany him. If you don't do as I say, innocent people will be hurt. Where the hell is he going? Sohn Ji-Hye! Sohn Ji-Hye! Why did you pretend to be blind? To disguise your crime? No, not for that. First, to escape from Yang Dal-Soo. But in time, pretending to be blind became more comfortable. Did the man who killed Kim at the lake also kill Yang Dal-Soo? Yes. I hired him. I Knew that Yang Dal-Soo had threatened Han Dong-Ju, who visited Korea on business. I decided to make use of this opportunity. But why kill them after What for? They cheated me. Last winter, I saw the wooden-doll, which was made by some prisoner. I was very surprised. I was to see the prisoner. The prisoner was... was... Seok! Then I realized... Yang and Kim had tricked Seok to serve in prison instead of me! They cheated him as well as me! Seok spent all his life in prison to save me! In solitary confinement... We're within 10m of the culprit. Hold your positions. Don't shoot! Don't! Falcon 1, 2. Situation resolved. Don't touch her! Don't dare touch her! Nobody touch her!
