 

                        [audience cheering] - [buzzer ringing] - You know, Does it look pretty good? [laughter] [cheering continues] - [boy] What team? - [group] Wildcats! - What team? - Wildcats! - What team? - Wildcats! - Wildcats! - Get'cha head in the game. [girl] Troy Bolton is not in my show. - [music plays] - [girl] All right. The show! We get excited for the show! We get excited for the show! [shouting, cheering] Whoo! - No. - [boy] Hey! What do you want to do? - [music revving up] - [cheering] [band playing rock] [boy] Livin' in my own world Didn't understand That anything can happen When you take the chance [girl] I never believed in What I couldn't see - I never opened my heart - Oh To all the possibilities - Ooh - [both] I know That something has changed Never felt this way And right here tonight This could be the start of something new It feels so right To be here with here with u Oh And now lookin' in your eyes I feel in my heart The start of something new Houston, say hello! [cheering] Now who'd have ever thought that We'd both be here tonight Oh, yeah And the world looks so much brighter Brighter, brighter - With you by my side - By my side [both] I know that something has changed Never felt this way I know it's for real This could be the start of something new It feels so right To be here with you Oh And now lookin' in your eyes I feel in my heart The start of something new I never knew that it could happen till it happened to m Oh, yeah I didn't know it before But now it's easy to see Oh It's the start of something new It feels so right To be here with you Oh And now lookin' in your eyes I feel in my heart - [boy] Come on, Houston! - That it's the start of something new It feels so right To be here with you Oh And now lookin' in your eyes I feel in my heart That it's the start of something new It feels so right To be here with you Oh And now lookin' in your eyes - I feel in my heart - I feel in my heart The start of something new The start of something new The start of something new [audience cheering] High School Musical is here! - Hi, everybody! - Welcome, everybody! - You guys ready to party? - We love you all! Whoo! [band starts to play funk] You can bet there's nothin' but net When I am in a zone and on a roll But I got a confession My own secret obsession And it's making me lose control [all] Everybody gather 'round If Troy can tell his secret, I can tell mine. - I bake. - What? I love to bake. Strudels, scones... [all] Not another sound Someday, I hope to make the perfect crme brle. No, no, no, no No, no, no Stick to the stuff you know If you wanna be cool Follow one simple rule Don't mess with the flow No, no Stick to the status quo [girl] Look at me And what do you see? Intelligence beyond compare But inside I am stirring Something strange is occurring It's a secret I need to share [all] Open up dig way down deep Hip-hop is my passion. I love to pop and lock and jam and break. [all] Not another peep It's just dancing. Sometimes it's cooler than homework. No, no, no, no No, no, no Stick to the stuff you know It is better by far to keep things as they are Don't mess with the flow No, no Stick to the status quo [boy] Listen well I'm ready to tell About a need that I cannot deny Dude, there's no explanatin for this awesome sensation But I'm ready to let it fly [all] Speak your mind and you'll be heard If Troy wants to be a singer, I'm coming clean. - I play the cello. - [boy] Awesome! What is it? - A saw? - No, dude. It's like a giant violin. [all] Not another word - Do you have to wear a costume? - Coat and tie. No, no, no, no No, no, no Stick to the stuff you know If you wanna be cool Follow one simple rule Don't mess with the flow No, no Stick to the status quo No, no, no Stick to the stuff you know It is better by far to keep things as they are Don't mess with the flow No, no Stick to the status quo [guitar solo plays] This is not what I want This is not what I planned And I just gotta say I do not understand Something is really Something's not right Really wrong And we gotta get things Back where they belong - We can do it - [boy] Gotta play! - Stick with what you know - We can do it - [girl] Hip hop hooray. - She has gotta go - We can do it - [boy] Crme brle! Keep your voice down low Not another peep - No - Not another word - No - Not another sound - No - [girl] Everybody quiet! - No - No, no, no Stick to the stuff you know If you wanna be cool Follow one simple rule Don't mess with the flow No, no Stick to the status quo - No - No, no, no Stick to the stuff you know It is better by far to keep things as they are Don't mess with the flow No, no Stick to the status Stick to the status Stick to the status quo [audience cheering] Houston, how you feeling tonight?! [cheering] Ow! Well, you guys look good! Now, on behalf of the High School Musical cast, - Mr. Corbin Bleu... - [cheering] - ...Monique Coleman... - [cheering] - ...Vanessa Hudgens... - [cheering] - ...Ashley Tisdale... - [cheering] Hey! ...and myself, Lucas Grabeel. Thank you from the bottom of or hearts for coming out tonight! [cheering] Now, I am going to be your emcee this evening. I'll be running the ropes and make sure that you guys have an amazing show! Because, boy, do we have a gret show planned for you tonight! Wow! Not only are we going to be performing all your favorite songs from - High School Musical... - [cheering] ...we have some surprises for you along the way, as well. We have three showcases tonight from Ashley, Corbin and Vanessa singing songs off of their new album! - Yeah! - [cheering] Right now I need your help welcoming our very special friend, and special guest tonight, the one and only, Drew Seeley! - [cheering] - [band starts to play] Ya never know what you're gonna feel Oh Ya never see it comin' Suddenly it's real Oh, never even crossed my mind No That I would ever end up here tonight Oh, all things change When you don't expect them to - Yeah - Oh No one knows What the future's gonna do I never even noticed That you've been there all along I can't take my eyes off of you Oh I know you feel the same way too - Yeah - I can't take my eyes off of you All it took was one look For a dream come true Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Oh, oh - We got a good thing goin' on - [cheering] Oh Right here is right where we belong You never really know what you might find Now all I see is you and I You're everything I never knew That I've been looking for I can't take my eyes off of you I know you feel the same way too Yeah I can't take my eyes off of you All it took was one look For a dream come true Can't take my eyes off of you - Oh, oh, oh, oh - So let the music play Can't take my eyes off of you The feeling's getting' stronger - Oh - And I never ever felt this way All right I see everything In your eyes Oh, oh, oh All right something's happening 'Cause everyone's around but you're the only one I se - I can't take my eyes off of you - Oh - I know you feel the same way too - Yeah I can't take my eyes off of you All it took was one look For a dream come true - I can't take my eyes off of you - Oh - Oh - Feelings like I never knew I never knew, never knew I can't take my eyes off of you - I can't take my eyes - From the start got my heart Yeah, you do Can't take my eyes off you [cheering] - Thank you very much, Houston! - Thank you! I'm the emcee, the host. It fet like something new and excitin. I've done it before, but never on that scale. It's funny when you find yourself Looking from the outside I'm standing here But all I want Is to be over there Why did I let myself believe Miracles could happen? 'Cause now I have to pretend That I don't really care I thought you were my fairytale My dream when I'm not sleeping A wish upon a star That's coming true But everybody else could tell That I confused my feelings With the truth When there was me and you I swore I knew the melody That I heard you singing And when you smiled You made me feel Like I could sing along But then you went and changed the words Now my heart is empty I'm only left with used-to-be's And once upon a song Now I know you're not a fairytale And dreams were meant for sleeping And wishes on a star Just don't come true 'Cause now even I can tell That I confused my feelings With the truth Because I liked the view When there was me and you I can't believe that I could be so blind It's like you were floating While I was falling and I didn't Mind Because I like the view I thought you felt it too When there was me And you [cheering] [Vanessa] Thanks, guys. I love you. Give it up one more time for Vanessa Hudgens, everybody! Ow! Is there anybody in this entire arena, that has heard of a young lady by the name of Ashley Tisdale? [cheering] [Ashley] High School Musical's changed my life. I think that this rarely happens. And, um... It's so exciting and I'm so grateful for it. And I have to thank you fans for all that. Ladies and gentlemen, Ashley Tisdale. - [cheering] - [band playing] [cheering] Certain things just click and.. and everyone comes together. It becomes something that you don't know what it is. Let's go, Wildcats! [balls bouncing rhythmically] [sneakers squeaking rhythmically] Coach said to fake right And break left Watch out for the pick And keep an eye on defense Gotta run the give and go And take the ball to the hol And don't be afraid To shoot the outside "J" Just keep ya head in the ge Just keep ya head in the gam And don't be afraid To shoot the outside "J" Keep ya head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game We gotta get our, get our Get our head in the game U gotta Get'cha, get'cha head in the game We gotta get our Get our, get our head in the game Come on Get'cha, get'cha head in the game We gotta get our, get our Get our, get our head in the game U gotta Get'cha, get'cha head in the game We gotta get our, get our Get our, get our head in the game - Whoo! - [whistle blows] Let's make sure That we get the rebound 'Cause when we get it Then the crowd will go wild A second chance Gotta grab it and go Maybe this time We'll hit the right notes Wait a minute It's not the time or place Wait a minute Get my head in the game Wait a minute Get my head in the game Wait a minute Wait a minute I gotta Get my, get my head in the game Wildcats, got your heads in the game? Get my Get my head in the game U gotta get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game Come on Get my, get my head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game I gotta Get my, get my head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game Why am I feeling so wrong? My head's in the game But my heart's in the song She makes this feel so right - Should I go for it? - [cheering] I better shake this. [band starts again] I gotta Get my, get my head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game I gotta Get my, get my head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game C'mon Get my, get my head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game I gotta Get my, get my head in the game U gotta get'cha, get'cha Get'cha, get'cha head in the game - Whoo! Thank you. - [cheering] I was a co-writer on Get'cha Head in the Game. The song speaks to people. And just the fact that I had the chance to be part of that, it's amazing. It's absolutely amazing. - What team? I can't hear you! - [cheering] - I said, "What team?" - [audience] Wildcats! - What team? Wildcats! - Wildcats! - Heck yeah! - Whoo! [band plays] If you ever see our fans, and look them in the eye, it is the most honorable experience I probably will ever have. [cheering] Are you ready to party? [band plays] Standing tall... ...singing a song from his new album, get your hands together for Corbin Bleu! Ow! [audience cheers loudly] [cheering] Thank you, Houston! To perform in front of 15,000 people every single night, there really is nothing to describe what that feels like. - Ha! - [band plays] Uh! Hey, check it. Uh! Uh! Uh! Can you feel me? OK, now. [drum solo] Say it! They go... [cheering] Thank you all, everybody. I love you all so much! Thank yo! Thank you, dancers... yet agai. - [laughs] - Hey, buddy, come here. We gotta talk. Look at you, man. [laughs] I'm ready to drum and march to the beat. What do you think? Yeah? I gotta tell you, man, it's been a pleasure sharing a stage with you, dude. - Thank you, pleasure's all mine. - You're amazing. You know, we say this a lot... We say "Thank you," "We love you," but, it's really true. Without you guys, we wouldn't be up here right now. A year and a half ago, we were just a couple of normal people just trying to get a job. And you guys have put us right up here and we are so thankful, from the bottom of our hearts, really sincere about that. - We love you. - [cheering] Now, give it up one more time for my man, Corbin Bleu! [band plays, stops] [piano plays] It's hard to believe That I couldn't see That you were always there beside me Thought I was alone With no one to hold But you were always right beside me This feeling's like no other I want you to know I've never had someone That knows me like you do The way you do I've never had someone As good for me as you No one like you So lonely before I finally found What I've been looking for Ooh It's hard to believe That I couldn't see That you were always there beside me Thought I was alone With no one to hold You were always right beside me This feeling's like no other I want you to know I've never had someone Who knows me like you do The way you do And I've never had someone As good for me as you No one like you So lonely before I finally found What I've been looking for Ooh [cheering] - Thank you. - Thanks, guys. [piano plays, snapping] It's hard to believe That I couldn't see That you were always right beside me Thought I was alone With no one to hold But you were always right beside me This feeling's like no other I want you to know I've never had someone That knows me like you do The way you do I've never had someone As good for me as you No one like you So lonely before I finally found What I've been looking for So good to be seen So good to be heard Don't have to say a word For so long I was lost So good to be found I'm lovin' havin' you around This feelings like no other I want you to know I've never had someone That knows me like you do The way you do I've never had someone As good for me as you No one like you So lonely before I finally found What I've been looking for Doo, doo, doo Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo Whoa, oh, oh, oh Doo, doo, doo, doo Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo Whoa, oh, oh, oh [cheering] I told you not to do the jazz squares. It's a crowd favorite. Everyboy loves a good jazz square. - [cheering] - Thank you! We have nicknames for each other. It's V and A. We'd be like this. V, A! [laughs] [band plays] [cheering] Thank you, guys! You're amazing! When we're onstage, we hear them singing, we hold our mics out to them... We let them sing and we try to bring them in and be a part of the show so that we're kind of all one together. [band plays] What's up Houston? I take the rumba! - [Latin music plays] - [Ashley shouting] I believe in dreaming Shooting for the stars Baby, to be number one You've got to raise the bar Kicking and a scratching Grinding out my best Anything it takes to clib the ladder of success Work our tails off everyday Gotta bump the competition Blow them all away - Caliente! - Suave! Yeah, we're gonna Bop, bop, bop Bop to the top Slip and slide and ride that rhythm Jump and hop Hop 'til we drop And start again Zip, zap, zop Pop like a mop Scoot around the corner Move it to the grooe 'til the music stops Do the bop, bop Bop to the top Don't ever stop Bop to the top Gimme, gimme Shimmy, shimmy Shake some booty and turn around Flash a smile in their direction - Show some muscle - Do the hustle All right, I want everybody to get up out of your seats. It's time for a dance party up in here. - Come on, you guys, let's do it! - Everybody get up! Whoo! [laughs] Yeah, we're gonna Bop, bop, bop Bop to the top Wipe away your inhibitions Stump, stump, stump Do the rump And strut your stuff Bop, bop, bop Straight to the top Going for the glory We'll keep stepping up and we just won't stop Till we reach the top Bop to the top [cheering] - Thank you so much everybody! - Thank you. Thank you. [band plays] We're soaring, flying There's not a star in heavn that we can't reach If we're trying So we're breaking free You know the world can see us In a way that's different than who we are Creating spae between us Till we're separate hearts But your faith it gives me strength Strength to believe - We're breaking free - We're soaring Flying There's not a star in heavn that we can't reach If we're trying So we're breaking free Yeah, we're breaking free Oh Can you feel it building Like a wave the ocean just can't control Connected by a feeling Ooh, in our very souls Yeah Rising till it lifts us up So everyone can see - We're breaking free - We're soaring Flying There's not a star in heavn that we can't reach If we're trying Yeah, we're breaking free - Yeah, we're breaking fre - Oh Running Climbing To get to that place to be all that we can be Now's the time So we're breaking free - Yeah, we're breaking fre - Oh More than hope More than faith This is truth This is fate And together we see it coming More than yu More than me Not a want, but a need Both of us breaking free Let me hear you sing! [audience] We're soaring Flying There's not a star in heavn that we can't reach If we're trying So we're... Breaking free [laughs] Come on, guys! Climbing To get to that place to be all that we can be - Now's the time - Now's the time So we're breaking free - Oh, we're breaking free - Ooh You know the world can see us In a way that's different Than who we Are [cheering] - Thanks, guys! - Thank you. [band plays percussive melody] [whistles blowing] Go ahead, here we go! Together, together Together everyone Together, together C'mon, let's have some fun Together we're there for Each other every time Together, together C'mon, let's do this right Here and now It's time for celebration - I finally figured out - Yeah, yeah That all our dreams Have no limitations That's what it's all about C'mon now Everyone is special In their own way We make each other strong Make each other strong We're not the same We're different in a good wa Together's where we belong We're all in this together Once we know that we are We're all stars and we see that We're all in this together And it shows when we stand Hand in hand Make our dreams come true Everybody now Together, together Together everyone Together, together C'mon, let's have some fun Together we're there for Each other every time Together, together C'mon, let's do this right We're all here And speakin' out with one voice We're gonna rock the house Yeah, yeah The party's on Now everybody make some nois C'mon, scream and shout We've arrived Because we stuck together Champions one and all Everybody We're all in this together - Together - Once we know that we are We're all stars and we see that We're all in this together And it shows when we stand Hand in hand Make our dreams come... We're all in this together When we reach we can fly Know inside we can make it We're all in this together Once we see there's a chance That we have And we take it Wildcats sing along You really got it goin' on Wildcats in the house Everybody say it now Wildcats everywhere Wave your hands up in the ai That's the way we do it Let's get to it Time to show the world Hey! Ho! Hey, ho! All right, here we go We're all in this together Once we know that we are We're all stars and we see that - We're all in this together - Together And it shows when we stand Hand in hand Make our dreams come True Houston, you have been awesome! [cheering] Before we go we'd like to thank our amazing technical and road crew! Whoo! Give it up for our High School Musical band! [cheering] Give it up for our dancers, Tia, Nick, Kim, Jared, Tyne, Sterling, Aubree! Our choreographer, Chucky Klapow! On behalf of Corbin, Vanessa, Ashley, Drew, Monique and myself, Lucas, we thank you from the bottom of our hearts for coming tonight! I want everybody to get up out of your seats. We got one more chorus, to sig We Are All in This Together. You guys brought us up here, let's all sing it one last tim! We are all in this together! We're all in this together Once we know that we are We're all stars and we see that We're all in this together - Together - It shows when we stand Hand in hand Make our dreams come... We're all in this together When we reach we can fly Know inside we can make it We're all in this together Once we see there's a chance That we have And we take it Wildcats everywhere Wave your hands up in the air That's the way we do it Let's get to it Come on everyone! [audience cheering] - [band plays] - Whoo! - [band stops] - [cheering] [band plays] I have lots of favorite moments in the show, but I'd say the finale because they turn the lights on from onstage. We can actually see the audiene dancing up in the aisles, having fun. The confetti comes out from different sides of the stage and ceiling. And the end of the show is such a high. It's so wonderful that after we're done and get back on the bus, none of us can sleep for two or three hours afterwards. I really am so fortunate and I really am just so blesse. I thank everyone so much. Like I was saying before, having this as my first tour and having that many people every night when you go out there to perform, there really is no way to describe it, how you feel up on that stage. Of course, you come out after the show and you see the fans and they just scream your name and they just love you. You just love them back for it, you can't help but love them back. It's so much fun. We all have a blast being in front of so many kids and fans. They scream and stuff and it's the most amazing feeling. You just get a huge adrenaline rush. We are very blessed to have the... ...A-Game, A-Team, of everyone involved in this tour. Everyone is just top-notch. They've all been touring, for years and years with all these rock stars and famous people. The one thing they always say, our bus driver even said, they have never seen fans like High School Musical fans. When I think about the fans and what they've done for me, over this last year, I am so grateful. And I... It's overwhelming, it's... To have that much love coming at you when you walk onstage... To know that people want you to be great, and that they're there for you because they care about you, and to be able to, for a second, give that back, with every part of ourselves, is... I'm sorry, I can't describe it. [sobbing] And it's funny, I'm sorry... Yeah, it's kind of overwhelmin. Do you have tissue? Can I get a tissue? That'd be great.
