 

                        1 [D'Souza] If you make a film criticizing the most powerful man in the world, expect the empire to strike back. Empty your pockets. No cell phones, no wallets. If you check in every night by eight, you and me will have no trouble. Hey, Jose, you trying to make me jealous? Just wait your turn. Your rubdown is next. - What prison you coming from? - I-I didn't get prison. That's too bad. You go to a white-collar prison, Martha Stewart type, you get tennis courts and libraries. Inmates are mayors, business execs, doctors stealing Medicare, tax evaders, people like that. - Well, what about in here? - Much different class of people. But, uh, it's safe here, right? Next. [chuckles] Don't be gentle. [indistinct conversations] [heart beating loudly] Think I'm up here. Let's not get too cozy, huh? When I get back to my wife, I don't want to wake up in the morning and whisper your name. [D'Souza] They're trying to teach me a lesson. They think I don't get it. Maybe they're right. For years, I've had an idealized picture of America. What's dawning on me now is that I've been too focused on America as it ought to be. There's another America, the America of the street, with its own code and its own rules. There's power in getting into a gang and controlling the whole neighborhood. It's like my home country of India. There, the whole country is controlled by gangs.. street gangs, political gangs. They own you. That's why I left India... You all right, homey? [D'Souza] ...to come to America. [indistinct shouting] I'm the king of this thing. You don't come to my territory - and tell me what to do! - [whistles] - What? - What's the deal with you, man? [D'Souza] Part of my lesson involves mandatory psychological counseling. The Obama people believe I need to be re-educated. [speaking Spanish] [D'Souza] And is this supposed to be punishment? I've been ordered to teach English to immigrants. - Hello, class. - [all] Hola, Dinesh. [D'Souza] My kind of people. I'm going to talk to you today about America, about what it means to become American. Now, I can come to Mexico, or you can come to India, but I can no more become Mexican than you can become Indian. America is a country based on ideas, based on assimilation to a certain way of life. [buzzer] [D'Souza] I wonder what way of life got these guys here. So, what are you in for? Drug smuggling. Armed robbery. Manslaughter. Murder. Got into a bar fight. And I set him on fire. What are you in here for? A friend of mine was running for office and I gave her more than I was allowed to give. [laughs] [laughs] [laughs] [laughs] [laughs] That's good. [D'Souza] I think I might be the stupidest criminal in the history of American jurisprudence. In our home country, slavery and Jim Crow all too often was justified in the name of Christ. [D'Souza] I'm a conservative in a very strange place. I'm not likely to run into Charles Krauthammer or George Will. Hey, yo, India. [Obama] ...helped to liberate that nation. You any good at chess, man? - [Obama] ...one group or one religion. - Yeah. Let's find out. [D'Souza] You know what? There's a few things I want to find out myself. Remember that during the Crusades and the inquisition, people committed terrible deeds in the name of Christ. You know, gangs are all about stealing, man. Crime is all about stealing. What's the biggest gang? [chuckles] Right in your face. Politicians, man. - How does a gang make money? - Any way they can, you know? Trafficking, smuggling, stealing, extortion, whatever. Yeah, but how do they pull it off? Step one, get a plan. [man on TV] Give the gift of peace of mind. For as little as $49 a month, you could be covered up to one million dollars. Act now. 888-432-9000. Step two, recruit. Listen up, everybody. Sit down. What we're gonna start to do-- we're gonna be selling life insurance. Next, it's all about the pitch. They got to sell it to the target. You want something from someone, man, you don't need to go kick in a door. All you need to do is walk right up to it and knock. Yeah, man, what we were selling was life insurance-- a policy that once, you know, God forbid, they die, their claim, like 50-Gs, or whatever it is, goes to, like, the, uh, the Inner City Health Fund, A.K.A. us. That's the first pitch, be a do-gooder. It will be nice to leave this world knowing that you did something good for others less fortunate. [Rock] But second comes greed. They sign up today, man, we'll give them five grand, and we'll pay their monthly premium. So, basically, they pay nothing out of pocket, right? And they pocket five large. Bless you. Bless you. [Rock] Man, we signed up whoever, wherever. You sign up today, we'll give you $5,000. - On the spot. - Yeah. You know, believe it or not, man, we got lucky every time. Months after they sign up, you know, uh, for some reason... they just die. Pooh. Hey, Pops! [both grunting] - [grunts] - [woman screams] - [siren wails] - Come on, let's go! [Rock] Anyways, man, after a while, the insurance companies caught on, you know? But now you have the final step. Never give up the con. Never give up the con. Deny, deny, deny. Look, I done told y'all a million times, man. I don't know anything, I didn't see anything, and I ain't saying nothing. How do you get caught? Snitch, man. You know what happens to snitches, don't you? Anyways, now it's time for a new plan. The old one won't work anymore, right? Got any ideas? [D'Souza] Why does Rock's story seem so familiar? I heard about similar cons from others. All right, brother, on the down-low. [D'Souza] Each con follows the same formula.. [indistinct chatter] You plan, you pitch, you take... - What's the point of this? - [D'Souza] ...you deny. The criminals in here believe they are the small fry, the ones who got caught. They believe that the big criminals are still at large. Then, it hit me. What if they're right? What if the same theft formula is being used against the American people? [Hillary] Didn't see any reason to keep them. [D'Souza] I'm a scholar, written a bunch of books, but what do I really know about the Democratic Party? Who are these Democrats? What's their racket? Are they the big crooks? - I asked Rock. - Come on, are you serious? The Democrats are the party for us. I mean, that's the party for the minorities. You know what I mean? The party for civil rights, for poor people. That's us. They ain't stealing nothing, man. You want to talk about stealing? That's gonna be the Republicans all day. That's the party of slavery, racists. That's a bunch of rich fat cats. Now, they're probably thieving. Yeah. Yeah, they're thieving. [reporter] The president is nearing a decision on that issue. This is CNN breaking news. What everyone has been anticipating. Today an official announcement coming from Hillary Clinton that she is officially in the race for the White House. We understand a video will be rolled out momentarily. We have our political reporters all over this story. [D'Souza] What if the goal of the Democratic Party is to steal the most valuable thing the world has ever produced? What if their plan is to steal... America? - Hey. - See you later. - Hasta luego. - All right. [D'Souza] I finally completed my sentence. [Hillary] Americans have fought their way back from tough economic times, but the deck is still stacked in favor of those at the top. Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion. [radio beeps] [reporter] Elizabeth Warren tweeted, Trump's campaign was built on ''racism, sexism, and xenophobia. There's more enthusiasm for Trump among the leaders of the KKK than leaders of the political party he now controls. '' [D'Souza] That's their pitch. They've got to get elected before they steal America. So, how much of America do they want? I'm not just talking about taking over a branch of the government or even the whole government. I'm talking about taking over every industry.. banks, investment companies, hospitals, insurance, the energy sector, coal and oil, education, the media, even small businesses. I'm talking about taking over the wealth of the American people, their savings accounts, their retirement funds, even their hopes and aspirations, how they live their lives. The thieves of America want to take it all. They want to own you, and to a considerable degree, they already do. But how are they doing this? How are they pulling it off? I got Obama right. Now I need to figure out Hillary. [Hillary] And I'm standing with you! [man] Hillary will take on the drug and insurance companies to lower healthcare costs, protect Planned Parenthood and women's health, and she's the one candidate with the strength to stand up to the Republicans. [Hillary] Donald Trump has made a name for himself by trafficking in ugly, hateful rhetoric. - Hey. - Hi, there. Are you a registered Democrat? I'm from Mumbai. Oh, very cool. Wow. That's a long way. - Well, welcome. - Tell me, um, why do you volunteer here? Well, because I love people, and the Democratic Party has a long history of loving people and caring for the poor and the needy. - Really? - Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, everybody knows that. Please, take a look around. I hope you learn all you can about the Democratic Party. Me, too. If we empower you with the tools and the truth, you'll work with us to spread the word. You're going to help us define the Republican brand... [Hillary] If calling for equal pay and paid leave and women's health is playing the gender card, then deal me in. [cheers and applause] [Debbie Wasserman] Right now, Republican presidential candidates are threatening to turn back the clock on our progress-- ...and we're going to push back with our two strongest weapons.. the truth and you. After all, that's what we've always been about as Democrats.. inclusion and empowerment. We know Democrats succeed when we empower people with information and when we mobilize them to get involved. [D'Souza] ''The Democrats are the party of economic opportunity, social justice, and racial equality. '' That's their pitch. But is it true? What's Abraham Lincoln doing here? He was the founder of the Republican Party. But if Lincoln founded the Republican Party, who founded the Democratic Party? It's time to get to the bottom of this. Many people think the Democratic Party was founded by FDR. But, obviously, there was a Democratic Party before FDR, going back to the 19th century. So, what are the true origins of the Democratic Party? In the early 19th century, Jefferson's party, the Democratic-Republican Party, split. Out of that split came the Democratic Party and, a little later, the Republican Party. In the 1820s, the Democrats elected a man who would uphold their principles. His name was Andrew Jackson. Democratic historians celebrate Jackson as a champion of the common man. But how did Jackson win over the ordinary Democrat? He did it by seizing the land of the American Indians. He massacred them. He burned their homes and villages, and in violation of treaties, he then sold that land at bargain-basement prices to white settlers in exchange for their votes. On the topic of American Indians, Jackson spoke very candidly. [Jackson] They have neither the intelligence, the industry, the moral habits, nor the desire of improvement which are essential to any favorable change in their condition. Established in the midst of another and a superior race, they must necessarily yield to the force of circumstances and before long disappear. [gavel bangs] [man] I call on Senator Frelinghuysen. [D'Souza] The National Republican Party, which would later become the modern Republican Party, bitterly fought Jackson's Indian Removal Bill in the Senate. I support the claims of the Indians to all of their political and civil rights. We cannot rightfully take Indian land by violence! - That's right! - [applause] [D'Souza] National Republican Congressman Davy Crockett also opposed Jackson on this issue. Jackson's famous, or should I say, infamous, Indian bill was brought forward. Several of my colleagues said it was a favorite measure of the president. Said I ought to go for it. I told him it was a wicked and unjust measure... - Yeah! - Hear, hear! ...and I should go against it. Let the cost to myself be what it might! [cheering, applause] [D'Souza] But the Democrats passed it, and Jackson signed it into law. [blows sharply] Alexis de Tocqueville, the French observer of early American history, describes what he witnessed firsthand. [Tocqueville] In the whole scene, there was an air of ruin and destruction. One couldn't watch without feeling one's heart wrung. We watched the expulsion of one of the most celebrated and ancient American peoples. [D'Souza] It was the Trail of Tears. The Democrats created reservations where those Indians that they hadn't killed could now live dependent on the federal government. In addition to stealing the land of the Indians, the Jackson Democrats embraced another theft scheme... slavery. They imprisoned their slaves not on reservations, but on plantations. No! Let me go! Massa, let me go! [D'Souza] Jackson owned hundreds of slaves. Mr. Jackson! Sir, sir! Betty here was getting a little uppity about her work. - Please, Mr. Jackson! - 50 lashes. - Oh! No! No! - Come on. - Please, Massa! - Come on. [Jackson] Betty is capable of being a good and valuable servant, but to have her so, she must be ruled with the cowhide. - [whip cracks] - Aah! [screams] [cries] - [whip cracks] - [screams] [cries] [D'Souza] What was Betty's offense? Betty washed clothes for neighbors without asking permission of the Jacksons. In 1804, Jackson placed ads in Northern newspapers for the return of one of his runaway slaves. Jackson offered $50 and an extra $1 0 for each 1 00 lashes, up to 300 lashes, which was pretty much a death sentence. And on his own plantation, Jackson's slaves were treated just as harshly. - [whip cracks] - How does that feel? - How does that feel? - Aah! [screams] You better think before you try to run! That's what will happen to you boys if you try to run. You understand me? - Is it done? - Yes, sir. [D'Souza] With the slaves, Jackson didn't just steal their labor. What is it about Democratic presidents and innocent, young women? Why did the Democrats elect a racist like Jackson? Because the party was racist through and through. The Republican Party formed from opposition to the idea of extending slavery into the territories and requiring free states to return runaway slaves. The most notorious defender of slavery was Democratic senator John C. Calhoun, Andrew Jackson's vice president. Traditionally, slavery was defended as a necessary evil, but Calhoun went further, arguing that slavery benefited both the master and the slave. Instead of an evil, a good... a positive good. [D'Souza] A moral justification for slavery? No, this was a con man's pitch. Today's Democrats try to duck their party's responsibility for slavery by blaming it on the South. But, in fact, the Northern Democrats also protected slavery. Their ingenious advocate was Illinois senator Stephen Douglas. Douglas thought each state, each territory, should decide for itself if it wanted slavery, and he envisioned slavery lasting forever, not just in America, but spreading to other countries as well. The Republican Party was born with a single overriding purpose.. to stop the spread of slavery. When Republican senator Charles Sumner, in 1856, vehemently denounced slavery, he got a most extraordinary response from Democratic congressman Preston Brooks. [all shouting] [D'Souza] The attack nearly killed him. The Democrats support slavery and think it should be extended, while we Republicans oppose slavery. [D'Souza] Lincoln understood slavery was a form of theft. [coughs] [auctioneer calling] Sixty-five... [continues calling] - Seventy-five? Sold! - Right over here. [D'Souza] Slavery is the theft of a person's life and freedom and the fruit of their labor. As Lincoln put it, ''You work, I eat. '' - A toast to the Democratic Party. - [all] Hear, hear! [D'Souza] We often hear of the Civil War as a contest between the anti-slavery North and the pro-slavery South. This is Democratic Party propaganda. It may seem strange that men should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces. Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. [D'Souza] In the end, there was only one way to stop them. [all shouting] Aah! [all shouting] Yet if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's 250 years of unrequited toil be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said 3,000 years ago, so still must be said, ''The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.'' [D'Souza] ''But wait a minute, ''you say, ''Didn't some Republicans own slaves?'' Actually, no. No Republicans owned slaves. Think about it. All the slaves at the time of the Civil War were owned by Democrats. So the Civil War is better understood as a contest between the anti-slavery Republican Party and the pro-slavery Democratic Party. Why are we dying for these Negroes? Well, the right to put into his own mouth the bread that his own hands have earned is as equal as any other man, black or white. All I ask for the Negro is that if you don't like him, let him alone. If God gave him but little, that little, let him enjoy. Yes, sir. What's your name, son? James McKnight. And you? Askum, sir, Ronald Askum. I thank you for your service, men. [D'Souza] Lincoln wanted to give freed slaves citizenship, equal rights, and the right to vote. The Democrats couldn't believe it. So they killed the father of the Republican Party. Confronted with the Democratic Party's legacy of oppression from Indian massacres to broken treaties, to slavery, the Democrats say, ''Yes, but we are the party of the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s. '' But wait a minute. There was another Civil Rights Movement, this one in the 1860s, and it was led by the Republican Party. The Democrats don't want you to know about this Civil Rights Movement because they fought against it. This civil rights act will allow colored men to sit at the same table beside the white guests. [all] No! And he shall enter the same parlor and take his seat beside the wife and daughter of the white man... [all] No! ...whether the white man is willing or not! [all] No! [D'Souza] The civil rights revolution of the 1960s did nothing more than secure guarantees for equal rights and voting rights that had already been put into the Constitution 1 00 years previously by the Republican Party. And here's a little-known fact. More Republicans than Democrats voted for the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Today's Democrats take credit for civil rights legislation, But what was their contribution? They finally agreed to stop filibustering it so it could pass. You've heard about ''40 acres and a mule. '' The Republican Party set aside 400,000 acres of confiscated Confederate land and began dividing it to give freed slaves 40 acres and a leftover army mule. Democrat president Andrew Johnson gave the land back to its former plantation owners. Today the Democrats proclaim themselves the party of economic opportunity, but the truth is, they fought to stop the Thirteenth Amendment, which permanently abolished slavery. The Republicans passed it with 1 00 percent support, 77 percent of Democrats voted against it. Democrats today call themselves the party of social justice, but they fought to block the Fourteenth Amendment that gave citizenship to blacks and established equality of rights under the law. It passed with 94 percent Republican support in Congress. Every Democrat voted against it. And Democrats today never tire of lecturing Republicans about racial equality, but it was the Democratic Party that fought against the Fifteenth Amendment, refusing to give slaves the right to vote. Every Republican in Congress voted for the Fifteenth Amendment. Every Democrat voted against it. Ah, yes, and in case we forget, Republicans also gave women the right to vote. The suffragettes were virtually all Republicans. Democrats opposed women's suffrage, fighting it in Congress, where they lost, and then fighting it in the states, where they lost again. So the Republican Party is the party of anti-slavery and equal rights under the law. The Democratic Party is the party of the Trail of Tears, broken treaties, slavery, and opposition to equal rights under the law. And when their old plan was defeated by the Republicans, the Democrats needed a new con. I'm reminded of what Rock told me. Now we got to get a new plan. The old one won't work anymore, you know? [D'Souza] There's more I need to learn about the secret history of the Democratic Party. I knew exactly who I had to go see. Carol Swain, professor at Vanderbilt Law School, is one of America's leading experts on the history of race relations and civil rights. Blacks have been used to oppression from America and also from the Democratic Party. And it's been hard for me to accept, because I was a Democrat for most of my life. What made you change? It was a number of different things. Some of it had to do with me learning more about the history of the Democratic Party and just watching how they used blacks for their agenda. The Democratic Party was the party of slavery. And after slavery was abolished in 1865, it was in total ruins. Seems like they needed, uh, a new racket. Well, they came up with one. The Ku Klux Klan was founded by Nathan Bedford Forrest. - White man's country. - [all] Let the white man rule! [Swain] He was the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan and a pledged delegate to the Democratic Convention. The whole purpose of the Democratic Party was to reestablish white supremacy. In fact, in 1868, the party platform was ''This is a white man's country. Let a white man rule.'' Notice how they portrayed blacks. The lily-white Democrat against the black Republican. Why were blacks such a threat to the Democratic Party? Blacks were the majority in several Southern states. They were able to send numerous people to the state legislatures. They had 22 members of Congress. And so this was a nightmare for the Democrats because, all of a sudden, they were being ruled by black Republicans, and they reacted with brutality. The party had its own war machine, and its targets were blacks and white Republicans, like Congressman James Hinds, the first sitting member of Congress assassinated. [gunshots, all screaming] [Swain] During the Klan's long reign of terror, they killed over 3,000 blacks and over 1,000 white Republicans. This is a white man's country. Let the white man rule. [Swain] The Klan was the military arm of the Democratic Party. Come on, guys. [Swain] Democrats used discriminatory laws and violence to keep blacks in their place. [all shouting indistinctly] [grunts] [grunting] Why has all this been swept under the rug? To cover the tracks of the Democratic Party. And we're not even talking about ancient history. The racism continued well into the 20th century. Sometimes the violence intensified. Other times, the racism merely changed forms. Sit down, Senator Tillman! Does your hatred know no end?! - I will not sit down! - [gavel banging] I will say to the Republican senator that as long as the Negroes continue to ravish our white women, - we will continue to lynch him! - [men] Hear, hear! The white man will not submit to the black man gratifying his lust on our wives and daughters without lynching him! [men] Hear, hear! One heroine from that era was a black journalist named Ida B. Wells. Long before Rosa Parks refused to sit in the back of the bus... - [Ida] Get your hands off me! - [man] Quit your yelling. [Swain] ...Ida B. Wells refused to give up her first-class train seat to a white man. - You're going right now. - Aaah! - Bit me. - She bit you? [Swain] The reason we don't hear more about this... See what the law has to say about that. ...is because Ida B. Wells was a Republican. She worked for a Republican paper that denounced lynching. [indistinct shouting] What are you doing? You gonna pay for what you done did. [men] Yeah! [Ida] And what did he do? - Who are you? - Press. People deserve to know what crime was committed that sentenced this man to death. I ain't got to tell you nothing! Is that a quote, Sheriff McNeil? He raped a white woman. - What white woman? - That white woman. I ain't forced nothing. We is friends. You raped her, boy. Ain't that right? Tell him, Margie. They're gonna kill me! - How long you known him? - Get her out of here. - She's been through enough. - Margie! Tell them! - Get her out of here. - No, please, Margie! Please! Were there any witnesses? He been tried? I'm the judge, they're the jury. - [all shouting indistinctly] - Move! Stay out of the way of the law, or you'll be strung up yourself. - Ugh! - Get her out of here. What you're doing is murder, and I'll report this bunch! No! No! ''After stripping Hose of his clothes and chaining him to a tree while some in the crowd plunged knives into the victim's flesh, others watched with unfeigning satisfaction.'' The lesson this teaches, which every Negro should ponder well, is that a Winchester rifle should have a place of honor in every black home and should be used for their protection, which the law refuses to give! We must rise against mob rule, not just from a standpoint of sentiment, nor even so much from a standpoint of justice to a weak race, but from a desire to preserve our American institutions. The struggle against lynching has the same moral import as the struggle against slavery, for as the Henry Smith lynching showed, both were in league with death and the covenant with hell! She made the remarkable statement that what blacks actually needed was Second Amendment rights. Throughout the South, when they passed the Black Codes, they put in provisions that if you were black, you couldn't own a gun. So that means that the KKK rides up into your yard, you don't have anything to defend yourself with. So the Second Amendment was very important to blacks. It was something that she championed because she knew that as long as they were unarmed, they would be prey to white racists. You're saying that early Democratic efforts to have gun control had a racist motive? Yes. Almost everything they did had a racist motive. Now, the Klan had a revival in the early part of the 20th century. Why was that? Another fan of the KKK was none other than President Woodrow Wilson. [D'Souza] Tell me about the screening of the film called The Birth of a Nation by D.W. Griffith. It was unfortunate for our country that the first movie ever screened in the White House was a racist movie by a racist Democratic president. [''Un Bel Di Vedremo'' from ''Madama Butterfly'' plays] The film led to the rebirth of the Klan in America. The film quoted Wilson. It denounced the Reconstruction era, when blacks briefly held office. It depicted blacks, played by whites in black face, as ugly, vulgar, and uncivilized predators who liked nothing better than raping white women. [man] ''The white men were roused by a mere instinct of self-preservation, until at last there sprung into existence a great Ku Klux Klan... [horse whinnies] ...to rid themselves, by fair means or foul, of the intolerable burden of government sustained by the votes of ignorant Negroes. '' [Swain] Wilson authorized members of his cabinet to reverse and resist integration with blacks. In 1914, Ida B. Wells and a group of black leaders confronted him about his racist, discriminatory policies. Mr. President. Gentlemen, Mr. Trotter. -And, uh, you must be Ida Wells. - Mr. President. A pleasure. I understand you have some concerns. You have fired most of the government's black supervisors. Your department chiefs have assigned blacks separate workrooms, lunch halls, and toilets! Segregation is not a humiliation, but a benefit, and ought to be so regarded by you... gentlemen. Oh, I do approve the segregation being attempted in several departments of the federal government. It is distinctly to the advantage of the colored people themselves. You presume that segregation is good for blacks? I disagree. You'll be hearing from us. [Ida] I am not a Democrat, because their records from the beginning have been inimical to my interests, because they have become notorious in their hatred of the Negro as a man. They have refused him the ballot, murdered, beaten and outraged him, and have refused him his rights. [Swain] It didn't make a bit of difference. Wilson continued segregating the federal government. [D'Souza] Talk about the 1924 Democratic National Convention. - You mean the ''Klanbake''? - Yes. [Swain] Tens of thousands of Klansmen marched on New York City shouting racist slogans and burning crosses to celebrate the Democratic Party's refusal to condemn the KKK in their platform. Carol, was the New Deal a radical break with the racist policies of the Democratic past? [Swain] FDR didn't have the votes to pass the New Deal program, so he promised the Democratic Party that he would block any anti-lynching legislation and he would exclude blacks from most New Deal programs. White farmers were paid not to grow crops, which meant that many blacks lost their jobs. So most blacks, if they worked on the land, if they worked as maids, if they were paid in cash, they couldn't get Social Security. And that continued with the Great Society, right, with Johnson? Well, Johnson knew he needed the black vote, but, privately... I'm gonna have to bring up the Negro bill again. Let's face it, our ass is in a crack. In Texas, there are more Negroes voting now than white people. These Negroes are getting pretty uppity these days. And that's a problem for us, since they got something now they never had before... the political pull to back up their uppitiness. Now, we got to give them a little something just enough to quiet them down, but not enough to make a difference. Why is this legislation so important to you? [chuckles] I want to have them niggers voting Democratic for the next 200 years. [laughs] But I need your help and I need your help to do it. Are you saying that today's Democratic Party continues to use blacks for their political advantage? Absolutely, that's exactly what I'm saying. [D'Souza] The Democratic Party has been busted again and again for slavery, for segregation, for racism, but just like any good con artist, they know, - ''Never give up the con. '' - Never give up the con. - Deny, deny, deny. - [D'Souza] ''Deny, deny, deny. '' Instead of accepting blame, they shift the blame onto the very people who fought against their injustice. Today's Democrats don't like to hear about their own history. The Klan is a terrorist organization that has killed-- - A leftist terrorist organization. - You can put whatever label you want. - That's your game to play. - No, that's important history. No, we're not gonna play that game. If you are racist, you're probably a Republican. [D'Souza] Like a lot of Democrats, he's relying on the big switch. That's the idea that the Democrats got racially enlightened and became the good guys, whereas the racists in the Democratic Party all became Republicans. The big switch seems to be supported by the fact that blacks, who used to vote Republican, did switch over to the Democratic Party. Also, Southern whites, who used to uniformly vote Democratic, now vote Republican. Then there's Senator Strom Thurmond, the racist Democrat who became a Republican. Even many Republicans today believe in the big switch. But wait a minute. Blacks switched to the Democratic Party in the 1930s based on the promises of the New Deal. They didn't do it because of race. Many reluctantly moved to the Democratic Party, knowing they were joining the party of segregation and the Ku Klux Klan. Southern whites moved over to the Republican Party much later, during the 1970s through the '90s, as the South became more prosperous. Racism had declined dramatically in the South. So, as the South became less racist, it became more Republican. So, blacks and whites both switched parties for economic reasons. The proof of this is in Byron Shafer and Richard Johnston's book, ''The End of Southern Exceptionalism.'' The authors provide data to show that the poorest, most racist whites never switched. The ones that did switch were the nonracists, who were attracted to the Republican Party's message of opportunity, prosperity, and upward mobility. So, what about Strom Thurmond? Was he typical? How many racists in the Democratic Party leadership switched and became Republicans? Let's make a list, and we'll see who switched. We'll start with the leaders of the Ku Klux Klan. Now let's add in the leaders of the various racist organizations... and Democratic congressmen and Democratic senators from 1860 all the way to 2000. Let's throw in all the people who voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1964. So, there they are... all 1,600 of them. Ready for the big switch? We'll go from Democratic blue to Republican red. So, here it is. Yes, that's it. Less than one percent. The big switch is a big lie. The Democrats didn't switch from being the bad guys to the good guys. They simply found a new and bigger scam. In a Great Migration, millions of Southern blacks moved north to the cities. They were joined by millions of immigrants from all over the world, so the Democrats got an idea.. ''Let's recreate the plantation, but now do it in the inner city. '' I'm not the first to call these neighborhoods plantations. Here is Obama reading from his book Dreams From My Father. [Obama] ''Seemed like we'd always be second-class citizens. '' Plantation politics. ''The man with the newspaper said. That's just what it was, too, a plantation. '' Black people in the worst jobs. The worst housing. Police brutality rampant. ''But when the so-called black committeemen came around election time--'' We'd all line up and vote the straight Democratic ticket. Sell our souls for a Christmas turkey. White folks spitting in our faces, and we'd reward them with a vote. [D'Souza] So, what has Obama done to get rid of the Democratic plantation? Nothing. That's because he's running it. The Democratic urban plantations were not just for blacks. They were also for other minorities and immigrants. When these groups arrived, they found waiting for them a Democratic welcoming committee. - Hey, welcome to America. - We're here to help you. - No, no? Speak English? - All right, let him know... [D'Souza] They helped them out, found them a place to live, got them jobs. The immigrant plantations had their own names.. ghettoes, slums, barrios. Welcome to America. [D'Souza] The Democratic Party built them, put these vulnerable people in them, and made sure no one left them. But nothing's free, right? In exchange, they made sure these immigrants voted for them. You, you! Let's go! [D'Souza] Gangs have bosses who control things. The Democrats figured out they could transfer this model to politics. They invented the big-city boss. [all chanting ''Daley''] [D'Souza] Democrat city bosses sought to control not just government through patronage and payoffs and corruption, they also sought control of industry. They wanted to control unions. I want you to get out there and get the votes out! That's what I want! [D'Souza] And once in power, they looted the city treasury and used their power to shake down businesses. Gentlemen, you wanted city contracts? Now I am the city. [D'Souza] So, really, the whole operation was not for the people's benefit, but for their benefit. This is what makes them the original community organizers. Big-city bosses were a local racket. The Democrats needed a pitch for why they should be running the whole country in the same way they were running the inner cities. I knew exactly who I should see. Jonah Goldberg is an editor at the National Review. Jonah, Democrats used to call themselves very commonly ''liberals.'' But today, more commonly, they use the term ''progressive.'' What does ''progressive'' actually mean? Social engineering and social control, where experts and bureaucrats and government officials guide society in a very specific forward direction, towards an end goal in mind. It kind of seems, Jonah, like the film Metropolis. It was all about class struggle and social control. [Goldberg] Right. Now it was the era of political parties and political movements that were going to guide society forward. Planning, which empowers the planners. There was this revolution in Europe and in the United States. In America, we called it Progressivism. Soviet Union, they called it Communism. In Italy, they called it Fascism. The flagship magazine of American Liberalism, the New Republic, celebrated Benito Mussolini throughout the 1920s. FDR had nice things to say about Benito Mussolini. Mussolini reviews FDR's book and says, ''Hey, this guy is one of us. He's a Fascist.'' And it's important to remember that Fascism back then wasn't about the Holocaust. It was about planning and experimenting and ushering in this new progressive era. And one of the very important strands of modern Progressivism, the idea of eugenics, who is the figure that comes to mind, who embodies this? I mean, the obvious answer to the question is Margaret Sanger. - Thank you for coming. - Thank you. I'm Margaret Sanger. [Goldberg] Margaret Sanger was the founder of Planned Parenthood. Hello. [D'Souza] In the mid-1920s, Margaret Sanger spoke to a group that came to hear her in full regalia. ''Eugenics'' means the release and cultivation of the better racial elements in our society and the gradual suppression, elimination, and eventual extirpation of defective stocks... those human weeds which threaten the blooming of the finest flowers of American civilization. The most merciful thing that a large family does to one of its infant members is to kill it. [D'Souza] By Sanger's time, techniques of racial elimination, like lynching, had become taboo within the Democratic Party. And so Sanger pioneered a different approach to bring about a similar result. How would you describe Margaret Sanger's so-called Negro Project? The Negro Project was to bring these birth control and other eugenic measures into the black community. She hired black ministers expressly to sell the idea. [Sanger] We don't want word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population. And the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members. [D'Souza] Surely, today's Democratic Party leaders would repudiate Margaret Sanger. I admire Margaret Sanger enormously. I am really in awe of her. And there are a lot of lessons that we can learn from her life and from the cause she launched and fought for and sacrificed so greatly. [phone rings] It is unfortunate that Planned Parenthood has been the object of such a concerted attack. [laughter] So I'm hoping that this situation will not further undermine the very important services that Planned Parenthood provides. Today the vast majority of Planned Parenthood clinics are located in our neighborhoods. [woman] We were tricked through a slick marketing campaign, but now that that's unraveling, people are saying, ''Wait a minute. They sell baby parts? What happened to my baby?'' Standing up and fighting for progressive values. [D'Souza] And the Nazis admired Sanger and actually patterned some of their programs along the lines of things that she suggested. Yeah, the first people who get wiped out under the Nazis actually aren't the Jews. They're mentally unfit, invalids, and all that. They went through the hospitals, and cleaned those guys out. What happened to Carrie Buck? Carrie Buck is a tragic, but really important story. Carrie Buck is this young woman that was supposed to be ''feebleminded.'' They wanted to forcibly sterilize her. Her case went all the way up to the Supreme Court. [Carrie crying] [Carrie] No! No! Get off of me! No! - Miss, miss, you need to remain calm. - Don't touch me! Miss, miss! You need to calm down. - [crying] - I need assistance. I need assistance! We're gonna need another doctor. Nurse! [nurse] Shh. [Goldberg] Oliver Wendell Holmes says that it's okay to forcibly sterilize this young woman, who wasn't feebleminded. She read, she was, you know, perfectly competent. Certainly didn't deserve to be forcibly sterilized. And he says in this famous damning line in his opinion, ''Three generations of imbeciles is enough.'' No! Please! - [shouting indistinctly] - All right, deep breaths. Hang on, just hang on. [Goldberg] Forcibly sterilized, back in those days, meant something. It meant holding this woman down, doing these terrible things to her, through the power of the state, simply because the state had this idea of what the population should look like and who should have the right to be able to have children. Tens of thousands of people across the United States were sterilized. The opening video of the Democratic Convention in 201 2... ''Government is the one thing we all belong to. '' No, government belongs to us. We don't belong to it. We are citizens, not subjects. You remember the ''Life of Julia'' ad that the Obama administration put out? Every frame begins with the words, ''Under President Obama, '' Julia gets this kind of scholarship and this kind of loan and this kind of promised job. The creepiest sentence in modern American political history was when the ''Life of Julia'' ads says, ''Under President Obama, Julia decides to have a child.'' Nowhere in this do you see Julia's family. There are no parents, there's no husband, there are no friends. It's just the state, as personified by Barack Obama. Community, churches, synagogues, family, friends, mediating institutions, as the social scientists call them, that give us a sense of order and place in the world, that's what the role of the state is playing. And it was completely contrary to the ideas of the founding of this country. The classic liberal ideas of the founding of this country, the fruits of your labor belong to you, our rights come from God, not from government, we are citizens, not subjects. So, Progressivism is actually progress away from the founding. Yeah, no, that's right. That's right. - Jonah, thank you very much. - Hey, my pleasure. [D'Souza] After World War ii, the Democrats stopped using the word ''progressive. '' It was too much associated with eugenics and Fascism. But they never admitted they were wrong. They simply needed a new con, and so they turned to an expert in the art of stealing. There's a whole myth surrounding Saul Alinsky as a tireless crusader for social justice. He fought on behalf of unions and working people and African Americans. The real Saul Alinsky emerges in a March 1972 interview, that he gave in the very year of his death, with Playboy magazine. Not at all. Were you politically active in college? I suppose I was a kind of instinctive rebel. [D'Souza] Alinsky described his first experience in community organizing. [Alinsky] I remember sitting in a crummy cafeteria one day, saying to myself, ''Here I am, a smart son of a bitch, but I can't make a living. '' And then it came to me. That little light bulb lit up in my head. I told the cashier that I lost my ticket. I-I'm really sorry, ma'am. I-I lost my ticket. [Alinsky] And she'd seen all I had was a cup of coffee, so she said to me... That'll be 5 cents. [Alinsky] Then, I walked a few blocks to the next cafeteria in the same chain and ordered a big meal, a buck-45. I ate in a corner, far away from the cashier. Then switched the tickets and paid the nickel bill from the other cafeteria. Five cents, please. Thank you so much. [Alinsky] My eating troubles were taken care of. [D'Souza] Alinsky didn't stop there. [Alinsky] I put up a big sign on the bulletin board and invited anybody. [chattering] - 7:00. - Yeah. All right, guys, it's real easy. All you got to do is... [Alinsky] With the help of a big map of Chicago, with all the branches of the cafeteria marked on it, I split my recruits up into squads according to territory. One team would work the South Side for lunch. Another, the North Side for dinner. And so on. All of us were eating free. Didn't you have any moral qualms about ripping off the cafeterias? Are you kidding? The right to eat takes precedence over the right to make a profit. Did you continue your life of crime? It was not crime. It was survival. But my Robin Hood days were short-lived. I was awarded the graduate Social Science Fellowship in criminology. I decided to make my doctoral dissertation a study of the Al Capone mob, an inside study. - Doing all right, Nitty? - Yeah, I'm good, Les. Thanks. [D'Souza] Alinsky was introduced to Frank Nitti, the number-two operative in the Capone gang. [Alinsky] Nitti's boys took me everywhere. [grunting] [groans] [Alinsky] Showed me all of the mob's operations. Once, when I was looking over their records, I noticed a $7,500 payment for an out-of-town killer. I said-- Look, Mr. Nitti, I don't understand this. You've got at least 20 killers on your payroll. Why waste that much money to bring in somebody from St. Louis? [Alinsky] Nitti says-- Look, kid, sometimes our guys might know the guy they're hitting. If it's a friend, right away he knows that when he pulls that trigger, there's gonna be a widow, kids without a father, funerals. This is a business, not some kind of charity organization. [Alinsky] Frank was a little disappointed by my even questioning the practice. He must have thought I was a bit callous. Don't be so damn callous! Didn't you have any compunction about consorting with, if not actually assisting, murderers? None at all. And let me tell you something. I learned a hell of a lot about the uses and abuses of power from the mob. Lessons that served me in good stead later on, when I was organizing. [D'Souza] Alinsky wasn't a social justice guy. He was a petty thief. He dropped dead near the beaches of Carmel in 1972, but little did he know that he would actually influence two people who would go on to far bigger rackets than he could ever imagine. Barack Obama started his political career in Chicago, studying and even teaching Alinsky-ite techniques. But Obama's first mentor was someone closer to home. [Obama] Over lunch, I explained to a group of boys that my father was a prince. ''My grandfather, see, he's a chief, so that makes my father a prince. He'll take over when my grandfather dies. The tribe is full of warriors. Like, 'Obama,' that means 'burning spear.''' And I felt the boys read just to me. Miss Hefty has invited your father to come to school on Thursday. She wants him to speak to the class. [Obama] ...my mother told me. I couldn't imagine worse news. I spent that night and all the next day trying to suppress thoughts of the inevitable. My body squirmed as if it had received a jolt to the nerves. I was still trying to figure out how I'd explain myself, when my father walked into our class the next day. We have Mr. Barack Obama coming to speak to us. Let's please use our best manners. Kids. I am a man from Africa. In order to be a man from Africa, I must be strong. [Obama] He had been speaking for some time before I could finally bring myself back to the moment. He spoke of the tribes that still required a young boy to kill a lion to prove his manhood, how elders received the utmost respect and made laws for all to follow under great-trunked trees. When he finished, all my classmates applauded heartily. It fascinated me, this strange power of his. [D'Souza] From his father, young Obama learned how to pitch, from Alinsky, what to pitch. And out of the two came ObamaCare, the typical Alinsky-ite scam. If you like your plan and you like your doctor, you won't have to do a thing. You keep your plan. Lower your premiums by $2,500 per family per year. [D'Souza] Here was Obama's pitch to the American people.. ''Let's you and I team up, and let's go get the big, bad insurance companies. '' Then, Obama went to the insurance executives, and he said, ''Listen, guys, I'm going to force millions of Americans who don't want to buy health insurance to buy health insurance, and that means massive profits for you. '' The real point of the scheme? To enable the federal government to take over the healthcare industry, one-sixth of the entire U.S. economy. Obama's fellow Alinsky-ite also learned well at the hands of the master. Remember Alinsky's ''eat free'' scheme? That scheme is the core strategy of the Democratic Party for getting votes this year. I remember talking with one guy who let his stomach tell him how to vote. One night, after his shift... [chatter] ''That's why I vote for the Democrats. That should be me in there. I work just as hard as any of them. Someone needs to even the score. '' ''They are rich because they steal from you. Vote for me, and... '' [''O Mio Babbino Caro'' from ''Gianni Schicchi'' plays] [D'Souza] ''Don't worry, it's on them. '' I need to find out more about this self-proclaimed - champion of the people. - Good evening, sir. Hillary Clinton for president. Indian Americans for Hillary. Hillary forever! But she's the youngest female candidate. So, do we have your support? That's just an issue of social justice. It's all about social justice. [D'Souza] We've learned the secrets of the Democratic Party. What's her secret? All these investigations, all these deleted e-mails, all these hidden files... What does she have to hide? Hillary got started at an early age. She met Alinsky in high school. She was once a Goldwater Girl, but Alinsky helped radicalize her. She invited Alinsky to Wellesley College to speak. He is a self-termed professional radical. Please welcome a friend and mentor, Mr. Saul Alinsky. [applause, cheering] You're probably wondering why I'm not thanking you for coming in here today. [D'Souza] She wrote her thesis on [Alinsky] ''There is Only the Fight. '' American policy since then has been to scrupulously respect - neutrality in Cambodia. - Oh, yeah, that's real smart, mm-hmm. [D'Souza] At her graduation address at Wellesley College, Hillary sought to demonstrate her moral superiority by giving it to black Republican senator Edward Brooke. We may not be in the positions yet of leadership and power, but I find myself reacting just briefly to some of the things that Senator Brookes said. [clears throat] We've had lots of empathy. We've had lots of sympathy. The complexities are not lost in our analyses, but perhaps they're just put into what we consider a more human and, eventually, a more progressive perspective. [D'Souza] Alinsky had a plan, but Hillary came up with a more radical plan. I just don't agree with your thesis. We've got to push, push, push from the outside. Unless we take over the government. Then, we can push from the inside. [D'Souza] The student outsmarted the teacher. Hillary's plan was to take over the institutions of government, but she knew she wasn't a natural politician. She needed a pitchman, someone people liked. Democrats have a narrative of the Clinton partnership. ''Poor Hillary. Look at what she's had to put up with. '' Son of a bitch. [D'Souza] ''And if her husband is a sex abuser, how is that her fault?'' Actually, it is. In many ways, she orchestrated all of this. Hillary knew early on that Bill could easily cross the line into sex abuse. At first, she got mad. Then, she figured out she could use his addiction to make him dependent on her. She became his fixer, the one who cleaned up after him. [Bill] My relationship with my wife, Hillary, means even more to me. [Hillary] Sometimes people ask me what it's like being married to Bill. He works so hard and keeps such long hours and becomes involved in so many other people's lives and problems. I always tell them it's great. [D'Souza] Hillary covers up for Bill by attacking, undermining, and discrediting his victims, and it's worked, all the way to the White House. if anyone finds out, deny, deny, deny. I did not have sexual relations with that woman. I think most Americans would agree that it's very admirable that you have stayed together, that you've worked your problems out, that you seem to have reached some sort of an understanding and an arrangement. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Wait a minute. You're looking at two people who love each other. This is not an arrangement or an understanding. This is a marriage. That's a very different thing. If he were to be asked today, Mrs. Clinton, do you think he would admit that he again has caused pain in this marriage? No, absolutely not, and he shouldn't. The great story here for anybody willing to find it and write about it and explain it is this vast right-wing conspiracy. [crying] He starts to, uh, bite on my top lip, and I try to pull away from him. And then he forces me down on the bed. [Sam Donaldson] Jones claims that Mr. Clinton then exposed himself to her and explicitly requested she perform a sex act. I was just shocked. I-I jumped up and I said, ''No, I'm not this kind of girl.'' I tried to get away from him and I told him no. Yes, I was Bill Clinton's lover for 1 2 years. - What was his demeanor like? - Well, his face was very red. I remember it was beet red. He was such a different person at that moment. He was just a vicious, awful person. - Now he tells me to deny it. - [cameras clicking] Well, I'm sick of all of the deceit, and I'm sick of all of the lies. I remember saying to him, ''Aren't you afraid that somebody is gonna walk in here?'' And he said, ''No. No, I'm-- No, I'm not.'' [Broaddrick] And at that moment, she took a hold of my hand and squeezed it and said, ''Do you understand everything you do for Bill?'' And I just almost fainted. She looked straight at me and her smile faded. She looked very menacing. I was really frightened. I want to send a message to every survivor of sexual assault. Don't let anyone silence your voice. This is a woman who at least pretended that her life was ruined because somebody had alleged that she had a relationship at some point with Bill Clinton. You have a right to be heard. And you have a right to be believed. We're with you. He was just a vicious, awful person. [D'Souza] Is Hillary really capable of enabling a rapist? Certainly, she isn't cold-blooded enough to get a known rapist off the hook? [D'Souza] In this case, as with Bill, Hillary blames the victim. She called her ''emotionally unstable, with a tendency to seek out older men and engage in fantasizing. '' Kathleen Willey summed it up.. Hillary Clinton ''is the war on women. '' While Bill's behavior is normal for Democrats, Hillary's is unprecedented. Bill, after all, is in a long tradition of Democratic plantation owners who took advantage of women under their control. He's doing the same thing they did. But the plantation wives, they didn't have a choice. Hillary does. She chooses to enable Bill's abusive behavior. She needs a partner in crime to take her all the way to the Oval Office. Oh, you'd look real good in my bed, baby. [D'Souza] As for their famous showdowns, Hillary isn't mad at Bill for what he did. She's mad at him for getting caught. Like Bonnie and Clyde, the Clintons are professional thieves. They can't help themselves. They even looted the White House when they left. But they're not robbing banks. They're stealing America. The Clintons have been doing their rip-off schemes starting in Arkansas. Hillary invested $1,000 and made $1 00,000 in cattle futures in nine months. There was the Whitewater land deal and Travelgate, where they fired the travel staff to give the contracts to their buddies, and the renting of the Lincoln Bedroom and the selling of presidential pardons to big-time criminals. It turns out the Clintons were just getting started. [Bill] We're all citizens of this world. Let's build a better future together. [D'Souza] Remember Rock's insurance scam? [Rock] Their claim, like 50 Gs, or whatever it is, goes to, like, the, uh, the Inner City Health Fund, A.K.A. us. That's the first pitch.. be a do-gooder. [D'Souza] You can hide a lot of theft if it's concealed under the guise of charity. We learned that from the musical Evita. [Ch] And the money kept rolling in From every side [Bill] Whether you can give five dollars or $500 today... When the money keeps rolling in You don't ask how Think of all the people guaranteed a good time now Eva's called the hungry to her Opened up the doors Never been a fund like the Foundation Eva Pern Rollin', rollin', rollin' [D'Souza] Evita's foundation funneled millions of dollars, given for the poor, into her own bank accounts. Certainly, the Clintons wouldn't steal from the poorest of the poor. Author Peter Schweizer thinks otherwise. He's been investigating the Clinton Foundation. It seems, Peter, that there has been an element of gangsterism in politics. But the Clintons, they have taken gangsterism to a completely new level. They've taken it to a global level, and they put it on steroids in a massive way that's unprecedented in American history. The Clintons have a fabulously powerful and successful political machine, and part of it is, as Bill Clinton said during the first election, ''You get me, you get two for the price of one.'' And that's really the way they operate. It's a tag-team mechanism. My husband, who I'm going to put in charge of revitalizing the economy, 'cause, you know, he knows how to do it and... While Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, the Clintons took tens of millions of dollars that ended up in their pockets and hundreds of millions of dollars that ended up in the Clinton Foundation from foreign entities at precisely the time she is making decisions that affect those foreign actors. So, this is unprecedented in American history. Will you continue to give speeches? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I got to pay our bills. Every ex-president since Eisenhower has gone out and given speeches. The problem is, never did it happen when that ex-president's wife was a powerful senator and later Secretary of State and could do favors for the people paying speaking fees that, by the way, were often inflated speaking fees. - How large? - $500,000, $750,000. - To give a single speech? - To give a single speech. Sometimes a 20-minute speech. And these are being paid by interested parties in the Third World that want something from his wife, Hillary Clinton, and they usually get it. [D'Souza] Tell me about Frank Giustra. Frank Giustra is a Canadian billionaire investor in the mining industry, who wanted to do business in Kazakhstan in Central Asia. It has one of the largest deposits of uranium in the world. Well, Frank Giustra, for years, wanted to get lucrative uranium concessions in Kazakhstan. Couldn't get them. So he flies with Bill Clinton, his friend, into Kazakhstan. Bill Clinton praises Nazarbayev, the dictator of the country, says he has a wonderful human-rights record, when he does not. Nazarbayev does what? He gives Bill Clinton's friend, Frank Giustra, a lucrative uranium concession. Several weeks later, what does Frank Giustra do? He writes a $31 .3 million check to the Clinton Foundation. That's sort of a down payment. Frank Giustra has given more than $1 00 million to the Clinton Foundation. But on that uranium deal itself, he's estimated to have made more than $300 million easily. The Clintons helped Frank Giustra get this lucrative uranium concession in Kazakhstan. And what do they do? They start buying uranium concessions in the United States. And by 2009, somebody looks at this company and says, ''We want to buy this company.'' The problem is, Dinesh, who wants to buy the company? The Russian government. The U.S. federal government has to sign off on it, and Hillary Clinton is the head of the State Department at that time. [Schweizer] Eight other investors in Uranium One suddenly decide to write checks to the Clinton Foundation, about $1 45 million. The federal government looks at it. The State Department signs off on this deal, in addition to other government agencies, and the Russian government takes control of significant uranium deposits in the United States. - Which they control now. - Which they control now. [D'Souza] Putting America at considerable risk. People sometimes say that the Clintons are doing some good through the foundation and so on. But when you're collecting hundreds of millions of dollars, let's say, to rebuild Haiti... [reporter] Utter devastation in Haiti. [D'Souza] ...and you give less than ten percent directly to people in need... [reporter] Tens of thousands are feared dead after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake left much of the capital city of Port-au-Prince in ruins. Haiti has this devastating earthquake in January of 201 0. The world pays attention, sees the suffering. The money floods in. The Clintons, in a sense, hijack the government's initiative. The best thing they can do for the next week to ten days is to send cash, even if it's five or ten dollars. Send cash, even if it's a dollar or two dollars. Send it to this website. I will give the cash to the people immediately. And that website is: haitiearthquake. Please, if you can, contribute. Ten dollars will be billed to your cell phone. And it's helping us get the food, the water, the medical supplies that we need. Hundreds of millions of dollars in taxpayer money that flowed into Haiti that were supposed to rebuild roads, build homes, create infrastructure, create commercial opportunities, those things didn't happen. The one thing that the Clintons did, build a textile factory, they didn't even build in the part of Haiti that was affected by the earthquake. And it was largely a factory for the benefit of a handful of Clinton Foundation donors who give to their political causes and who give to the Clinton Foundation. If you talk to Haitians in New York, a lot of them demonstrate outside the Clinton Foundation, saying, ''Where did the money go?'' - Shame on you! - Hillary Clinton! - Shame on you! - Bill Clinton! - Shame on you! - [chanting continues] [man] We are telling the world of the crimes that Bill and Hillary Clinton are responsible for in Haiti. And we are telling the American people that the 32,000, over 32,000 e-mails that Hillary Clinton said she deleted, have evidence of the crimes they've committed. What did you do with Haiti's earthquake money?! Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton, what happened to Haiti's earthquake money?! So I can only imagine, if Hillary Clinton is president and this apparatus continues to hum along and expands, how bad it's truly going to be. [D'Souza] Now we know why Hillary ignored those emergency calls for help from Benghazi. She couldn't figure out how to make a buck off of them. With all due respect, the fact is, we had four dead Americans. - [man] I understand-- - Was it because of a protest, or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they'd go kill some Americans? What difference, at this point, does it make? [D'Souza] Now we know why Hillary never gives up the con about storing secret e-mails on her private server. And there were no security breaches. [D'Souza] When it comes to national security, ''What difference, at this point, does it make?'' You're saying the Clinton server was unprotected? - Da. - [translator] Yes. And you had total access to it, had you wanted to download it? Yes. [D'Souza] Even after she's been busted... [man] Did you wipe the server? What, like, with a cloth or something? Well, no. [D'Souza] ...Hillary denies, denies, denies. Now we know who Hillary Clinton really is. And we know the secret history of the Democratic Party. Go down, Moses Way down in Egypt land [D'Souza] First, in the period of slavery and segregation, the Democrats took everything from some. Let my people go [D'Souza] Then, Progressivism, through confiscatory taxation and regulation, took something from everyone. If Hillary is elected president, we could see the completion of this thievery project, in which the Hillary Democrats take everything from everyone. This would turn all of America into a plantation. Democrats are the party of exploitation, subjugation, and theft. They blame the South or Republicans or even America for the horrible things that they have done. They are the ones who are to blame. In addition to Indian removal and slavery, the Democrats are also the party of the Black Codes, segregation, Jim Crow, the Ku Klux Klan, lynching, forced sterilization, and sympathy for Fascism. Democrats today claim to be the party of progress. But where's the progress? For blacks, they've created new urban plantations, for Indians, reservations, and for poor immigrants, barrios, ghettoes, and slums. They put their voters in there and make sure they stay there. The only progress we see is progress for them.. more wealth, more power, more control over America and over our lives. The Clintons are worthy successors of a tradition from Andrew Jackson through Woodrow Wilson. Are we not done with this larcenous duo? How much these partners in crime have already stolen from us. How much more will we let them take? Some candidates in this race are resorting to ugly, hateful rhetoric. [D'Souza] Hateful rhetoric? The Clintons are hateful people with a hateful history. Imagine how much worse things could get if these two depraved crooks return to the White House. [woman] While the storm clouds gather Far across the sea Let us swear allegiance To a land that's free Let us all be grateful For a land so fair As we raise our voices in a solemn prayer God bless America Land that I love Stand beside her and guide her Through the night With a light from above From the mountains to the prairies To the oceans White with foam God bless America My home, sweet home God bless America My home Sweet home [D'Souza] Ida B. Wells believed that God had blessed America. She'd fought her whole life for freedom. She died having just written the words.. ''eternal vigilance, the price of liberty. '' Once again, the party of Lincoln and Reagan must come to America's rescue. Not with bullets this time, but with ballots. They can't take America from us without our consent. Because of my conviction, I can't vote. But you can. Is America still the land of the free and the home of the brave? Our future depends on how we and you answer that question. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming? [choir] Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there Now it catches the gleam Of the morning's first beam in full glory reflected Now shines in the stream And conquer we must When our cause, it is just And this be our motto in God we trust Oh, say, does that Star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home Of the Brave Home of the brave I've gotten so sick and tired of listening to What you've got to say I decided I just got to stand up and say so Sick and tired of being sick and tired of Being sick and tired of being treated this way So I've made my choice, gonna raise my voice and say ''it's time for you to pack up and go'' You know who you are, you lying so-and-so And so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so I know you're lyin', 'cause your lips are moving There's no use tryin' 'Cause you've made him prove it My opinion of you it's time that you should pack up and go I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so I've gotten sick and tired of you stealing my money To pay for jet airplanes and limousines For crying out loud, you think it's funny You and Bubba living above my means At Chappaqua, living like kings and queens I've gotten so sick and tired of listening to What you've got to say I decided I just got to stand up and say so Sick and tired of being sick and tired of Being sick and tired of being treated this way So I've made my choice, gonna raise my voice and say ''it's time for you to pack up and go'' You know who you are, you lying so-and-so And so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so I'm gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so We're gonna stand up and say so So, how will you know when you have become an American? You'll know when you become a Republican.
