 

                        Today you are watching an apparent happy Film made out of archive film sequences. It originates from different feature and amateur film animated cartoons but also from commercials and propaganda Clips of Nazi period. It is accompanied by contemporary dance and entertainment music. Hitler's hitparade portraits in a subtitle way, completely without any commentary, the seductive components of the Nazi regime. The film depicts the rapid hijacking of a nation's culture through the madness of the Nazis and the abolition of any moral standards. Shows a composition in picture and sound Johan Sebastian Bach There it begins and there it ends Everything else is small and pitiful in comparison Can you feel it yourself? Pity on those who cannot But would it not be terrible if only such music existed? Why? It can't always be a festival there has got to be music for every day. Tender music, love music and entertaining music. Blossoming country Fast and modern German state television Goodbye and welcome again Heil Hitler What is happening today? Then, again from the beginning Healthy! Pleasure through strength! A new life You do not bring a child into this world just for the sake of it. However, they must be healthy, worthy human beings. A Wedding couple of who even a doctor can take pride Many thanks Mr. Doctor Why thank me? Be grateful to the forefathers of your bride. Yes! Mr. Doctor Then, I wish you all well! Many thanks Mr. Doctor What a charming sofa you have and very cultivated. Yes, you have to emphasize Culture.. they, they always say.. "To be sick!" A classy Fhrer Aaah, the gentleman from the gas works You see, I could spot you right away! You really gave me a scare, so early and I haven't even dressed but that doesn't matter just come on in. You must be totally exhausted from all these stairways, up and down. It is a terrible prediction by all these poor people who can't pay their bills. They should cut them off! Yes, 15 Mark and 30. Either you pay or I have to cut you off. Cut me off! Cut me off! Are you out of you mind. Nobody is to cut me off. This is unheard-of, an impertinent only a defenseless woman in her apartment..... .this is extortion I can only tell you this, that if you give me any problems I have a cousin who is in the party who can bring great harm to you. Protected by the Night Song: "Die kleine Stadt will schlafen geh'n" (The little city will go to sleep) State Police, Officer Freize Open up! State Police We belong to you And now again let's talk about music. It pleases me really that everything follows such a wonderful rhythm these days. When occasionally some free musician comes along, playing according to their own wishes ohh then we won't make much commotion. They will surely get their further education in a "Concert Camp" where they surely soon will get accustomed to the rhythmic cooperation. We are prepared! Eternal woods, Eternal People The tree it lives like you and I It strives for room like you and I. To be, to die, to become, so weaves the time People stand like woods in Eternity. Home, Your Clouds How old are you? Please face me and put your feet together Hear-diameter. ..12,4 Model for the world We welcome our new guests onboard this flight You have inspired me to make this song The simplicity of the melody is the simplicity of your heart. The gentle sounds of the instruments; they are your gaze, your voice, your smile. And this, my ladies, is the highest creative duty of the woman To inspire us, you do not need to make music, because the woman is music in herself She is harmony Our Woman You have hurt me badly this time, but I don't want to make a scene. It wouldn't be of any use to me right now. I will leave quietly Where will you go then? I don't know yet maybe to a monastery or back to the fashion house. The World is huge. Don't talk like that. Curse at me! Scream at me! Do anything! For all I care, you can hit me on the head with this vase. What is that? Such a small vase for my great pain. Amusement for the people I am Frightfully happy. -Only once. Can you imagine, he wrote me back "a letter has arrived" What does he look like? You can't possible confuse him with anyone. has such enjoyable eyes and always laughs so cheerfully and he has got such soft hair and he can dance too. And tomorrow the whole world! The golden little tree But as the dusk fell, The Jew went through the woods, With his huge sack and long beard He collects them all, then leaves hastily And leaves the empty little tree behind The stars are shining Song: "Ein stern ist vom Himmel gefallen" (A star has fallen from the sky) No other country and no other people have got such a treasure of really great musical masters as the German people. We are the chosen musical people of this world and indeed not only in connection with the creation of music, however also with regard to the capability of understanding music in general, which represent the apparent privilege of our people. What touches your heart? Millions ride by State Railway Short brake Song: "Wenn Die Woche Keinen Sonntag Htt" (If the Week had no Sunday) Ach, that is of no concern to me It is essential that I get a new fur coat. I can't walk around naked. You have to realize this and the 4 coats that I bought short before the war, I can't always keep on using them That would be dreadful. Wherever I go and whatever I want, nothing is there. Song: "Ich Wei" (I know) Marvels of the time Have I not always said that I'm a man of good fortune? They have neglected me 3 things in order for us to finally spend 3 weeks together -3 Weeks That is a long period. Could we maybe reconsider getting married? Attention, attention Attention, attention The reported Bombardment troops are in these areas; Hannover, Braunschweig. We will return later All will be good! Next to the main beam, the side lights are to be used. They are to be uncovered by the well known section, looking like this. Song: "Wenn die Lichter wieder scheinen" (When the lights are shining again) And since then, we have been happy because I had realized what my true talent is. My Wife..there she is. This is my wife. What do you think? With whom are you talking? Have I said too much? LIGHTS OUT ! Oh for god's sake, we have to make it darker I apologize, but otherwise we will get complaints. The last Tram Song: "Mit der letzten Straenbahn..." (With the last Tram) Cyanide acid With cyanide acid you can gas huge companies without putting humans or material through any danger Cleanliness is here compulsory therefore do not forget to wash your hands Shower Bath Wake up Germany Song: "Drei Sterne sah ich scheinen" (3 Stars I saw shining) "I want that this film is made, because everything felt so good back then." by Solariz for karagarga.net
