 

                        Lee Sun-Kyun Kim Min-Hee Cho Seong-Ha Screenplay adaptation and directed by Byun Young-Joo Helpless Aren't you tired? Why don't you take a nap? Mun-Ho, will she like the scarf? You're still thinking about that? You worry for nothing of course she'll love it It's perfect now don't you worry, baby How do you know what color she likes? Do you really? Did you ask her? I don't need to ask that Something bright and doesn't look aged Moms love that kind of style, don't they? You're nonchalant about everything No, Im not it's true my mom loves bright colors Why don't you believe me? I do Let's have some trust here Im telling you - Stay out of rain - Don't worry, Ill run Can you get me some coffee? Cold medicine is making me drowsy Why don't you take a nap? Coffee on an empty stomach can make you sick Anything else? I'll be right back Hello? Where did she go? Jesus! This is a public announcement ICould Ms. Kang Seon-Yeong from Seoul please come to the help desk? Lee dong-Woo I'm sorry, man can I call you back? What the hell? - You should look where you're going! - I'm sorry Excuse me, are there restrooms elsewhere? There's one over there IOh my god! No, honey! It's dirty - You were on your way to Andong? - Yes to meet the parents IYour fiances? Lee dong-Woo No... mine Seon-Yeong's folks have passed away Mr... Jang Mun-Ho? Your contact number, please? This is my veterinary clinic you can reach me here anytime Cell number is on the bottom Great thank you Shouldn't you put this in there, too? You can hold on to that Is that it? What do I do now? We'll contact you if there is any development Or maybe she'll contact her friend in the next few days As it turns out quite often You don't understand the engine was running It was pouring down and the car door was open She barely ate lunch to avoid Spilling something on her new dress Are you telling me that a woman who's getting married in a month Walked out onto the motorway in pouring rain with no umbrella? Without realizing her hair pin fell out? Does that make sense to you? I found this pin on the floor of public restroom, damn it! Hi, dad... Seon-Yeong suddenly felt unwell I'm sorry I didn't call earlier Yes, dad I'll send you the wedding invitation by mail yeah I'm really sorry, dad - Hey, man! - Where are you? II'm near your clinic Listen, Im sorry can I call you back? IIs Seon-Yeong there with you? Did she say anything? What about? You know you came into my office last week To open a new account and apply for a credit card for her What about that? Her records showed a history of personal bankruptcy Bankruptcy? IOur records show that you filed for bankruptcy IDue to credit card debt back in 2007 Hey... does Mun-Ho know about this? Hello? Then, she just hung up which made me feel awkward That's why I kept trying to reach you You should have talked to me about that! Why did you ask her about it? God damn it! There could have been a mistake or the bank got something mixed up That's why I wanted to check with her quietly And, look at this see for yourself These are the exemption papers sent to the creditors It's from 4 years ago get your act together, man It tickles Stop it! Let's get married Huh? Let's do that Marry me We're getting married Im marrying you What if we get married? What then? What then? We'll live happily ever after I'll make money you'll spend it I'll cook and you'll eat it We'll make babies that look just like you and live like that Can we really do that? She didn't come to work her phone was switched off I was getting worried Does she have anyone other than you at work she is close with? Who she has lunch with? I'm not sure Then, perhaps... did she tell you about her friends From her previous job? I'm really sorry but Do you think you can let me have a look at her resume from when she joined? I'll ask my boss about it I would really appreciate that thank you Morning! Mommy's here let's get you breakfast Excuse me? There is no such company? No, I just wanted to ask... actually, Im looking for someone She worked there from July 2007 to May 2009 her name is Kang Seon-Yeong Hello? Is this Daeyang engineering? Yes, October 2007 Your company was founded in 2008? There is no record of Kang Seon-Yeong working in administration? I see thank you Mun-Ho? We used to be best friends then we lost touch Im trying to get her old address Yeah, I really appreciate this 2002, that's right Her name is Kang Seon-Yeong You got her, right? Yes, class 3-3 that's right. Thank you yes This is the address they have in the graduation album You never visited her hometown with her? She said she had no one there since her mother died I talked about it a few times but she didn't seem excited about going back - I got it thanks - Sure Mr. Jang? There are two things that multiply like a snowball It's lies and debt Her initial overdue amount was 350 dollars By the time she filed for bankruptcy, it was over 80 grand We ran a free bankruptcy advice program 4 years ago I was in charge of her case and obtained exemption ruling When did she visit you last? Did she leave her contact detail? She visited again when her mother died it was 2 years ago She came to inquire about the life insurance claim - Life insurance? - Yes Her mother's policy was about 50 grand I processed that to her, too This is her file and her statement She worked for a holiday home group then transferred to Seoul office And her credit card bill increased She starts getting overdue amounts, takes out credit loans to pay that You can never pay off the high interest And you resort to subprime loans IThat's pretty much the standard course So, you don't have the contact information of her next of kin? She didn't have anyone other than her mother Excuse me but I have to be somewhere if you're finished with this... no, wait! Do you take the statements on your clients' behalf? No, they write them themselves It's just that the handwriting is completely different - Really? - Yes Give me that - This is who you're enquiring about? - Yes Then, you have mistaken this is not miss Kang - I've never seen her before - Excuse me? Look they're different people But, their resident registration number is identical I don't understand how this can be Hi... what's your name? I'm Mun-Ho Jang Mun-Ho Kang Seon-Yeong So, it's Seon-Yeong miss Kang Seon-Yeong What do you mean she's not Kang Seon-Yeong? You sure they weren't mistaken? Dong-Woo say something Did you show them her picture? Did you check with them? They've never seen her they're completely different people She was using someone's name illegally Come on! She was going to marry Mun-Ho under someone else's name? - Does that even make sense? - Of course not When I called her yesterday she sounded so surprised I couldn't get that off my mind that's why I kept calling you She must've been embarrassed you found out What Im saying is if she had a history of bankruptcy, She would know that she can't get credit cards But, her reaction was as if she never knew about this She must have known when she applied, right? IFather What? Damn it it's my father We gotta find her first I don't care about anything else Not even the police can find her we don't know her name we know nothing You said Kang Seon-Yeong was a different person Who is this person then? That'll be 1.50 Thank you - Hey! You on the bike! - Me? Look at you your pockets are bulging with beer cans What do you care? I saw you steal them Im a cop What the f? Hey! Cop, my ass! You little piece of crap! Stop, right there Not me, dumbass My ex-Colleague here, He was the best we had when he was in active service Pay attention, man Im talking here Guess he's turning into a shy old man Well, I arranged this meeting at your request, Mr. Kang - It's Yang Min-Gu - That's right, Mr. Yang Didn't I say yang? Anyway, this guy was a legend He never forgets the face he saw Sharp as an eagle's eye, his arrest rates were incredible How unfortunate this happened to you I'm unlucky in general I got sacked for taking bribes let's have a drink I'm honored that a veteran officer will take charge of The security at our warehouse I hope it won't bore you too much you know what this business is like Of course I told him all about that Have another drink drink with me, Mr. Kang? Wait a minute what are you saying? The company is happy to take you on On the condition that you find a consignor for a loan Can it be arranged? It's a no brainer you need this job That sneaky bastard! What's he playing at? Fucking bastard Think about your wife she doesn't deserve this Do I deserve it? I wasn't the only one that took bribes I told you to go easy - Shall we get more drink elsewhere? - Screw you! I'm not drinking with you What! You said I should find a consignor This is all of her stuff Her unexplained absence and all... it doesn't look good for the company I think it's best if you didn't come here anymore Im sorry What a beautiful house! No wonder you don't come to the city any more Aren't you lonely, though? I was at first, but you get used to it I get busy with work and looking after my babies Hodu is a lucky boy Hi, Mun-Ho! Do you remember me? How are you, Hodu's mom? I was in town and thought I would stop by look how big he got! He really has, hasn't he? I'll just get changed The country must be doing her good look how healthy she got Her cottage has an open land of over 10,000 sq. ft. She adopted two more retrievers recently - Mun-Ho - Hey, I'm sorry but you think you can finish up on your own? I need to leave early I'm sorry Hi, Mi-Yeon... hey It's me, Mun-Ho can I come in for a second? Look how big you got! Remember uncle Mun-Ho? Of course not Mi-Yeon's looking after the shop on her own? We just do our jobs And live our separate lives How's your father? Doing as well as ever? Look, I got a favor for you What? You got a favor for me? You know what? I've got one for you too I need to find someone it's urgent What the fuck? You think Im a private detective? Jong-Geun She's my fiance we're getting married next month You show up in the middle of the night and tell me you're getting married? Congrats-The-Fuck-Tulation! Where is my invitation? Why is everyone treating me like a piece of crap today? What the fuck No. Hear me out this is my fiance, Seon-Yeong We were on our way To tell my folks about the wedding And she just vanished at the rest stop A lot of women freak out before the wedding That's not it I reported her missing I visited her workplace but she stopped coming into work And it turns out she's not Seon-Yeong This is the girl Im marrying and I don't know who she is I can't reach her through anyone I gotta find her Before my folks find out you know what my father is like You gotta help me there is no one else I can turn to Can't go to the police because I don't know her real name You're not making any fucking sense Start again from the beginning and you're paying me, right? Look what we have here They've been going out for about a year What did she tell you about herself? Hometown, old friends anything She hardly talked about her home since her mother passed away, She had nowhere to go on holidays so, she stayed home mostly Didn't have any friends either I was helping her with the wedding Someone assumes your identity without you being aware, What would that be like? How can you not know? Everything overlaps if you have the same residency number She was about to register her marriage how can you not know? Unless they know each other That's a peacock butterfly's pupa - Peacock butterfly? - Yes She asked whether butterflies can be kept as pets Mun-Ho told her it's possible She asked him to get her a caterpillar That's an empty cocoon transformation occurs in 10 days No friends, no family And no fingerprints Who is she? The records will take some time to come through I'm curious to find out too give me your wallet My wallet? Hey, did you find the consignor? - What the hell are you doing? - Get me some sandwiches Your skin's growing thicker by day Can I get the cheapest sandwich? It's that box It's the stuff she left behind couldn't throw them out You must have been quite thrown Exactly! She just left a note and took off - You didn't keep the note? - Why would I hold on to that? She said sorry for leaving suddenly and left 30 bucks to throw away her stuff She did? Have you seen this person? Could be her friend I have never seen her I see Ill take this with me Thank you Ms. Kang Seon-Yeong came for treatment in July and august 2008 That was the last visit she got treated for atopic dermatitis Kang Seon-Yeong disappeared Two months later on May 2, she moved to this address It was a different Kang Seon-Yeong that moved here Her resume's phony She used Kang's bank account who had a personal bankruptcy She intentionally assumed Kangs identity And was going to marry you She intended to live the rest of her life as Kang If the real Kang emerges, Everything will clear up If she ever emerges The day your fiance vanished, her account was cleared out She's not planning to come back Why don't you tell your parents the truth and drop this? Let's call it a day here I just don't understand Why she wanted to live as another person Must be hard for you to understand But, there are all kinds of people out there Someone assumed her identity And was planning to get married And all the time, the real Kang Seon-Yeong Never showed up - Can this be a coincidence? - What are you suggesting? Mother dies and her daughter disappears soon after she claims death benefit It could be murder, not accident isn't it obvious? What are you talking about? I asked you to find Seon-Yeong Not give this crap I don't care if some woman disappeared Or how much the death benefit was You don't know my Seon-Yeong Alright, fine what do you know about her? Do you even know her name? Stop being a pervert go over and talk to her You're blocking the camera Hi - Do I know you? - No, um... would you like an ice lolly? What's your name? I'm Jang Mun-Ho Please... it's hot out Come on in there are more puppies inside - Thank you - I'm the vet here Nice to meet you you pass here often, don't you? Wow, really? You found the cat? Internet community rules! You should bring her along next time, okay? - Hi - Did he go to his parent's? - No, he went to Jecheon - Jecheon? Have you seen this person? She said she came here a lot with Seon-Yeong IWell, I don't recognize her how do you know Seon-Yeong? My friend was friends with her She was worried she couldn't reach her recently Thank you anyway Isn't she living with Hyeon-Suk in Seoul? Can't tell a stranger everything Hello? Anyone here? Who are you? I'm looking for someone her name is Kang Seon-Yeong I said who are you? Who are you trying to screw? Who the hell are you? Take it easy, man - I'm asking who the hell you are? - What the heck? Why are you looking for Seon-Yeong? What business have you poking around here? What the fuck? What the fuck, man! - You're her friend? - Let go - Lying scumbag - I said let go! Threatening helpless women - You must know where she is - Let go of me Where is she? What the fuck! You fucking bastard! How the fuck am I supposed to know that? Fucking hell! You fucking bastard! I'm looking for Seon-Yeong too What the fuck is your problem, asshole? Fuck you! What the fuck are you going at me for? What the fuck did I do wrong? You fucking bastard! Son of a bitch! What the fuck, huh? What the fuck! - I don't know who she is - I see I'm sorry I thought you worked for a loan shark Both my husband and I are her childhood friends I heard Seon-Yeong had a roommate You mean Hyeon-Suk? This is her Next to Seon-Yeongs picture Bastard The rumor had it that she had a debt over Her mother lived in shame She couldn't go to sleep without a drink That led to the horrific accident The police ruled it an accident, right? There's hardly any need for investigation The steps are so dangerously steep That accidents happen every winter IAt the funeral, Seon-Yeong swore IShe'll get the best burial plot IAnd someone told her INot to go into more debt to do that IThere were rumors that she killed her mother for the insurance money II don't blame her for not wanting to come back IDanger black ice I lied to you We decided to call off the wedding You did what? I told her there is no need to come and see you I can't reach her now, father You found yourself a rootless tramp made a fuss about marrying her And told the world about it how will you clean up this mess? What a pair! He looks well as ever Jong-Geun, I talked about going to her hometown To visit her mother's grave She always said no That she wanted to forget that she had no friends there Forget about her it's over All that was... all that was someone else's story Who is this girl that I knew? I gotta see her We have to find her Is this Ms. lee Hyeon-Suk? My name is Jang Mun-Ho, I called you about your high school friend, Seon-Yeong I was wondering if you got my messages Please call me when you hear this message - Mun-Ho, look at this - What is it? I found this inside her picture frame - Thanks - Look at the date This was taken long before you met her I thought it was a regular house at first but, something didn't look right The sun and the shadows are in opposite directions For January, the grass is too green Hey, isn't this a uniform? It looks like a uniform It is a uniform Can you zoom in on this? No, below that It's a model house From Jan 18 to Feb 3, 2008, There was a home and interior fair at Coex exhibition hall - No event on January 15? - There was a training camp It's a standard procedure a few days before the fair The female employees here don't wear uniforms? Not anymore not many companies do anyway Please get her into recovery It's Jong-Geun Hey You know a company called Caolion with "c" logo - I swear I saw it somewhere - I never heard of this company It's a cosmetic manufacturer It's a cosmetic brand It's famous for its organic line for problematic skin Ms. Kang Seon-Yeong came in for treatments in July and august of 2008, For atopic dermatitis There was a training camp It's a standard procedure a few days before the fair Hello! Welcome to Caolion What's this? Cha Gyeong-Seon? I'm Kim Hyeon-Jun, hr. manager Detective Ha Seong-Sik from Seongbuk precinct Detective ha, you said miss cha may have mishandled our client data That's right We have a secure system restricting database access The access is impossible For anyone other than person in charge You don't understand the seriousness of the situation Excuse me? Miss cha has been living Under an assumed identity for 2 years, The identity of your client who's been reported missing If you can't believe me, check your client database For Kang Seon-Yeong, born in 1983 I'm keeping a low profile for your company I can get a search warrant and inform the press about this Wait... Im sure this only concerns a small portion of the database I'm sure We take in registration forms during offline promotions Miss cha helped us typing the information into the system We store the forms until they are properly disposed There was one occasion the forms got misplaced We didn't make a fuss because it was only a small portion As far Im concerned, at least How big is the client list collected at the promotion? I'll find out right away Didn't cha have friends at work? Perhaps a boyfriend? Probably not, considering her circumstances What circumstances? She had an early failed marriage She always kept to herself Cha Gyeong-Seon Is that her name? she was born in Jinju She dropped out of high school and was divorced Kang Seon-Yeong is on the promotion client list This is probably where she met Kang Her records show that she had a sick leave on December 8, 2008 For 4 days It coincides with the day Kang's mother died If the death wasn't an accident, Cha has no alibi Hey, don't sleep here Jesus Cha Gyeong-Seon born in Jinju Mother died father, absent She reported him missing herself Got divorced within a year her resident registration is expired Her last known address is the local borough office The missing forms are from June to august 2008, for 122 clients Kang registered in July 2008 while cha was working there Kang was visiting the clinic for her dermatitis treatment - Hey, man! - Yes What's wrong with you? What have you been snooping around? Gave up the job search? What did you do with my cards? Here they are not a single card missing Doing this won't get you back on the force Why are you hung up on this? Don't you feel sorry for your wife? What's the matter? Did you have a bad dream? It's okay, Just go back to sleep I'll sing you a lullaby Hello? Is that you, Seon-Yeong? It is you, isn't it? What's going on, baby? Are you okay? Everything is fine talk to me hello? Seon-Yeong? Who are you?! IYou have a wrong number please check your number and try again Are you planning to shut down the clinic? You can never understand The workings of murderers They're completely different species altogether Don't get dramatic You don't know what you're talking about you don't know shit She is a murderer She killed a mother and daughter to steal identity Who are you calling a murderer? Do you have proof? There is no body why are you doing this to me? Wake up and get back to your job Wanna screw up your life like me? You're a smart kid and you have a good job What are you gonna do if you find her? Jesus, man! Fuck Here What's her ex-Husband's name? What? I want to meet him I want to see this man - Thank you goodbye - Thank you Hello How many? I thought she might be dead Excuse me? It became a habit whenever I get a call from a stranger The thought comes to my mind she's dead IAt first, she told me she was an orphan IIt turned out her father ran a small furniture factory IHe took out loans when the economic crisis hit IEventually, he resorted to bad loan sharks Mind if I smoke? Her family split up when she was 15 She stayed at the catholic orphanage IHer mother promised to come back for her IBut she was seen taken away IBy the loan sharks INot much later, her body turned up abandoned near the station IShe was drugged and ravaged I felt sorry for her I asked her to marry me What the heck? - Wakey, wakey - What do you want? Nice to see you Cha Gyeong-Seon, right? Get out of my restaurant Sorry Im sorry I'm sorry Ma'am? Ma'am? Ma'am, aren't you Cha Seung-Taek's daughter? Have a look at the papers Your father owes us all this money Are you a fucking deaf, bitch? Aren't you gonna come out? I told you I would take care of it Hold this what, mister! What the fuck? Are you gonna call the cops again? Go on do it! - Please stop - Go on - Go on do it! - I just need some time Call the goddamn cops, now! I want to go to jail Yeong-Sik! IMy mother had a stroke II thought I was going crazy we put up with it for 3 months IAll the customers left terrible rumors spread IRumors spread that my wife was a mistress of the mob boss If her father was legally missing they can declare death in absentia She can then refuse the succession And be free from any obligations But in order to obtain this status, Every day was hell and we had to endure 5 years of it I drank everyday from anxiety If you take pity on me, please kill him Please kill him, please If you take pity on me, please kill him And let his body be seen in front of my eyes Lord, take pity on me please kill my father, please Help me lord, my dear father Honey? You don't have to count it's 5 grand My mother passed away soon after the divorce To be honest, I don't want to think about her I wish it never happened For the sake of my current wife You were going to marry her? Yes - Will you keep looking for her? - I will She said she was going to Masan to her friend from choir Come here You, stupid, little, bitch! Where the fuck do you think you're going? Wherever you go, your paths lead to me you got that? - Get the papers - Yes, sir Don't fight it That's my girl let's get out of here Come on What? Hold on Can you give me money for the cab? IAfter saying she would come back soon she appeared like that after a year... II couldn't even cry... II don't know what they did with her II sent her to Seoul IMust be harder for them to track her down in a big city She said she was living in Cheongpa I sent her some kimchi and food Choengpa? She lived there even after she got a job Never saw her since? Did you keep in touch? She came here once We lost touch afterwards She came here? In winter, about 2 years ago She was very sick she had to be admitted into hospital for a few days I called her office for sick leave Sick leave? When was that exactly? Ms. cha was admitted from December 8 to 11, in 2008 Did she leave the hospital during that time? Well, her baby died the day before on the 7th Her baby? The baby girl she gave birth to A year earlier We didn't know who the father was Both the mother and the baby were in a terrible shape I sent Gyeong-Seon to Seoul and looked after the baby But the baby couldn't live long She had a congenital malformation of the heart I shouldn't have called her She sat outside the baby Icu all night I had to put her in the hospital but she kept saying weird things God damn it She never went to Jecheon She didn't do it - She didn't kill her mother! - Hey She didn't do it she's not a murderer! I told you! How dare you accuse her? Let's have some porridge What a nice house! Whose house is this? It's my house I'll be living here soon Sure, honey can I come visit? No, Ill be living on my own you can't come Sometimes you get this bad taste in your mouth You feel like it's not worth living Like nothing you do will lead anywhere How nice will it be to wipe your past clean? Jong-Geun, I want to stop I want to stop here Mun-Ho ILee Hyeon-Suk Kangs school friend I haven't seen her since her mom died We're gonna go on a trip but she didn't return my calls Was anything out of ordinary happening to her? A new friend or new hobby? She was getting prank calls You know, the ones they just hang up When was this? When she was living in Cheongpa Her mails disappeared She was sensitive because She had just inherited insurance payout Cheongpa So, did she get the burial plot with the insurance money? She got a real fancy one saying her mother died because of her I got pictures Someone took this for her did you go with her? No, she sent it to my phone The girl she met there must have taken it for her They got tight real quickly Cha chose a single woman of similar age From the client list Someone with no family, Whose disappearance wouldn't matter to anyone To live as someone new, not as Cha Gyeong-Sun Kang was the perfect candidate Since Kangs mother died Opened her mail and kept a close watch Excuse me Then - She became her friend - You dropped this Oh, thank you The best way to become that person I'm going for a charnel house what about you? I can't, right now - Why not? - I have no money But Ill move her later when I get the money I just came to take a look silly, huh? Let's take a picture One, two, three II love you, mom! Wasn't that Kim Jong-Geun? was from July We just need to find her body We're looking for Jane Doe reported After march 17, 2009 We have over 60 unidentified female bodies in the last 3 years Finding a body from 3 years ago will take forever - Must be in terrible condition too - Stop moaning we got dental record Why don't you put her on wanted for fabrication of official document? You know there is no murder without the body Cha didn't kill Kangs mother She had an alibi On the day she disappeared, she wiped her house clean of her prints There wasn't a single print left in her house At least Kang Seon-Yeongs murder was premeditated But you have no proof let's find the body first We gotta find this woman If that's all, get the hell out of here Call Kang he said you can come into work I told him Ill consign Okay... bye It's Hodus mom I posted Hodus records but she never received it Send it again any luck with the cat? Someone she met online is getting it for her Wonderful! More family to keep her company Seon-Yeong called a few days ago Why would she call you? How can she do that After what she's done? What a ridiculous woman! It's scary how someone can disappear and no one might know about it There are so many people who live on their own these days Where will she be now? Must be living her life somewhere Don't think about her and don't look for her I think it's good this happened Before you married her She will have found another name somewhere I am sure that she's doing fine She will never give up she'll need a new identity Kang joined in July Why did cha take It's gotta be in this list Jeong-Hye? Lim Jeong-Hye, right? - It's good to see you again - Hi On April 29, cha showed up at the sports store where Lim works Out of the 122 clients on the list, There are only 2 single women In their 20s with no family it's Kang and Lim We were neighbors when I was living in a motel We weren't that close but she recognized me right away We were going to see a show together this weekend - Anything else happened? - What do you mean? Somebody messing your mail, prank calls You mean my stalker? - You have a stalker? - For over 3 years now I told the police but there's nothing they can do IHe's driving me crazy he even broke my window once Is this her? Yeah - Get everyone together in an hour - Yes, captain I called the police, Asshole! We'll dispatch our men to the venue tomorrow If she turns up, investigation will kick start from there We're pulling an all-Nighter what are you gonna do? Go home you are starting at the new job tomorrow I'll just see her face before I go to work You don't think she'll show up here tonight It's over for you and me We might be needed for statement later Go home and rest - Jong-Geun - Wait Let me take care of something quickly Where are you going? Let me see your face What the f? What's your problem? You, little piece of shit... I didn't do anything I never go near her I only look is that a crime? You little prick opening mails and prank calls IAll the dirty tricks you could possibly choose It's all in the phone record That's not true... really! I never call her It wasn't me who opened her mail Wait! I saw some woman outside her house and work The sneaky bastard is getting a woman To snoop around for him I know everyone in her life I lived opposite her house ever since she moved here It's the truth How long have you been stalking her? It's been only... only 1000 days Pathetic asshole! Is this the woman you saw snooping around? Huh? That's her that's the woman Seong-Sik, last night... we recovered the remains of Kang Seon-Yeong A report came in 2 weeks ago The body's been severely mutilated we're still waiting on DNA result But we got a positive id from dental record Extend your arms And gloves... the stalker boy helped identify the suspect But he's been so blatant that His subject knew about him all along Cha must have noticed him too But the Mo is identical and we have a witness It's past one o'clock Im going back in Have you seen the carrier? Look in the back What do you need that for? Hodu's mom is going on a trip with the girl that got her the cat Someone's been messing with her mail and stuff So, I offered to babysit Hodu Her mail's been messed with? I told you she never got Hodus medical record What's the matter? Didn't you say she lived in the country on her own? - She moved 3 years ago - What about her family? Both her parents died in a car accident She suffered from depression She's going away with the friend who got her the odd-Eyed cat? They got close very quickly They're going to Hampyeong to watch butterflies - I'll be right back - Wait - Where were you meeting up? - At Yongsan train station I'll go what time is the train? You don't have to go Ill call her No, don't! Don't call her Don't tell her Im coming I just need to check something Ill be right back What about the carrier? Mun-Ho! IJong-Geun Peacock butterflies have pupil-Like pattern on their wings When it senses danger, it spreads its wings wide To scare away the enemy and protect itself What? The train station? Hodu's mom? IHodu's a dog's name we call his owner his mom Mun-Ho asked if she is living on her own then left in hurry She is going to Hampyeong with her friend I don't know why he needs to see her urgently ICrazy bastard! - You know me, don't you? - Of course - Give me your keys - Jong-Geun! What the f? What are you doing, man? What are you doing? Jong-Geun! Jong-Geun! I'm sorry What's up? Get your team over to Yongsan station Yongsan? - Request a backup at Yongsan - A backup? Yes! What are you, deaf? Fuck Ma'am! Mun-Ho, what are you doing here? Who's this person that got you this cat? A friend her name is Lim Jeong-Hye Is this her? Yes Hey! Hey! How have you been? It wasn't you? It can't be you How can it be? Right? It was me I did it Who the hell are you? Are you even a human being? Who are you? Who the fuck are you? I'm not human I'm a trash There was no one there for me I did everything I'm... not Kang Seon-Yeong I... no, say no more just don't say anything I wanted to be happy I thought I would be happy Mun-Ho I'm sorry I... Iapologize Im so sorry Will you let me go now? Please Do you know how much I worried about you? How much I... did you... ever love me? Go I won't look for you again But Go live as yourself Don't ever get caught Cha Gyeong-Seon! No! No! Cha Gyeong-Seon! Cha Gyeong-Seon! IThey identified the remains recovered from a reservoir in Hampyeong IAs long time has passed, police is having difficulties pursuing this further IAnd requested anyone who knew the victim to come forward IIt's suspected that Kang died in the spring of 2009 IAnd she resided in Cheongpa Cha Gyeong-Seon! Suspect on fifth floor of parking lot go! Go! Cha Gyeong-Seon! It's over They recovered Kangs body all exits are blocked Stay put Cha Gyeong-Seon don't go any further there's nowhere to go It's over it's all over now Cha Gyeong-Seon! Come with me come clean It's over now that's the only way you can live Seon-Yeong! Stop her! No! Jong-Geun Jong-Geun No, Mun-Ho! I'm on the fifth floor of the parking lot The suspect fell off over here, sir Hey! What are you doing? Come on, man Don't do this - Seon-Yeong! - Pull yourself together - Hold on - Seon-Yeong! Pull yourself together Let me go
