 

                        # Happy Holiday # # Happy Holiday # - Merry Christmas, Bud. - Thank you. Merry Christmas to you. Okay. Hi, chief. Come in. Hello, honey. Well, this is our last night in show business. Some feeling, huh? - Some feeling. - I got the ring and the license. - Honey, we're ready. - Oh. Say, there's a hook leftover at the top here. Should that be? Never mind that, dear. I'll take care of it. - Jim. - Huh? Well, I think that tie is terrible. - Who cares? Tomorrow I'm a farmer. - You'd better go change it. Honey, when you flip 'em those twinkle toes, who's gonna be looking at my tie? - You only have five minutes. Hurry. - Okay, I'm on my way. - What'd he say? - I didn't tell him. Why not? We love each other. You want to continue dancing. I know, but... he gets a look. Oh, he's always had that look. It doesn't mean anything emotionally. It has to do with his liver. Tell him you've made a mistake. You don't want to give up your career and live on a farm. But he's already bought the farm and the license and the ring. Oh, I can't tell him. All right. I will. Right after our number. Listen, darling, don't weaken. Think of our life together. Think of diamonds, of sables, of your own little penthouse. Is that a promise? Well, just think about them for the time being. - Ready, Miss Dixon. - Oh, thank you. - This thing didn't come out even. - Oh, I'll fix it. - We have to hurry. - I love you. I love you... and Jim. I love Jim too. But after all, I mean, let's not be too chummy. # Here she comes Down the street # # My, oh, my Ain't she sweet # # Why, here comes my hot toddy # # Over my dead body # # I'll capture her heart singing # # Just wait until she gets a load of my dancing # # Just wait 'til I start singing # # I'll take her strolling down the road with my dancing # # I can't go wrong A tender song # # And she'll discover my charms # # Some fancy taps and she'll collapse # # And fall right into my arms # # I'll capture her heart singing # # Oh, no You haven't a chance # # When I go into my dance # # I'll take you through life singing # # La-da-da-di, la-da-da-di La-da-da-di # # Boom boom Boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boom # # I'll make you my wife dancing # # If you could dance instead of sing # # I'd learn to love you somehow # # If you could sing instead of dance # # I'd take you home with me now # # Boom boo-boo-boo-boom Boo-boo-boo-boo-boom # # Boo-boo-boo-boo, bo-ba-bi-bo-bo # # The way you sing don't mean a thing # # You'd better stick to your dance # # And as for you Your dance won't do # # You'll have to sing for romance # - # I'll capture her heart # - # I'll capture her heart # - # Singing # - # Dancing # Not much of a Christmas present for you, is it? I mean, both of us walking out on you. Don't worry about me, kid. I'll do all right. What a chump. Can't you see what we're walking out on? The grind, 365 days a year. - When was the last time you had a day off? - I don't know. Maybe last year. Did you ever hear of Thanksgiving or Labor Day or the Fourth of July? - Vaguely. - You know what they are, don't you? They're holidays, days of rest. There's lots of 'em. They mark 'em in red on the calendar so you can't miss 'em. What happens in show business when a holiday comes along? You give an extra performance. Not for me, brother. Lila and I are going up to that farm in Connecticut. We're gonna live by the calendar. - Say, Jim. - Hmm? Uh, there's something you should know. Oh, I know, Ted. I feel the same way about you. You know, we've had our ups and our downs. - We've fought a little over women, but... - I know, but... Sorry, Jimmy boy, but that's life. If I'm not the best manager in the business, I'll eat a mechanic's shirt. Fifteen weeks at the Park Club, sight unseen, for you and Lila. Two hundred dollars a week more than you were getting with the farmer thrown in. - What's the matter? - I haven't told him. - You haven't told him? - You haven't told him? Haven't told me what? What's the news? Well, don't be upset, Jim dear. It isn't that I don't love you. I do. I love everybody. But when Ted explained how much he loved me and... All at once we both realized that we belonged together. The two of us, dedicating our lives to making people happy with our feet. The two of you, huh? Dedicating your lives to making people happy with your feet. That's sweet. Well, I guess that kick I just got was a good start, huh? Sorry, Jimmy boy, but that's life. It's best you found out now. You wouldn't want to make Lila unhappy. Oh, no, no, I wouldn't want to make Lila unhappy. Not now, now that I really know her. What a narrow squeak that was. What do you mean by that? Oh, nothing, honey. I'm happy you're happy. That little speech sounds like the crackle of Confederate money. Well, kids, I'm still going to rejoin the human race. I hope you get a lot of work, holidays included. Dance yourselves into beautiful nervous breakdowns. If you ever want to look me up, you know where to find me. Midville, Connecticut, under a large shady tree, just being lazy. # Lazy # # I want to be lazy # # I long to be out in the sun # # With no work to be done # # Under that awning # # They call the sky # # Stretching and yawning # # And let the world go drifting by # # I want to peek through the deep # # Tangled wild woods counting sheep # # 'Til I sleep like a child would # # With a great big valise full # # Of books to read where it's peaceful # # While I'm killing time # - # Being lazy # - Whoa! Whoa! So Lazy Acres was a snare and a delusion, huh? Oh, brother! There's the hardest work in the world. Maybe you'd be happier back in town, Jim. If you get that agricultural urge again, you can raise a geranium. Oh, no. Wait 'til you hear. - I think I've dreamed up the greatest idea I ever had. - And you've had some pips. Oh, but this can't miss. I'm turning the farm into an inn! But what an inn. Here, read up, brother. "Holiday Inn. Midville, Connecticut. Get off the highway and relax on a farm. Dancing, entertainment, home cooking. Open holidays only. " - Open holidays only? How many of those are there? - Mm-hmm. Oh, there's about 15. - That gives me 350 days a year to kick around in. - You would think of that. Did you get your discharge from that sanitarium? Oh, don't you worry. This is going to work. I'm having auditions every day. If you run into any talent, will you send 'em out? Sure, as soon as I get back. I'm flying down to Miami Beach tonight... to set an engagement for Ted and Lila. Lila. You forgot the flowers. Don't get excited. There's a flower shop out at the airport. I guarantee to have orchids before her first number. Boy, you'd better. This kid even expects presents on Father's Day. Well, good luck, Jim. So long, Ted. Have a nice trip. I mean, yeah, thanks, I will. That reminds me, I forgot to give him... a little Christmas remembrance I brought along. Got one here for each of you. Say, this is swell. What is it? Homemade peach preserves. I put 'em up myself before I went into the sanitarium. Boy, do I go for those! Why, they're great on... on, uh... Or even plain. They're nonfattening too. Well, it's a long trip. I think I'll get along. - Will you say hello to Lila for me? - You've got to catch the act. - We've got some new routines. And then after the show... I don't think they like this nightclub air. Wait. You'd better wait for Lila's. - I think Danny's was the loudest. - It was a different tone. Dawn patrol, huh? Hello. Am I too late? You would've been in another minute. Danny Reed. - Listen, I have to wait on that man. - But, uh... I'll work five nights free. Anything. Just leave me alone and don't butt in. - What would you like? - Orchids. The finest you've got. - Corsage? - No, no, a dozen. Loose, looking like they don't care. - All right. - There. "Lila... love, Ted. " Have them delivered to Miss Lila Dixon at the Club Pierre before 11:00. Oh, I'm sorry, but our delivery truck is on its last trip... and won't be back until after 11:00. How about a messenger boy? It's impossible to guarantee delivery this late on Christmas Eve. - But to help you out, I'll take them. - Oh, there you are. - A dozen orchids, please. - Lady, you're a lifesaver. Here. Here's $5.00. Take your boyfriend out and show him a good time. Let's consider this a personal favor. Well, I can't leave town indebted to a stranger. - Would you like to see the floor show at the Club? - I'd like to, but... Give this card to Francois, and he'll seat you at the entertainer's table. Why, you're Mr. Reed! - Uh-oh. - I'm Linda Mason. This is a part-time job. Actually, I sing and dance. - Mr. Reed, I want... - I know, I know. You've studied dancing since you were a child. You spent long, weary hours in every agency on Broadway. But just now I happen to be catching a plane to Mi... Once you told me I was no good, I could get a job in a bargain basement and like it. Now look, honestly, as soon as I get... Oh, of course, sure. You worked hard. You want a chance. So what? So I'm going to give it to you. - A job? - Uh-huh. A friend of mine is opening a place in Connecticut: Holiday Inn. You take that card out there, tell him I sent you and you'll be all set. - Mr. Reed, how could I possibly thank you? - Don't. Just deliver those orchids and let me catch my plane. This table's reserved for the band. Excuse me! Fussy, isn't he? I think I'll have a bowl of coffee, huh? - And the lady? - Coffee. - We seem to be on the 40-cent tour here. - It is embarrassing. - I'm Jim Hardy. - Linda Mason. - Got a friend in the show? - I'm here at Mr. Reed's invitation. Oh, Danny. Then you know Ted Hanover? Why, yes, naturally. Oh, my. He's quite a man with the ladies, that Ted. Well, after all, he's a very attractive man. - Do you know him? - Oh, yes. As a matter of fact, I've been considering Ted and his partner for my new club. - Oh, you have a place? - Oh, yes, yes. I don't know though. His act might not go so well in a place as large as mine. Well, I've found that the size of a place doesn't matter... if one has sufficient personality. That's what you've found, huh? You in show business? Oh... I'm Linda Mason. Oh, Linda Mason! # I could dance nightly # # Just holding you tightly my sweet # # I could keep right on # # Because you're so light on your feet # # You're easy to dance with # # There is no doubt # # In the way we stand out in a crowd # # Though it's called dancing # # To me it's romancing out loud # # You're easy to dance with # # Loving you the way I do # # Makes you easy to dance with # # That is why I'm always right on the beat # # All those times in one man's arms # # Make you easy to dance with # # I can hardly keep my mind on my feet # # Let's dance forever # # Come on say we'll never be through # # It's so easy to dance with you # # You're easy to dance with # # You're easy to dance with # # It's so easy to dance with you # # It's so easy to dance # # It's so easy to dance with you # - That was wonderful. - It's a great act, isn't it? Here they come. - Who? - Ted and Lila. Hey, what's the matter? - Hello, Lila. How are you? - Jimmy boy! I'm so glad to see you. I thought you were alone. Who's your friend and what's her hurry? - Don't ask me. She's your friend. - Mine? - What is she afraid of, facing me? - Darling, I swear I never... - "Darling, I swear. " You lie. If you don't... - You're on. Take a bow. Encore! So this is Holiday Inn. - Yeah, will be if it ever opens up. - Why shouldn't it open? I ain't one to talk, but you could buy... a half interest in this place for a barrel of apples. Next train for New York's at 7:43 if we can flag her down. Say, I'm looking for a job. Where's the boss? Right here. I'll be down in a second. So you're the big shot that didn't know whether... Hanover and Dixon were good enough for your place. That wasn't exactly hay you were throwing, either. "I'm Linda Mason. " - Merry Christmas. - Merry Christmas. - All right, you're a fake and I'm a phony. - And we're both soaked. - Are you hurt? - I'll check later. - Come on, let's get out of this before you catch cold. - All right. Oh! - Well, here's what cooks. - Oh! Why, this is darling. Was it as large as this when it was a farmhouse? Yeah, it was built by a fellow who felt cramped in New York. He ran out of lumber, though. - Oh, Mamie! - Coming! - Is your names Mamie? - No. - No. Get back in the kitchen. - My, my, what's happened? - Oh, we had a little accident. - Mamie, this is Miss Linda Mason. - How do you do? - Pleased to know you, Miss Linda. - And these are her children. - There's Daphne and there's Vanderbilt. - How do you do? Mamie, will you take Miss Mason up to the guest room... and change her into anything that'll fit her? Sure thing, Mr. Jimmy. Come on, honey. I'll see about getting a fire ready in the living room. Is your names Miss Linda? - No. - No. I don't know. It sounds like something you'd dream about at night. It would be wonderful. Then you'd wake up and realize it couldn't work. Oh, it'll work if I can sell the idea to some performers. They seem to think that profit sharing means taking bows on an empty stomach. So that's why you're not open tonight. Well, I'm also particular about the kind of talent I'm going to use. - Fifteen holidays a year. - Mm-hmm. - You're a lazy fellow. - No, not especially. Just have my own ideas about living. My father was like you. Just a man with a family. Never amounted to much, didn't care. But as long as he was alive, we always had plenty to eat and clothes to keep us warm. - Were you happy? - Yes. Then your father was a very successful man. Hope I can do as well. I came out here for a job. Could you use me? I might find a spot for you. What can you do? Oh, I sing a little and dance. Couldn't guarantee any salary at first. Right now I've got the ledger in an iron lung. - I don't care if you pay off in eggs. Just give me a chance. - Let's see what you can do. - Thanks a lot. - I've written special music for each holiday. This gives me a chance to keep a little promise I made to myself. I said I was going to sing this song at the Inn tonight. I said I was going to sing this song at the Inn tonight. # I'm dreaming # # Of a white Christmas # # Just like the ones # # I used to know # # Where the treetops glisten # # And children listen # # To hear # # Sleigh bells in the snow # # I'm dreaming # # Of a white Christmas # # With every Christmas card # # I write # # May your days # # Be merry and bright # # And may all your # # Christmases # # Be white # # I'm dreaming # # Of a white Christmas # # Just like the ones I used to know # Where the treetops glisten. # Where the treetops glisten # - And children listen. - # And children listen # - # To hear # - # To hear # # Sleigh bells in the snow # # I'm dreaming # # Of a white Christmas # # With every Christmas card # # I write # # May your days be merry # # And bright # # And may all # # Your Christmases # # Be white # # Happy holidays # # Happy holidays # # While the merry bells keep ringing # # May your every wish come true # # Happy holidays # # Happy holidays # # May the calendar keep bringing # # Happy holidays to you # # If you're burdened down with trouble # # If your nerves are wearing thin # # Park your load down the road # # And come to Holiday Inn # # If the traffic noise affects you # # Like a squeaky violin # # Kick your cares down the stairs # # And come to Holiday Inn # # If you can't find somebody who # # Will set your heart awhirl # # Get in your car and motor to # # The home of Boy Meets Girl # # If you're laid up with a breakdown # # Throw away your vitamin # - # Don't get worse # - # Grab your nurse # # And come to Holiday Inn # # Happy holidays # # Happy holidays # # May the calendar keep bringing # # Happy holidays to you # Happy New Year, Ted. No! - Francois, have you seen Mr. Hanover? - Twice, sir. - What happened? - The first time, sir, he came from his room with a telegram in his hand. - He ordered Scotch and soda, a bottle of each. - I know. What then? The second time, he asked which way is Connect-i-cut. - Connecticut. - Connect-i-cut. He said he has a friend there who knows about women too. Why didn't you stop him? How could I stop him, sir, when I don't know which way is Connect-i-cut? Who said Holiday Inn wouldn't work? - We're gonna divvy up a stack of money tonight, huh? - Man, man! I've got a landlady who's gonna ask for your autographed picture. Everybody get somethin'? - Go to bed now. It's gettin' late. - Good night. - Good night. - Good night. Look, it's almost time. It's practically straight up, isn't it? It's practically straight up, isn't it? # One minute to midnight # # One minute to go # # One minute to say good-bye # # Before we say hello # # Let's start the New Year right # # Twelve o'clock tonight # # When they dim the light # # Let's begin # # Kissing the old year out # # Kissing the New Year in # # Let's watch the old year die # # With a fond good-bye # # And our hopes as high # # As a kite # # How can our love go wrong # # If we start the New Year right # - That's it, that's midnight. I'll see you out on the floor. - All right. Come on, everybody! Happy New Year! Get your partner and dance. Happy holiday. Happy New Year. - I forgot my check. - You won't need that, but you'll need your coat. - Happy New Year. - Happy New Year. - Same to you. Many of them. I gotta... - Come on, Jim, you gotta dance. - Oh, you gotta dance with me. Come on, you gotta dance. - No, I can't. Oh! - Why, Mr. Hanover! - That's Ted Hanover. - Wait a minute. I gotta go. - I don't want Ted Hanover. - I want you. This is New Year's, kid. - I know. Ted! - He wasn't drunk. It's a gag. - What happened? Ted Hanover with his new partner. They were great! New partner? - You'd better get back. - I'm sorry. If I'd known how he was... Oh, he'll be all right in a week or ten days. You'd better hurry. Ted! Ted! Ted! Oh. How is he? He's out cold. Hot or cold, he can keep his dancing shoes in my office. - Did you hear that applause? - Yeah, it went pretty good. - And I was worried about his losing Lila. - Losing Lila? Yeah, she eloped tonight with some Texan from Texas... with Ted's engagement ring on her finger. But who cares? You lose one girl, you find another. That's life. - That's good, huh? - Here we go again. Come in! Oh. - Good morning, Ted. - Good mor... Ooh. - Got a little head? - Say, where am I? - You're in Holiday Inn. - How'd I get here? Who brought me? You were clinging to the undercarriage of a jeep, I think. Here, have a slug out of the mug. - You mean, you don't remember anything? - Uh... let's see, I had a wire from Lila... telling me she was gonna marry some millionaire or something. - Yeah. - I remember that all right. Uh, then I had a drink. A drink? Boy, you were fractured. And then, uh, I decided I had to talk to my old pal Jim. - You don't remember anything else? - No, that's all. Except that I must have been killed on the way out here or something. You really come up empty, huh? Too bad about Lila. I think you're better off doing a single. You're a born soloist. Oh, no, no, Jim. I've got to have a partner. And when I find her... Yeah, I know, you'll fall in love with her. - Happy New Year! - Oh, don't do that. Why didn't you tell me? Letting me worry about his losing Lila, and all the time he's got this girl on the leash. - What girl? - Boy, you must've been high. Doing a complete dance routine with your new partner and you... You don't know who she is? I danced with a new partner? When? Where? Here! Last night! Think, Ted. Remember? Wait a minute. I remember. I got here just about midnight. There was a girl. We danced. What'd she look like? Oh... I don't know. All I saw was a vague outline. Can't you remember anything about her? Well, I remember dancing with her. If I ever dance with her again, I'd probably recognize her. Great. That takes care of everything but finding her. - You were here. Why ask me how she looked? - I only saw her from the back. She was a... about this... She had a... If I ever saw her from the back again, I'd recognize her. Well, that's fine. After I've danced with her, I just turn her around for your okay. This should be a cinch. You saw her. - Describe her. - Who, me? Well, I wasn't watching very closely. She was a medium... medium-built sort of a girl with a medium face. She had a... a nice evening gown on with a belt in the back. She was built just like a girlfriend of mine, a girl you don't know, but... her name was Consuela Schlepkiss. She used to play the pinball machine at the drugstore. She was high man three weeks in a row. Thank you. Thanks a lot. That's nothing at all. Happy to do it for you. Say, I've got a hunch, fellas, we're gonna find this girl eventually. And when we do, we'll be glad we waited for her. Listen, I'm not interested in getting any other partner, understand? A chance meeting in the night. Destiny. She'll be back. Here's where we'll find her on the next holiday. - Here? - Here. I've got to go turn the roast. Now don't worry. We'll find her. If I see her from the back again, I'll recognize her. It's kind of a roundabout way to go at it, but let's try it. Are you decent? Yes, come in. - What's that? - Well, I thought it over, and I believe our number would go better in blackface. Oh, I thought we were gonna do it like this. Well, that was before I... before I thought it over. - I'll look terrible in the stuff. - No. - I don't even know how to put it on. - I'll put it on for you. I broke in as a bootblack, you know. Here we go. Oh! For a month and a half... I've been dreaming how pretty I was going to look tonight. Well, here's my punishment for thinking so well of myself. Oh, you'll have plenty of times to be pretty. I was just going to ask you to be in the rest of the shows out here. - You were? - Will you? Will I? Fifteen nights a year... Cinderella steps into her pumpkin coach and becomes Queen of Holiday Inn. What's the matter? I wish I didn't have to work all the other days in the year... to make these few possible. Maybe a little later on when we start doing better, you can stay out here all the time. Did you hear what you just said? - Yeah. - Was it a proposal? Well, it will be when I get a few bucks in the bank. Well, you're a strange duck. You don't even give me a chance to say "Darling" and throw my arms around you. You'd better save that 'til you see the bank book. Well, I guess I'm sort of engaged. Say, what is this, a daisy chain? Uh... well... we were just looking for the back of a girl we don't know. Upon a February morn A tiny baby boy was born Abraham Abraham When he growed up this tiny babe Folks all called him Honest Abe Abraham Abraham In 1860 he became The 16th president And now he's in the Hall of Fame A most respected gent That's why we celebrate This blessed February date Abraham Abraham When black folks lived in slavery Who was it set the darky free - Abraham - That's right, child. Abraham When troubles come down from the shelf Whose heart was bigger than hisself - Abraham - Yeah, man! Abraham The country's going to the dogs They shouted loud and strong Then from a cabin made out of logs The right man came along And that is why we celebrate This blessed February date Abraham Abraham - U.S.A.'s united thanks - Yeah! - To one whose name was Nancy Hanks - Tell me! Abraham Abraham - She gave this land the finest son - That's what she did. - Whoever went to Washington - Who dat? Abraham Abraham When someone told him General Grant Was drinking every night He answered Go on out, see if you can't Get all my generals tight - A... - That's why we celebrate - Bra... - This blessed February date - Ham - Abraham - Was a real fine man, that Abraham - Abraham Was a great man, great man Abraham Good night. I give up. She's not here tonight. You wait here. I'll go up and see if Jim's seen her. Gus is waiting to take you to the station. Remember, day after tomorrow, St. Valentine's Day. - Someone's coming. Use the other stairway. - Well, who is it? - Bill collector. - Oh. - Good night. - Good night, Jim. You'd better get inside before you catch cold. You haven't got a coat. - Well, I... - Go on. I don't need a coat now. Hey, Ted, did you find the girl? This is terrible. I wish we could recognize her from the front. - I feel like a wolf. - Ted! Ted! Ted! - She's here! I saw her! This way! Let go! - Who? Shortcut, come on! Giddap! - Why, it's locked. It's never been locked before. - Oh, me! Let's try the other stairway. - Let go of me! - Go ahead. Well, we've lost her again. Did you get a look at her face this time? No. We're still working from the rear. How do you know it was her? She had an overcoat on. I don't care if she ha... How do you know she had an overcoat on? Well, she... If she didn't, look for a girl with pneumonia. Come on, let's get inside. Say, um, Jim, when's your next show? Next show? Uh, St. Valentine's Day, I think. - Ooh, the day after tomorrow, huh? - Is it? That's a break. We'll get here early and stay until we find her. We'll make an announcement asking her to identify herself. - We won't miss next time. - No. Fellas, how'd you like the show? Well, we were so busy we didn't see much of it, Jim. Why? - Thought the people seemed to like the blackface routine. - Yeah, they did. Don't you think a blackface number on St. Valentine's Day'd be novel? - A what? - It's no good, huh? Just an idea I had. - Well, good-bye. - Good-bye. - So long, Jim. - Hey, lady! - Yes? We open in an hour. You haven't even had a rehearsal. Coming. Oh, very smart. You'll have to talk Gus into buying a horseless carriage. I spend half my life between here and the station. Gus'll have to face the machine age sooner or later, won't he? - Did you escape those bill collectors the other night? - Bill colle... Oh, yes, temporarily. That reminds me, I got a surprise for you downstairs. - Well, thanks. What reminds you? - Nothing. It's just, uh, I want you to remember the surprise... when those doggone bill collectors move in. You sound sweet, but you don't make sense. Oh, the Inn is so romantic-looking! I posed for those Cupids myself. - Hello, boys. - Hello, Linda. Hi, Jim. A lot of paid-up cards here tonight. - Where's the surprise? - Aha, right here. A little home cookin' I whipped up. Beautiful. "Be Careful It's My Heart. " And I ain't kiddin' either. I wrote this just for you, honey. Be careful It's my heart It's not my watch you're holding It's my heart It's not the note I sent you That you quickly burned It's not the book I lent you That you never returned Remember It's my heart The heart with which so willingly I part It's yours to take to keep or break But please before you start Be careful It's my heart That's the girl. Be careful It's my heart It's not my watch you're holding It's my heart It's not the note I sent you That you quickly burned It's not the book I lent you That you never returned Remember It's my heart The heart with which so willingly I part It's yours to take to keep or break But please before you start Be careful It's my heart Sorry, Jim, I couldn't resist it. Wonderful! She's perfect. Light as a feather. - You found her. Jim, you're a pal. - Yeah! Do you realize we've been searching for you for weeks? - For me? - Yes! Ever since... - The girl in the flower shop. - Yes, Mr. Reed. - Where have you been working since New Year's Eve? - Here. - Would you mind letting me in on your secret? - It's no secret. Ted Hanover is looking for a dancing partner. We've decided to give you the job. - Now wait just a minute! - No hard feelings, Jim. I don't blame you for trying. She's wonderful. I feel as if I'd known her for months. Oh, same old feeling, huh? Washington's birthday is the next show. That'll give us a week. - We can open the act here. I'll take care of the invitations. - Strictly formal. I'll get all the newspaper boys from New York. - Hold everything. This is my inn and I'm not running it for a bunch of stuffed shirts. What would you like, the dungaree set? That'd be better than that bunch of chowderheads you'd drag in. Maybe I can't use the act. - Not use Ted Hanover? - Well, the show is pretty well set. - You're in, but he's out. - You could change the show for a special occasion like this. Of course he could. He's just trying to hide his gratitude. Jim, you'd better think up a number for us. Well, just what do you visualize, Ziggy? Uh, let's see, um... For Washington's birthday, I see a sort of a romantic costume thing. - Naturally. - Something that just reeks with grace and charm, you know. - Mm-hmm. - I think the music should be sweet and gentle to... well, to create the mood each time I take her into my arms and kiss her. - That's it. - Don't you think it's getting a little stuffy in here? I could say that you're homely Just as homely as pie But this is Washington's birthday And I've got to say you're beautiful 'Cause I can't tell a lie I could say that you're stupid Nothing up in your crown But this is Washington's birthday And the truthful he of the cherry tree Would look down on me and frown I could say that I hate you If I try But I've got to say I love you 'Cause it's February the 22nd And I can't tell a lie Hit it! Come in! In spite of what good old Jim tried to do to us, your future starts as of tonight. - Now, where would you like to go from here? - From here? Yes. New York? Havana? Rio? We have our pick of engagements. - But I can't be your partner if you leave the Inn. - Of course you can. There's no reason for you to remain buried here. There's a very good reason. I've promised to be in Jim's holiday shows for the rest of the year. He tricked you into that while he was hiding you from me. No matter how he did it, I promised. Besides, we're... - Well, we're going to be married. - Married? - Well, we're going to be married. - Married? Now wait a minute! Let's be fair. He didn't give me a chance. After all, I love you too. From the very first moment we danced together, I knew you were to be the one girl in my life. But you... you didn't even know my name. Please! All right. Forget about me, then. Forget about Jim. Think of yourself. Here's your chance to do the one thing you like best. Not only for 15 days a year, but always. Sorry, but I promised. - Well... - I guess I should apologize for hoking up your number, huh? Oh, forget it. I'm the one that should apologize to you. Here I've been trying to take Linda away from you, - not knowing you two were going to be married. - Married? Yeah. Aren't you? Yes. Sure. Uh... I mean, naturally we're sort of engaged. Oh. Well, um, anyway, I've decided to bow out of here. Linda's all yours. Well, you're a pretty game guy to take it this way. It's happened so often I'm getting used to it, that's all. - Good-bye, kid. - Lot of luck, Ted. Thanks. How are we doing? Two minutes ago, I would've sold my chances for a tired dime. But when a man is surprised to hear that he's going to be married, that's when I go to work with a clear conscience. - Everything's good, huh? - Everything is perfect. In your Easter bonnet With all the frills upon it You'll be the grandest lady In the Easter Parade I'll be all in clover And when they look you over I'll be the proudest fella In the Easter Parade On the Avenue Fifth Avenue The photographers will snap us And you'll find that you're In the rotogravure Oh, I Could write a sonnet About your Easter bonnet And of the girl I'm taking To the Easter Parade On the Avenue Fifth Avenue The photographers will snap us And you'll find that you're In the rotogravure Oh, I Could write a sonnet About your Easter bonnet And of the girl I'm taking To the Easter Parade Hello. I didn't exactly expect the welcome mat, but I thought somebody might say hello. Hello. What brings you here on this bright and uninviting day? I've discovered something, my friends, about life. - Meaning what? - Well, I don't want success. I want the true happiness you people have found here at the Inn. You're not gonna stay in the Inn? Not just stay. I want to be part of your shows, help you in your work, share your simple pleasures. I asked you once not to interfere, Ted. Please believe me, I'm a tired, lonely and unhappy man, but I could be happy here helping the two people I like the best. - Will you take me in? - My motherly intuition tells me to throw him out. - Well, at least give him the benefit of the doubt. - I've given him plenty of doubt. Are you kidding with that "sharing life's simple pleasures"? - May I go inside with you? - Why, of course. My trunks will arrive this afternoon. What do I do, move in the broom closet? - That's no way to talk to a man who's here to help you. - The world doesn't change. A gentle smile often breeds a kick in the pants, but for your sake I'll be big. Hmm. I'll give you a tip, Gus: They'll go up and back, but not sideways. I keep forgettin' this blamed thing can't see where it's going. - Yeah. Well, unload the rest of this stuff in the back, huh? - Yeah. Hey! - What'd you do, get up before breakfast? - Oh, every morning. When I found out how late you got in, I told Mamie to let you sleep. - Life on a farm. - Can't beat it, huh? - Jim, you've made me very happy. - That's fine. - How about you making me happy? - You sound like a landlord with eviction papers. This is good news. Lila's back in New York. I got a letter from her. - What happened to her millionaire? - Slight mistake there. - He didn't own millions, he owed them. - Poor girl. - Always straying to greener pastures and finding spinach. - Yeah. She was wondering if you'd be interested in taking her back as a partner. - I think it'd be a great idea. - Naturally, you would. - But I like it here with you and Linda. - Yes, we love having you too. Uh, when are you leaving? Oh. Oh. - Why didn't you say something? - You look so silly. - Where's Jim? - Inside. Good. I fixed it. Here's the news in one luscious word: Hollywood. I told you I'm not leaving until Linda goes with me. But this is the setup you needed to get her away from Jim. There're gonna be two Hollywood men here tonight. One's a director. If they like your dancing, you and Linda will be on a train tomorrow. We'd better find out if Linda's interested. - We let her know when there's a contract staring her in the face. - Look... I know you're in love but forget it until we get her away from him. - This is no time to be honest. - Well, what should I do? We have to convince Jim that he'd be a heel if he stood in the way of a chance like this. Well, that'll be easy. Like peeling a turtle. - Mamie says these go up here. - Yes. Set 'em right down. Say, Gus, how'd you like to earn a slow $10? Don't care how slow, but sure. It's sure, all right. Here's the wrinkle: I want you to go to the station, pick up a party and start for Holiday Inn, but never get here. - Could you handle that? - Wouldn't be surprised. Hello? Long distance. That's what I want you to do with Linda Mason. Miss Mason? Our friend? You're not supposed to understand it, Gus. With that kind of money, you oughta be able to go by way of Medicine Hat. Hello? Yeah. Just a minute. Long distance. I want to get Parkway Hotel, New York City. Miss Lila Dixon. Didn't Linda say she'd be here for rehearsal? Oh, relax. Our audiences aren't professional critics. - Gus, you made a wrong turn. - Shortcut. - Gus! - Shortcut... to the shortcut. How could you possibly expect to drive through this? I never had no trouble with a horse. You'd better carry me to shore, and I'll walk back to the highway. I think you'd be better off waitin' right here. Gus, will you please do as I say? Oh, all right. - The other way! Turn around! - Huh? - Gus, turn around! Oh! - Oh! Oh! Gus! Oh! Oh! Oh, my hat! - Ya pushed me! - Get my hat! I swear the show will start any minute now. You said that an hour ago. Yeah, but this time I'm sincere. Excuse me. - Who started the show? - I did. You're on. - What about Ted's partner? - You've kept this crowd waiting long enough. - He can go on without her. - Have you gone nuts? I rehearsed a double dance! Let's say it with firecrackers And banners held high Let's have a real old-fashioned Noisy Fourth of July Let's say it with firecrackers Down south and up north Let's have the kind we used to call a Glorious Fourth Let's salute our native land Roman candles in each hand While a Yankee Doodle band Gets hotter than a firecracker Don't need any long speeches Or shouts of hooray No words can say as much as firecrackers can say Freedom Freedom Here comes the Freedom Man On this day of independence On this Independence Day Listen to an American troubadour From the U.S.A. I'm singing a song of freedom For all people who cry out to be free Free to sail the seven seas Free to worship as we please If the birds up in the trees can be free Why can't we I'm bringing a song of freedom To all people wherever they may be Free to speak and free to hear Free from want and free from fear Sons of freedom far and near who agree Sing with me That all God's people shall be free I'm singing a song of freedom For all people who cry out to be free Free to sail the seven seas Free to worship as we please If the birds up in the trees can be free Why can't we I'm singing a song of freedom To all people wherever they may be Free to speak and free to hear Free from want and free from fear Sons of freedom far and near who agree Sing with me That all God's people shall be free All God's people shall be free - Will you give me a lift? - Sure. Hop in. Aren't you Ted Hanover's former dancing partner? Yes, although I wouldn't exactly say "former. " I'm dancing with him at the Inn tonight. But I... Doesn't he have a new partner? Oh, she won't be there tonight. I didn't know that. I- I work at the Inn. Oh? Waitress? - Yes. - I know your boss, Jim Hardy, quite well. Quite well. - He's responsible for your rejoining Mr. Hanover? - Uh-huh. By the way, if I were you, I'd look my prettiest tonight. Jim says there'll be men there from Hollywood to consider Ted and me for pictures. Mr. Hanover's other partner will be missing this chance to go to Hollywood. Yes, although she can't be very talented or they wouldn't be working at the Inn. Ted and I played only the best places. Listen, you're late for the show already. If you'd care to let me drive, I know a shortcut that'll get us there 15 minutes sooner. There's a farmhouse near here, and I'll have us towed out in a couple of minutes. - For the love of mud, hurry! - Wait right here! What else can I do? You're on now. - But Linda isn't here yet. - You've got to save the pieces. Keep those men interested now and do a number with Linda later. - What can I do? - Well, fake something. Fake something. There's your cue! Don't fail me! Keep 'em flying! I'll keep 'em flying. - Linda! What happened to you? - Bad job of sabotage. Excuse me. - Jim, you deliberately kept me from working at the Inn tonight, didn't you? - Yeah. You knew there would be men here from Hollywood who might offer me a chance in pictures. You decided I shouldn't have that opportunity, not even the opportunity to refuse. I was afraid the offer might be too important for you to turn down. The point is you don't trust me to make my own decisions... because they might interfere with your own selfish plans. I've had about enough of that, Jim. Ted! Linda! Mr. Parker, Mr. Dunbar, I want you to meet the greatest dance team in show business: Hanover and Mason and the owner, Jim Hardy. Nice little place you've got here. Even though you haven't seen Miss Mason dance, I can assure you... Hardy, Hollywood is always interested in new ideas and we think this is a honey. We'd like to do a picture based on Holiday Inn. The idea behind it, how it works, the special holiday songs. It's purely a speculative thing, far from foolproof, and we can't afford to pay too much. You don't have to start talking it down because the idea is not for sale. We expect to use Mr. Hanover and his partner in the picture. I don't know how the others feel, but I'd like to keep this setup just the way it is. Jim, would you be decent just once and let somebody else here have a chance? Wait a minute, Danny. The place belongs to him. He can do as he wants. I guess it was just too good to last, huh? A simple little layout where we could do our best at the work we know... without having any illusions of glory. But I can see now that I'm the only one who could be happy here. Go ahead, take the idea. Take the music, take Linda, take the whole darned thing. But we'll need you in Hollywood to write the rest of the music. Oh, no. I work right here. I'll send you the music when it's written. And don't bother me before, huh? I guess maybe I was a little selfish, huh? Is that the deal you wanted, or should I have thrown in my shirt? Chummy sort of a fella, isn't he? Listen, Linda, if you really want to stay here... Don't talk that way! This is the chance you wanted, isn't it? Of course! Boy, are we happy! Happy Thanksgiving, Mr. Jim. Same to you, Mamie... and staff. Didn't I tell you children to stay in the kitchen? Those wings ain't gonna fly away. Now shoo! Git! - Everything's ready and hot, Mr. Jim. - Thank you, Mamie. I've got plenty to be thankful for Are you kidding? I haven't got a great big yacht To sail from shore to shore Still, I've got plenty to be thankful for You're loaded, Dad. I've got plenty to be thankful for - Like what? - No private car, no caviar No carpet on my floor Still, I've got plenty to be thankful for You know, you're better off than I am. - I've got eyes to see with - You need glasses. - Ears to hear with - Or fly with. Arms to hug with Lips to kiss with - Someone to adore - You're a little flat too. How could anybody ask for more My needs are small I buy them all - At the Five-and-Ten-Cent store - Sing it. - Oh, I've got plenty to be thankful for - Sing it pretty. - Why, you ain't et a bite. - I'm pouting, Mamie. - Who is this? - That's Mr. Jones. Jonesy? I'm sorry. I knew him too well. But you've got to eat. The trouble ain't with that turkey. It's you! I feel all right. I'm riding high, Mamie. Why'd you close the Inn and sit around like a jellyfish with the misery? 'Cause a slicker stole your gal and you ain't got fight enough to get her back! Um, excuse me, Mr. Jim, but... - I tried to keep her here. - What kind of keeping is that? Nothing but tricks! If you went to Hollywood and told Miss Linda how much you loves her, and told her that the way a lady likes to hear it told, I'll betcha she'd be the quickest ex-movie star that ever ex'd. - You're crazy, Mamie. - I'm crazy? I knows Miss Linda. I knows her like I knows my own kids. Why, she ain't the fancy type no more than you are. What she wants is what you got right here. But women has to have them things told to 'em the right way. You could melt her heart right down to butter... if you'd only turn on the heat. Mamie, you don't, you don't try to take a fella's gal away from him... after he's bought the ring. - Or, as I recall, do you? - Now you're talkin'! - Or, as I recall, do you? - Now you're talkin'! - Sure! Women has to be told things the right way. - Yes, sir! At last! The night I've been dreaming about, actually here. This is my wedding. You make me feel like a kibitzer. Don't misunderstand me. I'm happy because this marriage means... that we can all settle down and stop worrying. I wish I had your confidence without your viewpoint. My fingers are crossed until Linda and I are on that plane bound for Yuma. - What's worrying you? - I've been this close to marriage before, only to wake and find myself with no bride and a hangover. - Look, the girl has said yes, the picture finishes tonight. - Come in. - Everything is all set and ready. What could possibly happen... Hi, fellas. Jim! Wh-What brought you here? Train. Chug-chug-chug-chug. Wedding? When is it? - Wedding? - Yeah. Uh, well, we hadn't set an exact time. - Have you seen Linda? - No. No, not yet. Say, I saw your director. He told me he was shooting the finale tonight. - Thought I'd like to see how you make pictures. - Uh, he wouldn't... - Y-You wouldn't like what they're doing tonight. - Why not? - That's dull, technical stuff. - Well, I'm a dull, technical sort of a fella. - Perhaps if you'd wait and see Linda tomorrow. - Oh, no! I want to see the finish. The success of you and Linda means a lot to me, pal. Say, why don't you be yourself? What are you up to? Well, I'm a son of a gun. This is a beautiful hunk of welcome for a guy who comes coast to coast... just to wish you a Merry Christmas and a happy wedding. Remember how I suspected you when you came to the Inn on Easter morning? - That was silly, wasn't it? - Now I know he's up to something. - Wait a minute. Let's not be unfair. - Huh? We're treating Jim like a poor country cousin. He doesn't mean any harm. - No. - No. He just wants to see Linda. - Let's show him Linda! - Good will on earth toward men! Where are we going? What's this? Hey! Hey, Ted, what is this? - I was afraid you'd gone crazy. - I'll keep him here... 'til you get Linda on that plane. I'd better get my clothes on. - I'll go on the set and see how near ready they are. - My clothes are in there! - Merry Christmas! - Jim! Pal! - Wait! - Stop! We were only fooling! Only you could think of a thing like that. - Who're you calling? - Nobody. The operator's gone. Take it easy. Don't break your neck. - It's one of the most authentic reproduction jobs we've ever done. - Is it? All worked out from those photographs we took of your place in Connecticut. Oh! Well, Mamie and the kids oughta see this. They'd never believe it. - Anything wrong? - Well, that Christmas tree is a little out of place. I guess nobody'd notice that but me or... Linda. We're going to start rolling. Come along with me where you can see everything. No. I'll just stay in the background. I don't want to get in your way. - Suit yourself. I'll see you later. - Right. All right, we're going to follow you on the boom from here inside the Inn. When you get in the other set, do your song. I think you have the mood. Your Hollywood success was empty. You've lost the one man you love. You know, the usual hoke. Just make me cry and you can get to that wedding. - All ready for rehearsal! - No, please. Let's shoot it. Okay. It's a take! All right, everybody, quiet on the stage. It's a take. Close 'em up! Come on over there. Quiet down. Let's get settled, everybody. Come on, everybody, let's get settled. It's the picture. Get out of here with your brooms. Hit your snow! All right, roll 'em! Sorry, but when the red light's on, you couldn't get in even if you owned the studio. - But, Pop, this is important. - I know. So is the light. Hit your playback! Music! All right, action! I'm dreaming of a white Christmas With every Christmas card I write May your days be merry And bright And may all your Christmases I'm dreaming of a white Christmas Just like the ones I used to know Where the treetops glisten And children listen To hear sleigh bells in the snow Dreaming of a white Christmas With every Christmas card I write May your days be merry And bright - Jim! - Cut it! Cut it! That's it! All right, gentlemen. - How could he get that far in five minutes? - The lady must've been willing. But the world can't do this to us. Here she comes down the street I'll admit my defeat I've won my hot toddy Over my scarred body I knew that I'd win Singing But wait until she gets a load of your dancing We'll stay at the Inn singing All by myself I'll have to stick to my dancing Oh, no, my friend I'm here to end - Your dancing trouble and strife - Oh, this will be fun. Miss Hit-And-Run has come back into my life - We'll stay at the Inn - We'll have to begin - Singing - Dancing We've each other to cling to - You'll be easy to sing to - And you're Easy to dance with So let the old year die With a fond good-bye And our hopes as high as a kite How can our love go wrong, dear If we start the New Year right
