 

                        ANNOUNCER: Tonight, CBS proudly presents The Homecoming: A Christmas Story by Earl Hamner, Jr., a warm and inspiring all-family movie made especially for television. Starring Patricia Neal. The story of a family and a Christmas Eve that changed their lives forever. NARRATOR: My grandfather used to say that nobody owns a mountain, but getting born and living and dying in its shadow, we loved Walton's Mountain and felt it was ours. The Walton family had endured in that part of the Blue Ridge for over 200 years, a short time in the memory of a mountain. Still, our roots had grown deep in its earth. When I was growing up there with my brothers and sisters, I was certain that no one on earth had quite so good a life. I was 15, and growing at an alarming rate, each morning I woke, convinced I'd added another inch to my height while I slept. I was trying hard to fill my father's shoes that winter. We were in the middle of the Depression, and the mill on which our village depended had closed. My father had found work in a town 50 miles away, and he could only be with us on weekends. On Christmas Eve, early in the afternoon, we had already started looking forward to his homecoming. Go on, girl! I'll tell you, I don't know what's the matter with you. You think it's springtime or something? That's the last time you're going to get out of there and run up in the hill. You some kind of rabbit? Now move. Get up. Get up, girl. I'm going to give you some of the best hay you ever cracked your shins on. Open the door. ( harmonica playing "Happy Days Are Here Again" ) Why don't you play something Christmasy, Jason? It's not Christmas yet. Well, it's Christmas Eve. When will it really be Christmas, John-Boy? Tonight at midnight when Grandpa rings the church bell. Grandpa says at midnight on Christmas Eve, cows get down on their knees and pray. You believe that, John-Boy? Wouldn't that be a wonder? I'm going to find out. Going to come up here tonight and keep watch. I'm coming with you, Mary Ellen. Me, too. Me, three. Well, now, you better ask your mama before you go prowling around the place at midnight. How'd you like to bump into Santa Claus? I already asked Mama, and she said she'd think about it. Well, I want you all to listen to me a minute. Try not to worry Mama today. Something wrong, John-Boy? Well, she's got a lot on her mind. Like what? Well, Daddy promised he'd be home early today, and he's not here yet. Daddy'll get here. You know he'll get here. Oh, sure he will, but first he's got to pick up his paycheck, get it cashed and take a bus to Charlottesville, and take another bus to Hickory Creek. And from there he's got to hitchhike six miles. It's going to take a while. Sure. Meanwhile, let's get this wood in the house so we'll have a nice warm fire when he gets here. Yeah, I got it. PARAMOUNT PICTURES WOMAN: ...Heard the bells on Christmas Day Their old familiar carols play And wild and sweet the words repeat Peace on Earth, good will to men ( humming ) Peace on Earth, good will to men. Now, you all come and eat before your soup gets cold. I'm hungry enough to eat a horse. Yeah. This Depression gets any worse, you may have to. Yuck! Oh. Eww. It'll never come to that. Franklin D. Roosevelt's going to put this country on its feet again. You watch my words. ( dramatically ): Ah, friends, and you are my friends... Now, you hush with that disrespect. He's your president. Get the cow in the barn, son? Yes, sir. Storm's going to hit here anytime now. How do you know that, Grandpa? Well, I can feel it in my bones. You pulling my leg, Grandpa? No, ma'am. My bones feel one way for good weather, and another way for bad. How do you explain that? Well, it's-it's a science, Mary Ellen, like anything else. JOHN-BOY: What you asking Santa Claus to bring you, Grandma? GRANDMA: Well, I-I think I'd like a little canary bird. I could catch you a wild one next spring, Grandma. GRANDMA: I don't want anybody catching any wild things. Now, you eat your soup. I heard the bells on Christmas Day You want some more? No, thank you. Their old familiar carols play Mama's got the Christmas spirit. What's she doing down in the basement? And wild and sweet the words repeat Went after apples. Peace on Earth, good will to men Decided to make her applesauce cake after all. Well, she told me she didn't have enough sugar. She claims she's going to buy sugar. It's her money. Well, it wouldn't be Christmas without Livy's applesauce cake. There's too much nutmeg in it for my taste. Who wants to see something pretty? Me! I do! My Christmas cactus. I'd practically forgotten about it. Just stuck it downstairs in the basement last fall. And, uh, would you look? How can a plant know it's Christmas? Maybe it feels in its bones like Grandpa. ( laughter ) I rooted this plant from one my mama used to have. It's 17 years old. Oh, I vow, Livia. Has it been that long? Oh, I planted it the same year John and I were married. GRANDPA: I recollect. Before the World War. Why did you marry Daddy, Mama? Oh. Same reason anybody gets married, baby. Love. ( giggling ) MARY ELLEN: How did you know you loved him? Oh, I just knew. Oh, he was a handsome thing in those days. Wasn't he, Grandma? All my boys were handsome. They took after their daddy. ( laughter ) GRANDMA: Listen to the old man. My family didn't approve of me marrying your daddy. Did you all know that? What did they have against Daddy? Well, my family were big Baptists, and your daddy, in those days, wasn't exactly religious. He was religious. He just wasn't a churchgoer. OLIVIA: Anyway, when my family said we couldn't get married, your daddy and I sneaked off one night and went to see the Baptist preacher. John said, "We're here to be married." And Preacher Hicks said, "Does your mama know about this?" And I said, "No, sir." And he said, "Well, then I can't marry you." Oh, I was scared to death. Ready to run right straight home. But your daddy spoke up and said, "Mr. Hicks, "you are not the only blankety-blank preacher in the world-- we'll get us another preacher." ( laughter ) Mr. Hicks turned red as a beat. And then he said, "Under the circumstances, then, I will marry you." And so he did. ( laughter ) What does Daddy have against going to church? Oh, he never had the time. Mama, this morning there was a red bird in your crabapple tree. Oh, I'd love to have seen it. That red bird's going to freeze tonight. GRANDPA: He won't freeze. The redbird has a knack of surviving winter. Otherwise, he would have headed south with the gold finches and bluebird when the leaves started to turn. I wish my daddy could fly. ( laughter ) Elizabeth, if he could fly, then he wouldn't have to wait for the bus. If Daddy goes flying around in the air, somebody's liable to think he's a turkey buzzard and shoot him down. ( laughter ) Don't you worry about your daddy. He'll be home. OLIVIA: Who's going to crack some walnuts for my applesauce cake? Me! I'll do it! Well, while y'all are doing that, I'll run to the store for some sugar. Well, I'll be glad to fetch it for you, daughter. Oh, no thank you, Grandpa. I could use some fresh air, and maybe I'll meet John on the way. Oh, what we need at this door is a traffic light. Now, daughter, you sure you won't need help to carry the sugar and all the stuff for Christmas dinner? Grandpa, if John doesn't get home soon with some money, all we're going to have for Christmas dinner is my applesauce cake, and we won't even have that if I don't get a move on. ( harmonica playing ) Now, don't get any shells in there. You'll bite into that applesauce cake and break a tooth. I wrote a letter to Santa Claus. Told him everything I want the team to bring. It won't do you a speck of good. How come? How are you going to get it to him? He's clean up yonder at the North Pole. No letter's going to get to the North Pole by tonight. What'll I do, John-Boy? Well, you just give it to me, honey. I'll take it down to the post office and mail it special delivery. I'm much obliged to you, John-Boy. What did you ask Santa Claus to bring you, honey? One whole page of the Sears Roebuck Catalogue. A whole page of dolls. Ben, I know what you want. A train set. That's what I thought. What do you want, Jim-Bob? A teddy bear. Daddy said he'd speak to Santa Claus about it. I've been thinking about writing to him myself. JOHN-BOY: Well, what are you asking for, Jason? ( laughs ) Piano. ( groans ) Now, what is that for? Everybody is so ignorant around here. What makes you say that? Believing in Santa Claus. There's no such thing. It's just something Mama and Daddy made up. I don't believe you. That's because you're ignorant. Son, you're going to be sorry you did that. Well, now, you just want to make something of it? Yeah! Stand up and fight like a man, liver-bellied bully! ERIN: I'm going to tell Mommy you said a bad word, Mary Ellen. I hope she washes your mouth out with soap. Little old mealymouthed thing. I hope you get a bad cold and sneeze your eyeballs loose. Now, you want another swat, Mary Ellen? I'm not going to have anything to do with any of you. What's the matter with Mary Ellen? Well, she's just crazy. Everybody goes crazy when they're 13. The world is a big round ball. 8,000 miles smack through the middle. Walton's Mountain is just a tiny speck on it! Did you go crazy when you were 13, John-Boy? I didn't have time to. I was too busy looking after you children. You ought to be the youngest, like me. Yeah, well, honey, I got stuck with being the oldest. Nobody cares how I feel! You know how I feel right this minute? Like if I breathed in a whole lot of air, I'd just bust like a balloon, ker-pow! ERIN: John-Boy, is the Depression going to last forever? Well, Mr. Hoover says that prosperity is just around the corner. Did God make the Depression? Why, no. It, uh, happened in New York City. Something they call Wall Street... crashed, and they had to close the banks, and all of a sudden there wasn't any more money. I don't rightly understand it myself. MARY ELLEN: When I grow up, I'm going to marry a man rich enough to buy me diamonds and if a Depression comes along, we'll just move away from it. When I grow up, I'm gonna marry a rich man and have lots of babies. I'm not gonna have any babies. What are you gonna have, Elizabeth? Puppies! ( laughter ) Stop laughing at me! Stop laughing at me! JIM-BOB: What's so funny? Well, why don't you just get on over here and do some work and you won't have to ask. I've got no time to be out here cracking walnuts. I haven't learned my Bible page for the day-- I'm going to memorize the whole thing, cover to cover. Feeling better? I always feel better after I hug a cow. BEN: You trying win a prize or something? They don't know nothing. Think they're so smart. Shoot. I can have puppies if I want to. It don't work like that. You sure? Look, when you grow up, you're going to be a woman, and a woman has babies. Want to know a secret? I don't care. What? I'm gonna stay little, not grow up! How? Whenever I start growing, I'm going to squeeze myself and push it back in. Like Daddy and that old yellow duck? Sure. When are you going to start? Start what? Squeezing. Whenever I feel like I'm growing. You're growing? Think so. Where? Here. Did you catch it? Sure. JOHN-BOY: Jim-Bob! Elizabeth! Y'all come on to the house! Let's see if Daddy's come home. Don't tell them a thing about it. Won't do them any good if we did. They're already grown. Merry Christmas, Claudie. How are all your boys and girls, Mrs. Walton? Why, they're just fine. When y'all coming over to see us? Maybe we'll come over tomorrow and see what Santa Claus brings to them. You're welcome to come, but Santa Claus isn't bringing much. Have your boys and girls been bad? No, but Santa Claus is poor this year. Just like everybody else. Well, merry Christmas, Mrs. Walton. You, too, Hawthorne. I never saw anything the way that child has grown. Oh, I don't know what they're growing on. Son! Preaching's a hard line of work, even in the best of times. Daddy's got an extra job now. How in the world do you find extra work around here? Well, to tell you the truth, Mrs. Walton, I'm working for the Baldwin ladies. I'm surprised at you, Hawthorne. Oh, now, now, now, now, now, Mrs. Walton. You know, a man has got to eat. Everybody knows those two old ladies make bootleg whiskey. Well, now, they don't call it that. They call it "Papa's Recipe." I don't care what they call it, it's still bootleg whiskey. Ah, no, I can't see a man starving himself to death, Mrs. Walton. Uh-huh. Claudie, you come around, we'll be waiting for you. Okay, Mrs. Walton. Yeah, put some of that stuff in the back for the ladies, now, son. Yes, we'll take that, and three yards of muslin and six yards of that Atlanta silk. Yes, ma'am. Be with you in a minute, ma'am. I do believe you're John Walton's wife. Yes, ma'am. Isn't that a stroke, of luck, sister? John Walton's just the man we need to see. Well, John's not home yet. We are expecting him any minute. We're in such a fix, only John Walton can save us. Do you think this is pretty, sister? Yes, I do. Well... I don't know. I really don't know. What-what's the trouble, Miss Emily? Oh. Well, you know, after the judge died-- you remember, our papa-- we got so many calls for his recipe, that we had to start making it again. His recipe was famous from one end of the state to the other. 'Course it was tried and true-- been in the family for generations. The judge didn't leave us as much money ( whispers ): as most people suspect. But he did leave us the recipe. It provides for us in our old age. I couldn't exist if I had to live on charity. So we make the recipe. Or did, till the catastrophe. W-What catastrophe is that, Miss Emily? Our machine has broken down. We think that the trouble is with a copper coil. You see... No, sister, it's in the burner. You see, we have to keep the ingredients at a regular temperature while they're cooking. Emily, the trouble's in the coil. There's something stuck in there that won't let the recipe through. At any rate, Mrs. Walton, we're terribly low on the recipe. We'd be mortified if someone came asking for it and we couldn't supply it. Well, wha-what did you want John for? John? My John. Oh. Sister, why did we want John Walton? Sister. We thought that he might, you know, examine the machine and repair it for us. We're prepared to pay whatever the job might call for. Oh, I'll tell John when he comes home. It's been a real treat to see you, Mrs. Walton. Thank you. How are all those dear children? Fine. Just fine. John Walton says they're regular thoroughbreds. Yes, ma'am. I hope Santa Claus is good to everybody at your house. Thank you. Merry Christmas, Mr. Godsey. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you. Merry Christmas, Miss Emily. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas, to you. Come on. Come on down here. Here's this bag. Thank you. Ground's slippery, so be careful now. Watch it. Claudie! Claudie, open the door, boy! ( car driving off ) Where's John, Olivia? I've been expecting him by to do his Christmas shopping. Well, John's not home yet, Ike. Oh, he'll be along. John Walton would no more stay away from home on a Christmas Eve than fly to the moon. Hey, I know he'll get here if he can. It's just that, 50 miles on slippery roads and then that long walk home from the bus... Lot of ground to cover. I didn't mean to tell you my troubles, Ike. I've come for some sugar. How much do you need? Oh, uh, I figure I can get by on about two pounds. Two pounds. What else can I get for you, Olivia? Well, I believe that'll do. You have noticed, uh, I put in a line of toys this year. That's a mighty sweet little doll. Mm-hmm. And your youngest, she just can't take her eyes off it. She can't come in here without picking it up, holding it, babying it. It's hard to explain the Depression to children. Did you notice the price tag reads 89 cents? And worth every cent, if a person is in the market for a doll. I can let you have it for what it cost me. I won't make a penny on it, but we can do it for Elizabeth. 65 cents. Thank you just the same, Ike. If it's a problem of cash right at the moment, I can let you have a little credit. Don't put temptation in my way, Ike. You know, John and I never bought anything on credit in our lives. ( register rings ) Just thought I would make the offer. And I appreciate it. Merry Christmas to you, Ike. And you and John, Olivia. Merry Christmas, everybody. Sheriff Bridges? Yes, ma'am? You didn't happen to pass, uh, John Walton walking somewhere between here and Hickory Creek, did you? No, ma'am. If I had, I'd have sure given him a ride. Well, how are the roads over that way? People getting through? Well, as far as I can tell, Mrs. Walton. Well... merry Christmas. Yes, ma'am. Merry Christmas to you. ( bell rings ) Well, what do you say, Ike? Hey, Sheriff. Something I can do for you? Well, you can give me about a nickel's worth of crackers and... about a dime's worth of this bologna. What you doing out this way? You looking for somebody? Maybe. Maybe. You wouldn't put a man in jail on Christmas Eve, now, would you? I would if I could catch him. You would. Is that a dime's worth? To the ounce. Who is this man you're looking for? Mm, look here. Look here. "Robin Hood Bandit Strikes Again." ( chuckles ): Ain't he something? "Many citizens of the outlying counties "are enjoying Christmas this year "due to the efforts "of the man they call 'the Robin Hood Bandit.' "Each year, since 1929, needy people have found gifts of food and supplies at their back door." "Usually the appearance of such gifts "have coincided with the disappearance of such items from the shelves of local markets." "This year, it is the J&B Produce Company whose supply room was emptied of its turkeys and hams." Seems a shame to arrest a man like that. He's just making a laughingstock of me in front of the whole county, is what he's doing. I'm tired of it. I got me a mind to arrest him before the day is out. And what are you doing looking out this way, Sheriff? I got some clues, I got some clues. Like what? Look here, Ike. You mind your business, and I'll mind mine. Strikes me funny that he never robbed you. Maybe you know who he is. MAN: Yee-ha! ( laughs ) She'll be driving six white turkeys when she comes She'll be driving six white turkeys when she comes She'll be driving six white turkeys She'll be driving six white turkeys She'll be driving six white turkeys when she comes. ( radio playing "Deck the Hall" through static ) Why don't you try to get that station in Pittsburgh? That is the station from Pittsburgh. Well, I don't think you know how to work that radio. Don't tell me I don't know how to work a radio. You're just going to bust it again. Let me try. ( radio changing stations ) GRANDMA: There you go, the Charlottesville station. RADIO ANNOUNCER: In New York, Mr. Lindbergh was welcomed on the steps of City Hall by Grover Whelan. Lucky Lindy, a former aerial mailman himself, has been in Europe surveying the possibility of airmail service between the Old and the New World. He suggests that airmail service between Europe and America is practical, and predicts that in the distant future freight, and even passengers, might cross the Atlantic by airplane. Cross the ocean? Why, I wouldn't even fly from here to Rockfish in one of them things. ...two of America's most beloved personalities, Babe Ruth and Will Rogers. As they toured the wards, Rogers joked with the children and performed some of the rope tricks he made famous on the stage of the Ziegfeld Follies. The great Bambino gave each of the children a baseball autographed by the entire Yankee team. See anything of John, Livy? On the local scene, snow continues to hinder attempts to rescue two men trapped when a bus overturned on Route 29. The bus, filled with passengers homeward bound for the holidays, went off the road near Coseville. All passengers, except for the two trapped men, have been removed. No deaths have been reported, although many injured have been received in the University Hospital in Charlottesville. Over in Waynesboro, James Tucker announced that his store was about... ( clicks off radio ) Oh... I wish it were spring of the year again. Forsythia blooming by the fence and... and the crocus coming up through the snow. Daughter, we don't know he was on that bus. I'd just as soon the children not know about that accident. If it's bad news, we'll tell it when it comes. A telephone is what we need. It's the first thing I'm going to get when this Depression is over. Has anybody seen John-Boy? I heard him go up to his room. He closed the door and locked it again. What does that boy do up there? John-Boy? John-Boy? Yes, ma'am? What you doing up there, boy? Nothing, Mama. Then what's the door locked for? Well, I reckon it just got locked. A door don't get locked all by itself. You come on down. Grandpa, John usually likes to get the trees, but I think maybe you and John-Boy better get us one this year. I know where there's a real pretty one, Livy. Mama, can I go with Grandpa and John-Boy? Cutting down trees is men's work. A girl's place is in the kitchen. But I want to go. I need you to help me make my applesauce cake. Oh, let Erin help you. She's such a prissy-butt. I am not a prissy-butt! Would you girls stop arguing and get busy. Go! What were you doing up there behind locked doors? Homework. I don't see why you have to lock the door to do homework. Some-sometimes I like a little privacy, Mama. Mm-hmm. Come on, son, let's go and get that Christmas tree. Grandpa, you ever been away from Walton's Mountain? Not if I could help it. Spent my adored life right here. How did we come to get Walton's Mountain? Well, it's all there in the family bible. See, my granddaddy-- he'd be your great-great granddaddy-- he come here in 1789 with nothing but an ax, a plow, a mule and a rifle. Well, I know where his old cabin stood. My daddy showed me the foundations one time. Yeah, yeah-- you got pioneer stock in you. You can take pride in that. This is fought-for land. Battles right here? Mm, more than one. Flood, fire, freezing weather, diphtheria, scarlet fever, whooping cough, loneliness, hard times. No, I thought you meant wars. Them, too. Hey, Grandpa, we got something to show we own Walton's Mountain? You can't own a mountain any more than you can own the ocean or piece of the sky. You hold it in trust, and you... you live on it, you take life from it, and once you're dead, you rest in it. Yeah, I just as soon not think about that part of it. Oh, you're not ready for it yet. Are you? Never. There's your tree, boy. All righty. Whoo-hoo! She's a dandy, Grandpa. It's one I've watched grow for all the time of its life. You sure know how to pick 'em! ( chopping ) That's the last string. Can we put the decorations on now? Well, you can get them ready. ( all arguing ) Just take it easy, you're going to break them. Stop hogging. Here's a red one. I wanted to hang that one. Look at this silver one. You can see your face in it. I got a homemade one. I wanted to hang one that was bought in the store. Look what I found. ( shatters ) Now look what you've done. You made me! You hit my arm! I did not! All right, everybody! Now, just calm down! Just hold it! You watch your temper. Well, they're all grabbing at once. You're the oldest. You make them mind. Well, I'm tired of being the oldest. I feel like an old mother duck. Can't do a thing about that now-- you're stuck with it. All right, next... next one of you that moves is going to get a spanking. We'll be good, John-Boy. Okay. All right, just... you just let me get these on, and then you can take over. All right... now remember, keep your fingers crossed, 'cause if one bulb has gone bad, then none of them's going to work. Do you want some help, John-Boy? You can plug it in now, Jason. Okay, go to town! ( cheers ) I remember this one. We bought it in Charlottesville that year Erin got lost over there. I wasn't lost-- we walked up both sides of Main Street two times, we couldn't find you. You probably just walked right past me and didn't see me. All I was doing was looking through the pretty store windows. Then how come you cried when we found you? I did not... What's that? It's a blue jay's nest. Still got an egg in it. You can't put that thing on the tree. It's full of mites. That old rotten egg will smell bad. The egg is not rotten. I blew all the stuff out of it. Inside, it's clean as a whistle. Look at that. It still got bird poop on it. Who wants a nasty thing like that on a Christmas tree? I do, and it's not nasty. You're such a crazy. Oh, turn blue, Erin. John-Boy, look what she's done! You know, Santa Claus is going to take one look at that bird poop and he's going to head right back up the chimney. And I won't get my doll. What's the matter with you, crybaby? Santa Clause won't come because of you. ( crying ) You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Mary Ellen. Oh, you're all a bunch a pissants. Mama, Mama, Mama! Mama, Mama! OLIVIA: What's the matter now? Mary Ellen made Elizabeth cry. She ruined the whole Christmas tree with a smelly old bird's nest, and now she's calling us names. What have you got to say for yourself, Mary Ellen? My bird's nest is the pretties thing on the whole tree. What about this name calling? She said we were pissants. Well, you know better than that, don't you, Elizabeth? I don't feel like a pissant. There, you see? Aw, this bird's nest looks nice there. Oh, it looks real natural. ( door opens ) Daddy! He's home! It's Charlie Snead. CHARLIE: Great day in the morning. Come on in, Charlie. I usually get a big welcome around here. Well, we're pleased to see you, Charlie, it's just that, well, we thought maybe you were John. Oh, ain't that rascal home yet? We're mighty worried, Charlie. Well, I don't blame you. Uh, Charlie, would you like a cup of coffee or something? No, I can't stay but a minute, Olivia. But I did know that John wouldn't have a chance to do much hunting this Christmas, so I thought he'd... appreciate a little meat on the table. Oh, Charlie... I-I don't know how to thank you. You don't have to say nothing to me, Olivia. Oh... this is the answer to my prayer. GRANDMA: Fine bird, all right. Where'd he come from? Um... oh, I shot him up on Wale's Mountain. Don't appear to be no wild turkey to me. Never saw a wild turkey this clean. What kind of shot you use? Didn't. Got him clean through the head with a single bullet. A sitting-still bird? You shot a sitting-still bird? At 36 paces, Mrs. Walton. Clean off the limb of a dead chestnut tree. OLIVIA: I declare. I think I'll cook him tonight. Sure looks like a store-bought turkey to me. Oh, won't John be surprised when he walks in that door and finds a Christmas turkey roasting in the oven? Well, look here, I, uh... I got some more stops to make before the night's over, so I'll just, uh, wish y'all a merry Christmas. Oh, Charlie, stay and have some of my applesauce cake. We'll slice one warm from the oven. I can't, Olivia, but I'm much obliged to you. Why don't I, you know, stop in tomorrow and spend a little bit of time with John? You do that, now. Night, everybody. Bye, bye. Night, Charlie. Hey, Mama, where you reckon Charlie got that bird? Getting late, John-Boy. Milk the cow. I think milking a cow is about the most disgusting thing anybody ever did. You know any other way to get the milk out? Jay said it would be a lot easier if you could just screw off her tail and dip it out with a gourd. ( chuckles ) Did you ever have a date? Oh, sure. I mean, a real date. Well, yeah, I've had real dates. Remember that time after prayer meeting when you walked home with Gwen Foster? Yeah. What'd you do? ( cow bellows ) We just walked. What else? Nothing else. Did you kiss her? I tried to. Why didn't you? ( sighs ) Her daddy come out on the porch. Have you kissed many girls? Well, yeah, I've kissed a few. On the lips? Why, sure. What was it like? ( cow bellows ) It was right nice. I don't think I've got long to live. Oh, Mary Ellen, will you quit? Well, I just feel like any minute now I'm just going to... just explode! By the time I'm 14, they'll wrap me in bed sheets and hide me in the attic. You better calm yourself down, girl. ( sighs ): I am calm! I will be calm! I am a calm person! You got the growing pains. When do they stop? One morning you're going to wake up, and they'll all be gone. One day I expect you'll be a right pretty girl. What good's a pretty face with a figure like this? Mm, they'll grow. What? Your bosoms. ( cow bellows ) You know, one day you might even grow up to be as pretty as your mama. Hey, I'll race you home. I spill this milk, Mama will kill me. Okay, then I'll race myself home. FIBBER: ...giving me that pitch about Kenny and Raddy and Buddy. TEENY: Hi, mister. Hi, Mrs. McGee. FIBBER: Hi. I'm very busy right now, Teeny. MOLLY: Hello, Teeny. You having fun? TEENY: Sure. Me and Kenny and Buddy and Raddy and Johnny have been practicing our Christmas carols. Mama, do you think I'm pretty? No. I think you're beautiful. Thanks, Mama. You're welcome, Mary Ellen. Where is everybody? They're in there listening to the radio. TEENY: Well, okay, then. So long, Mrs. McGee. Hey, kids... FIBBER: Darn kids. Breaking my back shoveling snow. MOLLY: Why don't you let the children sing for you and get it over with, McGee? You ought to sit down and rest a while anyhow. FIBBER: You know why I don't let 'em sing for me, Molly. Churning in the living room? Shh! Well, I just want to listen to Fibber and Molly like everybody else. FIBBER: I get all mushy, and start forgiving everybody for everything they ever done to me. Uh-oh. MOLLY: What is it, McGee-- did you find the key ring? FIBBER: I don't know-- there's something here, all right, close to the sidewalk. ( Fibber yells ) MOLLY: What was it? FIBBER: The toe of my overshoe! ( knocking ) Hey, Mrs. Walton. My goodness, Claudie. Where are all your boys and girls? They're in the living room. What brings you out on such a cold, cold night? I got a surprise for your boys and girls. Well, come in and tell 'em about it. MOLLY: The big window knocked over the floor lamp... Look who's here. Hey, everybody. Hey, Claudie. Mom said she saw you. Merry Christmas. Claudie says he's got a surprise. Turn that off. They got a missionary box down at the store. Some woman showed up with presents. Says she's going to start handing out presents just as soon as they get a crowd. Hey, let's go. Hey, yeah! OLIVIA: Wait a minute. We do not accept charity in this house. You took that turkey from Charlie Snead. That's enough out of you, John-Boy. Why don't you let 'em go? I can't see anything wrong with 'em getting a toy, an apple, or a candy bar. Mama, can't we go down there and just watch? What fun would that be? It would be something to do. Can't we go as long as we don't take anything? Mama, we'll just watch and see what the others get. MARY ELLEN: Please? GRANDPA: Let 'em go, Livy. Well... Oh, maybe it wouldn't do any harm just to go and watch. ( cheering ) Now, don't you all stay down there too long. We won't, Mama. We won't, Mama. And, and... hold... and-and hold... somebody hold Elizabeth's hand. I will, Mama. Uh-uh-uh, Ben, button up your coat. WOMAN: Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas, children! How lovely of you to come. I thought I'd never make it. I've never seen it so slippery out. Oh, come in, children. Join us. I know it's cold, and you want your presents-- but first, I want you to know why I am here. Who knows what a missionary is? Somebody who spreads the gospel to the infidels. Exactly! And I am a missionary. This year, I said to the ladies in our society, "Why look to some foreign country for heathens "when the Blue Ridge Mountains are filled with 'em?" So we didn't send off our gifts to some unappreciative savages, but to you, whose need is just as great. Now, that is why I am here, and we shall begin with a song. Who knows a good song? "Away in the Manger." Splendid! How would you like to start? Away in the manger No crib for his bed The little Lord Jesus lay down his sweet head The stars in the sky looked down where he lay The little Lord Jesus asleep in the hay Oh, again, again! Louder! Wonderful! Third verse. The cattle are lowing, the baby awakes But little Lord Jesus No crying he makes I love thee, Lord Jesus Look down from the sky And stay by my cradle till morning is nigh. That... that was lovely, children. Now, as everybody knows, Christmas is Jesus' birthday, and since the Bible is Jesus' book, I want everybody who comes up here for a present to have a Bible quote to tell me. "To be or not to be"? ( whispering ): That's not the Bible-- that's Shakespeare. Anybody here know one? "What is man that thou art mindful of him?" Thanks, Mary Ellen. "What is man that thou art mindful of him?" "What is man that thou art mindful of him?" That is a good quote and a good question. Do you know what it means? Does anyone? It means he's so big, and we're such puny little old things, why does he mess around with us. Indeed! Yes! Splendid! Come along-- someone else! "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lambs." "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lambs." Oh... what a pleasure you must be to your Sunday school teacher. Got another one? "What is man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" Too hard to remember. "Jesus wept." "Jesus wept." Lord love you, child. ( rattling ) Got another one? "Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins which feed among the lilies." Shh! "Solomon's Song," chapter four, verse five. "Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins which feed among the lilies." "Solomon's Song," chapter four, verse five. Thank you. Now... I have one for a little girl. How about you, dear? "Cast not your pearls before swine." "Cast not your pearls before wine." ( laughs ): Come on. It's perfect for you. It's perfect for you. What's Daddy going to say? We won't tell him. He'll find out! Well, we'll just make Elizabeth hide it. What'd you get, honey? I think it's a doll. It's dead! Somebody killed it! Oh, sweetie. Shh... It's okay. Now, maybe we can fix it. MARY ELLEN: Not in a million years. Want to go home? Come on. It's 10:00, and Daddy's still not home. Mama's real worried, and the rest of us are, too. On top of everything else, we went down to the store, and a lady was giving away presents. Elizabeth got a broken doll, and it scared her. Nobody ever gave away anything worth keeping, I... I guess. I been thinking about myself and wondering what's wrong with me. I just can't seem to stop growing. Mama says it's natural, but I'm scared if I keep getting taller I'll be a freak or something. I wish I could see a doctor about it. RADIO ANNOUNCER: ...the city are deserted at this hour as Christians begin the observance of this holiest of holidays in their churches and homes. Church attendance is lower in the valley than had been expected. I thought John-Boy was in here. He went upstairs. The storm arrived... Livia, I, uh, I think he's keeping some kind of secrets up there. Lord knows, he worries me to death. Every time I want to see him, he's up there with the door locked. Hush a minute. Stranded travelers are being given food and lodging by local churches and the Red Cross. One death has been reported from the bus accident near Coseville. The names of the injured are being withheld until next of kin are notified. The Merchant's Christmas Parade was interrupted briefly due to a fire at the Hamilton Cooke Hardware Company. The blaze was brought under control quickly, and the parade continued to the corner of 2nd and Main. There's not a thing we can do but sit and wait. Can't sit and wait one more minute. President Roosevelt and his family have gathered for the traditional Christmas Eve dinner. Later this evening the president... John-Boy? John-Boy? Mama? ( door rattling ) Just a second, Mama. Unlock this door. Are you smoking cigarettes up here? No, ma'am. Then what are you doing? Nothing, Mama. Then what's the door locked for? Mama, well, I just locked it without thinking. Are you hiding something in that bed, John-Boy? Yes, ma'am. I'd like to know what you're hiding. A tablet. Why in the world would anybody want to hide a tablet? Mama, you know, I have a right to some kind of privacy in this house. I just don't understand you, John-Boy. Hiding things under a mattress? Is it something you're ashamed of? Oh, no, ma'am. Then why are you hiding it? What's in that tablet, Mama? All my secret thoughts. What I feel, and what I think about. What it's like late at night to hear a whippoorwill calling and hear its mate call back. The rumbling of the midnight train crossing the trestle at Rockfish, or just watching the water go by in the creek and knowing someday it'll reach the ocean. Wondering if I'll ever see an ocean and what a wonder that would be. You know, Mama, sometimes I hike on over to the highway and I just sit and watch the busses go by and the people in them, and I'm wondering what they're like and what they say to each other, and where they're bound for. Things stay in my mind, Mama. I can't forget anything. And it all gets bottled up in here, and sometimes I feel like a crazy man. I... I can't rest or sleep or anything till I just rush off up here and write it down in that tablet. Sometimes I think I really am crazy. I do vow. If things had been different, Mama... I could have done something with my life. Oh... Oh, you will, John-Boy. You've got a promising future. Well... What I would have liked, Mama... was to have tried to be a writer. Well... if that's what you want, c-couldn't you still try? Oh, no, not in these times. You know, it takes a college education to be a writer and anyway, even if we did have the money, it wouldn't be right to risk it all on me. Anyway, I couldn't disappoint my daddy. You know he's got his heart set on my taking up a trade. He just wants you to know how to make a living. Well, I could sure never do that scribbling things down in a tablet. We'll talk about this some more, but... Here. Right now, we've got something else to talk about. There's not going to be any more busses tonight. Daddy won't get home, will he? Not unless somebody goes after him. Well, I can't get very far on foot, but I'll do the best I can. You go see if you can find Charlie Snead. Okay. Uh, maybe, maybe he's still down at the store. His car was down there a while ago. You ask Charlie to drive you over to Charlottesville. That old car of his can get through where a bus never would. Here's a dollar to pay for the gas. If you don't see anything of your daddy along the way, then you go to the bus station. If he's not there, try the hospital. Well, he wouldn't be in any hospital. Son, a bus went off the road earlier today. There's one man dead, and some others hurt. I didn't want to burden you with it, but now I think you've got to know. I guess... I guess I'd better get moving. Here, you... better unwrap this now. It was going to be under the tree in the morning, but I think you need it now. Much obliged to you, Mama. I knitted a set for each of you. It's all the Santa Claus there's going to be this year. Can't get over how tall you're getting. Me, either. It's a man's job I'm sending you on. Don't let me down. I won't, Mama. Wrap up good, now. Where are you going, son? To find my daddy. ( bell rings ) Hi, Charlie. Howdy, Ike. Hey, John-Boy. Hey, uh, what happened, Charlie? Did you ever see such a messed-up situation in your whole life, son? Well, what's he got you handcuffed for? Well, it's all a mistake. I come by to have a... a soda pop with Ike here, the first thing I know, the law comes stomping in and slaps these cuffs on me like I was Al Capone. I tried to get word to you, he's been hanging around here since the middle of the day. Well, how was I to know that? I didn't see no sheriff's car. He outsmarted you, Charlie. He parked out in back. Well, he's got the wrong man, Ike. You know that. I wish I did. What do you mean by that? I mean all them hams and turkeys and canned goods you got out in the back of your car. Why, half of them still has the name of the store they come from marked on them. I found all that stuff, Ike. Now, it must have just, you know, slipped off somebody's truck. That's right, son. I swear, I found every bit of that stuff. Mm-hmm. You found them, all right. You found them in the storage room of the J&B Produce Company after you busted in there last night. I was right here where I am now last night. Ike, you tell him. It's a fact, Sheriff. Charlie was right here up till closing time. Uh-huh. And right after closing time, he hightailed it over to the J&B Produce Company. Sheriff, why don't you just wait until after Christmas to lock him up? Uh, Charlie is a man of his word. He won't run out on you. Uh-huh. You double-dog right he won't. He's going to jail. Well, now, Christmas ain't no time to lock a man up in that drafty old jail of yours. Why, I could, I could catch pneumonia and die 'fore morning. You want that on your conscience? That I caught pneumonia and died on Christmas Day? You should have give that some thought while you was lifting them turkeys and hams. Come on, Ike. I'll set them up. John-Boy, you, you run on home and tell your daddy the fix I'm in, will you? Uh, my daddy ain't home yet. I guess something is really wrong if, if John ain't got in by now. ( sighs ): Yeah, I know, Mama sent me down here hoping you'd take me over to Charlottesville, see if we could find him. She even give me a dollar for the gas. Oh... Messed-up situation! Ike! Coming. Ike, listen, keys to my car are in this pocket, right over here. Now you take them and drive that boy on over town, will you? Oh, Charlie, you know I can't do that until the law finishes his pool game. John-Boy, you know how to drive? Oh, well, Daddy used to let me drive that old DeSoto he used to have. Uh-huh, well, that's good enough. Here. Keys are right in my pocket. Go ahead and take them. All right. Charlie! You can't let this boy drive halfway across the county with a carload full of stolen goods! You leave that up to the boy. If he wants to take the chance, car's his. I appreciate it, Charlie. ( bell rings ) ( coughing ) Ike, you got any, uh... you got any Christmas cheer in this place, huh? Well, I got a little of Miss Emily's and Miss Mamie's recipe... for snakebite. Ah, dogies, I believe he got me just now, look at that. ( laughs ) Huh? MAN: John-Boy. John-Boy. John-Boy! Yes, sir? You've taken care of things while I'm away? Yes, sir, Daddy. You remember that bird story, Daddy, when you were a boy? The old yellow duck? That old yellow duck. ( laughs ) Had me this old yellow duck when I was six. Just a baby. Wanted to keep him little, so every day I'd squeeze him to keep him from growing. One day I squeezed too hard, and he died. Like anything, it'll die unless it grows. You remember when I'd bring your lunch to the shop, sit and listen to you and the other men talk? You taking care of things? Yes sir, Daddy. A man ought to learn a trade. I remember. Night you were born, I wanted to wake the world-- My name is John-Boy Walton. All my babies are thoroughbreds. When I was little I used to sit way over John-Boy? in the field and pretend I was sailing on an ocean. John-Boy! Dusk would fall, and they would call me. John-Boy! Here, Daddy. Come home! I want to be like you, Daddy. I'm trying. You're doing fine, John-Boy. I try to hunt, but I hate hunting. I'll go hunting with you if that's what you want. Here he comes now. Now don't get buck fever. I can't. Aim right behind the shoulders. I can't! Now! Now! I can't! Aim for the heart. I can't! Now! I want to be like you. You're doing fine, son. I'm trying. You'll find your own way, son, mine's my way. I'm trying. John-Boy? I'm trying, Daddy. I'm trying. John-Boy! ( engine rattling ) ( turns off engine ) ( engine grinding ) ( in distance ): O holy night The stars are brightly shining It is the night of our dear Savior's birth Long lay the world in sin and error pining Till he appeared And the soul felt its worth The thrill of hope... Come on and sing! That's it! The world rejoices for yonder breaks a new And glorious morn Fall on your knees O hear the angels' voices O night divine O night when Christ was born O night divine O night O night Divine. Praise the Lord, praise Him! ( applause ) That's what I like to hear! You know, I'm so glad all of you just weathered this here storm with all that snow falling down out there tonight, and you came right on in. And you know what the Good Book says. "Where there are two or three gathered in My name..." ( congregation agreeing ) You know, two or three! ( congregation agreeing ) Not 153, but "two or three gathered in My name..." Hallelujah! "There I am also." ALL: Amen! We're going to have a good service here. The children have been working on something. Marty, I want you to pull that curtain on back, and we're all going to hum "O Little Town of Bethlehem," and we're going to see what these children have worked out for us today. And let's really support them, all right? Let's all start. ( humming "O Little Town of Bethlehem" ) "And it came to pass that in those days "there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, "that all the world should be taxed. "And all went to be taxed, everyone unto his own city, "and Joseph went also up from Galilee "out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, "unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem "to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, "being great with child. "And so it was that while they were there, "the days were accomplished that she should be delivered, "and she brought forth her firstborn son "and wrapped him in swaddling clothes "and laid him in a manger, "because there was no room for them in the inn. "There were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, "keeping watch over their flock by night--" Come on in, Johnny, boy. Come right on in. Bring the shepherd on in, bring the sheep on in, that's it, that's it, that's it. Bring them, come on over here. ( sheep bleating ) Come on over here. You know, it takes a little time, but the Lord's going to be with us. Yes, Lord. Hallelujah. Let's get an "Amen." CONGREGATION: Amen! "And, lo! "The angel of the Lord," I said, "the angel of the Lord "came upon them. "And the glory of the Lord shone around them, "and they were so afraid. "And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you tidings of the great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto is born this day, in the city of David, a savior, which Christ the Lord. ALL: Yeah! Amen! Hey, Mary, what you gonna name That pretty little baby? Some call him one thing I think I'll call him Jesus Hey, Mary, what you gonna call That little pretty baby? Some call him one thing I think I'll call him Emanuel Hey, Mary What you gonna name that pretty little baby? Some call him one thing I think I'll call him Savior. Hey, let's give the children an "Amen"! ALL: Amen! That's so nice! Very glad. Had a little trouble there, but we got through it. Let's all bow our heads in prayer. O most gracious Father, we thank thee for this cold evening, and the warm hearts that are here in church tonight. ALL: Amen. We ask thee, O Lord, to help us to be worthy of this marvelous Savior. We ask this in Your name's sake. Amen. ALL: Amen. Let's give the children another big hand. ( applause ) ( knocking on wall ) Is there somebody knocking at the door back there? Merry Christmas! All right! Merry Christmas! Hello, sonny boy. Merry Christmas to you, son. Merry Christmas, John-Boy. Merry Christmas, Hawthorne. Now, how come you're out here so late this time of night, huh? Well, I was out in Charlie Snead's car looking for my daddy, and I run out of gas. I was wondering if you knew where I could find some. No, but I can give you a ride over to Ike's store, but I'm afraid it's closed by now. You got one before. Didn't you get one? Okay. Merry Christmas. Oh, I think you're best bet would be the Baldwin place. Well, they don't sell gas. Oh, no, no, they, uh, you know, they have customers come in there to get some of the recipe, and we can borrow a little gas from them. All right? I reckon that's worth a try. And if there ain't nobody there, well, then, we'll just burn a little of the recipe. All righty. Let me take care of the kids and send them on home, and then we'll be on our way, all right? Claudine! Emerine! Ike! Y'all better come on home now. I got to take care of business here this evening. Ah! Remember this one, Mamie? Ashley Longworth brought it that Christmas he came courting. I still think of Ashley now and then. Did you know that? Yes. What? Yes! He thought highly of you. But he loved me. Someone has run out of the recipe. Did it ever occur to you, sister, that if I'd married Ashley Longworth, you would be carrying on the Christmas tradition all alone. Mamie? Mamie! You've missed every word I've said. Oh, well, just because you're gone, there's no reason not to carry on the conversation, is there? Do you remember that Christmas, oh, Poppy had all the cousins from Buckingham County here, and the house caught fire? It's Hawthorne Dooley, Miss Mamie. Oh. How nice of you to call. Who else is out there? John-Boy Walton, Miss Mamie. Oh, come in. Come in. We called the fire engines out, they didn't get here for ages, and Poppy had to come find me in his nightshirt. Oh, I shouldn't have mentioned that. Came back in the house, and everybody started drinking the recipe and having a fine time. Company, Emily. Two Christmas travelers. Oh! I know you. Do I know you? John-Boy Walton, Miss Emily. Mercy! You're nearly as big as your daddy. Yes, ma'am. And, uh, Hawthorne? Evening, Miss Emily. You all, uh, together? Oh, that's just about the size of it, Miss Emily. Well, isn't this a treat, sister? Company on Christmas Eve. My sister and I were just having our Christmas joy. Come on in by the fire and enjoy it with us. Uh-huh. No, I got no time for Christmas joy. I thought we come here to get some gas. You're going to get it, boy. But you don't rush these ladies. Now... But they're crazy! Then you just play crazy, too. Yoo-hoo! Take seats, take seats. Oh, why, we can't stay, Miss Emily. But you only just got here. ( sighs ): Well... Isn't this jolly? ( nervous chuckle ) JOHN-BOY: Is that the judge? MAMIE: Yes, indeed. These are the judge's quarters. Spent the last eight years of his life in these rooms reading his law books and drinking the recipe. And entertaining his friends. Sister! Those stories simply are not true. There were no ladies. Only gentlemen. Except for Miss Flossie and Miss May. Cousins, sister! Cousins! Papa always called them cousins. Well, they certainly dropped out of the family after Papa died. Oh, the judge certainly was a gadabout. Wasn't he ever? Yes. Sister... Why, some nights, he'd just vanish and never volunteer to tell either of us where he'd been. Oh, didn't he ever tell you where he went on those nights? Sometimes I suspected it was something we had no right to know. Oh. Well, now, I'll tell you. He used to come and visit my papa. The judge would show up in the evening with a whole gallon jug of the recipe, and then he and Papa would sip and they'd sip and they'd sip. Then 'long about 10:00, one of them would start to singing, and then the other one would join in. "When the Roll Is Called Up Yonder," I wager. Oh, yeah, that was one of their favorites. Yes, it was. And they'd keep on singing until, uh, they couldn't stand up. Yeah. And then Mama, she'd put them to bed, and they'd just keep on singing until they fell asleep. ( laughing ) EMILY: He knew that hymnal from front to finish. ( sotto voce ): I have got to go. What's that? Oh, nothing, Miss Emily. ( sotto voce ): You have got to stay. EMILY: You gentlemen must be frozen to death. Take off those wet boots and let them dry by the fire while we visit. No, we really can't stay, Miss Emily. You see, we... you see, we... MAMIE: Nonsense. Now, take off your shoes and those damn socks, too, before you both come down with lung trouble. There are going to be socks hanging by our fireplace again. ( chuckling ) What's Santa Claus going to say when he sees that? Sister, you're such a ninny, believing in Santa Claus at your age. Why, I do, I do. Just because he doesn't pay us a call anymore is no reason to stop believing. Hawthorne? Mm-hmm? Do you remember Ashley Longworth? Yes, I have heard of him, Miss Emily. Your papa used to speak of him. Did he really? Mm-hmm. What did he say? Well, I don't think he held too high of an opinion of him. Oh. I sometimes wonder whatever happened to Ashley Longworth. Papa chased him off is what happened. ( soft chuckle ) My, wasn't he the handsome thing, Mamie? Knew it, too. Oh. Anything that handsome had to know it. I always remember my 25th birthday. October 19. Ashley was here as usual, and he asked me to go for a walk with him. The woods were afire with color, and as we stood under a maple tree, a shower of golden leaves fell. There was a regular whirlwind of them. And in that whirlwind of golden leaves, Ashley Longworth kissed me. Ashley left that evening. I heard from him once. Farewell letter, you might call it. Then nothing. I think of him often, but... as the years have gone by, and still no word of him comes, I've decided he must have died in one of the wars. JOHN-BOY: Yes, ma'am. I'm sorry. Do y...? Do you think maybe that we could borrow some... ? I'm sorry, Miss Emily. MAMIE: Emily, put a record on the Victrola. Emily! Oh. It'll probably need winding. Hasn't been used since the last time we had a party. That was before Papa died. Remember when all the Buckingham cousins dropped in? Papa hadn't seen them in years. Oh, we played hymns and sang, and afterwards, everyone started drinking the recipe and hugging and crying. Oh, mercy. That was a day to remember. ( Italian operatic aria playing ) It's Mr. Enrico Caruso. Oh. The nice thing about life is you never know when there's going to be a party. Wouldn't have been if our Christmas travelers hadn't taken it in mind to stop by. ( record skipping ) Sit still, everybody. It's no catastrophe. Oh, ladies, ladies, ladies, never mind that. Uh-uh. What a Christmas. Praise the Lord. You know, I remember so well your papa and my papa singing together. Oh, how I wish I could have been there when they sang "Throw Out the Lifeline." Oh, well, then follow me. Throw out the life line Throw out the life line ( ladies join in ): Someone is drifting away Throw out the life line Throw out the life line Someone is sinking today Throw out the life line across the dark way There is a brother whom someone should save Somebody's brother, oh, who, then would dare To throw out the life line a world of care? Throw out the life line Throw out the life line Someone is drifting away Throw out the life line Throw out the life line Someone is sinking today. ( everybody laughing ) Miss Emily, Miss Mamie, we got to have some gas. Gas? Sister, where do we keep the gas? In the car, sister. But I'm afraid there isn't any. What you need it for? Well, I was out looking for my daddy in Charlie Snead's car, and I run out. Why didn't you say so in the first place? Come on. Ah! Throw out the life line, throw out the life line Someone is drifting away... ( bells jingling ) Hyah, hyah, hyah! ( bells jingling ) Hyah! ( laughter ) Don't worry about anything, Johnny-Boy. We're going to find your daddy. Well, I'm much obliged to everybody. I'm just sorry about all the trouble. Trouble? It's an adventure. We kept Papa's sleigh dusted and polished all these years just waiting for an occasion. Oh, my, my, my! Isn't this a treat? Well, it will be just as soon as we find my daddy. Jingle bells, jingle bells Jingle all the way Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh Jingle bells, jingle bells Jingle all the way Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh. Oh, I said whoa there, big fella. Hold on. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Well, can't we get into the woods and go around it? We could try, can't we, Hawthorne? No. She'll founder in the drift. I'm afraid we're going to have to turn around. Well, I got to go on from here on foot then. Oh, it's 30 miles to Charlottesville, boy. It'll take you a week to get there. John-Boy, you must let us take you home. I have got to find my daddy. Now, you don't know where he is, and if anything happens to him, you're going to be needed at home, so let's go. Come on. Come over there. Come on there. come on. Now that's it, girl. Come on. That's it, that's it, that's it. Oh, yeah. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. All right. ( calling to horses ) Come on. All right, come on. Come on there. Come on. ( calling to horses ) Come on there. ( bells jingling ) ( bells continue jingling ) ( whispering ): You hear something? I sure did. What is that? Santa Claus. We'll just see about that. Let go of me! If he sees you, he won't leave any presents. Don't worry, he won't see me. Now turn me loose. We're supposed to be asleep. Don't worry, honey. He'll never know. Come on. We can watch from the head of the stairs. Come on. Don't you want to see him? Let's go. Who is it, Livia? Can't make out, Grandma. Mama, it's Santa Claus. What are you children doing out of bed? It's not Santa Claus. GRANDMA: Whoever it is has let somebody out. Is that John? OLIVIA: Looks more like John-Boy. Is my daddy with him? No. He's all alone. Why don't you children go back to bed? You said if we rested a while, we could see the miracle. ( bells jingling ) Honey, there's not going to be any miracle. Just the same, I'd like to see for myself. ( door opening ) Is Daddy home? Not yet. Who was that let you off down at the gate? Oh, it was Miss Mamie and Miss Emily Baldwin. They give me a ride home in their pappy's sleigh. ELIZABETH: We thought it was Santa Claus. What am I going to do with you, boy? I send you looking for your daddy, and you end up joyriding with two old lady bootleggers. I wasn't joyriding, Mama. Well, they-they took me to look for Daddy. We got right far, but there was a tree down in the road stopped us dead. What's that you got in your hand? Oh, it's a present, Mama, from Miss Mamie and Miss Emily. Bootleg whiskey. Don't those crazy old women know I don't allow whiskey in this house? I've got young children in this house. What sort of example do they think we set here? You take it out yonder and pour it on the ground. Mama... it's not whiskey, Mama, it's eggnog. I ought to be ashamed of myself. Well, it'll be midnight before you know it. I'll be getting to the church now. Old man, you stay in this house. You're too old to be prancing around in the cold. Old woman, you're not the boss of me. I got to ring in Christmas. Papa, it's awful slippery outside. Nobody will expect you to ring the church bells tonight. Well, the Methodists will be ringing in Christmas, and so will the Episcopals. Well, the Baptist bell is going to be ringing right along with them. Well, you want one of my children to go along with you? I'll be all right, daughter. Ladies and gentlemen, since you'll be asleep when I come home, I bid you merry Christmas. ( all saying good-bye) Merry Christmas, you old fool. I thought we were going to the stable. All right. Will you go with us, John-Boy, to see the miracle in the barn? Yeah, sure, honey. I'll go. Anybody else? Grandma? No, I'm going to bed. I'm... I'm too tired to keep my eyes open. Good night, everybody. ALL: Good night. How about you, Mama? First miracle I want to see tonight is your daddy walking through that door. Tell us the story again, John-Boy. When Jesus was born, it was in a stable. And the first things to lay eyes on him, except for his mama and his papa... The, uh, first things to lay eyes on him, was the sheep and the goats and the cows and all the other animals that lived there. All dumb animals. All dumb animals. But they were the first ever to see Jesus' face. And ever since that night, animals all over the world wait up... and at the stroke of midnight, they kneel down and they pray and speak in human voices. I wonder what they say. ( clattering ) Somebody's on the roof! Santa Claus! Oh, will you look who's home. It's Daddy! ( chuckling ) You want some coffee? I've been keeping it warm. I'll help you, Mama. Don't cry, Mama. He's home. ( crying ): Oh, John. Where have you been? Oh, what a woman I married. I picked a peach when I came a-courtin' you, girl. Oh. Oh. Oh, let me down, you crazy thing. I set a good example to these children, you go acting like a crazy man. Put me down. Oh... Where in the world were you, John? Well, the last bus out of town ran into an accident. Oh, I heard. I just knew you were on it. Well, no, I wasn't on it, but I was stuck over there. Oh, thank you, John-Boy. I didn't see any point to spending Christmas in a bus station, so I started hitchhiking. I must've spent half the day out there on that road with my thumb up in the air. Got as far as Hickory Creek before dark and from then on, it was every step along the way by foot. What's in that sack, Daddy? Well, now, doggone if I know, Ben. Why don't we just dump it out and have a look. ( laughing ) I wonder what we got? ( laughing ) Where did they come from? Well, you see, I was walking across the yard, I didn't want to make any noise 'cause I figured that you kids would all be asleep, you see? All of a sudden, I saw something flying straight across the sky. It landed right on top of this house. We heard it. You did? Well, I wait a second, then I saw this team of some kind of animals, looked like about the size of a year-old calf, you know? Had little pointy things coming up at the top of the head. Reindeer! I think so, Ben, I think so. Now, I never seen a reindeer, I don't know for sure, but I think that's what it must've been. And I looked and then this little old man got out. Little old man dressed in black boots and a red coat and some kind of white fur all around here. Santa Claus. Sure it was! But I'd never seen that old son of a gun before, Elizabeth, I didn't know who it was. I thought it might be somebody trying to break into the house. So I looked around and I got me the biggest rock I could find. You hit him with a rock? No, I didn't hit him, but I scared him. I scared him so much that that sleigh slid right off of the roof of the house and landed down in the yard. ( laughing ) You should've seen that old man cracking that whip and telling them reindeer, Ben, reindeer to take off. But I was able to grab ahold before he left the ground. You talked to him? No, I didn't talk to him, but I wrestled him, and I got me a whole big armload of that stuff in that sleigh before he got away. And there it is. ( gasps ) ( paper rustling ) I think this one's for you, Elizabeth. This is for you. Let's go. Who's is this? Oh, this is yours. ( paper rustling ) Oh... I never in all my life saw anything so pretty. A teddy bear. A train set. I never thought I'd get a train set. Mama, look. Oh, it's too pretty to wear. ( plays harmonica ) JOHN: Hey, Ben. Would you bring that one over here? I think this must be for you. What in the world? You've been wishing for springtime. Flowers in the dead of winter. It's a miracle. There's two left over. Those are for grandma and grandpa. Son, why don't you open yours up? Oh, yeah. I wonder how word got all the way to the North Pole you wanted to be a writer? Well, I guess he must be a right smart man. I don't know a thing about the writing trade, son, but if you want to take it up, you got to give it your best. That's true, Daddy. I see some sleepy children. Off to bed now. You can play in the morning. ( children groaning ) Good night, Daddy. Good night, sugar. Don't say good night, yet. Wait until we're all in bed and the last light goes out. Okay, get along, kids. Thanks, Dad. You all right, sweetheart? I am now. Well, you won't be having another day like this one. I'm not going back. You quit your job? I think hard times are almost over. I think the country's going to get better. Until it does get better, I'll make a living here on Walton's Mountain. In the dead of winter, with everything covered with snow... There's timber for lumber, and railroad ties, firewood... In the spring, I'll plow and plant. Come fall, I'll harvest what I can. We'll get along. You must have spent every cent of your paycheck. Just about. But, John... what are we going to live on this coming week? Love, woman. NARRATOR: Christmas is a season when we give tokens of love. In that house, we received not tokens, but love itself. I became the writer I promised my father I'd be, and my destiny led me far from Walton's Mountain. My mother lives there still, alone now, for we lost my father in 1969. My brothers and sisters, grown with children of their own, live not far away. We are still a close family and see each other when we can. And like Miss Mamie Baldwin's fourth cousins, we're apt to sample the recipe and then gather around the piano and hug each other while we sing the old songs, for no matter the time or distance, we are united in the memory of that Christmas Eve. More than 30 years and 3,000 miles away, I can still hear those sweet voices. ELIZABETH: Good night, John-Boy. JOHN-BOY: Good night, Elizabeth. Good night, Daddy. JOHN: Good night, son. Good night, Mary Ellen. MARY ELLEN: Good night, Daddy. Good night, Mama. OLIVIA: Good night, Mary Ellen. Good night, Jim-Bob. JIM-BOB: Good night, Mama. Good night, Erin. ERIN: Good night, Jim-Bob. Good night, Ben. BEN: Good night, Erin. Good night, everybody. ( soft acoustic guitar plays ) PARAMOUNT PICTURES Captioned by access.wgbh.org
