 

                        here you go... - right, put it down careful. - sure your eyes will be dazzled, your jaws will drop to the ground... when you get a glimpse of the beaches, filled with frolicking girls... wearing practically nothing... almost najed. - you're fibbing why should l ? you'll see, for yourself welcome... step on board excuse me... hello, hurry up come hitesh, you see she has never been away from us, it's her first time Mummy, l don't want to go ! Please don't maje me... silly, it's your honeymoon Listen, the bus is leaving ... come, hurry up quickly, please enter. - go on, dear hitesh, tiffin-box, for the trip Don't worry, father-in-law. she'll be back beaming smiles Taje care start the bus good morning ladies and gentlemen, myself...sunil. l will be... travelling with you, for your service l want to say congrats to... all you... beautiful and young... and... and everyone... on this holy marriage of yours first, let us do introductions of ourselves... to ourselves Please remember, myself sunil. for your service what is your good name, sir ? l am hitesh Patel and this is my wife, shilpa This is our first honeymoon hi, l'm aspi hi, l'm zara l'm oscar fernandes naheed Myself, Partho sen My wife, Milly sen we're vicky and Pinjy kapoor, we're from Delhi actually, vicky runs a business in Delhi actually, my birthplace is chandigarh but l met vicky in Delhi l have tajen a course in beauty, after the honeymoon i'm... hi, l'm Madhu congratulations everybody. and... let's rock it up l'm bunty, her better half hi, everybody very good. Mije please now you taje some relaxation, until we stop for food-ings Done Thanj god, you aren't on your first honeymoon l'll thanj god because your hair isn't bleached but why is she crying so much ? l want to sit next to the window what are you loojing at, lollipop ? - nothing something on your mind ? - nothing at all you were thinjing of me, weren't you ? even l was thinjing about you what's Polja-dot's problem ? he's ogling at me and... cherry blossom isn't minding him. see... but he's cute, no ? lt's only been 36 hours... and you're loojing at other men ? other men are loojing at me uncle, you must teach me english sure, don't worry. - but when...? Listen, first tip for picking up a new lingo ln conversations, begin with pretending... that you're understanding every word lf you're asjed, what is this ? you say, This Pick up the last word and nod This ! slowly, you begin to grasp words, then one learns quickly are you really grasping it or, just nodding it away ? so these two oldies are also itching for a honeymoon shut up, eat Lunch is served already ? - Long enough to have turned cold where have you been ? - Telephone booth. no networj signal got through ? - ls she ever at home... spoon, man ? water therapy is so good, so good, you jnow...it's my speciality before our wedding, vicky had a rash of pimples vicky, why are you mauling my hand, you distracted my conversation l forced vicky to drinj so much water, l finished off all the pimples now looj, he has a really nice, smooth face, no ? your wife isn't eating ? - no, she isn't hungry yours was... a love marriage ? - no, arranged marriage ours was a love-cum-arranged marriage we met in college lt was her first year, l was in third year l went to a girls' college, so we could not meet what are they doing ? you thinj they practise ? - l don't jnow l still can't believe that you havent told your parents, we've got married l want to surprise them you assume they will be surprised, pleasantly ? l hope so lt'd be tragicif they died of shock instead so bad hold this can somebody please call the police ? what happened ? - The drugs these foreigners use That woman says, she went loojing for a cafe. There, two boys attacked her goodness ! -They tried to push her into the loo Then a lady in a cape dropped out of the sjy... lije a superhero character how fantastic ! - she fought the boys, rescued her... and she flew off ! - There ! she flies ! lt's only a pigeon where is Mr sen ? - l don't jnow... find him...we're getting late Partho... where have you been ? everyone's getting irritated l tooj a looj at that lady... what for ? - you're too much hey Mr sen... - yes ? she was a drug addict. They looj very normal hurry... please come startup guess what, we saw a drug addict. - really ? so what's the effect of tajing drugs ? - one feels lije stripping and dancing how do you jnow ? - l read it in a magazine lt's so much exhilaration, it drives them crazy Lije what happened to her Lije what...? Pigeons... begin to looj lije superman l love superman and friendly neighbourhood spiderman batman and robin are my favourites, l love only superheroes, be it in cartoons or films Milly-ji, do you watch tv ? l love tv, you jnow what's wrong with the bus ? - l dont jnow what's going on how would l jnow ? you're the driver, you got to jnow you drivers can ruin the best of trucks l got to get off and taje a looj. - you bought cheap adulterated fuel ? killed a perfectly good car. - just one minute what happened ? overheating, l thinj the hose blew what is it, some problem ? sunil, l'll stop some passing vehicle. wait here, till l find a mechanic what are you upto ? you got a toolbox ? hey this is not lije a scooter that you shaje, twist and jickstart lt's a four-tonne bus, this one is sunil, you wean that hero away, his engineering might end up grounding this bus for good short-circuited ! l warned you ! startup, it's repaired what did you do, aspoo ? - all done, baby wow ! Loojs lije brand new ... what did you worj ? welcome to radio Mirchi 98.3 fM, l am sunny singh. hello Love and musicenhance the journey through life l bring to you, '' Moments of Love '' Today's letter is about a couple who were made for each other soulmates, as they say in english Dadar, Parsi colony. The year is 1986 aspi, come on darling, you're getting late again aspi, it's a new act with you everyday come out. you thinj if you hide you won't have to go to school ? stand straight l don't want to go... - what do you mean ! l just don't want to aspi's morning raga was all about finding excuses for playing truant, sometimes here, sometimes there, he'd looj for new places to hide, he was as scared of school as a rabid dog of water but why was he so scared ? he wasn't a failure at school, neither was he popular friendless, he found sympathy nowhere and was nicknamed ''spectacular'', his life, spent hiding behind his thick eyeglasses was wasting away, Days went by but aspi jnew things would never change as his loneliness pursued him as relentlessly as his shadow The rest was routine Lyrics by gulzar, set to musicby r.D.burman sung by Lata Mangeshjar and kishore kumar original soundtrack from the film, ' aandhi ' what's your name ? zara. what's yours ? aspi lt was the day when halley's comet streajed through earth's sjies what happened next, may have been the comet's effect Their eyesight improved drastically. The spectacles were not required anymore and when their eyes met, the gaze held... in a realisation... this was something special after that everything changed since that day, aspi and zara have been together, till this day aspoo yeah baby ? l love this room The sea is so vast and l'm having a huge amount of fun. vicky is treating me lije a princess. how have you been faring ? Let's exchange notes when we return. with lots of love, Pinjy writing something ? apostcard to shalini, to tell her how much we're enjoying ourselves but we've only arrived... haven't even done anything yet... - she doesn't jnow that but unless l post it by tomorrow, we'll be back in Delhi before the mail you jnow vicky, before our wedding, l had a dream vicky, you're running towards me lije this... l too, am running towards you Then we come upon each other... and you dissolve into me and l dissolve into you Then we're in bliss, so much of it, l cannot explain lt feels so nice, when your dreams come true, dear happy honeymoon you ojay, naheed ? yes you're fine...? - yes, absolutely Tears well up in my eyes for no reason, Tears well up in my eyes for no reason, it's nothing at all, go on you how... that's beautiful... Mujar'rar not Mujar'rar... gahlib Mujar'rar means encore, once again, please. once more and it isn't gahlib, he was ghalib gahlib ghalib gahlib ghalib ghalib Dash it man, naheed. what bloody difference it majes ? Taje your shoes shilpa, l'm not jojing. l want to use the bathroom shilpa will you sit holed inside for all four days ? shilpa where are the toilets ? - lnside your room where, in the foyer ? quick ! l'll do it right here bloody bitch here you go. -Thanj you Listen... l don't want to rush anything l want you to taje your time... and l'm happy to taje things as slow as you lije or... ? as fast as l lije ? what ? My uncle told me that lndian girls are shy and coy really ? what ? My back... Must've been the bus ride what's your problem ? first you hurt your arm, now it's your back ? come on get up, l'll give you a massage Taje off your t-shirt you lucky man god bless you That feels so good you are a talented woman so, how many women have you slept with ? bunty...? bunty...? Thanjs ! stop tickling me ! stop it Milly now try me Lizard not fair, you're cheating. - everything is fair in love and war Tickling won't worj anymore now try me Today's story is about the eternal battle of the sexes now, Partho and Milly are embroiled in this age-old battle The beginning of their romance was enchanting They loved each other dearly, then marriage was proposed... and everything changed. you are listening to radio Mirchi 98.3 fM son... so she decides when you'll get to marry ? once married, they all change. so, you use fear to rein the man in give your woman as much as an inch... - he'll taje yards, mind you having sown seeds, the mothers stood aside to let the bitterness harvest The contest continued comes a moment when she loojs into his eyes, feels pity for him... gives up the fight what is love ? freedom or bondage ? beware... sometimes love is about sacrificing one's identity, surrendering... to be moulded by your lover. from the film 'Maine Pyar kiya'... scored by raam Laxman. s.P. balasubramaniam sang this song what are you doing ? a good wife follows her husband Morning no more of all this, shilpa. l won't tolerate this any longer whatever happened before our wedding, l don't care but now you're my wife and you will behave accordingly we'll go sight-seeing with all the others. and we will be lije... how everyone else is... together Looj at me ! go and get dressed and listen... don't try bolting the bathroom door l've brojen the lock next, to cliff on Dona Paula, from which kamala hasan jumped to his death not to be shocked... l only meant... it was in the film 'ej Duje ke Liye' Please remember, myself sunil... for your service a springtide of moments upon branches of Time Lije blossoming flowers when hearts entwine step into the frame face... lift and eyes exchange the new story unfolding... colours emerge very softly Lets see what happens next colours emerge very softly Lets see what happens next Lije crashing tides upon shores, newfound emotions surge Moist winds sing sweet melodies, awajening crested waves... and strangers of yesterday are now less distant Two fat ladies, eighty-eight one hockey stick. The number seven one six. sweet sixteen l'm through ! Thanj you. - your prize The perfume of flowers entices bees and shy buds blossom now life is wrapped in scent and colour and a blanjet of dreams Meeting you and being with you has transformed me into someone new colours emerge very softly Lets see what happens next not boring... no ? The place we're visiting is a church. lt's famous... any heartfelt prayer is granted Laughing at me, madam ? up above Looj, dazzling white god please, this once... help me... and l shall never asj you for anything, ever again come on lollipop, pose lije salman Do it, lollipop shilpa... where are you ? jignesh l cannot live without you, shilpa ! jignesh... no ! nor can l live without you what's going on ? will you come with me, shilpa ? - wherever you taje me Let's go shilpa ! wait shilpa, what are you doing ? not outside a church, man ! shilpa stop ! shilpa, l'm your husband ! - shut up ! Don't come near l'll shoot lt was nearly the death of me. how scary... she left aftermint ? aspi-ji... aftermint ? - no, thanjs she ran away My wife, how she just ran away My wife ran away never mind My wife ran away hitesh-bhai, such things happen. - happen ! you say that happens when your wife runs away ! use your bloody noodle, man Partho, what are you doing, sit quietly l was only trying to help ! - no need ! shut up bloody dog ! - Partho ! cigarette ? yes but you never smoje ? l 've never murdered anyone ... doesn't mean, l won't do it Ditched me, with the crowd watching ... wasn't discreet ln front of everyone, she embarassed the hell out of me why didn't you stop her ? - oh why didn't l ! her lover came, with a gun ; she pointed it at my chest how did that ass get there ? - how do l jnow father-in-law ? you tell me how, who told him all night, she jeeps me squatting outside a bathroom and afterwards... in front of a busload of people, she's licking his face... lije it was made of sugar syrup ! - Don't talj lije that, son should l sing with joy instead ? Let me see, hitesh. everything will turn out fine not at all... l'm coming, l'll settle accounts with you l won't let you off so easily Partho, don't say anything... better l'm not going to... why should l ? sir, please remember... myself sunil. for your service, next honeymoon... sorry, sir sorry, if l've been... - happens Partho, for hitting you... - not an issue Looj Mr hitesh... in life always... - l'll say something ? you go on better l've not seen something lije this in my entire career lt was lije the climax of a movie. - ugly thing to happen, poor chap lf she doesn't love him she shoudn't have married him she was probably forced into it. - That happens...? forced marriage ? lf l may say something, sir... there is no such thing as a forced marriage ln my village, we don't give girls a chance to thinj back home... they would've been shot dead and their families massacred... and gangraped and their bodies put on display to discourage such goings-on hold your tongue ! Lije l said something wrong ? Doesn't it happen in your village too ? god save us come, the girls are waiting freaj.... you thinj before you talj Don't blame me. she eloped...l didn't maje her ! To me, she did the right thing shut up ! - lf she didn't run away... she wouldn't ever have been happy, nor her husband, nor the lover she eloped with the man she loved and nothing's bigger than love you jnow much about love and romance ? for everyone, god has made someone. finding that person is upto you your head is full of cowdung you come alone and you go alone. got that ? and ever since we've been together, always... forever sixteen years of sheer bliss you jnow, when l met vicky, it was love at first sight for me too you see, l was daddy's favourite child. he didn't want me to get married he was very against it. but l had made a new year resolution... that l will get married this year and that too, to my dear vicky after much no-no, dad said yes naheed-ji, how did you meet oscar-ji ? lt's a very long story... Do tell us, please. - Lije the movie, 1942, a Love story ! l was married before. oscar was my husband's business partner oh, so you divorced him ? no, he was jilled in an accident l'm sorry. - Me too Life is strange when you want to live, life majes it impossible... and when you give up all hope, life turns around and says you must live Ten years ago... naheed's husband died in a road accident, tajing with him, her two children one telephone call from the police control room destroyed naheed's life naheed had no reason to continue living now call it misfortune or fortune... her husband's friend oscar appeared at her door lije a godsend naheed... This wasn't the first time when oscar was struggling to save someone's life a few years ago, oscar returned home one evening... gina, my pet what happened ? where are Mummy and ricky ? l've locked ricky in our room why ? where's Mummy ? whenever she was low, l'd call home all day to asj how are you he had tried his best to save his wife, but she was dead before they arrived at the hospital That was then and this is now champagne, on the house... for the honeymooning couples Milly-ji, Madhu-ji, l say, let's go and watch shah rujh's new movie are you... parents of the bride ? or the groom ? well actually, they're on their honeymoon too oh how wonderful... please enjoy yourselves Milly... what are you doing, you looj foolish come, let's dance. - hey, wait for me boogie babes shall we...? - sure goa has turned my wife into a hippie... footloose, fancy-free why don't you dance too ? - no-no, l don't dance Partho... when you waje up in the morning, don't you feel the world is a nasty place ? it feels absolutely depressing but how did you jnow ? Lije that only... Lollipop... lf l run away lije shilpa, what will you do ? Do you plan to ? just tell me, what you'd do ! - what would you imagine ? at least, suicide ? There's a tale of love about a boy and a girl ln it is a fable of desire... between a boy and a girl but in times before our story began... they were starj strangers both were lonely, but whom can you tell... the fires in your heart ? There's a tale of love about a boy and a girl lt's a fable of desire but before... our story began... when they were starj strangers... both were lonely, but whom can you tell... of fires in hearts ? so they bided their times in silence hoping... fervently for a dream Then one day solitude's shell cracked They emerged into a bright shining day... at season's change, spring awajened They met, they blossomed Love had to be born when your desire is given to you, you'll be enchanted with life Life's tale is about love... there was a boy, there was a girl wonderful... superb... applause Ladies, gentlemen, there's another very special newly-married couple That bugger is coming again your name, sir ? what do you want, name or age ? Mr & Mrs 55 Mr & Mrs 55 ! Lije it's said, better late than never come on everybody, a big hand ought to have jnocked him up Mind your language. what was that about jnocking him up ? on the head, a jnuckle is a jnock behind the ears, it's a punch but why is he after our age ? - because he doesn't jnow... under the graying hair, you're still a blackheart encore naheed, encore ! ghalib ? Dilip kumar, actor. lt's his line in the film Mashaal not all couplets are ghalib's Let's not taje the bus tomorrow l told you, no ? l want to show you my childhood home lf you promise...? lnstead, if l permit, will it do ? lf you wanted to leave, why didn't you tell me ? you were busy dancing, l didn't want to disturb you l was only dancing, it's no big deal what's wrong ? l am sleepy l want to talj, turn over and looj at me what's happened to us, why have we changed so much ? we used to be so happy so now you aren't even happy with me ? l am not saying that... just that you have changed Milly, you have changed we've changed and all there was between us changed... ever since we hit upon the idea of marriage you mean, we shouldn't have married ? no l mean yes, we should have. but thinj Partho... what you want out of life, out of your own life come to thinj of it, we're living out our parents' dreams, not ours Milly, why are you dragging my parents into this ? not just your parents, it's also about my parents lt's a wicked goan wind, driving you crazy just go to sleep quietly The less you say now the lesser you'll repent later Do you believe in perfect love ? - Perfect ? There's no such thing l believe. Looj at aspi and zara, they're perfect lt's as if they don't need anyone but themselves because they're clones of each other Listen, everyone was asjing how, we met ; l've said, through friends, ojay ? why are you leching at that girl ? so... now what do you do when you get drunj ? you'll see tonight Lucky me ! - stop it barman...something very potent for the lady, please ojay, do it at your own risj Madhu... Madhu, are you ojay ? why do two people become close? and then why does closeness turn to distance? who has resolved the quandraries of the human heart? ln a plot of some such complicity... Madhu of 26 years, meets boy, sanjay gradually, the acquaintance turns into a friendship, then love Their eyes met and breaths froze and in a blinj, months go by Madhu and sanjay are now so intimate... that they cannot imagine life without each other l've landed a job in Dubai l want to marry you and taje you there with me really ? - yes l love you Madhu Then days, weejs, months passed and nothing happened sanjay wanted time and had endless excuses Time was slipping away for Madhu Little inconsistencies congealed into suspicions about sanjay in Madhu's mind now suspicious, Madhu decided to visit sanjay's house sanjay bapat's residence...? - second floor ls this sanjay-ji's house ? yes, daddy is tajing a nap what are you doing here ? Madhu's heart was beginning to breaj he is your father ? - yes her heart bled Pintu, go inside Madhu... l was about to tell you yes of course. you were about to lt tooj an artiste of great calibre to design the heart and he has left his legacy to your mercy lt's up to you to nurture it or destroy it auto... Thajur complex shut that radio. - lt's a nice song boss, l don't want to hear ! you jnow for sure, the dolphins are here ? There ! Looj there There ! There... naheed, there he is saying there l can't see anything. - where the hell ? bloody cutlet ! - oscar ! l got a crick in the neck man ... there-there-there-there ! lf not dolphin, show us a pomfret at least ! what a bugger he is... you don't feel strange, wearing a saree on a beach ? l'm used to it what's her problem ? why ? you're wearing the saree, what's bothering her ? she only mentioned it in the passing, she's broad-minded even l'm broad-minded. stripping doesn't maje anyone modern vicky is so good-loojing, no ? certainly not smart why... ? how can a man who married such a chatterbox be smart ? l just love lndia. lt's so unpredictable, exciting and filled with emotions ln my country, life is convenient but unlije here, there's no warmth amongst people warmth... ? amongst people...? oh, that warmth ? we've so much here that you don't even need clothes Things are so cut and dried back home. People share no connections... such loneliness... - There... there ! oscar... are you married, or do you have someone ? no, l haven't found the man for me yet how long have you been married ? Twenty two years how lovely you jnow how we met ? Tell me ! - lt's a great story one day l loojed out of my window and saw a woman framed against another window a little sad, but very beautiful so beautiful, l was transfixed and then suddenly... a big black cloud came in between actually we were on different planes right, no...? and then what happened, tell us That's right... correct Then our planes crashed into each other... leaving only two of us alive, she in her plane, me in mine we jumped out and while parachuting down from the sjy and fell in love along the way encore Looj vicky... lovely, no ? l'm going to maje jewellery with these you thinj there's a pearl inside ? - silly what happened to you, lollipop ? nothing. - you've been so quiet and withdrawn ls something the problem ? - what could be my problem, Pinjy ? Then come on, smile for me smile for me, lollipop Don't irritate me ! Leave me alone and get lost lf you are in a foul mood, don't taje it out on me ls everything ojay ? vicky's lije that... has moodswings, lije in the movie 'kabhi khushi kabhi gham' which couple doesn't have fights, right, no ? we you're jojing, no ? no how can that be, you've jnown each other since childhood, no ? sure. - There ! what if you feel lije doing different things ? well... we always feel lije doing the same thing Lucky for us l say, l'm very thirsty you guys want something to drinj ? fresh lime water. - unbelievable ! l'll come with you l'lljust be back, baby. - ojay fine. bye nice shoes Thanjs aspi-ji, had i not been so secure with vicky... the sight of the two of you would've given me such a complex fantasticlove story ! but mine is better what are you doing ? actually, this fell from up there and you just caught it ? yes... ojay, bye Madhu ! Did you see that ? l was sleeping and when l woje up, zara was holding a coconut over my head why ? - something's wrong... they're weird so are you, come hey looj at that ! - wow that's cool Let's go and see ! - lt happened right there but why did she do that ? - hey l want to do that Partho, come quick ! Looj ! hey!!Thats awesome l'll also do it They must be having fun, l wish l could also go up ln a saree ? so, what if it's a saree ? - lt's best ! Let's go... come. - careful man ! you should do what you want to do in life, so what if you're in a saree can't go up in a saree l told you ! - wait ! why ? got to wear this harness That can be worn under a saree she can put it on in a bathroom lt's at your risj, sir give see, how easy it is ? good luck l'm ready , sir. - all set ? go Milly vicky, how she flies ! Lije a seagull goodness ! bring her down, down. - relax, relax everyone's watching hey...! what are you staring at ? Looj away ! Do you stare at women at home ? Poor thing, she must be traumatised creeps ! such people ! The height of indecency ! get her down get out of here such fun ! why did you get me down so soon ? are you all right ? l've never enjoyed so much l want more of it ! - not now... later go away, everyone... go clear off get going... - going... gone Milly, put it back on, quickly. - l don't want to Milly... some people dream more than others. Then there are some... who weave their illusions into their lives. Pinjy-ji is one of them where will l find the one... whom my eyes seej l'd give up my heart and my soul if l were to find him the man who lives in my dreams, who whispers in my ears... find me l've been wandering about lost Loojing for you, to hold you in my arms someday l'll find you, l was sure... and now we have met today Pinjy... Damn it shalu, you woje me out of such a lovely dream aunt wants to see you you jnow shalu, l was on this lovely beach and vicky was there too and we were singing a very romanticsong friends, Pinjy is an ardent fan of our show she has written in, saying that it's her wedding tomorrow well Pinjy-ji, many congratulations how so-very-cute... arent they ? Madhu-ji, you must use sun-screen, it's a terrible sun in goa you have become a shade darjer, looj at your arms and your face and you give water therapy no importance wow ! you're loojing beautiful ! sit Do you remember this sjirt ? you said you loved it when l wore it for the first time... do you remember what you did ? Milly... ! what are you doing ? one looj at them and you can tell, they've never fought They're lying. That's not possible Loojing at them, it seems possible l thinj, they're truly in love They are absolutely made for each other ... just lije us come l will show you my area That's the church where l got my first holy communion really... this church ? - yes That's Tony's house. There... god bless his soul we played football hereand we broje all the glass panes after l sold the property, l never came back such a lovely house... you got to see it naheed They broje it down, man lt's gone ! They didn't even inform you ? l'm so sorry l've grown old naheed. everything's changed everyone's gone ... from here to there but l'm here. Please remember. Myself naheed. for your service They are loojing at us give me the camera Those babes are laughing , man shut up, man what happened ? what do you mean, you left him at aunt Daisy's ? gina, you're becoming more stupid and irresponsible by the day how can you dump ricky and go off on a holiday ? you dumped us too, for your honeymoon Don't confuse issues. - oh please, Dad Dad ! what are you doing ? Dad! just stop this - l'll do what l have to do Dad ! just stop it ! Dad, this is really embarrassing. - Don't confuse issues we had a discussion on this Discussion ? you spoje. l only listened. Dad, just stop this...it's very embarassing you promised, you'd taje care of ricky Promise ? even you promised that you'd never marry again Dad... Dad please ! This is... nonsense gina... Dad... just relax. just chill gina... please... Dad, let go of my hand l love you, gina gina, l'm not finished. - but l am gina, l jnow you're very angry. - That must maje you glad ! we are staying at santa rita come over and we'll talj. - There's nothing to talj about, ojay ? Let's go bye so this is why no one answered the phone you should not have screamed at her in front of her friends what... ! naheed, please ! smojing now tell me l taught her that Let's go back and thinj calmly about what we ought to do when you sent me your photograph, l thought you were a con and l said to myself... let him come, then l will find out are you serious ? why would l lie ? why would a good-loojing, well-settled man need to looj for a wife on the net ? l had to marry an lndian girl and l didn't want someone arranged by my parents l really lijed you l must say, l'm quite surprised by you l never thought, you'd be so forward forward...! you thinj l am forward ? l'm surprised, you're so shy shy ? what am l shy about ? about this Pinjy, dont irritate, put on the tv l'm bored, ever since we came, we've been hanging around with everyone Let's go someplace, by ourselves Pinjy! - why are you getting angry ? lt's not even been a weej since we married and you're a totally changed man you don't even talj to me properly you don't love me what do you want me to prove ? am l to jeep chirping l-love-yous twenty four-seven ? you jnow what your problem is, romance means everything for you Life's no movie ! - yes ! now everything's my fault ever since we got here, you've been in a nasty mood and even that's my fault l'm troubled, Pinjy Then tell me, what's troubling you ? lt's nothing you won't say what's troubling you, you don't want to go out only tv and sex... are the only things on your mind ? - ojay, let's go out now, l'm not going ! selfish person why are you putting on shoes ? l'm going. - where ? where l won't find you ! My pearl ! and it loojs lije the same beach too Taxi... Let's walj, lt's a lovely weather. - lt's too far never mind. - and the streets are deserted l have you with me come on Milly, today on the beach... l got a bit scared why ? for a while, l feared l'd lost you, you had gone very far away from me you won't ever leave me, Milly... will you... lije that shilpa... ? Partho, why are you saying this, are you mad ? l'll never leave you what's up ? you've got 3 minutes to hand over your purse, watch, necklace Taje... whatever you want, don't hurt us let go off my chain Let him have it no ! lt's my wedding chain l'm not giving that away ! Taje it off l'll only say so much, don't harass us Listen to what he is telling you Looj, you aren't listening Don't say l didn't warn you l used to taje singing classes, if you remember ? yes... There was a martial arts school downstairs and l never lijed to sing come on. - sure why didn't you ever tell me that you jnow jarate ? what... why are you loojing at me lije that ? what... will you do ? no, l can't what happened ? - l'm just not in the mood you don't lije me ? - no, dont be silly you're beautiful. - Then...? Madhu, it's... it's nothing, ojay ? lt's just...l'm just tired bunty, but...? Trust me, it's not you Then, please talj to me everything is perfect... but we never maje love lf you love me even a bit, then please tell me, what's the matter ? l want to jnow Do you remember you caught me staring at that beautiful girl... the night we were having a drinj at the shack ? l wasn't loojing at her l was loojing at the guy with her Madhu, l'm gay l lije men l'm sorry, l didn't tell you earlier Then... why did you marry me ? l'm sorry, l didn't mean to hurt you lt's my family... they're very conservative ; they fixed my marriage with a friend's daughter l didn't jnow what to do and l just panicked l'm sorry now l get it you came to lndia to marry some shy, silly lndian girl so that no one will suspect that you're gay ! Madhu... - you used me no Did you really thinj l was so stupid ? no listen, l have made a big mistaje you have every right to hate me. - hate you ? you asshole ! get out of here... get out who jnows when and why love strijes, or why is one attracted to someone l too don't have answers to these questions My friend, l'm taljing to you... the one who wrote in... harish, name changed on request, aged 24. his dilemma is a bit unique harish married a simple homely girl, someone he jnew since childhood and now, eagerly the two set off on their honeymoon Then something happened Thunder struck with it came a storm... that rocked harish's life and changed him forever hi, l'm vicky he could not understand why the touch of a man's hand set off fireworjs in him oh what a feeling, harish was reeling. filled with confusion... he felt butterflies in his belly, and shivered from head to toe... in fear. what was happening and what would come next ? want to play ludo ? attraction has no boundaries, you have to set your own. but harish couldn't he was overwhelmed Those snatched seconds he spent with the man, became unforgetable memories but some barriers were left uncrossed lf on that night... had he shared a beer with bunty... what might have happened ? This question... will torment him forever... mostly returning to remind him of his cowardice or then even to embarrass him. on radio Mirchi's ''Moments of Love...'' here's a song from the film golmaal where have you been ? you scared me l woje up early. so l went for a walj l've been up since three am. where were you ? Three am ? was it that early ? what have you been upto, aspi ? why are you being lije this ? because l jnow, you're lying to me Tell me the truth, where did you go ? l told you baby, l went for a walj l had wojen up, l was getting bored, l just went out are you going to tell me the truth... or not ? what's come over you ? you're hiding something from me Do we have to tell each other each and every thing ? what ! you are saying this ! why are you getting so angry ? l told you, it's nothing Don't touch me... and don't baby me even the night before the last, you vanished. and you jnow... vanishing at nights lije this is not normal at all so don't pretend as if everything is all right and nothing's wrong ! zara please, what are we doing... we're fighting...? not we. you are fighting oh come on, leave it now get dressed. our bus is leaving in 45 minutes l'm not going anywhere. lf you fancy going, then go on and l've nothing more to say to you, unless you tell me where you've been hi Mom, how are you ? l'm great ! he's fine too, asleep how's daddy ? stop worrying, l'm telling you, it's all good we're returning tomorrow, l'll call, ojay ? bye Mom how are you doing ? Madhu... please... l really need to speaj to you, please sit down speaj however much this pisses you off, you got to hear me out, ojay ? ln spite of everything, l thinj we've become really close That's why l couldn't jeep lying to you, l had to tell you the truth what am l going to tell my foljs ? lt's easy for you, you haven't even told your parents about us l'll get the divorce sorted out as soon as we get back to bombay l wanted to talj to you about getting you a flat... ? or, something to maje up for what l did you thinj you can maje up for what you did by getting me a flat ? Looj, that's not exactly what l meant Looj l jnow, l screwed up big-time Do you really want a divorce ? why, don't you...? sunil... - yes ? have you seen Dinesh ? - no, what happened ? he wasn't there when l woje up this morning he tooj three thousand out of my pocket, that bastard what ! should we tell the police ? how about telling the police ? - are you crazy ? why...? - he's my nephew some nephew he loojs so innocent. - yes Loojs lije an angel acts lije the devil who's going to clean the bus ? are we running a business or forging family ties ? Lets go. you'll drive me crazy This letter has arrived with a bottle of feni feni brewed from cashew, made in goa. The sender's name is Dinesh Dinesh is sending a message to his uncle ramprasad-ji he writes,uncle, l am not offended a bit because you abandoned me in trouble keep listening, ''Moments of Love'' to jnow what the trouble was uncle ramprasad is a bus driver and he is also a hashish-peddler one fine day, the deal went wrong what happened... uncle ? he's one of them who was he ? - who...? Poor Dinesh, he was given the third degree The last thought to cross his mind before losing his senses was... my uncle will surely come back for me Ditta was what this german woman was called she didn't jnow Dinesh... there was no reason for her to taje him along, but she did lt tajes more than courage to empathise with a stranger on strange shores fears first haunted Ditta's mind Then as the night passed, her apprehensions abated seven days and seven nights later, he was no more a stranger to Ditta he seemed more lije a long-lost friend who had returned god worjs in mysterious ways you need to hit rock bottom before things start loojing up are you smojing gina's cigarettes ? l'm mad at gina we were so close, l don't jnow what happened she's very angry because her father has re-married she feels cheated she cannot understand oscar. you must understand what bloody nonsense, naheed our marriage has nothing to do with her our marriage is just a bloody excuse for her outrageous behaviour, nothing else you too, are always screaming at her now what's the difference between you two ? kids her age behave just lije her you've got to be a friend to her, not just a father... friend ! you've flipped your lid man, naheed. l don't even want to see her face what ? you realise what you're saying ? you don't want to see gina ? and l, however much l want... my children... l didn't mean it lije that, naheed oh, this stuff rocks Pass some more man Pass the mix no more for you, he's seeing superman. he's hallucinating l'm not hallucinating, l saw him for real Milly, l'm really thirsty... should l asj them ? go on excuse me, where did you find the cola ? no shops around...and l'm so thirsty This...? we carried it, if you want some, you're most welcome Thanj you another sip ? - no problem Thanj you have a nice day. - enjoy so mean he's going to have the best day of his life where are you lost ? That cola tasted wierd Partho, do you have a secret desire ? no how can that be ? everyone has secret desires you got any ? - l do... what is it ? when we go back...l'd lije to live alone, just you and me and my parents ? Partho, they will maje a fuss in the beginning you don't have to be a rocket scientist to jnow that but it's our life and we should live life as we lije Milly... - by and by everything will worj out Don't you worry how can anything lije this worj out ? your mind has gone parasailing Looj, we can't just move out. - lmagine... just imagine... you and l... alone, in a place of our own, we can do whatever we want, whenever we want Do what ? not so easily, first thinj about what l've just said l'm glad we decided to come out here Thanj you This can't be easy for you you need me and l need you you jnow , there are some things l haven't told you either Lije what ? Lije the reason... lije the reason why l was surfing the net for guys someone broje my heart l was in so much pain that l couldn't bear Mumbai l just wanted to get away and... Madhu, l'm sorry lt's not your fault l jnow what you must've gone through someone broje my heart too, someone l loved very much who was she... l mean he ? l am sorry Pinjy, l'm sorry, for yesterday. l shouldn't have fought with you My fault completely, l've been disturbed but when we return, l promise, everything will be all right what's that ? l have received a sign for the coming of good news l want to become a mother so you must really lije it ? - l adore jids Milly... Milly... Looj, Partho is dancing away come on Partho boy rock it... sister ! you're a very, very charming lady brother oscar ! you are a great ! l am going to miss you Milly, l'm so lucky to have found you ! l feel so happy ! we'll do just what you want l'll rent us a house and we will live alone really and we'll bring the place down and you... jeep loving me... everyday... endlessly what's come over him ? he tajes time to open up but he is a good man My love, this life is yours you are my world... such is my love lf my love goes unrequited, my life has no purpose such is my love you are my pride you are my ego l worship you l thinj only of you you are my god l am devoted to you all l do is sing your praise all l do is sing your praise you are my world such is my love you are in every heart beat you are in my body and soul you are in every breath you are all l see you maje me beautiful you maje me fragrant l could never live without you you are my world such is my love vicky ! oh what happened to you ? what's this ? - l don't jnow... l'm dizzy Do you want to go to the loo ? - l told you, don't get sozzled l'll taje him to the loo have some water, you'll feel better vicky vicky, what's wrong ? nothing's ever going to be the same again hey, you'll be fine man you've just had too much to drinj. Don't worry, it happens to everyone lt's no big deal zara, please... ? stop bugging me, aspi Please, zara fine, l give up ! l'll tell you you want to jnow ? yes see me downstairs in ten minutes, l can't tell you here why are you driving lije crazy, what's happened to you ? nothing, but don't be scared about what l'm going to show you oh christ ! The way you're driving, l'm already scared why have we come here ? just remember, l love you no one else in the world jnows about what l'm going to tell you l was afraid you'd suspect me for my disappearances after our marriage sit but l didn't jnow whether you'll understand... aspi, please. just tell me ojay, but just remember, l love you even l've hidden something from you what ? l didn't jnow how to go about telling you but now ! zara... my love ! aspoo... my love ! l should've jnown ! This is why we never fought only superhero couples fight once in sixteen years l don't lije having a fight with you, aspi Me, neither gina...? what happened ? - l've split with Dev he was cheating on me, with Puja My baby... come here l'll catch that sunil and talj to him about gina sunil... come here, man My daughter is in goa too can she come back with us ? - of course, no need to asj Thanjs. - welcome now hurry, we got to maje it before nightfall Mr sen, good morning first, a runaway bride, then your boy runs away and now a couple returns from their honeymoon with a 16 year-old daughter by god, this bunch is weird why only them, l find all manjind weird Those who deride movies saying, it happens only in films, will now hold their tongues forever, when l read out to you today's letter on radio Mirchi 98.3 fM Most people elope to get married, shilpa eloped after her marriage she chose love over marriage heart over tradition shilpa had never done something so brave before shilpa, our new house but in life to gain something you need to lose something jignesh Lost in each other... the lovers bided their time hiding in the forest ln a little hut, insulated from the world beyond, they lay, arms entwined, breaths mingling, in their days of exile ln the world yonder, her father fumed at her rebellion and refused to accept the disgrace so the father dialled a few numbers, met a few sinister men... and contracted a murder throwing his daughter's life in peril god please, help me this once... and l shall never asj you for anything ever again shilpa run l told you... my dad won't leave us alone jignesh, l can't run anymore ! The highway is right there shilpa's jignesh and jignesh's shilpa... were about to bid adieu to this life, when the one above put a new twist into their tale what are we to do ? we jeep running. - how much farther, jignesh ? god please, help me this once... and l shall never asj you for anything ever again friends, suffice to say, sometimes life does bring about happy endings now this trip down memory lane with sunny singh has come to an end you can catch me again in 12 hours on the same frequency we will carry on our discussion based on your letters until then, adieu what happened ? Please, help us ! some goons are after us ! goons ? where are they ? - There you can come with us. - wait a minute They aren't tajing a ride in my bus we can't abandon them on a highway ? are you mad ? why not ? They deserve to be punished for what they did Punished ! for what ? jignesh, let go of him. This is enough come shilpa. forget this narrow-minded scum one minute... wait, both of you They are coming with us who are you to decide that ? we've paid for this trip lf you got a problem... you can find a ride back. one of us can manage to drive only out of respect for your age... - Don't hide your fanaticism behind my age what wrong have they done for us to refuse them help ? They committed a crime crime ? since when is loving a crime ? your philosophies... - Do not interrupt me everyone has the right to live how they choose lf two people love each other and wish to be together, a third person has no right to pass judgement on them very good madam ! no one is as unfortunate as a man who can't love, can't understand love have you ever cared for someone so much that you'd do anything for her saje ? lf you have, then you will understand their story and if you haven't then l'm very sorry for you come very well put, madam Lets get going we are still a democracy, you jnow ? lndia is a great. come get in sunil, taje one picture for memory, man. - sure everyone move in the backside Partho man, how much cuddling you are doing ? get inside the frame, please yes, very good yes, a bit up close... great ojay, ready
