 

                        Ausamanee Teeshara How did you do that? They said the ghosts here are scary Where? Have you seen it? Hey, they said that everyone here saw it You saw it? Who dares to see it - you dare to see it? Hey! Shit! Don't fucking scare us! I told you not to mess about! Hey wait... listen What the hell is that sound? You come as well You're the one who wanted to play, you go and look. No! I'm scared! - Go! - Yeah go! -Ghost! -What the hell? What is wrong with you? You go and see! Come on! What? There's nothing there What's wrong with you? You go and look What! You want to have a go at me? Come on, I'll dance for you! Ghost Pancake, where are you? Please come into this glass and tell us Give me your finger I pray for the spirit to be in the glass If not, then it can be next to me Hey bitch, how long are you going to pray for? Thank you I didn't push it! Did you push it? I didn't push it either -Did you push it? -No! No one pushed it! Did you push it? I did it Bitch! Why the hell would you push it? I saw it wasn't moving for a while so I moved it Touch it gently, gently -OK touch it -Why didn't you just say? -Gently It's moving, it's going! Where's it going? OH MY GHOST! Ghost Ausamanee! Who do you think you are calling to get rid of me? There's no way! You think that you'll get away in that room? You! Come in if you think you're so brave They didn't tell me they had a monk Father, I'm here to tell you that I'm no longer a monk Why so quick? I have done everything to help ghost Pancake Oh Who's this? My friend Pancake! You guys! I'm Panda, Pancake's younger sister You always forget! Pancake's boobs aren't as big as mine Hello Hello, Monk Panda! Bad mouth! Don't you think that's a bit rude, Panda? I'm Pancake, not Panda Pretending to change name! Look at your face. No one suits their name! I called for your help a long time ago, why didn't you come and help us? Didn't think before you speak. You called me using a glass. Look at my body! Go and call me at the place i died Pancake? So where did you die? What am I doing on the floor? Bitch! Why did you yell at me? Panda didn't think you would yell at Panda The guardian spirit is really powerful What the hell is that wind? So strong! Outside is scary - inside is even more scary There is even a lot of antique stuff You need to know who's who Someone likes me Piano ghost! Piano ghost! Piano ghost! That made me jump Ghost! Ghost! Ghost! Boss it's me, Ploy Don't you remember me? Crazy! Why did you pop up now? You scared me! This house is scary, even the people are scary! You told me that you were coming at 4pm, so why did you just pop up? Who popped up? You're the one that popped up -I was so scared! -Sorry Never mind Next time don't pop up again Look at the way you're dressed, think about the government! Oh Auntie, did you just arrive? Hello Hello Next time you dress, check the season Look at me as an example Come on let's go to our room, I want to take a shower. It's so hot Walking by yourself alone at night Aren't you afraid of ghosts? I'm not that afraid The ghost in this place is scary Is there a ghost here? Of course, so scary If you don't believe me, turn on the light You're dead! Bitch Ghost! Is she human or a ghost? I'm scared What are you afraid of? Right there! Ghost! What is she afraid of? How are we supposed to know where Pancake died? Time has passed, it's been 20 years My foot She died 2 years ago Sorry Well don't you guys know where she died? Your accent is so great isn't it? We forgot -Pukan -Yes? -Just got up? -Yes What about your auntie, is she here? She's sleeping upstairs, she got here last night Oh... OK And where are you going? I'm going to check on the dorm I got it! I know where Pancake died Hard poop Even shaking it won't help Where are you going? Follow me Just follow me Pancake didn't die because she got raped, she died because her head hit the toilet Toilet! Her spirit must be here Pancake, please come out and help us She died a long time ago, but why is the smell still here? The smell isn't old, it's fresh It's not me Why the hell are you sniffing my face? Where the hell is it coming from? It's unbelievable Look closely Anything wrong with my face? Huh... Your face looks the same Like a lion Lion the Star Lion from Narnia The same one Bitch! My face looks like a bitch? My face looks like Waranood If my parents knew they would be proud that my face looks like a bitch Pancake, please come out and help us Ausamanee is scaring us every day, Pancake Dad, what are you doing in here? We're not doing anything You're here! Yes I miss you I really miss you Come here give me a kiss Why do you smell so bad? Don't be so disgusted How is it? Do we have any more customers? It's still quiet Pukan Hi Your highness Do you remember me? Oh no, an old person fainted Let's help her up Don't die in this dorm And you are...? She's my auntie Oh, the one you said came last night? Yes Oh she's not your uncle? Does this place have a ghost? No, only when you two came now there's two Yes Oh... OK It's me, Ploy You're dead Ausamanee! Yes? Why did you call me? Pick it up Hey auntie. Pass the ball Sorry You're dead Ausamanee! Why did you do that? I didn't do it, I'm sorry Quickly! Pancake, why don't you come and help us? If you want anything just tell us Shurman! Pancake's a ghost. You need to ask her to come, not to come and ask you Did I say that right? Well are you confident? No Wrong Pancake, I'm sorry I said that wrong Guys, guys, guys! Destroyed, destroyed! What's destroyed? The spirit house The spirit house is destroyed Let's go! Right! Who did this? You guys were the ones that did this? We didn't do it It was Auntie Payoon How did Payoon do this? She wasn't playing basketball - you were! I'll get someone to fix it She definitely did it Shhh... Don't speak That's enough It's definitely not Payoon Her face is innocent Why can't it be her? He told us that you were the one who threw the ball I... I didn't do anything I... I just got back from exercising And at 8pm... umm I fell asleep What time? We just got back and at 8pm I was tired and fell asleep See? Her face looks like she just got up. Her eye lashes are curled meaning she slept for a long time Kick! You again! But it's true You still argue back! Dad, let's go back to sleep Your highness... Payoon Auntie, what are you doing? Get up So brave People here are strange. What are you looking at? Like they saw something How can we not be strange? We saw strange things Come on, let's go back to our room People like that are strange Yes I'm coming No need to knock that much Ploy, did you just kick me? No boss, I just came out I told you it wasn't me This girl is fast Went behind me and kicked me Someone like you deserves Khun Payoon! You want to mess with me? No I'm not Payoon, Payon or Payud Don't speak nervously! I'm not speaking nervously Help me. There's a ghost! Ploy... Ploy... Ploy I... I didn't do it No, no, no Not me I have done everything I hope that we can live in peace We have done everything, please don't be mad at us Yes We have prepared everything There's pig, chicken and duck Yes Go and break the neck of the person that did it Yes No No When you say that it sounds suspicious What's suspicious? I don't look suspicious, why do you think I'm suspicious? I think that breaking neck is too harsh- horrible way to die, let's not You're such a good person Even though you look like a bitch you still have a good heart I want to know where the hell she got that clip from Low! You're the one that's low, bitch Ploy, Ploy, Ploy I saw Ploy in the room Ploy's dead? No, Ploy! You shouldn't have been strangled to death What a pity, Ploy Khun Payoon, how did you know that Ploy is already dead? I guessed You sound suspicious again Suspicious? Never Ploy's dead! Ploy! You're dead... Noooo! How will I sleep Who killed her? Maybe it was Ausamanee Ploy Ausamanee? Hurry! Get out or she'll come Ploy This way sweetheart This shop is my sister's shop Pancake She's going to haunt me Hello Hello? I'm sorry Sorry? This is sorry Sorry but I think you got the wrong person I may have remembered the wrong person but I definitely slapped the right person Remember the durian? This girl is a ghost from Thailand she's going to haunt you sweetheart Thieves have gotten in Grab her Tagateen Tagateen! Wait wait wait Why are you hurting her? Isn't it ghost Pancake? No You're Panda? I'm so sorry I didn't know I thought it was ghost Pancake It's OK, I understand It can happen Don't say that, Panda. I feel ashamed I didn't know so I just hit and hit It's nothing I'll be OK when I see a doctor So nosey aren't you I... I saw Aunt Payoon... She's... Saw me what? You saw me what? I didn't see anything See anything a minute ago? I really didn't see anything Are you sure? Yes If you see anything tell me Yes Hey Tonmai, what did you see? I... I see Saw what? I see Aunt Payoon standing behind you You scared me! See anything a minute ago? No I didn't see anything Just let me know Tan Juakun Don't you remember me? It's me Ausamanee Ausamanee who? The one you used to admire Don't you remember? Ausamanee, the one you love Stop turning around, my knees hurt Tan Juakun, what are you afraid of? Ausamanee, the same person, the same face Never changed Don't you want to watch me dance? Tan Juakun Goosebumps Good voice Scared Sweetheart Taew! He's my husband Take him Sweetheart, your wife is this side Why is it so hard to get out? It's too small and it smells Why did I have to die here? huh... Jay Taew Still the same Jay Taew Jay Cartoon Wants the same Jay Cartoon Jay Cartoon Jay Is this Panda or Pancake? Sweetheart, sweetheart, sweetheart Ghost, ghost Why did you hit my husband on the head? Who's this? My husband This is your husband? Yes He's English You want dips? Dip dip dip Yes, I like dip Dip me only, sweetheart Jay, I really miss you Is she asleep or dead? Jay, Jay Taew Jay Taew! Is this Panda or Pancake? Shut up Jay! Oh it's Pancake You still have a bad mouth So why have you just come now? We called you a long time ago Jay, you didn't think before you spoke The toilet is small, look at my body What ghost spirit stays in a toilet? That is where I died Oh I forgot Thank you so much, Jay Also Koi who became a monk and helped me Maybe they're calling a ghost Your face is still big But since you got your surgery in Japan... Can you hear them? Not clearly What do you mean not clearly Open you ears -Jay -What? There's someone listening to us Ghost! Ghost! Khun Payoon Khun Payoon -What are you doing here? -Ghost, help me, ghost What ghost? Ghost How come you're here? Payoon... um... walked past Walked past... and how did you get in this room? er... that's not it um... Payoon wanted to borrow a torch A torch for what? To take a piss the light in the shower broke Maybe she's here to watch us do something Us three Don't tell Jay about this because this is a big job from Panda Nane, carry on praying Nane carry on What are you afraid of? What are you guys doing? Oh. You want me to go into the pot I'm not going in! She's not going in Huh? She's not going in Ghost Ausamanee, if you go in this pot there is a lot of stuff you'll like You think I'm that dumb? No, not dumb but who's smart will always go in Isn't that right guys? Yes Well then I'm smart I'll go in If we didn't have Nane we'd be in trouble Hey, which way should we go? She's coming! She's over there! In there! Do you think you'll get away? Beautiful escape It stinks! Smell that! Smell it to get used to it I've had enough! Quickly! Helping your friends? You're so good But I'm confused How the hell did you all get in there? How did you all fit? Teeshara, we were never meant to be together But in the next century I wish for us to be together Stop, you midget! You pig Who are you? And why are you following me? Refresh your memory I'm Pancake Do you want to know my motto? Up to you Always flirt, no need to slap Fib by nature because I'm a celebrity ghost -My turn -Go Ahead Beautiful like this Patanapa is my older sister Younger sister's name is Genie Ponla is backup Can't handle me? Deal with it Me! Ausamanee! I didn't want to know your name I want to know why you are haunting people You guys built a dorm on top of where I live The place where I died and most importantly where I fell in love But what about you? Why did you die? I got raped by a guy You lie! I think you hit your head on a toilet It's my business What about you? How did you die? If I tell you, you'll get all emotional I got killed because someone got jealous of my love life Let me tell you something You had better not haunt people in here because I don't want you to do anything to these people especially her! Who's that? My close friend You found a friend just like you So what, do you have a friend like me? My business! I always see you by yourself My friends are celebrities I have never seen them Do you want to slap me? Stop it! Ausamanee... You're fat You tell your friend that if I lost weight even someone like her would be jealous Really? You bitch! You came without making any noise If you two dare to haunt people in here we'll see what happens Varanat What? Big ugly lizard Let's go Varanat Ausamanee You don't need to worry about us, worry about the new lady that just came in Understand? Huthaitaiwee! Definitely a toad Why are you crying? Cry until you die Jay, what's wrong? Dad, what's wrong? What's wrong?! She knows I only sent him home and she's balling If I didn't, what would have happened? Oh, then why are you cring? Because I love him Love? That's my husband I love him because he is your husband Jay! Pancake You always love other peoples things Koi, thank you so much for helping me Jay, I went to spy on them to find out why Ausamanee and Teeshara are haunting this place Because this place is theirs Both of them died here And this dorm is built on top of where they died When is your husband coming back? I told you not to buy it off Areeyara But it was cheap Cheap plus two ghosts Was it worth it? I like to buy Keep crying And how are you going to help me, Pancake? Help? Only looking in your 'I Fell in Love' Jay, if you buy me one, I'll help you Today we're going to the city We have to dress pretty When they see the way we dress they will definitely be jealous Yes Call Koi to see if we look alright Koi Yes? What do you think? Wow, the same! Exactly the same! What about me? You as well, Auntie Really? Yes Four Right here Mad Fighting Let's go Too Late Aren't you guys dressed yet? We're gonna be late Going to visit the Prime Minister? Going to buy a doll for Ghost Pancake I heard Dubai It looks like you guys over dressed You more than me Wait, what about Areeyara? We're going to the city, her face won't do We can't wait until tomorrow, let's go Jay! This is the shop I come here all the time Are you sure? Yes and it's not expensive Jay Jay Jay Do you want to get up and brush your teeth first? Jay Pancake? Koi go to sleep Jay I heard you went to the city Yes Did you forget anything? Forget what? Ted... Ted Ted what? My teddy I didn't forget How could I forget? I intended to get it for you Close your eyes It's a surprise Here it is What the hell is this? It's a persons doll Do you want it or not? Yes Help me first and then I'll buy you a more expensive one I know that you were lying to me But I'll still help Does it look like me? Yes, a lot I'm going to name her Taew That's my name No it's my doll's name Alright Taew, you suck! Did you mean me? I meant my doll Alright You bitch! Did you mean me? I meant my doll Alright Don't pick on me, bitch! You were talking to your doll? I was talking to you I'm going now, see you later Asshole! You were talking to your doll? I was talking to you! Near the end you meant me a lot Koi, did you shit? What crazy person shits in bed? Stop right now you bad sister Pancake Where do you think you're going? You look good Thank you Don't tell me you took my medicine Of course not, it's normal Pancake, do you want something? If not, then I'm going to school now Liar, you just got back from school Oh I forgot Why did you tell Jay Taew to buy this doll? I want a doll that you can change the eyes and when you pull the hair it changes the face This one can change eyes It can change? I'll show you if you don't believe me Give it here Did it change? It didn't change Not the same You're lying, aren't you? Since when am I your friend? That hurt What the hell is that smell? It's definitely this room Try opening it Jay Areeyara! Who killed you? You can go into Shurman's drem and tell him to tell me Why not in your dream? I'm scared! Koi, I have nobody left What about me? You're probably next Areeyara Let your spirit take Jay with you I'll kick you in front of everyone Areeyara, why did you die? Bitch! Today I'm going to introduce you to the people I respect Of course, let's go Jay, I want to introduce you to my boyfriend Great timing Hold on so we'll be together in our next life Is Cartoon here yet? Jay What! Didn't see anything? No Good See what? Khun Payoon, did you just arrive? I am late because I was washing my hair Go on Do you want to know who killed Areeyara? Who was it? Payoon... ...didn't do it What the hell? I'll tell you who killed her Who was it? Ausamanee! I didn't kill her! Don't blame me! -Payoon! -Aunt Payoon! Khun Payoon are you OK? Is she breathing? Jay! Jay! What happened? Jay, Jay, I have good news I've found someone to get rid of the ghosts Really? She has just graduated from The World Law Institute in Switzerland And loves to get rid of ghosts Really? Found someone to get rid of me? Never! You're dead but you're still smiling Um... Excuse me, it's this way Come out now! Come closer, stay together She says she's not afraid but needs friends to stand with Come out now! Come out now! Why do you have to meddle in my life? I told you I didn't kill her You crazy ghost! You bastard ghost! Come out! I'm going to get rid of you! What's with you? Crazy! You bastard ghost How dare you call me crazy! Do you know you're breaking Law 326 for calling me crazy in front of these people? Go to jail for at least a year and get a 200000 Baht fine I'm going to report you Just wait for a letter from the court you bastard ghost You're going to report a ghost? Yes, just wait for a letter But if you call me number four I will help you Then I choose you Good. I'm going now Wait, wait, wait How will I call you? Yupsapar OK Thanks, I'm going now Wait, wait, wait What about the SSS? I'll take whatever OK Thanks, I'll be going now Isn't she getting rid of the ghost? she just left us! It's your turn! Why don't you go and call her? Yeah Do you really think I'm going to call her? What kind of person has eight fingers? Lying ghost! Don't expect to get to sleep tonight! What are you going to do to us? I'm going to come after you! Where do you think you're going? Amazing! You crazy ghost! How can you hurt a little lady like me? I'm not scared of you You know nothing about a ladyboy like me Let's fight another way Come on Look at me - I'm very talented See? What do they call this? Group dancing Group dancing your mum I'm dancing by myself Come on! Want a competition? You watch me She can do it! Any more? How did she do that? What do you think? Can you do it you crazy ghost? So flexible Come on! Right under? Do it! I'm tired So, you can't do it? Look at me What do you think? Confused? Can you do that? Take it! You better be quick! Where are you taking my leg? Are you crazy? I only have one leg How will I run? Don't run! Is she going to follow us? What should we do, Dad? We'll do this So hard to walk Dad! Dad! Where are you? I'm in the second cubicle Can even trick a ghost Dad! Dad! Where are you? I'm in the first cubicle You think I'm dumb? Tricked me again Dad! Dad! Where are you? I'm in the third cubicle Tan Juakun! Don't do this to me I'm hurt Is she following me? Scary! Do you haunt everyone? It's because I'm a ghost And what are you going to do to me? I'm going to strangle you You can't strangle me because you're too short Fine. Then I'll strangle your stomach If I throw up, who will make food for you to eat? I don't want to eat your food You just give leftovers You pan! How dare you call me pan! You bad mouthed ghost! Your face is as flat as a pancake, what do you want me to call you? How dare you speak to me like that? You're so clever Ghosts can get electric shocks as well! Help me! Help me! I'm getting electrocuted! Electrocuted? You flat face! Fat face! Round face! Circle face! I'm scared! Is she following me? What are you carrying? Your foot! Why did you swear at me? No... I didn't swear at you She gave me her foot! What are you carrying? Why the hell are you giving me your foot? It's not my leg Whose is it? Ausamanee's foot! Don't be scared Her foot is with me, she can't follow us I'm not scared! That thing can move. I'm leaving How long have you guys known me? Aren't you used to it? I'm in a bad mood What are you guys scared of? Pancake! Of course it's me Who else would it be? While you guys were busy with the ghost outside somebody was in your room Who was it? -Jay Payoon -Huh? -She came and looked for Koi's shirt -Huh? -Also the button from Koi's shirt -Huh? -Huh? For what? -That's it Came in to look for what, Koi? Huh? They're looking for you? What is she looking for? Almost got caught! Do you want to know what is in Jay Payoon's room? I want to know too How can you eat that? It's peoples food Ghosts have to be given food We just eat what we can and throw what we can't You have to get Jay Payoon out of the room so I can go in If Jay Payoon is in the room I can't go in Why not? Manners First class ghost! They're here, Auntie Khun Payoon You told Pukan to get me Do you want something? If not, please excuse me Wait, wait, wait Let's sit down and talk Do you have any business? If not, please excuse me Wait, wait, wait Khun Payoon -Khun Payoon... we have to talk to you about... -About what? Khun Payoon, you can't go back now If you go back you'll see... I'll slap you in the head See what? See nothing! Tan Juakun Yes Say hi to Tan Juakun Hello Tan Juakun Very powerful stuff Shorty! Why did you come into my boss's room? Just looking Ploy, did you forget that when you were alive, you were gay? I remember! When I was human I was gay and it was a hard life for me Now I'm a buffalo I'm much happier My stomach is full of guys Stomach full of guys? You're a buffalo Do you eat grass or men? I'll eat your husband too! Get out of my boss's room! And if I don't, what are you going to do? You'll see If you don't think I fight, then come on! Come on! Come on! You buffalo! Thank you so much, that's it I'm going now Thank you What a relief It's time Excuse me If you have any business you can... We don't! You can call Please Made me jump What are you scared of? You're scared when I leave, you're scared when I come In Jay Payoon's room there is some very powerful stuff A buffalo, spirits etc. Buffalo...? ...buffalo What did it do? Its eyes were like this Maybe she want some milk If you don't believe me, go and see for yourself I think Jay Payoon does magic Love each other, Love each other Love me, love me, love me Love each other, love me Love each other, love me Jay! The sun is up and you're still sleeping Look at her Sleeping all over the bed What is she reading? Beautiful, can do anything How shallow Jay! And where is 'Koi'? It's still here Cheeky! I asked you where is Koi? Where did Koi go? Last night we were sleeping together Where did he go? Koi! Where did he go? Or did he... Did he what? What do you mean I can't go in? You really can't go in You guys! Payoon! I didn't do anything What do you mean you didn't? We all saw you! I... I didn't do anything Don't say that you didn't do anything I didn't do anything Koi came to me because he thinks I am pretty Pretty? How dare you say you're pretty Koi, why did you kick me? Please help me Go!! Koi Please help me Oh my god, Did he fall for her that bad? Go!! Koi's gone crazy! Jay! Pukan! I've told you, if someone's coming in knock first I tried to stop them Jay what's wrong with you? He got kicked by his son Koi kicked you? Koi kicked me Jay, I'm going to school now You brought a guy to sleep here? No... You misunderstand, he's here to pick me up I don't know my way Look, mum got kicked by her son Don't meddle in other people's business or you'll get kicked as well. Let's go Stop it right there! You scared me! Payoon, you used a spell on Koi, didn't you? No... Koi came to me because I'm pretty Which mirror did you look at to think that? All of them Koi! If we were the only two girls left in the world who will you pick? I'll pick Payoon What do you think? Stupid! -Hey Payoon! -What? Where did your table of magic go? I don't have magic, I never do magic -Don't lie to me -There is nothing in this room It was right here, where did it go? I don't have it Where did you hide it Payoon? Tell me where you hid it Grab her! I will destroy your spirit Have you got it? What are you waiting for, bitch? Stay still It's hot! It's hot! Are you OK? Thank you Ausamanee, Teeshara It's OK What do you say we get out of here Good So what's the story, Ausamanee, Teeshara? We're about to tell you now Me and Teeshara were the best looking dancers in our time Teeshara I believe, but not you! Of course, very beautiful So who is Payoon? And why does she do magic? Payoon and Teeshara were the wives of the lord The lord is Koi in this life Where are you going? Tonight I'm going to sleep with Teeshara Lord Teeshara! And the lord admired me so much Sure? One night he sneaked in to see me I was so uncomfortable Ausamanee Lord Don't do what we're not supposed to do If Payoon hears about it, there will be problems Don't, lord, don't! Lord, don't! Don't Your hand... In the end I was his Lord, how can you do this to me? Do you think I'm easy? You came without warning I wasn't ready Someone like you is a liar I don't believe you It's true, Pancake Really? I didn't ask you Nosey! Do you know that I'm going to be staying in here? Because the lord admires me so much I feel so uncomfortable We get to stay with each other Payoon is coming You're going to fall, step carefully Tan Juakun, it's lovely weather Tomorrow the war will begin It's time we sent Ausamanee and Teeshara's spirit to hell Forever! Ploy! Stay here and guard. Don't let anyone touch it. Understand? Tan Juakun We will love each other forever! Say it! We will love each other forever Again We will love each other forever Again We will love each other forever We will love each other forever We will love each other forever So the story is this So what are we going to do Ausamanee? No need to worry, I'll pay back your kindness But for her, it's revenge Leave it to me We'll see, Payoon! Jay! Listen to me carefully Tomorrow there will be war And where did you know that they're hiding Japan, my foot! Jay! -Are you going to listen? -Yes Tomorrow Payoon is going to do magic and send Ausamanee and Teeshara' spirits to hell So that they will never be reborn If we don't stop her Ausamanee and Teeshara will never be reborn again Really? Yes And most importantly we have to save Koi Koi is one of us, isn't he? Koi, my baby So we have to use magic again? If it is necessary then we have to Yes, we have to help them Here it is Payoon's ceremony We have to destroy it before anything happens Come on everyone! Stop! Payoon You all came here thinking you'll destroy my plan? No way! Koi! Come to mum Koi come to your auntie Jay, didn't you say he was a good person? True A good person wouldn't do their make-up like that Payoon. What do you want from all of this? You're not me, you wouldn't know how much Teeshara and Ausanamee have hurt my feelings It's not true! You're the one that is always hurting us That's not true! You two are the ones that are always hurting me If you don't believe me then I'll tell you Right here. It's not clean! I already cleaned it Well do it again! Why are you moaning? Blow it again The smoke is in my eyes Then move to the other side Don't talk back! Right here OK right here Why did you put it back in? I've already cleaned it But you still put it back in Why did you put it back in? I've changed sides Torture! Both of you are so mean! Mean! You guys are so gullible that you believe her -Of course! -I'll tell you the truth You're lying! Clean it properly! Right here! I told you right here! And over here Put some more coal in Coconut! I told you to boil the coconut! Put it in Are you going to eat the whole thing? Add the vegetables Quickly! Vegetables, chilli, quickly! You're too slow. Do it quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! It tickles Enough! It tickles! -Khun Ying -What? My hair is wet You were playing with water? A minute ago you were cleaning then you're playing with water? Next time don't play with water Khun Ying, you're mean My name is Payoon, call me by my name! Khun Ying Payoon You two like to play here? I've told you not to You are the meanest person I hope you die! You poor thing, we feel sorry for you You're going to believe them? Liar! You can talk You're the one that's lying You're lying! You're the one that is lying Enough! Stop! Both human and ghosts You keep talking about the past Ausamanee tell me how we can help you If I knew would I have asked you for help? Khun Ying has tied me and Ausamanee's spirits together Jay, since it all started in the past, then we need to go to the past to fix it Is it easy to go to the past? Jay, I'll take you to the past, it's easy How? Don't forget I'm a ghost! Oh yeah Stupid! You're a cow! Stop! If you are going then stop arguing -Are you going? -Yes But I'm not going Up to you Come on, let's go! You guys better get away from here. Go! What are we going to do? Let's get ready We have to fight! What should you do? Get ready? You won't get away from me! You're the one who won't get away Both of you help me! Ausamanee Teeshara That's Payoon! Koi You're crazy that's not Koi, it's Tan Juakun Jay, what are we going to do? Let's go back. We're not dressed the same as them Huh? Not dressed the same We're not dressed the same way as them How would I know? All I heard was meg meg meg Jay, I'll be the look out Right now just get in Tan Juakun, please go and wait for me in our room OK Who are you guys? Ear ka Why did you come in here? We're here to clean When you finish, go back to your place Yes Yes You sound strange Close the door Follow me, follow me She won't remember us. Sucker! Pukan! Yes? Go and get the doll Stop Pukan! I'm your auntie I'm your auntie I'm your auntie I'm your auntie Take it Tan Khun Pukan don't! Separate it now! Pukan Don't! Tan Juakun, this way Tan Juakun! They've been gone for a long time I don't know if they are alright Can you guys send me in as well? Of course What do I have to do? Turn around I don't like the back, it hurts Only for a second Love each other so much? I'm going to go and help her How can you go in? We can't help her We can't change the past But we can fix it Jay, Jay... How did you get here? The same way you did It's Teeshara We can't change the past But we can fix it Teeshara! Khun Ying Payoon! Ausamanee! What are you looking at? Nothing Did you see anything? No Turn around Did you see anything? Khun Ying, you're mean You like to know other people's business? Did you see anything? Ausamanee is dead You're dead on the spot where I clean my feet And she told me she died because people were jealous of her love You died where people wash their feet... bitch! It's time I'm going to send you all to hell! Teeshara what are we going to do? Stay calm Ausamanee Teeshara! Ausamanee! Teeshara! You two want to mess with me? Fine. Teeshara! All demons and devils take them both to hell! Take them to hell so they will never be reborn again! This the thread of the spirit I tie you both together whether it is now or the next life I will take my revenge on you now and forever Come on! Come on, hurry! Stop right now! Get them! Don't you dare! Cappuccino espresso! Mocha cocoa! Latte and goodbye! Quickly! Cappuccino Espresso! Follow me! Quickly! We have to help them! Ausamanee! Teeshara! Cappuccino espresso! Payoon! You're dead! You're here All of you will die! Cappuccino espresso! I want to thank you all for freeing us from the curse You don't need to thank us... Thank Harry Potter Thank you Tan Khun and Tan Juakun Officer follow me, she's over there Khun Payoon is the person who murdered in our dorm Are you sure? Of course Everyone are witnesses Hold this Get up... get up I didn't kill, I didn't kill -My shoe fell off -We can pick it up later Jay, this is my best work Your best work? Ton Mai was the one who told them Ton Mai told me and I went to the police OK that's fine And how are you going to thank me? What should we give her? We'll get you a boy Barbie Doll Thank you, I will save it until I can play with it Welcome everyone Let's give it up for the 3 ladies of the dorm -Ausamanee? -What? Why don't you go and join them? No it's OK, I want to stand with you It's OK, I can stay by myself You miss Tan Khun don't you? No You should go Are you sure? I've been waiting for so long Spirit that is here right now please let me see Teeshara again Because I really miss her Teeshara! Have you been here long? Then you heard what I said Thank you Hello everyone What are you all doing here? Let go of me! What's wrong, handsome? None of your business! He's possessed! This place is mine! Get out! Ausamanee! What are you doing? I'm drunk, Pancake Do you want to join me? I don't see anything wrong with that THE END!
