 

                        1 (rock music) - What's this card? - [Gary] "La Justice". "La Justice". - Tough one, huh? - Ah, yeah. "La Jus" - [Marbuse] Justice. Justice! - Oh, justice, yeah. It was right on the tip of my tongue. - Next card. - Oh, I know this one. "La Morte", and it means death. - "La Mort". Love. - Love? No, no, it's not lo -- It's a skeleton! - Look, he's smiling. Love. Love. (tense music) (heavy breathing) (hinges squeaking) - I'm not a crook! Aah! - Oh, it's you! - Did you know it was me? - No, I thought it was Billy Carter. - Come on, admit I had you going for a second, there? - I'll say, especially that hiding in the bushes routine. - Bushes? - Yeah. Hey, see that suitcase over there? I want you take it out to the car. Then I need you to go to store and pick up some stuff. I'm not ready to go yet, I still need to take a shower. (uneasy music) (tense music) (footsteps) (thumping) (mystery music) (dramatic tense music) Aah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Aah! Aah! (chaotic tense music) (expectant uneasy music) (glass breaking) (expectant uneasy music) (wind chimes) (expectant uneasy music) Ah! Ah! Ah! Aah! Ah! Ah! Ah! - And the final group will consist of Louise Kingsley, Mike Simpson and Sally Smith. Where is Sally? - Probably late, as usual. - Well, your project will be the development of the German V2 rocket during World War ll, and the influence of the German scientist Frederick Bartholomew. As you know, Bartholomew came to the United States from Germany after the war, and spent the remainder of his life here under somewhat mysterious circumstances. Louise, I think I know of a secluded place where you can complete your project. Right here, off old Highway 5 is the community Little Town, which strangely was the place where Bartholomew completed his post-World War ll experiments. There's a small field right here which would be the perfect place for you to complete your research. - I'm sorry I'm late. - [Leonard] Please be on time, Sally. - I Will. Oh, excuse me, excuse me. - I've discussed your term project. While Louise tries to assemble the model rocket I'd like you to interview some of Professor Bartholomew's former associates - Oh, okay, I will. - And, Mike, I know you've been bu -- Mike! I know you've been busy but perhaps you could also go outwith Louise and give her some help when she goes to Little Town. - Ah I was supposed to practice. - Mike, if we complete this project successfully you don't have to take the final exam. - I guess I can go. - Okay, Mike and Louise will go to Little Town to test the rocket, while Sally remains here in town to do her interviews. (rock and roll music) (door knocking) (door knocking) - Hi. - [Gary] Hi. - Leonard sent me. - [Gary] Leonard? - [Sally] He said that you knew something about Frederick Bartholomew? - Leonard? - Come in, come in. I am Dr. Marbuse, this is my assistant Gary. - Hi, I'm Sally Smith. - Yes, come in. - I understand that you have some information about Frederick Bartholomew. - Frederick Bartholomew. I knew Frederick Bartholomew personally. - Well, I'm looking for some information about the development of the V2 rocket. - The V2 rocket. - [Sally] Yes. - I have information on the V2 rocket. Please, sit down. - Well, I can't stay long. - This won't take long. The things I know about the V2 rocket and Frederick Bartholomew, nobody on this planet knows what I know. This is your lucky day. (food frying) Gar)'- Hey, Gary! - [Gary] Yeah. - You notice anything? Smoke, the room is filling with smoke! - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. It must be steak is overdone! - Maybe I better come back later. - Oh, look what happened. It was on too high it burned! - Get that thing out of here! Please stay, the room will be clear in a moment. - Well, I gotta meet some friends anyhow. - The V2, Bartholomew. I have all the information. okay- - [Marbuse] You'll come back. - I will. - Tonight, come back tonight, I'll tell you everything. - I will. Goodbye. - [Marbuse] As soon as you can? - Yes. Goodbye. It was nice meeting you, Gary. Goodbye. - Oh, yeah, I -- Pleasure is all mine. - Don't let her get away! - Why? I though she was coming right back. - She might not, or she might bring someone with her. - Oh, no! - Go down to the alley and bring her up the back steps. Grab her! - Alright. Where's the sack? Where's the chloroform? Oh, here's the sack. Where's the chloroform? - Here, here, here. Get going- (rock and roll music) Are you fucking blind or what? (rock and roll music) ("From Here to Eternity" by The Only Ones) (playful active music) (door knocking) - [Sally] Hi. - Miss Smith, so glad you came back. - Yeah. - Please, make yourself comfortable. You look thirsty. Why don't you let me make one of my special beverages? Be back in a moment. (playful active music) Here. Don't screw up. - How could I screw up? - You could screw up. You could drink it yourself. Don't drink it, just give it to her. - Oh, I understand. I get it. (playful active music) Dr. Marbuse have prepared this drink for you. - You'll have to excuse him, Miss Smith. He's sort of an idiot. - Why do you let him treat you like that? - What do you mean? - I don't know, he treats you like you're some sort of inferior, like you're a domestic servant or something, and you shouldn't stand for it, it's not right. - Well, he does. And all the time making fun of me. - I don't think you should stand for it. - You know, he acts like I'm a goddamn moron. And I'm not! - No, don't let him push you around. - You're right! I've been his whipping boy for too long. There's only one thing to do in a situation like this. I'll kill him! I'll find that hammer and I'll put it right through his scull! - No, no, wait a minute! No, no, wait a minute, wait a minute! - Wait, that's just what you said! " [Sally] No! No! - No? - No. No. What I meant was that you should be more assertive, you just don't let him push you around. - Hmmm. - Could I have my drink? I'm dying of thirst. - Oh, wait, wait, wait. Are you sure? Because Marbuse doesn't make such good drinks, kind of sour. - Nonsense. It's delicious. Okay, now remember what I said, okay? About, you know - I guess. (tense music) (distant kids playing loudly) - Kids outside, always making a racket. Don't they have anything better to do? Get ready. - Ready? For what? (slow uneasy music) - A rare tropical drug. Sour though, did I put it in your sugar? I must go help Gary. (slow uneasy music) - What's this? An article. "Little Town. February, 1956. "Rocket scientist disappears. "Federal authorities are seeking Frederick Bartholomew, "German rocket scientist, "in connection with a series of bizarre "and so far unsolved murders. "His house in Little Town, which served as his laboratory, "has been mysteriously vacated." Hmm. (rock and roll music) (expectant uneasy music) - Bring that stuff up here. Don't go down in that door, that's where they kept Bartholomew. (fast-paced uneasy music) You stay away from that place. (fast-paced uneasy music) She's doing okay, she'll come around in a moment. You got that iron ready yet? - Not yet. - Well, it looks alright to me. Come on, let's do it to her! (speaking German) What's wrong? What's wrong with you? Look at you, you've got a boner! (speaking German) - Gary, don't. Gary, no! No! No, Gary, don't! Don't, don't, don't! Gary, no! No! Ah! (speaking German) - What's wrong? Why did you stop? - The fucking thing is too hot. - Of course it's hot. Now, come on! - She was screaming. - You never heard a little yelling before? Alright, give it to me. Come on, give me the iron! (tense music) Ah! (tense music) Oh, you'll hear some screaming now! - I'll use this. I'll hit you With it! I Will! - It's cold. Heat it up again. (slow uneasy music) (Playful music) Gary! (Playful music) Gary! (alternative active music) - Sure is nice out here. Not many houses though. Hey, look, there's a house over there in the woods. There's another one. (fast-paced tense music) Ahm, from this road here it should be up here to the right. (alternative active music) (thumping) (tense music) What you do? Run over something? My God, the chemicals, we could have been exploded! - Where are my glasses? Where are my glasses? Oh, no, they're broken. (alternative active music) - Oh, well, you get that ready. I'm gonna take a look around, see what I can see on this hill up here. (alternative active music) - What you let her loose for? - Well, she should be free, not in shackles. - [Marbuse] She'll only run away again. - It's for your own good. - The time is right, we can't delay. - [Gary] Let her rest. - Bartholomew is around. I can feel him! - I thought he was dead. - You can't speak of someone like that being dead. Now, we've got to do the ceremony. - Well, we don't have to use her. - It says right here in the book. We gotta start with a live person. - Let her rest. (relaxing music) - [Louise] How you doing? okay- lguess. The hell is this dead cat for? - [Louise] Dead cat? - There's a dead cat in here, it's cut up, disemboweled. Who put it here? - Dead cat? I certainly didn't. - Geez, it's dark out. There's no stars out tonight. Where's the garbage can at? - Over there, by the street light. - You know, Bartholomew used to do stuff like this. Cut up animals, people too. - Please throw it away. (expectant music) (tense music) - Hey, Louise, there's a dead guy in the trash can back there. - A dead man? In the trash can? - Come on, see for yourself! (tense music) Look, let's go back to town. We can finish the test tomorrow. I don't wanna stay here another night. I'll drive. (engine failing to start) There's oil leaking all over the place, something is busted. Oh, man. - So we'll stay here. (expectant music) (rock and roll music) - My dad says that a college degree is as important as the high school diploma was when he was a kid. - Hey, Joe, tell your Dad to eat shit. (rock and roll music) Hey, Joe, you're going kind of fast, you better slow down. - I'm full of hot beer and I'm ready to go. (tires screeching) Who does that dope think he is? Standing on the road like that? Hey, jerk! Get out of the way! He gave me the fingeroo! I think he is! - No, he's standing there, he's not doing anything. - Get out of the road, you fucking zombie! Hey, I'm gonna fuck you, man. You gotta be the biggest, dumbest, ugliest, most fucked up I've ever seen. Look at him! He don't do nothing, he don't say nothing. - You better be careful. He's a big mother. - What the hell? Oh, just, just wait a minute, friend. Don't get riled, you know? Just have a little fun. Whoa, whoa, wait, wait! Whoa, whoa! No, hey, man! Whoa, whoa, whoa! Hey! Hey! Oh, shit! Oh! Oh, Oh!Ah! Ah! (rock and roll music) (slow funny music) (fast-paced tense music) (tires screeching) (thumping) - What's wrong with you? You just ran that guy over! You must have a low IQ! You can't be dead. Oh, Jesus. (tense music) You can't be alive. (tense music) (expectant music) - You know, I was at the library today reading about Bartholomew. You know what they say? They say that back in the '60s when the government got through with him that he flipped out, he became this LSD guru, he started saying all kinds of crazy things, he got into black magic. And then all the people he was hanging outwith started disappearing, and then he disappeared. People thought he was dead but no one knew. - You think that pot is helping you to think straight? - Shit. You're right, this stuff is making me paranoid. Louise, we got some chemicals, you think we could make a bomb or something with the rocket? - I guess we could. Would that make you feel any better? - It certainly would. There. Anybody tries to fuck with us now they'll get blown sky high. - Well, it'll scare them anyhow. - What, it won't kill 'em? - Well, maybe if they are standing right on top of the explosives. Yeah, this will make you feel safe. Okay, you pull in the back of this, ignite it and then you let it go. And this functions as a rocket launcher, okay? Very careful, don't get it wet. - Alright, ready for anything now. (rock and roll music) - Gary, look. More bugs. I figured out where they're coming from. They're coming out of my head. The brain parasites. Maggots are infesting my mind! - Does it hurt? - Look in my ear. You see these little fuckers? - Hmmm. Nothing there either. - How about my mouth? UP top maybe? - Nah. - Or in my nose? - Nothing! - Gary, the fucking bugs are eating my brain. That means I'm gonna be dead soon. Bartholomew was here. His presence is all around. Now, let me loose on the girl! - Where is Bartholomew? - You'll see him when the time is right. Gary! - With that maggots on ohe brain stuff, huh? You ever hear such a thing? - No, I never did. - Me neither! I think you're getting a little screwy, but that might be more from the hammer on the brain than those bugs. - The hour is at hand, everything is ready, and I have to deal with impatient mind maggots and a buffoon like you! - Are you okay? - Gary, let's get out of here, let's get away. - Just the two of us? - Right, just the two of us. - Well, I'd like that. For sure. But it's so complicated out there. So many people. I mean, suppose that you like somebody else. I'd go nuts! - I won't like anybody else! Give me the key! - I guess you don't like this place, huh? - Gary, we can go off together to some place beautiful. - I know what's wrong. This place, it's a mess. What a dump. I'll clean it up! Eh Marbuse. What a pig! - Well, can you take the bracelet off my leg? - Hmm, not right now. - Oh, come on. What's the matter, you don't trust me? - Not right now! Okay? Just not right now. (rock and roll music) Like that? A little music. - Great. - Me too. It kind of cheers the place up. (rock and roll music) - Help me. (rock and roll music) No, what's he doing? Help! Let me go! - Don't let him take her! Do something! - I can't save the world! - He's gonna kill her! - I don't think he Will. Well, he might. Just don't think about it, okay? Why aren't we having any fun? (rock and roll music) - Don't go down there. It's your funeral. (expectant music) (expectant uneasy music) Ah! Ah! Don't! Don't! Hey, relax, just put your fucking mind at ease, huh? (swinging) Hey, what are you, nuts? Stop it! (swinging) Ah! Ah! (swinging) Ah! - Let's go to those houses down the road, the ones I pointed out earlier? Maybe we can get someone to give us a lift. - In the middle of the night? We'll do it tomorrow. - Come on, it's not that far. - I don't wanna go marching all around in the dark with these glasses. If you're so concerned you go. - What? You'll stay here alone? - Yeah, maybe that person in the car will come back and I'll be able to get it back. - Look, I don't think we should be splitting up. - Stay here, then. - Okay, I'll go. Can I take the rocket with me? - [Louise] Sure, I should be safe with all these little bombs set up around here. (expectant music) - Hello. Hello, anybody home? I need to use your telephone. I'm just gonna turn on the lights here. (expectant uneasy music) Never mind, I'll use the phone down the street. (expectant music) (crow cawing) (expectant music) Hello? Hello? Anybody home? Hello? (expectant music) Hello? Is there anybody home? I need to use the telephone! (expectant music) (tense music) (swinging) (swinging) (dramatic tense music) (swinging) (tense music) (wood thumping) (swinging) (swinging) (wood thumping) (swinging) (tense music) (swinging) (swinging) (tense music) (dramatic tense music) Ah Mmmh (bushes cracking) (tense music) (bushes cracking) (tense music) (thumping) (tense music) (thumping) (thumping) (tense music) ("Psychotic Reaction" by The Count Five) - Gary? Hey, Gary- Gary! You wanna dance? ("Psychotic Reaction" by The Count Five) Gar)'- Gary, no. Gary, no, I meant you wanna dance with me. ("Psychotic Reaction" by The Count Five) Ouh. I can't dance very well with this thing on. Why don't you get the key? ("Psychotic Reaction" by The Count Five) What was the dance you were doing before? Like this, like this. - Oh, you mean like this. - [Sally] Yes, yes. ("Psychotic Reaction" by The Count Five) Stop! No! No! Don't! Let me go! Let me go! Let me go! Aah! Please, please don't! Gary, no! Look, Gary, stop! Please, please! Aah! Facist pig! ("Psychotic Reaction" by The Count Five) - [Louise] Sally? - Oh, get me out of here, quick, before he gets back! Hurry! Hurry! - Where's the key? - It's over there, it's over there! Hurry! Get it! Quick! Come on, come on! (expectant uneasy music) (tense music) Aah! (tense music) (tense music) (swinging) (tense music) (swinging) (dramatic tense music) (swinging) (swinging) (swinging) (dramatic tense music) (rock music) (dramatic music) - Oh Hurts. Don't pull the rake. No, no! Oh, geez! Geez Geez Geez (rock music) (slow uneasy music) - "Dear Gary. "Before I go I must tell you a few things. "We are brothers. "Bartholomew is our father. "He is around here someplace. "The last I saw him "he was dressed up like a former president. "I know he was very proud of Richard Nixon. "You can waste your time playing around with that girl, "but I must be about my father's business. "Your reluctant brother, "Marbuse M.D." (expectant uneasy music) (dramatic tense music) (tense music) (rock and roll music) (slow uneasy music) (tense music) (explosion) (rock music) - Oh (uneasy music) (bushes cracking) (uneasy music) (bushes cracking) (uneasy music) (dramatic tense music) (explosion) (tense music) (dramatic tense music) ("Hey Boys" by The Dictators) (hopeful music) (slow disorienting music) - How far are you going? Geez, you don't look too good. Something happened to you? - These people over the hill, they killed my friends. - They killed your friends? Jesus, they look like they tried to kill you. You're the only one that got away? - I think so. - Hey, I got an idea. I'll pull over and I'll call the cops in one of those call boxes. They'll know what to do. - Oh, please do that, please. (rock music) - There's some really crazy stuff on the radio, isn't it? - My friends, the crazy just... The crazy. - Look, you don't look too good. I've got some blankets, I've got some hot chocolate in the back. While I'm making the call, why don't you go help yourself, okay? - They killed all of my friends, all of them. - I got some blankets. Oh, boy, I got some hot chocolate back there, it really burn the roof off your mouth, man, it really makes you go crazy. (desolating rock music) (tense music) - No, don't, they're crazy. Don't you understand? (desolating rock music) - [Driver] Hey, don't forget the hot chocolate! There's blankets back there too! (desolating rock music) (tense music) (desolating rock music) Pull her in and let's go! (car engine revving) (desolating rock music)
