 

                        For the performance these people are torturing the animals less training Boys! Get all the animals Look at this.... How this raid has conducted because of me l have done this sting operation What else a bitch can do? Sting Operation! Wait for a second! And this raid is nothing What kind of pet you have kept in your house Python! lf Python won't stay in her house then where else it would be.... His entire family is full of snakes Don't talk alot You have a crocodile in your house Because without if and but your family always speaks rubbish Why they are fighting? And who they are? They both are cousin sisters lf these sisters are like these.... then how their mother would be l have an appointment at 4. l am Mrs. Kapoor and l have an appointment at 4 You both are Mrs. Kapoor that's why l made a mistake That's your problem You have put a ton of Botox inside your body and you also don't look Ms. England Please don't fight like this Otherwise your face lift will be shifted Who are they? lf these two are like this then how their husbands would be You must be happy to hear about that that Our United Baking Production is notjust getting demand in U.K but it's increasing in entire world How did you started this meeting without me And with that Co-Chairman.... Since he joined our company our company's profit figures are getting so cheap like him... Because you are only Kapoor and Son and me.... l am Kapoor and real son You are crossing the limit My dad crossed the limit He born a brother But l was born first l was directly delivered l was delivered first You don't consider yourself so big Since you are born you are just Chintu But l am bigger than you in respect You are the illegal son of my dad but he divided his property amongst us that's why we are sharing everything Remember one thing You mistake of youth.... Getting that moment's advantage you and your family snatched our rights.... Otherwise you, your wife and your daughter everyone's value is like a beggar Don't talk about my daughter Now l will tell you.... that what is the value of my daughter When l will fix her marriage with the most family in U.K Now you must watch where l will fix my daughter's wedding And you will must get a beggar for your daughter You will get a character less son in law for your daughter Both brother's fight.... and Pasta will earn the money l am running the most famous Marriage Bureau in London Pasta Kapoor Where are you in these days? Since you have opened this Marriage bureau you are gone so busy Nowdays every daughter's father have only one name.... Last Pasta For the Engagement Last Pasta For the Wedding Last Pasta and for the nuptial night Last Pasta You take double money for me but l need a most famous family for my daughter Heena Come at my house! l will come tomorrow Not tomorrow right now! Where is your bathroom? lt's Urgent Last night l got Last Pasta in restaurant Now that last pasta is looking the way out You? ln my bedroom! What are you doing on my bed? l want to show you my love Get double money from me But l want a famous and rich guy for my daughter And if you.... will go to that loser Chintoo then l will put that arrow in your bow You are sinked in your potty lt's too late Do you have washroom in your house You went to the bathroom so what are you doing in the kitchen Toilet Paper was finished in bathroom so l came here to get some water l was writing rich and famous guys names on toilet paper lf Dabbu will get your toilet paper where you have written the names then l will wipe you out How is that possible? l am your man Your mouth stinks! l am sure you will like Chintu Kapoor's Family Pasta! Please speak slowly He have heart condition Why he got shock to speak louder ln our Lock's Factory once thousand tons of steal has felt down on his front and he is gone deaf We are going for Jai's Proposal and he is not with me l wish he would be with me Call him! l have told you many times that you're notjust my assistant but my friend too Yes tell me! l want to tell you something Look! l know what you want to tell me But before that.... l want to tell you something l know you never let me down Actually l have called you today that l am going for your proposal That' s such a nice family l am sure you won't refuse me You can do whatever you want You wanted to tell me something My dad has fixed my marriage somewhere else You also wanted to tell me something l wanted to tell you something lf you don't mind will you speak slowly When the voice is loud so he got a heart problem l was asking that your son didn't come with you We have to discuss about his life How he will come? He is imprisoned in Dehli for a girl's murder case He is having shooting in Hawai for some calendar To see you you won't feel that he is his son Don't look at his face He looks African but his son is opposite to him His colour is white To see his you will feel that he is not his real son But he is his Step Son He is talking about his son What happen? Put the snack down! You are over reacting You put the sweet down This Jai is not his father's son but a son of sin Jai is his dad's son When did l said that he is not his dad's son but you are not his dad. l think your wife took the neighbour's concept very seriously Shut up! What you got to make steal locks from so many years besides your white neighbour have your house keys Shame on you! Your fate is black and your husband is black God has made black comedy with you Get the DNA test of your son Let's have his ECG test for him Who else can know better than me that who is real an who is step son Don't bring these illegal proposals lf you want to bring the proposals then bring legal millionaires proposals Hinduja, Mittal, J.D. Bring their son's proposals Otherwise don't show me your face What did you said? And you didn't stop him He was insulting your parents He said many bad things that your dad got heart attack He said bring the proposal of Hinduja, Mittal and J.D's proposal What? J.D's Son? He needs J.D's son.... l will give him J.D's son Because J.D's son Jolly.... is my childhood friend And now J.D's son will take the revenge of my dad's insult This time l didn't stop Yes! but you are stopping while you are walking Why are you scared from your dad? l am not scared from my dad Last time l didn't step down from the Chopper and this time did you see l took ten step from the chopper You have no guds You have brought me here sixth time But still you didn't introduce me from your dad l will shoot the bikini photo and l will do hot videos And you will get the right to stop me from all these things when you will introduce me with your dad And you will tell your dad that you wants to marry me J.D has become such a famous man but he is still so simple man How can you manage it? As much J.D has become a famous man He touched the sky but his feet will be on the earth Today l will speak and you will listen Today you will speak and l will listen That's fine.... but where are you in these days? Sometimes.... spend some time with your dad l have a girlfriend Friendship is good but don't make relationship with her You don't know l have fixed your marriage with my friend Batuk Patel's daughter when your were child And l gave him my word Did you see Jolly? Now when that Kapoor gave heart attack to my dad. Same as that Jolly You will give heart attack to that Kapoor Yes you! That Kapoor needs J.D's son.... You are J.D's son.... You go to his house and fix your marriage with his daughter and break the marriage on Wedding Day He will must get heart attack lf my dad will know about this that l am gonna have fake marriage l couldn't tell my dad about my girlfriend You don't know my dad When my dad gone angry so l am very scared about him lf l can't do it.... then someone else can do it What do you mean? l mean.... Kapoor needs J.D's son.... You knew that l am J.D's son l knew that l am J.D's son.... but Kapoor doesn't know that who is J.D's son l mean to say.... that we will send someone else at Kapoor's house being J'D's son And ourjob will be done Fake Jolly? Your plan is perfect but.... We need a rascal for this job Sit down slowly But sometimes character gone bad Now.... let's talk about some money Give him 50,000 Pound too Him too? Whom you have deal with earlier? Who? You are not dealing with Max? We don't know who is Max Just get the money and do ourjob Put it down in the centre Who is that mutant in the photo? He is not a mutant He is my dad And l..... l am his sin But our deal? Done! So why don't you tell the Sunny about Max Don't discuss about Max in front of Sunny Because when Max will face the Sunny then Sunny will kill the Max And if Sunny will face the Max then Max will kill him How did they become enemies? Actually we two were studied in the same college with Sunny and Max These two senior citizens with you two young guys No! When we were in first year so they both were in final year and when we two were in final year then still those two were in final year And one day.... ln College's Party..... You hide yourself here l am scared with the darkness Come with me! Nothing will happen Finally l am alone with you in this cupboard Sonia! What are you doing? You are my best friend's girlfriend Your best friend is hot but you are hotter You have lost your mind Despite knowing it that l am your girlfriend... From cleverness to sympothy You call this man your friend Now shut your mouth otherwise l will smash your face Get lost from here He is my friend He trusted on me... How could you? You are not my friend You have fought me for this character less girl What are you doing? Our friendship is over Who wants to be your friend? ln which house we are sending Sunny Max is gonna be on that next house And if these two will face each other then World War 4 will begin One minute! You go back to Max and l will stay with Sunny We can't let face Sunny and Max each other What have l done? You have got Rich Son in law to that Kapoor lt's done what it has to be He got a rich person but l don't need any rich person for my Heena but l need a Royal Person lt's such a romantic view What is that? Get out! Are you alright? Who are you? He is J.D's son... Who is J.D? My dad was taking my to meet some girl for my marriage in his private Jet And when l knew.... then l jumped down from the Jet Because if he is J.D. then l am J.D's son He is J.D's son.... Why are you spitting on me? lt has to be done because my landing was so.... ....Soft Who are you? He is my bodyguard Your dad must be looking for you He could send his entire army here for your marriage that's why we will have to stay underground for few days We might be found a safe place to hide We need a banglow, wall and a barb wire Garden! l must say let's hide in the bushes l have barb wire, wall garden here l have a house here, Where is the house? This is your house This house! Come with me That's right but.... Why are you sending your law officer to my house He is coming to study your research You will be happy to meet her Recognize him! l know he came for me from the sky For what reason you came here we will have to go to my bedroom Where are you going? l am a Bodyguard! You bodyguards takes your job very seriously But Bodyguard's job is to break other's bones Yes! But you are a Single Bone man l think you have started dieting but forgot to over it l was President's bodyguard l don't know what happened to Tomy Since l put clothes on him he got rashes Now what should l do? Must be feeling hot Please take off the clothes How it feels now? Now straight to the bed How does it feeling now? Now let me hear him barking l can't hear it. Little bit Louder! Why are you getting tired? Your meeting was very cute lt means you are not feeling offended like your daughter lf that Heena is not present for the award But how is that possible? l have an idea Now Bobby will win Now my heena will win l don't know how come l came here but you must be involved with that That must be your hand, lt's not her hand lt's his hand.... Not my hand lt's his hand He put on my face l have put on your face Tell them the truth You didn't put chloroform on my face l have found everywhere but l could not find anything to eat But you don't worry! l am stuck on this island because of you and l have no way out l am starving.... Go and get some food for me Dad sent you to take care of me Now until l am on this island You will take care of my food Why are you standing here? Go and get it! Your didn't change your habit to get other's stuff You need coconut! lt's lying here, Get it! After 10 years l got a chance to settle the account And today nothing's gonna stop us What are you looking at? l have already saved you earlier from that girl who belongs to someone else in two minutes But it's not gonna worth to tell you You will not understand anything Hit me! Now what are you looking at? l am not hitting you l am shaking my hand l have got the sandwich We have eat alot Now who will pay the bill Don't worry! Your bill! There! Jolly! Here! l have got the towel Cover your self Covered girls in Sosa's photo shoot Jolly will talk to his dad about you He will talk to his dad? Yes! He took two steps ahead then he got 4 steps back You take one step ahead Take me to your house then l will spend my entire life wearing abaya with you These two are here? What are you doing here? How did enemies become friend When we finished our mis-understandings we became friends But where are your girlfriends? We will discuss about it later Let's have some food From today l am leaving your house and l will stay in his house After today that's my house and l will stay here He is leaving his dad But his dad is not leaving him You leave it to me Dad! l am refusing your house lt's good to refuse your dad but it's not good to refuse his property What? You need me or my property Property! l mean l need you lf you want then l will held your engagment tomorrow l am getting engage tomorrow Your sons is getting engage tomorrow Tomorrow l am getting engage And you are not invited and you have fixed your daughter's engagement l have a plan What's the emergency? Why did you call me here in the middle of night To tell you about my dad J.D.... We will take more 50,000 Pounds So tell me about your dad You have just talk to J.D. on phone anything is gone in life but J.D. shouldn't know about this l know you from the college why are you scared from your dad Fine! l am coward! But my dad shouldn't know about this You will have to tell us today What shall l tell you? You want to hear it... Then listen! Today what secret l am gonna tell you nobody knows about that Many years ago.... ln Maharashtra's Area terror were ruled He was terror for Landlords but he was messiah for villagers Even fear was scared from his name That name was.... Jakka Decoit He had only one weakness His childhood friend S.P. Police Batuk Patel When 700 Villages Police was failure to arrest Jagga then Batuk forced Jagga to surrender the police And Jagga can take someone's life for his words and he can give his life You have done right! You have explained me right Father's dark shadow take his son to the darkness And every child wants that his dad's hand raised to give blessings not to carry the gun.... Now you admit one more thing What? l want that our childhood friendship shall turn to relationship My daughter and your son.... Fine! l will give you my word My son's marriage will take place with your daughter And l will request the Government that give less punishment to Jagga So he could start his new life as soon as possible lt means Jagga Decoit After 14 years imprison with his hard working Jagga Decoit has become London's J.D. l have hide one more thing from you What? My real name is not Jolly Then? A name only a decoit can give his son My real name is.... Juwala That's why l kept my name Jolly Don't give chance J.D to become Jagga Don't roam near my house Now let's concentrate on only one thing Congratulations! Can l ask you one thing? Yes! Where you taking three of us? Open your blindfolds.... How do you like? That's your Engagement Gift Jolly got engagment lt's my house lt's my house.... lt's J.D's house How do you like my surprise? Government had put prize on his head He brought me in his house for surprise lt's mind blowing from outside Let's go! Why are you shaking your head? lt's your dad's house? You go and handle it emotionally Who are you? Please try to understand... What to understand l can clearly see that He thinks Jolly got engaged Nobody will interfere between Father and son Yes! Nobody will interfere But l will must have to interfere Because l am the new driver of your son But l am his old friend too Now your son made a mistake Let it be, He is your son Every child wants that his father shall raise his hand to give blessings not to carry the gun l think.... You gave your word to someone But if your son won't be alive then what will be your words worths? Now show down He is admiring his dad to low his volume l am telling you give him space in your heart and house for few days Try to understand Till then l will break this engagement, l will give you my words... And l have faith in my words Because l.... am the love of Batra Kali! Son has done wrong thing But today is it right what a father is doing Father is a big thing but his heart is bigger than him Today if you'll forgive your son so that will be J.D's failure but that will be a father's victory Don't cry! For my son's happiness a father laid his head down Come and get his blessings! Amazing house! What is the square feet of this house l can understand that Jolly touched his feet but why did driver touched his feet There is some spice in the bakery Jolly got the engagement but that driver is having fun l will tell the Boss right now What kind of house is this? He is entering without knocing the door ls he gone mad? Get out from this room right now lf you will do it again then l will take you out from this house He was inside Not a single day has passed and Jolly got warning to get out from his house l have set the flame just wait to lighten up the torch Do it whatever you like! Yes Boss! Such a cheap man he is.... l think you have food in your mouth Finish it then talk to me l have nothing in my mouth Wrong person is having fun with your daughter Go and look from your eyes Not a wrong person but the right person is with my daughter inside the room What kind of father he is? Husband and Driver for his daughter Dad and daughter both are cheap What happen? U.K Fox Magazine has chosen J.D. man of the year His firms, companies and all assets worths 5 billion pounds l am sitting in your house to see your empire l mean l want to see your office l am going to office and you can come with me Get the car! Why there two are coming together? Driver! Get the car! Jolly! Will you come with us? l don't need coffee lf you want to offer someone then offer it to my future son in law l will see who she will give the coffee We will be caught Give coffee to Jolly Get him up! lt was my mistake! l thought tennis is two players game l have got a phone call You keep playing l wish you would be here You know in whose house my daughter is.... ln J.D's house.... But in front of my eyes.... Got darknes.... l have told you wait and watch Now do you understand your value lf J.D's son.... is Chintu's son in law then who is he? Enough for today l will take you on long drive Now what? We got two fake Jolly to get Jai's father's revenge You have some mis-understanding l will explain you Those two girls are not my wives Are you alright? But l am still angry with you And l will forgive you only on one condition l have accept your every condition At least ask her condition That won't be bigger than our problem Then fine! Take me to your house Now that's my condition l don't want to take risk anymore l am coming at your house Now l will stay with you 24/7 You can make me speak lie for anything Your driver got engagement ls this a true story or new story lt's a love story We need your blessings Now it's his job to give blessings to his drivers What's wrong with the drivers? They don't have heart l am the lover of Batra Kali and l have learnt it l will give my blessings.... Then you will allow her to live here for few days lt's wedding atmosphere Fine! l will give my blessing but in traditional way Where is J.D? He is gone for the walk.... What kind of father in law he is? He is giving blessings to his future son in law that he should born kids with some other girl After listening you... l turned this house into assylum l like to smash your face.... Not under my ears... Behind the ears.... Shut up and stay here.... Last night she was with me and she was asking about you She wants to meet you lf you will talk rubbish then l will slap on your face l will meer her? Never! So she will come.... Stop nonsense! She was saying like that... l am not saying it l will tell Sarla that you can't meet her Who is this Sarla? Her name Anarkali is for sinner world Her real name Sarla.... Sarla was Jolly's mom name No! Jolly's Mom's name.... Now you will must have to meet her Please meet her. l insist She was asking about me Give me her number... l will give you her number What happen? lt doesn't feel good l came here for my daughter's wedding And how would it feel Fine! So l will tell Hetal Who is this Hetal? She is Anarkali for sinner world But her name is Hetal on her passport Parul's late mother's name was also Hetal Come and sit! Why you wanted to meet me l don't have your answer l must want to meet you once.... We have thought alot What you guys have done, You have done it wrong But if you want.... then you could more worse with us But whatver you did at least we both sisters have met And perhaps our fathers who are enemies they will also meet With this hope we both came to tell you something Our marriage will take place? Have you gone mad How our marriage will take place He is right... So many venues, so many jolly and so many dads Why are you getting tired? There is also my father amongst all these fathers. Father of all fathers Jagga Decoit And we all have wedding tomorrow l have drink your lemonade alot Now watch more famous people will come Climax comes after wedding but here climax is coming together with wedding Here comes fool You are lucky that you met me Go and get some cold drink for me Who left you here? You didn't recognize Pasta l am running London's number one Marriage Bureau And for your buggers l have opened mobile marriage bureau Press one for enagagement Press 2 for engagement Get some cold drink for me Almost all guests have arrived Call the brides.... Now call the groom Show me their faces.... As per papa's term my wedding with Heena and your are getting married with J-Lo What shall we do now? Why you are getting tired? l have arranged everything Start the Mantras
