 

                        So come with me, we'll all go and see The Big Rock Candy Mountains Yes, the Big Rock Candy Mountains There's a land that's fair and bright Where the handouts grow on bushes And you sleep out every night Hello? Where have you been? Oh just, just had to work on the will, what's up? What's up, our little brother is Still missing. Well I mean you left him there. I'm not making any of this up. Oh God, why won't you believe me? Well, they're saying it's a virus. You sure you and Sam didn't just hallucinate All this ghost stuff when you were there? So, what, did I hallucinate My broken leg and the claw marks on my back too? No come, that's not what I'm saying, okay, I'm just saying that sounds an awful lot Like Sam's big imagination going into overdrive here. Because having an imagination Is just such a terrible thing, Dad. All right come on, look, after all this shit I've been going through, with the will, You really think that I still regret Dad's death? The only thing I regret about our parents dying Is that I didn't get to tell Dad to go F himself Before he died. Okay now, I will go to Tasmania and I will bring Our little brother home, you understand me? Fine. Just bring him home. Fine. Why isn't the government talking about it? We know Tasmania is quarantined, sure but, What is being quarantined? What if it is all just a cover up? Or worse, what if we're dealing with something The military doesn't even understand? Oh come on, the entire state of Tasmania Evacuated for what, testing? People have died. Nah but, people have gone missing. Have you seen any bodies, I don't know. Now maybe they found something, I'm telling you, Maybe we're dealing with an enemy here that can't be seen. You see, this is exactly the sort of Conspiracy that brought these people to doing Wretched and horrible things. It's this nonsense that gets people killed On a grand scale. Tell the, it's been, Like days, and we haven't heard a thing,. An entire state is empty. When is someone gonna tell us the truth? And what is the truth? Aliens, secret testing? See that's just it, it could be anything. There's a lot of people like you, turning the other way, And pretend like nothing is happening, That nothing is wrong, May be on a path to extinction if this is left unchecked. Extinction, please. The military says there's a virus, And they're containing it. That is enough for me, I'm well, my family is well, I have no interest in digging up something that could Cost me or any other fellow Australians their lives. I say this is the military's problem, let the military Handle it, okay? Hey Sam, It's Molly. My friend and I are here, we're at your cabin. It doesn't look like you've been here for weeks. Oh God where are you? Look, I'm sorry to just show up like this, But I really need you to come home, So we can figure everything out. I understand why you've run away from all this And I'm really trying to support you, But if the three of us just finished this, Then we can all finally move on with our lives. Anyway, please call me back when you get this. I love you Sam. Did you get a hold of Brian today? Is he gonna meet you out here if you can't find Sam? No. I don't know where he is. But Brian, he just doesn't even care. He used to be the sweetest guy ever. Like he would cry if someone killed a bird. Oh my God, he has just become such an asshole. I can't even remember the last time he said, "I love you." What the hell is that? I don't know. Molly, we need to go! We need to get back to the cabin. Sam, where are you Sam? Where are you? The news calls it a virus. But Sam explains it differently. January 24th, I received a package from Sam Two weeks ago, asking me to return To our family's old vacation spot. This is a message in a bottle for humanity, he calls it. Now first things first. If you going out into their territory You have to make yourself invisible to them. Ash from the dead conceals your presence When they are near, never leave home without it. Surround the perimeter of wherever You may camp with the ash as well, It helps throw off your scent. And make sure not to stay at any spot longer Than a night or two. If you're ever unsure of their presence, Remember that they communicate with one another Using some sort of radio wave. You can pick up their chatter using a low-frequency radio. But very rarely will you actually Hear them, and more commonly you'll pick up Ghost radio waves, this will let you know You're in the clear. And if your radio should fail you for any reason, There is one other step you can take to observe Their presence. Any camera with infrared can pick them up, They seem to be formed of light That the naked eye can't see, Some type of energy. They don't seem to have a physical presence. But perhaps almost a form of light radiation, Or a soul. If you're here in Tasmania, you are in Enemy territory. Never let your guard down. The frequency of them seems to depend On how many people have died in the area, And don't confuse this with where people are buried, Graveyards actually seem to be safe houses, And in closing, , Keep your use of electricity to a minimum, As it seems to attract or even spawn them. They seem to feed off of it. He didn't seem sure who would receive This message, but, for some reason it found me. Is what he says true? He claimed he'd keep moving and survive For as long as he could until he was rescued. Do I still have time to find him? I met a girl the other night In fact she was divine She lived out in the country Three miles from the river line I called to see her the other night Stayed late, I missed my train Her Pa discovers me And throws me right out in the rain I got right up and walked and walked and walked And walked and walked I did not have her number Or else I would not have had hope Put down my head and in my bed Put all my hope throughout my test And got right up and walked along And walked, and walked and walked See that girl was by my side Least I now know, And I ain't say call all over us My girl jumped in the air She sits on the rooftop Good evening everybody, Tonight's guest is Sam Everett, A poor unfortunate soul searching for his parents Even though they're already dead. But then what are you gonna find? What brings, You're not looking in the right places, buddy. We're halfway outside your house At this very moment, waiting to give you a big hug! We don't bite Sam, Now throw that crown upside down And let us in buddy! I've traveled east, I've traveled west I've been in every state A member of the knights of rest With dues paid up to date There's just two things that I despise Two things I always shirk The first thing is a cake of soap The other one is work My life to me is just as free I'm always on a lark Somebody said you're just a bum And I don't like that remark Who said I was a Bum Who said I was a Bum I haven't worked for 20 years I guess I'm not so dumb And as a tramp along the road The people hear me hum I know I'm a hobo But who said I was a bum I must admit I never fit in any job and say Whenever I see a pile of wood I look the other way I haven't shaved in many a year I really am afraid Because I fear my wire beard Would break the razor blade The other day while on my way A cop gave me a chase I thought I heard him holler Take that mattress off-a your face Who said I was a bum Who said I was a bum Of death and easy, go inside Of things that easy come A bum with nickels, now and then They keep me full of rum I know I'm a hobo But who said I was a bum My coat is worn, my shoes are torn There's holes in both my toes And what is worse I always nurse a blossom on my nose And with a glance You'll see my pants are baggy at the knees They're worn so thin I feel the wind blow through my BVDs But there ain't nothing that worries me Now what is that about There's never something on my mind Except a dirty hat But who said I was a bum Who said I was a bum Don't think I'm a lonesome guy Because I look so glum I've got a lot of cootie friends That keep me on the hum I know I'm a hobo But who said I was a bum Come back Sam. You can't hide from me. You can't hide from me, Sam. Where are you going? I know I'm a hobo But who said I January 25th. I only have two weeks left until the boat I hired comes back for me. And if I don't make it back in time, He will leave without us. Sam is here somewhere. And I know for sure now. I've picked up some sort of trail of his, But, where does it lead? Whatever happened here has somehow Made the electricity come alive. It seems to react to a person's presence at will. Or is this just the virus? Keep hiding Sam, and stay safe. I'm coming. Look up, look down That railroad line And bow your head and cry The longest train I ever saw Was 80 coaches long The engine passed At eight o'clock And the cab went by at nine Look up, look down That railroad line And bow your head and cry Little girl, little girl Don't you tell me no lies Where did you stay last night I stayed in jail 99 days With my face turned to the wall Little girl little girl What have I done You turned your back on me Take all my clothes Throw them all outdoors Farewell Help me! Please. This way Sam. Hurry Sam. I've got you Sam, You little brat, there is no escape. It's no use Sam. Sam you can't hide from me. I'm going to stop you Sam. I know you're here. January 26th. He began to stay closer to the sea, Away from civilization, as he attempted To figure out what they actually were. His research is hard to understand, He goes on and on about several things, Such as inter-dimensional beings, Shadow people, and even aliens. He claimed that legends and history Seemed to blend, to intertwine, And even lose focus. He believed that ghosts were simply A generalization. Or a misanalysis of that. And they would prey on the energy Of misfortune and suffering. They can come to our side Through some sort of portals. He seemed to think that there are These portals, or hot spots, All over the world, Where the spirits can come to our side. Is Tasmania really one of those places? He concluded that these portals Explained the areas of the world Where the foulness and suffering of humanity Never seemed to clear. His final note was merely a question. "Will there always be a dark cloud over these places?" "Or can the portals be closed?" "And can the light return?" Where are you Sam? The whole fury and might of the enemy Must very soon be turned on us. Hitler knows that he will have to break us In this island or lose the war. But if we fail, then the whole world, Including the United States, Including all that we have known and cared for, Will sink into the abyss of a new dark age Made more sinister... So these are your ghosts huh Sam? It's me again. I really need to talk to you. We've always got through stuff like this together. I just wanted to make sure that you got mom's necklace. I left it in your mailbox. Now... She came to, to see me last night. I couldn't even look at her For about 10 minutes. But when I finally did, she gave a message For you and Brian. She wanted you to keep her necklace close. Because you will need it. It's gotta feel good if this is you. , please babe. It's such a long time since I've seen Anything like this. Am I going crazy? Or do you see that too? Have you seen Mom and Dad yet since they've died? You can't hide from me, Brian. Oh shit. You can't run from me forever. Oh I'm going down that road feeling bad Oh I'm going down that road feeling bad Oh I'm going down that road feeling bad And I ain't gonna be treated this way Oh I'm going where that chilly wind never blows Oh I'm going where that chilly wind never blows Oh I'm going where that chilly wind never blows And I ain't gonna be treated this way Oh way down in jail on my knees Oh way down in jail on my knees Oh way down in jail on my knees And I ain't gonna be treated this way Oh feed me on cornbread and peas One evening as the sun went down And the jungle fire was burning Down the track came a hobo hiking And he said, boys I ain't turning I'm headed for a land that's far away Beside the crystal mountain So come with me we'll all go and see The Big Rock Candy Mountains Yeah, the Big Rock Candy Mountains There's a land that's fair and bright Where the handouts grow on bushes And you sleep out every night Where the boxcars all are empty And the sun shines every day On the birds and bees and the cigarette trees January 27th, I now only see two options. Either I'm affected, and the virus story was real, Or it's the somehow more frightening option. Sam was right. Which would mean he was hiding Because something was following him. Whatever the case, I'm amazed he survived here this long. I can explain ghost radio waves, They're old radio broadcasts that bounce around the world For years, that's science. But how did the radio find something from my past? Is this real? Why is all of this becoming so familiar? In the Big Rock Candy Mountains You never change your socks And the little old streams of alcohol Come a tricklin' down the rocks Where the brakemen have to tip their hats And the railroad bulls are blind January 28th. For some reason Sam has decided to go to The most haunted island in Australia. I have no ordinary explanation for why Sam would go there Of all places. Every Monday morning they've got 'em out on time March 'em down to Lone Rock, said to look into that mine March you down to Lone Rock, said to look into that hole Very last word the captain say, you better get your coal Oh, buddy, won't you roll down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line The outbreak cannot be stopped. Evacuate from Tasmania at all costs. From Maria Island. We're going through hell, just rescue us. Way back yonder in Tennessee, they leased the convicts out They worked 'em in the coal mines against free labor stout Free labor rebelled against it, to win it took some time But while the lease was in effect They made 'em rise and shine Oh, buddy, won't you roll down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line Yonder come my darlin', comin' down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line Yonder come my darlin', comin' down the line Every Monday morning they've got 'em out on time Brian, uh it's Molly. I've been trying to call you all night. Why won't you just pick up your goddamn phone To? Hey, in the bathtub. You know I wanna tell you there's no point, But Dad was drunk-driving and something, Something just went wrong. And now both of our parents, they're dead. No, please, please! I just, I need one minute! Okay, I don't know what to do here. They're trying to take them away. I really need your help. When I got here, Mom was still alive. Maybe she with... No please, I just need, I just need one minute. Brian... I need you! And I don't know how I'm gonna tell Sam Any of this. He really looks up to you. We need you,. I have to go. Please help me. March you down to Lone Rock Said to look into that hole Very last word the captain say you better get your coal Oh, buddy, won't you roll down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line Yonder come my darlin', comin' down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line Buddy, won't you roll down the line Yonder come my darlin', comin' down the line This outbreak cannot be stopped. Evacuate from Tasmania at all costs. From Maria Island? We're going through hell, just rescue us. This outbreak cannot be stopped. Evacuate from Tasmania at all costs. From Maria Island? We're going through hell, just rescue us. This outbreak cannot be stopped. Evacuate from Tasmania at all costs. From Maria Island? We're going through hell, just rescue us. January 29th. I have one week left to find Sam, But I still need to cross eight kilometers Of ocean to get him. Now if I'm going into enemy territory, I need to find a way to stop Whatever these things are if I come into contact With one again. They seem to communicate in some way With ghost radio waves, some sort of infra-sound. Somehow the radios can pick it up. Let's say they're ghosts like Sam claims. But what are ghosts, really, Scientifically, no fantasy. What are all people at their core? Energy. And how do you destroy something That can neither be created nor destroyed? You destroy its power source. Destroy what it feeds off of. Sam claimed electricity attracted them Or even responded to them. So what do we do? We turn off the lights. An electromagnetic pulse. Oh I'm going down that road feeling bad Oh I'm going down that road feeling bad Oh I'm going down that road feeling bad And I ain't gonna be treated this way All right come on you bastards. There we go. You wanna see Sam, I know you do Brian. I can smell you. You're coming back home with your brother, Brian. That's right you son of a bitch, over here. You cannot run from me Brian. Brian, guess who's back? Almost... I know you're up here, Brian. I'm coming Brian. Almost... Your soul is mine, Brian! Now! January 30th. If I don't make it back, Whoever finds this, EMP is how you stop them. It seems to send them back To wherever they come from. Hope trumps fear, Sam. I'm coming. This outbreak cannot be stopped. Evacuate from Tasmania at all costs. I must warn anyone who hears this. Stay away from Maria Island. Something is here. We have accidentally opened something. Okay, do not try and rescue us. I must warn anyone who hears this. Stay away from Maria Island. Something is here. We have accidentally opened something. Okay, do not try and rescue us. There is no escape. Help yourselves and evacuate from Tasmania At all costs. January 31st. I've determined that either Sam Is still somewhere on this island, Or he has at least been here very recently. This distress call seems to be getting clearer The closer I get to the mountain. So tomorrow I'm gonna try to attempt To hike to the summit and see if I can find the source Of the signal. I think it's what Sam would've done. And it's really the only lead I have at this point, so. The boat leaves in five days. Hello again everybody, We have a special guest with us tonight, Brian Everett! It must feel like you're on Maria Island, All dressed up with nowhere to go. It's terrible being invited to a party When no one's home! Take it from us folks! Well you just need patience. Rest assured, the welcome mat Has been laid out too for you, Brian. Enjoy your home and see you soon buddy! Okay do not try and rescue us. There is no escape. I must warn anyone who hears this. Stay away from Maria Island. Something is here. We have accidentally opened something. Okay, do not try and rescue us. There is no escape. Help yourselves and evacuate from Tasmania At all costs. Go back, Brian. Don't follow the river. Sam?! Go back, Brian. Sam? Sam?! Don't follow the river. Sam? Sam?! Please goddammit no, no! Come on, Sam come on, Come on wake up, wake up. Come on! Oh no goddammit, come on! What, no man, come on, wake up Sam, Come on wake up, wake up! One, two, three! Come on, come on wake up! One, two, three! Come on you can't come this far Just to stop Sam, come on! One, two, three! Come on! One, two, three! One, two! What the hell is the point? Just come and get me assholes. Come and get me. Brian, Brian? Oh come on, this is the best you got guys? Screw you. Brian it's me, where the hell are you? Bullshit it's you. Oh you're here too? Yup on Maria Island like you told me. No, I told you to stay away From Maria Island. There's something there, a doorway. A doorway? And where are you? On the other side. I went through. That's funny because I'm looking at your dead body right now. What? I just found it lying here next to the river. Oh shit. Yeah. I don't understand. I'm still alive, I followed this track All up the river, and found a cave. But there's something in that cave, Brian. It's some kind of electrical doorway to another place. I think it's where they came from. Like an old house. That's where I am now. Then why the hell did you go through it? I thought I saw our dad. I wanted to apologize. Apologize? Mom is dead. Dad is dead. And now you're dead. Do you still really Only think in black and white After seeing what we've seen? Tell science to get lost for just a second, Believe me Brian. I have no idea what I've seen. I don't even know what the hell I'm talking to Right now, okay? All I know is that, Sam is dead. I have no idea what the hell I'm gonna do now. Keep going. What? If you're going through hell, keep going. Are you really there? Yes, but something is holding me here. I think it's Dad, or. I need your help, Brian. How am I supposed to help you if you're dead. Go through the doorway, Find our old house. What the hell are you talking about? You'll wake up in a pool, Go to the woods and follow the signs for home, Through the abandoned buildings. Please Brian. Sam? Sam?! Sam... So you're alive huh? You know? I used to see ghosts when I was a kid too. Back before you were even born. I never responded to 'em or anything, I just didn't want 'em to, Actually I didn't wanna get near 'em you know? I thought maybe I could trick 'em or, Play stupid. I didn't even think I actually Ever knew what they were. Until right now. I mean the last time I saw them I was probably I don't know, four or five. But what I saw was You looking exactly like you do right now. And all you'd ever say to me was, "Save me." Over and over. I don't know if you really are Sam or not, And I don't know if this is a trap or not, But I'm coming for you. All of you! And I'm gonna send every last one of you Back to where you belong. This message is for Molly Everett, Her address is 4085, Chariot Lane, Santa Barbara, California. Molly if you are watching this, It means I've failed and that both Sam and I are dead. I know that You had a really hard time growing up, And I know I was never there for you When I should've been, And I know that you've been mad at me For, , coming down here To try to save my brother, but, In a classic Dad move, The problem with the will was That he didn't even leave us anything. He gave everything to some guy. Some friend of his, and I've been down here For a month. Trying to convince this guy To give me some money So I can afford to see my brother. But it's okay... If you do get this Molly, Please just don't be afraid. Okay, fear, it's the easiest emotion to have, You know that's why Dad always used it, That's why he was always addicted to it. He would always use it on us, Whenever his life wasn't going his way. And... Just nothing when we were kids, When you grew up, nothing Has ever been your fault, Molly. Okay, okay? Don't let Dad's weakness ruin you, Don't, just don't let his bullshit ruin your life. Okay, because you're better than that. Mom and Dad were not our family. We were our family, just you, Sam and I. That's it. And it always will be. Just let your bullshit go and go live your life. Because you were always the smartest Of us, and you were always the best of us. And I should've told you more, but, I just never did. Please just go do something great, Molly. Because I know you can. And if you're looking for Dad's ashes, I've dig 'em up, in an effort To finally try to use him For something good for once. I wanna use him to help me save our brother. Goodbye Molly. This outbreak cannot be stopped. I must warn anyone who hears this. Stay away from Maria Island. Something is here. We have accidentally opened something. Some kind of portal into another world. We're outside. We're there now, and there is no escape. Do not try and rescue us. Okay, do not try and rescue us. This. If you stay here in Tasmania, you will die. We are here. Help yourselves to evacuate from Tasmania at all costs. Save me. Sam! Sam? Brian? Brian. Keep going, sweet. Follow my voice. Follow my voice. Keep going, sweet. You need to hurry Brian. Your brother is in trouble. Hey Mom. Yes honey. I don't have much time before he takes me again. Who Mom? Listen to me. Your device will not work as it is. It's not powerful enough yet To destroy him. What are you talking about? It needs more energy. You must use my soul as the catalyst. What do you mean? Take my necklace. Now you have all that I am. Place that in your machine when you activate it. Use me as your power source. I don't understand. Brian I am his counterbalance. You have to do this. It has to be you. Or we'll never be free. What if I do this? What happens to you? Will you be gone forever? Nothing's gone, Brian. It's just not there anymore. Honey? Baby, I'm so sorry for everything You kids had to go through. You must do this so that I can finally help you, It's the only way. I'm so proud of you Brian. I love you Brian. I love all of you. Save me. Hey Dad, it's Brian. Look I know it's been a really long time Since we talked, and, I know the last time didn't go so well, But, I just, Look Dad, I can't keep pretending Like at you did to us never happened. I've been trying for years, but, It just won't go away. Every time I see Molly and Sam I can see them where you left 'em, And I can see How they can't even look at people In the eyes anymore because of you. And it kills me. Because unlike you, I actually care for them more than anything Else in the world. And now since you are what you are, The job to protect them has fallen on me. And I'm sure you'll just call me overdramatic Or a liar like usual, you know, Whenever I try to bring up the truth About things you are probably too drunk To even remember. But that doesn't mean it didn't happen. You have done some horrible things to us. And ever since I remember, you've taught Me through your actions that you were the one Thing I should fear more than anything or anyone else. But I'm not a kid anymore, And I don't have to bite my tongue And pretend like we deserved What you did to us. I may be your child, but, I'm not your property. Now if you ever want to have a relationship with me again, You need to call me and finally apologize for what you Did to all of us. Otherwise, This is it. Goodbye Dad. Good evening everybody, Tonight we're going to explore The dark history of the Everett family. All of their ghosts and demons Under the floorboard will be revealed! Here was the dreaded kitchen Where Mommy and Daddy Everett's Drinking problem began. Daddy would stay up all night drinking away Both his problems and Mommy's money. The children could be heard yelling Into the wee hours of the morning. Poor little Molly, Sam and Brian Were defenseless, and could only watch In terror as their parents would Turn themselves into monsters. The living room, the television was the children's Only friend in this house of terror. A place of sanctuary for them To manage their wounds and pretend They had different lives. And poor, poor, Sam. When he'd see things his father couldn't Understand, he would become a punching bag. This is the dreaded room where'd he pray Every night, not for the safety of others, But the demise of his own father, Praying that one day he wouldn't Have to wear long-sleeved shirts For the rest of his life To hide his secrets. Where or where was his big brother? Little Molly's bedroom, She thought the more toys she had, The more friends she'd have! Unfortunately all they ever did Was trap her in the prison, And constantly remind her there was no way out. She became deaf to advice, Trapped in her own world. No way Brian would ever come home To save them, he'd never be her hero again. And last but not least, the oldest child, Brian. He was always so quiet, they said. He handled their troubled childhood The best, they said. Brian was the strong one. The devil's advocate. Nothing ever got to Brian. No one would ever expect Brian to kill his own parents. I didn't kill them. Dad is dead, Brian. It was an accident, nobody was gonna miss them. Except poor little Brian. What are the odds people That some cookie eggheads opened the door To another world, Brian here would enter it after doing something So bad. It wasn't my fault. Such a shocking moment That changed the Everett family forever. But stay tuned folks, after the break We're going to the most terrifying room In the house, Daddy's room. It wasn't my fault. Hey Sam it's me. Look I uh, I'm really sorry I didn't show up to the funeral today, But, I just couldn't bring myself to be there. And I know you and Molly needed me, I'm sure especially today of all days, But, I have something That I need to tell you right. Look, I saw Mom and Dad the night they died. Oh it had been years, and I figured I tried to patch things up with them, See if I could salvage anything, But, when I saw them, Dad started drinking And he starting hitting Mom. I couldn't take it anymore, So I tried to make him stop, But, of course he wouldn't. Then I tried to take Mom away, But, she wouldn't come with me. So I just let her in the car with dad. I watched them both drive away. I knew how drunk Dad was. I couldn't come today because, Because I let our parents die. It's because I was angry. Because I love you guys more than anything, And, I hope someday you understand Why I did what I did, Because, my place in the world Is just to protect both of you, From people like them. I'm so sorry Sam. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Goodbye. Brian. Brian. Brian. This way, Brian. How could you not recognize your own father? Your own, Your never-ending nightmare. Right now... Are you not afraid of me, Brian? Well in that case, Apologize finally. For what you did to us. Or I will destroy all of you. You cannot destroy us. Nor can you create us. But soon, you will become us. You will all be down here. Your sister, your brother, Your friends, everyone you've ever known. You will all come down here. That's interesting. What you just said. That you can neither be created Nor destroyed? Because on the other hand, Electricity, which is what it seems like You things feed off of down here, Actually can be destroyed. You do not have the power. You can either try it before you, For the. You are forever trapped down here. You know what I think? I think Sam was right. I think that these portals are all over the place. I think there was probably even one Near this very house when we were kids, wasn't there? You've been with us forever, haven't you? And now you're just afraid of losing us. You're just afraid of losing our fear. You think you can destroy me With that? Seems simple enough. I mean after all, how do you turn off the lights? You just press the off switch, right? Foolish boy, you think it is that simple? Yeah, it is that simple. And I only have one thing left to say to you. From the very, Very bottom of my heart. Fuck you, Dad. It's been nearly three hours Since the strange light was seen above Eastern Tasmania, And so far, the government is unavailable For comment. Rumors are spreading fast That Tasmania's quarantine may finally Be lifted in the coming days. More info as it comes. Until then, more music. Hello? Hey Molly, it's Brian. I found him. Is he okay? Yeah, yes, he looks fine. How did you find him, Brian? I finally did what I had to do. Look Molly, sometimes, We need to just stop trying to explain everything. Just say thank you. Fine, thank you. I guess I'll see you when you get back. Hey Molly, I'm here all right? From now on, I promise That we're all gonna be okay. I love you Molly. I love you too. And I Hope you can relate And you've got lots Of worries that you can't put to bed And I don't need to be one of them And I can't seem to get her To tell me the truth And I don't want it to be Like that When I'm sick And dying She told me that you never raised Your voice at her once And now she runs When it gets tough When it gets tough But I Made a mistake And I Hope you can relate And I've got questions And I've got questions for you And I've got questions And I've got things you need to prove
