 

                        Letter to Carl Solomon. "I saw the best minds in my generation "Destroyed by madness... hunger hysterical naked "Escape in the negro streets at dawn "Looking for a pear fury "And the angel of lust, head "The old store celestial which binds to the stellar dynamo "The machinery of night "Being in poverty and rags "Dark Circle blind and stoned "He stopped smoking in the supernatural dark squares And cold water, pounds over the roofs of the city "Contemplating jazz" Sometimes I am master of myself when I write. When I hear... instinct of sincere tears, yes. Other times... in most cases, no. And "as... things to read... wood carving in search of the best! I did this in many poems. Only in rare moments I feel I have reached a state of... complete control. In a piece of "Panic" e... in a moment or two in other poems. My fears began when I thought... What my father would say about what I wrote. During the creation of "panic" I played both then would not have posted it... I did not want my father read what... was written, so... I pretended that I would publish so... I could write what I wanted. "I saw the best minds my generation "Destroyed by madness "Hunger hysterical naked "Escape into the dark streets at dawn, looking for a pear fury. "Lust at the head of an angel "The old man in disguise heavenly "It connects the stellar dynamo "The machinery of night "And that poverty and rags eye melts and is stoned "There was smoke in the supernatural darkness of cold water and homes "Books on the rooftops contemplating jazz, "This universally passed "With shining eyes Cool and crazy "Dark and bright light tragedies of the war between scientists "Those who were expelled from Gyms "A fool and obscene odes published in the windows of the skull, "That in rooms with stubble with fear, hiding in his underwear "Burning money waste paper "They heard the horror beyond the wall "Those who were captured with the shaving "Returning via Laredo with belts of marijuana for New York, "This fire mangiavan repainted in hotel "Or drank turpentine in Paradise Alley, "Death "Purgatory is the breast night after night with dreams "With drugs, nightmare with open eyes, Alcohol and fuck and dance and bust without end " What I read this book, Your Honor not much but it is relevant to our case. Why not attend the trial? Because... transformations are not me, but... as in all... processes, my sudden popularity. It's my editor, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, who... was arrested for... sale of... obscene material. I read a sentence What is Footer the title of "Scream," which says: "All these books are published in Heaven." Frankly I do not understand but the only thing that matters to us that has been published by City Lights Pocket Book Shop. Ferlinghetti was sentenced to prison. I hope not would be terrible. - Can you tell me your name please? - Gail Potter. His writing has never been occupied? Yes, of course, I wrote a lot. I worked for a radio channel NBC for 10 years while teaching, I was the head of civil service and educational coordinator. I rewrote... Faust I, "it took me three years but I did. I re-wrote "Everybody." Not so funny. Let me lady, this process deals with very serious issues. I wish there was a connection Mutual of us. Lady as is the idea if the book is titled "Howl and Other Poems" it has literary value or not? I believe that has not no literary value. Go ahead. A literary style as can be told takes the form, language, fluency and clarity. And I'm talking only style. About content every great literary work, any written text that can be defined as literature... his moral greatness. And the text in question does not. I understand. You can add some other reason? Yes, the use of language. Regarding... figurative expressions are not valid. This is because the figures of speech he uses are... vulgar. You feel like a sewer, If you read a few things. I did not lose much time, I assure you. In his interrogation. You can go. It has more to ask? You can go. The defense does not want question. - You've done all the questions? - You can go. What is the Beat Generation? There is the Beat Generation. Another bunch of guys... who want to see two publications. Why not tell me... when he began writing poetry? I started writing poetry because... I was an idiot. E... My father wrote poetry. So I started to write poetry as he e... Then I went to Columbia University and there I fell in love Jack Kerouac. By Jack... let me dance. Until 18 years... I was a virgin. I was unable to... reach a body... desire. And "I felt... enchantment. And Jack allowed me to open. It is a romantic poet. He taught me that writing is a fact... subjective coming from the same person, your body, the rhythm of your breathing, their everyday language. In the end, I had developed... strong momentum... to confess. I needed... show you my feelings! But he... would not listen, and then... I tried another way of expressing them. One track, I got sick. I like it! Listen: "I was offered to refreshments, which I accepted. "A sandwich of all flesh, a huge sandwich of human flesh, I noticed "While chewing, as a filthy asshole! " Is she pretty? The meat... and the idiot? - Yes Allen. - And then... I figured if I really... admit and confess the secret and the tenderness of my soul in my writings he would clearly understand how I was and so... the frank took the place of the lines imitated I wrote my father. Jack was... The first person who opened my and I said. "I'm gay." I soon realized that... people do not easily upset. Unless they kill someone. You know what... People do not... leave nothing to shake... expression of feeling. Indeed, I wrote "Howl" to Jack. "What is the incantation meters in the endless race "From the battery Bronze made of Benzedrine "By the sound of wheels children and threw them to tremble "Torturtara mouth "The black brain squeezed any brightness in the dim light of the zoo, "Saying that was continuous "Bar Bellevue Asylum a museum in Brooklyn, "The loss of battalion of platonic conversationalists "What walks down stairs Down the fire escapes by sills "Empire State is the carried below the moon, "Come and screaming vomiting whispering "Facts and memories and anecdotes and optical deceptions And the shocks of hospitals and jails and wars, "They lit cigarettes in "rebound, rebound, rebound" Wagon "In the snow farmsteads "On the night of his grandfather, "They studied that Plotinus Sangiovanni is put on the Cross "Telepathy and bop Cabal "Because the cosmos instinctively vibrated at their feet in Kansas, "Just leave it in their the streets of ldaho "Surrounded Visionary Indian angels "They were Visionary Indian angels. "At the initiative of the winter half night's rain and street lamps in the province, "And on the West Coast provided the FBI to investigate, with a beard And the short peace and big eyes, "Sexy brunette in leather "Give away incomprehensible leaflets. "What were burning with cigarettes holes in the arms "Protesting against the fog tobacco narcotics capitalism "He passed out flyers super Communists in Union Square "Wow undressing while the sirens of Los Alamos are silenced, "HUivando below Wall Street howled in Staten Island Ferry "It took up the ass by motorcyclists pious "And they cried with joy "Pressing and were pumped up by those human seraphim "The caresses of the sailors of the Atlantic making love in the Caribbean, " The problem... when literature is at stake is the following: Many writers have preconceived ideas about what should be the literature. But his ideas seem... that prevent... which makes them more interesting in everyday conversation. Their fragility, your loneliness, his neurosis... your asshole! His... vagrancy, Relevant to their masculinity. Because they think having to write something... It seems that something read in the past, instead of... similar to O., self .. reflecting their lives. We all talk among ourselves, we share ideas, say... all I want to say: We talked about our ass holes, talk about our taps, We said we fucked last night.. who we are tomorrow we love or have an affair stuffing a drunk when broomstick in the ass. Ambassador Hotel in Prague. He understands everything... talk about these things with friends, no! Now the question is what happens if you make a distinction between what you say to friends what you say to your muse. The trick is to eliminate the distinction. And talk with your muse... sincerity to talk to you or their friends. And '... ability to... participate in writing in their writing to reflect you are. "What we hope in morning and evening "Between the rose garden and the grass of public parks And cemeteries spreading seeds freely "Any one who happened to be passing "Everything a sobbing laughter "End then a moan behind a partition in a Turkish bath "When the angel blonde and naked came with a sword. " Writing becomes a... meditation exercise. If... floor, in several streets of New York you have... Mammoth perception of buildings e... If you walk all day you're just going to cry. But.. you have to walk all day have that feeling. I mean... If you write every day you are in him. In your body, your... emotions, your feelings. I do not write enough this way. "What the guys lost to love them pulling them out of the three witches of luck "The one-eyed witch- U.S. dollar heterosexual "The one-eyed witch wink that the uterus "And the one-eyed witch who is sitting there with my ass ready "Cut to the intellectuals craftsman gold frame wire "Ecstatic that Cipulavano is insatiable with a beer bottle "With her boyfriend with a pack of cigarettes "With the sail and fell off the bed "He continued on the ground and down the hall "Ending unconscious against the wall with a vision of ultimate cunt and come "Eluding the past consciousness, "Disappearing in major motion pictures nasty "They were erected in a dream "I woke up Suddenly in Manhattan "And they took the bronze scales "At Tokay insensitive dreams and horrors of the Third Street in Iron "And staggered for employment services "This created great suicidal dramas "In the apartments on the banks Hodson on a cliff "Under the blue curtain Time of War of the moon "And the head will be covered laurel in oblivion, "Crying fading on roads "All cars full of onions and bad music, "In cases that breathe in the darkness under the bridge "And he rose up to build carnations in their struggle "This writing rock and roll all night "Dancing high on charm "That in the morning yellow were stanzas of the absurd "Who were burned alive in their innocent flannel suits "Madison Avenue "Between bursts of poetry plumbea "And the ticking in the wet steely regiments of fashion "Winches and nitroglycerin Czech Advertising And the gas bubble claims of smart editors "Or were pulled down drunk by taxi "Absolute Reality" She argues that "Scream" has a literal legitimized. Yes And so I suppose she has it all figured out. Am I right? I hope so. You can not always be sure... understands everything a contemporary poet who writes but I think I understand. Well I would like to present some aspects. "With dreams, with drugs, nightmare with open eyes, Alcohol and fuck and endless balls and bust. " What to do do you think? Well... refers to people without roots wandering in the U.S. dreaming... drugged. Of course, right? In the hallucinatory state Where are saturated with alcohol... I I understand that the experience... is a variety of sexual experiences indiscriminate. Can you explain what... "Hipsters head of an angel time for the ancient heavenly masquerading "This connects with the stellar dynamo machinery of night "means? Lord, can not be translated poetry in prose. That's why it's called poetry. But that means "Hipsters head of an angel"? I worked as a messenger for the design Associated Press e... somehow I was doing, even though I was in a house no hot water, from $ 13 per month full of... toxic and thieves. It was... wedge silverware stolen e... beautiful oak furniture subtracted from condominiums. At some point I realized... he was getting hot and... I had a better to sign before getting screwed. And so I camped, with all my manuscripts, machine one of the guys and... turned to be stolen. He was full of... stolen clothes, silverware, purses, slipped and mistakenly in a one-way street at the bottom of which was a police car. Divert on a side street heel and ran inside, between sheets of flight, My... glasses somewhere clothes upside down... I jumped out, I looked around and went back inside the machine to find my notes, but... Could not find his glasses I could not find my documents, even e... Meanwhile, many came people assembled: Chaos. Chaos. He's getting away! The easiest way to boot from in mean to... exit was to... go to the Psychiatric lnstitute I stayed at this... Hospice eight months. There I met Carl Solomon. Dissertation vacuum e... Words improvised e... so we spent months and sat down to ask if... the authority of Dr. E... and his sense of reality... we were on our right we were... talking about it. Carl had some problems because... Was experiencing a shock. I did not do anything, no medicine, no shock. Because I promised... physicians I would like to become... heterosexual. Then he resigned. His mother was locked in a psychiatric hospital, is not it? "What we saw instead prescribe the concrete void "Insulin Metrazol electricity "Hydrotherapy psychotherapy "Occupational therapy ping-pong and amnesia "That little spirit in protest "Dropped a symbolic table tennis "Get some rest catatonia "Coming back year after its bald except for a wig of blood "And the tears and fingers to your destination in a crazy closed in the city of lunatics in the East "Pilgrim's Rockland State Greystone and painful in its corridors, " My mother Naomi coming and going from psychiatric institutions since I was 6. At the age of 21 years made me... register for a lobotomy. He died at Pilgrim State Hospital. "A dispute with the echoes of the soul "Loneliness bank rockroll Night dolmen-realms of love, "Dream of Life distressing thoughts "Bodies made of stone heavy as the moon "With her mother finally fucked And the last fantastic book thrown away "From the window of the ward "And the last closed door "And the last phone hung up in anger the wall in response "And the last room of the property is empty until the last mobile mental "A rose wrapped in yellow paper a little man in the closet wire "And also the imaginary "Nothing but a promising piece "Amended,, "Oh Carlos, if you are not sure "I'm not sure, "And now you're really the total animal soup of time. " Released from psychiatric hospital I was afraid to e... period I felt that I had to go to New York. Asked at my sense of reality in contrast to the conformist I had been imposed. Position many patients in hospital with a cast... rejection of self rejection of his own universe. Just words stuck... an apparently acceptable social model. But I fell in love once after another and continued to write poetry my love affairs. heterosexual men. It is from Denver I crossed the country to ride with my friend Neal Cassady. And Neal was... As a frantic quite fascinating. It was 6000... girls from across the continent occupying much. Ok... Hmm... No. Kiss. Wait, wait! It goes like this. I have. - Best? - Yes. - Get it? - Yes, it's done. One day I and Neal we were thrown in the same bed at 04:00, a circumstance... particular: There was another place where to go to sleep. I remember that... I was a little scared e. '.. I do not know what to do and so... Moved continually position e... I went to finish all the intensities with his face against the wall. He knew I was shy. At the time I still had... fear feelings show for someone. Then he... I put one arm around the shoulder attracts, with her head on his chest e... And then one day I received a letter concluded that: "No longer I believe that we, the fans... "They should be excited with my wife, "As far as one can love." Then Neal broke my heart. [Dear Allen] [The things you say are the same as I did or tried to do in my life.] From this was due to our,] Or rather, my confused desire near you.] [I'm afraid that unite us deeply that's all.] [I wrote because I'm afraid I do not know what I would love to answer.] [I understand physically.] [I know sometimes it's disgusting taps men [As was the case before you deliberately] [I pushed toward homosexuality.] [For me it has been very important.] [But I feel I effort all the time time to] your body [To compensate everything you gave me.] [Allen how things are.] [Now my wish is live with you September to June.] [Have a plan, a girl, going to college...] [Making a lot of things and actually become heterosexual.] [So baby try to Allen and think a little about what I wrote.] "What drove from coast to coast "If I had a vision or you had a vision "He or a to find eternity "That set off for Denver who died in Denver "What they returned to Denver and waited in vain "Watching over Denver that stood alone, meditating on Denver "And, finally, gone to find out how long "And now it's just Denver without its heroes, "Falling on his knees cathedrals in inane "Pray for salvation light and another breast "Until the soul lightened her hair for a second "Addolcivan that pussy a million girls trembling in the sunset "And they had red eyes in the morning "But ready to sweeten the dawn pussy "With your ass in the air barns and naked in the lake, "Going to fly to Colorado "A Night in machines stolen from a myriad "Neal Cassady secret hero of these poems Man fuck all and Adonis of Denver "Joy to the memory of many women "On land restaurant and parking for truckers "In the old cinema on rickety chairs "At the top of the mountains Cave "Waiter or bone Limit familiar streets "One slip bleak" In my opinion is a cry of pain. Metaphorically had stepped on the foot. He poetically transfused crying of pain and protest in "Scream." He believes that this book has a literary value set? Yes, of course. For one thing I can say the poet, first uses the phrasing of jazz e... I add I also believe that work... in the words that caught in his wandering life different life experiences. Thanks. She understood more the words of this book? I think I understand what they mean and the general context, yes. I see. Vai a... page... line 14. "Screaming at the knee in meters "Fanning out from the roof and brought genitals and manuscripts. " Let's see. You know what this figure means in the general context of "Scream"? Not explicitly. I'd say... which is an attempt to show the lack of inhibitions in people who are talking. Representatives in the postwar generation. Those who had returned. Who went to college or had started working After the Second World War. It was quite common because the disasters of war and had failed to solve. Now, let's... the next paragraph. "Pressionandi least and were pumped "Seraphim human sailors, "The caresses of the Atlantic Of the Caribs and love. " She knows how to explain the meaning of "Pumped" and was "annoyed"? There can be several meanings for the same word. And that means you have in this paragraph? The first sense is that... vagrants were aspirated as in a whirlwind of life and at the same time reinforced by this life. On the other hand, may have a sexual connotation. With clear reference Oral sex, right? Yes you can. Therefore considers these words "Necessary to the context" without which letterario wither? There was an agreement, Your Honor? Yes Lord Mclntosh remember how I said I would never be admitted the word "necessary". Can rephrase the question with "It's relevant." These words are important to give work of literary merit? Yes I would say yes. So if it took those words of the book... exposure would be affected. See how it indirectly Your Honor, which is forbidden. Your Honor, the witness is an expert. - We must give clear answers? - No, no, Mr. Mclntosh I fear that she really can not continue. Even assuming that the author could have used different words you are invading the field pure speculation. Objection upheld. Ok, Let us read another passage. "That cunt sweetens million girls "Trembling at sunset and they had red eyes in the morning "But ready to sweeten "Nude at dawn In Her Ass in air dryers e... "Nudes in the lake." What is the question? The .. "Cunt" word mentioned here we say... relevant in the context of Mr. Ginsberg? Yes, I believe that using... this collection of euphemisms would be... would have seemed dishonest Mr. Ginsberg. If I remember correctly, you... also said the literary value of a book is sometimes win the test of time. He believes that what Ginsberg passed the test of time? There's no way of knowing. As there were those who thought that "Leaves of Grass" would overcome. I am requesting an opinion if you can give an opinion about the book said that the literary value is to stand the test of time. - Tell us if you exceed the - If Luther Nichols could answer... Good God would use as his advisor. How can? I am asking the opinion as a specialist. I wonder. Can you give us your opinion? I would venture a prediction. I believe that this process draws attention to "Scream" which will have a wide range of readers higher than they would and can become a milestone along that path leads to a greater or lesser opening to the poems of this kind. In general, the poem is a... rhythmic articulation of feeling, yes. And the feeling is... an impulse that comes from within. As the sexual impulse, clear as that. It's a feeling that arises in the stomach e... rises to the chest e... of his mouth and ears as well. E... is sometimes a whisper, a moan, a sigh. So if you try to put into words and try to look around... attempting to describe the stimulus that sigh sighs, and then the words, are simply Items your feeling, no? "The neck biting police squeals of delight and once in the car "Why did not commit another crime Elegance that its pederasty wild And intoxication " - Yes! - "And shouting to his knees "On the subway and had sex Roof "Fanning genital and manuscripts, " At the time the composition... Not necessarily know what it means. The meaning comes later. After a year or two I realize he had a clear meaning did not know before. Acquires meaning over time as... an image developed slowly. If I write out of instinct, sometimes... I do not know if it makes sense what I wrote. Other times I see the that my words have... absolutely e... I start to cry. Because I know I I express my emotions this is absolutely true. That means... perhaps centuries, some I can read it and be moved. And that in itself... is a prophecy because it touches a chord common. This is... the true meaning of prophecy is not a bomb falls in 1942. And "understand and feel something someone will listen in E... perhaps tips only in one sentence other then seizure of 100 years. "What came out of the mind broken chain "Waiting for the impossible, criminals with golden hair "And at the heart charm reality "Who sings a beautiful blues to Alcatraz, "It screamed Verdicts of Sanity "Accusing the radio of hypnotism "And you let them with their madness "And his hands and a split jury "That in gettavan CCNY potato salad with conferences on Dadaism "Since then the granite steps of the madhouse "Shaved Head and harlequin speech of suicide "Requiring instantaneous lobotomy "And what could be seen prescribe the concrete void of insulin "Metrazol electricity hydrotherapy "Psycho-therapy occupational therapy and amnesia of ping-pong, "And then ran Ice Road "Owned by a sudden flash alchemy of the use of ellipses Catalog "What, in varying degrees and vibrating table, "He dreamed of opening and incarnate gaps of time and space "Through images juxtaposed "And interpreted Archangel soul between two images "To recreate the syntax and measure poor human prose "Stars and in front of you dumb "Intelligent and shaking with shame, "Tailings but all admit that the soul "To suit the pace that thought has "In his bare head incessantly "The crazy bum and angel beat in time "Stranger still here Metton down what would have to say "Over time what comes after death, And rose reincarnate "I live jazz spectral "In the shadow of pipe band of gold "He touched the pain of love America's naked mind "Eli Eli Lamma Lamma in a sabachthani "The cry of the saxophone "What chills the city until the last radio station "With the heart in the absolute poetry of life "Body exposed and killed "Good to eat for a thousand years. " After leaving New York I was one year in San Francisco. I... lived in an apartment on Nob Hill. Dressed in a suit and tie... I was at work with a lot of secretaries... All things... I started to like him. I wonder I could do it e... I was not intimidated by social conventions e... that would put me the cruel world of business. E... It was then that I met Peter. When I met with Peter... changed everything for me. It was as if the sky... had golden dress. Finally someone loved me... How I loved him. E... first, in my life I felt accepted: Completely. In San Francisco... I took a year of psychotherapy with Dr. X. I was stuck, I can not write. I tried to behave normally, I was... fear of being crazy, I was sure that we hoped that he would be heterosexual, something in me was wrong. E... Dr. X was telling me: "She would like to do? What do you want the bottom of my heart? " Finally, I said... what I really wanted to do was... Leave everything! E... have an apartment with Peter, and devote body and soul to write and meditate, sweep, smoking pot and doing... all I wanted. E... he said, "So why not?" And then I asked: "And what do I do if... "I grow old, and I'll get any pee in your pants, "I live in a furnished room, nobody loves me e. .. "The white hair, no money, I need help to eat... " He said: "Do not worry about it." "She is very charming and adorable and people will love him forever. " What a relief to hear! The... spiral of fear, you know! One thing that does not exist. "What sphinx of cement and aluminum "Divide their skulls and eating their brains and imagination? "Moloch! Solitude! Dirt! Shame; "Many U.S. dollar unreachable! "Children screaming under the stairways! "Boys sobbing in armies! 'Old men weeping in the parks! "Moloch! Moloch! Nightmare of Moloch! "Moloch loved! Mental Moloch! "Moloch heavy judging men! " Lo and Peter... a day that saw Moloch and walked on the street. God that you are sacrifice with fire. But.. in my mind was what... brought my mother to madness. So I wrote this verse. "Moloch whose eyes are a thousand blind windows! " I had a word. And the dynamics of a rhythm: So it was just... look up to see many windows and say, "Ah! "Windows of course." But what kind of windows? E... Not only that! "Moloch whose eyes." Which is beautiful in itself, but... You understand? What else? "Moloch whose eyes," what? "Moloch whose eyes"... And then it occurred to me, probably... "One thousand!" Ok, but thousands of what? "A thousand windows" E... somehow I end up having to... conclude with the blind. "Moloch whose eyes are a thousand blind windows! "Moloch whose skyscrapers position on the long road "As a Jehovah's infinite! "Love Moloch is endless oil and stone! "Moloch whose soul is electricity and banks! "Moloch whose fate It is a cloud of sexless hydrogen! "Moloch in whom I sit lonely! "Moloch in whom I dream like the Angels! "Crazy in Moloch! Sucking cocks in Moloch! "Without love and without a man in Moloch! "Moloch for me arrived earlier in the soul! "Moloch that with terror I took my natural ecstasy! "Moloch that fires me! "Wake up in Moloch! Light flows in the rivers of heaven! "Moloch! Moloch! Robot apartments! "Neighborhood invisible! "Treasures of skeletons! Blind capitals! Industry devil! Spectral nations! "Homes invincible! "Cocks in granite! "Monstrous bombs! "We've broken back to increase the Moloch to Heaven! "Sidewalks, trees! By elevating the city to Heaven That there and is all around us. "Dreams adorable! Illuminations! "Religion! This whole boatload of sensitive bullshit! "Quebaradas! Along the river! "Crucifixions! Descend to the full! "Buzz! Epiphanies! "Despair, 10 years, animal screams and suicides! "You lie! New loves! Generate a crazy! "Against the rocks of time and then down! "Knight in the holy river! "They saw everything! I pick crazy! "The holy yells! They said goodbye! "He jumped from the roof! Loneliness! "Greetings with flowers in hand! In the river! "On the road!" It is my opinion literary value, if any, is very modest. I tried to review Based on objective data, for example... a great literary work, or at least a good literary work, must have a type form. But this poem is just a pale imitation a form used 80 or 90 years ago by Walt Whitman. Remember the title this poem? "Leaves of Grass" was the title of the poem. The literary value may be intrinsic to the subject. And how low is the literary value of "Scream," in my opinion is clear from the subject. Exposing the idea of the poem is quite clear but of little value. And so the theme... also loses value. - Actually, you have nothing. - Thank you. If I understand correctly she says... Ginsberg has used... the style of Walt Whitman. The form. The form used in the poem "Leaves of Grass." And since Ginsberg uses the "form" She believes that... the poem "Howl" is of no value... of any literary merit. If we talk about so, yes. And literature, 'because as correct always creates its own form appropriate in this context. That does not mean... "Leaves of Grass" by Walt Whitman is of poor quality. Oh no, that's good writing! The form has created Walt Whitman. While you say that because... Ginsberg, who has copied the form "Scream" has... no value or merit. It is correct? It is correct, yes. Imitation never has the value of the original. And Walt Whitman who copied? As far as I know, nobody. So there. She says she does not know. Right? Yeah, right. If I understand correctly another of his strong point is that the idea... of "Scream" is clear but not so good. I am reporting correctly? We reached this conclusion, yes. The idea of "Scream" is clearly expressed. The idea is clear. Ginsberg expresses this idea in "Scream"? Well celebrates life miserable... I do not remember... Oh Solomon! The unhappy life of... that man, Solomon, boatman thought Dada. - The boatman? - Ferry Dadaist thought. - This is what shows? - Yes, exactly. And this picture is... of any value? From the literary point of view, no. "Carl Solomon! "I'm with you in Rockland where you are crazier than me "I'm with you in Rockland where you have to feel very strange "I'm with you in Rockland where you imitate the tone of my mother "I'm with you in Rockland "Where the games of words on the bodies of your nurses the harpies of the Bronx "I'm with you in Rockland where pests in the catatonic piano "Innocent and immortal Soul "You never die ungodly in an armed madhouse. "I am with you Rocland where 50 and more shock "I'll never go back, soul to the body "From the pilgrimage to a cross in the void. "I'm with you in Rockland where you accuse doctors of insanity "And through the revolution Jewish Socialist "Against the Golgotha nationalist-fascist "I'm with you in Rockland where she cuts the skies of Long Island "And it will increase human life of Jesus "Superman's tomb "I'm with you in Rockland where there are 25 thousand mad comrades "They sing together The last stanza of the lnternational "I'm with you in Rockland agreement where the coma "Thanks to the air our souls to roar over the rooftops "Let's play angelic bombs "Hospital lights alone "Shining Walls, fall "Oh legions are depleted bone "Oh star shocked by the mercy "The eternal war is here "The victory of the mind your underwear we're free "I'm with you in Rockland in my dreams "Paths to water droplets crossed the highway across America "Wow you are in front of my house "A Night in the West" What are your impressions The third part of the scream? From what I understand, the poet It is the view of traditional thinking ie... everything was created by... human misery and everything is forgotten and destroyed e. .. Solomon, at first sight followed these dictates. It follows that there is value... Thematically, the third. Thus, the third part has its own value. One... I, I... I think I had... a slip now, I... Lindor, I must say, Lindor, rather than value. But she used the term "value" around the time of deposition. Tell me, Mr. Kirk, never read the Bible? I read that. - Tell me, have you read Job? - I read it. Job's lament is not the lament that Ginsberg "Howl"? - Not at all. - It's... agree with me that... entire period of work is life? Labour condemns the human condition. Yes, but does not achieve the desired like the Dadaists Cancellation human memory and all that man could not do it... clear the field and start from scratch as claimed by the Dadaists. - And she does not believe in that philosophy. - Not at all. No, she was dead in 1922 or '23. But that does not necessarily mean those who believe... - It is wrong, no? - No. That does not mean not even literature. Well, how... As literature, Mr. Kirk? I refer to my three basic criteria a fundamental objective: form and theme of opportunities. Well She believes that Ginsberg had... during his wanderings, the opportunity to observe life and writing? nA small segment, yes. He writes about this period of life right? - One thing... - You must answer the question: Yes or no? Hmm... I'm confused. The poet offers... are segments of the small observer? I can not answer with a yes or a no. But he said he left... wrote about a small segment of reality. It is here that is confusing. I believe he refers Travel-Solomon and not her. That's why I'm confused. Yes, of course. Ginsberg writes referring to Solomon. They are personal observations. You have to read, right? I can not tell if there was a real knowledge with Solomon. These things do not concern my profession, my cultural background. His assessment will change if the author knows the person you're writing? Absolutely. It is certain that Charles Solomon ever lived? - No. - So I do not know, right? No, I do not know. Have you read... Voltaire? One of his works: Candide. What is your opinion of "Red"? From the literary point of view is great literature. The style Voltaire copied whom? - Your Honor! - Please... - The lawyer has the right to object. - What a guy! Yes, I would have liked, but... No, I do not want to train with him, even though it makes me... Every time I open my mouth... he left. How long did it... to reflect on "Scream"? - I think two weeks. - 2 weeks? Had only 2 weeks. However I had already got an idea after just five minutes. It took a long time to reflect on "Red", right? Exactly. He believes that if he had any other time... have changed your mind? I'm sure... I would not have changed. Thank you all. "Where the accused doctors of insanity "And through the revolution Jewish Socialist "V Golgotha nationalist-fascist "I'm with you in Rockland where she cuts the skies of Long Island "And you will resurrect your living human GeSi superman's grave "I'm with you in Rockland where there are 25 thousand mad comrades "They sing together The final stanza of the International "I'm with you in Rockland "Where we hugged and kissed the United States between the sheets "The United States who coughed all night Authorization and without sleep "I'm with you in Rockland "Electrically where I woke up from coma "With the air of our souls that roar on the roofs "Angels came to drop bombs "The hospital lights "Imaginary Walls fall "Legions bone Oh run out! "Oh silly stars and stripes mercy "The eternal war is here! Oh, victory! "Forget your underwear we are... Free! "I am with you Rockland "In my dreams you walk dripping for having crossed the sea "On the road across America "You're crying at the door of my house "A Night in the West" "Scream" contains words that, if taken literally, Your Honor, are unequivocally obscene. We heard a number of experts to Literary evidence that the books have literary value and that words are needed to assess its value. But.. is odd that our law allows the use of Expert evidence to assess the literary value, but does not allow us admit in court, you know... the man on the street to testify that reading a book not understand the meaning, who does not know what you're talking about. Maybe because... is very difficult. Take me, eg. Frankly, having said during the hearings that I read I do not understand completely. And, in fact, I consider this as a whole, I define: "A boatload of sensitive bullshit". I am quoting the words of Mr. Ginsberg. Why, since the sale of a book is not only targeted for critics of modern literature and specialists in modern poetry, but must be held by the public common in what is called "The average reader" The Court will evaluate the consequences before deciding whether to "Scream" is obscene or not. Thank you Your Honour. Very good. Defenders. The Supreme Court of the United States says that the word "obscenity" must be understood as... "The real trend-corruption This provokes lustful desires. " Items are... relevant to the author's thought or... has used be dirty and ugly? We describe what he calls... "An Adonis of Denver, joy and memory of his countless achievements. " "What's going to fly to Colorado "A Night in machines stolen from a myriad "Neal Cassady "Secret hero of these poems "And the man of all and Adonis of Denver "Joy to the memory fucking many women "The car of the land in three meals by truck drivers, "In the old movies, rickety chairs, on top of a mountain, "Waiter in caves or bone Edge of strategic family "The skirt lifted desolate "And especially, solipsism secrets procedure from the service station "On the streets of their city." Now... I think it would be could write: The secret hero of these poems, man all this shit, this Adonis of Denver, joy to the memory of his numerous accomplishments Walsort to Astoria! Chaisen or dinner or after a drink or two here is that if the walk to the Stork Club I think he could write, but do not go to these places people he describes. Not for us to decide what words he should use. Mr. Ginsberg tells his story and tells it as he sees it Using... his words. There are books that can change... our minds. Attracts attention about situations that... are visible, but... not seen. Now, if "Scream" is or is not The text is obscene... lower in cofnronto daily struggle for physical survival. But.. the question of what is legally permitted to describe the act or sexual feelings art and literature is of fundamental importance to a free society. What... obscene? And to whom? Who says that such arguments are a danger to... indeterminate and capable? And it is interesting to note that People who use this logic censorship often feel it is their health and welfare to be at risk. This censorship of desire is not... prerogative, however, is strange and prejudiced. Find... many of us wish has a world of conformity in our ideas. And it takes all our strength ratio and the laws of the State not to this human impulse. The fight against censorship and can not be solved with the decision taken by His Honor. But could increase and a liberal education. So how could add fuel to... the fire of ignorance. We won the light. We won honesty. Do not turn away those non-existent... destroyers of morality. We won honestly... intelligence. They have something else to say parties? - Nothing, but his honor. - No, nothing more. Get up! Sit. There are several words Used in "Scream"... now considered rude and vulgar in some parts of our society, while others are common use. The author of "Scream" felt right to make use of the words because in his opinion this characterizes the environment it portrays. And common opinion ' these words are not necessary, if they could use more... less indigestible, as a matter of taste. The fact is that... Life can not be contained in a regime in which all act the same way according to a... preconceived model. No two people who feel the same way The mold from which we come is the same, but there... variables for each person. There would be no press freedom and speech If each of us reduces their own language a euphemism for dull and insipid? In fact the author is required when he writes. And so he should be allowed to freely express ideas and words. When one considers material deemed obscene It must be remembered the maxim "think Honny y soit Thurs evil." "Cursed be he who thinks evil." Freedom of expression and printing is inherent in a nation of free men and this truth must be guarded if we want to be free both as individuals and a nation. So I came completion that "Howl and Other Poems," the book has a social value that rescues and therefore do not consider it obscene. I declare the defendant not guilty. The crucial moment of rupture There was... when I realized... what would be fun if... in the middle of a long poem I wrote... that they have shirked and shouted for joy! Instead of screaming in pain. There is a contradiction in this line. An American is ready to receive the "pain" since there are "cries of joy." What... is all true. Absolutely E. .. still there... On the other hand... "Pumping and were Pomata by those human seraphim "Sailors caresses of love in the Atlantic Caribbean. " It was... Admission of... real existence, joy of a homosexual. This was a revolution to... publicly declaring feelings, emotions, attutudini. You know, things... I myself would not want to reveal the my father or my family. And... I always hesitate to publish. The poem is misunderstood if encourages homosexuality. In fact, it is an incentive Frank on any subject. If you're a foot fetishist writes feet. If you are... a fan of the stock market... You can write about the upward trend of sales standard graphics or Doyle. Yes When... anyone speaking publicly about homosexuality creates a gap. E... the other will be free to speak at all. And it is.. socially relevant. Homosexuality is a condition. And once... I was sick, I always felt marginalized. I served as a catalyst for... internal examination and... a detailed analysis of my condition. E... why everyone is different and... because they are different. "Ghost! Ghost! Ghost! Holy! Holy! Holy! Holy! Holy! "The world is holy! "The soul is holy! The skin is holy! "Nose is holy! "The tongue and cock and hand idiot is holy! "Everything is holy! All of them are saints! "Each case is holy! Every day is an eternity! "Every man is an angel! "Is holy as the seraphim! "The imbalance is holy like my soul is holy! "The typewriter is holy a poem is holy "The voice is holy the listener is holy "Ecstasy is holy! "Holy, Holy, Holy Peter Allen Solomon "Holy Lucien holy Kerouac holy Huncke Burroughs holy Cassady holy "The annals unknown saints beggars and sick "Holy Angels heinous human! "Holy, my mother in a psychiatric hospital! "Holy the cocks of the grandfathers of Kansas! "Holy rattle the saxophone! Holy bop apocalypse! "Holy jazz bands of marijuana hipsters peace pipe and drum and peyote "Holy time in eternity eternally holy time "Saint of the clocks in space the sacred dimension "Holy fifth International Saint Angel in Moloch! "Holy the sea holy the desert holy the locomotive holy the railroad "Holy Visions Santas hallucinations "Saints Miracles holy the eyeball "Ghost of the abyss! "Forgiveness Ghost! "Mercy! Charity! Faith! "Saints! Wow Body! "The suffering! Magnanimity! "Holy the supernatural extrabrillante Smart goodness... the soul! "
