 

                        Danyu! The grasslands have not seen such activity in a long time This time when we plunder the Central Plains We are able join forces with all nine major tribes Such military power has never been seen before! Come! Drink! Let's drink! Father! Mendu is not yet here? Elder Brother says he is releasing the captives Releasing the captives? Let's fight them! Don't! Ashina! Yes! Kill! Stop! Danyu! Danyu! Brother! Is killing defenseless prisoners... ...the act of a hero? They are all sheep already in my mouth. I will eat them however I please Our days are numbered We must be back on the grasslands by the first snow Father, plundering the Plains every year... ... is not a long term plan Instead of being divided and defeated by the Wei army for robbery, why don't we take advantage of the united forces we have this time, and turn the fertile Wei farmlands... ... into our new ranch! Of course, it is all up to you, for you are the true master of the grasslands. Mendu! Don't kill prisoners any more! Yes, sir! Only longtime veterans understand that there are no heroes on the battlefield, only dead men and crazy ones Talking about feeling? Fools! But if not for you, none of us would be here You are the one who lives by his feelings! Father, time for your medicine! I don't want medicine I want to drink wine! Sure. Let me pour for you. Here! I don't want this one, I want that one It's still medicine! Go for the weakness, use the enemy against himself, Mulan is using battle tactics on her father! It's all your fault! Why did you teach her kung fu? Waving her stick around all day She's a girl! Who will marry her? Grandfather! Hi, Tiger! Sister Mulan! How long has it been since you practiced kung fu? I practiced yesterday and today! I didn't see you; when did you practice? From when the cock started crowing to when it stopped so it counted as both days! You brat! Mulan! The Rourans are at our border. Massive troops are needed for our defense Military families from all villages. Heed the Emperor's command! Farmer families contribute food. Military families contribute men With united spirit. We will defeat the dog invaders! Cao Dayou! Here! Hua Hu! Here! Father! You are ill, you can't go! No such thing! This is a military family's duty! Yang Ji! Here! Yang Wencai! Here! Ma Wen! Here! Old partner, it's our turn to go... to the frontlines again! Father, have some more wine I have some money stashed away in the jar under the bed. Master Ho found you a husband. Get married after the new year. Don't do martial arts any more. You're a girl... One day, you will find a new star in the sky. That would be me Your mother's been up there for so long She must be lonely... Mulan! Help me! Here I come, Tiger! I have failed to discipline my daughter; l apologize for her The Hua family has only known how to fight in battles! If you want to fight... be a man in your next life Our rules: stealing from each other, death penalty! Bullying, raping, bringing women into camp, death penalty! Spreading rumors of ghosts and witchcraft, death penalty! Fear and escape for no reason, death penalty! Missing signals, sleeping other than where assigned, death penalty! C company! Get 60,000 stone of food from Tu Family Village! Go! Remember These tags must always be kept on you. They will represent you when you are dead. Understand? Yes, sir! Names Fei Tiger Hua Hu's son, Hua Mulan Pay attention! Thank you! Get your uniforms and go to Tent Three Hua Mulan? Yes You! Why are you here? I took my father's place You didn't! Tiger! Tiger! Tiger! Women are not allowed at camp. It's punishable by death! Are you trying to destroy our whole village? So you must keep our secret You want me to go see my dad sooner, don't you? Tiger, you must help me! You know my dad; he would never survive this! But... Fei Tiger! Come here! Will you do as I ask? Sure! I knew you would do this! I will do anything you ask But you must so as I say on one matter. Talk less, laugh less Why? You laugh like this... We laugh like this. Also, don't open your eyes so wide! Why not? Our eyes are not that big! You mean, your eyes are small Your eyes are too big! Hey From now on, you must all obey me! Brother Tiger! I heard he's the Commander's nephew, Hu Guei Bai! Brother Tiger! This is Mulan Scholar! Fatso! Brother Tiger! This is Mulan Come Hulu! This is Mulan Hello, Brother Munan We want to trade beds with you Why? Mulan likes quieter spots against the wall Sure Sit down, gamble with Young Master! I need a leopard! Bring him! Kill! Out of the mud from the grey, comes a turtle called Hu Guei! Let's call him Turtle from now on! Yes! We'll call him Turtle! Training is over. Go back to your tents! Black Wind! Will Father blame me for leaving without saying goodbye? All the crooks and heroes in the camp, officers protecting their own, with Father's temper, he couldn't take it Right? Wrong! You're a rookie? What's your name? So... you only talk to horses? But I don't eavesdrop Then think of me as a horse. I'm Wentai. My horse is Moon Chaser. What's yours called? He is Black Wind! Black Wind... and you? I'm Hua Mulan What a great horse! Help me! Come here! My horse is amazing. It is a war hero! Really? Do you know what it is called? What? Hua Mulan Come, Wentai! Come, Hua Mulan! Brother Mulan! This is Wentai I'm Tiger I'm Wentai I'm older brother Fatso I'm younger brother Hulu Hello! I'm Scholar Hello! What are you painting? My wife You're already married? I though you were painting him! I am the only son in my family, so Father let me marry young. Paint my picture! Should I smile or not? Just as you are! Crying again? You're an enlisted man! So you die; why are you always crying? Bai here sold himself to the landlord next door to enlist in place of his son, in order to raise money for his mother's medicine. But she is still sick now I lost again! You bastard! You cried away my leopard! What are you crying for! Did your mother die? What did you say? Do not talk about my mother! What are you doing? Sir, please spare my life! If you must fight, do so on the battlefield! My Brother Mulan! My father is sick, too. But we can't go back! Your mother knows what a good son you are. She will wait for you! Brother Wentai I'm done! Thank you! Repel! Advance! Attack! You're killing me! Advance! Attack! Repel! Advance! Attack! Repel! Advance! Attack! Repel! Attack! Tiger, didn't you say you found a hot spring? Take me there! Which battalion do you belong to? I'm asking you! A woman? You're a woman! Tiger I ran into Wentai! How did you do that? I fought with him in the hot spring! Did he recognize you? I think he just knows it's a woman Well, then... go to sleep... Get up! Fall in! Uncle, it was stolen when I was training with them! The Prince Regent's jade belt pendant has been stolen! Return it now, I'll only cut off your hand. If I find it on you, I'll cut off your head! Search them! Strip down! Now! Hurry! What are you looking at? Strip down! Hurry! Quit messing around! Strip down now! You! What are you waiting for? Hurry! Yes, you! Now! Hurry! All clothes off! Strip down! You in the back! Hurry! What are you waiting for! Pants off! All off! Clothes off! Hurry! Strip down! Strip down! Strip down! I stole it! Bring him here! Where is the pendant? I lost it Lost it? He must have sold it! Where is it? I forgot Take him out to be executed! Commander, we should investigate this first! Execution is tomorrow at noon! Where can it be? What am I to do! I know you didn't steal the pendant. What's going on? My father is very sick, so I dressed up as a boy to take his place How can I help you? Please don't let him know I didn't... die in combat! Have some soup From the day I entered camp I've had nightmares every night Please, personally burn my corpse Don't let anyone else find out! I promise to burn your nightmares Thank you Leave us! Yes, sir! It's a Rouran attack! Get out! Run! Run! How will you justify letting me go? This is war. There aren't so many consequences. Go! Commander! Commander! Thank you! Mulan! Mulan! Rush over! Kill their General! Chop! Chop off his head! That is the rule! The Rouran General is dead! Kill them! Retreat! Now! Hurry! Bring him here! Now! Stay calm! Prepare the bandages! Yes, sir! Uncle! What shall I do without you? You still have us Come on Salute! A century of human life is like a dream Life and death occur, heroes have no regrets Protect my homeland, show off my nation's pride What joy is there in life... Mulan, you can be a talented general! I'll keep your identity secret Stay on I don't want their families to feel even worse when they see the blood. Come! I'm actually very afraid of blood! My father dislikes me He said I would amount to nothing since I couldn't even bear to kill a rabbit, and kicked me out of the house You weren't afraid, you just couldn't bear to! You're right. So I worked hard to excel so I can show him I used to hate him, but now I understand he was just training me I have my own way I imagine my fear is a person Then I shout at him, I'm not afraid of you! And I'm not! I'm not afraid of you! What did you say? Nothing! In the third year of our Emperor's rule, our nation lost a hero Commander Feng died for the country The Emperor commands Wentai to be Commander Hua Mulan to be Sub-Commander and hopes they will lead the 6th Battalion to serve the country. The Rouran Price Mendu has gathered all the tribes I fear a major battle is imminent! I hereby command all battalions to attack to weaken the Rouran forces! Go forth! Big Brother! The Emperor commands that, for their wartime accomplishments, Wentai is to be made General of Conquering North Hua Mulan to be made General of Pacifying North and hopes these heroes will fight to protect our homeland! I finally understand why Father said... we must not have feelings on the battlefield! We were rewarded and made Generals but who will reward them? When I was a child, Father said when people die, they will become stars in the sky! Danyu! Wei generals Hua Mulan and Wentai soundly defeated Bawuyi! Hua Mulan and Wentai again! So the Wei nation still has generals as fierce as tigers! Father A wolf can kill one sheep. But ten wolves can eat a tiger! I beg you not to split up our forces again! The Rouran nation was established We have fewer and fewer tribesmen. It's a hard life Father I want to be a queen of Wei If I were queen, We can become friends with the Central people We can trade our pelts and horses... for their salt and iron. Wouldn't that be good? If you didn't have an older brother, you would be the future Danyu, Master of the Grasslands. Danyu! Child, I gave you your freedom long ago, yet you stayed to be with me all these years I hope, when I die, to be buried to the sound of your singing Then you should bring your tribesmen home The Rourans should have a friend. General Hua! General Wentai was ambushed when he was scouting up ahead. He orders that you remain here to await his command, and guard the supplies! Scholar! Yes, General? Stay here and guard the supplies! Yes, sir! All cavalrymen, come with me! General Hua! General Wen asked you to remain where you were! All supply wagons, go over there! Retreat! Don't chase them! Why are you here? I was worried about you! Let's go! General Hua, as soon as you left, we were ambushed! Scholar! Scholar! Scholar! Scholar! Hang on! Hang in there, Scholar! Your wife is waiting for you at home! Hang on! I'm not married... Before I left... I promised my father... when I went back I would give him a grandson... General! I failed to protect the supplies...sorry! Bring me back... to my father... I'm sorry... Scholar! Scholar! Scholar! I'm sorry... Where else do you want to go? To find them! Your short temper in battle, caused the death of so many of our men, can you see that? It's all my fault! It's all on me! I shouldn't have gone to you, but I was terrified... that you wouldn't come back... I've lost so many brothers, I can't bear to lose you! Your father was right We cannot develop feelings in battle If you were me... wouldn't you have come? I wouldn't Why was Father so excited to talk about war? I've fought battle after battle, Lost one after another of my brothers, I really don't want to fight any more. Everyone is awaiting their General to lead them to battle! I don't want to fight any more I don't want to be a General I want to be a normal person! Who wants to fight! I also don't want to fight any more! If I could use my life to stop this battle, I would have done it long ago! The problem is, we cannot choose! Once you put on a General's armor, Your life is no longer your own This is what war is about! Stay, just this once! Ambush! Brother Wentai! General! Before Brother Wentai died, he asked me to give you this. He told you to never give up If we steal and drink the army's wine, we'll be whipped! We won't; who rules over us now? True; General Wen is gone and General Hua has not trained us in a long time Don't worry, drink up! General Hua! General Hua! Okay's we're fine See, I told you no one cares! Keep drinking! Keep drinking! Sir, General Hua has not trained us in a long time The General has ordered training to cease Let's train together! Get up! What's the use? The General doesn't care any more Do we still have a General? What did you say? Turtle! Let's train by ourselves! What are you doing? Give it back! Are you living for the dead, or for the living? Give it back! There are things you must do! It is your duty! You are no longer the Sister Mulan I adored! Because you wanted to escape, you caused the death of Brother Wentai, And you will cause the death of many of our brothers in the future! You are so selfish! He really wanted to see you become a good leader. If he sees what you have become, he will be so disappointed! Tiger! Fall in! The General Hua you see before you is actually terrified of battle. I had been afraid and hiding all along. But... I never thought my fear and hiding would cause the loss of the most important friend in my life His departure lets me understand fleeing from the endless battles only makes us lose even more! From now on, I will become stronger, and protect each one of you! And you must all become stronger to protect those near you! Will you do that? Hail, General Hua! Hail, the Wei army! Hail, General Hua! Brother Wentai! No matter if I live or die, tell Mulan I have died! Her emotional tie must be cut before she can really grow strong Promise me! All right In the sixth year of the Emperor's rule, General Hua led 5,000 soldiers to lure the Rourans across the river He ordered his men to destroy a dyke upstream. Countless enemy soldiers were washed away We killed 10,000 of the enemy with no loss of life! In the seventh year, he chased the enemy for 300 miles It was snowing The enemy thought we had retreated But General Hua disregarded the hardships and tracked them down to their hiding place, attacked when they were unprepared, killed 20,000, and took 3,000 prisoners! The Rouran quake at the sound of his name! Also, when General Hua goes to battle, he always stands in front of his soldiers His men are so moved, they will gladly die for him! When he sees other battalions in trouble, he will always help them So among the Wei army, he inspires confidence, And is well-respected. In the eighth year, General Hua led 3,000 men... Enough! Say no more. Demoted to the cooking team! Why are you demoting General Hua to the cooking team? I meant you! Remove him! Yes, sir! Commander-in-chief, sir! We can have wine if we win! Come! General Hua! You are a great guy! I want to be your sworn brother! Sorry, General Hua! He's drunk General Hua, I'm not drunk! General Hua! Let's tell her the truth No! Now the army's morale is strong and it all hinges on her! I always hoped... her heart would harden And not be bothered by matters of emotion As long as the Rourans still live, we do not have a home The nation's business is more important than our own You two are so lonely! Chiefs Futu, Shelun and Buluzhen are outside, waiting to bid farewell to Your Highness Your Highness! My tribe lost badly in the Battle of Buhe, We wish to return to the grassland to rest and recover! I gathered everyone this time, not just to loot and plunder! With the Donghu, Dayue and Dawan tribes together we can attack and claim the Central Plains Forever leave the frigid north, and realize the dreams of the Rouran! Now I need everyone to be united. What do you think? The Old Danyu is kind, and has permitted us to depart Yes, Your Highness! Come! Bring the wine! My father is kind. And you have worked very hard! Futu, you have worked hardest I will see you off first Thank you, Your Highness! Who will be next? Father Futu was talking the other tribes into retreating, so I killed him Child! I know you are unhappy, having run around the grasslands for so long, trying to gather all the tribes Father, my life was given to me by you. I will not speak of unhappiness. Morale is too low now, they cannot take another battle We must preserve the Rouran bloodlines When you are Danyu you will understand But I am not content! With our strength, we might not lose That means we also might not win Let us retreat Father, do you remember what you used to say when I was a boy and would ask you why we always loot and plunder? We Rourans don't have iron Why do we need iron? To make weapons Why do we need weapons? So we can loot and plunder! Yes, Father. I think like my sister. I also dream of a day when we can finally stop looting year after year and live the abundant life of the Wei people As long as we take the Wei territory, I will fulfill my responsibility Father, you should agree with me, right? Danyu, it has been polished Gude, stay and serve me! My father's soul has risen to the sky From today on, l, Mendu, am your new Danyu Danyu! Danyu! Danyu! Danyu! Danyu! Your mother's family name is Yuguo We must marry in the future, to birth the most purebred Rouran child who shall rule the earth! Mendu of the Rouran has become the new Danyu He has gathered an army of 200,000 and is ready to strike south What do you think, Generals? Commander-in-chief! I have fought with Mendu before He is cruel and violent We cannot go against his 200,000 troops with out meager forces Why don't we retreat, defend the gateways, and wait for them to come to us? What do you think? Commander-in-chief! If we retreat, morale will drop, and if Mendu pursues us at this time, we will suffer great losses I beg you to consider, we must not retreat! I beg for your command to lead the frontlines! General Hua, you are so loyal and courageous What is your strategy? Normally, we confront with the main and win by surprise Normally, we would confront the enemy with the main troop While a secondary troop hides in ambush But this time I want to do the opposite! I lead the confrontation troop. While Commander-in-chief leads the main as a surprise As long as I have a small victory at the start and anger Mendu Thus luring him to chase us with all his might I will pretend to be trapped in a canyon Mendu will think they can butcher us so they will be reckless Commander-in-chief will be in ambush behind them And as soon as the enemy turns around please release smoke, I will turn and lead my troops into the fray so they will be attacked from front and rear! Good! I will give you a troop of 20,000 Commander-in-chief Speed is of the essence, I wish to depart tonight Please place our supplies at the canyon for our use We will go according to this plan Yes, sir! Thank you, sir! I am General Hua Mulan of the Great Wei Nation Has your Commander-in-chief became a shrinking turtle and sent a peon like you to your death? This is the territory of the Great Wei Nation. Please leave! But I like your territory! Remember, Wei people are sheep we Rouran are wolves! Steady! We have Han, Shi, Xianbei and Jiang men, but no sheep! They have 20,000 men. I'll give you 40,000 men and 4 hours. Destroy them! Yes, sir! Hail! Hail! Standing archers! Shoot! Kill! Lift! Stop! Danyu! Wei General Hua Mulan defeated us! What "defeated"? Hua Mulan! Mobilize all my troops! They fell for it! Main cavalry unit, put the front team in the back Cover the main troop's retreat to the canyon! Yes, sir! Protect the General! General! General! Run! Hurry! Run! The Poison Dragon is coming! Retreat! Mulan! Mulan! Mulan? Hua Mulan! Hua Mulan! I knew you didn't die! Mulan! Get the medic! Yes, sir! Hang in there Mulan! Hang in there The Rourans are coming! General, the Rourans are coming! Company retreat! General! If we take our wounded, We may jeopardize our action! Company retreat! General! Mulan! Mount! Company retreat! Brothers! Let us use all our power to help our General retreat, all right? Yes! General! Seal the canyon opening! Now! Yes, sir! Check our supplies in the canyon! Yes, sir! Mulan! Sit down General, the medic and all the medications disappeared during the Poison Dragon! Stop! Danyu! Why are we not pursue while we are victorious? Destroy Hua Mulan first, then go after Zang Zhi! Where can he go from here? They're trapped! Danyu, you mean... Killing can be done in an instant I like to watch people in desperation, especially Hua Mulan! General Hua, We have made a thorough search but have found no supplies or water in the canyon Gather and redistribute the available supplies Kill the horses Kill the horses! Keep their blood for future use! Yes, sir! Commander-in-chief's smoke will be our last hope If I die before it comes Iead our brothers in defense for me I've watched you over all these years You've done a great job! I dreamed that I've died you all left me there was no one around me I count the stars every night There is not an extra one so you won't die! You're so good to me! General! Cry! Cry to your brothers for help! Get them to help you! Cry! Cry for your General to save you! Cry! General, I beg you to save them! I won't allow you to be sacrificed But General! That's Tiger! Your brother! You are all my brothers! We must wait! Hu Guei, don't fall for their trap! Tiger! Turtle! Tiger! Turtle! A century of human life is like a dream Life and death occur, heroes have no regrets Protect my homeland, show off my nation's pride What joy is there in life, what regrets in death There are enemy winds up north, but home fires down south I miss my wife and children, and my home They are across the mountains, far away... Ashina! Yes, Danyu! A century of human life... If they don't come out, kill them! ...is like a dream Life and death occur, heroes have no regrets Protect my homeland, show off my nation's pride What joy is there in life, what regrets in death Tiger! There are enemy winds up north, but home fires down south I miss my wife and children... ...and my home They are across the mountains, far away... Finally, peace and quiet! We are out of supplies and can no longer hold our position Commander-in-chief is really not coming If we do not get medication you and the brothers won't be able to hang on Even if I die I must die in battle! Will you come with me? I will! Wentai! You are the one person... I will never forget! Heroes, our troops are stationed here originally to meet up with Commander-in-chief and his troops! But... he betrayed us! Today, we will stain the battlefield with our blood Behind us is our homeland If we have to bleed out our last drop of blood, if we have to become bleached bones in this desert, we must defend it to the death! We must let the Rourans know we Wei warriors will never surrender and will never compromise! Soldiers may rebel against me generals may leave me for dead but l, Hua Mulan, will never betray my country! Brothers! After this meal we will kill their Danyu and chop down their flag! Are you afraid to die? No! Are you afraid to die? Kill! Kill! Kill! Black Wind, in our next life, we'll reverse roles and you kill me General, you can't kill Black Wind! Kill me instead! You must not kill Black Wind! General! Black Wing must not be killed, General! General! General! General! General! General! You should rest Get your Danyu to come here and talk! I, seventh son of the Wei Emperor! Toba Hong! Leave your best medics and supplies! I will come with you! Let my brothers go! A live Prince in exchange... for several thousand soldiers? Deal! Leave the medics ands supplies! Let's go! Yes, sir! Danyu orders a retreat! I didn't imagine you would recover so quickly I still have many important things to do General When our brothers have recovered, lead them back home General, where are you going? You must not follow me General! General This is a military command! General! Take care, everyone General General Danyu! What are you doing? Pick it up! Yes, sir How much gold... do you think your father will pay for you? He doesn't like me, so you may be disappointed Even wolves protect their cubs; never mind humans I've never, and don't plan to, befriend a wolf You are right In your eyes I am a wolf But for us Rourans I am a once-in-a millennium heroic king He who wins his people's hearts wins his nation You think you can take the world with a knife? You may be a victorious conqueror, but if you cannot let your people live a good life even if you are lucky enough to win there will be thousands like me who will fight against you Causing piles of white bones just to satisfy your personal ambition! Are you talking like a drunk, because you cannot hold your alcohol? Thank you! I know what you are thinking Don't worry When I take the Wei territory and become king, I will fulfill your dream of becoming queen I wanted to be a queen of Wei so that generations of Rourans won't have to suffer the ravages of war It is different from your reason! No matter how much land you take, I will never agree with what you have done Who are you? Don't worry, Princess. I am Wei General Hua Mulan I know of you Are you trying to use me to rescue your Prince? I respect your dream of making peace, between our countries I wish to help you fulfill your dream Fulfill my dream? You overestimate me. I am merely a woman My brother killed our father for the throne, and I dare not speak up! Actually, I am... also a woman Amazing! I enlisted in my father's place, just to fulfill my filial duty I never imagined I would achieve any accomplishments, not to mention that one day... I would become a butcher on the battlefield In these twelve years, my heart has never felt at ease Princess, only when we resolve the cause of this war can we stop the war itself Your own fate as well as that of the whole world... is in your hands Your messengers have come and agreed to all of my terms Your father loves you very much Thank you for telling me this Let everyone know, we'll celebrate for three days! Thank you, Danyu! I've thought it through. You are right. Husband, please have a drink Great! Come! You dare to kill me? I must avenge the Old Danyu! Mulan Rise! Thank you, Your Majesty Hua Mulan is here! Commander-in-chief is a coward. I have dealt with him. I bow before Your Majesty It's General Hua! Salute! We respectfully bring General back to your hometown! Master Where is Father? He waited here for you every day Father I am home! I hereby name Hua Mulan the Commander-in-chief of the Wei nation! I do not wish to become an official I have been at war for twelve years and been unable to take care of my father who has been ill. Please allow me to go home. I am a woman. Please punish me. It is our nation's great fortune to have a woman like you I have long since forgiven you. Thank you, Your Majesty I have an announcement for the whole nation: The marriage between my son Hong and the Rouran Princess! Our two nations will now be friends. The fighting will stop forever and from now on, there will be peace! Adjourned! Thank you, Your Majesty! Hong, your marriage to the Rouran Princess is a national event! Do you understand your responsibility? I do, Sire It's so nice to have a daughter Always filial, understanding and obedient And now, she's a pretty General! Coming! Let's go away together! Doesn't matter where! You once said if you could give your life to end this war you would do it It's easy for me to give up my life but it's too difficult to give up the woman I love In order that there be no more Tigers That no more families end up with just a bloody dog tag... I understand Forget about me! For twelve years, every day I wake up in the battlefield my first thought is of you Knowing you are there, gives me the courage to open my eyes Forever after, it will still be the same every day Someone once said, go too far from home and you will lose your roots kill too many people and you will forget yourself If you die in battle your life will sink into the ground like rain and vanish without a trace If at that time, you fall in love with someone hope will blossom again from the earth and embrace life with passion! Thank you, Wentai!
