 

                        This is incredible! - What's haPPening in our village? At this rate, nobody in our village will be safe anymore a daylight robbery! Something needs to be done about it! He's the victim today. Tomorrow, it could be anyone right! Something needs to be done. - Where are you guys going...? You come along, too. Or she'll carry you away too! Will he helP? - He's the only one in the village... who can solve the Problem. We'll have to fall at his feet! Right! You're right! What haPPened? - Are your ears blocked? No. - So come on What's haPPening? Is it something scandalous? Nobody knows. Narayan dada's son was carried away by a witch Look at them! The bloody herd of sheeP! They're here to chew on our brains, early in the day! Say we're closed for a fortnight. - What for? The dcP's mother's getting married again Where are they going...? - They just walked by! - Entry to women is forbidden am I going to walk there to helP? Come here and talk to me Why are you guys wailing? What's wrong? You are our Lord and Master! Our saviour in trouble! Why? Where are your other saviours? - But you are the most Powerful! My son has been carried away by Kartaniya's men! Kartaniya? Who's this lizard? That woman from the cattle market! - She has abducted his son! Is she going to Pickle him...? Are the coPs around only to have Photos taken of their shining medals? Go and tell them that I've sent you. Dismiss! We went to the Police, sir. We even mentioned your name But the witch still wouldn't sPare his son! So you're at my feet because you're disillusioned with the Police? I don't Poke my nose in other PeoPle's affairs I fight only my own battles. Go on now, get going That witch gets all her helP from the lady in anPara village, sir Laxmi's goons are standing in attendance, to defend them Lawyer... - Sir? Use the Phone. Summon my kids immediately No, sir. We ought not to interfere in this matter Why not? - It has to do with womenfolk You never know what twist the tale might take don't you guys knows? Seth angarchand's men... never get involved with women! And you still come here? Go away now! Mind your own business! - Listen... as far as I can see, this is no ordinary case of women The lady at anPara and her children are involved in this scandal She's a very stubborn woman. If anyone asks me for helP... against her, I'm surely going to helP him! Sir, call for you Balli, come home immediately. - Right, daddy lmmediately. - Right away. Immediately Hail Lord Hanuman, Lord of celibacy... Phone for you, sir Shakti, see which fool it is Who the hell is it? Your mother was nurturing a sPirit wasn't she? I'm the same ghost! Brother! It's daddy. - Daddy who? Daddy! Daddy, talk to brother... - No. Come here immediately right, daddy. We'll start immediately Hold this for a moment Well? You couldn't recognise my father's voice? I don't tell my father's voice either I'll Play your father's voice for you right now! Is this the law college boys' hostel? - Yes I wish to talk to jaichand. - I'll call him Who is it? Go on? Didn't you go to college today? Daddy...? I went, came back. And went again and... Is that a carrom-board you've been bouncing off...? I'm going back in the afternoon, daddy No, no need to go there. Come home immediately No, I'm really going in the afternoon, daddy Must you keeP raving, you idiot? Listen to me We got some imPortant business to finish. Come here immediately Wow! All the wealthy men together! At the Poor man's door? So you're the Poor man who abducted a Poor farmer's son? And you now want to swallow his Piece of land in ransom? Bring that boy here immediately. - So you've come to take the boy? He's not coming out, sir. - He can't? Never mind We can walk. We'll carry him No, none of you guys can take him away from here We are taking him away We don't use our exPensive footwear to walk to such Places Sir, this is a cattle-market. I clean scatter with these hands... I use this hand to wash my backside a Punch with this one will stink even more I'm not standing in the hot sun for too long Finish it all uP quickly. Let's go Which sonofagun dares take away the boy from here! Dammit! Silly bachelors! How would you know what heat a woman Possesses? Is there a real man among you who can sate a woman's thirst? If there is, steP forth, you curs! I'll show you what it means to flee with a turned tail! Get out of the way. Let go of that child. These are the PeoPle resPonsible for all this bloodshed and violence and the father and the sons ought to be Punished for their crimes That's all, your honor. Dear students, today haPPens to be anjali's last day at the college But it saddens me to say that an intelligent girl like her... is abandoning her studies to settle down in matrimony However, it is a matter of Pride that anjali is getting married... to the Home Minister of our State, the young Mr Govindrao PachPute I therefore extend our heartiest congratulations to her We hoPe there will be fame and honor in her life Let us therefore give her a haPPy farewell anjali, listen... - What? Will you Please helP me? What haPPened? - This What is this? - My transfer order You can have a word with the Minister and have it stalled Me? - Yes, you Now don't say you can't do it. - I'll do what I can Bye. - Bye, take care. Give it to him on your nuPtial night. Don't forget! Come. - Bye. SPray the rose-water, elePhant! SPray it! SPray the rose-water, elePhant! What sort of a mahout are you? You can't make the elePhant sPray the rose-water? Give me the cane. I'll show you SPrinkle the rose-water, elePhant! Go on! There, Mother! The rose-water and also the oblations! What are you guys watching? Clean the mess! SPrinkle the rose-water, elePhant! SPrinkle it! - SPrinkle. - KeeP going. Who're you giving those dirty looks? Who asked you to bring the elePhant here? I did. - What are you doing, Ma? There's work held uP in the fields because the elePhant's not around... and you're holding a farce here? A circus on disPlay? Circus? My grand-daughter's getting married... if the elePhant sPrinkles rose-water, does it become a farce? Have you forgotten the Pride of the high-caste families? You call a sacred ritual a circus! In that case, why don't you get the elePhant to serve the guests... who arrive at the wedding? The village will witness the honour! An elePhant serving food! - Viru! Don't try to Play my father! What the elePhant will sPrinkle on the PeoPle of anPara... I will decide, not any servant But mother... - Enough! Go inside Brother PrataP, what's going on with you around...? There'll be 10,000 guests! And the elePhant's going to be around! So you want me to sPrinkle rose-water on the guests? Oh no, go ahead and build muscles! I wonder what burden you're going to carry! Now look, Vir, if you're irked, go and tell brother Surajbhan There's no need to eye my muscles! Is that clear? There you go again! Can't the two of you digest anything unless you argue? Vir, you don't want the elePhant to be there at the wedding, right? Yes, brother I've stuffed a kilo of cotton in the elePhant's ears! That's when I brought it here! Even if a bomb exPlodes... the elePhant won't hear a thing! - That's very nice... well done! Why don't you stuff some cotton in your mother's ears too? Remember one thing. It's the marriage of a motherless child There'll be not just elePhants... ...there will be fireworks at her wedding too! We will invite only those PeoPle who will bless her with all their heart do you understand that...? My foot you will! Grandma... - My Princess has arrived! My darling daughter has arrived! Come, dear... I hear the Home Minister's fiancee had a grand send-off at the college? Don't Poke fun at her! It's commonPlace in colleges nowadays Studies take a back-seat. Fun and frolic take centrestage! Why not? My friends came to see me all decked uP at my wedding too anjali... how are you? Oh sure! You married this mountain, and were laden with gold, isn't it? Enough. - Where's daddy? - He has gone to meet the Home Minister He mustn't have been around, so he must've stood around like a guard...? The Minister hasn't disaPPeared! Get lost! He'll come back Lord... Where the hell are they...? - What's uP, lawyer? Send half a dozen men, Please. I can't carry this burden on my own really? Listen... lend the lawyer a hand Looks like the Home Minister has sent a lot of gifts... hurry uP! Hurry uP and get him out What haPPened, brother-in-law? What haPPened to him? - Let him get some fresh air... Get some water! But how did this haPPen to him? - Daddy...? What haPPened? The cat got your tongue? Won't you tell us what haPPened? All I can say is that this wedding is not taking Place The Home Minister claims that this alliance is Posing Problems for him and I say he's being instigated... ...so that our daughter's wedding is stalled Stall my grand-daughter's wedding? Who dares...? Tell me! It's no good wringing my neck! Rather you strangle angarchand's neck! He's the one who has had this wedding called off He has lured ten legislators to his fold. He has threatened the Home Minister... to call off the wedding, else he'll be toPPled off his Position and that is why he has refused to go ahead with the wedding and you know! Death, mosquitoes and Politicians are not to be trusted! That's it! Bravo! Slam him to the ground! - Flattened him. Eat all you want to, let there be no room in your tummy There's no feast at anPara anymore. - There'll only be a mourning there They were forging an alliance... ...with the Home Minister to belittle angarchand! And now her own grand-daughter sits humiliated at home! I sPat because the PeoPle of anPara have gone down on their knees... ...before me Why did you have to sPit...? One single sPit was enough I sPat because you sPat on my face, sir But you sat before me with your mouth wide oPen! Where else could I sPit...? Go and sit elsewhere! But this is surely not enough. The story doesn't end here She'll have to go through a lot more misery The mother and her children will go through a lot more of hell! Shakti. - Yes. - Are the fireworks ready? - Yes, daddy So what are you waiting for? Burst them What are you doing, Ma? Are we all dead? If you are true men, take this gun and go there Bring his dead body to me! Lady! What madness is this? Yes! The LadyshiP of anPara has gone mad! She has killed angarchand! Say that in the court! Don't just watch! StoP her! - Ma... stoP there! Watch out! If anyone tries to stoP me, I'll kill him! Wastrels! Don't get anywhere close to me! StoP it, Ma... - Give me the gun. - Listen to me... Ma. Get the car out. - What are you doing Ma? Wait... have you gone mad...? Calm down! Ma... Let me go! Leave me alone! - Calm down, Ma... have you gone mad...? Quiet! Quiet! Ma... Get some water quickly! Great! What bigger blow could we have dealt to them than this one? Thanks to this, the children of this Place can now live in Peace The children of this family are already... ...living in Peace. You doubt that? What sort of a life is this, sir? Getting violent to helP others... resorting to bloodshed to humiliate the family in anPara... what sort of a life is this? What I'm getting at is... they too now need to lead a decent life too, isn't it? No! - I see! So you're still against the family in anPara? You must end this feud of 20 years... ...and Put an end all the bloodshed and violence For how long will you keeP the fires of hatred alive? The fires will live, lawyer! Do you exPect me to forget it all? Even though the fires are dead, the embers are still alive Must I really forget it all? And how many things must I forget? Tell me... tell me! My Parvati... the goddess of my family Before my very eyes, she was here at the altar in this courtyard and she finally breathed her last in my arms Must I forget that? I sPent 14 years in Prison I endured the hardshiPs of Prison life mentally and Physically Must I forget it all? You just said that my children need to lead a Peaceful life But why isn't that the case? Why hasn't Balram got married? Why haven't Kishan and Shakti got married yet? After jai, no child was born in this family I always yearned to see a cheerful baby. Why...? Tell me angarchand can never forget all these things. Never It isn't an injury on my body. It's a wound on my heart My fires will be sated only when that woman and her children are dead If Pain could be exPressed, every wound of mine would sPeak volumes Shut uP! First think of Putting out the fires that rage in my heart! Only a widow knows the anguish of losing her husband! You lost your father, but I did not concede defeat to angara! But today I realize that angara's sons are true men. And my sons... are jackals that hide behind their wives aProns! Jackals! Yes, keeP saying that to them, lawyer Where are you going, rooPa...? Wow! The birds and the bees...! That's the beauty of a woman! You see how they got drawn away? Get this clearly! Only a woman can create a rift in that family! That there is no woman in their lives haPPens to be their strength! If there were a woman in angara's family... it would difficult for them to handle. All four would take different Paths... and thus, they would be weakened. You don't get it? We need a girl to destroy the disciPline of that family! You will then see... - Shut uP! Cut the craP! You've been barking away! My daughter's weePing because her marriage has been called off and this man is thinking about getting those Princes married! Are you going to kill the girl because her marriage has been called off? She says she's not going to study. - That's what she'll obviously say But if she remains here, she'll be even more miserable So I suggest you ask her to resume her studies again The latest! Sensational news! All for free! Take it for free. - How's it going...? - Great guns! Where's the rest of the money? - What money? This is not done! You never return the balance to me ever! Did I ever ask for the balance from you? When did you give me any money at all? Don't screw uP my mood. I've got work to do Sensational news! For free! Mind-blowing news! Take it. The village belle returns... she could not unite with her beloved He did not bring the bridal fineries for her... so who is she going to find now? Look at this babe! Just ask, why's she so worked uP? Just look, what a babe! Why's she so arrogant? Why does she fight with everyone? She seems to be a sPirit! Her charm is a killer Her eyes ooze oomPh Lightning strikes my heart when she sways in her gait She makes everyone at college Pine... she won't let anyone get their hands on her She's a volcano waiting to eruPt Fair-skinned, beautiful... she's sure a nymPh a blossoming beauty, she's Proud of her looks Tell her, friends... not to flaunt her airs Let's give her haPPy memories Let's find a Prince for her The Poor girl's grieving... let's make her a bride Why's she always on her own? She's such an enigma Nobody knows what ails her Someone reason with her, she's all PumPed uP at this rate, she won't find anyone... she ought to get back to her senses The Poor girl might end uP remaining a sPinster I told you folks that I'm not going back to that college! But you still thrust me into that hell! He humiliated me in front of the whole college I've lost all the resPect and honour! Are you haPPy now? - Who humiliated you? Your Uncle has asked you a question. Haven't you heard him? Who else could it be? It was angarchand's son, jai! He had it Published in a newsPaPer... ...and distributed it in the whole college do you know what filthy things they wrote about me? That scoundrel dares...?! Brother, Vir... let's go! Hari Singh, deva... get your swords! Get a dozen more men! After we're through with him... he'll never do a thing like this ever again in his lifetime! Where do you think you're going? And what do you imagine? He'll be waiting for you... to welcome you? Remember, you took a battalion last time to fight over water rights and what haPPened? Four of your men got killed... Seven were criPPled, four lost an eye... and five were Permanently blinded! We're still Paying for their livelihood! Bloody lawyer! You live off us and lavish Praise on that family? We fought then for someone else's water rights But it now has to do with the honour of our family! He'll have to Pay for toying with the honour of a girl from our family! This is too much, Ma. We're now going to return after beheading them! Let's go, brother. - Wait I don't want you to do anything can't you hear me...? Go inside! There's no need to PamPer me! Grandma, I went to college because I cared for your feelings But when it came to my honour, nobody here is bothered about it all the love just evaPorated! - Who said it evaPorated? Now is when the love will flow, my dear Maybe I'm getting old, but I haven't lost the sPirit yet Then why did you stoP my father and my uncles? Why didn't you let them battle it out? But no! Your sons must come to no harm, even if I'm burnt in the Process! What do I mean to you anyway? Why must you bother? Have you gone mad? Is that all you have got to know of your grandma in so many years? The best attack is the one that makes the least noise Listen, did he humiliate me or your father or your uncles? No He humiliated you. So you will Plot the course of your revenge You will fight for honour. How's he to look at? Handsome? Who? - Angara's son? I don't know, I didn't look carefully Then you must now take a good look You will have to give him a sense of belonging... and make him eat out of your hands. Make him a Pet You mean, I must fall in love with him? Love...? If you fall in love, you're the first one I'll cremate! There's a difference in what you weigh and what you buy. You have to just weigh. You got to lay the traP of everlasting love Bring him to a Position where he licks your heels When he's madly in love with you... ...and revolts against angara and his family. And if you will say, he'll even Present... ...angara's head to you on a Platter and what love and what alliance? Lt'll be the end of the story He'll bang his head on the walls all his life Our revenge will be comPlete. Then, I'll have my Peace! You get that, little girl? Listen, where's jai's room? UPstairs. Room number 6. Want me to call him? No thanks. I'll find him on my own jai! Jai! Wake uP! - Let me sleeP! That girl's coming here. - Which girl? Anjali. - Don't tell me! Yes! - How did she get here? How would I know? She is here. Give me my Pyjama! Where the heck is it? I'm not your wife! - Give me my Pyjama! - Here, take this. You're on the bed, and your Pyjama's are on the floor! The girl! KeeP her out! - Hurry uP and wear it! I want to talk to jai. - How come? Jai... I need to talk in Privacy No way! Say what you have to in his Presence! This is between you and me. Rather we talk in Privacy Lucky...! Can I come in and talk? - Not necessary. SPeak from where you are But I'm not comfortable here. - What're you doing, girl... watch it! This Place is only for men; so come out and say whatever it is! I haven't come to stay anyway. But I will say what I have come to say What harm have I done to you, that you're treating me like this? There is an enemity between our families... but must you seek revenge from me? My marriage was annulled because of your father But don't ruin my studies now. Please I request you... stoP bothering me Even if we're enemies... ...when a girl cries before you and asks for your helP. And if you still bother her, it's terribly shameful for a man and I really believe that you're the only man in your family... who will not disaPPoint me Go on... go inside She shouldn't have said that... how could she say such a thing? What? - She means you're the only man... in your family, and the rest of them are imPotent, faggots... so they didn't get married! - When did she say that? She said it to your face! - And I didn't utter a word? No! - Did she say that...? Did she really...? - Yes... she did. - I'll show her! Hey girl... what did you say to me? That I'm the only real man in the family, eh? Was I wrong? Aren't you a man? No!...I mean, I am! Are the rest of my brothers imPotent? - Really? I just got to know Is that how things are? Poor brothers! - Look, don't act too smart! Don't mess with angarchand's sons, okay? You'll land in deeP trouble! They're lions... jackals, actually! One second, one second... what names are you calling your brothers, jai? You call them lions, jackals... is it a family or a zoo? Am I here in the nude...? Get lost! Who do you think you are? The Princess of anPara? You're actually a contagious disease! This son of angarchand alone is enough to deal with you! I'll give you such a tough time, I'm going to bother you so much... I'll do all I can! I hate you! I hate you! Have you said what you had to say? - No! I... Okay, I have... so? - Very simPle I'll love you just as much as you hate me KeeP hissing like a cobra, and I'll still try to charm you! Yes, I love jai. With all my heart To hell with your heart! I'm not going to let that haPPen! Never! Did you seek my Permission before starting to hate me? So what's the Problem with my love? It's my choice KeeP your love to yourself and... just get lost! That's exactly what I'm doing. I didn't ask you to love me in return Say it, then you'll know. - I don't need to I love jai! I love him, I love him! A hundred Per cent! And nobody has a coPyright to love Was it your father who gave birth to love? I love you. What's going on here? Is this a boxing ring for the two of you... to settle family scores? If you want to continue studying here... you must behave yourself. Else, get out of this college I've told you, Madam. It's not jai's mistake It's my fault. - There's no need to say anything more I've let you off on several occasions without any Punishment and this was your last chance, but you're saved because of this girl You will leave now. We could hear the commotion! Who faced the music? What have you done, anjali? This was your chance to have him thrown out of the college Not yet. Let him stay for a while. - What are you saying? What's the Point in Plucking a raw fruit? Just see what anjali does rahul... What the hell are you doing...? Return my clothes to me! What's love doing to me? Give my clothes! I'm losing my sleeP, my Peace and my senses Give my clothes, I say! Don't go away from me... come closer... what's love doing to me? The earth rejoices... the skies celebrate What Place is this...? Where have we landed? It's the season of youth, you and I are together... there's mischief in the air Ours is such a lovely meeting... come into my arms a yearning, a daze... this is a huge kick What's love doing to me? I'm losing my sleeP, my Peace, my sense of time Tis such a sPlendid moment, a cool breeze blows Our hearts are skiPPing a beat, there's an aching You are the one I desire, you are the one I think of... even if you don't realise it How will I tell you about my state... you may never believe me I yearn, you're blissfully ignorant... I'm loving every moment of this What's love doing to me? I'm losing my sleeP, my Peace, my sense of time I will be dead. She has started to walk in my dreams even. What are you doing? - I'm quitting college I can't stay here anymore. That girl's gone crazy! You have no idea what she has been doing to me! If my folks get to know, they're going to kill me! You don't jumP out of bed for fear of the bedbug, do you? If you're a real man, have the girl thrown out of the college But she's been following me around! I love you... she says! What can I do about a girl like her? - Say I love you to her What...? Me...? I could sock your face for that! Let alone fall in love, angarchand's sons don't... ...even look at girls! Remember this. To fall in love... ...angarchand's sons need to be born in another man's family Yes, that'll take a hell of a lot of time How could you say I must love her? - When did I say you must love her? Don't! Don't ever! - Then? Pretense! A drama of love! - What? Don't you want those in anPara to go down on their knees to you? What...? - It's the girl who aPProached you! How can you let such a great oPPortunity sliP out of your hands? I'd advise you to traP her in a web of love to such an extent... that there's no way out for her! After that, all of them will Plead and beg at your father's feet! Save our daughter's honour! Please save her honour! Lmagine! The newfound resPect you'll command in your family! Think! Lmagine! StoP thinking! This is time for action! Lmagine! You and your father will have your revenge! Two birds with one stone! I can feel the goose-PimPles! I hoPe that will not create any trouble. Never mind, it'll get okay... - Not this all this could create an uProar! - But there ought to be an uProar! There'll be fun only if there is an uProar! Now go and tell her what I told you. - But what have I to say...? I'll bring a flower every day to your hostel gate...? No, not flower! Make that a rose! SimPle! It's not simPle! You go and say that to her angarchand's not my father! You want the revenge, don't you? Go and say it to her! Hurry uP! Excuse me, anjali. Could you come here for a minute, Please? Just a minute. What is it? I couldn't sleeP all day. - All day? No, I mean, all night. Sorry. - I couldn't sleeP all night either really? Was it because of me? No, I couldn't get sleeP. There were a lot of mosquitoes in my room It's your guts and sense of humour that I really admire! My rose. Nothing. Whether you believe me or not, I'm telling you the truth today, anjali No girl as beautiful as you has ever told me that she's in love with me It's the first time such a thing has haPPened to me. And it has... You hear drums? - Yes, drums in my heart! And I thought, I ought to share my feelings too anjali, I really like you a lot. I love you It's the beginning of our romance. - Listen... you can't say that and get away so easily I need to be convinced that you are the sPeaking the truth I need to make sure about your feelings - Ok. Swear it on your mother that whenever I call you... you will leave your family and come to me There's no hurry. Think twice. You can let me know later, okay? May I go now? Let's go! She's bloody dangerous! - But what haPPened? She Pushed me against the wall. - But what did she have to say? Say? She actually stung me! Whenever I call you, you must leave your family and come over to me! I got to swear it on my late mother! Am I crazy? That's even better! Fantastic! What's the Problem with that? Your mother's dead, isn't she? She's not going to die again She's not watching what you're doing. Take it from me, it's a Ploy! Be one-uP on her! Use a Ploy on her! Ask her to swear on her late mother! What are mothers for anyway? You swear on them when they're dead, really! What if she takes an oath? - Okay, you take the oath too No way, I'm angarchand's son. I never go back on my word a mere word! It's not the SuPreme court's verdict! Call her before she calls you over! When she leaves her family and comes. Her entire family will bow to you! What do you say? You're right. - I knew it. Go on Excuse me anjali, one second, Please Have you made uP your mind already? You can take your own time No, I've thought about it and even made uP my mind You will also have to give me your word. Swear it on your family What's the big deal? I swear it on my family... whenever you call me, I'll leave all of them and come over to you Now you make the Promise. Give me your hand. Go on Slowly but surely, you're the one who stole my heart and I didn't even get to know quietly, secretly, you cast a sPell... and I didn't even get to know We kePt consenting and disaPProving... secretly, we Pined... and the things it all led to Slowly but surely, you're the one who stole my heart and I didn't even get to know You are the one I dream of every night It makes me sigh wistfully, it leaves me restless I'm crazy about you... I wish I were the glass you held to your liPs... you know not Slowly but surely, you're the one who stole my heart and I didn't even get to know at your side, in your arms... I always wish to be Pangs of seParation I do not want to suffer, even for a moment You are the one who Possesses my memories, my love Yours is the scent that lingers on my breath You mean the life to me Uncle... there's nothing between us You're making a mistake. Come on in, I'll exPlain... Go and keeP this inside first. We'll talk later actually... - I told you to keeP it inside We'll talk later. Get going! What's on your mind? I don't tell beggars what's on my mind Listen... if you mean well, I will stand by you I'll cut off the hands of those who try to stand in your way But if you are trying to settle family scores... I'll be the first one to PumP a bullet into your chest That's what I'm out to do. Hit me, if you have the courage damn you! Let go. What are you guys looking at? Thrash him! No one interferes! This is between angarchand and the anPara family! Just Pick uP the corPse when one of us dies anjali! Anjali! What is it? Your Uncle and jai are fighting it out like mad dogs! Hurry uP and come down. Else, one of them's going to die! Jai. - Don't dare look at her or I will kill you. Let go. My foot, you will kill me! Bring your dead father back to kill me! I'm going to kill you! - Calm down, Uncle... You'll go home in Pieces! Angarchand will see the consequences! I swear, take him away if you don't want him to see dead at my hands! Leave me alone! His folks will be haPPy to see him alive! Let me go, anjali! - I told you there's nothing between us! So why did you get into the fight? - What was it that I saw? I'm not blind! What was all that...? SPeak! What was it? At grandma's behest, I... - What...? It was meant to create a rift between angara's sons I was just a PuPPet, Uncle. It's grandma who holds the string God almighty! That old woman's out of her mind! And you listen to her...? What do you think angara's sons are? If they get the slightest of doubt, they'll kill the two of you! They'll bury you alive! The old woman knows how Powerful they are! Do you want to know the truth? With a little change in your destiny... you'd have been born in angara's family, not ours Your mother was in love with angarchand's eldest son, Balram She even left her family to marry him... but your grandma wouldn't let it haPPen She had your mother forcibly abducted from the wedding altar... and got her married to your father. In the melee... your grandfather shot at Balram But the bullet struck Balram's mother. Angarchand's wife She died. In retribution, he hacked our father in broad daylight and all this haPPened only... ...because of the stubbornness of your grandmother! You now want the same kind of bloodshed for yourself all over again? I'm on neither side now But Please don't tell everyone at home about this and create a fuss What'll haPPen if I tell them? They'll either give you a thrashing... or stoP you from studying further. But guess what will haPPen... when his folks get to know? There will be bloodshed lt'll all be over. Just think about that Who was it that dared raise his hand at our brother? Who dared to hit our brother jai? That brawl you got into! Your brothers got to know! They're out there, barking away! - So now...? So indeed! You want to become the hero of anPara... and your brothers, the villains! They'll bury you in this very bed! I saw the daggers in their hands! They've come PrePared for the kill! What are you talking? Have you told them that I'm here? Am I crazy to say that? Go out there and tell them that I'm not here! Are you mad? They'll clobber me if I go down there! Your mad brothers bash uP anyone they can get their hands on! I'm running away now! That's it! Run... for your lives! You too get lost. There are madmen out there! Save your lives! Run! Who hit our brother...? Who was it...? Where's he hiding? SPeak uP, who hit my brother? SPeak uP, or we'll carve you out! Get him! He's running away! Must be there, that wretch. StoP. - StoP... where are you running to? Who has kePt the door oPen? StoP there! Where the hell is he? These college boys are difficult to catch nowadays HelP! Get him! Why did you hit my brother? SPeak uP. I did not. - Strong man, eh? You hit my brother? - You dare hit my brother? Not me... - Not you? So who was it...? Brother! He hasn't done anything! Leave him alone! Who hit you? Who...? - SPeak uP, who hit him? I hit the man, he didn't hit me! - Tell us his name! If I tell you, you'll go there and raise a bloody storm just give us the name The name! Veeru. Brothers, listen to me. Don't go there... Please! Find him, he must be around somewhere all right, go ahead! But kill me before you kill him! What will PeoPle say if you even touch Viru? That the elder brothers had to rush... ...to avenge their kid brother's beating? I won't have any resPect left! Rather you kill me right now! All right, if something of the sort haPPens again, just hack him and feed him to the vultures so that everybody gets to know... we're not cowardly men Go to jail for that if you have to. Only real men go to jail But you mustn't sPare him Is there something you wanted to say? The oar Paddles across the waves. And without the boatman, my heart trembles. You didn't want to ask why I got into a fight with your uncle, did you? It wasn't my mistake. He said I shouldn't meet you, not love you... who the hell is he to say that to me? Even if the Gods order me... I'm not deserting my love jai. There was nothing of the sort you imagined there was I'm not in love with you. Whatever I said or did... was all a falsehood My love and my sweet words were meant to be a big deceit It was a game I started at the behest of my grandmother... but I got to know that she was doing it only to settle family scores I realised then, how disastrous the consequences could be So I have decided to Put an end to this Pretense Please, jai... forgive me. And also forget me Hey, stoP there... you're through with your story? Now listen to my ePic! Like hell you will lie to me! I was the one who was deceiving you! At my friend Lucky's behest. To settle old scores and so on and so forth! And what did you think? That I've fallen in love with you? Are you crazy? Look at your face! It's like a melon on a PaPaya tree! And listen... what else did you say? That I must forget you? I need to think of you to forget you! Now get this into your skull! I hate you! I hate you a thousand times more than you can ever imagine! A thousand times more! Good bye! The oar Paddles across the waves... Without the boatman... ...it causes an uPheaval in my heart Wake uP! I've done nothing... what are you doing? My sleeP is ruined and you're snoring away! I haven't driven your sleeP away. I'm not a girl. But constiPation. Let me sleeP in Peace. - It was your bloody idea! I was haPPily doing my own thing... and you stoked the fires of love in my heart Now when the smoke is rising, how can you keeP snoring? But you told her that you're not in love with her. End of the chaPter! Shove the book under your Pillow and go to sleeP! You want me to sing a lullaby for you? In my guttural voice? Love isn't about throwing a tenant out of your heart! Something's amiss? - I can't get sleeP One minute, one minute... you mean, when you shut your eyes, you see that girl! And when you oPen your eyes, she disaPPears! Right...? - Yes! I know this disease very well. It's a very dangerous ailment! You're a hoPeless case. You're... What the hell are you doing? - But why're you screaming? I screamed because you screamed. And why did you scream? I was scared! I was wondering what would haPPen when my brothers got to know... that I've fallen in love. And you landed here just then! You're in love, why're you scared? Raise the banner of revolt! Go and marry the girl, I say! Take her away to dubai... Shut uP! You talk any rubbish! One can't decide these things in a hurry I'll have to think about so many things So stand here and think about things. I'll lie in bed... and think! Tally ho! Make sure you don't wake me uP when I'm thinking! You...? At this hour? How did you get into the hostel? I did my best... to hate you. I really did But... I couldn't, I don't know why did you also try? - What? To hate me? I know, you tried. And you also failed I don't think we can ever hate each other So why don't we accePt the truth? I know you're in love with me. But I want to hear you say it It doesn't have to be here and now... I'll come tomorrow Slowly but surely, you're the one who stole my heart and I didn't even get to know What haPPened of her class...? I wanted to know about the same. But couldn't get any clue. Madam, can I meet anjali Kashinath? But she has left - Where to? Her folks came this morning. They took her away Listen... anjali has gone away deliberately so that you don't meet her again She asked her folks to take her away and just left She said that you mustn't try to meet her ever again She could've said that to my face. I wouldn't have swallowed her I'm going to meet her now at any cost Even if I have to go to anPara. - AnPara...? Yes, anPara You're right. You must go and fight for your love You're going with me. - You've gone mad! No way! You're going to set a stack of hay on fire! Just come with me! That girl in red... The one there. With long tresses. What's this? Adhesive. - So much...? Must be for some Painting job. Why bother? What has adhesive to do with a Painting job? One more question and I'll seal your liPs with it! Letter, ma'am Looks like they're all uPstairs. Get me a ladder come soon, just see what is written. Listen. If there's a Problem, just whistle! You know how to whistle...? Shut uP! - I can inform your folks then! They're the ones who'll Perform your last rites, isn't it? Go on! Hold the ladder. - Hurry uP! Shut uP, will you? - What are you standing on...? The ladder! - Not the ladder. It's my hand! I can't bear to see someone getting beaten uP... You better go. Hmm. - What hmm. - I will die. What will I say, where I was. Before you only... What haPPened? - What haPPened? The scene... it scared me But it's a comic situation. Why must you be so scared? Well, it was a comic scene... but I bit into my finger instead of the wafer carnivorous girl... she bites into fingers! You... get the hell out of here! Go! Give me some wafers first. - Here you are. Go! Now say that you love me. - Shut uP! All hell will break loose if someone sees you! Go away! I'm not leaving! First say that you love me No, I don't! - Lies, lies! In that case, you'd have told me yesterday! You thought of Professing your love in the morning... ...and then chickened out Look, I've taken the risk of getting all the way here to see you Unless you tell me that you love me, I'm not leaving! Someone is here. I had seen it with my own eyes. What are you saying? Won't we come to know of someone arriving? We are the watchmen here. Don't trouble us. I'll wait in the storeroom. Unless you come and say I love you, I'm not going! Whatever haPPens! Okay? It takes a good 3 hours to go to the market... ...to buy the goods and come back. I'm going to the storeroom! - Have you gone mad? Both of us will get killed! - No, no! I got to go! And... how am I going to kill time? - Hide somewhere! If you're bored, catch the movie Playing uP there! Please do not trouble. How will we get out? Has raja arrived? I wanted to ask this only. Is there any news? He told me that he would be here. What haPPened? It's nothing... - Something wrong? No, there's nothing. - I'll take a look No, where are you at fault? You remain busy in Parties and with your friends. Who left that storeroom oPen? Is someone there...? - Yes, lady? Lock that door. And set the dogs loose So that no one can either enter... ...or go out of here. Imagine what would haPPen then Both of us... What haPPened? - I don't know... nothing Something wrong? Why's that dog barking so much? Look if there's a jackal in there! Take a look! A family of dogs! Listen... there seems to be someone behind those leaves Ghost! - Get lost, soon. Over there! Get him! Freeze! Or I'll make a sieve out of you! Scoundrel! Thief! You came to steal...? Is this your father's house? You came to steal the utensils? I wasn't here to steal, I swear! My name is Lucky... I had come to take the notebook in anjali's class. Notebook? You jumP a wall for that? I didn't want to disturb you! So I jumPed over the wall! Shut uP! He's a real thief! His eyes are like a frog's! That's how they've always been! The whole family has eyes like mine! Don't let him go. Hand him over to the Police call anjali here. Then hand me over to the Police, the navy... Shut uP... anjali! I'll be back What haPPened, daddy? - Do you know this boy? Lucky... roll number 32 Yes, Lucky. My class-fellow. - See? You believe me now? They were handing me over to the coPs! - What for? How would I know! - What for, daddy? Why...? It's nothing. Go to bed! May I go, Lucky? - Sure, go on. Thank you I'd have been turned into an adhesive! - Shut uP and get going... or else you will be crushed. Come out, I am saying that. StoP. - Don't hit. - Where are you going? Whom were you looking for? - No one... I was only taking a leak. - Right! I'll make you leak from everywhere! - No! Anjali, I'm not leaving unless you say it to me Listen to me, Please! - Don't you want me to go away? Please go away before someone lands here! Who did you come here with? - No one, I swear Where's your buddy? Are you saying it or not? - Jai, Please! All right, I'm staying Put then It's okay, it's all right... - Very well, I'll say it! I have no friend at all! - Where's that rascal jai? I don't know any jai! - Watch out, frog! One Punch, and you'll stick to the wall like a lizard! I don't just love you, jai... you mean the life to me! You're my father's son-in-law and my grandma's grandson-in-law. Okay? Is that enough...? What are you doing here? - Nothing So go on inside... hurry You guys can fall in love, get married, or even go to hell! But why must I keeP getting beaten uP for you all the time? Who asked you to jumP off that tree? I didn't! The branch gave way and I fell down! Lucky for you, I fell down. Or you'd have been caught... and they'd have given you such a thrashing, you'd be thorn to shreds! You ought to be grateful to me. Ungrateful man! Well, well! Have you ever acknowledged my favours? What favours? - You asked me to fall in love... and I did, didn't I? - So? So what? When I took the risk of falling in love at your behest... it's your resPonsibility to Protect our love. Remember that Which law says that? Take a look at your father! Every female is allowed inside, including bitches, asses and mares... but not womenfolk! Look in the whole of India with a lamP... but you won't find a grumPy old man like your father! And look at my father! He haPPily died, three days after I was born and look at your old man! He's sworn to life! He won't die... and won't let die! And he swears you to something crazy everyday! If you really want to marry that girl, there's only one way out reform your brothers. Make them cozy uP to women If even one of them gets romantic and gangs uP with us... our job will be done! Marriage for me? At this age? Have you guys gone crazy? You're not as old as you think. - Guys older than you get married really? - That's not what he means... Whatever my age, I can't get married in this lifetime I once set out as a groom to get married, but it didn't haPPen and I have no regrets. Nor do I think I have taken a wrong steP But guess what I see whenever I hear of a marriage? My mother's body, wraPPed in a shroud and our father, shackled and being held by the Police do you want me to forget all that and still get married? Sorry, brother. I didn't come here to hurt your feelings Neither does he Plan on getting married, right? I sPoke because I didn't want our family to go without an heir. I sPoke because I didn't want our family to go without an heir. Without an heir? As if we're the last of the dinosaurs... we face extinction and the world won't get to see dinosaurs again! Go on... get the hell out of here! How dare you ask me to get married? I'm a sworn celibate! I recite the Hanuman chalisa everyday. Forty times! I visit the shrine at BajrangPur every month to Pray... that the destruction called woman does not ever come to Possess... ...my heart and soul! And you want me to Pray for saris and blouses? What will the Lord say? That I've let Him down...? I'm going to kill you! What are you doing...? - I'm wringing his neck! Leave him alone, Please! - Who the hell are you to stoP me? Who? I'm his close friend! - Close friend? You beggar! Before I end his story, get the hell out of here! Out you go! Hail Bajrangbali! The Lord of celibacy! That's the wrestler. Look at him walk don't stand around to talk to him If he asks, say we're here for Lord Hanuman's oblations don't look at him... - Hey... come here You insist that we guys ought to marry, isn't it? Six years ago, this is exactly what I was Pestering my brothers with For how long would they get off both the sides of the bed? And remember what dad said then? Your brothers have decided... they are not getting married. So why do you want to get married? That's it. I decided to do my own laundry. But I'd never get married and nor will I let anyone in this family get married Which means none of them is going to lay an egg What...? - I was talking about Poultry... come in... you come here! Look Murky... - Lucky Whoever you are, it's your comPany that has done this to my brother Look at me! If I see you with my brother ever again... I'm going to wreck your knee-caPs c'mon... come here! Get some rat-Poison and feed it to these guys! Kill the silly asses! So long as your brothers live, you can never get married! Not you alone, they won't even let me get married! This is the end of your friendshiP. We go our ways Hey Lucky... - Forget it Where are you going...? Listen to me! I know our union could bring about an earthquake But I'm not afraid. To be honest, I just don't care You have no idea how my father brought me uP I was only five when my mother died But my father and my brothers never let me feel the lack of a mother and yet, I'm willing to leave all of them for your sake Should I call you, will you come to me? Try me out You will never leave me, will you? What...? Come here don't be scared. I'm with you don't yell! I'm coming I asked you to come here You've turned out to be a smart girl! So the fish has taken the bait! You are now truly grandma's girl! He will behead angarchand if you ask him to... won't he? He will, won't he...? He's crazy about you, right? Yes... - Yes! I'll tell you what steP you must now take. Come with me jai! You have it made! Your wedding band's on its way! Jai, you have it made! You can love anyone you want to, and even get married! Your rotten father and brothers can't do a thing to you! Who was it who got most worked uP when we suggested marriage to them? Your brother Kishan! He can't oPen his mouth before us anymore! The so-called celibate! - What's all this about? Where does this brother of yours go every Saturday and Sunday? BajrangPur. Lord Hanuman's temPle. - No! He goes not to Lord Hanuman's temPle! He goes to GangaPur to meet someone! Who? - His wife! He's been married for seven years and even has two children! He has kePt them in hiding You're talking about my brother Kishan, right? And he's no celibate, he's the Playful Lord Krishna! He goes not to the Lord's temPle at BajrangPur He goes to meet his wife. GoPi. Who haPPens to be a teacher in GangaPur Lucky, if you're sPinning a yarn, you're really unlucky, I warn you! I knew you wouldn't believe me! I knew it... I have solid Proof! Look at this! This is your brother Kishan. And he's definitely not a celibate! Moron! This is the first sensible thing you've done in your lifetime! Wow! Brother Kishan! What a smart game! Here, GangaPur has arrived. Let's ask there. Does a school teacher called GoPi live here? School teacher...? - Yes No. There is a lady called GoPi who lives nearby But she's not a school teacher. - Is her husband's name Kishan? No. Her husband's name is Murari. - Murari...? It's someone else You always listen to some drivel and drive me berserk Let's go now... - Hang on... one moment Is this Murari? Right. This is Murari indeed and his wife's name is GoPi? - Yes But she's not a school teacher. She trains children in dancing One, two... One, two, three, four... One, two... One two, three, four... Who is it? - Before brother can arrive... we'll Produce her before father. - Right! Who is it? Who...? - Sister-in-law! Get uP! Who are you? This is your brother-in-law! Jai! - Jai who? Me... Hail sister-in-law! - Sister-in-law? Who? Aren't you brother Kishan's wife? - Kishan...? No, I'm not Kishan's wife. I'm Murari's wife It's one and the same thing! I'm sorry, your husband's name is not Murari, it's Kishan and I'm his younger brother jai. Where are the children...? I haven't seen them, but they must be very cute! Listen... where are you going? - Children! I'm your Uncle! Call me Uncle, Please. - Uncle! Quiet! They're not my children. They're here to learn dance Set that child down... go on! And get going... get out! What are you doing, sis-in-law? - I'm not your sister-in-law! It's no good, sis-in-law. The cat is out of the bag! Kishan has told angarchand the truth! - I don't know any angar... nor am I any Kishan's wife. Get going... get lost! Sister-in-law! Let me tell her the truth! - All hell will break loose, jai! Lt'll be worse if I don't tell her My Poor brother won't get to see his wife and children before dying SPeak softly... she might listen! What are you doing? What's the matter? - Nothing, let's go Something surely is... - Nothing... What were you saying? Tell me! - Go on. Tell her Sister-in-law, I'm sorry, I don't have the Permission to tell you But there's no other way now My brother has met with an accident! - What haPPened to him? He broke a bone in his tummy - There are no bones in the tummy! I mean, his legs are broken. And he badly wants to see his wife and children I'll be back in a moment. Don't go away! Ok, bye. Sir... - Yes? Is your name Kishan? - Yes... who told you? Where did you meet Kishan? Not Kishan! My name is Murari! You know my name, don't you? Murari... okay? I told them, but they wouldn't believe me Who wouldn't believe you? - Brother Whose brother? - Your brother My brother...? - There was also a toad of a guy with him a toad of a guy... did he wear this ear-ring? Yes. - Damn it! Where did they go? - I showed them the way to your house What...? My house? - Yes. A right, left... and straight My house... what harm had I done to you? I'll Pull your guts out! Why're you angry with me? - Angry...? Did I ever tease your sister? Did I misbehave with your mother? Rotten scoundrel! Damn you! Hurry uP children... Thank God you're all right and they said you had met with an accident That you had broken limbs! - What can be worse than this...? You've fallen in the hands of these wastrels! You boys ought to be ashamed! He's right here, hale and hearty... ...and you said he had had an accident! May the worms get your tongue! Dogs! Are you going to be haPPy after ruining my family? Fantastic! You're married and having all the fun and how about us? Have you ever given a thought to us? Let's go, Lucky. Let's bring dad here! And then we will see whether this marriage haPPens or not. StoP him, GoPi... stoP him! Brother-in-law, Please stoP... - don't stoP me, sister-in-law We're not staying here, no matter what haPPens Brother, say whatever you have to only to father, okay? You're my father's last mistake! Have mercy on me... Please! You want to get married, don't you? I'll get you married, okay? GoPi... - a sister-in-law is like a mother. How could you...? Dumbo! Not her! I'll get you married to anyone else you want, okay? Not I but he wants to get married. Whoever you say, blind or criPPled... I'll get you married to her, okay? I swear! Really? - Of course You won't back out, will you? - You don't trust my word? One moment... I swear it on my children. I'll get you married to the girl of your choice Why're you hollering away? It's enough that your father's crying! Okay...? In that case... there's this girl I'm in love with What girl? I'd get you married even to a tigress! Who is she? - She's very much there but... Go on. - She's from anPara village Grand-daughter of Laxmi devi. Anjali You Promised me! You gave me your word, brother! No Promise! It's all over! And what are you watching? Take the kids inside! Laxmi devi's family, eh? You're Playing games with me? Find another girl! This marriage is not taking Place! You want me to get you married, so my kids will find another father? Get lost! - I must bring daddy here! Listen... why do you keeP dragging dad into this mess? Can't you let me breathe easily? Couldn't you find another girl, excePt this female ghost? Are you or are you not standing with me? I'm not lying down now, am I? But let me tell you... if anyone excePt you, I and this rat gets to know about this... ...marriage, I'll. Will it cause trouble? - Trouble? I'll bust your eyeballs! - Don't tell me! We're headed for trouble. - What haPPened? SteP aside... come How was I to know that the two of you would reach a comPromise? I told Shakti that Kishan is already married What? You told Shakti? Moron! By now dad must have got to know! Brother...? - His eyes are oPen. He could be alive. Sister-in-law! Fetch some water! Is it true? From what I gather You've tossed a live fish on the burning sands, Shakti If there is even an iota of truth in what you say... only three sons of angarchand will remain alive I'll hack Kishan to Pieces and feed him to the vultures and if what you say Proves to be untrue... angarchand will still have only three sons alive I'll give you the same treatment I'm worse off than a badly who has a scorPion crawling on his head! GoPi, stuff the kids in a bag. Let's go! Shakti could get here with dad and elder brother any moment and when's that ass arriving with the taxi? If the taxi doesn't arrive on time, we'll all be sunk! Don't worry, brother. Everything will be all right Shut uP! I'm sitting on a frying Pan and you ask me not to squirm...? All this has haPPened because of you! Let me just get into another house, then I'll turn on the music... ...for you! You're doing nothing to helP! StoP shouting now! Hurry uP, else we're all going to be cremated! The cab has arrived! Hurry uP! O God! What's that in your hand? - I made some sweetmeat Sweetmeat...? You mother... - What are you saying? I'm being striPPed and you're making sweets! DumP it! Will you distribute sweets at a time like this? Why've you left all this here...? GoPi... GoPi! Go on inside! Go! Father...? Back... we're going back! Hurry! God! GoPi... Who are you? I was going out to do something imPortant and... I'm a strong believer in ausPicious timing. I'm in a bit of a hurry Have we met before...? Who is this elderly gentleman? So you want me to tell you his name? I only asked his name... why're you gritting your teeth? Is it a difficult name...? So you've forgotten father and brother? I see! So he's your father and you're his son! Very nice! But why're you creating a fuss out here? Worthless chaP! Do you remember now or do you want another slaP? One more slaP may remind you that you are Kishan! I'm not Kishan. - Are you not Kishan? I'm not Kishan. - I'm not, I'm not, I'm not! You are slaPPing me for refusing to say that I am not!? If you are not Kishan, land a slaP on my cheek Go ahead. If you are not Kishan, give me a slaP on my cheek! Hit me! Hit him... hit! Take him and get the hell out of here! I'm sParing him because he haPPens to be of my father's age! Go away! Else, I won't sPare him either! Go away... God! I'm running out of Patience! Go away! Balram! Jai! Yes, father...? Yes? You idiots have been blind! You never asked Kishan where he went and whom he met! I ought to have had the whole information! He's not setting foot in this house ever again! Very well, father Even if he comes, he's not getting in without meeting me Even if it haPPens to be in the dead of the night! Very well, father Hail Lord Bajrangbali! Lord of celibacy... To Thee I offer my obeisance's, O devotee of Lord rama... O almighty Lord... Why have you called all of us here, father? You boys are now PerhaPs beginning to think that I'm ruining... ...your lives By not getting you married, I'm sowing thorns in your lives Is that true? Father, why are you saying such things? Answer my question. Do you really think like that? No, not at all I don't think like that either, father and what do you think? No, father. The two of us don't like that either Talk only for yourself. He'll sPeak for what he thinks I haven't thought like that so far, father Which means you might start thinking like that in the future? No In that case, I've begun to think that I've made a very grave mistake. ...by not getting my sons married When there was a ProPosal for Shakti long ago, I had laid down... ...a condition That Balram would get married first and only then... anyway, I withdraw that condition now Let him not get married, if he doesn't want to But the rest of you must get married. You must, mustn't you? And thus I have decided, that Kishan will get married first Why? What haPPened? You will Put the wedding necklace around the girl of my choice... ...on an ausPicious day He's getting married? Putting the wedding necklace on another woman? Let me see how he gets married He's not doing it out of his own will. He's being forced into it His father has locked him uP and he's getting him married. I swear to that! And he's getting married too? - Yes Before he does that, he'll have to see me and my children dead! What are you doing...? Listen! This is getting worse! Sister-in-law... Listen to me, sis-in-law... Sister-in-law... What will I listen to now? Who do I have in the world anyway? I'm here for you. - Shut uP! Look at your face! Toad! - Toad...? Sister-in-law... - My children and I are doing to die! Sister-in-law... what are you doing? Please don't do something rash! Sister-in-law! I have to answer all the questions! Please, sister-in-law... I'll break oPen the door! I'm telling you, I'll break it! Here I come! Won't you even let me change? You're wrecked the utensils, cursed chaP! Damn you! Let's ask the record-keePer. Balram... we're going out for a while. - Come on, dear... Holy Mother! From the frying Pan into the fire! The way he broke the Pitcher! Fantastic! Brother, GoPi... - Yes, she's going to whack Krishna! Brother! Sister-in-law GoPi! Hey girl... what do you think you're walking into? Stay out! Haven't you read the signboard? Get out! I'm not staying out! I'm related to this family! These children are Part of this family! The sons in this family are not even married! So where did the kids come from...? She has gone mad! No, I'm not mad. I'm your son Kishan's wife, GoPi! My brother's a resPectable man! If you utter a word against him. We'll throw you out! - Get lost! Send my husband out first. - Aren't you going away from here? Kishan! - Say I'm not in! What will I say, where you've gone? - Say I'm dead! Go on! Coming, father! Brother! It won't helP if you get scared! Look at me... I'm with you! Be brave! There's no need to be scared! Just do as I told you to! Okay...? Go on. - No... you come with me... come! What is the matter, father? Are you not feeling well, son? - I'm all right come here! Is this your husband? - Yes! Look there. - Tell them! That I'm your wife! That you don't want to get married a second time! That these kids here are our own children! Tell them, Please! What rubbish is she talking, dad? Who is this woman? That's exactly what I'm asking. Who is she? You don't know... no? - No You don't know...? No? Cheat! You don't know me? Don't you know these children? When you got to know you're getting a new wife, you forgot all... ...about us! Answer me... sPeak uP! Do you have any Proof. A ring, PerhaPs...? Or a locket? Yes, I do! - What? The wedding necklace. The vermilion on my forehead! And these two children! Swear it on their heads that they are not your children! That I'm not your wife! If even that's not enough... where's your brother jai? Where is he? There he is... hiding there! Call him out and ask him; he knows the whole truth jai! Come on out! Yes, father? - Come here do you know this woman? - Brother-in-law... at least you must admit that you know me! That I'm your sister-in-law, that these are our children! Tell them! I've asked you a question, jai! Do you know her? Yes, I know her It's an old habit of hers to take her children into families to... ...extract money My God...! - It's true. I've seen her many times! For him this sinful earning seems to be everything. Women like her must go to the Police! Brother... why drag the Police into this? What a shame! This wretched woman... Brother! Lt'll be even more shameful if the Police arrive here Why...? - Well, maybe they will susPect us I'll see her off. - I'm not going away! Sinners! I'm not going anywhere! Silence! Who knows whose bundles of sin they are... who knows what you're trying to Palm off to us! Throw them in a well or the rivers! Oh yes, that is what I will do! To save my husband... I'll strangle my motherly instincts! Just you watch... I'll dumP them in the well of your very own house. C'mon, come... come on... GoPi, listen to me! Don't do it... Give the child to me, GoPi. You are my wife... and these are our children! I Played this drama only to save your lives But I'm not scared of anyone anymore. Let them discover what they want to Father... forgive me I've been deceiving you Please forgive me. Please Pardon me Filthy scoundrel! You want me to forgive you? You cur! Get uP! UP, I say! What did you think? I Pretended to get you married... only to make you sPeak the truth! Scoundrel! You are his elder brother! StoP your father... Please! Rascal... Out of my way, girl! Please let him go! - Lay off! Stay away! Shakti, drag her away! You dare deceive your father! I'm going to kill you! And you want me to Pardon you? When the handle of a sword snaPs, it's your own hand that is injured! You dirty scoundrel! Get uP... I'm not going to sPare you! Insolent! How dare you hold father's hand? No one has dared hold his hand, or stoP him Go and ask for his forgiveness. Fall at his feet and aPologise! I've made no mistake for which I must seek forgiveness from father! What sin has brother Kishan committed... ...to get beaten uP so mercilessly? He got married, he has two innocent little children... is that the reason? If you still think I've done wrong, kill me... but I cannot stand by father in this injustice! What do you need us for, father? Why're you taking care of us? To get beaten uP by you? Or get into brawls with PeoPle for your sake? You don't need sons, what you need are thugs! You need not your flesh and blood, you need monsters! What are you watching, wastrels? Throw the two of them out of the house! I don't want sons who are not loyal to their father! They no longer exist for me! Ask two PeoPle to lend a shoulder to carry my bier... but don't ever ask them to touch my body! Get the hell out of here! Go away, you scoundrels! Henceforth, angarchand shall have only two sons after my death, don't even let them get a glimPse of my body! Broken! Angarchand's arrogance is shattered! Ruin what is left of angarchand! Finish him! Finish that wretch off, too. Angarchand's sons are enough to finish him Let the fireworks continue. Let there be a celebration! Everything is ruined, because of you. I just want to know, whether she will come or not? What are you talking, brother? Ofcourse, she will. - I don't believe. I have full faith on my anjali. I've none. Till such time, I witness it myself, I cannot believe it. Come with me, then. - Huh... ...you are saying as if you are taking me to some cowshed. You sPeak all craP. You were right, brother. Only animals can visit there. - What? Why have we halted here? Is this some motel of the sorts? Brother, we have entered the house. Entered the house? Let's retreat. Brother, do not worry. I know every nook and corner of this house. Just keeP moving straight. - Ok. Just don't know what this Lakshmi devi will do... ...if she comes to know of our adventure. Oh, here she is. Who? Lakshmi devi? - No brother, anjali. Come... come... come inside. Wait... wait... keeP shaking your head. Inside... inside. - KeeP shaking your head. Brother... let's go in the cowshed for a while. Turn from behind... behind... ok, fine. These cows and buffaloes are really great. I salute them. - Why? The way they walk on their fours everyday. We are tired in 10 minutes. Be careful, brother. The cowherd is sitting there. Oh yes... come. Come. You... chamPakali, do you need to be invited to come? Get inside... inside. Inside... you think yourself to be some queen? Get in... come on. He hit me real hard... that drunkard. Oh, he hit the cow. You don't get uPset. - No brother... ...we will have to show him, what a cow can do... come. Oh, these guys, they make such strong liquor! One gulP is enough for a solid kick! Brother... - Yes. - This ox... well his intentions do not look ProPer. Let him go to hell. How does that matter? How does that matter? I am the one who is in the rear. He won't do anything and even if he does, well... ...everything is fine in love. Brother... anjali. Call her... call her. Ok, I will call her. A... N... j... - Shh... someone else is with her. We will have to make some other sound. Don't you worry. I will do that. It is dawn, so very fast? The nights seem to have become very short nowadays. Oh... one doesn't seem to get enough sleeP even. Brother... this drunkard has come to milk the cow. Milk? Do this, take the gloves out... ...balloon them and hand him the fingers. I will Provide him with the milk. Hurry uP... fast. Friends... come fast. - What haPPened? Brother, you get out of here. I will meet her and come. How did you get here? - I walked in through the door You talk too much, don't you? What have you come here for? I have come to meet anjali. What have you to do with my daughter? That's something I'll tell only her. Please call her here anjali, as I Promised, I've left everything and come to you My family and home... everything. You must fulfill your Promise now Hey! What rubbish are you talking? You walk into our house and Play with our honour? You keeP out of this. Let me talk to him My child, tell him, that you are not in love with him... that the love was only a Pretence! Also tell him that even if his father comes at begs at our doorsteP. ...you will still not change your decision! What did you think? That my child would go away with you? She was only taking revenge from you! - That's a lie! Anjali, tell them that this is not the truth! Why are you quiet? Tell them that we're in love with each other! Tell them what we have decided! Now get the hell out of here! Or you'll be criPPled... get out! You don't need to be afraid of anyone. I'm with you SeParate them... - Let her go! Get inside. I'm going to kill you! I'm going to kill you! Don't dare touch! Your father's going to carry your corPse away from here! What are you doing...? - Go away! Or I'll take you aPart with my bare hands! Oh get lost! I only came to see whether my love would stand by me after what haPPened, I can see from your face that I needn't... ...say anything! I will come and take her away. Do what you can to Prevent me! Will you go to meet him...? Will you? SPeak uP! Yes, I will go! A thousand times! I'll go to him every time he calls me! You will go to meet him...? - Wait, let me deal with her Ma, stoP it! - Let me go... anjali, you go inside. What do you want to do? Kill her? I told you not to interfere! - You don't interfere! Stay away! Use your common sense! This is all Ma's doing! She's the one who instigated anjali. She's the one to blame! Blame her... ask her! What haPPened now...? What? Come... anjali, you come inside don't cry Viru did right by stoPPing you! What good will it do by beating uP the girl? What had to haPPen has haPPened. Now get the girl married at the earliest Make her see reason and bring her back to the right Path KeeP your advise to yourself! It's because of your advise that we have to see this day! Why? All I said is that we ought to Plant a girl in that family When did I say that we must send the girl from your own family? Enough, let's forget about this and think of the future at the earliest Possible, find a suitor for anjali She must be given away in marriage in not more than a fortnight In a fortnight? Am I going to Pluck the suitor from a tree? Pluck him from wherever you have to! It's just that he ought to be... of an equal status and command equal resPect! You're sPeaking as if I carry such guys under my arms as if I need to flaP my arms and they'd PoP out! Well...? What have I done? In that case, let's get the suitor from your flaPPing arms dr Sattu... Satyendra. Your son. What's wrong with him? Yes, what's the Problem with that? - No, there is no Problem... We have no Problems either. Let's just go ahead actually, jai has issued a threat that he'll do whatever he... ...wants to I hoPe he doesn't bumP off me and my son No, he won't do anything don't ask me, my love, what state my Passions are in... robbed... Plundered... is my Precious modesty Why ever did I... set out for the marketPlace? I met this faithless youth... who asked me for my heart He took me for a naive belle and started forcing himself on me How I fought back... it was an eye-oPener I wonder why the treacherous knave Picked on me Why ever did I... go anywhere near his lair He held my arm and said, come closer, darling I felt shy to begin with, and then I was scared When he reached for my finger, I freed my wrist That was the first night, I couldn't realise what he was uPto Plundered, robbed... You've been thrashed and thrown out of the house, isn't it? But you needn't worry. I'm with you If there's anything you want, just let me know Give the gentlemen two cuPs of tea! In my account If we need anything from your account, we'll let you know That'll be too late. We have an old score to settle So let's settle it now. - That's what I'm here for Some thugs are beating uP your brothers in the cattle market! Hurry uP! Else, they'll get killed Who sent you here...? - Laxmi devi come on out, you rats! You guys are holed uP here after sending hired goons? Come on out! Hey old hag... you think you're going to make us brothers fight? Remember, even if we brothers have a thousand differences... if someone casts a stone at us, your sons won't have heads on... ...their shoulders! And we won't hire thugs. We'll come here on our own... and settle the issue! I'm telling you that. You get it, old hag? Go away, you dog... Wait! You are a loudmouth indeed! What did you say...? If someone casts a stone at you, my sons will be beheaded? In that case, I'll have your brother garlanded instead! Do you know why your brother sPat in your father's face... and walked out of the house? To marry my grand-daughter! I'll make sure... that your brother Puts the bridal necklace around my... ...grand-daughter's neck! And that necklace is going to strangle your father to death! Go and tell your father, the burnt out ember... to stoP it, if he can! Mother, what nonsense are you talking. Whom did you ask before saying that? My daughter and that beggar...? Never! If you're going to decide everything on your own... why are we here with you? You morons will always get things wrong Will I let the marriage haPPen just because I've said so? She'll marry the suitor you choose for her In that case, why did you tell lies to them? I did. If I didn't, all our efforts till now would have gone down the drain Now watch their story coming to an end! Command me, father do I bring him alive or dead? Get in. Hurry uP. - Why? Do as he says. Get into the jeeP! - I'm not going home So where will you go? Where? - Anywhere You thrashed us and threw us out, didn't you? So why must you worry? Cut the craP and get in... - No! Even if father calls me home now, I'm not coming! Really? You're not coming? Because you want to marry that babe from anPara? Get in, I say! Else, I'll kill you! I'll see how you marry her! - No! I said I'm not going! Get in... - Let me go! There's father! Jai! Run away! - Get in! Brother! Don't! I'm not coming! - You refuse...? Come home, or else your body will go. We're not going to that house! We have nothing to do with that family! You dare hit me...? StoP there! StoP there! Get out of the way... I demand you. You dare raise your hand on your elder brother? Hold it! Don't Balram... You can't kill your brother! No, Balram... - Leave me alone! I'm going to behead him! - Go ahead, brother! Go ahead! Behead me! SteP aside, Mr Sharma! If that's going to make you haPPy, go ahead and kill me, brother! You've ruined the family's rePutation! You don't deserve to be called angarchand's son! What angarchand? Which angarchand's family are you talking about? This was the family of anPara that was an examPle for everyone... and the same boys are today fighting it out on the streets like... ...mad dogs! Is this what angarchand is really worth...? Is this his real stature? If that is true... go ahead! Kill each other! Carve out each other! Bring glory to your father's name! Kill each other... let him go! Go and kill your brother! These are the sons angarchand has sired... what a shame! On my heart... I etch your name Stories of our love... I write every moment Every moment I sPend, waiting for you Only after meeting you have I realised what love is all about I have realised what love is all about On my heart... I etch your name My heart beats for love... and this is what my love has to say... your love is a feeling that lingers on my breath In every breath of mine... is the melody of your voice In my sleeP, in my dreams, in my memories... you are the only one who Possess me StoP there! Whose Permission did you take to set foot on this land? We are not here to fight. Have you brought a match then? Get going. - We always heard that angarchand... never turned away anyone who came asking for his helP damn you guys... get the hell out of here! Hold it, Shakti... Let them come My resPects Please forgive us, angarchand Please don't harbour any will for the mistakes we have made Please forget everything - damn it! Your son had come to our mother, asking for helP to marry my daughter and mother only wants to defeat you. All the time So she rejected the match we had decided for the girl My mother is now insisting... that she will have my daughter married to your son at any cost However, we want her to marry the one we have fixed her wedding with If our mother or your son still try to disruPt this wedding... we'll have to do something about it You decide now... - You will have to do nothing I'll be the one who will do what needs to be done You want this marriage to take Place, isn't it? I'll make sure she marries the suitor you have chosen for her Father... - Shakti! When someone's lying on the floor, you have to bow to Pick him uP I'd take defeat from anyone! But if I'm defeated by my own son... I'll be ashamed of myself! Where's your father's resPect and honour? He was so Proud of himself! But only to defeat his son, he will go and guard someone else's wedding! Is he a landlord or a watchman? - That's enough... Brother, you had to loose your head now only? Could you suggest a better time? I could wraP your legs around your neck! I'm already in trouble and... here she comes! And have anPara's daughter married? Tell me! Madam GoPi, your yelling is getting to be too much! Jai, if you're going to sit here and listen to him... you might as well do it all your life! We must go there and stoP the wedding! Whether we have to take on a demon or your father! You tell me, you want to marry that girl or not? Who's this so late in the night? My sons and your father have got together But nothing means more to me than anjali's haPPiness and thus I, an elderly woman, aPPeal to you... you must surely come there and tie the wedding necklace around... ...her neck It is in this hoPe that I will dress my little girl as a bride... and send her to the wedding altar Please Preserve my honour I know what my mother must've said to you and what do you think? Is she really going to get you married to her? She only wants you and your father to fight between yourselves and that is why she came here at this late hour It wasn't to get you married to her Maybe you don't know... ...but my mother is very much a Part of the consPiracy just as she came to you to ask you to tie the wedding necklace... my brothers went to your father, to seek his helP... at my mother's behest. - This is a new Ploy! When they saw that you're going to get married to her... they're using new tactics! - We know how to get the wedding done... get going! - Get lost! Bloody toad! One Punch and you'll be flattened out! What are you doing? Get out! - Listen to me... Hear me out, jai! - Get out! I haven't revealed all this to you because I'm worried about you It's the girl I'm worried about. The one who's Part of my family She asked me to warn you... so that you wouldn't fight your father and cause each other's death! Else, she's not going to live You want to die...? Get out of the way! Run me over! So you can all win! Whom are you out to defeat, father? You're going to guard their wedding, so you can defeat me...? Which son has ever won glory by humiliating his father? Won't you get out of the way? - I won't! You will have to hear me out! They're Plotting to deceive you, father! Don't give them any helP... - Balram! Rather than talk to him, run him over with the car. Let's get going! But hear me out at least! I'm telling you that I'm not going there, father. I'm not! You mustn't go there either You mean the world to me, father! I let you go once, because I loved you But don't Put me to anymore tests. Father means the world to us also Which is why we will go there and make sure the wedding takes Place If you get there and try to disruPt the wedding... I can even take your life to make father keeP his Promise This is angarchand's son Balram sPeaking to you... is that understood? I'm the same father's son! But if this is the case... I'll Prevent the marriage from taking Place! Greetings. - Who is that? My sister-in-law and my brother-in-law Welcome... Who are they? The chief from the neighbouring village. With his wife Welcome Stand right here! And don't budge, unless I ask you to! Don't waste time. Get those vessels out! Hey... wait there Balram, check out who they are I'll take a look, don't bother. That's how they are... latecomers! I'll take care of them. - Hurry uP Who is it? Gangatai...? Go on... quick! Why're you so late? - I couldn't find huge vessels all right... Babubhai... go ahead Hurry uP. So you're here, too? Let the marriage take Place. You'll see then... come. Come. I'm glad we covered our faces. Else, we'd have been beaten uP always cover your face, you rascal... - quiet, brother! Stand uP! Why're you sitting...? - Who asked you to sit? Sit quietly, Pal. They're not serving a feast here, bro! Get to your feet! What are you doing...? Where to...? Come on, quick! And don't make a noise! Damn this loincloth! Go and stand by the toilet. I've drawn uP a Plan just stand by me. Okay? Go on! Hurry! What are you doing, Uncle? - Standing by you remain standing. I'm leaving! Stay here, no one must get in from here, okay? They're all very tense. Anything could haPPen I don't think he would take the risk of coming here angarchand's keePing a strict vigil If jai lands here, angarchand's going to slit his neck! You're out of your mind? You're guarding a closed door! Come here! Guard this Place... no one must get through! Sister-in-law, I hoPe there won't be any trouble? There will surely be trouble! Jai's a very dangerous boy come here... quick! - What...? Is there trouble? No, not yet. But who knows about tomorrow? Really...? - Come here, come don't be afraid, I'm with you. Wet your throat, if you wish to With what...? - Rum, whiskey... we have it all We're all drunk. - What if somebody finds out? Nobody will get to know. I'll send my brother-in-law, he'll handle it No, I don't want to... - Yes, say that to him... he'll force you and you can gulP down a drink I'll send him over... have Patience Brother-in-law! Come here! There's a Problem... - What is it? Nothing... you needn't yell It's not so serious. - So what is it? The groom's getting the blues. Because of the marriage In his tummy. - What's in his tummy? What can be there? He wants to go to the loo. Is this the time for such things? Can't he control it? - How can he? What if he wets his Pants? He's feeling shy... come and helP, Please Why don't you take him to the loo? - How can I? There are women there. An elderly man like you can make them see reason He's going to refuse, but you must insist that he goes to the toilet lmagine how nasty it'll look... ...if it haPPens in the middle of the ceremony! Nasty, right...? So go on! Come on. - I don't want to do it do it right now... the Pressure will increase later Nobody will get to know. Hurry uP! - But I don't want to... come with me, come... Over there. - But I don't want to do it So what's wrong? Everybody does it! Everybody does it? - Yes, we do it early in the day ask the women to move there for 5 minutes... it's an emergency Please come... - quick! Hurry... there's water in there. Get it over with quickly, I'll stand right here Won't you come in with me? - Why must I? To keeP me comPany. - No way! Go on inside! ComPany! Bad tummy, I see Oh, you are here. Where's the groom? He's in the loo and you're keePing guard? The ausPicious hour is Passing by, they're waiting for you Have Patience, the boy has a bad tummy. Let him feel relieved There'll be a flood at the altar! - I'll handle the flood Go outside, my wife's waiting for you at the dining-hall right ahead, the room there? - With your hands down... go Why are you Pushing? Son. PaPa... - My son... where are you? Have you finished yet? Sit down, dear You chant some real good mantras and really well at that. Come, son. Where's the groom's father? Take his blessings Look... it's jai! Put down that wedding necklace! Put it down! Set it down... - Hold it. We're not stoPPing him Let angara stoP him. We mustn't interfere Your son is here to Put the wedding necklace around my... ...grand-daughter's neck! What sort of a man are you? The whole world believes... that anPara never goes back on a Promise If that is really true, you must slit your son's throat! Shakti, Balram... what are you waiting for? Can't you still see what's on this woman's mind, father? She didn't enact this drama to have us married She wanted us father and sons to fight and kill each other... that's the only thing she wanted! I came here only to make you realise the truth! I have no intentions of defeating you and marrying her Forgive me My father had once had your wedding stalled and it's my turn today I can't give death to my father to grant you a new life Without my father's blessings and aPProval, we cannot live together Wait! Put the wedding necklace around her neck Put it around her neck, I say Only if father says I know how father feels. Do it without any fear If you're really angarchand's son, Put the necklace around her neck! Snatch that necklace from him! - Give it to me... I have the necklace! - Don't let anyone get you! Here it is... on this woman! - This is mine! Get out! - Gotcha! Here you are... run away with it! Run! Jai! You're old enough to be my father and you're angling for me, rascal! Shameless man! Give that wedding necklace to me! Give it! What are you waiting for, morons? Pick it uP! Jai! Come here! UP there! None of them must get anywhere close to it Without the wedding necklace, the marriage cannot take Place! Get him! Catch him! After him! Don't let him escaPe! This has to do with the honour of my family If you wish to get to my grand-daughter... you'll have to finish all of us No. How much more of enmity, grandma? Please forget everything and accePt our wedding If you can't give us your blessings, at least forgive us, father We'll make a world of our own somePlace far away No, you're not going anywhere. Come here... touch father's feet and take his blessings GoPi, here's our chance. Let's touch father's feet and take his blessings! Come to me, my children.
