 

                        Hell find me Hell find me look at me. Hmm Robocops not coming And even if he did I think youre lying to yourself You think I wont go any further cause we need you. But I promise you its not like that. Turn the damn thing on Whats it going to be, Megan? Clean her up. Get her out of here and bring back the box. Come on lets go. Do you even know why shes here? Prichard, you have the twenty on Megan? Level 406. Adam, I see an AUG in there-- Damn it Prichard Im seeing yellow again Wait I thought you asked for that No, I never asked for this Wait one second The code is not right Show me the servers on your left Whats an AUG doing here? Its not just that. There was this massive energy output just a few minutes ago. Here goes 5984 Okay, here goes the alarm Not yet. Remember our agreement. Is that the only way out? Sir we have lost coms with Boy Scout Roger, be advised intruder is believed to be augmented. Shoot to kill. All other units report to lab. Gator six in position Prichard, are you seeing this? Yes I am Is there another way in? No, thats the only way in and they know it. Security cameras are offline Do you have a reading on the intruder? negative, he was last seen by the door Sir, do we open fire at the door? Its bullet proof hes in the fucking walls! Hold you fire hes got Gator 2 Sir step away from the wall Hold your positions, he wants to come in here. No! Adam! You dont wanna be doing that Page Thats close enough Jensen Dont let them get the  Shhhhh bit of a pickle here, eh scissor hands? listen, whatever you need, I can get it for you. But you have to let her go Do it stop stalling and turn it on now! Do it! Adam shes loaded her gun you have to get out now! Adam! Stay with me Adam, Im activating your  No, please Meg? Ive been waiting for you Adam. I missed you Whats wrong? Im no longer what you think I am Meg youre a better version. An upgrade. You need to be grateful. No you need to embrace it This is who you are now Look at me. You need to wake up Adam look at me. You have to wake up. Adam. Look at me. I need you to wake up wake up Adam! Wake up! Stay with me Adam. Stay with me. your batteries are low. Can you hear me? Im rebooting your system. Hang in there. Get out of there right now! Adam can you hear me? Scanning. Scanning. Scanning. Digital encryption key detected. You are embedded with property of Serif industries. Your system requires a mandatory update. Under section 3176-25 you will allow me to access your firmware interface. You have 5 seconds to comply
