 

                        Symbols of death in a chamber beneath the Capitol. George Washington transformed into a god. Mark Washington and seats in American power ... aligned with the stars. Investigation of the secret government the powers of the mind. The author Dan Brown has created an uproar with these and other suggestions ... in his provocative book of fiction what is happening in Washington DC. Now the secrets ... as separate fact from fiction ... and hunt the symbol lost. UNVEILING THE LOST SYMBOL Washington DC, a city of secrets and intrigue. The perfect setting for "The Lost Symbol" by Dan Brown. The book takes us through a world rarely seen in town ... and investigates a mysterious secret society. I read that is a specific fantasy, shown in great detail ... and it's not only fantasy, but moved conspiracy with the community ... Dan Brown clearly and invests this kind of people. But Brown tells us the truth? Or is just another Washington of his fictional characters? Explore the pages "The Lost Symbol" ... to separate fact from fiction. INITIALIZING GPS AMERICAN CAPITAL cornerstone In the book, the Capitol is in the center of an unfolding mystery. This is where the book's protagonist, Professor Robert Langdon ... begins its journey and where we begin our analysis. In the book, Langdon tells his students the design of the Capitol ... rooted in the oldest and largest U.S. secret society ... Masons. Fact. A Mason was important a role in the planning. The nation's first president, George Washington. Washington deserves more credit than it receives ... about the sighting and disposition of Washington. He approved the plans, decided which would be used. Decided that the building should be in stone instead of brick. Another factor mentioned in the book is that the location of the Capitol ... was chosen by a Frenchman, the architect Pierre L'Enfant. This is also true. I assume that the original plan was to one day England overcome ... in all aspects, and that everything would start there. But Washington was mainly tobacco plantations, British diplomats and received wages for serving tropical here ... was considered a difficult position first. And when L'Enfant was trying to figure the appearance of the city ... he called the hill "Pedestal waiting for a monument." And while L'Enfant did not designed the Capitol ... he chose his place ... and Washington where it was agreed should be the U.S. Capitol. In the book, Professor Langdon surprises his students ... saying that George Washington planted the cornerstone of the Capitol ... in a Masonic ceremony traditional. Again, the book is correct. On the morning of September 18, 1793 ... President Washington led a procession to the site. There, wearing an apron strange--looking ... he led the day's events. Traditional Masonic Items were then presented ... as corn and jars of olive oil and wine. And with that, the cornerstone Capitol was stuck. What is not in the book is the fact that today ... the cornerstone is missing. The board is all that remains. The Masonic origins of the building were hidden? In Itima decade, several people working on Capitol Hill ... led metal detectors the basement ... to try to find the metal plate ... indicating where was the original cornerstone. But never found the plate, and the best guess is that ... during construction in 1960 ... when the entire eastern front Capitol was moved ... may have destroyed the foundation stone original, not knowing what was there. So there may not be cover--up ... but what about the other secrets that Brown mentions in the book? There is an architect of the Capitol which has unrestricted access ... the secret levels and hidden rooms? Yes. There are approximately 500 rooms on Capitol Hill ... and very few people know the most. The only person who has access to all the rooms is the architect of the Capitol. Because he is charged to preserve and protect the building. In the book, Architect of the Capitol ... through a series hidden underground passages. Is it possible? As the image of the Capitol is so fixed in the minds of all ... because of their appearance ... could not do anything to change the exterior of the Capitol. And the only thing to do was moving underground. There are four floors underground. Under the place where George Washington planted the cornerstone ... there is room for the Senate, to the House ... and there is a huge visitor center. The book also describes a series of tunnels ... linking the Capitol the neighboring buildings. They do exist and for what purpose? There is a tunnel that connects the center visitors to the Jefferson Building ... which is the main building Library of Congress. But there are other tunnels more secret? The other tunnels that exist are tunnels under the Capitol steam ... water tunnels, control public services ... and there are passages to go from one building to another ... and three buildings of the Senate and the building of the House ... There is a metro system that connects the Capitol. In the book, the symbologist Brown the Capitol will make a speech ... but instead, makes a startling discovery ... a severed human hand. Langdon describes how this hand adorned with symbolic tattoos ... resembles the legendary "Hand of the Mysteries" ... a kind of invitation or key to the understanding of ancient wisdom. And that icon actually exists. Its origins date back presumably the period of the biblical King Solomon ... when a hand was extended every newcomer ... they entered in his temple of wisdom. The legend also says that the hand had the power to resurrect the dead ... if the cryptic tattoos be deciphered. But is that the hand has something to do with the Masons? Or is it just a clever ruse used by the villain of the book? The "Hand of the Mysteries" was bizarre. I did not see any relationship between the "Hand of the Mysteries" ... and the Masonic rituals I read and I know. It was ... a poetic license. In the book, where the hand points is that it is confusing ... the mural on the inside the dome of the Capitol. The Italian artist Constantino Brumidi painted the fresco in 1865 ... and is known as the deification of Washington. It features George Washington as if God ... and surrounded by classical figures ... the Goddess Liberty on the left Independence and the goddess on the right. Between the two goddesses, there are 13 virgins with 13 stars on them ... representing the 13 colonies. Among these goddesses, are the scientists of the time ... including Benjamin Franklin, receiving the wisdom of the gods. An American president becoming a god. That was the original intent painting? Or the book offers his own interpretation? Dan Brown feels the painting ... as a symbol of belief in human potential. It imposes its own meaning for serve his literary purposes ... and that's why they call fiction! But history is replete examples of leaders ... becoming more than mere mortals before the people. Well, there was a tendency to transform heroes into gods ... then, was not new. There was other heroes who became gods. There have been attempts to make Alexander the Great, a god ... or a these other famous people. So maybe the painting represents only ... God's reputation that Washington was among the Americans at the time. But the same can not be said on the figures that surround him. He is accompanied of 13 virgins ... and, of course, that there is a tale behind it. The artist, Brumidi, went out and found ladies of the night to pose as virgins. Professor Brown's left that part out of its history. But Professor Langdon talks another controversial work of art ... which is in the Rotunda. A half--naked sculpture of George Washington as the Greek god Zeus. It's true. It implies that Washington had a very special role ... in American society. And whenever the other founders stood with their backs to the wall ... and one had to be chosen as a leader among leaders ... George Washington was. And the American people know that. And there never was a President so beloved by the American people ... than George Washington. Once a journalist wrote an article ... saying that if George Washington to run for president ... receive all the votes. And he did not mean all the electoral votes. He meant each of the votes ... each of the Americans. So maybe George Washington be like God. But why a Greek god? And he was bare--chested? Congress commissioned a statue of Washington ... and was a little embarrassed revealed when the ... and Washington seemed with only a blanket on her lap. The public hated. And one of the comments soon as the statue was unveiled ... was that it seemed that he was leaving the bathtub, taking a towel. When Nathaniel Hawthorne looked at the statue, he said ... "Not even the mother of Washington saw him naked. " The statue was removed from the Capitol in 1964 ... and now is in the National Museum Smithsonian American History. But another reminder of the legacy Washington remains on Capitol Hill ... as well as the book suggests. There is a star embedded in the floor the crypt of the Capitol. They intended to bury George Washington on Capitol Hill ... under this star, and would have been very symbolic. The tomb of Washington, that was never used by him ... is still beneath this central star. Although we do not talk about it in the book, the answer to ... of why Washington was never buried in the Capitol ... dates back to the night he died. MOUNT VERNON, VIRGINIA In December 1799, to 67 years ... Washington died of throat infection. Shortly before his death, weakened by bleeding ... he asked Martha Itimo you do a favor. He had written two wills. And the two copies of wills were brought to him ... and he said: "Burn this before me. " You never know who had different in the will burn. The nation, basically went into shock. I could not believe George Washington had died. And across the country was in a state of mourning. He has made great strides. He was buried in Mount Vernon, in a Masonic ceremony. What God gives ... Martha was so shaken and upset ... neither attended the funeral. Opinions differ even today ... on the place where Washington wanted to be buried ... Capitol Hill or Mount Vernon? Washington wanted to be buried in Mount Vernon. Were his instructions. And they were clear and simple. I was planning that he would to the tomb at the Capitol ... but, alas, Martha died and the promise was breached. They failed to build the deposit on time. So, Martha Washington died and the heirs of Washington ... decided that they would not ... comply with the decision of Martha. His desires Itimos are still a mystery. Their remains can not be buried in the capitol ... but its influence is still visible. The fraternity to which he belonged exists today. The Masons, a secret society or a society with secrets? In "The Lost Symbol," Dan Brown depicts the Masons ... as the most powerful secret society of the country. We are everywhere. Few other organizations can claim 14 presidents as members. The book describes a private room Masonic inside the Capitol ... called the Chamber of Reflection. Is it true? This room is there? Or the book actually increased to create a dramatic effect? The Chamber of Reflection is real. Many stores have a around the world. Many American stores do not. But some, yes. Even those do not do it ... of a particularly lovely Dan Brown describes ... is the classic mode. Here the members meditate silent ... among symbols time and death ... a skull, to remind men mortality and equality ... salt, which represents the body, mercury, sulfur, and the soul, spirit. In some Masonic obedience ... when entering Reflection in the House ... is invited to writing a will ... order to contemplate his own mortality. Disturbing? Perhaps for the uninitiated. But the Masons view all differently. The goal is not to scare the candidate with the skull ... but show the theme of mortality ... their time on Earth will end, his time on earth is short. So while you're here, focus on what's important in your life. The way the Chamber of Reflection is described in the book by Dan Brown ... presented as a Freemason had one in his office ... or maybe even in your home. And this is not true. And these cameras are Reflection hidden in the basement of the Capitol ... as described in the book? There are several levels of the attic to the basement. These are actual pictures of the basement as described in the book. It no longer exists. Were demolished for the construction the Capitol visitors' center ... which opened in 2008. And someone used it for their own purposes, Masonic or not? There are rooms in the basement of the Capitol I do not know if they were used by Masons. Thus, the existence Chamber of Reflection is real ... but the location of Brown inside the Capitol is fiction. In the book, a student describes Masons as a religion ... but Professor Langdon disagrees. He argues would never try to convert ... and are prohibited to talk about religion. "Go to the lobby. You can find something interesting there. " Because the Masons do not recruit. It depends on other of invitation. We are gathered here in this chamber ... Furthermore, contrary Brown says that the ... money does not influence in positions within Freemasonry. The way it works is that one becomes a regular Freemason ... three degrees. It then passes other degrees of the Scottish Rite ... grade 4 to grade 32. But you can not buy 33 degree ... especially as the expressway which is mentioned in the book. It is unfortunate Dan Brown say that. In "The Lost Symbol," Dan Brown describes various Masonic rituals. While some elements are based on reality ... the actual ceremonies are kept secret. I will not talk about the methods recognition ... a Freemason to another. I will not give details of the ritual, not because there is something bad in it ... but why not talk about it. This had better be of discretion. It better be done of confidential and private. This reenactment was staged with the help of another Master Mason ... to better understand the method their apparent madness. The candidate is brought into the store, without knowing how the experience. The candidate, in the beginning, can not see the store ... because the applicant is blindfolded. The candidate is led to walk the store in a particular pattern. Freemasonry is built around the initiation rites. Initiation rituals that are built around the use of symbols. Rituals are a tribute the Masonic origins. The meaning of Masonic ritual of course ... but you must understand that the ritual Masonic Masons came from real ... who built the place, who were architects of his time. This is the purpose of the ritual. Keep us connected to the past and our beliefs. Secrets and symbols of death. Scary or simply misunderstood? In the book, the villain of Brown drink wine in a skull. The Masons have done it? If candidates drink in a skull? Say this happens. Right? My response: "So what?" The ceremony described in "The Lost Symbol" ... was made by a renegade organization Scottish Rite, in the nineteenth century ... Ritual is the Cerneau. There is a report published this ritual ... existed for nearly two centuries. And that's what Dan Brown is based. There is the ritual used today in the Scottish Rite Southern Jurisdiction. The only thing scary ritual is out of context. "What my throat is cut ... if I break this oath. That start and open my heart. " That's just drama. In the book, a student talks about rumors bizarre about the Masons. This is definitely true. These people should have the power and influence ... and we can not see its influence what they are doing ... because they are very good to keep secret. They are accused being reptilian aliens. They are accused of more things than any other group. And I think part of the problem is that the ritual is kept secret. Part of the problem is that until recently ... the Freemasons do not respond this kind of thing ... then saw large targets. In the book, a Mason talks about the importance to keep its secrets ... even under the threat of death. This is true. In the twenty--first century, keep their word is something special. Right? We have reality shows showing that the success ... depends not keep the word, to attack the other in the back ... of not keeping their coalitions. But it is not so advanced as a society. It's not like building a civilization. Then one of the points Masonic secrecy ... the person is to learn to keep his word ... even in small things ... with the idea that to help keep the word ... on more important things. And as the book portrays ... although the freemasons keep a large number of secrets ... are far from a secret society. If Freemasonry is a secret society ... we're doing a job very bad. We publish schedules of our meetings on the doors of buildings ... that have large signs saying: "Masons are here." Many of us wear rings, brooches ... and other things that we designate as Masons. If you are a secret society, we are doing a lousy job. As we have seen, the book took some liberties ... with the origins and Masonic rituals. His portrait of the city landscape reveals an even darker. Washington DC, planned according to the stars? Pagan images found on city streets. The truth behind the fiction will be revealed. "The Lost Symbol," Dan Brown ... is rooted within the framework Washington DC Area. Botanical Garden in front of the Capitol ... where a major character was taken against her will. BOTANICAL GARDEN INITIALIZING GPS LIBRARY OF CONGRESS The conveyor belt systems within the Library of Congress. And the historic mansions of Kalorama Heights ... where the villain draws attention. Perhaps Brown has established the story here ... to take advantage of the characteristics enigmatic city. The Washington Monument ... is like Cleopatra's Needle ... Egypt is a well-- that appears in the middle of Washington DC. The monument is an obelisk, which is an ancient symbol ... and dates back to Egyptian times. Basically, is a giant phallic symbol ... which also refers the sun, the masculine. The book claims that the Washington Monument ... is a cornerstone aluminum, engraved with "Laus Deo" ... Latin for "praise God. This is true, but nobody can see. The top is a piece special aluminum. Aluminum was very valuable when they concluded the monument in 1886. I assume now or at other times ... would probably be gold. Brown also writes that many of the founders ... practiced the ancient art of astrology. This is another fact. Benjamin Franklin was astrIogo. In copies of the book "Poor Richard's Almanack" ... we can see their various predictions weather or the people ... this kind of thing. Thomas Jefferson, in your library ... originally had books of astrology. The story is correct. The American founders saw astrology as a link ... between the earthly and the heavenly. It is also correct when he says the placement of the cornerstones ... the Washington Monument, White House and Capitol Hill ... was scheduled to take place the same astrological sign Virgo ... though they happen in different years. In astrology, it is considered an auspicious moment ... to start new ventures. People wonder why Virgin have something to do with Washington DC. It is a constellation. Well, actually, has to do with the mythology of the "sacred feminine" ... war and religion, can say. Can be described as pagan dating back to the Isis of the Egyptians ... the Persian goddess of femininity, sexuality, birth. What the book does not mention is the sign of Virgo ... also played an important role the U.S. Constitution. It's further proof that America's founders ... used astrology for important decisions. Virgin has a great influence with respect to the U.S.. Our Constitution: September 17th, right? If you look very important dates, we see that the Virgin was present. If the stars align in the sky with what is on earth ... have spiritual harmony and we can accomplish great things. Under the guidance of Master Masons, George Washington and Benjamin Franklin ... the surveyor Frenchman Pierre L'Enfant designed the capital city of ... As the book says. In the book, Brown shows the founders creating Washington ... as a realization of enlightenment, Atlantis a new ... where reason, science and freedom can triumph over ignorance and darkness. This is a fact. Although not mentioned in the book, George Washington, in particular ... believed that the capital should be as large as any in the world. Washington firmly believed it should be a monumental city. Needed to be a city that people would respect ... as the European capitals. And although the U.S. were a country struggling young ... he was looking to the future. Washington designed the city to reflect the glory of Athens and Rome ... here in the New World. We are on the banks of the Potomac River in Alexandria, Virginia ... where the bedrock the city of Washington DC ... it was planted in April 1791, by George Washington and others ... who came here to designate this as the background of what was then ... a tilted square to one side, so ... and this is the most southerly point. The novel says that the architect the city, Pierre L'Enfant ... designed the streets in a pattern suggests that Masonic symbols. The L'Enfant plan can be seen as a map in Liberty Square ... a central location the plot of the book. Here, the character Katherine Solomon ... states that the one dollar bill contains a Star of Solomon hidden ... a Masonic symbol important. This is true ... if we draw a line connecting the letters A--M--S--O--N ... and combine with the pyramid. Since L'Enfant planned the city ... people search symbols and meanings. New interpretations arise and controversial ... all this is related the book by Dan Brown. When we look at the layout, signs seem to arise as a pentagram. Some of the supposed symbols, including the Seal of Solomon 6 Tips ... were identified. And the cross the Knights Templar. But many, including some students in "The Lost Symbol" ... see a more somber. There is a great theory that the design of streets, Capitol, etc ... when viewed from above, say ... form Satanic symbols ... as an inverted pentagram. Some would say that is connected paganism. Some go so far as to accuse all this to be satanic. The idea that there are satanic symbols built on the streets of Washington DC ... the orders of Masons is a complete nonsense. Freemasonry does not practice magic in any sense. Freemasonry was created by men who tried to destroy the concept of magic. The book also describes conspiracy theorists ... who saw sinister pictures Great Seal of the United States. On the back there is a pyramid 13--story unfinished. The front shows 13 stars in the form of the hexagram. For some, are Masonic symbols satanic significance. 13 arises again. And I want to repeat it is not satanic ... not bad, but it symbolizes the 13 states that founded this nation. The founders wanted to give us symbols who told us that this nation would last. The pyramid signifies strength and duration, something that lasts forever. Another alleged suspect symbol is the all--seeing eye ... Iocalizado up the pyramid. It is characterized as an icon sinister in an attempt ... to expose the secrets the fraternity. For Masons, however, it represents the eye of God ... a reminder that he is always watching our thoughts and actions. There is nothing satanic. There is nothing we can call Pagan in the all--seeing eye. It is a universal archetype symbol the sun ... or the sun and the moon for centuries. It was really a positive statement ... and the eye in a triangle basically says ... who founded the country under the protection of God. This is a statement and both. Conspiracy theorists contend these ideas on the Great Seal. The truth is that the Masons are not behind the eye or the Pyramid ... the Great Seal. Three congressional committees and 14 people were involved ... in designing the Great Seal ... and only one was a Freemason. It was Benjamin Franklin. And they hated their ideas, said they were stupid. As a symbologist Brown correctly notes ... these images are universal symbols found in many cultures ... and are not part of Freemasonry. There is nothing demonic symbols in or in the temples ... they just want freedom. They want the separation of church and state. They want the freedom to worship, anyway. The book has taken some liberties with Masonic symbols and rituals. But it goes even further with the picture of a controversial new science. In the novel by Dan Brown, "The Lost Symbol" ... scientist Katherine Solomon have a laboratory Itima generation ... here at the Museum Support Center Smithsonian in Silver Hill, Maryland. The installation of 46 square meters home to millions of specimens and artifacts. But there Department of Noetic here. This part of the book scientist and Brown are both fiction. But an actual installation is located across the country ... in the hills of northern California. Inside the Institute of Noetic Sciences ... researchers carry out studies about the possibilities of the human mind. And the equivalent in the real world Brown's fictional ... Marilyn Schlitz is. Throughout history and in all cultures ... people have reported the ability using the mind or consciousness ... to influence the physical world. What we did was to create an experimental paradigm ... that allows us to study this kind of statement ... in a laboratory under conditions scientific and controlled. Even though Dan Brown never visited the Institute ... his fictional perform similar experiments. In the experiment "intention," for example, the goal is to determine ... if a person looks at another in a separate location ... can affect the physical health of another. The volunteer is connected to a machine electrocardiogram ... in a room specially coated and insulated. Used alone as the cube in the laboratory of Dan Brown ... this room is soundproof and any radio waves ... then there is no "trick". The image on the monitor changes randomly between live broadcasts ... volunteer and spectator. When the face the volunteer appears ... the viewer tries to send thoughts of love and healing. It's how the experiment works ... and what we want to determine is whether, when attention is focused on the person ... their physiology is altered. He acts the same way you hear whispered his name, for example? And when they are not being seen, stay calm? This is the essence of the experiment. The volunteer does not know when His image appears on the monitor ... then there is no way he pretend a physical reaction. As the fictional scientist Brown the researchers found ... a significant link between healing thoughts the viewer ... and the physical reaction of the volunteers. We see these effects repeatedly in different laboratories ... then something is happening. Now the question is: "So what?" Does that have implications healing? What is surprising is that this effect occurs without any physical connection. If there is a sign there was nothing here ... must be something else. So the only thing we can think of now is that ... our perception of the connection space between two people ... is not quite right. Although not addressed in the book ... this concept exists in Western science since the seventeenth century ... when the French philosopher and mathematician, Rene Descartes ... made a covenant with the church to avoid persecution. The Church says: "We have to do science. Not be considered a heretic, but we will do a deal with you. You study the physical ... and we were the soul and the inner consciousness. And we're still living the legacy this political agreement ... in which science believes that the only relevant area to be searched ... depends on the material aspects and physical. An experience not mentioned in the book suggests that we can see the future. The volunteer is on to an electrocardiogram machine ... while wearing a pair of special glasses LED and headphones. The LED flashes and an audio tone is played in a random pattern ... triggering a physiological reaction. They will see a flash or hear a tone at random. They do not know when, I do not know ... a computer decides randomly when it will happen. According to Dr. Radin, the tests showed that the body reacts ... before the flashes of light audio tones and occur ... as if the body "predicted" the future for a few fractions of a second. I use the term "gut feeling" What does pre--sense ... Unlike pre--cognition or pre--knowledge. In the book, Brown suggests that although this may seem impossible ... many of today's scientific advances would also be unimaginable ... for the founders of the country. Until recently, about 100 years ago, science ... it would be folly. As the adage that says there is no action at a distance. The only way to both interact if there is some proximity. Quantum mechanics changed this, and relativity. In the world of "The Lost Symbol," the more we know ... most want to keep hidden. At a critical point in "The Lost Symbol" ... the life of an important character in danger. To save himself he asks to a stranger ... if there is help to the widow's son? The phrase is actually a Masonic distress call. The book makes reference to a ceremonial ... performed only by Freemasons senior ... rooted Masonic tradition ... and is considered most sacred Masonic ritual. The play presents Hiram Abiff ... the chief architect The Temple of King Solomon ... he was confronted by a group of thieves. These men threatened to kill Hiram, if they do not reveal the secret password. Hiram refuses and, while the kill, he asks ... "No help to the widow's son? " Today, the courage and fidelity of Hiram to keep his word ... without revealing the secret, is a central tenet for every Mason. Another group whose existence depends of codes and ciphers ... is the Central Agency Intelligence. In "The Lost Symbol," a security director of the CIA ... enters the Capitol and takes over. The book is right to portray the CIA as having the authority ... to take charge, claiming that it is a national security issue? The FBI traditionally read with national surveys. The security director of the CIA has no such authority. Has no more authority than you or I ... to arrest a citizen. Peter Earnest spent 35 years at the CIA ... conducting covert operations the world. CIA Operations Center The fact that he does not consider the book by Dan Brown ... is the use of coded messages the characters. Codes and ciphers were very important for the CIA. All messages sent and received the headquarters in the field ... were coded. When agents were recruited ... and sent to somewhere and not Ios person could find ... we had to use the call impersonal communication. All this was written, coded and then sent to the agent. Agents and officers also real communicated via phone insurance. Are mobile in the conversation is encrypted. Of course it was a form Automated encryption. Not write the codes. The Lost Symbol Another mystery about the book by Dan Brown is the Kryptos. The book says that this work of art exists in CIA ... and that has not been fully deciphered by an army of crackers. Such a thing exists and who could have misled the spies? "Kryptos" is a Greek word which means "hidden" ... and is the work artist James Sanborn. In a rare television interview, Sanborn discusses its creation. It seemed the best way to create an artwork ... as a spy agency ... that slowly unfolds and maintain a level of interest. In 1991, Sanborn made Kryptos to a skeptical audience of spies. What they saw was a large sculpture S--shaped, copper ... out of what appeared to be a computer screen. Covering the scroll, had a complex text ... with about 1800 characters divided into four sections. I studied archeology for years ... and was fascinated for what was hidden behind ... and was found to be laborious, but it was fascinating when understood. So, this whole process was the way I wanted ... that Kryptos, a sculpture, to unfold. Kryptos puzzle contains a inside an enigma ... will be resolved only after the four encrypted passages ... are deciphered. So far, only three people answered correctly. I thought the first segments would be deciphered in a few days ... at most, weeks. In fact, it took nine years. The exact location WHO KNOWS? When I was in the Agency talked with other employees ... and one said: "I knew they come here with a georadar neutron ... after work? Bring this radioactive equipment to search the local soil. " If the course was referring to something buried in the ground, nobody knows ... Sanborn and says nothing. "The Lost Symbol" also speaks an address and a puzzle ... called Franklin Square. There really is one of Franklin Square in Washington DC ... and there is a puzzle created by Benjamin Franklin ... also called the "Magic Square". This ancestor of Sudoku ... the numbers in the diagonal lines, horizontal and vertical ... add the same number. But the codes and ciphers have functions other than espionage. Secret handshakes to identify strangers as friends. Combination lock to protect values ??of the thieves. And as the book describes codes and ciphers also serve ... to keep knowledge secret the mystics. In fact, the title "The Lost Symbol" ... text refers to an ancient and enigmatic known as the Key of Solomon. The Solomon Key is the name a medieval manual. And these are the keys in that manual are ... magic ritual. Over the years, many say have deciphered codes ... and learned the secrets Black Magic of Solomon. In the book, the villain of Dan Brown is inspired by Aleister Crowley ... a man who claimed to have deciphered the secrets of Solomon Key. This man really existed. Aleister Crowley, one of the most famous of the magical ritual of the twentieth century ... is very accurately portrayed. The purpose is basically gain strength. Is your desire and goal become a dark god ... over the demons. It was what he wanted to do with the power they hoped to ... through ritual observance. In late 1800, Crowley gained notoriety ... using the influence of charms and talismans of Solomon ... rituals in full sex and drugs. Crowley also traveled the world lecturing ... and writing books detailing his astrological and mystical secrets. Church officials considered Crowley a heretic ... and the labeled "The wickedest man in the world." Black magic rituals are just a dark passages ... in "The Lost Symbol," Dan Brown. Secret conspiracies played Another critical function ... including the threat of ending with the base of the nation. In "The Lost Symbol," Dan Brown ... the villain believes that when it the highest level of Masonry ... all the secrets will be revealed to him. One could be the belief that Masons become gods ... as the image of George Washington the ceiling of the rotunda. I was completely shocked to see all material on the deification ... the idea of ??people become gods. It's not something we teach in Freemasonry. It is not against Masonic teachings ... but it is not something we say. Dan Brown seems to have borrowed the idea of ??the Mormon religion. It is u ma central aspect of the doctrine of Latter--day Saints ... that individuals, if they make a pact with God ... of some kind, somewhere, by some authority ... and meet them, sometime after the death ... can be high the status of divinity. And that's part of human inheritance. It is what God says when he says that we are "joint heirs with Christ." This controversial doctrine raised some doubts ... but the belief goes back the first Christians. In the early days of the Christian Church prominent leaders said ... God became man that man is made God. And there are several ways to understand this. Then the old doctrine of deification says, "happen again." And of course Dan Brown put their point of view. Another central theme in the book is the belief in a Masonic conspiracy. Several students of Professor Langdon speak of rumors that the Freemasons ... secretly rule the world. These suspicions are not surprising ... for conspiracy theories are as American as apple pie. There are many conspiracy theories because by nature ... humans are suspected. Some people are more likely to wonder ... and want to explain, solve ... something that does not make sense for them. Conspiracy is a form to reduce the gap. Some conspiracy theories became so widespread ... people do not know what to believe. And at this point, anyone who believes that Oswald acted alone ... is considered the crazy than the conspirators. The conspirators have the real story. In "The Lost Symbol," the theory the plot focuses on the Masons. Masons probably are the favorite target ... the world of conspiracies. I do not think there is a group who has suffered more attacks. If we survey the Masons on Google and visit the sites ... we find that defendants were of being behind the Holocaust ... were accused of being a force Jewish plot to ... and a force money for the conspiracy. That Freemasons and Jews command banks and therefore the world. The Masons have been targeted in large part ... for refusing to answer the criticism. It is easy to say that an evil secret society ... if no one will say what is the truth. They are above it, then, some people take advantage. I think it comes our need to know. If something is kept secret from us ... and combine this with our inclination ... to see the negative instead of the positive ... then develop a story negative about something we do not understand. And if we hear something negative on a Mason ... it was! We increased the story and a Mason is the devil incarnate. In "The Lost Symbol," Professor Langdon recalls his years ... writing about the rich traditions of the Freemasons. He also recognizes that they were accused of worshiping the devil ... and planning a world government. An Internet search reveals quickly that the book is right. President Bush and President Clinton were members of "Skull and Bones" ... a secret society with Masonic roots. Reagan was adopted as an honorary Mason, and Truman. And the list goes on. So yes, it perpetuates. Conspiracy theorists point for the All--Seeing Eye ... found in a dollar bill as a symbol of this "New World Order." He was placed there by a Freemason, President Franklin Roosevelt. The truth is that New World Order is not new. As the book portrays the founding fathers created a. The proof is right there the Great Seal ... below the all--seeing eye and pyramid are the words "Novus Ordo Seclorum." It means: "New Order of the Ages" ... and it is very important because the New Order of the Ages is a Republic ... a representative form of government and not a monarchy ... it was the Old Order the centuries. They wanted a New World Order a new Atlantis ... where freedom prevails. Brown also describes how this New World Order, however ... represents a threat the religious leaders ... who feared loss of power and influence. Brown shows in "Angels & Demons" the struggle between light and darkness ... and he called light and darkness was reason, logic and scientific endeavor ... as salvation of humanity. No superstition and spirituality. Since then, religious groups fought back claiming that Masons ... only looking for a new way of global domination. Communism would be a perfect example in modern times. Religion is abolished. Spirituality is seen only as a superstition. Big Brother and the government take care of us ... from cradle to grave. The joke is that the Brotherhood ... execute the plan for domination New World Order ... so schedule the plan PF domination of the New World Order. No, we will not rule the world. The belief in these and other conspiracies is deeper in the U.S. ... because sometimes they are true. In Dan Brown's book, CIA employees ... monitor conversations on mobile phones and e--mail. How realistic is that? We are being watched as the characters of "The Lost Symbol"? Nearly everyone has a cell phone. Of course when we talk in a cell ... what we say goes into the ether. And if you're out there, someone may take and try to understand ... even if you're talking in another language ... there are code words to hide things. Can someone look at it. And one can understand what you're saying. And this is true for any type of communication. Once that goes into the ether and can be picked up by someone ... can probably be understood. The CIA use Brown a secret global surveillance network ... called Echelon. In Itimos 30 years, has been used to spy on other countries ... terrorist groups and drug cartels. In the process, Echelon's computers ... capture almost every electronic conversation around the world. Echelon intercepts allegedly satellite communications ... communications using satellites. Therefore, whether governmental, corporate, encrypted or not ... the claim is that Americans, the Defense Agency ... accompanies all types of conversations. Over the years the Echelon system was accused of attacking not only the criminals. During the Vietnam War, the system Echelon spying on antiwar protests. In 1990, several European governments claimed that Echelon ... was used for economic espionage. It is a claim refuted by the CIA. I say that for my birthday at the intelligence ... never received orders nor would accept ... to collect information on a foreign private company ... to deliver to a private company here. Conspiracies arise of secrecy and suspicion ... and no one was at the center of the controversy controversies such as the Freemasons. In "The Lost Symbol," Dan Brown portrays the Freemasons ... as some of the men most powerful country. Is that true? The fact is that 14 former presidents Americans were known Masons ... almost a third of the total. In addition, at least 35 ministers the Supreme Court ... as well as numerous parliamentary Masonic vows sworn to follow. Some members of Masonic in Congress ... included Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi ... Congressman Eric Cantor, Virginia ... and Congressman Joe Wilson of South Carolina It's amazing how the story Freemasonry has been driven by ... and big names we recognize ... have been considered members of the fraternity. In the book, Brown describes Freemasonry which is also called "Office" ... goes back to the Masons who built the great cathedrals of Europe. What the book does not address is that for these architectural building ... Masons needed to understand scientific methods of the time ... including physical, geometry and mathematics. This intimate connection with the power of religious and secular ... allowed the Masons to develop a unique perspective as a group. Freemasonry is not interested on dogma ... because it is not a religious organization. Do not have a creed of faith. It is a way for those who have dogmas and creeds of faith ... can meet as human beings and brothers. The group adopted as symbols ... instruments and terminology of his trade. His universal signal includes a square and compass. States are described as apprentices or Master Masons. Meetings are held in a "store" ... word derived of the temporary buildings ... the builders created in place that would work. The teacher of the book is taken to George Washington Masonic Memorial. Such a place exists? Yes. It is a 100m tall building in Alexandria, Virginia. It was built in the 20s to honor George Washington ... who was the Master Mason the local store. In the book, Professor Langdon compares Masons to a modern ... in which both keep their methods and secret rituals. The Masons are not a secret society. They are a society with secrets. If everyone knew the handshakes or the secret words ... everyone would take advantage Brotherhood of ... and it pursues the Fraternity for over 200 years. In "The Lost Symbol," Brown claims that Freemasonry ... was popular to take many founders of the United States. Brown is correct. These men and their ancestors came from Europe ... where society was torn apart by religious war. They were determined not to commit the same mistake in this new country. For many of the founders, Freemasonry was ... an important part of their lives. I think it was an extension ideas of the Enlightenment. The age of reason. Basically, trying to take society of the old methods ... and put it in what they thought was a better way for the future. Today we consider freedom of expression ... the cornerstone of the Constitution ... but in the eighteenth century, speak so could result in death. This forced the Masons to meet secretly in cellars and taverns. The Masons speak in democracy, freedom ... self--determination or free expression. This could be considered a threat the aristocracy ... a king, an emperor, a church that had power. The book describes what the founders wanted to establish a new country ... on the scientific principles of progress, not on religious dogma. This is also true. But most of them were Deist as the book describes? The religious beliefs of the founders was generally deist. They believed there was a god ... but not necessarily supported any particular religion. That is why, as the book portrays ... this intention turned out to be one of the basic principles of American ... the separation of church and the state. What is also mentioned in the book is the pursuit of Masons ... to build a new enlightened society ... was not a simple task. Other groups, like the Templars Rosicrucians and ... had similar ideas ... but were crushed by powerful groups in the Church. The book also describes how for centuries in Europe ... church leaders with powerful connections claimed to speak for God ... and demanded loyalty their beliefs and dogmas. Advanced scientific thinkers as Isaac Newton and Leonardo da Vinci ... were forced to hide much of his work ... otherwise they would be labeled as heretics. This is true. Anyone who argued various theories in the sciences ... like what happened beyond our planet ... many lost their lives. Some were burned at the stake. The book is also right when he describes Masons reject religious dogma. All they needed to do was to believe in a higher power ... not a specific god. The purpose of Freemasonry is to encourage a man and his faith ... not encourage a man to impose their faith on others. What they're saying basically and that is what the fundamentalists hate ... is that all paths are different for the same thing. This threat became a reality ... with the signing of the Declaration Independence in 1776. But by declaring its independence, These men risked everything ... by a new concept called freedom. This time, the dream became reality ... and, in 1787, many of Masonic principles ... became an integral part the American Constitution. Brown says that half of the signatories of the U.S. Constitution were Masons. However, estimates Masonic put this number ... closer to a third. "The Lost Symbol" connects the role of Freemasons in the founding of the American dream. But we do not know is that the Masonic influence ... had a profound effect beyond politics. The owner of a baseball team, Branch Rickey ... hired the first player african--american ... professional baseball, Jackie Robinson. The literary icon Mark Twain ... introduced us to Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn. And John Glenn was the first American to orbit Earth. Unfortunately, the Masons were also its share of black sheep ... including the traitor Benedict Arnold ... the controversial FBI director J. Edgar Hoover ... and even the relentless Communist dictator Joseph Stalin ... supposedly were Masons. His connection with the corridors of power made many wonder ... if Masons have actually sinister secrets. The fact that Masons seek something higher and a belief system ... did nothing to prevent their enemies. The battle between light and darkness was about to begin. The villain in "The Lost Symbol" attacks the Masons ... which include some of the men most powerful country. It is possible to drop a society so powerful? The secrecy associated with Freemasonry fills mistrust and fear of non--members ... since the founding of the United States. It is believed that the Masons have some influence over its members ... that transcends the obligation of the member your family or the state. Therefore, the Masons are a dark and subversive group ... you're doing something bad. It was not always so. After the American Revolution, increased the number of Masons. The fact that Washington has made it such an important part of your life ... and the fact that he stuck the stone critical of the Capitol, as a Mason ... important to a lot of attention for Freemasonry ... which became very popular. Its popularity, however, was a threat to religious leaders ... suspicious of Masonic Deists beliefs. The Lost Symbol In the book, Dan Brown writes about how people have developed ... a distorted perception Masons. This is true. Over time a barrage of accusations ... fueled fears many non--Masons ... who wanted to know what really was going on in Masonic temples. The villain of the book is driven on suspicion like that. Everything is secret distrust ... especially in a Republic, which argue that all are equal ... and as Americans have always believed some degree of transparency. Then there was a lot of suspicion about the Masons. What the book does not include these suspicions increased in 1826 ... with the disappearance of a Mason wisely unhappy ... named William Morgan. It is one of the passages in which Brown used a historical incident ... as inspiration for something in today's world. When Morgan announced that he wrote a book exposing Masonic secrets ... Freemasons supposedly different organized a kidnapping. He disappeared. Supposedly was murdered. It is most likely. Nobody ever heard of him again. Three masons were convicted but received minimum sentences. There was something like a national panic the anti--Masonic. Shops were burned. The Masons were ridiculed. Some were even beaten on the street. And the Masonic membership has reached zero in some places. In the year 1830, the Anti--Masons Party was formed ... and former Attorney General William Wirt, was nominated as a candidate. Wirt ran against the Mason Andrew Jackson and lost. He soon became a footnote in history. More than a century and a half later, William Wirt made headlines again. Someone broke into the grave William Wirt ... cut off his head and took the skull. The theft was detected almost 30 years later ... when an anonymous source said be in possession of the skull. The author of the anonymous caller hung up not contacted us for a year. The following link about William Wirt ... was the city councilman, Jim Graham, here in Washington DC ... who informed us that the skull had been handed to him ... to ensure that he would return the place where they belonged. You never knew why Wirt's skull was stolen. Perhaps it was used in strange rituals. Maybe it was just a joke in college. William Wirt was a symbol the anti--Masonic sentiment ... continues to pursue the secret society. But during this time, another Masonic group came to power ... the Scottish Rite, the same group that appears in the book by Dan Brown. According to some, they had a dark side ... feeding deep suspicions ... that are suspected the core of the book. "The Lost Symbol" opens her first scene here ... House of the Masonic Temple, in Washington DC. The book describes this massive structure as a replica ... the temple of the Greek king Mausolus, the original mausoleum. The book also states which is a mausoleum ... with the remains Two Masonic leaders. And this is true. The story depicts the building with two 17--ton sphinxes ... massive columns of 100m and a huge bronze door. The book also states that there a huge skylight above an altar. In fact, these descriptions are accurate. This is the home of the largest and most powerful Masonic group in the country ... the Scottish Rite Southern Jurisdiction. In "The Lost Symbol," Professor Langdon is face to face ... with the statue of Albert Pike, a man who many consider ... the most famous person who never heard of. Pike is a man of letters less known but most influential ... that this country has ever known. Albert Pike was the Howard Stern the "Shock Jock" of Freemasonry. Pike is probably one of the Masons most misunderstood in the world. He was vilified over and over again ... by individuals they are fundamentalists. What the book does not mention Albert Pike is that ... is one of the men buried inside the temple. But why? Why put your body Masons someone much maligned ... into your temple? It is certainly a shadowy figure. I usually call Io Francis Bacon darker. He was a huge man, had more than 1.83 m tall. He had more than 90 pounds. It was a brilliant mathematician, linguist, lawyer, orator, poet ... quite exotic rituals and prepared advanced to Freemasonry. After George Washington ... Albert Pike is considered one of the Masons most influential of all time. After the anti--Masonic movement in the years 1820 and 1830 ... Albert revitalized Masons almost alone. He revised and reorganized Masonic rituals ... and established an overview of its fundamental principles ... in his 1871 book, "Morals and Dogma". As head of the Scottish Rite in Washington ... Pike's influence extended the federal government. He had an incredible network people ready to serve Io. He had good relations on Capitol Hill. He was loved and feared by many at the same time. These links Masonic been useful the ensuing scandal. During the Civil War, Pike was accused of war crimes ... to serve as brigadier general Confederate Army. But after the war, he was pardoned. President Andrew Johnson pardoned him in Washington DC ... during a ceremony Masonic ritual. Pike became a Freemason Andrew Johnson high level in the Scottish Rite. The recurring charge is that he was subservient to the Grand Commander ... and granted pardon to Pike. There were other rumors. As Brown mentions in the book ... Masons were charged many conspiracies ... Pike as a leader involved of a southern separatist group ... known as "Knights of the Golden Circle." The idea was to oppose ... to power ... American ... and its influence in North America ... by any means necessary ... overthrowing the government in 1860, dividing the country into civil war. After the Civil War, other rumors linking Pike ... to an even more controversial the KKK. These individuals basically in my opinion ... were the largest frauds I've seen ... and I am very disturbed to think of them ... because they claim Pike as a founding member ... as creator of the KKK. Nonsense! Pike continued attacks on even after his death. The author Dan Brown talks about it when one of his characters ... describes the Masons as devil worshipers. What the book does not count is that in 1894 ... a disgruntled former Mason wrote under the pseudonym of Leo Taxil ... depicting Pike and the Scottish Rite Masons ... as allies of the devil. He found a young who said it was the prostitute ... Masonic lodges that used in their diabolical orgies ... Masses of black magic behind closed doors. The Vatican believed ... and paid for it to be preached pIpito in all churches. Taxil went so far as to say Albert Pike believed that ... Lucifer was God. This was inspired by a quote Pike's book, "Morals and Dogma" ... in which Pike refers to Lucifer. Anti--Masonic groups immediately saw it as evidence ... that Albert Pike was a Satanist. They said, when he mentioned Lucifer ... was a devil worshiper, a satanic worshiper ... the greatest of all. There was written decrees Pope of the time ... specifically said that he was a dangerous man. Masons, however, claim Pike who used the name "Lucifer" ... in its original Latin, which means "light bearer". He did not refer to Satan, but the one star ... the star of Venus. This is not devil worship or worshiping Satan. What they meant was the light, lighting ... enlightenment through logic, reason and science. Leo Taxil ended up portraying, saying that made up the story ... but damage had already been done. To date, televangelists Pat Robinson as ... Pike takes his display evidence ... to show that Freemasonry is part of a conspiracy ... and really worship the devil. Since Pike was accused Freemasons to control ... the U.S. government may be involved mind control. INITIALIZING GPS NORTHERN CALIFORNIA In "The Lost Symbol," Brown's fictional scientist ... speaks as military researchers long explore the techniques ... to harness the powers the mind. She mentions government programs involving ESP ... Remote Viewing and a kind Travel telepathic. This is based in a real military experience ... in which a volunteer is invited to describe a place ... within the Soviet Union. He receives only the geographical coordinates ... but produces a drawing with striking similarities to the site ... across the world. It was all part of a secret military operation ... to use paranormal to spy on the Soviets. This type of research is still ongoing ... and plays an important role in "The Lost Symbol." One of the characters of the book is a scientist who does research in Noetic. As the book portrays Noetic deals with the experiences ... that many of us have all day. That feeling that something is not right ... what we call intuition. This psychic connection that mothers seem to have with their children. The power of prayer, which seems to help to heal a person. All this is in the domain of Noetic Sciences. And the truth of Noetic Sciences is as strange as any fiction ... found in "The Lost Symbol." A serious scientific study called Phenomenon Paranormal ... began in the 30 ... when an American parapsicIogo named JB Rhine ... began experimenting with ESP ... in the laboratory. Rhine called for volunteers to try to guess which of the five cards ... arise when it was pulled a pack of cards. Each set had 25 letters ... so anything better than one in five attempts ... would show extrasensory capacity. Rhine reported significant results ... but scientists and traditional psicIogos dismiss his work ... saying that his methods were flawed. Rhine and other parapsicIogos ... continued to work in relative obscurity ... to the Cold War. In 1971, two British writers revealed ... scientists of the Soviet Union researching ... the use of ESP as a weapon. As one of the characters Brown mentions ... those who are in power always looking for more power. One area in which they were particularly interested ... was the "remote viewing", the ability to see a distant target or invisible ... using ESP. The Soviets also worked the "intent" ... the ability to affect a person, so good or bad ... just looking for a photograph of the person. When I heard what the Soviets used to ... the U.S. government created your own program. Began to accelerate a kind Cold War psychic ... actually, on one level ... people spoke of missiles and missile silos ... and in another, there was a team mediums ... they were asked to use these potential capabilities ... to get reliable intelligence information. The American project was dubbed "Stargate" ... and was funded by the CIA and the Defense Intelligence Agency. The book reveals the noetic scientist the connection between your work ... Stargate and the CIA. Soviet and American were very interested ... the notion of mind on the matter ... the idea that consciousness can somehow influence the matter. The program lasted for over 20 years. At its peak, the Stargate project laboratories was 14 ... researching remote viewing ... and with results that seemed to indicate that remote viewing was not a myth. And we know that there were cases where these remote viewers ... were able to make drawings very accurate ... of secret military installations across the planet. Despite the promising results, some politicians and military ... did not want the money the taxpayer ... fund this type of research. In 1995, the CIA shut down Project 20 million dollars ... but the military continued to use mediums to gather information. During Desert Storm, mediums with remote viewing ... were used to help locate Scud missiles hidden ... and gun shops chemical and biological weapons. Today, the government claims that it is more involved with psychic research. But the study of psychic phenomena still in research institutes ... as the Institute of Noetic Sciences. The institute was the idea of ??astronaut Mason Mitchell ... who went to the moon with Apollo 14 in 1971. In space, Mitchell led experiments unofficial ... extrasensory perception with some friends on earth. Upon returning home, he had a transformative experience. Edgar had an epiphany back to the moon ... he looked at the planet Earth and acknowledged that much of the conflict ... was a construction of consciousness and our world view. He had a deep sense of unity ... as if the molecules of your body latch onto the solar system ... and that all were part of a tangle. The experience inspired Mitchell to create the Institute of Noetic Sciences ... dedicated to the study of the human mind and its potential. In "The Lost Symbol," the scientist noetic ... attempts to determine the weight of the soul to confirm your physical reality. This is actually based on actual experiences. At first, when scientists tried to measure the consciousness or the soul ... set up an experiment ... measured and weighed when the body before and after death ... with the notion that somehow were weighing on the soul. Trying to weigh the soul is something that is not considered a reliable result ... but people try to develop a kind of case ... to the notion that consciousness can be more than something physical. The scientist believes Brown his research ... shows that psychic phenomena such as telepathy, clairvoyance ... precognition and mind over matter are real. As the researchers Institute of Noetic Sciences. When analyzing the data this kind of experiments ... find statistical evidence very strong ... that not only is a real effect, but it is repeatable ... and that is what matters in science ... be repeatable by independent laboratories. The noetic scientist Dan Brown argues that groupthink ... as in prayer groups or healing circles ... can have profound effects. In the real world, the noetic science studies the power of prayer ... and group consciousness to generate change. Unlike the book, in the real world the results are inconclusive. I think at this point we need more research ... because it is something widely practiced. And simply discard because it does not fit ... in our scientific model Conventional ... is doing an injustice to a quality experience ... with which people live for millennia. Science in the book by Dan Brown may be light years ahead ... noetic science real. In reality more lags behind the fiction? As we saw, Dan Brown established his thriller ... in a world of fact and possibility. Chambers of reflection exist, but not in the basement of the Capitol. The government funded the research about the power of the mind ... but not at the Smithsonian. The severed hand was based in a real legend. And it is true that the Capitol has a wall ... George Washington portrayed as a god. We have also seen that the aspects description of Dan Brown ... a Washington based hidden in people, places and real events. The city has references the ancient civilizations. The Scottish Rite Temple there ... and has two sphinxes 17 tonnes ... and an unfinished pyramid on the facade. The interior is really a huge temple with a skylight ... that simulates the All--Seeing Eye on the dollar bill ... with two bodies buried there. The description of the book of symbols Secret found in the city ... fascinated by symbols and theoretical worldwide conspiracy. The cornerstone the Washington Monument ... contains a Bible and the words Latin "deo laus" ... which means "praise God" written in its cornerstone. The claim that the book the founders of the country ... believed in astrology is true. The White House, the Capitol and the Washington Monument ... are aligned according to the stars. And their pillars were erected all under the same astrological sign, Virgo. And the National Cathedral contains ten rocks of Mount Sinai ... a small moonstone and a gargoyle in the shape of Darth Vader. We also saw that Masons are a real organization ... and that their secret nature has generated controversy. It is also true obscured the book ... many of its rituals and symbols. An example is the use of the Phoenix two heads on the facade ... the true Masonic symbol is a double--headed eagle. Another secret Masonic mentioned, but not in the book ... is the "Chain of Union." This ritual symbolizes the union of mind, body and spirit through the universe ... the transformation of "a" in "all". This ceremony uses the power of group consciousness to create change. When you have a number of people concentrated in a specific ritual ... saw a ritual that has to be done perhaps hundreds of times before ... is to be expected from the perspective Noetic Science ... we witness some kind of change. And that's the great subtext religious this book ... the idea that the deification it is possible. Because Dan Brown captivates its readers with stories about codes and ciphers? Maybe it's because throughout history, world events occurred ... because of secret messages. Secrets that have been stored and secrets that do not. A clue in the book speaks of a Puzzle created by Benjamin Franklin ... one of the founders of the most innovative and Mason. Benjamin Franklin was unique. It is the man who invented major social institutions ... as public libraries and postal services in the colonies. Who wrote convincingly on political philosophy ... editor and it was published very important documents ... and he also was a scientist in a time when science was crawling. I would not be surprised that he also get involved in recreational mathematics ... as the Order Eight of Franklin Square. Creating magic squares is not easy. And he set up a small cottage industry of it. We can find the Order Eight the Franklin Square ... in one of his almanacs. We are talking about someone which is a multi--faceted genius ... and a statesman. Although not mentioned in the book, George Washington was nearly destroyed ... by a secret cabal. During the war, General American Benedict Arnold ... almost lost the war alone working with British agents. His scheme was exposed only when U.S. forces ... a British officer who captured carried an encrypted message ... in invisible ink. In the book, Dan Brown writes about the legend of the Masonic pyramid ... and its role in protecting of ancient mysteries. Brown says in "The Lost Symbol," which Masons are the keepers Itimos ... of the ancient mysteries. And that's partially true. The traditions of Freemasonry come from many different sources. These sources include influential texts of great thinkers ... As Isaac Newton and Francis Bacon ... and holy books, including the Bible, the Koran and the Bhagavad Gita. That's where Dan Brown is historically accurate. There were countless mystery religions Greece, Rome, Egypt. And what these mystery religions preached? I do not want to joke, but it is a mystery. In "The Lost Symbol," Brown writes on the immense power of the Bible ... to turn for the better ... but also warns against the literal interpretation ... of his prose enigmatic. The founders insisted on the separation between church and state. It is also why the Masons go to such extremes ... to remove any religious dogma their rituals and beliefs. The book states that Thomas Jefferson came to edit the Bible ... to eliminate any interpretation. And that's an accurate portrayal. It took 16 years. He took the Bible and cut row after row of all ... Jesus said ... and he said he wanted to focus on that, what Jesus said ... not the performers. But "The Lost Symbol" misses to say that Jefferson's Bible ... was given to each new member Congress ... during the first half the nineteenth century. This happened in the twentieth century. An important theme in the book is the idea of ??transformation. The villain uses tattoos Brown as a statement of power. In the Chamber of Reflection ... an hourglass symbolizes the transformative effects of time. And a scientist discusses noetic the ability of the mind ... to transform cancer cells in healthy subjects. In "The Lost Symbol Dan Brown ... they talk about transformation in two ways. One is a type of fanaticism ... which is very ... unique. And finally leads a negative result. We can consider Nazi Germany a transformative movement ... we can also analyze the traditions and spiritual wisdom of the world ... and see that these types of transformations can lead ... to an blossoming of our human potential. Like "The Lost Symbol" clarifies the founders of the country ... understand this connection with the past. Together they created a nation, a new Rome on these beliefs. There is one thing that unites all Freemasons. They are seeking the light. They are in search of wisdom, the truth. Try to become better people this quest for light. As we have seen, the book uses some facts ... the creation of a large work of fiction. But sometimes the real world is as fascinating as the imaginary.
