 

                        Dear Viewers You might have rightly guessed this is a story of men dying for money and that this story has ended already But I still would like to narrate it The story began in March at Da Tong County The scenario set outside Fu Lai money bureau There are two things Da Tong County is famous for: Women and silver One day there appeared two pretty acrobat girls I hear there are two beautiful girls performing Over there Let's go... Excuse me... Sirs Gentlemen greetings Greetings Good I am Yu Yin I am Yu Ying We've just arrived and would like to earn some money The saying that friends are important when away from home is so true We are novices in acrobatics and our art is raw please bear with us Don't worry, I will take care of you Thank you Sister, come on Come Good If we are good... Not bad Please be generous If we are not that good, please bear with us and give us some support Thank you Bravo... Thank you To show our appreciation for your support we'll demonstrate something special What do we call this, sister? The Death Challenge It seems they are really great Right Great... Great... Great... What's wrong with you... Why are you pissing here? You little bitch Men... Excuse me... What's up? Sister... What's the matter? I slipped and injured my sister If she dies, I... Boss, I let them in we have the best medicine for treating wounds Give them some Okay, hurry to get it Yes Wait What happened? The two acrobats have been wounded so we are getting some medicine for them This is very effective it's like real blood Sir, she's injured you shouldn't joke with her Joke? You two want to get your hands on our bureau With me around that won't be so easy We wouldn't have come if you weren't here Don't kill me... You rat Guards Yes Grab them Yes So treacherous What do you mean by that? You said I am a rat Attack Did you think you could grab our money with these cheap props? Attack Well? Are you leaving or need I kick you out? See you soon Chase Don't Let the matter stop here It's our fault Rogues are treacherous so be extra careful I think someone else might want to rob us Waiter Yes What do you want? Please go to Fu Lai money bureau and invite mister Wen to come here Sir, I'm not capable of earning this silver because mister Wen never leaves the bureau during the day Well? Will this bring Mr. Wen here? Where is he? In our restaurant Mr. Wen, he is over there Get a chair for Mr. Wen quickly Yes No need So... it's the famous Invisible Loner Brother Teng Long time no see, have some wine Thanks, you first Cheers What has brought you to Da Tong County? I heard Da Tong County is laden with gold especially the Fu Lai money bureau You should reserve my share Actually how much silver is in your bureau? I don't know either And you needn't know With me here no one can lay a hand on it You live up to your fame it appears the silver is safe in the bureau You flatter me But don't forget I'll get the silver sooner or later See you Another one What a nerve, go in Who are you? You don't know me? And you want to do a deal at Da Tong? Don't move Go over there Who are you? I am Teng Qi Ying The Loner? If I am not mistaken with your skills with concealed weapons you must be Thousand Hands Goddess heroine Meng and that is lady Hua your sister Is it your way to treat your guests? See what have you done to me! Come and help me Lady Hua, you live up to your fame Stop, this is not an acrobatic show Stop playing tricks I am not used to dealing with women Get your boss out and serve me Coming So this is how you serve tea to guests? Please I have been following you once you got to this place and I know why you have come You pretend to be injured to sneak into Fu Lai money bureau to get information to rob the place, right? You nincompoops can't even fight with me and you want to cross Wen Li Xian? You'll die surely You're lucky you've run into me you have a chance if you count me in When Meng arrives let me know Sister, what to do? Should we include a share for him? Not that easy We'll act as soon as Brother Meng arrives Excuse me... Ask your boss to come out You are... Master Shen of Da Ming County Welcome I am the cashier for the bureau And your boss? He's just out But we already know you will be arriving here to draw out your silver Inside please Quite a good place You're too kind... please Please Ah Fu - Yes Get some tea Yes Please Hurry Please sit You must have had a long journey No need I fear you might not have the kind of tea our master drinks Take it away Yes Mister, your tea Give the money order to him Yes Mister, are you taking both or... Just one for now Yes What? Is my money order a fake? You are pulling my leg Would you like big silver pieces or silver ingots we have small pieces of silver too All in silver ingots of 50 taels I don't want small pieces Yes, would you like them now? No, Qiu Fu Have you heard which brothel has the most pretty lady in this County? Yes, Yu Xiang brothel Alright send me the silver over there tonight Yes Let's go there right now Please I'll deliver the silver to you for sure Who is he? He is the famous Master Shen from Da Ming County Have you checked the money order clearly? There should be no mistake It's issued by our branch for sure Come, prepare the silver Yes Master Wen Have you counted the amount? Yes... Then let's go Right Let's go Brother Gwan Wu Those two female robbers might come again Be careful Yes Let's go Yes Protect the money So it's brother Teng You're too kind You are a kung fu legend yourself so why do escorting for the rich? It's a waste of talent If everyone were like you there wouldn't be any silver to rob I hear a Master Shen from Da Ming County is having fun at Yu Xiang brothel now So I guess the silver is for him That's none of your business Didn't I tell you that the silver in the bureau would be mine sooner or later? I can't bear to have ten thousand taels shortage So are you going to stand in my way? I wanted to ask you too Are you leaving the silver or not? Guard the silver... Wen Li Xian, you are great There's a lot of silver in the money bureau a ten thousand tales short is no big deal Chase... Stop It's unwise to chase Get the silver to Yu Xiang brothel quickly I don't have it Come You still want to get away? No You're not bad either Master, the silver is here Make way... The silver is here... Master Wen, this way... This way Watch your step Here... The silver is here... Mr. Shen Here are ten thousand taels, please count So much money Open for master to check No need Madam What's the matter? Ask all the girls to serve master Wen Okay No need... Duty calls, we have to return Qiu Fu Get a few hundred taels to reward the men Yes How generous! Thank you For the security of the bureau I have to leave now You? Over at Fu Lai money bureau I showed mercy towards you What do you want now? Nothing Just to square this with you So you've got someone to help Master Wen Let's go Chase Where's Master Wen? Inside Master Wen, what happened? Nothing Just the two female robbers are seeking revenge So they came for you? Then I feel relieved I feared they want to rob the bureau Don't worry With master Wen here who would dare! Right... But be careful these few days while I rest to recuperate at home Of course You must send more men to guard the bureau day and night Yes... Please Hurry please Our master wants to withdraw another 10,000 taels Yes Mister Qiu Another ten thousand? The silver that was just delivered has all been spent? Our master is a spendthrift spending few hundred thousand in a day is common You should check it out at Da Ming County What? Is it a counterfeit? No... Then please hurry Our master lost a dice game and needs it urgently Yes But master Wen and the guards have not returned Damn Master I asked you here to get the silver what took you so long? Master I wouldn't dare it's just the cashier who delayed You must think the money order is a counterfeit No, don't misunderstand That's not what I mean I have deposited the silver in your branch why wouldn't you let my man withdraw it? It's not that, It's just... What? To avoid any untoward incident and for the security we need more men to deliver it for you No need, I'll take it myself Yes Get it for me Yes Master What? Can't I go and take a look? As per the bureau rules no outsider is allowed upstairs What, can't I either? No, please Nice place Thank you Please sit Bai Fu, get some tea Yes Have a seat while I get your silver Come and help me Yes There's a trap? This will be fun It's more secure What about inside? It's a mess in there, you better not go in Don't worry, I'd like to have a look Alright Open up Yes So that's how you make the silver ingots Yes It's really a mess in there, you better not go down Okay Come with me Get me ten thousand taels of silver All in silver ingots of 50 taels Help, robbers... Help It's hot inside Wait I know what's that noise downstairs It's someone robbing the gold Come men, robbers Let's go They're fighting, let's go Come here Sister, wait in the carriage for the gold Yes, let's go Brother Chow, you two watch out here Yes Others please follow me Yes What's the situation down there? All fixed Yes, let's go Boss Qiu, our plan worked The gold is here Calm down, I don't want little pieces Small crates contain gold, large crates contain silver Just take the gold Dear, are you tired? No Brothers, come I have something important to tell you What? Enough... A hundred crates. 100,000 taels in total The cart wouldn't be able to take anymore We've already got what we wanted It isn't a big deal to get a few crates more When we asked you to be a partner you hesitated How come when you see the gold... The more gold the better Right Boss Qiu, the gold is lovely Naturally... after this deal we wouldn't have to worry for the rest of our lives Let's get the other two up here Brother Zhou Yes? Go and get the gold Where... There Well? All fixed Let's go I am finished It doesn't matter that everyone has died but my gold is all gone I must die Leave me alone I am finished They are ruthless To wound me first then rob the gold when I am not there This is a serious case Who do you think did it? Have you checked Master Shen in Yu Xiang brothel? He disappeared last night I had a notion that he's an imposter I think he is with the acrobat girls I think they can't move so much gold out of the city in such a short time You hurry to set up a road block at the city gate maybe you could stop them Master Wen We have already done that last night but up to this moment there is no news I have been given a deadline by my superiors to solve the case within a month You must help me Alright, I'll go outside the city Why? I think the case is connected to Teng Qi Ying, the Invisible Loner That lone robber? Strange, where have they gone? One hundred thousand taels of gold... Dear... come and look Coming Sister, come quickly Yes You women it's not everyday you see Gold... Lower your voice It's okay, all the neighbouring houses are empty who would hear us How do you know there's no one? How did Teng Qi Ying find you? You are so frightened why don't we split the gold now Fifty thousand taels to each party So we don't need to care for each other hereafter What? To split the gold now Then you go with your share and I go with mine so nobody would be affected by the other What do you mean? You are so stupid Do you think we could get away by splitting the gold? He is right This case is well known now There are search points everywhere As soon as the gold is brought outside we'll be discovered by the authorities whoever gets caught would affect the others That means we have to hide here forever No, wait until the heat is off then move the gold out of Da Tong County and split it I am afraid I wouldn't last being beaten up these days Are we not satisfied with 50,000 taels? Not only us, I think they aren't satisfied too Dear, why don't you say a word? My husband is such a coward what have I got to say? Damn All the gold is here and we can't use it I can't take it You are greedy Is the gold all yours? Half of it would be as good Wait, there's also my share We are husband and wife so we shouldn't squabble about whose share it is When we get the gold you can spend it as you like Don't rejoice too soon I afraid we might not even get How could that be? I don't think Brother Meng would be that kind Who knows how much he'll give you? What? Who does he think he is... He said the whole plan and its details have been developed by him I don't think you count at all in his view He dares? Why not? Just think why doesn't he let us split the gold Why? Didn't he say the gold could not be moved out of town? I think the search will soon reach us here What should we do then? In fact it is not such a difficult thing to move the gold out of the town But it wouldn't be good to move a small amount We must move all of it You mean... It depends if you have the guts People feel the same Giving fifty thousand taels to others is not the best thing to do What if I want to get a share? What for? Nothing I just thought if you had to split it with me would you kill me? Guess anyone would kill for gold; Didn't you too kill many people? You asked me to And we are not even related There's no couple relationship that could be worth fifty thousand taels of gold Sometime a woman's love could be worth 100,000 taels Where are they? Haven't you gone to sleep yet? Can't sleep Brother, you have a room why are you sleeping on a pole? I am afraid someone might come for the gold tonight With you here who'd dare? Hua Dieh Er, I've always treated you as my own brother If I hadn't groomed you you would still be with the underworld gangs Don't worry, I am not an ungrateful person I will burn incense at your grave Brother, you can't kill me we are like brothers We have lived through a lot these years are you going to kill me for the gold? Don't worry, when you die I will also burn incense at your grave Please, I know I am wrong I shouldn't have acted against my conscience Please have mercy on me I know I am wrong Have mercy please You know you are wrong? Yes, I do... But my conscience is still unheeded It's because no brotherhood is worth fifty thousand taels Hear that? Are you really so ruthless? I am not ruthless it's just that the gold is too tempting Right, I deserve to die... But brother before I die, let me touch the gold so I will die in peace For the sake of our brotherhood I suppose you could grant me this wish Brother It's not that I am ruthless, it's just that the gold is too tempting Wife, the gold is all ours No, not ours; Only mine It's called, 'ln a fight between two, the 3rd gets it' You... Didn't you say no couple relationship in the world is worth fifty thousand taels? That's why I am taking all the gold Damn, you... Don't move or you'll bleed quickly to death Gold... You knew it would be like this so you shouldn't have started it Sister, let's move the gold quickly There's no sister relationship that could be worth fifty thousand taels I am waiting for someone Fu Lai money bureau Master Wen, please inform me the moment there's any news Sure Inspector Zhang, please check all the city entrance I'll do it myself right now Farewell Farewell I want it... Farewell Old Master still doing business? How is it? I little expected the hundred thousand taels of gold would be in my hands Wen San Hu, Chief of Tiger Fortress Let's move all the gold to my carriage then we could get it out of Da Tong County immediately and go straight to Tiger Hill What about me? You are my sisterinlaw naturally you are coming with me What for? You are so beautiful so you should be my concubine No Give her a thousand taels and let her be on her way Why? Because gold could be split in many ways love cannot be shared Don't forget the gold is mine Nobody can share it Then she doesn't get an ounce Get her on her way No, I want the gold and her too What do you want now? To kill her You'll have to ask me first She belongs to me from now on Wen San Hu, you... Lady Meng I partnered with you for the sake of gold now I've got it And I'm tired of you What else do you want? Never guessed you're worse than Meng Long There isn't one single good person in this world I think you'd better listen to me and move the gold to Tiger Hill If you want to die, die on Tiger Hill You put the original crates inside first then the remade ones On the surface would be my clothes Where do we sit? In the carriage Guard her with your sword It's a bit late to hate me now, isn't it? Get the gold "East gate of Da Tong County" Open it I just have some clothes Search carefully Yes What's inside? My clothes Search See what's inside So heavy Master Wen, how come going out of town now? I had to load my clothes onto the carriage What are you doing? You dare search master Wen's carriage? Do you think he'd move the gold out of the city? Get the stuff back on the carriage Yes Master Wen, I apologise on their behalf It's okay, they're just doing their duty Master Wen is beyond suspicion Good bye Move... Please Have some water first Move I little expected that when you cheated me you already had a well laid plan Using Meng Long and Hua Dieh Er to rob the gold She finally sees it all Bastard Call me all the names you can now after we're gone you'll have no chance You want to? This well will serve our purpose You want to kill me? As the saying goes: 'Kick out when no longer needed' Besides, the hundred thousand taels of gold would better serve two than three people lt'll still be three shares even if you killed her Wen San Hu, I must compliment you You almost cheated me too You're no less yourself I never realised you followed me Why are you still standing there? They want to kill you, why don't you move first? A hundred thousand taels of gold better serves two than four people Catch We are sisters after all Let's join together and kill them The gold would be split two ways all the same You still regard me as sister After we kill them you would kill me just the same Have you thought if we killed those two bitches the gold could still be split between us both We both want to get the gold alone How could it be split? As long as you still love me I could help you to kill Teng Qi Ying But I can't let that bitch go I have to kill you for the gold You could get the gold and have a woman like me, what do you think? I would rather prefer to have just the gold Do you realise that if we killed each other they would get the gold ultimately? Well? Let's both kill one of them and split the gold You are even more ruthless Come You deal with Teng Qi Ying, I'll deal with lady Meng After your death if you happen to see gold don't ever believe in love again Why don't you kill her? Why should I? Two against one is better than one on one Don't believe her I still love you Let's kill him together and enjoy our lives at Tiger Hill Don't mess with me Wen San Hu, die Wait Don't kill him How come? I still love him a bit It seems I must take all the hundred thousand taels of gold I... fell for your trap Don't forget my nickname: Thousand Hands Goddess Please help me get the sword out You still love me after all this It's good you know, let's go I must treat you well after we get back to Tiger Hill Give it to me Let's pick up the gold first You... You said you love me but never asked if I love you Gold... What, you're not dead yet? Without you, how could I do that? What a shame, so much gold This story of men dying out of greed for money now ends here But there's something rather amusing One day inspector Zhang passed this place and discovered this matter They reviewed what happened and concluded that the three of them killed each other for the gold while Wen San Hu died protecting the gold That is how the world goes People judge matters from outward appearance while no one often knows the real truth
