 

                        "Husbands In Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "This wife is a trouble and gives hardly a weeks rest" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "Wedding is a magical circle, It rounds you like a cycle" "It tempts you like a pudding" "But then it turns into a headache" "Wife is like bread and butter. Better make the butter better" "But you are my only sweet heart" "Like you sky that come together that forms a rainbow" "Making the life beautiful" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "If you get married you are screwed" "Make sure your kite doesn't break away" "She looks like a nightingale but actually is a fightingale" "Man rules the whole world, woman rules the man at home" "The logic would make a lion a cat" "If the lips are tied together like the flower" "This life is beautiful" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "This wife is a trouble and gives hardly a weeks rest" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "Husbands in Goa" "You have been asked to go to the chamber, your case's verdict is earlier" But it was told that the verdict is at 11 O clock. This guy is.. His advocate hasn't reached yet. Look advocate, I cannot wait for so long for anyone, I want my divorce as soon as possible. You were so desperate to get married. Call your advocate. Who is his advocate? -Advocate Jerry Thomas. Jerry sir? - Ok. Call him. Why are you laughing? The phone got disconnected. Must be driving. I want divorce. I want it more than you do. Please call him again. Call Isn't it Advocate Jerry sir's number? Yes it is. But Jerry is very busy. Madam, it is a matter of my life and death. Please give him the phone. Jerry, there is call for you. I told them that you cannot disturb Jerry now. That he is very busy. Please place the phone here. Sir, this is me Santhosh. They have called the verdict earlier, where have you been? Santhosh, I have been on a more important think now. The tea is there. Seems like he is in a tea stall. Sir, come here. Will buy you as many teas as you want. Stop taking tension. Nothing will have happen. Please relax. Please place all the clothes on the washing machine there, But sir... - No.. Not that. One minute. What do you want for lunch? - Sambhar Sir, you don't have to worry in the matter of food. I will buy you nice chicken biriyani from the canteen here. Sir, please come here soon and get me my divorce. Santosh I will not only get you a divorce but also find you a nice girl. Please place those clothes there. Got it. My advocate has the same problem as me. I got engaged in some cases of water authority and electricity. Come here. No, while waiting for you... ...we spoke for some time and have decided not to separate anymore. He is not all that good as it seems to be. - Not even me. Come. Look, he is calling. Just think over it, you might not get such a chance again. The advocates humor. My awkward situation. Even that is gone. Sir it seems the prices of Cucumber has gone up? What? I meant, the prices of the cucumber has gone up. Stop trying to tease me. Sir, you are the one who buys the vegetables for home... ...so thought you would know. What is wrong with men doing household chores? Do we have some particularjobs for men and women? No, right? I will buy vegetables and cook. That is my goodness. But people say, that it is your wives luck and that you are scared of your wife. I will show you today. What is wrong with helping my wife.. Neck Tie should be of this measure. Go For a cucumber.. I was giving the measurement of the neck dock forthe advocates gown. Sit down madam I am Annie, wanted to file a divorce petition Very good, divorce is the most beautiful aspect of a marriage. It gives thejoy of removing a tight shoe. Tell me what is the exact problem? See Mr Jerry, My husband is very arrogant. Problems started the day I got married and not recently... ...even on the first night he slapped me for calling him by his name. He is the man. I have a shopping craze. The day I shop a bit more, he will abuse me. Smart man. He drinks every day. Don't tempt me. He is a cameraman. He would start fights with people on the set and leave the project midway. He travels everyday, totally irresponsible. I wish to be reborn like him. I have doubts that he is cheating on me. Lucky guy. I can't tolerate this. I want divorce. Why not, let that guy live in freedom. What? What did you say your name was? Annie Annie, give the details to Rameshan. To strengthen your case, we need proofs and eyewitness. I will gather that. Men should not be egoistic. Women are not a man's slave. Every man comes out after being in a woman's womb for ten months. Correct madam, likewise every woman sleeps with a man... Nothing madam go. A real man treats his wife like a slave. Sir, this is chartered accountant Govind sir's documents. Praise the goddess. Tell me Jerry. I have attested the address change after getting it from the Notary. Where is he, Govind? Ohh, he is rolling Even today? Yes, three rounds are over and now it is the fourth one. Who is it Abhi? Is that Jerry? Jerry, she is making me roll, will call back You are not supposed to talk Abhi, can I get some water? - No, the outcome will be lost. My stool would pass Not this way, that way. Whichever way I have to roll. Forgive me. Tell me Jerry. But Abhirami, he rolled day before. That was in the Shiva Temple. That was for the husbands wellbeing. This is for the whole family's well being. Jerry have you rolled. - No. Even if it is in the church, you can roll. The growth of Govind is simply because of this rolling and devotion. Now next week, I have to take him to Palani and shave his head. Why are you running? Has the elephant lost it? Not the elephant but your grandmother... Make some way, someone is rolling. Alright, ask him to come to the office or do you have some rolling in the evening? No. This is evening, it is some prayers at the temple. That is for my dead grandfather. The rice their is great. We will come home with that rice. Praise the goddess. Oh lord. He has no sense. Does anyone call while in the temple? Did you see my husband? - Who is your husband? Who was on round.. - Round..There he stands. No, not that round. He was rolling and taking a round. Rolling. Is he the one who is coming? Oh you completed this quickly? Don't they say, someone who practices can lift an elephant? No, there is something fishy - Nothing Fishy. I rolled. He didn't roll completely. Since he rolls everyday, we don't have to wash the temple pathway everyday. See Abhi, he is teasing me. People don't call me Murali Govind but Rolling Govind. This rituals are to be done with joy. Why did you think you roll? That is what people ask me? Why do I roll? To have a child. Abhirami, for that we don't have to roll here. Let us go home and roll. Ok I will roll. Shall I roll? I will roll. Arjun...Arjun... Do you have any doubts? When will this class get over? I am a human being, people need some rest. I am your husband and don't you think you should give me some rest. Get up at 5 and study till ten. Then my Job. Then study again. I am bored. The great people have said that one should study till death But not to die studying. Veena first of all, stop your English. It boost our confidence. Every month we earn a hundred thousand from this coaching class... ...and that is because of English. I agree. I am happy that my wife makes money doing such a differentjob... ...but I have my own interests. If you insist of making an IAS officer out of an interior designer like me. My husband should be the greatest in front of my family and friends. Please...I will help you. I will help you pass the IAS exams. This is the chapter while you were sleeping Someone or the other comes when you are studying. They are the saviours. I will be right back Praise the goddess. Come Abhi. Where is he? - He is studying. I thought so. She said you were studying but it seems he is sitting idle. Where were you today? Where was the last place we rolled? -Anandavali temple. Anandavali temple. Here is the blessing I will apply it. Here. - There is no space for it. This Anandavali temple's blessing rice, the wishes would come true. We will have Chapati and chicken curry tonight Chapati and chicken curry! Hold this, we will eat Chapati and chicken curry later. This is temple's blessing. You cannot say no to it. You have to suffer what I suffer. Eat it fast. This is how her father died. Eat. Don't leave anything. Studying is betterthan this. No, eating this after you roll ten rounds. This tastes so awesome. Well, we came to tell you that we have a prayer sitting the coming Thursday. We have a high priest coming. A hundred thousand is the expense. It is notjust for one who conducts it but even for the ones who participates. Do come. I have a class that day, I have four batches that day. Monthly it is worth a lakh and lakh and a half. That means, you get what Govind gets a week. Hail the goddess. Your chapati and chicken curry... Govind, let us go. Please do come on the prayer day. I have called Teena and informed. There is no religious aspect to this prayer. Let us go. A little bit more... - Do you want a little bit more? Go after sometime. Can we go after some time? - No, we have to attend another prayer. We have one more to attend. See the benefits of English. She didn't call us for our well being. She wanted to show off. Will have to tolerate then too. No. You cannot sit. My legs are hurting. I was getting bored alone. You came? How is it? Spent a lot of money. I know how it is. When did it start? When it started he was young. Now it is women's prayer. Only women may sit here. Not you, only them. We can leave. You stand here. Finally some benefit for being a man. Will the house catch fire? In that case, it should have happened during the house warming. I am asking out of curiosity, do you pray to live or do you live to pray? Don't misunderstand me but... ...what about the human emotions that exist between a husband and wife.. ...have been kept for worship.. Not yet? Got screwed. All that is funny for you, I am a bachelor for a life time. Earlier every time I heard the names of the Gods, I would feel devotional... ...but these Gods are my enemy. Am not afraid of the devil but the Gods because they make you roll. Hey, do you know something. Every time I see a road I feel like rolling. That is ok. If in case there are no cares of buses, you can just roll and reach. All these are comedy for you. They say it is after praying in That is how these devotion started in the family. Didn't you see that guy inside? That priest? Not a priest, that is her brother. He is a wholesaler of devotion. To be honest I just wish to escape from this hell and go live alone somewhere. This is the same thing that I prayed for. Is it? - Yes. So we all prayed for the same thing. You? - Hmmm. - Even him. What unique thought process! Studied in the same college, living in the same city... ....and going through the same experience and just one prayer. There is some God will in this. Ok, let us escape to some place for a week... ...from this wife, this house and all the tensions. From all the tensions, we can go somewhere and rejoice. It is easy for you to say. If I am late by minutes she would call me and say... Hello Arjun, it is I don't know English, so that is ok. If we can show that we are moving away for our wives than it would be fine. No loop holes. How is that possible? Even though our wives modus operandi is different... ...but their intention is the same. They just want their husbands to be one step ahead of the other's husband. Ahh, they will think of things that are impossible. That is not what I meant. Let them insist us to go for some official purpose... ...to three different places is how we will play. I will do the complete planning for that but where will we go? To Palani (a religious place) - Trash him.. Sorry man, even my honey moon was celebrated in Palani. It is ok. Let us go to Kashmir. Is that where you honeymooned? There are terrorists there. We live with our wives, what harm can terrorists bring to us? That is right Isn't there a better place? Let us think.. Think...Think... Rameshwaram... Mukhambika... Vallikavu... Husbands in Goa... Goa.. Goa.. Husbands in Goa... No... If I can carry it so far, I know how to take it to the Kitchen. This is not for that but to congratulate you. Read this. Give me the list of things that is to be bought tomorrow, tomorrow itself. This is not it. Just read it. An opportunity to get preference to be the magistrate. So. So?! It is true when they say that Gods don't have religious differences. That day at Abhirami's place on the day of prayers, I prayed whole heartedly. Just to pull down their pride. This is it. You will have to go to Delhi, come what may ever. What are you saying? ...leaving you and without cooking for you, you want me to go to Delhi? No, I can't . I can't . I know you are sad but this is matter of pride. This letter arrived when Dad was around... ...and this was in English so dad explained it to me. Immediately, I ironed all you clothes and got everything ready. Since it was the first time, a shirt got burnt. It is ok even if the shirt got burnt. I will go since you want me to. Even though I am sad I will go to Delhi... ...but one thing neither Veena nor Abhirami should know about this. Otherwise they will create problems. I know that. But then when I think of ten days without My Tina. Please don't cry. There is no point spending lakhs of rupees on devotion and prayers. You should have a nice heart. It was because of our good deeds... ...that we got this memo to join UAT college for coaching. And then I said... Arjun... Why aren't you happy? What happened Arjun? I want to see you to my heart's content. For the next ten days I would be in Bangalore without you. With your words filled with love, saying 'Study Arjun, Study Arjun' I can't even think about it. Don't even call me. - Why is that Arjun? If I hear your voice, I mightjust fly back to you. In that case, I will give off to my students and come along with you to Bangalore. No, don't do that. I don't want you to sacrifice your happiness for mine. You be happy. Teach students and you be happy. No, I am not going. I don't want prosperity. There is just prosperity in this whole world for me and that is you. The one who tied the.. No, the one whom I tied the wedding pendent around. Even I am sad. But then everything is god's will. You remember what the swami said. So what I am saying is the head of this family should go fortwo... Two plus eight that is for ten days to Haridwara and pray. Haridwara? - Haridwar. That must be in Malayalam. What is this? If he does that, the virtue of this household will be tripled. Not just that the woman of this house would be betterthan her friends. Did you hear that? But there is one thing. The wife should not accompany the husband for the prayers. Oh that is sad. Loneliness is important or some disaster would fall upon you. What do you say? We will do it. We will send him alone. I called you afterthat Vodafone comedy show. Your performance was good. She believed that you were a priest. So whenever I need you I will call you in between. I don't think it is possible because I am getting some calls forthe serials. You shou'ld act in serials but don't act in devotional serials. Why? - My wife will recognize you. And then next week I have my performance. Please vote for me and do ask your wife to vote for me. I will. - You know my format, don't you? Yes I do. It is No B space. Right? - Yes. And give me that, it is on rent. That is mine. Don't grope someone like this brother. Govind... Why are you laughing? What Abhirami? Laughing? I am sad. What will happen if we don't obey god. The worst is I will die. What? Ten days without you. When I think about that? You don't have to be so sad and go on this, Brother in law. You don't . See now he is happy. What are you suggesting brother in law? We can do one thing; we can call the high priest from Meloor. Why? Forthe prayers as a solution to this. He is brilliant. So? So, we can ask him if he can do the prayers here instead of Haridwar... ...and that would mean no trouble for you. That is right! So, you are saying it with much trouble that it is a trouble for me that... ...I am taking some trouble for Abhi's trouble? Do you hear what your sibling is saying? My brother will say such things, Govind you go and come back. Brother in law what I said is... - You don't have to .. Brother in Law... As him not to call when I am leaving.. Don't call him. - Who is calling him.. Brother in law, coconut. Govind. Brother in Law, coconut. Take the vehicle. Govind.... Break the coconut and leave. This is to avoid hindrance. Do I have to break this? Yes. - Give it to me. Don't you have anything else to do Brother in law? Why do we have to talk about things that don't exist? Lord, bring no trouble. Oh my mother! - Sorry. Did anything happen to anyone? - Who? - Me? - No - Ok. Brother in law. One minute. Now break it. Lord save us from all the troubles. Keep everyone safe. Did anything happen? Oh my god, it is blood. It is not a good omen. Blood is a good omen. Is it so? Blood is not a good.. Brother in law you don't have talk much. Go lie him down. Blood is not a good sign. (Railway announcement) Yes come. So finally everything happened as planned. In this whole wide world, there isjust one person whom it is difficult to fool... ...and easily fool at the same time and that is wife. Correct. I am kind of scared. We are going to Goa. There are lot of chances to screw up. Like drugs, the alcohol, women and we should not over do anything, Listen we are here to have fun and not to be in a temple. I just want to get there and get done with my worship. Arjun has a point there. We will go to Goa and have decent fun but no fun forgetting our family. And then alcohol, not to be touched,. Look. Don't you see people sitting here? Jerry don't fight.We don't want a fight cherry? Shut up, he might come with soda. Can't you hear it? I asked you. Can people sitting down just move away, I need to pee. What non sense is it? Is passing urine non sense? If you don't want urine falling on your head, move. Passing urine where I sit and drink is my hobby. Hold him. Get hold of him. I will hold it myself, you don't have to hold me. How bad is this? One can't even sit and pee by himself. Please don't make this place dirty, I will take you to the toilet. Toilet won't be these spacious. We asked you to go and pee there. Jerry, don't create a ruckus. We will just move there. I am already scared. What is your name? -Arjun. Arjun? Your name should have been Sahadevan. You don't have the charm of Arjun My name is Tanni. Sorry, Sunny Abraham. Where are you off to? - Why do you have to know that? Where are you off to? - Goa. To Goa? Then I am going to Goa. - Coming to Goa? Not coming to, but going to Goa. Brother, are you mad? Good. You are smart. Had booked my tickets to Bombay. Now the plan has changed, I will come with you to Goa. We will have a fun. I was afraid some decent people would come... ...and sit in this but now I am at peace. Brother, can you sit somewhere else? Please! Do you know who I am? I am advocate Jerry Thomas. I will put you behind the bars. Don't get upset. You mustached guy. Go sit somewhere else. Who is the mustached guy? Who is it? - It is me. What is wrong with the Mustache? Who are you? - I am nobody. If you want to kick someone, this is the way you do it. And if you scare someone like that, not even the LKG kids will be afraid of you. Answer the Phone. That is your phone, mustache sir. Your phone is ringing. Have you seen performance? - What? Have you seen performance? - No? Then watch it. Hello wife. Who are you to ask where I am? I am in the Netravati Express on my way to Goa. In the A C Coach. What will you do to me? There are three beautiful women with me. I just kissed one. The one who orders is the husband, if you order your husband then.... What is it? I wasjust tickling you. The beautiful woman was ticking me. I am high, I have drunk six bottles. Brother...Brother.... Were you actually being rude to your wife? Can anyone be so rude to their wives? You can only be rude with your wife. If you go and be pissed with someone else, they will break your teeth. Although I didn't like your style but I liked you confidence. Being rude to your wife like this is rare. It is a client. Do you want me to speak? - No. Hello, tell me madam. You told me that you wanted evidence against... ...my husband to give him a divorce notice. Yes. Did you get the evidence? Yes, today my husband is traveling with three women... ...on Netravati Express to Goa. In the second AC compartment. Madam, your husband's name is Sunny Abraham. Yes, it was there in the petition. Yes it was there. Isn't he very ugly? No.. Not that ugly. He is just a bit dark. Beard? - Yes, he never shaves. And a Jacket. - Yes that is what I hate the most. He pees wherever he gets drunk? Isn't it? - Yeah. He is. How do you know? If it is so, I am quitting this case and joining the opposition. Do you know something? My wife has given our divorce case to him. That was awesome my son. When your wife spoke about you, I was a fan of yours. So we can share our happiness. Sorry brother, but we cannot have this. We cannot have anything but this. This is a brother's request. Hey it is a brother's request. Let's get a bit drunk Sorry brother, don't be upset. We have some policies. How many policies do you want? I have friends in LIC. His grandmother's policy. The only thing that gives you company in this whole wide world. True, let us give him some company. BrotherAIcohol is poison. Even I am like your Gurudev. Alcohol removes all your sorrow. Who blames alcohol? The ones who does not drink. Do one thing. Drink some. Tell me if it is good or bad? If you think it is bad, I won't force you again. Advocate, do you want some? - No I don't want sir. Sure? - Sure sir. In that case... ...I heard about your plan to travel alone Goa without informing your wives. I will call them and inform. I will drink it sir. Will you? But you said you don't want. He is a good boy. He will drink it. Can we drink standing out? Isn't it to wash it away in the wash basin? No sir, this is just a beginning so thought we would need some fresh air. That is fair enough. I will smell it when you are back. Don't make me a fool. He is such a.. Do not throw away the drinking water. Take your hands off me. Hey, listen I am getting down at the next station and going back. Oh God, I have never even drank Cola... ...and he is trying to make me drink Alcohol. At least he is not trying to teach you. You drink man. But what he is saying is right. - What? No matter how tempted we are, we should not let go off our identity. What identity do we have, who are afraid of their wives? The noodle haired guy abused his wife brilliantly. Felt tempted. That is the power of alcohol. We are human beings too. Don't we have to abuse our wives once in a while? What are you thinking? Abuses? My taste buds have died because of all the temple blessing. I am searching for new tastes. Do not disturb. Here is a TT. Everything is ruined, here is the TT. Oh alright, you are drinking alcohol in the train. Do not throw the proof. According to the Indian Railway act 145, all three of you are inside. Where is the police? - Please listen to me. I am not the owner of this one. I am a TT. Trying to fool Nadar. We are going to be Jailed. My life is ruined. How will I face her? I don't want to live anymore. Get hold of him, - I want to jump. Don't Jump. If you jump I will kill you. I won't let you jump. We cannot punish the dead. Somebody forced us to have alcohol. The problem started when we got in. That is why we escaped and got here. Who is he? - Come sir, we will show you. Here. I will show him. Where is he? - There Sarala, I have told you so many times not to enter the AC compartment. Sir, it is not a woman. It is a man. Sir, he is not paying any attention. Uncultured fellow. He is getting drunk. Getting drunk in the train. Sunny.... It will spill. - I won't spill it. You said you will arrest him. If the DGP breaks the traffic rule, will the SI charge a case? No, that won't happen. Where did you get these fools from? Leave all that where are you off to? To Bombay - Why? For an ad films shoot. When I got into the train, I learnt that it was shelved. So these guys insisted that I accompany them for fun in Goa. That is a lie. Forget that, so you found these guys in the train. - Yes. So what happened to the two guys whom you met last time on the train? They will get out on bail next week. Don't say that, they arejust starting. I am saying, they will improve. Give it to me. If you don't drink. I will file a case stating that you got drunk. Drink. I will file a case. What? - Awoman is bathing. Sunny, make way. I haven't seen a woman bathing in a long time. That is gone. You make them understand. Is that law point correct? I forgot. Your pictures will be featured in the newspaper... ...and you will be shown live on the TV. Do you want? No. I was waiting for some pressure. The words did it. Sir, please pour some into this Milk vessel Nobody with a name Deepu as boarded this. Where did the one that I poured earlier go? I poured that down.. My throat. Is there another bottle Sunny? - Yes, these is. Why is he laughing? Is it tickling him? Alcohol does tickle on its way down. Smart. Need more. I am talking to you like a father, drink it. Drank. Alcohol improves your vision. You can see one thing as two. Now I can see it as four. Double power. Do you want power or not? You want power? You all want me to drink. I don't want it. If he doesn't need it, it is ok. I will drink his share TT. You don't have to drink it, I will drink it. Your wish. See, you know what will happen if you don't drink it. 6 months.... Son, you drink it. When it goes down, there is bit of slogans. Isn't there some relief now? What do you think now? Can have one more. A musical note. Lyrics of Dakshina Moorthy. Yesudas and kids give the music. Let the song begin. Yesudas sings this song for Musical Festivals. Do you want to go to the toilet? It is ok you don't have to be sad. Leave it, tears are a part of alcohol My child why do you have to feel so guilty about it? - Get lost. Get lost you dog I am not crying because I am guilty... ...but because I have never tasted such a great thing so far. I am suffocating - Why? Because by drinking alcohol I have cheated my wife. Never, A wife is someone who see happiness in her husband's happiness. What a philosophy Aren't we happy that we got drunk? So shouldn't our wives be happy in our happiness? That is correct. So what you did, would that be cheating? No. Who is the teacher? Teacher.. Please don't make noise. If the passengers nearby complains my job will be lost. All this is not to be done here. It is against the law. So what about you? - I just had to give you company. Even we had it for company. - That is what I said had it for company.. Whose phone is this? So if we have it company, it is ok. - Yes it is ok Tina! Is that a hook up? - No, it is my wife. Is your phone on Vibrator? - No, he is nervous. Let it do a round. Ok let us drink another round. Don't add water. Pour me some. Not that, let the phone ring a round. Will get sometime to think. Let me think. What if I answer the call and say that you are not around? Don't be afraid. Mobile phone invention was a good think for liars like us. We can say that we are in Kochi when we are in Kozhikode. When we are flirting with some girls, we can say that we are having a tea. My wife always advices me not to drink so much tea. A man who can lie the best is the man who can be a good husband. My father was like that. Where is yourfather now? My mother poisoned my father and killed. Truth? - Yeah What poison was that... According to Teena I have reached the airport... ...and must be on my way to the institution in the car. She is calling again. Answer it. Just say things as we enact. Keep it on loud speaker. Jerry,where have you reached? Train..ing.. I am in the car Oh lord. What was that Oh lord for? A coconut fell from... - Coconut.. Your dad.. God is the one who does everything. I wanted to tell you something that would surprise you. She knows everything. In that case Abhirami would know everything. I will be sick of rolling now. I will die. Hey idiot, ask her what is it? What is it? I made some tea What did she say she made? - Tea. Honestly? - Yes, Honestly. I am trying to make the bread for dinner. Eat it safely. I met Veena and Abhirami at the shopping mall. What was that sound? The vehicle just skidded. What nonsense is this? My mistake sir And what happened after that? Nothing. I didn't tell them about your trip Living without you, I miss your love and attention. Please come back soon after your training. Did you say wife? Will he say father after sometime? Why aren't you giving it back? Because there are people around. As if we are in a Maramon convention? People? - I meant driver. Where do you have to go? - Just go ahead. Just think that I gave it to you. She is a poorthing. I couldn't even give her back the kiss. Life is just once, you have to enjoy the life. It has been long since you are singing this song, what is the matter? Long time back, I was with such a group. I was TT with Number 20 Madras mail. A Tonykuttan and friends. What celebration was that? In the next cabin, Mammotty was there. Mammooty? That reminds me I have something that I have saved as a treasure. Mammuka! Show it to me. It was all fun. That day they sang a song. "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" One minute, sing again. "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "The Blue Sky's , the army of cloud's Down came the lucky pot" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "The lucky pot that fell and broke" "Whoever made a necklace out of it" "The lucky pot that fell and broke" "Whoever made a necklace out of it" "On the shores, in the mud house. The beauty is blowing the fire" "A thousands hand, or the earth's child Who will make the shield out of gold" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "Have unwrapped the mist" "The locks have woken to the morning" "Have unwrapped the mist" "The locks have woken to the morning" "The stars like a lamp cluster Or like the a bunch of flowers" "Who is that woman Who came in that golden palanquin" "Is she a golden princess" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "The Blue Sky's , the army of cloud's Down came the lucky pot" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" What is this place? - Kasargod The beginning is good. His company is good. Shall we have some tea? Would it ruin? No it has been three to four hours now Come fast. You got to help us. I understand but there are no vacant seats. Sir please. We have to join today We cannot travel in the ordinary compartment. I told you that the seats are full. Don't say that sir, if we don't reach there tomorrow. We will lose ourjobs. Don't you understand Malayalam? Sir, to be honest. Without the beard, you look like Sachin Tendulkar. We will adjust the seat. This is the 100th person saying this.. Sachin Tendulkar...Sachin Tendulkar... What is this? Babes. - They are good Nair, give me a tea Sir, the tickets? - What tickets? You said that you will adjust the tickets. Don't count on that. You said that I look Sachin to please me. I did the same by saying that I will give you tickets. Right afterthis, there is Rajadhani. Board that one. Sir, please don't say that. Go. Go. What is the problem? They are the tail kids working in Goa. What do you mean by tail kids? That means they will go about to do anything Anything? - Yes. Then why did you move them away With regards to me, they should be at least 45 Move away Nair give me that tea Look at the poor things sitting without company. Anyways we are going to Goa, why don't we go having all the fun Didn't get you. Earlier I was afraid of looking at a woman's face... ...but now I am confident to do anything. Even me What about you? Even me but going with the women... When did we plan to go to Goa? On the day of prayers. Yes, all this is god will. We should not tamper god's will. No. Shall we approach? - Yes, let's go. Call the god. You call the god. I will call them Excuse me, are you going to Goa? We over heard. Ticket is not an issue, we can arrange. Thank you. That will be a great help. Oh the train is leaving. Leave me. Sir you will have to do us a favor for the last time What is that? We have decided to give those girls our berth... ...you have shut your eyes Nadar sir. Me and close my eyes? Leave me.. Will bring a bottle. You won't forget that, will you? - No.. This is AC compartment, if there is an inspection... ...I will be transferred to Gokarna and there will be nobody to help me. - We will sleep in front of the toilet. But you will bring the bottle, right? - Yes. When Sunny wakes up. Tell him that I got down at Mangalapuram Please bring a bottle of wine. She just gave birth to a child. Ok. I have arranged everything. A bit tall but then it is ok.... I will hold the baggage. I will carry it. Come. To be honest, that is why I didn't marry... Come in, consider it your own home. Sunnycha, let the women sleep here. We will sleep outside. But who is this? He is someone important to us. Naive! Might have been your father! I'll take care of everything. Hello, just get up. No body touching! Sunnycha, get up. Who? What? Who are all of you women? These are our... achayan can see them as your sisters, right? Come here, I need to tell you something. What's wrong with you people? Just come here. Tell me what the matter is. Tell what the matter is. Why are you... Since when start being so angry towards women? When the effect of alcohol wears off, I'll be furious with women. Achayan should cooperate. What are you saying I should do? We promised we would give them our berth. Our berth? Who said so? I won't give my berth! Oh, you needn't give yours. Ours can be given, right? So, where will you sleep? We will sleep outside. So, me and women? And get my chastity ruined? You won't lose what you don't have. They are young girls. They don't know anything. I won't lose my chastity, right? Nothing. You will be more like a fatherfigure. Ok, ok, come come come. Can someone become a father within a night? They might say they solved it. He got really scared when I got angry. He is very scared of my anger. Hey, move. I want the lower berth. One berth shouldn't walk! Does anyone have objection? Hey, no. No. You go sleep. Should I help you in getting on to your berth? This is our berth, we'll sleep here. What? I meant, you sleep here. This is my blanket, you can use, if you want. It might stink a bit. It's mine, give it here. Get out, get out. Yes, yes. Go sleep, kids, go. Come and sleep. People come in at the dead of night, to disturb others! We'll see later. See you. Oh, can't say...there are so many stories like this. Once, a Hindi movie, shooting happening at Switzerland... song, song. Sharukh Khan is the hero. Sharukh Khan? He is lying down like this... - Juhi Chawla on his lap. It's a kissing scene, - give me a kiss give me a kiss. Not smart enough. Finally, I fixed. One tight close, one wide long. I should take, right? The stupid director came in between. No use of saying. He spoke some nonsense, I gave him back properly Give me your hand! Isn't he director the important person in a movie? That's simply said. The cameraman is everything. Cameraman is the one who decides, he is the one who takes everything. Can a shot be taken without a camera? Ya, that is the problem. Didn't all of you sleep? We forgot our mobile phones, that's why. Oh, all three of you? Why did you say they are not good to be spoken to, they aren't right? They are all decent people. Oh no, when did we say all that? Don't believe what he is saying. It's his trick. Yes. Ah, let it be. I wasn't feeling sleepy. So, thought I'd sit and talk to them. My perceptions about ladies have changed. Without women, world does not exist. Tell us the remaining story. Ya, tell the story. So, where did we stop? Don't you go to the toilet at night? Hey, what are you doing? No, I was just asking where she gets her hair cut. Go, go. Go. Let me leave. I'm taking this. Draw the curtain and leave! Close, close. Ya, this director. He's been running around a lot. -And, right behind him, me. -Around 1, 1 half or 3 kms. Oh, Abhirami, I'll roll. Leave, we reached Goa. Here. Hold mine, also. No, I'll come. Careful. It's been a long time since I travelled in a train. I usually travel only by flight. Just for a change. I'll cut you. Down, go down. Put your knife down. Don't come forward, go down. If you take one step further, I'll finish the girl. I hit a producer in this style, long back. This is my place. If someone comes to play over here, I won't leave anyone. This is CI Imran Khalid. Take him. Go! He is a very dangerous man. We don't know Hindi well, sir. We are from Kerala. Oh, you are Malayalis, huh? It'sjust been one week since I took charge here. I got a transfer and came in order to clean up Goa. Even if it is my relative who creates problems, I will break his bones! -And that thing you did with your leg, I liked that! I used to make fights on movie sets. It's a variant of it. No, no. To pull them back during a fight... Goa is one of the best tourist spots. And has enough problems, too Don't get into trouble If a Malayali is the one responsible, I'll hit them extra. Understood? Understood, sir. So, let us leave. So, let you leave. Fine. I'll call you. Welcome to Goa. Get in, I was watching everything. I understood everyone's taste. Taste? What taste? If you want to make your Goa trip an unforgettable one, get into my car. - Or if you just want to drink and go around Goa simply, - then find another car. Hey Mr., for us, just seeing around Goa is... Not enough. Not enough. Not enough. Start the vehicle! Hey, look. A foreigner lady wearing underwear. There are people here who don't wear it as well. My dear sirs, massage, health club, pub, whatever you want, you can ask this Vasco without any shame. I'll arrange it. Vasco, the name is good. My real name was Vasu Kollanjampally. When I came to Goa, made it stylish and changed to Vasco. Vasco, Vasco, is there massage over here, for real? You're asking if there's massage in Goa? - That's the only thing over here! Then, let's go for a massage and carry on... True! Last week, while making a masala dosa for Tina, - I had thought about massage. - Be patient, we have lots of time! Get out, get out, let me see. Sirs, should I stay or go and... What about the luggage? They will take it. So, we will just freshen up and get ready. - You roam around and get back. Sir, keep my card. Call me if there's anything urgent. Urgent meaning? - Urgent meaning... Will surely call. Nice resort, right? Looks like Kottiyoor temple. Happy chicken days, sorry, holidays. My God! Foreign man, I should have been born as you! Beautiful underwear! Brother, Vasco da Gama, Columbus .. -And all must have set out to see the world like this, - right? Because they couldn't beartheir wives? They must also have met a Sunnychan on the way. And going around the country must have turned into.. - Going around the world. Notjust in the bedroom at home, - I want to sleep in the hotel's suite room, too. Tomorrow, I don't have to roll around the temple! I don't have to make food. I don't have to study. From where did I hear a voice like it had swallowed an echo? Does he have a daughter? Come, let's check. Hello. Hello, daughter, can you hear? Can you hear? This is me, your Sunnychan. Sunnycha... Where are you now? We are on duty now. If you're free tomorrow, come over. We'll have a good time. And, there are lots more stories to tell. The story of the first movie's producer beating is really interesting. Will you come? Ok, ok. We'll come. Ok,ok, ok. Silly girls. Is it them? Who? The 3 ladies we met in the train... They will come tomorrow. Not IAS, this technique is what I want to study. Achayan's technique of making girls fall. It's not fairness and rosiness, now, girls like dark and bearded people. Then why didn't your wife like you? That was a good one. What? Nothing. Think you said something. It's him... Even I felt like he said something. What is it? Nothing. What is it? "Forthe blue, blue sea, the sandy shore is the apple of her eyes" "For the rainy clouds up above, The shore is a lover" "Forthe blue, blue sea, the sandy shore is the apple of her eyes" "For the rainy clouds up above, The shore is a lover" "For us, who come with dreams, The shore belongs to us" "A shore set by heaven, where love is met" "Forthe blue, blue sea, the sandy shore is the apple of her eyes" "For the rainy clouds up above, The shore is a lover" "Isn't there an inner coolness for company" "Haven't we reached youth again" "Let's fly off with this sly grin" "Isn't there an inner coolness for company" "Haven't we reached youth again" "Let's fly off with this sly grin" "Good days and nights" "On the milky shore of this ocean-depth" "Let's spend as much, friends" "Let's flow like a cool wave" "For lifetime on earth is just a vacation" "Forthe blue, blue sea, the sandy shore is the apple of her eyes" "Isn't this play dangerous, Isn't it fire in the heart" "Let's nestle here, weaving many false stories" "Isn't this play dangerous, Isn't it fire in the heart" "Let's nestle here, weaving many false stories" "Life on earth is like the sunlight of dawn" "Life on earth is like the sunlight of dawn" "When kissed by youth, it's as beautiful as a snowflake" "As the rain fades off, in your small room, everything is just a sensation" "Forthe blue, blue sea, the sandy shore is the apple of her eyes" " Forthe rainy clouds up above, The shore is a lover" "For us, who come with dreams, The shore belongs to us" "A shore set by heaven, where love is met" That's why we haven't even married. We're leaving, duty starts at 7 o clock. Ok, see you, see you. Come. Are you Malayalis? Then, you can speak in Malayalam. No problem. I will try. But my Malayalam is not so fluent. You tell. Goa is the most beautiful place in India. Right! What is India, before Goa! That's exactly why we and our friends came to Goa to have fun. I, along with my friends and their girlfriends, are enjoying Goa. If there is heaven on earth, it is Goa, Goa, Goa. And, like our famous Vasco said, - for bachelors like us, Goa is like a charming lady. Frankly speaking, for guys who face tensions at home, Goa is the best place to come have fun, hiding away from home. It's because of places like Goa that we remain bachelors even now. If ever we get married, it will be to a Goan beauty. Don't cry, is this the time to cry? Aren't we going to get revenge? We should get to Goa and catch them red-handed, with evidence. Then, a divorce. Yes, I want a divorce too. Wasn't I cheated so badly? See, I gave him more value than any treasure. Even if those husbands come fall at our feet, - there won't be a life together. What is this? What is the problem? Is it abuse or something? You don't have to know all that. Ok, I'm not asking. Where's the ticket? I can ask that. Jerrykuttan... Who are you of Jerry's ? Do you know Jerry? Do I know? I was the TT in the train in which they went to Goa. I can't forget the journey with them. Didn't they finish off 4 bottles? Has Jerry learnt dance? Jerry's dance with that French woman, - I can still see it in front of my eyes. When they got into the train, they were in LKG. - It was with a doctorate that they left. I have taped everything, to keep it safe in memory. If I get my wife now, I'll slap her and tell her 'Fry the dosa' Ohh...don't worry. Only daughter of a big contractor. Spoilt her! It shouldn't be 'fry the dosa' It should be 'Fry the dosa, bitch!' Would Jerry actually talk like this? - If I get my wife right now, I will make her carry a kavadi. Wife, moodevi, I come in search of you... When you make her carry the kavadi,... - trishul (a traditional trident) Should be inserted in her tongue too. Look. I will do none of this. I will...I will kill her! We will shoot all three. This is my new wife. Pour, give, wife. Why are you looking like this? What is this? I'll make noise. Don't open your mouth. Tell the truth, who is that bearded guy? I'll tell. This is Ganja roll. Let me see.A foreigner gave. Try taking a puff. Can you stop? Just throw it. We don't use it. Achayan could experiment. I'll give you one... Throw away the ganja, roll and all. Let's talk. Yes, the time for getting back home is nearing. Before that... Yes, to be honest, when I think of parting with you all... Shouldn't we give them something? Ya, that's what I meant, too. Not that, a gift in the name of our friendship. Sure. Just say what gift you want. A restaurant of our own is our dream. Would we get 2 crores? Ya, she was just joking. Obviously! Dear, please don't say such expensive jokes. We won't bear it. I'll pee and come. I've always hated foreign men. I had noticed you earlier... It's a problem between foreigners, you pulled us, Indians, also into it. Who are these people? They are the ones, sir. As long as this cap is on my head, I won't take nonsense from anyone. All of you will stay on the toilet for a lifetime, I won't leave anyone. Sir, you recognized me...the one who hit with the leg... Sir, we told those Hindi people that you are our friend. Wearing the cap for long will heat up your head, I know, sir. You're going to take bath, sir? To the beach? Sir, take bath and come, we bathed yesterday. Sir, while the shooting of a movie was going on in Australia, like this... Don't talk! Australia! Do you think tourist centers mean places... - where you can smoke up and have fights? I have no thought like that. Call the TV people, newspaper people and everyone. Let this come in the TV, paper and all. Please don't call the TV and paper people, sir. We'll fall at yourfeet. Only if you have hands will you be able to fall at my feet, right? I'll cut off the hands of those who smoked weed. Move aside! I've already fallen at your feet. Do anything to me, please let them go. On Thursday, it's their marriage over here. Eh? Marriage? It's true, sir. They are meant to be husbands and wives. Sir, let me tell you the matter. These people are in love. These guys are rich, these girls are poor. The families of these guys are against the marriage. Sir, you know the problem is there are such obstacles. I haven't married. Good! Sir, - these guys...they have vowed that even if they have to die, .. - They would get married only to the girls they love. Don't say anything, I heard you people saying it. And they decided to get married at the Old Goa Church in Panaji. Any believer can marry over there, right? - That's how his...no, his relative brought me to Goa. For my misfortune, I gave them a bachelors' party yesterday. For that, a foreigner came and gave them weed, saying it is the local roll. That ended us in trouble and we got here. Sir, you should understand something, - these are people who have set out for committed love. They have set out to give a life to poor girls - who are working in restaurants at Goa. If you want to turn their life into darkness by arresting them - and ruining their lives by publicizing it, - God won't leave you. God won't leave you ever. Hairtied up like women, crying like women! Stop! Move aside. Is it true, what he said? Yes. Who among this are you going to get married to? Your wish, sir. Sir, this is his girl. Is it? Ya. What are you doing? I'll give you, bearded fellow! You? Me... What are you doing? His person is this, sir. And you're going to marry... Sir, only one is left, right? So, it has to be her. Yes, I'll take. On the whole, it matches. Yes, it is because they match. Since they match... But where's the certificate? How? Where's the certificate from the church, - the document giving permission to carry on with the marriage? We had given the application but didn't get a return. Then, go get the certificate and return. Till then, they will be here. If you try to fool CI Imran Khalid. I'll go get it. So, brothers, be here. I... Don't go alone. We will also come... Hey, here. Where? There. We could have called them, too, right? Sir, here. Usually, after submitting the application, - it takes 2-3 days to get the permission - to let the marriage happen. But since you are Malayalis, I spoke to the priest, forced him, - convinced him and got it right now. I have great love for Malayalis. So, by Wednesday morning itself, - the bridegrooms and brides will be here, right? Yes, they will reach, they have to, right? Don't worry about the arrangements here, I'll take care of the whole setup. I'll see to arranging the church, wedding clothes, everything. And, finally, a bill will be given. The cash should be given without too much hassle. Jesus! Save us! Leave them. I appreciate this decision of yours. I'll forgive small mistakes of good people. Anyway, my best wishes for your wedding on Thursday. You can go. There's a big heart in this worn out khaki... Go, go, go. I'll also be there at the church for the marriage on Thursday. Sir...won't it be difficult for you? Obstacles come up for good things, right? If something like that happens, I'll also be there for protection. Should be there. What's there to go, everything's gone, right? We called you achayan and gave you the position of a brother. We didn't know you would be so much trouble. I know the difficulty of having married one. And then, you put another one on my head. You create all the trouble and try to escape - with whatever lie comes to your head. You are in a problem yourself, - do you want to put us also in the same situation? We begged you not to create problems at that hotel, right? Can't you hear? We are talking to you. What is it? Don't touch. What will you do if I do? When I poured alcohol and taught all the tricks to guys - who were having candy, - now they get angry at me! Do you know what friendship means? If one of you makes a problem and lands in trouble, - you should stay together, that is friendship. Friendships like this will land you behind bars. Ya, we will forget the past 7-8 days of life. Come. Forthe sake of having drunk together, I'm advising you The CI has noted us. Get out of Goa as soon as possible. Who are you to advise me? What does it matter to you if something happens to me? I'm no one of yours, right? In the position of a brother, it seems. Whose brother? Go. Notjust from Goa, go away from my mind itself. Come. Come. Go What are you thinking, Jerry? No, I feel like we have hurt Sunnychan very badly. Let it be. Let's just think that we haven't met someone like that. We haven't come to Goa at all. What was it when we came... Goa is heaven. It's all nothing. - Your own home is the greatest heaven. I just want to get to Abhirami somehow. I won't blame Tina for anything. I'm longing to sit in Veena's class. I'm longing to roll. I'm longing to get into the kitchen. This is platform no. 2 itself, right? Oh, Tina! Is it? Where? There! Hey, we are at Goa, right? True! Why is she here? Who is that? Brother... did she marry again? Oh! Abhirami! She got married, too? Who are all of them? Why are those two here? It's not just two of them, teacher is also with them. Who is that? Who is it? Who are they? Today, I'II... She made me roll, to get married to him, huh? Calm down. Hey...am I not better looking than them? Hey...am I not better looking than them? Our wives have come to enjoy at Goa, while their husbands were not at home. Don't talk nonsense. Nonsense? According to them, where are we? I'm at Delhi, you at Bangalore and he at Haridwar, right? Ya. With all that in mind, they have also got out, like we did. Betrayers they are, betrayers! Inside those saris and churidars, they were devils. I'll tell you a truth, now The guys we saw along with them, were their boyfriends. Brother, I felt so too. Like we got girlfriends in Goa, they got boyfriends too. So, they must have started drinking, like us, right? I'm going to place my head in front of this train. They won't see you if you go now. We need to catch our wives for betraying us, - along with their boyfriends. I need to know who it is, today itself! They must have got a taxi. Let's do something, let's get a taxi. No, right? Look properly. You'll find from somewhere. Can't find. You've been searching for sometime. I understood. You need good partners to have company, that's it right? Whatever you want, just tell me. Don't be ashamed at all. Shut your mouth! Take the car to some good hotel. So, you're going to select yourself. Let's give him one! I'll accept it willingly. I searched the whole area. I searched, too. Not there. What wrong did we do to them, - forthem to lie to us and come have fun here at Goa? No, we did sin. We loved them, we feared them. Yes, any wife would fear and respect a husband ... - who drinks, comes home and fights. Sunnychan's policy of drinking, - without minding his wife and family, seems better! Take that out. Let me see the name When I saw the people I had a little doubt - but when I see this name, I am sure it is the same thing I got the English newspaper Ancestors were right What belongs to Caesar belongs to Caesar. - What belongs to McDowells belongs to McDowells. Should not bring strangers into our lives What trouble is this now? Come in Who is it? Sir, I am Vasco Vasu you Go. Sir why is there a mood out? Man comes to this earth alone, he leaves alone. Then isn't it better that he lives here alone. Isn't that a logic One of my cousins was just like this. Every time he lost his head, he would sit and talk Sir, I will come later. Wait there. The ones who were with me left me stranded, - may be I am a bit sad about it. That is why I came here. Let the ones who left you just go, Three new people have come. I am not befriending anyone anymore. This is not a guy but some three Malayali women. They are put up in a cottage next to the next one. They were looking for men in the city and on the beach. Are you interested sir? Am I not a man? If you have any doubts, we will sort it out here and then go I don't want to be ashamed there. Let us go. They have just walked in. They might be just changing there dress. I will change the dress for them. Shouldn't I have some work to do? Stop being impatient sir. That is cool. 4 men and 3 women. Should I laugh or cry? What did you say? If they have to go, let them go. My kids cannot leave their brother like this. Can you just leave, - the younger and the elder brothers have got to discuss something I have even bigger things to say. Sunny sir knows about it In the cottage next to the next one, a few ladies have come. The tall girl with curls is perfect for sunny sir. There is a fair one who looks like a bird, even that would suit sir. Then there is one who looks like a hungry horse.... - You can take that one sir. And for you sir, I ... No, you won't be good for him. No, not that. I said I will get a good girl. Can you stop this? We are not in a state to hear this. Vasco, You don't have divide. I will come and take the measurements and decide. You go and I will get drunk and come. They are a bit expensive, carry some extra money. So you people take some rest. I will go and get some rest. Sunny brother, our wives have cheated on us. Just like us, they have come here as well They have come to Goa without telling us. To have fun with other men Sunny brother, we are almost on the verge of crying Ok, can you tell me everything in detail? What happened? So that is the how the situation is. Women. They will slaughter us with a smile. Plead with tears and cheat by tempting by MT Vasudev. Why do they say, 'T ying knot' - because with marriage a woman ties the man down. I see my wedding video everyday and rewind it. You know why? So that I can see hertaking off the ring that she put on me. She walk back and then get into the car and leave forever. We didn't want you to explain things like this.. - But to help us in such a situation. One minute, what if we are buying a rope because - we heard a bull gave birth to a calf Which bull are you talking about? What if we are misunderstanding them? They might have got bored at home - and so they decided to travel to Goa. - What if they are planning to call us from here? I have got drunk a 5 or Let us do one thing. You call your wives. If there is no deceit there then they will tell you that they are in Goa. But if they say that I will chop my hair off. In that case call them Govind. Call call God she should say that she is Goa Yeah she will say that. She won't lie. Hey put that on loudspeaker My husband is calling. Shall I answer Yes answer Put that on Loudspeaker Hail Goddess Tell me Govind How are you Abhirami? Am good. I was just thinking about you Govind. How are the prayers going? It is all good Abhirami. Where are you, are you outside somewhere near the beach? I am in Goa.. Govind's I mean for govind's well being - I am in Krishna Temple. The temple where I make you roll every week, in that temple. There is a special prayer today. I will be going to Teena and Veena's house after this. The prayer has started I will give you a call later. I smash you up. What all did you say? My dear hair, you have a great life ahead Cheats. They don't know that we are in Goa Frauds they don't know that we are in Goa Tomorrow onwards we will find where they are in Goa And then find there lies. And then send them the divorce notice When they get that, they will be disturbed. They will come and beg But we won't give in We should be rock solid. And then we should tell them on the face good bye. Good bye forever What happened? But Abhirami did cheat me. Four times a day Are you paying attention? Yes goes to the temple. This devotion is all fake. Do you know why these women go to temple? To enjoy the statues on the walls on the temples.. And what about my wife taking classes. To mingle with young boys. And what about my wife not doing any work? To maintain their body and attract young men like me We roamed around Goa with Sania but we didn't do anything nasty. Why? Because our hearts are good Say it the other way round. The heart is impure. Just because you didn't find an opportunity the body remains pure. I got an opportunity but I didn't Anyways, they cheated on you. Now there is only one thing to give back. That would be to cheat on them back You guys come Where are you off to? To cheat, Vasco told me - that there are three women getting ready to be cheated upon Let us go and cheat on them We don't want to cheat anyone. I am bored of my life. Life is not to be bored with but to be enjoyed. You just come along, I will cheat from the front. You cheat from behind God created woman from a man's spine, so man has got a right on the woman . So if we didn't have a spine, there would have been no problem. No brother, we don't want this. An eye for an eye. Atooth for a tooth. Cheating for cheating. I don't have a mood to cheat. Brother, they have lost their things I can fix up the thing but it is a bit risky. You are a malayali? When I say you fooling around I knew you must be a malayali Only a Malayali can understand the emotions of another Malayali Don't stand here. Stand there, let me talk to them and figure it out. What is he going to talk Keep it there. There is no charm on their faces, how do I start? Is everything all right? Why is there a sadness on your face? You are becoming a nuisance. I am a malayali, how can I not dive my nose into somebody else issue? Will you leave? Before I leave I wanted to say something I am not sure how to say it A couple of waiters, I meant a couple of guys are waiting. Young guys. Didn't understand. Just for company sake. To have some fun at night. They already look in hurry. Should I call them in. To have some fun We should call the police. Oh ok I think I made a mistake. Forgive me. The male species is like our husbands. One of their nails is long. Got saved What happened? They are a bit forward. What do you mean? They a bit class Which means? It will take some time. What time? Please adjust. Calm down. One Malayali should understand the other. Trust me. Haven't we learnt having been to the police station once? Let us go and sleep We have to find our wives tomorrow morning Hold this thing Don't give such hopes Calm down We are going to leave the job at the Casino The boss didn't even give Jennifer a leave today. He wants to know everything about where we go and what we do Leave thatjob. We will start our own business. To start a business in Goa, we at least need a crore or two. We will start a small business. We are six of us. Like she said, if have to have a family; we have to start a business. How do we get such a big amount? That is not meant for us Let us see. We will find a way Nobody will recognize us if we dress like this Shall we go? We will search the whole of Goa. Hope to find those frauds. My heart says we will find them Lord help us find them They pretty much look like hook ups. They seem like the women that Vasco spoke about Should I try hitting at them. Just stay back. I am losing my control Just stay calm or will kill you We want to see our wives and not some random girls. I am tired. Should we just go to the Palolam beach, there are a lot women there. We have been to 21 hotels. I can't take a step forward It is not because of the 21 hotels but because of the 21 pegs. Now the search for the wives will continue only after a break Once we find them and we have a lifelong break But you are not going to find them. No matter me and my wife have all the differences - but she has a great character. If I am not home, she won't go to Goa and not even out of the house. She will call me even if she has to pee Can I Pee? That is her character If you won't be hurt I will say one more thing. If your wives drink the water thrice a day with which - my wife's feet is washed it will be good for you. Such beautiful is her character. Sunny Brother Sunny brother, did you shift your house to Goa? Why did you ask this? Then how is it possible? That Who is it? She must have stepped in some dirt and has come to wash her feet Who is she? This man's wife Wife. That is not my wife. She cannot come alone to Goa. She is not alone. She has to two lovers with her. Brother she is a woman. She will cry while she laughs. She laugh while she cheats. Don't poke a corpse. I will poke. Don't Will poke. It was such fun to watch when we're getting insane Yes. Brother, now is when you have become our real captain. Pick him up When she couldn't get through directly on the phone, - she must have directly come to seek permission Get down Be careful I will come.. I will hold. What all nonsense was there? - Waterto wash the feet. Phone before she pees. I will order a bottle But then it was unfair that you didn't introduce us to her. Get lost you dog. I have lost my peace. Now is when I have found some peace. It is a joy to watch one more getting pissed off. Can't blame her, the guy was good. We have called you here to discuss an important issue together. We found the details from the TT. Then contacted the college and thereby got in touch with you. Where is my husband, tell me that Didn't we tell you that our husbands are together? We are searching the whole of Goa Don't be offended but it was because of your husband ... - that our husbands have lost their character How can you call someone a man -who acts according to what others say? Who are you talking about? See we are here to decide upon something and not to fight. Tell us if you can be with us on this. Hmmm Alright, so you all are high on drugs. This is the problem with drugs. Once you start crying you keep on crying... ...and once you start laughing you keep on laughing. Now I have come with something for you all to laugh Today, in the noon, I saw the 3 woman living next door searching for men. But then you all did a dirty trick. You all tried to contact these women through the hotel boy. Things got screwed up. Sir, he doesn't know the work. They don't have the experience like me. You see those women and you know they all are gone cases. Stand up and come. Let us go and come back. You are trying to ruin the men around. I won't let any more men to cry here. If we go there the issue will worsen. Hey, come out Hey, come out What are you staring at me? This must be the new way to seduce me. Come seduce me. Seduce me. Seduce. Him! Because of you even the good women ruin their lives You won't understand the sorrow that I and my friends are going through You won't understand You won't Our wives were perfect. They were like jewels. Now they have come to Goa just like you. They are misled because of you. Why aren't you saying anything? Speak He will get us into the station once again. Let us go and call him back. What do you think that men are all morons? That we will come rushing the moment we see your beauty. You and your ... Abhirami... Please forgive me. This drunkard is the reason why it all happened. Shut up you loser I will kill. What are you doing? Leave me. It is all because of the bad upbringing. Let me see if I can better myself. Kill me. Kill me - Come here.. Stop crying. I am not crying. Don't you see her standing there like a stone even after confessing everything. Need some sentiments. Jerry go and present some sentimental law points. Will it go wrong? - We are here. It should not be like the play that was performed in the college The court gets angry when the culprit does wrong and tries to argue. Here we are confessing and also explained the situation. We are waiting for your verdict. Before you pass your verdict, don't forget that... ...even if a thousand culprits go unhurt, an innocent should not be punished. Is it effective? I can't hear anything. I think it is over. In that case do one thing. You go and present some devotional thing. Go. Abhirami, I will say something. All the gods in this world love you. I promise in the name of all the gods we have worshipped together... I promise in the name of all the gods we have worshipped together - if I have cheated you, let the earth devour me now. See the earth didn't devour me. Tell me Abhirami, - am I not pure. Tell me. Come on. Sunny bro he is overdoing it. In that case, you should go. - If delayed, he will say your dialogues too Go All I have to say is I have learnt lesson To teach and to learn, the difference is same as to live and die. Isn't it? Hmm If they still don't understand us then give it to them. Yeah give it to them. Yeah sign it. This is the form for divorce. Yeah sign it. This is the form for divorce. Since it is him, there will be deduction in the fees. Sign as much as you wish to. Since we have to start everything with god. I think Abhirami should start signing. This is our pen Abhirami. It is not an auspicious time, so why don't we wait it is the right time. Let Veena sign Let the eldest one sign. Why should the tail dance when the head is around? Then let the head sign I had already signed. Somebody please sign Stupid guys, don't you understand what they are saying without saying. This relationship between a man and his wife is not destroyed,,, - just by signing a piece of paper Am I not right? This doesn't have any ink Why did you come without informing? So, I am taking our room. You guys take different room. We were about to tell you that. Brother you take a different room, we will take ours. Ok then we will meet tomorrow. Rest at night What was all that oh my lord What was all that oh my lord A big tension just got off our heads .. - And that is the pleasure of our married life True What are they doing here? This is where it was. Do you know her? I do Do you? -Yes. How are you? When did you come? We were about to leave. So ok then, we are in a hurry Why is there shyness? Nothing, what are you doing here? We got ourselves a room here. 311 Oh the one opposite ours. We will be here until the rituals are over. Which rituals? The wedding Ohh. You are getting married. That is nice, Trust me girls, there is no greater joy than being married. And then who are you getting married to? We met them on the train. Oh TT. Are you acting smart? Oh, he is an actor. Which actor is it? Which play? I was talking about our wedding. You only decided in front of the CI. -You are the one who fixed the marriage. Everything was fixed and that is why we are here. Our relatives will be here tomorrow. That was to escape from that case.. And now. You can't play with our lives and escape. Sister Sister, we are going through the most crucial phase of our life. Even us. Please don't ruin this. Please help us. We will do anything. Ok, we will forget everything. Ok.we were scared. Who was scared? You were scared We need 2 crore rs. What? Either marriage orthe money we demanded Get lost You know who I am. Advocate Jerry. - If you try to blackmail me I will put you behind bars Not here, but there in Pujapura. Pujapura or Goa, we will see who is going behind the bars? This is going to be trouble Isn't it CI Imran Khalid sir? Yes Sir, this is Sania. That day in the station. Wedding to be held on Thursday. I got it. I will be there. Was there any resistance from home? Do tell me. I will manage everyone who resists. If you need any help, just call me I will be there. Don't try to escape, our people are around But then.. And.. I even forgot that girl's name. We should tell everything to our wives Get Lost, My Abhirami will Kill herself. I don't think they will buy the story that we tell them. True, I don't think they will understand our situation Doesn't you advocate head has any idea? Yes, let us do one thing. Let us go and think There is nothing to think, let us go.. What? I don't want biscuit. Some biscuits have alcohol content,.. - Have read it in the newspaper. This doesn't have alcohol In that case eat some cutlet. Cutlet has meat and if we eat meat, we start behaving like animals. Hello This tea is for me, you order other tea. We don't want tea. Don't expect anything else from me. Brother come here. Need to talk to you Come here brother What is it? There is some secret there I don't want to listen to any secret that my honey pot can't listen to I have stopped all that Why are you performing Kathakali? Tell me brother what is it? What happened Govind, is there some problem? Problem is that 2.. That we three of us have nothing to say. In that case you can go, I need some private time Go.. Don't do anything wrong. I will pay to get him killed, that family destroyer These kids. Tea? I am afraid kids will ruin their life with alcohol. Drinking What non sense is it? Don't give us any jazz? You ended us in trouble and now that you have your wife, - you don't want anyone else. We are hanging in trouble and we came to tell that, - you were loving your wife with biscuits and cutlets Will you listen to me? You don't have to say anything. You don't have to say anything. Give me a hand. Will give a hand if it is worth, get up and tell us the thing I asked for the hand to get up Here Do you know why I didn't leave my wife and come to you when you came? That is a psychological thing Keeping away you friends and spending some time with your wife... ...and that is the kind of husband women like. A lot of wives hate the friends of their husband Stop it Now tell us a way to get out of the trouble that we are in This is a trap, we have to get out of it smartly. Otherwise it would be a deeper trouble. On one side you have the CI and on the other side Sania and Group... ...and finally your witch like wives. Don't scare us like this. Can we elope to somewhere? That will be trouble, if caught our lives will be ruined. I think there is just one way. Confess everything to the circle inspector. That is a best idea. He would trash us the moment he sees us You don't have to worry about that, I will take care of that. Tomorrow we will drop our wives at the railway station... ...from there either church or police station. We will talk to the CI and explain everything. After that by noon, we will reach the station and by the evening train... ...we will go back. So if we don't go to the station with our wives to the station... ...won't they have doubts? Just tell them a believable lie. We are still suffering because of all the lies we told. Damn it, this is the last lie to end all our lies and problems Tell them that we are going to a church or a temple to confess... ...or pray for the wrongs we have done to them Poor wives they will believe that and all our problems will be solved What happened, aren't you sleepy? When I am too happy I can't sleep But there seems to be some tension? That is the side effect of being too happy Why are we just being asked to go to the railway station early in the morning? Can't we go together? Told you, need to compensate for all the wrongs we have done. If we are around, it will be shameful for you. Right? - Yes. With this, all the problems will be solved? The problems will be solved with the wedding of the kids. But we don't have kids? But then we need to have kids. Shouldn't we think about it? Shouldn't we. Hey Govind Where were you? We were waiting for so long I had to lie something to Abhirami to escape from there We have to meet the CI before he goes to the Church If we tell him everything, are we sure nothing will go wrong There is nothing wrong. I will prepare the script for the same, Please update Now I am at peace. Everything will be sorted out now. What, are you trying to escape? Everything is drowned We aren't scared of you. I will give you one more chance. Give me the money and end this Or the problem will be grave - What problem will be grave. The worst that can happen is that their wives will divorce them Dear sisters, don't trouble us - Then get us the money. What money are you talking about? Let mejust get done with this call and I will show you Who is it? - CI Imran Khalid Brother is everyone ready Well, we are getting out sir. Get ready. Your kids' wedding is to be held under police protection Why is it? If there is any problem from the home then we might need the police. Three vehicles are standing outside that will escort you to the church I will go to the quarters and reach there Are the girls around there? Which? Yes. Get ready and reach. I have made all the arrangements from my end. But sir.... What, is there something wrong? Tell me I will trash everyone That is not sir. But... Then go quickly to the Church Where are you, we are waiting outside the resort I will be there now. They are waiting. Did you hear they are waiting If you love your life don't come to the church So everything as said, - you wait at the railway station and we will come back after all the rituals You can see the Madgaon station by then Ok then. The church has reached for real, - will we have to marry them for real as well. I don't know This is for the first time that I am feeling scared ... - while being at a church Sunny Brother, things are going out of hand. Can you call the CI? I am doing so Come outside Quickly everyone get down You also get ready The brides and the grooms have reached Sir, we have prepared everything. They just need to tie the garland Leave me, I don't want this This is like taking the kids to join LKG Ask CI sirto come soon CI sir will come before wedding What is he saying? That CI will come before marriage Who are all these? Have they come for the prayers No, they have come for the wedding. I have invited everyone from the neighborhood Why? What is a wedding without people? Like you asked that day sir, - I have arranged for everything along with the dress. The rooms are ready, go get ready I will go and call the priest. What did the sir said that day? Nothing. The wedding will not take place. Let the CI come, I will talk to him and sort this out. I am an expert at pleading Then to the railway station Are you sure? It is me who is saying it. Be confident. Go and change your clothes soon. I will kill you This church is old, it has a pungent smell Stop talking about the antics and call the CI, man. Man? Brother. Please call I just called CI, will call again. Let him come into some range This is going to end up us in some trouble. I think we are already in trouble There is no problem. - Let the CI come, I will talk to him and sort this out Dress up smartly and be ready And yes, in a situation we should try to build our will power. Hey, I am going to escape. If you are coming then come along - The rest we will see then I am coming What is this? We are not ready to fool around with our lives Come here We will go there later. It is the cemetery there What are the grooms doing behind the church? Happy, I am happy. My blessings are with you Sir, there is a small problem. If we don't tell this now, it will be a big problem Your marriage is a matter of self respect to me Not because you are a malayali - but because there is a goodness behind your decision - and that is why I have taken it as my own work Go, Go. I told you we all will get trapped I played this game for all of us. Don't blamejust me for this They are not talking anything about the money What if they really want to get married to us? We haven't got the money and we will end up in the trouble Will you stop this? What is your decision? We are dragged into this trouble and sunny brother escaped Look, let us plead to him forthe last time. I am not going to beg but let us talk to him face to face We will tell. I don't want to hear anything. Trash him and break his bones and put him in the lock up. He is asking them to be put in the lock up without underwear. In that case I don't have a problem Why? Because, after marriage I wear the traditional undergarment Alright, the rest I will come and give. It is a case of fraud, they all fake some or the other role. What? What is it? Seems like you have to say something We should lose our confidence. Come What is it? Sirthey have to say something Say it. This... what do you think about our dressing Does the dressing look fine? The black always suited us So you are asking random questions to the CI? The ones you have to flirt and be romantic are here. Here they come. CI sir, it is time to tie the knot. Hey... Hey, go there Come closer. Stand more close. Are you brides ready to share the life's happiness, sorrow, growth and downfall? What is he saying? Are you brides ready to share the life's happiness, sorrow, growth and downfall? That is what he asked. - Yes Are you grooms also ready? Are you grooms also ready? No. We are not ready. They said that they are not ready. What? In front of the lord who was crucified to save the truth... ...we want to tell the truth as it is. Punish us with the belt, give us the thorn crown or nail us for what we say But we are not ready This is the punishment that god has given us for cheating our wives. This confession in front of the lord What is all these? Sir, Father.. We all are married. We have three kind and good wives So even if the head goes, we won't get married to these women. These three women are fraud, father. How can you say that? You have agreed to marry these three women. He is the reason for all the trouble. He is. He is. He is the one who cheated all of us. So all of you were playing a drama here. Tie the Knot. No. We won't Look at these women and then say you won't Abhirami, it is her standing here. Tina and Abhirami These are my .. No, this is my wife. This is mine This is the only one. Yes, sir. They are their real wives Yes, sir. They are their real wives Stupid guys. Our wives knew everything. When we were in trouble, they were taking everything forward We know everything. What our husbands did was wrong. But there were mistakes from your end as well Either marriage or the money we have demanded So this is a trap This is a trap they created, let our husbands take some tension Let them not know that we know this These girls will try to trap our husbands and we will trap these girls. So you knew everything They didn't go to the railway station, instead they came to the church. They were not alone. The Sania Group was with them along with their lovers Our wives inquired about the Sania group... ...and they found details about their lovers. They found the guys across Goa and presented these girls trap to them. Even Sania group was scared that things are going out of hand... ...with the church and the wedding closing in That is when our wives along with these girls' lovers came to the church. And that is when they realized that they were trapped. Our wives trapped them more smartly than the way they trapped us. I went to slap these girls and saw our wives forgiving them. So things are all sorted out. And therefore thought I should give a twist to the end of the whole situation. Forgive me Will just twist a twist to you... Sir, we seek forgiveness forthe wrong that our husbands did. Sir, even if we die, we wont come to Goa What is wrong with Goa? You should come. You should come again but not by fooling your wives... ...instead bring your wives along and that too happily And then, letting you go without punishing anyone... ...for all the trouble it would be a shame for Goa police. Since you are the master mind behind all these... Crop your hair, take a bath, come and meet me at the station... ...and then you may go. Do you have any problem? -Am happy So everyone is here. Speaking like a brother to you, I have to say this. Train is a public transport. Do not behave in a manner that would disturb otherfellow passengers. Do not drink or do not force anyone to drink in the train. If someone does all of these.. Oh my god Come sir. My wife has just delivered. Must be the TT in the train. Who is he? Who is he? Who? - Someone Someone's someone They know the song Is it Ok? - Ok Lal brother, just move away. "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "The Blue Sky's , the army of cloud's Down came the lucky pot" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "The lucky pot that fell and broke, Whoever made a necklace out of it" "The lucky pot that fell and broke, Whoever made a necklace out of it" "On the shores, in the mud house. The beauty is blowing the fire" "A thousands hand, or the earth's child Who will make the shield out of gold" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "Have unwrapped the mist, The locks have woken to the morning" "Have unwrapped the mist, The locks have woken to the morning" "The stars like a lamp cluster Or like the a bunch of flowers" "Who is that woman Who came in that golden palanquin" "Is she a golden princess" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly" "The Blue Sky's , the army of cloud's Down came the lucky pot" "Beyond the jungle flower groove, The gold melted away that much" "The wind wearing the Shield Vanished away so quickly"
