 

                        Subtitle by : Frangki Lengkong Do something Please, don't make this any harder then it is too much blood They are both in danger now Tell me what is happening Ellen, I don't want you to push Don't push it's going to be alright He is coming Ellen, Stop pushing What's going on !? Ellen, No ... NO DON'T PUSH ! Ellen, ELLEN ? Wake Up ! No, NOOO She will never be able to have a child. No, but she is alive You did your best Why do bad things happen to good people? I don't know. Who am I to question God ? I can feel it in my bones that this is just the beginning I am ... Gabriel It started about 10 years ago With the death of a baby After that, the enemy just rooted in. The whole town is cursed drought, disease, poverty, failed businesses Hopelessness and faithlessness So this is it It was good the get out of Promise Even if it was just for a night Your sisters kids totally drive me crazy At least she has kids What do you think about exploring other options ? No ! Just stop it with that. Just let that go and move on. thats them It will be hard for them to accept you the way you are. He told me to bring my mat, and now I know why. This is what I will be to them. Just a boy. A boy with a mat in a town that has lost its faith I'm sorry NOO ! Are you OK ? I'm Sorry I didn't even see you I'm OK I am not hurt Are you sure ? How did you get out here in the middle of nowhere I walked here The nearest town is 30 miles away Do you live in Promise ? That's where I am going Yeah we do Can we call your parents ? I don't have any Then who do we call for you ? You don't need to call anyone. I am not lost I am Gabe Nice to meet you My name is Ellen and this is Joe Lets get you in the car You scared me to death I didn't see you Could have been really bad, thanks God. I'm just looking for hope Wrong town son. Doc says he will meet us at his house. Brody Sorry, I don't have a choice Brody please no It's the bank You got 7 days Hey Sheriff Brody Did you catch any bad guys today ? Not today I have to go. The Murphys picked up a runaway or something outside the town I'm real sorry Are you OK mama ? We are OK baby I don't see any bones sticking out. that's a good thing. Doc, this is Gabe Hello Gabe Come on in Can you get up on that table ? Let's take a look at you Take a look at my finger Ellen, would you mind getting him some water I'm OK really, just hot Ellen, Joe How is he doing doc ? He is fine, just a little overheated Do you mind if I ask you a few questions ? No Sir What is your last name ? I don't have one No last name ? No Sir You can't remember it ? I just don't have one Gabe, I am here to help you you don't have to be afraid to talk to me I'm not afraid, but I am telling you the truth. I don't have one. Sheriff please, this town is broken, it needs help. What ? I know your struggles, the pain you are in Let me help Doc, you are a great man It wasn't your fault God had other plans Miss Ellen, Miser Joe Your loss has left you both empty... ...angry... ...sad But I need to tell you, your son is amazing. He knows you both and know ... he sings with the angels I am here to help please let me How could you know any of this ? My time here will be short He can stay with us Brody is that OK ? euhm, yeah This is Brody OK, I will be right there I got to go. It's OK if he stays with you for now We will figure this out later I Guess it's settled then, he stays with you. Take him home Gabe ? You are ... special So are you So am I It feels good in here It's really hot outside Welcome to Texas in the summer Do you have any other clothes with you ? No Ma'am, just this Well, first we need to get you cleaned up. Joe ? Will you make some Peanut Butter and Jelly I'll get him cleaned up This is where you will stay It's nice You are pretty dirty mister I will fill you a bath and wash your clothes and tomorrow we will get you some new ones Gabe ? are you OK ? He is not here He left right after I called Did he hurt you ? No Brody He didn't hurt me It wasn't his fault He was drinking again You know how hard it has been No work No money Where is he ? Please, just talk with him Please don't arrest him Not today I won't arrest him ... today But this needs to stop He needs help We just need out of this godforsaken town. I want Chad to call me I am serious Karen If he doesn't call me I will arrest him He's so sweet I don't understand how he ... could just appear out of nowhere How could he know those things He knew things I believe him we'll see what Brody turns up It's a little big Your clothes will be ready in a little bit Here, my famous PB & J PB & ... ? J Jelly Peanut butter and jelly The must famous sandwich in the world I knew that was coming Mister mayor George How are we doing ? Not so good i'm afraid Folks are moving out Things are bad everywhere, but it just seems worse here in Promise Mister mayor, i'm an old man I have seen the ups and downs If we can't get water to the crops i'm finished That's what I got to leave my kids I know. We haven't had a drop of rain in months and why they cut us off when the lake levels got low. I argued whit the legislators until I was blue in the face It's not your fault It's this town ... ... people have just lost hope and when people lose hope, they loose everything Let's not loose hope We'll try George I'm tired this old man is going home Have a good evening and get some rest Hi Camrynn What !? Sorry, I was just seeing if you need any help If I need help, I'll ask ! OK Sorry I have your clothes Is that what you use the mat for Yes, a prayermat Why is that ? It's a reminder that I NEED to talk to God Do You ? What ? Talk to God We go to church I know that, but do you talk to God ? Not really Do you want to ? I know he would love to hear from you I wouldn't even know what to do He knows your heart Just talk Like we talk How are you really Gabe ? He is pleased He heard me I felt it If we come to him, in a true authentic prayer ... ... he will listen I'd like to make one of these mats for myself I think you should make them for the world Nothing is to big for God God created the earth and his word should be spread throughout it Our sewing group We have a group of women who sew and can make these mats we could even sell them And in doing so, people will start talking to HIM And that is what is the most important God will bless your work That would really help Promise I would like to meet the town Let's go tell Joe Wait This is gonna be intresting, who is the new kid Mister Joe Don't worry about explaining me I'm just a kid Let's go Hey Wilma Ellen, Joe, where have you been ? You are usualy the first ones here We had a busy day today, but better late then never, right ? Who is this handsome young man ? Hi, I'm Gabe Nice to meet you Gabe Are you working tonight or just having fun ? I am so tired of writing all these depressing stories abou this town If I could just find one good human intrest piece Then I would have a frontpage story Hello, can everyone hear me ? We're gonna have some fun tonight We got some great food thanks to mom of mom's cafe and we're gonna have some great music in a little while I'm gonna turn it over to pastor Ford What we are here for tonight is fellowship The Lord knows, Promise has hit on some hard times so before we begin let's pray Lord we just thank you for this town and the people in it Bless them Bless this town The list of blessings we need is long Lord But for this moment, we just ask that you let us free of the bondage of Promise And all Gods children said ... Amen Lord, you brought him here. I hope that i am around to see what you're gonna do with him Can I sit with you ? ofcourse you can My name is Gabe I know My name is Wesley how do you know my name ? I just do What are you doing out here ? I'm waiting for the rain How do you know it's gonna rain ? You're here I can't make it rain I know, God can You're here for him You're pretty awesome Wesley I know that to See you later Wesley Bye Gabe There you are I was just looking around and ? There are not many people No, it used to be packed It's time Time for what ? You'll see Camrynn What's going on ? Nothing, djeez I'm just trying to entertain this pathetic town I gotta go Mister Joe, may i please have your water ? I can get you a fresh one No thank you, that one will be fine Is it raining ? Come on, let's get inside Call 911 That's not helping I'm not stopping She's dead Ellen, What has just happened ? I'm not really sure I was hoping for a little intrest piece Ellen, who is Gabe ? He is just a boy He is more then just a boy How are you doing Gabe ? I'm doing good mister Joe How about you ? I'm a little overwhelmed Overwhelmed ? Why ? tonight has been ... crazy Crazy ? How can you say this night was crazy ? Wrong words i guess Gabe, things like this, they just don't happen I saw what you did with the bottle of water and Camrynn, she was dead She was dead Gabe. You said it. And now ... she is not Like i told you this morning, i am here for a reason. I believe you I'm here for you and miss Ellen I know you are Come on, let's go home I don't want miss Ellen to walk home in the rain This is Brody Hi, this is Monroe Hey monroe, everything OK ? I just witnessed an amazing event What Happened You know pastor Fords granddaughter, she overdosed or something. Is she OK ? She was dead I saw her But he brought her back Who brought her back ? That little boy Gabe ? Yes and now she is fine, she is in the hospital to run some tests Brody, who is this kid ? I haven't found out anything yet Great, i was just checking my facts I'm on my way to the hospital, thanks for letting me know I appreciate you both allowing me to stay with you Gabe, ofcourse I know you both have a lot of questions Please believe, all will be unveiled real soon Then we will believe you I will tell you this what happened tonight was not done by my hands Good mroning are you hungry ? no ma'am didn't you sleep in the bed ? I didn't sleep praying was more important we are going to church, are you ready ? Miss Ellen, there are things I need to do this morning we can't just leave you here I won't be here Gabe said he isn't going to church with us Really ? He want's to go around the town Do we let him ? I don't know I suppose it'll be OK He didn't sleep last night. He prayed. All night All night !? We're good people but ... I know where you're going But are we Godly ? I think, we think we are But this whole thing with Gabe, it's like we are missing that connection Why don't we talk to God like we talk to eachother. Joe, I don't wanna just live anymore I wanna live in His light Could that be why Gabe is here ? I don't know But there is a reason why you and I are still here in Promise There is a reason why we are here right now This whole time we where hoping for a change And you know what ? We should have been praying for a change This is Monroe This Frank Pierce from the 'Dallas Morning Freedom' Allright, who is this ? Frank Pierce Mister Pierce, yes, Dallas Morning Freedom Just call me Frank please I read your online post this morning about ... about Gabe This story seems a little ... extraordinary I asure you, it's everything like it was I saw it with my own eyes Are you telling me this kid just showed up. That's what i know Miss Monroe, maybe we can give your story a little traction if the facts spin up Frank, I asure you, they will This is your story ! I'll get back to you, maybe we can partner up on this thing Euhm ... That sounds great I look forward to working with you Allright, keep up the good work, we'll be in touch OK, so what number ... That rain came out of nowhere I saw it, it was coming down in buckets Take a deep breath please George Doc, I'm a farmer, I checked the weather I do that every day There wasn't a change of rain That's why I'm here I tought I was having a heart attack You weren't having a heart attack Your heart is as healthy as ever If we could just get more rain we might even have a crop for the first time in years Yes Well, go get your tractor fixed You're as healthy as a horse I'm glad somebody is He called me last night I told him to call you He didn't call me He is afraid ... and ashamed Karen, the drinking ... has to stop I know He was your best friend Please remember him for who he was. I know he can be that man again OK Where is he ? He is at his parents old chag down by the river Please, go down there as his friend, not as the law That's gonna be up to him You nee a ride home ? No, thanks I'm meeting girls after church OK I'll go and talk to him right now He'll listen to you Let's hope so Where are you heading stranger ? Good morning sheriff I'm going to the Doc I heard last night was pretty eventfull rain from nowhere a girl apparently diying and then coming back From what i understand, You were right in the middle of it I was blessed to be there You should heve seen it All those people praying for one soul I went to the hospital myself After all the tests the docters did They couldn't find a single trace of anything in her system Thank God for that I don't buy that What sheriff ? God didn't have anything to do with it God doesn't exist You just say that because you lost your wive How do you know that ? HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT !? God didn't do this to hurt you You go one to Doc's I don't know who you are ... But I will find out You will find out And sheriff, be carefull carefull for what ? The man you are going to see has a gun How is my good friend Gabe doing today ? I'm doing good doc How are you feeling ? I'm dying Gabe I know But i guess in a sens everyone dies Right ? Except for one that's true But i suppose, not everyone truly lives Do you like music Gabe ? Yes I do So do I No No No ! Chad ? Why don't you come out here and talk for a minute Chad ? I'm comming in Camrynn, we don't have to go in. We can just go home No, I want to go in I liked it, but i need to go How long before people find out who you really are ? It's not me that's important The real question is ... how long until people in this town realise who God really is I can(t wait to see what God has planned Good morning These are difficult times and Papa, may i ? First i wanted to tell you all how sorry i am I abandoned my family, my friends and my God Through all this, God did not turn his back on me That I am even standing here today is a miracle I don't know why, or where it came from The word revival is on my heart Those are the words we are looking for Thank you so much for your support That was pretty intense Makes me even more exitated that whe are starting on the prayermats today I'm going with guys to help Goerge with his tractor Good, OK Are you OK ? It's good to have friends like you Let's go help George Hi, I have something different to do for us today What do you have up your sleeve ? We are not embroidering books ? Not today Prayer mats This looks easy Monroe is here with the supplies Did I mis anything ? No, perfect timing as always Let's go You ! No, it wasn't me Ladies, just a second please Gabe whom you have all met, is staying with us He told me that these mats ... He told me ... that what God really wants is to hear from his people Promise has seen tough ... tough times Let's go to God Let's talk to Him and maybe ... Not Maybe, miss Ellen God will restore Promise Thank you Everyone in Promise need a prayer mat Let's get started Where are you going I'm not sure OK, be save I need to ask you some questions This will be for the Dallas Morning Freedom There really isn't anything to write about me I saw what happened I was there There's a big difference between what you saw and what heppened Don't let you story get in the way of the truth I'm really sorry about how I acted towards you It's OK No It's not Please forgive me ofcourse I forgive you This is Reese, Iv'e checked all the missing persons reports for texas and surrounding area I got not nothing for you I'll check more tomorrow You have my number Sam, sit down the only thing i am concerned about is where Camrynn got those pills I asked her and she said it wasn't from anybody in Promise Brody, this shook me to my core I don't want this to take her future That docter in Denton confirmed that there was nothing in her system at all Nothing ! Be straight with me Sam What does your gut tell you about this Gabe kid ? I really don't know But i know one thing. Miracles are real Sam don't give me that He is a kid a runaway Sheriff, what about Camrynn ? For me it's over, if it doesn't start again Thank you Better days are comming Brody, i feel it Ellen, I have to leave. Doc wants to see Lucy this evening Take your little angel to Doc. don't forget your prayer mat Hello ? Just a second Hi, come in I was just cleaning Don't trouble yourself for us remember there is a little step before you get to the table Tell me, how have your eyes been ? have you had any pain ? a little I bet your little is a lot. It has been more painful Let me took a look I have some new eye drops that i would like to try if that's OK ? Lay down, I'll get them These are probably gonna sting just a little bit as I put them in your eyes Don't worry about that. that's the medicine working Good girl, you're doing great Close your eyes and move your eyeballs around You let that soak in, I am gonna give your mam some instructions I'll give you these for the same price. They are free Thank you Blink Mama You look pretty What ? I like the flowers on your dress Lucy, can you ... I see you mama Doc ... He said blink, and I did It was Gabe, wasn't it ? We can't really be sure wether it was him or not Monroe, will you listen to me please I am going to print with it I don't think that's ... My deadline for the Freedom is in Monroe, ... MONROE ??? Gabe, your home Everybody in our sewing group got prayer mats and look That's a good start Tomorrow there are even more people comming to help Making the prayer mats is one thing Using them is the most important I got so excited about making them that ... You will do the right thing It's Brody What's he doing here this late ? He wants to talk to me I'm gonna go talk with him Where is Gabe ? I wanna talk with him Come on Brody, what are you looking for ? Who is he ? Where are his parents ? Kids don't just fall from the sky and start freakin out the town He is not freakin anybody out He is me He has done nothing but bless this town Lucy ... can see What ? Kelly took Lucy to the doc for her eyes Somebody put his hands over her eyes and told her to blink Now she can see ! That's amazing That's a miracle No it isn't ! That kid is selling snakeoil You can believe what you want but this not gonna turn out good I disagree Gabe wanted you to have this It's a prayer mat Not me I wan't to see him tomorrow ! Here I am Where is Gabe ? in his room. What did Brody say ? Brody said that Lucy went to see Doc today That poor thing She can see ! Was it Gabe ? I don't know I don't know what to think I'm beginning to ... Why don't we just ask him ? Why don't we ask him who he is ? I don't think so Why not ? He said it will be revealed I think we should wait for now When what will be revealed ? I don't know, you just have to trust OK remember, we are going to church after my class OK, have a good class wait, Ellen I do love you ... ... so much I love you ... ... so much Did you see it ? See what ? The Dallas Morning Freedom They put my article in the paper What does is say ? It's a great article. It's about Gabe, the prayer mats, the rain, Lucy all of it. Its' OK miss Ellen I wouldn't have done it if Gabe ... I said she ciuld Gabe, can we do a real article on you ? are U sure ? It's OK, He will see with his own eyes, the power of God Great. I'll call you in a bit come on Good morning kids, let's get inside Are you staying No ma'am I didn't think so Good morning kids Good morning Is he an alien ? No he is not an alien I heard he made it rain the other night Gabe is a special boy But he is just a boy OK ? Lord ... I know my days here are over I know what you send me here to do He is ready, if it is your will But Lord one more one more, please Chad, i am just here to talk. Come on out CHAD STOP ! I have to go Come on Chad GET OUT OF THE WAY ! That guy is dronk, he'll kill someone No, he won't Only if you chase him will someone die Enough with you voodoo psycho babble. I've had it with you. Stay out of the way ! Thank you Did you see that ? He has got to be dead Help me ? Please help me Mister, you are broken bad But God loves you Brody, I'm OK There was a boy Is she allright ? I saw Gabe Here ? That's my husband I'm so sorry I forgive you, I love you My friend Ever since you got here... people have been ... wondering who you are You are heaven sent I know I am going home But I am not worthy You are worthy The blood of christ made sure of that, for all that accept him you did I'm gonna take you home myself Oh nice I see you need more purple flowers Kids, I'll be right back This is Brody What ? Fine, I'll be right there Did you see that kid hanging around there ? Fine What's the matter ? Doc passed away The word is gonna get around pretty quick We'll have to tell everybody to meet here tonight OK, I'll start calling people I'm sorry Is Doc really ? coroner vans don't show up for nothing Joe I wanna speak to Gabe, and I wanne speak to him now ! What did he do ? Chad almost died in a car accident Camrynn almost OD-ed, and Doc is dead, and that kid is in the middle of it all You don't think that Gabe had anything to do with Doc I'm not ruling anything out I wanna see that boy Fine, but you're wrong about that kid Gabe, can we talk to you ? No Monroe Not now ! Doc just died I didn't know It's OK miss Ellen It's hot out here, Let's go inside Is that what you want ? Come in Wait ! You just made it rain No, those are tears of joy for Doc Let's go inside Our paper would like to do a coverstory on you There is no story about me to be told Well I disagree You heard about Doc ? Let me get you a towel Joe, this is Frank Pierce Mister Pierce, I am not your story Well Gabe, I have been in the paper business for 20 years and i think I know a story It's easy to tell a story about someone else But what about your story ? What ? When you got the word that your cancer has spread, you shut yourself of from the world. The fear paralyzes you You don't have to be alone God loves you He will not forsake you How do you know about my cancer ? The cancer in your pancreas doesn't hurt now But it will, badly You know it's comming You wake up every day wondering, will this be the day ? How could you know Who can save you mister Pierce ? It's not me How could you know This is your gift God want's you He want's to give you the greatest gift Mister Pierce ... Take it ! That is your story My mat ? I want to thank everybody to be here tonight to share in the celebration of Docs life As I was in my office reflecting on Docs life This passage came to me Where is Gabe ? Whatever happens mister Joe, pray What ? Keep praying, Brody can not hurt me This is all your fault ! Brody, stop ! What are you trying to prove ? Are all of you so blind that you can't see what has happened since this kid is here ? That's enough Brody ! No it isn't ! Sit down ! Where you with Doc when he died ? Yes And how did he die ? It was his time to go home What does that mean ? Can't you see all the stranges things going on since this kid got here And he is in the middle of all of it ! Sheriff, can't you see what you are missing ? Or are you so lost in your own pain and anger that you can't see anything else ? All these people mourning together, rejoicing together Despite their own sorrows Is that what you care about ? No sheriff, I care about you God cares about you, and loves you God does not love me You see all these horrible things happen for no apparent reason and you try to fix them on your own but you can't I see beautiful broken souls choked off from the only one who can save them Don't you wonder why all these things keep heppening ? Why all these years of desolation ? And now revival Isn't that as odd to you as a boy from nowhere with nothing then a mat ? What is all this ? An invitation All of it Brody, please Listen to him Who are you ? I am GABRIEL ! And remember, I am just a messenger Why Promise ? It's not only Promise. It's all over the world It's time for revival You can't stay ? No, but I am here to give you one last gift. Please kneel with me Thank you Father
