 

                        (birds chirping) (bird call) (birds chirping) (slow, dark themed music) (piano music) (school bell rings) [SINGING] Numb me down to the core. Cause love don't live here anymore. And, we fought hard, but we lost the war. Without you what am I living for? Hey. Whoa yea. And, I know I can't take back all the things I did But if I had one wish I would wish for one more chance Somewhere, fear took all control That's when I turned cold. Won't you give me one more chance? Cause I'm a lost river that never reached the sea. When you're not here with me. When you're gone. - [Shane] Oh, it looks so great! It's perfect. - Maybe some of your father's musical talent will rub off on him too. (laughs) - Oh, well we'll see about that. Oh, he's gonna be something special though, I can feel it. - I'm ready, I'm ready for us to officially be a family. - We are a family. We'll just get married when we're ready. - I'm ready. - I know, I... - What is it? - Oh my god! - The baby? (groans) - It's happening. - What do you think about the name Molly? Honestly, I don't really give a rat's ass about it. - You're gonna be a father in less than a month and you act like a freaking child. - I never asked for this, you did. This was your decision. - No, you begged me not to use a condom! You begged me. You have to deal with the consequences. You, it's too late. I can't do this all alone. - You're literally delusional. You take like 500 pills a day, aren't those supposed to do something to make you less insane? (phone vibrates) (yells) (car door slams) - You are a nightmare. I feel bad for the baby because she's gonna have a nut job for a mother. - Come back here! (sobs) [SINGING] I'm sick to my bones Chase? I don't feel natural Without you I'm not whole (panting) When you're - Excuse me, excuse me. gone So, I'll leave the light on - Chase, chase? In hopes that you will find your way Where did my boyfriend, Chase go? And make it, save me whole Chase? (screams) Cause I'm a lost river (screams) that'll never reach (screams) the sea When you're not here with me (baby cries) When you're gone Gone, gone, gone, gone (baby cries) gone, gone, gone (baby cries) gone. - Hey. (baby fussing) - Here sweetheart, I brought you some water. Oh. Hey, don't think about him right now. Today is about you, and Molly. (laughs) - Momma, don't go. - I know, I know. I'm so sorry sweetheart, but we have another mouth to feed don't we? I'll be back as soon as I can, okay? I love you, more than the sun, and the moon, and the stars. - I know. (laughs) - [Nurse] Hi guys, is he quiet? - Yeah. - [Nurse] Now might be the right time for his full examination. Hey Dylan. - [Shane] Aw, poor guy. (baby cries) - I'm not goin', I'm stayin' here. I quit. - Oh, listen handsome, we wanna have food for that baby when he gets home? You have to keep your job. Okay, now get outta here. - Love you. - I love you, I'll see you later. - Miss Thomas, I have some difficult news. Because you haven't yet expelled your placenta you have to make a decision. You can either let the doctor try and prompt it out. Or, rather than risk hemorrhaging, he can simply remove the uterus. - I don't know. I guess, I guess-- - Think it over, but it is urgent. I'll be back in a minute. - Hey, sorry to eavesdrop, but I went through something really similar five years ago with my daughter. You don't have to lose your uterus. And honestly, I wouldn't trust a doctor who doesn't have the balls to come in here and tell you that himself. - What am I supposed to do then? - Just tell them you want a surgeon, their best surgeon to come in here. A surgeon. Don't let them take away your choice of having more kids. (Call bell) - Where did you come from? - Heaven. (laughs) - Seriously. - Just kidding, I've live over in Northeast. I'm Shane. - I'm Heather. Thank you. - It's no problem. - Miss Thomas. - Hi, regarding the placenta, I would like to speak with a surgeon, please. - I'll call Dr. McIntyre. - Nicely done. (laughs) - So, where did your husband go? He seemed nice. - Oh, Alex. Yeah, he's my boyfriend. He had to be at work at 8:30. You ever been to Troy's? He's one of the managers there. - Oh wow, that's so cool. Yeah, my boyfriend didn't show up, but I think he was just really nervous. Yeah, my first born's father, he was a total loser, too. You know, musician, (scoffs) the whole thing. (laughs) - So, I was supposed to move in with him. You know, and live with him now that Molly's born, but... but I don't know. I don't know. I don't know anymore. - Honestly, my ex being out of the picture was the best thing that could've ever happened to me. No influence is better than a bad influence. - Yeah, I live with my mom. We just got 30 days notice that the landlord was gonna sell the house and so, if I don't-- - Wait, seriously? The apartment across from us is opening up next month. It's a two bedroom and it's only $800. It would be perfect for you guys. This has to happen. - Who are you? This is crazy. Are you serious? - Yeah. - Cool, we're moving in. (laughs) - Miss Thomas? You have a visitor. - Hey. - S'up? - You wanna say hi? (cell phone vibrates) Seriously Chase, now? - It's nothing. - Oh, nothing? - [Chase] No it- - Just get outta here. - What? I didn't do anything. - Just get the hell out of here, Chase. - What are you talking about? I didn't do anything. - Nurse! What are you doing? I need a nurse in here please. - What is it? - [Heather] I don't want him here. - She's insane, I swear on my life, I didn't do anything. - Please, get him out of here, now. - [Shane] What are you talking about? I just wanted to see my daughter. - Nurse, nurse, I saw everything, okay? This man is provoking her when she needs to be resting. - [Nurse] Okay. - We need to have him out immediately. - I didn't, no, I was just-- - No! Get away from her. (baby cries) - You, get the hell out of here. - [Nurse] Calm down. - Or, I swear to God, I will rip that stupid hair right off your scalp. Go ahead, you wanna fight me? I dare you. (sobs) - Sweetie, it's ok. It's okay, he's gone, okay? It's all over. Just breathe, breathe. We're gonna be okay. We're gonna be okay. - [Heather] Is that good, is that yummy? (baby coos) - Heath, after everything that he's put you through, I mean the least he could do is throw you a bone by being flexible. - Oh, he's given me a bone alright. Me and everyone else in Greendale. (laughs) - I mean, you can let him see Molly, but it has to be on your terms, you know. - I know. - Oh, I gotta go you guys. I gotta go to work. Be good for Aunt Heather, okay? - I will. - I'll be back later. Good luck, Heath. I know you'll do good. - [Chase] You know, I really appreciate you letting me hang out with her. I've been loving it. It's okay. - Well, it's time to go. - Think I'm getting to be a pretty kick ass dad. Well, keep doing what I say, and we can keep doing this. - Yo, Heath, since I've kinda proved that I'm not a screw up with this. You think I could take her this weekend for a little sleepover? - No, I mean, I don't know. - No, I get it. I get it. It's just that my folks are in town, and so are Melanie's. And, they really want to see their granddaughter. Hi cutie. - Just let me think about it, okay? - [Chase] Hi cutie. Hi. - On my god, I love Arthur Park. - Your folks have a place out there? - Oh no, actually I worked at Zelda's one summer. It was after my freshman year at SJU, I needed some money. - My son Billy went there to. When did you graduate? - Oh, I didn't actually. Life kinda got in the way I guess. - Oh, I sure hope you make it back. - Yeah. (keys rattle) - [Man You've the upstairs room and the downstairs room we need to get both places. I can't, we can't do this-- - Simon? - Hey Madeleine, let me call you right back. Shane. My god, Shane. (laughs) - Hi - Oh, my dear, I haven't seen you since... - Yeah, it must have been my dad's last tour. A couple years before he passed. - Of course, of course, you were just getting ready to go to college. I mean, writin' your own music. I remember you had so many great ideas. - Yeah. - You were gonna be a big star. (laughs) - Yeah. - So, what's the big star doing now? - Oh, I just locked up my store. - Your own store, oh. - It's not actually mine. - A powerful business woman, I like it. - It's not mine. - So, no more music? Your dad would be sad. - I guess yeah. But no, no more music. Not in a while, at least. I think about it a lot though. I think about him a lot. Yeah, your dad was the real thing. Say, me and Agatha, we're openin' up a little music club down on Division. We're calling it Godot. I think it would be real cool it you were a part of it. - Wait, what? Why would you need me? - Your taste. You've got chic. I'm telling, you run your own business. You make a small investment, $15,000 or whatever. And then, after we open the club, after about three or four months, you make your own money back. - Wow, running a music club with you? I mean-- - Yes. - that would be like my dream come true. - Fine, well we can hash out the details a little later. Here's my card. - Wow, thank you, Simon. This is amazing. I will definitely be in touch. - I'll be waitin' to hear from ya. - Okay, bye. - [Simon] Have a good night. - Oh my god, this is amazing. - Hey. - Hey, I thought you were supposed to be hanging with Heather? - You will never believe what just happened. - What? - I am tripping out right now. - Well okay, tell me. - Yo, Alex, display case is out of pint glasses. You mind grabbing some? Hey Shane. Holy moly, great dress. - Thank you. We are about to be partners in a freaking music club. I ran into this guy who managed my dad's band in the 90s. He's the one who got, "Call Yourself" on the radio. He's like launched their entire career. He's so successful. He's been everywhere. And, he flat out offered me partnership in the club he's opening. I mean could we ask for a better fit? - Wow, that sounds great. So, he just like offered it to you on the spot? - [Shane] Yeah, well I mean, he's known me my entire life, Alex. He gets me. And, all we need to invest is 15k, which is nothing compared to what this place'll rake in. - 15K? That's not exactly nothing, honey. - [Shane] Seriously babe? I mean for business people that practically is nothing. In order to secure the rest of our lives I'm pretty sure we can come up with 15,000. And, you're gettin' a raise next week, so. - Look, I'm into it. I'm into it, I just gotta get back downstairs. We'll talk about it tonight. - Alright, I'm not gonna leave you alone about this. - [Shane] Yes! Come with me. Hi, just two more of these. Oh, and two beers. (laughs) [SINGING] It's only laughter And this guy, he worked with my dad for so many years. And, when he passed, and all the pain I went through, and like, just everything. It all means something, you know? Does that make any sense? - No, honestly Shane, it trips me out how similar we are sometimes. I was just talking to my therapist about just how happy I've been recently. - You've been so good, Heath. You've been so good. - But, you didn't know me in high school. I mean, for once I finally don't just feel like the crazy girl. I mean, when I was diagnosed as bipolar in some ways it was good to know but, I don't know, I kinda think it made everyone a little scared of me. But, you and Alex are so amazing, so amazing! And, I don't know, I just feel like the three of us are just meant to be. - Oh my god, we are, right? We are, (laughs) until the day we die. - Until the day we die. - It's okay, okay hold her up. (laughs) - I can walk on my own. - Can you? Are you sure? - Entrepreneurs only. (laughs) - Are you sure you don't need help? - [Shane] I'm fine, just give me a second. - Come on, I'll take you home. - Okay. Woo, it's hot. - Whoa, what is that? What? - Huh? - Turn around, let me see this. (giggles) Oh my god, that is crazy. Look, check it out, look. - You have one, too? - Right? How come I've never noticed yours? - You weren't looking? - Black Sheep, blessing and curse, right? - Mostly curse, as far as I can tell. - Yeah. Well, Shane is really happy that you came into out lives and I am too. - Yeah, well good night. (door squeaks) - [Melanie] I mean, I guess I can't say I'm a fashion designer because, technically, I've never really designed anything. But, I feel like I have like a really good eye for that kind of stuff. Anyway, it was so good to see you, it really was. - You too. - Thanks again for letting us take her, Heath. - Don't forget her Dora doll, and to tuck her in with it. - I'll take good care of her, okay? - Tuck her in with it before she falls asleep. - See you Monday. - Yeah, right before my job interview, right? - Let's not. - Call me if literally anything happens. - We'll see you. (car starts) (slow piano music) - Hey babe. Tell me something good, you get that raise baby? You're kidding, what? - They said they couldn't afford it right now. - What? Oh please, I've seen how much money that place pulls in a night. That is absurd. - Four years, I've been here four freaking years. - What are we supposed to do about the Godot? - I don't know babe. I'm just as disappointed as you are. (sighs) - What if we call your dad? We have to do something. I'm tired of watching everyone else pass us by. We are smarter than that. - Hey Chase, it's me. I just was calling to check in, wanted to see how, you know, things were going. I guess, just give me a call when you get this. Otherwise, I'll just see you soon. Okay, bye. Love to Molly. - Hey. - Hey baby. - [Melanie] Honestly, she was such an angel. My mom nearly had a heart attack. Not really, I shouldn't say that. - We seriously had a great time though, Heather. Honestly, we'd love to make this a more regular thing, you know? - Babe, I'm gonna go wait in the car, okay? - Sure. - Bye. - So, I actually got off the phone with my buddy Leo, who's a lawyer. Just to talk about what's the most fair with all this custody stuff. - Wait, wait what? A lawyer? - Yeah, just to get some info. - Chase, what are you even talking about? - Well, I thought it might be nice to get Molly off your hands sometimes. It's okay, you know for your health, I mean. What if we came over this Thursday night to discuss all this? Give you a little more time to process. - Yeah. Definitely talk about it. - [Chase] Take it easy, I'll see you Thursday. (baby cries) - [Shane] Hi there. - [Loan officer] Hi. - [Shane] I'm Shane Reilly. I'm looking to take out a loan. - [Loan officer] Well, you came to the right place, Shane. What can I do for you? - Well, I'm actually going to be a partner in a new music venue called Godot, over on Division street. And, I'll need $15,000. - Well, we would need to start with this year's tax returns. - Oh, okay, I have that. - Great. - Here you go. (Baby cries) (knock at door) - What are you, what are you cryin' for? - Thanks again, so much, for watching her. - Oh, come here. - I'm sorry, she's been kinda fussy today. - Of course, it's okay baby. We'll just dance. We'll just dance, huh? Look at your moves. Take a little dancin' lesson? - You're so good with her. You really have the magic touch. - Yeah, I guess I got a way with the ladies. - Well, I should go. Thank you. - Alright, no problem, see ya. - No, I admit he's gorgeous, and he's so cute with Molly. But, I know, he would never, never, go for a girl like me. And, I wouldn't even want him too. I love Shane, and she is stunning, and they're perfect together. And, I almost feel like we're just this one big, happy family together, you know? - Listen Heather, you're very excitable right now. I have to say, I'm concerned. And remember, the nature of bipolar disorder are peaks and valleys. I'd hate to see you fall into another depression. Do you ever have fantasies of Shane being out of the picture? - No, never. Shane is my best friend. Nothing could get in the way of that. - Let's try tweaking that medication again. (murmuring) (doorbell chimes) - You expecting somebody? - Coming. Chase, what are you? What are you doing here? We said we were gonna come over Thursday night. Remember, to discuss all the custody stuff? Do you mind if we come in? - Sure. Yeah, yeah, sure. - So, here's the deal. Melanie got a really good job at a dentist office in Gurnsville. So, we're moving out there. Which means, if we can't solve this between us, we're gonna have to have the court decide what's most fair, you know, custody-wise. - Court? What? Absolutely not Chase. Are you insane? You didn't even want this beautiful baby girl. I gave birth alone. I have been raising her alone. And now, you just want to come and swoop her up whenever the hell you feel like it? Because, oh what, you're starting to have fun? It is not all fun and games, let me tell you that. You have absolutely no idea what goes into this. No idea! - Heather. - Okay, guys, can we find a better time to talk about this? Heather's had a big week. - No, I haven't mom. He's trying to take Molly. I want to talk about this now. (baby cries) - This is exactly the problem. I don't think it's healthy for her to be around you when you're like this. - Get out. Get out of here Chase. Just get the hell out. She is my baby. My baby. - Okay, okay, can you just calm down? Listen to me. Okay, I'm going to walk over there, I'm going to take Molly right now, because I don't think you're in a healthy head space. - Over my dead body. - Chase, please you are upsetting her. - Now, get the hell out of here. I'm not gonna ask you again. - Just calm down, okay. We're gonna take Molly off your hands until you're feeling a little better-- - Don't you dare touch me. (baby screaming) Do not push me, Chase. I told you to get out, so get out. - Or else what, Heather? Or else, what? - Oh, what, you don't believe me? You don't believe me? You wanna push me, Chase? Go ahead, push me. - Or else what? - I want everybody to calm down. (baby screaming) - I warned you not to push me. Now get the hell outta here. I hate you. - I'm sorry, Heather. - I hate you. - Just calm down. - I won't calm down. You calm down. - Put the knife down, please Heather, okay? Don't... - It's okay, it's okay. (baby screaming) - It's gonna be okay. It's okay. (sobs) It's okay. (sobs) - Breathe, breath, (hyperventilating) you're gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. - Okay, you have crossed a major line, okay? This is not okay. Open the door, Mel. Look at yourself. You think this is what a responsible mother looks like? See you in court. - Baby, Oh sweetheart. It's okay. - No! No! No, no, no, no, no. (screams) - It's ok. (sobbing) - Heather, Heather. What a coward. I would have kicked him down the stairs if he wasn't holding Molly. It's okay, sweetheart. - He took my baby, and I'm never gonna see her again. (sirens) - [Lawyer] Look, with your medical condition and the police report from the incident last week, well this doesn't exactly make this just a walk in the park. Molly is going to have to stay with the ex, until the trial, that's for sure. But, at the end of the day 60% of custody cases go to the mother. So, what I need you to start doing is thinking of people that we can put on the stand to testify what an outstanding individual that you are. - Wait, you mean like a character witness? I can do that. What do you need me to say? Heather is like the most responsible woman I know. She watches my kids like three times a week. - She watches your children? Well, that's perfect, that's perfect. Listen, I can't make any promises, but you stay out of trouble and I think we can get you at least partial custody. We can win this thing. You just stay positive. (knock at door) (knock at door) (running down steps) - Hey, I was just popping by to see how you were feeling. I know you've had a rough coupla weeks. I was gonna run some errands if you wanted to join. Get outta the house. - Yeah. - Yeah? - Yeah, actually I could use a distracion. Let me just change really quick. - Of course being a partner in a club would be sick, but, you know, it's kind of a lot of money. - What does Shane think? - I wanna do this for her. I wanna do it for the family, you know? It's like kind of what I'm supposed to do, you know? It's just, it drives me crazy that every time I come close to making people in my life proud, I find a way to screw it up. - Honestly, Alex, you haven't screwed anything up. You're basically the greatest man I've ever met. - Thank you. - Yeah. - Let's go. - [Eric] He's apologizing and apologizing, and begs me to keep him on. - Tell them how it ends. You are a terrible at telling stories. - What do you mean? He was embezzling, I fired his sorry ass. - That's what a man has to do in business. Can't be sentimental, leave that for Christmas time. - Eric, I want you to try this. This is a 25 year bottle. - [Eric] Thanks, Ken. - Alex, how's that sobriety coming these days? Are you on the wagon or off right now? - On the wagon, Dad. 18 months, actually. - Hey Alex, how's Troy's going? Eric and I keep meaning to visit you there. - It' fine. You guys should come down sometime. We have some of the finest bottled and tap beer in the western state, dad. - You know, I love golf, but I didn't make it my life's work. - Nah, you've spent your 10,000 hours becoming the most charming person at a dinner table. - Why don't you just stop this crap and come to work for your old man. - Come on, dad. - What? The boy is a wealth of potential, and if he can just past this Rebel Without a Cause schtick, he could actually make something out of himself. - Actually, Alex and I are about to become partners in a new music venue down on Division. - No way, Alex, that sounds amazing. - Yeah, we're taking out a loan, and the chief investor is actually this pretty legendary band manager from New York. It's going to be beautiful, specialty cocktails, a huge dance floor. - You know, that's a great idea, I've been hearing people talk about Division. - You know, my firm built one of those a few years ago, and it actually did pretty well. - Well, I'll be damned son. I'll be damned. - Right here, one of the bars, three chandeliers, very chic. And, over in this corner, I'm thinking a sort of a lounge, chill out vibe area. - Have you ever been over to Selma's in Cold Spring? They have the best deals on vintage that isn't all picked over. - This is why I love this girl. - [Alex] So, two bars, one here, maybe one over there? - [Simon] Just drinking and dancing. (phone vibrates) - Oh, sorry guys, I'm gonna have to take this. - Surely. - Hello? - [Susan] Hello, this is Susan Paxton from Greendale Credit and Savings. Can I speak with Shane Reilly, please? - Hi Susan, yes this is she. Thanks so much for calling me back. - It's my pleasure. I was just calling to inform you and I'm sorry to say that you loan application is not... - I'm sorry, was not approved? Is there a problem? Wait, wait, wait what? Is there nothing that I can do about this? What? No! (bucket crashes and rolls around noisily) - [Alex] Yeah, absolutely, the pleasure's all mine. Hey babe, we gotta go. I'm gonna be late for work. - Shane, so good finding you again. I hope this works out. - Me too, thank you. - You okay? - Yeah, just some nonsense at the store, it's no big deal. (phone rings) - Hey Ken? Hi, it's Shane. - [Ken] Well, hi there Shane. What can I do you for? - Oh, do you remember that music venue we were talking about the other night? Well, it's going to help us realize our full potential. You know, all the stuff you're always talkin' to Alex about. Here's the thing though, I just got a pretty devastating call from the bank, that's gonna make everything a little tricky. Alex would kill me if he even knew I was making this call. But, I know how much you care about your grandkids and-- - [Ken] Hey, I'm sorry Shane, I'm gonna have to cut you off right there. That sounds like something you guys are really excited about but we're just not in a position right now where we can offer any handouts. - That's nice that you're supportive, but this isn't exactly a handout, it's an investment. - [Ken] Yeah, I'm sorry Shane. We just can't make something like that work right now. And, I actually have to go. - I just felt like we were right on the brink, you know? Like, finally about to do something that didn't feel pointless. - You have two amazing kids, and a boyfriend that loves you. What's pointless about that? - I don't know. I just, I feel like I have so much more potential than that, you know? I mean, by the time my dad was 23 he'd already toured nationally. - Honestly, Shane you are the most resourceful, brilliant person I've ever met. When you want something, you make it happen. I don't know, maybe you just need to think outside the box. - I think we're going to get going in a bit. Do you think you could maybe babysit for me later? It might be kinda late. [SINGING] oh, oh, oh We're gonna get you out oh, oh, oh - You are the loves of my life, I'll see you later. - Bye. (heels clicking on floor) (ominous music) (door slams) (knock on door) - What are you doin' here? - Take me to the safe, tough guy. (sensual music) [SINGING] We felt the Earth move (gasps) Was it us flying to high We told ya' (sensual music) Take me to the safe. (laughs) - What do you mean? - It means take me to the safe. I want to see all that money Peter's been hoarding from us. - I don't think I can do that. - Don't you want to show your family once and for all that you're a man? That you don't need anything from them? - This is crazy, babe. - This is the end of the road. We are out of options. These people screwed us, babe. The life that we want is right there in front of us. We can't be afraid to take it. You know that laptop right there? The one that all the security footage is downloaded on to? Well, if that went missing could've been anybody. - You're out of your mind. (tape tearing) (metallic clink) (loud thud) (grunts) (door opens) - Hey girls! (door slams) - Hey. Where have you been? - It's happening. It is all (cork pops) happening. (laughs) Godot is happening. - What's going on? (upbeat music) - You believe in me. I doubted myself, but you knew I could do it. - Aren't we gonna wake Dylan and Sadie? - It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. - Okay. (laughs) (pills rattle in a bottle) (muffled yelling) (news broadcast in background) - [Reporter] Alex, why don't you tell us a little bit about what happened. - [Alex] Well, I was locking up for the night and these two guys came out of nowhere and then they held a gun to my head and asked me to tell them where the safe was. After I did, the duct taped my mouth shut and tied me to a chair. After a few hours, after I didn't come home my girlfriend called the police. - And Shane, obviously you're very shaken. - Oh, this whole this has really rocked our family. - Oh my god. - [Strange distorted female voice] Are you okay, Heather? It is Heather, right? - Yes, yes it's just-- - She lives right across the courtyard from Shane and Alex. Have you heard about all this? It's just insane. - [Shane] It's like our innocence was taken from us. - [Reporter] Well there you have it. We reiterate, if anyone has any information which could lead to the arrest of these violent criminals, you're asked to contact the authorities immediately. - Heather, hey. Oh my god, it is so good to see you. Stuff has been going down. - Yeah, I know. I saw it on the news. - It's so crazy, and scary. I think the whole thing really freaked Alex out, you know? - Yeah, yeah I can only imagine. - Yeah, so we're actually about to go to the park. Do you want to come with us? - You know what? I actually haven't been feeling that well, and I think I might be coming down with something. - Okay, I'll see you later. - Uh-huh. - Welcome, welcome. Come, this way. Gentlemen, this is the fabulous woman that I was telling you about. The one who own the chic shop on West Jermaine. She will make Godot look like a million bucks. - It's a big day for us. Here it is. - Congratulations, and welcome aboard. (glass bottle clanging together) - Hey Alex, can I talk with you for a sec? - Yeah, sure. - Alex, you've been a hell of an asset around here. The past four years you've really stepped it up big time, bro. - Thank you. - Look, I don't know what's going on in your personal life. We never had that kind of relationship, but this whole thing has really put a cloud over what we're trying to do here. And unfortunately, I think I'm gonna have to let you go. - What are you talking about? - Look, the cops seem to think that they have some pretty strong evidence you're their guy. I don't trust cops for half a second, why would you do something like this? But, until this all blows over it doesn't make any sense to have you here. - Pete, do you actually believe that crap? I mean, come on, I've run this place for you, Peter. This place would fall apart without me dude, come on. And, this is the thanks I get? You accuse me of stealing? You know what I think, Pete? I think you've been skimming off the top for years now. You don't have enough money to give raises this year? You think I'm stupid? Come on, man. (door slams) - (Knock on door) - [Shane] One minute. Careful. What's goin' on? - [Female officer] Good evening ma'am, are you Shane Reilly? - I am, yeah, how can I help you guys? - Got a few questions about the robbery your boyfriend, Alex Lokken, was involved with. You mind if we come in? - That's fine, sure. Right this way. (somber music) [SINGING] And though the troubles in the dark I will hold all the light's on you We give ourselves a shining start All alone All alone And, all the roses turn to black And, my heart is as cold as stone We give ourselves a shining start All alone (knock on door) - Are you okay? Hey, come in. Come on. What's up? What's wrong? - I'm screwed. I'm so screwed. I don't wanna go to jail. I really don't wanna go to jail. I keep lettin' her do this. I've been following her around like her little dog our entire lives. I don't know if I can do it anymore. - It's okay, it's alright. I'm here. And, we're gonna figure this out together. Okay, I'm here. - I can't, I gotta go. I gotta go, I'm sorry. (stumbles on stairs) - Where have you been? - Sit. Sit, Shane. Where have I been? Where have I been? I got fired today, babe. You wanna know what else, sweetie? The cops know everything. Everything! Our kids, our two babies get to grow up parentless. - You need to just shut up and listen to me, Alex. The cops have already been here. I've been researching this all night, okay? We can beat this. We just need to be smart right now. We neet to get married, as soon as possible. Federal law says that spouses cannot testify against each other. Alex, they have no witnesses. Do you understand? If we can't testify, then they don't have any evidence. (laughs) What? What are you laughing at? - Is that the only reason you want to get married? - Oh my god, baby of course not. Oh, come on. You're Dylan's daddy. You're the father he's always wanted. I wasn't ready before but, you know, this is our chance. - Okay. - There's just one more thing. - [Alex] What? - We need to talk about Heather. She's the only one who can screw us now. She still needs need us to testify for her at her custody hearing, but she's been acting really weird with me, Alex. We haven't lost her, but we need to maintain control. It also doesn't hurt that she's in love with you. Not sure if you've noticed. I know things have been a little weird with us recently. I hate to even have to bring this up, but it looks like the cops think Alex and I have something to do with the robbery at Troy's, which is crazy. But, you are literally the only person in the world who can prove that we didn't. - Hm, hm. - Heather, I get it. Your court date is coming up. You're worried about losing Molly. I am terrified of something happening that can take me away from Dylan and Sadie. We're living parallel lives right now. It's like we almost have to save each other, you know? I'll testify for you, if you testify for me. (laughs) - I don't know, Shane. This is all just really, really confusing. - I know, I know. You're the best friend I've ever had, Heather. Probably, the only person who has ever really understood me. Will you be my Maid of Honor? - What? - Alex proposed. We're getting married, next week. - Ow, my god! - Are you okay? - No, it's just a splinter. (knock at door) - [Female officer] Miss Thomas? We're investigating the robbery at Troy's the other night. Shane Reilly said that she was with you? So, you see Miss Reilly's alibi for the night of the robbery comes down to your testimony, Heather. I understand you have a custody hearing coming up. Let me remind you how detrimental it could be to withhold information about this crime. (somber music) [SINGING] I kneel before you to catch your dripping tears They fall into my palms like oh so many years I take the lashes from your back to make you smile Carry you with broken feet across the dusty mile. (applause) - So, I am so excited that Alex found Shane. There was a rocky coupla years there. But, I really think that Shane is turning you into the man you're meant to be. Now, lets just all raise a glass to Alex and Shane. Cheers. (cheers) - I'll be right back. Here, here, here, here calm down. God, there's so many people in there. I don't know how I ever did this sober. Alex, this is so weird for me. To watch you guys get married and talk about the rest of your lives together? I thought you said you were done with her. - I know. Look, things are complicated between me and Shane right now. But, I can't stop thinking about that night. - Alex, I've been thinking about that night non-stop. Alex, there's something I need to tell you. - What? - I don't really know how-- - What is it? - [Woman] Alex, you better get in here. - [Shane] This is absurd, Alex do something. - [Alex] Hey, what's going on? You have no right... (noisy clamor) - It's okay, mommy's coming right back. - [Man] Alex! - Heather, take care of them. (ominous music) - [Lawyer] Thank you. You must be Alex and Shane. I'm Conor Savage, Ken Lokken's attorney. - It's great to meet you, Mr. Savage. We are very grateful. Okay, let's cut to the chase. When you can you get us the hell out of here. - Alex, you're father's agreed to post bail. As long as all the paperwork goes through we should have you out of here in a few hours. - Oh, thank god. Okay, so next steps. How do we bash it in to these idiots' skulls that we are good, hardworking parents who had absolutely nothing to do with this. I was with my best friend, Heather, literally the entire night. And, she'll tell you the exact same thing. - Look, we're not exactly sure what evidence the prosecution has against you, until pre-trial. Are you absolutely sure that this friend of yours will vouch for you? - Absolutely. (knock on door) (knock on door) - Hey Shane, what's up? - Hi. I was just on my way out. My god, it's been a crazy 24 hours. It's not really exactly how I imagined my wedding night to end. - Yeah, that was crazy. - Yeah. I can't really stay and chat, I just was wondering if, have you talked to the cops yet? - Ah yeah, the cops came by. - They did? - Yeah, and they just said I would have to answer some more questions later. And, I don't know, we didn't really go into depth or anything like that. - Okay, so that's, that's it? Got it. Okay, what are you doing later? Alex is making fajitas tonight. You should come by. - Yeah, maybe. - So, I can count you in? - Yeah, yeah, I guess so. - Okay, great. Then, I will see you later then, I guess. (door slams) (car door shuts) - Hey Simon, it's Shane. I haven't heard from you in a minute. Just calling to make sure everything's still on track. Give me a call when you get a second, okay? I'll talk to you soon. - [Voicemail message] You've got Simon, leave a name. (phone dialing) You've got Simon, leave a name. (phone ringing) - Alex, Godot is boarded up and Simon won't return any of my calls. - [Alex] What do you mean? - And, and Heather talked to the cops. - [Alex] What? What did she say? - I don't know. I don't think she has our backs anymore. I don't think we can trust her. - [Alex] What does that mean? She has to. She needs us to testify at her custody trial. - Yeah, I know. That's the running theory. (door closes) - Hey. - How are you? - I'm alright, thanks. What a way to spend my wedding night, right? - So, what the heck happened? - Well, the whole thing is just a big misunderstanding. Honestly, I think they are just grasping at straws with this whole robbery thing. Local police departments, right? - Yeah, you guys have really been through it lately, huh? Did you hear about this Heather thing, too? The whole saga with her baby and the ex-boyfriend? - Oh yeah, he's a nightmare. Alex and I are actually testifying for her at her hearing on the 15th. - Oh my god, well we'll see you there then, I guess. - I'm sorry, what? - Heather also asked us to testify. Guess it doesn't hurt to have too many people saying nice things about you, right? - Yeah, sure does feel good to be loyal to your friends. (door closes) (giggles) - Hey sweetheart, how's it going? What's all this stuff for? - Well. some of it's for Molly, obviously, obviously. And then, some of it is for Sadie and Dylan. Turns out, Shane's not as great as we hoped, mom. And, I think she might be going away for a while. - Heather, what on earth are you talking about? - I mean, Alex is gonna need my help takin' care of the kids. Alex, is gonna need my help. - Heather, talk to me. What's going on? - Mom, don't worry. Things are finally looking up. Will you unzip me? - [Mom] Heather Will you unzip me? - Heather. It scare me when you get like this. - Come on, unzip me. (zips) Thanks. - Hello, Dr. Horowitz, this is... this is Becky Thomas. Yeah, great. - [Sadie] Mommy? - Just set them down right there, sweetie. - [Sadie] Is Heather coming with us to see Aunt Marcia tomorrow? - No, sweetie, I don't think so. I think Aunt Marcia wants you two little munchkins all to herself. (knock at door) - [Heather] Hello! Hi cutie pie. - Dinner's ready. - I wanna take Molly there when she's younger. Like, really young, you know? Just imagine how inspiring it would be to see a real rocket ship just blast in space. Molly is such smarty, I can already tell. Maybe, I can inspire her that young women are capable of anything. And, they are. - That's great. Heather, you know who I ran into today, outside? - Like, obviously I know I have to win this thing first, but I don't know, it's like suddenly everything ahead just seemed so clear, it's like I'm looking through a crystal. Like, I'm a great mother, you know? And, I just don't see how the judge could possibly not see that. I mean, that Melanie, she's so weird and so skinny. Like, do you even think she eats at all? - Heather, you know Kate from downstairs, right? - They're not so bad, really. It's just that they have no experience. I think had they been a part of it, from the beginning, like I clearly was, - Heather? - I think they could have been really good, but - [Shane] Heather? - they weren't, and that's gonna work against them. - Heather! Will you stop talking for one second? There are other people at this table. - Oh, I'm sorry. Would you like to control the conversation, Shane? What would you like to talk about? It's a pretty bad habit, to be honest with you, and Alex and I, we're gettin' a little sick of it. - You leave my husband out of this. (scoffs) - Little late for that, Shane. You know we were just talking about it the other day, you have no idea how hard he fights for this family. And, I think, he thinks, he needs somebody who appreciates that. - I know what you're doing, Heather. And, it's not gonna work. If you think for one second that you have this whole custody hearing wrapped up, because you have the lesbian vote from downstairs, think again. You know, I just might decide to show up at your hearing and tell everyone what a nutcase you are. And, that I don't trust you around my children. (glass smashes) - Oh, oh, you think you have the power? You're not getting anywhere near my hearing, and you wanna know why? Because, I can have you thrown in jail anytime I want. I'm sorry about the wine, sweetie. - [Alex] What the hell is your problem, Shane? - Heather. Heather, Heather! Hey, hey, come here. - Your wife's a bitch, Alex. I'm so sick of it. It's hell. It is honestly hell for me to be sitting in there looking at you two pretending like, like I don't just wanna... - I know, I know. I know. I just don't know what to do. We have kids, we're married. - I love those kids, Alex. I honestly think of Sadie and Dylan as my own. I just don't know what to do about her. I would do anything for you. Anything. - Okay, Shane is leaving out of town. We can spend some time together. - What do you want to do with me? - I want to do everything with you. - So, where are you taking me? - It's a surprise. - I've a surprise for you, too. - Yeah? - I'll show you mine, if you show me yours. - It's just a place we used to go in high school, away from everything. I think you'll like it. - I'm honored you're taking me to it. - This is it. - Wow, this is so magical. - Grab this. (pouring wine) - Hey, you can relax. You're here with me now. (kissing) (grunts) - Surprise, didn't mean to ruin the moment. (grunts) I begged you, Heather. I begged you. I don't ask for much, you know. Just for my best friends to have my back. - What is she doing here? - Do you think we wanted this? Do you think we wanted to lure you out here? Do you think we wanted any of this? - Alex, you knew about this? What is this? Shane, look at me. What is this? - Stay down, you little slut. You don't love me. I'm replaceable. As soon as you found someone else to testify for you you dropped me like a hot brick. - Me? You knew how careful I had to be about Molly and you didn't care. You dragged me into this without even caring, without even thinking about me. Alex, you know that's what she does. And, she's doing it again. Please, please stop her. Please-- - [Shane] Shut up! - No, don't. No, this isn't happening. Isn't happening, isn't happening. No, no, no. - [Alex] stay still. - Stay still! - What do I do? Alex? - No. - Alex? - No! (glass shatters) (grunts) (yelling) - [Alex] Get off her! Stand up! Get off of her. Stop. (loud thud) (gun fires) Stay still. I said, stay still Stay still. - You could have done anything you wanted. I idolized you. But, you screwed up and now you want to shut me up, well guess what. It's too late, the cops already know everything. - What the hell are you talking about? - The laptop with the surveillance you thought you destroyed? I handed it over to the police. - You're bluffing. I don't believe you for one second. - Alex, they already know. They know everything. They know that you were just dragged along for the ride. You can still save yourself. You don't have to ruin the rest of your life, please. I'm begging you. Please. - [Shane] Alex. Alex. - You wanna know why you end up hurting the people who love you the most? You're so afraid of them seeing you for the disappointment you actually are. You're a failure, Shane. Thank god your father never got to see who you became. - Shoot her, Alex. Shoot her. - No, no Alex, please, I love you. We can be together. - [Shane] Alex, put your skinny little finger on the trigger and shoot it. Do it, do it now! - No, shoot her! - [Shane] Oh my god, do I have to do everything? - [Heather] Alex, (gun fires) (loud thud) (coughs, gurgles) I loved you, Alex. (gun misfires) (somber music) (gun hits floor) [SINGING] People seem to see right through me but I'm alive Alex, she'll betray you too. When it suits her. I'm still waiting to be saved - What is it gonna take to shut you up! - Shane, stop! Shane, that's enough. As I lay on my tear stained pillow Can anyone hear me call? As I lay on my tear stained pillow Can anyone hear me fall Can anyone hear me call Is anyone there at all Cause I'm still breathing Come lie with me And together we'll rest in peace together we'll rest in peace together we'll rest in peace (phone vibrates) - Hello? (sobs) no. (door clicks shut) - Sorry 'bout that. - That's okay. - Let's begin again. The morning of the murder. - I woke up and came out of the bedroom. I found Alex extremely intoxicated. He'd been sober for 22 months, so it was really scary to see him like that. - But, why Heather? Why would he kill her? - Heather was the only one who what he'd done, besides me. - Did he tell you what he had planned to do to her? - Yes, he did. But, I guess I just didn't believe him, or maybe I didn't want to. I just kind of panicked. I didn't know what to do, so I just... When he took her out there, I followed them. But, it was too late. I had just seen her the night before, my best friend. It was like a horror movie. Alex murdered her. I know I should have come forward sooner about everything. But, I wanna help now, in any way that I can. It's taken some time, but now I realize, Alex is a psychopath. - So, you're telling me that this was all Alex's idea? The robbery, the murder? You weren't involved in any of this? - Absolutely not. (rock music) - [Female officer] You are both under arrest. - [Sadie] Mommy, daddy, what is happening? - [Shane] What? - [Alex] What's you tell them, Shane? What'd you tell them? - I didn't tell them anything. Me, I need to talk to the detective. I'm... [SINGING] Come on light the darkest night I see him in you Holdin' that trigger tight, got the devil in you I know that it is time I paid my dues And I'll be by the river if you make it on time till the dark turns to light you can bury my love you can bury my love I know that it's time I paid my dues. (door slams)
