 

                        Sheriff. Sheriff? Sheriff, do you hear me? Your wife says don't forget bring home the corn. You goin' out to Dorfin's place? Where are you now, Sheriff? Sheriff? Sheriff, do you hear me? Sheriff! I keep a close watch on this heart of mine I keep my eyes wide open all the time I keep the ends out for the tie that binds Because you're mine I walk the line I find it very, very easy to be true I find myself alone when each day is through Yes, I'll admit that I'm a fool for you Because you're mine I walk the line As sure as night is dark and day is light I keep you on my mind both day and night And happiness I've known proves that it's right Because you're mine I walk the line You've got a way to keep me on your side You give me cause for love that I can't hide For you I know I'd even try to turn the tide Because you're mine I walk the line I keep a close watch on this heart of mine I keep my eyes wide open all the time I keep the ends out for the tie that binds Because you're mine I walk the line Because you're mine I walk the line Because you're mine I walk the line Oh, step on it, Buddy. Come on, we can go faster than this. Oh, the sheriff's car. We're gonna get beat, Buddy. Oh! Oh! Oh! Buddy, oh! You all right? Yes, sir. Get up outta there. Yes, sir. Who's in the bushes? Huh? Somebody run off. Oh, well, that was Buddy, but he ain't but a kid. He just gets scared, you know, like kids will with the law. He have a license? Oh, he wasn't driving. I was driving. - Oh. - Uh-huh. - Your license. - Um, you see, Buddy and me was hangin' around the house, you know, nothin' to do. And, uh, he found these here alligator shoes. Wait, I'll show you. Just a minute. See, he found these here alligator shoes up on a hillside, and he put 'em on and he started playin' like a boy will. Well- Sir, my license ain't here. - What's your name? - Alma McCain. Where do you live? Up on Gatesboro Road. We ain't been there long. We was livin' in Loomis Canyon. - Who's we? - My pa and me and Buddy and Clay. Clay's almost 18. They ain't home now. They're workin'. - Where do they work? - Factory. But it's workin', and only for a while. And we think that's real fine for us. That's real fine. Mm-hmm. Uh, they're at Kingman. They make pot handles. You got a ma? No, sir. I do the cookin' and cleanin' and look after Buddy though. Well, maybe you don't know it, but the way I seen it, there was a boy drivin' this truck. And you're sure not a boy now, are ya? No, sir. No. I'd appreciate it you didn't arrest Buddy, as I'm responsible for him. And, uh, well, he's real young. Well, I-I'd just appreciate it, that's all. Get in. Tell your daddy that Sheriff Tawes said, "People who drive oughta get a license... and do it in a proper manner." I will, sir. I really will. And I'm much obliged to you, Sheriff. And, uh, you best tell your brother... to start wearin' shoes his size. Yes, sir. Got a riddle for ya, Daddy. Hmm? You know where man learn to talk? 'Fraid not. Man learned to talk listenin' to parrots. Oh, it's just a fool thing. Eat your beans, Grampa. You see, people have to teach the parrot, so it can't be. Dog's barkin' all night. It's Andy's dog. Gettin' old though. Henry, you want more gravy? Sybil, I'll make more gravy for you and the sheriff. Edith Owens's brother's in the gospel group, and there's gonna be a gospel fest next weekend. I didn't hear ya. Edith Owens's brother's in the gospel group. That's real fine, ain't it? Real fine. Well, it's easier for us here, ain't it? That's just fine for us all, don't it? Now tell me again, what did he say to you? Well, he asked my name. You just say your name? I just say I'm Alma McCain. And what did he say to that? Exactly what did he say? Um, he asked me what you did. And what'd you tell him, exactly? Well, I-I tell him what you did. I tell him you made pot handles. You mention Georgie? No, I didn't say nothin' about Georgie. You get the sugar? Yes, sir. He see the sugar? Oh, I don't know. You sure? I didn't see nothin'. Well, we don't buy sugar in Shelton no more. Well, maybe he did see the sugar, but, well, I didn't see him see the sugar. All right. Then what'd he do? Nothin'. How do you know he smelled you most? How do you know he didn't smell the whiskey most? I don't know. He just didn't seem to, that's all. She's wearing violet, not whiskey. Hey, shut up, you hear me? - Did he touch you? - Huh? I said, did he touch you? No. I bet he wanted to touch her though. He wanna touch you? I don't know. If we lose that out there, we don't have that still, we ain't got nothin'. Might as well be niggers. Mornin'. Mornin'. Yeah, that'll be all right, home. Mornin', Sheriff. Mornin'. You say he's giving you real trouble. Well, all right, calm down. Sheriff, Mrs. Wesson's on the line. She says you best get out there fast. Old man Linton's plumb loco about them cuttin' down that tree. He'll be comin' over, Mrs. Wesson. He is hurryin', Mrs. Wesson. Bye. You sure that tree's on her lot? We checked the deed. She's got every right to cut that tree down. Sheriff? I forgot to tell you... there's a federal man in town. - Come here? - No, he, uh, was talkin' to Kelly in the pool hall, and Kelly sniffed him out. Kelly told me there's a federal man in town. Well, leave him alone. We'll hear from him when he's ready. Just show up Friday morning, Ezra. You can tell that to the judge, Ezra. Then you be here, on time. Well, you won't get in no trouble if you're here on time. I know all about it. Well, then you get your uncle to bring you down. All right, Ezra. All right. Good night, Ezra. Sheriff. Um, Alma McCain. From Gatesboro. Remember when the truck went off the road? Well, um, you see, Clay and me was comin' in to a drive-in show, and I said to him, I'd like to go in to town and see the sheriff personally, and tell him I'm obliged the way he didn't arrest Buddy. And when we get here, he says to rush. And I said I didn't wanna rush. And then, well, he lost his temper, and, uh, well, he just rolled right off without me. I- I mean, he just "tooked" right off. Afraid he'll be late for the show, I guess. That's a damn thing to do. - Well, Clay - He has a terrible, terrible temper, Clay does. He works with my pa at the factory. Pot handles. That's right, pot handles. But, I don't- I don't- I don't mean to bother you none. It's just that I wanted to tell you that I appreciate it. I- I mean, I really appreciate what you done for Buddy. And that's all I got to say. - I'm not gonna take your time. - Oh, no, it's all right. About time, I mean. It's all right. Would you like a Dr. Pepper? All right. You ever seen a courtroom? No, sir, I haven't. It burned down in '28. They built it up again though. Well, it looks- looks good as new now, huh? Never was new, I don't think. Oh. There's lots of seats and, uh- Uh, well, this here is the judge's bench. And the American flag. Oh, I know that. I mean, I know the flag. Well, I suppose you do know the flag, all right. Uh-huh. We used to pledge allegiance to the flag. Of course, I never pledged allegiance to the flag quite so big though. Oh, my God. It went right up through my nose. You all right? Oh, that burned. Well, that must be the pepper in the Dr. Pepper. Must be. Oh. You all right now? Thank you. Um- Well, I guess you're kinda stuck, with your brother takin' off like that. Tooked off just like that. Well, he gonna come back? Well, knowin' Clay, he'll go to the show and then, uh- then go out and get drunk... and won't think about nothin' till mornin' - everybody's sleepin'. It's just like Clay to do a thing like that. You wouldn't be going that way, would you? It don't sound so good no more. That's the trouble with them things. Batteries wear out before your song's over. You can turn in that next grove there. Hmm? Oh. You can stop right here if you want. Don't the road go on in? It's all right. Well, listen now. I didn't have nothin' in mind. But it's all right. It's me. Had a phone call- Mr. Bascomb. He get you? He said he tried the office, but you was out. I had to see about some trouble, uh, out on Horse Pike. Kids, down from Sutton. Said he'd get you in the mornin'. Who is he? He's a revenue man. Whiskey? Mm-hmm. I thought the Dentons were the last with any kind of still worth goin' after. Why don't they just let 'em be? They don't hurt nobody. Maybe some new people will come in, huh? So, when you get a little time, why, the people from Washington would appreciate... your making a list of those who got the habit. Or, uh, those you ever caught. Or, uh, those who've been suspect. Many as you can will be appreciated. People from Polderaine, Loomis Canyon, Finchberg. Well, you just go back as far as you think's necessary. You want a list now? Oh, no, no, no, not this minute. I'll wander back in in a few days or so. I'll give every one of them to you out of my head right now. Elsie, put 'em down while I call 'em off. Mister- Mister, uh- Uh, Hunnicutt. Hunnicutt. Well, Mr. Hunnicutt, we don't wanna oversimplify our work... to those up there in the tower, now do we, huh? You just take your time. Well, many thanks, Sheriff. We'll get on it for ya. You know, uh, not much action around here, huh? Now, your barber told me I'd have to go all the way over to Sutton... to find any life after sunset. Of course, unless I wanna take in a civic meetin'. Yeah, that's about it for Shelton. Regular action here, that's what you find in these hills. Yeah, I suppose so. People here just try to survive, that's all. Some make a little moonshine. Don't really harm nobody. Just pushin' a little extra sometimes so as they don't end up... with their chins in their hands for the rest of their lives. Well. On this side of the law On that side of the law Who is right Who is wrong Who is for and who's against the law Well, you see I didn't really mean you any harm But I simply couldn't make it on the farm When the land won't give a lot You gotta do with what you got And all I got's the muscle in my arm Well, I wouldn't ever hurt my fellow man And, mister, it seems to me you'd understand I'm just tryin' to help myself Without hurtin' anybody else And a man has got to do the best he can On this side of the law On that side of the law Who is weak Who is wrong Who is for and who's against the law Oh, I didn't really mean to let my family down And I'm not givin' you the runaround I had rather be dead than to have to bake my daily bread And I pay my way no matter where I'm bound Well, I didn't really think that I did wrong Just as long as I stayed here where I belonged I did the only thing I could same as anybody would Yes, I was simply trying to get along On this side of the law On that side of the law Who is right Who is wrong Who is for and who's against the law On this side of the law On that side of the law Who is right Who is wrong Who is for and who's against the law Roe, come here! They never know nothin' about my comin' to you. Tell them I want this stuff outta here. They wouldn't have stood for it. I done it on my own. Tell 'em to get it out fast. I swear, it had nothin' to do with it, honest! I'll write to you. Don't write! I wanna see you again. I'll let you know when you can come. Don't you do nothin' like that. You hear me? Don't you take no chance like that. We gonna be in trouble, Alma? I don't know, Buddy. [ Instrumental ] Here you go. Rack 'em. Do it again. - Can't you sleep, Pa? - Old man Linton, they cut his tree. I heard about it. Tried to hold on to something ordinary as shade. It weren't his tree, Pa. Got a message the other day. I was nappin'. Dog started barkin', brought me full awake. Girls will be back. We'll get your mother, go fishin', all of us. Okay, Pop. Dog's barkin'. Countryside on fire. I sit up, there are your sisters. They're comin' back. I know it. Maybe they will, Pop. You get to bed real soon, you hear? Get your paperwork done, Henry? Yeah. Do your back? Mornin'. Hiya. Looks like I had 'em all. Or just about. Cullen. I figured about Cullen- two convictions. 'Cept he's 87 years old. Yeah, this damn county goes back to the dinosaurs. Everything goes back to the dinosaurs. Mm. Before I forget, Wylie, you gotta see that revival tent today. Make sure they don't set too many chairs in there like they did last time. Standing on the promises of Christ my King Through eternal ages let His praises ring Glory in the highest I will shout and sing Standing on the promises of God Standing, standing Standing on the promises of Christ our Savior Standing I'm standing on the promises of God I'm glad you come. They're all gone. Won't be back for a time. I'm glad you figured it. Oh, I can't figure nothin' right now. I have to see you. I have to see you all the time. I gotta see you too. I've been waiting every day to hear. I told you I would. Well, I just couldn't wait no more. Best not to come direct to you. Ain't that right? It's all right now. For a minute there I thought I'd get caught. Everybody hangin' around. Caught? Yeah, at your car. Didn't you find it? What- What do you mean? Well, my note. I put it in your car. What are you talking about? Your car was at the tent. I seen it today. I was there with Buddy. Weren't you at the tent? What did it say? I seen your car over there. No, no, the letter, what did it say? It- It just said to come tonight. Is that all? Your name on it? No. You sure? Honest. Say where to come? No, I just- I just put "Come tonight" on it. I mean, I figured it was your car. - Wasn't that your car? - No. Well, it was. I seen it there. The letter, where'd you leave it in the car? Where'd you leave it? Exactly, I mean. Well, I'm not sure. On the dash somewhere. I was in a rush. I wanted you to find it. Whose car was it? - It was one of my deputies. - Well, he can't do nothin'. He don't know nothin'. I mean, it could have been anybody. I'm sorry. I'm awful sorry. Maybe I can still get it. That's right. Maybe he missed it. That'd be good, wouldn't it? Oh, I ain't gonna hurt ya. Why, I ain't never gonna hurt ya. What's he runnin' for? Alma done scared him off. I said, what's he runnin' for? Where I put the note weren't his car. What's the matter with you? Can't you settle down? I said, "You wanna be shot out of a cannon?" My head, you know, made one of those quick moves. 'Cause animals, sometimes when they come out, they get the lights or something. And, uh, I've been attacked several times on this show. We're gonna take a station break. We'll be right back. Stupid. You ate in the dark, you drip all over. Legs all stuck up with mayonnaise. What are you looking around for? What do you see out there? Just like you, starin' in the dark. Stupid. Why don't you go to hell? Tomorrow. Weather report says cloudy days are holding on. The winds coming up on the east ridge. Showers here in the local mountains. Temperatures holding the same. And the mud slide on Davis Road has been cleared and traffic gets through as usual. This is WQQR, Valley Mountain weather, and here is more music. Open the door for the sheriff, Buddy. Go on. You find the note? No. That, uh, federal man, did he leave town? He'll be back. He went off though. That's good, isn't it? He'll be back. McCain? I want that whole outfit sunk in the river. Everything. Two days, you hear? We'll try, Sheriff. Well, then get started. And don't you think I don't mean it. You got nothin' on me. I'll just deny anything. I know that, Sheriff. I never figured we had. We get caught, it's our own fault, not yours. I'm just obliged to you for letting us off like this- I mean, givin' us time, no matter what reason you got. Get in the truck. Tawes, you know what we are. We don't mean no harm. There's a federal man now. There's no choice. - He have to know about us? - Sooner or later he'll know. We'll take our chances. After all, you won't be gettin' the worse of it, you hear? You'll keep on gettin' the best of it. We got arrangements, you hear? Oh, when the day was ended I was still not satisfied I knew everything I touched would wither and would die And love is all that would remain And grow from all these seeds I kept you waitin'. Flesh and blood needs flesh and blood I'm sorry. And you're the one I need It's almost time for bed, Grampa. You'd think in a world where there's death, there'd be no time to hate, wouldn't you? That's what I used to think when we got married. When we had our whirlwind. I used to think things like that. Guess I read it somewhere. Swept you clean off your feet in that whirlwind, didn't I? Before you knew it, you had Ellen Haney around your neck, didn't ya? Magazine I read said people never really know each other. Even married people it said. And I fully understand that people are entitled to their privacy. I mean, people who care about each other... can't even pretend to know everything about each other. Don't you agree? I expect so. I guess only enemies can pretend that. Yes, they do. That's right. Oh, Henry. That's such good thinkin'. That's really meaningful. Only enemies pretend to know a person fully. You see what kind of mind you have. I always believed you could run for a much bigger county office if you had an urge to. And I would certainly stand behind you if that's what you want. I mean, anything you want, Henry. Just 'cause the magazine says we don't know each other... don't mean we can't help each other, does it? Anything you want, Henry. Just anything. Sheriff! You like to scare the hell out of me. Them little radios, they take these? Oh. Harley? That's all right. I'm in the back. Never mind, Ida. What size batteries these transistor radios take? Nine? Good afternoon, Sheriff. They're for the sheriff. Nine. Uh-huh. Nine. A bag. How's Ellen Haney? She's fine. That's good, what with all the sickness around. I hear they'll be buryin' Colonel Anderson soon. Is Colonel Anderson dead? No, but Doc Ellison says he will be next Tuesday. I'll sweep out your chimney Yes, and I will bring you flowers Yes, and I will do for you most anything you want me to If we live in a cottage You will feel like it's a castle By the royal way you're treated And attention shown to you I'll be right beside you no matter where you travel Yes, and I'll be there to cheer you Till the sun comes shining through And if we're ever parted I will keep the tie that binds us And I'll never let it break 'cause I love you Honey, I will bring you honey From the bee tree in the meadow And the first time there's a rainbow I'll bring you a pot of gold I'll take all your troubles And I'll throw 'em in the river And I'll bundle down beside you And I'll keep you from the cold I'll be right beside you no matter where you travel Yes, and I'll be there to cheer you Till the sun comes shining through And if we're ever parted I will keep the tie that binds us Ghosts. Hmm? And I'll never let it break 'cause I love you Ghosts. Oh. We used to think there was ghosts here. Uh-huh. Hear all kind of things. And who was we? My sisters. What'd you hear? Oh, sounds. They're all dead now. Sixteen years. Car got hit on the highway goin' into Nashville- They and my mother. My pa, he still don't believe it. You go to church, don't ya? Well, I mean, being sheriff and all. I'm sorry about your people. You see the lake over there? That was our place. You mean they took it from you? They took us from it. Oh. Huh. I near forgot. Oh. I gotta put them in now. Johnny Paul. The sweet life You can promise me the moon and all those stars You can tell me that you want me and you need me But it don't mean a thing without you, babe Well, let I you take me out last Friday evening And you talked about the perfume in my hair And just because I let you hug and kiss me You think our next date's gonna be A swingin' affair Henry? Now I must confess you've got a spark to burnin' But that spark could start a fire if it was fanned Come on now, Henry. Henry? Henry, I don't wanna play this game no more. Oh! You scared the daylights out of me. You- You're really terrible, you know that? What's the matter? - Go off with me, Alma. - Hmm? Go off with me. All right. Where do you wanna go? Anywhere you want. - Mmm, Chicago. - All right. - In an airplane. I've never been in one. - In an airplane. Just think of the things I could bring back from Chicago. Aw, we wouldn't come back. You know I've never been farther than Knoxville. Probably never will either. Got an uncle who lives in Waco, Texas, and he come up for a reunion once. Said I could come visit him, but I never heard. Well, we're gonna go farther than Waco. We're goin' to California. Go on into Canada. California? You're a good man, Henry. How about that federal man? He ever talk about the federal man? No, never does. Hey, Buddy, come on. Help me with this stuff. I'm comin'. What the hell does that sheriff talk about all day long? Well, mainly he jokes a lot. Today- Today he says- Pa, today he says we was goin' to Chicago. Chicago. Him and me. And then he says maybe even California. Ah, damn. But he's real fine natured. You know, he has a wife and a young girl. He even goes to church time to time. Mmm. Pa says we gonna go to the gospel tent. Yeah. We gonna cleanse We gonna cleanse Our sinful souls Our sinful souls We're gonna get 'em all. All right! Alma? Yeah? I want you to tell that sheriff somethin'. You tell him, if he's gonna take you off to California, he'd better get us a new cook first. Hi. Hi. We gonna get me a hundred dollars on Tuesday. A hundred dollars? I'll get you some new clothes soon. Hey, I seen a dress in Sutton. Could I get that? Hmm. This oughta make Mr. Bascomb happy. Where have you been? In some catfight? Over at the Crobins' place yesterday. Just doin' a little pokin'. Huh. He just about shot me outta there. Bet you were real polite, weren't ya? Manners don't solve crimes, Elsie. Anything? Oh, just Worley Holden for Wylie. I forgot to tell ya. What he want? He said 'bout your discussion as to whether Kyle Rush is a Hebrew or not. He found out- He's not. Well, he don't exactly look like Christmas. That list for Bascomb. This all of it? All that's registered. Shiner's a sneaky fella. They don't all make a habit out of signing up. Pokin' around on your own can be dangerous, you know that? Some of these people not too friendly. I told you before not to go nosin' round on 'em. Next time you go out lookin', tell somebody where you're goin', unless I go with you. Waterfront Patrol or the San Diego main office? Look, operator, I don't care. I have this problem. Now, look. Get me the San Diego main office. Hello? Your operator. Operator. Grit my teeth And face a new day dawning Take a deep breath Then get up and go Tie the same old weary shoes And walk the same old pathway I never see a face That I don't know Oh, God, if I could just pack up and go Hungry for some other face Hungry for some other place Needin' somethin' And I know what God, I know what I'm tired of seein' the same old road Tired of carryin' the same old load Hungry for somethin' I ain't got Her face across that table Every mornin' And lately I don't notice that she's there Always leave that breakfast table Feelin' so damned empty She knows there's somethin' wrong But I don't care Oh, God, how much more of this Can I bear You'd better be goin'. I'm gonna stay with you. But you gotta get home. Mama, Sheriff's back. Go on to school, Sybil. That man, Bascomb, called. What'd you tell him? I told him you wasn't here, that's all. He said he just got in town. He'll be at the office. Uh-huh. She a pretty girl? If that's all then, well, from time to time a- a man your age does seek out a young girl sometimes, The Reader's Digest tells how- Oh, that ain't it, Ellen Haney. Young though, huh? That ain't it. Well, then what is it, Henry? Just somethin' different? Somethin' you need that bad, Sheriff? I told Sybil you're gonna be all right. I want you to know I've always tried to be honest with you. By that I mean I've never just wanted to be a diplomatic type, if you know what I mean. I know it's hard for you to hear me say how I feel. Maybe you never did feel the same way. Maybe I don't have much to give you anymore. But Sybil and me, we do have full respect for you. And we want you to know that, and we don't want you to be rash about doin' somethin'. Henry, tell me what to do! You want us to go to Aunt Carla's for a while? Just do what you have to do, Ellen Haney. - You're goin' off with her, ain't ya? - I don't know. Oh, God, Henry! Well, friends, it's not there. And there's no more places to search but here. Eat molasses on my peas I done it all my life Doesn't make 'em any better. Just- Keeps 'em on my knife Keeps 'em on your knife, huh? Yeah. Buy a drum like that, you oughta get free aspirin with it. Free aspirin, huh? - Did you give him the list? - Yeah, I got it. I got it. Let's go to the park. Hey, yeah. That's a good idea. Well, what we have to do right now... is run a fine-tooth comb right through Jenkins. How about my taking all the territory from the highway... in through Sandy Rock and the reservoir, and your boys can check out the north hump? Of course, that's with your blessin', Sheriff. Doesn't seem no more choice, does it? How many men you got? Three, comin' up in the morning. Then they can take in, uh, from Cavender. That's all through here. Elsie'll line out some maps for 'em. And, uh, Wylie, you go on in from Finchberg. Uh, you know people in Finchberg better than me. Why me in Finchberg? Because I'll take in... from the highway to the reservoir. That's why. Well, sounds like that oughta do it. Mr. Bascomb? Of course, uh, that list might not be complete. Like I was over at Sutton the other day looking through some records- findin' old names, old roads barely on the map. And like I come across the name McCain- people up in Loomis Canyon. Sure ain't there now though. Shiners? Ooh. Hell, yeah. They have a record way back, maybe two or three generations. Real slippery. Yeah. Movin' all the time. Yeah. You take people like this McCain. His daddy taught him. And he'll teach his own, and they'll teach theirs. Got himself a lot of students too. Two sons livin' at home, and he's got a daughter. And she's got herself a husband. Of course, he's in prison up at Capesville, so odds are he knows how to make the juice already. Anyhow, they're, uh, livin' somewhere in these hills. Well, we can't catch 'em all. That's for sure. Well, now, that's hard to know. Okeydoke. Well, I'll swing on down to the cabins. Uh, get my people set up. Looks like I'm gonna have to be around for a while. Uh, I must say, Sheriff, your motels leave something to be desired. And what you need is a place around here with hot sheets. Bye. Well, Elsie, it's early yet. Maybe I can get somethin' done in Finchberg today. You're hurtin' me, Henry. You're hurtin' me. Why didn't you tell me? How come you didn't tell me? I don't know what you're talkin' about! I'm talking about your husband in Capesville! How long you married? I don't know. About a year, I guess. How come you didn't tell me? He's in prison. Pa says don't tell nobody. It ain't like I lied to ya. Henry, please! You love him? Answer me! You love him? I hardly knowed him. How'd you find out? Well, Hunnicutt, he knows. About everything? I don't know how much. He's just playin' with us now. That's the way he does. He mighta known all along. What ya gonna do? We're gonna go. Gonna be all right. What? And you don't have to worry none. Huh. There ain't nobody gonna hurt you. Not your pa and not your husband and not nobody. I don't know what you mean. Well, just what we was talkin' about. A whole- whole nother kind of life. Oh. But we was just talkin' then. But I figured, you got your people and I got my people. No, you don't have to worry about that. I ain't with her no more. Oh, now, wait a minute, hon. I mean, there's no way my people gonna let me go. I mean, they'd never let me go. There ain't no way that they can stop us. Oh, God. Henry, you got me so scared. Well, listen, now. Don't you wanna change your mind on me. Now don't- don't hurt me again, Henry. You don't wanna change your mind. It's gonna be trouble, Henry. You ain't changin' your mind. I just didn't know it was gonna be- Well, it's gonna be. It's gotta be. But- But maybe it can't be. May - Nothin' to worry about. Maybe it can't be. Don't you worry. Don't you worry. Come on. Now you go on home and pack your things in a bag and meet me back here. They'll be home by now. They won't let me go. They won't let me. They got nothin' to say. You don't have to be scared. They'd stop us. We'd get caught. Well, no. When they go to work? Um. What time they go to work? Sunup, I guess. You meet me here tomorrow mornin', soon after sunup as you can, right here on this spot. And we're gonna drive to Sutton, and draw money from the bank there. You'll see. There won't be no trouble. All right, now. You go on. Everything's gonna be just fine. Maybe California! Go on. Love you, Alma. Love you. Here, Roe! Sheriff's office. Hunnicutt. Roe! Come here, Roe. Come here, boy. Roe! That dog don't seem too friendly. You live here? Can I ask your name? Alma McCain. I just thought I'd do my job now. Save me another trip. Just what is it you wanna do? Actually, it's a federal matter- Internal Revenue. I'll put it simple- Somebody's making whiskey, illegal. And we gonna find out who. So, I'm just... pokin' around, place to place. Tell you this though- and maybe I'm speakin' out of turn- but my cousin's a big official in Knoxville. He caters to all the automobiles in the county there. And he's from, uh, year to year, one of the judges on the Miss Knoxville contest. And, uh, if you don't mind a compliment, you're a real pretty girl. Girl winnin' that contest goes all the way to Atlantic City. You ever hear of Atlantic City? It's in Vermont. It's a summer place. No McCain registered to vote. - No McCain payin' property taxes. - We come from Loomis Canyon. No, no, no, no, no. It's all the same books, ma'am. I don't know nothin' about books. You'd better talk to my pa. Of course, I'm not the real sheriff. Real sheriff's a man called Tawes. Fine sheriff. Fine man. Righteous man. Actually, you might say godly. Well, there ain't nobody home! Husband at work? They're all workin' at Kingman. They make pot handles. That so? That's so. And they'll be home real early. Pot handles, hmm? Look, you better come back later. I don't know what you mean. Come on, girl. You know damn well what I mean. Hello? Oh, yes. Yes, Pollard. Let's see what we can find. Well, it he didn't go to Finchberg, where would he go? What would keep him this way? I don't know. Want me to tow it out, Sheriff? Nah, I wouldn't move it yet. The way I see it, your deputy ain't even been here. Somebody just drove his car down this way. Figures to throw you off his track. Huh? Tawes? Hmm? Oh, yeah. Might be. Anybody have it in for him? Well, I know half a dozen who'd like to get in on him. Yeah. Of course, maybe he caught on to what we're lookin' for. Maybe it's a lot closer than we think. Parks and Lloyd will be driving in soon. We can still poke around. Maybe if we all spread out a little, and I'll check towards Gatesboro. The sheriff! McCain? The sheriff's here. By himself? Didn't see nobody else. He's comin' at me. Put that down. Goddamn it! I said put that down! Are you gonna let him take us? He ain't gonna take nobody. Now, you just keep shut, you hear? They gonna get us now? Shut up! Goddamn fools. Well, what do you think we was gonna do? You think we had any choice? - You didn't have to kill him! - Yes, we did. We had to kill him. - You can't bury him here. - Ain't nobody gonna find him here. Ain't nobody gonna find him here? They're working their way down through the east hill now with dogs! There's a fed! He makes his livin' lookin' for your mistakes. - Where do you figure to bury him? - I don't know. I don't know. I gotta think. Where's Alma? - Don't you go tryin' to stop us. - I ain't stoppin' nothin'. - Where is she? - I figured she was with you. You was gonna meet her at that house, weren't you? That's where she must be. She know about this? Sure, she knows! You think he didn't try to make her? You think you wouldn't of shot him any quicker? We ain't for killin', but I don't feel sorry for him. Yeah. You get your truck and all your stuff... and clear out. Come on. I'll take care of this. Get out! Leave that. McCain! Don't you worry none about her. I'll take fine care of her. Hey! Sheriff! I spotted your car back up there. I figured maybe all the sheriffs around here are mysteriously disappearin', like in those science fiction books. Mushrooms killin' off all the politicians I read once. I- I was just lookin' through in here. I thought I heard sounds back off the road. - No soap? - There's nobody in there. Found a still. Down the river- not too far. You're almost on top of it yourself. It's gone now. Not gone long though. Hey, you know, who, uh - who lived there at Gatesboro Road? No. No, I don't. Your man, Pollard, says, uh, old Gimple place. Gimple, well. That's what he says. I thought that was empty. They must've moved in there on their own. Yeah, that's what your dep figured. Hey. Somethin' wrong? No, I was just wondering' how far they got by now. They move in and out like animals, don't they? You sure can't figure 'em. Well, they're just tryin' keep warm, Vogel, like you and me. Hey, uh, one more, huh? Well, Sheriff, looks like you got yourself a manhunt. My bet says that if I could find my whiskey, you could find your man. Alma! Alma? Alma! Alma, you in here? Alma! Alma! Beside a singin' mountain stream Where the willow grew Where the silver leaf of maple Sparkled in the mornin' dew I braided twigs of willow Made a string of buckeyed beads But flesh and blood needs flesh and blood And you're the one I need Flesh and blood needs flesh and blood And you're the one I need I leaned against the bark of birch And I breathed the honey dew I saw a northbound flock of geese Against the sky of baby blue Beside the lily pads I carved a whistle from a reed Mother Nature's quite a lady But you're the one I need Flesh and blood needs flesh and blood And you're the one I need A cardinal sang just for me And I thanked him for the song Then the sun went slowly down the west And I had to move along These were some of the things On which my mind and spirit feed But flesh and blood needs flesh and blood And you're the one I need Flesh and blood needs flesh and blood And you're the one I need So when the day was ended I was still not satisfied I knew everything I touched Would wither and would die And love is all that will remain And grow from all these seed Mother Nature's quite a lady And you're the one I need Yes, flesh and blood needs flesh and blood And you're the one I need Let her be. It's all over, Sheriff. The arrangement's done now. Alma. It's all right now. We can do what we like now. - Alma! - Don't you see it's over, Sheriff? Henry! You're comin' with me. No. I can't come with you. Buddy! - Tawes! - Henry! I keep a close watch on this heart of mine I keep my eyes wide open all the time I keep the ends out for the tie that binds Because you're mine I walk the line I keep a close watch on this heart of mine I keep my eyes wide open all the time I keep the ends out for the tie that binds Because you're mine I walk the line
