 

                        What's going on here? I came into the ward to wake him up. Prepare two grams of chloral hydrate. After the medicine works, lock up the patient and don't let anybody in. Tomorrow he will be taken in for leucotomy... Where is the patient, how could he disappear? But the key has always been with me! Then somebody has a duplicate! Come to my office when you start your shift tomorrow. Forgive me! Please! NOBODY should know about it. This has to stay a secret. Where am I? Do you think I'll know it? Yes, it used to be yours. All this time I wasted trying to catch up with you? You'll thank me afterwards... Close your eyes. I feel a little uncomfortable not being able to see anything... That's why I'm going to open my eyes in 5 seconds! Now in four... three, two, one. I hope the forest will give my sister back to me! It's not speaking to me... That's it, I'm leaving... Do you remember Fairy? Of course I do. She has grown a lot! You loved her too much, that's why she run away. Maybe it's true... She is living here now... But we can always visit her. Of course, it's nice that we were allowed to leave earlier, but does anybody know why? I can only guess: several guys were absent today and then the teacher told us not to drink the water. But we never did it anyway. Yeah, the water has a weird smell. Have you heard that Demian is going to leave the town with his family? NO- He is inviting everyone to his place today and asked me to tell you. I can't come. I have to stay at home. That's the second time already that you aren't joining us. Mother isn't feeling well. See you tomorrow. Bye. "For several days mother hasn't gone out, she has been refusing to eat. Mirra has stopped talking to me and I don't know how to explain to her why this is happening to mother. The worst part of it is that I have accepted we will be left alone. But she is still alive and we need to pray for her recovery..." Please promise to take care of my girls. As long as they stay here I will take care of them, but please turn to God, Anna, and I will pray for you. You need to sleep, take a rest. How is mother? Sorry your mother isn't getting better, but I'll keep praying for her. Thanks for coming. Nobody wants to help her! Even the doctor can't do anything! Maybe God wants to take her and you should be prepared for that. God doesn't care! My home is always open to you. Thank you. His belief won't save mother. Stop it, he believes it and we should believe, too. Mother! Now we're left completely alone... It scares me. After we've said goodbye to mother, we should better leave our home. So soon? There's little to keep us here, for what reason should we stay? You've always dreamed of traveling. How can you bring this up now?! Mirra, we won't stay in town anyway. You see it yourself, everybody is getting sick. "I'll do my best to leave this dark place tomorrow. I never thought that I would think THIS WAY about my home, but it has become so foreign without mother. Mirra doesn't want to leave, she believes we have to stay in the town and help the sick people. But mother would have done everything to protect us. That's what I'm going to tell Mirra tomorrow, I hope she will understand." Today's service will start with the message to the Galatians about the freedom of the spirit. It says that we shall not become hostages of the recent events but quite the opposite: with freedom and love, we shall overcome all of our losses... Mirra, you promised to listen to the Padre. Thus, we will start with the fifth chapter: "You are summoned to freedom Brethren, only let your freedom not be the reason for satisfying the meat but serve each other with love. God didn't create death and he isn't joyful about the demise of the living. He created everything for existence and everything there is in the world is subject to salvation. So, our soul never dies... Padre, they need you urgently at the hospital! I'll explain it to you later. Let's go. Are you OK? I need to sleep. "Why is this happening to us? Now Mirra is getting worse and again, nobody can tell me how to save her. Dear God, I know you can hear me now. Please.. protect my sister. For the last couple of days she has been sleeping a lot and refusing to eat anything. I'm sure she needs to go to the hospital. No way. She needs to stay in bed and you need to care for her. The hospital is completely full anyway. Or you don't want to take the risk... What if this is not an infection? You can't leave her alone without help. Please stay here with me. I'll show you to the door. Ayia! Ayia! I'm here. Bring Father Herman, I want to ask him something. OK, don't get up. Did she say you why she wanted to see me? No, but she's getting worse. What did the doctor say? Nothing new... "Finally Mirra started listening to Father Herman. For the first time she wanted to speak to him. But I feel she's growing apart from me, she seems to be doing it on purpose. This is hurting me even more..." How is she? She's very scared. I think you'd better go to her now. What happened? I want everything to go back how it used to be! Mirra, you have a strong fever! Hello, Ayia. You should have got a message in the morning. Yeah, the letter... So you know that you should have left the house already!?... Ayia, you need to go to the hospital and your sister has to stay here at home. But who will care about Mirra, she needs my help. This is an order, the infected ones need to be separated from all the healthy people. The sick have to stay isolated at home. I want to stay with her and I'm not afraid of the infection! Listen to me, you can't help her anymore! I'll take you to the hospital now. ' Ayia!!! Of course, it's wrong to separate you! You promised mother you would to take care of us. Yes, but now I don't know how I can help. Such are the rules, you need to avoid the infection. Father, please don't lock the door. I'll be back soon. Where have you been? I'll take you to Father Herman's. It's safer there... Nobody will find us! I'll help you. We need to cross the abandoned part of the town, hold on, you will feel better soon... "We'll leave as soon as Mirra is better. Tomorrow I'll write to our Aunt Anna, she has always had a room for us." I need to get some medicine. If necessary, I'll go to next village, I have money. Money will not help us. How long has she been like that? Five days. Please stay with your sister until I return. I have to visit another town, but I feel God will soon tell us what to do... it's been a long time since you've read a book to me. But I think there are only religious books here. Latin Grammar... Ecclesiastica Historia... Old Testament... What's this? This book looks really strange. What did you find? "From the shamans point of view, in a body full of vitality there is no place for destructive energy which we tend to call illness." "Dear God, you see what state I'm in now. I'm full of doubt. I have to keep my secret so that the uninformed don't hurt themselves and the others. But at the same time I want to help Ayia... Maria has always been a mother to me and the girls have been like my own sisters. I can't make the right decision and I am asking for your help my God!" You're not Mira! Don't save me... Save the others! "I know I shouldn't have taken the book without permission but this is like a sign of fate. It says that any disease can be cured which means Mirra can be helped too!" ...but she has already become worse. Please come and visit me. Yes, I can... Can I read this book, Father Herman? Yes you can but not here. I'll come and see you later. Let's go... I have found this book accidentally. This can help my sister, right? I understand what the book is about. We'll talk at my home. Please, I'm begging you! I'll tell you everything, just not here. I guess you realized that the book differs from the Church moral... But you should also know it is about God, too. Nobody will find out, I promise! There is a ritual that opens a door to the subconscious of each of us. Behind this door is a whole other world that is closely linked with our world. A person's birth is the essential point of the world creation. By overcoming the fear and recovering the faith inside the person, it's possible to help even the terminally ill... Do you mean you can enter her mind to find out the reason why she became sick? It's not that easy. Please help us, Father Herman! What you want to do is very dangerous. More dangerous than death? Which you will also be responsible for if you don't help us! Please! For Mirra! You have to know that only a very close person or family member can enter the world of the subconscious. Your sister has her own secrets very deep inside and she will never be open enough for me to go inside. But I do know how I can connect you with her. "To establish the connection you need to remember every detail, moments of her happiness, troubles and fears. You need to understand her world... and believe in it." Tell me, what is it like? Like sleeping, but to discover the reason why she's so sick you'll need a lot of energy. Are you sure you are strong enough for this? I am, trust me. Your sister has been sick for a long time now. This means her world is full of pain and might be similar to a nightmare. The deeper to the bottom of the ocean, the darker it gets. "The Kamlanie ritual is an emotional experience which involves both the patient and the shaman. By making massive effort and endeavoring heroic travels to the other world the shaman helps the patient change his idea of reality, including the acknowledgment of being sick." You need to start with this. Don't worry, I'll do the best to help you. It will hurt a lot, Ayia. Remember, whatever you see you cannot go away. OK. But you will always be near me, right? I can only observe. Close your eyes! Mirra... Who has tied you up?! Go away! She'll come soon! Who is she? Look under my blanket... mother is eating me from the inside. Why is mother doing this to you? Because I'm guilty of her death! I should have helped her! No! You didn't kill her! It was fate, we couldn't do anything! I am ready to share this pain with you! You have to open the door. It worked. I saw what was inside her... Your amulet... It was there. It was guiding me to come back. Then, she helped you in the same way. She still has no power. She is just sleeping now, she needs it. "These symbols are 1000 years old, Padre Herman explained it to me. Long ago, when he started to serve God, Padre used to devote himself wholly to the faith and people. He helped every citizen, but the closest person to him was a little boy. The little boy was an orphan and Herman tried to act like a good father. At a very young 899 the boy developed interest in spiritual ideas and Father Herman was sure that he had found somebody who can follow his path. But after some time, Father Herman had to face the hard fate that the six-year-old boy had to endure. He became seriously ill. For several weeks, the Padre didn't leave the boy and put all of his energy into praying... But the boy died. For the first time he doubted his faith... He asked himself: does God listen to me? ...why?!!... At night, when Father Herman got home, an old man appeared who had recently visited the Padre just before his death, for the Padre to hear his confessions and give him the Holy Communion. But how is it possible that he was still alive? And so the old man explained it to Father Herman. A couple of weeks later the Padre set out to the mountains in search of the healing power. The local shaman told him not to lose faith and opened the secrets of a foreign ancient art - Kamlanie." Father Herman, the doctor who tried to separate us is coming! Please don't open the door! I cannot lie, Ayia. Then don't open the door PLEASE... Don't run away from things that scare you. You need to face them. Do you remember our mill?... He often brought me hereto please him Mother didn't know that he was doing it to me... The different blood I have inside of me caused his desire. I couldn't even imagine... We loved him like our own dad. He threatened me that if anybody found out he would hang me on this hook... Mirra... He had power over me! I'll show you... They used to live in our village. They still do but they can't forgive themselves because of him... I wanted it myself! ...I wanted it myself... ...I wanted it myself... ...I wanted it myself... I wanted it myself... ...I wanted it myself... NO, I didn't want it! ...I was teasing him... ...I was teasing him... I was teasing him. Don't blame yourself, he is no longer with us! He was punished by God! Don't hurry, Ayia. Where is she? I put her on the floor. She is losing more and more power. It's becoming harder for you to come back too. Yes, but I still have energy. She doesn't wake up! Then you still haven't found the main reason. She experienced with you everything you saw. Going through this is even more difficult for her. Let me enter it again. Don't you need time to recover? No, I want to help her now! You have to find her deepest fear. The books tell that only killing the heart of her fear will stop the disease. If you don't find it she will die. I understand. I miss you so much! Nobody is here with us, it's only you and me... I feel so well and calm inside, Ayia. Nothing can happen to you here. To me? Yes. Tell me, what are you most afraid of now? Of losing my dear sister... "But the books tell that only killing the core of the fear will stop the disease. I have to do it." Then you're afraid that I might die? Ayia, stay here!!! 'My knife! It's not there... How could she know in her mind that I was hiding it here? Mirra... everything will be soon as it used to be... I will save you now... I will kill your fear... Mother... Mirra!!! Ayia... You are wondering whether I'm real or just part of your imagination? If I'm in your imagination then what is my mission here? And, if I'm real, then how do I happen to be here...? $0? Ayia, you may or may not answer me, I know what's on your mind anyway. Where's my sister? Where we left her... In my house. Don't you want to know where we are now? Self-sacrifice... Honestly, I was surprised. It is a very pure act, Ayia! And I was thinking why can't you be part of MY WORLD by God's will? Stop being scared or you will see what you fear the most now! Once I heard a voice... it was the voice of God himself. Everything that happened to me and you... Please Father Herman... Listen to me! My gift is God's will. The truth is that he created our world in his subconscious and allowed the chosen ones to create their own world as well. I am afraid I cannot let you go... Please welcome Ayia! My children, you will be Adam and Eve, the first ones in my new world... Ayia! Wan I saw them, they were laying in the basement unconscious. "I'll always be with you. And I'll be waiting until you come back. Every day I keep asking God for that... Ayia, please come back..."
