 

                        IT'S RAINING ON SANTIAGO Yet once again... our army prepares to write... a glorious page... in the history of Chile. A page never to be forgotten. On this day... the 11 th of September, 1973... I expect each one of you... to show resolve and discipline... a self-denial worthy... of the grandeur and dignity of our struggle. What is at stake is no less than the future of our glorious Chile! Message for the president. President's residence. Go ahead. Message from the Minister of Internal Affairs. Valparaiso announces return of fleet at 5:00 this morning. I repeat, return of the fleet at 5:00. Unitas 14, combined maneuvers with United States Navy, halted. Under whose orders? "Workers Support Nationalization" The army's in the street! They've got tanks! The army is against us! Don't you understand? Tanks! Take your positions. We'll have to fight. They're sending all their tanks out. They're emptying the barracks. Come on, wake up. They mean business. They even got dressed up for it. Orange sweaters! They're all in orange roll-neck sweaters with a blue armband. Sky blue. It's carnival time. At least you'll be able to recognize them. Real fashion models. It would be funny if they weren't so stupid! Don't move. Yes, I understand. Where's that? Who told you about it? So? No, you were right to call me. Bye. This is it. The army's in the street. It's what we've been expecting. Why don't you call Augusto Olivares? - What? - Call Augusto. Message 216. ELECTION NIGH "Presidential Election September 4, 1970" Allende, 15. When the complete results come in, let me know. Understand? Hang on. We're going on the air. It's exactly 10:40 p. m., and still no word from the Interior Ministry. As you all know, the ministry has promised... to announce the winner by 10:00 p. m. There doesn't seem to be much doubt about who's won. We can only ask ourselves what the delay is. Our reporter at the presidential palace may have more. Over to La Moneda. Here at the presidential palace... we are still awaiting official confirmation of the results. Please calm down. An official communiqu will be issued... in approximately one hour... and no later than midnight, I guarantee. Mr. Tomic has 821,073 votes. Frei's scared to death. But the army wants to move in... because they're afraid as well. And Frei is afraid of the army's fear. One scared president plus one scared army equals a coup d'tat. That's too simple. It's what they want, but first they have to have a pretext. The ball is in the court of the Unidad Popular. If they're politically mature, they'll know what to do. Exactly. They're just kids. Out there in the street, comrades! That's where we ought to be. In each neighborhood where Unidad Popular won! No one will steal our victory! No, we're all assembled here... to show we are united. Make no mistake, comrade, that the fascists... are waiting for the first sign of a break in our ranks. Don't give them the chance! They will fire on us! They won't hesitate a second! Quiet! "Headquarters Unidad Popular" Salvador Allende, and no one else, will decide when and how... to demonstrate the strength of the Unidad Popular this evening. He is the only one who can assess the situation... minute by minute. Rest assured, I shall remain in constant contact with him. General Valenzuela phoned a moment ago. He suggests that we refuse to recognize Allende's victory. Is that possible? Technically speaking, is it? What would happen? We might bring it off. Allende has a very small margin of victory. It would be easy enough to say that irregularities have been discovered. That the Marxists have falsified the results. Valenzuela promises that the army will support me. - What an enormous responsibility! - But do you have any choice? It's the solution, Mr. President. There's another plan. More sophisticated. The American ambassador suggests... that I let a coup d'tat take place... without being part of it. I would go abroad for a time. When the army has reestablished order... we hold new elections. I would come back to head a new coalition of moderates. A Christian Democratic coalition. In any case, you'll need the support of the army. If I were you, I would call Valenzuela back. You there, wake up and transmit a message to the armored division. Tell the colonel to get the 2nd Regiment ready for action... before midnight. Ready to roll. We'll expect his report no later than 23:35. - Yes, sir. - Then call President Frei. The people united will never be defeated! This is a new order to each leader. Transmit a message to your district, your commune, your sector. You are ordered off the streets! It's an order! Salvador Allende doesn't want any demonstrations. He appeals to the self-discipline of each comrade. Comrades! Comrades! We have reports from several districts that Unidad Popularmilitants... are out in the streets tonight celebrating their party's victory. Will the forces of order intervene? That is the question which remains unanswered at this hour, 11:50 p. m. Something seems to be happening at La Moneda. Over to you, La Moneda. Tanks! That's right, armored units. Lieutenant, what's happening? I am here on behalf of Senator Allende. General Schneider knows I'm coming. Wait here. The leaders of the Unidad Popular have formed a delegation... to meet with the Minister of the Interior. They demand an explanation for the delay, which they consider inexcusable... and disclaim any responsibility for its consequences in any district. - This way, please. - Thank you. - Good evening. If you please? - General. Thank you. General, the presence of army tanks at government headquarters... implies the threat of military action in matters of internal policy. Senator Allende's victory is now beyond doubt... and he would appreciate it if you, as commander in chief... would take an official stand. Allende: 76, 435. Antofagasta: Tomic, 82,938... Allesandri, 52,124... Allende, 87,914. We'll continue with these results later. I believe there's a new development. That's right. I have confirmation that Senator Radomiro Tomic... the Christian Democratic candidate... has just paid a visit to Senator Salvador Allende... to offer him, and I quote... "the honor due the victor from the vanquished." Mr. Tomic has therefore conceded Mr. Allende's victory. But no word as yet from the headquarters of President Frei... who is in the same party as Tomic. The results could hardly be more conclusive... and if there were any doubt... Mr. Tomic would never make what amounts to an unconditional... Tomic is a traitor! Major Ibanes, aide-de-camp of General Schneider. I'm here to bring you the orders of the commander in chief. General Schneider has decided to authorize any demonstrations... that may take place in support of the successful candidate... no matter who that is... as soon as the Minister of the Interior has proclaimed the official results. The hours which I have just lived through... are surely the most painful and most cruel of my life. I wouldn't have believed that a man... as deeply Christian... and as democratic as I am... could be made to suffer a more cruel experience. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior... to publish the election results immediately. I assure you... it's one thing to acknowledge the results of an election... but it's quite another to hand the country over to communists. Parliamentary procedures leave us a lot of power. We won't make his life easy. Salvador Allende has won! Comrades, President Allende, the president-elect... invites everyone to assemble in front of the Chilean Student Federation. Quiet, please. Hold it. The president insisted on this. Don't provoke the enemy! Assemble quietly! I will not be simply another president. I will be the first president... in the history of Chile... to lead a truly democratic... and revolutionary people's government. General, may I remind you... that we still have an armored unit in front of the presidential palace? Recall the 2nd Armored Regiment. THE DAY OF THE COUP D'ETA Come in, Valparaiso. It's over an hour. Valparaiso was in touch with us at 5:16. Since then, nothing. - And the army? - We're looking for it. Don't worry. If there's a loyal regiment left, we're bound to find it. I'll tell the president. - What about Valparaiso? - Nothing, Mr. President. Valparaiso doesn't answer. We have no contact at all. It was only yesterday that the commander in chief... told the president that the army would respect the constitution... and support the government in power. General Pinochet gave his personal assurance. - I'm optimistic. - Don't let him fool you. Pinochet is with the others. In fact, he's really their leader. They'll do whatever he says. Don't you realize Valparaiso will never reply? - What time is it? - 6:30. Ask the operator how long for a line to Paris. Operator, how long a wait for Paris, please? One hour. No, I don't have time. I'll call later. Thank you, operator. I'm a student at the polytechnic. I want to talk to your leaders. Listen, Monique. If you don't hear from me in an hour... you must call Paris, okay? It's 6:35. Take this down. "Santiago, the 11 th of September, 1973. Yesterday, the Chilean fleet suddenly broke off joint maneuvers... Wait. "It appears that the authorities at Santiago... have lost all contact with Valparaiso." Poor Augusto. He said it was going to start like this. Remember the other evening when he said that? I know, and he was right. Put this down. "A usually reliable source..." No. "A very reliable source... stated that President Allende had been informed... that several ships of the Chilean navy... had aboard them intelligence agents of the American navy... and of the Brazilian navy. The situation in Santiago is still unclear... but a confrontation seems imminent in the next few hours." Say hello to our comrades in the other factories. - What's your name? - Hugo. - Good luck, Hugo. - Best of luck to you too. I have to go to my house for a few minutes, okay? We have one aim: To destroy Marxism! A single opponent: Every single friend of Marxism. After today, it won't exist. Our mission is clear. We've been told that not all the left is Marxist. That may be so, but the left plays into the Marxists' hands. It plays into their hands by splitting the country in two! Since the communists came to power... they have been setting one half of Chile against the other. And so we hear our glorious Chile once more calling to her loyal sons... to her armed forces, to help her in her hour of need. You men have been chosen for a proud mission... on this 11 th of September. Any man who doesn't agree with what I've just said... is free to state his opinion, to have the courage of his convictions. Is that all? Nobody else? Arrest them! "State Technical University - The People Against Fascism" Get up! Come, wake up, all of you! On your feet! Come on, wake up, will you? The army's moving... tanks, the whole thing! I got through to the radio station. They'll start sending the message. Call up every comrade living near a barracks. Don't speak when they answer. Let it ring till they answer and then hang up. They know what they have to do! Okay, get going. Fast! A pleasant day to you from Radio Chile. Today, Tuesday, the 11 th of September, we begin our program... a little earlier than usual. How about something funny? Something crazy to start the day? How about this? Today, the 11 th of September... so close to springtime... would you believe it's raining on Santiago and Easter Island? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, strange but true. It's raining on Santiago and on Easter Island. The army has one mission: To quickly bring to an end... as peacefully as possible to the chaos caused by the Marxist regime. Tell us, are you for the army or for the Marxists? - I'm for the army! - Dismissed! Lieutenant Herrera, 7 th Company. Herrera, let's talk man to man. We're aware of your leanings. In my opinion, it's no more than youthful exuberance. But today, Herrera, the army itself is being threatened. The army in which you have the honor to serve... in the accomplishment of its glorious purpose. It's your choice, Herrera. If the destiny you mention includes the ousting... of the legal government of President Allende... don't count on me. In the name of everything the army ever taught me... in the name of the honor I am proud to have upheld... I won't obey any order of this nature. Yes, it's really raining on Santiago and Easter Island. Call right away. It's a riddle of course, but I'm sure you've already solved it. So hurry and call in. You could win a fine work of art. Well? All the garrisons in Santiago are preparing to go against us, sir. Many of our comrades... say they heard rifle reports at the garrison at Buin. It appears they've been shooting the soldiers... who refused to march against the president. I see. What does my friend Olivares think? I think it's the moment of truth, Salvador. That's the bullfighter in you talking. Well, it's time to enter the arena. I ought to be at my post. We'll all go to my office in La Moneda. I'm not going on a picnic. Can I have your little cow? All right? I'll keep it. A cow with so much milk will bring me luck. A real good-luck charm. See you soon, comrades. You're the men of the house now. Show what big men you are. Let's go. No getting up to tricks, men. Comrade. Jose, if there's any shooting, watch yourself, please. Don't you worry. We know how to deal with the fascists. They've got to be stopped once and for all. Look after the boys, Maria, and be a brave girl. "May 14, 1971" Words alone cannot express the thanks... of the workers of this factory to the Unidad Popular... for all it has done for us in the last eight months. First of all, dignity. A dignity that we as workers had been denied... because our bosses sought to humiliate and frighten us. It has brought us nationalization. The country still needs much more nationalization... and there will be much more! I've just been told that we have with us today... a man who is better placed to tell us about this. The Minister of Finance, Comrade Pedro Vuskovic! I have to warn you, I'm no orator. It's better if I talk in figures. But since the nationalization of copper is on everybody's mind these days... I'll try to explain with the help of a few statistics. We have in Chile the largest open-face copper mine in the world. We also have the largest underground copper mines in the world. For 42 years, the United States has exploited this wealth. In 42 years... do you know how much American companies... have invested in all these mines? Twenty million dollars. In the same period, do you know how much these same companies... have exported to the United States... as profits made in Chile? $4,200,000,000! See, comrades? That's why we nationalized copper. We are going to go on nationalizing our industries... because in almost all sectors, you find similar statistics. This is the only way of guaranteeing that Chile's wealth goes to its people! But take care, comrades. You must stay vigilant. Get ready for a hard fight. Be ready to see all our initiatives attacked by the bourgeoisie. Here's a recent example. We guarantee a pint of milk a day for every child in the country. Some of these children had never drunk milk at all. What happened? Rich women are furious that there's no milk... for their pastries, their fancy desserts... or their beauty creams! Comrades! Everywhere you look, it's the same thing. It's to stop you that they've organized the black market. It's to stop you that they're hoarding everything. It's to stop you that their American friends... are preparing a boycott to cripple the economy. But you can be sure that the Unidad Popular... and President Allende... will fight to the end against fascism... until it's crushed once and for all... if you are with us. Our comrades want to see their minister dance the cueca. All right. A tango, if you insist. Quiet, comrades. This is a democracy, comrades! The minister voted for a tango. That's his right. "In Today's Chile All Children Are Entitled To Milk" My friends, it's already 7:12 on the 11 th of September, 1973... with spring just around the corner. I'm sorry to have to tell you that it's still raining heavily... on Santiago and Easter Island. Silence! Calm down and listen to me. Silence. Split into three groups. The first group barricades the entrances and passageways. The second sets up first-aid stations. The third gathers student records to destroy them quickly if necessary. We're going to La Moneda. We leave in five minutes. Take whatever you need. My darling. How are you, my darling? I know there isn't much time. There isn't any time. I understand. Darling, please be very careful. No, I don't want to discourage you, I would like to give you... all the courage in the world! I want you to live! You must live, you understand? I only want you... to do everything you can, everything possible and honorable... to come back to me safe, understand? I haven't seen you in weeks. I need you so badly I can't stand it. Why? It's my same old fever: Politics. It's a lot older than the class struggle. After all, Maria, it's a fact. When you get involved in this wretched class struggle... it's also a love story, isn't it? Yes. Olivares! The president wants to see you. Quickly! Listen. I'll call you back when we're done with the fascists. Maybe not today... but it'll be soon. I'll call you back. No matter where I am, I'll call you. I love you too. Very much. Be careful. I love you. It's simple, isn't it? You know, you're getting very complicated. No, I'm not. Work can be simple too. Revolutionaries are such a boring lot! You're wrong. There's nothing more romantic than a revolutionary. To look at you, that's hard to believe. That's different. I was talking about revolutionaries. - You mean you're not one? - Of course not. I'm an assistant, a laborer, a kitchen hand. I'm... I don't know... I'm the house dog! Kiss me. Not bad. Now, kiss me like a kitchen hand. No. Please. I promised President Allende all this for tomorrow. Always Allende. Why don't you marry him? It would be simpler. He says I'm too ugly. Idiot! I forbid you to talk like that about the president of Chile! - Thank you. - For what? For the whiskey you're going to bring me. And what about Allende? Would he like one too? We're not disturbing you, are we? Dear lady, sir, please treat my poor house... like the French embassy. Are you out on a news hunt? The scoop of the year? A juicy piece on the latest difficulties of socialism, Chile-style? A brilliant piece of rewriting for the intelligentsia of Paris? No, that's not exactly why I came. You know, I'm not such a bad journalist myself. No, thanks. And, although I don't enjoy... intimate contact with President Allende... I'm beginning to harbor a suspicion... that things are becoming pretty explosive. - You figured that out all on your own? - All on my own. You're right, Louis. Things are heating up. Our bourgeois and fascists are trying to bring the Chilean class struggle... to a higher temperature than has ever been reached before. The melting point. Not to mention what our friends the Americans are doing. Take a look at the blockade. Look at this boycott. It's not pretty. Yes, I've seen them. I sent that very news to Paris yesterday. I'd advise you to focus your articles on the important role... of the Chilean middle class in the next few months. More than important. They're setting precedent. Making history. In the end, everything depends on the middle class. And the fascists know it too. They're intimidating and manipulating the women. You've seen how shortages have been "arranged." Haven't you seen the way they fix it so the middle class... runs short of this, then that? They want to drive them crazy, that's all. They've managed to persuade them that we've split Chile in two. The fascists are trying to scare them to the point of panic... at which point they will come running like madmen... to the right side of Chile... their side. - And does Frei go along with it? - It's obvious what Frei's doing. He's leaning further to the right, trying to swing his voters with him. The Christian Democrats. Who are what? The middle class. Frei's playing both sides against the middle. Ready to push either way. - I see things a little differently. - Yes? Frei is moving over to the right... the traditional conservative right... because if they happen to win, he'll be right up on top. He'll take all the credit. He'll be the only one around who could unite the right wing. The only acceptable president around. A moderate. All things to all men! You've got a point. I'll give you that, Mr. Calve. But the class struggle is moving too quickly for Mr. Frei. Djakarta. I couldn't see who it was. As I was just saying, it won't be long before there's a war. It's moving much too fast for the old-guard conservatives. Come on, where's that whiskey? We can use it. This goes into the archives... with all the other historical documents. Right there, in a place of honor. DEATH DJAKARTA - Good morning, sir. - Good morning. I'd like a room. - Your papers, please. - Here you are. We interrupt our program for a very important news bulletin. The cabinet of President Allende has announced that this morning... a military uprising broke out. Tanks are patrolling the streets. Several armored units have left their barracks. President Allende will be addressing the nation at any moment now. Please stay tuned. We will broadcast news bulletins on all developments. We rejoin our musical programming. It appears we're in for another show. Shall I give you a room facing the courtyard? No, I'd rather watch it. Do you have a room with a view overlooking the palace? The Technical University will fight fascism to the end! I'm giving you three minutes to come out with your hands up! We won! "Antifascist Rally Today September 11, 1973" The truckers are ready. I can answer for my boys. But they're fed up with the kind of messing around that went on... when they came out in October last year. They're ready to help you, but they expect some cash on the line. If they don't get it, the truth is they're not interested. Don't worry. I guarantee the money is all arranged now. Many things have changed in the last four months. - I hope so, because... - No, let me finish. This second strike you're going to start may be long, but... you can't lose. Here are the figures. Here's the backing. You have to put thousands and thousands of trucks out of action, right? I can tell you right away that we have all the money you want. Six thousand escudos a week for each truck. - Will that be all right? - It could be. But for how long? - Three months. - And after that? In three months, Allende will be finished. But no matter how long it goes on, three months, six months, nine months... we'll have all the money we need. - There's lots of loot around. - I'll consult with my men. Quickly, please. I trust you'll know how to handle the truckers who support Allende. Gently, if you know what I mean. Now, the sabotage program's no problem. Boom! Blow up bridges, oil lines, generators. The "Homeland and Liberty" people draw up the orders every day. - And the army? - Slowly, my friend. All in good time. You tradesmen will go on strike shortly after the truckers. No half measures, huh? Not one shop is to open, not one restaurant... not one supermarket, not one gas station. Have no fear, my friends. There's enough cash for everyone. Continue the shortages. Hold back your stock. That's working so far, isn't it? What about your compensation? No complaints? The doctors will be next to join the operation. They've already agreed. No more visits, no more consultations... not even any hospital service. And now we come to the point you were anxious to raise... the army. But an army that's on safe ground. The army's not very brave, you know. It likes to go where the ground's been cleared. It likes to feel wanted... called in by the people when they can't take any more. Saviors! General meeting at the community center. No one has ever done so much for the people... as the Unidad Popular in two years! And that's why more and more people vote for the left! That's why the left recently got ten percent more votes... than when Salvador Allende was elected! That's why the others are out to defeat us! They've finally realized that, whatever they do to stop it... the number of people voting for the left is increasing! But, comrades, certain things are still very bad. We can't just let them continue. The army is taking advantage of the arms-control law... to dismantle the leftist organizations, leaving the fascists alone. The truckers are on strike. The tradesmen will be joining them. But there's far worse, comrades, and you know it. There are doctors who refuse to treat their patients. It's a disgrace! Personally, I think it's a crime. We can't let this go on, comrades. It's not a question of elections anymore... it's war! They want war! So I appeal to you: We must organize ourselves better. Organize our defense. Organize our own supplies. We must organize power for the people, power for the workers! "For Chile, Against Allende" President Allende has agreed to your demands. "Truckers For Freedom" Doesn't that change anything for you? Whether he accepts them or not, it doesn't change a thing. We've had it. We want him out of Chile, the sooner the better! No bread, no sugar, no milk... it's terrible! It's been ten days since we've seen any meat. The bourgeoisie are attacking in force... because they know that if they don't... they're finished. They know they're up against the wall. We're going to see one hell of a big battle one of these days. But we're going to see it through. There are two problems of great importance to Chile. First of all, the political opposition, and the difficult economic situation. Let's take the political situation: There are two forms of opposition. One is constitutional, and the other... is an opposition which conspires. The subversive forces today are becoming fascist. What about the United States, Senator? It's President Allende's wish to have normal relations with the United States. But the United States has consistently interfered in Chile's internal affairs. Certain CIA operations have been divulged in the United States Senate. And they haven't only interfered in Chile. It's obvious the Marxists will have to get out. The strikes and everything. Suffering. Sickness. There will not be an end to it as long as the Marxists are there. They've got to be slaughtered! I'm not afraid of saying it. Those people must be killed! I'm forced to act ahead of schedule. Why? Secret information has changed the situation. I've seen Allende. He told me he's going to organize a plebiscite. He said, "Mr. Commander in Chief, don't repeat this... but the country is going to vote." We have to stop that at any cost. We can't let him do it. The Marxists are very shrewd about votes and elections and all that. They know all the tricks. We can't let it happen. General Pinochet, did Allende mention any date? I did what I could to try and find that out. As far as I can tell, he wants to announce it Tuesday morning. - We'll have to act! - Tuesday at the latest. I handled him very well. He asked my opinion. He asked, "What about the army, Pinochet?" I put him at ease. I said to him, "The army, Mr. President? It never mixes in politics. There's no room for politics in the army. It supports the constitution and the elected government." But we have to watch out for General Prats. He sees Allende regularly. I know Allende wants to get rid of a number of high-ranking officers. He has a list already drawn up. I've no doubt, gentlemen, that list came from General Prats. There's no reason to wait. Allende doesn't question my loyalty. No reason he would, but we mustn't do anything that might arouse suspicion. I'm playing a very subtle game. But are we ready to act so soon? No problem. Santiago will fall like that! The infantry will follow us. We may have to push them a little. - I'll look after it. - So when do we go? It's already Thursday the 6th. Tuesday, sir. Tuesday, the 11 th of September. The important question is how the industrial workers will react. Yes. I'll try to come by later. Hold on a second. Call Paris right away. Read them the notes that I dictated on Allende and La Moneda... and add, "Tanks are already outside La Moneda." ...the right to live in safety and dignity. Since the Allende regime has disrupted national unity... by artificially fomenting a sterile... and often cruel class struggle... since this same regime is guilty... of violating the right to freedom of expression... and the right to property... since this illegal and immoral regime... does not represent the true will of the people... and to stop further abuses imposed by this Allende regime... the armed forces have accepted the responsibility... placed upon them by their country. The support of a large national majority... justifies, before God and history... Long live Chile! Shit. Come on, let's get to work. Yes, Senator. I must speak to the president immediately. Commander Sanchez to see the president. You can go right in, Commander. Mr. President, under orders from my superiors, I must leave the palace. I have been with you longer than anyone else, sir. Will you allow me to say, with all respect, sir... you must accept the conditions of surrender... which have been offered to you by the junta. A plane is at your disposal... to transport you to any country you choose... with the persons you choose. I'm sure you'll recognize that these are just and humane conditions. All of the armed forces have now joined the junta. Mr. President, I know you are courageous... but to resist makes no sense. To die for the sake of dying makes no sense. This is the 5th Platoon. We have to change our position. Doctor Fonseca! Where is Fonseca? A doctor, in the name of God! Call Fonseca! "Fellow citizens... in the light of events, I can only say to all workers... that I will not leave my post. At this turning point in our history... I will pay with my life... for the loyalty of the people. I assure you I am confident... that seeds sown in the conscience... of thousands of Chileans cannot be forgotten forever. It is within their power to enslave us... but they can't stop socialism... through lawlessness and force. History belongs to us. It arises from the people. Workers of my country... thank you for your unfailing loyalty... for your confidence in a man... who was no more than the means... of realizing a great desire for justice... and who swore... to uphold the constitution and the law... and did so. In this final moment... my last chance to speak with you... I want you to benefit from this lesson. Foreign capital... imperialism... united with reactionary forces... and created the climate... that made the army break with its tradition... which Schneider had taught... and was reaffirmed... by Commander Araya. Victim of reactionary forces... who stand ready... to seize power with foreign help... and protect their profits and privileges. Remember this. It is inevitable that a way is opening... for all free men... to build a better society. Long live Chile! Long live the people! Long live the workers! These are my last words. I am certain that my sacrifice... will not have been in vain." So what are you waiting for? First Platoon, fire! Move your weapons over here! Take cover! They're going to drop bombs. They'll come in low! On target! Looking good. Absolutely perfect. Line of fire perfect. Attention, headquarters. Fire on your command. I repeat. I repeat. Fire on your command. I want all women and unarmed personnel to leave the palace. That's an order! Another one! Another one! Here, here. Listen to me. It's all over for those Marxist bastards. We've won! Comrades, do as I ask you. Quickly, comrades. Go tell the people that the first battle of the Chilean revolution... has just begun! - Olivares. - Yes, I'm coming. You must go, my dear. I know you want a son... but should you have a daughter like yourself... your father would consider you lucky. You! How did you get through? I just wanted to assure you the whole world's with you. But since you don't seem to need my reassurance... I'll get right to my second point. The message begins, "My dear Augusto... I would be ecstatic to see you make it out of this alive." Yes, of course I will. Whatever happens, you can count on me. It may seem a little foolish to say it now, but... To the basement, quick! How many are there of us here? Nineteen, I believe, comrade. No. Eighteen. Manuel just died. I can't feel his pulse anymore. - How are we for weapons? - We need machine guns and bazookas. We have to get some. What time is it? Ten minutes past one. We've held out for more than three hours. The door. They've shelled the main door. - We can't hold them back now. - Everyone out, quick! I make a solemn pact... with my own conscience and with the people... whose victory this is... to uphold the cause... of the workers. I said once... my only desire is to serve you... as your Comrade President. Come out with your hands up! It's all over! Let them come across. Cover them! We're on your side. What do you want? Just to be with you. We couldn't stay over there. All right. You're welcome here. You'd better strengthen your defense, especially in the center. They're gonna throw everything at you any moment now. Right, comrade. We know what to do. What are they waiting for? That means it won't be long. Guys, we're just like you, or maybe worse. What do you think they'll do? I don't know. We'll soon see. Say, Sergeant... Listen. Tanks. - You knew they were coming? - Yeah. You should have told me earlier. Why? You have something to stop tanks? - No. - All right, then. Everybody out! Drop your weapons! Come out with your hands up! You have one minute to surrender! It's your decision. - What do you think? - I agree with you. - Agree with what? - We can fight to the end. Yes? I agree. No? I agree too. You have thirty seconds! What do the rest of you think? Say something, damn it! I am worker Jorge Gonzalez... in charge of this textile unit. Supporter of the Unidad Popular. I take full responsibility. The others were just obeying my orders. The Marxist and the deserter. Firing squad... take your positions. - At my command. - Long live Allende! Aim. Fire! Everybody out! Get out! Come on, out! You dirty red, move! Come on, faster! Everybody lie down. On your stomachs! Hands behind your head. Behind your head, you hear? Line up the prisoners! Everybody out! Come on, you swine. Come on, you whores. Get down like the rest. Bitches! Get in line. Get them into two lines! Come on, you queer, or I'll stick my fist up your ass! Bring the third group out here! Come on, hurry up, you red bastards! He soiled his clothes! Pig! They call themselves students? Filthy bunch! - What's your name? - Mario Santana. What party do you belong to? I'm a socialist. My boy, listen. It won't be pretty to see. Wait until I'm 30 feet away. I won't look back. If you want to, take your chances. He's crying. Hey, guys, I got a crier. Don't hit me! Please! Stop him! Bring him here! I want him alive! Be brave, comrades! Sing with me! Sing! Stop! Bring him here! Go ahead. Sing, my friend. Show the fascist commander how brave you are! Go on. Sing! Look at all these people. They're your people. You couldn't ask for a better audience. Go ahead. I'm listening. Sing! Sing! That city which had been the capital of hope... is now the capital of terror. In every district, the hunt for the defeated goes on. If you have an enemy, call him a Marxist. He'll be shot within hours. I just spoke with John Barnes, from Newsweek. He was able to get into the morgue. When the junta says that only Barnes counted many more by himself. He thinks the body count will be in the thousands. Foreign correspondents are unable to work... not only because of communication difficulties... but also because total censorship is imposed on all media. The world doesn't seem to realize how far Chile... politically the most mature country in the Three Americas... has plunged into horror and barbarism. In the universities, the directors have been removed... and replaced by army officers. No classes are held in sociology or even in philosophy. The ideas of Plato are considered radical. I personally witnessed one of these auto-da-fs. Every day, priests are being arrested, tortured or shot. One can't count the number of artists, intellectuals and journalists... murdered or imprisoned. Torture has become the rule for interrogations. Military tribunals hold sessions day and night... and regularly pronounce the death sentence... after a parody of a trial. Knowing that the public is ignorant of the events taking place... the junta hopes to justify its actions... and to give the impression that everything's back to normal. However, the refugees continue to flock to the embassies... in such numbers that the United Nations has decided to send... their High Commissioner for Refugees to Santiago... as if Chile had been devastated by a natural disaster. I'd like to ask General Pinochet a question. Ask your question, sir. General Pinochet, I'd like to ask what may seem a technical question. A military matter which I think is of interest to everyone. Go ahead. Why was the order given to bombard La Moneda? Were the forces deployed in front of La Moneda... insufficient to overcome President Allende's resistance? All right. Mr. Allende was absolutely free to leave whenever he wanted. We offered him that choice. But he was trying to gain time... so he could surprise us. He had secret anti-tank weapons... which could reach a temperature of 5,000 degrees! Five thousand degrees, gentlemen! These special bazookas were capable of firing on us from La Moneda. No tank's armor can withstand that heat. So I had to order our planes to attack... because I didn't have the moral right... to sacrifice our men... for the protection of Mr. Allende's private guards... who were nothing but professional agitators... who had been trained abroad. I have another question. I believe that a large number of officers here in Chile... have also been trained in other countries. To be more precise, in the American bases in Panama. Isn't that true about most of the members of the junta? That doesn't sound like a question. It sounds more like an opinion. There's a big difference between an army... in charge of the security of a whole country... and paramilitary groups in the service of a subversive ideology. If you want to know, the existence of such a group... was another reason for our intervention. While we're talking about the United States... I'm wondering whether the junta will denationalize the copper mines. It was President Allende who nationalized them... but only after a unanimous vote in Parliament. We are anxious to reestablish a healthy relationship... with the West... and particularly with the United States. To that end... Chile must show proof of goodwill. After the extravagances of Mr. Allende's regime... we have to restore a stable economy... based on supply and demand. The copper mines will be returned to their rightful owners. You mean the American companies? Yes, sir, because we are honest. I'd like to know why questions of money are always thrown in our faces! I've spent 30 years as a navy man... and you know how much I have in the bank? Twenty thousand escudos. Not even $20. If you don't believe me, you can come and shoot me right now! One more question, please. Did President Allende really commit suicide? What evidence do you have? The medical report, sir. The finding is certain. Allende pointed his gun at his head and fired. That doesn't exclude the possibility that he was wounded beforehand. There were powder burns... but it was determined to be a suicide without question. I do not have a question to ask, gentlemen. However, I have to announce the death of Pablo Neruda... winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature. They're still afraid of Allende even though he's dead. They'll have to kill him a second time. They know the truth is they'll never succeed in killing him... in the hearts of the Chilean people. Look at what they've done to the writer's house. When you're back in Sweden, you'll forget all this. No, I won't forget. We can't forget his conscience. But now I've realized... that nobody can be a witness without a memory. Chile made me understand lots of things. We're leaving tomorrow. Will you be staying here at the embassy? During the occupation of France, we also went through hard times. We lost so many people, so many friends. What a wreck they've made of this house! It's not surprising. Even on his deathbed... Neruda was too great a man for them. It's not surprising. Have you ever heard of a fascist poet? "The same men have come to kill us Yes, the same men Who will come and burn us They've left behind a pool Let us seek there for father, mother, son Let us search in that pool Search for your own blood and bones Search for them among all the other bones Now burned They no longer belong to anyone They belong to all They are our bones Seek your death in that death Because the same men lie in wait for you And prepare to send you to that same muddy pool" Comrade Neruda! - Now... - And always! Comrade Salvador Allende! Present! - Now... - And always! The people of Chile!
