 

                        1 (400 Days Earlier...) - You damn kids and your streaking! - Sorry, lady Shame on you! Have you got the address? I'll come pick you up Hi, Auntie! (Argot for swearing) Screw the address! There're guys want to kill me! Just around the corner down the hill. Come quickly! He's over there! Hold it, stop! Hold it, stop! Did anybody see the plate number? What he looked like? I could recognize his buttock Lean and firm, very solid Yeah, that's right Solid Solid! - Solid! - Boss, don't! Solid! (300 Days Earlier...) Island South One of the priciest area on earth The only place fit for my high-end living style (Stanley Prison) Eyes straight ahead. Move it The morning paper said a rich brat was going to jail for drunk driving I'm that rich brat If you ask how I felt? Right then, not much Because I was still high One diamond watch A set of keys. Cash. One wallet Your earring! Take it off! People seemed to be talking so loudly And that's not rude? Don't move! Once I was in new uniform got my hair cut and had photos taken I started to feel like I'd entered a whole other world Why were my legs shaking? Because my cabinets were about to be searched And we all know what that means But what most don't think about are the three directions involved In, Up, Down Pay attention! Stand straight! Dang, brother. What are so jumpy for? We're about to be cavity searched Who wouldn't be scared? In this day and age? Cavity searches? It's all X-ray scans now Hakken Lam, you're up Okay Nelson Yu, you're up Sir, the machine's down Hey! I already passed it We'll do it manually - Got it. Switching to manual mode - If the machine is down, you can fix it. - He said manually, didn't you hear? - I already passed! Sir, it's working again You heard him, it's fixed! Let go, or I'll file complaints! Complaint? Oh, I'm so scared! Are you? Oh, sure My hands are shaking now So scared, I'm going...In! Up! Down! Damn, relax The worst is over, it's civilized now simpler then what you're thinking I hoped that search was the end of my nightmare and not the beginning I bet your impression of jail-life, like mine came from that movie "Prison on Fire" That it's a horrifying place filled with thugs But I never expected the inmates looked the same way as the movie Hey, let me in, let me in. - I'm good for two smokes - Beat it, roach How many times did we tell you? Get lost Twenty in the hall, all accounted for, Sir 3602438, Hakken Lam Armed assault, two years 3609981, Nelson Yu Reckless driving, eighteen months Hey, Szeto Yeah Show some respect! Certainly Sorry, sir Debrief these newbies for me Yes, sir Over here, you two Stand straight and listen up - Stand closer, Dummy! - Stand straight! The rule here is there are no rules You guys follow orders. Don't screw around When the officer is here, listen to him When he's not, follow what I've said Because I'm the boss - Understand? - Got it Anything unclear? All clear Move it Sharpen up Move! Boss...Hey, buddy. What group you with? Group? Oh, you're not a made man Let me tell you Don't try to pretend you're a made man Making up gang cred will get you busted up Hey, Roach No threatening the new guys, got it? We're civilized in here Just giving him some advice Mister Roach what's that older guy over there doing? Oh, making a joy bag...a bubble tube You mean... For jerking off So...a love cup? But don't you worry this thing now. I'll watch your back A lot of people here respect me Thanks so much, Mister Roach Don't call me Roach Only Szeto can call me that My last name is Ng Just call me Ng Jai, got it? Move it, Roach! Always in the way Sorry, sorry Attention! The Chief officer is here Let it go I want to clarify something for you all You already know Hakken is in for assault But he's also accused of rape The witness never showed in court so that charge won't stick That's it No further details Hakken, right? Rapist? Rape? The name of the Chief officer is Lik You can tell by his shit-eating face that he loves messing with us $0 you got grabby, eh? What kind of girl did you feel up? Tell us about it Just a private model Oh, taking dirty pictures? They couldn't prosecute! I'm innocent! Hold it! You can tell your defense to the judge Sorry, but I hope you understand Unlike the jury in court In this cell we run a different ruling system But, we do still have a jury Jury? Your verdict is? Beat him to death! Goddamn it! The verdict hasn't even been handed out Don't you know that there is due procedure to follow? Don't you know? I thought you said they were civil? Of course they are but punishing sex offenders... he's got it coming Let's do this again Gentlemen of the jury, your verdict is? Beat him! Wait, wait, wait I'm gonna take a piss Let's get out of the way You don't want to get caught up in that I, Zhang Fei command this bridge! (Singing lines from "Three Kingdoms") Actually, she'd already agreed to a hand job! But I just couldn't control myself! Couldn't control yourself? The great general can stand this... no more! One moment! What the heck are they doing? TV series "Three Kingdoms" has been very popular lately Everyone's totally into it Brother Zhang Fei, he is in our jurisdiction If you insist on taking action on him surely we should come to an agreement, yes? General Zhou must have a grand opinion on it? I would not say a grand opinion But it seems you are insistent So I, Zhou Yu, will not stand watching the attack from a far Why not rally all the generals and vanquish the villain Lu Bu earnest! It'll be a good show! Have they nothing better to do? What the hell? That piece of junk is Lu Bu? Hey, maybe he is a brave warrior Oh...it's started cross the divide, defeat the generals! That's no big deal If my leg wasn't like this I'd kick him into next week Beat him! Keep it down The beating is not quite legit Beat him, but easy on the lockers Okay! Chief Officer Lik is here Everyone up and at attention! Hey, shut it. Put your shirt back on What's going on? You all fighting? No, sir Some druggie was walking just slipped Yeah Looks serious for a slip How is my report supposed to explain all that Uh, a dozen of us watched him slip He hit the corner of the bed bounced over to the wall then bounced back to the bed corner again See, right over here Yes... Uncle Dat, you're the most honest one here Did you witness their fighting? I'm really sorry, sir I was sitting here facing the other way Didn't see anything Everyone agrees that he fell by himself, right? Right But I'm not sure he would agree That's all, then You two, carry him out You should be more careful Seriously, falling down for no reason falling down! Uncle Dat, your mag Don't be shooting holes in it Wow, a skin mag from '84 Every girl in there's older than my mom! And they're still able to get off on it If they knew how I used to party even just hearing the story would probably get them off (Just before prison) This is May, my actual girlfriend. Isn't she pretty? I really do love her because she's perfect in every way Except her figure It's just that it wasn't until after England that I knew what love meant Better yet, what "making love" meant But no matter how much I played around May was always the one in my heart Even my HKGolden forum login ID was inspired by her (G F-Has-Mini-Titties) Let me introduce you This is Vivian, a chick I keep on the side for 50k a month Check her out... She even knows how to yoga-pose when she blows You can tell it's like a mission for her (Baby May) Hello, baby Where are you? Nowhere, just meeting up with friends What's with your face? L...got a...cramp I'll call you right back, ok? You have a leg cramp? See me down here how difficult it is? Never had a cramp You are so gorgeous! Wait, wait Clean that up They're partying outside...let's go All clear... Hello, everybody. I'm late - Latecomer! - Whoah! That's a museum-quality rack... What an aura! Even Vivian has got to make room for her Actually, Vivian understands our arrangement And even knows the right time to provide assistance Your friend is drunk I'll go send him home Wait a sec While you're at it, have the valet get my car I firmly believe... that every Hong Kong girl has a G-spot No, wait. A weak spot Every Hong Kong girl's G-spot is materialistic My brand new Maserati proved the rule again girls get wet once they're in So naughty Why do supercars use V12 engines? As said on HKGolden Forum The louder your car engine roars the louder your girl moans in bed What's wrong? What happened? My new paint... Hello? I'm at Aldrich Bay Park There's a Maserati here, license plate SV7102 He just ran over an old lady Send someone over, quickly Hey, he's getting back into the car! Forget the details, he is taking off! Well? Can we go now? Move it Granny, are you okay? Don't arrest me Well? Can you get into the van? I don't feel too well, officer Can I help you, ma'am? I'm his mother I'm the attorney for the party involved I want to go home Nelson? Nelson? Are you okay? - I don't feel well, Mamma - Everything alright? Don't worry, Mommy's here. Don't you worry Hey, you're the mother, right? Your son drove drunk struck a pedestrian, and fled I'm arresting him Have you checked him for injuries? He didn't ask to be checked Not asking means he doesn't need it? Then how do you know whether he's injured? He said himself he's fine You can't take that attitude with my mom! It's okay. Just sit down Unless he asks, he doesn't need checking? Don't you see his mental state? Do you know if he has internal injuries? Mr. Wong, take down his badge number - Sure - File a complaint with his supervisor What's your badge number? Mom may have gotten the better of that cop but two clays later, I still went to jail The defendant, Nelson Yu standing accused of reckless driving in consideration of a plea of guilty is hereby sentenced to 18 months... The time is now 6:30am All inmates must now rise The time is now 6:30am Boss, wake up Hey, s-s-sorry, buddy W-w-wake up, man Get up! Wake up now! Sorry about that Ever since Marx's Das Kapital I started to understand that all our actions revolve around the evil that is money In prison, everything revolves around the evil that is cigarettes And prison is an evil cigarette world Morning, Boss (grunts) You know, Szeto cutting in line I can understand but why can everyone else jut right in? They have smokes Hey! Oh! Morning, sir You all know what prison commerce means, right? It means as long as you have no cigarettes even a scumbag can push you around What do you want? Set-meal A Oh, set-meal A What's wrong with that? Nothing wrong. The food is guaranteed to be safe Then I'll switch to Set B Sure...next time! Hi, Auntie! (Argot for swearing) Eat up! Hey! That's outta line You're cleaning it up Sorry! What is this? It tastes really off Doesn't it taste a lot like dish soap? That question was the talk of the town and I was stupid enough to pick meal A Want better choices? If you have cigarettes then you can score real food like them A lot of working stiffs think work is worse than prison But nothing is worse than working while you're already in prison Here, work means paying down debt But a new guy like me? I'd have to endure an entire month before I could buy a pack of smokes it's worse than North Korea! New guys not only make nothing they also get the worst work in laundry ...handling "pastries" Oh, god! Are those feces in these briefs? That so damned strange? Hey, I saw a load of feces where inside was a wholly intact piece of vegetable It was a mess but the vegetable was untouched Pretty damned weird, right? Hey! - What the hell, man! - You're getting it everywhere That any worse than this? Hey, you got some nerve Sorry, sorry He's just not used to it How about a little slack We'll straighten this right up Make it quick. That's messed up Hurry up! It stinks! Got it all over my pants, you degenerate... Sorry, Uncle Dat Got you all caught up in this Forget it When everyone's a tough guy, you just suck it up What, are you going to throw up again? Then pull one out I mean smoke one The guards know it's a lousy job They'll let it go I don't have any Here's two. Call it a loan Thanks, Uncle Dat One good deed today Returns in spades tomorrow It's fine I'm not worried about the cigarettes Keep it safe It's gonna go quick Way more appropriate, here Hey, you have any smokes? Let's Happy-share Happy-what? Share We share one Oh...English Hang on How does this one count? Let's not make this awkward Here, you and I each grab an end Guess which side is longer Get it right, it's on me Yours is longer Here's the middle Bad guess. It's on you Now we share Roach always had a new way to gamble for smokes and he'd win every single time I knew he was cheating but in this whacked-out world what choice have I got? You know what? If you can dig up three packs of smokes I can get someone to sub you for a day You screwing with me? I only earn one pack even if I did a month of pastries So you're telling me to do three months there in return for one day off? B-b-but you can get someone to write-in for you What? Meaning someone buys them for you On family visit day You can ask your relatives make a deposit into this account What's the rate? Two grand, five packs Then that's...4()O per pack? That's how it is in here How fast will I get it Soon, once the money's there Another shakedown What's that mean? It's a surprise raid for contraband See, if the guards get word of something they jump in right away If they dig anything up, then...the whole block will collect smokes and give it to a fall guy who gets reported Then how much does the fall guy get? Two packs...b-but he has to do solitary How do you know this? Why wouldn't I? Hey! What's he up to? Penis Pearling How does that work? He gives an implant to your under part Takes lot of skills for this trade You can special order one for yourself Hey look...he's filthy Ming's skill is excellent A lot of people come back in here just to have him do one for them Come back just for that? Bullshit Bullshit? There's Sum Lam He's got seven pearls Seven of them? Oh... I finally understood how Sum Lam got his name I thought the characters meant "deep blue" Wait. That should be "spiky sea cucumber" There's no need to admire this You don't have it now, but you'll get it Hey, do people here pick up their soap? Why not pick it up'? Won't someone take advantage and... stick you in the rear? Just an urban myth Mommy, I never realized how much you cared until I got locked up Let me just say that I truly love you But please wire money soon to the account below Do it right after you read this Dear May, I'm late in writing because I don't know what to say And though you haven't been by in so long I completely understand I trust that our love will stand the test In prison, the time I look forward to most are the outdoor breaks It's only during that hour that I can really relax What are you doing here, feeding mosquitoes? Come, there's something we should discuss The hell are you laughing at? Come here. Don't worry Get over there Move it It's like this Countries have laws and prisons have rules Now that you're here, you're family but our organization must protect itself I understand My boss wants to know if this butt-head doing a write-in for you on the side We didn't have an agreement We were just chatting Ok, I like your confidence Wolfy, explain it to him I'm telling you right now if you want to write-in you can't do it on the side It's gotta be an approved purchase Twelve hundred for one ticket, that's ten packs minus one pack for transaction fee So that's twelve hundred for four packs? How do you get four out of that? You said one ticket was five packs One ticket is ten packs, that's official! Minus one for commission and that's nine packs, moron! What? How can you pull a cheat like that? No no no l-|-l think you remember it wrong See? The truth comes to light Hey. Take him to the dark corner Ok, boss Brother Szeto! Brother Szeto! Please don't! Huh? Somewhere without the sunshine! Brother Szeto! Brother Szeto! Under the shade Brother Szeto! You want extra helpings? How about I feed you some wings! One...Two... Stop! It was me. It's my fault I asked him to write-in for me How about this... Since I didn't know about the system how about I write you in for ten packs as an apology? Buddy if everyone did it on the side like you Then...the system would be out of funds It's not just for the boys in here Out there... Lots of guys are doing their part out there! Then what do you propose, brother Szeto? Well... 50 packs, deal? Alright, since you get the picture Hold off No need to break him into pieces Thank you, Brother Szeto! I will send some someone who tell you how to pay Thank you, Brother Szeto! Thank you, Brother Szeto! Are you alright? Thank you Brother Nelson. Thank you, boss Boss, what boss? You took me for a fool You wanted two thousand for five packs? Those guys said twelve hundred for nine! You wanted a cut almost four times higher! If I'd put in a hundred grand you'd get over five hundred packs You scammer! Harder, harder, boss, harder! Hit me Sorry, boss Have a smoke first! Smoke! Matches... This one's on me. It's on me... It's my fault! It's my fault! I already put a hundred thousand into the account you gave me But each month, ok? I know And that other account I gave you Remember to put fifty grand in each month I'll remember The Vivian Wong one, right? Oh, and mommy? How is my Maserati? It's not a problem Mommy's already ordered you a new one What's important is helping you appeal I've already got some friends looking for a big lawyer to clear your record Don't you worry I'm already in jail what's there to appeal? Silly boy Your record stays with you for life How can you face others once you're out? As long as there is any irregularity in the breathalyzer used for evidence the chance for a successful appeal is very high I had one ordered from overseas They're testing it now at Hong Kong University But I plead guilty already How can that be fixed? You admitted guilt under pressure from a tired and angry policeman Did you forget? The chance is there That's not the most important What matters is... By the time I'm out, the car will be outdated Mommy... Why didn't you ask before ordering a new one? If we get a faster appeal and you get released earlier then when you get out, you can drive it And if it's really outdated by then... I'll buy a new one for you Time's up! That was fast Watch your health, okay? Use an extra blanket at night Make sure you eat enough, alright? Mommy! Yes? Remember to deposit the money Oh No effing way How can he be here? Don't remember who he is? Why don't we rewind the tape I've already forgotten which of the rabble brought me to the friend of a friend of a friend meaning this chubby guy's house party I learned later that his name was Jack He was extremely rich and extremely vicious because his uncle was head of a powerful gang What I hoped for the most was that he was extremely forgetful and wouldn't remember me But what happened that night would be very hard to forget Hey, is that chick safe to hit? There's chicks here? Which one? That one As far as I know, I don't know 'em So does that mean she's cleared? Any chick showing up to my pad has got to be cleared to go I swear I truly did not know that Jack didn't know that the girl I was talking about was his girl If I'd have known I'd rather be struck dead than chase her Your phone (Baby May) Hi, baby. Good morning Where have you been? No, last night I had a headache and went to bed early You slut! Get up! What's wrong? Get off the bed! Are you nuts? It's barely morning and you've already lost it! Who did you screw last night? I didn't You didn't? You mean you didn't do enough You're crazy! Didn't! Didn't! Didn't! Who did this? Come out! Get up! - What happened? - Somebody messed with my girl! Did anyone come down here? Nobody came down Don't leave me here, take me Go up and find him! Get off Where is he? Go after him! Go... That's the reason that made me run naked A seven! Seven loses! Twenty prisoners in cell, all accounted for 3610438, Jack Leui Rape. Two years term What do you want? We want to follow Wu Sung slay the tiger on the mountain Watermargin only just started playing These guys are fast Then do you know who I am? I know you're a punk! Don't miss out Give him a couple kicks Hey, you guys finished? Got enough in? Brother Mike, what's his story? He's a somebody I don't care what body he is Sex-offenders get punished Princes and paupers have equal guilt, brother This fatso already got wrote-in on the outside and all of you got a cut Hell, small favors, small returns Do we change our prison rules so easily? Exactly All you gotta do is throw down a few packs and everything's settled Who's gonna be scared? Hey, this time it's ten packs per person Got that? Each person I think there is another prison rule Prosperity of the whole outweighs all else What about your guilt of princes and paupers? Hah. Money don't break the law, it makes the law Don't you know anything, Mr. Pauper? Got that right Like I was saying Hold your fury, the storm will pass One step back, sail seas of glass. Right? How many true friends do he have in this world? Part as friends today, meet as friends tomorrow Ain't right, everybody? Back to your life, Regular Man Hey, you kicked him a couple times So did you With so many of us, he can't know If he doesn't know, then we didn't Well? You all right? Oh, right. My uncle called you? He entrusted someone to find me to save you Oh, then where were you earlier? You didn't show late on purpose, right? We never agreed on a time, did we? Old man, you sure can represent Kiddo, do you know who I am? Do you know who I am? Stupid old man Worthless fake! I'll tell your uncle and he'll kill you! You fake! Lucked out Jack was so busy beating him he never even noticed me And with that, Jack was put into solitary Every now and then Government Officials came to visit the convicts Councilor Chiang is here to survey If you have complaints or demands please raise your hand Each of you has broken the law but even convicts have human rights You all should have no fear If there are any complaints tell them to me Did you want to go to the toilet? No I want to give some praise for excellent management of this prison All of us here live happy and healthy Knowing how to "read the wind" is a concept even foreigners grasp And you? You look pale and your lips are white Have you been mistreated? - Get over there - Yes, sir You're disgusting, you pervert! Take him to the clinic! So are you! Wow, what an ear-piercing shriek We'd later find out that Sum Lam's sea cucumber had become infected Tough luck for the Chief Warden That Zidane header almost put him in front of the legislative council Do you feel embarrassing? Sorry Hey, did you write two in for me? Can't we talk about this later? So did you write two or not? Yes No. Couldn't be that few Really? I only got two So will you "right" or not? What "right" or not? Can you confirm? Con...Confirm If you confirm, then say "right" That's the rule Right. Right! In here, if you have cigarettes you can get someone to do anything for you In dollar terms, one pack is one-hundred twenty With smokes you can have public showers turned private Then you can pick up your own soap In your dream "1 Pack = Private Shower, 10 minutes" Disgraceful! Disgraceful... With smokes, you get someone to make your bed "5 Packs = Bed Linen Service, 1 Month" With smokes, you can get a massage Your kidneys are weak "2 Packs = Half-hour Massage" right or not? Right With smokes, you don't worry about A-B-C meals because if you have smokes you can bribe the jail-chef to cook gastronomic meal "10 Packs = 1 Luxury Feast" If you didn't know better, you might think you were eating at a Michelin star restaurant right or not? Right Once I had cigarettes I started to think prison wasn't so bad I even got back some quality of life Three packs gets me a substitute for pastries I wholeheartedly believe it's a better value than hiring maids Three-hundred sixty for a day's work That's forty-five an hour Quite cheap? If you can take an economics view of it You would know that I'm paying sky-high prices for this help If I were to do the work I'd only get one-hundred twenty a month Fifty cents an hour, those are slave wages But for ninety times that, I get substitutes That's a CEO's multiple just to do odd jobs To put it more visually you could say I'm hiring ninety subs just so I can take a siesta Get to work! 3610438, Jack Leui, change over Step out Your uncle told me about you But we have our own rules here The rule is I call the shots Do you understand? What the hell are you laughing at? Pay attention! Shhh... You want to talk about rules? I am the rules! You. Go check on that Okay Hey, are you all right? Wake up, wake up There's one injured - Situation in hall, situation in the hall - Did anyone see what happened? Did you see anything? Did you? Sir, I'm the one who knocked him out Why didn't you speak up sooner? Rumor has it Long was sent to the ICU I hadn't seen him again ever since On top of that Jack took over his hall With the support of fools and mainlanders gang Soon, nobody would dare mess with him Only he could mess with you Lately, I've been more easygoing I got my confidence back That's thanks to basketball I used to play as a reason to collect shoes I never really respected the game but I never thought that when I got here I'd be like a retired NBA star playing the CBA and turning into their MVP They said I rejuvenated the sport for them... because there was intramural competition with open betting The system was surprisingly good with club members sharing in the take But money was only secondary Basketball helped me win status and respect Oh, sorry! Sorry! Sorry! Didn't mean it! I'm fine, I'm fine Hey, I'm sorry. Are you all right? Fine. Fine He)' You're pretty good Did he actually mean it or was it an accident? It wouldn't be unusual to forget who I was After all, my hair was cut -and I had clothes on - Fall out Stop flinching! You're smarter. Come here Hey, boss You had some game back there Of course. I've been practicing Big improvement, right? A regular Shaquille O'Neal Asshole Don't think being brown makes you O'Neal Do you know how much you made me lose? You piece of shit That's right, go pick up your kind of people Garbage Here you go boys, for your trouble Okay, you first Dear Vivian It's been so long since I part with you that I'm worried about you Your firm titties are so bouncy and your tongue skills are not bad Hold one sec I trust that this episode will bring us much closer because... I finally have the time to slow down I finally have time... away from you Speak a little slower. Slower... ...and your tongue skills are not bad Right, right You are so damned sexy How is it your wetness is so endless? You've noticed that I keep wiring money to you Just consider it is paid leave Hold on, hold on... Only through this... have I realized that you are the one I truly miss I will propose to you immediately Even if you turn me down I will persist until you accept Once I'm out of here I will do you silly I'm convinced... you also look forward to that coming day P.S. I can never forget you. Yours, Nelson Hey, this is a little weird What's weird? Dearest May Thank you for your visits I'm always hurting you, sorry I trust that this episode will bring us much closer because I finally have the time to slow down I finally have time away from you Only through this have I realized that you are the one I truly miss I'm serious this time. Once I'm out of here I will do you silly. You tell me Hold up These two lines are for him to write Your letter is for May, this is for Vivian Don't mix them up, guys -or I'll get into endless trouble - Really? You know the time? Going to bed? Shut the lights Okay, time for bed Hey, let me use your mop What are you using the mop for? To wipe the fan handle You're using the mop to wipe the fan handle? Do you know that there's a new saying for everything? Inspired by internet culture - Let me ask you something - What? I can sort of accept why a towel is called a mop But why is the toilet called a 'fan handle'? Who knows And if you want to know that Then why is jerking off called 'nightfall'? Why? Who knows? That's just what they call it What else would it be called? Let me tell you something... Nobody'd ever call it that in today's slang Today, everyone says it's "Working the J" Working the J? See, J is your junk, your thing So...jerking off is working your J Doesn't that sound more colorful? Yeah, that is kinda clever Let's see it, boss! Aw... Your turn Scumbag! Hi, Auntie So filthy. Who can be so out of it? No need to Check the IP It's that same son of a bitch! Sexual offences, one year When the culture starts to change it can sometimes happen so fast it's scary Come over and have some peanuts Time for peanuts! Are you that stupid? You're going left and going right You're crazy! What a joke! Sorry, boss! Wait up! Wait up! Argyle Street, where're the smokes you owe? Don't think I won't jik-jik-bird you What the hell are you two shits babbling? I said... Butthead, where're the smokes you owe? Don't think I won't whirlwind kick you You dummy! You dummy! You idiot! The both of you are just convicts You can't even get your Cantonese straight and you're copying slang? You're not allowed! You're not allowed! Using that kind of... Mind your business! S-s-sorry! Brother Jack, sorry! Ease-up, will you? You've got so much power you might kill me by accident you know? A lot of power, eh? I'll give you two more days to pay Two days... - Can you remember that? - I'll remember. Two days Louder! Two days! Two days! Booth Four - Uncle, uncle! - Kiddo! How are you? How is it in here? Why'd you have to beat up Big Mike? Well...he didn't want to help me And I even got beaten up Also, also... He talked crap about you That worthless piece of scum I've been easy on him But you shouldn't have punished him yourself Now your term's been extended! But you know beating people up is what I like and there's already nothing to do here so what do you expect me to do? That's why I arranged for fools and mainlanders to thump Smack them up and it won't extend your term! All right, I got it Your uncle cares about you Whatever happens no matter what, don't slip-up or your uncle won't have anyone to arrange his final rites Oh! I also have some good news for you - What is it? - The info on the guy you wanted me to find? I dug it up! Cigarettes will get you good, private meals We all know that But how good? You wouldn't believe how good Of course, not every day is like this but today is a special day Eat up! Here... A lucky first dish of suckling pig That's right? Sure is but... if you put it all out at once by the time we've eaten half, it'll all be cold! Next time, bring them out one at a time Dirtbag! Is this a celebration banquet? How 'bout putting out a couple mahjong tables? You're out of your mind Just kidding, general Jesus fed a crowd with five loaves and two fish That's a miracle You're using over a hundred packs of cigarettes to take care of hall of people That's cocky Uncle Dat It's my birthday, aren't I allowed to be cocky? No one is...except me But since you did ask in advance and lately you've given so much to the hall I'll let it go this time Thank you, brother Szeto! Brothers, today is my birthday Sorry if the spread isn't much Eat and have your fill. If it's not enough, we'll get more! Eat up! OK Have some suckling pig, Brother Szeto What? Not enough? Give him seconds! Yes, boss! Enough! That's enough? Wow, that looks great Thank you! Happy birthday! Jack Leui Stop Why did you attack him? Oh no! I don't know He was eating and "phew!", he flipped over Sorry, it was all me. I slipped on something You think I'm blind? Too arrogant, little punk Have you heard it said Mind your things and your business then you get much less sadness I only ever heard Give an inch, they take a mile Back away, they take away Sit down now You like getting pounded on so much I'll pound you to death Don't move Don't you move What happened? "Wishing you long life and harmony" "celebrating your happy birthday" "Years and years like today" "Every year just like today" "Congratulations" Who'd have thought you could cut candles and blow out cake in prison Thanks, brothers This birthday cake-like lump is actually milk digestive cookies, wafers, and chocolate mixed together Honestly, it was terrible But it was a birthday cake with the most heart that I'd ever eaten To many more years like this Thank you Hey, I have made something special for you If you'll notice look carefully at this joy bag she's extra meaty And it's even pink And...take this This one's not necessary Tonight, I've ordered everyone to stay out of the fan handle for half hour so you can have a real comfy nightfall No, wait...Work the J Work the J Consider it everyone's gift to you Thank you, brother Szeto Hey, boss. Hot water Thank you, Ng Jai This is the good stuff. Go easy with it Thank you, Wolfy Look out Take this girlie-girl, too Have some extra fun tonight Borrowed this from the officers Thanks, Loco-Hay It's stable Take your time Better get going Hey, you really don't want this? The "Joy bag" can be considered one of the great prison inventions Fuse a plastic bag together pour water inside and put some baby oil on it A human substitute warm soft... Are you guys really already asleep? Quit playing Trionychidae Earlier, I forgot to say... Happy Birthday Come on! How did you get transfer to our cell? Just to keep you company He)' you done talking? If you're done, go to sleep, don't bother me Get some rest Trionychidae The time is now 6:30am All inmates must now rise Morning, sir. All accounted for, sir - Open' em up - Y es, sir. This is a shakedown. Get up, stand straight! Everyone up! Shakedown, everyone up! When is it ever this early, sir? When is a shakedown ever this early? Do I have to clear it with you first? Sorry, sir We've found a plastic knife Why is it so dirty over there? Clean it up now! Morning, sir Warden inspecting. Any requests raise your hands I have received a tip that someone here is hiding contraband! Sir, we just finished searching There was nothing Your shakedown's so lame, why even bother Do you know what you're saying? Do it again! Sir, we found something. Possible drugs Take him away It's not mine, sir. It's really not mine Sir, sir! I put that packet there You put it there? He told me to put it there to frame him What are you talking about! That guy's got a problem with him! And I owe him cigarettes so he forced me to frame him! You rat! Fighting right in front of me? Take all three of them away! Go Szeto, you're coming, too We got real problems this time Needless to explain, we were framed by Jack Roach said it's best to take it down with together with Jack That resulted in Roach getting a "Four-68B" Four-68B means solitary, longer term, no benefit, no visitors 68B is the ruling term It was serious punishment Because Jack was ratted out by Roach As the instigator and especially since drugs were involved He was hauled back into court and was sent to solitary for three months right-after Why didn't you wake me, Roach? With Roach gone, the world a little different but Uncle Dat started talking more Jesus said Whosoever smites thee on thy left cheek watch out he doesn't smite the other That's not right Didn't he say, "Turn to him the other also"? If someone can hit your left cheek they're definitely going to hit your right one You should expect it In other words if they mess with you once they'll mess with you again, so be careful Confucius said Standing at thirty confidence at forty Fate at fifty In other words When you're thirty, you know nothing just like you standing here like an idiot When you're forty, stop running with gangs If at fifty you're still nothing then you'd better accept your fate Hi Auntie! I'd better write that down Solitary coming out. Welding group adding one Change out Change out. Work over here Come on You sure have grit Of course Solitary I know how to handle it You? A rich boy? Two days and you'd have hanged yourself l checked Why did you take the hit for me? You're my best friend a...brother That's what have some smoke Seriously, though You haven't been outside in so long have you thought about what you'd get into Guy like me? What do you think I could get into? What did you used to do? I'm not saying Come on... I've seen your wife always coming to visit If not for yourself, then at least for her Wife? My wife ran off with a guy a long time ago That one's a social worker She looks after my grandmother and my daughter You have a daughter? How old? - Five! - Wow, I'd never have guessed Don't you miss her? Doesn't your mother miss you? What? That your daughter? My daughter drew this She's got a talent for drawing Your daughter is even more reason to be looking for an honest job These days, a lot of people hire handicapped-but-able workers Cleaning toilets? But don't worry I won't sell smack any more Too easy to get into trouble Maybe I'll switch to Ketamine No, all the clubs have been swept clean Or maybe...sell near the schools but seems a little wrong selling right nearby Or do hooker transport But local hookers have serious attitude issues And those northern girls... Those chicks are such hicks squatting around while smoking...how silly! Back to work! Did I really consider Roach as a friend? Would the rabble that I call friends do time for me the way Roach did? As a matter of fact it doesn't seem like I'd had concern for him Hey, seriously... You gotta come up with a honest job to do I'd thought of doing a little business but I don't have start-up money You were so willing to cover for me setting you up with 200 packs is nothing Just returning the favor Two-hundred. Two-hundred packs! Thank you, boss! I just want to be clear that I wasn't covering for you to get smokes! - I know! - Thanks, boss Hey, when can I get them? I need them Don't worry, I won't leave you hanging Thank you, boss, thanks Hey, let me get that... Don't pick that up Give yourself some respect it's...a force of habit You're a boss now Two-hundred packs Ain't that right? Others don't even treat me like a human Only you treat me like a friend As I looked at Roach it was the first time I felt this is a true friend I never would've guessed that my first friend would be a drug addict Daddy MY angel Take your time Well, how were your tests? Know your stuff? Yeah. Daddy... when will you come back from vacation? Daddy has good news for you Daddy's going to get hired Once I'm back from vacation I can go right back to work Doing what... Just a really big company I'd have to take care of everything Wow, daddy, you're super! Daddy, I made drawing for you This one is daddy, this one is me this one is great-granny It's beautiful Baby...daddy's not super Baby's the most super making such a beautiful drawing Do you have enough to wear? ...look after her Baby, promise daddy you'll study hard, okay? Daddy will be back from vacation soon I know, old windbag Wake up! Jack was eventually released from solitary and even got into our hall I never guessed he was crazy enough to swap ten packs of smokes just to sleep in the bed next to mine I thought... No matter, what I had to find someone to take him down In view of the recent, extreme discord between these two whose situation has become intense and to avoid affecting others it is necessary to use fair, reasonable and non-violent methods to settle differences That's right No damned settling No way will I accept this ill-deal You can all see this It's this piece of crap who won't let it go Look neither violence nor threats will solve problems Breaking an impasse demands dialog! This idiot...stuck my girl! Whoah, poaching a man's woman is unforgivable You dumb! How could I know that was his girl? And before I stuck her, I asked him I only hit it when he said I could Oh, you gave permission to hit it -then your crime is worse - That's right Well how was I supposed to know the one he was talking about was my girl? I'm guessing he couldn't possibly be so dumb as to allow you to stick his own girl - That's damn stupid - Right-O How could I know that he didn't know the one I was talking about was his girl? This is so confusing, I don't even know what you're talking about Here's how I see it, Jack either you just kill him now or you pay him twenty tickets and call it even I don't think so Like I'm poor? How's this you used that to do my girl for payback, then pay me back with your junk Are you out of your mind? Don't need to cut it off Just insert a pearl in it Insert it into your oblivion! Hey, out of nowhere you want him inserting pearls... seems a little extreme Right, how about this gamble with cards You each draw once, high card wins One hand, sudden death, okay? Can't believe I got the Deuce of hearts You ran out of luck this hand Are you retarded? All right, time to pay up Hold on a moment We never said I can't substitute with smokes That's right You can consider that Isn't it more practical to take two or three hundred packs, instead? Two, three hundred packs? One thousand packs If you have a thousand packs as substitute A thousand packs? You only have one dick Once it's inserted, it's in there A thousand packs is fair But we still take a ten percent charge - Got that right - Think it over I have a hundred-odd right now, take it first I'll take you to hell. Cut it! Ain't a thousand packs in the whole hall! Hold it With a thousand packs, the matter is settled? Let's see if you have it first Here's a hundred fifty-six How many does Nelson have? One hundred twenty-two One thousand packs There's also this All the cigarettes everyone owes me I have it marked right here A total of seven hundred twenty-one and a half I'll collect it all for you within three days Including what's here Nine hundred ninety-nine and a half packs I have half a pack You call those smokes? These aren't smokes? Here's an extra...my treat! You low-life! Aren't you scared you won't live to see your daughter? I know everything about you! Are you threatening me? I've already...put up with you! Uncle Dat, why do you have so many smokes? I've been here nine years already Hey, you're gonna pay me back, right? Of course Thank you, Uncle Dat ls the number correct? It's good You want to jump in, old man? Better watch your step! Fine. I accept your thousand cigarettes You messed with me, so I'm still gonna get you Well, then it's like nothing was settled Then what's it take for you to back off? Don't like it, then wager your junk for another round Fine. Then I'll wager my junk If I lose, I'll put in the pearl If you lose, you put all these smokes back into Uncle Dat's locker and all scores are settled That's gambling two for one Tell you what the pearl you use will be these Seriously now where did you find these bearings out? Now hold on... Before, you only said inserting a pearl Before, no one said you could sub with smokes All right, deal the cards Brother Szeto, you said Deuces were low, yeah? You don't need to Check-in to know, right? Check IP Here, I beat you clean this time Oh...my goodness, the 2-heart seems to like him big-time Wow...there's not much here won't this take a lot of skill? Don't you worry With Brother Ming's experience he has seen it all! Be that as it may, for such a small penis to have such a big bearing inserted? It's a first for me Thank you, Brother Ming You've all thought this through? If so, then how about we begin the surgery? L...I'd like to know... if I can have some anesthesia? Anesthesia Better I hold you down Or else when you start squirming you might get it really cut up No need. If you really want to help can you all p-please go outside? Everybody staring is a lot of pressure Why don't we all give these two some respect Right, everyone out Look, kid. Consider me as on your side Aw, it's nothing Just talk. Talk and you'll be fine What happened after Sum Lam got infected? Nothing, he was fine once they cut off his penis Brother Ming could you do things a little more properly? Hey, I'm helping you disinfect this bearing How's that not proper? What is that, Savlon? Savlon...Who's got that? Here...it's my piss... Pee has uric acid in it Look, it's even better than Savlon Don't play around, Brother Ming I average two of these a day And you still don't trust me? Look, you should learn to relax Try imagining that later... when you're with your girl she'll say 'Yeah, yes, yes', it gets really high you know? So...I've never put a bearing in before but it's all the same damned thing Seriously now, don't get a hard-on or else I'll cut through your soft tissue and blood will flow like a river then get mad like it's my fault How could I have a hard-on? It's already pulled back inside now Wow, it really has pulled back Are you testing me? It's okay, don't be scared It's nothing Don't shake Steady, steady... Hey, hold this. What the hell are you doing? Almost done, almost done, almost... I fell But I'm okay So baby How come you haven't visited in so long? What? Are you not well? If you're sick, you don't have to come see me Did you get the letter I wrote you? I did Let me read it to you Dear Vivian It's been so long since I part with you that I'm worried about you Your firm titties are so bouncy and your tongue skills are not bad You are so damned sexy How is it your wetness is so endless? Well? Should I keep reading? I didn't write those words Someone must have pranked me You recognize my writing, right? Enough! After all these years every time you lied to me I chose to believe you I thought being in jail would change you I thought you would learn to really love me I thought that so long as I waited for you to get out we would turn out all right I'm so stupid... May, no... Right now I really do want to... have a simple life and have a family with you Yeah? Do you know what? I hate myself! Because I couldn't let go of you! I asked myself, why am I so vile? But I am absolutely sure I will never be with you again! May, don't say these things Don't look for me when you get out No, May I would rather kill myself than let you find me - Baby! - So don't make me to May, baby! Stay calm...take it easy I later wrote a letter breaking up with her Did you get that one? Nelson Yu Go to hell! - May, baby! - Sit down now Thanks, brother... I'm fucked this time My girl doesn't swear She told me to go to hell now I really feel like hell Yeah, but you can win women back easy Mine, I don't know where she went now that's hard to get back Your girl is there every day you can get her back any time Sorry, you go ahead let's game I lose every time. I know full well you cheat but I just don't know how Roach! You have a visitor! Oh, I'm coming! Let you know how when I come back Ng Jai! Help! Help! Wake up! Help! Someone hanged himself! Come quick! Come back here Okay, we'll take it from here Ng Jai... That's not an easy thing You make rope from the edge of the covers tie it around your neck, then drop hard... Do you have to teach the whole hall how to kill themselves? I'm just worried he can't see past it Still talking back Not one person here treats me like a human You treat me like a friend You know those offices aren't there lots of women? Then don't call me roach, okay? It's really embarrassing Then I'll call you Ng Jai again, all right? Why would Roach kill himself out of the blue? Or was he pushed into taking his own life? Jack Leui, Lau Jun-ho, Moshin, pack up I'm switching you to another hall Bye... Aren't you scared you won't live to see your daughter? I know everything about you! Roach, I want to tell you that many people here consider you a friend except for him Don't move Stop 3609981, Nelson Yu is here, sir! Every single one of you gives me problems Tell me, what grudge does he have? Ng Jai owed Jack and it wasn't just a little Jack had beaten him up before And then time with the drugs... It was Ng Jai who ratted Jack out What is it you're trying to say Two days ago I hired him to help me at my company With a proper job and a daughter outside what reason would he have to kill himself? His daughter... accidentally tumbled down a hill to her death Social Services informed him just yesterday It had to be Jack Jack got someone to mess with him! Do you have proof? Jack threatened him before saying he knew Ng Jai had a daughter I know he had a daughter Does that mean I wanted him dead? You have to have proof, evidence Then what's considered proof and evidence? His daughter was outdoors She accidentally fell to her death Everyone knows he loved his daughter dearly Because he could not handle the loss he hanged himself That is called evidence Sir, you're clearly siding with Jack You just don't want to piss him off We in corrections do our jobs straight and on the level! We take no one's side! Any infraction will be sternly prosecuted! Sir, is this not an infraction? Is it straight and on the level? Or is it disguised brutality? Do you want to get that looked at? Or do you want to antagonize me? Don't ever antagonize me! I'm not going anywhere until you tell me everything! Get out of my sight! Sir, I'm filing a complaint! Filing against Jack! Filing against you! I'm reporting you! Loco-Hay, I need someone waxed What's going on? Pay back the smokes, that's what! Pay back what smokes? The eight hundred seventy-seven and a half packs you owe Uncle Dat Adding administration and interest by today, that's already twelve hundred packs What? You paying or not? Damn It's just a cigarette debt you don't have to beat me! Sorry but beatings are a fixed part of payback Otherwise, people will say we don't take action Getting your money is taking action, right? You want cigarettes? Here you go, take it, take it all This enough? Is this enough? Is this enough now? Hi your hell You just want to get paid Something wrong with getting paid? Does me getting paid offend you? Huh? Can everyone be like you? No need to work? Your parents have money You are nothing. You have nothing! You would starve to death! Worthless kids like these as useless dead or alive! Hey, I'm not just getting paid for myself The whole hall of people needs me to get paid! They have family out there, young and old! Making money! Do you understand? That's what men do! Go die! Getting paid, understand? Go die! Old bastard, you got a problem? Having guys shake me down What are you barking for? You don't have to pay what you owe? Couldn't you ask me yourself? Gotta send guys after me? Did reading that Bible turn you stupid? Because I don't want to talk or even lay my eyes on your kind of people What do you mean your "kind of people"? What do you need Loco-Hay for? What difference is there between you and Jack? If I'd known earlier, I wouldn't have offered up all my cigarettes to save you What's all this big talk about principles? Your bottom line is still about smokes! Go to hell! Money makes you the boss? Money means you can kill people? That right? Are you stupid? You're fighting with me over that scum? I now have a bearing in my penis! Ng Jai lost two lives! Am I not supposed to give him payback? You're positive he had Ng Jai messed with? Do you have proof? Even if he did, so what? If you get someone to take him down that's not going back on you? Once you're back in here you either go to maximum or you're in for life! Then what, let him off? Is there no justice now? You were born rich. Good food, good life You call it justice? Is being born rich my fault? What did I do wrong? At least I'm not like him going around and messing with people! Did you go around messing with girls? How many did you screw with? Did cause pain to anyone? Plenty of people everywhere want you dead just the same, so why don't you go die! I've seen plenty of people like you spoiled by your parents I'm positive that all your life they did anything to please you And if it didn't, you'd have a tantrum You have a tantrum, they bow to your wishes Over time, you get used to it and think it's all supposed to be that way Isn't that right? The world doesn't work that way! The world doesn't revolve around you! You live it up, they suck it up Keep thinking without your head and let your desire do the leading and all your life you'll be worthless Ever since I was a kid nobody had the nerve to scold me like that Once Uncle Dat started scolding it last for a whole hour But as I faced him he seemed surprisingly fatherly Uncle Dat, can I ask you a question? What did you actually do to get in here? - Closing up early tonight, Uncle Dat? - Hi, Mrs. Wong - Let's do mahjong tonight! - Sure, see you in a bit Ayu! Rotten kid, won't listen to a thing you say Do you know this man, Lam Tin Yu? He lives in his father's, just around the corner Thank you What did you do? They're cops! Run! Over here. Police, open up! Use the window, damned kid, go! Hold it! Freeze! What is that? You're under arrest You don't have to speak Anything you say will be recorded with pen and paper... I thought sacrificing myself would save him but eventually I realized that I'm what ruined him Stop. Stop now! Don't move! Now you know why all these years I worked so hard to save up those cigarettes You wanted to compensate the girl's family Nothing I do could compensate for that "To feed without teaching is the father's fault" I wanted to protect him but ultimately hurt us both It's a heavy burden I failed to teach him properly that day He was like you, year of the dragon Uncle Dat, do you feel that... I'm a lot like your son? Don't be so corny I just don't want you to turn out like him I don't want your mother to wind up like me The same meal can be feast or it can be foul Which one you eat is up to you Once Uncle Dat scanned my system it was like I was a computer with antivirus installed Problems started coming out I think I needed to reboot my life But sometimes, after a few reboots the system might still hang Hey, something just came up What happened? Uncle Dat was in B zone and fell down the stairs, hitting his head They called for a car to get it taken care of It's pretty serious You want to jump in, old man? Better watch your step! Where are Jack's duties scheduled for today? Jack? Today he should be in B zone But he should be done and out in the yard now Stop! What are you doing? Stop! Escape! All prisoners, kneel! Stop! On your knees, everybody! What are you doing? Stop! Escape! All prisoners, kneel! On your knees! Everyone on your knees! Nail him Stop! On your knees Have him carried out of here! Yes, sir! I knew Jack had no shortage of enemies but I wouldn't have guessed he got stabbed by his own guy I really want to thank that hero If not for him, I could easily be serving life You think prison is bad? The worst is being kept in solitary with no one to talk to And after only three days of this you will want to die But I didn't kill myself And even had 45 days added to my sentence In these 45 days, I figured out a lot I figured out the secret of why the assistant warden would hit people when he didn't have on his sunglasses Everything has a reason Now that I mention it Why was I really here in the first place? Solitary, coming out Solitary, coming out 3609981, Nelson Yu, bunk number one When you get out of solitary you usually get switched to a new hall There's no Ng Jai here no Uncle Dat, no Jack I felt it was really serene May really didn't come back to visit and never answered my letters I heard that Uncle Dat and Jack were both still unconscious in the hospital Maybe Heaven wanted to give Uncle Dat a chance to rest Inmates about to be released usually are assigned work outside the jail because we have no incentive to escape and also to show how we're getting closer to the outside world Boss Boss! I took all the cigarettes and gave them to the bottom-rung inmates and minorities After all, being inside prison or outside You're getting out. Take the name tag off With no narrow line between life and death no people singing "Light of Friendship" to you no one telling you to eat your food without turning around... The reality of being released is that kind of tranquility Nelson, when we get back home you go shower with pomelo leaves and change into new clothes I have one more meeting, I'll come home and we'll go to Fook Lam Moon for dinner, okay? Mom, do you think what I did was wrong? Don't think about the past We should look towards the future Mr. Choi, could you please pull over for me? I want to discuss something with my mom Yes, sir! Mom I did some gambling in there and lost over a hundred thousand That's all right I'll write you a cheque and you forget about all that It's not as simple as losing money, either I lost so much that down there I was forced to insert a bearing this big How could things get like that? I'll call Dr. Lau and see how to handle it Mom, that isn't even the most urgent thing Most urgent is the one who forced me is still in there, right now When he gets out he'll definitely send someone after me What kind of people did you get mixed up with? How about this Hire bodyguard to protect you? It's no use, this guy is very tricky I have two friends in there One was made to commit suicide the other was put into a coma Then how about going overseas to hide a while? I've thought this over The best bet is to have someone take him down What? Isn't there another way? You can negotiate. They just want money This guy has much more money than we do On top of that, he's crazy There really is no other way But if they find out you did it that will still be a problem I've asked about this They said that if I pay a full stipend even if every person is caught no one will rat me out Then where do we find these people? How much money will it take? You're really considering this? Your son is asking you to have someone killed Are you seriously thinking about this? All this time, did you ever think about how to properly teach your son? I went to prison. I became this type of person Who bears the most responsibility for that? Nelson, has exhaustion made you unwell? Don't frighten your mother All along, whatever I wanted, you gave me Right or wrong, you spoiled me like that How did you think I would turn out? I did this because I care about you - You know that - I know But you never taught me properly Not even once I'm only a single woman I had to deal with your grandfather's business How would I have had the time? I work so hard because I want you to have a better life I wanted you to be happy. Isn't that right? You think having so much money is that useful? You thought that if I had more money that I would be happier? Your father passed away early Your childhood was without a father I always feel that to you there was always something missing I wanted to make up for that I want you to be happy, don't you know that? If you wanted to make up for that why didn't you spend just a little more time to teach me right? The way you spoiled me... Did you know I've done a lot of bad things out there? You are very responsible for that I hurt a lot of people out there and you are very responsible That old woman I ran into and killed? You are very responsible for that! What are you saying? Do you know what born with no mother as guide means? That's me I was born with no mother to teach me! Shut it! Forgive me... I feel so guilty I don't know why I did that I feel so much guilt... Forgive me, mother Sorry Mom, I've thought it through I know I need to become a different person I don't want to rely on family anymore Let me try to make it outside on my own, okay? Mommy? Okay I never went back home after that day because I just wanted some tranquility and to live my life I looked for May but it was like she disappeared I think she really must hate me which means she must have really loved me Uncle Dat Been well? Yes Does anyone still push you around? Had...a stroke Nothing to do...with Jack Nothing to do with him? Ng Jai's...daughter also... nothing to do with him How do you know? Social Services...said... an accident...an accident I'm so stupid When I got angry I forgot all those things you told me You're okay so it's fine I'm doing well now Standing on my own, relying on myself You had an argument with your mother? No I don't want to rely on family Children...only have...this life... no afterlife Cherish it The Ten Commandments...talks about it I know Hey, I brought something to show you I...had Ng Jai and your son enshrined next to each other Ng Jai had so much to talk about Your son and he would make good friends Thank you... Uncle Dat I should be thanking you The things Uncle Dat would say were always so powerful I insisted not to move back home In spite of I have to live in tiny flat with high rent While I started spending more time with mom rebuilding relationship Nelson How come you know how to give massages and are even good at it? I learned a lot on the inside. You just don't know about it Vivian even opened a new account By the looks of this moneyman his wealth was about proportional to his age It's just that, from what I can see not even Vivian's magical flute skills can stand him back up Ah, what a waste of talent I watched TV one day and recalled the meaning of The same meal can be feast or it can be foul A murder occurred this morning in Causeway Bay A Chinese male was attacked by several southeast asian men wielding knives The victim was stabbed numerous times but died while en route to the hospital (Three Years Later) Hey, don't worry May didn't just give up the way Vivian did This... is May's father Ng Jai was right when he said that as long as they're alive you can win a girl back Two years earlier, I ran into May After suffering that break-up surprisingly, she went to Korea When she returned, her cleavage was a foot long! And married her right away To commemorate her sacrifice I purposefully changed my HKGolden login name (WifeWithBigBoobs) It's a little arrogant to say that I, Nelson Yu have played with all kinds of girls but as it turns out, this girl is the most fun You can't make a mess, understand? You want to play with this one? By the way...Did May ever cheat on me when I was away? Oh, Cousin and Man together Yes, have a meal together Meet Professor Do He got his doctorate at Seoul Medical School He can speak Cantonese because his mother is Chinese You'll have no problems communicating ls a rich man He is super rich and has special abilities He can sweep girls off their feet See how gentleman he is! May absolutely loves Korea watching Korean soaps, eating kimchee, and especially drinking samgyetang For skincare, uses only Sulwhasoo products Next time you visit Korea I'll take you ice fishing Sure. I'll bring my boyfriend along What boyfriend? Don't keep your mind on that damned convict Damned convict, that's so rude Hey, but he is a convict Don't be so stupid Even Cheon Song-yi ignored the rich boy in the drama Excuse me Something came up, I should go Chat a little longer Actually, in two months I have to go somewhere very far and I don't even know if I'll be back If he's not right for you, he's right for me Do Min-Joon-ssi! She's crazy What does "the same meal can be feast or foul" actually mean? A feast is great, right? Yeah You've eaten it. Then hurl it back up And now it's foul Would you eat that? They're the same thing, dummy Have you all thought of what you want to do once you get back out? I've been training so long I want to be Mr. Hong Kong When I get out, I will have my revenge Whatever the boss goes out to do that's what I'll go do Once I get out, I'll think up a way to get back in here soon Will you come back? Hey, nice shot! My turn Old man, you sure can represent Kiddo, do you know who I am? Why you move so quickly? Is this for real? Like I was saying Hold your fury, the storm will pass One step back, sail seas of glass. Right? How many true friends do he have in this world? Part as friends today, meet as friends tomorrow Ain't right, everybody? (In Memoriam William Ho 1948-2015) (Our eternal Big Mike)
