 

                        Thanks! Special discount today Thanks! Buy one get one free Claire! Wait a minute What a lovely kitty! Come on He's so cute How come he's dumped here? Claire, can we take care of him together? I don't think so So we're just going to leave him here? Please... Please... We can just look after him for a while! I'll go see if the landlord is around Bring him home, ok? You girls have a lot of cats? Only one Need a plastic bag? He's checking you out No, he's looking at YOU Total is $450 This one too Oh! Do you have it? Yes Here's your $500 Here's your change, and your points Thanks Do you need a card to collect these points? Yes Flirt! Here you go Thanks Then wish your cat all the best! What a lame joke Kitty, kitty, come over here He seems to like you very much Is that so? By the way We haven't picked a name for him yet What should we call you... Miao? You don't like it? Let's call you... Lollipop? No? Let's call you little Claire, mini Claire? It's a "he" Oh! Let's call you... The Little Prince! He likes it! Little Prince, look over here! Little Prince! Float Unleash your soul We must be brave Cause we are young And nothing stays simple in this world Let us lie under the moonlight and enjoy tonight We must be polite Cause we all can fly like a fish swimming in the sky Let us explode this world with smile It's been so noisy since they moved next to us James, this is it Help me fix it James, look at this little cat. He's so cute Can we raise him together? No You live by yourself and we can keep him at your place I can always go take care of him when I'm free No... Alright then, you stay right here! If you keep messing around, you'll fail the final exam Of course not I'll count on you Yeah, right! Thanks for helping me fix the model Now... Kiss! Claire, you really want to give Little Prince away? I don't know Then let's just take care of him together I think the Little Prince is happy staying with us But the landlord... Who is it? James, do you like their music? They're pretty cool Thanks I'll go downstairs first It's $698 Stop! I think we're disturbing them We're disturbing them Your cat really likes to eat None of your business I'm Jeremy These are on me No way! Why? There is a deal I'm not talking a deal with you We have a band and I'd like to invite you to watch our rehearsal A band? No wonder You've heard of us? The singing next door is so unbearable I think you really need to come and listen again Hum... Deal Isn't it nice? Little Prince is so adorable You're even more adorable Hi Is that heavy? Let me help you No, thanks Spare a minute? Want to come and listen? It's awful enough just listening from next door Who wants to listen in person? It's different But we need to go to the classical music club It's right next door I'm not going Please No Please Let's go Alright! Then you go with me This is the new piece that we're working on He composed the music and I wrote the lyrics In Case of Love What would you say to me in case of love? I say wherever you go for the rest of your life What would you say to me in case of love? I say if love is a journey, take me with you Let me walk by you Dear baby Please hold me tight Float Unleash your soul We must be brave cause we are... Excuse me... Let's try again Alright, let's start over Excuese me, since we are not fully prepared So... Can we give them some time to practice alone? Sorry about that Kiddo! Come again after we get better Don'tjust make up a nickname for me! So weird, what a lousy band The guitar player looks like an old childhood friend of mind Then go talk to him But... I'm shy Or I'll go ask for you Not a good idea The vocalist seems to have a crush on you That's not true Then why he is always staring at you? Oh! I know! You're always staring at the guitar player Is because you have a crush on him? Wait up! James Is that girl that pretty? I just feel she's special I could be special too I will walk home by myself today Ashley Can we just be friends? No Say again? I said NO! Is there a problem between us? Is something wrong? Hi Have a seat Am I disturbing you? Are you sure? It's fine Now it's... A little bit annoying It sounds nice! What the song is? I just play for fun, you want to learn it? There needs to be an exchange though What do you want in exchange? You always have to be happy No matter what happens to you OK, I'll teach you then Put this finger here, then play six "Do's" Followed by a "Si" Good, then let's try "Re" Claire, come here and see Do you want to hold him? Are we there yet? Almost! Come on! Here we are! Let's keep him here Cool Wait This one is for him OK Let's name him together when your mom has recovered That's a deal Claire What is this? A kitty What's a kitty doing here? Mom... you know... John and I found a kitty at school today Oh What color is that kitty? Orange Is that so? Like this Yes What are you girls talking about? Are you feeling better? Hum... Feeling better Forget your umbrella? Hum There are umbrellas at the club You want to go get one? OK Let me help you to get this What do you think? It's nice I can teach you if you want to learn OK Kiddo I'm off work now. I can't buy you cat food I'm not that one eating Didn't I tell you? Don't call me Kiddo. Where's your friend? Sorry about last time Come listen after we've practiced more Walk her home We're practing there every afternoon You can come visit if you're free It's okay Are you alone? I'll walk you home then Take the umbrella. Bye! Look! Claire Claire Isn't he cute? Walking in the rain is so romantic, isn't it? I have you taking care of me Have you "talked" to your childhood friend? Since I was little, I've always been abandoned by the people I like I asked you to talk to him, not fall in love with him It's hot What's up? Are we disturbing you again? No, is the guitarist here? He's not here yet Then can you give this to him for me? Thanks Vicky, do you want some cookies? I want some too Hey James It is from that "special" girl. Did she leave any message? And also these cookies I bet she knows it's your birthday today Let's go celebrate after practice No, it's okay Or... I can go with you to the record store? It's alright I've never celebrated my birthday since elementary school Then... what kind of gift would you like? Can you just let me practice? You learned fast! You've taught me before Have I? You taught me when we were in elementary school You forgot? Elementary school? We were in the same class Then I moved Have you received... The letters I wrote? Me... Yes... You're not going to practice today? I... I... Are you really moving away? Where are you moving to? I don't know Do write to me Outerspace is a very colorful world So pick up your paint brush And show us your imagination Claire Here's your bag Did you pack everything? Sir! I need to clean my brush! Okay Jeremy Do you know where James is? Why he doesn't come to rehearsal? I left a message for him He'll call us when he gets our message Don't worry Bro! Can you teach me this song? Sure! Here is "Do", then "Re", and here "Mi" Hold this note... here... then the next one There's something I'd like to let you know Is this the one that your brother wanted before? Yes After my brother's death My parents couldn't let go and kept this house as it was So I come back here whenever I think of him Claire, Claire Dear John Finally I am settled in this new town But, I really don't like the new school and the teachers Dear John I will graduate tomorrow My dad said he's busy And can't attend my commencement Dear John I remembered that I saw a movie The lovers in it tried all they could to see each other once a year I'm so moved by the promises of these lovers Dear John How are you these days? I believe that one day we will meet again Little Prince Little Prince Claire I've checked all around the house Don't worry, we will go look for him again Maybe we'll find him You finished working? Yes I think Little Prince isn't too far away If we left something to eat here He might come back Elaine, let's go They lost their cat Little Prince Little Prince Little Prince Little Prince Little Prince Claire, are you hungry? You want something to eat? Where are you? Kitty! Where are you? Kitty, where are you? Come out! Kitty! Claire Don't be sad Hello Mr. Yeh Yes I am Can you come to the hospital now? What happened? Here's where I met Little Prince We'll find him Just go home Little Prince, Little Prince Little Prince Little Prince Oh! Hi! What? Why are you looking at me like that? I'm just teasing you Do you miss Kiddo? Is it that obvious? Yes You're not afraid to sing front of an audience Why be afraid of letting her know how you feel? I just don't know what to say Ask her out on a date The one you love could also be the one who hurts you the most Be a man! I never thought you were so easy-going I have to be Is this him? I was here this morning with some cat food Maybe he came out because he was hungry Thank you Elaine Have you ever had the feeling That there is one person always in your heart? Wherever you go, whatever you do He is always there for you Yes Do you want to be with him? Of course But what if you two can't be together? I will move on to a better life So that he won't worry about me Can you be with someone else? Why not? Let's raise Little Prince together, ok? Yes Let's move out if the landlord disagree Deal We have a performance this week We'll be playing the song You want to come? It starts at 3pm Thanks for all the letters you wrote I believe it also belongs to you. Here you are Thanks Kiddo will come to see the performance later Stay cool! Jeremy Be nice to Elaine I'll see you on stage Hi everyone! We are Young Feathers I'm the singer Jeremy Guitar, James Bass, Vicky And Drummer, Louis And our pretty mannger, Ashley Today we're performing a song We wrote together In Case of Love What would you say to me in case of love? I say wherever you go for the rest of your life I'll stay with you Dear baby, please remember What would you say to me in case of love? I say if love is a journey Take me with you, let me walk by you Dear baby, please hold me tight Float Unleash your soul We must be brave Cause we are young and nothing stays simple in this world Let us lie under the moonlight and enjoy tonight We must be polite Cause we all can fly like a fish swimming in the sky Let us explode this world with smile
