 

                        provided by: hamilton "Before the forty days" While I am asleep  (Turner) I woke up in the street The last I can remember is coming to your apartment And what about the bedroom? Remember the so? I grabbed my legs - Well - Why must everything be a competition? So pleased with himself, I Thditni - Would you call this a challenge? - Do you want to return? Hey guys, it is Saturday, let's sit back I know that we can relax more than you - ! I doubt this - You are exciting and you wet Why should I put this? - Because you love me - Is), why Ehrjon now, as long as this other man?) Why do not you call someone else tonight? What about my sister? Intqllt have just said, you do not know one here Your sister? When did this happen? - We had a disagreement a few years - I have stolen one of her friends - It was more than this - But we we finished with this, and became I have a sister again I do not know, maybe a good idea "does not appear Will not get used to this ! You know Young people do not Ihboha, and keep all the Khiarthm open Do not consider this good, I'm waiting for her opportunity to come only Yes, the perfect girl, does not have a ! Such a thing He also said that, as he (Justin)? - We want this competition - This calls for incitement This place is dead, I will check out the site for some Other clubs, the night is still Mptdop Sostahbkm later, Goodbye beautiful - Goodbye - Hello - I want you tonight - Excuse me? - Are you happy? - Who is this? - Allen Forget?, We have been together a few months ago How can one forget a beautiful voice Ksotk? - Do you sleep with a lot of women is good for your appetite? - I have the good time I'm just - Do you run away (Van Marcus)? - From me? - I think you are accompanied by some of the girls, right? - Some beautiful girls will not Taatzlm the next day ! This will kill you, kill you, ! Hello (That), I'm sorry I thought I'd dial (Justin) - No, I did, he is asleep - Do not need to pick you up? So, what happened to the girl that you are with her? - Any one? - ! It was a nice We are in the "Los Angeles" All nice You are also beautiful and nice - Thanks - ! You are very tired Well, we can stop to this - Yes, we do not want this to occur - I Okhvtni, what do you do? I woke up in my car Conti is very tired of driving to the house last night? What do you mean? Tell me exactly what happened Why there? , Sometimes when I sleep I stay awake It's something that sounds a Sleepwalking I do not understand - If (Justin) asked me to see a doctor for that - You walk and you sleep when we were exchanging kisses? - Why do we accept some? - I'm sorry, I'm very sorry - I have been very aggressive - I did not intend this occurs - I have helps me - So why did not Toagafini O (Anne)? ! You're married - ! So why are the other fights all the time - I did not Ogazlk, you behave properly in only What have we done? (You love (Justin - Things were difficult between us recently - Justin) your crazy) We have been trying to bring It's not easy as everyone thinks We have been trying to settle the matter, but I can not go in this What do you tell him? I tell him, accompanied by my sister And stayed with them for several days so I can be accompanied by Will understand it - You will not tell him with the event last night? - I was angry with him, I can see it now This was the reason for last night It was not me and you - Explain this to him - ! Will destroy everything we have, everything you have "It's very easy with the passage of time - ! This is not you - Any part? Sleep with you, or hide from it? (I'm sorry (to - There is nothing to apologize for - It never happened Analysis does not indicate any abnormal changes Have you checked the sleep clinic? I do not think that the sleep clinic will tell you more than I walk and I was sleeping - ! I want you to tell me more than you walk and you are asleep - Only thing I want to help me not to move in sleep - You have a "Albarsonia" We want something strong - What is "Albarsonia"? - Tstta is that you do anything and you walk and you are asleep - I drive a car? - Yes - Exercise in love? - I have met with cases such as these - ! Swim!, And is the only thing that I did not do I hear no one was swimming while walking and he slept How long have you do this? I do not know, since I was a kid "But it has become worse recently This will prevent you from going to any place And if they do not! , Call my office and clinic Soholk sleep It's just disgusting, all I see is that the food is disgusting If you plan on Maguid meat is dead, do not leave it in the way I'm sorry, because all are not vegetarians - Really, I (Veken), (Vision) There is a difference - How many aliens do you have? How is the case of drugs with "Albarsonia"? I woke up in my bed last night Have you started? Is) trying to go at the weekend?) I think that I should marry her, for a period of Want to go for breakfast? - I can not today, I have prepared two sets of breakfast - Group? They are people who want to stay away from sex Why? Why look at this way? - My mother asked you in the last day - He told her and greet her on my behalf, I apologize For the bad things that you remember me ! I think it is very cool, what you do - Thanks - Hello, my name (Rob), I'm addicted to sex Was a very difficult week I saw a lot of porn movies Osohrni most nights So I sold my computer No more porn movies (My name is (Marcus Turner - Yes, the first name only - (My name is (Marcos - And just trying to solve all these problems Before the beginning of this process, we used to get what we want From carrying candy Last week I asked my husband to forgive me For lying and deception We will need friends to get through this stage / i Hello, my name (David) I'm addicted to James The first thirty days are more difficult to Stay away from areas poisonous - Does not try not to feel something? - / I Charity powerful do not go easily And does not cause pain / i b Surprise / b / i Merry Holiday - Are you doing this? - Of course - It's super - Are you invited? - Through your address book - I'm sorry, I'm very sorry I did not mean this Hello dear See, I still wear the boot Of course you do - Marcus), Dear has changed your number) And did not give me the new number I met you last time you kiss me in front of your car It seemed like a combination of Excuse me for two seconds I do not remember that - Why? - So where is (that)? - She told me will not be able to come tonight - Here is, "Hello, dear We were just talking about you Yes, it's here all right, tell him happy birthday gala Well, to tell him Yes, I feel better I love you too, bye-bye Will relate to you later Good work, well I did not know that this party nudity? I like to see these women Mbtalat Not all Oxhn I told them all to stay away from you this time That's very kind from you - Yes, I thought it would be worse - (Ben), this (terrace) - (Becky) - Excuse me (Becky) - (This is my best friend, and the leader (Justin Ilqubni always preferred his friend I am the Chairman We met in advance for the preparation of this concert - Brochure Is there? - Yes You are really talented - I can tell you how so? - Thanks - I can help you in the tested later if you want - Thanks - This gift to you It's a game for the friendship Give me er friend of mine before the marriage - Do you tried it yourself? - All right to play with me sometime? Ann) sent) She saw the girl in the wedding day, did not ensure that you have a copy Thanks! Used it wisely One of you took time in the tradition of my signature To bring this to me? Seriously, brought this to me? Somebody wants you - They were under the kitchen table, I mean, were not with the rest of the guidance - Thanks for any person brought ! It was a lot of women here tonight Some of them looked familiar to me - Maybe you should give them a chance in some cases - This will not work, said processors I use sex to escape I was talking about a relationship to I mean more than a day gave them an opportunity It will not work - It's adventure, to go to some of the girls was escorted Merry Holiday Thanks! I'll be you in seconds Only accurate Hello - The door bell does not work? - We had contact from the emergency - Really - Yes indeed - I did not call, emergency-- Contact person emergency-this apartment - This apartment? - ? - It did not say anything, just contact Disconnect - I did not call, emergency-- Would you mind if we look at the inside? To make sure that everything is fine Not at all Hello You're absent for a period? - For - ! Beautiful area Indeed Appears to be a sunny day Chambers might add Do you know what I did? I have been approached by 411 This morning, I must be contacted with 911 error Does not take much time to open the door next time - I'm sorry for that - Call "special" Hello Who are you? I thought you would not come today I was walking and I was sleeping last night Drug effect will not come - I think I want something stronger - And I (that) were going for a walk on the beach for dinner, Want to Join? Thank you I have an appointment Come on, we we will be , He married Gala - Holiday happy marriage - How is the state of affairs with you? I came out for the mood, and they made a mistake A lot, but I am working on this What time is it now? - It's time to buy an hour - It is the second session, on the go He told her thanks, on the image and the game I made you some lemons, were not as I want But I think I made some good thing Want more of sugar - For - Sorry Would you mind if I took some pictures? - I do not think - I mean, It's good to talk What does it mean your tattoo? I do not know, do not even know why I got it? Othabayn taking pictures? - For - I love picking up the moments when I was a child I used to imagine that I had a camera I thought you a singer? No, this was only training for the party next week You are welcome to come I am in fact, illustrated in concert This sounds exciting, does this mean I deserved image Thank you for being nice to me Othabayn swim? I used to take Doris when I was small ! That's all I know Why do not Tagafzin? - Sogrq such as the Rock - I'm even happier here I spend a good time Will teach you how Tslaken? Will teach you photography - You do not do this - No, I want it - Do Ahzti anything odd about the apartment last night? - What do you mean? - Is the anything but normal for you? I saw you back last night? Omtokdh it was I? When you return to your apartment, I thought that you ? Do you doubt this? ! No, sometimes I walk and I was sleeping This is a brutal - For - You know, I've read about a person Gained 20 pounds ! Because they are eating the cake in her sleep Are the flags of both sides? No, I was very dark Have you noticed something else? - No - What's up? - Anne) are missing) - What do you mean? - Will not appear for a walk yesterday - When I was last time I saw her? - Two nights ago - After your party , Received a phone after midnight ! She and her sister Her sister suffered the frustration of When you go (that) to Say they are going, but But - But what? - ! Her sister said it would not relate to (that) at all So who contact them? - I do not know - I left a million messages on her ! I called her parents, and Baalml, nothing at Methodist Hospital ? - Of course - Of course, called the police Cut short on holiday with me? , And come to look out for? - Sure - (I Altharip (krone), looking for (Justin Wheeler - That I am, what's up? - It is about your wife May want some privacy Marcus), my friend) - "I'm sorry that we have found a body similar to your wife in the park" Trangel - ! I do not understand Found stabbed stabbed lags We want you to come with us ! Seems that the body was there since two days When is the last time you saw your spouse? Two nights ago went ! Has helped in the establishment of a party gala AD I am so sorry Want to come with us? (Marcus) Did you hear what happened? - Yes, I know, I have been a close friend - I am so sorry this is very tragic What are you doing here? - Take some pictures of the magazine - Do they know anything more than me who did this? No, they will not know anything, but I'll tell you that they knew - OK I appreciate you this, to go b! I have not heard about a swim he is sleeping / b / i Who did this it? Police asked me many questions They wanted to know if there's one hates Everyone loved them, right? Of course I'm going to the family home Otridnni to go with you? - No , You do not have to do this - ! I want to go, just contact your system administrator about me Your group is not left behind - Is not important - ! I'll be with my family, and I'll be fine You need that group, and I know how important it is for you? It's not - I'll be fine - ! (Justin) - I'll call you later - ! Anger! , Anger More rage I think of escape, and go to the pub And intercourse girl And angered again ! Appears to be a difficult week That was this morning I keep thinking And loitering and wasting time and cohabitation What happens when you try to curb the pain? I keep thinking about the person who Do this and I want to find it, and I Boveth ! Wants you to escape your feelings Sojtaz this Thank you for being a mentor - Try to keep your feelings inside you - We are making progress - I do not feel this - My hand was numb on the previous day I could not feel anything You then hit her repeatedly in the ! Until he returned a sense, life is like this sometimes There are parts you were asleep for a period of time ! Did not see you here before First interview me - Nice - (I (Marcus (I (Gwen In fact, I do not have a Middle Name Really? - Really - My mother did not believe it What I mean is to use anyway? If something had happened to your first - ! If the crash? - Or Khosrte - What is your last name? (Harkmen) (And not the means (Fishman (It (Charman Are you Germany? - Remain at the Germany - It has helped me to get my ID But we separated He loved women ! A lot of women ! So I started a lot of men Bmxp I thought that was an equable But I could not stop I'm sorry about it I dream of a halt to this, and go to the hospital Work makes me think less in that Sounds like you've come across too many Did not mean anything by this - No, not wrong - Difficult Only to be a friend of a man The same thing to me with women However, I want to start Friend Friend You (Marcus) is not it? - For - You are the most popular here Is not it? What do you want? - I do not know just by looking to book your appointments - And the majority of women, must it be nice They give an additional amount - Yes, you had it? - Will not be one of the auditors - Do you need to be? - Is there something you want ask me for? Where were you on the night she was killed? I was asleep - No, before that - Anne) and (Justin) set up a party Mfajaep me before) Must be broken and peanuts until you get a good Good things that are inside (See, I know that you liked (Anne And you like to find her killer ! And call me if you know any useful information OK Otadeni that this is not an evil thing Which will be done? He just keeps me from driving - Are not deal grain for this? - It does not work all the time My doctor referred me to a sleep clinic "Well, this puzzle" Sdjelko If you experience sleep problems Otrkini so on until the morning, even if you are contacted by And told you that Tzilehma until the morning - Really? OK (Marcus) Welcome to my mother - Znntek a taxi driver - I'm good, thank you, how are you? Can I log in? - I just cleaned the floor - Othtegen a lift to somewhere? Mom, when you Otaatzkrin Ngillin me Turki things - Did not recognize it - Because I did not remember that ever - I think sometimes I do it while I am asleep - ! Please - You have the rest of the things and I was sleeping Nothing like this You remember lungs do something violent? I have what is more important to talk nonsense I was wandering and I sleep and I think my father so much recently I'm sorry Where the driver dreaded? Continued to work at the Center for Massage - It is the resort daytime my mother - ! I read my father Tqroe? Why read Let me see what you read ! Mathematics is considering charges cartoon, I do not think this Do you think it is possible that the TV set I want some quiet People say many good things about my father That came to him a heart attack because of his family Instead of your clothes, and I'm getting some sleep ! Appears to be a forearm I thought you want some dinner with me - Thanks - Comfort delicious - Try a new recipe I found in the TV Show - It is in fact eat Restaurant - But it looks as if cooked in the home - Thanks - Yes, then please - Would you mind if you remove the dust - Is the place so bad? - Do not you go through difficult times With what happened with your friend, etc You know when I'm sad The first thing I do is clean No, you do not do this No, I like to remove Alotrip It was to eliminate all the old things of your life ! You Tzkrinni someone Are you from this area? I am from "Bardias" from the north I know that people there are not that good, but I have been with my father A nice place to grow the ! And a lot of , Trees Would you mind if I washed the dishes Because the second thing I love Indeed, this kindness from you, but ! Sorry that Sostbdl Well, how are things? I have dreamed the dreams of an exciting recent I have taken a lesson in dreams ! It does not mean anything No, no, I Describe the what happened, because sometimes in your dreams Do what you wish, in fact Come on, Ejrebni There is a man He is in my bedroom He is wearing what looks like the mask ! And key hole in the middle of the head Whether it is located at the end of your bed? - For - And is the face is not to know it? - That's right - And while he was there? Did you see a mouse? No - Because mice sometimes means treason - There was no mouse What about pork? ! Pig means greed No, no pigs, sorry In fact, did not examine a man with a mask Feeling Ohyanna you wear a mask? People do not know you? Do not know your reality? You know, it is difficult to know the people in this city - Yes, but if there was a key to you open, what do you think will be the key? - Do you want me to respond to this - No - Wait, was there a rabbit in a dream? Rabbit ear with a large Marcus Turner)?) - ! Yes, that's me - Would you mind to come with us? - What happens, should I contact one for you? Going to take this Is not it supposed to give me my rights? Suspect with us, we want the writ of attachment? Been confirmed I will hand myself What was stolen from me? - ! Mom - Asked the taxi driver to return Breaks in my house and I saw you, what was stolen from me? Did you call the police for me? Yes, and I have every right to do so - Is your son, madam? - Unfortunately, yes Have you Cdye from her home? Look in my pocket Do not recognize this, it is not my home Was in my room, I forgot his It is privacy - ! Hold! My father I love you so much - ! And a lot to the last page And this also And half of these also ! Much too much ! But the rest lump What do you say too? - I do not remember - So when they found I do not remember when I wrote? Resolve the limitations Do you know something? Is not it? Helped me in that Please, Mom, I am dreaming the dreams ! Try to tell me something Dreams will go away No, no, I still do not feel it This is the best What's happening? I Tlboni police station - ? - And that they must think I killed her - Why do they think that? - ! Perhaps because it does not have any other threads What kind of monster did this? There must be some reason for this to occur And when we know, it would be more logical ! (There is no logic in the killing (Anne This is not what I mean? - If they put me in prison - I want you to take over ? Maybe someone else has to give No, you are my friend close Can you do this? - Well - Where did you learn cooking? - My mother taught me when I was older - ! Try I cook often, but when you are single, you know - Yes, I know this - Thank you Vegetables? - Please - ! I am amazed Do you have a knife is better? ! Knife ! Knife ! Knife,! Knife,! Knife Why? - Housing!, Do you have a sharp one? - No, disposed of all cutter I'm walking in my sleep sometimes I do not want to hurt myself Walk and you sleep? Do you hurt yourself before? ! On that day only Speaking I woke up and covered with some blood I'm not sure where is it? ! May come out with a cough For - ! May Do you take blood samples to Tvhsiha for me? For what? - I want to make sure it to me - I know this is a strange request to ask - Yes, some of the scary thing - I mean, it is often me, but I just want to make sure I should go Are you Mentzerni to tie you? (Becky) (This is my friend (Gwen - Hello, happy to meet you - Are you a Siqidh in bed? Okidh? No I just Deceased - We were having dinner - ! I'm sorry That there's nothing to worry him We should talk about this later Want to take the first lesson filming tomorrow? ! And which does not include restrictions Perhaps - This a good answer for you, and you want to discover this or not? - To Learn ! I knew that this is not a good idea It is in order to move and I was sleeping Becky) Tqidny not even a prisoner) And there are other forms of treatment for this It is only temporary, it was much worse - You seem to admire him - Please, move ! I have lived with my best friend wife During the Seri and I was sleeping Is this possible? - I'm not making this up - , I did not tell the counselors Why tell you this? Because this person needs you want to trust him I will take the sample from you (I give this to (Becky Chains, would end in the morning Try this, it is likely to work? This sample I want you to come to the hospital tomorrow I will have something for you Who is this? Good friends Thank you for dinner 're Welcome Why evasion (Marcus)? / i this will kill you, kill you / i Resort "Aucma" daytime ! Trkk go That good Altharip (corn), would like to ask you some questions I will give you some privacy Iarvaq So, what prevents you from resistance With that you can survive or detention This is peanuts, please try another and then you explain the My reason for the existence of photographs you in its safe We were good friends - No, no, these pictures There are some puzzles - Which says that this Your photos in high school I do not know anything about this - Do we consider the two together, and wear the same rings - (Anne) was the wife (Justine) ! And a good friend That's all there is to it Princes beautiful, beloved wife and a good friend Induced by this has to be and that he felt bad? I can not imagine life carry ! Such a thing I'll be in touch ! It showed me the album ! I do not know what this was She had a feeling towards you ! I've done Do things like this Could I ask you something? What's up? I feel it strange to ask this, but Whether there is something you are? Forget it There was nothing between us I think this is what you want to hear Itek feeling that you did something bad and you can not remember What do you think you have done? Something terrible I've done some things that can not be forgotten Who are you? Ms full? - I'm far from perfect - When I was growing up I did something harm to a person I used to write my name on the beach Believing that the ocean is a love machine, which washes my name I pray to the Lord in order to wipe it commits I was never religious My parents did not have the Gospel You want to know the content, so stolen from hotel Sorry about that The Lord wants to Esmha Are there any tests? - Sit - These are the results What do you mean? You do not have the time (This is not your blood (Marcus So where it came from? - I think you know where it came from? - I need some help What? - Come to me calls from the woman who claims that I have lived relationship with them and forgot about it - I think that it is trying to make it Seems like I have something to avenge me Do not have the slightest idea how to look like? - My neighbor says she saw entering the apartment that night - Something happens - When? - ? I'll tell you when I know Can I recover the sample? I do I need for more tests Any kind of examination? - ! DNA - It is more specifically That good This will become something There must be results before the funeral of those girls Why? - You do not want to show that you are the killing of - Do you think I am stupid? Do you think I do not watch the news? ! I mean that her image next to your bed Do you really sleep in your sleep? Or is this type of coverage? ? - You are like every man I knew - You do not say the real - The truth is discovered that what I am trying - Give me a test again - If you tell me about this again - I swear that I will cum in the crime lab (Marcus) Please, please Tell me the truth Did you this? You can trust me We are friends, right? Did not seem to pay too? (This is for the funeral (Anne I'm sorry You will leave off? I'll start now I would like to be alone now ? If this is okay Absolutely, just have a quick question Just wondering What do you do your friend at the scene of the crime? Thank you for coming Where were you? I wanted to be here really I lost a lot man I am deeply sorry There is nothing wrong there are things in this place It is there and you need to Help More slowly Look happy to be on b Thank you / b ! Finally, I met Sister Why are you here? - Is) also my friend) - Really, was it your girlfriend? Or claim your prize? It is not so? - Really? She said you were violent - I told you my problem I know, I talked to (Justin) and he told me You walk in your sleep, and believe this, that's why are you here? Ogrok, now Leave - What I told him too? - I told him that I talked to the police And we do a good job ! And I do everything to investigate this How can I believe the speech, in which you are saying? Do not have to explain this to you So how do Tmkinte of Taaqbi? You have told me that you go to the I told her that the interviews may ? Why me? I've got the DNA test results Nuclear and I wanted to see if intuitively correct I will not hurt (that) never Tomorrow we will know the truth I love the fact You are here for a progressive consolation You're the only one of Friends did not give me any evidence ! I thought that you are familiar with the Have you asked everyone else we know? As long as the victim will not come out of his grave To say what is justice I'm sorry I can not help you (You do not help (Anne ! Anne) are missing) / i ! I have suffered repeated stab wounds / i Appears that he fled / i have come to the doctor (Triple Wind) / i Contact me on mobile phone If it is necessary / i and that it was very necessary Close Contact phone and rescue them / i (Becky) I was pleased to hear your voice! Why wrong? Nothing, nothing I'm sorry for your early communicative Will talk to you later, bye I've seen it, " "Blood Put this Gwen) who did this?) Did I? Did I? ! I need some help here ? - We have challenged - And lost a lot of blood - I need you here - I need you, to convey this (To Dr (Tramn Well - ! Oosaliha to her room - Dr Will (Truman) okay? I hope this ! It is very sad about her sister Did you Tarafitha? Certainly do They come here (Since the death of (Anne ! Justin) was here) It was in a bad mood that day ! He should be happy How is this? - They knew then that she was pregnant - (This (Justin - Justin) We need to talk) - Is it on (that)? No - If we will explain when you come here - (Becky) (This (Marcus Yes, you Tsttiei be available to me the service? Supposed to be with the Group now - It is very important - There are at the bottom of the swimming pool A knife for safety, I want to know if she was still there? ! But now It was only later will let you know Send me a message and Oalimi This is very important ! I will not enter the swimming pool (Please (Becky There is something I did not tell you and never What is it? Police (I've found the killer (Anne Having found her body And I told them this What a coincidence There is something you do not tell me (You know exactly what happened to (Anne With what you talking about? ! I told you she was pregnant ! But you do not have That's why I killed her That's when Give me the knife Who killed them (that) to think I've done this ! I spent the remaining nights and develop evidence to Is this some kind of bad joke? The call that Jaitk in concert Were not (that) you speak It was dead and then Ordtni have to think that they live ? I hid the knife in a place not I can out of him and I never walk in my sleep From bad you did not know this How many knives that have? This stops Cause of her pregnancy (Justin)? Did not ask me this? Jordanian you to think that I have I did it and I was constructed Bnomi You have something and you sleep You have left me (Marcus) How can I be me? (Marcus) What's happening? I'm sorry I do not know what happened Not a bag (that) here? Not back here? I do not know You have asked me who caused her pregnancy?! Did you sleep ? Did you sleep with (that)? To I've been doing this and I'm asleep Do you think? Do you think you killed her? I do not know Maybe this has to do with my father Everything has to do with Boualdk Maybe I need to know why? - Know what? - ! All you do is tell me lies I need to find out what happened Because when you see everywhere Continue to see my father Stop your father ! The same thing happened and I was sleeping Only for me (that) what happened (that)? I need to know the truth To Go to my car we'll go to the police I did not do this I'm sorry You may not enter here No more stories from my mother No more games Must follow up your life ! You Tkhvin thing about my father Attitude of affairs Attitude of affairs How do I know? ! You Got a the rest of the evidence (Marcus) Marcus) will not find anything) Please stop hurting my mother (With Love (Marcos How it is? - It was nice - Have allowed him to stay Msiqza For some time after he had finished his duty Where Ms (Turner)? Will come to the house later Does this matter? You're a bad girl I have been here every night ! And you see him with other women I see them swarmed I remember the smell ! Like you were not Zbanich Did not like my mother This stops Stops this news - It is the truth and I remember the first time - This was the first These clothes my mother ! (Craig) ! Yes Why? Unless you Msiqz? (Jennifer) Jennifer) Wait) - No Dad - (Do not be a child, well, (Jennifer - Dad - Jennifer) Come on) - This stops my father, please - Marcus) This has nothing to do your mother) I still love her (Jennifer) - Will tell her - Do not Pthdede I hate you, I hate you ! Daddy, Wake up Wake up please I do not hate you, I love you Please - I do not know why I do not remember this? - I know why? (Craig) Dear, Please Why there? What happened to your father? What are you talking with? You do not remember anything? I've been asleep ? I want you to go back to sleep Back to sleep I have been trying to protect you ! You will be Tbadinini for the truth I have been trying to protect your future ! I live my future now And is a nightmare I knew that it would be over I'm sorry I wanted to make sure you have fine Before I hand over my One of them attacked me Do you think that I was? He was not wearing a coat I could see his face I will go to the police What happened to your chin? When it hit me, caused some damage hour ! I do not wear hours Is the silver hour? I want the investigator (Creel) if allowed Hello Hello Are you still there sir? Hello Stay on the line You will come to help But still the person who attacks you exist? Police would come there Can not leave Police on the way Besamtk and everywhere ! It is amazing that you may recognize in your sleep ! I know of in the bathroom Alsakbn Gwen) know who attacked this morning) You had to take off the clock I gave you last Christmas in ! I'm sorry that all this happened This is what I felt when You tell me you are done This is what I felt when she told me Child as a holder of This is what I felt when Told me that she would give birth to your child ! (I have young girls give you (Marcus We have young girls give you You always win You always win But you will not win this time ! No Hello Enter the door is open Hello Will you go on a trip? No, responsible for me Siwkzni to a rehabilitation center ! This will take time to Taatalj Htnak I did not put something like this into account When I moved to the "Los Angeles" the first time I've been single so I have lived relationship with a man Could not identify In the second time I saw him So I called his place immediately and said, how can Forget the beautiful voice like your voice I was very angry when he did not know me Now you know why? But in order to ! I wish I could do not receive this call Because I have to talk to you face to face, but What happened between you and me ! It was an awakening for me ! You know when I come back here I want to know a lot about photography I may be available in a timely manner Can we start again? Certainly provided by: hamilton
