 

                        Sorry, we weren't able to save your wife... but the baby's alive I'm sorry When mom died... I witnessed from daddy how painful it was to lose a loved one Mom died when she gave birth to my sister Julia Nobody told me but I have to be strong for her I whole heartedly took care of my sister - Bye, daddy - Bye, daddy You're leaving now? - Yes, dad - Take care - Come on - Bye Especially when we lost Daddy I promised that I'll take care of her My sister and I dreamed of having a good life And I don't stop until those dreams come true Just a little bit more. Set of 8 Come on Ciara, I think you're right See? I told you You have to be careful with your knees, okay? That's good Ciara Promise me, you'll marry me someday Go easy on that leg Wait... Sam! Sam will assist you and then we'll go fix your back Sure, you're my angel You're done, Sir? Okay, thank you Girl, you know, I admire your appeal How many patients like him have asked you to marry them? If I were you, I'll choose one of them Then get their offer What are you? That's understandable, they got well because of me, that's a big thing You're right Oh by the way on Thursday, my place, Thanksgiving I'm busy Busy? On where are you busy? You don't have a family. You don't have a love life You don't... In fact, girl, you know, you don't even have a life You were calling me? How's Michael Will's knee? He can't play yet, right? As for me, I would not advice it... because his knee is rehabilitated already His torn ligaments might fall so I don't think he should - I see - Let's make his knee stronger - I'll leave this to you - I won't give him his clearance yet I'll go ahead Ciara, can you sit down for a while? Susie's coming the day after tomorrow Wow! That's great That means you'll file a divorce with Dina Then you can marry Susie again I guess so She has patiently waited in the Philippines for a long time Maybe this is the right thing to do Yes, you finally came! - Hello, how are you? - Happy Thanksgiving! Take off your coat and put it there. Guys, Ciara's here Hello, happy Thanksgiving JC, Ciara's here - Hello - Ciara Hey, you came Feel at home, okay? Ciara, try this steam red snapper. It's really good, I made it Not that turkey Girl, it's a miracle you came Ciars, did you get married already? I guess by this time you're married... coz you've been here in the States for years Not yet - Aren't you thirty? - Thirty Huh? You're thirty? What are you waiting for? Girl, I'll introduce someone to you... who's really handsome, white and single You'll have great looking children. Why not? I'm not searching What seems to be the problem? You have to get married now coz you're getting old... you'll have a hard time giving birth, that'll be considered high-risk Ciara, soda? You know, it's hard to grow old alone here in America You'll feel lonely If you don't want to get married then at least have a baby... so when you grown old someone will take care of you Water, excuse me - She'll grow old fast - That's right I've been courting you for three years Dennis, you know the reason Your obligation to your sister I want to petition her This is our dream Are you telling me that I don't have a place in your life... because of your sister? What I'm saying is that if you love me, then you'll wait What's up, man? Storm, you're here. I've been waiting for you Yeah, yeah, later okay? Shot, shot, shot One more, one more - Hello, Julia - Hello Julia, can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you - How are you? - Seems like there's a party? No, I just accompany Chelsea - Why did you call? - I just want to know how are you? - You're sad, aren't you? - Why would I be sad? Do you want me to go there even if I'll just use tourist visa? Juls, you can't use tourist visa It might affect my petition to get you here It will be better if your papers are all good when you get here Six months seems too long Juls, six months is better than 20 years of waiting... just to make you come here - I miss you! - I miss you so much! - Bye, sis - I love you, Julia Cute, right? Who? He's been looking this way. I think he likes me - You like him? - Sure, I do That's easy He ignores you? I told you, he likes me Hey, excuse me. You know where Legazpi Village is? No, but I can go with you to look for it That's just near Really? You can just walk, no need to bring a car If you'll go out of Dela Rosa, cross AIM That's Legazpi village Snob One more thing Can I have your number? Why? Just in case I get lost, I can call you I think I love you I think I do, too It's so tiring - Ciara - Hey, doc This is Susie Susie, this is Ciara. Our senior physical therapist Hello ma'am. Nice to meet you, I'm Ciara Liza our receptionist - Hello - Nice to meet you So you are the "Mrs. " Ex-wife but soon to be wife again That's great! You finally came in America. Doc wouldn't be sad anymore I don't know with him If I hadn't keep on asking him to file a divorce with his fixed marriage... he wouldn't move Did you notice that something's different with Doc? You noticed it, too? He seems unhappy Oh no, girl. - Don't tell me you're in-love? - In-love? Who could that be? None of your suitors can make you smile like that Is that the cute guy from the bar? I like that one Very good It's a wrap, thank you Are you always like that? What? Spontaneous, out of the box, free spirited Exciting What do you do here? - Nothing - Nothing? - How can you say there's nothing? - Nothing What for? My life is not here I'll go to my sister, then I'll be successful like her Your sister seems a great person, huh? She is. You should meet her She's the best Go home Manang? Sis, I told you. Manang did it Coz she's not here and even her clothes weren't there anymore Where did you get that maid? From an agency That agency, can you hold them liable? It's in the contract that... when a maid did something wrong it's not their liability But it's a good thing you're not there Coz if you're there, something might have happened to you But I'm afraid to go home What if the robber comes back? Julia you need to go here in America immediately How will I get there with a tourist visa? I'd still need to come back here I've thought of a way - You're applying for a student visa? - Yes, sir Have you been admitted to school in the US? Yes, sir May I see your R20? Here, sir How do you intend to support yourself while you're in the US? My parents, when they passed away, they left us businesses, investments I just graduated and I plan on furthering my studies in America You know that with a student visa, you cannot work in America... you will be there on the duration of your studies... after that you have to return to the Philippines Yes sir, I understand Okay then, we will deliver your visa in three days Thank you, sir I got my visa already What? I got my visa already. I'm going to America - When? - Next week - When are you coming back? - I'm not coming back What? I'm not coming back I told you that I like to live there You're not coming back? How about us? Us? Is there such a thing? Why, there's none? Why don't you go with me? What will I do there? Anything What's wrong? Nothing, dad I'm okay What are you doing here? I'm going with you, anywhere My life is boring without you Excuse me - Julia - Sis Oh my God - Finally, you're here - Sis, I'm here This is Storm, my boyfriend - Hi, Ciara - Hi - American food in American soil - Sis, this is it We don't have to wear mufflers... and look like New Yorkers while sweating so much Yes Do you remember when we made dad look like a snowman when he got drunk? Oh my gosh. Yes! Then he got mad at me Coz he said, I wouldn't do that And you didn't defend me - Sorry sis - It's okay Storm, sorry, but I just missed my sister badly - It's okay - Sis, don't worry I often tell him stories about you, he knows you Why? Julia, where are you going? Sis You're still scared of thunder? It's okay. I'm here - Alright. Look here - Sis, do you like That's good Look at that! There! Babe, here - You want some? - No, I'm okay This hasn't been fully paid yet... but with a bit more hardwork, we can own this house Sis in my mind and in my heart, this is fully paid already - Thank you - Anything for you Storm, I'm so proud of my sister - You are? - I'm Julia Medina You want to do a film with us? Yes, I'm willing to try anything Good. You stand over there for us Sure! Show me your tits What? Show me your tits! Take your clothes off, now No, I'm sorry this is a mistake Juls, you know the one that I'm telling you... that I applied you a job They'll be sponsoring your visa Actually, you're hired already Coz your course fits the job You'll teach English as foreign language... to immigrant students who can't speak English You're lucky. It's a high paying job - Thanks sis - Sure Wow Julia you got a job, unlike me, I'm still a bum Storm, I think I saw a job on-line - I'll do it - I think it fits you Really? Is it photography related? Publications? - These are great photos - Thank you, sir Do you have a work permit? No, I don't. Sorry It doesn't matter We have a lot of Chinese... Vietnamese, Puerto Rican all illegal... The Filipino is the best, hard working and good natured Yeah - Sorry, sorry - Where's Julia? She left already coz she needs to be early Oh, really? I heard you got a job? Yes, and I'll be going now Eat your breakfast first - Coffee's fine - You might get hungry Just coffee? Yes, it's hard to be late. I don't want to get bad shot Where is it? There in Cerritos That's just near We can go together - Wait, I know - Okay I'll make a sandwich for you so you could eat it on your way... you shouldn't be starved Hold on This should be okay now Okay! Let's go - Hey, watch it - I'm sorry. First day of work - Okay, good luck - All right I might just love America after all Japanese poetry had a major influence... on a literatures of countries around the world From the early wakka to the later haiku writings The poet strokes for the utmost unconsciousness and vividness... by always linking emotions and ideas to natural objects - Yes? - Sir, if I may? I come from the Philippines and we have what is called the Balagtasan... which is actually a debate of thoughts and sentiments but in poetic verse And politically, the Balagtasan... is actually a product of Philippine society... which is reacting against the actual oppressive of liberation of oneself... because of Americanization Americanization? Question Is every girl from your country is as cute as you? I'm a photographer Maybe in the Philippines? But here, it's different They can give you any kind of work, we're not on their level - Like what? - Anything, like our salary So if I were you, don't complain if you don't want to lose your job I don't care This is not what we've agreed In the Philippines, they don't fool us like this Storm, more work for you Excuse me I'm supposed to take pictures here not process them You can't do field work here. You're an illegal alien They smell rats like you. A mile away - What did you call me? - A rat! Oh, I'm sorry. I mean, Filipino rat You moron! - Bro, bro relax and take it easy - You're a dead man Take it easy Hey, Randy. Wait up! - Hey, I'm Danny - I'm Julia I'm sorry about earlier. I think I came on too strong It's okay Me and my friends we're going out later... maybe you can hang out with us I really can't. I actually have to go home Go home? Who are you going home to? To my fianc Oh, okay. I'll see you around - Okay, bye - Bye! - That's great! You're looking good - Ciara? Excuse me. Yes, Doc? What if you want something... but to get what you want, you'll hurt someone... do you follow your heart's desire? Or you'll sacrifice so you could do what you think is right? Me, I will always choose what is right Even if you know that it won't make you happy Doing what is right always makes me happy Doc, what's important to me is to have a clean conscience That I'm not hurting anyone or stepping onto someone I will be teaching you how to read, write and speak in English Do you understand? Comprende? Okay? - Okay - Okay, let us start then English is the most widely spoken language in world- It's too scary here in LA There's a riot in school last night What? Juls, I think we should find another job for you Sis, no it's okay And besides according to our head, the place is relatively safe Safe? What if I pick you up everyday? Sis, what are you? I'm here in America. You don't have to worry I'm a big girl now Besides, if ever I need help, Storm is just there Storm, again How about you, don't you want someone to take care of you? Why don't you have a boyfriend? Why not? Because you're always thinking about me Sis you should start taking care of yourself Make yourself hot Look at me. Wear shorts like this Show some skin - Stand up, come on - Julia Let's fold your shorts. Put this down to show your cleavage Sexy... show some skin, it works. You've got to flaunt it Julia, I don't need to do that If a man will love me... I don't have to flaunt my body. Okay? Sis, men don't see that generous personality or that pure heart The first few things they see are cleavage... skin, legs, that's what they want Then that's the time they'll like your good heart - So you're an expert? - Oh, yes! Storm wouldn't be like that if I hadn't exerted effort Sorry, sorry Sorry - Doc - Ciara Ciara, this is Dina - Dina, Ciara - Hi, Ciara - Hello, Ma'am - Hi My sister, Julia - Hello - Hi, Julia - Hi - Please to meet both of you We have to go - Okay, we'll see you around - Bye - Okay, see you at the office - Okay Bye! Who's that? That's Doctor Olfindo, the one that I'm telling you My mentor in our clinic And the woman, that's Dina. He married her for the green card He's married in Manila Then he left his wife and married Dina After two years, he'll divorce Dina to marry his wife in the Philippines... so he could petition her It's complicated What the hell is going on here? There's tons of work to be done If they want good pictures they need to wait Pictures? Yes, I have to fix them Fix? Are they broken? No. Fix to make them better Are they broken, I repeat? So who gave that instruction to you? No one So you just did it yourself, smart huh? Yeah, smarter than you! I've had it with you. You're stubborn and arrogant You are fired! I quit! I won't allow that black to look down at me! We need a job, we need money! You need to have good relationship with them! Good relationship? I'll make good relationship with those people who are good to me... and not to those who belittle me because I'm a Filipino What will happen to you here? You keep on resigning... - What's going on? - because you don't like your job I don't care, nothing matters to you but money! Storm, stop it! - Storm... where are you going? - Julia... Julia, come back! - Sis, talk to him - We have neighbors here Maybe he'll listen to you Julia, that's your problem Sis, please You know I can't handle him when he's like that Please, sis. Please... No, Julia Please, please So discrimination here as they say is real I thought it's just bullshit You know it's not just here in America Everywhere There's always an idiot boss Why did you laugh? Because I said idiot I just didn't expect it coming from you What do you think of me? Perfect You know... I've been through a lot of things that one should have been through Being alone in a foreign land... being away from your loved ones... it drives me crazy How do you do it? Me, I can't even imagine For Julia I worked hard, I focused I got used to it I didn't come here to fulfill the American dream I came here to provide my sister a good life Sorry, we bring you troubles I feel so embarrassed Here Love her Take care of her That's all I'm asking from you Ciara Doc I guess I owe you an explanation No, Doc. You don't Your personal life is none of my business I love Dina and it wasn't my plan to fall for her How about Ma'am Susie? I'll be unfair to her if I'll go back to her... because that's the right thing to do I don't love her anymore So are you asking for my opinion Doc? I just need some understanding Truth is, my opinion doesn't really even have to matter One day Ciara, when you fall in love... you'll know that in loving, there are no hard and fast rules At the end of the day... what's important is what will make you happy - Hello - Help me, please Julia? - Julia - Sis - Where is he? - He's inside, packing Sis, help me If you really love him, let him go I don't want to lose him - I can't do anything, Julia - Sis, there is Marry him What the hell are you talking about, Julia? Sis, please Your officemate has done it before. Look how it worked out? - Look what happened to them? - Sis, please That's the easiest way to legalize Storm here Julia don't do this to me Sis please, if I need to beg on my knees, I'll do it Just help me Come on, Storm. My sister can help us To fix your papers, you need to marry an American citizen What? Wait, what are you planning to do? We'll get married, Storm What? Storm after 90 days, you can get your permit then after 8 months... INS will interview you for the conditional green card... then after 2 years... you can apply for the removal of the conditional green card... then you can divorce my sister Storm, please I can't do this Ciara, you have your own life here - Just two years - You know this is crazy I, Joshua Ramos take you to be my lawfully wedded wife I, Ciara Medina take you Joshua Ramos to be my lawfully wedded husband... in sickness and in health, 'til death do we part I now pronounce you husband and wife You may now kiss the bride Kiss Sis, on lips Congratulations, sis! Congratulations! What's that? Sis, INS checks up even the closet, medicine cabinet... so I'm transferring Storm's things - Where is he changing his clothes? - In your room Sis, I'll move your things, okay? Juls, how about my privacy? It's up to you, sis If you get caught, you'll be in big trouble I'll also move your things in the bathroom Huh, Julia? These are the only things I'll put there... deodorant, aftershave and... condom - Julia? - It's just one of the props We'll see you in two weeks... as soon as you get your work permit - Really? I got the job? - Yes Yes, we need people like you... but be sure you have all the papers you need, okay? Yes, sir Just for the record I'll be taking pictures, right? Yes. That's the job you want, right? Yes, Sir - See you in two weeks - Thank you I just really need to be with my boyfriend tonight Is he sick? Is he dying? No, sir You can't just leave without prior notice How will you explain to your students that... they will skip class today... because you want to celebrate your boyfriend's employment? Hi, baby Sorry, I can't go home. I can't leave my class It's just for today. We'll just celebrate a little I really can't go home even if I want to Don't worry I'll make it up to you when I get home... you know what I mean Okay, take care - Hi, Storm - Hi, Ciara Guess what? I got a job - Wow! Really? - At last I told you, just a little patience Good thing, you didn't go back to the Philippines Wait, where's Julia? We should celebrate What? Have you eaten? Not yet You want to eat out? Nothing. Just to celebrate. My treat - Okay, I'll just get changed - Alright How did you learn about that place? You know, I really like to explore good restaurants... like that one... small Maybe you're saving up? For Julia Not only that One reason is that I don't want people... to see me alone, without a date I want to ask you something What is it? Would our marriage affect you? I mean, that's 2 years What if somebody came? Did you know that in 7 years, lots of men came But none of them has the patience to wait What is 2 years if it's for my sister? Now, I know You know, what? Why Julia loves you so much? How did the two of you meet? We both met in San Diego She was crying during that time I just broke up with my boyfriend then I think, it was love at first sight Can you identify which of these keys to what doors in your house? The gold one is the main door This one is for our bedroom - And this one is for the- - And this one is for the back door What side of the bed does she sleep on? I sleep on the right side of the bed sir She sleeps on the right side What did you have for breakfast this morning? He had a pastromi sandwich I had a... nothing Well, she made me a sandwich which I ate on my way to work What is her mother's name? Evelyn Soriano Medina Evelyn Medina, deceased What was the last thing she said to you this morning? Take care I think, I said I love you Remember that you are under oath If you're caught lying... you will be apprehended and deported back to your country And will forever be banned from entering US territories And as for you, your citizenship could be revoked Yes, sir Hi, Babe Eat now. I'll go to work Spam again? We had that for breakfast Now for dinner Sorry, I went home late from school last night What else can I do? Are you two fighting again? He doesn't like Spam You don't like Spam? Okay, I'll cook sinigang Wow, finally! Somebody help me here! I will Anything for sinigang Ciara Someone's outside. I think it's the INS - What are we going to do? - INS? Good evening I'm Officer Benz of INS I do hate to bother you at this hour but I would like to come in... and take a look around, make an inspection - Yeah, sure - Sure, come in Thank you - Wow - Come in - May I come in? - Feel at home Lovely place you have here Look at this Beautiful bride - Thank you - Congratulations! Alright - Master's bedroom? - Yeah. It's to your right Hey, what do we have here? Whose bedroom is this? - My sister's bedroom - Your sister's bedroom May I take a look in your sister's bedroom? Yeah, sure but it's a mess. I'm sorry - It's very messy - It's very messy. I'm sorry Your sister is a very messy woman - Yes, she is - Isn't she? She doesn't have time to fix up This is her? May I look in the closet? Sure. Go ahead Okay You wanna check out our master's bedroom? I most definitely wanna check on the master's bedroom It's right here - Can I? - Go ahead Do we really need to sleep together? Julia might be right What if the INS go back here and... ask me your position while sleeping I don't know what to say You lie down flat on your stomach, on your side, do you snore Relax, Storm Are you sleepy? Not yet Why are you laughing? He almost saw Julia's bra You know her, she's a messy person She's like a snake, she's like leaving her skin anywhere Messy, but you love her Of course You should be Good night Good night Julia - Sis - Hi - Why did you just get home? - I came from a group study Where's Storm? Did you know that the INS came here last night? What happened? They searched the whole house - What did you do? - Storm and I just let him in Julia, Storm slept at my room last night We're afraid that they might come back You know, sis, that's okay if he slept there It's hard if you get caught - Where are you going? - To school - You haven't slept yet - It's okay - Julia - Aren't you going to talk to Storm? He's still sleeping With all the men I've met... you're the only one who endured a woman's shopping It's my off today, and yours too Julia's not there. What will I do at home? At least I've helped you carry your bags What's that? Another I-owe-you - Storm, just forget about it. - That's not something that I owe What then? Ciara Dennis Ciara, this is Sherry. Sherry, this is Ciara Hi Hi I'm Storm Ciara's husband Dennis You got married You too I'm happy for you We have to go I thought after seeing them... It also hurts That should have been me Maybe you've made things too hard for him Am I not worth it? You are Didn't I tell you that you're perfect? Good night! Ciara Where are you going? I'm going to work Why so early? I've got a lot things to do Ciara, can't we talk about it? Later. I'll go ahead - Cia... - Hi, babe! I was calling you last night I fell asleep early I've got good news for you My boss is selling his car It's a bit cheap so I thought of buying it for you I saved a lot so you won't have to commute... and you can even pick me up from the school Julia, no I'm okay to commute. Let's not waste money We're not wasting it I saved it for us For you I love you - Hi, Ciara - Hi Something has changed in you - Did you cut your hair? - No - Gotten fat? - No - Skinny? - No OMG! Pupils dilated, rosy cheeks, after glow... you had sex! What are you? Don't accuse me like that You had sex with your sister's boyfriend? You're crazy,. Do you think I'd do that? - Why are you here? - Ciara What are you doing here? It's my lunch break. I just want to take you out for lunch Please go Ciara, I miss you Storm? Last night, I felt... Last night was a mistake It wasn't a mistake I know what I felt And you felt it too I love you Forget about it I can't forget it I can't also forget that Julia is my sister I know it's painful If you think you can escape what you feel, you're wrong At the end of the day, it's what makes you happy that really matters I can never be happy hurting my sister You already did hurt her She doesn't know yet so I can still straighten up the mistakes, right? If that makes you happy. It's your choice Hi Hi Ciara, I didn't plan this I just suddenly felt that I love you Believe me, Ciara Storm, what will happen to Julia? She deserves to know the truth I don't want to hurt her Ciara, it's not always about her You deserve to be loved too I can't Ciara this is our world, we create our own rules It shouldn't be She shouldn't find out I promise Seems like you saw a ghost? We thought it's the INS We don't have class today... 'coz there was a riot again in our school Hi, baby - I got to catch some sleep - Okay Okay, baby You're all that matters to me now I'm afraid I'm afraid to lose you That won't happen I will never leave you, okay? Storm, what if... Promise me one thing, whatever happens, you won't leave me Have I told you today that I love you? Maybe in one night, a hundred times Then let's make it a hundred and one - I love you - Really? I love you I love you, too - Hi, sis. Did you miss me? - Yeah Hey, I missed you Sis, did the INS came here again? No I think you're still sleepy Look at your robe, you're wearing the other side of it Hey, I'm not going to school today so we can spend time together Sis, hold it. You're going to work already? I've got a lot of work to do - Okay, Julia, I'll go ahead - Thank you - For what? - For taking care of Storm - I'll be late, I should go now - Okay, bye sis What's the problem? Nothing, I just have a lot of work tomorrow I thought it's your rest day? Where are you going? You want a glass of water? No Go back to her Please, I'm suffering so much - Please, I'm suffering so much - I'm sorry Storm, stop Just go Feeling better Sis What are you doing here? Can we talk? I'll take it from here, Ciara - Hello - Julia, right? - Thank you, doc - Okay - Excuse us - Okay Julia, what are you doing here? My boss might get mad at me Sorry, sis, but do you notice anything about Storm? Does he go out at night... is he talking to someone on the phone? Why did you ask? I feel he's having an affair with other woman Maybe they're seeing each other at night, when I'm away But, sis, I'm working Why did you think of that? It's different, he's changed He rejected me That's never happened Sis, help me, talk to him and ask him what's his problem, please? I don't want to lose him I'll die if that happens Please? Julia... I've got work to do Can we just talk about that when I get home - Okay? - Okay, thanks, sis - Bye - Bye Storm I need to tell her I can't bear our lying anymore You're not going to tell her anything because we're through Ciara, you're the one I love Storm, please Ciara You promised. You promised not to hurt her And I expect you to fulfill that - Ciara, you're the one I love - Storm - Ciara - Storm, no Shame on you two Julia, stop You're stealing my boyfriend - Julia - You're a hypocrite Julia stop. Julia don't You're pretending to be a good sister You're just pretending that you love me You're a snake! Julia, don't! - I hate you - Stop How could you do this? Enough Sorry, Julia, I'm so sorry I know. I've wronged you I loved the man you love But Julia, all my life, for the first time in my life... I became happy Julia, I've given you all my life You're collecting debts now... - in exchange of Storm? - No, Julia You're my sister You're my sister Julia, he's all yours Julia, I'm ready to lose him Not you Ciara - No, Storm, no - Ciara, no You fools! How could you do this? How could you do this? - Julia, I'm sorry - I hate you. How could you? Shut up. Shut up both of you! You shut up. You shut up! Damn! I won't forget this day Julia Does it hurt? That's nothing to what I'm feeling right now How can we fix this? It is Ciara that I love But she doesn't want me because she loves you more I'm willing to start over America is not for me Don't leave me I can't afford to lose you No, no No, no, no I don't want to lose you, please Thank you very much for all that you've done for me I owe my life to you With what happened, maybe I've paid for it now We're even, sister Why did you choose to be a dealer of Natasha? - You can work in an office - I'll earn bigger here I'm working while I'm taking care of Storm How is he? Girl, you've left something big... your fortune in the States, all for him Your relationship with your sister I hope your sacrifices are all worth it Thank you - What's that? - Scratch card Why are you laughing? Girl, if ever you'll win, buy your ticket and go back to America Congratulations with the new house... I'm sure you'll be very happy in your new home Thank you so much. I have the documents Okay! Babe, I prepared a lunch Babe Excuse me Hello Julia, I'm here in our dream house Julia, I need you How dare you? Do you think it's that easy to forget everything that you did to me? Julia, I've regret everything If I could just bring back the time, I will Well, you can't - Julia, please - Please, what? Please forget that you fell in love with my boyfriend Forget that you had sex with him He's good, right? - Julia - You feel guilty now Did you know how hard it is to imagine... that every kiss and embrace that I give him... you've done it already? Shit, and you're even better because until now, he still wants you I'll talk to Storm, I'll tell him to forget everything Don't. You've already won Julia Ciara, this will be our last conversation - I'm sorry, Julia - I'm not To me, you died a long time ago - Doc - I guess, you're right People's happiness differs with each other What makes you happy is to do the right thing I've got a simple life before Boring but not complicated Now, I know how it feels like to be happy I know now how hard it is to be sad Sometimes I wish that I've never would have met him Meeting him was probably the best thing that ever happened to you You chose to let him go Be strong, it's possible that the pain won't go I hope I'll get used to it Nobody gets used to pain, you just have to live with it In time, you'll cope Babe? Storm, what do I need to do to make you love me again? Nothing I still love you I love Ciara You cheaters I was the one who got hurt and who you cheated with... why do I still have to carry the sufferings until now? I didn't cheat I've loved you but you neglected me You pushed me to be with Ciara I loved her... but she neglected me I was trapped Among the three of us, it's me who really fell in-love That's how miserable you are with me If I let you go, will you be happy? Then I'm letting you go because I love you Girl, don't be sad please You made the right decision You don't need him - What did I do to lose? - Girl, you didn't lose They're the ones who lost because they lose you Maybe now you will behave yourself after all the foolishness you've done Can you really call it foolishness, dad? What I felt for her wasn't foolish What now? What do you plan to do with your life? Whatever's the right thing to do Sis, I'm sorry I'm so sorry I missed you so much I love you I love you so much, Julia Welcome home, Julia Hi Long time... Yeah It's you again here in America There was nothing for me in Manila after the divorce What? I've been here for two years now I'm also a resident here Your baby? Julia Hi, Storm Hi, Ciara We'll go ahead. You can go home by yourself Hi, Hon Storm, I'd like you to meet David, my husband David, meet Storm - Nice to meet you - Nice to meet you We'll go ahead I came to America to fulfill what we started I hate you You're still mad at me until now? Because after four years, you still have the same effect on me You still make me cry Coffee? I don't regret that I fell in-love and got hurt... because I knew I've been happy... I got tripped, but I got up And because of this... I can say now that I've lived a fruitful life
