 

                        Smoking and drinking alcohol are dangerous to health Music ShahabazAman - Surendran... - He is in the office, upstairs Take him to Surendran Come Please come lt's him! - Greetings! - Greetings, sit - l am Rama rai! - So it was you who've called You didn't tell anything in the phone! l'm from Mangalapuram! Kasturba Seva Mandir is an orphanage lt is for the old and sick who have no one to support We both are the workers of it We have come to see Jaya Prakash - He is your relative - l got you Don't mistake me Does he owe you any money? No! l've not seen him at all l've to tell him some thing! That's better l want his address as well as some details from him l'll tell you the reason later There are some details to tell about him A FEW DAYS AGO - ls Jaya chettan here? - What if he is here? Will you call him? l've some thing to tell him Mom! Has brother awaken? Two urgent matters have come! Prakash! Go and call him You have come forthat, right? He will sleep till mid-noon if not awakened Prakash! Son! Get up, will you? - What's it? - 2 people have come to see you They look like big shots! They asked if it is real estate brokerJaya Prakash's residence Son! l think you have made it! - Jaya Prakash's residence? - lt means residence House l know it! Who will be that? - Should l call them here? - Move Don't forget the commission for me if it clicks! Go and wash your mouth if you don't mind lt stinks yesterday's left over Brother! Looks you are bunked l'll see to you Mom, tea! - What do you want? - The plot nearthe bridge is sold, right? l think so! Why? Rainikka, Joyettan and party is there lt is going on there lf they didn't get anything it will get nowhere You know well about Rainikka! We have suffered much for that business You know well What is difficult about it? lt is just to show the place We survive with the meager money like this Get us some money from them Damn it! ln the morning...! l'll call and tell Rainikka You can go lt won't work out without you What is this nuisance? You can go l'll come there Why do you invite these slimy guys in the house? l don't invite them They get in themselves Why do you create an opportunity for it? My dear mom! l wish if Paris Aboobaker, Alukas Joyettan Malbar Gold Amudan and Ravi Pillai sir come What to do? They don't know me - Have you seen Rainikka? - That will not be right if we see Move aside Where is the Erinji bridge? Over there! The rate has gone up now! That will not be right if we see - Rainikka! One minute - Tell me We have to give those guys something! - Which guys? - Those standing there Who are they? They only told us about selling this site Aren't you and him told us about selling this site lt was them who told us Please come You don't know about the world yet Many people will be there like that How can l give money to all those? Rainikka! What's the problem? They both are doing business! ...and they have 2 assistants for them They too want commission! lt is really a problem! You have to give those from whatever you, and Hameed get Don't come to us again with worthless cases like these Come Rainikka Don't feed others when you can't feed your self! You too Come to the bridge tomorrow lf he gives us anything, we'll give these from that - You can go now - See you then How long we'll go behind Rainikka and Joyettan? We can manage the brokers but the nasty guys like this are unmanageable lf anyone asks tell we are the brokers... just like them You know how much they earn in a day? - How much? - 15 millions We have to play a game like them right away no other go God! He is here! - Vasu uncle - Prakash! You didn't try that way when l told you something - What is it uncle? - So you don't know lt is long since l told you to get a groom for Beena She refuses by telling various reasons l have not forgotten l am looking into it When l say the girl is a doctor it doesn't click The boy should be at least a doctor, isn't it? lt is not like that The groom can be a business man The business man only have plenty of money You too are a land dealer Tell him, we will give commission for him He will have interest only then! He is not a stranger His mother will be more or like my sister Will he get it from me if l give him any money? He will get it from you full heartedly! lt is his profession We will get a guy for her There are a few smart guys who are in the real estate whom l know ln that, one guy is keen on making me a millionaire very soon A millionaire very soon? How is that possible? lt is the specialty of this field, uncle -At the wink of the eyes... - Will become beggars! Mom was searching you! Stop your big talk and go to her Ok! Then l'll go and see aunty... You want to give me commission if l find a boy for you! What should l tell him, then? Should l keep quiet when it is my ...groom and a millionaire too who has earned from ...real estate business and the marriage is not going to happen? Won't it happen? There is something to happen now Do you want to see it? What is it? Your affair with her was done by hiding so far! Now you have brought it into the house! l was just poking into this house when l was going through this way You mean through the main hall way? Don't make me play the role of the elder brother, right? You were the only man who was supporting me all the time - You too have changed the party? - She has two brothers other than me One is a doctor and the other is a engineer! You're not any one of these two You are the only rice merchant in the market place! You support when a real estate broker coming as a brother in law, isn't it Surendretta? l am a B.Com graduate from Guruvayoorappan College ...before entering the rice business - What about you? - He has passed the 9th class - What? - lt is betterto tell that he has failed 10th class - Who is this? - What aunt? - ls it Prakasan? l have told you to bring me a calf long back! Tell me how much commission you need? Then the calf and its mom will come to you! He won't ask me any commission! He is the brother in law of him! Go and make tea, mom - Won't you take food? - l have to Land broker... Marriage broker... and now calf broker l want to tell an urgent matter to you Will you come out? l'll come! You start and l will be coming soon Don't ask me any money l am down this month financially Take courage l won't ask you any money Don't get delayed Roychan's hotel is off today, isn't it? The full team is enjoying orchestra - JP! You are not to be seen these days! - l've enough problems! lt's long time since we heard your song! Where is time to sing? l'm on the move! - Will you song this song? - l have no touch these days - lt is only 2 lines! - God! Give me the mike Oh! My lover! Your thoughts! This river, twilights, and ...blue eye lids With the feathers spread in the memories ...and have come running Oh! My lover! Your thoughts! This river, twilights, and ...blue eye lids in the memories... No chance, Beena has come There is an urgent quotation! Do you know only this song? singing always this song! There is no use learning so much of songs A human being should learn to sing a song well Doctors do not have any taste for music! Are there any doctors in Kerala who can sing? - Yes! Dr.K.J. Jesu Dass - l asked about the MBBS doctor lsn't him MBBS? No! He is a Siddha Vaidya doctor! Stop your fun! Why did you want to see me urgently? l have told you already The coffee estate of Shiela Koshy in Veeraj Pettai... What about that deal of the estate? l used to ask you about that when ever l call at times We are trying for it But the people have some doubt Those who know you,... know you are fraudulent What do you want me to do? We are given the responsibility to sell the estate Madam has to write and sign a papertelling that The parties will believe only then! lf so, no more brokers interfere into it Let me discuss about it They'll have to discuss with the manager orthe advocate l told you earlier Husband's sudden death! No kids! That's why he want to sell this estate and settle down in Bangalore! You know about the sale of the land lf the owners want to sell today ...the brokers would have sold it a day ago Ok! What do l gain from this? l'll deduct a heavy sum from your dowry for me You rascal! - ls this KTC films? - This is not KTC Films now Now it is the real estate business Estate? What estate? Estate means selling and buying land! JP & CH REAL ESTATE GROUP KTC Films has locked off and gone ...and the owner Chandu kutti has vanished! Keep the phone down brother - Sir! Tea! - Make 3 of it! - Eats? - Take 3 of it! l asked you to visit the 3 cent land in Kallai - Have you gone there? - That's a vacant land He will be fooled if anyone buys it Mamooka has told me this Do you know what he has told me? That there is an old building and land! You know what it was when enquired? lt is the old railway station! - Tea! - Keep it there Eats are there Why didn't Beena call me? lt's her! Tell me JP! l called Shiela madam What did she tell you? The authorization of selling the estate will be given to you by madam! Go and get it l have to go to Mercara to get it, right? They will bring to you at your corporate office in Palayam Try to go and get it Nice! The sunglass has to be taken out They'll think of something Remove it! This has brought film star Mammotty a bad name! Dear Kuttappa! Keep it with you l am Jaya Prakash! l expected you to be here She has hospital duty She said she wouldn't get leave Nambiyar! Call these with you They are from Calicut...you know Give those papers to him Go with Nambiyar YourJaya Prakash has come He is a good guy - Did you get it? - Yes! - Get a buyer with out delay - l'll do that Lot of enquiries have come lt's better to speed up the work Tell those who come for enquiries that the estate has been sold out How can we say that? What if anybody come with a better offer? No! We ourselves will come with a good party! - Shall we take leave then? - Ok - Next time you come, please bring Beena! Ok? - Ok, madam! l went to Mercara...with style! l don't want to hear about your style Tell me what happened l have procured the document The power to sell 500 acre coffee estate The price of 2 millions for an acre How much is that? You are the mathematician for that You tell me 5x2 is 10... 1 billion What would be the commission for me out of that? - You are asking me it again! - 25 millions - Who am l then? - Who? lt's of old usage! Easwaran... l'm a Kodeeswaran (Millionaire) Then there are projects ahead of me We can think and decide the projects later First you try to finish of the compensations! You show up your smartness when buying! Show it when you are returning it - One minute... - What? - l'll call you up later Who? What do you want? This office... When you ask me that is it the films... or the down stairs? - Real Estate! - Yes! Come in What is the matter? The matter is connected with your work - l didn't miss my way - l expected it My name is Achutha Menon l have a property to sell l came to consult you about it l see! Consulting is our... The property you want to sell... lt's in the town only...Nadakkavil Nadakkavil means...? lt is in the right side on the road about 5 feet which goes to Bilathi! lt's on the road side lt's a land of 65 cents & an old house on it Here is Achutha Menon sir! - What? -Achutha Menon sir! His property is in Nadakkavil lt is actually in Vandipetta! lt is 65 cents land, but the house is old l want to sell it at the earliest The price of the house will be less As the house is an old one The land will have a sale value and that's enough ls it your house or property of every one in the family? lt is not like that The property is in my wife's name! She is not alive now Do you have any children? Have the partition over?. My children are abroad They have no intention to come here They only want the money after selling this The documents...? ...saying lf l have the power to sell & if l am the husband... ...is she really have died! - ls that all? - Yes, all the certificates including ...the latest Encumbering certificate are needed All the certificates are ready The Photostat copy of the original which is needed for you, right? These documents is enough You give the mobile number when you go We will call you l am not used to it Do you have the land line to call? l'll come here at times! My house and land will be under your surveillance! l'll be in my house! - Okay then! - Ok This is the first time that a man comes to our office! He looks very significant! lt is time we played in a big way! - Let me call Rainikka! - Wait Rainikka should allow us to deal this business No commission should be encouraged Land in Mercara! 65 cent land in the town! The signs of prosperity are seen! - Don't call Rainikka - Then? We will meet him - Tell me Joyetan! - lt is there Rainikka! This is the first case which has come to our office Your office? ls there an office like that? - ln Palayath! - ls it in the Palayath market? Not inside There is a cinema distribution office in the corporation building ...where Tamil films are shown! Their office is there - ls it in that godown? - Godown? The price of land there is high, you know? Whatever it is, it is the land of the corporation, isn't it? Sit there Shall we handle the Vandipetta case? Will you allow us to earn money? What is it Joy? l've talked to Syriyak sir in Bangalore He has found the land in the Google earth and okayed - Go and fix the rate! - lt will be over in a single sitting! Joy! He is talking about sitting Hamid! Let Allah take care of you - Please bless me! - Please sit here Good care should be taken when bringing you up! - You are a very smart guy - You are my master! Right? Take your scooter and go Go l showed the documents to the advocate lt is all ok! - We have to give a name to it - My name is Achutha Menon l have told you earlier Who else want a name? - Don't you have a name? - Giving a name is a practice for the brokers We consider that as fixing a rate! Please sit in the sitting room l'll come now lt looks as a poor atmosphere No signs of prosperity here! House, Parents, the old brass vessels, furniture The children go abroad leaving all these! - He could ask 0.9 -1 million for a cent - He is a retired tiger! - He should be chained well - He is coming! 2 groups came to me when l decided to sell My rate was 0.6 million for a cent l have no idea to sell it less than it The market is dull now altogether Dubai people's rush is almost stopped lf the commerce buildings are to build ...there are damn laws induced by the corporation The area of the car parking and the number of floors the depth of piling! Damn it No one like to build a house in the middle of the road - There is a nuisance by the thieves too! - Very nuisance ...enough! l don't want to hear the brokers' ready made talk l have no time to hear it l'll tell you a rate! lf it is okay with you, you can go further into it Sir can tell it - l want to get 0.8 million for a cent - 0.8 Oops! 0.8 million will be large money for us - Now it is your turn! - Tell me what is your rate lf you have to ask somebody, go ahead 1 minute! Rainikka! We are at the spot What is our final decision? - How much shall we ask? - Tell him it is 0.95 Syriyak is ok to give up to 11 See that if it can be fixed at 0.95 - Can we go down if needed? - That is for you l know that you won't change the rate - Yet l am asking you...Are you sure? - Yes What? There won't be a place available in Kozhikode market You have to find a place in Koyilandi, Payyoli or somewhere Yes, it will sound as a big sum! lf you sell it again, the price will go up, right! l am standing before him l will tell the price You can go ahead or other party is there Sir! l'll tell the price for the business to go on! ...in a minimum time, say within 1 month! - Tell the rate - 0.75 million for a cent 0.75 million! lt is a top deal! Stretch your hands - Registration is in one month! - Done! lt is the get together of my MBBS batch of 2008 l want to take leave for that - You too have to come with me - l am asking you why! What am l supposed to do there? For Mysore Dussera there is a usage of Nai Kudunga My situation will also be like that The married and whose engagement is over in my batch are coming How can l go alone? - This damage was done by you - What's that? l told you not to pass the SSLC exam! But you have passed l told you not to go for Pre-degree But you entered it l told you not to join MBBS But you joined Don't worry When l introduce you to my friends l'll tell them, that you are a big real estate dealer - There are 2 conditions - What? Don't introduce me to anyone there - l'll have two drinks and come - Only 2 drinks! You are paying for that You can decide how much For sometime, l wanted to give some pain in the doctors' neck - lt will work out today - You JP This river, twilights, and ...blue eye lids With the feathers spread in the memories ...and have come running My lover! Your thoughts! This river, twilights, and ...blue eye lids Your lips my lover, craves for the kiss! What would the moon told the cloud? Your lips my lover, craves for the kiss! What would the moon told the cloud? The bed room of the moon light The stars are the friends who ...have poured the elation and would it have forgotten Will it forget the old elation? Why your face has been reddened? This river and the twilights... lt is many nights and the pearly dreams! Blossomed days... and will those fade away? lt is many nights and the pearly dreams! Blossomed days... and will those fade away? ln the limit of sky of love... Like birds with wings of desire flying high ...did we forget that time? Had the dream too faded off? l was down with the flower of tears! This river, twilights, and ...blue eye lids With the feathers spread in the memories ...and have come running My lover! Your thoughts! This river, twilights, and ...blue eye lids! - Sir! Get this, it is 0.5 million as a token - l didn't ask you There is a formal as the things are set right You have to do the registration fast l can't handle this much amount Somebody might kill me to get that You need not have to keep it with you You can remit in the bank l have no bank account! Even the beggars have bank account, ATM card & PAN card lncome tax raid to add to it ln any case we can start an account Larger payments are yet to come There are nobody to do the formalities for me for a help Forget that lt is just a phone call and the Bank will come here lDlDl Why don't you sit properly and eat? Both are sitting in a lousy way Mom! - Bride is a doctor! - What? l was telling the name of an old film -Why do you want to tell it now? The 2nd part is coming Groom is SSLC passed You nasty dog Do you believe that this marriage will happen with your family's consent? As long her dad is alive there is no chance for that Don't expect him to die one of these days lf he is not going to die we will kill him by the help of somebody Who is it? Pradeep! Police have reached just when the slaughter is planned Why are you in this dress? Sit and have some tea l am on duty You finish eating and come - What is it? - There is nothing to get scared lt is a small issue of the Nadakkavu property sale l don't know any details Commissioner and AC are there in the spot - You are asked to come to the station - What's it Pradeep? There is no problem teacher lt isjust to take his statement ls Menon sir's business conked out? l'll come in a minute - ls there any problem, brother?. - lt's nothing! DlSTRlCT COLLECTOR What's the problem? This house is on sale! There are some problems because of it Who has sold the house? This is the house of External minister Sankara Menon's ancestral house! l know it! The Commissioner and collector came here for that, right? Who have sold it to whom? lt was his dad who have done this business lt is my father! He left the house when l was doing my school final! l saw him later when mom's body was buried in the burial ground among the spectators My sister and me knew it that my dad and mom were legally separated years ago But mom has not informed to us Before sister went to US and l went to Delhi he came again to see us He asked me shelter to stay and l gave him permission to stay here l happened to know now his plan by chance to sell this house He has no power to do that We happened to know that a buyer came and gave the token advance He has remitted it in a new lDlDl Bank He took about 25000 Rs from that You have to give that back to the buyers l'll give you 25000 Rs The party has come who has bought the land Call them Hope you have understood the matter! You have to come to the North AC's office with the original agreement - Understand? - We will come sir You have to take the amount in the bank and give that back to them We have already got a signed check leaf from him lt is to get back the balance money from him l knew that he has no powerto sell it lf you are interested in it we will sell it at the said price The Bangalore party is ready now Whoever it is, we want to finish the business l told him that it is 7.5 Don't take it serious 8.5, 8.75!! We have to finish it in only a sitting - What? - Take them away Go from here l told you to go out - Go out! lt's for you too - Don't push me The media shouldn't know it at any case You two have to be careful So that's how it goes! See how he sits... damn it! l'll hit you! - Poor guy! - ls he? He has tried to sell the house cheating his children Children! His son has deserted him! He wouldn't need to spent much money for his dad as to a dog You can't hide the truth with coat and suit l wanted to escape from that by doing a fraud l understood that there is no easy way for that l am ready to accept the punishment for the fraud done by me Don't beat me up l can stand the pain lt could affect the children of yours - lt's not needed - Where to...? There are long railway tracks! Do you want to go for a journey? Or is it to end your life? - lt is suitable for both - l've not decided any thing else Joy! See who have come! Did you get back the advance of 0.5 million? Oh! Who do you think l am? How was it? Forthe party the cost was 0.75 for a cent The sale for 0.95! 0.2 million for a cent! 65 cent of the land in total! 13 millions profit! lt is as if the balloon has exploded Our history is something different like climbing a palm tree! You have to climb every step of the tree with care Who is there not expecting any profit in a business? There is no history which says the business goes in the same way for no one! Then the do's don'ts of real estate! That was taught by you! There are some laws in lndia for any business! lndia the great was born from a big real estate deal! The British gave the property back to us it is the ...fight forthe manager's post of that, right? Cut in 2 pieces...gave 2 names ...registered in the name of 2 parties and solved the problem!! Then on, we learned the tricks and pranks of the real estate business and following it Don't teach him any social studies We take leave then! lf any thing useful comes, don't forget to inform us We will be here only Come Ok, then Mom, tea! Money chain! The dist. judge loses 7.5 millions The dist. Judge loses too! This money should go into the real estate! You have cheated a housewife that she would get ...the double if she remit in the real estate - Who is that woman? - lt's me! You will get back 3 times of the money which you gave me for a necessity lt is running in the deal market now ls it any cat or dog for that? l don't want any profit or interest l want only my principal Principal? You mean 0.3 million right? That money is meagerfor you! lf l search your shirt there won't be even 30 rupees You won't have it if you search Ambanis' pocket! We don't carry any cash with us Where are you going wearing sari? - l'm not to anywhere! - You look well dressed! -Aren't they coming today? - Who is it? Ooch! lt is them! Sathish and his family Oh! For engagement! Was it today? They are not coming for engagement it is to... ...discuss the matters and keep it as a secret The date and otherthings You have to ask them about the gold ornaments apart from money! ...and you have to settle the matter When will you give me back my 0.3 million? You'll have to tell me that too! The 0.3 million and the extra money from here and there We have to perform the marriage with all this money Are you old enough to get married? Don't force me to tell the reply for that Go and take bath! They will come now lt is the marriage of the reputed real estate broker's sister ...in the Kozhikode market Perform it in a grand way The mother and daughter of the real estate broker ...have to see the real me! Mom! lt is switched off mom He will do it He is of that kind l know what has to be done l'll perform the marriage by selling this house and land! The rest of the money is to be deposited in the bank in your account l won't give him even a paisa! That's a good idea! - Where will mom go? - l'll go to Kasi! lsn't it an old, outdated dialogue? Change your place! l'll come after a bath! The rascal will come by then! lt is switched off now ls there any body here? - l want to see Jaya Prakash - He is not here - Will he come now? - We too are waiting for him Come and sit l went to his office Ganesan has told me the way to here Ganesan has called several times in the mobile l couldn't get it - You want to drink anything? - 1 cup of tea if you won't bother! - Did you have anything to eat? - Only tea will do - Will you mind if l give you 2 idlies? - No Why do you want to see my brother? Do you have any idea to buy or sell land? l had an idea for that That's why l came to meet him But now l came here to see if he could handle the work! Any work which suits me at this age! All say that he is the best man to give work to others - God! - What's it? lt is some work for my brother! lt's the team for my proposal! - Take the plates - What about tea? But my hunger has subsided l don't want it as it is luxury l'll have it later - Please come! - Greetings! Please sit - l think we have met... - No! This is the first time You look very familiarto me - May l know about you? - l am... Sit son! Prakash has gone out He will come now Let him come We will leave now An old man is admitted in the BMS with poor condition - We want to meet him there -About the date We have fixed Nov 26 Saturday All can come for the marriage that day as it is a holiday! What do you say, madam? You can have it if you feel right That day may not be a good choice As told by eminent astrologers lt is dangerous if Saturday and Thriketta come together Was it told by any astrologer? Yes! He is not a famous man He is from our place lt is not an auspicious day You can select Nov 21 Being a suitable day for Lord Krishna it is auspicious lf you want, you can consult a good astrologer Ok then! lt is November 21 Monday You know the details What will you give your girl as dowry? We have to answer them if anybody ask us Only then they'll have a good opinion about us Nobody like those who get money as dowry lt is good to give as golden ornaments! lt is funny to know that this attitude have not changed ls marriage a business deal fixed by the parents? lt should be a decision taken by the girl and boy full heartedly That's right! lt's the beginning of a new relationship aftertheir meeting! Why then they have avoided this business? Will they be able to forget their love in terms of money? l don't accuse any old people They just repeat what their old generation did But it is pitiful about the young ones! When they see a girl instead of asking her whether she likes him ...it is better to ask how much property she has! Then the matter would be easy! Sorry! We haven't come to receive the dowry lf you feel so, l ask you to pardon us No! We wanted to know as we are curious about it Yes! You have to know You should know that the dowry will not be less You spoil the peaceful atmosphere of a family by that No! l am telling you l have no demand for me l am ready if you perform the marriage in a register office lt is your promise to your girl for a bright life ...is valuable than handful of golden ornaments as dowry You have asked me who l am You can take me for a passer-by lf my talk has hurt anybody, sorry forthat No sir! You would have come here to teach me this When l came here starving, she was ready to give me food lt is her mind which will be the most valuable dowry for you See you then! God bless you! - Faizal! - l know him lt belongs to Papanchettan who runs the Golden chit company We heard that it is for sale That is not yet been sold The party l brought has given the advance As their business is dull, they dropped their idea and were gone How much do they demand? He asked not less than 1 billion He came down to 850 - 900 millions! Not more than that You tell it to Rainikka You should have a big team to manage - lt is Sajitha from home - Don't take You know why she has called? - Me...You know something - Talk So things are solved You can come home boldly Sathisan do not want any money or gold He is ready to take free delivery lt was Menon sir who have saved us You have to give him proper care He was in the station! Did you find it difficult? Keep the box inside How long will you live in a railway retiring room? lf you don't mind you can stay with us Our life is like the fishermen's life We will starve at times or will have enough food for us at times You have asked for a job, what l heard We will search for it Sir come in Thank you very much l didn't pose a problem to anyone You can ask me to vacate if you wanted to l wanted to reciprocate your help My sister's marriage will be performed without any problems You are the reason for that He will be here till he get a job and place to live Nobody will ask you the ticket when travel in a drowning boat Let him get in Your entry is on an un cheerful day - What's it? - Samuelettan called from Viraj petta Shiela Koshy's estate has sold by a team from lrutti What have they done? They gave the signed authorization to us forthe sale of the estate Tear off the document and ask Ganesh to prepare a black tea The business has to procure 25 millions as commission! We wouldn't be able to come out of Rainikka and Joyettan's shade Why don't we call Shiela Koshy? We can tell what she has done is a nasty thing For the peace of mind We have to go and see her in person When you go, you take a pre-dated stamp paper ...saying that it is decided to sell the estate to another party ...and there should be a check for an advance amount, with it ...and keep it before her with respect Who is this guy? There is no one like him There is l am that buyer What about the check? l have the old check book with me lt is lDlDl Bank's There could be stamp papertoo What if she tell that the estate has been sold out? She should not tell that Then it will be cheatery she has done to you We have to get the compensation for that Or else, tell her she would land up in the court She'll compensate you when she finds that she'll face problem to sell her land - How much we can ask her? - 5 lf you get only 2.5 million, accept it and come ls it right? She is innocent! Forget that Try to escape when your boat is getting drowned by catching a hay You should have only the feeling in your mind ...that you got only 2.5 millions instead of 25 millions Where were you all this time? We have told you before if a better offer comes we will fix it We haven't come empty handed now We fixed that amount with the party at 2 millions per acre He gave a token advance to us for 2.5 millions We have given the word They have given a small amount as advance You should have given a word to us before that That's a wrong thing on my part Madam can talk to Menon sir in person lf he is willing to vacate, we can go How can we vacate? Menon sir won't vacate Keep quiet! Ganesa! Give it to Menon sir Sir! lts JP Brother Take it No one told me that you are lying You talk to him any way l will put you in speaker mode That's him madam He is a millionaire! and a problematic too lf he comes to know that this land has slipped his fingers He wouldn't deny to give the quotation to kill me He says he has connection with the under world in Mali island For Menon sir, he missed to get the estate, he wanted to have See our case lt is 25 millions worth business We can manage Menon sir by falling on his legs! But if we don't get anything? - Give us a compensation and bail us - Yes Why madam? l say, we don't want anything like that This signed paper is enough to stop the sale Do you want that? Don't think like that She will give us something Will 5 millions be enough for the business? We should be given that much But when she says to reduce it we have to reduce So it is not good to be adamant on a figure! The lawyer has come! Are these the brokers you told? You told it's very threatening! Come! The lawyer has come Will the police follow him up? lf l feel something fishy l will run! Karnataka police are very talented! What was it? We have to ask 5 millions and ...get it if it is only 2.5 millions My Menon! lt was almost like killing! We should as well get it lf it is only a meager money Why don't we ask it? To stop the registration ...the sale authorization duly signed by doctor ...is good enough Give them half amount and get the papers from them! 2.5 millions is too much! ls it needed? lf they go to the court, they could give us problem! We will have to go after it for sometime That's all There is no time for that Give them whatever it is - He is coming! - Who? lt is not forthe threatening you made! lt's to avoid nuisance from you You have to give back the paper to us You have to sign the paper l give you You will get 25 rupees! - What do you mean by 25? - 25000... - 2.5 millions - That is... 2.5 millions - Will that be enough? - You have to accept it l told a decent amount to avoid the cheap talk of the negotiation That is...we will decide that is enough What shall we do now other than that? 2.5 millions of lndian Rupees! We should have said a word to Beena! That's a fault on our part Had you said to herthe money would have been with Shiela Koshy! ...and you both would have been poor! lf you get money without shame... it's shame to change the money The song is really truthful! lf this 2.5 millions be given to you free your problems will be gone, right? No chance There will be a little ease All of my problems will vanish l wouldn't go for any work lf this money is robbed by someone you will feel very much, right? - There will be one feeling! - What's that feeling? You won't be able to come for my burial l will kill you and go to the jail! Move away from here You are bothering me! lt wouldn't become more if you couldn't again and again l feel very comfortable! We don't know how long it'll be here lt is a comfortable feeling to touch Shouldn't we have to buy something for touching? - Good! - l'll go and buy it Go! A funny guy! - Sir! Has the lnternet become ok? - lt's ok lt had a connection before The big people here won't like ...when the bills came every month! We can pay the bill now correct! lt's someone who doesn't know English - What's it? -Appachan(dad)? You mean Ouseppachan of the cycle shop? He is not here for the last 2 days That's his room We were asked to come here at this address! He told me he will be here Who will be that? Are you Chandu kutty amma? Our KT? - Ganesan, send them in - Come in ls Menon sirtheir appachan? ls Appachan Menon his name? Appachan! Appachan! - Mary! Appachan! - l saw him! Why is the delay? l had to change 2 buses! We had to come with him in future He won't stay quiet Mary! Appachan! How is your leg now? That is... Did you have any food? l had lunch! l want parotta and meat - Meat and parotta! - Ganesan! l have money l'll buy it They will give you Keep quiet, will you? Are they his son and daughter? He is a Menon! How can he be a Christian uncle then? Religion and caste are not a problem to beget children! Only the religion of born children would be a problem! He is a suspense thriller! What is your mom's... She is bedridden after we have come out of the house Didn't Philipose send you out of the house? lt is 0.6 million which we got at times! lt has been 2.5 millions with interest and compound interest We will get the document back only if we give the money back They told the stay there will be after that They locked the house and went away one day We were ashamed by this That's why we went to Koottu Puraile Mathu Papan Now we are staying at the corner of his tea shop l do the kitchen work and cleaning of the vessels We will get food for 3 times! lf Appachan comes there and give some money ...Kuriakkos boss would give the house back l'm not going to house today 25 is their problem too You stay inside the box l will call you tomorrow - Mom! Food! - Parotta and meat Keep quiet - Can l have some water?. - Sure - Parotta... - l'll hit you - Parotta and meat - Have it Stay here and you can go tomorrow - We can go tomorrow - Ok! Have this! We can go tomorrow We can go tomorrow - My Jesus! - Parotta and meat! Let me take it out They are my children l had a plenty of fancy dress in a birth That is Gopala Menon's personality A blade company owner took away ...the house and land l built for them Mom and 2 children in the road! l have to help them My legs are not strong enough to stand But l won't be able to close my eyes on that issue Sir! 2.5 millions are in this This was earned by the brain of Menon sir lf this is to divide we won't tell the percentage matter How much do you need from this? l need 500 Rupees to sent them back in the morning! Can l call to overseas from Prakash's phone? l have lSD in my phone! A little liquortoo ...to lit up the brain from the darkness Menon sir! Who are you really? ln the start of 1960, l had my BL from Madras Law College l came to Kozhikode l was interested in the things that happened outside the court! When my belief in the political sciences have lost Gandhism, Socialism, Communism etc., The Mantra Dheekshas... which l received one by one Ammu alias Lakshmi Amma! My first wife Her elite class cleanliness... Stinking nobility's ruling! l left it when it was unbearable! l was manager in the tea estate in Cuddalore A girl named Gracy who was doing the house hold work ...and to share my bed She was the daughter of a poor estate worker These two children were born before l left Cuddalore l bought a house and land in lrutti and stayed there! Some Christian wanted to change my son a Christian! There is no difficulty to get a new name! lf a new physic and mind can be offered by the church! When it was not possible to get a groom for my daughter l left that place and started roaming! There was no use! lt was not because the child was of a inter caste marriage Unworthy thing which can't be sold in dowry market... Give me the phone - Who are you calling in midnight? - We are in the darkness! lt is dawn on the other side of the world! My girl in America! the son in Geneva ln the foreigner's language ...if their step brother and step sister ...could be saved from the house near a tea shop ln a way 2 children to retrieve the land The other 2 children are to undergo emotional back-mail... 2 coffee When the call from CH's phone came The daughter in America and the son from Geneva ...appeared in the internet ls it web camera? No camera! Through dialogue! lt was a threatening letter in detail that he'll offerjob by committing suicide - Bonda! - No (Venda) What work? That would be the notice of a poor dad ...who has to starve even though he have 2 well placed children! Why do they have to worry about that? Their mom and Menon are legally separated, right? You can tell it in the court His son is the UNN's...Damn it ls he the Secretary General? He could stand in the position of Secretary General as lndia's representative! lf they get a news like this the national media will celebrate it! He is a national star! That too a Malayali! lt is a wonderful chance! What happened at the end? The children agreed to give 2.5 millions! You have a master in the fraud game You give the bill Somebody is coming to buy the Golden mall! He is an NRl tiger! lt is a matter of money, dear! - Greetings sir! - Hai you! - l am here - Joyettan! We... This is the property! Who is the one with coat? - Don't you know him? - No He is Madhu Soothana Panikker! He has work in Dubai and Africa! lt is a matter of pea nuts for him We can have a talk and come to a conclusion today Has he got the Padma sri award? l heard, he would get it this time He looks stubborn Can't you see that? - Do you know him? - No He is the Golden Papan! Why is he standing on a blue fly? He has enough money to buy a car! He is the top most miser in the place! This is his character! He just has to put it in the stand He has something in his mind He would work for it, until he finishes it - Jesus! - Greetings Papan chettan Greetings Rainikka! Do you go to the club? How are you Joey? You have put up some weight! - l am little thin! - Grown up little fatter Jesus! Who is it? Hai Ahmedka! - Don't call me ikka! - l'll call! The word Golden is only in name - You are keen on the Kerala gold business! - l'm Panikker, sir! l have heard of you very much! Now l can see you and touch you! Do you want to go in or sit and discuss things? - Shall we sit then? - Yes! - Then, we shall go to my house! - Yes! -Are you going to Papanchettan's house? - Take the vehicle! lf he is not with us, our work would fail Don't close it We are coming! lt is 5 to 6 years after my wife died l have 2 children The elder son is in America...in NASA! He is a scientist and he married a Nair girl ...not Nair, but a Menon! She too is in NASA! The young one is my daughter She is a doctor and is in Bangalore! Her husband too! l have a plan to bring them here! Let him do it Do you have any objection? l am happy about it l can see her! l bought the Calicut Medical center! My situation would be very tight then! lt was! That's why l wanted to sell the shopping moll! Shopping moll? What is moll? lt's not moll, but mall! Male Then came another problem My son called me from America He wanted 2.5! lt is to give to his father in law! Raini! How much l asked you as advance? - Papanchettan asked me to give 1 .5 - ls it? l changed it now l need 2.5 now Our work will fail - Why? - Watch it lt can be 2.5 or 5! Papanchettan don't have to worry l can give you only account money How can it then? l won't agree if l get only white Don't take it serious! We will have solution! Do you agree with the money? 850 millions! How is it, chettan? lt was more than 1 billion, what have told! 850 millions...ok then! Shall we write it and sign by both of us? - Panikker sir will go to Dubai tomorrow - ls it? To write...l have no practice in that l believe in my word! l won't make any mistake l don't have any touch with others who make mistakes! - This is only a formality! - l have to send enough money then! lf l get 2.5 millions today we can take it further ahead Eldose! Get some wheat porridge for me l take wheat porridge in the noon! l wouldn't invite anyone forthat Buy a good biriyani for Panikker sir, Raini Take him to Paragon! Buy him chicken! Ahmed! We have to talk... Papanchettan! We have to... - Raini! Who are these guys? - They are my boys! l think they are commission agents l'll tell you something! lf the commissioner comes don't bring a group of people Don't tell me to give to various people No! Let me solve this problem Swine! Don't discard at any cost! 85 is good enough to get! Call Ganesan! As you said l'll give you 25 as token advance An agreement is written with the payment schedule Registration is within 3 months! lf it is anyone they will ask you 6 months time No need of that We shall finish the work in 3 months Raini! l have to get my 25 today - Give the money and talk further - Today is Sunday, right? Nobody will keep the money at home today Tomorrow when the bank opens we will give you the money What is to get today should get it today itself lf it is tomorrow, there are a lot of things to see You should not be adamant like this Panikker sir! l asked you as l have some urgent need Don't mistake me Forget it There are people in the line! They are waiting for my call Ok! Then! You can leave now Let me have some food! l feel hungry Brother! lf you can wait for 10 minutes you will get 25 right now He has started to come 25 means 2.5 millions! What are you telling? l too was telling about 2.5 millions reaching here lt sounds good! Where will you get that money? ...from Palayam! lt has reached here Who have asked the money from you? Don't say that lf he has arranged 25 lakh rupees he is smart - What is your name? - Jaya Prakash Come Move - What is the film? - 'Rathi Nirvedam' Oh! Come Who will bring it what you say? - Raini! Don't threaten him! - l know about him Dear brother! l did it so that the business would flourish You could as well return it to me tomorrow Cash has come You count it, Papanchetta l'll do it! l'll tell you if there is any less amount You sit here Tell me the name - Jaya Prakash! - That's it? How are things? - Please come here - 1 minute - Do we need this, sir? - What is the problem? We will give 25 to the guy in the morning! We will give it He is a man who hasn't got any value for his words He changes his words! Don't tell that Panikker sir has cheated us Do what you feel like l like the property l want the price too be reasonable l'll show the better place than this in Kozhikode That's all, l can say What do you say? lf it is another place... Our Sammad bhai's mall on the bank road is also on sale That too is 1 lakh sq.feet lf you don't believe it, forget it The deal with the nasty guy is not needed Sir come What Raini? ls your secret meeting over?. Papanchettan! Let us go and think it over - We will let you know the details - Ok as you like it So...we take leave then See you then - Shall l take it? - What? - Cash! - Take it Rainikka and Joyettan didn't like our interfere - l got it -Aren't you going? We are Dear! Do you like the property? Put the money in the box without wasting time! What did you ask me? He was cracking a joke! l have no habit ofjoking What l was asking... lf you have interest... keep the cash down and shake my hand 850 millions 1 acre land 1 lakh sq.feet building 4 floors! Parking lot for 100 cars! - Do you want it? - l want it Today's date is 13 10 millions...on 21st That is 10 millions black! Registration time is 3 months! Shake hands if you are ready - l'm ready! - What ready? Are you mad? Are the details safe in your head? On 21st...10 millions lf not given, 2.5 millions will be gone what you gave! Remember, l didn't sign in any papers that l took your money lt's the first time in our life we are watching 2.5 millions That was kept on your feet! We know, that money will be gone if we can't maintain our words We have no strength to grab the money from you l tell you, l will come on the 21st ...with 10 millions Listen! Yourtime is virtuous now! This courage has made a big man big in this world Eldose! Take this and keep this inside Do you like to have this? lt is wheat! No brother! We'll have another day Keep the box in which the cash was brought Looks good! We can dub things in it Menon sir! What are you doing here? This is my relative's house This is my son-in law's house who is in America! She told me to get 2.5 millions from here - Why are you here? - We came to give 2.5 millions! Achutha Menon sir is wanted inside We will tell you if any important news is there - We will meet you in your office - Ok - Do you know what is news? - No - Which 2.5 millions, he has come after? - Those who came that day... Menon's sons whose house is to take away by the blade company people To solve their problem, the daughter in America ...and the son who is the officer in Delhi are been threatened ...and got 2.5 millions! That is this! That 25 and this 25...! The daughter's husband means Golden Papan's son l got it No! You haven't understood fully - What? - 2.5 millions which we gave to Papan ...comes back to our office with Menon sir! - My God! - Take the bike When a necessity arose to Menon... these people were not seen! They won't When the principle and interest were not there ...l know the agonies caused by that What the people say the cruel work has made ...the 2.5 millions reach here now Where were you all this time? l went to get back the car given for service We have to reach up to Mercara, isn't it? 25 in cash and a check for 50 millions Both are before the Mother's statue Tell mom to give it to you You know me well, isn't it? Menon brought 2.5 millions and closed the old account Hence l could give in cash what that woman told You have to tell me if you want to sell the house and land Aworthy party is there ls there any plan like that? He is doing Real Estate business He is going now There is a hotel for sale Mercara! lf you could give the document ...and the other paper which is written and signed ...we could have left here They are ready This confusion was made by Nambiyar Why did he tell it to you? Else you wouldn't have known this Madam should have called me before giving out this money Forget it You are just repeating it and making him... l gave him that money because his sight was a registered plan lf the sale was done through him he should have got a big amount! So there is nothing wrong in it What Jaya Prakash? You should beat me with chappals instead of supporting like this Beena told it right lt was a fraud work what we did That 25 lakh rupees will be bought to you one day! l'll get a relief only then Everything will be right only then! - lf we want to get a good life for us that is needed - Go man l gave 2.5 millions to Jaya Prakash without any difficulty There is no need to get emotional! You two get married and come to me Why do l need lot of money? There are no children for me to offer Whats' the use of having so much money in this old age? What's it Nambiyar? Kuriakkose's son who has bought the tea estate has come Shall l call him? Nambiyar can see that lt is the first payment! They want to give it to madam in person! - We take leave then! - Sit, l will be back Come - Greetings doctor - Greetings 2.5 millions in cash! And check for 50 millions! You wanted it like that l'll be back next week with dad he wants to visit this place You can decide it with Nambiyar Ok, doctor Stop it somewhere and ask someone Let us go further away Stop here What is the crowd there? Move aside lt was a betrayal l have only seen things till now which are not meant to see ln my life, l am forced to see... ...the death of my wife and son by committing suicide Enough, Jaya Prakash! l am going l'll die somewhere on the road l don't believe any God who can hearthe prayers! Hence, l could only give blessings without any formalities Every thing will end up good lf there is a day like that you should be with us to witness that lf the ship come to the shore by a storm you should be inside it What is the use of it? All l have unlucky and cunning thoughts But lt'll be good if l unite you together lf this man dreams of the millions and fails to attain them ...we have to start a life! l have to fight with the parents and come out We have only a few to depend on There is no need to think about that We can share the feelings, good or bad l was looking for the land for a wedding centre - Yes! - Why don't we go for a lease agreement? l could only sell it l was about to start a few projects... l am not interested to sell this really At this stage, it is difficult to hold it l was only asking it - You are telling it is 950 millions! - Yes! - lsn't it negotiable? - Yes We can have small adjustments, sir! The advance will be given in Trissoor lt's a belief only You have to come home and get it from mother's hands Why not? l'll come lt is Samy here Hai! Raini lt is Rainikka l'm now here in your land, Kozhikode! - What's up? - The matter was almost fixed Then came a phone for Samy Our work will suffer, if it is Rainikka The place is the best place! ...and it is suitable for the wedding centre ls it Jaya Prakash? He is our dear Another problem in it are... lf you ask me no business will function these days... - What's it? - l'll give it to Joy - Greetings Samy! - Hello Joy You are going to start a new branch in Kozhikode, right? ls the problem what Rainikka told? Rainikka and me have no belief in it But Samy has to see it You've some hold in that As per Vaastu there are a few problems there Don't get afraid of any problems if you find We will give you the better property than this Any way, we have to meet some time Will Rainikka give us problems? There will be worries we would flourish One will worry only about other's gain instead of his own loss So, shall l leave then? l have to go to Thalipparambu! Haven't you heard about Raja Rajeswari temple? - l have heard about it many times! - l take leave then! Protect Raini and Samy - We've to lose this one too, isn't it? - Then what? lf a Samy go off another will come up Eldose will be flat for 4-5 hours if he gets drunk The vomit can't be left here like this Manappanchettan can move away We will take care of this - CH is very good at this type of service - ls it? Why do you give him drinks if you know that he will vomit? He is innocent! l open his throat and force him to drink He don't like the smell of liquor Why do you force him to drink then? He will sing a few poems when he take liquor My mother! Pardon me This vain birth's dirty faces ...are to be kissed on the forehead and wake it up We can forget a moment the meaning of this vain birth l like these poems very much When hear it, it sounds very amusing! Tell me about your plan! Brother! Let it be finished This is usual thing Tell me the matter - Our 21st is coming nearer! - Let it be This is not any stray dog to scare about lt's only a date lt is not a stray dog lt is a stray tiger! Not many days! Only 10 days more - lt would be very helpful! - lt won't happen! As we expected, things didn't work out well Do you want 2.5 millions? Do you want the advance back? - No need - lf you won't give me 10 millions on 21st, forget 2.5 millions l'll find another party that day it self We have just came in Papanchettan as we were going to a place CH! Then we will meet you on 21st - Can l see you then? - May like to god - Do you know why he is cleaning up the vomit? - No - He will have it - Nasty guy We will come back to the things Advocate and me are the representatives of a Maharashtra based company! ln various majortowns in south they buy or build shopping malls lf we buy for them property for a reasonable price ...we will get a good commission lf we get a green signal from Bombay every thing will go on fast The company should know that it is a genuine dealing - That's all - lt is You were with Raini and Joy Associates for long, right? You mean Raini and Joy? We have started at the same time! My partner CH and me deal with high range in estate Rainikka is a dealer in 5 -10 cents in this town How do you... Raini and Joy? We study when we come to a place about the market details along with the important broker crocodiles there! Let it be What is your demand? 1 acre land,1 lakh sq.feet, 4 floors, Parking for 100 cars! 950 millions... many have told We will settle forthat money if we want! An E-Mail communication with the company! The decision should come from there We will wait for a day! lf it is completed, you just have to tell what you want - We will manage to give you - You don't need to worry about that Our company will give us what we need - l take leave - We will meet again tomorrow Mean time the matter will be settled and we shall expect that You have been really helpful! Really we were in trouble l invested whatever l had in this business l wish if it could be solved - What did he tell before going? - 950 millions He gave us an offerthat he would give us a commission if the deal has clicked He can, if he gives 850 millions to Papan he has a balance of 100 millions How much the company need to make it ready? lt depends on the proposal we give 1 billion, is good enough for it ls there anybody to backup Jaya Prakash to help him financially? l don't think so 10 millions has to be given to Papan in 3-4 days! Else he'll lose the advance money 2.5 millions He is playing a dangerous game Why don't we take him away from this scene? We shall give a tip to him lt is good for him! He has a relative Surendran! Let me talk to him We should be able to play with Papan! We can give 850 millions for Papan! But, it is the work for Raini and Joy to throw him out very smoothly - That work is ours! - We can make it alright You will get an amount what we suggest Can you say how much? We would say it when it is time lf Jaya Prakash get the merit of it it is as good as my sons get the merit This is only an emotional dialogue Talk as the matter of fact Can Jaya Prakash raise 10 millions to Papan at short notice? l ask you that lf no...it is 2.5 millions what gets lost Raini and me are worried that we couldn't ...able to help him in a situation like this What do Surendrettan say? l too want to help him getting money from somewhere But l think that nothing will work out well We will ask Jaya Prakash about this - ls there any way to get 10 millions? - l don't find any way out What shall we do then? According to Papan, the token given was swallowed Mahesh sir has come as the company's official rep We are ready to take up the deal giving a gift or a certificate for Jaya Prakash! lt means you'll get 2.5 millions in your hand - l think Surendran has heard it - Prakash! lsn't it fair enough? Prakash! Get it man lf you are intelligent you could as well receive it He is intelligent alright What? What you are going to get is not a small amount lt is 2.5 millions! lt is not 2.5 millions! lt is an approximate figure that's all No...We are ready to give that much! Dear! Stretch your hand and get it Why don't you talk anything? lf every body is willing to help and save us l have nothing to say Sir! You can come up with the details - You have made it! - Then what? We eat biriyani and give the bone to the dog You say it is your time seeing at its face lt is such a nasty thing what you told now For 850 millions from Papanchettan to buy the shopping mall You people came to us lnstead we didn't come to anyone of you to save us lf we have to sell for 850 millions what we have bought for 850 millions ...that will be done in a decent way Then we will be roaming in the market, without money starving! But even then l won't have a guilty complex ...that the bone which you have thrown to us is a loss l have no decent education for me l haven't studied the Corporate law or business administration But l know the market law that what we bought for 10 rupees ...should be sold at 20 rupees! We knew about one thing in this sitting We have people who need, from us...many Ok then! Forget it if you can't help lt is ok if you can't reach your hand at the one who is in the pit But don'tjoin those, who put sand into the pit Come man Will there be any news in the paper tomorrow that 3 corpses were swept ashore? l won't tell not to stab a corpse l would tell not to stab, you corpse! You have no money and are cracking jokes! Beena has come with a good news - What good news? - l feel so When we are short of money we feel so when we see Beena Beena can make things happen! Beena can make things happen even now! Come! Surendrettan is in the car l won't come Come! Don't be adamant That is... Keep the phone down Get in - What happened Prakash? - Nothing -Are you angry with me? - For what? l wanted to discourage you not because l envy you lf anything good comes for you l know well that, it is for hertoo Forget it l have 5 millions ready with me You do what you like for the rest Take the bag on the back seat Surettan l am... l feel as if l have swam half the sea! The distance is half towards the front and back l am towards the front There is no doubt in that Today is 19 and the day after is 21 What if l go and meet Papan again? 5 millions in cash... and 5 millions in lDlDl bank's check - lt won't work - My God! Release 5 millions more ...will come! The way, this has come When talking, if the mobile rings, the Trivandrum girl ...will say it is TRUE! Hello! Who is it? ...from where you are calling? When did you reach? l am in a serious problem here l'll be coming l will come Bye - Who is it? -Ashraf from Muscat! He has enough money with him want to see him? He will come in Ashraf's disguise too! Go and see him! When the third too was a girl my wife became serious! She took up the finance management herself Her dad too was with her lf l get 10 Rs he will take me to some land Till the registration is over it will be very tense afterwards This time too, he has come to fix a deal Tell me some way out 50 is with you... and you need 50 too, right? Yes! There is no time - Can you take a risk? - l can take any risk - Tell me - lt is full risky thing! l won't force you You have to think and decide Tell me the matter lf you give 50, you will get 100 10 millions for 5 millions! ls it black money? They won't catch you so easily l have seen the lot l know the dealer too But you have to think and do it What does it mean that it won't find it, who you are? ...even if it is in 2 looks! Do you know how many millions are in Kerala? You can think about it l'll be here only lf you are ready l'll take you to the party Making black money? Don't do that lt will be problematic Think that there won't be any problem and you go ahead! This is not a child's play This is cheating the country But it is not started by us There are millions of rupees in this place This is that money going through our hands! You or me might have touched it without our knowledge ...- many times! - You are only arguing things You know what the problems are! l know about the problems But there is no other go lt is just a wrong thing to help out many souls! l have decided to do it Menon sir! He don't want to... l had been in the attire of Sakuni who taught about gambling! Truth has no place in the game which is played only to win! But l'll suggest not to play this! You have to imagine what would be the result if get caught lf get caught you would be in jail for 7 years! Don't tell me to give up when l am half way through This time, l'm ready for this game without you both l'll come back only after l have won - JP, you... - There is no other solution for this! The vehicle has come Take the box into the vehicle - Shouldn't l come with you? - No! You and sir can wait here l'll be back in the late night or in the dawn! - You... - You needn't tell anything! Give your hands! Place your hand You invitee...is going back like the sudden drizzle Your aroma is like the kingly! Will it fade off which is in the chest? The invitee is going back! You invitee as you have forgotten The red is on your lip! lt is magic that it is there! You invitee is going back! The blue window of my dream The eyes of the imagination are searching Your mind with the music has come and filled in me My mind with the music is knitting ...new memories The sweetness of the golden dream has faded off from you You invitee are going off The past has given a few feathers ...which l have kept in my mind The loveable and alone! l have to go with a sorrowful mind You invitee...is going back like the sudden drizzle Your aroma is like the kingly! Will it fade off which is in the chest? You invitee...is going back The invitee is going back! You invitee...is going back l went to sleep in the dawn only! 10 millions! My God! You take it from the sack and put it in the box What is in the sack JP brother? lt is halwa... the black halwa! Black halwa? You have to buy it from Delta That is... Oops! lt is cash! - How much is it? - 10 millions 10 millions lndian Rupees! l don't care if l have to die But l have seen 10 millions now! - ls it 1 in this? - Yes! - l think it is not black money! - lt is! Reserve Bank governor would believe it The currency wouldn't dare to come to Papanchettan's house! - You don't have to count it - l will! Take this and go - So, we take leave - Wait My hands and legs are shivering! l feel very chill! You won't feel cold if you are wet all over! - You got it? - This is a rope bridge! We can't be sure if one could reach the other side lncluding the advance money 12.5 millions ...is been received by me and lf the matter is in your name ...or on the man's name told by you l would register in 3 months! lt is the agreement telling that - Let me go! - You are really smart! l mean JP! - l'll call you if the amount is incorrect! - Ok! lt's Papanchettan! Take it You don't make me a fool! - What is it? - 1000 rupees is less in a bundle! l counted it 2 times but it is the same amount ls it? Don't worry about it! You have to remember it l'll bring it you with out fail - ls there any other problem? - There is no other problem! l mean if there is any problem other than Rs 1000 l think you have entered a very lucky period! - What is it chettan? -A party has called me now from Gulf They are still near the mall! They seem to be the buyers, in the way they talk! Don't forget me if you get a big profit Don't give the commission to someone You can give me l will do that Shall l cut the call? Buyers waiting in the shopping mall They are from Gulf lf this deal is a success l will be a big shot in this Kozhikode Come, let's go There are no brokers and commission between us Choose a date for registration 940 millions Thank God! Keep the agreement ready How much do you expect as advance? - 5... - 5 millions Tomorrow l will give you 5 millions in black! Decide yourself when l have to pay the balance amount l will start to Dubai tomorrow lf you want to discuss anything, call Arun or Shyam Yes, l will -Anything else? - Nothing Nothing to say See you then Start the car Thank God! - Hold it! - Surendrettan What is this? Have you started to roam public? Parents have gone to Guruvayur Do you know that? Else you won't come with her boldly l feel for them as they are not in station Or else l've come to talk marriage proposal today What? ls there any good news? l made a deal to sell the shopping mall with 90 millions as profit l hail you All used to blame you But you didn't go down Keep it brother! 5 millions are in this No urgency! Give it later No, so far l was lending money from others Now l have repay them First l am starting from you l have one more balance 2.5 millions which l stole using her l want to repay that to doctor Shiela Koshy That is my next work l am going to make a call to my parents in Guruvayur To inform that l got a groom for my sister Sir, 2 MCB - Soda? - No, liquor is enough JP and CH has got 100 millions as profit in the shopping mall deal l am very happy about that They have suffered a lot Tell your time has been good - l won't refuse - lf they are happy it is as good as me - Give one more bottle - Navaz, give them 1 MCB Don't leave them Get our boys for help l will make a call to Kasaba station Hey, make a call to Kasaba station - He is the one - Come to station Come on Get in Bring him to office JP, there is some problem for you Police have arrested your assistant Ganesan lt is fake note case He has changed a 1000 rupee fake note in Maharani bar Today he went to the bar and workers have caught him He told he took 1000 rupees note from the money bundle ...which you bought to your office Cl has decided to catch you red handed Hold down! l will call you later CH, you both go to railway station fast Board him into the train Switch off your mobile and go somewhere Then you? l am going to surrender Why should l hide somewhere? l will come with you l too have share in that CH you have to stay out Listen to me No, l will take response and surrender instead of you l need a place to die that's all l need now You have better places than the jail l am only responsible for this crime l have to face this Move fast No time to discuss l don't know when and where We have to meet one day Now we take leave Why should l escape from this? l too have share in this crime We have families At least one of us should take care of them We have to face our destiny No way to escape l had a dream to become a millionaire, over night But my dream will never fulfill - Papanchettan! - Yes Why do you yell like this? l am here! l have a meeting today of the Lions! Please come down Don't try to pull me down You try to climb up Have you kept 10 millions here which l paid you that day? What? Not only that, l have enough money at home Tell me the matter lt's getting late for me lf the money is here, please try to replace it Those are fake notes! Fake notes? You sinner! What did you say? l told l gave you fake notes Police are searching me l will call them to come here When they reach here you have to show them 9999000 rupees original notes Else they'll arrest Who? You will be caught l will make them to arrest you Didn't you do the fraud? lt will take time to prove in the court Police will arrest both of us l am telling the way to escape from the case You have to show them the original notes for the money which l gave you Should l save you from the case? You did the sin You have to suffer Call the police No, let me call l have done a big crime l will get 7 years prison punishment lf l kill you, l will get extra 5 years punishment Don't make me to do that l did this nasty crime because you threatened me that you won't give back the advance 2.5 millions Let me call the police You should save me to escape from the police You will get what you require Go and replace those notes with the original one in a case Don't forget to take 1000 rupee note from 10 millions Kasaba Cl? lt's me Jaya Prakash You have arrested my staff Ganesan... Yes sir l am in Golden Papan's house l will wait here Can you please come? Shall l come to station? No! l will wait here Okay sir! - Didn't you go? - You sinner! Eldose! Bring a wheat ball, not rice Get an empty sack Make it fast Brother, it's me There is some problem You have to listen to me what l say Why did you ask for sack? Keep this money in the sack, tie up and keep it in the store room Aren't you going to Lions meeting? Hence l have to make ready 10 millions of original money Oh God! Oh God! You didn't give me a clue that he would cheat me He gave me work that l got 12.5 millions from him l want to see the money which you gave to Papan Yes! He is inside Please come Papanchettan! Please sit - Greetings! - ls he telling the truth? - Did he pay you 10 millions? - Yes he is right, and the money is here lt is usual practice changing fake notes here No, for what reason he gave 10 millions for you? What is the connection between you both? Didn't he tell you about shopping mall? He gave the money as advance forthe shopping which l sold him No, l didn't pay the net cash l have borrowed from others and gave to him - Did you call me? - Yes There is a case under my cot in the bed room Bring that Do you mean sack? There is case under my cot in the bedroom Bring that l have counted it! But there are 1000 rupees shortage in that l have informed him l think there is more in this Let me take the cash l'll give it back afterthe conformation Take your own time and check it That is good for us We can't find the difference between original and duplicate Sign and get the document There is one more enquiry by enforcement to prove this is original or not You have to show the source from where you got the money Then income tax l have borrowed this money from 2 people One is my friend NRl Ashraf The other one is my relative Surendran He is one of the dealers in Big Bazaar He is well known to Papanchettan Yes, l know - You must come to station when l call - Sure sir - Sir, what about Ganesan? - l will remand him You can take him out in bail in our enquiry bases Only if it is original, you can move further l am sure that is original There is no doubt in that - That's good! - ls it original one? l have just asked you A house with AC bed rooms and drawing room A garden with grass and flowers! 4 cars in the porch! Dogs in the cage! Watch man in the gate! Single Malt whiskey or Cognac to drink! The underwear and shirt are branded A resident visa in Dubai! Rich friends to celebrate nights! 3- 4 foreign trips in an year! An estate in Moonaar or in Vayanad and a bungalow in that! 3- 4 ministers' sons in the group of friends! Protectors in the police! To love the wife more with guilty complex ...for having prostitutes in the travel to sleep with! These are the dreams of an average educated Malayali youth ...which are mine too! That becomes a fake note and ash after getting burned My 10 millions is getting burned here My father was a rubber tapping employee and he worked very hard to bring me up Behind this luxury life of mine there are my blood and tears Even if l loss Rs 10, l'll get upset You deceived me Rs 10 millions My dear Papanchetta! You won't lose anything lnstead of you are going to get the profit l wrote an agreement and gave you that l was paid with 12.5 millions 10 millions from that are burning now Here is the document lt is the proof that l gave you Rs 12.5 millions Look! lt is also burning Now listen carefully what l say You've sold me this building for Rs 850 millions But l've sold it to Arumugan's son Siddartha For Rs 940 millions... ...as advance l've got 5 millions You sinner! The moment this document gets burned totally, l withdraw from this business Then the business will start between you and Siddartha lf you forget that advance 5 millions, you'll get Rs 935 millions You'll get the profits when you finish this business 85 millions l don't want that You just give me 847.5 millions You take the profits No Papanchetta! l almost went nearjail doors and came back You saved me This money is just a gratitude of that l'm leaving my past life here too Here, l have a girl to love, my friend and my family people Today l've closed the doors which is on the other side of the world This is the story of him lt's the youths'story of our place - lsn't it? - Yes Where is he now? - What about your sister? - She got married and living happily - Whom? - lt is none other than him Mix it well Look at the smoke What is it? Move They've come from Menon sir - They are from Mangalapuram... - From Kasturba Seva Mandir lt is run for orphaned people Menon sir is now there They said that he wants to see me once We'll come soon there Okay, we'll tell him that we've met PWD Contractor Jaya Prakash He'll feel happy - We'll take leave - Okay We expected your arrival yesterday - We got little late to start - Yes, you are late He had been asking about your arrival whole night We knew it after Volunteers saw him in the morning - What happened? - Come He came to us from somewhere else ln this strange life, he entered as a page of book ...and left me by telling only the half part He left his body and continued the journey to somewhere Why did Menon want to meet Jaya Prakash? What he wanted to tell him? How can Jaya Prakash know about it? Somebody should tell him about it 4.5 acres, isn't it? lt is nearly 5 acres How about an acre is 2 millions From 1 .5 to 2 millions After bargaining we can fix to 1 .8 millions Whataboutthe commission, 0.25 or0.3 million? We've to try to get 0.3 else it is okay for 0.25 million The dead Menon sir wrote this property on the name of Jaya Prakash l've tried a lot to contact him with the address l have - But l couldn't - Give me the address lf it is needed we'll search for him all over lndia Jaya Prakash alias JP We'll get him Jaya Prakash takes what he wants and we take what we need Muneer, start the bike The twilight sky is full of Champa flowers! The Champa flower girl is standing eyes open! Wearing studs in the ears... and jasmine flowers as garland A girl like red pearl! ...is standing here! ...and like the bud of the flower! She looks very magnificent The twilight sky is full of red flowers! The Champa flower girl is standing eyes open! The clouds of both genders ...come this way once when you return home in the evening! Give me some light the male cloud has captured! The twilight sky is full of Champa flowers! The Champa flower girl is standing eyes open! The pollen dust is to become a flower The lid of cask of the dream is opened! lt is sandal flower which spreads the aroma! The pearl of the dream have fallen down The honey bred flower is in the lips! With the bud of the jasmine flower! The honey bred flower is in the lips! With the bud of the jasmine flower! The golden bird has come down gracefully! The twilight sky is full of Champa flowers! The Champa flower girl is standing eyes open! The reflection of your face is in it! lt will vibrate in your veins lt will tickle your soft places! When your eyes open up like lamp The reflection of your face is in it! lt will vibrate in your veins lt will tickle your soft places! When your eyes open up like Wearing blue silk... and garland of white pearls! Wearing blue silk and garland of white pearls! The birds of the spring come in the dreamy clouds! The twilight sky is full of Champa flowers! The Champa flower girl is standing eyes open! Wearing studs in the ears... and jasmine flowers as garland A girl like red pearl!...is standing here! ...and like the bud of the flower! She looks very magnificent The twilight sky is full of red flowers! The Champa flower girl is standing eyes open!
