 

                        Greetings madam My eldest son Bharathasimha Reddy Greetings.- Greetings My second son Vijayasimha Reddy Greetings.- Greetings He's my eldest son's son lndrasena Reddy He may be a little boy, but he's an avenger. Did you observe he never greeted you? Have you come to compromise or with handcuffs? To compromise. Human life is very valuable. Both sides have lost too many lives. Don't beat around the bush, come to the point straight. lf you get your second son Vijayasimha Reddy, married to Siva Reddy's sister... Stop! Do you want me to marry my father's killer's daughter. l'll cut your tongue. Trust me madam. This marriage will bring place to this region. Even if we accept they'll not accept. l'll make them accept. - No. We too like enmity than relationship. No, your father always wished peace for this region Let him make his try. Bring bombs! l'll stuff it into his mouth. Brother Did you here what he said now? He has brought a proposal from your father's killer. l like D.l.G.'s proposal. What happened to you, dear? l feel this will do good for our family. Accept! Marriage brings together 2 families. But our marriage brings friendship between 2 warring families. lsn't it? Wife drinking milk after husband is old tradition. Husband drinking milk after wife is new tradition. You drink and give me. Though l know l would die along with you. Do you know why drank poisoned milk? l'm Konda Reddy's daughter. l would prefer death along with you than sleep with you. Brother! We've been cheated. Not only to jail, l can come anywhere in this happy moment. l've practically wiped out Bharathasimha Reddy's family. Come...come. Are you police or demons? Making me believe this marriage will bring peace. You've killed my two sons. Siva Reddy is challenging to have wiped out men in my family. Anyone from our faction come forward and sit on this chair Hey Butchi Reddy! Why are you pondering over it, Venkat Reddy? For peace to this region, for your happiness, My grandfather, my father, my husband, my sons... ...they all sacrificed their lives for you. lsn't there a man here to sit on that chair? l'm there, grandma. Hail lndrasena Reddy! What's this police doing here, priest? Telugu man has been appointed as Governor of U.P. Telugu man? - Yes, Chennakesava Reddy. He's coming with his family for a holy dip in River Ganges. l've been entrusted to conduct it. Okay, do it properly. He's our Telugu man. Hey, stop. You are my security men. - Yes sir. You are marching ahead. what if l'm attacked from behind? Come dear. Stop. Did all of you go behind me? What if some one attacks from the front? What if the attack is aerial? lf they decide to kill, they'll do it, whether it is Parliament or Pentagon, it doesn't matter. Come. Greetings sir - Greetings - Greetings madam Go & take a holy dip. Oh No! l can't take a dip in this water. lt's wrong to refuse. Holy Ganges is a goddess of mercy. lf you give up anything you love. She'll fulfill your unfulfilled wish. l don't like the marriage fixed by my mother. Priest told me to give up something. l'm giving up the groom l don't like. Select a man l like most. Where's your pearl chain? - Yes, where's it? Did you give up pearl for priest's order? A chain blessed by Goddess Durga to marry my nephew. Don't say like that, madam. She would've made a wish. To fulfill that Holy Ganges would send it to the place it deserves. Hail Lord Shiva! Sankaranarayana, take god's offering. - Thank you sir. You always offer prayers for your niece & nephew only. You never give an opportunity to offer prayers for you. l don't have any problem. Children must be happy. l'll go sir.- Okay. Oh! Sankaranarayana has come. He'll ask why l haven't taken a bath yet So, you all are ready after taking bath Good! Where's Valmiki? Come...take this. We are in a queue. Why are you breaking the line? Stop Valmiki... Keep quiet Subbarayudu He's a dumb and moreover a long time associate of Sankaranarayana. We came much later. He deserves to get first. Why did you forget to give me? Wantonly l forgot. Take bath & come. - l've taken bath. l'm talking about today not yesterday. Why have you come here suddenly? Trouble again in Ayodhya or your college is closed for holiday? No, l've come for festival on grandma's invitation.- Yes. Okay, good! Go and have breakfast. What's that new chain? lt fell into my neck as l was taking a dip in Ganges. Don't remove it. Wear it son. That is not just a pearl chain. lt is a boon of Ganges. Don't know why she has presented it to you? Keep it. Your niece. l told her to win the classical song competition in college. Look, how she's practicing. How nicely she's singing! Who had trained her? - Go and see. Why the tape has stopped playing? - Player is switched off. Uncle! Are you practicing the song l taught you? That's why, l am hearing it from a tape. lf you hear, you'll get sleep. You can learn only if you sing. l'm not getting inspired to sing, uncle. l'll beat you...you're wrong. All you must have is a heart to sing. Any sound from this Kasi, abode of Lord Shiva, ...it'll turn into music and inspire us to sing. lsn't there inspiring music in these chants of saints? Listen... ...the conch is singing your praise, Lord Shiva. Don't stop it uncle. Please sing the song. The conch the blowing... the drums are playing... Let there be sensation with cadence in music... Let us march forward unconcerned about time... singing paeans to Lord Shiva.... becoming the ever flowing Ganges... Making an abode here Lord with his consort Visalakshi... This is holy town of Kasi... Hail Lord Shiva! Lord is dancing in happiness... Drums are playing thunderously... My song will captivate Kasi. Like the poetry of Poet Laureate Srinadha... lt is the path leading to liberation... So says the jungle of little bell... As heart beat chants your divine name in a trans... And dance to your chants rhythmically... Every step here is like circumambulating you... The lamps lit in the lunar month is manifestation of Lord... Won't our sorrows vanish if we float the lamps here? Any rock in this place is Lord Shiva... This is not soil but boon of Lord Shiva... This place stands for eternity... A heaven that history also failed to catch up with... Can't you hear the divine chant in the air? Can't you see the mercy of Lord in the Ganges? Come, visit and know the divinity of Kasi. She's my only daughter, she loves music, and l love my daughter. l don't want her to become great singers like Lata or Susheela, lt's enough if she sings lullabies to her children. l brought her up away from sun & dust, in light & air only. l'm not leaving behind my daughter here, ...my life...be careful. Hello Pitchaiah, you've been crying madly all the night. Please control yourself. How much you love your father? Love? My foot! My father left just ashes to me and property to his concubine. What's in it? You got good deeds and that lady got sins. Take care of him...please console. - Mr. Balu! l'll first offer prayers in the temple and come. We know the priests of the temple very well. We'll take care of your temple visit personally. You must go to a temple with devotion, not with security. l'll visit on my own and come to the guesthouse. You take me to the university from there. Do you want taxi?- No. lt's very crowded here. Come carefully. One moment you're careless, you'll be robbed. Why are you whistling? Just to know if you're a Telugu man or not l'm also a Telugu man. Do you want taxi? No need...you come. - Keep quiet. We must go to the river Ganges. - Just Rs.300 only. Rs.300? We are from Tenali not fools. Tenali? l'm also from Tenali. Say something else. No difference in my word or rate. We'll take in our taxi to Ganges, take you around to all the important places in a boat, and after visiting temple, l'll drop you safely here. Okay? l can get 100's like you for Rs.50, you know? 100 people are waiting. - l'll go.- Go man. Why are you putting hand on me? You come...looks like a tough guy. Don't you get taxis here? - You're from Tenali, aren't you? How do you know that? - l'm also from Tenali. Are you also from Tenali? What are you doing here? l'm running a taxi here. ls it all gold jewels? - Why do you want to know? To tell her to be careful if it's gold, Kasi is full of thieves. Appears to be a good man. Pure gold. Will you ply taxi for Rs.50? We both are from same Tenali. No need of Rs.50. Rs.10 will do. You say it is pure gold. He's from Tenali, but a fool. Okay, come. Mr. Balasubramanyam, greetings sir. What are you doing in Kasi? Are you also a Telugu man? We are about a lakh people here. - Give me. - Where? l'm a taxi man. Give me Rs.300. Don't bargain, mine is fixed rate...come sir. Mr. Balu, looks like you've fallen to the charm of that cheat He's charging Rs.300 but this man is changing Rs.10 only. Just talent will not help, you must be worldly wise. You get in sir. - What's it? He's saying just Rs.10. You'll know it as finishing touch, get in. Stop here. Will you take us into the water? Get down. Get down. This is Holy Ganges of Kasi, bow to her. Greetings. - Not to me but river Ganges. You brought us to the river for Rs.10 only. Can't you engage us a boat at cheaper rate? Cheap? - Yes, dead cheap. Any one from Andhra Pradesh? Come...come sir. Gangaram, you seem to be very excited. He's Pitchaiah. - Senior Pitchaiah. l'm Junior Pitchaiah. - He's from our Tenali. You're from Tenali. l'm from Tenali. We all are from Tenali. Don't dance for coming from the same place. First tell me the rate. - Rate? Why are you removing your slipper? Take my slipper. - l'm wearing one already. Beat me with my slipper. -lt may end up in court case. Rates? For the people of Tenali? Rs.1 is enough. - One rupee? He's also another fool. l'm suspect their motive. - Shut up foolish lady. He's patriotic towards his native. Let's encash it. You engage a cheap priest also. - Real cheap priest. Priest! Hail Lord Shiva. Who called me now? We! Why? Sr. Pitchaiah has come from our Tenali. From Tenali? From my Tenali? Let you be blessed with long life. - Are you from Tenali? Great to hear Like LTTE taking roots all over Sri Lanka, People from Tenali have taken over this place Kasi. Tell me your rate. - My rate? A Telugu man, that too from Tenali. Are you fixing a rate for me? lt's free for you. Look, who is here? Oh my god! Mr. S.P. Greetings sir. What has brought you to Kasi? My voice got little defiled by singing obscene songs. l've come to clean myself with a dip in holy water.- Get in sir. 'NANDHlNl' lt's Nandhini on taxi and boat here. Who is this Nandhini? She's my boss's niece. Not only on taxi and boat, we may not able read but you can see that in his heart also. Too... My boss gave this boat to earn my livelihood. Okay, take his bag. - Good. Put your gold jewels into this. Stop! Why? lf you make it into a bundle and dip in Ganges, it'll double. Don't fool me as l'm from Tenali. Will gold become double on dipping in Ganges? lt'll happen, fool. Are you suspecting me, a royal priest? Hail Lord Shiva. What's this? lsn't it? Why did you throw away gold ring into water? l didn't throw man. Go and see you'll find 2 rings. 2 rings? Really? - Go and take it. This business is very good. Will it become 2 rings? How is it possible? Oh my god! 2 rings. Thank you lord. Really it has become 2 rings. What's this magic? lt's not my magic, man. lt's River Ganges. Recently l threw a tyre and lo behold! l got a taxi. l threw a paddle and got a new boat. Oh!- Good show boys. Father, you too go & take a dip in water. - Why? l'll get 2 fathers. - Why two? He's right, you sleep a lot lf one is sleeping another will be awake.- You shut up. lnauspicious time is fast approaching Pack the jewels. Or else the jewels will vanish. You take out. - Wait, l'll take it. You remove it. l'll also help. Wait, even the loin thread is gold, l'll remove it. Come...greet goddess Ganges. Please repeat after me. lt's dedicated to Goddess Ganges. Turn towards east and bow with your wife & son.- Why east? Tenali is in east. - Then, okay...you turn. Sir, turn this side. Open your eyes & see. Stop...stop... You mustn't touch it fool. My packet has grown bigger You mustn't touch it, fool. Stop...come. Come... You mustn't touch it, madam. What's your grandfather name? - Bochu Pedalingaiah! lt's not Bochu, it's Bachu ln the life whether it is Bochu or Bachu doesn't matter. Sir... Why are you going away? - What else do you want us to do? You fool...idiot! Goddess got angry and turned gold into iron. Who told you to touch it? Who brought him here? This man not me. - l'll kill you. Stop...stop Do you want a taxi for Rs.10? You don't get a tea for one rupee and you want a boat. Do you want a priest free? You're from Tenali. l'm also from Tenali. Dear...- Father. There are 64 ghats like 64 art forms. That is 'Harischandra Ghat. - ls it? King Harischandra worked as undertaker here only. ls it here? - Yes, here only. World over people die for a living. But here in Kasi people live to die. Your philosophy is good. What are you doing sir? They say it's good deed to throw a coin in Ganges. You're innocent sir. When this tradition started, there were no rupee coins. Only copper coins. Water in copper ware is always good to health So, they threw coins into river. l don't want to hurt your sentiment. You may drop the coin sir. Humanity is greater than money. l don't feel like l'm talking to a taxi driver. l feel like Lord Krishna, Charioteer of Arjuna is talking to me. That is too much. Come down a little. When l'm saying it sincerely why are you brushing it as too much? Praise is like scent. You've to use it on body. Just because it's fragrant you shouldn't drink it. We are artists. Do you know what captivates us? Praise and claps. - Well said sir. Sing mamma! Lord Ganapathy, we offer prayers chanting your name in our hearts... A Lord who is prayed by Sages & saints... Son of Lord Shiva and brother of Lord Guha... Light of this world... abode of peace... A lover of great drama & literature... Traveling on a mouse, lover of pleasantness. Sir...madam...brother... help us with Rs.100. Come sir, l'll drop you inside. l'll hold my bag. - No problem sir. lf you come to Hyderabad, be my guest for at least 2 days. l'll record your voice. - No need of so much praise. Sir...it's me. You are Pitchaiah, aren't you? Not just me alone. l'm with my wife & son also. You were nice and happy while coming here. Didn't l tell you to see the finishing touch? You've seen... lt's my responsibility to send them to Tenali, they'd come. This is a regular feature with me. lt's time for your train, you carry on sir. For you...you and me. What about for me? - For you also. For you...you... me and you... For you... What's this? We are just three. But there are 4 parts here When we are 3 here who gets that fourth share? Me! Why are you tensed? - No need to get tensed. We are friends. - Have you joined our group? What else then? Then, we can steal the entire Kasi town. Your fingers are shining bright with ring? Priest asked him to wear for good fortune. Bangle for you? - For keeping out bad omen. Please give this ring to Sankar. Shut up. He's a ring master himself. No need of ring for him Pack all jewels. - Why? lf l drown you all in Ganges. - You'll come out in two's. Our run has come to an end. Remove...remove it. What's this? Why are you brandishing a knife? These are our ancestors jewels. Your ancestors have come to take it back...look. Hard earned jewels will never get stolen away. - Oh my jewels. Bloody rogue. - Thank you, Sankaranarayana. My ring...- Where's my auspicious thread? Do people of Tenali appear like fools to you? l've a great power behind me, you know? You come. lf you do this again, what'll be the result? We'll get drowned in Ganges and float at Harischandra Ghat. Excellent! Now you may leave. Who is the man who spell bound us with his music? He's my maternal uncle. He's a taxi driver in Railway station. Uncle means your suitor? Marrying my uncle is impossible. ln fact he remains a bachelor to educate me and my brother. lf your uncle falls in love with a girl and marries suddenly My uncle getting married? He's strict bachelor like Bhisma, Lord Anjaneya and Vivekananda. He didn't get a girl suitable for him. That's why he's still a bachelor. l know very well about my uncle. Okay, let's have a bet for fun. - Bet? lf l make your uncle to agree to marry me? Sorry Pallavi You're Governor's daughter You can go to Governor's residence, but can never enter the life of my uncle. What if l enter? - No way. Okay, let me see it. ln 2 days a strange thing will happen. ls she a girl or a walking jewellary shop? She's a mobile goddess of wealth. lf l sell the jewels on her, l can buy 6 taxis. Greetings madam. Do you want a taxi? A Telugu taxi diver was here... Are you a Telugu girl? l'm the lone Telugu taxi driver in Kasi. Yuck! Not you. You're a Bill collector and he's a Bill Clinton. Though he's a driver, he's majestic. What's in it? lt's the same steering and same accelerator. ls it pure gold? - Yes. lf it is pure, l've to take you. l'll drop you safely. My bag. Who is that? Brother, is it you? Greetings. l've brought a client for you. Pure...- What? Pure Telugu girl. Here's your Bill Clinton. l've lost my gold. Where do you want to go? lnto the Ganges. - lnto Ganges or near? Near...- Taxi is there...come. l beg of you. l didn't cheat anyone. Okay, where's Giri? He went to other side with priest with a passenger. Brother, passenger is shining bright... lf l beat you.... Again back to monkey business? No, l'm mending paddle without any work. Where's your priest? Priest! Who disturbed my penance? You've got a client. Oh my god! l don't want this client. l'll not scold you...come. No...come here. Don't beat me in front of a girl...- Okay. lt seems her parents died in a road accident. Oh! What a beautiful golden girl! Leave her to us. We'll take care. lf you start your tricks again, your heads will roll down. Send her after offering the prayers, l'll wait in the car. You promised to stay with me till l go back. Why are you leaving me halfway through? They are here, aren't they? - Their faces are like... ...divine? You look like thieves. You come with me. You come man. Looks like we'll lose the gold. l mean gold like client. Come. Don't jump...l'll come. come on man. Sit down. Keep your jewels here. - Oh no.- No dear...no. Tell me your grandfather's name. My grandfather's name is K.V. Mahadevan K.V. Mahadevan? Greatest music director? A maiden has come with a pot. l go crazy on seeing her. Why are you dancing?- Nothing. He's a strange man. There's a gold shop here and he says not to steal. Moreover he's guarding her. Your father's name? S.V. Ranga Rao S.V. Ranga Rao? Great actor. Marriage feast. Exotic varieties of food! Do your work, man! He's watching us. He'll break our bones. Your mother's name? Why is she crying for every question? Silk Smitha Suitors are you ready?- Shut up. Girl! Stand up. ls your mother's name Silk Smitha? ls your father S.V. Ranga Rao? ls your grand father K.V. Mahadevan? Are you offering prayers in the name of film stars? Who am l? Royal Priest. Do l look like a fool? Should l offer prayers to the dead? She's going to him. He'll break our backs. Sister...stop. What's it? Stop dear. Playing tricks again? l'll beat...- No...nothing like that. l beg you.- What happened? You'll not forgive her if you know about her. She's telling film stars names for offering prayers. Film...- No. She says no.- No? Didn't you say your grandfather is K.V. Mahadevan? l said K.V. Madhava Rao. - K.V. Madhava Rao? Didn't you say your father is S.V. Ranga Rao? Oh No l said S.V. Rama Rao. - S.V. Rama Rao? No...please no...no. Swear on Kasi Visalakshi and tell the truth. Didn't you say your mother is Silk Smitha? l never said like that. l'll be no more patient. No...no please no... Go...go away or else l'll break your legs. Mother! - Girl.... Girl...it's wrong, what's this? - Leave me...allow me to die. Do you've any sense? l don't have anyone. Why should l live? For whom? Am l not here? l mean all my people are yours too. Really? - Really. Really means for few days only. Few days or all the life. Leave it on me man. Come, this is our home. My home. Coming uncle. - You go upstairs. Nothing like that She was falling down slipping... l was just... ...holding her...to help her. Uncle Nandhini, your friend. - My friend? l mean like your friend, our guest, take care of her. You go. Girl! - Yes boy. You may slip again...be careful. Go upstairs. Nandhini careful. Take good care of her. Why are you watching us like a film? Nothing, she's a special guest. What about night's arrangement? What's that double entendre with arrangement? Nothing like that only one meaning, l mean food. She'll eat whatever we eat. l'm here to take care of it...go. Go away. Grandma.- What's it son? Where are my clothes? - l didn't see Where did he go away? Boy! What do you want? My clothes are missing from here. Girl...- What's it boy? What?- lt's macaroni... Not on the cot, but on your body. Clothes l mean why are you wearing my clothes? l don't have clothes so Are you wearing my clothes? - Yes. Take off. Take off now. What happened now? l mean l didn't do it to... Mother! Father! Grandfather! Why are you calling them now? They are feeding me here but not giving clothes. l mean you could've used Nandhini's clothes. Should l wear Nandhini's clothes? What's wrong in it? Both are... Look at our personalities... Look at her waist size and mine. What's her height and my height? God, what's that? Pant is loose. First wear the pant. My hands are dirty. You help me in wearing pant. Don't rush. Hey, down.- l know. Don't shake. How can l not shake if you touch me? Am l doing it fine? Have l come up to the waist? No, you are half way through. - Half way? You've come up. - Hold it. Thank you boy. - Happy to hear it. Go inside. Greetings sir.- Greetings. lt's going down again. Do you've to greet them now? Why are you watching us like T.V.? No need to be a spoilsport. - Come let's go. Wait...l'll show you. lf l tie it tight, it'll never come down again. Oh! Dear, has the love bug bitten you? Has it invited you passionately? Oh! Has she pulled my heart's strings with her plait? Oh my dear! Come, let's unite in love. Oh dear! Shall l rule over you as your husband? l'll cross barriers of happiness and bite your cheeks. You've taken over me, my dear. Don't tease me saying you were born for me, my cupid? Oh beauty! You've come to charm me. Let the first rains of our love fall, and our youth start blooming. My lover's cheeks must blush with shine. And the festival of embrace be celebrated. lf you're hungry l'll give myself and shock you with eyes. Spread a bed in my heart, my dear. Has the young maiden enticed to kiss her? Every part of body is divine. l'm anxious to have you. lf you miss, it's disappointment. Come on start celebrating 'Love'. Venus must come to me and offer personal services. Desires have developed wings & spreading a bed for you. lf you come softly l'll hug you. lf l hug, l'll steal you. With the prowess off my manly power Priest...priest Who is that? lt's me, no jokes. A rich client from Andhra has come...come with me. He's a great priest in Kasi. He'll offer prayers to dead. Come...come. Looks like our boys have trapped a rich client. Why have you brought so many photos? By any chance did your entire family die together. Brother doesn't like too much of talk. Thank god! l was about to show off t would've cracked up my skull. Sir, please come in my boat. Come...come...come and sit here. Keep the photos & other material and take a dip in Ganges. Hail Lord Shiva! Guru, they're not gold party, they're killer party. Goddess Ganges They say a dip in you will cleanse all our sins. The man who killed my brothers in my region, ...bless me so that he comes to same region to die in my hand. Sit down. Offer prayers of these 3 dead Sir, please tell me their names. Kathula Veera Reddy ...killed 70 people. Kathula Veerabhadra Reddy ...killed 80 people. Kathula Veera Pratap Reddy... killed 100 people. lt's 12 years since all three are dead. For safer side ask them which place they're from? Where are you from sir? Cuddapah Start. They are ordering me to start the ritual. You too stay with me. - You've to chant the mantras. l know that, you too stay with me. My days are remembered. l beg of you sir. Mumtaz! lt's me Pradeep There's a problem in my house. Tarnished. You've tarnished my respect. Dishonored me. lt's been years since l've come from Hyderabad & settle down here. Till now no one dared to look into my eyes. You're a Muslim, she's a Hindu. You've tried to molest her. lf this news leaks out, Hindu & Muslims kill each other for me not for Rama. Yes sir Sir, l'm a family man with kids. Hold his hands. No! Nagesh, call police Mumtaz, l'll wait for you at canteen. Listen to me l'm scared. What are you listening? - Why not possible? lf your father doesn't approve our marriage, l'll elope with you. You come immediately to our college canteen. Aren't you Pradeep's uncle? Yes Shaukat Ali has taken your nephew into his custody. Khan sahib, what's this? - Who are you? l'm Pradeep's uncle. Did you brought him like human or beast? l'm also from Hyderabad. l know Hindus respect women. Do you know what your nephew had done? Tell me Mumtaz. Do you love him? Or else is he following you? Tell me. l don't love him. He's chasing me. Enough...you may go. What would you do if a girl faces some problem in your home? Beat him. lf a student fails it's the mistake of his teacher. lf a child commits mistake, it's a fault of his father. l brought him up as mother & father. lf he commits a mistake it's my fault. Beat me. No, please beat me. l committed the sin. My uncle is god. You've been beating him for long time, kill him. enough...release him. The mistake was in my side. So, l'm going away head down. Or else l would've taken few heads from here. lf my nephew is calling her, lt means how far your daughter has gone... is a question l'll leave it to you. Whether Hindu or Muslim, any woman is like my sister. Never make it a public issue anything concerned about a girl. Know her heart and get her married. Good bye Sir, Mumtaz has taken poison. She's in Hospital. She wrote this letter and took poison. With the grace of Allah, she's saved. lnform our men. Uncle!- What? You are seeing the sword in his hand. l see repentance in his eyes. come out Shaukat Ali Khan. Sankaranarayana, please forgive me. l never bowed my head before anyone in my life. First time, l'm bowing to you. Look at this. This is a letter from my daughter. Do you know it's contents? Father, you've committed a mistake. You beat a good man. The reason for it is l couldn't dare to accept my love for Pradeep. ...it resulted in a disgrace to a great man. ...ask forgiveness from him after my death...she left a message. Saving my daughter from death, l've brought her here. My child Mumtaz. She's no more my daughter, she's yours from now. Go child. Take his blessings. No need, dear lf every one is as magnanimous as you, there'll be no communal clashes. Why would lovers commit suicide for religion? l bow to your magnanimity. - No. l'm very happy. Come dear. Come here. Come my dear. Epitome of love, Radha. lnnocent girl who thinks white is milk and black is water. Sankaranarayana has come. lf he sees us now, we are finished. Where is my chain? Did you steal my chain? lf you tell anyone it's my present of love. l'll get a bad name. lt's better to take it back. Thank god! Nobody had seen me. l'm saved. Come to me, my dancing beautiful doll. l've something for you, my Kondapalli doll. Come to me, Oh male cuckoo. l've fallen in love with you my full moon. Come into my arms, dear. Rule my youth. A sprightly ravishing young maiden A new romance is teasing me to drench in it's first rain. Oh! Enchanting maiden, you're making me go crazy. How can l leave you? Your masculinity is charming me. Don't delay any further. You've teased me and how can you deny now? Don't you've any mercy for your embrace? How can l stop you taking liberty with me? You asked for it. Why so fast? ls having fun sour to you? Won't an innocent maiden get scared with your approach? Oh my dear! Your upper cloth has got displaced. My heart is lost. You're teasing a man and denying him the opportunity. ls it fair on you my beautiful maiden? Can't you take liberty with him and become mine? Become my man. Don't rush. Let's wait till marriage. l can't hold myself till then. Stop teaching morals and break loose. Will you remain steady? Come into my lap. l'm suspecting if you're a girl. No doubt, l'm your girl. We've already fixed the engagement. We were brothers-in-law now we are becoming kinsmen. VC sir, it's me. Governor Chennakesava Reddy. Greetings sir l want my daughter to come here immediately. lt's a week since she is been with you. Come here? She'll be in the campus only, search. l want a return phone call in 5 minutes. Pallavi is not only in college she's not in hostel too. Not even in hostel? She was seen with Sankaranarayana, uncle of her classmate Nandhini. What does he do? - He's a taxi driver. What happened sir? My daughter is in Kasi now, in a taxi driver's house. And they say she's in love with him. l want my daughter back, right this moment Sir, you're a Governor, don't talk like this. Listen to me Kesava. lf you involve police it'll become a public issue. C. M.'s henchmen are in Kasi. Send those guys to kill him and bring back Pallavi. l want my daughter back. One minute! Sir, your phone call Few rowdies entered home and inquired about you & Pallavi. When l said you're not here, they damaged everything here & kidnapped Nandhini & others. lt seems they are proceeding to Lucknow in train. They told you to come there with Pallavi. What happened? lt seems Nandhini has been kidnapped. You don't worry. l'm with you. You take my helicopter. Alert Abdul Sattar. Sankaranarayana is coming there. They have mobilized rowdies. Sankaranarayana must be safe. Don't stop the train. Yes, Gaffar! What happened? Uncle Uncle...Uncle Run over them. Uncle! No need to worry. Come with me. He has taken her. - Taken her? A taxi driver! For the silly thing you've done... Why didn't you tell me you're Governor's daughter? Why did you lie to me? Uncle, she's a good girl. l'll break your teeth. l'm pampering you, Are you bringing disrespect to family joining with her? Shut up! She said she likes you. What? Do you like me? No...love Chasing a stranger is not love. lt's desire. ln short it's lust. Who wants your salutation? What's happening here? Did you bring him out? What are you looking at? ...not a brick must remain. Kill everyone inside. Your daughter is inside. My daughter is inside. Announce it. Accept your fault before them...come. l haven't done anything wrong other than loving you. You are my husband. Did god appear in your dream and told you? The pearl chain is your neck says so. When l took a dip in holy Ganges chanting God's name. ...it fell from my neck and reached your neck. Doesn't it mean Lord had identified you for me? Even if Lord permits this is impossible. Come. Pallavi dear Kill him. Stop...stop Father... Sir you... Why are you greeting your enemy? He's not an enemy. He's an enigma to people like you. My daughter is not in Kasi. l've come to know just now she's with the Lord himself. l committed a mistake without knowing it was you. l ordered my men to attack your people & your home. Please forgive me. Don't say like that. lf you really love my daughter, l'll get you both married right now here on the street. l never intended to marry her. ln fact l never knew her true identity also She came here claiming she's an orphan. After this incident she says she loves me. l was bringing her to you saying she was wrong. She says she's in love with you. She wants you. Please marry her. Please forgive me. l can't marry till Nandhini is married. l can't go back on my responsibilities. Giri, what's it? Sir, if Nandhini's marriage is hurdle to your marriage l'll marry Nandhini. Eating off your hands, l fell in love with Nandhini. l got afraid to tell you. She too loves me. After this marriage, Sankaranarayana & l are getting married You must attend without fail. Please come madam. Just now the marriage ritual got over. Please bless them. l'm not here to bless the new couple. Hey Veera Manohar Reddy, why are you still sitting there? Come on get up. Surprised? He's my nephew. This marriage is not valid conducted under threat. Shut up! Just say yes, l'll bury all of them in Kasi. He'll not speak a word. This man who can beat single handedly 100 men ...sorry...lndrasena Reddy ...ask him why he's silent after we are gone. lndrasena Reddy! You'll follow us to our region. Not to live... ....to get killed in our hands. ls it Sankaranarayana before us? Why are you watching injustice silently? Ruining the life of Nandhini by marrying her, they are just walking out on you. Why are you just watching the show? What happened Sankar? What's all this? Please don't talk to me. You must talk. You can't tolerate injustice to anyone. When Nandhini the girl who is your life is getting injustice, Why are you silent? - Answer me. l'll answer you. Are you surprised to see a dumb man speaking? l was dumb struck by the situation he has been brought to from, today l'm going to talk. Don't stop me. The name that brings cheer to people of Rayalaseema, The name that brings rain in drought hit region, The name that turns barren lands into farms, The name that sends shivers down the spine of his enemies, that man, lndrasena Reddy, do you know why he left that place and come to Kasi? Why are you still cooking? We are dying in hunger. Why are you behaving like a child? Sister, your husband can't bear hunger. What's this? To bring rain and give food to the poor, My brother is offering special prayers fasting for 29 days. Can't you bear it for 30 minutes? We are living for ourselves. He's living for people. Today is the last day of the prayer. This prayer must end without any hitch. Who in this region will dare to stop lndra? Hail Brother Siva Reddy! What a pity! Murderers are getting out are being felicitated. lf Mahatma had been alive, he would've beaten with his stick. lf we pull his legs & finish him, half trouble will be over. Greetings uncle. You've got a fax message. Who is he? Father, he's my wife's brother. His parents are no more. He's free loading sitting in our family. ls it? What's it? lt's in English. Shall l translate into Telugu? Tell him. Hey Siva Reddy! There is no dear or sir, address in this so... Tell me. The region was peaceful 1 4 years the time you were in jail. l'm warning you not to enter the region for it's peace. lf you want to live never step into Rayalaseema Region. He owns the region. Who is he? From, lndrasena Reddy Get lost. Father, order us. We'll take you to the border of the region, We all your 5 sons will go and bring his head, ...place it at your feet and take you into the region. Are you my father? Am l your father? l've the pride of this region before l fathered you. Go home and be ready with his funeral offerings. l'll come & have it. Sister, your husband's life is saved. Anyway this man is going to die. His death is confirmed. Hey stop...stop. go back. Priest, you carry on without stopping. This is not the time to take revenge. A great sacrifice is being organized here. For whom? ls it for your brother-in-law? Not for you or me, it's for the welfare of people. Siva Reddy, don't try to spoil. Go away from here. Shut up! Why should l take orders from you? lf you've guts...courage... and if you consider yourself a man, come out. Why are you sitting there bloody coward? Has your pride taken back seat? Don't worry about stopping a sacrifice half way, Lord Rama who stopped a sacrifice to kill demon and then continued it. You too do your duty. l'll finish the sacrifice. Let victory be yours lt seems you are organizing a sacrifice for rain. lt seems you'd warned me not to enter this region. Do you own this region? Yes, l own this entire region. l can give my life for this region. lf situation demands l can take life also for it. Go. Go out of this region. l was thinking my writ was running large here from jail. You've killed my men after growing up. ...waiting for my time. ...waiting for the moment of my release from jail and the moment to roll down your head. Are you so courageous to stop me from entering here? lf l don't kill you now, l'm not the son of my father. Son of father lf you're son of one father, why would you kill my father and uncles using a woman? lf you were really son of your father, Why would you try to stop a ritual conducted for benefit of people? You are remembering your father too much. lf l don't send you to meet your father in heaven today, l'm not a son of my father. Good! There should be one leader to this region. Kill or get killed. Let's decide it between us. My part is to kill and your part is to get killed. As it getting drizzles down like tinkle of anklets. ...and earth breaks down into rapturous music getting thrilled. Let the rainbows shower arrows of rain from black clouds. Let the storm quench the thirst of this region. Let the lives of people sprout with a new hope. Let there be streams of water in this drought prone zone. Let the sky declare today, there are no more demons. Let this message in blood be delivered right now. lnviting you to the innocent Rayalaseema, let the clouds burst into peals of laughter. Let the rain drop like pearls and adorn our courtyards. Let the fragrance of rain spread all over place like sandalwood, Let the message of peace spread and cover the entire region. lndra is calling you down to earth. Respond with heavy showers. Bring down the sky like rain. Quenching a thirst. Changing our fates. Bow to you in the witness of this great sacrifice. The king has turned himself into a lamp to bring light to earth. Giving up worldly pleasures, ...choosing a life of sacrifice he has become ascetic. Making welfare of people on his aim, and his breath as the sacred fire of the sacrifice, he has ordered heaven to bring down nectar. He warned you not to enter the region. Your death is confirmed. You could've lived happily running a wine shop in Vijayawada. We swear to kill lndrasena Reddy. Sister..- What's it? Did you see my pen?- Pen... Coming dear... Your brother-in-law is calling, find the pen yourself. Sister, l kept my glasses here. it is missing. Glasses...coming lt's time to kids to go to school. Find it yourself. Take care of yourself. We've work. What's this brother? Everything appears new. You take care of an entire region, but no one is taking care of you. Didn't you get it, why? This house needs a daughter-in-law. So, they are sending a message to marry at the earliest. Very happy to hear you've understood our anxiety What do you lack boy! You're polished black granite. Color fast guaranteed. Don't get wet in rain, your color may fade. Lord Rama, Lord Krishna and you are of some team. Today, your dream girl Snehalatha Reddy is coming Your brother-in-law calls you a misfit. l don't know how you do it, become son-in-law to this family. And get your legs washed by them with your favorite lifebuoy soap. Wherever there's life buoy soap, good health will be there. Yes sir. - How is the dress?- Dress is good. You mean...do you know the difference between us? We both stay in the same house. l'm getting paid and you don't get paid also. Don't anyone in this region talk properly? Why are you carrying umbrella? ls it for madam? For me.- For you. To save myself turning dark in sun What's there to turn dark anymore? Looking at my face in mirror is bad for me. Sir, madam is coming. You've filled my heart. l've too much flab. Brother We've been waiting for you eagerly all these years. You've come home like Goddess of wealth. Come. lmagine us a couple and tell me your comment. l feel like seeing black & white T.V. Very poor taste Greetings brother. - Greetings. Thank you uncle. - Okay.- Careful. Greetings.- Greetings. What has brought you here sir? - Just for the kids. l'm first.- No, l'm first. Mother! Watch out man. Greetings sir.- Greetings sir. - Greetings. Who son are you? Greetings sir. He's Veera Sankar Reddy's son. Son...what happened to him? - What's it? What happened to my son? Why have you brought him home instead of taking him to school? He has hurt his knees. What happened? How did he get hurt? He's hurt here also. - What happened son? What happened tell me? Anyone beat him in school? l'll kill him. No sir. He fell while crossing the road. What? Our enemy.... The name that makes us go sleepless at night He has saved the life of my son? Let he may be our enemy, he has given a new lease of life to our son. Or else we would be mourning his death now. When l walk on street in future, l've saved your son who will conduct your funeral rites, lf lndrasena Reddy teases me. What would l do then? When he grows up, when others say your life was saved by lndrasena Reddy. lf he turns Prahalad and l become Hiranyakashyap, and lndra becomes Lord Vishnu, he'll kill me taking the incarnation of Narasimha. What'll you do now? l don't want a son living on the life saved by enemy. No...listen to me...no. Son! Take this body and put it in the courtyard of lndra's house. Tell him l don't want a life saved by him. Go...take the body. Brother lndra! What made your father to chose this name for you, to kill an innocent boy? Unable to look into my eyes, you killed a boy? Son...son...my son l'll kill you. lf you take a step further, l'll kill you. Here is your son. lf my saving your son had become a curse to your son Please forgive me. l was sad because he didn't allow me to see the face of my dead son. You saved my son's life earlier, Now you've brought him for the last glimpse. l must bow in your honor. Why are you watching your wife praising our enemy? Don't show your anger on women. Show it...on...me. - Are you ready? Are you dumb struck? lf you've guts, come out, let's decide. What you'll decide. He's my son. l killed him. Why are you bothered about it? - Your son? Did you carry, deliver and took care of him? You'll cry mother, if l stab you. But you've stabbed a mother's heart now. You and your brothers know only about knife wounds. A women loses her symbols of marriage on her husband's death. With death of a son losing everything, look how a mother is crying. Can you bring back the life of her son? You can't. But, l'll give her memories of her son. What are you watching? Cone on, go ahead. My son...my son. My son...my son...my son. You may have lost your son physically. But his soul remains in this holy basil plant. Pour water everyday and look after it As the plant grows remember your growing son, and he must remember his sins. You must bow every day in your life. lf you allow it to die in pride. l'll kill you all 5 brothers. lf you uproot the plant, l'll kill you. Hey, who are you? Why are you barging into house? She's not talking to me. Who are you? Why are you sitting in this chair? Get up. This is lndra's chair. We too never sit in it. Get up. ls your lndrasena Reddy such a great man? Lift your head and look there. lndra, you're a walking thunder. lndra, you've lightning eyes. You didn't get up on my order. Now, you've got up on your own. Not only she any girl it is state will et up or seeing lndra. l am...- Siva Reddy's daughter. Name is Snehalatha Reddy. - How did you know? ls it my resemblance to my father? No, looking at your arrogance. Why did you come here? l came here to tell you, l'll marry a man l love. The man you love in my place ...that too in my house. Who is he? You! What did you like in me? l liked the courage of walking into enemy's house like a lion. l liked your manliness in threatening my brothers. Any thing more? l liked your leopard like eyes. l liked your Greek statute body l liked your walking style. ln fact l like every part of your body. But l must like you, mustn't l? - What do l lack? l'll not marry any one other than you. Don't put conditions. You'll remain a spinster. lf l don't marry you by coming 5th lunar month. My name henceforth shall not be Snehalatha Reddy. What? Did you feel like seeing me again watching my walk? l wanted to give you a taste of our traditions. lt's our tradition to honor any woman entering our home. Sister l'll take it as bridal sari presented by groom. l'll wear it for our marriage. l feel they are playing a game again using a woman. She has come from America recently. She wouldn't have taken to that family's tradition. Oh the winter cold is killing me. Oh! The young man is going berserk in chill weather. Your beauty is a symphony. turning my cheeks red. ...spread a bed of flowers, my dear. Baiting me with your beauty, you've incited desires in me. Vanish like moon in daytime, oh maiden. With your laser sharp eyes piercing through my clothes. How am l to cope with a unrepentant heart? Shall l come in coolly and turn your nights hot? Storm the fort of my heart, oh my dear. Oh! The young mischievous girl taken over me Oh shyness has taken the back seat. With your mischief sneaking into my heart. lf you lit fire of passion how am l to douse it? ln the cot of moonbeam on the bed of jasmine, lsn't it tragic to put a wall between us, dear? Sneak in stealthily and break into me. Give in yourself to me, Oh my dear. Give me a comb. l want to comb my hair. Oh why did he give a knife for a comb? Thank god, l didn't tell him to comb. He would've taken my head. This is Rayalaseema not Konaseema. Don't they use combs here. Did you go to any function? You didn't inform us. Who is this new relative to call you leaving your sisters-in-law? l didn't go to any function but to lndrasena's house. Why did you go there? - To meet the groom. l went on my own. l love him. l want to marry him. He rejected me. lf it's possible go to him and make him agree to this marriage. She should be asking the head of our father's killer. You rush for everything with your minute brain. Who is she? Our sister, our blood. She has got traits of her maternal aunt. She'll take revenge; she'll not share her bed with him. You were born for people. Let you be blessed with long life. Come out. Why are you still inside? We've caught you in whites. Wait, we'll show you. Brother lndra Every one must be happy. What's this? People don't have a drop of water to quench thirst there. But here pots of water are going down the drain. Don't know what's all the fun is for. What are you blabbering? Go and mind your work. Wait. Sir...l unwittingly passed a comment, Forgive me sir. - Nothing wrong in it. Tell me, why you said that? What's your problem? People are finding it difficult without water. lt rained heavily recently. lt's a drought hit region. Any rain will vaporize like water on hot pan. Rainwater should be stored in a place Sir, lndrasena Reddy is coming. Greetings Collector. - Greetings, please come in. Come in...sit down. lf you had sent a message, l would've come to you. You took trouble to come here. l can go anywhere for people's welfare. What do you want me to do? l want a reservoir to be built here to store rainwater. Or else we can't put up a dam to stop the flow of tears. Government had proposed it long time back. But...- Money? l'll finance it. People will donate on my call. Money is not the problem.- Then? The land for reservoir belongs to Siva Reddy brothers. They are refusing. We tried in all our ways. They have refused forthrightly. Govt. is helpless in this issue. Unable to do anything. l can do it. You arrange a meeting between two villages. lf they refuse... Govt. will not rule here. My power will rule the roost here. What's this Mr. Collector? We are busy people. You invited us. We had come. Where is lndrasena Reddy? Come on, get up. Hail lndrasena Reddy! Sit down. He'll think we got up in respect for him. Hail lndrasena Reddy! l think this man will make my brothers-in-law to lose their honor. Greetings Collector.- Greetings. Why did you call us? Nothing sir, it's an issue everyone knows. For building the reservoir. We are not ready to offer our lands a platter to you. Are they working for free for us? Why should we give it free of cost? No need to donate Quote your price. l'll get it for you. Compensation? Govt. is running on credit. l don't know when it'll sanction. Will you compensate it? l will. Don't break your promise. Did l ever go back on my word? Give your 1000 acre orange orchard for our 1200 acres of land. How can it be equal? Yours is barren land lndra's land is fertile. This is injustice. According to govt. rate... No need of Govt. rates if you like okay or else we are going. Stop. No sir...- l'll accept their proposal. Please sit down. l own 200 acres of the land. l want your ancestral house for my share. Okay You've to give me barites fields & calcium factories. l'll sign only then. l agree to give you. Now, it's your turn Veerabhadra Reddy. What did you want? You warned my father not to enter this region. You must leave this region for my signature. Please calm down. - Please calm down. We are ready to give up water but not you. Yes...yes. You've given up your wealth. But you're our wealth. You shouldn't accept and leave this place. No...no...you shouldn't go. Did you hear them? lf you've any respect for me. Please sit down. l'll go away from here. But after the completion of the reservoir Prepare the documents. Stop brother Don't women have a right in ancestral property?- They have. Why not? We own 1000 and you own 200 acres. You mean, l should also sign the document, shouldn't l? Of course yes. l too have a condition for my signature. l don't have any thing left with me other than my hands. Those empty hands are enough to tie the knot with me. No...lndrasena, l fear there's treachery in it Brothers have come with a sister to out smart you. Listen to me, don't accept this proposal. Yes, sister is right. As l had promised, after the completion of reservoir, l'll marry her and leave this place. That like a real man. Take out the documents. l'll sign it. Achieving the grace of Lord Shiva, Brining down to earth the celestial Ganges, ...he consecrated it with his sweat as the milk. An edifice that will stand test of time for generations. Bringing prosperity to people, he is on a penance to make sage Bhagirath look small. An emperor, he worked like an ordinary worker Leaving royal pleasures he marched stride by stride with poor. When people's hearts are bubbling with happiness. When the salty tears are turning sweet, bringing a new life to take root in people's lives, ...making a drought area turn into green pasture There's no stopping when the people rule the roost. Stopped the Ganges flowing into sea, Checked the flow and impounded the power of labor. This dam is witness to our dreams come true standing for eternity. Now the barren lands will turn fertile Our dreams will come true with the grace of our leader. Lit the lives of people spreading with new hope. Let there be streams of water in the drought prone zone. Hail lndra! l'll take leave now. With your grace. Every poor man living here will be happy all his life You've kept your promise. l think he has forgotten. He has to keep another promise. Tell your brothers to arrange the engagement tomorrow. Hey Naganna stop Have you lost your brain? Sir.- Bloody idiot. Don't we know to offer him a seat? Doesn't' he know where a landlord and a coolie will sit? Go and bring the mats, he'll sit on it. Do we've to bear all these insults? Do you want me to break a promise? l feel it's like god visiting a devil's house. lndrasena Reddy, please sit down. Am l wrong? We are here for an engagement not for wordy duels. Fix the marriage. We are waiting anxiously for that moment. Bring my sister. Come dear. Sit down. Why are you thinking? Do you feel it is insult to your future husband to sit here? They are now a poor family. They have to live on your mercy from now. Sit down...dear... Why are you sitting on ground? l'll not live in bungalow after marrying him, will l? ...in a poor hut there won't be any chairs. l'll get used to it. Fix the date & time, priest. Like aunt like niece. Priest, select a good time. lt must help us. Sir, Friday of 5th lunar Month at 10.30 am is very auspicious. lmpossible He must marry and leave tomorrow as he had promised. Fix it tomorrow. lt'll not suit. Tomorrow is inauspicious for marriage lt'll be good for us. Fix it at 10.30 AM tomorrow. They are very interested. Fix it. One minute l want to talk to lndrasena alone. l've not yet married her, she's calling me to the room. Bye... Don't worry. Jumping into decisions is your family trait not for his family's He's a man of character. Now start worrying. Get lost. Have you got anything to ask which your brothers forgot to ask? Yes What's it? Your life. Do you want now? l want you. Thinking l'll take your life like my aunt, My brothers have fixed this marriage. My brothers appeared like gods when l came here from America. l thought you were our family's enemy. But, you saved my nephew's life, and my brother killed him. l understood the difference between our two families. l know you agreed to marry not for me. But for poor people. l know that. l want you. l want your love. Show me the at least little affection which you've for the people. This is not a drama. lf you still suspect me, the invitation... ...it'll bring us together in matrimony. After the marriage, not as a sister of rich brothers, you must come as the wife of a poor man. Oh my dear, l'm mad about you. Youthful desires are troubling me. Oh! My romantic cook. Cook up a hot feast for me. Serve me hot my dear. Falling to your charm, l promised to marry you. Taking me on cloud nine, the fun has reached a crescendo, oh my dear. Oh! He has responded positively to my call. When a gentle breeze blew, l said no. l'm getting irritated on seeing jasmine. With every passing day my desires are getting boiled up. today, l'm all fired up. My hips are wailing with unfulfilled desires. When a beauty is lighting fire in me. You must become all mine. But it refused to hear you. You are our only sister. lf god asks to make a choice between you & our family. We'll select you. l'll return all the lndra's property to you. You & lndrasena needn't go on exile. We'll go on exile. My dear sweet little sister. lt's bad for family if a girl cries. Go my dear. Be happy. ...keep smiling. Go... Why are you all indifferent? lndrasena had killed our father. Have you forgotten it? Killing ourselves is better than giving our sister in marriage to him. l'm Siva Reddy's son. l killed my son for enmity. My word and my deeds are two different things They work individually on their own. You just keep watching the proceedings. At last l found the best man for you. Put a dot for him.- ls it? l'm ready. - Why to enjoy feast? l promised to wear this sari for my marriage. l agreed to get you married as per your wish. Sari doesn't matter. Brother, bring the documents. Let all the evil eyes cast on you be warded off. lndra, my brothers-in-law returned these documents Dog will eat leftovers not man. - You're right. My brother-in-law insisted to bring the groom in Benz car. No need of it, take it back. lt's tradition for the bride's people to send car. Don't refuse and hurt their sentiments. We will go in car. Come let's go. Where are you going? You are my best man. You come along with me. Offer prayers in temple to bring down curtains on our enmity Be happy. Go with her. Sister...sister! Brother-in-law. Brother-in-law What's it? What happened? lndrasena is killing Siva Reddy's brothers. Brother Look, how he has turned it into a graveyard. Have you understood now the man you love? Brother...brother... Bring a car immediately to take brother to hospital. Nothing is left in me now. Now, this is an enmity between people. l don't know the reaction of our people for this. This is not people's enmity, but my personal enmity. l'll avenge lndrasena Reddy. Keeping away from that gory of blood, he brought up niece and nephew in Kasi, ...and was trying to forget the part. Such a great man were you living like an ordinary man amongst us? Please forgive us if we'd done anything unwittingly. Don't be apologetic and make me a great man. Allow me to remain normal. Sankar, you're a great man. Start the car. Doctor.- Nandhini. - She's out of danger. Unable to bear her marriage getting stopped she tried... Stopping of her marriage is not the reason for her suicide... ...she's pregnant. Calm down No uncle...no l committed a grave sin despite brought up by you. Allow me to kill. Kill the fetus of our enemy. You're wrong dear. Killing one's own offspring is their family tradition Saving the life of an enemy's child is our family's duty Calm down - Uncle. Till l'm here you or your child will not get injustice. lndrasena, you'll come to Rayalaseema after us. Not to live but... ...to die in our hands Hail Brother lndra! Brother, it seems lndrasena has come back. We had done all this for his return only. When a man you're expecting comes, You must feel happy why are you surprised? Did you think l'll not come or l'll not be able to come. We expected you'll come. This is the place where you killed my father. This is the place where you spilled my brothers blood. You must die here. That's why l brought you here. Did you think l've become ascetic staying in Kasi? Did you think Varanasi would've changed me? The same blood and the same anger! Why are you standing & talking to him? Sit down. Sitting on throne is right of lndra in heaven and it's my right here. What's this? lt thought you'd come with weapon here. But you've come with women. There's lot of difference between battle and function. You're not yet married and still a virgin. How can you know the difference? l know the difference. l was all decked up as bride and expecting the man l love, When you came to the marriage knocking off my brothers heads. How can a woman remain a woman after that? l'm not here to tell you why l did like that and marry you. lndrasena Reddy isn't married. Who are you? His concubine? One must be lucky to become lndra's concubine also. l'm not that lucky. l'm going after him just for one glance. What are you staring at me? l'm not one to get scared of stares. l wasn't born elsewhere. l'm a Rayalaseema native, Chennakesava Reddy's daughter. l'm fearless. Let me put the dot. lt's lndrasena's niece Nandhini's baby shower function at 5 Pm today. Come and bless her. You're a chaste woman and she's a chaste wife, and it's baby shower function. Should we come & bless her? lf we refuse to come Neither famine nor earth quake will hit Rayalaseema, The man who must come is... You cheated me by lying you're an orphan. That was your first mistake. You cheated Nandhini saying you love her. That was your second mistake. Don't commit the third mistake. You must come and put bangles to your wife Nandhini at 5 PM. He'll not come. He will come. lf we stop him lf he doesn't come, l'll kill all and take him with me. Are you threatening to kill me in my own home? Not only in your own home, l'll come to any district of Andhra Pradesh, any place, any center any house, l'll come. Once l start killing l'll not see who is my enemy. What are you watching? Stop him. You've come without weapon. Let me see how you can go out from here. People like you need weapons. For me....this is enough. l'll hack you. Challenge! - lf it's a challenge, l'll take your head in a jiffy. Brother, still 30 minutes only. One second is enough to win or lose. Sharpen your weapons, pick up your axes. Start the ritual of sickles. Today at 5, a 12 year vengeance will come to an end. Are you taking him to America fearing lndrasena? No, l'm taking him to lndrasena. ls it my sister who is talking now? - What happened to you? l've come to know the truth. - What's the truth? You ordered the killing of lndra's sisters & their husbands. Lie...it's a blatant lie. Who told you? lt's me. Surprised? You left me to die but lndra saved me before leaving to Kasi. Are you surprised at my courage? lndra is in this region. No one can harm me now. Stop...stop lf you hadn't killed his family members, l wouldn't have lost my husband. lf you want to leave them also as widows. Do as you wish. Sneha, you go. Stop...stop What happened to women of this house? l'll kill you. Though l was born much later than you. l too was born here. l too know to kill not only you. Start the car. Catch them and kill them. Start the vehicles. Come on boys. Start the vehicle. He's my man. lf any one dares to step forward. He'll not have legs to walk or hands to eat. Come. Hack him...hack him. Why are you carrying sickles? Kill him...don't spare. Stop. lf we start felling even forests will vanish. lf we start killing man will vanish. How long we are going to kill each other? Let's say no to revenge and weapons. Your families must be happy. Your wives mustn't end up as young widows. Rayalaseema must become a heaven Till l'm here, this land must get wet with rain only ...not with blood Think over it Why are you still here? Didn't you go back to Kasi? l've booked two tickets to Kasi. l fell in love in Kasi. l made a vow to get married also in Kasi. Do you remember this sari? You presented it to me. l promised to wear this for our marriage. This is the auspicious thread you left with me. lt is waiting to reach my neck. lt's easy to solve public issues. Let him solve his personal problem. He is in for a shock. Watch now, whether he gets a shock or gives other's a shock. Come, let's go. Tie the knot. We'll quit violence we'll follow you. Please don't leave us and go away again. l'm your man. l was born for you. l'll live with you only. Got a shock of life? Really great shock! You want to share it. Watch there. ! A PuLi - DDR Presentation !
