 

                        Where are you? You sound far away. Yeah... well. What's wrong? Listen... I'm... What is it? I'm taking off baby. I can't do no more. Can't do what? What? I guess I'm sayin' goodbye, that's what I'm doin'. Goodbye? What you're sayin', you don't love me anymore? I can't... I mean I gotta go. You're joking me aren't you baby? No, I ain't sugar. Ain't nothin' wrong with you. It's just... us I can't handle. I'm sayin' goodbye. Don't say that... please don't go. I can't do no more. I gotta go. Please... Please.. "Up In Flames" I fell for you baby... like a bomb Now my love's gone... up in flames We're history baby Read it in a book It ended in the fire That started with the look I fell for you baby... like a bomb Now my love's gone... up in flames My head's full of smoke Heart's full of pain That tender love is gone Gone up in flames You should've shot me, baby My life is done You could've shot me, baby Shot me with a gun I hear those sirens... scream my name I know my love's gone Up in flames. "I Float Alone" Floating through this darkness All alone Love is gone in darkness Cold as a stone Searching through the shadows you have known Love's gone Bare as a bone. Trying to hold the memory face You seem to have vanished without a trace And in this darkness This empty space I float alone. Now the night is falling You have gone Sad dreams blow through dark trees Love's gone wrong Clouds of sadness raining all night long Love's gone The end of our song. I float alone. "The Black Sea" "Into the Night" Now it's dark Into the night I cry out I cry out... your name Into the night I search out I search out your love. Night so dark Where are you? Come back in my heart So dark So dark. Into the night Shadows fall Shadows fall so blue. I cry out I cry out for you. Night so dark Where are you? Come back in my heart "I'm Hurt Bad" "Pinky's Bubble Egg" In the far away world of Pinky's Bubble Egg,.. things changed I know one thing I wasn't alone I could hear you I wasn't alone I could hear you coming closer Pinky's Bubble Egg Repeats in the dead hunger Darkness my heart was stuffed in a trunk Beating like hell Saturn fell rolling The Twins Spoke "The Dream Conversation" I like to tell you all about a sad dream. It's the Dream of the Broken Hearted. Where are you? You sound far away. Yeah... well. What's wrong? Listen... I... What is it? I'm taking off baby. I can't do no more. Can't do what? What? I guess I'm sayin' goodbye, that's what I'm doin'. Goodbye? What's that mean, you don't love me anymore? I can't... I mean... I gotta go. You're joking with me, ain't you baby? No, I ain't sugar. I ain't nothin' wrong with you... It's just... us... I can't handle. I'm sayin' goodbye. Don't say that... Please don't... go. I can't do no more. I gotta go. Please... Please.. Click "Rockin' Back Inside My Heart" Tell your heart that I'm the one Tell your heart it's me I want you Rockin' back inside my heart I want you Rockin' back inside my heart Rockin' back inside my heart Shadow in my house The man he has brown eyes She'll never go to Hollywood Love moves me I want you Rockin' back inside my heart I want you Rockin' back inside my heart Rockin' back inside my heart Tell your heart you make me cry Tell your heart don't let me die I want you Rockin' back inside my heart I want you Rockin' back inside my heart Rockin' back inside my heart Shadow in my house The man he has brown eyes She'll never go to Hollywood Love moves me I want you Rockin' back inside my heart I want you Rockin' back inside my heart Rockin' back inside my heart She'll never go to Hollywood Do you remember our picnic lunch? We both went up to the lake And then we walked among the pines The birds sand out a song for us We had a fire when we came back And your smile was beautiful You touched my cheek and you kissed me At night we went for a stroll The wind blew out hair The fire made us warm The wind blew the waves Out on the lake We heard the owl in a nearby tree I thought our love would last... forever. "The Final Battle" "The World Spins" Moving near the edge of night Dust is dancing in the space A dog and bird are far away The sun comes up and down each day Light and shadows change the walls Halley's comet is come and gone The things I touch are made of stone Falling through this night alone Love don't go away Come back this way Come back and stay Forever... and ever Please stay Dust is dancing in the space A dog and bird are far away The sun comes up and down each day The river flows out to the sea Love don't go away Come back this way Come back and stay Forever... and ever The world spins
