 

                        It's like a rocket going to launch any moment like a last minute light speed train No one knows about you But desire is growing Use eyes to communicate to each other This is not simply chaos thinking Wants to communicate with you face to face then fly besides you right away ride on the rocket for love fly till the edge of the world the hugs that makes me hard to breath and the perfume of the kisses left in hair Sword Dance Your dog is cute so big, so big, so big, this is such a gentle dog thanks your welcome thanks all 4 of your dogs are very cute, so delicated delicated, delicated, seems very happy yes that's nice yes I guess that dog can be a police dog majestic-looking, majestic-looking, majestic-looking looks very reliable thanks welcome thanks your small dogs looks like hybrid kind wool clothing, wool clothing, wool clothing, wool clothing wool clothing is so beautiful realy? it's nice really? Don't be too arrogant no need to give a dog clothing This is not "win by the amount"! ok, now restrain a bit don't be too arrogant It's just a bit bigger like an idiot dripping saliva just like it's owner yes yes -yeah it is -yeah the dog on one's own is the best it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true it's true the dog in one's house is the best it's true, it's true, it's true, it's true it's true The little puppy in my house is very smart it's a super star, a super star, a super star a lot of audiences -No way -ha ha ha ha no way When our dog walks A lot of followers coming crew by crew crew by crew our dog is very picky on food, only eats top beef, top beef Only eat best beef -really -ah ha ha yes My dog must get 5 at least at least 5 theives so what? nothing really so what? the dog of one's own is the best the dog of one's own is the best the dog of one's own is the best Thank you so much Dog lover Shirotori Bikan knows Dog does not only have sensitive smell I think they also good great taste sense My robin even gets more picky on food than me So what to do? give the smart dog choices Love Dog Molly Molly, Newly on the market The idea is like this This idea is not bad ah, really? en, although it's plain, but everyone understands when sees it, it's not bad thanks besides, I'm a big fan of Ms.Bikan She is nice -ah! -what? but I've got an idea If Ms.Bikan is on the show Can we make her more attractive? attr...attractive? for example yes, just let Bikan looks even more sexy, wear less More sexy, and wear less? Yeah, but it's just a suggestion should surprise everyone let them see a Bikan that they have never seen before more of dancing and entertaining what do you think? but my plot is based on her daily life routines I understand that, of course but maybe just work on a few places thank you see you mr. Koyada arrr... dog lover Shirotori Bikan knows that Dogs not only have a great sense of smell I think they also have a great taste sense my Robin is even pickier than I am when it comes to food what should I do? a great choice for smart dogs dog lover.MoriMori, brand new onto the market this is the plot of the commercial what do you all think? not a bad one I reckon emmm, not bad, but... but what? clothing seems too fashionable it is pointless having people dancing in the back I believe commercials should have shock values that is preciously why we have chosen shocking clothing use entertainment to attract our audience oh, I see that is right I think the plot is good thank you ok, carry on with the plot, but... emmm that background music can you change it to Japanese Opera? arrr? Opera? our boss loves Opera he says that must have Opera in commercials but the plot is based on her daily life routines - I see - ha? Japanese Opera it is, Japanese Opera it will be haha, don't let me down Mr. Koyada the commercial is going to be great We got it this time Dog loverShirotori Bikan knows Dogs not only have a great sense of smell I think they also have a great taste sense my Robin is even pickier than I am when it comes to food what I should do? a great choice for smart dogs dog lover MoriMori, brand new onto the market this is the plot of the commercial I think... it is very bizarre I understand but I am going to make a change on it emmm? to let Bikan stand out more she is in every frame of the commercial that is not enough you should know that Bikan is a pro model her body her body is in exceptional shape and I want the audience to see it a little walk in the park at the beginning should be cut the dog feeding bit should be cut too all cut? they should be all be replaced with Bikan portfolio shots there will no dog shots in the commercial then how dare you! is the dog more important than Bikan? that is not what I mean do as I say if not she will not be working on this commercial wait, this is going to be tough are you going to change it then? I, I will it is a pleasure I am looking forward to see this commercial dog lover Shirotori Bikan knows dogs not only have a great sense of smell I think they also have a great taste sense my Robin is even more picker than I am when it comes to food what should I do? a great choice for smart dogs dog lover MoriMori, brand new onto the market this is it wan wan arr, I have a question go on did I miss anything or... emmm But it seems no dogs have appeared in it. Really? Well...It's an unexpectedness. Most people expect dogs in the ads for dogs' foods. We think this will attract audiences more. You think so? Yes, we do. I think the advertisement is good. Thank you. So we are through here. Oh, another thing... The product is characterized by its ingredients. So it'll be better if you can put them into the ad. I want it convincing. How? but coming out directly at the beginning. That's the thing we are going to express. However, the first half of the ad has totally nothing to do with the ingredients. - Got it? - So... We'll add a lot of introductions to the ingredients. Full of the names. Yeah, that's it. Mr. Koyada. It works. We can take the ad. Expert Shirotori Bikan knows that The dogs not only has good noses but also tastes. My Robin is more fastidious than I. It's really tricky. What? What are you talking about? Eh... Hey! What? Mr. Yamada. What? Oh. These are 30 tapes of the Dog's Skill Match. Review them all by tomorrow. What... I'm off then. Shit! What the hell... Enough! Enough! Enough! My god! Enough! Ah... I'm going to die. What the hell! Here it is. Porgy I bought a melon bread Delicious. Wow... Welcome! Sweet bean bread. Is that boy just transferred here? Yeah, he moved here to cure his sickness. His name is Yamada. Bug off! I won't give you this. He again. Isn't he sick? Doesn't it matter? You are Porgy from now on. Well, I'm going to throw it. Well done, good boy Porgy! Welcome Sweet bean bread. Why? Here, for free. You are sharing it with your doggy? Here you are. Let's go. Good boy, Porgy! Good, good! Perfect! Open it later. Go, Porgy, hurry! Doggy's bread? Porgy, come here, come! Wow. Great! Porgy you are doing great! Good boy. Again. Porgy Porgy! Porgy Yamada Yamada! Kochi, stay at home and watch out for the store. Porgy Still looking for the ball? Do you think Yamada got sick because he didn't find the balls? Yamada, you'll be cured after the surgery in Tokyo. Be strong. You need to be strong. Thanks a lot, doctor. Thanks for your care. I'm Clone, a dog. I like walking. It's interesting. But he stops here again. I hate it... What if the chains don't exist... He always stop here, in front of the lady's house. Don't know what he's thinking about. I cannot be like him. Wow... What a flossy tail... At the first sight, I fell into love. I dreamed of her that night. So... cute! I should say hello to her. But...I need a excuse. What should I do... Excuses... Topics... And finally, he is totally obsessed. Don't know what he's thinking about. Why, it's Fukuido. I won't be like him. So... is it Fukuido? Yes. I am the friend of the lover of your classmate in the high school. What a connection! I'm not kidding you. How could it be? Don't believe him. What a coincidence... It hardly happens. - How could it be? - Aren't these flowers lovely? Not a bit. I think they are good. They are artificial. - Oh, no wonder they have no scent. - What? I like artificial flowers. They are pleasing. Oh my god. Really? - Actually I like artificial flowers too! - liar... Seems we have many things in common. I think artificial flowers will go popular. Really? I think so too! Again... How could it be so coincident? - They will go popular this year. - Yeah, must be. They won't! What do you like in artificial flowers? Advantages of artificial flowers? Any topic will do. Now I have hope. Clone, say something. Anything. Oh, yeah I can do stand-up stunt. How's this? Ah... I hate it! Wh...why? Why? Hello! I bought you a gift. What's it? Red roses. Look. Oh, how kind of you. They are beautiful. What? These are artificial? How could they be? Thanks. Fukuido, they really fit you. Really? Oh thank you! It works! Great! Gifts? Good idea. Well, I'll buy her a superb gift! Be confident! H..How do you like it? What... No! Damn it! Why? Why? er... I'm cute, aha! I... What? I love you. Are you kidding? er... Sorry, I have my love. Oh, it really hurts. I appreciate that. But I can't accept you. Confession? Sure, absolutely! Be cool, don't be scared to talk. How's it going on. What? You must be joking. It's over! Kaen don't want to walk? Clone really want to. Be quiet! I'm busy here. ah! The next one is Clone. Welcome! Hello. I'm Clone, hi everybody. -Clone -What? What are you doing? It's impromptu, what can I do? Oh, then show your dick. How's that sound? Fukuido! ah! It's just a dream. Clone You also have some unpleasant thing? Ok Clone, let's have a race. Just like that? He's still rejected? I'm also turned down. Then start walking again. So happy Walking is fun Walking is good... ah We broke up. What? er... Riri It's a good opportunity. Now you can face to face with Riri. Now I can see Riri. It ain't a dream anymore! It's the only chance, or you'll miss it. Chance doesn't come easily! Riri! Riri? Great! Son of a bitch, what are you doing? Don't look at here. I want to tell you something. I have a dog now. Ah Riri, come here. Ri Riri? Riri Riri! We see each other eventually!Riri! Riri!Riri! Penis? ah Then It's a male dog. I can't feel your love at all. You! You never truely loved me I love everything except you! I rather love.... I rather love.... No rather love.... that dog than you! ah This dog will love me, and I will love him. Get out, I prefer this dog. Ah? Ah? Get it. Come on, get the ball to me It's so dirty, throw it away! er er I found a nice job in living theater. If you have a chance What are you talking about? meet in the dream. to meet you in my tender dreams your smile it looks like Mashao suddenly find his singing talent I heard that he was dumped you shot through my heart come here, food time good good boy arrr Porgy, I need to go out it is so exhausting hey, you over there yes, you, come over here shhh... please don't bark hey you is Bishun in? she is such a unreasonable woman but yet I can't keep her out of my mind I only went out and had a few drinks with the girls from the theater they are only friends to me anyway, I was not the only man there take it give it to Bishun thank you no! don't drop it arrr help me, arrr, can't count on you I suppose go and ask for help, arrr no, don't ask for help! I can't hang on any longer I can't keep you out of my mind my next performance is dedicated to you please attend and hear my love for you stupid only because of one mistake all it is late no longer find the feeling when we first date what is in the past is gone you don't like me either hey, what do you want? same with everyone ex boyfriend and so was the one before and the guys before that they were so passionate when I first met them but why not afterwards as well it's love isn't it? only because of one mistake can't go back to the time when we first date he is crying for real what is in the past is gone this is the true love hello are you still mad at me, Bishun? oh, it is you I see, Bishun is not coming to answer the phone, is she? I know I am useless I can't get my love across the only one who can be a comfort to her right now is you yet I know I can't give up even though she did not come to watch I am going to go over there and sing for her you are so right that is it Bishun! to meet you in my tender dreams your smile your beautiful eyes shot through my heart I can't lie, the time when you leave me I can no longer hold back my tears I can no longer... all because of one mistake all it is all late can't no longer get the feelings when we first date I can no longer... can no longer... this is true love, as finally I realise true love, why it has to be painful true love, you are the one let us start again start again, on the path of true love do you want to leave now? thanks thank you good luck Porgy Hello Dogs always bark at me since I was young No matter what kind of dog it will bark at me even any well trained dog it will bark at me Why does it only happen to me I thought a lot about it And I sometime think that maybe dogs want to say something to me Important message they want to pass to human and I'm the chosen one Therefore, I started concentrating on the research of dog's language What kind of shit research are you doing? I just want to understand the language of dog No, stop it What? stop it? I have to let you stop, you cannot spend any money on this bullshit But this is important to me It is not important, not at all Look at the dog, what a poor dog don't you ever think about his feeling -You know nothing about it -You are the one knows nothing As the representative of human I have to understand what they say And this faith drove me through all the way to my destination, I finally made it and this is Bauri er, because I spent most my time on research I didn't have time to listen to dogs not yet not yet You'll be bald-headed one day You'll be bald-headed one day You'll be bald-headed one day baldicoot, arr you listenning? bald he said you're going bald Hahaha, it is funny What's so funny? hahaha, this is funny You dont need to translate this oh, my dog Sorry, I can't help How come a dog is here? He was run over by a car, is here for emergency treatment Yamada's sticker is still here You are back yeah What happened to the dog? Waitting for someone? That dog then lives in hospital beside the feet, it's the dirty ball with Porgy's name on it Porgy always stay at the doorway of hospital Natsume we're about to start He seems grow big Doggy He eat even steamed bread Where did you get it? I bought it from buffet oh, they sell steamed bread Natsume we're about to start I have to go Let's go Porgy I'm leaving hospital today be good to stay here, ok? Bye, Porgy Thank you for taking care of me -Study hard! -Yeah -Take care -Yeah So cute, what a dog a flocky dog Fight with serious illness life in hospital is so bored Sufferer of the hospital likes to stop by, and talk to Porgy Everybody feels so happy and leave with happiness Porgy must think he is the favor of everybody year after year Porgy stays at the doorway of hospital until one day Porgy Please wait here for a little while Ok, thanks Porgy Porgy Porgy He is old enough... Porgy You just leave us like this? We eat this today I'll take that one Welcome That's all Thank you for shopping here Yamada? I... stay in this bakery since then You did a good job, run the bakery very well You're the better one, you've been in advertisement industry I'm just a regular hatcher You are very unobtrusive in fact, it's a stupid job I dont know where I'll go I wanted to resign to quit the job... whatever, doesn't mean anything anymore Do you know how Porgy is now Ah... When you were sent to hospital in Tokyo Porgy was tracing you with a ball held in his mouth I still cannot forget the way how Porgy was trying to follow you Sometimes, I look at the place I call to remembrance that you are recovering In fact, I do have painful memory but just look at the place I will be strong Yamada, do you still remember... the smile on your face when you played with Porgy I can see the place until now I can see Porgy is still running there and Yamada who is playing with Porgy I still can see it I planned to express my appreciation one day when I meet you again ah... doggy bread very popular Yamada, you has shown your talent since then Porgy ok, Porgy, I'm ready to throw ok Nice work Porgy You're great Porgy, good job Good Porgy Porgy!! Porgy!! take my hand take me to every place today is different form yesterday that's what you told me Walking in the crowd the disordered afternoon no matter how, I cannot make you look back think while look up to sky what is the most important It's just your hand In this world everyone has his own pain look foward tomorrow after tomorrow one day you may have to stop I wont be abandoned I'll never leave your hand just to be with you no matter how hard I'll not give up no matter how strong the storm is I'll not let go your hand Say, Marimo Say, Marimo Say, Marimo. What's Up? Look, a puppy When I first met you Hello You were so small You were so small The crybaby sister much younger Spoiled you were born after me Why? How come? How come you grew faster than me? Well, why? Why did you tease me? Why did you tear my clothes? Why did you hide my shoes? Why did you run ahead? Wait, Marimo What's the hurry? Why did you become a mother before me? Why am I always a child? I don't understand I don't understand I don't understand I want to know more about you, Marimo Why... did you become a gran before me? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why did I ever have a dog? Why did I ever want a dog? Why? Even when it brings Such sadness Marimo, you're terrible I hate you, Marimo Dogs Dogs I wish I'd never kept a dog Say Be careful Say, Mika Don't be sad I wasn't Marimo Do yo want to sleep? Because I was very happy Mika, you will always Always Always be my older sister The one I can rely on Sorry I was always spoiled Sorry I teased you Sorry I hid your red shoes But, they were treasures to me Marimo Thank you for taking me for walks Marimo wait, Marimo When I became a mother You were delighted It's so great Great, great! So happy you cried So cute So you gave them lovely names Mango, Apple, Peach I liked when you laughed You taught me the names of flowers Marimo this is the sea You showed me the sea Marimo Marimo Marimo I got lost didn't I You want some? It looked really good You chased away the bees too You were cool, Mika Marimo Time for dinner You had just brought it too Way too much I wanted to go again I wanted to see the ocean again The ocean smells like you, Mika Say, Mika We can't talk to each other, Mika But If we could, I'd say one thing umm umm umm umm umm umm umm umm, Mika Thank you for loving me Hey, Marimo I... I want another dog
