 

                        Oh my God! Don Giovanni! I, DON GIOVANNI I baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Do you take the name of Annamaria Conegliano? This farce disgusts me. Poor Jews forced to accept a religion they don't belong to so an old widower may marry a young Christian girl. Do you take the name of Emanuele Conegliano? Do you take the name of Emanuele Conegliano? Sig. Casanova, have you gone mad? - Why? - Don't cause an outrage, please! Emanuele Conegliano, do you wish to convert to Christianity? That's Beatrice. Beatrice was the muse and great love of Dante, whose poem "The Divine Comedy" is one of the most peerless creations of the human mind. Yes, my son, a genuine masterpiece. Return to the altar and you can visit my library whenever you wish, and study this magnificent book. Do you take the name of Lorenzo Da Ponte? - Say: "Yes, I do". - Yes, I do. I give you my name. Are you aware of what this blessing means? You'll be called Lorenzo Da Ponte, like me. This name will open all the doors of Venice to you. I will help you prosper in the bosom of the Church. And perhaps, one day... Lorenzo Da Ponte, you will reach great heights. Serf of the devil! - Traitor! - Rat! - God will punish you! - Death to this vile excrement! - That's enough! - May God curse you! This man doesn't deserve such despicable humiliation! What have they done to you? Did you mention my name? Come with me. Your hands are bloody, Lorenzo Da Ponte. Especially now that Barbarigo's thugs are on the alert in Venice. Have you gone mad, going out like this? That poor devil's in the stocks because of me. He printed your verses so he could resell them at a high price. One can be an idealist and love risk-taking... I can understand. But it's not enough. Danger must be avoided if it puts one's life at risk. One can be impetuous and impassioned... but not stupid. That printer could have cost you your life. "'But tell me, in the time of gentle sighs, with what and in what way did Love allow you to recognize your still uncertain longings?" And she to me: "There is no greater sorrow than thinking back on a happy time in misery and this your teacher knows." ' Father... can love... transcend the barriers of spirituality? Do you mean physical love? Carnality? - He pesters me, Father. - Who? He molests me, persecutes me, takes me to bed. Your adoptive father? Your Uncle Barbarigo, head of the Holy Inquisition, is not your real father, Francesca. Although you're his adopted daughter, you're free to choose your lover. You're in the bloom of youth, beautiful. I love you. You're all I think about, Lorenzo. I love you. I can't sleep... for thinking about you. I want you, Francesca! I want you, my love. - Good morning, Your Excellency. - Good morning, Marcello. "In the time of gentle sighs..." Francesca. Your Excellency, Father Barbarigo. What are you reading? "Inferno", Canto V, which describes the hellish torments inflicted by lust. "I learned that those who undergo this torment are damned because they sinned within the flesh, subjecting reason to the rule of lust." I'm sorry to interrupt your lesson, dear Lorenzo... but I must speak with you. I have been trying to flush out that blasphemer who accuses the Holy Inquisition of clouding minds and setting Venice on the road to ruin. A cheap versemonger... who scribbles satirical rhymes quoting the heretical ideas of Voltaire and Rousseau, two French "Illuminati". - Illuminists, Your Lordship. - Damn Illuminati! And no doubt inspired... by the blasphemous notions of that Giacomo Casanova. Your friend. A sinner who will soon repent, God willing. We finally set hands... on one of the peddlers of these verses in Venice. An underground printer. He told us the man we're looking for belongs to the Freemasons. And that he may also be a priest. A Masonic priest? The enemy is in our own ranks? We went to great lengths to make the wretch confess. Oh, my God. Humble food cannot satiate One who has left this mortal coil Lead me to another desire Different from eating Lorenzo, please... I'm trying to watch the performance. Pasquarello, where are you? Go back to your place at once I no longer have an appetite Back outside, back outside, do not tarry! A debasement of a character as noble as Don Giovanni. Master Giacomo, don't take it to heart! What was so noble about that libertine? You, of all people, ask that? Don Giovanni represents the only true virtue: The freedom to savour our nature without the bondage of morals and feelings. A moment of earthly life was worth more to him than eternity. Even numbers, red. Inside, underneath. Damn! Money, priest! What rotten luck, we're flat broke! If you'll allow me, dear lady, I'd be delighted to help you. - Then you may continue playing. - The lady is with me. To refuse a gentleman's money... is not ladylike, it's extremely rude. Lorenzo, allow yourself some rest in the chamber of sighs. Thank you. Betting is closed. Sir. Sir. Help me, a few coins will do. I'd like to help you, but I've been dogged by ill luck too. Brother! Here, take this. Thank you, brother. I promise you that we'll split the winnings. San Gregorio, 12 I have your share It must be at least 50 ducats! Money comes and goes. It doesn't give life, it helps make it bearable. But I didn't summon you here for the money. Listen to me. Come with me, look... I'm old, worn out and sick. I don't have much time left. I'll depart this world without leaving anything... to ennoble a life wasted between gaming tables and moneylenders. With one exception... She's my only daughter. Her mother died in childbirth. I love her more than anything else. - Beatrice! - No. Not Beatrice. Annetta. Annetta! Swear to me that you'll look after her when I'm dead. I swear. I cannot. I'm unworthy of your trust. Stop! Lorenzo Da Ponte. You are under arrest in the name of the Holy Inquisition. The tribunal of the Holy Inquisition finds you guilty of conspiring against Church and State. For violating the oath to observe the rules that bind you to Our Lord, Jesus Christ. For licentiousness, forbidden affiliation to a Masonic fraternity, blasphemy, sacrilege and public concubinage. And as an example and warning to the whole population... we condemn you... to fifteen years in exile and to banishment... from the Republic of Venice. Splendid! You had a narrow escape. Come on, a mouthful for each year. With your talent, you'll easily find work in Vienna. Besides, it's a beautiful city full of people open to new ideas. We're respected there. It's a letter to Antonio Salieri, composer to the emperor's court. He'll help you. Just introduce yourself to him with my recommendations. You don't know how grateful I am to you, Maestro. Your wise teachings have guided me over the years. And now I'll never be able to repay you for saving my life. Oh my God! Look! Stop. Don Giovanni! This Don Giovanni was doomed to failure. Quite right when they ill-treated a character worthy of loftier consideration. - Well, sir? - Sorry, I didn't mean to bother you. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Lorenzo Da Ponte. Pleased to meet you, brother Lorenzo. I'm Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. - Odd. I thought I knew everyone. - Actually, I've just arrived. I was going to the Court theatre but your music attracted me. - Are you a musician? - No, a writer and poet. I'm looking for a fellow countryman: Antonio Salieri. He's a musician. Yes... the great Antonio Salieri! The great Italian family. I'm pleased, you're in good hands. Salieri enjoys the favour of those in power. Brother Lorenzo... welcome to Vienna and good luck. A titbit of a lover All of a sudden found To discover that he's mad Weighs heavy on the heart Weighs heavy on the heart I don't want a critical, sober lover who'll bore me But critical and a madman But critical and a madman That would be even worse That would be even worse A titbit of a lover All of a sudden found To discover that he's mad Weighs heavy on the heart This... is downright rudeness! And you, Maestro Salieri, how can you tolerate such rudeness without intervening? Please, Madam Cavalieri, there's no need to get angry. I want him jocular and lively He must jest, laugh, dance and sing With a quip or story ready Gallant manners, gay words and of witty disposition And if he must go mad It must be mad with love And if he must go mad It must be mad with love But critical... Critical and a madman... Madwoman Well, a brief pause for everyone. This is downright rudeness! Is this how Vienna treats artists? Is this how fine singing is extolled here? - Listen, my love... - Don't say a word. You wanted to humiliate me, putting that hussy in your opera. Maestro Salieri, I am Lorenzo Da Ponte, I've just arrived and I wanted to ask you... Wait for me outside please. - I can't attend to you now. - Giacomo Casanova sent me. Excuse me if I appeared unfriendly. It hasn't been a particularly easy day. Your Majesty! Your visit is a great honour. The honour is mine, you know how your work stirs me. But perhaps I chose a bad time. You told me there were rehearsals today. Your Excellency, the Count is correct. But we were just taking a brief pause. - We'll start again immediately. - Do not trouble yourself, I can wait. Even like this, there's much to admire. And how is our second Grace, Madam Ferrarese? Your idea to reunite Madams Cavalieri and Ferrarese in my new opera is proving to be most excellent. In fact, I'd even say wonderful! Your Majesty, may I present Lorenzo Da Ponte, a dear friend and talented poet just arrived from Venice. It is a great joy to find myself in the presence of Europe's wisest and most enlightened monarch. You are respected and admired in Venice. - So, you are a poet. - Yes, Your Majesty. And also a priest, libertine and troublemaker. A reputation that does not befit me, Sire. Mr Da Ponte has left Venice and is looking for employment. Perhaps Your Majesty can do something for him. Of course. Vienna needs new poets with a reformist impulse, especially in opera. Why not entrust him with the libretto of your next work? Forgive me, but I'm afraid I wouldn't be capable. I've never written opera lyrics. Lack of experience is not a serious hindrance. On the contrary, we need new talent, new ideas to renew our opera. And Maestro Salieri is in full agreement. We'll have fresh inspiration. May I remind you that Maestro Salieri is already in talks with our poet... Oh yes, Casti. I'd quite forgotten. But there's a remedy for that. Is there another composer with whom you'd like to work? Why not Mozart? Our little rebel from Salzburg! Excellent idea! Mozart has been wanting to broach an opera in Italian, and so he shall. And to the sound of the gay march Let's hasten to the revelry Let's hasten to the revelry Let's hasten Let's hasten Let's hasten to the revelry Let's hasten Let's hasten to the revelry The revelry The revelry Your friend Lorenzo fobs you off with his worst lyrics and saves his best poems for Mozart and that strumpet Ferrarese. You ladies Who know what love is See if it is What I have in my heart See if it is what I have in my heart All that I feel I will explain Since it is new to me I don't understand it I have a feeling Full of desire Which now is pleasure Now is torment I freeze, then I feel My spirit all ablaze... Forgive me my friend, I didn't hear you come in. I'm glad you didn't undertake the voyage from Vienna alone. Allow me to introduce a dear friend, Madam... Adriana Ferrarese! The unequalled soprano. I was in raptures when I heard "The Marriage of Figaro" in Prague. But now... seeing you closely, I must say the rest of your person fully honours your splendid voice. And I see that the stories I heard about you... were not far-fetched. Poor me! Those are not stories, but history. At my age, I've reached the peace of the senses. And the spirit's task is to lovingly administer the memories those senses recall. His Excellency, the Duke of Dux has entrusted me with the care of his magnificent library. Now I live among dreams and desires written down... among mad adventures, secrets and impossible loves. Books have become my consolation. We all have a book capable of moving us, isn't that so? This one... is waiting for you. No... it is for you. It looks like the book I saw the day I was baptized. It does not look like, it is. After you were banished I found it in a bookshop and I thought I'd buy it and give it to you. When we took leave you were a banished wretch and now you're one of the most acclaimed lyric writers in Europe. Thanks to your recommending me to Salieri. He helped me enter the world of music. Forget Salieri. He's an excellent musician but his obligations at court are a great limit for him. You must work with Mozart again, he's a truly talented artist. Your Figaro... delicious, light, full of imagination: The future. This is the path you must follow. That's what I keep telling him. After the triumph of Figaro, Lorenzo must work with Mozart again. And, of course... with me. You should be aware of who has renounced my voice, because Salieri is a boor. He imposes his mistress, La Cavalieri... and all she's capable of doing to perfection is... well, you can imagine. Salieri is not a boor, La Cavalieri is not a prostitute and I am not married to Mozart. The truth is that Mozart has very singular tastes and refuses all the operas that are proposed to him. If you want, I have a story worthy of your talents. What? A new Don Giovanni. Come along, you have guests waiting. - Who? - Da Ponte and Salieri. - Send them away, I'm not interested. - They want you to write a new opera. They've already given us a handsome advance. Don't let yourself be taken in, negotiate a decent fee. Remember that we can't even pay the maid and neither of us are in good health. I must take the waters in Switzerland and medical cures are... Enough of your whining! Always telling me what to do! Stanzi... I'm sorry. You know there's nothing in the world I care about more than you. Let's hear what these two scheming Italians have to say. My dear Maestro! Good Lord, you're frozen. - Maestro Salieri. - Maestro Mozart. I am here to inform you that His Majesty has charged you with composing a new opera. In Italian, of course. And aided by the poetic talents of our friend Da Ponte. The Emperor was pleased with "The Marriage of Figaro". We shall do our best to please His Majesty again. Well then... permit me to enjoin you both to avoid any scandal, since the subject you will broach is risqu in itself. What is it? All in due course, Maestro. When staging an opera, one must be mindful of good manners, as if one were at a banquet. One must infuse a little sweetness into the public's daily travails. Therefore, if you'll allow me to suggest, you should compose music that is simple, light and listenable. Then even delicate palates will digest and savour the show. Sweetness, banquet, savour, digest! If I understand correctly, Maestro Salieri, composing an opera is like baking a pudding to you. Let's see... Iovesickness is the egg. A spot of intrigue, the flour. And the comic interlude is the sugar! Then, this lovely mixture of Maestro Da Ponte's words and my music is popped into the oven until the pudding is ready. Please excuse me, gentlemen... I have other business to attend to. Make a good job of it. You're too harsh with him. Salieri is much more sensitive than he appears. Tell me of this risqu subject that Salieri mentioned. An opera that will cause more of a stir than "Figaro". - Namely? - "Don Giovanni". "Don Giovanni"? - It's been done so many times! - But not our way! We'll unveil a version that no one will forget! You know there's something of me in everything I write. That which I feel, that which I love... I leave shreds of my life on the manuscript! It's more than just work to me! My music is like an inner flame that consumes me. Why should I suffer for such a second-rate tale? To convince you, I'll relate the opening. Imagine... a man wrapped in a voluminous cloak stealing through woods around a luxurious dwelling. The snow falls. It's night. A full moon looks down from the sky, but its beams are blue, not white. In this blissful landscape we see a man, his face concealed by a large hat. As you've guessed, it's Don Giovanni, out to seduce Donna Anna, a young noblewoman. In a bedroom on an upper floor... a beautiful maiden, Donna Anna, is sleeping in a spacious bed. Through the spotless white of her nightgown we discern a luscious body, but we cannot see her face because her back is turned on us. She is restless, her long hair flowing over the pillows. The balcony door is open, and between the billowing curtains we see Don Giovanni's silhouette. He enters Donna Anna's room. He undresses. Don Giovanni can control himself no more. He whispers into Donna Anna's ear: "Donna Anna... my love... my life." Donna Anna... my love, my life. Donna Anna realizes that it is not her betrothed, but a stranger. Help! Assistance! Don Giovanni leaps from the bed, dons his garments as best he can and with a daring, cat-like leap from the balcony, lands in the open space before the house. He then flees into the woods. Still shrieking, Donna Anna looks out from the balcony. Help! Assistance! Don Giovanni disappears through the spectral trees. A dazzling beginning, sensual and audacious. But of course, this is just the background. What? We can't begin the opera like that, it would cause an outrage! It would never open. Have you forgotten Salieri's recommendations? What do I care about Salieri's recommendations? All right then, how will we start? We'll start outside the house. With Don Giovanni leaping down and fleeing? Firstly, he must fight a duel with the Commandant, Donna Anna's father who has come to her aid. The Commandant draws his sword and confronts the rake. It's an uneven match, Don Giovanni is an able swordsman. He kills the Commandant with a thrust through the heart! The whole premise is based on that killing. Because once the Commandant is dead, he will return at the end of the opera... as a marble statue. You wish to start like that? Slap in the middle of a duel, without acquainting the public with the basics of the story? As Don Giovanni enters Donna Anna's bedroom... someone is acting as lookout down below. Who is it? - Leporello. - Leporello? Of course! Don Giovanni's manservant... who is always in trouble because of his master's follies! A clownish manservant, how original! When one wants to raise a laugh but has no imagination, one introduces a servant in a mess because of his master. Leporello! Well done, Da Ponte! "Thus I'm tortur'd night and day." Yes, my love. Remember you promised me a scene to myself. An aria to show off my full range of talents. You know me so well, write me a beautiful aria, my love! Yes, my love. I love you. I love you too, Adriana. "Thus I'm tortur'd night and day and no thanks I ever get. Now I'm chilled by piercing winds. Now with rain I'm dripping wet. I'm resolved to change my state and be a gentleman so great." Some milk. Wolfi, you've written so little! You've had your nose to the grindstone all morning! Please, my love, I'm working. What is it? It's unlike you to spend so many hours on so little verse. It's not easy. This is the opera's first aria, the most important: It must win the public over! Come on, let's go! "Thus I'm tortured night and day And no thanks I ever get..." Dearest, let me compose in peace. - Stop now, or you'll be late. - For what? Today's lesson, heaven above! I'd forgotten. - Send a messenger to cancel it. - Cancel it? - I have to work, I cannot go. - Come on! We need the money. Tidy yourself up and go. Maestro? - Are you all right? - Of course, dear. - Can we go from the reprise again? - Yes. I'm resolved to change my state, yes, yes, yes! And be a gentleman so great - What do you think, Annetta? - Is it from your next opera? Yes! Excuse me, is Lorenzo Da Ponte your librettist? Yes. - Do you know him? - He was friend to my father. I'm resolved to change my state And be a gentleman so great I'm resolved to change my state Yes, and be a gentleman so great Not bad, Leporello. No sooner has Leporello finished than you enter, breathless. Still trying to dress after fleeing from Donna Anna. Donna Anna, in her nightgown, follows Don Giovanni and shrieks with fright and indignation, since a stranger has molested her in her sleep. She grabs Don Giovanni's arm, withstanding his violent tugging. You must conceal your face with the cloak. Donna Anna must not see you, you're a stranger to her! Try. Till thy name I've learn'd thou viper, from this spot thou shalt not go. Foolish girl, beware my fury! Who I am thou ne'er shalt know. - Villain tremble! Help, what ho! - Be silent or my rage you'll rue. - Miscreant! - Impudent woman! Well done! Till thy name I've learn'd thou viper from this spot thou shalt not go Foolish girl, beware my fury! Who I am thou ne'er shalt know Till thy name I've learn'd thou viper... What a tumult! Oh what screaming! My master's in some trouble now! Villain tremble! Help, what ho! Be silent or my rage you'll rue - Miscreant! - Impudent woman! Miscreant! Some fearful act! And I must share it too. I'm desperate, and my persecutor fain would know Some fearful act she'll surely make me do Miscreant! Some fearful act! And I must share it too - Miscreant! - Impudent woman! Miscreant! Be silent or rue I'm desperate and my persecutor fain would know Some fearful act she'll surely make me do Some fearful act! And I must share it too. Unhand her, villain Turn and defend thee Hence fool. I deign not with thee to combat Dost thou fear me? Dost from me fly? I wish I could I think I'll try Hence fool: I deign not Dost thou fear me? Dost from me fly? - Coward! - Tremble! Tremble, for thou Must surely die Ah, great Heaven - Powers of Mercy - The meddling fool lies prostrate 'Neath t'assassin's hand expiring Agony his frame is wringing Terror dire, my blood congealing thru my veins like ice is stealing Forth, from out my quiv'ring bosom fast the life-blood wells away Fast his soul its flight is winging as his life-blood wells away I know not what to do or say I know not what to do or say Terror dire, my blood congealing thru my veins like ice is stealing I know not what to do or say Very good. And now a well-deserved break. Madam Cavalieri, magnificent! Commandant, perfect. A couple of things... Annetta... is it really you? I told Mozart that I would like to see preparations for an opera. I hoped to meet you here, but I was afraid of seeing you too. - Afraid, why? - You need to ask? The first time I saw you in Venice, it was like a dream come true. I felt a sensation completely unknown to me. But you fled from me as if I were the devil himself. In your presence I felt dazzled by a perfection, by a harmony that I never thought could actually exist. Life gave me a gift that I did not truly deserve. I felt unworthy, without appeal. My father heard you were exiled and had come here to Vienna. He wanted to join you, but was too ill to come. - I'm sorry. - And after his death I decided to abandon Venice and move here. Why did you not look for me immediately? I had no wish to be one of your many trophies. What are you referring to? Your notorious womanising and dissolute life. Wait. I dedicated these verses to you. See, that's your name. They're for you. "Then with thy hand in mine, dear, thou'lt whisper gently yes. The castle's lord be thine dear Come, and thy lover bless." Annetta... my love. It no longer makes a difference if I believe you or not. What do you mean? It is too late. Why? I am betrothed, I am to marry next month. Who? Not you. Forgive me. Adriana, what a surprise, what are you doing here? Who is she? - Who? - Don't feign ignorance. Annetta Dei Fiorini. A pupil of Mozart's. How can you be jealous? She can't even sing. You start rehearsals without me yet ask me that? You promised me a leading role but shut me out. - I'll be a laughing-stock! - What do you mean, my love? Today we only rehearsed the opening scenes. Of course, now you have that Cavalieri whore. And in exchange for her favours, you gave her the lead role. Please, calm down. Your jealousy is driving you to madness. I had to give her a small role to gain Salieri's support or Don Giovanni wouldn't have been approved at Court. And my role? It just needs a few corrections, a little polishing. I promise you that in a few days you may start rehearsals. And stop thinking I chase other women behind your back. Even La Cavalieri! How absurd. You are my one and only. My nightingale. Ladies and gentlemen... let me introduce Lorenzo Da Ponte. My lover. He swore love and fidelity to me. And after many lies, he has now abandoned me. Without even having the guts to tell me face to face. Leave me alone, you madwoman. Is this how you repay all I did for you, you wretch? Maestro, I've been searching for you all over town! I must speak with you, I hope it's not inconvenient. Of course not. - There's deep trouble ahead. - The new scenes aren't ready? If only that were the extent of it. - La Ferrarese... - Has cut La Cavalieri's throat. Cavalieri cut Ferrarese's throat? They cut each other's throats? I'm being serious! I dismissed La Ferrarese today. Now do you understand the gravity of this dilemma? Full well. La Ferrarese wants to cut your throat! Forgive me, I don't mean to laugh at your misfortune. But that woman is as poisonous as a viper. I wouldn't like to be in your shoes. I advise you to let things lie, time erases everything. You don't understand! We're in trouble: Me, you and the opera. What do the opera and myself have to do with this? That woman is vindictive, I've a feeling she's out to ruin "Don Giovanni" to get at me. Believe me, we're up against Machiavelli in a corset. Machiavelli in a corset... She can't do a thing if she doesn't have a role in the opera. That's the point: I promised her a leading role that doesn't exist! A leading role? What about a proud woman, seduced and abandoned, who swears revenge? Of course... Besides Donna Anna, let's put a second enraged woman on Don Giovanni's heels. I at least hope this character won't be called Adriana Ferrarese! What about... Donna Elvira? Why these sighs? What checks my utterances? Though by him I've been neglected Though my peace has fled, alas! Though his falseness I've detected Prayers for him my lips still pass Though by him I've been neglected... When I think on wrongs I'm bearing Vengeance only steels my heart When I see him perils sharing... After our first meeting, I asked myself if it is enough for a man of your stature to leave just a book of memoirs for posterity. And so I thought of Lorenzo. He shares many characteristics with you. And the Don Giovanni that you suggested to him with such sly dexterity... is partly a mirror-image of your own life. And? Would you like Don Giovanni to marry and turn into... a faithful little husband? Explain. Lorenzo believes he's met the woman of his dreams. He's in seventh heaven. And he's even shared the joy for his new love with... Don Giovanni. You're a jealous woman. I'm starting to get bored. This is not a trick. See for yourself. This... is the marriage scene. Written by his own hand and distributed yesterday. What do you want from me, Adriana? Annetta... Her name is Annetta and she is part of his Venetian past. I'm sure she wouldn't like to hear about all Lorenzo's conquests. Take it and read. You have perspicaciously noted that I modelled Lorenzo in my image. By way of comparison, I noted all his conquests with great attention to detail, I assure you. You may copy the list, if you wish. Some names can even debunk stories I heard. Of course, I wouldn't want Lorenzo to know. Bastard! Even Gertrude, my maid! You appear on the list too. Prayers for him! Prayers for him my lips still pass! I am Lorenzo Da Ponte. I'm looking for Miss Dei Fiorini. - Is she at home? - I'm sorry, I don't know. I'll go and see. Lorenzo, what are you doing here? I came to pay a courtesy call and bring flowers. I am betrothed, I can't accept them. Annetta, who is it? You misunderstand, they are not for you. Please, come into the salon, sir. - Allow me to introduce myself... - I know who you are, Mr Da Ponte. I am delighted to meet you, Madam Dei Fiorini. I had the great fortune of being acquainted with your brother. A kind gentleman. My brother, rest his soul, was an idler who squandered the family fortune at the gaming table. But please, Mr Da Ponte, sit down. Adele, put these flowers in a vase. Excuse the disorder, we were folding sheets. You must forgive me, I called unannounced. Let me help you with the chore I've interrupted. I told my aunt you're writing the libretto for Mozart's new opera. We were bewitched by "The Marriage of Figaro". I'm flattered. I hope my new opera will also be to your liking. Why have you come? We'd said everything. You did not forbid me from seeing you again. Besides, I wouldn't have obeyed you. Why not tell us something of your new opera? It's the story of a libertine, a subject that may seem indelicate, but our treatment of it reaches a highly moral conclusion. It tells of a dissolute who places the fatuity of vice above genuine feelings, until a woman kindles within him a love he's never felt. He decides to change his life, and give himself to his redeeming angel. Forgive my prying, but is all this linen part of your trousseau? You are inquisitive, but to satisfy your curiosity: No, it isn't. But tell us more about this redeeming angel. A maiden betrothed to another man. His love seems impossible. He's desperate, but doesn't desist. She feels the same rapture for him, but doubts his sincerity... though she finally realises his love is genuine. You see, the story ends both happily and instructively. I am not betrothed. I am not about to marry. Annetta... how can you still doubt me? Why don't you open the door? Excuse me. Miss, this was delivered for you. I never want to see or hear from you again! You and your glib tongue! Get out of this house and my life, and don't you dare come back. Were you working all night again? You promised to take more care of yourself. You can't go on like this, your health is already poor. Don't worry, it's just a spot of tiredness. A cup of hot coffee and I'll be fine. I'll make some immediately, but lie down. At your request See, here I come I am your guest... My dear! Gently... It's nothing, just a mild attack. I'm all right. Forget this "Don Giovanni", it's ruining your health! What? The work is almost complete. And wasn't it you who insisted I accept it? I know. It was a serious mistake. This damned opera is killing you. Don't be so dramatic. I can't leave an opera unfinished. We can't afford to give the advance back. Besides, "Don Giovanni" is a splendid work. Splendid? The lecherous adventures of a sexually excited degenerate? That kind of rubbish could only appeal to your friend Da Ponte, who's not much better than Don Giovanni. Maestro Casanova, Lorenzo tells me that you are the true inspirer of our opera. I cannot tell you how thrilled I am to know that you have set "Don Giovanni" to music. This is not childish adulation, this is one of the most important moments of my life. Thank you. Allow me to introduce our Leporello. And our Don Giovanni. Pleased to meet you. Young, handsome... We're waiting for Donna Elvira, she's about to arrive. - Isn't that so, Lorenzo? - Yes. The scent of the theatre... Here she is. What a nice surprise, Mr Casanova! You look wonderful, Adriana. Our Lorenzo is truly brilliant. His ideas are so astonishing that I sometimes wonder where he gets his inspiration! Let's sit down, you can enjoy an advance preview. I read here that Don Giovanni's Italian conquests number 320. Permit me a little national pride, but such a miserable score gives the impression that our hero looks down on Italian beauties. Why don't we increase it? In Spain his total is 703... Ladies and gentlemen, he's the world's greatest seducer. Is it possible that in his own country he chalks up such a poor result? Let's be more lavish. - Let's make it 1,003. - 1,003? Pray behold, ma'am, in this long list I've made, is: An account of my master's fair ladies! Not Jove so renown'd for his trade is: Pray observe it, and read it with me! Pray observe it, and read it with me! First in Italy, ma'am, seven hundred Then in Germany eight may be number'd Then in Turkey and France, one and ninety But in Spain, ma'am... But in Spain, ma'am one thousand and three! One thousand and three One thousand and three Here are chambermaids by dozens City dames and country cousins Countesses and Baronesses Marchionesses and Princesses, all descriptions, ages, classes Not a woman could go free Could go free First in Rome, we have seven hundred... I don't wish to meddle with your muse's whisperings, but I gather that you intend to end the opera with a chastened Don Giovanni who even goes so far as to marry the love of his life. Is that true? All nonsense. Whoever told you such rubbish? Baronesses, Marchionesses, Princesses All descriptions, ages, classes not a woman could go free Not a woman could go free Not a woman could go free First the fair one He bewitches By the softness Of his speeches Makes the brown ones In a fever Warmly vowing Love forever With the pale ones he will languish Melt and sigh in tender anguish The great And tall ones Sometimes warm him But the short ones But the short ones But the short ones always charm him He who loves but one woman is merely a selfish oaf. High and low, ma'am, young and old, ma'am Own the music Of his tongue, ma'am Though if I must tell the truth, ma'am He'd give the choice to youth, ma'am Ugly, pretty, fat or thin Something a petticoat within Something a petticoat within It matters not, For, short or tall 'Tis very plain He loves them all 'Tis very plain He loves them all 'Tis very plain he loves them all Excellent. Thank you! Please excuse me for a moment. I'm sorry to hear about your father, Wolfgang. My heartfelt condolences. Thank you, Lorenzo. Don't leave me alone. I loved my father. He was often unjust and cruel with me. He obliged me to play the piano instead of playing with the other children. But I was a prodigy, touched by the gods. I received compliments, I was applauded wherever I went. And my father reaped the benefits. I was suffocating in the world he built around me. He'd hound me continually so he could earn more money off me. Always for the good of the family. One day he told me that if I didn't do as he said, the devil would come and bear me away. What do you think of that? His very words. The devil would bear me away. Yet, despite all this, I loved him. Very much. I loved him and feared him. I feared his rebukes, his criticism. He distanced himself when he realized my music was better than his. He was jealous of his own son! Of my popularity! He wanted to have complete control over my life, he'd always tell me what to do. He loathed Costanza. When we married he sent me a letter: He wrote that I was in debt to him for all the money he had invested in me. What do you think of that? What meanness. Sometimes, in my thoughts, in my dreams... I wished for his death. Ah, great Heaven! Powers of mercy! Come along, Mozart! You're merely upset. You must get over this misfortune and there's nothing better than work for that. I cannot continue with "Don Giovanni". My wife is right, it's bad for me. I must stop. - What are you saying? - You haven't understood? If I complete this opera, I will damage my soul. That's absurd! If you feel something burdening you inside, see a priest and ask him to give you absolution. Why don't you give me absolution? I didn't mean that... - Aren't you a priest? - Yes, but it's been a long time... I beg of you, if you really are my friend... free me from this torment. Kneel down. Well done! Bringing me here was a splendid idea. Well done! The best thing you can do is forget Annetta. Stop thinking about that woman. That depends on you. Are you going to name a serenade after her? It's your fault if my heart is broken. What do you mean? It was through you that I met Annetta again. You're the culprit. The Vizier! - Were you bored, my beauty? - Yes, my love. Without you, the minutes are never-ending. My love, I brought you this jewel as a token of my feelings. You are doing me an invaluable service. It's difficult to replace a musician who falls ill at the last moment. It's an honour for me to play with so many virtuosos. I don't know if I'm equal to the task. Look. You're merely afraid of being in the forefront. Annetta, you are my best pupil. Once you begin to play, your fears will disappear. Thank you. Maestro, are you sure... That he will not come? Of course. - Which ring do you like most? - This one. The biggest. Very well. At length, my sweet Zerlina, we are rid Of this troublesome fellow Say, then, my angel, have I not well contriv'd? My lord, he is my lover What? He? Do you think that a nobleman A man of rank, as I am Can suffer such bewitching beauty To be profaned By such a base clown? But, my lord, I have promis'd to marry him Such a promise is void in itself You were not born to be the wife of a country booby Those roguish eyes Those pouting lips Those little fingers, so white and tapering Ensure you A better fortune Ah, but I would not... Would not what? Not like to be imposed upon I have heard that noblemen are seldom frank and sincere With women It is vile calumny of the vulgar Nobility and honour always go together But do not let us lose time This very moment I will marry you You? Certainly That house you see is mine There we shall be alone And there, my angel We will be married Then with thy hand in mine Thou'lt whisper gently yes The castle's lord be thine Come and thy lover bless I would, and yet I would not My breast with terror heaves 'Twould be the happiest lot Unless this lord deceives Come, then, with me, my beauty Masetto claims my duty I wish to change thy state, love I yield myself to fate, love Come then Then with thy hand in mine I would and I would not Thou'lt whisper gently yes My breast with terror heaves Come and thy lover bless Unless this lord deceives Come, then, with me, my beauty Masetto claims my duty I wish to change they state, love I yield myself to fate, love Then come Then come Then come And share with me the pleasure Of innocence and love Of innocence and love How did it go? For the best. - Annetta? - She played perfectly. That's not what I meant. What did she say? She left immediately after the rehearsal. She said nothing about me? You must have patience and let her contemplate in peace. Meanwhile, occupy your mind with other things. Perhaps you could finish the opera's concluding scenes. May I remind you that we open in less than a week. You'll fall ill out here. Why not stay and dine with us? Lorenzo Da Ponte! Come and make love with me. Come on, Lorenzo! I'll warm you up. It's so cold. I left the door open for you. You were so certain that I would come? No. But I hoped. And now you're here with me. Good heavens, Lorenzo. You're boiling hot. Wait. Don Giovanni has extended a dinner invitation to the statue of the Commandant he killed. He certainly doesn't expect the Commandant to accept. Let's go then. Repent! And change thy life, or thy last hour has come! No, no. I'll not repent. Far hence, away, begone! Lost man! Repent! No, obstinate old man. - Repent! - No. Repent! No! No... Are you truly convinced, Lorenzo? No? Why not, for once, abandon this inane journey to hell and fly upwards to heaven? A goal would save his soul. The just price for one who has been a slave to earthly pleasures. Let us save his soul, let her say no. No. Don Giovanni must accept his responsibilities. Otherwise he would be a hypocrite. You yourself said: "A moment of earthly life was worth more than eternity to him." I said that? Well, so what? Why consign him to the flames? You see me in him and wish to condemn me? No, Giacomo. I recognize myself in Don Giovanni. If that's so, then his fall would also be yours. I only see part of my life in him, that part that I now wish to free myself of. Why? For her? For a love story, for love! All my lessons scattered to the winds. Freedom! You do not, perhaps, approve of our love? I'm sorry. I act according to my conscience. Oh, my lord, for mercy's sake Not a step now farther go The man of stone, the man in white Ah, my lord, I'm fainting quite If you'd seen his dreadful figure if you'd heard his footsteps sound This I do not understand Certainly you are gone mad 'Tis someone knocking - Open - I tremble Open, I say! Open! So, this prodigy to witness I must myself unclose the door I do not wish to see him more and I'll hide myself at once Don Giovanni At your request See, here I come I am your guest Never could I have believ'd it But I'll do the best I can Leporello, another supper order them at once to bring Ah, my lord, I freeze with horror Go, I say! Pause an instant! We partake not earthly banquets Who with Heavenly food are fed By other motives Hither led Other cares Have brought me here Speak! What would you? I attend While I speak, listen! My minutes are few! Speak, speak! I'm all attention Listen! My minutes are few! Speak, speak! I am all attention Thou didst invite me here And now I invite thee! Reply! Reply! Wilt thou come to be a guest with me? Alas, we have no time, excuse us The stain of coward fear Shall never spot my name Decide then! Already I've resolv'd Thou wilt come? Say no! Doubt dwells in my bosom No fear have I: I'll come! Give me thy hand, in proof! Take it - What is it? - What chill freezes my heart? Repent and change thy life, or thy last hour is come! No, no, I'll not repent. Far hence, away, begone! Lost man, once more, repent! No, obstinate old man! - Repent! - No! - Yes! - No! Henceforth 'twill be too late! Through ev'ry nerve I tremble and icy chill o'erpowers me! What mean these dreadful gulfs that open to devour me? Horror more dire awaits thee! And dread is thy dark doom! My heart bursts in my bosom the serpents gnaw my vitals What torture, oh, what madness! What horror! What despair! What cries! What lamentations! They pierce my heart with woe! My heart bursts in my bosom The serpents gnaw my vitals What torture, oh, what madness! What horror! What despair! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you everyone. - Ladies and gentlemen. - Well done, my dear Mozart. Excellent work. Well done. - Thank you, Your Majesty. - Yes, excellent work... but the point is... how can one put it... It seems a rather heavy dish for the palates of my Viennese subjects. A heavy dish, Your Majesty? Then why not give them time to digest it, Sire? What impertinence, Your Majesty! Mozart is finished... Thank you for your sensitivity and wisdom. It is I who must thank you. It was worth it, being contaminated by you and your demons! And by my own. Thank you. - Annetta, did you like the opera? - Are you that Don Giovanni? I was, but I came back from hell to be with you. Sir, try to behave more fittingly. Who are you to tell me how to behave? That is Lorenzo Da Ponte. The librettist of the opera. It's disgraceful! With what effrontery do they dare to portray the doings of a libertine! I liked it. The music was magnificent. W. Amadeus Mozart died at the age of 35. Lorenzo Da Ponte died in New York married with children, aged 87.
