 

                        Shanghai Film Groups Mandarin Film Distribution Company Presents Kwangtung, Fuoshan is China's Nan Tian's style of martial arts land of origin. Filled with it's fame, it attracts all schools and all styles of martial arts to establish there. It's also a place for the exchange of martial arts culture Today, Fuoshan have became THE TOWN of martial arts. There comes another one to snatch our rice bowl Okay, let's practice Come, get ready One Two One Two Young Master, there is a Master Liao looking for you This is.... I am the Master of the Liao's Fist Just opened a dojo in Fuoshan Congratulations I heard that your Wing Chun fist is very good That's why I came here today to get some pointers Make it another day, okay? Now is not the right time Since I am here and just sparring only, won't take too much time Let's close the doors and spar. Win or lose, nobody will know It's not a matter of winning or losing, I am having my meals right now Then, I'll wait for you Master Liao, have you eaten? Come, join us. You smoke? It's okay How are the dishes tonight? Good That is good Very quick Uncle Wang, don't clean up the table. Just close the door first Master Liao Please Please Are you okay? I'm okay. I'm okay. One more time Then, here I come Hit! Hit! Hit! All hits! Hit! Thank you for letting me win, Master Liao Thank you for the lesson. I've learnt a lot Same here. Same here Today's closed door sparring.... Master Ip Don't worry, it'll never leak out Thank you very much. I am taking my leave Do be careful I am not sending you off Ip Man's "Heavenly King smashing the tower" One more time and using the "Four Taels to heave a thousand katis" that thrown Master Liao's to a thunderous grounding Isn't that stroke used in Tai Chi Quan? I heard that Mast Ip practice Wing Chun, right? Whatever! Anyway, he just push him away with just one hand Master Liao still did not concede defeat Later, Ip Man ferociously chased after him and beat him up But Master Liao after being beaten is still not satisfied and uses "Hungry Dog snatch faeces" to beat Ip Man This type of tea leaves is very nice. It's cheap Do be careful Thank you Goodbye. See you again the next time Uncle Ping, who put this here? It's your younger brother Initially I thought Master Liao's kung fu is good but he didn't even have a chance to attack Being beaten like a pig's head He also have a share in our father's teahouse Always loitering and fooling around Ask that asshole to take care of the customers Good morning Brother Man Is Brother Quan is here? He's waiting for you upstairs Ah Quan, have you been waiting long? You are always late Busy! Busy with what? It's always the same. Eat, drink and kung fu What's there to be busy about? This tea is quite fragrant I am saying you! Let's order some food I've something to discuss with you Eat first, we'll talk later Fresh from the oven. Come, try it! I heard them say, you had a duel with Master Liao and quickly defeated him Is that true? Who told you, Crazy Lin My younger brother You should have told me earlier I've even ask him to be my sifu (master) You've ask every sifu in town to be your master Brother Man, did you have a closed door duel? We've something to discuss. Please go Then, I will not disturb your discussion Good morning Master Good morning Master Good morning Master Good morning Good morning Master Good morning Master, someone said you got beaten by Ip Man Now, everyone in Fuoshan knows about it Nonsense, who said it? Sha Dan Yuan from the teahouse The cost of things in Fuoshan have risen So what about it? That is to say, Fuoshan's economy is good Everyone have expendable income Really? Think about it! Clothes, food, accommodation and travels. Clothes comes first In future, the demand for cloth will be huge That is why I want to set up a cotton factory so that I can supply them to the cloth factory I want you to be my partner I am not suitable for business It's okay, I am suitable I am not in need money Who is Sha Dan Yuan? Get the hell out here! I am You're the one talking nonsense and ruining my reputation? Sifu I want to teach you a lesson today Sifu Sifu He's my younger brother. Let's talk slowly Don't get angry, sifu Your brother Your brother is talking nonsense and ruined my reputation Said I lost to Ip Man in a fight Tell me, how can I survive in Dojo Street? How can I open my dojo and take in students? Sifu! Apologize now! I am not in the wrong. I just stating facts You're talking nonsense Sifu Ip Man is upstairs. If you've got the balls, go find him! What! Go! Sifu, cool down, cool down Sifu Sifu Don't get angry. Sifu Master Ip, I've been wronged! Sifu Sifu Please, tell everyone that you have a duel with Master Liao and beaten him Master Ip, you must clear my name Still telling lies!? And troubling Brother Man! I did not lie When I was retrieving my kite, I saw them fighting What a coincidence that your kite broke loose and landed in Brother Man's garden and what a coincidence that you saw Master Liao and Brother Man having a duel and coincidentally, the whole scene was seen by you?! There is just too much coincidences! Yes, it's all coincidences Even if it's true, you can't go around telling everyone There are some things which one can't admit If it's true then one won't be afraid to admit it If one admits one would lose face Lose what face? How should I know? This is called " Lose face" Crazy Lin, no need to be like this What are you laughing at! Don't treat me like I am not around! Sir, it's a small matter What small matter? Disperse... Don't go! Sir, small matter I've seen everything. Let me tell all of you whoever create trouble in my territory, not obeying the law I will arrest them I didn't come here to create trouble It's someone who ruined my reputation I am here for justice What justice? I am justice You bunch of loafers, fighting everyday What era is it now? Still going for duels! Let's duel with weapons. Gun! Gun! Do you know?! You also know, Inspector Lee we, practitioners of martial arts have lots of energy and sometimes may be loud in our speech But being loud in our speech does not mean that we have no manners Technically, we are all cultured people No need to draw your gun for any small matter Give me some face Crazy Lin, take care of Insp. Lee. All on me Good Insp. Lee, this way please What are you looking at? Quick scram Don't look! All disperse Insp. Lee, please Master Liao Take care Why are you so secretive? I am really not suitable to do business Take it and open the factory. When you have profit then you can pay me I won't be able to repay you so quickly Take your time to pay Do me one more favor. Accept my son as your student There are so many Masters in Dojo Street just ask any of them will do Those masters are not as good as you About the same Crazy Lin Brother Quan Brother Man, I've learned a new technique You help me to test it, alright? You're so free! Have you found your younger brother yet? Don't worry about him. Once his money is depleted, he'll come back Let's try Father, is Uncle Man willing? You go and have a look first Ah June, your drawings are so beautiful Let's see what moves you've learn this time It has defense when attacking and in defense there is element of attacking when attacking there is defense and in defense there is attack The words you say are all the same You won't understand, kid. Go further away This move is to attack the middle section. Very deadly Don't just know how to say the words Most important is to get a hit Mother, I've finished drawing It's so good. Let Daddy have a look Okay Use attack as defense. Continued defense is attack That's what I do What I did earlier on is constant defense Daddy, have a look Daddy is not free. Later... Don't understand Yes One more time One more time Daddy won't look You've already lost What? This is called constant defense with attack Master Ip, one more time. I didn't see clearly See! See! See! What's there to see!? Come here everyday and fight, fight fight! Really frustrating! Brother Man, what now? Sister-in-law, I am sorry Sister-in-law, I am leaving I am not saying you No, there are lots of things to do in the factory Ah Yeow Uncle Man, we are leaving Okay, come again the next time We're leaving If you are not happy, you can tell me. No need to throw your temper Okay. I am asking you now to look at the son's drawings Show more concern and don't stay with your friends all day Let's go in, okay? Slowly Brother Where is Dojo Street? Ah... Dojo Go straight ahead One Two One Two One Two One Two Boss, there are so many dojos, which one shall we start first? One Two One, retract Brother! Teaching kung fu? You guys came here to learn kung fu? Come in, let's talk Who is the Dojo master? I am the dojo master I am Jin Shan Zhao I've long admired Fuoshan as the town of martial arts. I came south especially and would like to exchange pointers with Masters of Fuoshan. Exchange pointers! Correct Then you are here to challenge!? Yes Okay All of you stand one side See how your sifu teach this country bumpkin a lesson Not that side. This side! This side! Someone here to challenge! What is it? Look and learn Boss! Boss! You're terrific! Where is your Master? I am here! You really want to kill me, huh!? Sifu is not here Wondered what happen to the weather in Fuoshan blowing cold and hot Let me What are you drawing, Ah June? Ah June is not talking to you If you are free, do keep him company Okay Crazy Lin, so early? Sister-in-law, I am not here to fight. Just have a few words and I'll leave Hey, what is it? There are a bunch of country bumpkins going around challenging all the dojos Their kung fu is good Every dojos have lost If you can, do go and have a look Really that good? Yes Sister-in-law, I am leaving now Hang on, Master Liao We're all depending on you, Master Liao Fucking bitch! There is not one who can fight in Fuoshan I thought everyone in Fuoshan is like Wong Fei Hung but actually they are worms All weaklings, can't even stand one blow Brothers, we didn't come here for nothing There is not one who can fight in Fuoshan This time we're going to get rich Brothers, we've got to keep working hard Open a martial art school in Fuoshan and let them know how good we are We got to be number one in Fuoshan You, country bumpkins! Won a few masters and you think you are damn good Win the best, then we'll say Who is the best in Fuoshan Of course it's Ip Man. Do you think it's me? Let's go Come! Come! See how we are going to win Ip Man Daddy, there is a lot of people outside Young Master, they.... You are Ip Man? I am Jin Shan Zhao. I've heard that Fuoshan is the town of martial arts I know, Master Jin, I know You've brought so many people to tell me that you want to challenge me, right? Of course! We are opening a dojo in Fuoshan We have to show our ability to them Opening a dojo, right? If you want to open a dojo, you don't have to fight with me You just have to find a good location and that's it. Please leave. Uncle Wang, bring Ah June in Ip Man Don't give any excuses Are you afraid and don't want to fight Fight! Fight! Fight! Do you think my house is a dojo?! Do you think you can just come in and fight and kill? Get out! You heard her. I won't fight with you Please leave immediately I heard that Wing Chun fist is developed by a woman I think it's very suitable for you Ip Man, you're really henpecked There is not anyone that is afraid of their wives but men who respect their wives Mrs. Ip, don't worry. I won't kill him If you are afraid that he would lose, I'll use one hand If not, I will not use both my hands Master Ip, fight Fuoshan have really disappointed me There are so many martial arts practitioner but there is none Shut up! Don't break anything in the house Give way! Give way! Give way! Give way! Give way! You bunch of.... You came at the right time. This is a small place Please ask all the people to go out and please close the door on your way out You must win back our reputation Let them go out! Quick! Faster! Faster! Out! Out! Out! Wing Chun, Ip Man I really like to see how a macho man uses a woman's martial arts Good kung fu does not have sex or age differentiation Have to see who is using it You will know immediately how it is fought Please I'll pay Good How is it? How is it? Who is better? I'll pay Daddy, mummy says if you won't attack, all the things in the house will be broken Okay... Little rascal! Be careful what you say! Boss Boss Boss Boss Master Jin, are you alright? I am okay How is it, Master Jin? Do you think my kung fu is okay? No need to say Today, the northern fist have lost to the southern fist You're wrong. The problem lies not within Northern or Southern Fist It lies within you Who lost and who won? No need to ask. Look at his pig face you'll know that he had lost Scram! Sifu Brother Man Okay, good show Master Ip You have saved the reputation of all the dojos in Fuoshan It's luck. It's luck I would say that you are the jewel of Kwangtung Thank you This has just been imported from overseas. Please, look around Mr. Ip, this is your wife's flowers Thank you Boss, how much is it? No need money, Master Ip You've brought glory to the people of Fuoshan How can I take your money? I can't don't pay? You're doing business, right? Really, there's no need to pay, Master Ip You're too kind Don't be The next time Okay, the next time Master Ip, have some fruits So kind For the kids How could you... Goodbye, Master Ip Thank you Little friend, for you to play Say, thanks Thank you No need to Thank you Take care Master Ip, how are you? Master Ip, how are you? Mrs. Su, how are you? This is not bad This is the best in our shop If this could be in your house it would be my honor You're kind Why is it so crowded? Uncle Man, Auntie You are so sly If you want to open a dojo Why didn't you inform me first? When did I say I want to open a dojo? The whole of Fuoshan knows about it Everyone in Fuoshan knows, except me Uncle Man, let me help you Sifu Master Fellow disciples Looks like you're the one who spread the rumor You've better fix this mess Come, walk yourself I don't care Ah Yeow must be your first student There you go again. This is not the first day you know me I'll never accept any disciples Quiet! We must observe rules. Once we observe rules, it will be right! Master Ip Master Ip Master Ip Master Ip The Luogouqiao incident erupted. (The Marco Polo Incident) The Japanese launch a merciless attack on the people. The people of China was in turmoil and suffered hunger. In October 1938, Fuoshan was sieged The Japanese destroyed factories, infrastructures and buildings is now left with 70 thousand people. Ip Man's house was taken over by the Japanese to use as headquarters Ip Man's family have nowhere to go. Life was very harsh... Wing Seng, I am going out for awhile. Will be back soon Wait It's cold outside. Wear one more Ip June Ip June, be careful. Don't hurt others Master Ip, I gave you a bit more Thank you very much No need to rush Next! You take this Once you have taken, leave immediately One by one. Line up This factory might be old but it's still not bad Fuoshan is now in a mass of confusion You've gone. Why come back? If I don't come back, where would the workers have money to eat My money is all invested here I still can't pay you now No need If you don't say, I would have forgotten about it This can't be. I'll treat it that you have invested here It might be little but it still have 10% of the shares Really, there's no need Stay and help me. After all you have a share in it Uncle Man Kwong Yeow You're here to help? That's great! With you to lead us, everyone would be more energetic and I can also watch you practice Wing Chun fist Stay and have your meals here. The workers are about to have theirs Yes, join us No need I still have things to do. Next time I am leaving now Father, why don't you ask Uncle Man to stay I understand him all too well Daddy, didn't you always practice martial arts? Why didn't you practice nowadays? If daddy move too much, daddy would get hungry That's why I move less, right? Uh, I understand Then I won't go out and play You will only stop playing today. Quick, eat Quick, eat This porridge is a bit starchy but somehow you have to eat something Come Careful, it's hot How much rice are there in the house Don't have to worry Whatever valuables in the house have been pawned Your husband have strength and energy I can go out and get a job Won't die You go out and work? Of course I have no need to before but now times are bad There is always a first time We have more than enough people here Not hiring anymore Boss, do you require any worker? No. We've enough Sorry to trouble you Boss, employ me You! You! You! Come up Boss! Boss! Master Ip, you're looking for a job? Come Come Thank you Brother Man Brother Man, the way you dress is not suitable for work How do I know that I'll be digging for coal?! Master Ip, how are you? How are you? Master Ip, how are you? Why are there so many sifus here? Right! The boss here used to practice martial arts That's why he like to employ those who knows kung fu Do you still practice kung fu? If there is time, I would come out and look for work, right? Go there and eat Okay Brother Man, I can't eat anymore Help me to eat some, okay? Eat a little How are sister-in-law and Ah June? They're fine. Thanks Have you found your younger brother? I haven't seen him since the last time he left I don't know if he is dead or alive I don't have a chance even to apologize You lost something? Yes, I've lost a steel box What kind of steel box Japanese soldiers! Japanese soldiers are coming! Fellow workers, this is Colonel Chuodeng The colonel admires Chinese kung fu and also knows that Fuoshan is the town of martial arts and like to find those who knows kung fu and spar with the Japanese Are there anyone who is willing to go? Are there anyone who is willing to go? Are there anyone who is willing to go? Sifu You just want us to be their sand bags Let me tell you, no way! Idiot! If you win there is a bag of rice Those who wins the fight will be awarded a bag of rice I'll go Crazy Lin, don't look for trouble I'll go I'll go too No, they have stolen our rice now is our chance to take it back. It's only fair Hey! Hey! Forget it! Help me find the steel box. Hey! It's alright. Come Be careful Come, come over and line up Quick Are there any more orders? No. Let's go Yes Sifu General Thank you, Sir Okay, good show Okay, good show Knock them down Let me go there and have a go They are not your match, General Sanpo Just treat it as to let them know our Japanese martial arts Find 3 guys to fight with me Even if they lost, they would still get a bag of rice Yes Don't say I didn't help you guys I've arranged with General Sanpo to fight with the 3 of you No matter win or lose, you'll still get a bag of rice It's okay if there is no rice. Most important thing is, is to beat them up Who will go first? I'll go! I'll go! Let go! Keep quiet! Crazy Lin! You! You! 3 men Ok Hey, you're vomiting blood. Stop fighting We've lost! General, they've admit defeat What nonsense! Do you really want to die? You bastard! Crazy Lin! How are you?! Crazy Lin! Crazy Lin! Are you tired today? Just digging coal. It's not tiring. I saw Crazy Lin today Really? How is he now? Still okay I've never thought I would meet him Master Li! Master Hung! Have you seen Crazy Lin? Crazy Lin? I've not seen him Let's eat first Yesterday, many people have gotten their rice General Sanpo is very satisfied Is there anyone willing to go today? Anyone wants to go? Li Chian Li Chian, where is Crazy Lin? Anyone wants to go? I am asking you. Where is Crazy Lin? I don't know You don't know? You are the one who brought him out Anyone wants to go? If you win, you get a bag of rice I'll go Master Ip is going, I am going I'll go I would like to fight with the Japanese Is there any more orders? No. Quick, go Thank you Can I still fight with 3 more men? He say, he wants to fight with 3 more men I won't fight anymore Why did they shoot? Li Chian Why did they shoot? Li Chian Why did they shoot? Who ask you to shoot? I saw that he had lost and still got the guts to take the rice That is why, I want to teach him a lesson This place is for martial arts only Don't ever fire your gun in here again Understood. General Sanpo, please cool down I will immediately arrange for the next fight Continue Anyone else still wants to fight? I will fight Li Chian, open the door Master Open the door! Please tell me. Is that how Crazy Lin died? Open the door! Master Open the door! Please open the door! I want to challenge 10 men You're crazy! Don't be like this! I want to fight 10 men He says he wants to fight 10 men Yes I would also like to see Number 5 platoon! Be careful Stop! Come again He wants you to come again I didn't come here for the rice He says, he will come again Hey! What is your name? He wants to know your name I am only a Chinese man... He is Ip Man You have to be careful from now on I don't know what Sanpo will do Traitor! Why am I a traitor? What have their deaths got to do with me? I am only a translator. I don't need to eat? I need to eat Need to eat? You saw your own country men being killed Do you have any dignity? I don't! You have! You have a lot! If you are so capable, why don't you kill them all? Kill 10! Kill 100! Kill 1000! I am a translator, not a traitor! I am a Chinese man! I am back Daddy You're back Are you a good boy? Yes, I am Ah June is a good boy Are you tired today? Let me go and wash my face first You are very nice I've discovered that I am really useless I can't do anything Before, I only know how to practice martial arts What can I do with it? This world... is really small I am really useless I don't care what the outside world is like I only know that I am very happy right now With you and me and Ah June and if this family don't split up then there won't be any problems The most important thing is that our family stay together Get down! Get down! Get down! Stand at the side! Stand one side! Stand one side! Who's the boss? Come out! I am I've just robbed your goods Now I want to sell it back to you Any objections? I've no money Don't hit my father Wing Chun! Fucking bitch! Wing Chun! Don't hit him! have you got money? No money Any money? Beat you until you've got money I didn't sell my goods. I don't have any money Uncle Man! Uncle Man! Come quick, save my father He's going to be beaten to death soon What is it, Kwong Yeow? Auntie I'll go and have a look. It's alright Let me tell you. I am very reasonable You don't have money now... Ok, I'll give you a little more time I'll keep the goods first Father, are you all right? I am ok. Go and help Uncle Foo Is there anything I can help? I've always thought that you practice kung fu is not practical Now I know it's quite useful If I've known, I would have learn some from you for self-defense At least I can block a few punches Uncle Man, why don't you stay and teach us some kung fu? Then we can protect ourselves and not afraid of being bullied Master Ip Your kung fu is so great. Please teach us Please, Master Ip. Please teach us Teach us, please Master Ip, please teach us I am a businessman Besides business, I know nothing else I can't protect them but you can Before, when it was peaceful, you said you don't want to teach Now, everything is so bad Don't you think you need to do something? I charge a high fee for teaching kung fu The fees for the students will be paid by you. You owe me another amount now! Uncle Man, I want to be your first student Daddy, I want it a bit higher Want a bit higher? Ok Why didn't Ip Man come again? I.... I don't know Find him here! But I really don't know where he is How can I find him? Fuoshan is not that big. How hard is it to find him? Fuoshan is really quite big No! I really don't know how to find him You're.... such a useless bum Enough! Bastard! Stone, scissor, cloth You all gang up against me Hide properly! Ah June Quickly, go and hide over there Here I come! Who will I find first? Master Why are you here? Sanpo wants you to go back and fight with him Let' go No way What are you doing? What are you doing? What do you want? What are you doing? Very pretty Shit! Let' go. It's not safe here Let' go, Wing Seng Li Chian You're....so useless! How is it possible that Ip Man escape? I'm sorry Even Colonel Chuodeng is unable to stop him It is really beyond my capabilities. I am sorry so useless! so useless! Give the order down Dig Ip Man out Yes Sisters Come Brother, eat first Master, how is he? It's alright. They are fine Master Coming Mrs. Ip See if you can wear this? How is it? Are you guys comfortable here? It's okay That's fine then. When it's time to eat, I'll call Li Chian I am fine I really don't know what to say Thank you very much It's okay We have to leave Fuoshan as soon as possible Qin Quan is finding a way out for us Go where? Hong Kong Actually, anywhere is fine with me I have some friends in Hong Kong If there is any problems What will happen to you? You will be fine Are you tired today? They are here again. Quick, run They are here again. Quick, run Have you prepared the money? We won't give you the money What did you say? I am not afraid of you. We are not easily bullied Rascal! Haven't got beaten enough, right!? Fucking bitch! Whoever resist beat them up Don't fight anymore No wonder you guys dare to resist you've got somebody as your bodyguard I came to Fuoshan to open a dojo You people insult me Today, you interfere in my business Fucking bitch! You want to force me until I have nowhere to go? No one forcing until you got no way out Ip Man, have you ever tried being hungry everyday? Nowadays, no one has a full meal On the first day when I came to Fuoshan, I said I never want to go hungry again I never want to suffer hunger again. Beat them up! Fight! Sha Dan Yuan, what are you waiting for? Go! Go! Go! Go! How to fight? Let' go Master, you're great Sha Dan Yuan Stopped! Do you know what you are doing? I know! I am a thief! You are robbing your own countrymen Rather than being bullied, I've rather bully others I want others to be afraid of me This is what your brother ask me to give you Don't ever mention him to me again Do you know that your brother is dead? He is killed by a Japanese Your brother have been looking for you all the while but was unable to find you Whatever path a man takes, is their own choice That bastard told Sanpo that you are in the cotton factory Please don't go back there I am going. Please don't go back there. Remember! Move quickly! Quick! Where is Ip Man? Where is Ip Man? Speak up! Everyone, please don't say You, come here Where is Ip Man? Speak up! Speak! Speak! Asking you! Hang on! I am thinking of a way Speak up! Speak! Speak! I am here. Ip Man is here Ip Man is here! Ip Man is here! I am here Li Chian Wait! Please wait! Wait! Li Chian, tell Sanpo, it has nothing to do with the workers Please tell him to let them go Asked you not to come! Why did you? Tell them! Chuodeng He dares beat me up! Why can't I kill him? I know what to do Li Chian Yes From the moment you resist the Japanese Army You are already a dead man But I saw that your skills are extraordinary, someone I could use That is why I am giving you one more chance to be loyal to the Japanese Imperial Army Teach our Imperial Army Chinese kung fu Then, you would have half the chance of surviving He says he admires you wants you to teach Japanese Chinese kung fu I won't teach Japanese! You really like to see me fight then I'll fight with you! He says, he will really consider to be an instructor He would also like to spar with General Sanpo Bring him back Take him away Qin Quan, take my wife and kid, and leave Fuoshan General, do you really want to fight with Ip Man? Of course! He is a highly skilled kung fu master But, look at him He don't want to be the instructor of the Imperial Army He have other motives for wanting to fight with you Please don't fight with him Just let me put a bullet through him He knows he is better. That's why he wants to fight with you If I don't accept the challenge and kill him then what is the difference between admitting defeat? General fighting with a Chinese man is not a personal concern but It also the concern of Japan as well Are you saying I will lose? I am just being cautious I will definitely win I also want the whole of China to know Yes, I know I didn't kill you and want you to be the instructor is because I admire your skill in kung fu but I don't think that Chinese martial arts is better than Japanese martial arts because we will be fighting in front of all those people That is why, this should be a fair fight You occupied my country. Killed my country men Take back your insults Excuse me Let go of my mother Let me go! Let me go back! I've promised Ip Man. I won't let anything happen to both of you Going back is too dangerous I heard that a Japanese is having a duel with a Chinese Who is it? Ip Man! Look at this place, it's all sealed up I used to hope that he accompany me everyday That's why I reprimanded him and his martial arts practice Every time he fights with someone I would throw my temper I've never really supported him to do what he likes to do Now, this may be his last fight I am afraid there won't be a chance from now on Why don't you give me that chance? Why? General Sanpo says, he wanted to strengthen Sino-Japanese Cultural exchange Today, with Master Ip here, will be a fair fight Exchange of ideas. Friendship through martial arts To realize Sino-Japanese peace Fair fight!? Really sounds good, huh? Look at that traitor's face! Sooner or later he will be killed by the Japanese You're right! Master Ip is coming What did General Sanpo spoke to you about? Talk about the fight? I really don't care Listen carefully! If you win the fight I will kill you immediately with my gun Remember! Yes Please, don't win the fight with Sanpo If you win, he will kill you Be careful for your life. That is most important Martial arts may be a form of brute strength but in our Chinese martial arts system but it includes many ideals and philosophy Martial arts rules, which is also compassion. To help others This is what you Japanese will never never understand because you use this strength and change it into brutal power to terrorize others That is why you are not fit to learn Chinese martial arts Due to Ip Mans resistance to bow down to Japanese, the people of China finally began to unite With the help of his good friend Qin Quan, Ip Man and his family finally escape from Fuoshan. The Japanese announced that they are surrendering unconditionally. The people of China have scored a victory, in the war that had lasted 8 years. In 1949, Master Ip Man stayed in Hong Kong, and in Kowloon Restaurant Workers Union he taught the first class of Wing Chun fist. Which started a new direction for Master Ip Mans life. Wing Chun Fist, as of today, have spread all over the world and is one of the well known kung fu style. Ip Mans disciples is estimated to be well over 2 million. There are many great disciples of Wing Chun. Among them was superstar Bruce Lee.
