 

                        Dad, His Disciples on television behold Really? He has to find the father? There. Each tea then brought his father Yip Man is my father Superficially looked elegant scholar grapes But no doubt he high is the martial Forestry Served as Professor of an international martial arts star My dad is the capital of the rich, My mother came from notable in Foshan At first I have to diet, until the Japanese attack Our organization now held by the Japanese, arduous life becomes extremely My two girls starving to death at the time. Father always told me, macho in four media If you have the opportunity to go out building a career In 1949, but announced Chronic stomach pain But alone to Hong Kong Boss, ask this address? Opposite. Thank you I came right I immediately. Who is it? They Diep, I find Ly Van Ye masters Van has not, but he told me his hospitality Thank you I am a Food Song Heard Ye teacher very popular in Foshan Do not know have the opportunity to the way with him? Given the opportunity. Or is today offline I wanted to attack him I was not eating, zombie Hungry? There are now I also practice martial But never try to attack with Wing Chun I'd love to know what it is right Wing Chun is due founding a women? But heard very dangerous to Ye masters, since you no right, we can start right away I will clean up site wide No need If I am out of paper plates, as he wins Are you okay? No Ye masters, let me make disciples Eating rice and says Yip Man, the last battle Teacher, which is the specialty of Hong Kong, mixed rice dish, I try to go Mixed rice dish, all in one dish Yes, no need to wash a lot of dishes Era now no longer play Four savory 1 soup. Also a long time ago not to eat Four savory 1 soup. Recently, a lot of people to Hong Kong, difficult life If there is no store that ensure, very difficult to find work. But your master has many grades, will certainly find. Who ensure Teacher, teacher does not need to do more, open the Kung-Fu master, is that If not needed, I also do not want to do that I do not want to teach martial arts? Martial arts can teach, but do not want to open the Kung-Fu Everyone, over here I recommend to everyone, Here is Michelle master Hi Michelle master Michelle master from Foshan. Wing Chun's teacher was very dangerous After this he's going to borrow our terrace Everyone helps clean up spacious place for a little Quynh, ten, come take this stuff home Teacher, this party One if the skill often or very personality Personality too will not be shop dared guaranteed. Will not hire you But the always-voltage If at first, the teacher find an office job Maybe he will not be able to become the most religious university professor Or if I was not President of the General Assembly of Hong Kong There are certain voices General Assembly not to master martial rooftop I also do not have the capacity, introduce Wing Chun with friends and workers Dumplings tiny clinic here This is soot Breakfast, Tran ten She enjoyed watching martial arts novel Want to be like the hero of the novel, union staff means This is Dang Thanh, police Except the teacher, students had very little talk to the other monk brotherhood So much to him to the heart, not tell others This is Ly Quynh, workshops queen Characters are very strong, righteous Generally or on behalf sisters in the studio, for the right interests of workers Plowing, plowing fields This is Jiro, guards First he learned Wing Chun is very fast But the teacher or talk to him like such as buffalo, especially the way Five tons of drive power First was with Jiro as friend Wanderer from land, private property But there are three types of teacher does not teach Stupid is not taught Wise words not taught Who do not have a stable job also not very elaborate study I feel the reason the master become the most religious university professor Because he's very direct style of teaching Spontaneous For students to acquire very quickly Itching of hands, everywhere competing with others Not calculated Is it not so? want to do? Talking nonsense? The two men? The two chess too bad, there is no way at all You have a good, say it again He said that this is the flag, while he is shit The boys now want to eat much blow? Delicious hit. Afraid of what the people Know martial arts? Learn anything? Wing Chun. Despite us now Spring we head now I would like to project, fight, quickly sent people to Do not run The person cracking map my what? What is it? Receive money. Anew This time to play the blind ... the mute or deaf guy? Brotherhood with each other, To also want us parents in jail Dang Thanh Two of us are working for the British I'm not afraid of you You do not think they very dangerous He started, I guard You catch on, eventually also because I guard You tell me, who is more dangerous Better parent, but the parent tank map, it was reported to the police Police serving. The parents told me how to do His responsibility, thought I taught for one year You out of the mess I taught for one year more I fear you beat people to death, also beaten people died Master martial arts useful without making war? The war does not mean that the quarrel The most important of martial arts is training the body But that teacher, trained body there are many ways Can run, jump rope, soccer, swimming So why do not you go jogging? Do not master anymore I taught you to swim, you can swim Swimming How far, how deep, also be in the water to save people But do not push others into the water Elaborately not be used to fight Who promote human institutions, guys who take ethics for human Martial arts, the most important is the virtue I fine you Polished wooden Teacher Ball good people who want to do But reality Not because we decided But that can not do the best But try not to harm others But sometimes you do not know Should? Black and white right and wrong I do not know the difference By conscience or by a majority? I think the technical Vinh City, Vinh City English Education Hong Kong specialties, mixed rice dish Tofu mushrooms, tofu beef Considered as four savory. I eat Why do not you eat? If Standard is also good here, as could He told me to put it together that Also you said before to see the situation Standards are assessed in good schools in Foshan, I do not want it to change the environment Okay, after this it came The three of us, call another one plate, Dinner only Also thought this blanket warm enough Who expected the weather to be cold, Apply early, do not cover the true England warm up for How cold hands? For I pass internal work you Later then come again? To him, the outside wind to much Teacher Late so what? We also gift you want to increase the sample Master model, she's beautiful Thank you No trouble master rest. Sleep master, master samples Goodnight I also think you will have a lot of words to tell you I also think so I am old and have wrinkles Do not look at me that way He was farsightedness, do not see the wrinkles You away from the bit, I see? Almost better At that time, the 3 electrical one coal industry Hong Kong's strike All other Assembly Unecessary The relationship between the boss and workers increasingly worse Chairman of the Assembly's me caught in the middle, are puzzling Last meeting, arguing more negotiations Head of me in the studio Did not take one day off Boss fired her in a heartbeat The world is no boss such loss of faith? Blacks do not provoke, we sat down to discuss? The owner of the restaurant we were, not lack four children 2 months salary Dismissal of pregnant workers Liang Song, parent is chairman of the Assembly The Assembly has the help we do not? President Luong, my boss fired me since joined his Assembly Now I lost my job, to do? Family of 6 hours with no income Now there is nothing to do, he told me knife to the road kill? I can understand, but support is also useless. Everyone calm down? This calm is? All of us strike But boss knows the importance of workers If we set the strike, can not turn back anymore I hate the parents of this frail He's not weak, that he was only protecting their rice bowl. In his new boss' got lucky money Lucky new year. Lucky is open Everyone has. Said to be a little objective But lucky wave of more She said what? You do not slander me You see I get big red packets since when? Hearts in order to know Listen to me here Strikes are useful, people have already read it Bus workers, has been what they want But they were chased president of their In turn teachers and teacher Who can help? It is that people give blanket Loud it useful? Do not our cup of rice tank Do not talk nonsense What's said is said, not loud women Do not point at me, I said it. She loudly before Liang Song, he helped right? I would like to ask people not to see I helped all so many stars? You help us? You know I do not have enough food? Dying here. And you only really speak to outsiders What? Want to fight? Everyone is a house, What are you doing? Do not do that To the Bar, drop the Everyone heard me say first A home without unity Why can fight with outsiders? Vinh Thanh, you mad at me? I'm thinking, in Hong Kong also not good Foshan better material. Stop the car, do not let go Higher wages, higher wages Strike, strike Strike, strike Higher wages, higher wages Strike, strike Strike, strike Forced them back Disperse Obey. Okay boss? Go Let me go This is not the first time, this percentage was even more so Mark West I am just a small police. No help at all Hope teacher felt How long have you not come to study martial arts? Lately I'm too busy Morning workers go on strike Evening gatherings illegal Saturday also have to learn English Sunday training gun To this level exam very important for children Teacher Master form in Hong Kong are familiar? That's good Ly Quynh really hit injured West? Rate was not out of hand but billions go with these people Do not need roads? Next time you visit the master sample, stamp teach players Police four guns, of others Our fist is Guns can be dropped Fist can not be used with his Master invited me Air can circulate, bright eyes Sir, I want the boss to drop Ly Quynh Ly Quynh, you're serious? She beat me hurt Sorry boss Sorry boss Sorry Ly Quynh, was then Me as well as you, now let me go as well as he I do not know whether to thank you not Sisters, want to solve the problem not need to manually I just know you are making bastards Dogs? Dang Thanh to? I called to him, I'm sure today as party history form What do you say? He said. Overall, I would have called him How many people? Liang Song master can invite both an old friend to It has grace can meet such Invite the boss Li tea Such people do not call us I do not do long boss I remember the boss Li enjoys drinking Jade signs, I have prepared this Michelle wife, polite too, money too Where there Things are different now and then Now more arduous life Meet the old country where land At the Japanese attack may also be the home of Mr. and Mrs. favor About small thing Yaohua parents, I Parent 1 glass cup Any tea Sir pipes When pipes of Buddhist painting, when it will come down again? Wait Standard summer going down Standards are assessed in a very good school Congratulations congratulations To chicken. Invite people, master meal Dinner only Who advised the chicken feed I'm good then. Feeding chicken thighs To tell thanks We do not eat chicken, intended for children six Be Yes, Mrs. Lee Be Six? Mommy I do not eat chicken. Do not sell them I do not sell you that We're still not understand? I Friday is not eating chicken which was sold by her mother Because mother sale Friday we have the money to eat Mother not want to sell them Which is your father Sorry Lady Mommy Both the 8 people sitting at the table but do not have enough food Sell ??one child, 7 have something to eat Gabble The currency can be knocked down heroes I said what martial arts is useful Friends difficulties that did not help either Keep technical papers Standard on the new school year need a lot of things This shirt brought to or left? Leave, for you I will edit buttons and pockets That was the last time I met Professor form, After the sample of Buddhist painting. Because to take care of her son and foreign So do not come to Hong Kong again Teacher living in Hong Kong alone, surface normal Just joke around with them disciples But I also see the master sitting lonely alone Amnesty tiny dumplings Beet Cake Amnesty tiny dumplings To the right Take away, the latest episode. Do you eat? Dumplings tiny clinic here For 1 per limited Turkish Now move the position, do not fold Slowly, you know? I know Where to look? Look here He Qing Remember to help us later Her blood entertained him go He Qing It was hot like this, took off his hat I'm not so hot. He, who, shallow glass Take this Is bald. Pay for my hat I go by before He entertained not caring, I do not hesitate, next to ahead For him Thank you boss At that time, the elders are teaching good men do not police Police are we saving slim permits covering prostitution gambling West, that the police Managing everything Just do not camp in Kowloon City Including dirt, Full gambling, drugs, prostitution The police do not want to Normal to it, at best to the road next dental Find cheap dentist dental In the camp, who was the greatest Teacher, sitting across That certainly is the case then At that time delta into the camp with a big brother Foreign name is Address First Long On a storm stormy night He did not know where to appear. Now chair of the camp Holding one flag, shouted 3 hours From that day Land Early Long holding a crescent knife ... with mighty legal charges Forced their way into the camp State 64, University of hostilities 36 battle Later this place was run Finally Address First Long has dominated the entire camp Actually called Local First Long? Of course, he This is where Emperor After Post as sergeant, very seldom to find us PC1759 But occasionally he also sent money to Bother you give Michelle master Is of paying tuition Professor to Professor soot, other than money Also tried to take care of the master Master, taking Carefully heat Diabetes But in 1953, I failed when re-elected president of the Liang Song Ouyang Tri Minh admitted Workers do not choose me as their average But the teacher can not be used terrace of the opportunity to teach her again Brother to discuss ... money to open the Kung-Fu master For teachers to work Teacher who did not want to open Kung-Fu We I recommend all words, new teachers agree But he should die, not shall display the sign in front of the Kung-Fu The reason is ... After hanging ie business Martial arts is not abalone, not have money to buy Let me go Do you think you would avoid me? Hours over two days, he should force me like that? I was dead, he would not be beneficial I will not let her die easily Let me go Enough, how much she owed him? Interest this month is always 10 The money, then leave He did not go? Get along Thank you, when you have money I will pay you immediately No need Blood withdrawal I tried that but it did not succeed They say life as a dream I say dream as life Good master opening flourish, more and more students Mark well as I do All day just said loading Phet Shallow cup Master wishes? Children less irritating then we happy then Said soot. Said parent, Teacher What is it? Come away, do not say anymore Girls often talk a hamlet hamlet cancer Teacher, in fact ... I have a job to statement to everyone and Quynh going to kiss Let go Choose good wife like me Congratulations, shallow cup Quynh billion insurance rates do not worry that Percentage not have e Ten, we jump Master, let's jump ahead Get along Along go They say life as a dream I say dream as life Short life, special glass melt Hurry hurry Aging. The youth Light at night Quiet of the morning Angel of hell U soul heaven At you startled the province from dreams You have to go all the way Thank you Thank you Thank you Hi everyone Best Ni, she took the microphone, I picked up the pen Should I write few lines in the newspaper famous for her? No need Both women, she do not tell me, you sell assets, not bust now Let me take him 1 cup Be Thank you Good drink too I added 1 cup half Run away? Get out. To see her run away Alright. That's enough Old, out of fears others? Too spicy, too spicy Help, spicy too Sorry. Old, very well Wing Chun we of course have to be then Lady okay? I'm alright What first name? No need She sings very well Thank you The village suspended Hurry up Master Wing Chun reviews Bach Hac sent us Excessive Sent White Crane us with the people, River water did not violate the well water Why beat my disciples? Who is there to you? . Two teacher, this is the name said Bach Hac parties we useless He cursed second home. Hit him To reach 11 hours In line Oil Ma Location there was a fight ... that one can not forget Delegation of the famous Bach Hac pitted against the new sect Wing Chun .. To avoid winning martial throne even religious in origin port Delicate of the two parties a day, hundreds sword drawn slick polished In a moment the land dark sun, you cry after Grand Master of Wing Chun sect Teacher, they called him Ip Mon Ye Mon levitation of them, the waste body Cast Ye Mon Ngoc Nu interested break the prisoner's Song For Bach Hac Ye Mon fall into the extremely dangerous Surrounded by hundreds of disciples sent Bach Hac not flinch escape within yes Told you so Teacher We are writing to like a turtle I read it We must teach them a lesson Does not always need to manually Must have I want to write a few letters to the newspapers, first post-war ceremony. Shopping chlorophyll intensive galaxy offers Welded rear position to parse li Xuan Phong any money dance This verse say? Did it say about the name Michelle Mon No license to Diep, which is the master Yip Man Yip name Even his life remains stable. Why let the disciples out of the quarrel This report just talking nonsense Which is not so Message rampant option stabilize the Jiangnan University north to west flow Stoic religious family name in question Sophisticated bearings approximate u Michelle master said although his four sea is But there is nothing to worry Furthermore he stoic from the body There is a separate field But he did not know Sophisticated enemy of good extreme Just hit, just write Between ten quick, opening at Michelle master here? Who found him? Teacher inside At lower right is Wuzhong Bach Hac This is a small gift Let me entertain Wu master I am the brother, of course I Wu teacher in person, I must entertain I have read the poetry of Wu teacher, sublime scene I also love poetry Michelle's teacher is the Do not know the question? Sophisticated bearings approximate u That the more I want to know Wing Chun is nothing special Master Wu want closure competing? Domains, domains Catholics Out of go Ten, let us see Hit him go master, type Sorry, Ye masters, nearly bit more damage the character of the house he Thanks to his commitment, Wu master Wu master Ye masters Trying to learn good Let go Let go The neighbors, then please support for Ngo My Subscriptions Okay Teacher not angry? Angry instead Dress Learn Wing Chun half, imitate others open Kung-Fu This tea cup is still used Parent had asked him? There The parents had told Kung-Fu's parents did the opposite? So do not Teacher, I do not know why he can take it anymore Ye masters His suit was significant No bags, no buttons A piece that's enough Orange tomatoes too? My stomach is not good, can not eat Then you can not eat sour Sorry, do not waste food In fact, Ms. Tran Ni, she find me? Actually I went to a bookstore Find the envelope fears Pass this up to thank him Write a letter? I want to send a letter to my aunt Former mountain Kim Send a picture Used to do tomorrow Address. I do not know English So get someone new I'm in Hong Kong Study abroad programs Or let me help you Be Recipients write Chinese? I think Chinese writing, does not matter Will she find a spouse Pirates Do not run The police, the police arrived Police to behold Police beat My big brother is Local First Long lm Dang Thanh I've heard his name What's outspoken I listen to his players down I love to help people Help, I will help If help is not, nor I also heard West boss who is selected candidates take positions Chinese growth I know also that many But, I feel Khoai Kim chief part ... does not help anyone He was not against him Really? He should work with people with skill I also love helping people Dang participate I just sergeant Money here Enough to help him sit up Chief chair involved It turned out because you want me to take the chief Yes Can you do participate chief help a lot of people, like helping someone, Day is the day of natural climate Outsiders that Wuzhong of the Bach Hac win I argue that Wei Ba Thien's Kung-Fu Chan Wei wins He felt he was going to help anyone? No smell Heard from right, accompanied by my What to do? Do not talk much anymore, What are you doing? Let me go, let me go Phu continent What is it? Follow us Master, two brothers was arrested by the police and . So we have to go? Can not be overcome Professor Clear Master, Dang Thanh filed in the other side Him to not offer an English teacher? Sit down before Teacher, which are aimed at the roller Wu's master that attacked Teacher Top Gripped your waist Chan Wei to fight or lion dance? To help children go Clearly, the teacher Now what? To quantify, for the protection of senior officials to leave Everyone follow me Withdrawal Ye masters, carefully sleeve he has Puppet master, stop arms Who can defeat Wei Ba Thien us Will listen to him Puppet master, have sinned and You did well. We go All my drugs very effective Added claws application and lobster liver Apply outside or drinking are Life is too difficult, to drink alcohol drug Do attorneys do easy subjects Others see Grand Master we laugh laughing said There are actually a lot of pressure Ye masters, he understood most Before my wife Like me because I know martial arts Very influential, very safety Then open marriage Kung-Fu There are many people to the ratio of experimental She felt dangerous, unsafe I would rather be married to driving instructor, teaching ... better martial He saw her quick change? Actually Wu master Brilliant poetic lyrics, poetry swell Teaching would not be a problem Michelle even better teacher But can not blame her Every day they save up to billions of experimental But I think a good way Wu master how? I just tell him that, very simple I told the people to rate candidates Now I go to lock the door, My key to the If you beat me to death, can get the key out If not, he quickly runs away, certain I'll beat you to death. The rest of the name? Remaining name To like the liver do my disciples rather than stars. Good students seeking master difficult Teacher looking good disciple .. More difficult Words so true Come, drink tea Ye masters, his stomach is not good, eating to pay attention These dishes are home-cooked by me Par with restaurant Only slightly salty. I returned the money to her No need I've washed and If you like to eat I could cook for him anymore Wake up, know what time it is? Wake up Wake up, it's time to do it Her you go very relaxed I'm afraid She was afraid of what I'm afraid when I die Besides no one Hello Well, wait a minute Ye masters, he phones By her side? Ye masters He okay? rampant unemployment At that time I was in Foshan, life and stability But in July of that year, I ill mother died At the time my mother died, I always by her side Ye first born okay, just shocked Thank you doctor They brought his father to the hospital Mary After the father woke up, can hurt too Do not recognize who Teacher Teacher Why teacher did not recognize us? Permanent Member Do you still remember me? What are you doing here? Matchmaking is not fast? I have found it Inside this a bit further, then Teacher, smile Preparation. Let me stand next to his wife Another sheet After marriage, Jiro from the guards The reason I do not know Later than for food, students decided to open Kung-Fu To him by Master write a few words where signs Teacher named signs for student's There are few disciples felt Master injustice In fact, only by Jiro dare open my mouth please If others speak Teacher also treat them like If you hang signs Will have to apply for, I do not want to teach They must think of a good reason No wonder guru does not want to hanging signs Because according to the personality of the teacher, he refused ie deny you He does not pretend to you But Jiro need money, son about to be born So just have people to enroll the students that are receiving But Kung-Fu Jiro humid East Also that Interested billion experimental arena in the camp? Canopy has won five games in a row and then Win lots of money Bar Sisters No, we're not interested Be Filed earlier. Think carefully Jiro Wing Chun, won 10 consecutive games With the situation now, I am satisfied that I will instead of keeping the money If Wing Chun. Suddenly losing one game, I was more satisfied More satisfied huh Be Satisfied than Satisfied than Wing Chun can easily lose that? Do you understand that? Michelle master martial? He is his son? After my mother died, My father often told me in Hong Kong Take half a day, new found father's Kung-Fu ... Amphibious in Shenzhen Speaking of walking, I did not keep up with their packaging Tea each day is done, we are everywhere Like father took me to the Middle Complete We went through the Central Superior Completion, he would show me the shop Says shop boss is an old friend at his school Even Deng million Super also a friend of the father But he did not find a friend Dad always, not like someone else I have never forced me to do anything Just do not force me to learn Wing Chun, or to Kung-Fu help In fact, as the son of Yip Man, no different than his disciple Dad, I found a job and then Just at the time he more than just At that time, I have always found a woman bring rice to I asked him how vocative He said: To call whatever So I call her her province If there is a guy in the next care published I feel more secure Dinner only Flavor? Not bad, delicious After one time traveled, I worked night shift in a shipping company The main treatment records, worry about eating and sleeping But when the holidays I will certainly be back home, dinner with dad Hello of the brotherhood billion soot, happy new year Standard Until then, huh? Sit down, going to have enough food Standard, the work of the child? Also Dislike about Kung-Fu Happy New Year, joy funding The cake can bring fried, soup is also Give me Thank you He ignored her. Until then, food and Do not be polite. Teacher teacher's favorite shrimp dish New year, lucky teacher for four Last night I lucky to cabinets, let me go get I quickly ate fighting large No need Teacher Nursery, received the go I told you do not need that Thank you master Do not be so Where she must master sample Dinner only What people eat Everyone, my little bit more to the night I'm not polite I eat Teacher We can recover blanket basis for the form? What are you doing? They do not want people care for him You do not have discomfort, the wheel will slowly eat all I just worry evenings you no blanket to cover This house because we students rent contribution He did not want to bother us anymore Why? Back pain? Not go to the hospital, to go to the doctor but I heard people say, drinking this stuff out He tried drinking offline Also better than he hug abdominal pain this Drink Not for him to drink this stuff anymore You see I like abdominal pain Drugs not try even once, I forget how my friends die? I do not want to see him suffer like that I do not blame you I do not blame you Thank you I told them so out of the car Be Summer 1962 He rented a house. United Enlightenment in me At that time she was in provincial visit announced But gradually more and less, I do not know the cause In that official taught me Wing Chun Special Bulletin, the government announced As of today, the amount of water HK will offer only four hours Downstairs to turn the water off What? Turn off the water Be Here this At that time a disciple of master more and more There are a few who are rich They often drive procession to his home dojo master So there are some rumors Privacy father because of that dojo, download in money Lotto Results Hong Kong Winning prize number is 0342087 Observatory predicted Coastal will have gust 3 Storms to strike Hong Kong Then will be able to wind more jerk Observatory urged in the house, prepare the prevention Away from the window position. Map? No way Now spectators I beat Wing Chun. He is unsatisfactory may canceled game Without me, people know who you are, huh? He said that he was the true master station? Want through arch bridge? I can lift you up, also his bike down East Elementary East, to mother hanging clothes helps father I buy Jiro 100 I bought 40 Quynh billion, billion watched State East East to help children Four are storms, salt is going? Give him one gift Bet today very happy Please? Beat him to death, up to 5 times I also want to make you happy But want to beat him to death is not easy Do not worry, wait some more He was going to help him Signature to help me with Be East England, with his disciples? Receive. He Agrees ... ... I write to address this brotherhood East England, gave him a bottle of coca, wish him victory Thank you I see Let go Mark goes British East Hit him go Radio, East they lower it Mau save him go Hit him go Stop No, continue to play Stop hand Now you play online? Or is the game winning Matches whatever, here is my management I do not need to know this one-run I have to bring my brother Continue playing East East East He did it go? Mau go away If not even Pregnant women are also highly Who are you? To do? I was Yip Man, I came to the disciples Ask Local First Long? Where is he? Inside Thank you Eastern people down toxic East East East, try to Teacher to take us home Teacher Eastern people down toxic Bar Brought him to the police station. Hit the ring, by the sun network I do have something lost disciples, teacher to mess If you really hit the ring I have nothing to say Now he is taking another network Must have an explanation but His disciples are not good at martial arts, made me lose money Now also take people to mess  Bar The police, was not quick start This is a camp, the police can not control East, try to Teacher Thanh, I ask you If people catch them out of the camp Would be easy for Police work is not it? Just need them out of the camp Manual lowering of the children will catch them Then bother you ... ... bring East and mosquitoes out Conservative lowering of the outside waiting Listen to the teacher, go Clear Give first hand Stop Bar, go go Go Yip Man, this place does not he run I have no interest in this place, it comes to managing people I see how he operated Let's go Give them away Teacher Are you okay? One day in 1968 Dad told me to go visit her provincial lung cancer I with my father to the hospital Spirit Food In it, the way to get there is very difficult To sit car, boat Longer have to walk a long On the way, the father can not say no to me A piece that's enough My stomach is not good Sorry, do not waste From when he found out ... rice I bring not because I do The first time I brought you already know Salty dishes at Binh Profile Why did not you say? But not say better Doctor says I do not understand I remember you .. What is most afraid of? He ensures You're not alone She provincial death Dad always at her side They say life as a dream I told the dream life Brief moment, make you happy Rush rush You hurt, mournful Announced a disciple Learn martial arts with people He studied four years before the U.S. Time to return has become international martial arts star Teacher Long time no see This is the disciple of the Engineers, nice to meet you Sit down Offers master sitting I remember the master do not like to drink cold tea No need, we can do it I have U.S. smokers try? No cigarette butts? Teacher No need, I like to walk To the master teacher practices Teacher tired? You need the car? And why not? I heard the master agreement with the I want to know the master may see me as a disciple? How do you get to do master? Master, of course Wing Chun could not change If you can not change the copy progress Teacher I want him back the way wood Back? I want to spread everywhere Spread, is After the shoot, I will give him ... a new house. At the appropriate time, I will come Dad told me to go back to the scene he practiced with rustic human He told this video is everyone's Dad need a break? Wing Chun is everyone's Interesting ethical desert Bon took parts only chlorophyll Currency itself is a positive effect Internal peripheral essential completion Wing Chun, most great religious master Yip (1893 - 1972)
