 

                        Please God, one more wicket, I will instantly go to the mosque... sorry, not instantly, after my son is born... just one more wicket. Okay, son, let's see if Kapil can create magic Wake up... wake up Iqbal Wake up... It's 9 o' clock Who sleeps till 9 o' clock? Wake up. It's all your mother's fault. Spoilt you bloody rotten. We have rules in this house and we will follow them. Good for nothing. Today's the last day of his freedom. I'm He is a 20-year old dunce Is the bike in good condition? -Of course... I wouldn't sell it if I wasn't desperate. Cycling to and from work will give me more exercise. I have no idea where you put it, but I love to watch you eat. Your father needs the money but he's too proud... ...to beg the government for free electricity. You better hurry up and get famous before we go completely broke. Water... to drink, not pour on face. You did it again. Never take your eyes off the ball. It is not a stupid excuse! Just wait till I show you what I brought, ...then you're going to fall on your knees and beg my forgiveness. I can't understand if you go so fast. I'm sure you understand this -Goodbye! Move, Kapil... He always finds a spot and sets up house. Don't forget what I told you about the "in-swinger". And finally, don't forget the three things necessary to bowl an in-swinger. Okay, see you tomorrow. ...and that's all for today. How was the crop this time? -Good... but electricity is always a problem. -Aunty! Hello aunty. -God bless you. Aunty, lbi didn't come? No. He's got exams. Kapil... Kumble... Harbhajan... Balaji... ...and who is this? -This is our latest addition - Irfan! These buffaloes must be very confused females with male names. Let's go. I'll take it when I can give you something in return. Like father, like son. Please allow me to help. We are doing really well and... ...actually Abdul insisted that I loan you some money. You can pay me back. You know I have no ego when it comes to you... ...but Anwar, never. Tonight we are in for a long lecture on lbi from dad. Ibi is so smart, lbi studies so well, Why can't you be more like lbi? Lbi is so well-read, lbi this... Ibi that... Ibi is absolutely brilliant. Top marks in everything. I'm going to make him into an engineer. You know I'm not competing with you. I know... My Iqbal's a dreamer. He'll make me proud one day. I don't think he is old enough to work in the fields. But old enough to eat like a man and sleep like one. I'm sure he understands every word, don't you, Iqbal? Please, son, it is not too late... ...you can't tend buffaloes and dream all your life. Look at lbi. Look how smart he is. He's doing something with his life. I know you can't do the same things... but I raised you to never think of yourself as handicapped. Learning farming will help you earn a living... and you also serve the nation that way. Okay... everyone listen up he has asked for more time ...and I've given him one more year. One year. And after that he'll work with me in the fields. I, a disgraced poet... ...bid farewell ...bid farewell. This is what I was trying to give you since the afternoon. Now leave me alone I have my homework to finish. It is my fault. I should have continued his education. If you had the money you would have Bombay. At least he would have friends in school. All his childhood friends have moved My son is still a happy boy. Don't worry, Anwar, he will make something of himself. Are you the best? What did he ask? -He asked me why I did this... I said that I didn't want to become... ...an old nanny before I see him play for the national team. Also my back is killing me crouching here day after day. How long have you been doing this? -Me about 6 months. He's being doing it for the last 2 years, every day. You speak a lot and he doesn't utter a word. He's deaf and dumb, sir. But he can read lips if you speak slowly. You're sister says you're the best in the whole world and there is no one in my academy who can match up to even a hair on your head. He bowls better than he talks... not that he can talk but... Come! As if they're going to go anywhere. Let's see if you're wasting my time. One moment, sir. What did you tell him? To do exactly what he does everyday... The thing is when he plays every day, his only spectators are buffaloes. So I said to him to think of all of you as buffaloes. Tomorrow 5 PM. Now we follow your dream. There is absolutely no way your father would agree. We have no choice. You're right, kids. We can't lie to your father... okay... we don't tell him anything. Brother is milking the buffaloes. Father will become suspicious. Smart ass, you don't need to worry about it. It's not a good idea. What's going on? -Why? What happened? I'm absent-minded but I'm not an idiot. That lazy boy is milking the buffalos?? He does it every day. This early in the morning? He's happy that you gave him a year and wants to show you his appreciation. I'm not buying it. There's something going on. I'm sure I'll find out soon enough. Hurry up. You're getting late for school. I'll make sure he sleeps late tomorrow. Is that okay with you? This is Iqbal and his sister Khadija. Iqbal is a special case he is deaf and dumb. I want you boys to be considerate. Since he is a bowler he will join your group, Ajit. There is a huge difference... ...when there is a batsman between you and the wickets isn't there? Your pace is great... ...but if you can't wield it like a weapon, you might as well be tossing lollypops. Sorry, I translated face instead of pace. I said he must use his face as a weapon and toss lollypops. Sir, could you speak a little slowly? Just tell him that it's not enough to have natural talent, it must be developed and finely honed. I guess I should be happy that things have returned to normal. What a lazy boy! God make him more responsible. Close your eyes. Not this time for you, sweetie. -Okay. You a keep watch on dad. -I don't need to... ...his snores can be heard in the next village. How you grip the ball is the starting point from which everything else follows. For the next week we will concentrate on your grip. Kamal, if you're more interested in his shoeless feet, then I suggest two laps... without shoes. Iqbal come here. Take this. Come fast, come. Khadija! What are you waiting for? Go take your father's bag. Yes, mother. Dumb-ass! Deaf ass... ...dumb and deaf ass. Why don't you take you and your sister's sorry asses out of here? For your information, I can hear... ...and if you speak facing him he can understand too. You're so stupid. What did he say? Ass. Why the hell were you not wearing a helmet? I bet you were showing off. Khadija, you and Iqbal wait in my office. I know it wasn't an accident. I also know Kamal made fun of you... ...and Khadija. But I've told you repeatedly that you have to control your temper. Only Kamal has a problem with me. Well, he was the star here until you showed up. It just won't work. No sir, you cannot do that. This has been my dream, sir. I've waited all my life for this and... My hands are tied, son. There are other forces at work here. Kamal's father is far too valuable to the academy. I've done all I can. Please don't beg, son. Please, just leave. What happened? What? No, no. It's not me. No, no. It's not me. Yes... it's me. That was a long time ago... ...in my previous life. Okay... me... and you... ...what are you doing... I don't understand anything. I don't understand what you are saying. You must be out of your mind. I am going to teach you to bowl? It's just not possible kid. What good is it? You want to become like me? ...no no it's not possible... no NO! Now get out of here! Go Don't stop dreaming son. Till when are you going to do this? Huh? I have the rest of my life to drink... ...but you are wasting the best years of your life. What kind of ridiculous test is this... ...please tell him not to waste his time here. You'll keep doing this everyday till I give in? Okay, from tomorrow... I will teach you bowling. From tomorrow. Now you go. Mother! -Coming. Mother, come quick. What happened? Mother, I think brother has finally gone mad. Don't talk nonsense. -He says he found another coach. Is that true? Damn! First my dad, then this kid. Why can't you just leave me alone? What have I done to deserve this honor? Stick that damn thing in and give me those pills too. Also, give me something for this headache. One stubborn son of a bitch. I... lied to you. ...lied to you. I had no intention of coming back to coach you. Okay I'm done confessing whether he heard it or not. You'll are such terrible actors go and watch your match. Brother! Brother! What took you so long, boy? If you had taken any more time, I would have hit the bottle. We are a little short on willpower these days. Okay... okay... Let's not get too excited. I am not entirely sure about this. This is on a trial basis. If I suck too badly, then you're on your own. It's ok... How are you going to get what I am saying? Come on... plant the stumps. Ooh, bad omen. Even after twenty years... I guess if you have it, you never lose it Shit, shit! Just one quick swig and my nerves will be steady as a rock. One swig, kid. Just a teeny little one, please. Who's training who? Why do I need to bowl in the first place? All I need to do is give you a few pointers and you can do the rest, right? I'm the bloody coach here. Oh, that feels good. That's all for today... ...done. I figured you might say that. First thing... we need a translator. If father finds out that I bunked school, he'll kill me. Okay tell me. I'll teach him what little I know, okay? It has been a long time and with the amount of alcohol I've drunk Can we dispense with the speeches and get straight to the point? You don't like me, do you? I don't want to see him disappointed again. Besides this is only temporary... and you will go back to your drinking. That's what I keep telling him. But he won't listen. Since we're both stuck, why don't you pretend... ...that you like me and we can get on with this charade? God says drinking is bad. God continually says a lot of things. I drink so I don't have to listen to Him. If we're done discussing the merits of my character, can I begin? Just one small sip, I bet the Any chance? I know where we can start. Let's go kids. Do you trust him? Can we come in? Good job. Found it! But this is the same as Guruji's training schedule. Yes... I know. This is your great plan? -You already know all this... What did he say? He says if he has to get into shape then so do you. Don't push your luck, kid. What did he say? See you in the morning. -Yeah, fat chance. He's joking, right? What time is it? Why are you after my life? Did the God of Death send you or my dead father? Do you still hate me after all this years, Papa? STATE TEAM SELECTIONS TO BE HELD IN MAHIPUR THIS YEAR Damn! That's less than a month away. No, goddammit, no!!! Come here. See... anger... bowling does not mean... If I do all this I'll forget what I have to say. Khadija! One moment. This is not about uprooting the damn stumps on every ball... because you will find someone who's better than you. This is all about mind games that you play with your gut. Mind games with your gut? Just translate. Why does a batsman hit you? It's because he's read you. He's gotten inside your head and read what ball you're going to bowl to him. But what if he can never know until the very last second... because you yourself don't know? How do you do this? By going with your gut. No one can teach you this. Don't pre-determine what you're going to bowl to him. Get inside his head, watch him, read every sign, ...absorb every movement... and let your instinct tell you what the ...just before you let the ball slip from your fingers, ...when it'll be too late for him. Basically, you have to make the batsmen do what YOU want. That is difficult. -It is difficult but not impossible. All I can teach you are little tricks but the real magic has to come from you. Mohitji, I'm confused with this mind and gut thing. When the mind and gut work together it doesn't matter which is which. And your brother has to learn this. Let's see, Kapil Dev... Kumble... Harbhajan... Balaji? And this? -This is our favorite, Irfan. Why only bowlers? Brother thinks the batsmen hog all the glory... ...while bowlers get very little of the credit they actually deserve. Now you have to force me to hit the ball... to the exact fielder or in this case, buffalo. Khadija, will you hold up the numbers please. Khadija will hold up a different number each time... ...and you'll have to bowl accordingly. I won't be able to see the number. Only after I hit the ball I will check the number, okay? How long have you had this? We can't risk this. Nothing... What's this? I used to call it the Mohit Special... ..."The Trap." It's not about making the batsman hit where a fielder is... ...but about making him hit where the fielder isn't at that time... ...and bringing in a fielder in time to take the catch. The past always keeps coming back. My name is Mohit... ...l... Iqbal... cricket training. I'm sorry I can't invite you... ...because his father hates the very word cricket. I know. I'll be only a minute. Since it's Iqbal's birthday... Please give this to him. Please don't tell him it's from me... I know he's got too much self respect. I can't Without this they won't allow him on any field. I thank you on his behalf. Please, don't disappoint him. I'm going to try. -Because if you do I will kill you. The women of this house are damn scary. Don't worry ma'am your daughter's already threatened me. I'm going to try. Good night. Now nothing can stop me. I got that. I'm beginning to understand him. Great, when you can actually learn to sign it'll be time to leave. I'm not going anywhere. But for how long? How have I wronged you? Can I ever win with you? Only when he makes the national team. In the meantime? Till then I'll be like this... always watching, always suspicious. I got this for you. Iqbal told me you're crazy about books. Buttering me up will only get you that far... ...but I'm a little less suspicious now. I'm taking the children to a religious meet tomorrow. Make sure he's not taught useless things. He spends his time doing useless things. I'll make sure he doesn't You wait here, I'll be right back. So the rumors about you training Iqbal are true. I'm sure you don't need luck. Well, I've brought a few promising lads. I'm sure you have. Good to see you back. I know this is an unusual request but I've brought a boy... ...who I believe deserves to be in the team. Which district? He's not played for any district. Which league team? He's not played for any team. You mean... -None. If we looked at every boy who plays street cricket... ...we would be here for months. -All I'm asking is for a few minutes. Sir, it's not possible. At least during the lunch break, just ten minutes. Hello dumb-ass. Just concentrate on making the team. You get five minutes... ...during the lunch break. -Is that enough time? Plenty. Does your God listen to you? -Every time. Time to call on him... I don't think my God is going to listen to me. I've pissed him off enough. I know why you went to the bathroom. It's okay, I understand. I'm very nervous too. Please take a few steps back. Well done! Good speed. Is he consistent? -He can do it all day. The speed is impressive but is he accurate? One minute. How was Iqbal's performance? Your boy is very good... But he can't make the team. I'm sorry all the slots are full. I can't explain the reasons You don't have to. -Sir, just a minute. I know Andhra has a vacancy. I can get him on that team. I know they're almost ranked last in the league... ...but it's still a state team. I used to be a great fan of your's. I guess there is no need to kill me now. You still have to get my son to the national team. I can't win with the women in this house. I struck a great deal at the market. I think we'll have a good year. With whom? A new company, they will buy maize directly from us... ...no middlemen anymore. How is your sister? -Very well. Her family At least have the decency not to lie to my face. Bipin told me he saw you board the bus to Mahipur. We went for the state cricket selections. I should have guessed. Come here. Come here... Come here. From tomorrow you will work in the fields with me. Did you say, no? I can't even afford a laborer to tend my fields. I've had to sell most of our lands just to feed you. And you're obsessed about a bloody game! Have both of you gone mad? He got selected for the state team. No one has ever done that without playing a single game. That's enough. Give that to me. I won't hit you because I promised not to, but don't push me, boy. Give... Iqbal... wake up. Iqbal's not shown up for 2 days. Is he sick? Please don't come here, Mohitji. If my husband sees you he'll kill you. Now it's the men too? Thought just the women hated me. His father found out that he's secretly playing cricket. Iqbal is now working in the fields with him. Maybe it was unacceptable to Him. This is unacceptable to me. Sir, I came to see you. My name is Mohit. Oh, so you're the cricket genius. And the official town drunk. I was. The truth is the truth. We've just finished our prayers, do not defile us. I would never come here drunk. I just need two minutes of your time... ...to talk about Iqbal... it's very important. I apologize for my rudeness. It's just that the very mention of cricket makes my blood boil. It's just a sport. -No! A sport doesn't make the whole country shut down. Do you have any idea how much loss of productivity happens... each time the national team plays? -I know but it unites a nation. Doesn't help anyone other than the few players who get rich. And as if that money is not enough, ...they cheat the very public that pays to see them. Is there anything in this world where a few haven't sold their souls? I'd rather see our scientists, farmers and other workers rewarded. A cricketer works no less than a farmer. Your son made the state team without playing a single match. No one has ever done that. Do you not see his greatness? I see a better future where he can earn his livelihood and respect. He'll be a farmer. I believe each of us are sent to this world to do one thing exceptionally well. Most of us wander through life not knowing what that is. Some us are lucky enough to find out. Some of us are ungrateful enough to throw it away. Your son was meant to play cricket. Cricket is not just a game for him. It completes him, ...makes him live, allows him to breathe. Please don't take this away from him... ...from me. I can't sacrifice my son's life for your salvation. Good bye. You know you're committing a crime. Killing your son. That's what you're doing. You ready to play some cricket? Come on you can't give up that easily. That's my job. Don't worry, I have the perfect plan. Alright, tell me where he's gone. Feels amazing doesn't it? Your practice this past week has been excellent. So boys, let's go out there and do our best. Yes, come on. I need that fire. A special thanks to our newest member who's been instrumental in this victory. Andhra's success so far has come as a big surprise. New bowler Iqbal has averaged 8 wickets a match. That's all? Bloody Fools! Sorry, but they wrote only 3 lines about brother. Mother, its Mohitji! Hello. -Hello. How's Iqbal? -Very well. He wants you to see him play. I will. He's having a great time. He misses you and Khadija... and his father too. I miss him every second. He wants to come home... but not without his dad's permission. Like father like son. He wants to be in touch with you. We've won today's game too. I've taken six wickets... Your father is fine. I need you for good luck. Tomorrow is the finals. -I'll try, my son. No try, nonsense, I need you here. I know you didn't say that but I thought... Was it a bit too melodramatic? Please come. Should I even bother asking where you're going? Not today Saida. Please not today. The bank has taken all our lands. We're finished. I still have to go to be with my son on his most important day. You're going to choose him over me? Why did it have to come to this Anwar, why? What has he done that is so wrong that I must choose between you and him? I was hoping you'd see what our son was meant to be... He lives for his dream, Anwar. Stop that nonsense, I've been hearing it ever since Iqbal was born. Dreams don't put food on the table. They don't help us buy our land back. He inherited your madness, your absolute lunacy for that stupid game. And your singular passion. Why can't you see that? Never thought a simple game could ruin our lives. It's not the game, Anwar. It never was. I did what I did for his sake. You know it's not the truth. -For his future... You're a wonderful father but somehow you hold him responsible for all your problems. That's not true. He's not the reason for three years of drought, he's not the reason you had to sell your lands. He's not the reason for all your bad business decisions... but he is definitely the reason we have so much joy in our lives. He was supposed to bring me luck, Saida. He was supposed to lift me out of this pathetic ordinary life. And he will. You have no idea what your son is capable of. God, what have I done? I'm so sorry. I'm not the one you should be apologizing to. Thank you for coming. Your boy is amazing, Mohit. Talent like that comes along once in a century. We're going to win the Ranji trophy. You might. So why did you call me here? There is a rumor that some member of the... national selection committee will be there for the finals. Maybe. What's the deal you're offering? -No deal. That's why I called you. I just want you to let the boys play their game... and may the best man win. Don't be so naive, Mohit. You know that deal-making has become an integral part of this game. Some of the greatest players this country has ever seen have come out of deals. It's people like me and now you... who make deals and ensure that the best possible team represents the country. Is that why you bartered my place? You were my best student, but sometimes just that is not enough. If you had stayed with me I would have eventually got you into the national team. Unless another wealthy kid happened to stop by your academy. What killed me was not the fact that I didn't make the team... but that when I was hurting and disappointed, you never once checked on me. One moment you were my friend, my teacher, my God even, the next I was a statistic from your academy. I just want to make great players. Period. You listen to me Iqbal is not a statistic. At this time the Indian team needs a batsman, not a bowler. And Kamal is best suited for the job. You do what you have to Guruji. Unlike me, this boy's a fighter, he's not going to curl up and die. He will keep coming back till he wears the blue uniform. And you or your "deals" can't stop him. Then I wish him all the best. I've always wanted to say this to you, to you... my father and every other well-wisher of mine... One more match, I'm sorry, we can't take you to a good hotel... because Iqbal can't leave the ground. -Its ok. We have to go back. We wanted to see you play but sorry son we have to go back. Money problems? I don't need that. Now I'm completely recharged to fight again. Don't worry we'll be watching it on the news. Every day. I'm learning to bat as well... I will do my best. Your first autograph, kiddo! There'll be plenty of time later for this, stud. We represent the best talent in the nation, every big player you can think of. As a matter of fact, we actually believe, a belief from right here in nurturing talent like you because if you believe in your dream then the whole universe conspires to make it come true. Our research is extensive we have been following you right from the We will give you the best deals on everything... ...T. V, public appearance, advertisements... ...who knows even feature films, plus a handsome signing bonus. You will be absolutely happy with us. What do you say? By the way he's deaf and dumb. Come on, sir, don't joke. I see your research is really extensive. Should I leave now? -That's a great idea And don't come back. This is just the beginning kid. These vultures will come for you from every angle. I'll be there to protect you but not permanently. I said, yes, ...but not permanently. Damn, you're one stubborn son of a bitch. That's the rumor but no one knows... who the selector is. See you at the hotel after your practice, kiddo. They have the first innings lead of 114 runs, Two more days to go... I want to aim for a score of 400 runs by tomorrow. That will give us about 300 to defend on the last day. So let's go out there and kick some ass. In a NPN-TV exclusive we're standing with Iqbal's parents and little sister. Mr. Khan, how does it feel to be the father of such talent. He's the best player in the whole world. We've been blessed by God. I believe that each of us are sent here to do one thing exceptionally well... ...my son was meant to play cricket. Hey those are my dialogues. He stole my damn dialogues. Can we talk a minute? You still read lips, right? Can we not sit? Okay, have it your way. I am sorry that you had to leave the academy. But you know that I had no choice at the time. Actually the problem is that the national team needs a batsman... ...not a bowler. And Kamal is the perfect choice. Listen. When your team takes the field tomorrow, ...I want you to bowl badly, ...especially when you bowl to Kamal. I want all the attention to shift to Kamal as he leads his team to victory. Now what do you get in return? Just as I'm dealing for Kamal, I will deal for you. You will play for the national team but not this year. And to show you that I'm absolutely fair... Here's a check for Rs. 25 lakhs... ...to get your father's lands back. With my offer, you can now be a good player... ...as well as a good son. If you refuse... But if you walk away from this deal... ...I will ensure that you never make the team. Forget this year, I'm talking about the rest of your life. If you have doubts about my clout, it's your stupidity. I'll take your silence as yes. Money, happy father, national team next year... Only an idiot will walk away from this deal. Why does he keep bowling full length balls? You're not sticking to your game plan. You're letting the batsman read you. That's very mature. Remember, mind games with your gut. Yes I know what is going on. Yes, I do. You believe in your dream right? Then the whole universe will conspire to make your dream come true. I don't know what it means... but I thought it might cheer you up. Isn't that what coaches are supposed to do? Come up with useless inspirational sayings at the right time? Who said what? Oh, the whole universe will conspire to make your dream come true? That annoying agent. I'm Satish Bhatawadekar. Where the hell? After a lackluster morning, Iqbal has suddenly come alive... taking 5 wickets in a fiery post lunch session... and single handedly bringing Andhra back into the game. As the players take their last drink break, the match's poised as a nail biter ...18 runs and one wicket. One wicket and Andhra will win the Ranji Looking for someone? I don't know what trick you're trying to pull... ...but be warned. Your father and your future... are dangling by a very thin thread. Don't do something foolish and risk both. Let Kamal score his century and win the match. Everybody back... back. You've done your bit, I'm going with the spinners. This is not street cricket, Iqbal. There is a certain procedure, a certain logic. Kamal has been hitting you in this match... ...and he doesn't play spin well. Sorry, the ball is worn and I'm going with Doshi. What are these two doing? What are you doing? It's both our necks on the line. The boy's a bloody genius. What? -Nothing. "The Trap!" Mind games with your gut... not with your teacher! It's a shame that the selectors didn't show up. If taking 12 wickets and winning the finals doesn't warrant a place on the... ...national them tham then I'm not sure what does. Stay out of this Mohit, this is between him and I. We had a deal. Very touching, the student standing up for his teacher. You've made a big mistake going against me. I will make it my purpose in life to ensure that you don't make the team ever. Now you and this drunk can play cricket in your fields... And speaking of fields, I'll make sure your father loses everything. Hey Iqbal, why aren't you out there Hey, Guruji, long time since I signed any of your boys. It was tough but I got all the paperwork done. Sign right there. And as I said we put our money where our mouth is, although I must say we have a pretty big mouth. Ha, ha... ...okay bad joke. Fifty lakhs! I hope I'm not interrupting anything. I just wanted to meet the Koilpad Express face to face. It takes a bowler to truly fathom what you did today. Pleasure to meet you, sir. Are you the boy's father? -Only on the field, sir. Is it true that you have a buffalo named after me? My favorite buffalo. I'm honored. Kapil, we had no idea you were coming. You missed a great match. Actually, I watched the entire match. Iqbal was terrific. Let's go and have dinner. Kamal was in terrific form, brilliant innings. I think he's peaked at the right time. Sir shall I leave? Well there goes your place on the team. No problem I think the Indian team needs such a bowler. But...
