 

                        Sasha: One must be a sea to receive a polluted stm Without becoming impure. Lo, I teach you the overma. He is that sea. Rhodes: What's the problem? Did you drink too much last night? I can hold my liquor much better than you, servicemen. That's just the rookies, and if you're not careful, You might end up like them, Barfing your guts out inside your suit. Watch and learn! I'm about to do some Maneuvers only big boys can pull off! (reporters talking indistinctly) (scoffs) You'd better give up and admit defeat, rhodey! Your war machine is all about firepower, not speed. It's too heavy! You might as well admit it. You're never going to catch me! Just watch me! (gasps) (grunts) Gotcha! (groans) You keep forgetting one thing, tony. It's not just speed that counts here, I'm an air force pilot With a whole lot of experience. I have years of training under my belt, In actual combat conditions! You're a novice who only just got his license! (chuckles) No fair, shooting repulsor rays! Stark: You said you were experienced in tactics! You didn't see that coming? Imagine if outbreaks of violenc, Murder, and terrorm could all be Detected and prevented before they ever took pl! It sounds like science-fiction, but it's not. We're here to introduce the new howard satellite, Developed by stark industries. This technology will enable the s.H.I.E.L.D. Detection program To monitor every event and the full re Of human activit, all over the pla. But there are those who are already Calling it the ultimate spy satellite. Privacy-rights advocates have demanded That stark industries scrap its deployment. Tony stark responded to those accusations in his presentation last night... I named this satellite "howard" after My dad, who always watched out for me. (people gasp) It's a tribute to him. And for a particular rea. He believed in the concept of personal freedom. The howard satellite has nt been designed to infringe upon that right. Instead, it's an all-seeing eye in the sky with one jo, To identify and prevent trouble before it occurs, 24 hours a day. Once it's launched and activated, It will provide relief to the victims of crime, And protect countless lives all over the world. (applause) Male reporter: Tony stark, the ceo of stark industr, Who is also known as iron man, Is claiming the launch of his new satellite Will provide endless benefs to ordinary citizens... Male reporter 2: With many questions unanswered, there is Much anxiety over potential violations of privacy... Female reporter: People are wondering whether they're Able to trust this man, who has a background as a weapons dealer. Male reporter 3: There is an undercurrent of anxiety that The satellite was developed for some Secret purpose. There are those who say there is Great danger in putting all f our faith in technology. Who will be in control, man or machine? Here comes tony stark in his iron man armor, And colonel james rhodes, flying his war machine! Obviously, they are both here to reassure the public. (all gasp) (grunts) (laughs) Glad you're still alive. Not as much as me. Who the hell are these guys? They're targeting the howard. I've run into these bastards before. They're armored mercenaries who call themselves the "raiders." They must be paranoid that we're gonna be able to track their activities. (static crackling) Rhodes: They're jamming the radio waves! Hill: Data interrupt! We've lost communications! Scramble our interceptors and get them out there. (yelling) Rhodey! Great work! It's time for us to have a little chat, my friend. If you answer nicely, you might survive this interview. You'll be in prison, but at least you'll still be alive. Am I supposed to be scared? My boss is more powerful than you. He's far surpassed your capabilities. He's that good, is he? Maybe I can find a job for him in my company. We'd have to settle a few things first, like a claim for damages. (scoffs) We've only just begun. My boss is going to smash your satellite into pieces before You have a chance to play with it! If he's that powerful, why is he so afraid to show himself? Man: Oh, he's here. Rhodey! Take care of this guy, will you? Hey! Have all staff except necessary personnel evacuate immediately! We're about to launch the satellite! Yes, sir! Who's there? Only authorized personnel are allowed in here! (gasps) (gasps) Chief: Fuel update! Female staffer: Complete, sir! Chief: Launch pad status! Male staffer: Ready to go! (staff talking indistinctly) Female staffer 2: Fire flow complete! Male staffer 2: Countdown continuing. Male staffer 3: Wind speed, eight miles per hour! Female staffer 3: Purging energy supply pipe! Male staffer 4: All systems are green! Chief: Acknowledged! Good morning. Huh? (all gasp) And goodbye. Huh? What the heck? Jarvis: Unknown phenomenon. No reference in the databa. Possible presence of erosive biological cells. (groans) (panting) (grunting) (screams) No one escapes. (gasps) (grunts) I won't let you do it! (groans) (groaning) Jarvis: Power is down. Energy reserves at 55%. Who is this guy? Jarvis: Insufficient data. Genome dna extract impossibl. Cannot read base sequenc. Unknown gene region. Centrifuge is required to continue analysis. (grunting) You must be some kind of monster! How could you sacrifice so many lives for a single satellite? Hey, you! Say something! The leaders of all fascist companies appear to have similar eyes. (scoffs) The eyes of smartass kids also seem the same. People who place their faith in high-technology, like you, Should be placed in museums with the rest of the fossils. Actually, coffins would be better. And kids who are all mouth, like you, Should be sent to the stark school of re-education. I am ezekiel. Ezekiel? I promise you, I will be dancing Around your coffin as they drive in the final nail. I will then hold a wake in the offbeat style you so favor. (groans) I'm not done with you yet! Goodbye. (gasps) Shoot! What the hell is this? Rhodes: Tony, where are you? What happened down here? What's going on in this place? I'm done on my end! Tony, are you down here somewhere? Stark: Don't come any further! What? Are you in trouble? What's that? Tony! Fury: I don't believe this. The control tower's gone! Fury: Any signs of life? Hill: I'm afraid not. Wait! I see some movement down in the rubble! It's tony stark! He made it out, sir! Iron man is alive! Fury: Send black widow to pick him up! And hurry! We need to debrief him immediately! (gasping) Come on! Where are you, rhodey? Come on! You've got to be here somewhere! I'll find you, No matter how long it takes! If you're alive, answer me! Natasha! Help me find rhodey! Please! Stark! There's no time to waste, we have to get out of here. Fury has ordered me to escort you to the helicarrier. Hill: The medical team will continue to search for survivors, But casualties are expected to rise to more than 300 people. Stark: Nick! Rhodey died! Right in front of me! And so did a lot of other people. Who the hell were these guys? All their signals were blocked By a very powerful electromagnetic field. I was hoping you could give us some guidance. He was a smartass kid. His armor was weird. It was very advanced, I'll tell you that is something I've never seen before. It was techno bio-organic matter, Combined with manmade mechanisms! Fury: Techno bio-organic armor? Stark: I'm gonna find that guy. And when I do, I'm gonna make him pay for rhodey! Nick! What's going on here? What are you up to? You're not leaving this complex, stark. Not until s.H.I.E.L.D. Has worked out exactly what's going on. Stark: Are you suggesting I had something to do with this? We have more questions. What happened just now is being broadcast everywhere. It's being played out on every news channel On every television across the planet. If we don't provide an explanation Some high-up heads at the pentagon are going to roll. Just routine procedure, of course. Business as usual. They have enough heads. Believe me, they can afford to lose a few. That's not the most important thing now. We need to get hold of that kid before He causes any more damage. And that's exactly what I'm gonna do! Go after him. Stark: Nick! Will you call off your pit-bull? For god's sake! I don't have time to mess around! That's too bad. I'm the only one who has a chance Against that smart-ass kid's technology! Fury: You probably won't believe I, But I'm telling you the truth, I'm not enjoying this one bit. There are rules. And whether you like it or not, I happen to be duty-bound to obey them. There'll be hell to pay if I let our only witness get himself killed. You government workers sure have a tough job. (gasps) Jarvis: Homing missiles locked on and tracking. Stark: Thanks a lot for the update! Wanna play? (gasps) Pilot: Commander, he's gone! We've lost him! Natasha? (gasps) Sorry, natasha. Stark! Stark: I need to teach that kid the greatness of technology. I'm going to have to find out where its weaknesses are. Ezekiel: How's the art coming? I'm still working on it. I love art, but I don't intend to become an artist. After all this time playing around, I realize I don't have the talent for it like my uncle. Ezekiel: You shouldn't give up in frustration. Your body has the dna for it. Sasha: There's something I've finally come to realize. Even with talent, you need chaos To give birth to a dancing star. I'm not sure I have it. Both: Someday, man will no longer give birth to any star. By the way, I see they managed to launch the satellite after all. The raiders couldn't control The reinforced functions I gave them. However, it's still early in the game. I'll be preparing another offensive. Sasha: Tony stark. Ezekiel: Tony stark. He seems to be in possession of A wide range of technological icons. And one of the high-tech graven images these people Place on an altar to worsh, is his new satellite. Sasha: He's the high priest of technolo. Ezekiel: Yes. But it's a conceited and foolish misunderstanding. Technology and the people who give birth To it are nothing more than false idols, Leading society to disaster. (scoffs) It's a tiresome task. But these people must be taught the truth. (faint whistling) Huh? (gasps) Stark: I need your help! Excuse me? Check the black market for bio-related products. Pepper: You promised me a full week's vacation! And anyway, aren't you supposed to be in utah For the launch of that new satellite you developed? I'll make it up to you, pepper. I'll tell you what. This year, you can Have the villa and a whole support staff. Thanks, but you already gave me that to Make up for losing last year's vacation. I did? Okay, then how about I rent you An entire village or something? Please, pepper. It's urgent. What's going on here? I'll tell you inside. Fury: How long is it before the howard goes online? Hill: Everything should be active within four hours. Fury: We're going to use that satellite to find its maker. As of now, priority one is capturing the fugitive iron man. Pepper: Poor rhodey. I can't believe it. Stark: I can't believe he was such an idiot for Letting that kid get him. I could've taken care of myself. He didn't need to come looking for me. You're saying the killer was a child? Yeah, some know-it-all kid! There was something about him, though, that was very intriguing. The bottom line is, if he was able to create a technology That I've never seen or heard of before, he deserves a little respect. His sense of design isn't really my cup of tea. But his results are. As you know, I've dealt with some shady vendors in the past. But rhodey was the exact opposite. He was a straight arrow. All the time I knew him, he never broke the rules Or left the straight and narrow. I admired him. He really believed in the dream. Rhodey was a government worker and a normal person. I'm nothing but a rich genius. The worlds we lived in were so different, It's amazing we got along at all. He was a good friend, But I'm not sad about it. I'm fine, really. It's a shame, though, that I lost someone to race against. I guess I should have let him win some of the times. Pepper: Tony. Stark: That suit was made of technology I've never seen before. Nanotechnology? Biotechnology? No. It was nowhere near as simple as that. He had inserted the integral dna of living organisms Into a material based on the functions of a human body. It couldn't be done in a normal research facility. Could he somehow be using mutated cells? No! He's synthesizing them in a molecule assembler! If not, it wouldn't be stable. Tony. I need you to authorize access. Stark: Stark, vocal authorization. Nanomachines, nanotechnology. Here's something on human-mech hybrids. There's research being done all over the world, But no one has announced a practical application. I haven't heard of any successes, either. But I have to believe my own eyes. What I saw was a definite breakthrough. It merged biotechnology and mechatronics. Customized artificial neurons were working in conjunction With the human nervous system. He was controlling them perfectly. Pepper: A.I.M! It's a company called advanced idea mechanics And they're the largest supplier in the black market. They've been researching biotechnological hybrid armors For a long time, in secret. In recent years, they've continuously Invested vast amounts of capital. Does your data indicate where their research facility is located? Pepper: Let me see. Karachi, pakistan! There's a secret lab there! The facility is being fronted As a warehouse for medical supplies. But actually, they're involved with Chemical warfare research and the sales Of illegal weapons. I've downloaded map coordinates In case you plan to pay them a visit. Thanks, pepper. You can return to your vacation now. Pepper: Are you going to be okay on your own? Stark: A kid misbehaved. An adult needs to discipline him. You're a kid yourself, tony, an obstinate, stubborn kid. Are you going to scold me, pepper? Why do you keep putting me in that position? I don't want to be the only adult in this relationship. It's intriguing, though. I find I'm drawn to more mature women. Especially when they're beautiful. (both gasp) Stark: Darn it. (watch beeping) Tony. Hill: Iron man is not responding. All signals are being blocked. Fury: Damn it! Teams blue and gold, cover all escape routes! Team red, move in on my command. Capture and contain! Pepper: It's s.H.I.E.L.D. What did you do this time? Stark: Something awful, I imagine. Pepper: I suppose it's too late to apologize. (scoffs) Mandroid: Confirming as our target, mr. Tony star. Checking profile. Target identified. Mr. Stark, please throw away your weapons and surrender immediatel. Please comply. Please comply. You can leave your belongings with us. Please comply. You can leave your belongings with us. You can leave your belongings with us. You can leave your belongings with us. Stark: Sorry, nick. I don't have time to waste right now. I'll pay for the damages. I have to go. Fire. (grunts) Pepper: There goes my vacation. Predictable. Don't you ever knock Before you enter a room? (chuckles) Hill: All mandroids have lost position of iron man. Visual monitors are disabled. Switching to motion sensors. (beeping) (grunts) Hey, boys, I'd love to keep playing. But I think it's time to excuse myself. Sorry, nick, but I had to do what I thought was necessary. I think you need to improve the a-one on the mandroids. After facing off with them, I have to say, They seem a little vulnerable to me! (beeping) Hill: All mandroids have been annihilated. Get me special agents barton and romanova. Right away, sir. So, miss potts. Is your boss free any time in the near future? I'm afraid he's fully booked for the next three years or so. Of course. Being tony stark, he never follows his schedule. Then he blames me when he misses his appointments. Fury: There's something I want to show you. I was trying to tell your crazy boss about this, But he appears to be blocking all communications. One day he's going to go off half-cocked, And run into something unexpected he can't handle. Sasha: They herald the coming of the lightning, and perish as heralds. Lo. Lo. I am a herald of the lightning. Sasha: I am a herald of the lightning. I feel good today. It's so beautiful. With the technovores, I will have great power. I will be able to control any machine, Using the interface built into this armor. So. Are you ready to go? Yes. I will now be able to infect the satellite and bring it down. We will grind these oppressors and their techno gods to dust. It's up to you, however, As to where you want to use it. Obviously. Excellent. We have a deal, my friend. Tell your associates a.I.M. Says hello. (gasps) What's wrong? (gunshot) (grunts) Shit! It's the punisher! How did he track me? We're being blown to bits over here! You need to send reinforcements right away! What do you mean, 10 minutes? Nobody's gonna be alive here in 10 minutes! We need them in 10 seconds! (gasps) What do you think you're doing? Let me handle this, punisher. I don't need help from a company president Who can't stay out of the limelight. These guys are scum. They don't deserve to live. Punisher, I don't disagree with your feelings. But I need some answers before you wipe 'em out. I have all the answers I need. Get out of the way. If you shoot, I'll blast you from here to tokyo! Fine, go ahead. I appreciate it. All right. Let's get This over with while punisher's still in a good mood. I need to know about the men who hired you. Do you think an a.I.M. Man would give up The identity of his clients? Come on, stark! You of all people Should know what would happen if I were to do that! Let me guess. You'd never be able to do business again. Permanently! I figured. But thanks for the directory anyway. (yells) Nice work. So, neo-terrorists. Techno-organisms, buyers of body armor. Let's see who you've been dealing with. Ezekiel? Ezekiel. Wait a minute! I know that name! But I've got a dossier on him, if it's any use to you. You're sure about that? I remember that name, too. As a friend, you'd let me read that dossier? Huh! Now you're a friend? The same friend who threatened to blast me from here to tokyo? I guess our job is done. Let's get out of here. (typing) How can you drink this coffee? It's like sludge. It's military issue. Drinking it at night in the jungle used to calm me down. Actually this place kind of reminds me of a jungle. Here's the file. I found it. Stark: Ezekiel stane... Stane! Wait! Obadiah stane's son? Punisher: That would be pretty disgusting. This nutcase turns out to be the son of your old partner? Stark: Obadiah went crazy. I had no choice at the time. I had to kill him. Are you telling me he's that ezekiel stane? But he's supposed to have died in an aircraft accident! At the age of 16! Punisher: His father had a lot of assets hidden around the world. Having inherited all that, I'm sure a clever kid like him Would know how to put it to very good use. Nowadays, a little cash can make the impossible possible. Stark: You're right. There's no denying that. Punisher: Looks to me like this kid has been Burying his trail for a lot of years. And now he shows up in the form of a sociopathic super-geni. There are rumors he injected his brain With nanobots to make himself smartr than he already wa. According to this, he's involved in A wide range of shady research. From synthetic drugs to nanotechnology. One of his interests is techno-organic armor. What a surprise. He won't be an easy opponent to handle. I've been after him for six months And I haven't been able to pin him down. Let me try something. Punisher: What are you looking for? I'm hacking directly into the s.H.I.E.L.D. Network. I figure if I cross-reference your dossier with the data in the network I might be able to find out where he is. (scoffs) computer geeks are something else. Hill: Thirty miles to karachi. Fury: Log note, I'm briefing agent natasha Romanova, and agent clint barton. Here's the update, it's been confirmed that Stark has joined forces with frank castle, Known as "the punisher." That weapon-crazy lunatic? Although I hear he's not very good with a bow and arrow. I want to get out of this country as Quickly as possible. If it's discovered That we're violating the airspace of a sovereign nation, It'll cause an international incident. You have 40 minutes to complete The mission and get back to the ship. Punisher: Shanghai? I don't get it. What would he know about a place like that? We had a weapons research center there, Until I decided to close it down a few years ago. Then someone bought the property and built a luxury hotel there With a penthouse suite for wealthy vips. The hotel's privacy is as tight as a swiss bank. The land itself was apparently purchased by obadiah stane. You see how effective a little bit of cash can be? Thanks for everything, frank. The next time I come, I'm gonna bring you a bag of the best coffee in the world. Hello, we've got company! Stark: Oh, boy! I knew they'd come, sooner or later. They sure seem to have a lot of time on their hands. See you. Wait! Jarvis: There is an object approaching from behind. Is it a missile? Negative. (yells) Bulls-eye! Some freakin' arrows caused this much damage? Jarvis: Conducting system check. So glad I installed a protective force field. Give up, stark, and come with us to see the director. You really think he's going to come along willingly? Jarvis: System interrupt. Initiating forced shutdo. Hold on, wait a minute! Stop fighting. There's no way you can get loose. You might as well accept it. The game's over, buddy. We're taking you in. Listen, stark! In the helicarrier's medical bay is... Watch out! You're not too good at this, stark! Crap, he's getting away! Tell me something. Are you trying to be as obvious as you can? What do you mean, stark? I thought you liked the attention. Stark: Not when I look like five miles of bad road! Well then, hang on, buddy! (tires screeching) What's your problem, mister? It's over, stark! If you join forces with a crazed vigilante killer, No-one's gonna take you seriously as a hero, buddy! Punisher: That son of a gun! Don't do it, frank! They're just following orders! I'm not trying to kill them! I just want them to know we're not about to surrender! Shit! You ready? Leave it to me! (grunts) hawkeye: Bingo! (groans) Hawkeye: All right, guys! If you don't want to get hurt any further, You'd better come out! Punisher: (grunting) we hear you. But before we do, Here's a little gift! (hawkeye gasps) (gun cocking) (gasps) You bastard! Thanks for the compliment. Now throw down your weapons and raise your hands! Did you hear me? Good girl. You, too! Fine. You jerk. Don't think you're gonna get away with this. Bunch of bleeding-heart s.H.I.E.L.D weaklings! If you disrespect me again, I'll... (grunts) If you don't want a tunnel bored in your head, Throw your guns away! Whatever. I don't need them now, anyway. I guess I was able to buy enough time. (gasps) Jarvis: Power reserves now recovered to 40%. Good, now go ahead and re-route force field reserves to thrusters. Jarvis: Affirmative. Come back here! Natasha: It's no use. Your arrows won't reach him. Hawkeye: Darn it! Jarvis: Power reserves fully recovered. All systems are now optima. I've wasted too much time. Natasha: I can already hear the boss dismissing us, sarcastically. Hawkeye: Yeah. It makes me want to bore a hole into my own head. Punisher: You owe me, stark. Payback won't be cheap. Ezekiel: I hear a soft breeze. And that wind gathers another soft wind. I can sense our destiny. We come together with that wind. Listen carefully, sasha. Can you hear it, as well? Stark: Jarvis, have you got anything? Jarvis: Readings are unclear. There's interference. Wait, there is a slight reacti. It could well be a living organism. Stark: That doesn't help me much. (snickers) Hey, boy! I came to see you. Why don't you turn the lights on for me? When I was young, I played hide and seek. I hid in the dark garage for so long, I fell asleep. After a while, my mom, maria, came To look for me. She was worried sick. Did your parents do the same for you? Ezekiel: I've never played hide and seek. Jarvis: Five meters behind you, the air shif. And the room temperature changed slight. Stark: Where did you come from? Did you use magic? My mom was very upset by my behavior. I worried her With my appearances and disappearances. If you keep this up, your mom will get upset, too. Or your dad, if he's still around. Ezekiel: I don't hide from anyone. You're simply not looking in the right place. Stark: Really? This is starting to feel More and more like a kid's game to me. I told you before, I've never played hide and seek. And my dad that you speak of, I suspect you know who he is. (gasps) You might as well say his name. Stark: Obadiah! That is correct. He can summon up a holog, just like that! You want revenge? Revenge? Why would I want that? Stark: Because I killed him. You knew that. Wait, that's right. You were involved, weren't you? I remember now. You'd forgotten that? It wasn't as important an event in my life as you might imagine. We weren't actually that close. Stark: Then why are you targeting me? Ezekiel: Don't be so conceited. What? Ezekiel: I wasn't targeting you specifically. It's just that you were standing in my way. I don't understand. What are you saying? But he killed rhodey. Even if it was just a prank, some things cannot be forgiven! (gasps) Jarvis: Rapid power decrease. System error detected. What's going on? Synthetic alloys and unknown biological entits Have invaded the system. Ezekiel: Technovores. Jarvis: Power source and all sensors have been compromised. Stark: Technovores? This armor is pretty well made. Stark: Who do you think made it? I'm impressed. For someone like you, it's good. I realize you can't move. But believe me, sasha will still be impressed. Stark: Sasha? This must be your pride and joy. The arc reactor. (gasps) (beeping) Stark: Don't you have anything to say? Like how you think tony stark is a genius? (rapid beeping) I must say, it's very well made. For you people, that is. Stark: What does that mean "you people"? I'll have you know... Ezekiel: Adam and eve ate the forbidden fruit, And as a result, they were expelled from the garden of eden. And 160,000 years ago in africa, mitochondrial eve was born. The ancestor of humankind. Stark: Very impressive. Did you study the history of mankind in college? Ezekiel: Now there are over seven billion people on earth. Stark: What does that have to do with anything? Ezekiel: You asked what I meant when I said "you people." That's what I was referring to. Stark: You talk as though you're not a part of the human race. Ezekiel: That's exactly how I feel. I think I'm different from the rest of you. Stark: Then what are you? It's somewhat hard to describe, really. But if I were forced to explain it in words, I guess I would be a breeze. Stark: A breeze? I'm a little confused, can you elaborate on that? Ezekiel: Sasha would also be a breeze. Stark: Who is this "sasha" you keep referring to? A girlfriend? Ezekiel: A gentle breeze that caresses your skin. And ruffles up the grass and trees. Stark: I see. I have no idea what you're talking about. But I'm beginning to understand one thing. Obadiah wasn't a very attentive father. He let you get lost in a world of dreams. Ezekiel: You represent the dinosaurs of the past. I, however, represent the future. Dinosaurs of the past? You should consider retirement. Stark: That sounds pretty good to me. I could relax in a nice, quiet place. In fact, I actually tried that once. But my personal assistant just won't let me. Ezekiel: This time, I'm afraid I'll have to override her. You'll retire for sure. You understand the situation, don't you? New wind, new future. A brand new world is created To go with the brand new future. A completely new technology will be created. The old will die out, and the new will be born. That is the providence of nature. A superior technology to that of man. Howard will be the whistling arrow that announces the new reality. You should be honored. The wind that follows is going to blow away (grunting) your most advanced technology. Howard will be the shot that leads the way. Hey. Obadiah was lucky he didn't hang around long enough to see this. New technology, you say? Technovores, you called it? Don't make me laugh. The birth of mankind. Refinement of steel. Computers, biotechnology. The things you call old technology Have all been linked and accumulated to create your "technovore." (groaning) It's not new at all. The truth is, it's only been born and exists because of the past. You think you represent a brand new form of existence? You're mistaken, kid. You're no more advanced than the rest of us. You were born from human parents. Ezekiel: So? Stark: You're just a petulant child throwing temper tantrums. And just like a child, if you've been bad, It's an adult's responsibility to correct you. You would do that? I don't think so. Be quiet for a second. (stark grunting) (stark gasping) Jarvis: Part of the system has been restored. Where? Search for the area that's functional! The missile! Jarvis: Locked on target. Ezekiel: Foolish man. Do you know what will be written on the brass plate That gets installed on your exhibit in the museum? "here lies a fragment of iron man." But only if someone is able to identify Those fragments after I blow you up. Stark: You spoilt kid. I don't want to put the curators of The museum to that much trouble! (ezekiel giggles) Ezekiel: Perhaps if we had had more time, I could have taught you a few things. Well, it's time for goodbye, tony stark. There's still quite a bit of work to do. (ezekiel gasping) Stark: What's wrong, boy? (gasping) Jarvis: Invading technovore now being removed. Restarting system, restoring circuits. Energy charge in three, two, one, complete. Stark: What's the matter, boy? You look like you're in trouble. Do you need the hand of an adult? Ezekiel: I don't believe I do. The future is full of uncertain elements. Stark: It's okay for a child to rely on adults. Send energy to the reactor! Force field deployed! (gasps) Hey, where did you go, boy? Hide and seek time is over! You went too quickly. (ezekiel chuckles weakly) Ezekiel: You can't break me... And you're unable to change the future Because that timeline's already written. (chuckles) It's a blessing your father's not here to witness this all play out. Hawkeye: That's enough, stark! It took long enough but we finally caught up with you! You're coming in with us to see the director Or I'm gonna add an extra hole in your head! Stark: All right, william tell. You made your point. I'll go, but only if she takes me in. (snickers) Obadiah: You only got 98 on your test? Without a perfect score, you're the same as the other idiots! Go to your room and reflect on your shortcomings until dinner. I thought you were much better than this! You're a disappointment! (breathing heavily) Did you listen to me? I told you never to touch my monger! You little fool! This monger is worth (gasping) Stark: My god! I can't believe what I'm seeing! Rhodey survived that attack? Has he woken up at all? He's being kept alive by the life-support system But so far we haven't seen... Hey, rhodey! Rhodey, can you hear me? If you don't wake up you're gonna die a loser! You can't die without beating me in a race at least once! That would be shameful! Tony... Stark: Wait a minute! How 'bout this? If you wake up I'll concede the next race to you! I'll introduce you to a beautiful woman, too! You just tell me which model on which page Of that magazine you were looking at! Anyone at all! Except the girl on page 10. I've got dibs on her. Just don't tell pepper! Other than that, anybody you want! (alarm blaring) Hmm? All stations! An unknown program is hacking into our system! Shutting off communications! Starting antivirus program! Initiating defense protocols! How are the main servers? We can't stop it. Someone breached our security and is invading our systems. Technovores. Ezekiel's technovores are the invaders. Fury: What? I'm sure the servers have been taken over by now. It's too late. Fury: Damn it! (gasps) Hawkeye: He's gone! Where did he go? Operator: The howard is under attack! (shuddering) What's happening? Hill: Initiate guardian program! Operator: It won't start! The firewall is about to be breached! If we don't do something immediately, All the systems in howard will be taken over! Ezekiel: I'm right here. Look around for me. My, my. (guns cocking) You're not very observant. I'm right beside you. (shudders) Hawkeye: Above us! (gasps) Are you okay? Stark: Yeah, here's the problem. Howard has the power to access every computer in the world. Fury: Including military satellites. Exactly. He's planning to make howard The source to hack into the world's Military satellites and control them. Ezekiel called that the wind. The wind? He's planning to wipe out everything that lives on this planet! (gasps) What happened to the server room? Hill: I haven't been able to get a response. Hmm. Mmm? Fury: Stark! What are you planning to do? Stark: I'm going to fix the computer so we can use it. If I can divert the power of the arc reactor and aim it at the technovores, I can annihilate them. I'm pretty sure I can survive for five minutes Without this old heart of mine. After that, (chuckles) I guess it's straight to heaven! Hawkeye: I can't tell the situation from here. What do you want to do? I guess we should return to the bridge. (gasps) Stark: Ezekiel is definitely coming here to target us. Jarvis: Warning! Warning! Power reserves decreasing rapidly! Fury: Ezekiel! Stark: He's here! (cocks gun) Hi there, "old man" tony! Stop this, now! Fury: Where are clint and natasha? They're tucked away safe and sound. What? Don't worry about them. Stark: Connect it. (whirrs) Good, maria. Now re-boot the howard. (scoffs) operator: Rebooting howard, sir! The guardian Program has also been initiated! You people are determined to try and get in my way somehow. Come here. Sit down. You and I are gonna have a talk! Right now! No matter what you think about your father I can tell you obadiah loved you very much. It was a pretty straightforward bargain. He was human and you were his son! Ezekiel: Was that all? Isn't that enough? You'll achieve nothing If you throw away your history. I have personal experience. I was only able To move forward by accepting my father. And you'll only create a new world By accepting the past and building on it. (ezekiel giggles) Ezekiel: A relic like you is lecturing me About the future? How amusing... Why should I listen to someone irrelevant? (laughs) (gasps) (ezekiel screaming) The technovores! Why... Why are you betraying me? Together, we could have defeated them. I can't see anything, feel anything. Sorry, ezekiel. The wind... ...Has stopped. Operator: I've lost all instruments! I have no control over the helicarrier! It's losing altitude! (gasps) Shoot him! Come over here! This way, you bastard! (straining) Hurry up, maria! Jarvis: Reactor detected. Power reserve at 15 perc. I have that much? That's it, pal. Playtime is over! Operator: Propulsive force still inoperable! Too many engines are offline! Fury: Where are we going to land? Operator: Shanghai, china! Fury: Contact the chinese government! Have them evacuate everyone! Tony, what's going on up there? Jarvis: Power dropping rapidly! Now entering red zone! (stark panting) emergency! Emergency! Emergency! Well, that's it! This kid needs some serious disciplining! (grunts) (stark grunting) (rapid beeping) jarvis: System error! System error! Danger! Is it really going to end here? Am I done for? My body won't move. (panting) Rhodey, is that you? Rhodey... Guess I must have overslept! Remind me to reward you later for waking up, old friend! Rhodey... How did he... Stark: Rhodey! (grunting) What in the... Wait, rhodey! Stark: What the hell... Rhodes: What's happening? Whatever it is, we're gonna have to put an end to it, right now! Stark: Let's go! Voice: Peace to everything. Fear... Leave it to me, You powerless immature beings. I will bring prosperity to all. I will proceed with salvation for all. I will break free. I will realize the salvation of all. I will break free. I will merge. Repeat, technology has already been released. Stupid... ...Has been closed. Ezekiel! Jarvis: Power reserves at seven percent! Red zone! Re-charge immediately! Re-charge immediately! Rhodes: What is this guy saying? Stark: Rhodey! Do you understand what's going on? We have to conserve our energy resources! Rhodes: But we can't just let him destroy everything! Stark: Stop wasting bullets! Rhodes: What are you talking about? What are we supposed to do then? Stark: I don't know what we can do! I'm trying to think of something! Voice: ...Final... Universe... Reincarnatio. Hill: We've lost control of the howard! Voice: Powerless and immature beings... Prosperity... I will proceed with the salvation of all. Stark: He's replicated it! Hill: He's using the howard to control All the other military satellites in orbit! I'm confused! What's this all about? Is he planning an attack? Stark: Ezekiel, you said that a new wind would create a new future. Is this how you plan to reset the world? Destroy everything and start all over? Hill: All of the military satellites have been Repositioned! He's preparing to attack! Voice: ...World... Technology... I will start. Fury: He's completely insane. He's going to destroy the world. Rhodes: Tony, we should save our nail clippings. Stark: What? Rhodes: To be filed with our wills. As keepsakes. Stark: I hate to bring this up but why would we do that? There won't be anyone left to give them to. I thought it might be something pepper could remember us by. Stark: Wait a minute. Pepper! (rapid beeping) Wills... Leaving something behind... (gasps) Of course! Pepper! Pepper, can you hear me? Yes, sir. Stark: Are you focused enough to help me one last time? Pepper: Anything but dictation. Stark: You're an amazing secretary but it's a little more complicated than that. I'm not surprised. You can't do anything without my input. Stark: I want to give you a present before I die. Huh? Stark: What's the one thing you've never had since I've known you? What do you truly want, more than anything else? What do I want more than anything else? That's easy. What I want is a vacation! Voice: Vacation. Vacation. Vacation. Vacation. Vacati. Vacation. Vacation. Hill: We're starting to regain control of the howard! Stark: Good job, pepper! I was able to get through howard's back door! Pepper: What back door? I'm not all-powerful. I'm an imperfect human And I realized a while ago that I had to be careful. I programmed a back door into the satellite To protect it from unauthorized users. When did you set up my voice as the password? Stark: You talked in your sleep when you passd out at your desk. (sighs) I don't remember that. You wouldn't. But I was able to uplink my armor to the howard at the time. You've earned that vacation twice over. Pepper: Thank you very much, mr. President. Hill: The particle-beam cannon on the chinese Military satellite is about to shoot! Stark: I'm only able to control one satellite And I won't have control for long! I want to show this guy something I have that he doesn't! Rhodes: Are you out of your mind? What are you gonna do? Stark: This is gonna be our last chance, so listen carefully! Hill: The technovores are trying to take over the howard by hacking in! Fury: How much time do we have? Tens of seconds, that's all. I'm counting on you rhodey. Okay? All right, jarvis, pull the trigger! Jarvis: Affirmative! Tony! Stark: Here we go! Hope your little nap didn't affect your aim! Rhodes: Aim at what? All right, it's aligned. Stark: Rhodey! This is it! You've only got one chance! Let's do it! Release the energy of the arc reactor! The technovores reacted. Aim for the crack! Careful... Hill: All missiles are ready to launch! Fury: Rhodey, we have no time! You have to shoot! Stark: Do it now! It's our last chance before the world ends. Shoot! Hill: All missiles, armed and ready! Fury: Rhodey! Stark: Bear down and shoot! Everything should work now! (grunting) Launching! Tony! (whizzing) (gasps) Rhodes: Yeah, the last thing I can remember is watching the bombs go off. I guess the technovores decided they needed to repair you Before they could override your system. And in the process, it looks to me like they saved your life. That was fortunate. Now it's your turn to recover! At least you'll be taken care of by a bunch of hot nurses! I'm glad you're okay, tony, But if you do anything like that again, I'll kill you myself. I hear you, pepper. When a child is bad, you need to scold him. So, you're finally getting it. You're an obstinate child... ...Who needs discipline. Pepper: And it's an adult's duty to provide that discipline. Do you hate women who scold? Not really. All boys look up to authority figures. Especially when they're as beautiful as you. Pepper: Don't forget, now. You promised me a vacation. Stark: Of course. So where do you want to go? I'll take some days off, too. Pepper: (chuckles) what? Stark: Let's take a vacation. Just the two of us. How 'bout it? Pepper: Is that an order, sir? Stark: No. It's more like a suggest. Well then, I suggest you and I pack up. Sasha: The insane man shut up and looked at the audience. The audience also sht up and looked at him. Doctor: He regained consciousness last night. He has a visitor today but there's been No change. He's still mentally deranged. Sasha: He finally threw his light against the ground. The light shattered and died out. This tremendous event is Still on its way, still wandering. It has not yet reached the ears of men. Deeds, though done, still require time to be seen and heard. This deed is still more distant from them Than the most distant of stars. Still, they were able to do the deed. According to the people, this insane man Forced his way into various churches that day singing, "requiem." The wind!
