 

                        (typing) (writing) (digital tone) (traffic) (Spanish conversation) - [Voiceover] Shit! - [Voiceover] Sam! - [Voiceover] Shit! (motorcycles) (distant yelling) (sirens) (speaking Spanish) - We have a shootout right now on the street here in downtown Culiacn, or near downtown Culiacn. I'm not quite sure what happened. We have the municipal police and the federal police. We just heard some gunshots. This is what happens during a cartel war; at any given moment, broad daylight, it doesn't matter, gunfire can erupt at any possible second. You really have to be on alert when you're in Culiacn because of the violence, because of the drug war that's going on right now in the United States. It's a war on people here in Mexico, a drug war in the USA. - We're on the streets of downtown Culiacn, Sinaloa, Mexico. It's a very quiet Thursday night in May of 2014. This city is the homebase of the largest and most powerful drug organization in the world, the Sinaloa cartel. And this city was rocked in February of 2014, when their hero, their son, was taken down. One report has it that El Chapo Guzmn is responsible for about 80 thousand dead Mexicans. [Female Reporter] A senior US law enforcement official tells us it was a joint operation. In Mexico's biggest border city, nobody is surprised the US played a key role in Joaqun "Chapo" Guzmn's capture. - They had to work with Mexico, because that's only way they gonna catch him. - They tracked him from the Sinaloa cartel's stronghold, Culiacn, to the resort city, Mazatlan, and surprised the kingpin named "Shorty" as his beauty queen wife was cooking breakfast. The DEA, Homeland Security investigations, and US marshal service provided critical information to pinpoint the location. We've been told by a senior US law enforcement official who has knowledge of the joint operation, that Mexico gave the Americans permission to operate in the country, but also set a limited time frame: about a month. As the deadline was about to expire, Mexican marines closed in on Chapo. - Tonight we're getting a new look at where El Chapo was staying when he was caught. This is the Miramar condos in Mazatln, you can see there's a nice view from the rooms, but were they the digs of a billionaire? Hardly. We checked it out on travel websites, and condos here rent for as low as $89 during the slow season. - [Female Reporter] Across Mexico, Chapo's capture is front-page news, and Jurez people can hardly believe the most-wanted cartel leader is in custody. Guzmn has waged a bloody battle against rival cartels to control nearly every key smuggling route. In the border city, Jurez, alone, the death tole: 10 thousand people in the span of about five years. - [Male Reporter] The FBI confirms the majority of drug loads arriving from Jurez now belong to El Chapo. Forbes magazine put Guzmn on its annual billionaires list. - [Female Reporter] Guzmn is accused of leading the powerful Sinaloa drug cartel, an empire that stretches throughout North America and reaches as far away as Europe and Australia. - [Voiceover] How does a billionaire get caught, under the most ordinary circumstance? A man with so much power, and who supposedly has 200 armed guards surrounding him at all times, how does he get caught so easily at the Miramar condominiums? - [Charlie] I continued my research at the University of Texas at El Paso. I was curious if Americans believed whether it was the real Chapo Guzmn. - You know what, it's really hard to tell. I mean I would like to think so. I have faith, I have trust in our government that they did what they could to capture him. - I think that they have the real person in custody, because it would be a huge embarrassment to the United States and to the government of Mexico if they didn't, and the real Chapo Guzmn emerged. - If it were the real Chapo Guzmn, I'm thinking he would be dead by now, actually. I don't think they'd take him, and without any type of resistance from him or the people around him. - Not really, but if it is him, it's just a public stunt, you know, it's to make the new presidency look good. You know, if I can be able to capture this drug lord, I can do anything. So I don't think it is him, but if it is him, it's just for that. - [Charlie] Do you think it's the real Chapo Guzmn they have in custody? - Yes, I do, because President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico has been bragging about how he's lessening the violence of the drug war, and so he wants good public relations, he wants to catch a top drug lord to prove to the United States and the Mexican people that he's actually winning the war against cartels in Mexico. - [Charlie] A lot of people in El Paso don't think it's him. What's your reaction to that? - My reaction to that is that it's typical of the attitude of many people that are connected to Mexico, that they don't trust their government, they don't trust the authorities, and they don't believe the official version. In this particular case, I think the official version is true, because I think the Mexican president and the government has a vested interest in catching a figurehead like Chapo Guzmn that they can parade in public and say that they're doing a great job and fighting crime in Mexico. But most Mexican people do not believe in their leaders and their government, and that's why there's so much distrust of this capture of El Chapo. - [Charlie] What percentage of Mexico do you think likes Chapo Guzmn, or even loves Chapo Guzmn? - That's a good question. I do think that because of the nature of the injustices of Mexican society, the inequalities, that Robin Hood type social bandits, like Chapo Guzmn in a sense is, sometimes have a lot of support, especially in regional areas like Sinaloa, where they provide a lot of jobs and revenue for local people. And so many people in a place like Sinaloa may believe more in El Chapo Guzmn than they do in the actual president of Mexico. - My family in Jurez, they talk bad about the cartels and El Chapo, and my family who lives in Culiacn, they're singing praises to them. And to me, it's like, their base is there, and where they go to do their dirty deeds are over near the border. And that's why we get to see more violence. To me, that's what I believe. - [Voiceover] Four days after his arrest, the people of Sinaloa made their point. - [Charlie] Despite being responsible for reportedly 80 thousand dead Mexicans, the man is loved by so many people. Why is that? I interviewed renowned author, Javier Valdez Crdenas, who has received several international awards for his writing on drug trafficking and organized crime. - [Charlie] In Mexico, cartel leaders are revered, feared, loved, and respected, not because they kill people, but for other reasons. One example is Jess Malverde. (Mexican folk music) (happy parade music) (cheering crowd) (gunshots) (pop music) - [Voiceover] A lot of Mexican people blame former president, Felipe Caldern, for the spike in violence. Just 10 days into his campaign in 2006, Caldern declared war on the drug cartels, unleashing the federal army and the federal police into the trouble spots of Mexico. Unfortunately, these two groups, rather than quell the violence, may have aggravated it. (sirens) (gunshots) (men speaking Spanish) - [Charlie] Back in Culiacn, we interviewed the editor of Noroeste, the major newspaper there, Francisco Cuamea. - This is a very mysterious war. We're not exactly sure who's in charge, there's a state of paranoia, a state of distrust. Are the police killers? Politicians? Your neighbor? We're not exactly sure who's who in Mexico, because the corruption level runs so deep. What we do know is over 100 thousand Mexican people have been slaughtered, and 95% of those murders are not resolved. 27 thousand have gone missing. The next three scenes are perhaps the most powerful during the drug war. If everybody in the United States knew about these moments, perhaps there would've been a movement from Mexico by now. (gunshots) (applause) (cheering) (crowd chanting "Chapo") - [Charlie] The reported arrest of Chapo Guzmn has not appeared to help the average Mexican citizen. Was Chapo Mexico's economy? Who stands to benefit from his arrest? Could it be current president, Enrique Pea Nieto? - My name is Anabel Hernndez. I am Mexican investigative journalist. I have been investigating the Sinaloa cartel about nine years. The war against the drugs doesn't exist in Mexico, and neither in the US. Really, I think that the governments don't want to fight that issue, because it's a huge business for everyone. In this fake war against the drugs, the society is the victim. My thoughts about journalists changed definitively when my father was killed, because I really think that the corruption, the impunity, the abuse of the power, the abuse of the police, is the most important problem in Mexico. And since my father was killed, I start to investigate and fight against the corruption as a journalist. I have met in these years, to many people that is very close to him, many people that used to watch him and met him, and the members of the Sinaloa cartel really don't believe that he could be alone, just with his wife and his kids. It's unbelievable. - [Charlie] Do you think that's Chapo Guzmn that they have in custody right now? - I don't know it. I think that what we are leaving in Mexico is a war between the cartels, and that the Mexican government took one part in that war, they start to protect the Sinaloa cartel, and use the power of the government to fight against other cartels. That's what happened in all the six years of the government of Felipe Caldern, and I have to say that now it's happening again. - [Charlie] So if you're saying Pea Nieto was protecting the Sinaloa cartel, how did Chapo get arrested? - Well that is a huge question. It's my question. I'm still asking to myself the same thing. (dance music) - Leading up to his arrest, there were reports that Chapo Guzmn was hiding in this very city, going from residence to residence. He was being watched closely, monitored by the Mexican marines, US DEA and Intelligence, and finally, finally, after 13 years on the run, he was arrested in Mazatlan, and that's where we're gonna be heading next. (happy music) We were accompanied by Jos, a freelance photographer journalist. - We're down here on the boardwalk in Mazatlan. We're just a few miles from where the biggest drug lord in the world was taken down. This is just a beautiful, beautiful coastline. Just a wonderful city to visit. A lot US tourists come here, and they have a great time. - [Charlie] Back in El Paso, Texas, I interviewed border scholar, Diana Washington Valdez. - No one in Mexico can protect you, and that's true. I myself have been threatened there, I've had a grandfather who was assassinated politically, and his murder was unsolved. - How does a man with so much money and power and, supposedly, 200-300 armed guards standing around him, get caught under the most ordinary circumstance in Mazatlan? - Well now, that is a very good question because, then again, we enter into this whole terrain of was this an arranged arrest, or was this really something that caught Chapo Guzmn off guard? Probably an arranged arrest, because everything points to that, and we get the feeling that the Mexican authorities, under pressure from the United States, advance to Chapo Guzmn, "Look, you need to be captured; you're either going to be "killed, or you're going to be arrested. "However you wanna do it, it's over." And the biggest circumstantial evidence for that is the fact that his 300-plus man security guard detail was nowhere present when he was arrested, and he did not put up a fight. People closest to him, it was like they were expecting to be picked up. - Lot of people ask, will this affect the drug war in some way? As long as the United States keeps consuming illegal drugs, I don't think this changes anything. What's your take on that? - Well, no, because even since Chapo Guzmn was arrested, we've continued to have, weekly, major drug loads being seized at the border, and these are the drugs that are being seized. We've had heroin, cocaine, marijuana, the flow of the drugs continues uninterrupted. - So the odds of Sinaloa cartel boss El Chapo Guzmn facing true justice in Mexico are slim. - It is very likely that Guzmn will be extradited to the United States. - [Reporter] Wonder whether their government will be the one to prosecute him, or if he'll stand trial in the US. - Phil, P-H-I-L, J-O-R-D-A-N, former director of the El Paso Intelligence Center, not speaking on behalf of the DEA. I don't speak for them, I never pretended to speak for DEA, I just speak for my experience. Well, first of all, we never had a war on drugs, okay? I know that Nixon came up with that term. I had a guy that used to work here for me, in Dallas, as my number two man. And he accepted a promotion to Washington, so then he was in a higher type position. He says, "Phil, you know, if we wanted to, "we could win this war on drugs overnight." To those of us that are retired, or the people that are still in law enforcement, it's very hard to accept the deception that's been caused by this administration. If you connect all the significant indictments we've had in El Paso, whether it's [Spanish names], whatever, my answer would have to be, yeah, it was retaliation. Now the FBI said they were not gonna get involved because it involved a teenage murderer. The kid was 13 years old when he shot my brother. DEA headquarters, they called and said, "Do not use DEA resources to investigate "your brother's murder," even though there was a significant drug connection there. Corruption is on both sides of the border. You will no longer ever hear me say that Mexico has a worse corruption problem than the United States. If the truth hurts, so be it. We have not lifted one finger to get the biggest Corleone of the world, El Chapo Guzmn, in getting him over here. Since day one, we should've had extradition papers on the desk of the Attorney General of Mexico. Guzmn, when he was a lower-level punk with the Sinaloa cartel, he was there in the room when Kiki Camarena, our agent, was murdered, and he was responsible, according to three witnesses that used to be with the DFS, he was responsible for kidnapping Kiki's pilot. No one has moved forward to indict, not that he needs any more indictments, but I would definitely indict him on the fact that he was there when Kiki Camarena was murdered. (crowd cheering) - You have to understand that El Chapo Guzmn wasn't as powerful as the Mexican government said. The power of El Chapo Guzmn is the protection of the government. The real power of the Sinaloa cartel, other than guns, is the protection of the federal government. Of course, this business works because, here in USA, you also have a huge corruption. Most exist, huge corruption, in the border patrol, in the DEA, in the police in many cities. Because this international trade just cannot happen without the knowledge of many other members of this government. - [Charlie] We took a trip to Badiraguato, Chapo's home territory, to meet their mayor, Mario Valenzuela. - It was time to head into Chapo's hometown of La Tuna. As you enter the village of La Tuna, you cannot miss this sign. It's written by Chapo Guzmn's mother. We just drove three and a half hours from Badiraguato. We're just minutes away now from the town of La Tuna. You can see it over my left shoulder. The red house right there is Chapo Guzmn's mom's house. The left of the red house, that's Chapo Guzmn's house. Apparently, the Sinaloa cartel watches every car that comes up this way, just to make sure that there's no false moves or some ominous situation developing. Okay, we've reached the house of Chapo Guzmn's mom. Hola! Hola? It's locked. - This is a nice house, considering that we are in the middle of nowhere. - Yep. - The distance between the states of Chihuahua, Durango, and Sinaloa. - The golden triangle. - Yeah. - Do you sense a tunnel in this house? - No, but I will mind that it exists. - The mayor of Badiraguato told me that this is Chapo Guzmn's house; it's next door to his mother's house, and, from the looks of it, there's nobody here, this gate here's locked. If Chapo Guzmn is indeed the man in custody, well, obviously he would not be here. If it's an impostor in prison, I guess there's a possibility that he's here, but right now there's nobody in the house, the gate is locked, and neither him nor his mom is in La Tuna during filming today. This angle, you can certainly see how expensive this residence would be. From the other angle, you really couldn't tell, but this angle's very revealing. Not to mention the incredible scenic view here that Mr Guzmn had while he was here. Chapo Guzmn's house, Chapo's house is right here. And then we have this house here. What a marked difference in terms of wealth, money value. Can never quite tell what a neighborhood looks like. Look at these individual houses, see how it kinda stacks up against the other. Hola! Hola? Nobody's home. I hear a television set, but I don't see anybody. Okay. This does have a very neighborhood feel to it, Latina. Lot of people are friendly, they say hello, we've seen a lot of kids walk by, and it seems like a very, very friendly, small neighborhood. - Right. - And you wouldn't think that the biggest drug lord would live here, or his mother would live here. - Yeah, but they know who they belong to. [Mumbles] - If you go to prison in Mexico, that doesn't mean your organization stops. It just means that you have a new office, and, as we sit here in this house, I can guarantee you that when Chapo Guzmn finishes refurnishing, he'll have better facilities than what you'll see here. Plus, he'll have his wife, his mother, his paramours, come over and visit. Plus, the business will continue, I mean, nothing has stopped, and anybody that thinks that he's incarcerated and he's no longer involved, then they're smoking something, because that's not true. - The big business is not in Mexico. The big business is here, in US. That's why the Sinaloa cartel moves thousands of millions of dollars through the US bank. Bank of America, Wells Fargo, HSBC, as we know in many court documents that these banks used to launder the money of the Sinaloa cartel, we can tell. But I haven't heard about this operation, huge operation, to break the business to the Sinaloa cartel. We just know that one man is in jail. - [Charlie] If you had one question for Chapo Guzmn, what would that be?
