 

                        1 You know it looks more suspicious if you stand outside, right? Shh. Come on. Just touch it. No. It's not gonna bite. Come here. No. Stop. Oh, in your pasta I be gettin' rad that's focaccia, doctor Betty Crocker I spin it proper laryngitis be the only obstacle gotta have ya keep quiet inspire get a basket of bread you got traffic ahead, word call me when you get home. All right. Like the second you walk through the door. Okay. Please exit through the rear door. He's too cute. Yeah. He, uh, went down on me for the first time last week. He did? Yeah. It was good, but he definitely needs practice. Yeah. I hate it when they need practice. If you're not gonna feed the dog, neither am I. We don't even have dog food. You know where the money is. You go to the store, you buy things for yourself. What's in there, coffee? Anything good? Should we euthanize her? Let's do it. For fun. Much easier than fighting. Why are you still wearing your bathing suit? It's summer. It's hot. Let's play a game. I thought you wanted to watch TV. I did, but now I'm bored. Dare. Like truth or dare? Like what? It could be anything. Come on. Use your imagination. It's just not the kind of game you play with two people. It's just more fun with a group, you know? How 'bout checkers? Come on. Come on. Come on. Please. Please. Please. Come on. Come on. I love how dark I get during the summer. Sometimes I get so dark people actually think I'm black. Shut up. It's true. Do you have any tampons? No. Nothing? I'm kind of irregular, so I don't need them that much. That's gonna be a big problem once you start having sex. Hey, Chiara! Oh, hey, Sammy. How's your summer been? - It's going good. You? - Fine. Do you still work at hall of fame? Yeah. You should stop by sometime and say hi. Okay. All right. See ya. No. He's just some guy I know from my neighborhood. You sure you never dated him? No. He's a douche. He'd fuck anything. Who was that? Just some girl I was hanging out with. Who? Just some girl. What's her name? Jessica. Is she in your grade? She's in sixth, going into seventh. We made out. You did? Yeah. It was all her idea. I met a guy. Cool. Where? At the beach. He went down on me. All right. It was good, but he needs practice. So, what are you doing later? Probably going out. All right. So, I'll just come over after dinner. Wanna help? No. What else do you have to do today? Stuff. Like? Stuff. You used to like to help. Please exit through the rear door. You can't get her or whatever. I was, like, "all right. Watch me." I walk over to introduce myself. Bro, this girl is 35 years old. Thirty-five? Thirty-five. How'd that go? I didn't think I was gonna get it. Talked to her about five minutes. Next thing you know, boom, got her number, and that was it. Maybe that's cause there was no more alcohol left. I took a walk to mobil. And, like, this guy is standing at the window, and he's taking mad long. And I'm, like, "hurry the fuck up. I'm trying to get my beer." He's like, "oh, shut up." Did you hit him? Yeah. This hand is killing me. Yeah? Yeah. I knocked him out. Hi. Hey. How's it going? Good. Cool, uh, I was just in the neighborhood. Shopping. Where do you live? Gravesend. And you were shopping around here? Yeah. Mmm. How do I know you again? The beach. That's right. You look different. Yeah. So, do you go to murrow with Chiara? Yeah. That's a nerdy school, right? Like, it is and it isn't. Mm-hmm. What school do you go to? Kingsborough. High school or college? College. Um, I should get back to work. Yeah. Uh, do you have matches? You know that's bad for you, right? Yeah. Lila, you're late again. Class started 15 minutes ago. Hurry up and get in there. I am the motherfucker rookie of the year mykki blanco, young Castro chill we on that chill tip, real high we feelin' real loose, real fly we on that chill tip, real high we feelin' real loose, real fly welcome to hell bitches, this is mykki blanco new world order motherfucker, follow pronto get in line, nigga your soul is mine, nigga your scaredy cat pussy motherfuckers can't deliver maybe she born with it maybe it was maybelline all white blanco give your heathen ass a christening nigga's so greasy in the daylight, he glistening "this fag can rap" yeah, they saying that they listening pissing in the wind at the 4:00 A.M. spot blazed off the indica a bottle of ciroc a mouth full of pop chug it in the pay phone 1-800-loco, motherfuckers y'all can go home I'm the new rufio y'all ain't know I pimp slap you bitch niggas with my limp wrist, bro what the fuck I gotta prove to a room full of dudes who ain't listening to my words 'cuz they staring at my shoes we, we, we make love tonight in the back of the club, yeah, we feeling all right lights, lights low this shit feel crazy low-key loose niggas know we getting wavvy we getting wavvy, yeah, wavvy, yeah, wavvy yeah, wavvy, yeah, wavvy, yeah, wavvy yeah, wavvy, yeah, wavvy, yeah, wavvy yeah, wavvy, huh, we getting wavvy When I walk through 'hoods, 'cause I like your hair as it is. It gets so light in the summer. It's pretty. I hate it. Yeah, that's why I'm tryin' to go global yeah, that's why I'm tryin' to be a mogul and I'm hopeful that me spittin' it soulful will have me in the daily postal flyin' coastal, eatin tofu like I told you, I know some who trash rappin' worried 'bout the trendin' fashions So, what's your favorite way to masturbate? What? What's your favorite way to masturbate? What? Just tell me. All right. So, show me. No. Just show me. No. Come on. Nope. No. Have you ever made out with lila? I've made out with all my girlfriends but lila. I think you should make out with lila. Lila? No. Thanks. Why not? 'Cause you could have herpes or something. Thanks. I'd rather have herpes than rabies. Oh. You've reached the offices of the president of the United States. Nah. I'm playing. This is Sammy. If I call you back, I call you. If I don't, then, oh well. It feels so nice. Nice? Really nice. I really wanna be with you. Keep going. Like, I wanna be with you, be with you. I don't know. Why? 'Cause you've been with other guys. Three. Three's a lot when you think about it. You know, one, two, three. Is it? Don't stop. Why does it bother you? It doesn't. Just forget it. Yo. Hey, Sammy? Yeah. It's lila, Chiara's friend. You forgot your shit here. Yeah, I... I kind of need them back. I'm at work. You can swing by and grab them. Um, can I maybe meet you after work tomorrow? Look what Patrick got me. Shh. Stick your finger in there. They'll suck on it. No. They don't have teeth. You do it and tell me what it feels like. You're scared of everything. I'm not, but think what you want. Get on. Do you get dizzy easy? No. Uh-huh. Boo! Sorry. I was just taking a piss. Come on. This way. Do you have a boyfriend? No. Chiara's always got boyfriends. Well, that's different. Why? 'Cause she's needy. Can I ask you something? Sure. Do you want something from me? What would I want anyways? Oh, fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Shit. What's Chiara doing tonight? Out with her new boyfriend. Who's her new boyfriend? This guy, Patrick. It's kind of serious. He gave her a promise ring. It won't last. It might. It won't. You're so pessimistic. I'm not pessimistic, but, trust me, it won't last. They're in love, so it might. They're not in love. Yes. They are. Oh. No. No. That's right. Discipline the animal. Hear? Try spanking him. Like this. Stop. Yo, does your dog like to get high? I don't know. What's the dog's name? Coffee. What kind of name is that? You named your dog after a hot fucking beverage? Ignore them. They're just being dicks. She's so hot. So hot. Gross. Why is she rubbing herself like that? 'Cause it gets her off. Looks painful. Her titties are kind of perky. She's got peach titties. She's got a nice ass. I remember one time I made a porn. My ex-girl found the video. She didn't like it so much. Punched me in my face. I still got to keep the porno, though. I've thought about doing that. Doing what? Like, as a career option. Really? Yeah, totally. Like, the hours are really good and so is the pay. And I like sex, a lot. Like, a lot, a lot. She's not very good. I've seen better. What's your name again? Lila. Lila, why don't you come and put your ass right here? So I can smack your ass with this paddle... Till it turns sore. Turn that white ass red. I should go. I have to get up early. It's the weekend. Yeah, but, my mom's in the hospital. Get me a 40. It's the best rap you never heard that's why I got you hangin' onto every word I'm just savin' up, imagine the stack they said our boy Barnes is the savage on the track that's 'cause it sound like I'm in a battle when I rap I got a head full of money, pocket full of dreams Biggs said it best, things ain't always what they seem in this fake world we live in, things spinnin' it real show me nice fuckin'... where do you live? Either way, don't matter, still spinnin'... 25th ave. Between what and what? What and what? Well, we can't drive up and down your block all night. Hmm. Witnesses can't believe how your mom's, like, I can't believe they ain't even my plan, that'd kill my seed please, livin' in the fast Lane, I keep my Lane... under, over, drop. Drop. Out and... Out, to the side. Left. Okay. Under, over, drop, around, drop, up. Out, in, left, right, left. One, two, drop, three and get lower. Out, in, one, two, three. And then you jump into line, right. Can you look at something? No. Just look. I'm sure you're fine. Just look. What am I looking for exactly? Does it look red or irritated? I-I don't know. I would do this for you. I really don't know. It looks like you've been scratching it. I have. That's why you're checking if there's anything there. I'm sure you'll be fine. What do you think about, you know, keeping things open? Why? 'Cause you've had all these other experiences. I'm older. A little, anyway. Look, I know I want to be with you. But I can't commit until we're even. Even? You know what I mean. No. Say it. Don't make me say it. You need some help? You look like you're coming apart. Okay. Olivia, Levia, Rita and Aiden, please come help light candles 16 through 10. realize she's on her way she's sweet 16 today You never get mad... Except when I miss my curfew. You are a pair of angels that supports me in everything I pursue. You threw me this party in such a spectacular venue, and you even let me pick the tasty dessert menu. To say we're always happy would be untrue, but we stick together and don't need family therapy or glue. Mom and dad, come help me light candles number three and two. And I'm on that road today we are finally on the way, 16 today You are so close to my heart, and I'm totally smitten. When I see you, my heart pounds and my eyes brighten. So handsome and gentle, in your arms, my knees weaken. I hope this moment lasts and never comes undone. Zach, please help me light the most special on my cake, candle number one. Is everything okay? Can I cut in? Um, I didn't get a chance to talk to you. My hands are kind of full. When did you and Patrick break up? I don't really want to talk about that here. Can you hold onto this for me? Wow. You really cleaned up. I know. What are you doing later? Writing thank-you cards. Do you wanna come to a party with me? No. Please. - Why? - See ya. Bye. 'Cause I would do it for you. Seaweed flow, must be from that weed smoke eyes Chinese 'cause we smokin' sour diesel blunts siamese, two of these, you be me, yo fuck the police though, we smoke it like it legal seaweed flow, must be from that weed smoke eyes Chinese 'cause we smokin'... Bored yet? It's better than a lot of parties we've been to this summer. Fuck the police, though... hey, what's up? I remember you. You girls need a drink? It's a party, not a funeral. It's okay. I'll get it. What's your name? Chiara. Devon. Nice to meet you. I like the way you sparkle. You look like a pink disco ball. You see Mr. young bone, ak, I'm so gone hoes love me, Jerome, hoes love me, Jerome sit back, get smacked get stoned... yo. Hey. Every time I see you, you look different. Yeah, I just came from a thing. Chiara's thing. Right, right, right. Fun? Yeah. Mmm. Um. It doesn't work that way. Whoa. Look at that. What's that about? I don't want to lose it. No? It's kind of over, but I'm just holding onto it. That's too bad. Um... here. Seaweed flow, must be from that weed smoke eyes Chinese 'cause we smokin' sour diesel... 'scuse me, America, I don't do the taxes I make my money flip stretch, we call it gymnastics it's fuckin' Friday, I need a nia long with a nice set of tits and a green thong me and juicy always smokin', we like Cheech Chong a French bitch pussy, sweet honey dijon she love the paper, everywhere the cash be cha-ching! Now baby girl, pop that pussy like some acne I must be ballin' 'cause she only fuck with athletes I'm that d, smokin' purple in a black tee I love weed, nigga, I got a green thumb she fuck me, nigga, until she bleed cum your favorite crew will be on milk carton soon I'm busting off in the ocean like a harpoon, yeah... I'm on a road, so alone you left me cold, hard on the floor hard to endure Hardy and pure how are you sure the love was so pure the sex was outrageous, the way we made love straight bangin', wakin' up the neighbors we fucked on weed, we fucked on speed missionary, baby, scratch my back till it bleed and you're a beauty, and I'm a beast but we didn't make Disney rated movie we made magic, we made havoc you were my prodigy, the love was my beep status you were the baddest, above average the bedroom was a young jizzy ad-lib, yeah one kiss, I was hammered, yeah hormones doing backflips you were down South for so long... just do it. I hate being sick. It'll sober you up. Ew, it smells so bad. Oh, gross. I'm gonna call a car service. Why? It's early. I'm not drunk. I'm just hot. I-I can't. Open your mouth. Why? I'll do it. Why? Open your mouth. There's puke in your hair. Get it off me. No. Do it yourself. I don't know what you're talking about. Oh, you wanna go again? Like... I don't understand, man. Bro, what the fuck? What about your dick? Thanks a lot, Devon. Thanks a lot, man. I always got you, bro. I gotta, gotta be up at 6:00 A.M. Can you set my alarm? Am I your mother? This is outer space pump up the bass this is outer space pump up the bass this is outer space pump up the bass Hi. Where are you going? Work. Sucks. Yeah. - Please don't do that. - I don't mind. It's my fucking mess. I said stop it. I spent the night with this guy last night. Who? He's a friend of a friend. Is he your boyfriend? No, but it's kind of better than a boyfriend, you know? No. It's kind of more exciting. That sounds too exciting. It's hard to describe. Are you just getting home? My dad's gonna kill me. Maybe you should go. I will. What're you gonna tell him? I don't think I can lie. That would just make it worse. If you hear screaming, call the cops. Shut up. I'm serious. Just tell him you were at Chiara's, or something. You're really late. It's really early. Don't bullshit me. What are you gonna do, punish me? No. If you don't give a shit, I don't give a shit. Don't you wanna know where I was? No. Stop trying to pique my interest. Chiara's? Nate's? I was with this guy. Who? You don't know him. You don't have a guy that I don't know about. If you did, believe me, I would know. Hang that up when you take it off. I don't want to see it crumpled up in the corner of your room. Please. Fine. You've reached the offices of the president of the United States. No, I'm playing. This is Sammy. If I call you back, I call you. If I don't, then, oh well. - Hi. - Yo. I... what do you want? I called you before. I'm working. I figured. What's up? You know. What? Look, I'd love to hang, but I'm kind of busy. My dad freaked that I came home so early. He'll get over it. I hope so. He will. Do you mind if I hang here? That's not such a good idea. I really don't think I could be high enough to pass out, then fuck you, and not remember it. We were really drunk. Do you get what I'm saying? But you have had that happen before, right? Hi. Sorry about the other night. I just didn't want you to do something stupid. I know. Did you do something stupid? I don't know. It's kind of a blur. How blurry? Did you sleep with him? I don't know. Maybe. Is everything okay? I'm gonna see if I can get you an appointment. Please don't. No. This is not okay. You don't know where he's been. Please don't. I'm sure it's fine. I'm gonna take out the speculum now, so I need you to take a deep breath. It's a bit early for the first pap smear. We usually don't do them until the patient is sexually active, or until after the patient turns 21. At your age, I would recommend... Um, an HPV vaccine. Your gown is on backwards. Can I ask you a few questions? Sure. Do you smoke? At parties. How many alcoholic beverages do you consume in a week? Like 60 ounces a week. Do you remember to wear your seat belt... Every time you get into a car or taxi? I try. And how often do you menstruate? I don't know. Monthly? Maybe. Every two months? Sounds right. Would you like to be tested for STDs? No. Do you have any history of high blood pressure, cancer or heart disease in your family? Yes. Which? Cancer. Who, and what kind? Mom. Breast cancer. At what age was she diagnosed? I don't remember. Alive or deceased? Deceased. I would like you to consider participating... In a surveillance program at some point in the next few years. Are there any questions I can answer for you today... About your personal or sexual health? Lila, is there a reason you came in today... For emergency contraception? I think the nurse made a mistake. You've reached the offices of the president of the United States. No, I'm playing. This is Sammy. If I call you back, I call you. If I don't, then, oh well. What are you doing here? What do you think she's doing here? Your mom let me in. I think she's here 'cause she wants your dick. She can suck my dick. You never shower. She don't want... Your smelly little stinky dick. I think she wants to suck all our dicks. She only likes to pretend to suck your dick. I'll do it. It's gonna be a little hard to do standing up. Go on. Come on, puppy, sit. Sit. Did you decide who you're gonna do first? Pick me. Do you like it? Do you like it? Do you like my dick? It doesn't like you. What do you want? What's wrong? Oh, come on. What's wrong? What's wrong? I'm the motherfuckin' rookie of the year mykki blanco, young Castro killer we on that chill tip, real high we feelin' real loose, real fly we on that chill tip, real high we feelin' real loose, real fly welcome to hell, bitches, this is mykki blanco new world order motherfucker, follow pronto get in line, nigga, your soul is mine, nigga you scaredy cat pussy motherfuckers can't deliver maybe she born with it, maybe it was maybelline all white blanco give your heathen ass a christening nigga's so greasy in the daylight, he glistenin' "oh, this fag can rap," yeah, they saying that they listening pissing in the wind at the 4:00 A.M. spot blazed off the indica, a bottle of ciroc, a mouth full of pop chug it in the pay phone, 1-800-loco motherfuckers y'all can go home, I'm the new rufio y'all ain't know I pimp slap you bitch niggas with my limp wrist, bro what the fuck I gotta prove to a room full of dudes who ain't listening to my words 'cause they staring at my shoes we-we-we make love to the night in the back of the club, yeah, we feeling all right the lights, the lights low, this shit feel crazy low-key loose niggas know we gettin' wavvy we getting wavvy, yeah, wavvy, yeah, wavvy we getting wavvy, yeah, wavvy yeah, wavvy we getting wavvy, yeah wavvy, yeah, wavvy we getting wavvy, we getting wavvy, yeah, wavvy Yeah. Yeah, you remember back in the days when we used to rock waves and shit? when, like, yo, I had the fucking 360, my nigga like, nobody in the hood was fucking with my shit and that's real shit uh, since nine five, mama been working nine five and I know the landlord fed up with our lies so we pray to the gods, the jahs and the allahs to keep us safe and watch our lives 'cause all we tryin' to do is do good put on my hood when I walk through hoods 'cause these niggas these days is loco you'll get it in ya vocals if you ain't a local yeah, that's why I'm tryin' to go global yeah, that's why I'm tryin' to be a mogul and I'm hopeful that me spittin' it soulful will have me in the daily postal flying coastal, eatin' tofu like I told you, I know niggas who trash rappin' worried about the trendin' fashions rather than descendin' passion they want me send 'em tracks, but I just send 'em laughin' right after I start laughin' they start askin' what happened I'm back to the chapter mama told me follow dreams and never have to answer to so that's what I do, became an mc master since then it's been a disaster for you and your favorite rapper go ahead, ask 'em "who is Joey bad?" watch 'em gasp, asthma, damn, it's so sad he paused the chatter 'cause he know he rather back up than to admit the kid is hotter than magma but fuck it, you gotta give credit where it's due 'cause you ain't gon' like the karma when it's set up on you, it can get you on your medical fuck you up in the decimals or get you two to three for residue found in your retinal uh, and they told me not to be so complex dumb it down to accomplish articles in complex and the source, Alfredo, of course there I go again, steppin' out of line, runnin' off course I heard reports that it's like sexual intercourse with your thoughts when I talk about the shoes in which I walk for it is not faux nor false that this kid from the north speaks with forced supports of reinforced assaults I'm sure by now you can assume he never lost unless it was some form of divorce, or a corpse born boss, no days off, child labor let me see those in favor to spin that back like tornadoes Yeah. Go ahead what rap audience ain't ready for is a real person you know what I wanna say, a real n-I-g-g-a I'm comin' at 'em a hundred percent real I ain't compromisin' nothin' anybody that talk about me got problems you know what I'm sayin'? I'm comin' straight up like if I'm a street person that's how I'm comin' at the whole world and I'm bein' real about it and I'm gon' grow wit' my music Yeah, but it's far from over won't stop till I meet hova and my mama's in a rover till I'm an owner of the world's finest motors I blow like supernovas in your daughter room on a poster known as history's biggest musical composer no disrespect to Bob mar, yeah, another stoner marijuana my odor, and when I get older hope my spermatozoa from my scrotum meets a sexy ovum like three times, have three kids I hope me and my wife can show 'em not to make the same mistakes you know that we did I hope they acknowledge the knowledge 'cause yeah, they gon' need it 'cause when my family tried to tell me I just wouldn't receive it, couldn't believe it till I saw with my own pupils felt bad when I learned that the advice was truly useful but fuck it, only made us as human beings more mutual even though over time our punishments, they grew more crucial so use the word "brutal," 'cause my parents mad strict hope one day I'll attract the likes of even madlib go call the mansion and hear my songs mastered until then, all I can do is imagine imagine I'm gon' make it all happen yeah. It's all right.
