 

                        1 It Gets Better (Thai Movie) like a dream in that night my heart is flying Higher, Colder, I'm feeling more lonely You know...? Despite very cold, then I absolutely will not give up Because you are the stars in the sky Always lighting the way I go Though the sky is so high ,the way is so far, I'll still continue flying And not care I'll still continue flying although Rain and Storm are coming Flying until I can reach the final distination ! Even the black clouds scare me gruesomely and surround darkly everywhere to intimidate me Because of you , I will try to pass everything Hey ! Give me my scarf Tell you as I'm talking to the deaf !!!! You're not beautiful in it . Plz ,return it to me ! Give me,plz ! Obediently! Give it to me ! O.K ? Return it to me ,please ! Oh God .. I've told gently already . it's for you , I don't need any more ! Really disappointed !!!(.) Are you wrong ? - Hey hey ! He is walking out . - Where? There ! There ! Mr Tonmai Here, here Mr Tonmai ! There It's here Mr Tonmai Sister ! Maybe We made him frightened already ! - Excuse me! - Yes. I wanna find a taxi to go to Pattaya Yup. Please , Hold on a moment ! Everyone ! Come here quickly ,quick. He's calling us . Hurry up . - Hello Mr.Tonmai ! - Hello,everyone :) Yup,I'm Seur, Welcome to ThaiLand. All of us are Employees of the Fountaind bar Welcome you back to our country With the greatest ovation It's really ebarrassing! We will take care of you thoughtful How handsome you are , it's out of our imagination! So handsome Not only More handsome than he is in the photo. but also cute . You'r sleeping as if you had died Go away What you want is kissing me,right? I don't want to have nightmare ! Are you sleepy ? Take a short rest ! What's up ? Why your voice is so? I'm a Transsexual, you've never heard about ? I have some down! Let's sleep Really, I'm so sleepy But you're driving like that , who can sleep Probably ! I can't go to where i wanna . - Your legs! - What ? Born is a Siamese but you don't know this sentence at all? YOUR LEGS! (That Thai people often say "Leg" is implication to insult someone ) From when becoming a girl I haven't still fallen in love with a guy i really love In my dream lastnight I had catched a good one Watching movie together Giving kisses And walking in the garden After that he picked a flower in order to set on my hair setting Din, What are you doing ? setting Din, What are you doing ? Suddenly waking up at 4 a.m Din, What are you doing ? Suddenly waking up at 4 a.m Oh!It's so pity Dad, You're not going to market? I forgot taking my wallet along. Now i have seen all Put your mother's clothes away and go wash your face Yes,Daddy! Stop! Hey, you ! Where are u driving? Hey,Even though your mother can live until my ages she also can't be as young as me You're calling me ''Aunty'' .. it's unreasonable at all ! Crazy! It's really comfortable ! You're so big as a cow, that you want me to help you more. Mr.Tonmai .Please,go this side,! Asunder ,you guys ! Sir, This is Ms Hongdang She's the manager here. You can call me '' Little Hong'' Sister, you're too effeminate! calling me ''Sister'',OK ! You're still so calling me '' Big sister'' is enough now it's good It's true to the image. I and your father worked here 15 years ago. So we called it ''Fountain bar''. It's not only a place to perform, but also a place we helped each other to survive, and work, It's even our house. Well!what you just said i, have understood But it's same to have nothing that relate to me I came here because of a purpose .closing and getting money then going abroad, As I have already said so on the phone No matter , I've understood. But, you could give me 2 or 3 minutes more,couldn't you ? MUSIC ! How do you feel ,Mr,Tonmai? you see,how they performed? It's quite interesting. So,You have changed your thought,right? No. You should sleep here tonight. I don't want. Your father's room is still empty. You ought to come there a little , you haven't met him? Never mind, I haven't still wanna meet him. Surely,He doesn't wanna meet me ,too. Alew, Take him out of here ! Yes,sis ! See you tonight, and do hope you will change your mind ! Coming already, my son! Din, go into there quickly, The monk is waiting . Dad,May not I go into there? Each mature man must be here, dear son! Daddy! Nothing is big, I used to be here. Leaving home three or four years... You will be back home then I don't also wanna force you to do whatever you don't like, Everything depend on your decision. It's too long for me,Dad. At first ,You had said I just had to be here about one semester,right ? Be obediently ! Done it because of your mother. I don't wanna do it ,Dad. Shame on me if I can't be worn underwear. Here is here,Dad ! You're truly my obedient son. Benefactor, Are you ready ? The monk has been waiting for you so long. Yes, We're going into,right now Oh God, My eyelashes have been sagged again already! Last time, It's just redone ! Oh my eyelashes! Always be like Panda's eye. My skin is wrinkler Both this side need to be redone a little If Nose slope were higher, it might look more beautiful. Face need to be massaged much more Unless it will sag more, so seriuos! Breast is having problem and sagging Must be redone newly Below cut off 20 years ago is still well So effective! My godness, This beard grows so fast? Fucking. Fall In Love - Sugar Eyes This is a story about love This is a story about love This is a story about love Thats you, thats you, thats you hey Seeing you, Suddenly my face turned red and my heart beat faster My mouth embarrassed so I didn't dare to talk to you always missing you :x ( yeah ) Always miss you :x ( yeah ) Miss You, Miss You, Miss You ( Hey ) Worried about you, I called to ask about you No mind to do perfectly I'm selfish, I just know sexy just for you If you don't care about me,i will sulk you ! and close to the other girls much , I will be sulky ! What is this emotion called? I want to know the answer Because I thought so much, or my heart beat disorderly I don't know how to do? Maybe , Fall in love with you.. and that's you ,really? I act as an unconcious man and can't control myself Hello !you guys. and can't control myself Hello !you guys. He is the new owner of Fountain His name is Tonmai. If you love me how you feel? If you do not , you will hurt,won't you? So I should talk with who ? How I can? I don't know,too you think that you are competing Miss World? Are you dreaming! You are just a ugly one Hungry , Hungry up ! Well done, c tn g vy? I'm Dokmai. Dokmai ? Now i knew that there're girls performing here Which real girl are you talking about? There's no real girl at all here what's your meaning? Yup ,Even me,too But I'm a girl now So I'll be back to the hotel before. What? You invited me to go there,right? No ... I didn't mean it. I said that '' I would be back to hotel ''.Good bye ! Sorry ! Oh God,If you wanted to kiss me, Telling straight. You don't need steal like that Well, just kidding. Mr.Tonmai, Could you allow me to ask u this thing? How do you feel after watching the performance? Wonderful,right? If you sell this place Will you feel regretting ? I feel that I'm not very familiar with these thing You know what to do, I can help you. You just sit in front of the cashier desk and get payment only. Everything else i will take charge Here,Guests are large so The profit is even so high and I will never corrupt your money So, You can look for a purchaser to buy it . After that you can also keep performing . To look for a purchaser isn't as easy as to buy a bunch of vegetable Cause looking for a person who interested in it ,is very difficult However I wanna tell you know that It's him,your father has established this bar Therefore It's given to you specailly What happened to u? Could you let me sleep here? There's ghost, It's terrible ! Where is it? Don't be so, you will get used to it. Talking about it then. Today I'm so afraid. You musn't sleep inside, Plz,sleep outside ! Get up, It's time we had to go to take alms. Why did you sleep here? This is my room Haiz,I'm so sorry ! I just intented to sleep there a short time and left before you got up, Take a bath quickly. I don't dare because The sky's still dark! You have to go with me. You. Yes, I'm going right now. What do you wanna buy? The theft,the theft , Catch her quickly. Hey , What are you doing ? Help me, He's intenting to rape me , help me ! Not me but why you caught me. help me,! Raping what rape, You misunderstood me Catch the theft! Why do you hug me? What are you holding in your hand ? It stuck in my hand due to itself. Take this , take away . you took it, you must take it back by yourself You are my trouble, Giving you money is ok? Don't talk much , Follow me. Come here. Let me go. Come here quickly. take it back . I will pay for you. I didn't steal. It stuck in my hand due to itself ! Telling me if you wanna eat, I will let you eat But you are wrong you should say '' Sorry'' that is very difficult for you? I'm sorry . Fai , take and bring it back to her. Yes, Uncle Ta. Have you eaten anything yet? Not yet. Hungry ? Ok , I will bring you to eat . You sholud not do so Why not ?\ Whenever I have good food . I often take it for my father . My father also takes it again for me . But you are new , I'm a monk. So,Why? After eating ,i will explain it to you. Yes. After all You are gay,aren't you? Why you still asked me this question , your eye has problem,doesn't it? you think that i'm same a man,right? No. Have you ever had sex with a gay yet? Silly, Nobody cann't do it, and I'm not gay . Right, I haven't also had sex with any girl . But I like to make love with girls. Why did you ask this question ? Nothing , Just suddenly thought and asked you. Who had ever had sex with us but they're not gay Because Most of them not only have girlfriend, but also someone had wife already. They're really gay, but They don't dare to come out . Is that so ? How dose Dokmai look like beautiful or not? Dokmai ? She's very beautiful, how ? Do you like her? Well, but if a girl is better. So say this, Disliking isn't matter. Just do it with her, want or not? Well. I don't know, she is man. but now she was a girl already . I don't know. If both of you do it Don't know how you look like when doing it . Do you want me to help you prepare it ? you can? you have ordered a lot of food ,why you don't eat. You told me ''You were hungry ''? Hungry as I am,I can't eat. Why? I'm allergies to seafood . Why you didn't tell me earlier . You also didn't ask How i could know. I have eaten a lots . - Only me. -eat ,eat all - It's troubles. - What troubles , eat all . Tonlew wait for me. Alew,What are you doing? . I'm sorry. As beautiful as me but it's difficult to have me. You also can tell this sentence, but not even look in the mirror again =)) Look like a chamois .. =))) Needn't mirror , just looking into water is enough. Lew , you are a gay isn't enough for you , or you wanna be a bad girl, you have also kissed actively a old gay Kiss ,and you may be inflected the end - stage AIDS disease. She haven't died yet , but filled in full of chemical only Really? What are you doing ? Why did you hold my hand ? go to the police office with me. I'm not a thieft. If not a thieft ,why you were here this time? I have my reason. Telling your reason at the police office. Wait ! not you, a handsome boy because of your kindess,Plz,skip me this time Look for a place ,we will talk to each other, and I will invite you to drink Ok? OK,OK . As you are beautiful, Go . Go carefully . Let's go. Haven't you known, Boy ? Im right here with you Haven't you known, Boy ? Dai Klaichit - Sugar Eyes Hello ! The train will stop Hello. The train will stop The train will stop Everytime stand by you I don't know why i always smile I don't know why i'm shy What would you like to drink? I don't know why i'm shy What would you like to drink? My small heart beat faster What would you like to drink? My small heart beat faster As it's singing for whole world listening. Coffee,Please. Everytime I'm so , i like that Coffee,Please. Everytime I'm so , i like that more milk? Nobody ,except you ( I want You ) more milk? Nobody ,except you ( I want You ) I just love you ( I need You ) yes,yes , more milk. I just love you ( I need You ) yes,yes , more milk. Do you know how i'm feeling ? yes,yes , more milk. Do you know how i'm feeling ? When I stand by who I love Why do you drink coffee at this time ? When I stand by who I love When I stand by who I love You won't be able to sleep tonight. When I stand by who I love When I stand by who I love Right,You think I should order what is good. But I don't know that you love me or not Right,You think I should order what is good. But I don't know that you love me or not I wanna be with you, It's enough for me That you know or not isn't matter, but it's you - Gimme a glass og red wine. - Yes.. That you know or not isn't matter, but it's you That you know or not isn't matter, but it's you Seeing the sky is near by the stars iPod is near by a headphone Couples of lovers are sitting together and why people smiled My small heart beat faster again Nh ang ht cho tri t nghe vy Mi ln nh th li l vy  Nobody ,except you ( I want You ) I just love you ( I need You ) Do you know what i'm thinking about ? When I stand by who I love But I don't know that you love me or not It's not matter that you don't know because you are who I have chosen.It is enough for me I just wanna think,Don't want anything What's wrong with you? - So sorry! - What's up? Mr. Tonmai ! So I have to pay by myself? This restaurant is very expensive ( !) Bad luck! I'm alone Waiter. Help me pack all this food. No mood to eat Yup. You can sit here. Rang, Help me to buy something buy what? Buying wine, today she will invite. Yes. What kind of wine do you want? Sangsom wine and Fanta softdrink. Where money,sis? Paying it first , My money is putting into the car( ") You are careless, wanna drink free? GO,GO help me buy it , buy whatever kind of wine you see. After that you can go home . Don't you invite me to drink ? Don't talk too much, go quickly. - Rang go quickly ! - Yes,bro . You sit here and wait for me a moment, Don't go anywhere . I'm taking a bath , then We will eat together . eat what? You want to eat wine or eat me ? If possible i will eat you. I'm dizzy, it's really nonsense ! Sis ! If you wanted to see,You could tell me : How could you treat to her like this ? I can't bear, Really .. very impolite. When I knew Dokmai,is a man so I can't accept. Why? I think she doesn't look like a man as your thought ? Her skin, face, even women's breasts, we have all Why? so you hate her,don't you? It's such a disgust that level ? Just touched and felt awfully immediately,right? I don't agree with you. I don't know how to explain, Please, sympathize with me . I can't understand, You think i'm not a human being ? In your opinion You can't accept gay people? You know? ( I hate gay ) What??? I'm a gay that relate to you? Damn, Ur father will let you know how the wife is now. - Beat it , you are animals - Ci loi khn nn. Run, run away I came here because I wanna find a place to open Seven Eleven Shop. So why did you come my place? No, I didn't intend to move here. I have found a lot of places Here Thugs are very evil . What? Are there a lot of thugs here? Here is the home of the thugs. The house that you just stood near, is thugs' house. Luckily, I had come to the right time. So you had been able to avoid losing. Did you see a old man this morning His wife had passed away so early. His only son had got married and had children. More 20 years ago , No contact . I see. Stop prating, Cheer ! That you knew is good. I ask you, Have you ever sleep with a gay yet? Sis . Handsome as I am, Sleeping with me isn't easy. How about women? Of course. You have had girlfriend,haven't you ? Break up already, She went to Bangkok . Now she might have settled down already. So she wanted to break up to me. So.... Sis, you will ask me until morning,right? Try - Singular When you are be with me I can't forget each passing moment I haven't ever thought about any answers I feel that whole world is in my hand How long can it last? This happiness. . Never come true I will wait forever Waiting until the dream comes true Still waiting forever You still don't know I haven't used my heart to think about it To know how far we can go together I just would rather you thought about our future If you wanna change all Maybe ,we don't know each other is better I don't know it is right or not It's life in my thought Haven't ever felt hurt This happiness.. . Never can come true I still wait for... Waiting for my dream comes true Waiting forever How are you ? Were you injured ? I'm fine, It's not serious I often fight with men Do you pain? Sorry ! Drinking wine,ok! Ok ! It's up to you . drunk yet? haven't been drund yet . So Have you been drund yet ? Impossible. Right, Do I look beautiful? So and so. Am I handsome? Need to be stronger. Could I kiss you? Do you dare? I'm afraid you don't dare. How is your feeling? Not bad! Brother, Why didn't you sleep in your room ? Very sorry. Up to now I'll never disturb you anymore . I'll never be afraid of ghost. I will learn the way to sleep alone. Please, be back your room! You know? Why did your father send you to here? I know. He may hate me . and now you hate me,too So he have sent me to here. Both of us don't hate you at all Just cause here you are taught how to curb the selfish desire which exists deeply in our own soul and all ambitions help us resolve confusions People cann't let their soul know what they want and obtain. We have to get rid of all ambitions not good . As well as fill full hoping in theirs Although it's suffering,right ? yes. As it's your sufferings, need to come here to find the way getting rid of that suffering I understand, s huynh come back to your room . May I sit with you ? Yes,please. You look very beautiful Thanks a lots but I'm transsexual GET OUT. Sister . How hot it is that you jumped into the swimming pool ? what's wrong with you? Spicy,right? not spicy,it's delicious Probably This food isn't sold in Bangkok,right? Who have told you'' I was Bangkok people''? Sister! Lastnight We did all. but I haven't known your name yet. Oh, Sleeping with who you didn't know either? Haven't you watched "Hello Stranger" ,right? " Nice to meet you" You haven't really watched it ,have you? Watched already. Already but We have to say '' it'' again Call me ''Saitarn'', and you? I'm Fai ( Fire ) But your name is difficult to remember. I will call you Nam ( Water ) Rather lovely . Really? Fai, I'm actually playing with Fire? Do you like so? Of course! Fire is hot. - Hey, Rang ! - Yup Help me look after my shop, I'm going with beautiful girl . Well, You will go pic-nic with a foreign girl but you don't share to me. I remembered having given to you a lot of rambutans,right? - Yes,sir ! - Look after shop carefully. 99 bath . Here is 1000 bath , do you have money enough to change? I don't You can use it first, and pay me later when you have change. I can't,Take it, please - Sis ! - huh ? I ask you? Here? Too obvious,I'm shy. Where do you wanna go ? your wig and clothes look very ridiculous You look like a spy in the movie I've ever seen. Like so?Today I think I wore a glasses and a clothes like this is good . Maybe ,you often pride,don't you? Ok. I will take it off, ok?. Turning into a atractive old woman. don't know I'm wanting to find a man or a father. It's ok ? ok ,not bad. What are you doing ? How can we eat,if you do so ? of course,you can eat it It's very delicious, try it ! Delicious,right? Where did you learn it ? I myself made up,good ? I think doing so is more convenient. I ask you, Do you hate gay ? If I hated, I wouldn't be with you here Right, but many people don't still accept it. I think you are thinking so much. Nobody hates Gay. because no way explains it to them. Really? It's my thought . you have loved me, haven't you? It's not still reached that level yet a cute guy! Sis ! No matter you are ugly or old, I still love you :"x you have been mad? Your sweet mouth, made me die. That's right. Take a photo together, I will post on Facebook. sit next to me a little. - It's ok ? - Ok, let me see first. I looked less beautiful. - But I'm so handsome! - dslike, take it again. I don't like. Take it again ,only once, Quick ! Yom, What happened to you? I have transgendered . I saw already. But I asked '' Why you are crying''. My lover left me. So I cut myself, Until I woke up, That bad guy didn't still appear, Being with and taking care of me is only my parents. I hate myself. I made them hurt, Because I had made stupid things. Today,I'm coming to meet abbot I'm going to ask him to help me but He didn't accept 'Cause I'm a transsexual Well done,It's the difference in service. You all should use your heart to practise Big sister, Do you agree if we raise Dokmai up? After that We will let her back to the top and then start the show ? Hi,sis! I have decided already. - I want.. - Just a minute . I'm nervous now. I still decide to close this bar You don't have any opinion,do you? I have nothing to say You guys, Let's go to change your clothes . Preparing for the final show tonight Please,wait for me When did you come back? This morning. What's wrong with you ? You shall go home first, I'm going home later. Who? She was my old girlfriend, I told you last time. Din Hello Everyone! Today is last day Fountain bar is opening . And It's also the final show to serve for all you . Mai Dai Kor Hai Ma Ruk - Bell Nuntita I haven't ever dared to hope ,someday there are someone who really love a person like me Just hoping he can understand my heart deeply Just hoping so but It's very very difficult It's Okay... Nobody can chose where we were born But They can chose the future for themselve God has his reason when He creates us not be same. Don't think too much,Our destiny is decided by ourselves Don't mind whoever doesn't like us Meanwhile No one can love us except ourselves Saying to who doesn't like or often bully us that Everyone has their own way to go We have to live truly with ourselves that is proud enough They will never see anything good in us,It doesn't matter To the world know how we are They don't understand or don't respect that doesn't matter Don't need to conjure Don't think much who doesn't like us to do what Meanwhile No one can love us except ourselves Saying to who doesn't like or often bully us that Everyone has their own way to go There're a thousand of people who love us out there Less someone as him has no more pity Throw the pain away Turn them into the fire Let's sing loudly the song of life With the beats of heart , we dance together Don't mind what the others think Our destiny is so , is so If they didn't realize our good aspects Put them in the past Life is so , still passes Don't mind Don't think much who doesn't like us to do what Meanwhile No one can love us except ourselves Saying to who doesn't like or often bully us that Everyone has their own way to go There're a thousand of people who love us out there Less someone as him has no more pity Throw the pain away Turn them into the fire Let's sing loudly the song of life With the beats of heart , we dance together Don't care about what the others think Our destiny is so , is so If they didn't realize our good aspects Let them in the past Life is so , still passes Don't care about I haven't ever dared to hope ,someday there are someone who really love a person like me Just hoping he can understand my heart deeply Just hoping so but It's very very difficult Okay... Hey Krating Go out I will go, Anyway I have seen all . You're ignoble Hold on. Mr.Tonmai . Don't think about them. I'm asking you final time, Have you met your father yet? Not yet. Maybe You haven't still understood him . If he really want to let me know, He wouldn't left my mother and me like that He didn't understand me ,too So why I have to understand him You have misunderstood him, He knew everything about you also us, Before you came here, A lot of things had happened. Wait a minute Mr.Tonmai,Please! . Before you go abroad, I hope You will go to his office to see There's some things that He had left for you there. Din . Sweety and tasty ,oh my son . Dad ! Have you met him yet? Before until now he didn't want you to know this all things Have you gone to market yet? Already but I forgot bringging my wallet You have seen all ,right? We had better divorce, I will move to abroad. Actually You can move so far, or move to abroad. I'm sorry. Please,don't tell our son that his father is like that . The expenses in everyday life, I will send to you every months You can find an other man and get married again Finding a man who is good and loves you Don't be like me I want to tell you You are the first woman I have ever loved After You were born He had made a transgender surgery. But everyday He often called me to ask you are fine or not. he also asked me '' Taking your photo''. to send for him. He still loves you I'm sorry because not having told you the truth Just cause I had had a promise with him. Hey, Give me money. No money. Quickly,quickly I have no money. I told you '' give me your money'', quickly Quickly. I have no money, I have no money . Run away, run away . Din , My son. Damn. Din My son . Help, help . Help my son. Fai ,Please, take him to hospital . Calm down Ta Uncle , Keep calm . Sis ,I'm taking you to hospital, sister ! What happened lasnight is very bad,right? I love women, don't love men . But lastnight You said '' You felt happy''. 'cause i drunk too much and my mind wasn't sanity . Go away, Don't bother me . Ok,i will, But Can I beg you a thing? Pinch your hand - For what ? - Pinch,please . - Do you pain ? - Of course. Yup, me,too . Alo, Mommy? Excuse me Is this Tahin's house ? I know your father don't want to be here. Eak mai narn - Kanakum Apiradee Are you cold there ? My darling. . Or There you felt more comfortable and warmer I just wanted to know that you're living there, is good or not ? There are a lot of delicious food ? My darling . . you still love him,right? Men are very useless . There are a lot of delicious food ? My darling . . you still love him,right? Men are very useless . Enough, I'm bad like this ,It's not enough,is it ? Don't worry, You will be able to find another . People say that Time makes everything fade Actually I can't do forget you Even Life has a lot of difficulty I have to be brave to go ahead After You know no longer We can be somewhere . . And meet in our dream You and me :)
