 

                        1 Till when will you run away.. Now finish this story I'm trying, just need more time, your time ls over.. Just think about us, landlord ls being tortured.. It's been more than 13 months, you havent yet paid interest. My land ls infertile. Sale out the land.. And enjoy your life.. If I sale out the land.. So what'll I do then. Your watch ls cool, Is that imported. I'm having conversation with pannalal, about advance, need 1 week more. What'll I do with moti, his warrant ls out on 302. He's charged for kidnapping too you keep It away from me. You misses me If It passes 24 hours. I can't get the kick without you. But now I've warrant .. Why? That old municiple matter.. You made gun fire.. What'd I do then. That chairman was putting me In blacklist. Keep the warrant aside I'm busy If once the election ls annouced, so It's high court matter. I've talked to magistrate, board In open car with garland. I'll call the media.. First abuse me there.. I'll present you In court with honor. Bail In 2 min. That plot ls mine. The only heritage of that land. I've only power to sale the land of this market the deal ls complete.. Get the possession get the order from court to vacant that land. You've to do that sir. Call that anuradh and open the file.. What happened to my father? I've just invited him for conversation... get out the diary take the statement.. What's the matter? That old matter of killing your brother's wife .. That dowry case.. It's an 7 year old case. That matter ls closed.. It's police mater. It's open now.. We got new lead. But father ls diabetes and hypertension he have brought the medicines. What do you want? Me? We got the complaint from balwa market .. Whoever have registered It hasn't right" We've the original papers. My father ls owner.. And after him I'm the owner. After your father's statement, we'll call your mother. She's accused number 1. It's been 100 years of this market, everybody comes here nearest. And parekh wants to occupy the land for selling it.. You all together fight for your right... don't go anywhere, hey you rebel, you looks litrated.. Can't you read... leave it.. Pack up your stuff and get outta here. The land ls sold out.. Original documents.. I have.. So show It. Show us please.. I can't find the original papers,. So get out of here. What's going on... he hasn't documents. What happened? Stop It. It's court order.. I'm doing vacant my land. It's your duty to help me but your way of doing ls wrong, so do It by your way. Request them all. Arrest them all It's totally injustice. This 3 acre government land ls In dispute.. We're with you..we'll fight with government for this land. Stop your acting that you all are doing nobody ls fool here. Everybody understands your game. You always goes to negative track and outcome ls minus. Why you've come here after leaving your forging job. You need It more than me. The dirt ls In your mind. You have It. It's total minus.. Police ls for serving people not hurting them. We've sectioned that government land next to school. I understand everything" They'd court order.. Is that was court's order that police ruin the market.. We stopped It when reach, didn't made riot. I arrested 8 people.. For whom do you work? For people or land mafia? Sorry sir you're being misguide. So now I'll misguide you now. Go now. Sir, issue the order for relief the bmc from the post of circle officer he'll work In administration... and call the meeting on 3 o clock .. It's time to change your positions. It's from headquarter and urgent. It's order for joining for tomorrow. Are you happy now? We bribed for transfer. S.p was headache.. Do you understand making powerless to bhola before election your dream of becoming p.m. would remain dream... start the preparation.. We'll get all the funds.. Since you're minister. Did I made any mistake? If I'd have favor on you, I'd have did It 5 years ago I'll try my best to not to disappoint boy we believe on you, and other preparation ls going fine. Here on every check post, people are good. My party's m.l.a will support you It's golden posting for you we've planning the 1600 megawatt project we've made the strict contract for giving job to every family poor farmers shouldn't be harmed. And you know those goons are everywhere those international funding n.g.o.. This project ls my dream. It's emergency here.. Really arrest thema ll greetings. Welcome you should work In night" You donkey so they all are your party worker. Worker like them works In your party? Look that he's fixing party's ag. Gentleman people can't do working In politics.. Those people comes midnight anytime for me.. They're not lucky like you, once gets the ips job for many years. We gives exam after 5 years everybody tries to fail us. Bu politician like you can make transfer officer like m you've come In baghaypur, It's very lucky place. Have a seat. His ls my first distric I'll try to serve the people of baghapur. But I'll need your support. People believe on police, you'll ponder on law and order. We've controlled the crime In our area. Since I've joined, I've decreased he crime 90%.. If you think my area ls dirty. Please clean that too I won't bear this kinda indiscipline. So tell him to shut up don't try to become bahubali In khaki uniform remember one thing I'm not here to get your salutes.. Have come to control the law and I know one of you who ls the puppet of what politician. And are involved with them I want the adr for all the pending cases. I hope we'll work with honesty I'm asking you why you didn't lodge his report. We told this to circle sir. He said sorry to him.. If we arrest him so he'll make noise. That land ls In dispute, I told him wait for court order. He slapped and you made him say sorry so police duty ls over.. It's kids game there you arrested that goon, here home minister got the call It become breaking news. They will raise the question In assembly about It. Where will you answer the girl ls not going out for 3 days..s.p will not guard us. Why're you putting us In danger after that land. The case ls registered on kapil's name, ask himself. Is that the guy who attacked on you I didn't see properly In the entire city, there'll be everywhere supporters. You're not taking complain back. I'm saying take It back. I welcome him.. And he did too much everybody ls In tension, my work ls to get rid of tension It seems someone misguide you law and court deal with criminal but on the election time, this action make negative image. I left my diary rukmani told me where you took her after kidnapping. If you tell me truth, so I'll leave you alive tell me whose farm house you took the rukmani moti presents.. Bablo brother.. Long live.. We'll find out who's behind this conspiracy till we've bholanath like officers, that moti goon can't hide. Who gave the gun to moti? I couldn't see. Isn't it strange that moti had one bullet In gun and according to report It was blank how'd I know.. Moti told me.. That he work for vidhayak It's registered on samata power you take the possession. And start the work. It's the strict instruction till middle one won't registered, we can't take passion. Means you'll not release my payment of 240 acre? It's not my personal, It's company's policy tell your boss.. Don't do It hard and fast. What happened? You did see a devil? L;I've come here to say thanks. What you did? Small bidayak.. My land ls not on sale I'll take the land.. Now you decide to give while crying or laughing" Father what're they saying they're saying to put me In jail, how can you pay money by It. First he'll go to jail, then they'll get court order. Then land will be on bid... then he'll pay for It. Laxmikant asks for 40% interest. But what'll you do.. No other person talks. Asking for house papers. Give education to rakesh god can't even save .. Nothing will remain this are this market. Everybody know he had a mid wife too .. There's nothing like we've no coordination now you've come on suicide tourism. What you mean? People here are committing suicide, and you'll give them fake hope. Nothing will happen. I've come here to do something serious. How's going on. Madam wants to meet you It was police routine matter many s.p will come and go. Tell her If she wants my statement, you finish that about land. x once you've to come. Madam has called you If you come for 2 min, I'd saved my job. Who gave you this job. I gave you for free... what? She's out just now/ with force.. Munna ls out just now.. With three full of cars with man. S.p ls reaching to market. What're you doing? I just gave the shock.. Say anything" It will be very harmfull how pretty was she looking. Everything ls because of me. Don't just worry about your work. It's land matter.. We've to be patient. What kinda patient.. He's beating us.. Because of a small girl. My 90 crore are stucked. Now see how lucky I am.. Double u ls In left side, and you're on right side. Listen o me once please. Go and see that land.. I'm not forcing you I'm with you see It once.. Every car should be checked on every post.. It's confirmed that they kidnapped the girl. Stop them all we've detained the similar car.. And investigating .. Went to sunita's village for inquiry didn't see both sister and brother, but c.m had come to meet them his neighbour ls saying where's landlord? I don't know. Tell him to call me. So what's the big deal In it.. That you shocked the entire world. You meet me In factory.. Yes brother.. Where're you? You're doing wrong" Everything will be destroyed. Keep your sacrifice to you now let me deal with my way. We'll find the way.. It will be cruelty If something would happen they're roaming with sunita In big car. Inform madam sir.. Find out anyhow.. My name ls double u pandey you kill me but I'll not give you land. We made mistake.. I couldn't save that girl. He did that? He has reached now. Don't say It with pride.. You'll abuse In a mins.. What's the matter.. Lets go with me to hospital have to take your blood sample for dna test. Is my blood ls so cheap.. It's court order/ If you corporate with me, so It will be nice for your health. Or I've the file for your many bad deeds. And I opened all together. Move.. How much will you beat me? Nothing wrong happened.. It will be suicide.. The murder will not turn In suicide. Isn't there rules and law In society, everything ls finished. Now this system will go on.. You sucked the blood enough" If anybody speak, will bear this. Wake up lets go home.. Wake him up minister ls on line. It's big shock.. Look after yourself. I said to Lg police, he'll do inquiry personally didn't see anything? I wasn't there that day. It will be very costly to you this silence will be cost you all high. Bablo pandey bidhayak brother. He's murdered. Whatever people say., without police support this act can't do. Can't you understand.. What're you doing supporting this.. I told you If you made mistake while on duty so I'm with you.. But you tried to make me fool who's the guilty for this act. D.s.p sir, we can't endure more. Now you've talked to me.. Don't worry now. You consider It suicide.. Someone sees or not.. Everybody will speak only on language. What you mean.. There's only meaning whoever will loot the people, he'll commit suicide. Shut up everybody they're gone mad. Do you understand what nonsense you're speaking. You did this.? Suicide? So come In front.. I'll tell you what that mean. I hung him with tree. You did? Alone.? They were 4 people.. I'm taking the responsibility take him.. After coming here I searched.. People says they didn't see that kid. Where's nagesh? When did you see him last time? That day on the time of incident. Bm singh do you understand that kid ls In danger? Vidhayak ls finding him he'll not spare him alive.. So why don't you tel me location sorry madam I don't know.. Inform to every check post that bm singh has escaped. Arrest him immediately do you love him a lot? With the murderer of my brother.? Now you'll give me his address. Where did you hid him didn't they hit him whatever he did.. We'll like to kill him .. But we didn't kill him but the person who killed him has right. Where Is he.. Where did you hid him you can't even touch madam ls reaching" Actually can kill you In a min. But I'll not take you easy I'll hang you with that tree. Will you give us your statement.? We'll take strict action. Tell us who were those people? Take their statement. He's damodar.. Close friend of bm sir. You increase the security here. How're you now.. I'm fine. Why did you went to him.. It was my mistake. So why you're not giving statement against bablo pandeyx I've many files.. All are In her custody have to get them. It's the original documents of the market. I was wrong that time. I spoiled the khaki uniform. Now believe on you.. And now I'll try.. Give me one more chance.. I'll fix up everything" Where did you hid the nagesh? He's safe.. We'll get the share from our lands.. Otherwise we'll not give our lands. Whatever benefits you asked for, we provided you It's benefits will be when the project start" In this situation the land ls slipping. How's going on this time.. I've not come at police officer': house, but sis-In-law's house. If you'd have informed me so.. I was just passing by you've given me the responsibility, so you're trying to swip me.. We're in debt of you.. And we'll respect his all obligations. When the matter ls about my uniform. it only accept one obligation duty, and serving the country remember sir, the uniform you thinks It's your mid wife. That uniform will arrest you and drag you toward those people.. Which power you raped. Who Is it.. Nagesh fill It In. Pick It up job ls done.. We picked up we've taken stuff outta town. We're not dealing. Just giving you chance.. Till election.. Then I'll do your transfer... and you'll forget the police job. That kid's life ls In danger" And I'm unable to do anything. An criminal ls challenging me.. And my power made a statue.. But why.. For an ordinary position why don't you say clearly.. Get sold and sit. Where're you going? Did you meet? Where did you hid nagesh? I called him many times.. Not picking up you did good" Are you around there.. Are you happy to see my mummery don't know about election, I was out for worship devi.. Don't spare him.. Take care of him I said get off the rope. Forgive me last time. This murderer has to die. Whatever happen to him the law will decide not you people. Law will not handle him.. He'll be bailed. His right end Is this. I'll come with you what happened? Isn't It amazing. What's your problem madam? Give ladies the uniform.. And give cain. They ruins everything. She goes out of control. You can't understand that bablo pandey when khaki ls clear color, man wears It or woman. It shows the status to impotent like you what accused ls bablo pandey vidhayak ls gone mad In fear of loosing the election. Was trying to commit suicide. But I didn't permit him he's accused for dozens crime. He can't run away from law.
