 

                        A Tale Of Two Sisters How was your day today? How was it? Well then, shall we talk? First, tell me about yourself Who do you think you are? Do you know who this is? Don't know? It's your family Want to see it again? Fine then Can you tell me about that day? About what happened? You should be able to remember it clearly It's okay From now on tell me what happened Aren't you getting out? Su-yeon Su-yeon! It's so pretty Give me your hand The other one Why? Su-mi! Welcome home! It's been such a long time You've changed so much, Su-yeon You've gotten prettier... But you two really disappointed me I waited all day for you two cooking and cleaning the house but why didn't you say hi first? What did you do? Were you at the wharf? You should've changed first before you went outside Anyway welcome back home Is something wrong? I see you've gotten better I'm so glad you feel better now You're taking after your mom You're feeling a lot better too, right? Right I bet you're both tired Get some rest and come down for dinner I'm preparing a special dinner But, you should give me some time There's a lot to prepare We just got back Things don't look so good right now It wouldn't help much if you came Yeah, I know Let's talk later I should go So you're doing okay, right? Did I tell you? Sun-kyu and his wife are coming over lt'll be alright I'll take care of it Okay, bye Oh right! I invited Sun-kyu and his wife over for dinner this weekend Really? Lt'll be nice for them to see the girls after so long And to catch up on things That was delicious Sorry, I have things to tend to You must be tired so clean it up tomorrow Did you prepare your father's undergarments? Thanks, but that's my job Cleaning my room is my job, too Why'd you touch my stuff? That's how it was before So all of the same clothes were hanging there before? I'm not having dinner with him What? I said I'm not having dinner with that guy He's not some guy he's your uncle It's the first day so let's give it a rest - And you? - Yes? Aren't you going to follow her? You're supposed to follow your sister What did that woman tell you? If she ever gets on your case then tell me And don't ignore it like before Okay? Good night What's wrong? Did you have a bad dream? Was it the closet? Then what's wrong? I keep hearing strange noises outside It's because you've been away too long It's okay Let's sleep Somebody came into my room He's asleep - I know - Then why are you trying to wake him? Says who? You were trying to wake him just now Have something to tell him? It's none of your business All I'm saying is since his fast asleep Don't wake him up Don't you understand me? I just came down for water He's asleep so be quiet Did you go to my room? Yes Who was it? That woman Stepmom? Yeah It's strange What is? That woman is strange And so is this house Are you scared? Everything's alright I'm here Come here Let's sleep I'll always be with you Su-yeon Go away Are you awake? Yes - Can I come in? - No Come down and eat What are you doing? Are you having your period? No, Su-yeon is... Su-yeon? That's so funny How could we both get our periods on the same date? Su-mi... It's okay, come down That's mom's favorite, huh? Do it like this Shall we kill them? Let's set them free She'll have a cow if we mess with her precious I'd hate to see that Su-mi What are you doing out in the cold? Are you alright? Why? You don't look so good Are you feeling sick? No, I'm okay Tell me what's wrong? I said I'm okay Just get rid of Su-yeon's closet Su-mi we agreed not to talk about that closet You promised, right? Su-mi I know you're very angry with me And I know I'm a bad father You're not even a bad father It's cold so let's go inside I will What are you doing? You scared me When did you come in? - Did you go to the warehouse? - Yeah Su-yeon, look at this Tada! Wow - Cool - Pretty, huh? - Is it mom's? - Yup, and... There's more It's mom! Taritakoom, taritakoom What does that mean? It's a spell to call mom Who told you that? - Mom did - What? Can I take this? Huh? Sure... This... and this Wait! What is this? Who did this to you? Tell me, who did this? It's okay, tell me She did this, huh? She did this, didn't she? Su-yeon what's wrong with you? I told you to tell me everything! She did this, right? She did this, huh? Did she do this? Tell me! Tell me! Tell me! Tell me! What? How can you be so cruel? It's retribution If you disobey you need to be punished Does dad know what you did? Think your father can solve everything? Then go get him Want me to do it? Sit down! Where are your manners? Were you like this to your mom, too? Don't bring up my mom! Listen carefully I'm your mother, got it? As much as you hate it I'm the only one in this world you can call mother, got it? Crying over your mom's photos won't change anything Hard to handle, huh? That's too bad But that's how the world is The world isn't as sweet as you picture it Sometimes you have to bear the worst and live on Like the way I'm bearing you two! Tough isn't it? I have beared you two brats from the moment I came to this house I have never met such ill-mannered menaces like you two What? Why the hell did you even come here? I can't believe you said that to me again I see, you still must be sick Don't touch me - Let go! - What's wrong with you? Are you that clueless? Don't touch me with those filthy hands! Su-mi, listen to me I don't want to hear it You're the same That's not true you've misunderstood You're not even accepting all this Why is it always me? Why are you asking only me to understand? Are you really clueless? Yeah, Maybe I don't know I don't have all the answers I don't know, so tell me and let it off your chest Tell me! Will it change anything? Will it? Su-mi Don't do this Please don't You'll get sick again What? Fine From now on anything that happens here all the filthy things you brought here be responsible for it all I have nothing more to say so answer the phone Do you remember? My memory's a bit blurry but I think it did happen When was it? Hey, remember this? You jumped into the rive to catch some fish Then you started to drown and everyone had a fit There was another funny story What was it? Oh yeah, I remember Remember that crazy guy? The funny thing is is that he was always normal but whenever it rained he went nuts While plowing the field he'd strip off his clothes when it rained and run out into the highway The funniest time was when it rained off and on So he'd put on and take off his clothes, again and again Then he got sick of it and just went into his house Everyone in the neighborhood laughed so much back then But when... But when he was little he saw him doing that once He saw him doing that once and then he ran together with that crazy guy Our mom saw that and she almost passed out Do you remember? You remember, right? Say something Don't you remember? You remember, right? No I don't remember What? I said I don't remember Why don't you remember? Are you crazy? Mi-hee! Mi-hee! Wait, hold on to her - What's wrong? - Wake up! Bring some water Are you alright, Mi-hee? Water, water I'm sorry, it's all my fault Mi-hee! It's okay It's alright, Mi-hee It's alright I'm sorry I didn't want to come but your father begged me to so I had no choice - Honey - Yes? I saw something strange in that house What did you see? There was a girl under the sink Just go in - Can't you just stay here? - Why? It's strange What's strange? It's strange After the girls came down weird things have been happening in this house Don't say stupid things Didn't you see it? You're just having a hard time adjusting You'll get better if you rest No There's something in this house I'll look around, so lie down Open the door! Open it! Open the god damn door! I'll show you Get up! Get off the bed Get off now! I said now! Come here, right now! You pest... Talk! A person can't get any rest around this household Tell me Who did it? Who did it? Who? Better tell me the truth Who did it! Was it Su-mi? You two need to learn a lesson! Was it your sister? So do you feel better looking at your dead mom's things? Feel happy after seeing the photos? Say that you're sorry Until you do, don't even think about coming out There's no use in crying Say that you're sorry and beg for forgiveness! I'm sorry What? Say it right I'm sorry I'll ask you once more You're admitting that you're sorry, right? Stop crying I don't want to hear it, so stop it now! Are you... Are you mad? Is that why you're crying? Fine, let's see how long you hold up This will put some sense into you two Su-yeon Su-yeon, I'm sorry I didn't hear you I'm sorry, Su-yeon I'm sorry This won't happen again I promise Don't cry, it's okay - Tell me - What? Why the hell are you doing this? Tell me why you've acted so weird since you got here You really don't know? Don't know what? What is it? I'm talking about what that woman is doing to us! So tell me what has she done? She keeps harassing Su-yeon What? Didn't you hear me? I said she keeps harassing Su-yeon! She's vicious, evil and always locks Su-yeon up in the closet! Su-mi, please stop it Stop what? You know that Su-yeon is scared of her Su-yeon, you tell dad Stop crying and tell him now Tell him! Please stop it! Su-yeon... is dead What? No... Su-yeon is dead So pull yourself together How long will you keep this up? It's not true, Su-yeon Su-yeon... Su-yeon No... No... Come down tomorrow, I can't do it alone Hmm... She's getting worse I'll pick you up call me when you get here Su-yeon! Su-yeon! Su-yeon! - Su-mi! - Su-yeon! Su-yeon! Su-yeon! Su-yeon! I am fed up with your family How did we come to this? Don't you get it yet? Remember what I told you before? Remember when I said you'll regret it some day? You... Know what's really scary? You want to forget something Totally wipe it off of your mind But you never can It can't go away, you see And... And it follows you around like a ghost Help me Sure, I'll help you Let's end it here Su-mi! Su-mi! Su-mi! Where's Su-mi? Where? Please stop it I'm sick of it now Take this you'll feel much better Su-mi! Don't you get it yet? You're just having a hard time adjusting You still must be sick You promised not to bring up that closet How could we both get our periods on the same date? Su-yeon is dead! No, I don't remember! Su-mi, are you okay? It's all over now You'll feel better here Get some rest I'll come and visit often Take care of yourself Bye Su-mi, what's wrong? Let go Let go, Su-mi Please stop it and let go - No, I'll get it - Let me take one Mom... Su-yeon! Su-yeon! Mom? Mom? Mom, mom! Mom! Mom, mom, mom! Mom! Didn't you hear something? Why'd you come up here? Dad's not here What do you mean by that? Now you're trying to act like mom Do me a favor Stay out of our lives Can you get out of the way? I have to go You... You might regret this moment Keep that in mind! What can be worse than standing here with you? When you're here I wanna be as far away from you as I can Understand? Su-mi! Su-mi! Help me... Su-mi Su-mi... Su-mi... Su-mi...
