 

                        What you want, when you want it. [When you want it] KMBZ on demand. From the voice of Kansas City, news radio. Sandra Day O'Connor, the first woman ever deserved on High Court has turned in her letter of resignation bring her to High Court to an end. Let's go to the White House. Good morning. I directed my staff to compile information and recommend from my review, potential nominees who faithfully interpret the Constitution and laws of our country. I believe as Christian citizens of this country we should be actively involved... ... in this historical moment. And if the churches across this country  believers can come together and take a stand I think it's gonna have a powerful, powerful impact on this process. We dare not sleep through this poi???? decision because frankly, futur generations depend on us. Pray urgently that God's perfect will, will be done. We are engaged today in what they call: culture war. We did not start it but, we, by his grace, are going to end it?. And we should say: "Yes we want to reclaim America for Christ " Upon? this mean-spirited message, us against them and that's what the religious right is doing in the United States, it is dividing this country. - Well, we have Tyry - Yes. in Hillside, Illinois, that he listens to on the WCPT. What do you have in your mind? I am Christian, I am a Bible believing Christian. Somehow, these guys don't ji? with the Christianity in what I have learned. I mean, there is authoritarianism kind of way about them and there is nothing generous?, nothing compassion for me, there is nothing Christian bottom line?, I mean Yes. It is It is It is upside down. I mean Yes, I've been-I've been raised as a Christian all my life I think that's probably the thing that upset me most about what's happening. None of this really makes any sense for me. So there is some new brand of religion outhere It's somehow the things have changed since Matthew uh, wrote uh wrote about the Jesus's sermon on the mount where Jesus told us to be peacemakers. And right now they Everything they do they say, they do it in name of God. That we need to go to war in name of God. They are being told George Bush, of all people? he is the Holy man who has been anointed with the job of of creating a Christian society not just in America, but all over the world. You and I know that's false. This is a tanglement? of politics with religion. What what kind of lesson is that for our children? There has never been a generation like this one. The Earth is filled with dead and dying in spirit and body. But now it is the time to the glory of Lord to come to the Earth as the water covers the sea. "Now is the time!" We prophecied these dry bones, arise! "Now is the time!" Speak the word of the Lord! # The word of the Lord # # The word of the Lord of Zion # # The word of the Lord # # The word of the Lord of Zion # # The word of the Lord, the word of the Lord of Zion # # Prophecy # [In the word of the Lord!] # the name, a generation # # the name, a generation # # the name, a generation # # Prophecy # # We # # Prophecy # [He is coming!] # The Lord # # Arise # [He will save the nation] # The Lord will # # Arise! # Fabulous! Alright, Thank you for coming! That is great. Wow! I have no idea how many people are here today. I told the auditorium hold about 500  so we are doing pretty good, are we? Ok listen, mums and dads. I want to tell you about something that we have in the bookstore. We have School of Evangelism  and unfortunately, this one doesn't sell quite as much because people, for whatever reason I guess they think that this is gonna be a door-knock key. A manual, uh. And it is not. There is an hands?in the back that teaches kids how to, eh actually start a conversation with their friends and how to? the loss?. Another thing that I wanted to announce is our camp coming up in August. Yeah! And it just gonna be an incredible time! We've got brochures on the camp sitting on the bookstore. You need to pick one up and begin to pray about this year. Ok? Boys and Girls! I need everybody seated  right this way. Is there anyone here that believes that God can do anything? God can do anything! We can just say: "God, fix the world!" How do you know? This is a pretty sick old world? This is a sick old world. , just fix it! Somebody hit your tools and let's just fix this old world! Can't you God change things? We got too many Christian ? fat and lazy. They don't want to give up their evening meal they don't want to for 3 days or 40 days or whatever. Do you know Muslims, train their children from the time of 5 years-old to during the month of Ramadan? Listen, we hold the keys. "We" can change the world. Boys and girls can change the world? Absolutely! Absolutely! stand feet. Aleluya I need you to get serious, serious with God. Say: "God" God I am here to be trained. I am here to be trained I am here for an education I am here for an education I am willing God. I am willing God. I will do what you want me to do. I will do what you want me to do. I'll say what you want me to say. I'll say what you want me to say. In Jesus name In Jesus name Amen Amen You don't open your mouth the Holy Spirit can't talk. Alright, I want everyone that you raise your hands and we gonna pray in tongue. Aleluya, let's do it. Oh, we love you, Jesus... Holy Spirit, Lord. Feel its power! Feel its power! You talk them and... The Holy Spirit is going to whisper you what to say. Don't stop! Don't stop! This it is the greatest day of your lives next the day you got saved??. She's not in trance, she's not out of her. She is very aware of what's going on. She's just hooking up with the spirit she's just staying focused. I am going to playgrounds of kids that don't know anything about the Christianity lead them to the Lord in a matter of just no time at all and just a moment later... they can be seen? in vision of hearing the voice of God because they are so open. They are so usable in Christianity. If we look at the world's population one third of that are children under the age of 15, one third. Where should we putting our efforts? Where should we putting our focus? I'll tell you where are our enemies are putting it they are putting on the kids. You to schools. You go in Palestine and I can take you to some websites that would absolutely shake you to your foundations and show you photographs of where they're taking their kids camps like we take our kids to Bible camps and they're putting hand-grenades in their hands they teach them how to put on bomb-belt they teach them how to use rifles they teach them how to use machine guns It is no wonder with that kind of intense training and discipline that those young people are ready to kill themselves for the cause of Islam. I want to see young people who are commited with the cause of Jesus Christ as the young people are to the cause of Islam. I want to see them as radically laying down their lives for the Gospel, as they are over in Pakistan in Israel and and Palestine and all places, you know because we have Excuse me! But we have the Truth! I would say there is a friendly environnement now in the United States towards Christianity that has been in my lifetime and a lot of it has to do just the last few years has to do with President Bush. He has really brought some real credibility to the Christian faith. He has been very opened ly open, about his faith in God. This moment right now today, is a fulfillment of a prophecy. We got to stand up and take back to the land. Hey listen, I just wanted to know you guys - Both, you came with Mark, right? You are not related to him, right? - No - He is coming to our camp this summer. Are you guys coming too? - To North Dakota? - To North Dakota. - Yes. - You are coming? Your whole family coming? Or just you guys? - I think just this?. - Awesome! With my brother, my twin brother. I want to know more about you guys. How long have you been a Christian? I've been a Christian, I was at 5 - I got saved. - Yes? - Because I just of life. - Yes? - And nothing I got You got 5 years-old and there was nothing fun? - Yeah. - Really? Already? So, what do you think the camp is gonna be like? What do you expect in? What do you expect in God to do for you? What am I expecting God to do for me? - Yeah, camp. - I think Oh, camp! Camp, I think God is gonna... you know give me use to meeting other people because I have hard times for that. - I can't believe that! - I'm shy! You are shy? I can't believe it! Except for when things have been . Yeah, then you are not shy at all! - No - Oh, you guys are great. Really appreciate that you come. to see you in summer. Good to meet you, Terrene. Good to meet you, Levi. - We will talk later. - Ok. - Bye, bye. Time for creation, garden of Eden ...approximatively 6000 years ago. Was it an explosion? Did we come for a global ? Argh! Argh! I don't think so. It's been said that we are the result of an explosion is this true? Is this scientific? Or is it just based on a belief? Levi, come here. I need to be near you. Alright, let's go over some things. One popular thing to do in American politics it is to note that the summers in the United States over the past few years, have been very warm. As a result, global warming must be real. What's wrong with this reasoning? - It's only got a 0.6 degrees. - Ah. Yeah, it is not really a big problem, is it? No. I don't think that it's gonna hurt us. It is It is a huge political issue, global warming. And that's why it's really important for you - to understand - The evolution too? - Um, not really. At the most - Creationism? Um, it is becoming one. Now. What if you got to go to school where the teacher says creationism is stupid and you are stupid if you believe it? - I think they should... yeah - Well? Or, what if you got to go to school where your teacher says evolution is stupid and you are stupid if you believe it? - It wouldn't mind it. - You wouldn't mind it. If you look at creationism you realise it is the only possible answer - to all the questions. - That's exactly what Dad says. It is the only possible answer to all the questions. - Oh, yeah. - Oh, yeah. Yes. Did you get to the part where it says that science doesn't prove anything? Ja! And it's really interesting when you look it that way. - It is. - It is. - Alright! - Alright. I think personally that Galileo made the right choice by giving up science for Christ. God didn't say: "Have children and give my kids to someone out for 8 hours a day. " And if I can homeschool them as well as can? public school why would I send them somewhere else for 8 hours a day? Our nation was founded on Judeo-Christian values. We know when things start changing out of schools, and ah the schools started to fall apart. And now the rest of us : Wait a minute, where is my country? Our firm belief is there are two kinds of people in the world. People who love Jesus and people who don't. And I want my kids to grow up knowing: You know what? It's a good thing to be a Christian.. Matthew Spalding, our guest. Tomorrow, Glenn Thomas from Christian marines... of Operation Iraqi Freedom of its book God Saw Them Through. So, tomorrow it will be very interesting we will see back here again. # # Why our kids thought that global warming doesn't exist? Ok, why? Look, rape this world rape this earth, take everything you want from her because, you know what? It doesn't matter. We are not here for very long. Christ is coming to take us away from Earth so cut down our trees, use all of our oil take advantage of everything that the Earth has to offer... That's why you're here getting involved with issues like global warming. It itit you want to shake them. And you want to say: What what what is you are not understanding by the  of the Christianity? How did you get here? Our president is still telling Americans that we should teach creationism in our schools. That we should teach it right along side with the evolution. I think in this and exactly what they want. Do you know what's happening in Kansas? Yes, I know it. I saw. They have to teach intelligent design right along with Darwin evolution. Think about that. You got 600,000 children, they are being lied to. There is no conflict between two. - Well, not - That is religion, it is not science. We have a population, described themselves as Evangelists. Eh that's about about 80 million people. They're very tenacious and they elbow their way into positions of America. That is the emo? of of of a group that is commited to like I say building a government that they are comfortable with. In the end it's gonna come like a thief in the night. They are slow shipping away at the separation between Church and State. "Jesus died, was buried, three days later, He rose from the deads. Wasn't Jesus only a man? No, Jesus Christ is Almighty God." - Rachael, it's your turn. - I know. Go ahead, Rachael. Yeah, yeah. Get a this time! Jesus Christ your spirit will help me to meet this . Ball, I command you in Jesus name make a good . Alright, Rachael! - This side,. - Ok - Hi. - Hi. God is telling me that He You are he just wants to take you and he just wants to, and He has special plans for you, in your life and he just wants you to be able to follow him with your whole heart. - Mm, thank you. - You're welcome. - I appreciate it. - Welcome. Woaw! I . Yeah, I waited a little bit, you know, to be sure, you know - ? - ? Aha. And after I felt like I the right . Alright. Good job, Rachael. to be obedient. I bowling ministery there?. When I grow up, I just it would be kind of fun to be one of those like ...people who paint nails... because you do chance to tell him about the Lord. Relaxing Christian music in back you know, doing it, you know what I mean? It just be very relaxing it would just be able to walls at that, you know and they would just accept it, you know? I've been teased several times and and I just thought to myself: "Man's decision? Whatever." God's decision... something They think I'm weird? Go ahead. You are not the one who is going to be judging me or if I'm gonna go to hell or heaven. God is. Now, what He thinks is so important. It doesn't matter what you think. This is my favorite part. Owww! My favorite kind of music is like Christian heavy metal, rock and roll. It focuses on the bases towards Jesus and some of the songs actually say like Jesus or our Lord or stuff like that but they do have a Christian basis and they are focused towards Him, so that's why I like Christian. Um, and but really Britney Spears and like Lindsay Lohan and some people like that I could feel definitely careless about them because their songs are mainly based  on guys or girls and, um we, as Christians, I do not I do not believe in that. - Victoria? - Yeah? You about 5 minutes - so I can feed you lunch. - Yeah. When I dance, I really have to make sure that's God because people will notice when I'm just dancing with flesh. I do that sometimes, I must admit that and I really need to get over that. I am not I am not the only one who makes that People out there You are not the only one who makes sick. Can you have a cookie? You can have a cookie. Ok. Alright. Let's do the first now that everybody is we got in something else. Jenny? Christian? Could you stand up, please? Ok. I the Christian fight to our Savior whose kingdom stands. One brotherhood united all the Christians in unity and their love. Ok. the Bible. I to the Bible God's almighty?? word. It will make it a lamp onto my feet and a light onto my path. I words in my heart so sin against God. Very good everybody. I look at it, and George our children are to us from God and someday we're gonna have to answer to God how we raised our children. I : Lord, you have given me this daughter and, how am I supposed to train her? What am I supposed to do now? Right. And I bring her to places where she can learn this from Becky, from Pastor Carol, from different people. But the Lord told me what you need to train her it is to train her about her character. Where are you going? I am goingunder the rain. Ok. Ok, you under the rain. - I need to . - Well... I do not want you to get . Victory, turn around and go back inside now. Thanks. Ok. You're very funny Tori? Ok, get your stuff packed, come on. So, . Tori, we need to get out your sleeping bag you need your Bible, a pen and a notebook. Flashlight, oh brief prophecy Right! Alright, did you find the or ? Check in your Yeah, check in there. walk among the and stuff and... just pray over the seats. Yeah, yeah in the name of Jesus, we just speak over every person that is sitting in these chairs this week and Lord, we just ask to be covered with the blood of Jesus Open hearts, Lord, Open hearts. Father, we pray over the electrical system we pray over the electricity will not go out in this building in Jesus name because of storms or any other reason. I am just praying over this equipment. We speak over the PowerPoint presentations all of the video projectors and we say: "devil, we know what you love to do in meetings like this " And we say: "You will not in Jesus name. You will not prevent this message from going out No microphone problems in Jesus name " In the name of Jesus, we speak that. Father, we just ask you, in the mighty name of Jesus that this will be a defining moment in their lives. Father, I pray that Jesus will be glorified on this camp. You cannot go in there. Billy, you cannot go in there. Alright. I am so It exhausts to me doing this. # Aw, yeah # # Born...born... born, born, born, bo-born! # # to a virgin named Mary on Christmas Day # # He bled and he died on the cross to take sin away # # You take him high # # You take him low # # You take J.C. wherever you go # # Tell me who's in the house? J.C.! # # Tell me who's in the house? J.C.! # [Come on!] # Who's in the house? J.C.! # # Jesus Christ is in the house today # # When He's in your life you want to dance # # We're kickin' it, we're kickin' it for Christ # # Dance! We're kickin' it for Christ # # Dance! We're kickin' it for Christ # # Dance! We're kickin' it for Christ # # I say, it's Jesus Christ # # Who is in the house today! # Whoa, give a big big!. Good evening! You made it! [Whooo!] you guys like my hair? Fingernails? The eyebrows? And the rest of me?! talk this week about how the devil uses tactics to destroy our lives. The first tactic that he uses is to tempt you with sin. you first as a kid particularly these stuff starts. When you start as a kid, sin just doesn't seem like that . It looks kinda cute, in fact. Warm and fuzzy???. But sin is designed to destroy you. And you feed this baby long enough and he's gonna grow in your life until you got yourself tied by the tail and you don't know how which end is up?? and what you seems very innocent now controls your life. The devil goes after the young. Those who cannot for themselves. That's why we're trying to help you we are trying to warn you. And while I'm on the subject Let me say something about Harry Potter... are enemies of God! And I don't care what kind of hero they are: They are enemy of God and it had been in the Old Testament, Harry Potter would have been put to death! Amen! ?Don't make heroes . This is a generation, is gonna stand for purity and righteousness and holiness and you are going to serve the Lord all the days of your life. And we declare all those things over you. I believe this so much that I have given my whole life to that you get there. I sense in my heart tonight?? what the Lord says is that there are some kids here saying they are Christian they go to the church all the time but one thing: when you went to your church and another thing: when it is school with your friends. You are and hypocrit. You do things you shouldn't do You talk dirty just like the other kids talk dirty. And it's time to clean up your act. Come up here and get washed. Because we cannot have  in the army of God. If that's you, put your hands up here. Woah, baby... Wash your hands. Father, we just wash them with the water of your Word. We say: "No more, devil. No more!" Say, boys and girls: "In the name of Jesus." You know exactly what you need to up. Name it! Name it aloud! Name it, what you need to be forgiven out??? # Oh- oh Oh- oh # # Oh- oh Oh- oh # No more , no more hypocrisy. Now you got somewhere and pray and you start doing some repenting here. # Oh- oh Oh- oh # Uh I uh I haven't got much to say. I just wanted to talk about belief and God and I've had a hard time doing it and it's just really hard to do this just to believe in God is really hard because you don't see Him. You don't You don't really know how much. Sometimes I don't even believe in the Bible says. It makes me , makes me feel guilty and bad because God always talked to me about that of how??? I have rejected Him. Bu! . Ahhh! Ah - Somebody died. - Ah Scared... Dark, dark house there was the dark, dark corridor. Dark, dark corridor it took to the dark, dark quarter. In the dark, dark quarter there was the dark, dark stairs. Ouh! - Everyone in the bed? - I 'm not. - Alright. - I'm not going to do it I will not  about ghosts stories, Ok? Some are a lot of fun but they don't God and, uh, God says to focus on those things that are that truth and in those things that have beauty. Focus on the good things and the things of God, Ok? Here we go. Lights up, guys. - What time is breakfast? - Eight. My hair is still wet. God just created humans that ate from the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Resulted in sin and death. I got some dripping with blood here somewhere. Alright, that's better. And now I move these letters. That's better. This generation particularly is the sight and sound generation and so, it is very difficult for them to sit down with a book, a tablet and a pencil and try to learn the way we've learnt. They learn visually, they learn by demonstration they learn by uh modeling and. These are, ain't that great? And just good old Ken and Barbie dolls and so, we talk about how they walked and talked in the garden of the Eden with God but when God breathed in the man  in , the breath of life. At that point, man became a living soul. Now I tell the kids: "If you want to become a stronger Christian and have your spirit man be strong there are certain things that you need to do." If you pray everyday your spirit will get stronger. If you go to church and learn more about God your spirit is gonna get stronger. If you don't read the Bible . . Your spirit will be . So For instance, we have a brain mold because one of the sessions is gonna be talking about our minds and how they need to the word of God. This is really fun because you can make a jelly mold???  It looks like a brain. And you just talk about how things stick to our minds and we used these sticky fingers and so represent, uh, dirty thoughts this could represent swear words represent things that we have seen on TV or whatever that we heard, and it sticks to our minds and you suppose to slap it. - brain? - I don't know if it slaps. But stick very good but , it is sticking there. It sticks to your brain and that's very effective for kids. So we have many different things we've gotten???. But that's what I do, I just look around and walk around conceptions of stores??? or see something and : That really would work good for.. You know So... I come 20 objects classes  you know, and people Other children ministeries : Preaching an hour for kids and I feel sorry for the kids. You need to feel sorry for my kids? They know exactly, you know They're getting it... they're getting it. # I got Jesus, yes I do, I got Jesus, I want??? you? # # I got Jesus, yes I do, I got Jesus, I want??? you? # # I got Jesus, yes I do, I got Jesus, I want??? you all! # # I got Jesus, yes I do, I got Jesus, I want??? you? # # 1, 2, 3, 4, We got Jesus, and # Everybody ready? We're gonna pray again. Alright! God, we just thank you for this food this morning. We ask you Father to bless it and Lord Jesus, we plead??your blood over our sins and the sins of our nation. God, end abortion and send revival to America. Thank you, Jesus, Amen. Mom, doesn't he look like Harry Potter? Mom, he looks like Harry Potter. - A bit, yes. - here. I can't watch it, because it has witchcrafts. My mum doesn't want me to watch any of the movies 'cause of the witchcraft, but I watch it with my dad. It is Becky Fischer. This is Becky Fischer, in live and in colors? Uh... She's  - Look at her new hairstyle! - Hahaha! Oh, she's the number one cover lady for Children's Ministry worldwide for April. It is almost like being on the cover of Rolling Stones. So far, camp has been awesome. I love being in the presence of God. God is not in every church, there is such a thing there ... it has certain church they call: "dead churches" and people there, they sit there like this: We worship you, God, we worship you, God. They sing like 3 songs and they listen to a sermon. Churches are God likes to go to Our churches are jumping up and down, shouting His name and just praising Him. They are not acting They are not quiet "We worship you" They are Aleluya!! God!! You know, and and depending on what how they invite Him He'll be there or not. V-I-C-T-O-R-Y, that's the trojan??? battle cry. V-I-C-T-O-R-Y, that's the trojan??? battle cry. I got my Bible. They told me that I was going to preach tonight. I'm really about preaching kids. I have never really preached a whole bunch kids I didn't know. I feel, I mean, I really feel I really feel that we are a key generation, I really do. I really feel that that this generation, is a key generation to Jesus coming back. That is exactly what I want to say. I don't write the sermon, God writes the sermon. I mean, I can feel it sometimes  I can feel it in my arm someone is holding my arm when I am writing, right? And I feel when I go up and I start preaching The Holy Spirit is gonna come out of me. Notthat ain't gonna be me up there preaching It is... but you know, it's not gonna be... me. You know, we can't just sit around on the couch all day because Satan will be after you. He is not gonna sit around either. If Satan is not sitting around you, you shouldn't sit around. Satan will try to trip you off your path off your race, off the course Don't let him do that. In Jesus name, do not let Satan get you off  what God has for you. We are a generation that needs to rise up that needs to rise up and the time with a whole heart, everything we've got. Yeah! Now... who's ready for some fun tonight? You know, it ain't gonna be the same person that you came on this camp... you gonna be a different person you gonna be radical, you gonna be on fire. How many want to be those who give up their lives for Jesus? I got my big old  ghost hamming tonight. We gonna break something in tonight. We gonna break the power of the enemy in government. They came to your schools and they took Jesus out of your schools but one thing they couldn't do, is take Jesus out of your heart. We can't just sit back and accept corrupt government. I believe God wants to put godly righteous people in government. How many of you want to break this cup? The power of the enemy of government. Break this cup. You break that thing in the name of Jesus. Righteous government ... Righteous government. Lord, come on, proclame that righteous government. Everytime you break a cup there is a release in the spirit. We break the power of the devil!... in this nation. In the name of Jesus, it's gone. Shout it out!! Shout it out!! I wanna hear you! Fire in the world! In the world! Jesuuuuuuuus!!!!!! kids, . Unlike McDonald's, this is not about how fast you can go to?? the drive-thru. You want something God, you gonna have to cook a little!... You need to stay in the pot??? in the holy ghost. God touched you tonight, I wanna hear about it. Somebody come tell me what happened. - Pray it out???, Tori. - Pray it out???. [Take the microphone.] changes our nation if we break  and we proclaimed to Lion of Judas. Take these prophecies and do what the apostle Paul said, and make war with them. This means war! This means war! This means war! Are you a part of that or not? - Sorry, I like to throw rocks. - Ok, Levi. . Whenever I run into a non-Christian something you know, I always uh there is always something that doesn't... seem right there is always something that makes my fear , you know. This world feeds you is trash. It's like... giving out candy but I don't want candy, I want the meal. The Holy Spirit is like the meal. A good food, you know. The food that you need and so that is good. But candy will just make you sick That's what a lot of people in this world are: they are sick. They are looking for something. You could pick up a huge spider, back there. - I am not going back there. - Let me there to see. - Where? - Up????. - Show me. - You see it? You see that big ? I know it, it's digusting. I do think I'm different from another kids because we know Jesus and we're hungry after Jesus, you know?! But you know what? I wouldn't be different from other kids if I their call????. That's the thing with America. America... you know, is supposed to be, uh... God's nation, right? Then things just gotta start... twisting around, you know. And now, a lot of people in America just don't follow in God. Ok, we're gonna welcome Mister President now. Talk to him. Say: "Welcome..., welcome President Bush." Welcome, President Bush. We're glad you're here. We're glad you're here. I want you to bless him. Speak up blessing to him. Do that your hands and speak up blessing to him. Do . He has surrounded himself with spirit filled people So pray in spirit over him Here he is, come to visit us. Yes, Lord... Thank you Jesus. Tell him: "Mister President" Mister President one nation under God. " Mister President one - nation - under - God! - The days went fast, really? - Yeah. They just flew... whooa! And this... is the Big Night. - Yeah. - Yeah, are you ready? We got some good surprises for you tonight, alright? Hey, I want everybody sit down the smiling faces, right this way. Hi you??? guys. I am very excited tonight, I usually talk to... to big people but tonight I get to talk... maybe to the most important generation in american history. Whoa! And I am not just joking. Where is the young man? The young man with a long hair. Right there, come here son. Just stand right with me, what's your name? - My name is Levi. - Levi? Whoa, that's a great name, Levi. - Do you like Levi's name? - Yes. Here is the deal. Before you were born God knew you. Extraordinary. He said this: "He said he formed you in your mother's womb." You are not just a piece of protoplasma or whatever that is. Not just a piece of tissue in your mother's womb. You were created inely by God. Is that incredible? God wrote a book about your life and He wrote: Levi... Levi will be a God seeker from an early age and he will become a voice that touch the America. " Yeah! And he would not sell out... in his teenage years he will go for God all those days and he will be a man of prayer." [Yeah!] And in his twenties he begin to share things real strong for God in the nation. God's dream: "The novel of Levi's life" signed: God. What do you think of that? - That's pretty cool. - Pretty cool, uh? You are pretty cool. Now listen to me, guys. Since 1973, up to 50 million babies never had chance to fulfill their dreams God had for their lives. That's sad, isn't it? Do you know, a third of your friends could be here tonight, but they never made it. A person's... a person. Not matter how small... God has a dream for the lucky has a dream for you. see that?... It's awesome, isn't it? Look at that. Tonight, I believe something is gonna start tonight that can change America. Seriously... kids, I believe: you are the beginning of a movement that can raise upon? moral outcry that can overthrow abortion in America and could turn this. Would you like to be part of that kind of company? Yeah! Jesus, I plead your blood over my sins and the sins of my nation. God, end abortion and send revival to America. Louder: Jesus! I plead your blood over my sins and the sins of my nation. God, end abortion and send revival to America. Life! Life! We command life, Lord, in the name of Jesus, life! Satan, in Jesus name, go of them. You have no power taking people's life only God has that power. No more, Lord... No more! No more!... No more! Adults... we cried after God: 32 years! Too long! God, we are asking for the courts of America we are asking courts righteous judges who rule in behalf of your God! Righteous Judges... Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! Children are crying to you, God. Here from heaven, God, it's time. Too long, Lord. Abortion, God. Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! Righteous Judges! You made a  with God tonight that you are gonna pray to end abortion in America. Don't take that lightly, don't be a promise-breaker. Don't be a promise-breaker. Be a history-maker. Do you think you know America? I mean, do you think you know your own country? Well, I got to tell you: you don't. There is a religious political army of foot soldiers outhere that are being directed by a political right. This is not a  conspiracy stuff It's happening! This people you know They don't look like poli, they don't look like politicians they don't look like... they have a like they band wagon for anybody. I mean, they just looked like your neighbor. But When you put them all together what ends up happening, is they start taking control in small slices, and soth This is the last stage. Let me tell you something. They've taken over... the White House, Congress the judiciary for a generation. Together, these people form a powerful I mean, powerful voting block. Look, George Bush and Karl Rove all these people: big, big time. We've been asleep at the wheel as this conservative, political, fundamentalist element has gained too much control and power in this country. I... I... I... Totally beyond me. How anybody can look at this picture and say: Oh, you know this Yeah It doesn't affect me. It's just absurd. I am pleased to announce my nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr... as associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Definitly, if the President tries to replace O'Connor, a moderate with an extremist uh, it would be the biggest fight, uh... over Supreme Court in american history. The nomination of judge Alito is so important and why the Church needed to be involved. It's everything that every Christian we care about because he is so outspoken on the life issue and other issues that are such a great concern to us. This is a crucial, crucial time. Judge Alito, what we worked on for a 30 years is coming to culmination, to consumation, right now. And let's... let's confirm this man, Judge Alito to the US Supreme Court and let's make one more step towards bringing America back to one nation under God. God bless you. # Your face is all I see # # And your days will always be# # A treasure and my reward # # The one thing, yeah, the one thing I live is Lord# # Oh, how amazing # # A love beyond explaining # # You are beautiful # We've decided the Bible is the word of God. We don't have to have a general assembly about what we believe. It is written in the Bible... alright? So we don't have to debate about what we should think about homosexual activity, it is written in the Bible. I think I know what you did last night. If you sign me a $1000, I won't tell your wife. If you use any of this, I'll sue you. And I have a 10 year rule about . For those who married somebody I hope he dies so you can get his money. But The point I want to get across is: you need to make sure in your home... you have few core beliefs. And we, as Americans those that are citizen of the United States you need to make sure our nation has a core belief and as we settle those philosophies correctly then our freedom is guaranteed. Amen? Let's pray together. Father, in the mighty name of the Lord Jesus. We pray for President Bush because he is preparing to elect a new Supreme Court nominee. Give us a strength that lasts forever. Lord, let us not waiver. Let us not be talked down of it. Let us not be negotiated it out of it. It's massive warfare everyday. Let the battle begin! Are you getting all this, in there? - Yes - Ok So, you need to repent. it's great. When they turn on all those lights, it's very . - Hi, how you doing? - Hi, what's your name? - My name is Levi. - Hello Levi. Ted Haggard. - I am the senior pastor here. - The sen..., yeah, I guess. - Ok. You figured that out? - Yes. - What's your name? - Teri. - Was it a good sermon? - Yes, it was. - You do some preaching? - Yes. - What's your favorite subject? - My favorite subject? I like faith. faith. - Well, that's fabulous. - Yes, I like faith. So your people like hear you preach? It seems everybody pays attention more, you know. - This, is preaching. - Is it your content or is it because you are kid? - I don't know. - Yeah. Well, you know - I guess it's - You will know in your 30. I say, use your cute kid thing until you're 30 and by then you have a good content. We believe that you have to emphasis people younger than you in order for your church to grow in a healthy way. Kids are everything. They love the evangelical message, God loves them the Bible is the word of God, they are gifts from God. So all the public schools telling them they are animals they are a product of natural selection we tell them: " God loves you." God has created you, you have a purpose in life. I mean, the kids are... just loving it! And so... uh... So it's a lot of people and we are growing. Churches like this There is a new church like this every 2 days in America. It's got enough grow to essentially every election. If the evangelicals vote, they determine the election. It's a fabulous life! # nothing but the blood of Jesus # # What can make us whole again? # # Nothing but the blood of Jesus # # Oh! Precious is the flow # # That make us white as snow # # No other fount I know # # Nothing but the blood of Jesus # [Let sing it for this nation.] # What can wash away our sins? # # Nothing but the blood of Jesus # Amen. Ok. The Bible says that out of the mouth of babies God has praised to silence the enemy, and the foe and the avenger. God wants to use the smallest to the wise the things that are nothing to notify the things that are. You see the big towers here? and the big buildings and the big men? God says the praises of little children can shake kings. Come on!... Aleluya. We are being trained to... go out and train others train others to be God's Army and to do God's will what he wants you to do. I feel  trained to be warriors only in a much away. We don't like I don't feel the sense or like afraid???? to die in battle or anything like you would when you actually go to the physical???. There is a peace with it all too. There is an excitement yet peace at the same time. It's really cool. You know, a lot of people die for God and  and they are not even afraid. They don't even feel afraid of anyone or anything. And it is like I heard dad told me like when their dads are like missionaries and stuff and they had to go to somewhere really dangerous and stuff they jumped around them and yelling: "Martyr, martyr!!" It's really cool. The young man, get in. I know a powerful soldier for God, thus it is, son. You stay right there. There you go, Joseph. Someday you might be the leader of the government who knows, Joseph. He dreams dreams. What's your name? Austin? You look great with that tape on your mouth. Here we go. Alright, go ahead young men , I love you. Some extreme liberals  they have to look at this and start shaking in their boots. The intensity that you see of these kids there's no doubt, they've gotta be watching this and do: "Oh my goodness!", I didn't know this was possible. And what these kids like when they grow up? It's like animal people eat your heart out... you know. You wanna see intense, you wanna see kids passionate by Christ. This is it. You know, I have to believe with all my heart  that this is just a tip of the iceberg. I believe those kids made an impact in heaven. God hears the cries of children. Ufff! It makes me wanna cry. We are talking to Becky in Bismarck, North Dakota. She is a children's pastor and she runs a summer camp for evangelical children there, in North Dakota. - Becky, how are you? - I'm doing very good. Why kids? Why are they supposed to be some new army of God? Why are we using kids to do that? Anyone who does any work with kids knows this it's because the reason you go for kids it is because whatever they learn by the age of 7, 8, 9 years old it's pretty long there for the rest of their lives and there are statistics that you can research for yourself No, I I I know these statistics, but you used the term "to learn"... The word to learn is different than indoctrinate... God gave us a brain God gave us the freedom to choose and learning is part of that choice. And I think everytime the fundamentalist movement, Becky interferes with that, we are doing harm we are doing harm to the progression of the mankind. I don't think any kid anything by choice. Uhm.. If I understood, your question to me was if I feel it right for the fundamentalism to indoctrinate their children with their own beliefs. I guess, fundamentally, yes I do. Because every other religions are indoctrinating their kids. Hello? I would like to see more churches indoctrinating. You can tell a child anything. Just like I say, you can tell a child You can make a child into a soldier that carries a AK-47. You can call it brain washing but I am radically passionate in teaching children about their responsibilities as Christians as God fearing people,  Woa, Becky, let me ask you this: How do we ignore that all of this sadden??? were creating children soldiers for the Republican Party? How... How is that figuring to anything that Christ had to say about how we should live our life on the Earth? It is I am not safe I am not aware of any churches that with that political cause. I I am not going after my kids politically but that, you know because at the same time I wanna say that I don't have any problem saying to my children: "We are Pro life." I got to tell you God is watching us God has and I And God has a very special place for those people who mess with our children. - It is not a pretty place. - You know what? I am not going to go there, Mike. You know, what's always made this country special? What's always set this country apart? is because there is something that we called:  a separation between Church and State. That's always something that separates us and has separated us for 200 years. It is worked. I respect your right is fundamentalist to teach your children whatever you wanna teach them but don't let that bleed over into the public sector. Don't let that bleed over into the schools. I with you, Christianity is important. We believe it's the most important religion in the world because it changes the life of people. But Becky, it's a witches brew: it's gonna take over democracy. You know, I think democracy is the greatest political system on Earth , it's the only the only it's the on Earth, you know and it is designed to destroy itself  because we have to give evreyone the equal freedom and  it will destroy us. And so perfect world it is not going to be perfect until Jesus is truly Lord. Ok. Becky, thanks for joining us. Ok. Aw, man! The more I hear about this that is to say, every time it is getting crazier and crazier. On this vote, are 58, are 42. The presidence nomination of Samuel A. Alito Jr of New Jersey to be associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States is confirmed. I love America, I love the American life style... ... and to be part of 21st century. I wake up every day excited about what I'm gonna do but at the same time I look at this sick old world and I : God, let's get out of here. Knowing what I know how do I not give my whole life to helping other people: children, teenagers or adults come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. How can I enjoy heaven? with the knwoledge that I never told people that it matters so much to me... about Jesus. That is not a burden, it is the greatest joy of my life. The most religious nation in the world is India. The most irreligious nation in the world is Sweden. We are a nation of Indians ruled by Swed's??. As Christians, you are the leaders, you speak for God. We cared about our country. And what I wanna say is we want to get our message out. We can't down to she said: you just your message down to single sentences???. Let me give you some single sentences. Number one: it's a new day. Number two: liberalism is dead. Number three: the majority of Americans are conservative. Number four: you can count on us, showing up and speaking out. And number five: let the Church rise! Thank you, Dr Sutton. Ready to sing?! Prt(e) chanter?! ?Listo para cantar? Let's go! C'est parti! !Vamos! # When I die and they lay me to rest # # Gonna go to the place that's the best # # When they lay me down to die # # Goin' up to the spirit in the sky # # Goin' up to the spirit in the sky # # [Spirit in the sky] # # That's where I'm gonna go when I die # # [When I die] # # When I die and they lay me to rest # # I'm gonna go to the place that's the best # - Hi... If you  to die right now where do you think that you would go? - Heaven. - Really?... Are you sure? - Yeah. - Ok. # Prepare yourself, you know it's a must # # Gotta have a friend in Jesus # I think that they were Muslim. # So you know that when you die # # He's gonna recommend you to the spirit in the sky # # [spirit in the sky] # - I want to give this to you. - No, thank you. - No, thank you. Oh... we know, they could be Christian already. You know what I mean? Do you think people actually think... ... we are trying like sell something? I betcha that some yes. We are kids, what we sell? Pamphlets in our hands. ~ God has been so good to you you have to ~ ~ And praise and magnify the Lord ~ ~ Because He is only who can set you free ~ ~ Praise him ~ based on aRGENTeaM's work # Never been a sinner, I've never sinned # # I've got a friend in Jesus # #So you know that when I die # # He's gonna set me up with the spirit in the sky # # Oh, set me up with the spirit in the sky # # [spirit in the sky] # # That's where I'm gonna go when I die # # [when I die] # # When I die and they lay me to rest # # I'm gonna go to the place that's the best # # Go to the place that's the best #
