 

                        Our brothers of the Nationalists' This is Captain Gu Zidi of the 139th Regiment the Special 2nd Division of the Liberation Army On behalf of my company, l'd like to greet you You are completely surrounded lf you keep fighting You won't like how things end up We offer you two choices You can get bullets Or maybe you'd prefer dumplings We can keep the bullets coming lf you have had enough Trade in your weapons for chopsticks Sit down with your brothers here in the 9th company We can all eat dumplings Gu Quit the bullshit Let's move in Wait They're already cooking in a pot What's the hurry? Captain Something doesn't look right Have they already retreated? The battalion ordered a hasty attack What are we waiting for? Jiao Coming Take six men and get a closer look Find them six helmets Smoke grenade Jiang Go Take cover Take cover Up there. Give me your hand Pull me up Help me! Jiang Jiang Take out those two up there How many are there? l don't know Cease fire! Cease fire! Help the wounded Hurry! Covering fire Medic Hurry l'm going to die, save me Hurry up Slowly.slowly Hurry up Get the bandages, hurry Hang in there man OK Hurry up Move him First platoon Follow me Second Platoon Protect the flanks Don't bunch up Spread out Keep spreading out Keep up There's lightning Get down, take cover Fall back Captain Gu Get down, get down Everyone get down, don't run around Get down, Get up We've been ambushed Take cover Get down Second platoon, attack Reinforce first platoon Third platoon, save the wounded Leave the dead Tend the wounded first Luo, get on the roof Lu and Jiang Stop cowering Let's go Bring up the heavy weapons Yes sir Follow me Get down On the ground Get down Move in, now! Get the machine gun No one move Gu Set up a base of fire Send in the assault forces We're pinned down The enemy has artillery Let the troops regroup How can we stop now? l disagree l am the captain l'm in charge That is cowardly behavior l won't let that happen Are you moving in or not? l'm going in anyway What for? lf you want to get yourself killed No one can stop you Political Officer! Hurry Brothers Attack! Political Officer! Don't shoot We surrender We surrender, don't shoot Don't shoot The enemy has surrendered Let them pick up their weapons No surrender accepted Pick up your weapons Pick up your weapons No one move No one move! Luo What are you waiting for? Fire! They have already surrendered Jiang Jiang Fire Jiang You cannot kill POWs Stop pretending to be a saint The Political Officer was blown apart Harder Harder Those in the back, keep up Harder lncluding the wounded Anyone who were not carried away by stretcher We still have forty six men left A hundred seventeen minus forty six Our company lost seventy one men Get me a casualty list Report the final count On the double Fight a battle, report a funeral Don't keep making me do this You are the only one who can read The Political Officer is gone Who else is there? The Nationalists have good uniforms But their fighting is not up to snuff We found a wheel See if it fits The 7th Company found three howitzers Two ten wheelers All we find is a small, crippled mountain gun Bite your tongues Feel the pain? That means you are still alive What is the use of all these metal scraps? ln our last battle The 3rd battalion's 9th company Fought bravely without giving up They suffered heavy casualties We were going to commend them But Captain Gu Zidi Ordered the POWs shot And stole their uniforms He disobeyed army discipline And disgraced our entire regiment The Division Commander has ordered us To punish him for his misconduct Therefore The regiment's Party leadership has decided To punish all those involved accordingly Firstly The 9th Company's troops are to be transferred Captain Gu Zidi's forty six men Will all move to the regiment's Advanced Guard Until further instruction Secondly Captain Gu Zidi, of the 9th Company ls to be punished for his mistake accordingly He's to be locked up for three days. Captain Gu Have something to eat The food is getting cold You know when l last had a bed under me? l am having the ball of my life Food can wait l guess l caught up on my rest This is the best l've felt since joining the battalion This barn is huge How much grain can it hold? What a waste locking us up in here What's your name? Wang Jincun What's your job? l was a teacher You were busy writing when l first got here You were still writing when l woke up What are you writing? A letter home To your wife? And this? Did your wife knit it? Huh? Yes l heard them say A teacher in the 1st Battalion Pissed in his pants in battle And he was disciplined Are you the one? No? Not you? Who cares if it is? All you did was pee That's better than getting killed Bullets flying everywhere Grenades exploding down your pants Even a god would pee Don't get the wrong idea Moving you to the front lt's not part of the punishment lt shows our trust in you l've seen the old mine battlefield The location is good lt's much higher than the north bank They won't be able to see our movement We'll get the upper hand by securing it We planned to transfer two companies from the 2nd Battalion But now The defensive area has expanded l can't spare the troops Are you following? Say something Damn delicious Look Only girls wear down their shoes here When will you learn to walk like a man? Stop messing around Tell me what you need l'll do whatever l can What you want? ln that case l don't have enough artillery l need Maxim machineguns l'll. Give you two machine guns And three thousand rounds l want to keep that mountain gun Shells are hard to find The quartermaster will check You can take whatever he finds My troops are good in the trenches Especially with explosives You've got to let me take all l want Go ahead Take as much as you can carry l don't have enough men Give me thirty more No way After all, l'm the provisional captain of the advanced guards How about twenty more men? No way Five? That's not a lot to ask The regiment's troops are all deployed l can't spare a single man Gu There really are no men left The Colonel's bodyguard is dead And there is no replacement l now serve as the Bugler and his bodyguard lt's the truth Fine Then just give me one person l need a Political Officer You've only got half a company What you need a Political Officer for? ln the last battle lf the Political Officer hadn't died l wouldn't have made that mistake Now you know You can be your own Political Officer Can we. Keep the helmets and boots we took from the POWs? What? Okay, keep them Liangzi Get the stuff for him Liangzi What are the goodies? Yellow Dragon cigarettes. The Colonel won't even smoke them himself Why is there only half a carton left? Give the rest to him You're always so stingy Giving half a pack at best What's so special this time? Gu How many of us are left? l mean from the old guerilla unit? You. Me Anyone else? Okay Have the troops get ready on the double The defensive position Has already been built by the 2nd Battalion You. Take good care of yourself l have one last request l'll find myself a Political Officer You can't say no l want my cellmate He'd be shot anyway He might as well die in battle Liangzi That bent up bugle dangling on your butt ls it busted? No lt is fine You better blow as hard as you can Don't worry You've heard my bugle call before My ears are already wide open Repeat the orders By tomorrow twelve noon No matter what it takes We must secure the old mine on the southern bank What else? Always listen. for the assembly bugle call Fall back whenever we hear it lf you don't hear the bugle call Even if you're the last man standing You will keep fighting Yes, sir ln this open area lt's impossible to last even four hours Move the small canon to the rear for now Yes, sir Push harder Get two more people here Put them inside Put them all inside lf a shell lands on them We'd all be gone Put them inside Bring more bags here Pack it in real tight lt's for your own protection Yes, sir Pack it in real tight Yes, sir Hey, Lu How many times have l told you? Don't tie it straight You have to tie it at an angle Wrap it around twice As tightly as you can Got it? Lieutenant Last time we tied it at an angle They ended up not flying straight They landed on the 5th Company No shit? Why wasn't l told? Jerk, l'll kill you Look These make obvious targets Gather everyone together Place them like you're supposed to Make sure they're twenty paces apart No, not this time Put three in front and three in back Captain l found him for you Good Over here Come over Jiao Your message bag Here Your rifle Hey guys l have someone to introduce This is our company's new Political Officer Wang Jincun. Let's welcome him What's wrong? Are your fingers frozen? Do l need to chisel them apart? Political Officer Wang can read and write He's your man if you want to write home Lieutenant Jiao When we had our victory party at Luoyang He was nearly choked to death on flapjacks Lu, Demolition Specialist Jiang, Sniper Sergeant Meng Old Hedgehog Luo, Machine Gunner Gong, Ammo Bearer Call me Blacky Captain Captain l wrote a letter home l don't know how to write some words Can the Political Officer fill them in for me? Get down! Get in the mine Hurry, get in the mine, and stay there Captain Something doesn't seem right lt is raining shells Leave two men behind to keep a look out Tell the rest to get into the mine Take the Political Officer with you, hurry Yes, sir Get up Follow me Don't be scared Hurry into the mine Yong and Shun, you two stay behind Hurry up Get down Everyone get into the mine Stay focused Hurry What are you praying for? Are you praying for the firing to stop So you won't be hit? Stop screwing around Pray with me lt works Show me how to pray You've killed too many people Prayers won't do you any good But they were the enemy Political Officer lf we make it through this one Help me write a letter home But forget it if l'm gone lt'd be less work for me And less work for you, too Make way, make way Just leave him We'll drag him away later He's dead lt stopped again Forget about the time Just listen for the bugle call Keep your ears open for the bugle call Has everyone rested up? When the bastards come to the door We'll give them what they deserve Captain This new guy's a wimp Don't worry He will get over it after seeing some blood Stay calm Let them come closer Fire when the grenades explode Do you know why dogs bite people? People smell funny when they're scared Dogs only bite those who are scared Bullets are like dogs They only hit those who are scared lf you aren't scared The bullets will go around you every time Check your backpack Leave the useless stuff behind Stay calm, wait for my orders Wait for my order before fire Do you see their officer? Let's take him out l've got him in my sight Let them get right in front of you Fire Reload Done Political Officer Looking good Brothers Follow me Remember where he is, he's all yours Fire Medic, come with me He's dead Bring the dead into the mine Yes Political Officer Blacky Blacky, hang in there Bandages Bandage it Let's go Captain Retreat! Retreat, hurry! Cease fire Save your ammo Hedgehog Have a smoke Come give me a hand Help him up, slowly Eleven dead Nine wounded Two seriously wounded won't make it Forty seven minus eleven Minus two more Only thirty four men left lf things keep going like this We'll all be gone before we hear the bugle call Get some men Carry the dead and wounded into the mine We'll go in Forget about the dead They will be blown apart lf we leave them out in the snow We won't be able to collect the pieces Hedgehog Carry the dead and seriously wounded lnto the mine No one could have saved him lf l get wounded like that Don't bother with the bandages Save them for someone who needs them He's in the way Take him into the mine This is his letter home Finish it for him Blacky Your worries are over Rest in peace When l was a kid l tended livestock for a rich family Take this l accidentally Lost their pony The old bastard Beat me with a club After l got home My father was even angrier He beat me with a long pole My family had half an acre of land We had to hand over half of it That's not him l remember he was an officer Take care of the fields Look after our elders lt's getting cold Don't let our son play near the well The ice is slippery Don't let our son near the livestock Don't let him walk behind them l don't want him injured in the wrong place Political Officer That'll do That's all for now l'll add a good ending Wishing the entire family Peace and happiness Not bad After the war l'm going back home What about you? l'm not going back l've got to make something of myself first At least l have to get the land back for my dad Over there This guy? ls he wearing a watch? Yes Now Captain will know what time it is Lu Don't move Lu Medic! Captain He got a watch for you Who told you to go? Who? We saw your watch was broken Trade a life for a watch? For a watch! ls it worth it? Lu Hang in there Enemy tanks! Jiang Move Lu into the mine Fire after the tanks get closer Yes Get the Molotov cocktails ready Bring them over here Bring out the mountain gun Demolition Explosives! Get the explosives ready! Hurry, wait for my orders Aim at the infantry behind the tank Yes Point it this way, hurry Load the shell When l say fire, pull the cord Will l be okay? Lu You'll be okay You'll be fine lt's cold So cold Lu So cold Lu Warmer now? Fire Fire Fire Get down Captain Fire Bulls eye! Give me the torch Take it Luozi Luozi Don't throw the grenades Let us get over there first Go that way, now! Jiao lt's too dangerous, come back! Jiao Jiao Sergeant Jiao Jiang Jiang! Jiang! Wait Wait Captain Listen to me l just heard the assembly bugle call Hedgehog My hearing is not good What did he say? He heard the bugle call You heard the bugle call? Assembly They played the Assembly Who else heard it? Hedgehog Did you hear it? Tell me if you heard it! l did Assembly was played lt's been playing all along You're deaf, you didn't hear it Captain Let's go Get us out of here Did you hear the bugle call? The bugle call? When was it sounded? Who else heard it? Did you two hear it? Did you hear it? Political Officer Political Officer! Tell Captain how many of us are left Thirty two dead Louder! Thirty two dead Our Company has fifteen men left Six are seriously wounded We're all who's left The two in the mine took care of themselves l have always listened to you Listen to me this time We have to leave lf we don't go We'll all die He said We always listen to you Listen to him for once Let's get out of here lf we don't We'll all be killed Wang Jincun You're the 9th Company's Political Officer l want to hear your advice Did you hear the bugle call? l didn't l didn't hear it Damn You want us all to die? Why don't l just kill you now l also didn't hear it What are you trying to do? Captain Are they still fighting across the river? ls our Regiment still there? All our troops retreated long ago lf anyone dares run away My grenades will follow you Luo Since when did you become.. so courageous? Back off! Sergeant Jiao Sergeant wants us to make it out alive Sergeant Jiao Sergeant Jiao! l never heard the bugle call l haven't heard a thing l can't order a retreat Sorry, guys Carry him into the mine Leave a space for me next to him Leave if you heard the call l won't stop you l didn't hear it, so l'm staying Let's get the explosives ready These were written by our dead brothers Some are martyrs The rest are mine Charge lf you're scared, start yelling lt works Two months later POW Ward, 8th Hospital, 3rd Field Army His wounds have healed well His hearing has nearly been restored to normal Two of the three broken bones have settled His shell shock is quite severe He is emotionally unstable Still unnerved from the trauma Over there Doctor Zhang Do you think he's telling the truth? Could he be lying on purpose? lt's hard to tell But he's in a better mood today Wang, the noodles look good! l told you already My name isn't Wang Okay, l'm sorry Then what's your name? Gu Zidi As in.son of the army.? Gu Zidi No, it means.millet field. You should know The registration records are clear The 85th Army, 254th Division That wasn't my uniform The name on the uniform Has nothing to do with me lt was never my uniform Then why were you wearing it? l already told you a thousand times lt was too late to retreat l was hiding out in an old mine l climbed out to look for something to eat Didn't l have to change my uniform? While l was looking for food l also blew up their ammo transport You blew out those tanks What about the letter? What are you laughing at? You want to screw with me, too? Lucky for you we didn't meet in battle You're blessed by your parent's good deeds Go light incense for them What losers! You were captured on the Wen River's south bank Will you admit to that much? l was in the advanced guard of the 139th Battalion l was ordered to secure the south bank l was with my troops You mean. Before we took you prisoner The enemy had already taken you prisoner ls that right? Taken prisoner? Who? The unit you told me no longer exists All unit numbers were changed last year Didn't you know? The Central Plains Field Army changed to the 2nd Field Army This hospital belongs to the 3rd Field Army lt was previously called the Eastern China Field Army We can't find the Division you said you belonged to We have no way to confirm what you say lt's also not the hospital's duty to do so The 2nd and 3rd Field Divisions are all preparing the next campaign Do you follow me? What do you mean? Stop messing around l sympathize with you but it won't help Your wounds have mostly healed Get your travel pay and hurry back home The hospital will issue you a pass Travel pay and passes are only given to POWs You don't have to go home You can go look for your troops lf you think you can find them l entered the army in 1939 l fought the Japs and then the Nationalists Shit! l'll be real blunt This field hospital Can't verify your true identity You'll only be a burden to our hospital ln addition What good would come of it for you? We've identified other men of your age Pretending to be a Private Some were Generals Others were Colonels l hope you'll recover soon Any artillery men? Has anyone served in artillery? You're all soldiers Reply Here l was. ln artillery How many years were you in artillery? Not that long But long enough What kind of artillery have you used? The normal kind Barrels are at least. What artillery do you have here? Are you from Central Field? That's right And you have done artillery? Sure have l've even blown up tanks He doesn't seem like it What's the traverse range of a howitzer? Minus five degrees, straight 45 degrees This is the range for what? How old are you? Twenty? Our Captain fought the Japs in 1940 He's been in the army as long as you Lieutenant Give him some money Tell him to scram Yes, sir You old dog Come on What's he laughing at? He's asking you Why are you laughing? One of my men used to eat flapjacks like that He was always stuffing his mouth When the battle was over he ended up not making it Let him stay Yes, sir Understood Understood Yes, sir The American tanks Are assembling across the bridge The Division Commander Ordered us to get behind the enemy line And post a lookout We'll blow them to pieces Before the main attack Okay l'll go right over l need two men from the Scout Platoon The Scout Platoon is out locating the enemy's front line Then transfer over two guards l will go, too l can't do much with artillery l can be of more use As a foot soldier Okay Get the enemy's uniform Then we can get up closer Understood The American's uniform? What?! Would you pass as one? Get the South Korean's Shit! l stepped on a mine Don't move Walk back along your footsteps Keep an eye on the road Don't come over lt won't explode unless you move your leg Don't worry about me Continue on with the others l wouldn't know which way to fire They know! A tank! An American tank! Just leave me Don't get yourselves killed Go! Put the guns down Put them down We are the allied troops Er Dou Relax This uniform decides if we make it out alive But we don't know how to speak Korean We don't speak Korean The Americans speak even less Where's Hoengsong gun? How do we get to Hoengsong gun? (Chinese gibberish trying to sound Korean) No, no Where is Hoengsong gun? Hoengsong gun? Yeah, yeah Hoengsong gun Stop messing with him How do we get there? He stepped on a landmine He's on a landmine lt's not your lucky day Looks like a French anti personnel mine lf you're lucky Just the leg get blown off l know this will blow my leg off Well, good luck to you You're gonna need it Let's get out of here They have more things to worry about than us Stay still Gu Stand still Stand still Lift up your foot Slowly What will happen? l've got a plan You are the eyes of dozens of cannons Lift your foot and walk away Faster lt might cost me a leg But you'll be blown to pieces You know what? l can't even hear the artillery sound The assembly call keeps ringing in my ears lt never stops playing All my men heard it l was the only one who didn't l might as well be dead Then l could see my 47 brothers Man You can't die Hurry the fuck up Order the battalion to blow up the bridge Aim at 475 Fifth Company, four cannons Ready Fire Minus five Fire On my command All fire Fire Captain Let's go Lead us out of here lf we don't go We'll all die lf the bugle hasn't sounded Even if you're the last man standing You must keep fighting Li Fucai Killed in action Here Man Di, Zhang Wancai, Xu Fugui, Zhang Shunxiang Missing in action They're not missing in action They were war heroes Five men came from my village Three got killed Two are deemed heroes And my brother? Missing in action That's not fair Yeah, so unfair Comrade Please be fair My brother didn't come home from the war Wasn't he killed in action ? He's still dead either way But he's got to die for a reason The family of a hero gets 700 pounds of rice Families of the missing in action Get 200 pounds of rice only A difference of 500 Sir What kind of gun is this? Haven't seen it before l wonder what this is Comrade Let me ask you a question Are you from the local military office? Yes Has anyone come looking for troops from Central Field's 2nd special division? Liu This is your department Have there been? Central Field's 2nd special division? So many troops have come back l can't remember Hey, Comrade Take a look at this What kind of gun is this? British 77 l used this in guerrilla warfare in Pingxi Hard to use My husband's name was Wang Jincun Troops from our town saw him in Yang village He was a teacher His letters said he didn't fight in the front line ln war, it doesn't really matter Whether you fought in the front line or not He's either dead, ran away, or taken prisoner That's why he's missing Comrade People from town keep gossiping And say he was executed by his own troops His mother died with shame Excuse me Your husband was Wang Jincun? Yes l was his Captain Battlefields lined both sides of the Wen River Hundreds of thousands of troops were assembled here And if all the reinforcements were added together They'd outnumber everyone in this county Of course Many people died This should be the place But it looks completely different Sir Any entrances to the old mine? There's one below, it collapsed Take me to it Let's go This isn't it Are there any other entrances? This is the only one left The others were destroyed in '52 Were any bodies found? Not that l heard My men were all lying inside You didn't see them? They were all lying inside Why couldn't you see them? Gu Calm down Did you find this helmet here? This? We've got tons of them The miners pee in them at night These were worn on the heads of soldiers And you pee in them! Gu! Miss Don't listen to them Your husband was a good man l can prove it l can prove it He shed his blood on this soil l can prove it Gu Gu l will prove that my brothers Are buried under this mountain of coal l will prove it to them l'll prove it He was studying at the provincial teacher's college He left without saying a word His mother missed him so much She became ill And never got out of bed again At first We received letters from him After receiving his last letter On August 13, 1948 l never heard from him again He wrote to you everyday His clothes were filled with letters Please Tell me how he died Please tell me He was very clean His hair was always perfectly combed He looked the same when he died He was hit by a tiny bit of shrapnel About this big.on a fatal spot You couldn't see the wound He looked as if he was sleeping His hair looked perfect Gu There's no point in looking Not a single one has a name They're all anonymous soldiers Their parents gave them names How did they become nameless men? Where is he? Reporting, sir! He's squatting over there Er Dou l've come to see you Of course, why else would you come? Easy does it, Flapjack You know you're going blind What if you fell into the river?Not so hard Why didn't you tell me you were coming? Not so hard, you'll choke me Your troops are watching What are you smiling at? No smiling allowed Yes, sir Don't forget This is my blood brother Who is that? Come over Let me introduce you Sun Guiqin My Political Officer's wife Hello l'm Zhao Erdou Hello He's the Colonel l told you about He's just like me, uneducated ln artillery school, he could never sleep He ended up getting kicked out l applied to leave Stop making things up! She went to the County looking for her late husband How could she find him if l couldn't? l brought her here to ask for your help l know you can help How can l help? She has a fever Must have gotten sick from the rain Hurry and help get her stuff Zhao Get the car ls her temperature down? lt's down lt was over forty degrees Scary You haven't slept? l dozed off l had them make some noodles What are you laughing at? That's for the girl But you didn't bother to ask if l'm hungry? Take it l'll order some more lt's no big deal Relax l'm just messing with you Flapjack l came to ask for three favors First get me another job transfer l'm not going home A retirement home for veterans was built by the Wen River Forget it You can't stay in a place like that lt'll turn you into a ghost lf you don't want to go back home Transfer your work papers here You can stay with me You're not my son! Why should l stay with you? You can be my godfather, okay? A piece of that landmine is lodged in your skull Sooner or later you'll go completely blind What will you do then? No more bullshit Stay here Stay with my regiment Do whatever you want here Look at your power Go on ln North Korea, you made a promise to me. You said you'd help me find my troops after the war Gu Millions of soldiers Troops who lost entered new units Even if we think the world of ourselves We're just like drops in a river Why would they care about us? They don't care We must care about it Tell me the truth That report l made Did you ever pass it up the line? Of course l did But l'll bet it just got stuck in the pile They said The headquarters received many letters like yours Hundreds of thousands of them They couldn't open them all Be patient ls she awake? Not yet Report when she's awake Yes, Colonel l've said the first two There's one more Brother l found a wife for you Who? She's down with a fever Stop kidding around! How about it? You don't like her because she's a widow? Nonsense l'm no golden boy myself lt's just not right Seems right to me l think you should be with her We're brothers So l'll be blunt A blind person doesn't deserve such a woman lt wouldn't be fair to her Tell me What does her face look like? A beauty l can't see clearly what she looks like lf she is so beautiful lt's a waste to leave her with me Tell her what you should lf you can't find the words l'll talk to her when she's better, Listen to your brother She cherishes a loved one that's passed away She will devote herself to a living one Gu Yes? What do you want for dinner? Dumplings lf during the holidays A few of us friends Can celebrate together We will remember All the memories we treasure A song filled with joy We will remember All the memories we treasure A song filled with joy At the end of the battle You were the only one left standing? That's right l was the only one left How'd you get the enemy's uniform? What? We need to know in detail the order of events After all this time You are still missing the point Since you claimed to be the only one alive Who is to verify your story? What else do you want to know? Just tell me l want to hear it out Suppose You intentionally snuck into the enemy's ranks How did you do it? Why did you do it? What were you thinking? Did you consider the consequences? We hope you will take these questions seriously The Party needs to make the record straight And you need to make the record straight Your employment is registered in our county lt is our duty to review our cadres Comrade Gu Zidi Take your time Before you answer Think it through Try to remember No rush l've said all l can say What else do you want to know? Please answer the questions l just asked Fuck you What did you say? l said, fuck you Watch your mouth Comrade Gu You must calm down You are full of shit, and l am to be calm? You are responsible for your words and actions l've already died hundreds of time Who cares about this bullshit? Write this down Take down what he just said Don't just take down my words Write this down as well He can take care of himself Absolutely ridiculous! He's got a bad temper Wang See the two officials off Give my regards to the Director Gu Try to cooperate Don't be like this lt's not fair lt's so unfair Gu You can't see your way around Don't come up here My eyesight is poor, but my nose is keen lf the forest caught on fire You wouldn't see it But l'd be able to smell it Nice view Gu Gu Look towards the road Gu Gu They've been found What's been found? Er Dou just got the notice! Gu They found your old regiment My girl Er Dou isn't fooling around with me? No, it's true You mustn't fool around lt's true Come back with me What's wrong? Be careful lt's true You must not fool around Director Qin Thanks for waiting Colonel Zhao Thanks for coming This is the person l told you about Our battalion's hero Volunteer soldier, Bronze Star for distinguished service Flapjack lt would be better to say l'm the Central Plains Field Army's Special 2nd Division Captain Gu Zidi l've come to report to Colonel Liu This is Director Qin from the Chemical Defense Regiment He is handling the cases associated with the 139th Regiment Comrade Gu On behalf of the regiment's Political Officers l welcome you Your regiment is the same as the old 139th Regiment? Not entirely Our regiment now includes Part of the Western Henan's Training Corps And a part of the old 139th Regiment We haven't been able to handle all of the Regiment's cases We checked the MlA name list from the Wen River mission Your name was listed Colonel Liu was transferred to the Branch Military Cadre Academy As the Deputy Commandant After the Korean War started He re entered combat duties As Deputy Commander of the 280th Division Gu. Captain Gu You are? Me? l'm Liangzi l am managing the Memorial Cemetery here You don't recognize my voice? l was the regiment's Bugler You twerp You're still alive During the fifth campaign He led two infantry battalions To cover the division's retreat When it came time for our own retreat lt was already too late More than five hundred men died Only thirty escaped alive His back was blown apart l had to carry him back He was in the hospital for more than half a month But he didn't make it Why not retreat earlier? The transmitter had been destroyed We never received the retreat order We couldn't do anything about it They could only keep pounding forward He's one tough son of a bitch Trained by the old school Stubborn ass Liangzi No one sent to the old mine survived How did the Regiment evaluate this? After the battle, Commissar Zhang inspected the area himself He couldn't find anyone, dead or alive Everyone was listed as MlA My ears belong on pigs l never heard your assembly bugle call Some troops heard it But l never heard it l've always felt guilty about this But l never blew the assembly call They all heard it l never played it Gu l'll tell you one more time l never played the assembly bugle call Why not? The Regiment suddenly received the order to retreat At that time You were in the old mine Holding up a lot of the enemy lf we ordered your retreat The entire regiment may have been in serious trouble Perhaps Even wiped out by the enemy Colonel Liu Never ordered the assembly call to be sounded You were afraid of being wiped out? You were afraid of being wiped out? What about us? The 9th Company! Gu Liu! Gu! The Colonel felt terrible about this Even on his death bed He talked about nothing but you l was with the Colonel for more than ten years He was a good person! Blame me instead l never played the Assembly Not for the Colonel nor for the 9th Company l'm so sorry Gu! Liu! The Colonel is dead The Colonel is dead You were afraid of being wiped out! The entire 9th Company was wiped out! Let me apologize for the Colonel l am the only one left l beg you Brothers of the 9th company Colonel Liu offers his deepest apologies l wish l was wiped out long ago Damn Liu l was waiting for your bugle call! My men were always waiting for your call! They died one by one. Waiting for your call! Gu Zidi! Why can't you just let go People die, it's part of war Lots of soldiers died, not just your company Let me remind you l was Colonel Liu's bodyguard l still am to this day lf you don't stop this nonsense l'll rip your head off What are you doing? This is the Memorial Cemetery l didn't want you to go down the road But you would not listen Aren't you just picking on your own wound? All his men died He's been searching for them all these years He won't hurt anyone by shouting What's done is done Don't bring it up again You, too Calm down Liu my man l'm not. l can take the fact.. that the call wasn't sounded But all my men My forty seven brothers All fought to death bravely How could they be called MlA? You are buried here Who can prove what really happened? Repeat the orders By tomorrow twelve noon No matter what it takes We must secure the old mine on the southern bank What else? Always listen.for the Assembly bugle call Fall back when you hear it Liu Have a good rest l'll bring you cigarettes and wine from now on We share the same fate You owe me nothing l also owe you nothing We are even now What are you digging for? Bodies What bodies? Dead bodies Do you have permission from the mine? Let go What are you really up to? Did you ask for permission? lf you didn't, then you can't dig here Let go of me You can't dig here Let go This old soldier has lost his mind He's crazy This old man is crazy Comrade Gu Zidi You're obstructing the mine's economic development You are a decorated veteran You should know better lt's been more than a month He keeps digging like crazy He's interfering with our schedule to store the coal Soon snow will cover the mountains We must finish storing the coal on time Gu You can report any issues to your superiors Just don't make trouble here l've written nine letters Asking others to help me dig No one responded Even if we all helped digging And removed the mountain of coal What if there's nothing underneath? Then just bury me there l told you he was crazy Let him be then Just don't let him get hurt Send him food at meal breaks Don't let him starve Okay Get back to work, hurry He lives here lt's one of the miner's huts ls there heat? Fire. Otherwise he'd have frozen to death This veteran must really be suffering Gu! Gu! Gu! With Liangzi's help Er Dou found the 139th Regiment's Commissar Zhang He realized you were still alive And that your men were all killed in battle He wanted to meet you The military gave an official notice to the local government Your eyesight is poor l'll read it to you Wait Wait l have to wash my face first Regarding the Central Field Army's Special 2nd Division Notification of the Martyrdom of Revolutionary Heroes The Local Government of Wen River County Wen River County War Hero Cemetery ln accordance with the recommendation of our leaders The People's Liberation Army Formerly the Central Field Army, 2nd Special Division Wang Jincun Lieutenant Jiao Dapeng Soldiers Luo Guangtian Lu Kuangou Jiang Maocai Gong Liangguo Meng Shilin etc. Forty seven soldiers ln the Wen River Battle during the Civil War in 1948 Honorably completed their field duty All died as heroes For the liberation of the Chinese people They sacrificed their lives Now they are posthumously decorated as revolutionary heroes Special Official Notification People's Liberation Army Wen River Military, Political Office My brothers Why can't l find you? Come out for a breath of air, my brothers The 9th Company ln three defensives against the enemy Destroyed two enemy tanks And killed many enemy troops lncluding Captain Gu Zidi Forty seven men All perished No survivors Political Officer Wang Jincun The lunar calendar's 4th day of December The enemy is attacking again Captain Do we have any ammo left? l can't move my leg. The enemy must not get their hands on our brothers Captain l didn't disgrace you, did l? We'll be brothers in our next life Reporting, sir Central Plains Field Special 2nd Division Captain Gu Zidi Reporting My company Was dispatched to the old mine on the south bank of the Wen River To intercept the enemy's 254th Division We destroyed three enemy tanks And killed many enemy soldiers Except for Captain Gu Zidi All forty seven men were killed Not one survived This concludes my report Thank you For your review ln the battle of Wen River The 9th Company resolutely followed orders Honorably completing its duty All soldiers in the 9th Company are awarded Medals of Valor Heroes of the 9th Company You can all rest in peace Present arms Ready Fire Ready Fire Ready Fire Parade rest Bugler Yes, sir Sound the bugle call Yes, sir
