 

                        Oh, no! Certainly... Well, one of the best in this studio anyway. How about some of the best sitting in this chair? Another rapid return visit by a trio which is blazing a trail through Britain with exciting new sounds. I just wish I Could just grab you, man, and just... An experience for Jimi Hendrix, retaining his title as the world's top musician. I can't explain myself like this at that sometimes 'cause it doesn't come out like that. Wait, don't waste all that Elm there. Stop it for a second. I was born in Seattle, Washington, USA, on November 27th 1942 at the age of zero. My dad used to call me Buster, or buddy boy, and my mother used to call me Jimmy. Mostly my dad took care of me. My dad was very strict and taught me that I must respect my elders always. I couldn't speak unless I was spoken to first by grown-ups. A fish wouldn't get into trouble, if he kept his mouth shut. So I've always been very quiet. But I saw a lot of things. My grandmother is part Cherokee. I used to spend a lot of time on a reservation in Vancouver, British Columbia. My mother and father used to fall out a lot and I always had to be ready to go tippy-toeing off to Canada. My dad was level-headed and religious but my mother used to like having a good time and dressing up. She used to drink a lot and didn't take care of herself. She died when I was about ten but she was a groovy mother. I went to school in Seattle, then Vancouver, then back to Seattle. On the whole, my school was pretty relaxed. We had Chinese, Japanese, Puerto Ricans, Philippines. We won all the football games. At school I used to write poetry a lot and I wanted to be an actor or a painter. They said I used to be late all the time but I was getting As and Bs. I had a girlfriend in the art class and we used to hold hands all the time. The art teacher didn't dig that at all. I left school early. School was nothing for me. I wanted something to happen to me. My father told me to look for a job, so that's what I did. I worked for my father for a couple of weeks. I had to work very hard. Dad was a gardener and it got pretty bad in the winter when there wasn't any grass to cut. Have you heard of Muddy Waters? The first guitarist I was aware of was Muddy Waters. I heard one of his old records when I was a little boy and it scared me to death, because I heard all of those sounds. Wow! What is all that about? It was great! One of the funkiest I've heard. I dug Howlin' Wolf and Elmore James, Jimmy Reed, but I was into other stuff. I used to like Buddy Holly and Ritchie Valens, Eddie Cochran. But you get your inspiration from everything. Color just doesn't make any difference. Look at Elvis. He could sing the blues and he was white. I always say, let the best man win. Whether you're black, white or purple. I was about 14 or 15 when I started playing guitar. I learned all the riffs I could. I never had any lessons. I learned guitar from records and the radio. I was trying to play like Muddy Waters and Chuck Berry. Trying to learn everything and anything. I played in my back yard at home and the kids used to gather round and said it was cool. When I was 17, I formed this group with some other guys but they drowned me out. I didn't know why at first but after about three months, I realized: I had to get an electric guitar. My first electric was a Danelectro which my dad bought for me. Must have busted him for a long time. I got the guitar together because it was all I had. No city I've ever seen is as pretty as Seattle. But I couldn't live there. You get restless and, before you know it, you're too old and you haven't seen any of the world. There's more for you in today's "Action: Army". I bet you didn't wear this in the paratroops. Not necessarily. You were a para... What is it? A paratrooper or a parachutist? Or "shoutist"? It doesn't make a difference. I was 18. I figured I'd have to go into the army sooner or later so I walked into the first recruiting office I saw and volunteered. I wanted to get everything over with before I tried to get into music as a career, so they wouldn't call me up in the middle of something that might be happening. I had no musical training so I couldn't sign up as a musician. I figured I might as well go all the way, so I joined the Airborne. This is the Airborne. Tough. Rugged. Big. This is the outfit that one enemy called "those devils in baggy pants This is the outfit where brawn has to match brains, where every man has to be in top-notch condition, mentally, physically. If you're that man, this is your outfit. I had to buy two pairs of jump boots and four sets of tailored fatigues, plus 20 Screaming Eagle badges. You know what that represents? The 101st Airborne Division, Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Yes, indeed. "Dear Dad, Well, here I am, "exactly where I wanted to go: in the 101st Airborne. "How are you and Leon, and everybody? Fine, I really hope. "Well, it is pretty rough, but I can't complain and I don't regret it so far. "We jumped out of the 34-foot tower on the third day we were here. "It was almost fun. "We were the first nine out of 150 in our group. "There were these three guys that quit when they got to the top of the tower. "But I have in my mind that whatever happens, I am not quitting. "I'll try my best to make this Airborne for the sake of our name, "so that the whole family of Hendrix "will have the right to wear the Screaming Eagle badge of the US Army. "To Daddy Hendrix, from your son. Love James. "PS: Please send my guitar as soon as you can. I really need it now. " But the army is really a bad scene. They wouldn't let me have anything to do with music. I was in the army for about 13 months but I got injured on a jump. One day, I got my ankle caught in the skyhook just as I was going to jump and I broke it. I told them I'd hurt my back too. Every time they examined me I'd groan, so they finally believed me. I was lucky to get out when I did. Vietnam was just coming up. In the army, I had started to play the guitar seriously. So I thought all I could do is to try to earn money playing guitar. I went to Nashville, where I lived in a big housing estate they were building. Every Sunday afternoon, we used to go downtown to watch the race riots. We'd take a picnic basket because they wouldn't serve us in the restaurants. One group would stand on one side of the street and the rest on the other side. They'd shout names and talk about each other's mothers and every once in a while stab each other. Sometimes, if there was a good movie on that Sunday, there wouldn't be any race riots. It took me some time to get better from the injuries I had. It was pretty tough at first. I lived in very miserable circumstances. I slept where I could and when I needed to eat, I had to steal it. I played in cafes, clubs and on the streets. That's where I really learned to play. I started a group called King Kasuals with a fella called Billy Cox who played funky, funky bass. I met a guy named Gorgeous George and he got me on some tours. So I started traveling around and playing around the South. The idea of playing guitar with my teeth came to me in a town in Tennessee. Down there you have to play with your teeth or else you get shot. Those people really were hard to please. There's a trail of broken teeth all over the stage. What are you looking at? What are you looking at? There was a soul package coming into town with Sam Cooke, Solomon Burke, Jackie Wilson, B.B. King and Chuck Jackson and I got a little job playing in the back-up band. I learnt an awful lot playing behind all those names every night. "Dear Dad, I hope everything is fine. "Well, here I am again, traveling to different places. "I am on a tour that lasts about 35 days. "We're about halfway through it now. "We've been to all the cities in the Midwest, East and South. "I'll write soon, Jimmy. " "Dear Dad, "Just a few words to let you know I made it to South Carolina. "Tell everybody 'Hello'. With Love, Jimmy" I went to New York and won first place in the Apollo Amateur Contest. I stayed up there for about two or three weeks. Then The Isley Brothers asked if I would play with them. I played with them for a while and got very bored because you get very tired of playing behind other people all the time. I quit them in Nashville somewhere and this group came up and brought me back to Atlanta, Georgia, where I met Little Richard. "Dearest Dad, I received your letter while I was in Atlanta. "I'm playing with Little Richard now. "We're going towards the West Coast. "We're in Louisiana now. "But my address will be in Los Angeles when I write again. Jimmy. " Well, Little Richard, he was the guy up front and that was it, and he said he was the only one allowed to be pretty. I guess I played with Little Richard for about five or six months. I quit because of money misunderstanding: he didn't pay us for Eve and a half weeks. I couldn't imagine myself for the rest of my life in a shiny mohair suit with patent leather shoes and a patent leather hairdo to match. I didn't hear any guitar players doing anything new and I was bored out of my mind. I wanted my own scene, making my own music. I was starting to see that you could create a whole new world with an electric guitar. 'Cause there isn't a sound like it. I had these ideas and sounds in my brain, but I needed people to do it with and they were hard to End. I went back to New York and played with this little rhythm and blues group called Curtis Knight And The Squires. I also played with King Curtis and Joey Dee. "Dear Dad, Well, I'm just dropping in a few words "to let you know everything's so-so in this big, raggedy city of New York. "Everything is happening bad here. "I hope everyone at home is all right. Tell Leon I said hello. "I'll write you a letter real soon and will try to send a decent picture. "So, until then, I hope you're doing all right. "Tell Ben and Ernie I play the blues like they never heard. " I had friends with me in Harlem and I'd say, "Come on down to the Village so we can get something together. " The Village was groovy. I just laid around and played for about two hours a night. You had to chat someone up real quick before you had a place to stay. I got a break playing guitar for John Hammond Jr. at the Cafe au Go Go. Bob Dylan was also down there. We were both stoned and just hung about laughing thanks to the demon ale. When I first heard Dylan, I thought you must admire the guy for having that much nerve to sing out of key. But when I started listening to the words, that sold me. First real group I got together, that would be around 1965, I guess. My big slice of luck came when a little English friend persuaded Chas Chandler, the bass player of The Animals, to come down where we were gigging and give an ear. Chas came down and heard me and asked, would I like to come to England and start a group there? He seemed like a pretty sincere guy and I'd never been to England before. I wasn't thinking about nothing but the idea of going to England. That's all I was thinking about. 'Cause I like to travel, you know? One place bores me too long, so I have to see if I can get something together by moving somewhere else. And the idea of England was the idea of England itself. I said, "Wow! I've never been there before. " September 24th 1966. That's when I came to England. They kept me waiting at the airport for three or four hours because I didn't have a work permit. They carried on like I was going to make all the money in England and take it back to the States. I moved into a flat with Chas Chandler. We used to get complaints about loud, late parties when we were out of town. Chas got real mad about it but I didn't let it bug me. Chas knows lots of telephone numbers. He helped me ind my bassist and drummer. Four days after we got together, we were playing at the Paris Olympia with Johnny Hallyday, who is like the French Elvis. We just got thrown together, we didn't know each other from Adam. I was thinking of the smallest pieces possible with the hardest impact. That's why I like us being called The Experience, it's right. All the photos I had done for publicity to begin with were picked because I looked so grim. But I guess it was necessary to get that visual thing going before we could make people listen. My music isn't pop, it's me. My guitar is my notes, regardless of where they came from. I haven't set out to produce a commercial sound but our intention is to be respected, you know, after we die and we're old and all that. Who doesn't want to be written down in history? "Dear Dad, We're playing around London now. "That's where I'm staying these days. "I have my own group and we'll have a record out in about two months "named Hey Joe by The Jimi Hendrix Experience. "I hope you get this card. "I think things are going a little better. Your loving son, Jimi. " We all dug Hey Joe as a number. Chas made me sing serious. I was too scared to sing. It was the first time I ever tried to sing on a record. While we were working on it, I don't think we played it the same way twice. Hey Joe is really a blues arrangement of a cowboy song. It isn't quite a commercial song, so I'm surprised that it got so high in the hit parade. I'm just wondering how people are going to take the next one, because it's so different. I had this thing on my mind about a dream I had that I was walking under the sea. It's linked to a story I read in a science fiction magazine about a purple death ray. It's called Purple Haze. I don't consider it the invention of psychedelic music, it was just asking a lot of questions. The way I write things, they are just a clash between reality and fantasy. You have to use fantasy to show different sides to reality. A lot of people think what I do with my guitar is vulgar, but I don't let them hang me up. I play to the people and I don't think our actions are obscene. Music is such a personal expression, it's bound to project sex. What is so wrong about that? Is it so shameful? I play and move as I feel. It's not an act, but a state of being. I consider ourselves to be some of the luckiest cats alive, because we're playing just what we want to play, and people seem to like that. You must remember that Jimi Hendrix USA didn't really have a chance to do anything, because he was playing behind people. Then this happened. When Chas saw me in Greenwich Village, he said it would all happen just like it has. The first night of the "Walker Brothers Tour" was when I started to worry. This was an audience who'd come to see the Walker Brothers, Engelbert Humperdinck and Cat Stevens. We'd step outside the stage door where the teenyboppers were, and think, "They won't bother about us", and then get torn apart. I don't know how it happened so suddenly, but our records began to sell at an incredible rate. In England, you have to keep releasing records. They have very quick minds and they get bored easily. We are calling our album Are You Experienced. This is a very personal album, just like all our singles. I guess you could call it an ad-lib album, as we made so much of it up on the spot. I don't want people to get the idea it's a collection of freak-out material. Imagination is the key to my lyrics, and the rest is painted with a little science fiction. What I like to do is write a lot of mythical scenes. You can write your own mythology - like the history of the wars on Neptune and the reason Saturn's rings are there. Britain is our station now. It's not my home but it was our beginning. They took us in like lost babies. We'll stay here probably until around the end of June, and then we'll see if we can get something going in America. Paul McCartney was the big bad Beatle, the beautiful cat who got us the gig at the "Monterey Pop Festival". I arrived in England with just the clothes I stood up in. I'm going back with the best wardrobe of gear that Carnaby Street can offer. "Monterey" was great. It was a music festival done up the way it's supposed to be done up. That was our start in America. Ladies and gentlemen, Brian Jones. This dude is a very good friend, a fellow countryman of yours, a brilliant performer, the most exciting guitarist I've ever heard. The Jimi Hendrix Experience. When I was in Britain, I used to think about America every day. I'm American, I wanted people here to see me. I also wanted to see whether we could make it back here. We had our beautiful rock blues country funky freaky sound. I felt like we were turning the whole world onto this new thing - the best, most lovely new thing. You know, I could sit up here all night and say thank you, thank you, thank you, but I just... I just wish I could just grab you, man, and just... Everything was perfect and it was such a good feeling, especially your own home country, so I decided to destroy my guitar at the end as a sacrifice. You sacrifice the things you love. I love my guitar. The "Monterey Festival" was a good scene. All those beautiful people. It was one of the best gigs I've ever played. And we made it, man, because we did our own thing. And it really was our own thing and nobody else's. Jimi Hendrix! Then we got into a tour with The Monkees. They're like plastic Beatles. Then some parents who brought their young kids complained that our act was vulgar. We decided it was just the wrong audience. I think they replaced me with Mickey Mouse. You get carted from New York to London, start a whole new scene going there, then come back home. America is so large. When you play regularly in Britain, you end up going back to the same places. That doesn't happen in America. You ride into town, you play your gig, and these beautiful girls come around for drinks and parties and so forth. You do actually fall in love with them, because that's the only love you can have. If I get up at seven o'clock in the morning, and, you know, I'm really sleepy, but then I open the door and see somebody that appeals to me, you know, like the first thing I say, "What in the world is she doing here?" Or "What does she want?" or something like that. Then she says, "Maybe can I come in?" And I'm standing there really digging her, she's really nice-looking, you know. To tell the honest to God truth, she's about So, I say, "Oh". Well, I probably stand there and then, there I go, I'll be biting into an apple maybe. I used to be on the block starving. Girls used to help me. Girls were my best friends. And ever since then, that's when I said to myself, "I'll have to show my appreciation. " Little Wing was a very sweet girl that came around, that gave me a whole life, and me with my crazy ass couldn't get it together. I dig writing slow songs, because I feel it's easier to get more blues and feeling into them. The ballads I really get together. That's what I dig. Flower power - yeah, I dig anything as long as it don't hurt anybody, anything as long as people are grooving off it. You're not a "love-in" person just because you have curly hair, or wear bells and beads. You have to believe in it, not just throw flowers. Although the flower scene was all tied up with sensation stuff about drugs, the "love everybody" idea helped one helluva lot. Of course, a lot of those hippies may get busted once in a while, but you don't hear of banks being robbed by hippies. It's your own private thing if you use drugs. Anybody should be able to think or do what they want, as long as it doesn't hurt anybody. Music is a safe type of high. It's more the way it's supposed to be. That's where highness came from anyway. Different strokes for different folks, that's all I can say. I don't consider myself a songwriter, not yet anyway. A lot of times I write a lot of words all over the place, on matchboxes or on napkins, and then the music makes me think of the few words I might have written, so I go back to those few words, you know, and just get it together. Sometimes, if I have a new song, maybe I'll go to the studio by myself and have an acetate made, and have a rough idea about the drums, guitar, bass and vocals. Then other times, I'll just come in banging away on the guitar. We recorded this album right after the first one. All the songs on it are exactly the way we felt right then. The reason for working in the States is that we make twenty times more money here, and there's no harm in that. We have to eat like everyone else. I'm looking forward to going home to Seattle. It's been seven years. There's my father, who's married again, and my brother Leon, who's 19. He's trying to form a band of his own now. And I've got a six-year-old sister, Janie, whom I've never seen. That's how long I've been gone from home. The problem of succeeding is a hard one for you, if your bassist, say, is into the blues or something like that, and you suddenly make hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. Someone said it's hard to sing the blues when you're making that kind of money. This assumes that you can't be unhappy and have a lot of money. Sometimes it gets to be really easy to sing the blues, when you're supposed to be making all this much money, because, like, money is getting to be out of hand now, you know. And musicians, especially young cats, they get a chance to make all this money, and they say, "Wow, that's fantastic. " And like I said before, they lose themselves and forget about the music itself. They forget about their talents, they forget about the other half of them, so therefore, you can sing a whole lot of blues. The more money you make, the more blues sometimes you can sing. There was a time I was worried about the money. I was worried about whether I was getting all I was entitled to. But money doesn't affect me right now. These guys in the business who go out and spend, spend, spend, then end up flat busted broke. Except maybe they have some personal things they bought. That's no good for me. I get my biggest kicks out of music. We've been together for about two solid years and we've been playing Purple Haze, The Wind Cries Mary, Hey Joe, Foxy Lady. We've been playing all these songs, which I really think are groovy songs, but we've been playing all these songs for two years. So, quite naturally, we started improvising here and there, and there's other things we wanted to turn on to the people. We're cutting a new record between our tours. There may be two tracks from the new Bob Dylan album on it. In fact, we've done All Along The Watchtower already. It is now that I plan to start making real music. I wanna create a new sound. Most of all, I'd like to forget everything before 1968. We call it The End Of The Beginning. But see, LPs to us are like personal diaries, you know. That's why I like all the songs we did. I'm not saying they're better than anything else, but I just like them. I have personal feelings for anything that we recorded, we released. That album, when it was released over here, had a picture of me, Noel and Mitch on the cover. But people had been asking me about the English cover and I don't know anything about it. All I can say is that I had no idea that it had a picture of dozens of nude girls on it. When we recorded our last LP there, Electric Ladyland, we were touring at the same time which is hard to do. Because that means you have to concentrate on two things. You have to do a good show tonight and plus tomorrow morning at six o'clock, you have to go into the studio. And so it was really hard. So I got down half the things that I really wanted to get down during that period. The negro riots in the States are crazy, discrimination is crazy. I think we can live together without these problems. But because of the violence these problems aren't solved yet. I don't look at things in terms of races. I look at things in terms of people. Quite naturally, I don't like to see houses being burnt. They asked us to give benefit concerts for the Black Panthers. I was iron in all this, but I'm not for the aggression of violence or whatever you wanna call it. I just wanna do what I'm doing without getting involved in racial or political matters. I can't express myself in a conversation, I can't explain myself like this or that sometimes 'cause, you know, it just doesn't come out like that. So, when we're on stage, it's our own little world, that's your whole life. Music is what matters. When you hear somebody making music they are baring a naked part of their souls to you. That was really nice. Great. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in case you didn't know, Jimi and the boys won in a big American magazine called Billboard, the Group of the Year and they're gonna sing for you now the song that absolutely made them in this country, and I love to hear them sing it, Hey Joe. I feel guilty when people say I'm the greatest guitar player on the scene. What's good or bad doesn't matter to me. What does matter is feeling and not feeling, technicality of notes. You got to know the sound and what goes between the notes. I always try to get better, but as long as I'm playing, I don't think I'll ever reach the point where I'm satisfied. It was the same old thing with people telling us what to do. They wanted to make us play Hey Joe. So I caught Noel and Mitch's attention, and we went into Sunshine Of Your Love. If you play live, nobody can stop you or dictate what you play. We'll stop playing this rubbish and dedicate a song to the Cream, regardless of what kind of group they might be in. I'd like to dedicate it to Eric Clapton, Ginger Baker and Jack Bruce. We're being put off the air. An experience for Jimi Hendrix retaining his title as the world's top musician, Maurice Gibb of the Bee Gees doing the honors. What do you like to hear if somebody comes up after a concert, what kind of compliment do you like? I don't know. I don't really live on compliments, matter of fact, it has a way of distracting me and a whole lot of other musicians and artists that are out there today. They hear these compliments, they say, "I must have been really great. " So they get fat and satisfied and they get lost and they forget about the actual talent that they have, and they start living in another world, you know. A couple of years ago, all I wanted out of life was to be heard. Now I'm trying to figure out the wisest way to be heard. I don't want to be a clown anymore. I don't want to be a rock 'n' roll star. We haven't had a rest since we've been together, and we're going to have to take a rest sometime or another, or else some of the music is gonna come out really bad, or it's not gonna come out the way we want it to. What I wanna do is rest completely for one year. It's the physical and emotional toll I have to think of. Maybe something will happen and I'll break my own rules, but I have to try. It was always my plan to change the bass player. Noel is definitely out. Billy Cox has more of a solid style which suits me. I first met Billy when we were in the US Airborne. I'm not saying any one is better than the other. We're gonna take some time off and go out somewhere in the hills, or whatever you call it, until I get some new songs, and new arrangements and stuff like that. So we have something to offer, you know, something new. I'm not sure how I feel about The Experience now. Maybe we could have gone on. But what would have been the point? What would it have been good for? It's a ghost now, it's dead, like back pages of a diary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jimi Hendrix Experience. I'll say hello to you again. All right. Dig, we'd like to get something straight, we got tired of Experience and it was blowing our minds too much, so we decided to change the whole thing around and to call it Gypsy Sun and Rainbows. For short it's nothing but a Band Of Gypsys. What was the controversy about the national anthem and the way you played it? I don't know, man, all I did was play it. I'm American, so I played it. I used to sing it at school, they made me sing it at school, so... It was a flashback, you know. This man was in the 101st Airborne, so when you write your nasty letters in... Nasty letters? Why... When you mention the national anthem and talk about playing it in any unorthodox way, you immediately get a guaranteed percentage of hate mail - from people who say, "How dare...?" - But that's not unorthodox. - It isn't unorthodox? - No, no. I thought it was beautiful, but then there you go, you know. Everyone was amazed at the absence of violence. It's become a clich now about that big festival and about the others. - Were you surprised at it? - I was glad, I was glad. That's what it's all about, you know. Try to keep violence down, keep them off the streets... A festival of 500,000 people was a very beautiful turnout, you know. I hope we have more of them. It was a success for the simple fact that it was one of the largest gatherings of people, in the musical sense of it, you know. It could have been arranged a little more tighter but it was a complete success, though, compared to all the other festivals everybody tried to knock here and there. And the idea of people really listening to music over the sky, in such a large body. Everybody thinks that something's gonna go haywire or something, but that's always brought on by the police, always, 'cause we play... You said that this is a success but there's 300,000 people, isn't that pretty large for it to really be a success? It sure is and I'm glad it is a success. What is your comment on drug use at the festival? I don't know, some people believe that they have to do this or do that to get into the music. I don't know, I have no opinions at all. Different strokes for different folks, that's all I can say. The Fillmore is proud to welcome back some old friends with a brand-new name, A Band of Gypsys. We've been recording with my new group, the Band of Gypsys. It's a three-piece and we have Buddy Miles on drums and Billy Cox on bass. You can always sing about love and different situations of love but now we're trying to give solutions to all the protests and arguments that they're having about the world today. I want to dedicate this to a scene that's happening right now, the soldiers of Vietnam. We call it Machine Gun. I dedicate it to the other people that might be fighting wars but within themselves, not facing up to the realities. We're working on songs that are very hard but that are very straightforward and to the point. We're trying to get the people to listen to us, first of all. Then we can say to them, "Come follow us. "Let's go knock down the White House door. " The frustrations and riots going on today are all about personal things. Everybody has wars within themselves and it comes out as war against other people. That's all it is. You can see how desperate the whole case must be if a kid's going to go out there and get his head busted open. I like to see these kids with helmets on and then do their thing. Some of them will say, "We don't have nothing else to live for anyway. "This is our scene now. " I'm working on music to be completely, utterly, a magic science, where it's all pure positive. The more doubt and negatives you knock out of anything, the heavier it gets and the clearer it gets, and the deeper it gets into whoever is around it. It gets contagious. Don't mind us, we just feel like playing to you. We're playing for the new rising sun. Are You Experienced was where my head was at a couple of years ago. Now I'm into different things. There's a need for harmony between man and earth. I think we're really screwing up that harmony by dumping garbage in the sea and air pollution and all that stuff. And the sun is very important. It's what keeps everything alive. The first rays of the new rising sun is my new life. The thing is you have to be positive, you have to keep going until you have all the negatives out of your system. There is one thing I hate about studios, usually, and that is the impersonality of them. Within a few minutes, I lose all drive and inspiration. Electric Lady is different, I have done great things with this place. It has been built with great atmosphere and every comfort. It makes people feel like they're at home. It is capable of recording 32 tracks, it has the best equipment in the world. We have recorded a lot of material and I hope the next single will come out in six weeks. The number most likely to be the A-side is Dolly Dagger, which is about a notorious lady. When you first make it, the demands on you are very great. I don't try to live up to anything anymore. The main thing that used to bug me was that people wanted too many visual things from me. When I didn't do it, people thought I was being moody, but I can only freak when I really feel like doing so. The moment I feel that I don't have anything more to give musically, that's when I won't be found on this planet. I'm not sure I will live to be 28 years old, but then again so many beautiful things have happened to me in the last three years, the world owes me nothing. Thank you. Thank you very much. When the last American tour finished, I just wanted to go away and forget everything. Then I started thinking, thinking about the future, thinking that this era of music, sparked off by The Beatles, had come to an end. Something new has to come and Jimi Hendrix will be there. Kids listen with open minds but I don't want to give them the same things all the time. I wanna keep doing fresh things, I wanna show them all over again what it's all about. The "Isle of Wight" was great. It's a fantastic place to have a show, that brings the kids together from not only the British Isle, but also the whole of the continent. - Yeah, right. - Are you ready? - Ask the road manager. - Are we ready? Are we ready? OK, ready. Tell the MC to go, then. A bit more volume on this one, Charlie. It's gonna need it. Let's have a welcome for Billy Cox on bass, Mitch Mitchell on drums, and the man with the guitar, Jimi Hendrix. Yeah! Thank you very much for showing up, man. You all look out of sight. Thanks for waiting. We'll do a thing called Freedom. The "Isle of Wight" might be the last or the second to the last before I form my new big band. If the kids really enjoy it, then I might carry on a little longer. But I'm not here to talk, I'm here to play. I don't think I'll be around when I'm 80. There's other things to do besides sitting around waiting for 80 to come along. I'm into new things and I wanna think about tomorrow, not yesterday. I'm working on my next album. We have about 40 songs in the works, about half of them completed. I have plans that are unbelievable. But then wanting to be a guitar player seemed unbelievable at one time. The Jimi Hendrix Experience is oven The acid rock musician died today in a London hospital. During his short careen Hendrix Hailed his electric guitar into some of the most unusual sounds of an unusual music. When I die, I'm gonna have a jam session and knowing me, I'll probably get busted at my own funeral. And I'll try and get Miles Davis along, if he feels like making it. The music will be played loud and it will be our music. When I die, just keep on playing the records.
