 

                        Jimmy already speaks not of this this allowed to record our conversations Does your challenge make you feel but powerful? To film people ago you to not feel in control? Maybe? I can be seated here so much time like your and you didn't force me to participate of your game. Jimmy, keeps the camera, please. Of agreement, it was already enough. Give me the camera, we go. Give it to me. We go, give it to me. Give me the camera! Give it to me Jimmy! These crazy boy. These crazy one? Give it to me. Hello he/she suckles, I heard that your and potato they were making filth last night. Thank you for that reason. Of by the way Who carajo in Nancy? Pope, sends this to the telephone saying that you make it as switch. Pope, if, he/she wants to reach it and he/she makes it, both balls. That it bends play. And one smelled to end up. I live in a show of phenomena. Do you like black of shit? If, baby, likes me. This well That pass for your do mention when he/she calls you black? You cost others 50. You like to call me black? Does he/she get excited to say it? No. Then because you make it? It was about making the inpensable in that moment. He/she wanted to see if he/she could say it. And that you found? I believe that I want to die. Judy, Judy first period in tracks. Sra Sanburrows, the dog of dogs. Give it to me. Do you want it? Curse. May Crearlie. Billy Ransend, damned imbecile. That such boys? Enough well. As he/she goes you? - Hello boys. - For heaven's sake. As he/she goes them? Alone he/she loved them Happy anniversary. - Jimmy, release you of here. - Hello potato. Happy anniversary! - All, apologize. - I sit down it. You go. Thank you to come, we want to bend the bet. Thank you affection, I am to arrive to the green and I don't look to the cady and I thought that with the 7 it would rot. Not the wise thing maybe achieved it, but it fails as 6 times that Sunday. So it happens to me the stick and I not even thought it... It is already sufficiently bad that they force me to come like it stops to support you with that stupid camera. - I have something to show you. - That? Something that will want to make me vomit? No, something beautiful. Something that maybe changes you the life. You are strange Jimmy. At some time they told you things alone because they didn't understand you? Not I will speak with you until that you turn off the camera. Alone because this here, not siginfica that me agreades. Neither well finish this, I will leave. That is the car of Sra Sanburrows. And Billy Ransend, that idiot that he/she decided to throw you above the soda. I put marijuana in their pigeonhole and it sends a note to the director. May Crearlie also I took myself charge of her. For that made that? I made it for you. Turn off the damned camera! The problem is that Tom wanted that I stay until this hour. I threaten myself with taking off the bill. It is hour that you face the one. We have already spoken. They are same in the company. Not it is your superior. Not technically. If it wins me another bill, not you that I will make. I threaten to take off two bills. This connected one. As I could take off the bills? that Bill says in this respect? Their potato is owner of the company... You have worked for 20 years for the one. In this case it doesn't care. In short, I already get tired. He/she would want to renounce but I am not able to. - Will we eat the salmon? - If. It is terrible, I don't want it We will eat the salmon because it was cheap, prepare it as you like it. He/she knows past. Not I can buy you underwear and eaten and to make both well. It is it less than you can make. That small idiot tenses me. You don't pay him/her attention. Step enough time with the one. They should leave one Saturday. He doesn't want it, it is a strange bug. - These list for my, dog? - Not yet he am. I don't like to wait. That you lack? My make-up. Your you are the one that wanted to make it. Alone I need something of time We go, vixen. Tomato a cocktail. You know that you also like. Alone I say that you should face the one. You don't listen to me, I tell you that they are not taking advantage of my Alone I make what I should to make in the work. Intent. You should have the best office. Hold. Or maybe an increase. Not you can get it? I will no longer speak with her. You could answer when I call you. The whole time unemployment in the one telephone, I cannot speak with you. You always believe that I should to pay you all my attention. I am your wife. This well. So... My God. In that walk? - That you make. - I told you that he/she would find out. Give it to me camera, imbecile. Give me the damned camera. Dog, dog. Jodete. Damned maricon. Your you wanted to feel it. Alone he/she wanted to see like it worked. He/she calls Nancy to your potato. Don't film me. I swear you that I will leave. This well. It puts me nervous that record me. To the devil the camera, speaks to me. This well. Say I eat up you felt when you dressed the video. He/she felt as if me they had read the mind. And? It was as if it felt that somebody protected me. And what you said of God? I said that if God had sent to somebody to take care, to protect me. your you are the only person that me he/she has taken care this way in all my life. I hate when they film me crying. Do you like it? You would like it that you the goal for the ass? Do you maybe like it? I generally put it but far from my face but if you like this way I will have to adjust myself. - Do you like this way it? - To the carajo, I leave. Judy, waits. That? Not you do want to wonder he/she swims? We go. This well Because you did they bounce of the school? Me esoty taking a semester. Listen that they threw away you because somebody one commits suicide and you filmed it. I didn't tell him/her that he/she made it but neither that not. If he/she wanted to die it was their decision. And the camera was there, me not. That is the true. You can believe what you want. And now I am here with my parents llendo to therapy, reassessing my ambitions. As he likes to say to my he/she suckles, me I will take this semester and then I will go to the community univeridad and to forget that all that step. Not it is so bad. Not it is so bad. Maybe you should not film everything. I don't film everything. Alone the important thing. For that me? For that believe? Hold. Alone you tell it to me. For that love me? If, you understand it. To where you take me? - To a beautiful place. - Where? Chuckie Cheese. We go, seriously. I cannot tell you, it would ruin him. Alone he/she trusts my. This well. Can I wonder something? What is. Do you hate your parents? If, I make it, but I understand them. That it is necessary to understand? I understand that my youth activate their crisis of half age. When the only son leaves the nest the parents re-evaluate their relationship they come us like improve versions of themselves. They feel insecure because we no longer look for their approval. They are abandoned for our necessity of privacy. You already know, they used to take us to those baseball games, to put on cures. And once we don't need to our he/she suckles so that it cures us the wounds or to potato to admire put their lists like person in doubt. As you know these things? I am a genius. In fact, I suppose that when you don't have with the one who to speak And you don't play sports, neither you leave not do you have nobody that listens to you you know? Nobody to the one who to request advice, you have to get ready them your alone one. These well jodido. Your you are hemosa. Do you believe that I am beautiful? Allow me to see, I believe that you are the person but beautiful of the world. In fact, I believe that you are the woman but beautiful of the whole universe. Nobody had told me before something like that. Good, get used. Do you believe that I am intelligent? If. - That I am fat? - If. As you can say that? I weigh 53 kilos. He/she forgives, I thought that you said page of the chest. I am not it. Prove it. Not I have to prove it, you can see. Not I can see well. Full an entire glass B. Become trained, it takes out your teats. I won't take out them, it takes out yours. Already this out baby. Not I can believe that you made that. - If, for that reason I made it. - My God. Teach you mine, it is your shift. We go. Go, If!, I will stop. - No. - If, I will make it. We have to film your teats. Of agreement Judy, become trained them. - We go. - He/she gives me shame. Not he/she has because to give you shame. He/she trusts my. You can trust until your life. Partner, really. We go. Take off the you sustain. If, they are very beautiful. Very pretty. That it happens? He/she teaches you my breasts and I saw your punish I even stop neither we kiss each other. Neither you asked me him to be your girlfriend. - Serious my girlfriend? - If. - Would you give me a kiss? - If. - Did you turn off the camera? - No. Not I want to get lost the opportunity of to document the best moment in my life I want to see it other time. It turns off the camera, please. Him these filming? Here you did want to bring me? If that happens? I want to go home. Not the jodas Jimmy. You normal. Normal. I go her to joder. - Hello. - Hello. As you feel? Not him you, very well. My God, I envy you. Not him you, lately I have wished you a lot. For that that is? I won't say it, he/she gives me shame. We go. Now you have to tell it to me. It was after yesterday. - Yesterday? - If. After I saw you use that weapon. Taenias much fear. You were trembling, it was it but horrible that I made, I thought that he/she would no longer see you. At the beginning he/she scared me a lot. Not wise that would make so much noise But when it arrives home I thought it. As your muscles they were seen. And the dangerous thing that everything was seen. Let us be moved and... Did you get excited? - It grabs this a moment. - Where go? I already go, he/she waits. You are very burning. My potato the guard in their closet. It is heavy. Now I see the attractiveness, give me the camera. Do you like this? If. It is sensual. Do you like it? Shit my parents. Hurry. That is not... Shit. God. Judy loved him/her something to your fans before making this? He/she gives me a lot of emotion to lose my thief virginity. And I also want to teach these to my fans Thank you for your breasts and thank you for this behind cameras. In your first crime / moment really. You two stop That do devils believe that they make? Not they can walk in the spread with the lit camera. Turn off it and veto, we go. That Jimmy spends? almost they catch us. Always with the camera Because you make that? For that have to film everything? It seems that you have a problem or something like that. For that reason they believe that you are strange for that reason they make fun all of you. Do so all make fun of my? If, give a rest to that thing. Do you want him to tell it to you? That you jodan them and your also. I don't care what you/they think. This is my life and I want to document it and filming you is the reason for the one that I wake up in the mornings. As Jimmy he/she does feel? As it is felt that they film you? Not it cares that that I sit down you don't understand it. What it cares is it that see inside my and you film it. - Can you understand that? - Not him you. At least he/she attempts. This well. Never request me that not you film or something of that makes. It is the only thing that I will request of you Judy. This well, I sit down it. Do you swear him in camera? Candle damned prostitute son. Jimmy. Carajo, dtente Jimmy. My God, I love you Jimmy. My God, Jimmy hold. Jimmy! My God. I miss you, I will be waiting when you leave. You good and don't take a long time he/she looks at what I put on for you. Not I can wait to that see it. Welcome Which their order is? He/she gives me a double hamburger of cheese without pickles, potatoes and a coca. Eat quick! also an I number 2 Clearing pays in the following window. That was it that but it misses. That you made there the whole day? Mostly to masturbate. You deceived me. I should be the only resposable of making that you retaliate. But it is worth that you are of guard the 24 hours. Seriously that you made As was your day in the asylum? - Apart from masturbating? - If. Good, speak and speak and then speak but until they were satisfied I told them what you/they wanted to hear, I said sew as: now that I can speak of my problems I realize that my behavior was inappropriate. And harmful toward others. And then I realized that taenia that to cry. For that when somebody cries they call it a revelation. You have to begin very slow, this way... I will put on in position. Now you that the violence it is not the answer. And then you have to put on this way... I was mistaken. I was very equivodado. I need help. I never wanted to hurt anybody. Especially to my parents... After everything that made for my. And then single languages but. Then after a couple of weeks they diagnose you and you ends up. My God, you are a genius. Him you. That they gave you? Some pills, not those I take because I am not stopped. That they said that you have? Disorder challenge oposicional. DOD. That suertudo, I want that they diagnose me something. That it means? DOD? It is characterized by an overwhelming feeling of of negative hostility in the behavior what causes the patient the impossibility of distinguishing between reality and fantasy. I love it. Basically, I am crazy. I am very hungry. My God. - Carajo! - That? Curse. I requested specifically without pickles shitted my order. As it would tolerate this somebody with your illness? Do rot to resist? Not him you, seriously not him you. Not him you, maybe look for a gun. That I will make? My God! God that heats! I burn the nipples with the pickles. My God! Help me Mr.! Esyou ruining my skin. I love you Judy. Not run so quick. - Do you know that? - That? And if we could live here forever? Here? Not here, but you could buy a land and to live there to get undressed when it is. That you find? I believe that these drunkard. You are right, but it is seriously. I never want that this ends up I want to be this way forever. I want the air in my body nude and I want to feel he/she liberates. And I want that follemos every day. Do you know that? I know a place. Seriously? Where this? In Arlinger. It is seriously. I tell you there is a beautiful place when I was in the asylum. It was everything of what you/they spoke. It is supposed that in Arlinger there is a type Uncle Rodney, you can get drunk and to get undressed when want. It is everything that they make THE uncle Rodney? Not it is joking. This well, we will go it stops there. If. Make it. Seriously you do mean that something? Seriously that if. Not one day I will pass without masturbating. I want to live in my penis. I want to calm down to be able to to have a trio, and not to deceive you. YY... I want to scratch myself the balls with a rayador of cheese. That disgust. YY. I love you. Since we were children. Seriously? I love you so much that it hurts. God stabs my heart with a thousand knives to the same puto time. Your you are the only one that removes me that pain. Your ones that for my? I love you so much that he/she would prefer to die to not being with you. This well, then make me a promise. As well as they make it the husbands. To marry? No, no, this is something but powerful that that, is a knot. It is our knot, it is momentous. That? It is momentous because it transcends to everything. I have loved people and things. It transcends to the death If you swear a knot it means that you prefer to die that to break your promise. That is very beautiful. Judy... Not I can be one day without you. This well, let us swear the knot. We will never leave that anything you interpose among us. Neither the death. Not I will let that anything is interposed not even the death, I swear him. We will be together forever. Forever. Not you because but I love the ghetto whenever I leave here it is where I want to come. If, I love when not these in the asylum. Do you believe that you could not be in the one? No, if I don't go there I will go to the jail. It is seriously, you act as if not it was great thing when you leave. This well. No, not this well. When your these there me I stay here all alone one. In the real world Jimmy. You enter and you leave as if everything it was well but not him this. Not I want to live another day without you. Do you understand me? He/she would prefer to die. This well, I promise you not to return. I promise it, I swear for our I rope that will never return. Do you swear him? Now that? It finishes it time that you came out the we made 5 times, neither well we saw each other the we made. We got undressed and we made it and today my parents were not and when I wanted to make you you not sew you seemed to be interested. Not it was this way, I sit down it. Is it because you spoke with your potato? No. Do you no longer like to have sex with me? Do you no longer believe that I am attractive? No, that doesn't have anything to see. I will tell you, after I saw to my Pope being whipped for my he suckles as that blocks it, so when I go to the asylum it is everything of that that they want to speak, so now every time that I say something, he/she repeats in my head and I see to my potato whipping to my potato in the ass. It is quite unfortunate. It stinks. That horrible, I sit down it. If, but you know that, neither you made an effort so much. Alone you put me expensive of sex and you grabbed me the piece. Of agreement that such this? do you like that? To that I referred. If... - Woddy this leaving. - Seriously? Shit. Partner, I believe that you gave him/her to somebody. Stay here. Jimmy That you make? Carajo! We have to take it to the hopital. No, they arrested us. Shit, shit, doesn't breathe I believe that this dead. - This dead one?! - Not him you! To the carajo, alone he/she speaks the maletera. Make it before they see each other, hurry. Carajo! My God, I want to leave home. God. I manage, we go you hurry. He/she enters quick. YYo... That carajo! he/she enters before somebody sees us We have a dead in the maletera! Carajo caught us. Alone you stay calmed, don't say anything neither cry. My God has a dead and there this the police. Be quiet, calm. Good night, it licenses and registration. Clear. Here he/she has. It could take their keys out of the one ignition and to come stops here please. He/she comes here with me. My God Jimmy. Carajo! That carajo step? - Tell me what I happen... - Be quiet carajo! Tell it to me carajo. That you make? Filming. It is dark you cannot see anything. Does this in infrared want to see? Not I want to see it. Seriously? it is beautiful This dead one, in my car and it stinks. I want to go home. Not I can make this. Not I am as your. I want to leave home. Curse... I sit down it That devils spend? Not we can go home. And you will make it, your you made it. Your you killed him Judy. And you didn't get yourself into the car until I arrive the police. You want him to go to the jail? Is that what you want? That we will make? Not him you, not him you. We have to make decisions intelligent now. This well? We will see that to make, we will leave. And we will fix it, everything will be well. This well? Do you promise it? They come here. I promise it, everything will be well. My God, me this giving nauseates. The bodies burning stinks. Will the bones be cooking? Jimmy doesn't make that. Do you know to where we will go? To where? To Lincon to visit Dingo. Who Dingo is? He/she has their house and he/she speaks to him/her of you he/she wants to know you. He doesn't like this way policemen that I don't believe that he/she invites them there. Could you give me a small smile? No, I am not able to, I sit down it. Did you find the video? If. I remember that video of which you/they speak. This well, likes me them to stay. I have businesses so it is important that when they knock on the door... Don't assist her, neither neither the damned telephone. Outside of that we will have a good time a lot because I have enough coca. And that shit this buenaza! do you want a touch? No, maybe but late. Friend tells you something, you have to leave of filming because the fumones comes and if they come something like that, they will become crazy. So it is very important. The jalones is a different race. They are very impredecibles, never you know what you/they will make. Carajo! There was a pendejo that you ascended to their roof to make the excrement. There being so many places to shit! For that don't lend me attention to my? I sit down it. Am I sexy? You are very sexy baby. I have a work for you, if they agree That work type? Alone to mix some things, I will teach them as cooking it, if it is that they want. That well, I always wanted to learn how to make methamphetamines. You are a genius, partner. - It is for you - Thank you. Friend... Is she your girlfriend? or alone they throw? If, he/she is my girlfriend, alone I have one it never rules, never throw it to you. - Did you understand? - I understand. Well. Not he/she could make it anyway. Then... Osis. This type, is a type curse. I become trained all envelope the goal and he/she became crazy for a girl. The uncle's languages Rodney truth? Truth. The damned uncle Rodney. Do you have an uncle Rodney baby? Not he/she is my uncle neither of anybody you remember that he/she is you of the type of the asylum? I told you that we would go to Arlinger you do remember? That we will make? We will be naked. We are always he Jimmy. If, forget it. Carajo. Do you like that shit? If. We have to make something. we have to go I have this whole shit. And I like my house but... something but it should happen. So also I will go well this? Carajo. A client this calling. Baby, I am very drugged. It is grandiose. You these having a good time? Did I tell it to you you see? Jimmy your girl likes girls? Good Judy, do you like them? Not him you, would like you? If, bring it. In fact, not you if to He likes Judy the girls. Neither I like to my. We will make this, you took off this. Not him you. Alone I want something of coca and to leave of here. Be quiet shit and take off the clothes. Not I want. You will make it. Jimmy. Stop it! He/she is a big man he/she can make what wants. Make it Dingo. I will throw myself to this drug addict for you. I will make it very well. Will you make it or alone you will say it? Jimmy if you allow it to make that I swear you that I never speak to you again but! We will have a good time friend. We go you take it. Do you believe that he/she deserves to die? - This maricon violator? - If, it deserves it. Good-bye Dingo, stupid pendejo. Thank you for the car and the cash. And for the drug. As you feel baby? I don't care anything. That we will make with the car Jimmy? We will throw it. - And the coca? - We will pull it. And the cash? We will make what you want affection. That you find? It sounds incredible. And now only Elvis. Of agreement. I have understood that they have their own votes. The votes? Thank you, thank you, let us see. Judy always promises to swallow it never to intersect the hair or that another man injects you his do punish until one dies from you? I promise it. And Jimmy always Promises follartela with estusiasmo to take a bath once a day and not to inject does your penis in another body until one die? I promise it. Now the rings. It is the best part. Now I declare them husband and woman. You can kiss the girlfriend. That can cut it. Enter one it lines. do you know that? I have a better idea. Now that we marry it would should to go to the medicine school and to transform into anesthesiologist and to get you all the coca that you want. - Seriously you would make that? - If. Jimmy your house this in tv. - He/she looks, they come. - That? There are two suspects in the intent of the officer's murder Frank Mitchell who was hurt when stopping a suspect of to run over a pedestrian two nights ago. The two suspects are James white Wright 22 years old And the student of 18 years of the secondary Judy Elizabethh Oaks Keller. Don't tell me that... He/she waits you are quiet. And although there is not anything official him they have considered in situation it criticizes. The boys were filmed for the camera inside the partrulla. The sheriff's department he/she has given to see the video To be able to involve to the I publish in the search of the suspects. We want to notice to the televiewers that the images that you/they will see they are of graphic nature and not appropriate for children. Discresion is recommended. Judy didn't want them to separate us. I suppose that now they know who are. In fact as that we are famous. It is it but romantic that has heard. I love you Judy. Me also. Jimmy your parents. We are surprised for the recent events. Our son... It was always a boy sweet a little confused. But we want him to know that we love him a lot and we want... Dog! I found a rasuradora baby. We go sits down, it is hour. This well. - He/she waits - That? Alone I want to see myself one it finishes time. I am so good. It is already enough. Judy is not sure of this. For that? I change mine. Him you but you are beautiful I see myself like a shit. No, was your idea you remember? We go. This well, let us make it. This well. My God! I love you but I hate you now. Sacred God. Put on but behind. Not I can see. We should leave it there. No, I don't want to seem bald. To comb this way me it. I like this way it. We go, seriously. - He/she feels well something. - If? He/she waits... If My God, you are a pig when you eat. That is very disgusting. I won't take you to the field club. He/she hears. Do I sit down it, do Hurt your feelings? This well, I promise you to take you. Seriously? when? Not him you. Thank you to marry with me. You are my prince. And some day, we will have a fence and a great house and a beautiful bebito. As we will call it? That it happens? Anything. That I happen? Shit, lowers the camera. - My God. - Van to our room. Shit. They know where we are, they caught us. Of agreement vamonos. Enter! - Did they see each other? - I don't believe it. I have to think one second. Not I believe that they saw each other we are safe. My God... that was close. Good morning. Wake up dog. As he/she feels this morning Sra Wright? Where we are? It is a surprise. I want that your you manage because I want that me to film you when we arrive. This well. Get up. That I will see? I hate when me you make this alone you tell it to me. It continues looking for. I want to know. Alone it continues managing. My God, is This? If. Is it where your friend lives? It is where we live. Seriously? For a while if we want it. My God that I abut All they live here? If. - It is astonishing. - It is as a rock concert. He/she looks at all... We will intoxicate ourselves and we will undress the whole time. - You go over there. - There? If beside those types. - Take it. - This well. - Is the uncle Rodney? - No, it is Buddy. But Rodney wants to know us. Seriously? If, we are as celebrities. My God. We will celebrate. We have here as 35 trailers. If they are open they can sleep there. Maybe arrive some types and... Judy looks! they have hairy vaginas here. Not my girl, I make him to clip it to him. I don't like it. Maybe arrive some types to the devil! All are kind here, always he/she is where to sleep. You that it doesn't seem a lot but here it is the maximum thing. We make many parties and you puden to be. They can stay forever. If they stay they know the rules There it is the laboratory... don't enter there. Don't film it. Rodney puts on as crazy. Which the rule is 2? Anything of policemen but not I have to worry about UYds. But outside of that they can make all that gives them the desire. What you/they want carajo. Do you want to stay to the parties you know? Jimmy, most of the time pleases me I have go to sell but the uncle Rodney he/she told me that you were brilliant and to the one to look like each other won't go for a while. That maybe a couple of months takes. Maybe a couple of years, but are not we hurried truth? Clever? one, two three. Now, he/she looks that I abut they enter to their new house. They are very tender. As he/she fades this shit? If you give your love to the uncle Rodney he/she returned him to you as 10 times. But be not afraid of loving him because you will learn how to love you to yourself. He taught you of everything. As we are connected. The uncle Rodney respects us, he/she can be your savior. Or your executioner, your you choose. I have seen it get angry enough with people that steals him/her. We make it different, we take charge we, don't call to the law. We solve it internally. This type with which Matt was or something had just come out of jail. and I am on a place where you could make what you want. Without having to worry for all those shits. And the world of out. And I told him/her: friend that well, this way that I came to look at it and I thought that if. It is this way like it should be the life. Hello baby. - They come this warm one. - Seriously? If, we go. No, I will film you for a while. - As I see myself? - Beautiful. As I see myself now? Sexy. Let us go! Hello another time. Do you like it here? Can we stay? It Depends on Rodney. As the one it is? Not him you, is supposed that it is strange in reality, listen that it is very strange. Good if it is strange or very strange. If we can stay always like Buddy says. Not we would need anything but. Won't the police come truth? This of the camera is amusing. Does he/she hear These nervous one? No. I he would be. It is supposed that it is brilliant. If it is it, but don't you have he/she devises truth? Judy wants to know it, not does it care if I ask him/her truth? Not you have to make it, if they come small the he/she wants to know them. That carajo that means? Relax you friend, it is as if you were one of their boys. I will give you two weeks and you will want that she experiences it with the one. Your will also want it. Alone he/she walks to see it. He/she wants to know you. He/she takes your camera. He/she walks, they are waiting for you. Carajo. These filming? If. Where I put on? You can sit down where you want. This well. Then... I want you to feel comfortable. Do you feel comfortable? That believes. The important thing is to understand each other. Please, please. One second, I have to take care to my he/she drinks. Don't put on this way. There are people that comes here and they are very you leave here as Connie. When they arrive here no longer there is anything that he/she can make. Except alleviating them the pain. Certain affection? A probadita that you say? If, if. This way? The addiction takes out something beautiful in people. The addiction is pure. The addiction reduces to people to infants. And there is not anything so beautiful, innocent and pure as an infant. Connie is no longer one adult, is my adoptive daughter. And I should provide him/her the milk necessary from time to time. It is an arrangement that both we end up accepting and to understand. I love you. - Clever? - If. Thank you. These list? Well, affection walks. Pope has to work. Before please beginning. Ysare this tape for my fans., and there is a good one I number, this way that we try not to shit it. I want to apologize before beginning if what I say gets scared or it inconveniences you. I will be well. No, you won't be well. What I have that to become trained will be terrifying. The truth is an acquired pleasure. But once you arrive to it. It is all that you will want. It is everything. Those boys there, those undesirable. Maybe you call this way us. Your, me, we know the truth. We know it, your you know that the society doesn't love you. Your parents don't love you. The corporate norteamerica seriously that he/she doesn't love you, but you would not be here. If this government had the opportunity. They would exterminate us without thinking it. The same as the Jews or they would make us slaves. As the black ones, because you don't made a mistake we are the new ones black of this country. Nobody respects us, nobody goes what we have to offer. Nobody has compassion for us. They don't care or they are very frank to see that we are the column of this. of a society that has failed us. To educate or to fill. To inspire none of us we are the garbage of the society. Not there is against culture. There is no longer her. He/she left, he/she died and it was replaced by us. The culture garbage. They made us to a side. We have been prisionados, contained. Systematically abused. Executed, they enlisted us armies for government's pendejos with the purpose of killing us. That is everything, to kill us. And every week somebody appears in my door and they are addicted. And they are angry, because they took advantage of them. They threw them to the garbage. I will tell you something, every time that somebody this way he/she comes to unite to the society garbage this society is made but strong. And they weaken a little. Until the days and the convicts of this country they are left without place where to put the garbage. Don't rot it to put in none it leaves and it will be put in their cities it was dammed of the places where they put it to control. And we will burn their world! Him prederemos fire! And we won't rest until one fire rain falls in its heads. And then we will fornicate in their ashes. That is what you have here. That is here. I am glad so much you to come. You these having a good time? We love it here. I am glad to hear it, him him that you made to Dingo. Carajo! Let us see if you like son. Do remain silent it, now you do like? I will violate your girlfriend. I will violate it son. As you feel damned? - Do you believe that this dead? - If. Come unfastened! God. Judy, affection, awake. That you make? We go Judy, I will take out you of here. That carajo happens? Baby these bleeding. these well? We will clean. These bleeding. There is blood everywhere. - He/she enters to the car. - I don't feel well. Don't fall asleep. Stay he/she wakes up. You have to be awake. These well affection? Carajo! I sit down it. Awake Judy! Please, Carajo! Judy, awake. We go, I saw that you woke up. These well? Am I with you? If, these with me. I am well. Jimmy. The camera not now if? No, he/she remembers when us we knew with the camera. I remember that scared me. Do you know as much as money has? Not him you, Because? He/she planned to go to Canada. This but it fences that Mexico. This well, whenever this with you, all this well. In fact he/she thought of taking you to house. That? He/she thought... In to write you or to send you a video. You have to tell them that you force they will believe you. No, I don't want that. He/she listens, it will be well, me I will be well, I will go to Canada and your you can leave to Mexico. Not I want to be without you. You that we swear for the knot that we would never separate. But... I allow to leave, I won't get angry. No, Jimmy, I will stay with you and your with me. This well. Are you very handsome the wise ones? Jimmy for, these very bad one to manage. This well. Did you want to wonder something? - Does Judy love me? - You know that if. Do you know that me to you truth? - Affection. - That? - Us jodimos. - As this way? He/she looks at the rear-view one. You finishes affection. Stop, it is not worthwhile Judy, my God, this blocked. He/she listens... Jimmy is quiet, Because suddenly did you put on like a dog? I will tell them what I told you before that he/she forces you to make all that. We will stay together! Not we can be together! If we can, I won't give you, I am not able to. - Judy, I love you. - Me also. Do you listen that? My God. It is a barricade, dtente.
