 

                        Legend of Chen Zhen Europe, France 1917 Frontline is dangerous, we need 10 more people No more ammo. Move it, quick. Thien Nguyen, dont be scare. Calm down, calm down. We will make it back to China, Can't die here. Everyone don't be scare, continue forward Do not go back, march forward. My lucky charm. It will protect you. Brothers, lets move forward. Lets go! Lets go! Quickly! Commander, ammo is here. Why the French retreating? Chen Zhen... Help me. Chen Zhen! Germans are here, damn it. Everyone alright? anyone hurt? Chen Zhen, lucky to have you here. Brother Chen, I'm okay. Thanks to your lucky charm. Thank heaven, thank god. I must go home. Thien Nguyen... I must go home. I'll kill all of you! I must go home. Everyone get down. We cannot die here. Mr. Luu! Thank you. - owner Luu, business is good huh?. - You guys have enjoy. Boss, look, every night is like this. Who would believe there's a war going on. It's crazy out there, they dont come here, then where else? Everyone, my brother said he got war news from Tham Duong. He says, General Trac, will defeat Commander Tang. Theres news that Commander Tang retreated. If General Trac wins, China will be unified. Not for sure yet. The British, Japanese still behind Commander Tang Both do not want China to unified. Kidding? You've been to Taiwan? Japan invaded Taiwan. You fight back, and get terminated. You still want to fight back? History book won't even record your name. This continues Taiwan will become Japan's Also, China is not under Chinese's control Eventually, I think either the Brits or Japanese will win. Don't forget More chaotic here, more prosperity for us. Tell her sing this song. Ky Ky, sing a Japanese song. Ky Ky. Come on, lets go. Thank you. Thank you. Very good, very nice. Thank you. Who are you? Who do you want? officers, dont be angry. Everyone's my guest today, please save this giu cho Luu Van Thien some face Sit, sit - A Van - Yes I can't take this, all please sit down. I can't take this, Mr. Luu Brother returned from France? Correct. Have a drink. Thank you Mr. Luu. Let me ask something... pair is big or three of a kind? What you holding? Three of a kind. My pair beat your three of a kind. Come on. okay, continue. Winner winner, chicken dinner I won Again Thien Nguyen, taking big risk? Risking with my life is okay? Your Life? Worth how much? Not cheaper than yours. What you say? Your life, worth this much? Then my life is yours now. Who scare of who? Three of a kind. It's over for you. Two Pair. Pair can beat three of a kind? Someone said that moments ago You... Correct? Sit down... okay. Rules made by you guys. Can't take it when someone wins? okay. My brother. You gave me your money, or life? of course, need money not life, Mr. Luu. okay then. Drink. Come on, continue Drink too much these couple days. Cant drink anymore, have to go back to hotel Don't stay in hotel anymore move here Don't be a stranger Don't mention it okay, Thank you Mr. Luu. You're here? Didn't you say, this room's for me to watch the sunrise? It's only 3, no sunrise yet Let me introduce, my brother, Te Thien Nguyen. This is Ky Ky. Then now you got more brothers then wives What am I to do? You married to me, you should know what to do What about other mistresses? They're one night stand, you're my main chick Then when they all gone, we'll continue this talk. Take a drink - Next time I drank a lot tonight, thanks Miss He drank a lot, let me. Then I won't bother you two I'll go first A Van's downstair, he'll see you out. Thank you. Your girlfriend's cold. You interested? Take here prolly can't control yourself That's you, Mr. Luu. Really? Good nite Thank you Mr. Luu. Khong can khach khi. You hang with Luu Van Thien now? If so, you'll be famous This keeps up, then it be too dangerous This is small part of the plan No, getting close to Luu Van Thien, is a big part aldready. He can't trust you that quickly. Be careful. Luu Van Thien, this person, you think he can do big things? Also, he got ties to the underground world. After all, he still Chinese our force is not enough To face the Japanese We must encourage every single Chinese The more power Luu Van Thien got, the more valuable Thus, if we and underground world established a tie It'll be beneficial to us. I contacted some sailor brothers from France for help Don't worry Don't forget our school mates Every Chinese, is together on this But our country cannot be unified At least, now.. I believe we can do it Why did Master Nha started Tinh Vo Mon? To protect the homeland, Chen Zhen. Europe, France. Thien Nguyen, we almost make it to China. You stay here and rest. Thien Nguyen will go back to China with us. Chen Zhen can't go home now. But Te Thien Nguyen can. China's Battlefield. I got news from France. England intercepted news about when our troops move Besides me, only 3 of you know. Who made the mistake? Sir, I never left base. You all listen Japanese soldier, must have courage Yes. Sisters, boss is here Now, bottoms up Whose birthday? Whose birthday is not important It's important that you invite us for a drink okay, lets drink A Chi. Your boss got ways with ladies. He very wealthy in Shanghai. Wearing white is Uy Uy. You come here I have to go now General Tang's lover Keep eyes on her. He's here Not at the battlefield? He's back, Duyet Quynh Place Told me to come over Need to call a car for you? No need, he send a driver He will pick me up Drink 1 then go Give her 1 shot Hoang Lan Any left? Sorry sis Ky Ky, I just sold out. I help you go buy, okay? okay Mr. Te, see you. Lady Duy, General's waiting upstairs. okay Sir, we located General Trac and General Tang of the NE army My people's ready Waiting for your orders General Trac, hello Arrived?, hello Long time, sit sit It's cold outside, lets eat hot pot We just talking nonsense to relax General Tang Tell me, your troops against mine Who will win You'd win What if the Japanese help you If so, I'd surrender I only use the Japanese They bunch of bastards The Japanese won't give you time. Things are critical now Some already moved to Europe. Honestly, I don't want to fight the NE army. But, your army can't be helping the China's government. To be direct If you withdraw, the army is still yours I'll stop fighting immediately What do you think Brother Trac, don't force me. This reply, is what you want to say to all of China? General Trac General Tang, forgive me for not seeing things He trusts you, admires you Won't you believe in him? Let me tell you If he don't want to be Japan's dog Then he only got 1 option Negotiation Brother, it's not easy, to get to where China is today Victory is in sight Brother Trac, I need time To tell everyone Give me 7 days okay If If they don't listen Next time we meet, Will be on the battlefield We will always be brothers Bottoms up Give me some money Easy, give me some money Get lost Your majesty Thank you Protect the General Protect the General Who driving so fast, police don't even drive that fast I know, Who? Let's go see Who?Me? Everything is me, Hurry and go You go Me Come here, come here Make way Nhin la khong ua roi Search the crime scene, see who's alive Go look over there, okay Go die Who are you You need not know You, why save me? I didn't want to save you I had no choice I want to say 1 thing to you Don't work with the Japanese Don't dig your own grave Did General Trac send him? No, he isn't that type of person Then who else knows you're back Your Majesty, my men practice day and night Why want to assassinate his son? I'm not interested in helping you Handle this Trac, he not worth much But he only commands the NE army only the NE army, what can they do? What important is what Tokyo wants only to see China surrender, To us, that's beneficial When General Tang dies War between General Tang and Trac can't be avoided Just that we messed up Can't believe 1 pro fighter appeared No need to think of this much Right now what's important is Find out who he is Hurry and investigate A person appeared to fight the mighty Japan Let us close down Many characters, is good for you We will help with all we got Read all about it Read all about it Mysterious man appeared to fight back Japan Hoa Trieu, don't wear black outfit all day Wanna scare people to death? Talking bout me?Then who else You guys guess,who this mysterious guy I know who he is You sound confident, not you right? Mr. He didn't escape from psy ward The person is here among us Why so sure? All of Shanghai knows I know everything in the psy ward! You be careful, May be, make you tired. Head of a psyward scared of someone with a brain? May be What happened yesterday? You stupid chink Where were you yesterday? You cant believe the news thats not the truth in the paper You know what happened.. Who the mysterious guy? General Tang That weird we got the same news. We came to the scene right away We got there, bodies everywhere There's 17,18 Bodies everywhere over there 10 Who knows, guns started firing You're holding me When we behind the car We fired back Then we split up I'm on the right, he on the left I kept firing till I'm out Then what? out of bullet at moment like this? I jumped from hood of the car Jumped to the other side I thought I'm dead meat But I got over in one jump You think I'm a pig? Listen to me Working too open is not good I think if I pull the hat down Nobody would notice me I'll be a bad-ass, ain't that right You think you the mysterious guy Look at yourself Look like a pig You stupid chink not Chink, it's Chinese Whatever you stupid Chink Here's the money This is good I can go eat with the superiors Yes, brother, we're here Every month gonna be like that Stop staring, you want one too? Luckily, you're not here yesterday If not, dressing like this, scary as heck Don't play, I got a gun Gun Then why didn't you appear earlier yesterday Am I not looking for the right opportunity? - What you found out? - I investigated it all None of the dead guys had any records Let me ask you, who's at that bottom of this I don't know How you gonna find suspect from the dead bodies? General Tang returned to Japan And Uy Uy? But yesterday, General Tang was courageous Preparation is done at restaurant Cach lam Money? Next time be careful Don't drag me in again Any one suspicious lately? one new shareholder appeared Very suspicious individual Continue His name is Te Thien Nguyen Just back from France Mr. Tac Even told him to be shared holder of the night club And you My mission is to stay close and retrieve intel from the British But people come in and out is more everyday I'll pay more attention to this Thien Nguyen Sorry Next time, don't come with no intel You better watch yourself I'm sorry Uy Uy I thought I would never see everyone again This is for you It's perfume and cosmetic only sold in Shanghai I have this Thank you Thank you everyone oh yeah You told me to bring it This bracelet, I keep 1, you keep 1 This is from your mom You are my best friend Alright, hurry, go go Get me a cigarette box Yes Very nice to meet you Sir enjoy your stay, ok Your dare mess at Mr. Khac place? It wasn't me Ky Ky, your cigarette Excuse me Bottoms up We are ready Mr. Khac, who's the guy with glasses Him? Businessman from England High influence, up there with England government Quick with info too Faster than you? If it's about France, yes I'm here Don't go, come here. Drink a little Just got here, but stir things up aldready I want a half day off off for what? Me and him Go out You don't care right? I dont mind Let's go Ky Ky, where I want to go You need not go Cause you dare not take me? This is the General, let's fight Let's watch Come here Still seats? Who that is? Anybody else, no. For you, yes. Brothers, look who's here Brother, come here Everyone Ky Ky Everyone introduce yourself I'm Dai Cuong Phuc Hai I'm Chi Hien Dai Bao, Tinh Hung A Kiet I'm Ve Tinh Hello Big Brother, this beautiful lady your wife? Girlfriend Lady Ky Ky, hotpot is okay? of course Lady Ky Ky, hotpot is okay? of course Very good Let me ask What powers you got? to control big brother I dance at a night club.. That's a hot job in Shanghai right now You're the best Stop playing Let's drink Big Brother, I wanna ask something We're happy that you're here today Let me make the first toast Lets remember our fallen brothers as well Lets drink to our good brother Chen Zhen Alright, let's not talk about the past Come on Let's drink! Chi San? Thank you Ky Ky, hello My sister, your sister? Why you two don't look alike? of course we dont Cause I'm better looking oh, you said Chen Zhen The Chen Zhen that defeated Hong Khau ? Yes Isn't he killed by the Japanese ? He is still alive There's a lot of rumors that year But he definitely didn't get killed by the Japanese He went through life and death with us For 3 long years Chen Zhen is my good brother. Is a good brother of ours, ain't that right? Yes It's the truth! Though my eyes small, I see very well Chen Zhen is a bad ass Really Yes, even Tu Dan not faster than him Bottoms up Bottoms up! Let's drink! Lady Ky Ky For you Thank you I won't bother you two Look like me? It's good here Everyone's kind-hearted Noone trying to deceive you and put on a front Living like this is nice Yes Stick, tiger, egg Tiger You lost I let you win Here's home Thank you Thank you Who are you? I count to 3, I'll shoot if you don't tell me You drank a lot Too much I'm going in You carry a gun everyday? Shanghai is complicated place Mr. Khac let us have them for protection Handsome, let me have your signature Signing is not needed, but you can keep it Then it's my reward for the day Thank you Who are you really? Your real name Phuong Tinh Lady Phuong Tinh The Japan's map must be completed quickly Must deliver in 2 days What the situation about the artifacts? This is the map of China's artifacts Lots of valuable things okay, take as much as you can Destroy anything you can't Valuable sources like this but in the hands of China, such a waste This country should be under Japan's control General, classified news from Japan Kill this many? To kill this many in 1 month even using all of our manpower is not possible To achieve Japan's dream, We must do it. Just need some extra effort This list contains those publicly oppose Japan Cannot let it leak out If not, Japan's killings would only increase So England and U.S'd do nothing? When Japan putting troops here? Any word from England and U.S ? No When Japan set troops here They only want to benefit from it Don't forget, this country is victorious in war But England, U.S, France Let Japan have Thanh Hai island Without any talk or consideration only seeing their benefits Report Japan's assignations Thanh Thuong radio reporting List of Japan's killings Kill all that oppose Jike,Taipei Jomat,hake Scholar Thu,Ki Mao, Ho Chi Dng This aldready happened I wanna know, what you guys are doing bout it Sit We had a meeting this morning We were expecting something like this Following it very closely Not a big deal Don't just say it I already know what you're gonna do Talk to a superior? Talking to your superior is useless I'm trying to run a business, then this happened Do you know how much my business would be damaged Now everyone is worried All customers are gone What am I to do? I wanna know what's your side doing bout it Go protect people on this list or find out who's behind this You must do it yourself Don't depend on that Thien Son guy I'm done talking This is Thien Nguyen, my good brother. This is Tieu Hoang Chief Investigator right?,hello I'm Hoang Ngo Long Boss, the Japanese is here There seem to be a problem Wait, wait pretty Sit They here Mr. owner Son Ki quan,hello Long time no see Have a smoke Where the girls? Why no girls sitting here? Sorry Hurry Mr. Khac, I'll see to it for you You gonna do what You dare kick him out? Where them girls? Right away Sorry Get them here, what's wrong Here here Come here Sit sit You help us translate a bit okay, speak Today, the ladies of Caca all don't want to sit these Japanese folks People'd die, if you say that Lady Ky Ky Say it Say it! She say she won't sit with Japanese! What? It's nothing! Wait a minute! Wait! Sorry.. Hold up.. How's it? I'm here Let me! Sit down! Sorry, I'm Te Thien Nguyen. Nice to meet you! You're Te Thien nguyen, who a business partner with owner Luu right? Your info is good! Let me serve you! I'm not only good with info but also like to find things This man in this pic is also Te Thien Nguyen. I lost this pic long time ago. I truly thank you! No need to thank me It wasn't hard to find What's hard is telling who's real who's not Mr. Te, Do you know who the green hornet is? I've heard bout this "green hornet" movie.. Not a bad film really! After this movie came out, the ticket offices are packed You seen this movie? After the kill list came out, you think the Green Hornet would appear? You say the Green Hornet huh... Give me sec, let me remember... YES! Then lets make a bet! More people dies, or more saved by the Green Hornet... okay? what we betting? A country! Gen. Luc Thach, great to have you here what we betting? a country? My business partner, You guys've met Interesting guy! owner Luu, why accept Mr. Te as new shareholder But denied us in joining ? This small business isn't fit for the Japanese We want in! Then you can open another one Guaranteed, it'll be bigger than this place You're not scare of competition? If your place is a success We'll close down right away! The Japanese release of this kill list... besides Chinese, there's British, U.S, and French What's your explanation? This list is fake! There's someone behind this try to frame us! Japanese troops are on the move, Are you guys invading China? Does Japan want to start WWII? My presence here at Casablanca is the best evidence! Japanese and Chinese are good friends Me and owner Luu is good friends We will never become enemies I gotta go I'll come back when I have time If you can, don't ever come back! Mr. Luc Thach Manh, wait a sec! I think you dropped this... It's mine. Thank you. Come to Hong khau Dao Truong sometimes Alrite, next time. Boss, it's alright now Alright? We just made enemies, that's alright? Yen Expert Lam, go to Hong Kong and hide! okay, thank you.. Phuong Tinh, I'll take you home.. Why that is? You forgot you upset the Japanese? There're lots of folks in Shanghai that upsets the Japanese How many can you protect? As many as I can. Careful! Hot Topics! Big Cuong, tell the Hoa Cong brothers Ready all our man power! Yes! Combine with the students. Fight back Japan! Save our China! Fight back Japan! Save our China! This is China's land, How can I just leave? Just because you say that, we cannot lose you! It's only a temporary leave When it's safe We'll bring you back Who? It's me, Hao. Attacking the old and young even me. What did you do? I told you to protect everyone Protect the scholars and educated minds I did follow your list of names But those people Don't wanna leave, what can I do? Threaten them! You good at that right? What you doing? Just go, go! Don't push me! I won't push, just go! You people don't have the right to do this There's worst things, you wanna try it? Get on, now! From the General! After you release this list, a lot of people ran away! Then doesn't that solves our problem? Move.. Don't look! Do not move! What you guys doing? You guys... Listen up! Citizens of England, U.S, Germany must unite Prove to the Japanese the real owner of Shanghai Die you Japanese! Do you hear me! You bastards! How brave you are! Ever think about leaving Shanghai? It's not like I've never left Shanghai This time's different, it's with me. Go where? Any where? When Shanghai is less chaotic I'll take you with me Right now, you have a lot of thing to resolve. This world has lot of things to be fix How you gonna resolve them? If everyone leaves just like you... This place wont exists. With no country, there's still a home You're not scare of death? Everyone dies it's important to die with meaning Right? When the ships dock, work with each other Watch the spacing between ships Now is when we show our Country army force Going againts China's army... Number is not an issue.. We are for sure stronger! Correct! Then let's join together. Don't you love to write? keep writing! Let's see how you write next time? Chen Zhen.. Don't give up! Cuong from Ho Giang Times died! Li Son also died Search again to be sure! Your lil brother died! My good war brother taught me this piece To save our country.. He sacrifice in a battle with foreigners Till this day.. The sacrifices continues... Long live! Long live! Long live! Japan's 80 planes bombarded the General's battlefield nonstop Japanese ground troops at Hac long Giang blocks his retreat Ammunitions is also destroyed.. Let us unite, defeat Japan Fight Back Japan! Save our China! These same old sayings, over and over! These sayings are uselss! Just get the guns Don't be rash! To get ammo.. Right, that's it Fight fast, win fast! Cannot do this idea! We can't just sit and wait This time we must raise our flags Lady, your wine Thank you! Sorry! You got something to tell me? No milk? Why are you here at Casablanca ? I'm a dance girl.. So now you won't accept me Wanna know this lowly girl origin? You do not smoke, why tell hoang Lan to buy them? I don't know what you're talking about I really hope you can tell me You don't work for the Japanese Don't come back here again! If you're back, I'll kill you Let me go! No, don't hurt Ky Ky! I'm the General's girlfriend! Anything you wanna say to him, He'll answer you guys Don't throw Ky Ky into the water! You guys understand what I'm saying? Ky Ky, don't be scare! They only want the General to listen to them You know her? You don't know her! She's not Ky Ky, She's Son khau Du Mi. She is Japanese. What do you want? Tho Phi has Van Tu.. I have her.. Both sides got the best spies You cannot touch her, She's General Tang girl! We can still use her.. She can be our hostage.. This lowly method using woman to blackmail What do you think I'll do? This country army needs to create a confusion General Trac is against the idea of General Tang working with us So he sent someone to kill his wife Son khau Du Mi, it's you who will accomplish it Lt. Son Khau Du Mi, congrats for accomplishing this I will report to chain of commands! Sorry to bothe! I'm Hoang Ngo Long from Tuan phu What do you want? Im here to see Gen. Luc Thach. My wife. Why so much? Nga Hao, Chen Zhen called us here, but he wont show up! Alright, our plan got 3 main points First, timing Since we splitting up, we must come back at the same time Second, it's timing one extra second is one more danger Third, it's still timing! Here, hold it! Hurry and go! what you doing here Go with us I'm got it here, I'm the Chief Investigator You're useless! Continue! Hurry! Go! Why is he here? He is our country's enemy that's why, Every Chinese is our enemy How many can you imprisoned here? What are you questioning about? Nothing. Chen Zhen, you're being sloppy Last year,you killed a man named Luc Thach Cuong. That person is my dad We Chinese are not the Sick men of Asia Sir! Something happened at headquarters We Chinese are not Sick Men of Asia! Release him! I still want a battle to life or death with you To revenge my father's death! Hurry! Japanese troops are here! Scram! Hurry! Get out! over here, quickly! Run! Hurry, over here! Hide over here! Hurry! Get in! Hurry! Stop! Don't you run! Idiot! Where did you place the bombs? Fire! Put out the fire! Chen Zhen the game ends now! Mr. Te! Come and help! Kill! Don't worry, you're Chen Zhen's sister How can I kill you? Take her! open, open up! open! You watch here! -You come here! Get back, step back. Nothing to see My people wake up, wake up! Fight back, save the homeland! Save our country! Disband Japan! our people wake up! our people wake up! Save our country! Special report , Shanghai Radio The North Army attacked General Trac , heavy lost. The NE Army is losing hope You're having a good sleep You're good! Things like this out there, and you still can sleep Now I think I'm the one running things You're something else, just sleeping But do you know what time it is now? It's to the brink of diaster out there, Wake up! I can't, I can't handle it all Are you really Chen Zhen? You need to wake up! Fight Japan, Save country! Fight Japan, Save Country Preserve our homeland! Preserve our homeland Disband Japan! Disband Japan My people wake up! Protect our country! Disband Japan! okay, okay..stop yelling You yelling kids, what good does it do Go back, go back home Ahead is Japan's Territory I can't help you all if you crossed the line Who needs your help? We don't need you patrol guards to help! Right! you all are Japan's patrol dogs You do not represent us Chinese Besides taking bribes, what else yall do? Don't speak nonsense here You all cannot come here They fired! Stop your fire! Who fired? Stop, stop your fire! Stop, stop You won't control these students who started firing Now you tell me to let them go? No, think about it, where did they get guns? Must be someone else trying to start things The students must be punished If not, how can I socialize with the Japanese You socialize with them? Is this not England Territory So useless! You don't want to work here anymore? Fuck off! This is China! It's you that needs to get lost Let me tell you something, I can't stand you all pale pig skins Dancing around right in front of my face I really want to tell the superiors How much money you take from us monthly Let's see who should get lost Look at you, all day you copy those dog foreigners Without us, you can be so relax here? Without us, you can do nothing here? You can get this job, for such a long time? You still want to socialize with the Japanese? Socialize my ass! What? Something is wrong? Can't understand me? Then let me use English You are useless! Let me tell you, our China country been here for thousands of years Countless times, foreigners try to invade us With only 2 words in the end, "get lost" Yeah! Let me free the students Whatever you want Awake, he's awake Holy ! he's up Brother Chan! He's up, Doctor! Hurry, come here! Lai Hi, Phuc Hai, Thuong Man, Dai Ngoc! one by one right in front of us.. That's what the Japanese wants They wanted to show the people of China... What to do now? When I left, Chi Na, she... I'm okay brother Chen You are really okay? Hot title ! Hot title! General Trac lost! General Trac completely lost Japan and Gen.Tang joined force to defeat him Both husband and wife is dead And the list of names In there, some is dead, some escaped We've lost, let's surrender Just 2 of use cannot save the world My brother! Why is it Ky Ky ? I'm not mistaken? I'm worry, you haven't work for so long You look very good in that! I'm part of Japan army force Son Khau Du My. General Lady. Merry Christmas! I represent Japan Army to meet you Mr. Luu Hoping you can find one person This is one of mine? Don't know His name is Chen Zhen Did Chen Zhen not die We're also holding his accomplish, named Dai Cuong What if I don't give him up? In interest of Japan immigrants We expanded our patrol area of protect to them Gen. Luc Thach, he... has prepared the troops Then you're saying, if I can't give you the person.. You'll find an excuse to fight, right? These shameless things, you need to do this? You all have no other options You! We still have.. you! What's happened Stay still! Now I have an option Master Hoac, why did you created Tinh Vo Mon? to protect China, Chen Zhen.. Chen Zhen will win! Tinh Vo Von will forever live! Chen Zhen will win! Tinh Vo Von will forever live! I've been waiting Everything is the same Japan is mighty There will only be 1 outcome ??? You must be crazy You promised not to kill him You need to know one thing Those who oppose Japan, I will not let them live Watch her And you If you don't want to end up like her Then you just do what we do Chen Zhen Women are just men objects to use So our method is, Your little sister is... You all listen... China is not the Sick Man of Asia Stop, everyone get back I want to fight him Things between us shouldn't have started Chen Zhen, I hurt you. Come here. You... What? I'm here! We'll make it back to China We'll march forward together. our battlefield in China. We only needs to stick together. No other country, no other man Can defeat us I told you to protect everyone We've lost, nothing else we can do Protect our homeland Are you not Chen Zhen? Wake up! Gen. Xuyen Dao, please! Hello!
