 

                        I'm dying I can hear the footsteps of death approaching me How I wish I could lead my life all over again "You were right, Sidharth, my friend" I was running towards my own destruction How I wish I had listened to you and gone home that night Maybe life would have taken another turn "Kabir, come on... the night is almost over. What are you doing?" You're sitting with him too? Get up! It's almost five "Make him see reason! - Come on, Kabir" "Kabir, come on now. It's very late" We've got to go to the court in the morning. What are you upto? It's going to be dawn soon "Yes, it's going to be dawn. Let's wait for a little while more" We'll say good-morning to Mr Sun and go back to our houses You'll keep up all night to say good-morning to the Sun? "What's your problem, after all? Why don't you go home?" "If I knew what the problem is, wouldn't I have gone home..." and slipped under the sheets like the other idiots? I don't know what my problem is "Die, you bastard! Die! ...Leave him alone. Come on" How can we leave him like this? - Get into the car Let him die! Get in! Get to the court in the morning! Wayward and wandering... "a strange obsession grips my heart" "Every moment, I feel a strange restlessness..." "what ghost possesses my heart?" "The Sun rises for the world every morning..." "it is that moment when it sets in my heart" Wayward and wandering... "a strange obsession grips my heart" "In your world, O Lord..." my heart found peace nowhere "If there was someone who could give solace to my heart..." I never met such a person I'm a married woman So? - I'm not in search of company... a friend or a conscience-keeper So tell me that you're happily married... "and very content. - Yes, I'm content" But what has that to do with you? It's a human being's duty madam... to care for one another's joys and sorrows Will you have a drink? Can't you hear me? I'm a married woman And my husband... - Where's your husband? I'll buy him a drink too. - He's not in town at the moment I love such husbands May we celebrate his absence from the city? He keeps coming here over the week-ends "See, madam, the offer I made of buying you a drink..." holds good only for a little while. I'm here only for an hour and a half "After that, I'm going away. Forever. From your life" "All right, buy me a soft-drink, if you must" You don't seem to belong here. - What makes you guess? Your face. Your face tells me that you are related to a very rich family They're taking good care of you "Yes, they're taking very good care of me" How I wish I had someone to soothe my tired body... someone who could satisfy the needs of my soul and my body Get married. - Married? These needs I feel only for a night So your name is Sonia? Lovely name "Could you get me some tissues from the bathroom, please?" Come... let me take you... to a place... where sweet intoxication... "awaits us in the shadows of the stars" "Come, let me take you..." to the skies to that place "Riding on the melody of the winds..." come to me... come closer to me "This is a journey of our dreams..." a whirlpool of my heart... "come, drown in it" This moment... that was hiding... I have found to a place... where sweet intoxication... "awaits us in the shadows of the stars" "Come, let me take you..." to the skies to that place "The mood is mellow, the moonlight is being mischievous..." come to me "Even dew pricks, our union promises a fragrance..." do not go away from me A beautiful dream... is coming true for you To a place... where sweet intoxication... "awaits us in the shadows of the stars" Come... let me take you... to a place... where sweet intoxication... "awaits us in the shadows of the stars" What are you doing here? - Looking for you You're wasting your time "Madam, what do we poor guys have except time?" Kabirlal Why're they staring at me? Because everyone else tried to sit here And you're the first man I have given the permission to sit here "Can't blame the poor guys, madam. It has to do with the way you dress" They are drawn to you. - My clothes? What's so special about the clothes? - There is Those clothes hold your body. And that's special Do you come here often? All alone? What difference does it make? I'm all alone at home... and all alone even when I come here. - So you are like me. Lonely "No, I have my windchimes. I spend enough time with them" Quite an interesting effort on your part to do away with your Ioneliness Can I take a look at your windchimes? I might find them useful too Can I come over to your place? So you want to come to my place? - Yes Only to see the windchimes? - Only to hear the windchimes Nothing else. I have no intentions of courting danger So you're scared of danger? Who wants to get drenched in a shower of gloom? "I neither have an umbrella, nor do I wear a cap" You might find this strange... but can you leave before me? Why? - My husband and I often come here I don't want anyone in a city like Pondicherry to talk about us "Now look, madam. People will talk about what they see, won't they?" It's terribly difficult to pull wool over their eyes "That hint was enough for me. Hats off to you, lady!" Just like my house! "Well? Are there no servants to serve you, in a huge house like this?" "I have a maid-servant, who leaves after she has finished her chores" I don't like a crowd of servants "And you were here to look at the chimes, weren't you?" Come on Amazing! This music is amazing I could hear it all night. - You like music? What else do you like? Must I tell you what else I like? You've seen the chimes and also the house You must leave now I've just come. - I'll see you out Do you really want me to go away? - Yes You think you have your urge under control? Yes. I have my urge under control There was something very different about that morning It felt as if the whole world exuded a fragrance I found something suddenly awakening in my heart Up so early in the day? Amazing! Isn't this the time you return home drunk? Can't help it. When friends stop getting me work... this is what I'll have to do. I'll have to try and earn a living "You're here to meet Frankie, aren't you?" Come Tell me something. - What? Bastard! Can't you do without thieves and thugs? "Are all the decent folks in Pondicherry dead, lawyer?" "What have you to do with the decent folks, my friend?" Your business and mine is getting on thanks to thieves and criminals "If it wasn't for them, this police station would close down, Sidharth" Know what? It is exactly this attitude of yours... that will be your death some day. Understand? Now come and meet your friend What charges have you brought against my friend? "They call me a terrorist, sir!" "And I've done nothing, sir... I swear it on my mother" There was a film unit from Mumbai. They wanted explosives for a scene... "I was bringing that when they caught hold of me, sir" "I've done nothing, sir. I'm absolutely innocent" Shut up! That's what you've been harping on since yesterday! "Got a lot of heat, eh?" He was taking 15 kgs of gun-powder for the shoot... and he's innocent! I'll lock you up under the anti-terrorist act! May I have a word with my client in privacy? It's our Constitutional Right "Now look, Frankie. Always remember..." you can lie to anyone you wish. But never tell lies to your lawyer "So tell me the truth, Frankie. What's all this about?" "I made a mistake, sir. I fell for temptation" That's just what is rotten about you guys How often have I told you to get on with your crime... but don't ever get caught. But it doesn't get into your skull "I thought I was being smart, sir" "Frankie, if there are a hundred ways of committing crimes..." there a hundred and one ways of catching you at it I'll now have to find a way of getting you out of here Never mind What are you doing? You're the mistress of the house. Not a maid-servant "If I have committed a crime, I must hide these stains" So you're very scared of your husband? "Yes, I'm scared. I'm scared of getting caught, Kabir" "To continue to live, we'll have to seek refuge in falsehoods, Kabir" You'll have to promise me something You'll never tell anyone about our relationship "It must always remain a secret, Kabir" You can't tell anyone about this ever. Do you understand? Don't tell lies. You're hiding something from us! "Look at him, Sidharth. He's hiding things from us" What? Your face gives away the story of your night Stop getting poetic and talk straight Have I hidden anything from you guys? - That's what I'm saying Why hide it from friends? So tell me What? - Whom are you spending... your nights with nowadays? - Who would stand by a broke guy? Girls nowadays only look at your bank-balance "Besides, except Sheeba, who would keep me company?" "It's Sheeba alone. - You can fool him, okay?" But at least tell a proper lie to the cops! "You're talking about Sheeba! - Why be afraid, if you're in love?" You think I'm out of my mind? I don't believe in love Silly love you're talking about "You're hurting my feelings, Kabir" "If there is another girl, just tell me..." say it in front of your friends I keep telephoning you and you can't even take my calls? "The phone was dead, Sheeba" I have nothing more to say to you I got to leave "Leave, if you must. But listen to what I say" If you continue to lie to friends... it's going to cost you very dearly some day "You were such a close friend, Sidharth" But your voice still couldn't get through to me You know why? "Because whatever I was doing, I was hiding it not only from my friends..." I didn't want to admit it to myself too Like a new season that quietly takes over... I don't know when I had fallen in love with Sonia Why? Why do things like this happen? Why are the most beautiful moments in life... over in the flash of a moment? "In just two days, he'll be back" And he'll touch me again He'll treat my body like his property and use it I wish... I wish I had never met you I wouldn't have known what a shameful life I'm leading Sonia's words drove me crazy. It caused me anguish to think... that the beautiful body in my arms... belonged to someone else The idea of it poisoned my life My life was gradually turning into hell "Every moment, I pined for her, I ached for her..." and I went to her doorstep I shouldn't have come without telling you "I couldn't stop myself, I came along" Who was that man? He's supposed to be my husband's manager But... - What? I think my husband has employed spies to keep an eye on his young wife "It's sometimes the air-conditioning guy, or the plumber..." the electrician or someone else Someone or the other keeps dropping in every day I sometimes feel... - What? This is the man I have spent the last six years with... this is the man I have got married to... and I feel as if I don't know him at all I some times wonder who he is or what the truth about him is "Whoever he is, he's sure a rich guy" Where did he make so much of money? I don't know He never discusses business matters with me "Whenever he talks on the telephone, it's always about shares, stocks..." "real-estate and the races. Its always about money, money, money" "Some times, I get some very nasty ideas" I feel afraid. - Afraid? Of what? Of whom? Of your husband? No. Of myself "So? What do you think of? Tell me, Sonia..." what do you think of? - I wish... I wish this man were dead Really? Is that really how you think? "No, Kabir. We shouldn't be talking like this" There are times when the spoken word comes true "Sonia, if the spoken word were to come true..." I'd have been an emperor long ago. He's such a strong and able man For him to die just like that? Impossible "And we aren't as lucky, Sonia. We have to put up with so much more" Where do I live? "Kabir, wake up my friend" "Wake up, my boy" Won't you say good-morning to Mr Sun today? Wake up "Get up. We'll drop you home and go about our work, okay?" We are working people you see? Get up Here? What am I doing here? "You were so drunk last night, you couldn't find your own house" You were walking around the streets of Pondicherry "Luckily, Sidharth's constable recognised you and brought you here" "Or else, you'd have kept roaming the streets of Pondicherry all night" Round and round! - Don't spin a yarn "If I could help it, I'd kick drunkards like you out of the house" "What are you talking about early in the day, Sidharth?" Let him at least have a cup of tea first I pour that cup on your head! Keep it here. Go on! This man isn't even sipping water in my house "Are you listening, Kabir? This is a cop's house..." it's no home for the destitute you go to any time you wish Bloody drunkard! You ought to thank Aarti for a night's sleep Or I'd have given you two tight slaps... and have you tossed in the gutters. You'd have spent the night there! And who am I reasoning with? Go on... I give up on you. Get out "Sidharth, don't desert me like this" "Vishal, where will I go? Sister-in-law..." make him see reason. Where will I go? Go to hell! I'm not responsible for you! Why does he talk like this? Can't he understand? Am I mad to keep shouting at him? It makes my blood boil! And he knows it makes my blood boil! Take him away from my sight Sit down for a moment. Calm down. Go "Come on, Kabir" Come on "Where's he going? Kabir, come here. Come here" Sit here. Sit down! Sit "Aarti, leave us alone" Now listen to me carefully. I'm not telling you again My mother used to tell me that there are two kinds of dogs in every man One is a nice dog and the other is an evil one They're always at loggerheads with each other The one we feed more is the one who will win "So kick the bad dog in you, my friend!" And feed the nice dog Do you get what I'm saying? "Keep scolding me like this. I like it very much, Sidharth" And don't ever talk about giving up again I'll never let you give up "I don't know why, but I feel very scared when I look at you" "Kabir... Iook, I'll have to go" Try to understand my problem Rohit is expected tomorrow "Sonia, there is only one solution to this problem" Divorce Rohit. - Divorce? "I cannot divorce him, Kabir" You don't know that man. He is very dangerous Dangerous? So what can he do? Kill? "Yes. He will kill me, and you too" The man is so cheap... ...that he made me sign papers before our marriage... "...that if I divorce him..." ...he will not give me a penny from his property "That means, after marriage, you will become penniless like me" "I don't like such pranks, Kabir" "If I don't have any money, will you still love me?" Will it make any difference? - Difference? Difference I want that you have so much money... ...that I continue to enjoy life like this "Truly speaking, ...it won't make any difference" Just a minute. I have a surprise for you "Not only beautiful, but when your life is in trouble..." "...wear it, it will protect you" "It's magic, it's a spell, I'm bewitched" Where can I go leaving you now The way your eyes look at me Where do I hide myself now This moment is ours Let us live this moment "Like smolders, let us live a burning life" Don't disappear in a blink Let me touch you and believe it "Who knows when I'll get these moments again" It's magic... "Is that you, my love?" "Sonia, you are great." How did you know I was going to come a day earlier? By keeping my favorite champagne in the fridge... "...to celebrate my return, you have won me over!" I am very fortunate to get a wife like you. "Who is not only beautiful, but also loves me very much." Let's go in. There is someone. There is someone here apart from us. There is someone here. Got scared? "I was just joking. Sorry, love." Anoushka has come. I have brought my niece along with me. "Because of her alcoholism, her mother is in hospital again." Pray that she quits drinking. "You'll die if you drink so much, Kabir." "Who is afraid of death, Sheeba?" I am afraid of life. One has to live it. Someone has broken your heart. I have tormented you a lot. Only when I myself am suffering... ...is when I realized how I've made you suffer "One Vodka, one crate Sandpiper" Two crates Zingaroo. - Give me half a bottle of rum Five bottles Signature whiskey. And don't forget to put red wine And one champagne. Don't forget champagne. "You can keep doing that, just give me half a bottle of rum" "Please wait for two minutes, sir. There is a party in Khanna House today" This is their order. If the delivery is delayed... the entire order will get canceled for your half bottle of rum Let me tell you. One who invests So a party is going on there? "You are having a ball, aren't you?" Liquor is flowing freely. And you must be sitting very close to Rohit Khanna. Right? And here I am all alone... Ionely. And craving for you "Don't play that trick with me, Sonia!" Love! Iove! "Call for me? - No, a blank call" I was telling them... I'll not gain a penny from this party. What is this? The festival of lights? Anoushka has kept all the lights in the house on. This kid is a real bother. "She forgets to switch off the geyser, close the tap..." She is listening to music in the bedroom upstairs. "I'll put her to sleep, or she will insist on sleeping with us." "Okay darling, I'll switch off the lights and come." Come soon. Kabir! What are you doing here? "Let me go, Kabir. Leave me, please! Let me go!" "No, I won't let you go. I won't let you go to that man." "Stay with me tonight, and every night thereafter." "Sonia, let's go from here." We'll elope and get married. - Have you gone crazy? What are you saying? That cannot happen. "Kabir, that man is waiting for me. Try to understand" What do you want me to understand? That he is waiting for you in bed? And that even you are desperate to warm his bed? "You have gone mad! I will have to go to him, Kabir" "Love, she wants you to find her walkman right now" Or narrate stories to her all night So better think. - Let's go. Kabir's case is going on day and night. Hey Kabir! - Get up! Patel pleads me to do something for him. He must still be sleeping. He mustn't have sobered from yesterday's binge yet Is he sleeping? I don't think he is inside I think he is inside with some girl. Is there a girl with you? "Kabir, are you sleeping? Is there a girl inside?" Come out. There is no one inside. And we cannot break open the door. We are the police. We'll have to file a case against ourselves. Forget it Ignore it. - No... "Who... rascal, why don't you speak? Why don't you speak now, you rascal?" You have troubled us all night with your blank calls You don't know me yet. I am a very bad man. I understand everything! I am not stupid "If I come across you, I'll skin you alive. Why don't you speak?" You've been troubling us with blank calls Even having a beautiful wife is a problem Give me that towel 'I came across her' "'And what I feared, happened"' "Mr. Lal, you?!" "Sorry, I forgot your first name" He is a renowned lawyer of the city He is interested in selling our property "Pleased to meet you, Mr. Lal." But I won't sell my property. It's beautiful. That's true. Your property is beautiful Have you come here to dine? "Yes, when I have money in my pocket, I come for a drink" "Have you come alone, or do you have company?" No. It's just me and my Ioneliness This will be fun "Come have a drink with me, and bring along your Ioneliness" "No sir, I don't want to snatch your privacy." Not at all Haven't you heard that when a marriage becomes a few years old... "...it doesn't need two, but three people to keep it." "Right, love?" I have a complaint "This is the only complaint I have against my heart" What it cannot get Why does it crave for it This is the only complaint... "Your tresses, your eyes" "O, your beauty!" And glowing with fragrance... ...is your fair body I am aware... "...that you belong to someone else" This is the only complaint... "Without you..." ...I fear life "I am dying a little everyday..." ...is what I feel That is why I... ...hate my life This is the only complaint... It's me. Don't pretend this is a blank call Or I'll come right into your bedroom! And do everything with you that hasn't happened until now You understand? - I'm listening I know where you are right now. You are sleeping in the arms of that vile man Isn't it? But I will not be able to tolerate this anymore. I end this relationship right now! I cannot bear this humiliation anymore. "Kabir... Kabir, listen to me." This horn doesn't stop "So this was just an act? - No, Kabir" "It is better that you leave, or I will throw you out!" What have I done? Why do you want to throw me out of here? I was helpless "You have not done anything, I am at fault, please forgive me" "Don't behave like that with me, please!" "All right, Kabir. You want to end this relationship, don't you?" Do it But why can't we part amicably? Why do we need to end it so inappropriately? Relationships end inappropriately only or they wouldn't end All right... all right. I will go away But let me brush myself up before leaving. "It's all just an act, nothing else" We will never meet again "Before leaving, can I give you a kiss, please?" "What have you done, Sonia?" "Enough, Sonia" No one will come between us now I have decided That man will have to die That man will have to die! That was one morning I can never forget There was brightness all around "But for me, it was dark all around" I could not see a thing. Wonder why people say love is pure. That those who love find God. I was planning to kill for the love of that woman. My brain had become a slave to my body. I was obsessed. Obsessed about making that woman belong to me forever. "Despite being with me right now, you are with someone else." You are a very dangerous man. You immediately know what's on my mind. I was thinking about something else. I was thinking about Anoushka. Anoushka? At this hour? I was thinking what will become of Anoushka after Rohit. What will happen? She will become the heiress of half his estate. She will become a millionaire at such a young age. "Millionaire? By the time she is 18..." ...her mother will blow away all her money in drinking & gambling What will happen to that girl then? - You are there. Even you will be a millionaire. You will inherit half the estate "You can take care of her. - Kabir, tell me something, please" Is it not possible that I inherit all the property? So that I can look after Anoushka later? What are you saying?! Isn't it possible to change Rohit's Will? "You are a lawyer, you can find a way" Have you gone mad? Not at all! We are going to commit a murder. This is not kids play We should not do anything that will make people suspect us Suspect us in any way "The police, the lawyers, they are all very smart." They will find some evidence You are right. We should do no such thing "Sir, you! Over here?" You should have called me over "When one has work, one must come himself" "And when it's dubious, one must come to Frankie" "Sir, I have explained what you should do before the bomb blasts." But have you thought of what should be done... ...after the bomb blasts? - I have "Sir, I'll tell you something" "I have no business saying this, so please don't feel offended" I'll repeat what you had told me There are a 100 ways to commit a crime. But 101 ways to get caught You understand? Why do you take the trouble? I'll do the job for you. "No, Frankie. One must never fire from another man's shoulder" I'll do this job. But you can do one thing Go to Mumbai. And stay there Come back when I tell you. I'll bear the expenses "All right, but while leaving, I'll give you your dialogue." "Commit a crime, but don't get caught" "If caught, you are a criminal. And if not, then a rich man!" Good day Frankie's words had depth So Sonia and I had stopped meeting at home We used to discreetly meet outside I have got that thing Why didn't you tell me this over the phone? Are you mad? Is such conversation made over the phone? Everything is ready. You just have to ensure one thing "Sunday night, 2:30 am" "Sharp 2:30 am, understand?" "Not earlier, not later. You'll have to send him out at sharp 2:30 am" Anyhow! "When we meet now, he will no more be between us" Wonder what path I had suddenly treaded on What is this love all about? An unsolved mystery Whose joy is it? And whose ruin? "Whose life is it, and whose... death?" What happened? "I don't know why, but I cannot sleep" I'll go down and make a drink for myself. Rohit... even I cannot sleep. Enough! Not any more. Do you intend to kill me? I think some thief has barged in The rascal has invited his death "Rohit, shall we call the police? - Not necessary" I'll deal with him. I'll pump all six bullets into him. Where did you get a gun from? There are many things you don't know about me But... I'll kill the bastard! Show yourself! He has a gun! Who are you? Who are you? Why are you hiding your face? Clean this place well. And remove all the finger prints too "I'm going ahead, you follow me later" "You remember everything, don't you?" We won't meet for a few weeks now And remember... no phone calls "Before leaving, won't you give me a kiss?" "That night, after leaving Sonia..." ...I couldn't hear my own footfalls "Like as if it wasn't me, but some body being cremated." It felt like as if I'd committed two murders. I'd killed myself along with Rohit Khanna "Waywardness, inconsistency" Something is bothering me I feel restless every moment What is bothering me "The path on which the smoldering sun..." ...never sets One such path of love... ...I have chosen Inconsistency... "Where is it possible for someone..." "...to be the same for everyone" My heart is a little evil "But there is a little goodness too in my heart" Inconsistency... "Yes, tell me" Yes. - I am Karim Burmawala... ...from Karim and Karim solicitors "I'm sorry to disturb you, but it's an urgent matter" Tell me I represent the late Rohit Khanna I am his advocate. - Continue "Mr. Lal, some new facts have come to light" I wish to meet you in that connection. Why me? "Your name is mentioned, so it's necessary I talk to you" Can you meet me tomorrow? - Yes Then see you tomorrow at 10 am in Mr. Vishal Pathak's office? I'll be there It's necessary for you to remain silent and let me... Come on in Meet everyone here. This is Mr Karim Burmawala... "this is Mrs Priyanka Kapoor, sister of the deceased Mr Rohit Khanna" And this is Mrs Sonia Khanna Will you have something to drink? We have called you here because a new will... of the late Mr Khanna has come to light And your name figures as the executioner of the will So? - What if his name figures there? "I'm surprised, just a month before his death..." he made this new will All his legal matters were handled by our firm in Mumbai But he didn't even inform us about this will "There's something fishy, Karim-saheb" There surely is a conspiracy Please stay quiet and let me get on with my work "In his old will, Mr Rohit Khanna had divided his property in two parts" Fifty-fifty One half of it went to his wife Sonia and the other half... went to his sister Priyanka and his niece Anoushka Kapoor So what happens now? All the property goes to her? That's impossible! "Kabirlal, there come up many questions regarding the truth behind this will" This will could be held legally untenable Like Mr Rohit Khanna having died without making out a will What happens in such a case? In the absence of a will... a man's entire property goes to the wife But it isn't so easy in this case "I suggest, the two of you share the property according to the old will..." and end this controversy here and now Or else... - Or else? "Else, I'll have your blood!" "Is this what you called me here for, Mr Karim?" Do you realise what mental trauma I'm going through? You're raising the question of dividing the property at a time like this? She's putting on an act! I've lost my brother too! Do you see how she dresses? - What are you doing? It's me. I want you to understand something What hell will you tell me? You changed the will... "and didn't even tell me! - Don't be angry, Kabir" Why shouldn't I be angry? You've landed both of us in danger! "Nothing of the sort is happening, Kabir" I'm coming there and I'll explain everything to you Are you out of your mind? They're keeping an eye on us! "Kabir, I'll come there and explain everything to you" It's necessary for me to meet you "Now look, Sonia. If you think you're coming here..." I'm leaving right now! Now don't cook up stories... just tell us the truth What? What have you got to do with Sonia Khanna? I've got nothing to do with Sonia Khanna! Now stop spinning a yarn and tell us the truth Tell us... - What? In detail. Stories from the heart sound good in detail Are you serious with her? - You're crazy! You know I don't fall in love-traps. Why're you talking rubbish? But your face says something else. - What does my face say? What? The whole world knows that I love beauty She's the most beautiful woman in the whole of Pondicherry That's true. I've seen her and I must say... there isn't anyone like her in the whole of south India And she's also rich. - Beautiful trouble "All right, I've heard it. I only want you to be careful" She has lost her husband only recently There's a controversy over her property. There could be trouble "Hey guys, have you imposed a state of emergency in Pondicherry?" "Mr Sidharth, this is still a free nation" "All right, my friend" Let's have the rest of the argument at the club We won't get a table if we're late I'm not coming today. I'm not in the mood Now look at him! You got a secret programme tonight? - Let him be The two of us will go ahead "Kabir, I'm your friend. But I'm also a cop" And cops are like dogs. They smell a rat They see even what is hidden "Because I'm your friend, I'm telling you" Don't hide anything from me. - Here you are Light a cigarette and get going Are you mad? Do you want us both to hang? I told you not to come here! - How much does he know? "He knows nothing, but I know Sidharth very well" "Once he gets after someone, he's had it" What evidence does he have? - Evidence! Don't you feel scared? I do. I feel very scared Of no one else. I feel scared of you Of myself We have done so much to be with each other And that is exactly what is distancing us now "Kabir, you have changed so much. You don't love me at all" "I do love you, which is why I'm worried about you" "That night, Sonia promised me..." that she would marry me the moment she had the property How was I to know that life was plotting another move against me I asked for a large drink. Do you think I'm blind? "This is 60 ml, madam. - 60 ml... this one?" "It's after midnight, madam. The manager has..." Money! They're all thieves! Will you take the money with you when you're dead? She's a witch! - Who are you talking about? The one you're fighting for! I'm not mad. I just get the feeling... that something terrible is going to happen My brother didn't die a natural death He was killed. By this witch "Look, let me have my drink in peace" "For God's sake, listen to me! For your own welfare!" I saw it in her eyes yesterday. The sparkle... I saw the sparkle even five years ago When my sister-in-law died. She was down with pneumonia "One night, when I got up and went to her room..." I found my sister-in-law burning with fever It was a cold night. All the windows were open Her covers and blankets were lying scattered on the floor... and her nurse was missing I ran and wrapped blanket around my sister-in-law... and that is when the nurse walked in. But she said nothing... she just stood there. In her eyes... she had the same sparkle Do you know who that nurse was? - Who? Sonia. Who else? You don't know her. She'll kill you too I don't know what your problem is. But I've got to leave No No So she has trapped you too! "Isn't that why you find the truth I speak, to be bitter?" This is her profession! But I'm not going to remain quiet! I'll go to the police! I'll hold a press conference... and tell everyone that my brother was murdered! And it's Sonia who has murdered my brother! "Yes, one moment" "Call for you, Kabir" How often have I told you not to irritate me while we're playing? It's Sidharth "Yes, go on Sidharth" "Oh yes, no problem at all" "Yes, I'll be there" What happened? - He's called me at the Lark Club You alone? - Yes. He's buying me some beer Lucky guy. The D.I.G. Calls you to drink beer... billionaire girls soothe your body "God, make me Kabirlal when I'm born again" In ten years of police service there hasn't been an instance... when I've found something fishy and I've been proved wrong Not even once. One thing is very clear This is a case of murder Rohit Khanna did not die in an accident He was taken there dead. That blast... wasn't caused by explosives. We found particles of dynamite there What is most important is that his glasses were missing So? He had gone there in connection with some work at the factory How could he go without wearing his glasses? I'm here for some chilled beer. So why're you telling me all this? The cops have to begin their investigations somewhere I thought I'd begin at home. Yours is the name that figures... as the executioner of his will. And Sonia Khanna is the beneficiary We cops always suspect the one who's going to gain the most Why're you beating around the bush? Come to the point I'm asking you for the record Where were you when the murder took place? "In Chennai. Hotel Regency, Room No 203" You went away to Chennai without even telling me? Is it a crime to go to Chennai? Is it in Pakistan? Do I need a passport from you guys to go there? Why're you getting angry? I'm only completing the formalities I get what you told me "You went there for legal consultation, right?" "May I have this beer in peace? - Have more, darling boy" Go ahead What is it? Sidharth called me to the Lark Club today What for? - Because they believe... what Priyanka has told them. They are convinced... that Rohit's death is a case of murder That he was taken there after he was killed So? - I've called you here to tell you... to please give Rohit's sister half the property. Please! "Or else, she and her lawyer will land us in a soup" What sort of a man are you? You're scared of such a little thing? They have no evidence against us. Why don't you trust me? How can I? You hid the truth from me... that you used to be Rohit Khanna's former wife's nurse So you've met Priyanka? May I know how and when you met her? - I met her at the club last night "I see. The moment I turn my back, you start wooing her?" Why're you twisting the issue? "Try to understand what I'm saying, Sonia" "What do we want, after all? We want to be with each other, isn't it?" Listen to me. Give her half the share and end this issue once and for all! Never! That is never happening I'd rather die than give anyone a penny "Whoever wants it, can fight me and take it" Trapped! "You're trapped now, my boy!" It's Swami from Chennai. - Coming "Call the grandmaster, if you will!" Give Vishal some cold yogurt-shake "Go on, Swami" The manager at Regency? Is the information correct? - What happened? Mind your own business. Please! All right "What happened, Sidharth?" What are you doing here? - I've been waiting for you Well? You're late today "Strange, you jog for good health and screw it up by smoking" The more I think about Rohit Khanna's murder... the happier I am that the bastard is dead It takes a burden off the earth "To me, it makes no difference who killed him or who gets all his money" But Sidharth isn't like that "His life is all about the law, principles and ideals" He won't wash his shirt until he gets to know how it got a stain And Sidharth is very upset right now. He's in a dilemma Why? - Because he's a friend of yours He loves you very much. Maybe more than even I do Which is why he finds himself torn between friendship and duty What are you getting at? - You told Sidharth... that you were at Chennai's Hotel Regency on the 17th of May But the guys at the hotel have told him that... you were not in the room all night. - They're talking rubbish! I was very much there in Room 203 of Chennai's Hotel Regency! "Please, I've told you it makes no difference to me" But the operator told the police that there were four calls... that you did not take that night. - If I didn't take the call... it doesn't necessarily mean I wasn't in the room "You know what six drinks do... - There's more to it, Kabir" "They've issued an arrest warrant for your friend, Frankie" Someone wants to send the cops Rohit Khanna's glasses... which were not on the dead body Who wants to give it and why... and what the police will discover after Frankie's arrest... only time will tell "To talk to you guys henceforth, I'll have to have my lawyer present!" Can't you understand what your friends tell you? "Your lawyer is here, right before you" "We are your friends, Kabir" "It's me, Sonia. - What is the matter?" Leave the house. Wait for me behind the old light-house Leave town? What for? What happened? "Nothing as yet, but it sure is going to happen!" We have very little time Tell me something I can't tell you everything over the phone Leave the house immediately! Please! I'll wait for you I'm coming over "He's supposed to be my husband's manager" "You don't know her. She'll kill you too" "Surprised to see me, aren't you?" "Yes, I've escaped" I'm the your first victim who has escaped Rohit Khanna couldn't escape. But I have I'm not the one who murdered Rohit You murdered him With your own hands. Have you forgotten? "Yes, I killed him. But you are the one who made me kill him" Like you were making your lover kill me tonight You plan these murders in your mind... then use suckers like me by offering that body You kept using me. You are the one who telephoned the cops You are the one who sent those glasses I was mad. I had gone blind in my love for you "Not love, Kabir. In lust and longing" "This body doesn't know what love is, Kabir" All it knows is hunger. Lust "So you have used me only for the sake of wealth, Sonia?" Tell me the truth. We spent so many beautiful moments together... "didn't you feel any love for me at all, Sonia?" The truth is that I was never in love with you "Kabir, I have loved no one" I have loved only myself "Every man loves himself, Kabir. - But I..." I'm still in love with you "When I was coming here, I was baying for your blood" But now... now I wonder how I will hurt you But I'm going to the police station I'll confess to my crime. That I have killed Rohit That you are innocent "No, Kabir. You are doing nothing of the sort!" Never! "No, Sonia. I must go to them" For my freedom And yours "You want to kill me, don't you?" So kill me Shoot at my heart and blow it apart It beats only for you End its suffering. For good Shoot! Kill! Kill me! "Forgive me, Kabir" I'm willing to go away from here with you You do love me very much. - Yes Which is why you couldn't fire at me again Isn't it? "But this body doesn't know what love is, Sonia" All it knows is hunger. Lust and craving "No, Kabir..." What good is a body that does not have any love? What difference will it make whether it exists or not? It makes no difference Didn't I tell you? I'd never let you give up I'm coming over It's almost dawn. I've got one last thing to do Once I've done that... "I'll never let you lose, Sidharth. Never" "What are you looking at, Sidharth? Arrest me" "I've committed two murders, not one" I always fed the bad dog in me "For once, I wish to feed a few morsels to the good dog too" Lock me up in prison "Vishal, let's take him to the hospital" No Take me wherever you wish to After I wish Mr Sun a good-morning for the last time This world was my paradise... this world is my paradise "I learn this secret, now that I have lost everything"
