 

                        Now is the hour... ...we set into motion cataclysmic change to the planet. The legion of doom shall rule in a new world order. No one can stop us. I do not understand, Lex Luthor. I thought we were melting the polar ice caps. No, my dear cheetah, the exact opposite. As those glaciers swell, the world's water level shrinks... ...expanding the coastlines of every continent. Land we already own. Another brilliant plan from a brilliant mind. Sorry, Lex, sounds more like an insane plan from a deranged mind... ...and we're gonna have to put a stop to it. Justice League, into action. Wonder Woman, Flash, Aquaman, get those controls away from Lex. Cyborg, Batman and Robin with me. Too bad your mind isn't as fast as your little boots. We have to destroy those satellites. Already on it. What's going on up there? Somebody stop them. Two down. Three to go. -Bizarro. -Yes. Me here not protecting these satellites so Lex's plan not come to workness. Um, not sure "workness" is a word there, genius. Me, I'm not genius. It's Toyman. He's right behind us. My rocket ship's so much better than yours. Let's see whose toy breaks first. Ha-ha-ha. Atlantean, you can't win battles armed with a fork. Don't make me poke a leak in that hard head of yours, manta. I'll hold off Bizarro. You take out those satellites. If I can plug in, I might be able to shut this thing down. Stay away from my inventions, you mechanical menace. I'm putting the batwing on autopilot. Should keep Toyman busy while I help cyborg. Autopilot? But I can fly this thing easy. I wanna help. You'll help by staying put. And don't touch anything. I'm gonna touch whatever I want. I'll touch this button and this button. I heard that. I will shred that pretty face, Amazon. I have battled harpies with talons as hard as hydro-fangs. Your little scratches are almost soothing. Solomon Grundy crush wonder lady. Now you shall taste your bitter end, cyborg. You don't even know what bitter means. Oh. "Stay in the batwing. Stay safe. Stay out of trouble." So not fair. Please refrain from kicking the autopilot controls. - And have a nice flight. -I'll have whatever kind of flight I want. Batman's in trouble. Forget this. - Disengage autopilot. - Negative. Your override clearance is not high enough. How's my clearance now? Time to play, little birdie redbreast. Ha-ha-ha. Huh? Oh my- - I told you to stay in the batwing. - What? I was trying to help. You almost got yourself killed. How does that help? I will finish this for commander Luthor. The fool is overloading the satellites. He has no idea what he's doing. Embrace winter eternal! What? No! Lend a hand? Anyone? Me hate toys, so me save you. Time to go. Yeah, you better run, you big dumb ape. Whew. That monkey packs a punch. Superman, it is Lex. He's gone. -We have to find him. -Wait. The blast. It was too powerful. There's no way he could have survived. And so the most notorious villain of all time... ...was defeated that day. As time passed, civilization grew and prosperity flourished... ...thanks to the continued heroics of Superman and his Justice League. Even today in the 31st century... ...the mighty legion of super-heroes battle crime and villainy... ...in the name of truth and justice. May the historic accomplishments of Superman be an inspiration to us all. When's it gonna be our time, Dawnstar? When do we get to join the legion of super-heroes? One cannot rush the natural progression of things, val. Karate kid. You're supposed to call me karate kid. If we're ever gonna become full-fledged superheroes... ...we can start by sticking to our super-names. Well, karate kid... ...if lightning lad and the rest of the legion truly believed we were ready... ...we would be fighting by their side instead of exploring this museum. But I've studied every martial art ever invented. I'm ready to go. What more do they want? There is much more to being a hero than simply fighting. Tracking lost cats and blessing them with light doesn't really count as heroics, Dawnstar. I think it does. Besides, if the legion of super-heroes feel we are not ready... ...then we must patiently trust their wisdom. Heh. Patience? Please. Check this guy out. Oh, whoa. Wait. This is Lex Luthor. It says here his body was found in the year 2856... ...during the big thaw of the second warming. Heh. Look at him. The leader of the legion of doom. The sign says not to get too close to the exhibits. The greatest super villain of all time? More like Lex loser. There's a weak point in this chunk of ice right here. I bet with one focused key burst, I can bust him out and wax the floor with his bald head. Val, please be careful. He doesn't look so tough. Val. Karate kid, stop. 'Hi-ya! -No! See? I stopped a fraction of an inch before contact. -I trained for years to learn that trick. -You might have broken the ice. I didn't, did I? Come. Let us continue to the next hall. This side of the museum makes me uncomfortable. What? Where am I? What is going on? Grodd? Wait. The year 2856. I've been frozen for nearly a thousand years. Superman. It was Fate that ?Rst bought Superman to our planet. The innocent baby Kal-El was orphaned... ...when his home planet of Krypton ceased to exist. Fortunately, his space crib was jettisoned to safety and fell to Earth... ...where young Superman was recovered in a Kansas cornfield... ...by his loving adoptive parents, Martha and Jonathan Kent. Clark Kent? Lam never going anywhere with you ever again. Aw, come on. Lighten up, Dawnstar. Whoa. Look at this creepy thing. Says here, "behind this protective barrier sits the eternity glass... ...which, as legend has it, was used to bend space and time." I wish I could use it. I'd travel to the not-so-distant future, when you and I are members... ...of the legion of super-heroes, and I can finally put my fighting skills to use. Val Armorr, sometimes you are just too exhausting. I know, right? Dawnstar! Time travel, hmm? Let's see, now. How does this thing work? Thou has set the time trapper free. Speak thy name and desires. I am Lex Luthor, and I want you to take me back in time. A thousand years ago, to be exact. As the sands of time run thy will shall be done it actually works. Stop. Stop, please. Come along, time trapper. We have much to do... ...and all the time in the world to do it. That.... that was Lex Luthor. Did he really just go back in time? -Why didn't you stop him, Dawnstar? -L.... Never mind. Come on. Solomon Grundy chest hurt. Must be cold, dead heart. Lex gone. What we do? Not know. Lex is brains. With no brains, nobody tell Solomon Grundy what to do. Or what not do. So, what we do or not do? I'll tell you what we do. We fight back. Lex, you here. Alive and in the flesh. But where is everyone else? They all afraid. Hiding. Yeah, they all run away. That why me stay. Those cowards. I'll have to teach them to never underestimate their brilliant leader. Solomon Grundy, summon the legion of doom immediately. -Are we truly a thousand years in the past? -Looks like it. Lex Luthor, what thou has asked of me has been done. Now set me free. Sorry, time trapper, but you work for me now, on a more permanent basis. With time trapper under my control... ...we can now erase the Justice League once and for all. -Come on, let's take him down. -No, wait. We have no idea what these villains are capable of. If this is the 21st century, then there are others better suited to defeat these miscreants. Val, my tracking abilities will lead us to the Justice League... ...but if you do not stop squirming, I may drop you. Just so demeaning. What gives, Dawnstar? We lost? Oh, no. We are quite close now. However, we must be cautious. Remember this is the 21st century, a time of great ruthlessness. See how they see those torture devices to flagellate themselves with radioactivity? Barbarians. Excuse me, can you direct us to the nearest teleportation pod? Absolutely. You need someplace to go, I tell you. The hall of justice maybe. -How do you know where we're headed? -Yes, how? Um, I think the wings you have on your back kind of gave it away. Why don't you just hop in, huh? I get you there. You are dressed very creatively. Why is this teleportation taking so long? Wait, wait, hold on. What about the fare? Oh, it was better than fair, kind sir. It was a wonderful ride. Thank you ever so much. Hey, no. You misunderstand. The money. Okay? The cash, the dough, the greenbacks. Sorry, pal, we don't have any of these greenbacks you're talking about. But if it is any consolation, I will now bless your vehicle. Golden light of Amandares, bless and protect this man in his many travels... ...and give him total consciousness upon his demise. Whoa. No, no. Aah! Aah! Wait, wait, wait! Aah! Put me down, you crazy-looking freaky people! Ahh, might as well level up my tank and do a little farming. Our apologies. Karate kid knows not his own strength. -I think the front door was locked. -Intruders! Are you part of the legion of doom's intern program? We are part of no legion. But we would be if lightning lad wasn't such a hater. I knew it. Stop it. There has been a misunderstanding. Hey, you can't do that. Please stop. Please. You need to learn some welcoming manners, young man. What in the name of Rao is going on here? Somebody needs to start talking now. These two broke in and started busting up the place. That's a lie. He attacked first. Yes, the masked boy speaks a definite mendacity. I will get to the bottom of this. The lasso of truth will not allow you to speak falsely. Good, because I have never spoken falsely in my long life. Trust me, most times she's too honest. -Enough banter. Who are you? -And what are you doing here? I am Dawnstar. This is val Armorr, also known as karate kid. We're from the future. The 31st century. A thousand years from now. The one you know as Lex Luthor had been discovered in the year 2856... ...during the big thaw of the second warming. And apparently my frozen body was taken to some museum... ...where, once freed, I obtained this hourglass and with it came back in time to the present. We were lost without you, Lex Luthor. I was lost. Lost and afraid. As you all should be. But your presence in this room is a sign of your undying loyalty to your leader. Which is more than I can say for black manta or gorilla Grodd and captain cold. They're the most pathetic of all. Too scared to even show up. Yes, yes, yes. It was the recklessness of captain cold that caused your near demise. Never mind them! I have a new ally and most powerful servant. Time trapper, bow to them. Time shall mend all slights. He's scary and strange. Me like him. Ls he your, ha, ha, plaything? I will use time trapper's powers to destroy the Justice League once and for all. Before they even began. - And that's the whole story. - What she said. Fascinating. Just when we believe Lex Luthor dead, he returns, not from Hades but from the future. Imagine what the power of time travel could do in that maniac's hands. I'd really rather not. Lex has to be stopped. Justice League, we have to move now. These were all "hold the pickles," right? Now is the hour. Time trapper, I now command you to open a portal to a certain cornfield... ...in Smallville, Kansas, some years ago. As the sands of time run thy will shall be done legion of doom, you will go into the past... ...and keep the baby Kal-El from ever falling into the hands... ...of those sickeningly sweet rubes, Martha and Jonathan Kent. Guys, you gotta hear this to believe it. They won't raise the baby, because you will take him... ...put him back in his space crib, and launch him far, far away from this planet. Thus, Superman will never come to exist here on Earth. And without Superman, the Justice League will never be formed. We will have won our greatest victory, and the world will be ours. Not if I have anything to say about it. - The Flash? - You sound so surprised. He always shows up first. Forget them. Go. Change the past as I have commanded. Ahh. Will someone get Bizarro? Time trapper, seal the portal. -You won't get away with this, Lex. -Hurry, before it shuts. You, protect me. Come, we have work to do. I brought my coupons, but I can't seem to find them. - Can I help you all with something? - I believe you can. I was just about to say, "we're not in Kansas anymore." But this is the one time that doesn't work. I don't understand it, not one bit. That this little bugger would just fall out of the sky? Oh, Paul, thank goodness he wasn't hurt. - Isn't he just the cutest? -Sure is, but who does he belong to? That's Solomon Grundy baby. Excuse me? The words my loving and very tall spouse attempts to speak... ...are that you have found our baby, and we are eternally grateful. Solomon Grundy says thank you from bottom of inky-black soul. But how'd he get in this spaceship? Oh, that is no spaceship. It is, um.... Simply is little baby carriage his father made for him at the steel mill. Okay, then. Thank you very much. You can go home now. Nothing to see here. Bye. Have a nice life. Mission accomplished. - Hand over the Superbaby. - And nobody gets hurt. -Except for you four. -Honey, hold the baby, please. While I rip their heads off. Whew. Aw. Superbaby so ugly. If I can just break through his shield. Don't worry, Superbaby, we'll get you where you're supposed to be. Fumble! Baby fumble! Ma, something strike you as odd about those two? Here, Mrs. Kent. Sorry for the ruckus. Raise this baby with all the love... ...you've always raised him with. I mean, um, no, don't worry about it. Just be you. You're a great parent. Gotta go. Bye, now. Mama, mama! - Aah! - Mama! Ha-ha-ha. Mama! Me make sure you stay right here on Earth, Superbaby. Hello, Superbaby. Hello. Me doing all wrong. It is done. The past has changed, and there is a paradox in time. Thou should no longer exist in this time frame. And I now have the power to banish thee away. Superman. But that is not all. Because there is no Superman in this timeline... ...there would also be no Justice League. The Justice League is now erased by mine own hand. It worked. It worked perfectly. -They are gone. -No. - I'll take them down myself. - Stop. You saw how time trapper erased the entire Justice League from existence. He could do the very same to us. We cannot win this fight. We must go. Legion of doom, l, Lex Luthor, have eliminated the Justice League. I now give you the world. We now rule with none to oppose us. Let anarchy reign. Let us do with this pathetic planet as we please. It is ours, and there is no one left to stop us. Did you know that most stars in the sky have died out thousands of years ago? -What? -The light takes so long to get here... ...it's already burned out. We're looking at ghosts in the night sky. They no longer exist. Dawnstar, I'm sorry. If-- if I wasn't so hotheaded, I never would have let Lex Luthor out of the ice in the first place. None of this would've ever happened. And I too am sorry. If only I had been more willing to be brave, I would have stopped Lex Luthor... ...before he escaped the 31st century. -We make lousy superheroes. -Yes. We are nothing like the Justice League. I wish we'd have just disappeared like they did. Yes, perhaps it would have been better. Wait, that's it. Are you thinking what I am thinking? -That this tunnel really reeks? -No. Yes, it does. But more to the point, what if Lex no longer belonged to this timeline? If there was a paradox. Because he truly should not be here in the first place. Time trapper would send him packing, vanish him like the others. But more importantly, the paradox would change everything. If Lex Luthor was never frozen in ice, then he'd never even make it to the 31st century. He couldn't come back and cause all this trouble. -We'd undo everything that's gone wrong. -Yes. All that time, he was lost in those glaciers. Nobody could find him because nobody was good enough to track him down. If we find Lex now, we could free him from that ice. He'd never even make it to the 31st century. But we'd need someone strong enough to break him out. Let's do this. I fear we are going in circles. It took a massive ice thaw and hundreds of years for civilization... ...to find Lex frozen in this wasteland. How am I to do it in only a few minutes? -Whoa. Definitely not what we were looking for. -No. And we all appear to be looking for the same thing. Captain cold managed to put our leader, Lex, in this deep freeze. And we will find him first and save him. I swear it. Well, sorry, guys, you won't. It's gonna take nearly a millennia to find Lex. And when it happens, it definitely won't be by you guys. It is truth. We are from the future and know this to be fact. My friend here is the best tracker in the galaxy. The only way you're gonna find your boss is if you help us. No, I think better to simply crush you both. I'll hold them off. Keep looking. What are you doing? Keep searching for Lex. But that's just it. I think I found him. -Lex Luther's directly beneath you. -Then let's finish this. May the warmth of anasissier Talmak fill you with health. What? What is going on? -You did it. -No, we did it. Let's just hope it works. -What are you laughing about? -The future has been changed by human hand. Thou no longer belongs in this timeline. It is now within my known power to banish thee... ...to the ether of nonexistence. No, this is impossible. I control you. No more. -If you banish me, you'll go too. -Not so. For I remain outside the paradox because it is within my power. Lex Luthor, thou art banished by mine own hand. No! As the sands of time run mine own will shall now be done I will remake this world in darkness. We freed Lex Luthor, but do you think it set everything right again? That looks like one of the time trapper's portals. Only bigger. Oh, no, he must have gotten his hourglass away from Lex. Whatever we did, we must have made it worse. -We must set this right, once and for all. -Wait. What about the time-paradox stuff? -If he sees us, he'll banish us too. -I fear we have run out of options. We have come to stop you, time trapper. Hmm. It seems that two little paradoxes were missed in all of this. No matter, for thou art too late to save this world or yourselves. No one remains who can stop me. I wouldn't be so sure about that. -The Justice League. -Our plan worked. So be it, Justice League. Whoa. I'm getting distress calls from all over the planet. I need the three of you to save as many lives as you can. The rest of us have to stop the time trapper once and for all. Music to my ears. Let's shut this operation down. -Thanks, kid. -That's what I'm here for. I could use some big help here. How do we stop this guy, Dawnstar? We can't even touch him. I cannot see the way. But I know you can. You have the ability to see the weak point in any object. Focus your key. If time trapper has a weakness, you are the only one that can see it. But nothing shows up on this guy. It's like he has no key or energy. It's all blackness. The time trapper, he's made of dark matter. There's only one person among us that can harm him. Me? I cannot, val. All this time you've been telling me to hold back, but now we need you to strike. Your light energy is the only thing that can affect him. We need you now. Get the hourglass. It seems to be his power source. On it, bats. Time trapper, time's up. Turn the hourglass now. Whew. And the Justice League pull off another fourth-quarter comeback. Whew. Well, since I'm here, I might as well get some roast pig. Or some fish tacos. Oh. Better not tell Aquaman. You two kids did great out there. You should consider sticking around. The Justice League could really use your help in a fight. Normally, Superman, sir, I would have jumped at the chance... ...but quite frankly, I think I've learned my lesson. Yes, we must go back where we belong. Changing what has already occurred has proven far too dangerous. But fighting along your side has taught us to face the future with courage. Well, you're always welcome here. You two are fine young superheroes. You should be proud. Time trapper, we have one last command of you. Take us home. I can't help but feel there's something I'm forgetting. Going somewhere, Lex? Cold. So cold. Don't worry, Batman's volunteered a nice warm cell for you at Blackgate prison. Looks like everything is back to normal, but Lex is getting locked up. He may as well be lost to us if that is the case. No, you two lack vision. This experience has taught us more about the future... ...than even my intellect could foresee. We will regroup with the others. And the legion of doom shall have our revenge. I never thought I'd say this, but I'm glad to be back where everything is peaceful for once. -Even if it is a little boring. -Wait. Lex Luthor. I thought we set everything right. But we must have missed some little thing. You know, Superman did tell us we're welcome back any time. Then let us return in time, to the hall of justice.
