 

                        'Pappireddipatti Dharmapuri' 'Broom...new broom' 'New broom for sale' 'Let us keep our surroundings clean' (voices of children repeating) 'Let us plant trees and protect our land' 'Let us plant trees and protect our land' 'This is Breaking News from Puthiya Thalaimurai' 'Good morning, Mr President' Good morning...good morning We haven't received an invitation for this rocket function Did you find out why, Isai? 'I did check with them' 'Only the Prime minister and Defence minister will be invited' 'They say we won't be invited, sir' Who said so? But the Govt order doesn't specify Wrong, Isai My eyes are like Gandhi and Bhagat Singh If I shut the 'ahimsa' eye and open the 'rebel' eye, our nation can't take it Listen to this To implement Article 356, by which President's rule will be imposed in Tamil Nadu How long since we sent the file from our Pappireddi 'bhavan'? Why hasn't it been sanctioned till this morning? 'Not yet passed in the Parliament, sir' How will it get sanctioned? Using tax payers' money... ...if politicians use free 'pass' and travel in 1st class ...how will it get sanctioned? Sweet talk, flattery, fights within the political party Walk out Canteen I'll let loose Bhagat Singh, mind you! Where's Ponoonjal? Set up a conference call Where are you Ponoonjal? 'Outside the court, President' 'Minister stealing electricity for his brother-in law's wedding' '1st case on the list today' 'Anyhow that bloody thief won't show up' 'I'll mark attendance and come to the Collector's office' 'Didn't you want to meet the new Collector regarding the decision of the lamb Usain Bolt?' That's right I'm also ready now On the way don't stop public transport... ...and inconvenience the public! That's Govt terrorism Inform Control room, Ponoonjal 'I will do so' I'll go to Chekkarapatti... ...pick up Usain Bolt and come straight to the Collector's office Isai, you be there too 'Sure, sir' I'll take leave, my dear I am meeting Usain Bolt now I'll see Akila in the afternoon at General Hospital Now that I have come to power... ...she'll get justice, 'pattu' And you will too, my precious I'll make you happy as soon as I can Okay...? I'll leave now I'll be back soon Otherwise I'll send Isai here, okay? My precious, can I play a song for you? "My song will see the light of day" "My sorrow will be buried today" (song from 'Eera Vizhi Kaaviyangal') Mad bloody mongrel...shoo! Can the dog in the Commissioner's house bark at the President? You have the Govt on your side Castrate the damn dog "Where did you see, my dear this poor boy so sincere?" "Where did you see, my dear this social service volunteer?" "Next to a chariot in the southern land like a king he was waving his hand" "Find out if he is coming or not, my lady For he isn't the only fish in the sea" "Is he willing or not, ask him Or we'll find another to suit our whim" "Don't you treat me like a door mat Take back the wedding thread, you bigot" Move 6 paces Attention Mr President (playing ludo) 'Haven't I prohibited this poison?' I sent a petition long ago Didn't the officer inform you? 'Hit...hit a sixer' President sir I wasn't given a shop in the Govt market or in a fancy mall Even when I told your name I was ignored Ambani's store, right? Will note it down 'Fantastic! Brilliant!!' "A hard-core bachelor is he Also he will not accept a dowry" "A die-hard bachelor is he Neither will he accept any dowry" I'll write it down I'll make a note of every single person's actions "Tie Rs 30 in a knot as offering to God Pray for better times and kick this fraud" "The morning star in the sky, behold! Look at the onion bolting bold" "The morning star flashes in the sky Onion flowers once in a while" "If this jobless nitwit in a corner has moustache or not, how does it matter?" 'Happy birthday Magadheera of Dharmapuri' 'I'll attend to this' "Where did you see, my dear? This boy from nowhere now here" "Next to a chariot in the southern land like a king he was waving his hand" - Welcome, sir - Greetings - How is Usain Bolt? - Pus is still oozing out He was screaming all night - Bring him here - Sure Arun, when are you going for National selection? Next month In Pune, sir Give your best shot and get in with merit If they create any politics after that, let me know I'll give the President's letter, okay? Poor thing! Is it hurting really bad? You will be fine I'm here, right? Ride pillion with me President has come to meet you, sir What do you mean? That madcap Mannar Mannan is here I'm already hassled Why give me more headache? Who is that numskull? He bugged me on my very 1st day about political dos and don'ts Send him away saying I've gone for a meeting Can't get rid of him that easily, sir Do you know how he will retaliate? Just a minute, sir 'India 'Good Govt' 2020' 'For students of all castes, classrooms' 'For all Indians clean bathrooms' Functioning at a turtle's slow pace Employees in the Collector's office 'Least excuse they will stage a riot' 'Turtle stalk' demonstration 'We will revolt by sending turtles inside the Collector's office' Our Common man's uncommon President will carry out the 'Turtle Stalk' 'Our friends in need who came to alleviate poverty and penury' 'Long live the turtles in our pond' 'An office with a turtle will prosper' 'An office where bribes rule will shatter' That's called 'Death and departure' 'Next time we will send Mock turtle, o' Lord!' 'Folks, do you know what a big disgrace this is?' 'It's the 'spitting at that bear' moment!' They have come here with Usain Bolt now - Usain Bolt...? - Yes, sir He's gone viral on Facebook That's him, sir 'A sand truck hit a goat on the road, sir' 'Belongs to a big shot in our area' 'These vigilante boys got hold of the goat and blew the issue out of proportion' Because it was posted on Facebook... ...the minister's representatives decided to pay the owner of the goat a compensation But these boys demanded a huge amount as compensation They are hell bent on stopping trucks from loading sand illegally Ponoonjal who is with him... ...has a suitcase filled with cases! He'll file a case for anything and everything He is the one who filed this goat case too Sir, this girl Isai... ...is the one who posts everything on Fb It's getting late for the function - Leave now - Okay, sir Every town has one such idealistic idiot Self proclaimed vigilantes like him should be put behind bars It has all been done and dusted, sir They can bear the worst beating ever! Listen, I'm going up to Morappur to give blenders and grinders as freebies Whatever it is I'll see you tomorrow But President has banned all free schemes File has been submitted but the case is pending If you give freebies and prevent people from thinking independently... ...then how will India become a Super power in 2020? You buy me stuff with my money and you call it freebie? That isn't complimentary You are forcing a burden on my back called 'loan' First salute our President The norm is for Govt employees to approach the President But I'm meeting you face to face only to effect a change for the better Because President is India's supervisor I take so much trouble and no pep or push from you Judgment hasn't been passed in Usain Bolt's case as yet It's been a week since we sent you the file from Pappireddi 'bhavan' Still he hasn't been compensated Even now they steal sand from our river banks Trucks keep loading sand and continue to deliver They've turned our village into a graveyard by (sc)raping our earth Look at this fluoride water Go ahead and show them President, flash your teeth at them Such a pest! Okay, I'll move the files You first leave this place Sir, you don't have to help the President Act as if you're helping him That's good enough Otherwise our entire clan will be reduced to this state Condemn sand mining severely First of all, pass an order to seize the sand truck at once I give you time till 3:00 p.m Otherwise a major protest will be staged this evening with the President leading it You should be taking care of law and order, Collector sir First leave this place Collector sir, hold this Yov! What are you doing? - Hold it, sir - What's wrong with you? What's all this? Go...go...clear out What about the function, sir? First chase him away We can go later - Where are we going? - To General Hospital, sir 'Jesus will do everything' He'll shepherd you Praise be to the Almighty! Jesus will guide you every step of the way - He will save you from all sickness - Praise the Lord! Jesus will show you the path to take The Lord will protect you from disease and distress Praise the Lord! (Prayer) How will Jesus protect? How will Jesus save the man in the gutters? Last month in this same hospital... ...12 children died due to lack of nutrition 2 pregnant women died because of wrong anesthesia Neither Jesus nor Goddess Shakthi came to their aid! Only the Govt should protect the people Why is everything stuck here? What happened to all the files we sent from Pappireddi 'bhavan'? Why is the chief doctor still not here? Don't raise your voice Please leave now Chief doctor hasn't come yet He must be in his own clinic in a dirty alley He must have got hold of some nitwit and carrying out 101 tests on him It's too much torture I'll complain to the police Will you complain? Will you file a complaint against the President who came on his rounds? Mannan, please stay calm I'll explain to him I'll take care You carry on, doctor No, sister I'll inform them to clean it right away We'll take the patient to the ward You please come along You want to meet Akila, right? Okay, come with me She is staring blankly without moving I'm scared to just look at her! I told you, nothing can be done here There's a blood clot in her brain We don't have the facility Go to a private hospital like Apollo How can you even say this? What is the Govt there for? Shall we then vote for Apollo's staff? Whom will these poor people turn to? Sir, I just stated a fact What, sir? Sir, I have no money We got only 1/2 the money though it was meant as compensation Don't know how even that money got spent! - Name...? - Valavan - Initial...? - R 'I've written a check for 500000' 'Please collect it from the President's fixed deposit' Akila will wake up Please take it I've spoken to the press and media If we publish an article on Akila, we might get financial help They have promised to come sometime this week Most important news, sir Case is coming up for final hearing on the 26th You should speak the truth without feeling scared Selvaraj is waiting in the office of the Superintendent of Police I'll shoot you if you enter Turn back and keep going You are the one misusing law and order, mind you! You'll end up a corpse, mental! You are old- Don't...this is a big offense - I'm warning you - Move...move aside Welcome Mr President 'Left hand salute, huh?' I salute with my right hand to all the higher officials Then what's the difference between them and the President? That's why I used my left hand I want to meet your boss Why should I prevent you? Then you'll cut my allowance Please come in Come in You can sit here Sit down Wait here I'll fetch sir Take your seat Until he comes where do we sit? You wait here No rush at all - I'll bring him right away - Why are you locking us in? Didn't I tell you? He has shown his true colors! - Shall I call Evidence Kadhir? - Wait...wait Maybe is he a stooge of the Prime Minister? Please come, sir They are in here Does the king of the common man need a fan? Superintendent of Police I know all about you The day you became the President Who swore you into office Which side you'll face when you pee I know every nitty gritty detail I even know about you wishing the man crapping early in the morning! Good Govt India 2020 For students of all castes, classrooms For all Indians clean bathrooms This is our President's dream scheme Do not demean our struggle Suitcase Ponoonjal If I lift you and make you dangle from the ceiling... ...all my problems will be solved What do you mean? It's been a week since we sent you the file from Pappireddi 'bhavan' And you still haven't arrested the men who hit Usain Bolt! We've already given you the truck number, owner's cell number, driver's cell number What action have you taken? Such a long journey to get justice for a mere goat? That party was willing to pay compensation Wrong...wrong Don't talk so flippantly All lives in this country are equal The best of men or beast I'll bring the military into this Only because I'm also a Tamilian... ...I'm being patient as I don't want to humiliate the Tamil Nadu police force But your behavior is such a disgrace It's ridiculed in whatsApp They kept his car in the Town police station charging him with drunken driving After 4 days when they returned the vehicle, 4 tyres were missing! Greetings, sir Because they said 4 tyres... ...please don't assume it's a car It's a 3 wheeler tempo 3 tyres and a spare tyre Unable to go for work They've removed even the horn I begged them to give this one In this station at least, have you seized an Audi or BMW? We have never set eyes on such cars in our life We are simple folks Take action on circulars already passed Return the belongings to the respective owners Instead, if you listen to the Prime Minister... ...and not pay heed to the President's wishes ...you'll face severe consequences! Oho! You need respect? After the town sleeps... ...we will carry him to Vytla hills And render military honor to your esteemed President Let them be inside until I give orders Let's go 'They do this once every month' SP down down! President long live!! SP down down President long live...! Isai, how has the response been for the 2 hours lock-up at SP's office? - Check in FB and let me know - Okay, sir Then I have my pension amount Check if the interest is credited already No harm in that Dogerpillar, try this Asleep, huh? Check what has happened to that sand truck case Has any action been taken against that company? I'll call and find out No action has been taken until now At 4:00 p.m from Gandhi statue No...! Post it in FB that our protest will begin from Bhagat Singh's statue There is no statue of Bhagat Singh, President "What is this, sir?" "Sir, is this fair?" 'Handcuff jumps' to protest against police union "Sir, what is this law you follow?" "Sir, why are your schemes so shallow?" "No one to question your action So you revel in corruption" "1.32 billion people live here Hardly a handful of leaders sincere" "In buying votes you are the leader In bribery you are a fine dealer" "Buying votes is your forte You wheel and deal away" Police atrocity Down! Down! "The ones who once ruled are illiterate One who leads now is the Corporate" "Ministers sell our nation without any qualm Salute, extend to them a warm welcome" "Worms in Govt grocery Pipe dream of a developed country" "Our country is heading for disaster Doomsday is just round the corner" "No freedom of speech however Black money in many a coffer" "In the parliament, people chosen a village chief dime a dozen" "Fancy cars in the cities zoom" "Farmer hangs himself in gloom" "Loan with exorbitant interest The poor are drowned in distress" "What is this law you follow?" "Why are your schemes so shallow?" "Sir, do you really care?" 'Protest against sexual abuse' "Phone in hand glittery Get TV as a freebie" "Is there any toilet built specifically for people on the road to crap or pee?" "Does nature forget to offer plenty? Does she hide or hoard her bounty?" "To line your pocket at every opportunity Is the Govt an accessory?" "No drinking water found" "Pollution in the air all around" Let the floods wash away those who gawk in pleasure "With your Govt wine shops selling booze on men's necks you're tightening the noose" "What is this law you follow?" "Why are your schemes so shallow?" "No one to question your action So you rejoice in your bribing option" "1.32 billion people live here Hardly a handful of leaders sincere" "In buying votes you are the leader In bribery you are a fine dealer" "Buying votes is your forte You wheel and deal away" 'Pikkampatti' Junk of a fellow! Who is it? I'll rip you apart Try tearing it As if in the hot sun you need this silly coat Do you know whom you are opposing? Are you encouraging inter-caste marriage? Madcap! If I see you roaming around with that canopy over your head You'll send a file from 'Pappireddi-bhavan', huh? E post - Please send this - Sure I will, you carry on In this case registered under Motor Vehicles Act, section 166... ...we can't have 2 laws 1 for a person and other for a goat! In addition, what this dumb animal had to go through should not happen... ...to any other living being! This is an example the Honorable court would like to share with the entire world Since the truck was driven at break neck speed ...and the goat jumped at the last minute ...the iron rod pierced the goat and it escaped with 1 injured leg Otherwise it would have got killed! So if you take a closer look at the goat's disability... ...the petitioner of this case ...deserves to receive an indemnity of Rs 200000 This is the final verdict from this Court of Justice 'Since this accident happened because of an illegal sand mining truck...' '...this Court regards this case with utmost anger and anguish' 'At the same time, while condemning illegal loading of sand...' '...the Court requests the defendant to file a separate case' 'And to submit all the necessary documents to the court' 'This court is granting permission to the District Superintendent of Police' 'Great response for Usain Bolt's verdict' 'Dharmapuri's Niyaz Ahmed is all praise for our President and has shared it on FB' 'That status has gone viral' Will the President be a judge in a standup comedy show 'Who will ace it?' season 6? Yuva Krishna Yuva Krishna, Adhisha Shashank Ravi, Charu Nivedita are making fun of you, sir Shall we ban their email IDs? That's wrong, Isai We shouldn't interfere in freedom of speech Internet is people's field today I respect democracy Underhand dealings, dubious plans are being hatched in Akila's case I am sure the verdict will go against us! Isai, post it on Facebook Tomor- No, day after tomorrow at 3:00 p.m ...few moments with snakes full of venom! President's struggle - President, don't - Let us not do this - Just post it - No need, sir President, please don't do it I will not change my mind - Post it - Sir...? No need, President Please listen to us Believe it or not! Our President will be cooped up in a glass cage along with snakes They are all poisonous snakes In another half hour you can watch a Live telecast from the venue This has created a stir here Will the snakes bite him? Will our President survive this ordeal? Please watch our 'Live' telecast from AMN Channel, stay tuned Such a humbug he is Hello, sir Hey police! Why is that mad fellow now fist-fighting with snakes? Ignore him, sir Nutcase! Serves him right Let him die from snake bite Won't one of the snakes kill him? 'Is the crack fellow dying quietly?' 'This is a blatant propaganda he is building up for himself' These days even if someone washes his bum in an alley, media covers it Live, sir! That will be discussed and an uproar in protest You lock him up and administer electric shock Then pack him off to some mental hospital in Kerala 'Sure, sir' 'Few moments with snakes venomous' 'Our recurrent pleas falling on deaf ears' 'Not valuing his life...' '...for the sake of his land and people' '...our people's President-' When will he get into the case? Be patient Can't you see he's getting ready? Are they all poisonous snakes inside the case? Put your hand in You'll know! Ripping apart the mask of authority In order to save baby Akila's life - Lift him - Police...! Police anarchy Down! Down! Let's save our People's President You dare to assault the President who is 'on duty' I will destroy any power that opposes my protest for my people (loud slogans) How dare you throw my cap! Police riot Down! Down Come inside Hold him - Acting over smart? - Do not beat me Why laid hands on People's President? Who had the audacity to beat him up? No one to defend me for 20 years So you beat me up black and blue Now the President is in the same position How dare you lay your hands on him? Take your hands off! I'm giving respect to your age Don't, sir We'll meet him in court I won't spare him I'll rip him apart You had better take him Or things will turn ugly Get up, President Come Won't you get caught some day? I'll show you my power then Look how he has thrashed you - Hey! - Get lost! 'Take him away' Just you wait I'll get you suspended! You'll see the power I wield Greetings to the general public There's a rumor on whatsApp and FB claiming our President is no more Please do not believe this baseless rumor Our President, despite severe onslaught of violence by the Police force... ...is in good health Mentally strong and physically fit standing here right in front of you Due to their unconditional love for our President... ...we request the public not to resort to any act of violence The Govt which provides 2-tier security for even liquor barons and murderers... ...is unwilling to provide even a PSO, Personal Security Officer for our President The case Ponoonjal filed to question this has been rejected by the Court That's why our President is now staging this '24 hour-Body Music' protest If the Police force is assaulting the President, then who is behind this? Do you remember Akila who fell into a well and has been hospitalized? Owner of that land runs 4 schools When they built a new school... ...they dug a very deep well Akila fell into it Activist Henry has filed a case against him I've also filed a case The case is getting delayed When our President fought for transparency... ...he was attacked Please make a note of this But there's domestic and international conspiracy There are talks that many influential people are involved Delhi sir...Delhi sir...! God men in Delhi are also involved Why this sudden conspiracy? The Chinese did not approve of me banning their noodles Americans didn't like the fact I banned cool drinks Ministers didn't like me dissuading them from worshipping the helicopter When I objected to the use of air cooler in a fast lasting 1/2 a day... ban on hierarchy in politics Ban on party switching Ban on building colleges Wealth accumulation constraint Ban against caste party convention Ban against God men and seers Even if there are so many reasons behind this assault... ...no one can stop our President's protest Why...? In a country where jewelers protest why can't a President do the same? I'll unleash Bhagat Singh, mind you! Let's say 2 people come to meet you Film star Nayanthara and Obama Whom would you meet? Isai, note down which newspaper he's from Must ban that paper first! Boss, what is 'Body Music'? Please show us Haven't you heard of 'Body Music'? This is the President's body The sound you hear from here will tear people's ears in Delhi This is the music of our nation's poverty This is our nation's birthright 'Sir, regarding your wife's case?' 'Has she come?' 'Okay, we'll leave now' Sir, I believe Khushboo has come to Pennagaram Let's discuss it in detail tonight over phone and publish it tomorrow Verdict in Akila's case in 2 weeks Sir, please share it with me 'There was no proper evidence against the school correspondent Mr Thangadurai...' '...to levy a fine or be punished' 'It has already proved he is running 4 schools successfully' 'And with proper documents and permission he has dug a well in his campus' 'Valavan and his wife Rasamani were construction workers residing there' 'Their 4 year old daughter Akila' '...crossed the fence and fell into the well' '...suffering grave injury' 'This was due to sheer carelessness of the parents' 'How can the owner be responsible?' 'The court accepts this argument' President, we can go to the Supreme Court Where is Akila? Because she was lying in the dark for so long... ...she was so petrified she is unable to talk now She screams in fright looking at us It's okay, sir An active child is now in this condition Every doctor is saying something or the other We don't even have money This is what you gave No bank is accepting it Why? Is there no money in the President's relief fund? What happened to the fund? Has the parliament not sanctioned even that? Wrong Ponoonjal, it's totally wrong It's okay, sir I will take leave - Come home - Okay, sir 'Nothing is on the right track, darling' In Akila's case the correspondent was proclaimed innocent and released He went Got into the car, switched on the air-conditioner and zoomed away Akila is not able to talk Her father is in tears The bank is not accepting my check, sweetheart I obey and respect our legal system I was waiting for the court's verdict If it did not work I must show my authority Now that I'm in power why should I get scared? So I have arrived at a conclusion From this day onwards... ...I will enforce military rule for a month in our country Based on that the President will have all the powers In this time frame... ...his decisions will be final Yours truly, Mannar Mannan President I will make you happy as soon as I can If the Supreme court's decision is wrong... ...I will manage everything Hey! What From today onwards for a month I've authorized military rule in our nation Lunatic! Get lost No one should question me Don't...let me go Don't harm me Why are you scared? This is the punishment meted out by the Govt Accept it Poor Akila! They construct countless buildings Absorb all the water Kill all the childr- 'Come soon' He's a lunatic Catch him Biryani for 'Bakrid' to Balaraman 'Deepavali' sweets for Muneer Basha This is our culture and tradition If anyone tries to change our land into a poisonous river... ...one slash we will kill him Youngsters will extend to the old people a feeling of security Protection should be given This is secularism Religious tolerance Caste is getting entwined like a python Religion is lifting its head like a 5 headed snake Shouldn't we stop this? We shall overcome prejudices together Wishing all my Islam brothers and sisters my Iftar wishes Thank you Our turn next Can we go to the stage? 'Peace be upon you' You should only give the Thanks giving speech 'And upon you' Next ...the district councilor of MMK party Mr Kalaiselvan will address the gathering My dear kith and kin Allah and Lord Shiva are one and the same Those who don't realize this are in a state of 'Ignorance is bliss' Islam's crescent moon adorns Lord Shiva's head How? Fine, let's think of it in this manner The moon seen on Shiva's head is also seen on the Islamic flag How? I am very sure Actually they are our ancestors If anyone opposes our unity... ...my brothers will give them hell Friends and family My kindred souls Wishing all the Islam brothers and sisters 'Happy Iftar' I will take leave, thank you You should give the Thanks giving speech To conclude, District secretary of TKMK party, Mr Alponse Peter... ...will now give the Thanks giving speech They are not allowing us to talk It is a conspiracy Political sabotage We must let Bhagat Singh out I offer my warm greetings to the Youth club- Hold on for a minute Come to the police station, sir Why? Inspector general has come to meet you He wants to talk to you about Article 365 He asked us to fetch you immediately Let us go Is it an emergency? I will finish this speech and- You can do so on Independence Day Now come with us Fine, let's go 'Peace be upon you' 'And upon you' Repeat it Repeat it It's my order 'Peace be upon you' Let's go now Go Isai, follow us Ponoonjal will be in the court - Inform him - Okay, sir What happened? He has stabbed the correspondent Lunatic! 'Taluk police remand' Go in What is your name? Mannar Mannan Do you know what case you have been arrested for? I was arrested for joining the 'Iftar' feast This is a political conspiracy I won't agree to this one bit Because India- Because India is known for its religious tolerance That is a given You are all my people Why are you interrogating me? What is this, inspector? Why is he blabbering? He is a little different Different in the sense...? You have been accused of attempted murder You have tried to stab the correspondent Mr Thangadurai What do you have to say? Haven't you received my order? I have enforced military rule for a month in India Only the President is responsible for everything There is no law, justice or interrogation Come down Are the Prime minister's men confusing you? Inspector, looks like you have confused him completely He is repeating the same dialog, Your Honor Why are all your cases similar? What is your zodiac sign? Aquarius No wonder people think you are their water-giver! But according to the First Information Report... ...this is a premeditated attempt to murder, in sound mind Okay, we will remand him to custody for 15 days Give a notice to the police and Public prosecutor Thank you, Your Honor Inspector The accused is talking in a disturbed manner Looks like he is mentally affected He is taking about the President and attacking the political sphere So inquire properly and submit a report Mannar Mannan case history Okay, take a seat His real name is Mannar Mannan He discontinued undergrad in History He was working in a water company near Dharmapuri by-pass road His wife's name is Mallika, sir The most important thing about him He had filed a petition in the High court to permit euthanasia for his wife It was rejected Now he has appealed to the Supreme Court It's pending, sir 'Actually he was normal' 'Only past 2 years he has lost it' Go there What is this? It's a rejected piece My sister has come from Rose garden She will drink only this till we get her married That's why I'm taking this home Your bride was fixed in Rose garden, right? What happened? From the day he saw her he is like a chameleon that's taken a puff But the girl has not agreed She said she will tell her sister this evening Instead she can call you If they dilly-dally it's a hint Apply powder on your face and stand in Pappireddipatti bus stop for 4 days You will find a bride on the next auspicious day You are a rural beau! - Hey boy - Tell me, brother Who brought Emergency in India? Most common answer is Indira Gandhi Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed President Only he has the right to sign the papers How many know this? I was working in Mugal mahal as a security guard Kalaignar, MGR , Nedunchezhiyan, Anbazhagan had sent telegrams They spoke making trunk calls Nothing moved Like a statue guarding our village limit I was a witness for everything Your 'history' sounds interesting Why don't you quit drinking? Keep quiet Hey! Switch off the lights Brainless fellow! You've come where girls shelter for the night And you switch on the light! Watch your step There are so many pits and potholes Welcome Hello, brother-in-law Did you eat dinner? I did Did you give them coffee? Yes, I did Then...how is your work going on? Not bad Wait, I will be back Okay That girl rejected you She is working in my husband's office Her house is near by She does not have any manners She called, said no abruptly and disconnected She looks like a black rat And she had the gall to reject you I know a girl in the cutting section She is very reserved by nature 'Our rivers, lakes and ponds have been taken over forcibly' '...by business crocodiles Concrete jungles everywhere' 'Govt and authority act as broker and laborer' Corporate politics has reduced us to slavery by buying and selling water People have to be united in their struggle Only people can bring about people's rule We should only protect ourselves Let's get together Earlier the better People have to fight for people's rule People have to support one another Get on to my bike It's getting late for the public meeting The lorry will leave without us Everyone will say he is mad But he is the only one who has clarity in our village, my boy Heard what he said? 'Only people can bring about people's rule' I was standing as a security guard in Mugal palace But I should have by rights been seated inside They will not allow me to sit If I had sat, I would have changed so many laws I wasn't able to bear all this So I started to drink My gray cells are having withdrawal symptom now Only if I drink will my trembling stop This is an arena, lad It's getting late What are you doing? Brother Selvaraj Get in Climb in Wait, I'm coming Come fast Go in Get in Move inside Close the door Start the vehicle Go...go Move over How many days do you think all this will work out? If all the 3 forces come together... ...not a single soul can conduct any meetings You can't assemble people using money power Single order Single bomb First ask them to do that! What? Ignore him It's okay if a bomb doesn't explode but you don't expel your mini-bombs! Mahesh, come 'Don't push' (humming a film song) 'Rose garden', I heard you rejected the groom Why? She said she wasn't interested Then why ask for reasons? Why? We should know If you ask the President about his electricity bill ...he has to reply There is such a law Tell us the reason Wonky head That's why I refused Boy, apply powder and stand in Palakodu bus stop for 4 days You will get someone way better than this one You are a rural beau! Okay, brother Go Our leader will be here in another few minutes Hey! Stop...stop Alcohol should be banned in the whole of Tamil Nadu Get down Everyone should stay here until the leader finishes Don't loiter around 'Biryani' will be distributed only after the meeting You'll be given your liquor now 1 quarter per head Listen carefully Veluswami 'anna' will talk You should clap non stop Grandma, you know to take 'arati', the welcome ritual? Hey, get the liquor bottles down They will give you Don't be in a rush Follow the queue Don't rush Wait Only one per head Get the liquor and come Don't push Wait Form a line Water company 'anna'? You did not go? No Not accustomed to this Not used to buying in this manner Let them settle down Where is your friend? She has gone to get the liquor bottle Oh! She drinks? No, she has gone to get it for her father 'Take off your hand' Hey boy! Where are you going? What are you doing? Wait...wait Hello (loud voices) Go, I will get it for you No need I'm quite capable of getting it myself Don't push Move aside Don't grab (loud voices overlapping) He has got it Is it the second time? The liquor is over Vacate the place Wait For me It's for the military Keep a bottle aside It's over 'Leave the place and run away' 'Or join our party' 'Leader is very magnanimous' 'He will forgive and accept you' If they don't give we must help ourselves That's power Look! This is height of perseverance! Here, go and give it to your father Let him drink and die Hold it My father isn't an alcoholic He drinks to clear the phlegm in his chest True, her father drinks to clear his chest My husband drinks for me to beat my chest and lament! Let's go My husband will bring the roof down Hey boy You saw me struggle to get just 1 quarter But you never thought of getting 1 for me Don't hold my hand Your 'rose' petal, huh? Did you get the 'biryani' packet? Bloody scoundrels! They are refusing to even give water packets Hold this If they don't give we must help ourselves That's power 'Confirmed, he will get it for you' Why do you disgrace yourself by going on all fours for this? Only if I drink I can see my Soundaram My beloved Soundaram Just like the Goddess Annapoorani seated in the inner sanctuary 'Like goddess Shakthi I can see her everywhere' 'Nothing in this world compares to a woman's love' 'Nothing at all' Brother, move What, boy? Move Where are you going? Where are you taking the bike? "Love you...love you, love you...Jasmine" "My perfumed Jasmine" "Miss you...miss you, miss you, jasmine" "My scented jasmine" "My fragrant jasmine!" Rose garden, get down "My dear flower In a pink churidhar" "Waiting in the bus stop always" "Followed you for many days" "Don't ridicule me as a clown funny" "On your neck are white patches Your feet with cracks and scratches" Why are you following me? Don't come up to the rose garden You'll make life hard for me Go "You don't wash your face daily Why kill me with your beauty?" "Your buck teeth so pretty ruins my sleep, dearie" "In my phone I stored with glee your name as 'wifey' you see" "I tried real hard to get your 'okay' nod" "As 'husband' in your phone My name I wanted you to own" "My energy depleted when it got deleted" "Love you...love you, love you...Jasmine" "My perfumed Jasmine" Alankottai, get down "Miss you...miss you, miss you, jasmine" "My scented jasmine" "My fragrant jasmine!" Didn't I tell you the other day? Why do you keep following me? You asked me not to follow you up to rose garden, right? I got down at Alankottai Come, Mahesh She already told you Then why are you disturbing her? Ask her to reconsider it He will celebrate his love and your daughter "Love you...love you, love you...Jasmine" "My perfumed Jasmine" "Miss you...miss you, miss you, jasmine" "My scented jasmine" "My fragrant jasmine!" "Like oil massage at Hogenakkal you rejuvenate me with your eyes, girl" "My sister's miracle daughter, jasmine You refuse to become mine" "Your smile is so precious You are my lucky mascot auspicious" "You're a fresh grinding stone Give me a favorable reply soon" "If you say 'yes', I request 100 more wishes, dearest" "In the flex banner at our wedding we posed together, my darling" "A color video we shot amazing" "On our wedding night you came in Looked at me with shyness overflowing" "That dream went a-dissolving" "In the flex banner at our wedding we posed together, my darling" "A color video we shot amazing" "On our wedding night you came in Looked at me with shyness overflowing" "That dream went a-dissolving" See fast He is missing Look around Brown shirt He is peeping from there Yes Disconnect now Hello You...? I swear I never expected you to come Can I see the house? Careful What are your qualifications? BA History Attended college for 2 years Then started working in the water company Is it enough to apply powder and come and 'see' the bride-to-be If a girl should come and live here... ...don't you know she needs basic amenities? Television It has 50 channels Every night new movies will be telecast in the local cable Blender, fan, grinder I have bought basic necessities Don't you have a bathroom? Here Bathroom...? Don't you have a toilet? No We use the open ground Your sister told me everything Come, Mahesh Let us go Wait Why? This is the reason There were no toilets for girls when she went to school No toilet in her house either She will only settle down in a house that has a toilet 'Come, Mahesh' She likes you 'You have hooked her at the right time' Cleanliness is essential for a country Hygiene is more important If I say this, my words will go above your head Only if a girl tells you your brain registers it Super! There's a scheme 'Live life to the fullest' Govt is providing aid to build toilets For the past 6 months this plan is in the offing Estimate has been given In our area 20 to 25 is possible, right? (humming) Careful, its 4G Ration card, Voter's ID Govt identity card Keep all these details ready Take copies without fail I'll call after getting the forms Come to the Block Development office - What? - Okay, bro Sir, there are totally 38 applications I've gone through them thoroughly If you sanction it the toilets can be built And our people can 'Live life to the fullest', sir Are you mocking me? If I sanction it does it mean it is finalized? There are so many formalities Fund has to be mobilized Good morning, sir Collector's assistant called to discuss the free toilet issue 'Yes, sir' 'The files have gone to the minister' The contract is taken up by our Tuticorin 'annachi' 'They are now in good terms, sir' 'Sir, percentage?' '10% give or take a few' 'It is in the bargaining stage, sir' 'District officials get 4 shares' 'Then the officers' 'There are about 7 to 8 tables, sir' 'I'll book a conference call to the minister's assistant' Before we discuss the matter let us talk about the money Quotations have arrived from 8 companies 'From the centre to the state bribery is the key to collaboration' 'Collector, contractor, MLA, BDO councilor, all are waiting in a queue' They have to be settled I will see to all that It isn't a big issue As if we will be building toilets Who wants to know all that? Priority for the country Money, man 'Money from toilet-fund won't stink' First start an account for everyone with Rs 500 Totally Rs 12,000 'If basement is ready Govt will pay Rs 4,500' 'After building the rest of it' 'if a photo is produced Rs 7,500 will be deposited' 'Will all this work out for you?' 'Come to the place' 'Take a photo with you' 'BDO sir and I will get everything done for you' 'Okay?' Look at the camera Change the door Okay, done Yes, sir It just got over No problem at all Went off well What is this? Bro, this is- Okay, get on to the bike first Bro, they said it will cost 14,000 to build the toilet, 3 installments They clicked photos In the end they gave us this basin alone I asked the councilor and he said 'Be happy you got at least this!' When have they fulfilled a scheme completely? From minister to councilor everyone has to be bribed We only get what is left over after they help themselves What to do with this? Do whatever you can We thought living only was difficult Now even crapping is a herculean task! My gray cells have started to protest! Let me head to the wine shop We can get engaged I can't say 'yes' now Once I get the money I'll finish building the toilet Come here Come closer Sit here We can We can get married "In a thatched hut small and square A princess walked into my life to share" "I'll keep you in my heart gladly I'll sing a sweet lullaby" "Even if the river runs dry swim in my love so true" "Even if we go hungry I'll always care for you" "Come, ask for my hand, love" "I am with you right now" I wore this once to a Republic Day function Everybody was zapped Here If you wear this you'll look like a President Why all this for me? Wear it, my dear new groom Let's go Aiyaiyo! "No need to draw a 'kolam' in the porch as warm welcome" "In a porch-less home, you'll be my golden flower beauty" "You don't need diamonds on my ear as ornaments" "When you're my precious diamond why fake jewelry, my dear husband?" "With my toil and sweat as thread I'll weave a saree in bright red" "If you smile shyly at me I'll hug you tight, my wifey" "Even after we unite in desire my passion blazes like fire" "Like the sun in the meadows my joy knows no bounds" "In a thatched hut small and neat I'll cherish you as my heartbeat" "After 9 months or so our babies precious, as a duo" "If instead of 1, you give me 2 our medical bill is less too" "We should make both of them shine like a precious gem" "They should speak English fluently Make them fly to a foreign country" "If we are together at midnight stars appear" "Even if you sneeze, dear God will come to our aid here" "Let joy run in every vein Like earth blessed by rain" "If we live happily on earth do we need another birth?" "In a thatched hut small and square My wife walked into my life to share" "I'll keep you in my heart gladly I'll sing a sweet lullaby" Our baby is singing inside I know Our baby will definitely become a singer She will participate in reality shows and win Seeing that we will cry and it will be telecast all over - Madcap! - Don't laugh Whatever the expenses we should save Rs 5 daily Only then we can send our baby for the 'Super singer' show Do you understand? Understood "I am right now with you, my love" Sir, this is Logu's house Good day, sir Good morning Greetings, sir Can we have a look at the toilet? No, sir We can go to Vediapppan's house But the Village Officer mentioned only this house near the ground No, sir Come, I say Brother, please tell him They have sent me a photo in WhatsApp Take a look Where is the toilet? This is it You promised to build it and this is what we got Even now we crap outside near the pond Keep quiet! Sir, there are totally 38 candidates Most have them took the money And left it undone like this Only Vediappan has completed it We can fix that Move Sir, this is what has happened What do you mean? This isn't a small issue The President and Chief minister are coming over here This is a serious issue All the officers are dumbstruck The President is coming to inaugurate the toilets It came as a shock Like a bomb explosion I got the jitters Minister and officers are coming tomorrow What you have to do is show this house to them Let's see what they say And then we can decide Okay, sir Start the car Brother, is the President coming? Get lost! Why are they suddenly executing the toilet scheme? They are making it a brand all over India According to the circular, a model village has to be designed in Bihar, UP or Dharmapuri President has marked it here How many toilets have been sanctioned in our district? 20, 610 What are you saying? So little Have they spent the rest on building toilets? Has my brother-in-law gone through the files? He is the first in line All the particulars has been submitted to your brother-in-law promptly Okay How is he? Hope he won't suddenly raise questions like our ex-President Abdul Kalam sir? Hang around till the President's visit How will I leave you and go, sir? I have no choice 'If 'Kesava' once we utter all our miseries will disappear' 'Lord Vishnu lies on a snake-bed in Thiruvanthapuram sacred' Greetings, sir This is the perfect place There is an open space to receive the President Media and crowd can be easily accommodated Even the Infront security will mark this place I've already sent the photos to Delhi Okay, sir Where is the bathroom? We can go and see, sir Where? Right here This baby-toilet? This is what we were given, sir 'And I found that all-good bestowing name, Lord Narayana' Hey! Stop quoting hymns in praise of God now The function is fixed for the 25th Not even a week to go Finalize everything as soon as possible I know, 25th Works well with numerology 2+5=7 Keep quiet Ask the contractor to send some laborers Okay, bro Ask them to clean the village Paste posters all over the district Yes, 'anna' Ask them to build a toilet in this house Paint the walls The President will take photos here Understood? Yes, bro They will come from Delhi and finalize everything Consider it done, sir 'Pappireddipatti' 'Live life to the fullest' Whose house is that in the corner of the street? Venkatachalam, sir Does it have a toilet? No, sir Ask everyone to go there First build a toilet there Hurry up Don't make my blood pressure shoot up! Comecome Leave this for now It isn't necessary it seems Come behind me Bring that too Hurry up Forget that Come soon Why- Come Brother? Tell us your name Venkatachalam, sir - Your name? - Madhamma Greet the President with folded hands when he comes Say 'vanakkam' Greet them 'Namasthe' sir Now we are in Pappireddipatti Dharmapuri district A village which was ignored till yesterday (press coverage) Get going The President is coming You can't be lying down here Get up Don't disturb me, sir Thank you I like to thank the president for building a toilet for us Leave You'll let all the terrorists go scot free You will get hold of only us poor people... who live by temple offerings You are good at this! Malli...? Where did you go? Look at me My dear...aiyo! Has the minister arrived? 'They said the President has reached Dharmapuri' Hold on for a minute Hey! Mannan Disconnect, I'll call What happened? Come with me Tell me what happened? Your wife? Let's go What happened? The bathroom wall collapsed You left things half way My dear Stay here Stay here, I'll come I will inform the doctor and bring him along Come soon My precious! Look at me Come, sir Carry her, please Wait The President will leave in 10 minutes Then we can call the ambulance What are you saying? Carry her Keep quiet Stay calm We will take her She is pregnant Please help me carry her Keep quiet Don't shout Look at her, sir Give me a hand Do not shout Wait till the media leaves Wait, don't yell HELP ME LIFT HER GIVE ME A HAND! Lock him in Take him away Shut the door firmly Malli! My dear She is pregnant She can't bear the pain Open the door Yov! Open Move, don't hide Can someone help me? Don't shout My wife is injured I know Call someone, sir Ask someone to open the door Please ask them to open Go forward Greetings for the day 'Live life to the fullest' scheme was introduced by the Govt of India Please ask them to let me out Wait till the media leaves Call the ambulance It's here only Wait Long live India My dear Sir, careful Open your eyes, dear You will be fine You have brought her so late after the accident Are you such a nitwit? The baby is dead We have administered Oxytocin for her to get contractions 'Pregnant woman admitted in hospital' 'We want justice' 'Corruption raises its ugly head even in the toilet scheme' 'Mallika needs justice We want justice' Why get hassled? First go to the hospital There is a clot in her brain due to the harsh impact of stones on her head This condition is called vegetative state It is more or less like a coma stage We don't know when or if she will regain consciousness So what? We should not be scared of anything We will fight till the very end How much did the Govt pay for you to build your toilet? Nothing at all All they gave was the basin Took photos They covered up with a lot of lies They lined their own pockets, sir My bad time Stones fell on my wife's head Mallika is lying like a vegetable now Do I attend to her or follow up this court case? No one should go through this You will cook up a scheme to line your pockets, huh? My baby died in the womb Only you have to help me out, sir Those who were responsible for this Right from the Chief Minister and minister... ...to the health officer and councilor, 8 people totally Ponoonjal has filed a case against them 'Since the prosecutor has no incriminating evidence...' '...this case is adjourned' 'The Court also reprimands the defendant for abusing higher officials without evidence' Hospital will prove too expensive You can take care of her at home Sister has left I dropped her near the entrance I have bought flowers for you, dear Shall I keep it on your hair? Can I play a song for you? My Malli was so full of life I can hear her laughter echo in my mind all night I keep waking up They are just dreams My imagination Request the Govt to kill her She is alive but going through hell, sir The Govt which built the toilet has also built the hospital Ask them to kill her Grant her the freedom to die please 'After hearing all the arguments' 'The court takes up interrogation today' 'Regarding Mannar Mannan's petition for euthanasia' 'Final verdict in 2 weeks' 'Considering the arguments' 'The court has denied permission for euthanasia of patient Mallika' 'Once again the case has been adjourned' 'Euthanasia plea for Mallika has been rejected by the Madras High Court' He comes to power only with our votes We have the right only to empower him But if he blunders... ...don't we have the right to dismiss him? Law and order has let us down Is this my plight now? Don't we have...any power to change it? We don't have You don't have any bloody power Go sleep At least sleep today Go Go sleep Otherwise you'll go mad! 'Only the President can point his finger to change or revoke our laws' (heavy breathing) 'If they don't give we must help ourselves' 'That's power' I'm the President speaking Tell me, Mannar Ponoonjal, can you hear me? The President here Welcome, Mr President Get down, Mr President We have a lot of work to do Please get down My dear people I, Mannar Mannan with the presence of the 3 forces... ...I solemnly affirm with this secret oath I will serve our beloved nation as its President Leave me Let me go Police atrocities Down! Down 'They don't like me coming to power' 'So the Prime Minister's men are beating me up, dear' 'I should teach them a lesson' 'That's why I intend calling for a strike tomorrow' 'President's trial by fire to permit Euthansia legally in India' Oh my god! President How is the collection going on? Good lord! 118 missed calls He is getting on my nerves He drives me mad 'Alcohol kills men' 'Where are the shop owners then?' (anti-drinking slogan) 'People's President protests by prostrating on a bed of nails' 'People's President protests by prostrating on a bed of nails' 'Protest to close liquor shops' 'People's President protests by prostrating on a bed of nails' 'Alcohol kills men' 'Where are the shop owners then?' The appeal to the Supreme Court regarding your wife's case ... ...has been prepared by our lawyer 'It is evident certain facts by the petitioner were overlooked...' '...by the Madras High Court while passing the judgment' 'Hence this petition has been accepted by the Supreme Court' (wakes up startled) What? What happened? My wife...where is she? Is your wife dead? Not yet The case is pending in the Supreme Court She'll get her 'happiness' soon I will send her off with State honors By the way why are you in jail? I brought India under military rule So the Prime Minister's men who didn't like that pushed me in here I participated in the 'Iftar' feast which didn't go well with them I get it, brother I totally get it If you try to do good no one will like it here Nowadays people prefer villains over heroes Just like you, there was a head constable in Trichy They forced him to shoot a good man Guess what? Head constable thought no end of himself He acted as the Commissioner Single handed, he ran the police station so well Finally they put him behind bars and gave him a solid hiding Poor fellow! If he's a good man... ...perhaps I can speak to the Home Ministry and get him out Aiyaiyo! Don't bother You go back to sleep Hey! In the morning I'll get you a mobile phone Do you want to talk to your wife? Oh! No No need Mobile phones shouldn't be used If I use it myself, then I'll be setting a wrong example Okay, sleep Careful...careful Why did you come in here? I always come in here during summer And leave during winter What kind of a city is this? So congested...! Try to get some sleep Shall I sing an old song for you? "With her bountiful nature isn't the earth our mother?" "Isn't the sky showering many a lesson as our father and guardian?" I've brought crab gravy and fish fry for you Hog all you want Crab curry when I am in jail, huh? Why do I need an aphrodisiac in here?! Look, the President Greet him Good morning, sir You said you wanted to talk to someone? Give her the number She'll go out and call Brother, this isn't wrong It's quite legal She'll call only when she steps out Give her the number Tell me, sir 98-43-43-82-56 Isai My secretary What should I tell her? Ask her to take good care of Mallika She should be fed at the right time She should ask the doctor whether the pipe for the bathroom has been bought Nails to be trimmed Rose plants to be watered Offer a 5 rupee coin in a temple donation box Drops And then tell her I'll be out soon Isai, why did you come here? I made sure someone is with Mallika madam Malli...? Why did you do this without thinking it through? We were anyway intending to appeal to the higher ups No, implementing military rule was the right call to take now Without doing anything... ...so many prisoners here are dying naturally Break this political conspiracy and bring me out first I need to tell our people the truth I've made arrangements The Supreme Court's verdict in your wife's case will be out this Friday You wanted to attend it We have used that as the reason for your bail application It will come through I have spoken to the Legal Services Authorities They will take you to Delhi I'll leave now I've spoken to my friends in the Delhi legal circle... ...to take care of the President If the judgment goes against him he will be mentally affected, Isai Once the President is back we have to take good care of him Okay, sir 'Delhi' 'For withdrawing life from a person incompetent to take a decision...' '...there's no statutory provision in our country as to the legal procedure' 'Our country has been debating on the pros and cons of euthanasia for the past 14 years' 'The board of members of the Central Govt...' '...has not passed the draft bill on this subject' 'The Indian Constitution condemns any form of violence' 'The Death sentence verdict is also given only to significant cases' 'The court strongly believes that no one has the right to take any form of life' 'To consider euthanasia makes death meaningless' 'And the respect for life will drastically reduce' 'On the above basic, euthanasia is totally vetoed by this court of law' 'And hence the court rejects the plea of the petitioner' Your petition has been dismissed Euthanasia is not allowed in India I don't accept this verdict I reject your...judgment Did you understand what I said? I respect the law I was waiting for your judgment You've dismissed it As the President I'll sign the file myself And provide mercy killing to my wife myself I have the power I have brought military rule to India No one can avail a stay on my decision Court, verdict, none of these She is unaware of her own suffering I need to make her happy Let me go Mallika is suffering I need to see her I have to go My wife was so full of life! I have to make Mallika happy That's why I signed the order After making the citizens half dead for whom is your mercy reserved? You can't even build a toilet without taking bribes I was wrong to expect mercy from you 'Based on the details of the case and the attributes of the petitioner...' '...it is evident to the court that the petitioner is mentally disturbed' 'The court objects to the imprisonment and denial of proper treatment to the petitioner' 'The concerned department has to be interrogated' 'We recommend the police department to admit him for mental health assistance at once' 'The court orders proper security to be given to Mallika...' '...the petitioner's wife who is in a vegetative state' I must make her happy Only I can do so First let us do the checkup and then his treatment will start Okay Please wait in the Dean's room and then we will send for you Doctor, please take care of him I must meet Mallika Nurse! Let go of me I must see Mallika I need to go Leave me I need to go I need to see Mallika "A flower caught in a storm helplessly" "What would its poor fate be?" "Teeny-weeny" "Koels many" "Covey of quails with grey-brown tails" "River sand refreshing, my dear "Money for a rainy day, my treasure" "Don't get spent, I pray" "Don't get spent, my rose bouquet" Hey! Your brother has jumped bail in Delhi He must have spoken to you You had better give us the information "My true love My treasure trove" "A flower in a tempest caught How will it safely get out?" "How would a mere flower weather a violent twister?" "Beloved...o' my soul friend" "Where the village guardian stands and the noon rays of the sun dance" "A goat delivering its kid I see I think of you immediately "When the morning star at 4'o clock winks Tall palm trees whisper to the cold winds" "Your tinkling laughter caresses my ear" "In the sky dipped in shades of orange clouds cluster with a message" "They draw your face Deft strokes in place" "You are all I've got My lucky mascot" "My better half Rose petal soft" "My heartbeat My life complete" "How can a rosebud weather a storm?" "In a storm how can the bud be calm?" "What we saw in the nests of the Blue mountain forests" "Those eggs are now birds flying far south" "Silk moths in pairs, dear we once saw here" "Now they adorn our Goddess as a silk saree priceless" "The days we waited to spend exchanging stories don't end" "The nights we watched the moon shine They are still memories so sublime" "You are all I've got My lucky mascot" "River sand refreshing, my dear" "Money for a rainy day, my treasure" "Don't get spent, I pray" "Don't get spent, my rose bouquet" "My better half Rose petal soft" This one came in last night This is a knife wound case No...no All these came in yesterday One is a case of poisoning This came in early morning Got hit by a truck They killed him He is responsible for my brother's death You killed my brother Now you've come to the funeral pretending to be grief-stricken Somehow you drove that boy to insanity and killed him Lunatic! Go away 'After the postmortem is over you can take your brother's body' 'If that mad old man claims it he will create a huge ruckus' I'm the one who killed him, right? Made him a corpse like this You, me, him Why did we become like this? It has been 20 years since I saw my family I can't turn a blind eye to what is happening around me Rage Retaliation I felt I can sleep only if I do something What's most painful is... ...the very people whom we are fighting for For whom we are dying They look at us as comedians in the most mocking manner People are like this They endorse what's wrong Make villains win and celebrate their mistakes But can that make us slaves of power and authority? It's better to eat crap and survive Rent a lodge near the bazaar and run a brothel Are we here for that? Everyone has labeled him a lunatic But you loons use caste, religion, politics as a bargaining tool Not bothered to look at a man as fellow human being He scrapes to live with selfishness as base Utilizes money and power to make life sheer hell Dissects and sells nature piece by piece Mocks at people planting trees Salutes people who smuggle sand Like selling his mother and wife... ...he sells his vote After gawking at all the fun... ...you die like herds of sheep You are not mad But we are mad for sure I accept, we are mad We are mad 'Hello, comrade' 'Yes, comrade' 'It was not an accident' 'He was hit by a truck carrying sand and killed' 'We will file a case tomorrow at the earliest' 'We have started our fight for justice' 'Tomorrow evening the protest begins at our Gandhi's statue' 'You should definitely be present, comrade' 'Thanks, comrade' 'Protest March tomorrow Come to the street, comrade'
