 

                        Lee, Soon Yeol Film Shin, Eun Kyung Park, Joon Gyu Jang, Se Jin Special Guest Zhang Ziyi Director Jeong, Heung Soon Boss! My Wife Is A Gangster 2 Return of the Legend Hello! Hello! It's not my phone that's ringing - Hello! ...Boss? - Boss? Who's this? - It's Robocop Robocop? Then I'm Rambo, asshole Fucker, get boss on the phone Right now! OK, okay Is this a girl or a chicken? Hey, answer the phone I said you got a phone call Hey, she's not going to take it I'm fucked up Fucked up? Okay, let's get you to a hospital Oh shit, I got to pee Don't move You just pull your dick out anywhere? Your dick... You thought only eggs come from chicken coops, didn't you? But I saw a woman come from one Not only that she's WonderWoman She can work 24 hours a day and not get tired She can deliver, she can clean she can cook... Well, she can't cook, really Because of her invention of this useful delivery box we've done more business in the last 2 years than I could have done on my own, in 7 years It's like she fell straight from heaven She'd try anything to get her memory back Now I'm more scared than just feeling sorry for her What if she remembers who she is and leaves me Not again! Well, this is was a good one Maybe she was a famous artist of something Impressionist? Or Fauvist? There must be a group with scissors I'm not really familiar with art Whoever she was is fine with me She's an angel This is the first time something good has happened in my life Business has tripled Actually I take care of her money, too Don't get me wrong I'm not a crooked boss or anything If I had just one wish It would be to be on top of her Get your dick out of here! Maybe if we had 3 kids then God wouldn't take her away from me You want to die? I told you not to touch me without my permission That's strange... What's he doing here again? Wow, that's hot What's up with this oil today? I'm back Have you been on a delivery or were you making a house call? What do you mean a house call, boss man? Didn't I tell you not to laugh like that? Laugh like a girl How? Like that See, that's nice You've got a pretty face if you tried a little, you'd be fine Answer the phone What? The phone What can I get for you? Nothing, I just had a sea food noodle at another restaurant Wait! Sit down for a minute Let's settle up a little later I'm not here for business You are too... Have a seat I got something to tell you You heard that? What? That 13 blocks here will be leveled and a new mall called 'White Village' will be built I haven't heard about it It's a big deal You really should pay attention to what's going on around you Calm down It hurts You'll have to talk to my boss about that Whew, Jae Chol has nothing to do with this If you want, I can give you a store in the mall You're done with this, right? Even if I love you I can't have you I can't stand it I feel like crying What are you talking about? You've had me What? You shit! You're thinking of that weird bitch again, aren't you? That Tsu Tsu bitch Do you really like that crazy bitch? That clumsy bitch... No, no! Why would I be thinking about her? You... liar I've never had anything to do with her What? Anything... what? You mean you want to do that? - No, I'm not interested at all - You do it and I'll kill you I'm going to do my best tonight - Whatever you want! - Get your hands off me! ...Twenty nine Thir... ty! Only 30? Here sit down I'm a bit weak We better just play some cards that's about our speed Our history teacher things he's so damn smart Don't even say a word Stupid bastard Yeah I hate him too Hey how about sharing a smoke among friends Buy your own What a bitch You think I'm going to be scared of your little club You want to get a piece of me you'll need a reservation - You, bitch! - Stop there Fifty-six... Fifty-seven... Fifty-eight... Fifty-nine... Ji Hyun, you're late Sixty... Six... What are you still doing here? Do you know what time it is? What happened to your face? Have you been in a fight? I guess I'm too young to see what you two are doing We're just playing cards That's all It's late I'm going downstairs Open the door! What happened to your face? If you like her so much just marry her You could be a polygamist Polygamist? That's if you already have one wife I've been alone for 17 years Then don't marry her Is it 18 years? So confused... One sweet and sour pork a stir-fried seafood Pork balls in oyster sauce and a let's see Let's just do 5 Ja Jang Myun and 5 seafood noodles - Go quick! - Yes, sir You've only had it a few years and look what you've done to it I've never been rough on it Really! Does it work? Pick up a pack of cigarette on the way back What are you doing? We didn't order anything Why would I be here if you didn't order anything Can't you see I'm having coffee? You really didn't order anything? I'm a man, I don't do that Excuse us, we're busy here Well since I'm here we need to settle up I told you we were busy here Come back later Could you pay now? Are you deaf? You're starting to piss me off Count it and put the extra on next month's bill Now what? The order was a prank If I catch the bitch... You'll never catch that kind of bitch - Those gangster bastards are here again/- What bastards They say my food's the best What're you going to do if they don't pay again? Don't worry about it I won't let them get away with it today You had a sweet and sour pork, a shrimp, and 3 bottles of wine So? Huh? So what do you want? That'll be $118 and 50cents won all together Do you just not understand? Do you know who we are? Well, who are you? Wow, you must really want to die? Are you going to embarrass yourselves by fighting with a girl? Sorry Miss... Let's go You... still need to pay What's this all about? Hey let's go outside and talk about it Boss! I'll take care of it Follow me What did you want to talk about? So, uh how was the food? Your food is incredible You're serious right? Drop in anytime I'll fix you the best we have Great, and I'll take care of you I'm well aware of your mind We've got the bid for the construction here You've got a lot of work to do here We're partners, partners - Stop in any time - Sure Thank you, boss! Take care then Do I really have to live with those shits in the same neighborhood? They drive me crazy! It's still short... If this is all you're going to make you need to get rid of this dump I'll make more I won't be home tonight Do you have a problem with that? No, we'll see you tomorrow Don't stick your nose in others' business We got an order wrong I reheated it, it should be good What a timing! I was very hungry Who are they? Are they mine? My daughters? Maybe my childhood Freeze! Put your head down! If your head's up I'll shoot you all! I must have been in the circus Hello! What? Alright, got it - Boss! - Boss What? We've got a problem at the Karaoke What happened Some customer got pissed off because they wanted a different girl and Those bastards, which organization are they from? It was... It was a large group Which organization are they from? They were high school kids They were just kids so... They weren't worthy of fighting - Right, right! - I even felt pity for them Boss, where are you? Please answer me, Boss? Boss! The memory pathways in the cerebral cortex... What? ...to a major electrical shock or from being hit by lightening Lightning? Right here... here Here... right here No, it's not there Here, right here Son of a bitch, stop wasting my time and buy something What? What do you want? What the hell...? Is your mother a man or a woman? You must want to die you stupid bitch This is the last time I'll ask you Is your mother a man or a woman? Shit... a woman You speak to me with respect What about your wife? She's also a woman Do you have a daughter? Yes, ma'am And your daughter? Fuck of course she's a woman But why are you talking to me impolitely? Because you didn't understand what I was saying Who? You mean me? The one with dark skin, curly hair and a protrudent mouth like a rat is Ronaldo And the one with a shaved head and goofy teeth is - Ronaldinho - No, that's wrong The one with dark skin and a protrudent mouth is Ronaldinho and... Stupid bitch, the doctor said it'll take 4 weeks to recover and you think I'm going to just settle? I'm not going to settle on this Or I will be a dog Hey, what's the matter? You're the one that messed up Me, you really are a crazy bitch You fucking bitch You must have worked too hard last night... Not again! That's why you have a nosebleed Hold it down over there Sorry about that - Bye - Take care, sir Would you stop doing this I'm the gangster, not you Oh, this was nothing Oh, you're scary It still goes on your record Do you want to get a drink to celebrate? What's up with you lately? Why? Do I look different? You get in fights and disappear when it rains I've got a lot of things on my mind I kind of feel under the weather You not... What? You got a boyfriend? What would I do with a boyfriend? I've got you Do you? Really? Thanks for considering me a man Cheers Whenever I try to remember the past It gives me a headache You can't force memories Just relax Here... Here you are What's that? We'll get a store when the new mall is built... You'll be an manager a partner in Tsu Tsu And we'll... We'll what? I uh, well there's you... What? Well, honestly... Well I've been raising Ji Hyun on my own... We're backed up on deliveries don't mess around Now you even deliver in the men's bath? Maybe you used to be a guy? - Are you playing games with me? - Hey, I am a man I've played with lots of women but I'd never played with you If you're such a man then eat all of this What? You want a piece of me? I can't hit a woman Start eating you son of a bitch I'm a man! What are you hitting me for? Do you want to eat this or get my punch? I'm still a man Thought you said you were a man? - Good afternoon - Good afternoon, boss You stupid bastards! Ah mike test Fuck, this is embarrassing Get up You made me come down here, for this? Is it that hard to get a few renters to sign the consent? I'm sorry Sir We'll get them soon What, sometime in the future? After we've lost all the investors? I'm sorry Stupid bastards! You blockhead! Get the defector That took a long time You must have been backed up? Come on in You ought to put some clothes on You got enough pickles? Get your hand off me It's not my fingers My hands are here Ohhh Let go You act like this because you like me? I'm going to pull it out off the root! Is this enough? If you need more I'll put it in your account! I hate you! Do you know how much I invested in this business? We've already invested $2,000,000 The interest only on that is huge What a timid guy you are! It'll be worth the effort Really? You gave me your word I'd better get going I trust you, boss Keep in touch I already warned you to sign didn't I? You can't stand this Just sign there Having fun? Having fun? I was just teaching her to make noodles So this is why you didn't pick me up What happened to your face again? Oh, I smell chicken shit Don't be like that Do you even know your name? Your social security number? You know nothing about yourself stay out of others' business Idiot! Now we're going into your past What do you see? I see blood And scissors... You were a nurse Then take a look around you Who do you see? There's a child What's the child doing? The child asked me what bird is the most scariest animal in the world What did you tell him? Rat bastards Let's do it again You just trust me and you go into hypnosis, red sun Are there people in front of you? Yes, there's a lot Are you saying anything to them? You sons of bitches I'll slice you open and hang your guts on the clothesline You just trust me and you go into hypnosis, red sun Put her head up! I'm going to show you what'll happen if you mess with us I don't want to see I'm going to show you anyway The power of the organization Let's go one on one or do you need all your little friends? You must have forgotten we're an organization Don't Don't do this to me! Let go of me! If you're not going to join us we'll make it so you can't join anybody Lay down Don't move Hold it! What's that? You're home What happened to your face this time? - It's nothing - This is nothing? You were supposed to pick her up not start a fight with her! I'm sorry You look at her face and all you can say is sorry? Alright Dad that's enough What's the matter with you lately? You're not like you used to be Enough already, you don't even know what's going on How am I supposed to trust you with her! I'm leaving to find myself Chicken Head Na Mu Kuan Seim Bo Sal You've got a problem with your back, huh? No, I don't Your energy and blood have gotten all twisted up in your back I can't remember my past What have I got to do to get my memory back? Your hand You've got to take care of your bloodstream Catch a white snake hibernating deep in the forest and make out of him a potion that will solve your problem White snake... Double helping! - Fuck - How long do we have to wait? Take our orders for gods sake! - Fried dumplings, fried dumplings - What about us? - Fried dumplings! - Hey, mister! Go quick! You're so backed up Hey, we need some chopsticks here! Some pickled radish for us pickled radish! - What about our food! - Okay, hold your horses Hey, this is for the computer lab And don't forget the chopsticks What? I have to go again? - Yes - I really don't... With this much rain it looks like spring has passed Give me that Too long to throw it away Dad, you really have a serious problem What is it this time? Why don't you play that card game that Tsu Tsu liked? And you said you were going to teach her how to make noodles You were just blowing smoke right? You didn't even like her So? But if you think about it we could have had fun with her What are you saying? You're worried about her too aren't you? Get real I just don't like doing deliveries that's all Where have you been? I just wanted to know who I was You look like you've had it Did you find yourself? Not yet but I figured out how Well, I hope so Do you know how embarrassed I was because of you? Ji Hyun, actually talked decently to me She missed you more than I did Don't stand in the rain Come on in Chicken Head Good to have you back Just relax, we're almost there Look right here Chin down and smile one, two, three... OK, that's it Excuse us You should help us find somebody We think she lives around here Do you recognize her? N... No, I've never seen her before We know she lives around here Take a close look If you pressure me I can conduct my right of silence No, it's not like that I can get a lawyer Hey, understood Calm down! Tsu, Tsu! Good afternoon! - Tsu, Tsu, come with me - What's the matter? You've got to get out of here The police are looking for you - What? The police? - You must be a criminal A criminal? You are not right? They must of made a mistake But you still better get out of here Isn't that the Chinese joint's Tsu Tsu? The Chinese restaurant's Tsu Tsu? Thank you Well, what's she doing there? - She's a delivery girl - A delivery girl? Thank you Hey! She's a prostitute isn't she? How many Johns did she rip off - It's not that kind - Tell me I shouldn't be doing this right now Wow, what a blabbermouth! Wait! Please wait! Hurry up! You're going to get caught Po... Polices are here! Aren't you the woman from the photomat? Do you work here? No So where's the girl that does the deliveries? That's me, how can I help you? Are you playing games with me? I'm a woman Don't underestimate me What's up with everybody in this neighborhood? Let's go, everybody's gathered around out there - What's this? - What's this all about? How many times did she do it? What? I hear she did it all the time Hey, this isn't America Not everybody can become a bank robberer This is the first time Bank? She robbed a bank! No, that's not it The lady who delivers here caught the bank robberers with her bear hands! She's receiving an award for courage and bravery She really showed what a true woman can do You all should be congratulating her - You should learn from her and - Hey, mister, it's her! Wait, wait! Brave girl! You stay with my friend when it quiets down, I'll let you know Let's just go back Just listen to me I'll take care of it Now what's the matter? I told you we needed to get a new one Let's bring up today's guest of honor The new 21st Century Woman You fight fire with fire Anyone who kick a pregnant woman is a mad-dog I hate those kind of people Gangsters that hit and torment helpless people And loan sharksThose that look down upon women If I could only get me hands on them - Tsu, Tsu! - Here, look here, over here! Okay, one more time! I have something to say It looks like we're all going to be thrown out to the street Our children could be sent to orphanages and our women to brothels We don't have any power We need a hero! We need somebody with great leadership to move us forward I don't know her name but we call her this Tsu Tsu, our hero! Let's make her president of our association - Hurrah! - Hurrah! - Hey - Yes, sir What's this all about? That bitch that does the deliveries for the Chinese joint stopped some bank robbers a while back It wasn't just one not two but three - That's quite a bitch - She's scary, boss Then order a bowl of seafood noodles and we'll get to see who the bitch is Uh boss, does it have to be just one bowl? Yeah, just one - Hey, right here - Bring it here I told you to bring enough pickles You want to fill up on side dishes Enjoy your dinner Why are you following me around? - Look at that fat ass! - What? I'm not doing this! Are those two married? They appear to be, boss Speak in english, stupid The bitch and the bastard are hooked, boss Let's go I'll take care of it without a trace Don't take her lightly Remember she was the one Who turned your brother into a eunuch I still found him a woman and I've never thought it wasn't worth the money Right, let's not talk about that But, I feel like crying whenever I think about it However now that she, Silverfish is the head of the association it's going to be difficult to take her out quietly The fact she doesn't know that she is Eun Jin of the scissor gang is also a problem Just kill her, okay? I'll keep it simple What do you think she'll say as she's dying? What an idiot! - Act like you're stabbing me - Yes White... Shark... No, it shouldn't be that way Do it again with me Who... are... you??? We've got to make sure if she knows she is Eun Jin, the Silverfish before we kill her to truly get revenge If not, she won't know if she got killed for your revenge or she was chewed by some stray dog A stray dog? Sorry, Boss Okay, Jun Man did you get that? - Are the 'Silverfish' fresh today? - Of course This Silverfish doesn't look too fresh You bastard! Fish should be nice and fresh Once you've touched it it's not fresh at all Pay for it Which Silverfish? Can't live this boring life without you, boss We love you during the day and the night You are the best! Yes! Yes! You are the best! Mister, can we still trade these in for candy? You make me sick You stupid shit All you had to do was kill her and we'd be done with this Then let's just kill her, boss That's what I want to do... What the fuck did you say? Hands down! Hi, I'm Sally I'm a very well paid scout for this coffee shop I love... I love... all of you There's a new type of perm you know It's called a treatment perm and it does wonders for you hair Aren't you done? Excuse me... One more noodle dish Another? Do you know how many that is? You think you have it in you to kill me? Don't turn around I'll let you go this time Go tell your boss to stop sending assassins after me and we'll go one on one Mister! You forgot to pay That'll be 4 dollars Honey Honey Honey What is with everybody today? Honey Yes, I'm sure She actually asked one on one to you, boss I am going to get her right now Yes, sir This time it's with a girl is it? What is wrong with her? Really My silicon Shit! I'd have to get another surgery! God, my nose, my nose! It's collapsed! What am I going to do! What am I going to do! My nose! What am I going to with my nose! Where are you putting your hands at? Do you know how much these breats are worth? He's going to need some rehabilitation Get the fuck out of my way Also one of his testicles became dysfunctional and I just put several stitches on the other one Yo, lady In english, okay? English One of his balls got smashed so his sex life is impossible Now it's happened to you too? You poor thing That cruel bitch! My life is doomed! Is that the only thing she goes for? - I can't bear this - Boss, my life is doomed! - I go crazy or what! He should take a rest... - What? - I said 'complete rest' Complete rest, complete rest What's the matter? Are you still there? Are you listening? I'm... listening... But something strange She doesn't seem to recognize me I can't believe our boss has died Hey, you Are you drawing or writing? - Ugly face and ugly handwriting - Mine is better than the others' We've got all the picket signs and banners ready for the campaign The only problem is the members who are scared Let's check who's here and not Tsu Tsu's here so we have nothing to worry about She can whip 100 guys all by herself We can't use violence Please try to call every single member together for tomorrow's meeting As the president I'll gladly give my life for the group Fuck Boss, it's me, Robocop Have you forgotten me? You risked your life to save me I think you're confusing me with someone else You're a living legend in our world You were the boss who looked after 132 members of the Scissor gang I'm losing my mind I don't remember anything Oh my god She's even married! Did you see that? I thought she was a prostitute but she's a Mafia boss Tsu, Tsu... Now what do we do? We can't trust in somebody like that, can we? Have a goodnight, boss Have a goodnight, boss Now your true colors have finally shown Don't talk like that I don't remember any of that So if you can't remember it makes it all go away Now all I am is a delivery girl for Tsu Tsu Who are you trying to kid? - Ji Hyun! - Let go of me, you gangster - Ji Hyun, that's enough - let go of me! Sorry Ji Hyun - You mob! - I told you to shut up! Well, that's all you know I really hate gangsters! Ji Hyun! Tsu Tsu! Do you think I would accept your apology? Want a piece of me sons of bitches! Tsu Tsu... Well, she must feel lonely Yo, Silverfish! I thought you had died I felt bad I thought I had died but I liked it It's Silverfish for sure, boss Shut up! I know You've lost a lot of love for me There's never love when somebody invades a territory Look who's talking I've never been very happy to... see... you Stupid bastards! It ran down... Well that does it What? You fucking bitch! Let go! I said let go! Let go, you fuckers! Tsu Tsu Let's wait for the others! My poor Tsu Tsu! What should I do? You bastard! They said they would be here, where the hell are they? Here, over here! Over here! She's gone Where's that bitch Eun Jin? I really don't know Well then, you find her And if you don't something bad might happen to your daughter, okay? Sons of bitches! Fucking assholes! The idea of hurting such a tender woman! I'm going to kill them You got to get some stitches at a hospital... Must be very sore Just be patient Are you alright? Are you Jae Chol, Yoon? Yes, that's right Look at my scarred up face That bitch did this She's bad, very bad The bitch is hiding somewhere ...And you're going to help us She's not my blood nor my girlfriend, fuck I'm home I know Where's the Chicken Head? She's gone Did she go to the mountains again? Maybe she went to heaven Are you drunk? Didn't you know she was an angel? She didn't even say goodbye? You didn't even like her - Sir... - What's wrong? - Tsu Tsu... - What? Give me a cigarette Were you talking to me? Do you see anybody else? Dumb ass No, boss It's been a long time since I've had a smoke, it's pretty strong You never did smoke much This isn't our properties What about the boys? They're all gone Some have gone home... Can you get a hold of them? - Yes - Gather them Yes, sir Hello They are going to sell Ji Hyun into prostitution Who is this? A guy named White Shark kidnapped her He's going to sell into prostitution if you don't come back Please rescue her Where is she now, boss? The pot plant near Sinbonri - I know where it is - Please hurry up What's going on, boss? White Shark kidnapped Ji Hyun That son of a bitch There's nothing for us to gain Robocop, this is my territory Chicken Head! Don't worry I'll get you out of here You are impossible You still don't get it, do you? You're not rescuing her What's that supposed to mean? I'm letting her go I'll take care of it Let's go Daddy! What about her? Now that I finally can got you I feel damn good! Do you know how hot this is? I'll let you find out Throw her in the kiln Yes, boss White Shark, do me a favor stop hiding behind your boys and let's go just you and me Haven't you seen this sort of scene in the movie? Bosses don't fight That's the difference between you and me What are you waiting for? Why did you do that? To get a lease? Eun Jin came all the way here to save me and you did it for money I did it for you! You're the only daughter I have Don't You're not my real father What's that suppose to mean? You don't think I know that? That's why you're such an idiot Ji Hyun! Ji Hyun! Sons of bitches! Boss! Hey, Silverfish Boss! It hurts I didn't even pay you... and I made you do everything It won't stop again You are a dead man! Please don't! Would you stop doing this? I'm the gangster, not you Oh, this was nothing Good bye! When we get to Seoul will you give me a bar? - Don't worry about Ji Hyun and take care! /- Come often! Nope - Don't forget to call! - Be happy! Goodbye! Move! What the... move man, move! Fuck man... I will never permit drugs This is Eun Jin head of the Scissor gang Who threatened us Why isn't she saying a word? She's insulting you Is it? Son of bitch! Give up! Give up! You give up too
