 

                        Some folks dream of the wonders they'll do Before their time on this planet is through Some just don't have anything planned They hide their hopes and their heads in the sand Now I don't say who is wrong, who is right But if by chance you are here for the night Then all I need is an hour or two To tell the tale of the dreamer like you We all dream a lot some are lucky, some are not But if you think it, want it, dream it then its real, you are what you feel But all that I say can be told another way In the story of a boy who's dream came true And it could be you I closed my eyes drew back the curtain to see for certain what I thought I knew Far, far away someone was weeping but the world was sleeping Any dream will do I wore my coat (I wore my coat) with golden lining, bright colors shining wonderful and new And in the east (and in the east) the dawn was breaking and the world was waking Any dream will do A crash of drums, a flash of lights my golden coat flew out of sight The colors faded into darkness I was left alone May I return to the beginning? the light is dimming and the dream is too The world and I (the world and I) We are still waiting still hesitating, any dream will do Any dream, any dream will Any dream Any dream will do Any dream will do Way way back many centuries ago not long after the Bible began Jacob lived in the land of Canaan a fine example of a family man Jacob, Jacob and sons depended on farming to earn their keep Jacob, Jacob and sons spent all of their days in the fields with sheep Jacob was the founder of a whole new nation Thanks to the number of children he'd had He was also known as Israel but most of the time His sons and his wives used to call him dad Jacob, Jacob and sons men of the soil, of the sheaf, and crook Jacob, Jacob and sons a remarkable family in anyone's book Reuben was the eldest of the children of Israel With Simeon and Levi the next in line Napthali and Isaachar with Asher and Dan Zebulun and Gad took the total to nine Jacob, Jacob and sons Benjamin and Judah, which leaves only one Jacob, Jacob and sons Joseph, Jacob's favorite son Jacob, Jacob and sons Jacob, Jacob and sons Jacob, Jacob and sons Jacob, Jacob, Jacob -- Jacob and sons Joseph's mother, she was quite my favorite wife I never really loved another all my life And Joseph was my joy because He reminded me of her Through young Joseph, Jacob lived his youth again Loved him, praised him, gave him all he could but then it made the rest feel second best And even if they were Being told were also-rans Does not make us Joseph fans But where they have really missed the boat is We're great guys but no-one seems to notice Joseph's charm and winning smiles Fail to slay them in the aisles And their father couldn't see the danger He could not imagine any danger He just saw in Joseph all his dreams come true Jacob wanted to show the world he loved his son To make it clear that Joseph was the special one So Jacob bought his son a coat A multi-colored coat to wear Joseph's coat was elegant, the cut was fine The tasteful style was the ultimate in good design And this is why it caught the eye A king would stop and stare And when Joseph tried it on He knew his sheepskin days were gone Such a dazzling coat of many colors How he loved his coat of many colors In a class above the rest It even went well with his vest Such a stunning coat of many colors How he loved his coat of many colors It was red and yellow and green and brown and blue Joseph's brothers weren't too pleased with what they saw We had never liked him all that much before And now this coat Has got our goat We feel life is unfair And when Joseph graced the scene His brothers turned a shade of green His astounding clothing took the biscuit Quite the smoothest person in the district I look handsome, I look smart I am a walking work of art Such a dazzling coat of many colors How I love my coat of many colors It was red and yellow and green and brown And scarlet and black and ocher and peach And ruby and olive and violet and fawn I look handsome, I look smart (And lilac and gold and chocolate and mauve) I am a walking work of art (And cream and crimson and silver and rose ) Such a dazzling coat of many colors (And azure and lemon and russet and grey) How I love my coat of many colors (And purple and white and pink and orange) It was red and yellow and green and brown And scarlet and black and ocher and peach And ruby and olive and violet and fawn And lilac and gold and chocolate and mauve And cream and crimson and silver and rose And azure and lemon and russet and grey And purple and white and pink and orange And blue!!! Joseph's coat annoyed his brothers But what makes us mad Are the things that Joseph tells us of the dreams he's often had I dreamed that in the fields one day the corn gave my a sign Your eleven sheaves of corn all turned and bowed to mine My sheaf was quite a sight to see a golden sheaf and tall Yours were green, and second-rate and really rather small This is not the kind of thing we brothers like to hear It seems to us that Joseph and his dreams should disappear I dreamed I saw eleven stars the sun the moon and sky Bowing down before my star, it made me wonder why Could it be that I was born for higher things than you? A post in someone's government, a ministry, or two? The dreams of our dear brother are the decade's biggest yawn His talk of stars and golden sheaves is just a load of corn Not only is he tactless but he's also rather dim For there's eleven of us and there's only one of him The dreams of course will not come true That is, we think they won't come true That is, we hope they won't come true What if he's right all along? What if he's right all along? The dreams are more than crystal clear the writing on the wall Means that Joseph some day soon will rise above us all The accuracy of the dreams we brothers do not know But one thing we are sure about, the dreamer the dreamer... the dreamer has to go! Next day, far from home the brothers planned the repulsive crime Let us grab him now, do him in, while we've got the time Hi guys! This they did and made the most of it Tore his coat and flung him in a pit Let us leave him here, all alone, and he's bound to die When some Ishmaelites, a hairy crew, came riding by In a flash the brothers changed their plan We need cash! Let's sell him if we can Poor poor Joseph, what'cha gonna do? Things look bad for you, hey, what'cha gonna do? Poor poor Joseph, what'cha gonna do? Things look bad for you, hey, what'cha gonna do? Could you use a slave, you hairy bunch of Ishmaelites? Young, strong, well-behaved, going cheap and he reads and writes In a trice the dirty deal was done Silver coins for Jacob's favorite son Then the Ishmaelites galloped off with a slave in tow Off to Egypt where Joseph was not too keen to go It wouldn't be a picnic he could tell And I don't speak Egyptian very well Joseph's brothers tore his precious multi-colored coat Having ripped it up, next they attacked a passing goat Soon the wretched creature was no more They dipped his coat in blood and guts and gore Oh now brothers, how low can you stoop? You make a sordid group, hey, how low can you stoop? Poor poor Joseph, sold to be a slave Situation's grave, hey, sold to be a slave Father, we've something to tell you a story of our time a tragic but inspiring tale of manhood in its prime You know you had a dozen sons well now that's not quite true But feel no sorrow, do not grieve he would not want you to you see, there's one more angel in Heaven There's one more star in the sky Joseph we'll never forget you It's tough but we're gonna get by There's one less place at our table There's one more tear in my eye But Joseph the things that you stood for Like love and peace never die When I think of his last great battle A lump comes to my throat It takes a man who knows not fear To wrestle with a goat his blood stained coat is tribute to his final sacrifice his body may be past it's peak but his souls in paradise So long little Joe Adios Buckaroo 10-4 good buddy There's one last place at our table There's one more tear in my eye But Joseph the things that you stood for Like truth and light never die Carve his name with pride and courage Let no tear be shed if he had not laid down his life we all would now be dead There's one more angel in Heaven There's one more star in the sky Joseph the things that you stood for Like truth and light never die There's one more angel in Heaven There's one more star in the sky Joseph the things that you stood for Like truth and light never die There's one more angel in Heaven There's one more star in the sky Joseph the things that you stood for Like truth and light never ... There's one more angel in Heaven There's one more star in the sky Father, that things he stood for Like democracy never ... ...die! Joseph was taken to Egypt in chains and sold Where he was bought by a captain named Potipher Potiphar had very few cares He was one of Egypt's millionaires Having made a fortune buying shares, in pyramids Potiphar had made a huge pile Owned a large percentage of the Nile Meant that I could really live in style and he did Oh, I did Joseph was an unimportant slave who found he liked his master Consequently worked much harder, even with devotion Potiphar could see that Joseph was a cut above the average Made him leader of the house, a maximum promotion Potiphar was cool and so fine But his wife would never toe the line It's all there in chapter thirty-nine Of Genesis She was beautiful but evil Saw a lot of men against his will He would have to tell her that she still was his Your mine! Joseph's looks and handsome figure had attracted her attention Every morning she would beckon Come and lie with me love Joesph wanted to resist her till one day she proved too eager Joseph cried in vain, Please stop! I don't believe in free love! pity... Potiphar was counting shekels in his den below the bedroom When he heard a mighty rumpus clattering above him Suddenly he knew his riches couldn't buy him what he wanted Gold would never make him happy, if she didn't love him Letting out a mighty roar Potiphar burst through the door Joseph, I'll see you rot in jail! The things you have done are beyond the pale! Poor poor Joseph, locked up in a cell Things ain't going well, hey, locked up in a cell Poor poor Joseph, locked up in a cell Things ain't going well, hey, locked up in a cell locked up in a cell Close every door to me hide all the world from me Bar all the windows and shut out the light Do what you want with me hate me and laugh at me Darken my daytime and torture my night If my life were important I would ask will I live or die But I know the answers lie far from this world Close every door to me keep those I love from me Children of Israel are never alone For I know I shall find my own peace of mind For I have been promised a land of my own Close every door to me hide all the world from me Bar all the windows and shut out the light Just give me a number instead of my name Forget all about me and let me decay I do not matter, I'm only one person Destroy me completely then throw me away If my life were important I would ask will I live or die But I know the answers lie far from this world Close every door to me keep those I love from me Children of Israel are never alone For we know we shall find our own peace of mind For we have been promised a land of our own Joseph's luck was really out his spirits and his fortune low Alone he sat alone he thought of happy times he used to know Hey dreamer! Don't be so upset. Hey Joseph! You're not beaten yet. Go Go Go Joseph you know what they say Hang on now Joseph you'll make it some day Don't give up Joseph fight till you drop We've read the book and you come out on top The prison walls were wet and black his chains were heavy, weighed him down the candle was his only light the hungry rats the only sound Hey dreamer! Don't be so upset Hey Joseph! You're not beaten yet Go Go Go Joseph you know what they say Hang on now Joseph you'll make it some day don't just up Joseph wait and you'll see we've been outside and your on the marquee Now into Joseph's prison cell were flung two very frightened men We don't think that we will ever see the light of day again Hey Joseph! Help us if you can We've had dreams that we don't understand Both men were servants of Pharaoh the king Both in the doghouse for doing their thing One was a baker, a cook in his prime One was a butler, the Jeeves of his time Tell me of your dreams my friends and I will tell you what they show Though I cannot guarantee to get it right, I'll have a go First the butler, trembling, took the floor Nervously he spoke of what he saw There I was standing in front of a vine I picked some grapes and I crushed them to wine I gave them to Pharaoh who drank from my cup I tried to interpret but I had to give up You will soon be free, my friend so do not worry any more The king will let you out of here you'll "buttle" as you did before Next the baker rose to tell his dream Hoping it would have a similar theme There I was standing with baskets of bread High in the sky I saw birds overhead Who flew to the baskets and ate every slice Give me the message - - like his would be nice Sad to say your dream is not the kind of dream I'd like to get Pharaoh has it in for you, your execution date is set Don't rely on all I say I saw It's just that I have not been wrong before Go, go, go Joe Go, go, go Joe Go, go, go Joe Go, go, go Joe Go Go Go Joseph you know what they say Hang on now Joseph you'll make it some day Sha la la Joseph, you're still in your prime You and your dreamcoat ahead of your time Go Go Go Joseph you know what they say Hang on now Joseph you'll make it some day Sha la la Joseph, you're still in your prime You and your dreamcoat ahead of your time Go Go Go Joseph you know what they say Hang on now Joseph you'll make it some day Sha la la Joseph, you're still in your prime You and your dreamcoat ahead of your time Go Go Go Joseph you know what they say Hang on now Joseph you'll make it some day Sha la la Joseph, you're still in your prime You and your dreamcoat ahead of your time Ahead of your time Ahead of my time Ahead of your time Ahead of my time Ahead of your time Ahead of my time Ahead of your time Ahead of my time Ahead of your time Ahead of my time Ahead of your time Ahead of your... Time!!! Pharaoh, he was a powerful man With the ancient world in the palm of his hand To all intents and purposes he Was Egypt with a capital "E" Whatever he did He was showered with praise If he cracked a joke Then you chortled for days No one had rights or a Vote but the king In fact you might say He was fairly right-wing When Pharaoh's around Then you get down on the ground If you ever find yourself near Ramses Get down on your knees A Pharaoh's story... Down at the other End of the scale Joseph is still Doing time in jail For even though he is in with the guards A lifetime in prison seems quite on the cards But if my analysis of The position is right At the end of the tunnel There's a glimmer of light For all of a sudden Indescribable things Have shattered the sleep of both peasants and kings Strange as it seems, there's been a run of crazy dreams And a man who can interpret could go far could become a star Could be famous, could be a big success Could be famous, could be a big success Strange as it seems, there's been a run of crazy dreams And a man who can interpret could go far could become a star Could be famous, could be a big success Could be famous, could be a big success there's been a run of crazy dreams And a man who can interpret could go far could become a star Could be a star! Guess what? In his bed Pharaoh had an uneasy night He had had a dream that pinned him to his sheets with fright No one knew the meaning of the dream What to do? Whatever could it mean? Then his butler said I know of a bloke in jail Who is hot on dreams could explain old Pharaoh's tale Pharaoh said Well fetch this Joseph man I need him to help me if he can Poor poor Pharaoh, what'cha gonna do? Dreams are haunting you, hey, what'cha gonna do? Chained and bound, afraid, alone Joseph stood before the throne My service to Pharaoh has begun Tell me your problems, mighty one! PHARAOH IS IN THE BUILDING! Well I was wandering along by the banks of the river when seven fat cows came out of the Nile Uh huh huh Bop she wa da wa bop bop she wa da wa And right behind them these fine healthy animals came seven other cows, that were skinny and vile Uh huh huh Bop she wa da wa bop bop she wa da wa and then the thin cows ate the fat cows which I thought would do them good Uh huh huh Bop She Wady wa Bop Bop She wady wa But it didn't make them fatter like I thought a monster supper should Oh no oh Because the thin cows were thin as they had ever, ever ever been Well this dream has got me baffled hey Joseph, what it means? A now you know that kings ain't stupid But, I don't have a clue a don't you be cruel Joseph help me now I beg of you I was standing doing nothing in a field out of town When I saw seven beautiful ears of corn Uh huh huh They were ripe, they were golden but you guessed it right behind there were seven other ears that were tattered and torn Uh huh huh Then the bad corn ate the good corn man they came up from behind yes they did But Joseph here's the punchline It's gonna blow your mind flip your lid Because the bad ones was as bad as it had ever ever ever been Well, this dream has got me all shook up treat me nice and tell me what it means Well, I understand the bit about the corn but I'm not quiet sure about the cows so I was wondering if you can give it to me one more time Mr. Pharaoh man Please? Let me show you how we Rock and Roll in Egypt I was standing doing nothing in a field out of town When I saw seven beautiful ears of corn Uh huh huh Oh yeah They were ripe they were golden but you guessed it right behind there were seven other ears that were tattered and torn Uh huh huh And then the bad corn ate the good corn man they came up from behind yes they did but Joseph here's the punchline it's gonna blow your mind this is gonna flip your lid! because the bad ones were as bad as it had ever, ever ever ever been Well, this dream has got me all shook up treat me nice, tell me what it means Hey! Hey! Hey, hey, hey Joseph won't you tell poor old Pharaoh what does this crazy crazy, crazy crazy dream mean? OH YEAH!!! Seven years of bumper crops are on their way Years of plenty, endless wheat and tons of hay Your farms will boom, there won't be room To store the surplus food you grow After that, the future doesn't look so bright Egypt's luck will change completely overnight And famine's hand will stalk the land With food an all time low. Noble king, there is no doubt What your dream are all about All these things you saw in your pajamas Are a long range forecast for your farmers And I'm sure it's crossed your mind What it is you have to find Find a man to lead you through the famine With a flair for economic planning But who this man could be I just don't know who this man could be I just don't know who this man could be I just don't know who this man could be I just don't know who this man could be I just don't know Joe! Pharaoh said "Well stone the crows, this Joseph is a clever kid Who'd have thought that fourteen cows could mean the things he said they did? Joseph, you must help me further I have found a job for you You shall lead us through this crisis You shall be my number two" Pharaoh told his guards to fetch a chisel from the local store Whereupon he ordered them to cut the chains that Joseph wore Joseph got a royal pardon and a host of splendid things A chariot of gold, a cloak a medal and some signet rings. Joseph! Pharaoh's number two Joseph! Egypt looks to you Joseph! Pharaoh's number two Joseph! Egypt looks to you Jo--seph! Seven summers on the trot were perfect just as Joseph said Joseph saw that food was gathered ready for the years ahead. Seven years of famine followed Egypt did not mind a bit. The first recorded rationing in history was a hit Joseph how can we ever say All that we want to about you? We're so glad that you came our way We should have perished without you Hey! Joseph we are the perfect team Old buddies now that's you and me I was wise to have chosen you You'll be wise to agree Joseph how can we ever say All that we want to about you? We're so glad that you came our way. We should have perished without you Hey! We were in a jam Would have baffled Abraham But now we're a partnership it's just a piece of cake Greatest man since Noah Only goes to show-ah Anyone from anywhere can make it if they get a lucky break! This could be the happy ending perfect place to stop the show Joseph after all has got about as far as he can go But I'm sure that Jacob and his other sons have crossed your mind How had famine hit the family Joseph left behind? Do you remember the good years in Canaan? The summers were endlessly gold The fields were a patchwork of clover The winters were never too cold We'd stroll down the boulevard together And everything was simply divine Now the fields are dead and bare No joie de vivre anywhere Et maintenant we drink a bitter wine Those Canaan days we used to know Where have they gone? Where did they go? Eh bien, raise your berets To those Canaan days Do you remember those wonderful parties? The splendor of Canaan's cuisine Those extravagant elegant soirees The gayest the Bible has seen It's funny but since we lost Joseph We've gone to the other extreme No one comes to dinner now We'd only eat them anyhow I even find I'm missing Joseph's dreams Those Canaan days we used to know Where have they gone? Where did they go? Eh bien, raise your berets To those Canaan days Those Canaan days we used to know Where have they gone? Where did they go? Eh bien, raise your berets To those Canaan days It's funny, but since we lost, Joseph We've gone to the other, extreme Perhaps we all misjudged the lad Perhaps he wasn't, quite that bad And how we miss his, entertaining, dreams Those Canaan days we used to know Where have they gone? Where did... ...did... they go? Eh bien, raise your berets To those Canaan... days Eh bien, raise your berets To those Canaan days So, back in Canaan the future looked rough Jacob's family were finding it tough For the famine has caught us unprepared We are thin, we are ill, we are getting scared It's enough to make anyone weep We are down to our very last sheep We will starve if we hang around here But in Egypt there's food going spare They've got corn, they've got meat they've got fruit and drinks And if we have the time we could see the Sphinx So they finally decided to go Off to Egypt to see brother Joe So they all lay before Joseph's feet Mighty prince, give us something to eat! Joseph found it a strain not to laugh because Not brother among them knew who he was I shall now take them all for a ride After all they have tried fratricide I dreamed that in the fields one day at corn give me a sign Your eleven sheaves of corn all turned and bowed to mine I dreamed I saw eleven stars the sun the moon and sky Bowing down before my star and now I realize why How do I know where you come from? You could be spies telling me that you are hungry That could be lies How do I know who you are? Why do you think I should help you? Would you help me? Why on earth should I believe you? I've no guarantee Grovel, grovel, cringe, bow, stoop, fall Worship, worship, beg, kneel, sponge, crawl Grovel, grovel, cringe, bow, stoop, fall Worship, worship, beg, kneel, sponge, crawl We are just eleven brothers good men and true Though we know we count for nothing when up next to you Honesty's our middle name Life is slowly ebbing from us hope's almost gone It's getting very hard to see us from sideways on. Grovel, grovel, cringe, bow, stoop, fall Worship, worship, beg, kneel, sponge, crawl I rather like the way you're talking astute and sincere Suddenly your tragic story gets me right here This is what we hoped you'd say! All this tugging at my heartstrings seems quite justified I shall give you what you came for a lot more beside Joseph handed them sackloads of food And they groveled with base gratitude Then, unseen, Joseph nipped out around the back And planted a cup in young Benjamin's sack When the brothers were ready to go Joseph turned to them all with a terrible stare and said No! Stop! You robbers your little number's up! One of you has stolen my precious golden cup! Joseph started searching through his brothers' sacks Everyone was nervous, no one could relax Who's the thief? Is it Reuben? No! Is it Simeon? No! Is it Napthali? No! Is it Dan? No! Is it Asher? No! Is it Isaachar? No! Is it Levi? No! Who's the man? Is it Zebulun? No! Is it Gad? No! Is it Judah? No! Is it him? could it be? could it possibly be Benjamin? Yes! Yes! Yes! Benjamin, you nasty youth your crime has shocked me to the core! Never in my whole career have I encountered this before! Guards, seize him! Lock him in a cell! Throw the keys into the Nile as well! Each of the brothers fell to his knees Show him some mercy oh mighty one please! He would not do this he must have been framed! Jail us and beat us we should be blamed Oh no, not he How you can accuse him is a mystery Save him, take me Benjamin is straighter than the tall palm tree I hear the steel drums sing their song They singing man you know you got it wrong I hear the voice of the yellow bird Singing in the tree this is quite absurd Oh yes, it's true Benjamin is straighter than the big bamboo No ifs, no buts Benjamin is honest as coconuts Sure as the tide wash the golden sand Benjamin is an innocent man Sure as bananas need the sun We are the criminal guilty ones Oh no, not he How you can accuse him is a mystery Save him, take me Benjamin is straighter than the tall palm tree Oh no, not he How you can accuse him is a mystery Save him, take me Benjamin is straighter than the tall palm tree Sure as the tide wash the golden sand Benjamin is an innocent man Sure as bananas need the sun We are the criminal guilty ones Oh no, not he How you can accuse him is a mystery Save him, take me Benjamin is straighter than the tall palm tree Oh no, not he How you can accuse him is a mystery Save him, take me Benjamin is straighter than the tall palm tree Each of the brothers fell to his knees Show him some mercy oh mighty one please! He would not do this he must have been framed! Jail us and beat us we should be blamed And Joseph knew by this his brothers now were honest men The time had come at last to reunite them all again Can't you recognize my face? Is it hard to see? That Joseph, who you thought was dead your brother, is me Joseph! Joseph! Is it really true? Joseph! Joseph! Is it really you? Joseph! Joseph! So Jacob came to Egypt no longer feeling old And Joseph went to meet him in his chariot of gold of gold! of gold! of gold! I closed my eyes drew back the curtain to see for certain what I thought I knew Far far away someone was weeping But the world was sleeping Any dream will do I wore my coat with golden lining Bright colors shining wonderful and new And in the east the dawn was breaking And the world was waking Any dream will do A crash of drums, a flash of lights My golden coat flew out of sight The colors faded into darkness I was left alone May I return to the beginning The light is dimming and the dream is too The world and I we are still waiting Still hesitating Any dream will do Still hesitating Any dream will do May I return to the beginning The light is dimming and the dream is too The world and I we are still waiting Still hesitating Any dream will do Give me my colored coat my amazing colored coat! Give me my colored coat my amazing colored coat!
