 

                        Not enough, not enough Not enough love Not enough, not enough Not enough love There's no room for hating A heart full of kindness How long will it take, then For that to ring true? Our chances are fading Just stop all this blindness A new world is waiting For us if we do - But there's not enough love in our hearts - Not enough love in our hearts They write songs about it They put it in movies Our life would be better With just enough love - Still, we tend to doubt it - Still, we tend to doubt it - Though sometimes it moves us - Though sometimes it moves us - We settle for little - We settle for little When we could have much 'Cause there's not enough love In our hearts No, no There's not enough love There's not enough love There's not enough love in our hearts - There's not enough love - There's not enough love - There's not enough trust - There's not enough trust - And it doesn't keep us apart - Keep us apart - There's not enough caring - There's not enough sharing - Too much "me, me, me" and - Too much double-daring - There's too much delaying - Oh, and not enough praying I'm just saying It's not enough Oh, no I'm just saying It's not enough Oh, oh! Not enough, not enough Not enough love Not enough, not enough Not enough trust - Let's build a foundation - And change situations - Strive for salvation - Heed this revelation Fall on your knees And avoiding temptation I'm just saying It's just not enough Unh! - No, it's not enough - It's not enough Not enough, not enough Not enough love Not enough, not enough Not enough trust - Not enough love - Come on Not enough love - Darling, what's the matter? - I'm okay. - It's nothing. - Something's wrong. - I know you better than that. - Vi, take over for me. Passion in your hearts now Come on, I'm taking you home. - Down in our hearts - Down in our hearts - Not enough love - Not enough love - Down in our hearts - Down in our hearts - Not enough love - Not enough love - Down in our hearts - Preach, choir - Not enough love down in our hearts - Speak on it, hey, hey, yeah Friends... ...we are here today to celebrate the memory of Bernard Sparrow. Beloved husband, cherished father and grandfather. With his last breath... ...he led our choir to victory in the regional semifinals. Let the church say "Amen." Amen. Bernard loved life. And he knew how to live it. Isn't that right, G.G.? The man had five kids. He must've loved something. God judges a man on two things... ...and two things alone. On his faith... ...and on the contents of his heart. Amen. And, Bernie, we will miss that heart each and every day. Ah. - Please. - Thank you. Mm-hm. Oh, it was a beautiful memorial service, Pastor. I saw your boys, but not your daughter and her family. Well, God gives you girls so your mama can say, "I told you so." The only thing that would've made it perfect would have been if the choir had sung. - But then there was no one to lead them. - I think I know where this is going. You need to replace Bernie as soon as possible... ...so we can continue in the competition. I think he would've wanted that. - Oh, I agree. - Good. Because the church council has already discussed it... ...and we've decided to offer the position to Vi Rose Hill. Vi Rose? Well, I mean, nothing against Vi Rose, but I helped prepare every arrangement. I helped choose every song. Vi Rose has been second-in-command for a long time now. Well, it is your decision, of course. We're very appreciative at the church of your generous support. In fact, I don't think we'd be able to stay open without you. But... ...that's our decision. Caleb, what is your country ass eating? - Pig and pickle mash. You want some? - Ugh, get that mess out of my face. Caleb, you are so country... ...you have been married three times and still have the same in-laws. Ha-ha! She said he been married three times and still got the same in-laws. Small town, big family. That's just the law of averages. - He said, "That's just the law of averages." - Devonne... - ...do we look deaf to you? - Oh! Hey, there she is. All right, heh, all right. But, altos, y'all have to look at me when y'all singing. I know y'all feeling the spirit, but Jesus don't know where the cut-offs are. Look, you all sing as well as I know you can and we finally gonna whoop Baylor Sykes... ...and that Detroit choir in the national semifinals. Pfft. We've been saying that for four years. Devonne, save time, see it my way. Ooh. Look, y'all, I know y'all miss Bernie. So do I. Those are some mighty big shoes to fill. But I like to think he is right on my shoulder... ...guiding my hands, urging us on. What do y'all say? Y'all with me? - Pacashau, y'all with me? - We with you. Yeah. - Pacashau. - That's what I'm talking about. Well, don't you look as happy as a puppy wagging two tails. I did not ask to be made choir director. Please, Vi, I have known you for a minute. The council chose me over you. When foxes pack the jury box, the chicken's always guilty. And when folks get too wrapped up in themselves... ...they make very small packages. Olivia, go check on your brother. He better not be in that car. What are you doing out here? It's freezing. Why do you have those sunglasses on? You look like Mary J. Blige. - Light hurts my eyes. - It's dark. Mary J. Blige had many hits. But I prefer one-hit wonders, like Sir Mix-A-Lot. Uh-huh. - What's up, Olivia? - Hi, Manny. You ever go anyplace besides school or church? - I only see you at one or the other. - I don't know. Hey, you think you and me can go out sometime? - I'm not allowed to date. - You're 16. I'll be a perfect gentleman. I respect women. For real. Is this your guitar? Brand-new Gibson. You want to see it? Well, hello, Manny. You know, 30 more feet... ...and you'd actually be inside the church instead of loitering outside. Mama. - I told you to find your brother. - I did. He's in the car. I can give her a ride home after rehearsal, Miss Hill. I don't doubt that you can or that you will. Just remember, there's always free cheese in the mouse trap. But trust me, the mice there ain't happy. Walter. Inside, now. Aah! Grandma. Wait, it's me. Randy? Surprise. Mm-hm. Randy, you need to put that thing away. I'm sorry. Sorry. - You are in the house of God. - Yeah, okay. Now sit down there so I can keep an eye on you. Can I help you? Excuse me, Miss Earla. But when y'all sing, the angels just about spit with envy. Thank you, Mr. Hsu. You have a very nice tenor voice yourself. You got some big old lungs on you too. You don't mind my saying? He just call you big? You just call me big? Y'all know what y'all doing, right? - You know what you're doing? Y'all ready? - Yes, ma'am. Gonna make a change For once in my life All right, now, you're singing too wild. It's gonna feel real good Gonna make a difference Gonna make it right Okay, this is why I shouldn't have let y'all talk me into doing pop songs in church. Don't you bring that Mariah/Christina mess up in here. I don't care about hearing you. I want to hear God through you. As I turn up the collar On my favorite winter coat This wind is blowing my mind I see the kids in the street With not enough to eat Who am I to be blind Pretending not to see their need? A summer's disregard A broken bottle top And a one man's soul They follow each other On the wind, you know 'Cause they got nowhere to go That's why I want you to know I'm starting with the man in the mirror I'm asking him to change his ways And no message Could've been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take at look at yourself And then make a change Oh Na-na-na, na-na-na, na-na, na-na Oh, yeah I've been a victim of A selfish kind of love It's time that I realize There are some with no home Not a nickel to loan Could it be, really me Pretending that they're not alone A willow deeply scarred Somebody's broken heart And a washed-out dream A washed-out dream They follow the pattern Of the wind, you see 'Cause they got no place to be That's why I'm starting with me I'm starting with the man in the mirror I'm asking him to change his ways And no message Could've been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And then make that - Change - I'm starting with the man in the mirror Oh, yeah I'm asking him to change his ways - Change - No message could've been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And then make the change You gotta get it right While you got the time 'Cause when you close your heart Then you close your mind Starting with the man in the mirror Oh, yeah - I'm asking him to change - Yeah Change No message could've been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And make that change Na-na-na, na-na-na, na-na, na-na Na-na-na, na-na-na - Yeah - Oh, yeah - Oh, oh - Na-na-na, na-na-na, na-na, na-na I'm gonna make a change - For once in my life - Ooh Whoo! Are you kidding me? Make some noise up in this bitch. Heh, uh... Y'all remember my grandson, Randy. Did you hear what that boy said? And in a house of God. Boy, the apple don't fall far from the family tree. - I thought it was funny. - Oh, you did, huh? You know, his mother threw him out the house in New York. That's why he's at G.G.'s house. And what did G.G. do to that robe? Getting it all fitted and taken in like that? Like she's better than everybody else just because she's rich. That woman, I swear. Did you see the way she looked at you? Like Jesus left a will putting her in charge. I think you have to maintain a certain speed or you actually go back in time. And how much did she spend on all that? You stay away from that boy is all. - Tsk. - Don't suck your teeth at me. He been trouble since he was 5 years old and made you eat that goldfish. Talking about that's where the little crackers come from. - Mama. - Don't think he don't have... ...some new goldfish either. People don't change, especially in that family, okay? And I saw the way you were looking at Olivia Hill. You date that little girl, Vi Rose will just about lay square eggs. Be worth it. Hey, now, we're all going around to the pastor's for lunch on Saturday. So you behave. Hey girl Walter, Olivia. You're gonna be late for school. You're too shy shy Hush hush, eye to eye Too shy shy Cover yourself. Eye to eye Too shy shy Walter. I was in my room listening to "Too Shy" by Kajagoogoo. One-hit wonders are unfairly maligned. I'm fond of "Walk Away Rene" by The Left Banke. Walter, I swear your train of thought makes all local stops. Go ahead, eat your breakfast. - Mail came. - Give me mine. Okay, take it easy. The man writes every week. You act like it's the Fourth of July. Why don't he just text or e-mail like everybody else? Mm. Bow your heads. Heavenly Father, thank you for this food which we are about to receive. Love letter? From my father. He's stationed at Fort Kail. Oh, I thought he got out of the Army. - He went back. - Pssh. Don't know why anybody would wanna leave you. You grew up like you were on fast-forward. Like one of them stop-motion movies of flowers. Please. And the way you sing. Oh! I used to think church music was all corny, and then you get up there and it's like: - I never heard anything like that. - Mm-hm. Hey. You know I'm a musician too. What do you say, huh? We hit the road, start a band... ...make some babies that look exactly like you. Oh, you got a nice smile. Always di... - Oh. - Oh, my gosh, are you okay'? I have to go. I'm gonna be late for school. - Wait, hey. Can I meet you after? - I have choir practice. Oh, I'm gonna get in that choir. Right. - You'll see. Mm. That's nice. That is a lovely hat, Vi Rose. Thank you, Pastor. I didn't expect anyone to notice. Like your hair, G.G. You worried you're not gonna be seen from space? Could you pass the butter, please? Feels downright strange sitting here with y'all and not Bernie. - He was our rock. - Thank you, Pastor. I keep looking out my window expecting to see him out on that big old porch. But, so far, he hasn't made an appearance. Times like these, we feel his loss even more. Amen. So, Vi, how is Marcus keeping himself? Just fine, thanks. - Two years is an awful long time to be away. - Crazy, you ask me. I mean, who rejoins the Army for a second time at age 35? Someone who's out of work and wants to feed his family. All right, Olivia. - And wants to serve his country. - It's confusing, that's all. - What you trying to say? - Well, it's not just me. The whole town's confused. It's none of this town's business about me and my husband. Well, it is a small town, Vi. And people do care. And if you don't like that, maybe you should move to New York. My mama told me if people swept in front of their own doors... - ...this whole world would be clean. - Hell, yeah. - What? - Ha-ha. Apologize for your language, young lady. I'm sorry. It was just surprising when he left. That's all. Yeah, to all of us. There have been more one-hit wonders in hip-hop... ...than in the entire 30 years of music that preceded it. All right, Walter. My particular favorite is "Walk Away Rene" by The Left Banke. Just walk away, Rene You won't see me... When Walter gonna sing, ain't nothing you can do but sit back and enjoy it. The em... He gets a little nervous around people. I think it's time to say grace. Dear Lord, we come before you... Walter, Pastor trying to say grace. Excuse me. Walter, you okay? You know, there's nothing to be nervous about. Everybody here loves you. Uh, can I try? There's nothing you can do when he's like this. It's his Asperger's syndrome. - I don't like to be touched. - I won't touch you. Uh, look. Hey, I will sit all the way down here. Okay? Okay, good. Now just play that note This one. Right there. Good. Good. Okay, now, just do it in time. That's good. That's perfect. That's great. Okay, now, keep doing that. Just walk away, Rene You won't see me follow you back home The empty sidewalks on my block Are not the same You're not to blame That's "Walk Away Rene." Hey, you know, um, if you want, I could give Walter piano lessons. Walter, would you like that? Come on. Here you go. You go out there and win that competition, you hear? We're counting on you. Ah, there but for the grace of God. Amen. I worry about my job at the hardware store and my boss is my own father. Well, like he always says, people always need a hammer or a doorknob. I'm in love with a stripper She poppin', she poppin', she rollin' She drivin' that pole And I'm in love with a stripper She trippin', she trippin', she playin' I ain't goin' nowhere, and I'm stayin' I'm in love with a stripper She poppin', she poppin', she rollin' She drivin' that pole What? I'm in love with a stripper She poppin', she poppin', she rollin' - I'm in love - I'm in, I'm in love With a stripper. Do it right now. Come on and pray. Baylor Sykes and the Holy Vision Church of Detroit. They're the reason we never make it to the finals. They always beat us at regionals. - Why don't you do songs like this? - Can you imagine? With my mother? So how long until regionals? Two weeks. I should go. If she knew I even came out here to sit with you, she'd explode. Will I see you tomorrow? See you when I get home from school. Don't look at my butt. I'm a good girl. - Stop it. - Ha-ha-ha. - You wanna join the choir? - Yes, ma'am. He's a good singer, Mama. A great singer. Yeah, when he's singing about being in love with strippers. I mean, do you know any decent songs? Because they don't have to be corny. How about, um, Sly and the Family Stone? I want to take you higher Do you even know who Sly Stone is? You just wanna be near my little girl. Just listen to him, Mama. - He is good, Vi. - Yeah, how would you know? We've been sneaking in some extra rehearsals. Excuse me? We wanna win, Vi. - Come on, give him a chance. - Go ahead, Vi, give him a shot. I'm sorry. I'd call you stubborn, but that'd be an insult to mules. Heh, oh, she said she'd call her stubborn, but it'd be a insult... Vi, don't deny him just because he's my grandson. Maybe I'm amazed at the way You love me all the time And maybe I'm afraid Of the way I love you Maybe I'm amazed at the way You pulled me out of time You hung me on a line Maybe I'm amazed at the way I really need you Maybe I'm a girl Maybe I'm a lonely girl Who's in the middle of something That she doesn't really understand Maybe I'm a girl And maybe you're the only one Who could ever help me Hey, won't you help me understand? Ooh, help me understand Maybe I'm amazed at the way You're with me all the time And maybe I'm afraid Of the way I need you, yeah Maybe I'm amazed at the way You help me sing my song Right me when I'm wrong Maybe I'm amazed at the way I really need you Yeah Maybe I'm a girl Maybe I'm a lonely girl Who's in the middle of something - Oh - That she doesn't really understand Maybe I'm a girl Maybe you're the only one Who could ever help me - Oh - Hey, won't you help me understand? - Ooh, help me understand - Help me understand Maybe I'm amazed at the way You love me all the time - Love me all the time - Maybe Maybe I'm afraid of the way I love you Ooh Maybe I'm amazed at the way You pulled me out of time Ooh - Yeah Maybe - Maybe I'm amazed at the way I really need you Maybe I'm amazed Maybe I'm amazed Oh! Oh, maybe I'm amazed - By you - By you - Amazed - Amazed, amazed - By you - By you Come on. Oh! Ah! That was amazing. It was like... It was like you knew everything I was gonna sing before I sang it. Well, we rehearsed all week, so it's not magic. It was magic. You felt it too, I know you did. Heh. What? My mother says when I sing, I should just be the instrument... ...not try to be more important than God. But singing is the only time I feel important. Where I don't feel like I'm this close to disappearing. I don't know, I guess I'm just being prideful. Hey. So what? You deserve to be as proud as you can be. Seems to me your mother doesn't tell you that near enough. Heh. Hey, well, I'll tell you, I am proud of you. And I would be very upset if you disappeared. Young love. I haven't been with anyone in three years. Four. As long as you live Someone who loves you Tender like I do You'll never find Oh. No matter where you search Someone who cares about you Wakey-wakey, Mr. Hsu. The way I do I made you a big breakfast. Mr. Hsu? Oh, Mr. Hsu. I'm the one who loves you And there's no one else No Mr. Hsu. God. Cherish the brief time you and Mr. Hsu had together... ...rather than weep for his loss. That's not why I'm crying. Oh. - Why are you crying? - Well... ...what man's ever gonna wanna be with me after this? From now on, I'll just be known as the girl who, you know... Tap it and die. - I hear that. - No. Go, go, go. She wakes up if I breathe funny in the next room. - Hey, Vi Rose, I have your daughter. - Stop. That's not funny. - Don't wake up, I'm stealing her. - Stop. I'm gonna keep you dancing Baby, all night long Drop it nice and low Take it to the oor Let me see you work it What you working for? If I didn't see it with my own eyes, I wouldn't believe it. Olivia Hill and not a pew in sight. Come on, Manny, I wanna dance. Don't talk to me like you know me. I just met you 10 minutes ago. You look pretty. Would you like to dance? I'm sorry, son. She promised this dance to me. Baby girl, you're with me 'Cause you're beautiful Got it going on, baby From head to toe And I'm gonna take you home If you don't wanna go I still have you on my phone - I can't, Randy. I don't know how. - Yes, you do. I know you dance all alone in your room to your radio. Got a little stuffed animal going: You wanna be a church girl the rest of your life? There's so much more to you than that. Come on. Baby girl, you're with me 'Cause you're beautiful Got it going on, baby From head to toe And I'm gonna take you home If you don't wanna go I still have you on my phone 'Cause I like the way You like to dance with me And I like the way you looking In them jeans And I wanna take you home If you don't wanna go I still have you on my phone Let me get your bedpan. Okay, here we go. Okay. It's okay. It's all right. Hey. Lazy bum. It's time for your lesson. No one wants to hang out with me. That's not true. I like hanging out with you. You're like the only guy friend I have here. I don't wanna be like this, you know. To have no idea when people are joking... ...or when they want me to shut up and leave them alone. I think everything's fine... ...and then they leave a tissue full of shit in my locker. There are always gonna be jerks that wanna treat you badly. I mean, my mother called me stupid so many times... ...I finally believed her and quit school. Hey. Crazy or not, you're an awesome kid. I mean, you're scary smart. You picked up the piano like you have alien magic powers. And... And I'm really glad I met you. - Randy? - Yeah. Part of my condition is I can't tell when people are coming on to me. I'm sorry. Okay, I'm sorry. Hey. You know what I think? I think we need more than a piano lesson today. - Hey, Randy. - Yeah. I just realized we're lying on the left bank of the quarry. And The Left Banke is the name of the band... ...who recorded "Walk Away Renee." They spelled "bank" with an E. You know how you don't know when people want you to shut up? Shut up, Walter. Come on, you try it. - No. - Come on. Damn, you can sing, boy. You know, you should join the choir, Walter, or at least play with the band. I can't. It's too loud. It hurts my ears. See, that's just an excuse you use so you don't have to be around people. You're afraid you're gonna be embarrassed or rejected. But you are strong, talented. And I need a friend there... ...to stand with me against your psycho mom. That woman is crazy That woman is crazy That woman is crazy That woman is crazy - That woman is crazy - That woman is crazy That woman is crazy - Didn't know anyone else came here. - What do you want? Me? Nothing. Got a problem you wanna iron out with me? I don't know who you think you are, son, coming into town, hitting on Olivia. She don't mean nothing to you but a challenge. The challenge is everything. You're the one that don't mean nothing to me. Come on. What are you doing? Huh? Unh! Quit hitting me in the nuts. Yeah! Yes! That was great. What happened? You okay? - We beat his ass, Mama. - You got into a fight? He saved my life. You'd have been proud of him. Answer me. Somebody hit you? He didn't get the chance. I was too fast. Too fast? Look at you. Go to your room. Whoo-hoo! Ha-ha. - What happened? - It wasn't a big deal. You'd have been proud. He didn't have to talk about one-hit wonders or worry about being touched. I mean, he saw me in trouble and he just went for it. Know what? You a falling-rock zone. And anybody who stands too close to you... ...is gonna have a whole mess of rocks fall on them too. He's fine. He's better than fine. He's proud. Look at him. He feels like a man for the first time in his life. That's not how I want my son to feel like a man. - Where's Olivia? - Never mind about Olivia. Get out of my house. - Mama, no. - I told you to go. I'll deal with you in a minute. She can't keep me from seeing you. She was just angry. She'll get over it. Why am I defending her? She wants to control my life. It must kill her that she can't control Walter's too. What kills her is feeling guilty for Walter's condition. That's why she holds y'all so close. Maybe too close. There I go again. Is there such a thing as being too good a Christian? Because that just may be my problem. I wish you really knew my father. He's the total opposite of her. Well, then I know who you take after. I'll just leave this right here. Excuse me. Whoa! - Back to your corners. - All right. This is not gonna turn into that in my house. And get your little butt off my table. That's where I eat. Welcome to the Joyful Noise Regional Finals. And now, four-time champion Holy Vision Church of Detroit... ...featuring Baylor Sykes. Hey, hey, hey Thought I had it together now Hey, hey, hey Thought I could handle the weather now Hey, hey, hey Thought I'd make it on my own Hey, hey, hey But now I see I was wrong - Hey, hey, hey - Ow! I think the same when you're not with me Hey, hey, hey I feel the change when you're near me Hey, hey, hey I'm not afraid to be strong Hey, hey, hey I know I'm never alone long Uh! When no one's around And the rain's falling down You cover me Hey! Do I have a witness out there somewhere? On that side? Let me hear you. When my days turn to night Will you rescue me? I hope they see Oh, Lord, not again. Those aren't the same singers from the clip online. And if they say: And if they say I'm crazy about you I just want everybody to see Ha! Hallelujah. Maybe they are just that good. I just want you to see. I just want the whole world to see - I'm in love with you - Oh, oh, ah - Jesus, I'm in love with you - Oh, oh, ah His love is deep till the end... They'd have to rehearse like eight hours a day. Don't these people have jobs or families? So the whole world can see - Can see - Let me hear you. Y'all ready? - Ow! Hey, hey, hey Hey, hey, hey On that side, sing. Hey, hey, hey - Whoo! - Can't make it without you Clap your hands. - Ain't a good day without you - Come on. And if they say I'm crazy about you I just want everybody to see When they look at me. When they look at me I hope they can see - I gotta tell the world, y'all. - I just want the whole world to see - I'm in love with you - Oh, oh, ah Jesus, I'm in love with you Uh, uh Listen here, listen here I say You've been good I'm in love with you You've been kind I'm in love with you You've been great I'm in love with you I'm in love with you Yeah! Let's go. Whoo! Cheer up. We can't win them all. They're just disappointed. We all are. You know, Pastor, I been thinking about this a lot. I think next year, we need to do more traditional songs. Like, not so many horns. Not going to be any next year, Vi. It's official. What? - It's too expensive and we always lose. I'm sorry. I don't consider making it to the regional finals anything to be ashamed of. Of course not. But every year? - Wait, really? - What? We didn't before that. The money is best used elsewhere. Well, it's not about winning or losing. It's about giving our town something to believe in. A reason to drive 300 miles and have a little something to cheer about... ...instead of sitting home, watching everything fall apart. It's about praising his name. And we can praise his name on Sunday in our own church. I didn't create this economy. It's been settled. P is for polar bear. Did you see her face when we lost? She was actually surprised. - She be saying "less horns" when... - Olivia, do the voice. Less horns. When what she needs to do... ...is get rid of the tired old-timey arrangements... - ...and let you get your hands on them. - Mm-hm. And let Earla choreograph us some moves. Ah, like that's gonna happen. It could. We just have to convince her, that's all. All right. Keep your voice down. - She's at work. She can't catch you here. - You're scaring the animals. See, they're all staring at us. - It's because you're so hot. - Shut up. Look at the yak. He's totally into you. Come on. What do I have to do to cheer you up? Huh? - Hey. Hey. Come on. Let's go. - Go where? Come on. Don't you worry about where we're going. - Don't take my blanket, I'm comfortable. - Don't care. Give me your hand. - Where? - Ha-ha-ha. Don't worry about it. If we go outside, I need my shoes. - Okay, I got them. Where we going? - I told you, on a date. A date where? We left town an hour ago. It's a surprise. My mother's gonna kill us both. At least we'll die together. - She could be somewhere dead in a ditch. - Oh, don't be so dramatic. There's no reason to think like that. Kids run off all the time. Mostly, they come right back. It's not like Randy's never pulled a stunt like this before. This is your fault. You brought that hoodlum into our lives. - No wonder his parents kicked him out. - You don't wanna go there, Vi. The best thing you can do is just go about your business. - I will call you as soon as I hear anything. - Go about my business? Yeah, right. Hey. Hey, wake up. Daddy? You called him? I took a pretty big chance here. I'd really appreciate it if you'd smile. Just walk away, Rene Oh... You won't see me follow you... That's his favorite song. Hmm. - How's your mama? - She's changed, Daddy. Don't blame your mama for that. Being left alone can change anybody. I was the one that ran out. Randy, can you give us a minute? I'll be outside. Look. I could've stayed. Now, Olivia, listen to me. This ain't a easy thing to say to your daughter. I could've tried harder. The truth... ...is I couldn't... I couldn't face knowing that I failed your mama. No job, no money. I saw it every time she looked at me. I know that look. No, no, no. She was sweet back then. You remember how she used to be. I thought the only thing I could do for y'all was leave and send a paycheck home. Your mama... ...is the best person I ever met. And it took being away from her to realize that. And now I need you to love her. And love her hard. Because I don't think she's gonna want me again. And that... That is a hard thing to live with. That's not true. She always watches those home movies with you both dancing. And I see the way her face looks when we read our letters. She tries to fight it, but I know she misses you. What letters? Baby, I haven't sent any letters. I think your mama must have been writing them. I'm sure she thought it was a good thing. I have to get back. I want to be with you. Baby, I ship out soon. It's my job. You worried? Me too. Did you know gospel is the only musical genre with no one-hit wonders'? No. Why you love gospel so much, Mama? Why you ask? Because I just don't understand what's so great about God. You don't mean that. Seems like he don't do much around here that I can see. Give me those glasses. Let me see that sweet face of yours. Baby, you have to think of God as a parent. You know when I punish you or make you eat your greens... ...you may not like it, but you know I love you, no matter what, right? Right. Even if you don't understand why I do what I do. Well, just like I'm your mother, God is our father... ...and we have to have faith because we know he loves us, no matter what. But... But what, baby? You spend all your time... ...singing songs and praising God... ...and he's who did this to me. He made me this way. If you loved me, you'd hate him. - I do. - No. - I hate him. I do. - Walter. Don't say that, Walter. I just wish I could be normal... ...for you, Mama. For me? Baby, you don't have to be anything except exactly who you are. I love you. Come here, come here. They broke the mold when they made you. And when someone don't fit into a neat little box... ...the answer ain't to squeeze them in there even harder. You build a bigger box. Shoot, God don't make no mistakes, Walter, and he ain't about to start with you. Fix me, Jesus Fix me Oh, fix me Oh, fix me Oh, fix me Fix me, Jesus Fix me Fix me for my home on high Fix me, Jesus, fix me Fix me for the by and by Fix me, Jesus, fix me Fix me for my starry crown Fix me, Jesus, fix me Fix me for a higher ground Fix me, Jesus, fix me Oh, fix me Oh, fix me Oh, fix me Fix me, Jesus, fix me Fix me, Jesus, fix me Fix me, Jesus Oh, fix me Fix me, Lord. Hello? Don't do anything stupid over there. You've never been the bravest man. Don't abandon that quality now that it can actually do you some good. Now, most husbands would take offense at that. Be safe. You gotta know this is gonna be the longest ride of your life. Why'd you lie to us? What, just because he didn't write? He left to support us. You think every man who's out of work leaves their family for two years? Leaves their wife at home to raise two kids alone? - Maybe that's the only choice he saw. - Maybe it's the only choice he wanted to see. Maybe he just wanted out. He doesn't think you'd want him back. That's what he told me. Guess he was right. Personally, if I were him, that'd be music to my ears... ...because I don't know who would wanna come back to you. You will not talk to me like that. You don't know the first thing about our marriage, or any marriage. Of course you adore him. People who ain't around make very few mistakes. But he left. Just remember that. He left. You better control your mouth, young lady. And don't you dare say a word to your brother. Hey. Hey. Mm. Well, you ain't walking too funny. She couldn't have whipped your ass that hard. What, you're not talking to me? You do know that you're not gonna be able to keep that up, right? She may be the wicked bitch of the west down here... ...but take her to my neighborhood... - ...she'd fold like a pair of twos. - Don't you call her that. - What? You say the same thing. - I can talk about her that way. You can't. I knew what she was like. I shouldn't have let it get this far. And I'm sorry I ever did. My mother won't let me see you any more outside of choir. What? No, no, no. Hey. Don't follow me. This is crazy. I love you. - You get my note? - Mm-hm. I got it. Do you think that's an acceptable way to say goodbye? Randy, I'll drive you anywhere you want to go. No questions asked. Even if it's out of this town forever. But, hon, sooner or later, you're gonna have to grow a set. You can't spend your whole life running. Why should I stay? Vi Rose hates me. Olivia loves me, but she won't go against her mother. There is one other reason you might consider staying. - What is that? - So you can sing with the choir... ...in the finals in Los Angeles. That's right. Detroit got disqualified. How come? Because half their choir was made up with paid professionals. I knew they couldn't be that good. How'd they get caught? It was you, wasn't it? Pacashau thing. Well, you're darn tooting. I mean, trying to fool me is like trying to sneak sunrise past a rooster. Ha-ha. Those weaselly, no-good cheats. I tell you, you can't trust no one outside of the state of Georgia. How many times I tell you and your brother that? What you looking for? I'm looking for the other choir who made the finals in our category. Don't you wanna know who we going up against? Maybe you got it wrong, G.G. No. Got it right here, Our Lady of Perpetual Tears. I ain't never heard of them, and I heard of everybody. They don't sound like they'll be a barrel of laughs. Must be good if they made it to finals. It don't matter who they are. Don't change what we do one bit. We just go to Los Angeles and we do our very best. That's all we can do. What? What you two cooking up? I may not be on the council, but I am its largest contributor. And I will see to it we get to the finals under one condition. Oh. And what is that? You have to do new songs, and use Randy's arrangements. It is the right thing to do, Vi. Our town needs to win. Please, Mama, for once, don't be stubborn. You're the only one in the whole choir who doesn't want to do it. You're right. So maybe I should be the one to leave. Vi. You'll finally be choirmaster. I guess you finally got what you wanted. I guess people really can do without a hammer after all. Hi, Miss G.G. Vi, I had no idea you had to take another job. - You have to come back to the choir. - I'm busy. I don't know what you're so ticked off about. I'm the one that got passed over for the job. And now I'm asking you to take it. You just don't like me, do you? And you never really have. Amen, sister. Well, why? I'd like to know. Why? Hmm. Maybe it's the way you undermine me or the way you tried to blackmail me. Well, now, that was a little shortsighted, I admit. But sometimes a small sin is justified in the pursuit of a higher purpose. And that's another thing. That condescending, wise-old-owl thing you do. It must really gripe your ass... ...to know there's somebody that you can't charm. "G.G.'s so hilarious, she's so earthy." Well, I am who I am. Maybe you were, five procedures ago. Now you whoever you need to be to make everybody love you. "Oh, G.G.'s so larger than life." Well, it pisses me off. You want to know what pisses me off? - Not particularly. - You are gonna hear it. - It is your holier-than-thou... - Oomph! ...pious, rigid... ...self-righteousness. Who gives a rat's ass if I've got a few little nips and tucks. God didn't make plastic surgeons so they could starve. But you could use a complete face lift. I feel fine about myself. Well, I don't see how you could, you old, hateful heifer. Your daughter didn't even come to her own father's funeral. You are so convinced your way is the only way there is. Infallible, untouchable, unlovable Vi Rose Hill. Quit it with those nails, Edward Scissorhands. When did you get so old? You're 40, going on 100. I'm old? You read the Bible to reminisce. Ha! - Yeah, what? I'm talking about inside, Vi. You are old inside. Hmm. - And I wish, just one time... ...you'd try to see things from my point of view. I'd love to see things from your point of view... ...but I just can't seem to stick my head that far up my ass. Oh, you just... Hey, hey. - I'm so sick of you, I could puke. - Ow! Ow! - What? You see, I tried. She hit me with water. - She hit me with rolls. - Let go. You know the rolls in here are hard as hell. Stop it. Ow! - See, get this. Get this. Well, you're breaking my hair. Would you stop. It took me a half a day to do this. - I could tear this hair up right now. - Ah, don't. Wouldn't you like that? Wouldn't you like that, huh? My doctor does good liposuction too, if you'd like his card. - Get this on there. - I got it. - Yeah. Put that online. - Vi Rose. Wha...? - Ladies, that's enough. That is enough. - Ow! What are we doing? Well, I'll tell you what I'm not doing, I'm not coming back to the choir. Well, Vi Rose, you are fired. - I'm fired? - Yes. You didn't...? Didn't you...? You...? - This is all your fault. - No, no. That's enough, that's enough. Vi. G.G., we are not going out like this. Not you, not me and not this choir. Sweetheart, sometimes you just have to know when to fold your cards. Who are you? You are not my gorgeous grandma. I know that song. Yeah, I used to sing it with your granddaddy. Then he used to waltz me around that big old yard. I know how much you miss him. God, it's just like my heart don't beat right any more. It's like, when he was here, I felt like I could just do anything. Not now. Can I hear the song? No. It's a duet. Well, I know it. God knows I heard it enough times. I could hold out my arms Say, "I love you this much " I could tell you how long I will long for your touch How much and how far Would I go to prove The depth and the breadth Of my love for you? - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back - Who else in this world - Who else in this world - Will love you like that? - Will love you like that? - Love everlasting - Love everlasting - I promise you that - I promise you that - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back I want you to know You can always depend On promises made And love without end No need to wonder How faithful I'll be Now and on into eternity - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back - Who else in this world - Who else in this world - Will love you like that? - Will love you like that? - Forever and always - Forever and always - I'll be where you're at - I'll be where you're at - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back From here to the moon and back I would blow you a kiss From the star where I sat I would call out your name To echo through the vast Thank heaven for you And to God tip my hat - From here to the moon and back - From here to the moon and back And I'll spend forever Just proving that fact From here to the moon and back From here to the moon And back You can still do anything. You're damn skippy. Just stay for one rehearsal. Those people worked so hard. And your ego's letting them all down. My ego? Didn't you teach us to never quit? Look at Walter. He'll have to go through more than you and I will ever have to. But he doesn't quit. Not ever. Well, if you quit now, you're quitting on God. What's that supposed to teach him? Okay. Five, six, seven, eight. Pah, pah, pah, unh. Okay, come on, G.G. Here we go. Unh, unh, unh. Okay, good. Let's go. Come on, Caleb. Earla, you already killed one man. I got high blood pressure too, you know? - It's for the Lord, people. - Pah, pah, pah, unh. Come on. Yeah. Pah, pah, pah, unh. Earla, get your Beyonc out of my face. It's coming down. Pah, pah, pah, pah. Oh, sorry. Just popping for the Lord. Our band is good, but they ain't never gonna be great. Not without some help. - What do you want? - You. And your guitar. You must be out your mind. I heard you play all my life. All those summer house-party jams. You're incredible, Manny. You know we're going to L.A., right? Thousands of people in the audience. Someone could hear you who might actually matter. That ain't never gonna happen in Pacashau. Okay, stop, stop, stop. I'm not feeling it, Earla. Maybe what you need is something to feel. Yo, what's up? Oh! You're the man. Oh, yeah, that's easy. - Whoo-hoo! Woo-hoo! Mm-hm. Aah! This morning, the choir's got something a little different to sing for y'all. Oh Do you know what What you mean to me? My world was turning upside down I would've been so lost without you You are all that perfect love should be You came and saved me from myself You leave him to me. - This is bigger than a notion - Notion - Freely give you my devotion - Uh-huh Never thought I'd find someone Who loves the way you do - It does so much, I wanna tell it Uh-huh Feels so good, I wanna yell it I surrender everything I am To you and only you I'm yours Let me guess, you didn't like it. Frankly, I'm surprised at Vi Rose. Oh, don't blame her. Randy had to drag her kicking and screaming. - So it was his doing. - Well, it was everyone's doing. The choir goes back to its old style or I withdraw the competition application. And as for Randy, we just can't take a chance. You don't want Randy in the choir? There's too much at stake. I've known that boy his whole life. - He's just had a couple of bad breaks, is all. - He kidnapped Olivia Hill. Oh, they ran away. They came right back. He completely changed the way the choir sings. - Who knows what he'll do next. - We'll lose, Pastor. Why, I love those old songs better than anybody. I helped Bernie write them. But Randy's right, we gotta shake them up. Without being sponsored by a church, you cannot perform. Those are competition rules. Well, you withdraw your support... ...you leave me no choice but to withdraw my support. If you know what I'm saying. He's my family. Well, I suppose you'll have to follow your conscience... ...and I'll follow mine. Oh, I shushed those loud boys during your sermon. I told them people were sleeping. California, here we come. I don't know why we're even bothering without Randy. And singing those old arrangements. - Ugh. - Ugh. You all right? It seems like God's using me for target practice these days. Makes it kind of hard to feel the spirit. Caleb, he is God. If he wanted to shoot you, he wouldn't miss. Heh, trust me, you'll feel his spirit again. And when you do, you'd better look out. What's going on? Did you just hit me? You were snoring. So? I got a lot to snore about. Where you going? To the bathroom. With your shoes on? Get back in the bed. Olivia Hill, don't you walk out that door. I'm not a kid any more. Only kids say that. You make me run, it'll be the last thing you do. Can you actually believe I'm gonna let you wander the streets by yourself? - Something could happen to you. - Like you care. - And what is that supposed to mean? - It means you hate me. Anybody would think you were dropped on your head. Get back in that room. You do. You hate me. Don't deny it. Now, I know it feels like Randy is the sun and the moon... ...and the stars all wrapped up in one right now but, baby, look around. Nobody ends up with the boy they liked when they were 16. You'll get over him. This isn't about that. I told him I don't want to see him any more because you made me. This is about me. - Why do you think I hate you? - Lots of reasons. - Name one. - Because I'm pretty. - Heh, excuse me? - Don't bug your eyes out at me. You hate that I'm pretty, because you don't feel pretty. I defended you to Randy. But now, I'm just trying to cut through the bullshit, Mama. Once and for all. You know how sad that is? For you to feel that way about yourself? You are the only one you hate more than me. No matter how much you sing that church music... ...God doesn't seem interested in helping you out with that. Don't you bring God into your ugly, petty, adolescent bullshit. That's right, I can cuss too. Bullshit, bullshit, bullshit. It's lazy and it has no class, but it's not hard. - You think I'm not pretty? - I didn't say that. I am an incandescent, board-certified supermodel, baby. I happen not to flaunt it because I am a married woman... ...and I would never disrespect my husband the way you just disrespected your mother. But beautiful as you are, and you are very, very beautiful... ...I would hang mirrors all over my house if I could, just to look at myself. I'd put one on the refrigerator just to watch myself eat all of them calories. And if I gave myself a heart attack from all that food, I'd just give myself CPR. Because I'm a nurse. That's right, I save lives. And that is not bullshit. Now I am through talking to you for the foreseeable future... ...so my advice to you would be to get your little narrow behind back in that room... ...get back in that bed, and you treat my snoring like it is a Marvin Gaye love song. That's right, you respect my snoring. Because it comes from exhaustion. From working hard to put food in you and your brother's stomachs... ...and every stitch of clothes on y'alls' backs. Get in that room. You didn't have to stay behind for me. Oh, I didn't. I'm ying out with the pastor. I don't think I could do three days cooped up in a bus with those hot messes. But I'm not done yet. I've been calling every church in this town... ...trying to see if I can get somebody else to sponsor us instead. - And? - Well, no luck so far. I keep trying to think what your granddaddy might do. He'd probably say not to put yourself through this any more. I mean, he loved that church, but he loved you more. What'd you just say? I said he loved that church, but he loved you more. He loved that church, but he loved me more. Bernie, you old son of a Baptist. I read you loud and clear. Ha-ha. I know what to do. - Stop. - I know what to do. I know what to do. Really? We're in Los Angeles. There's the sign. Hey, good morning, Pastor. What are you doing here? - What's that? - Well, it's Randy's ticket... ...to the Joyful Noise finals. It's the certificate for the establishment of a church. That's right. Did you know that anyone can become legally ordained as a minister? You can do it online, just takes five minutes. Pastor G.G. Has a nice ring to it, don't it? The competition folks don't care what church sponsors... ...as long as somebody does. Well, I'd prefer to be sponsored by this church. But I told you once before, I will not let you screw with my family. Now, we have exactly one hour and 47 minutes... ...to drive 92 miles to the airport if he's gonna make it in time for the show tonight. Oh, don't do something we're gonna all look back on and regret. Oh, my God, we're never gonna make it. Step on it. If we have an accident, we'll certainly never make it. - Are you crazy? Step on the gas. - Well, fine. Pacashau Choir, your dressing room's gonna be on the other side of the stage. Oh, look. Oh. People are gonna fill all those seats? No. Go for house lights. People are gonna fill all those seats. Lunch is being set up in the foyer. - Um, is this seat taken? - Only by you. How do you do? I'm from Pacashau Sacred Divinity Choir. Earla Hughes. He had high blood pressure. That's weird. Hey, are you okay? It's all right. Mr. Hsu was the first man I had been with in four years. Do you think God was trying to punish me because we weren't married? Girl, if that's how he operated... ...most men would be dead by their senior year in college. You are a beautiful, intelligent woman. And I know you will meet a wonderful guy. I'll tell you what. If you're right, I'll dance a jig and do a split. She said if I'm right, she gonna do a split. I'd like to see that. Look. Look. Let's go. Let's go. Ladies and gentlemen... ...welcome to the finals of the National Joyful Noise Competition. Y'all ready? Here we go. Take a load off your mind Ride the mighty glory Listen to my story Ride the mighty high Take a load off your mind Ride the mighty glory Listen to my story Ride the mighty high I really liked your choir. I thought you guys were good. Let's, uh, find somewhere we can talk. Can I give you some advice? Don't stay mad so long at your mama... ...and go get that boy. Trust me, your mama will get over it... ...and you'll both forget what it is you got mad about to start with. - I'm afraid it's already too late. - No, the clock ain't run out yet. He's still seeing you like a little girl. You gotta show him a woman. Come on and ride the mighty high Y'all ready to hear some good music tonight? - Come on and ride the mighty high - Ride the mighty high Because there's some folks back there who are ready to sing for you. You look amazing. Mm-hm. Excuse me, Miss Hughes? Oh... They're my warm-ups. "Toy boat, toy boat, toy boat, toy boat." - Mm-hm. - My name's Justin. Hi. Earla Hughes. I know who you are. I've been following your choir from competition to competition. - Why would you do that? - For you. Wow, that really made it sound like you need a restraining order. It was only two competitions. And I happened to be in Georgia, because I'm moving there for work. Look, I know I don't know you... ...but you just seem so... ...special. Is that creepy? This may seem like a strange question... ...but you don't have high blood pressure, do you? That is a strange question, but no. I'm healthy as an ox. - Ah... - People in my family live to be 90. Uh-uh! Come on and ride the mighty high If you're in trouble Come on and ride The mighty high Oh, my God, you're all grown-up. How did I not notice? - This must be for that boy. - Like you care. Hey. It gives me no joy to see you unhappy. Don't you know that? I love you. And I'm very, very proud to be your mother. And you love me too. Otherwise you wouldn't be hugging me right now. - I'm not hugging you. - Any second now. Don't try to fight it. You know it's gonna feel so good. There we go. - I'm sorry, Mama. - Oh... - I don't know what's wrong with me. - Girl, you 16. And let's face it, your life has been no day at the beach. Please welcome our first finalist... ...from Pensacola, Florida... That's our competition. ... Our Lady of Perpetual Tears. Why can't we be humble Like the good Lord said? He promised to exalt us And show us the way Why are men so greedy? They're kids? I've got a bad feeling about this. Are you hearing that kid? That's the way God planned it - That's the way God wants it - To be - He wants it to be - Ooh - Be, yeah - Yeah, yeah, yeah Oh - Yeah, oh That's the way God planned it - That's the way - He wants it to be He wants it to be Oh, you gotta believe Let not your heart be troubled Let all your suffering cease Just learn how to help one another And live in perfect peace If we just be humble Like the good Lord said He promised to exalt us And show us the way - That's the way God planned it - That's the way That's the way God wants it to be - Ooh - Hey, yeah - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, oh - Oh, I want you to know That's the way God planned it - That's the way he wants it to - He wants it to be - To be, hey, yeah, yeah - Yeah, yeah - Yeah, yeah, oh - That's the way he planned it The way he want He wants it They way he planned So you best be humble - Like he said You better make it happen - Like he said He planned it The way he want - He wants it - The way he planned - You need to love your sister - Like he said - You need to love your brother - Like he said - So let's help each other - Like he said And live I hope you get the message Where you won't Somebody will You may not understand me But I will love you still - That's the way - That's the way God planned it - That's the way God wants it to be - Ooh - Hey, yes, it is, hey - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, oh That's the way God planned it - That's the way God wants it - He wants it to be He wants it to be God loves you. That's the way he wants it That's the way God planned it That's the way - Hey, yeah, he wants you to be - Ooh - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, oh - Hey! Yeah! That's the way God planned it He wants it to be Yeah, yeah, yeah That's the way - Yeah, yeah, yeah - That's the way he planned it - Yeah, yeah, yeah - You gotta believe it - Yeah, yeah, yeah - Yeah - Yeah, yeah, yeah - You gotta be humble - Yeah, yeah, yeah - Oh, yeah - Yeah, yeah, yeah - That's the way - That's the way There's no way. I mean, we've come this far. Okay. Okay. All right. It's not fair. How are we supposed to compete with that? Especially doing our old, tired songs. And even if we win, we're beating a bunch of little kids. It don't feel right. "Don't feel right"? What are we gonna do? I mean, what are we gonna do? Hey. I don't believe what I'm hearing. You're getting all squishy and sentimental over a bunch of 12-year-olds? Now? They knew what they were getting into. Their parents signed the permission slips. This is the big time, baby. Didn't Jesus say "suffer the little children"? Yes, he did. They're young. They're resilient. They'll get over it. We deserve this. Now y'all can donate to Save the Children later. Become a Big Brother, whatever. But today, we are gonna go out there and we are gonna win this thing. Come on, y'all. Let's go. This is Pacashau. What would Bernie do? Come on, now. Pacashau. Pacashau. One, two. Not enough, not enough, not enough love Not enough, not enough Not enough love Not enough, not enough Not enough love Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. It's not enough love. The Lord is worthy to be praised, is he not? Yes. I said the Lord is worthy to be praised, isn't he? - Yeah. - So here's what I'd like to do. I'd like to take them just a little bit higher in here. Yeah! Come on, now, you understand me. Can we take them a little bit higher? Yeah! Do y'all mind if we lift him up and take y'all higher? I don't know what they're doing. Follow my cues, give them everything. Give me some of that Sly Stone funk. One, two, three. Huh! Boom laka-laka-laka Boom laka-la-ooga boom Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey Feeling's getting stronger Music's getting longer too Music is the esh in me He wants to He wants to - He wants to take you Higher Yeah, yeah - He 'Il take you - Higher - Ooh, if you let him - He will light your fire Your fire, yeah - He 'Il take you - Higher He'll take you higher Boom laka-laka-laka Boom laka-la-ooga boom Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah Up in the church with my homies Trying to get a little praise on - But it keep it down on the low key - Low key 'Cause you know how it is I saw a shorty She was checking up on me From the game she was saying in my ear You would think that she knew me So we decided to chill - The worship got heavy - Heavy - Got me feeling like I'm ready to blow - Blow - On! - On! - God's saying, "Come get me" - "Come get me " So I got down And brought my knees to the oor My knees to the floor That's when I told God, I said Yeah, yeah So I got down low Said, "God, come get me" - Yeah, yeah - I got so caught up because God told me Yeah, yeah - Now, my god and I are the best of homies - Yeah, yeah Next thing I knew I was all apart and screaming Yeah, yeah - Yes, I love you - Yes, I love you - Yes, I do - Yes, I do - Won't you let me take you - Won't you let me take you Higher? Higher He'll take you Higher - Higher, if you let him He will light your fire He will light your fire - Higher - Higher It's like I've waited my whole life For this one night It's gonna be me, you and the good Lord 'Cause we've only got one night Sing for his pleasure Sing for his son and praise forever - And ever - Forever And ever - Forever - And ever Forever with the good Forever - And ever - Forever And ever Forever with the good Lord I'm a beautiful lady No ifs, ands or maybes I'm releasing my heart And I'm feeling amazing There's no one else that matters No, no, no - He loves you - He love me - And he won't - And he won't Let you fall - He will take you - Higher Oh, yeah - He wants to take you - Higher - He will - He will light your fire Light your fire - Don't you wanna go - Higher - Higher? - Higher Higher Uh-huh, yeah Like a fool I went astray, O Lord Now I'm wondering If your love's still strong Whoo! - O Lord - Here I am Signed, sealed, delivered I'm yours Yeah Yeah, yeah And that time I went and said goodbye Now I'm back and not ashamed to cry Oh, no, here I am Signed, sealed, delivered I'm yours, I'm yours Here I am, Lord - You know I'm here right now - Signed, sealed, delivered - You've got the future in your hands - I'm yours - Yeah - Yeah, yeah, yeah - Here I am, Lord - Here I am, Lord - Signed, sealed, delivered, I'm yours - Signed, sealed, delivered I'm yours He wants to take you higher Signed, sealed, delivered Higher - Take me - I'm yours - Higher - He 'Il take you - Signed, sealed, delivered - Higher, higher I'm yours Higher - Higher, higher, yeah - Signed, sealed, delivered - Higher, higher - Oh, yeah, yeah - Signed, sealed, delivered - Come on Signed, sealed, delivered Higher - Oh, yeah - Higher Higher Signed, sealed, delivered Higher, higher Boom laka-laka-laka Boom boom boom Higher, higher Higher We did it. We did it. - Good morning. - Good morning, Vi Rose. - Good morning, winners. - Good morning. Let me help you with that. Thank you. My head's still spinning from last night. I just wish Bernie could've been here to see it. - Oh, I think Bernie was here to see it. - Mm... You may have noticed I don't do particularly well with change. That's because, in my experience, it mostly takes a big chunk out of your behind. But not this time. And that's due to Randy. I will never forget what he did for Walter. - He's a good kid. - Yeah. And he didn't just lick it off the ground. He had you. And we owe you a lot too. In fact, we owe you everything. Don't make a face. Oh. Look. Look at your daughter. She's looking at Randy like I look at cake. Yeah, the kind that stays in your stomach for nine months. You can close your mouth, Mama. This ain't the first time we kissed. I see him when the children are playing I hear him when the church bells ring On wedding days - I feel him when the breezes blow - Ooh, ooh - Adore him where the owers grow - Ooh, ooh We fear him when the oceans roar - He's everything - He's everything He's everything We're born, we live, we die And life goes on We love, we laugh, we cry So forth, so on - And we're a part of his creation - Ooh, ooh - Every person, every nation - Ooh, ooh - He's in every situation - He's in every situation Everything He's everything Let's lift him up Through everything He's loving us Is it asking all that much That we should do the same? So let us sing and raise our voice Let us make a joyful noise - Rejoice - Rejoice and praise his name - Rejoice - Rejoice - Sing it again - Oh, rejoice Rejoice His joy remains He's everything He's everything He's everything He's everything Praise his name His holy name He's everything He's always loving us We should show a little love - In everything, everything - Everything, everything He's the God of hope and change He's the cure for hurt and pain You know he loves us all the same - 'Cause he's everything, he's everything - Everything, everything In everything, he plays a part Heals and mends our broken hearts Restores us when we fall apart - 'Cause he's everything, he's everything - Everything, everything So lift him up, rejoice, rejoice Let us sing and raise our voice And let us make a joyful noise He is everything
