 

                        Citizens of Rome Gather round. Welcome to Gordion. Now Gordion was famous for his knot. The oracles predicted that who could untie the knot... would conquer the whole world. Many came from far and wide but none succeeded, until one day the mighty Alexander arrived Alexander, descended from the mighty God Apollo. Advance! Apollo enlightened Alexander and showed him how to untie the knot. Sulla has returned to Rome to establish order. He declares that the innocents have no reason to fear. But that those guilty of crimes against him shall be most severely punished. The men whose names are written on these lists are declared outlaws. They have no rights as citizens henceforth they may be killed on sight Anyone who takes it upon himself to kill any of these men... will be considered a friend of the state.. and shall be rewarded with the properties and possessions these outlaws leave behind. The biggest crime under Roman law. Mother? - Cornelia? Mother? Where is my wife? - at her fathers. Grandmother The soldiers are coming - Julia stay with her. Sulla has taken the city with his army He has made lists hundreds of people are on them Are you? - No my wife's father is. Julia stay in the house. Don't go. - Father where are you going? To get your mother. Is he not on the list? He's the one you want over there. - Right. Have you heard? - Yes we have to hurry. What's the point running away might as well die right here. Please go. - - She's right Cinna We must leave now. Cinna hurry. Go. - Please, father. Go Hurry! Go.! Please Cornelia, run! He has helped Cinna to escape Give me your name. It's Caesar, from the house of Julia. Arrest him. No please no! Are you Julius Caesar? -Yes. This way... This way. That is not negotiable. Who is he? Julius Caesar. Nephew to Marius... You have unfortunate ancestry. If you think it's unfortunate to be descendent from the Gods. Which God is that? - The Julia descendent from Aeneas, Who was... - The son of Venus, yes yes. I recall Marius making such claims. There are many people these days who claim to be descendents from the Gods. We have a crest which proves it.. I believe you can have them fashioned in the market place... ...for a couple of dinars. Why did you ask to see me? Your mother... She came to see me. Did she ask you to spare my life? And what you agreed? Well I promised that I would consider it. And I'm supposed to be grateful to you? - No. To you we are old friends. - You killed a lot of old friends... True, true true. Old friends of the day become fresh enemies at night. What do you want in exchange for my life? Why do you think I want anything in Exchange? And like you don't give things away for free. I'm not a man without compassion. I will help you if I can. First you must understand the gravity of the crime. Cinna was my greatest enemy. And you helped him to escape. Did he? Of course not. He escaped my soldiers only to be killed by one of his servants. My wife? - She's well. I leave women to their health. And since you are only the son of Cinna by marriage, I intend to leave you to yours. If...? If you divorce your wife. Well? No I refuse. - You refuse to divorce your wife Even though it may cost you your life? My wife is my teacher. She's more clever than I am, She's more honest than I am, She's a more compelling argument than I am or you are. Or your office is. I won't divorce her. That is my answer. - Ah, Pompey... What can we do with men such as this? I don't know weather to embrace him or strangle him. I think we should let him go. - What? His uncle Marius was my greatest enemy. He's got ten Marius inside him. Look at his eyes. You want to let him go? It's the ones who smile and flatter you should worry about. He speaks plainly. You speak plainly don't you? Always. Tell me... Would you kill me if you could? In an instant. You can go. I said you are free to go. What a big heart that boy has. Bring it to me in the morning. Was this Sulla's plan to slaughter me outside so I wouldnt foul the carpet with my blood? I came to warn you. - Why? Because if you don't leave Rome I'll have to do as he asks. And? And I don't want to see men like you die young.. What do you know about me? - You refuse Sulla. I'll tell you more some day when there is time. But now you must leave Rome. Your family will be safe, here take this. Go east to Bythinia. Show this ring to Nicomedias, it will keep you safe in his service. How do I know I can trust you? - You don't. I'll not hand my fate over to that man. So you'd let him kill you? He can try if he wants, I'm not leaving Rome. Why must you be so stubborn! Pompey himself offers you help. Why don't you accept it? He's Sulla's man, it could be a trick. Don't you trust anybody at all? - yes. I trust you. - Then listen to me. You're not the heaven and the earth. You're just a man. And some things are bigger than you are. When you were in jail... ...I thought you were dead. I started to grieve your death. I'm asking you to spare me that, Caesar. How can I live with myself if I knew I had one chance to save your life. And I failed Is this pig for sale? - How much will you give me for it? Ten dinars. - That's good money for a swine. He requires carving. Julius Caesar. We will feed it to my dogs. That's the coast of Crete. The ruler there used to make up laws and hang them so high that people couldn't read them. And if they broke the law he'd show then no mercy. Today the shores are infected by pirates. We need to anchor for the night. Where has father gone? The other side of the water. How long does it take to cross the water? It depends on the wind. Sometimes you can cross it in days. Sometimes if the air is still you may not move at all. Easy on the ropes, we could use nails. Its the Roman way isn't it? What kind of ransom do you get for a Roman these days? Two talents. But I'll pay three to watch a roman drowned. You'd get fifty from me alive. And who would collect it? They would. If your men... ...don't return before dawn, you die. Your time is up, Roman. I'll fight one of you for another day. That's another day. Nobody is coming back for this Roman. Throw him in the sea. Ship! Fifty talents. And the money just happened to find it's way into your purse? Sir I never stole a coin from you. And I suppose it was the goldsmiths who just happened to rob me again. Sir they've been convicted for it. I know how these things work. You share the profits with these men. You pay me well I would never risk my life for a gold coin. This is the magistrate's testament the goldsmiths have confessed. Flavius had nothing to do with it. Are you trying to tell me that a man who handles so much gold. never put a piece into his pocket? He's been proven innocent. This needs your signature. Strangle him. - Wait! He's been proven innocent. Well I, just disapprove of the verdict. Sulla... He's a good man, and he's here on my introduction. Allow me to vouch for him and protect him. You can vouch for him all you like. But protect him you can't. the penalty protests strangulation. Strangle him. - There seems to be an error of judgment. My judgment? Pompey... You're becoming very critical. You want to rise above me. Just waiting for your chance. Those men worship the rising sun and not the setting sun. That's how the saying goes isn't it? But I am not the setting sun not yet but in the meantime... ...I expect you to subordinate yourself to my wishes weather you understand them... ...or not. Strangle him! No... You... You strangle him. No. Taije did you hear him say no? Ah, my dear general. I asked you to strangle Flavius and strangle Flavius you will. And you will do it with your own bare hands. You will strangle Flavius or you yourself will be strangled. Strangle him! Strangle him now! I will not have my orders disobeyed! I swear to... Father... Who are your friends? Portia and Marcus. Don't you remember them? Of course Cato's children. Just don't grow them so much. Thats our cousin. Brutus... What you reading? - "Ethics". Aristotle? - My uncle Cato gave it to me. How is he? - He's as grumpy as ever. Hasn't changed a bit. - Mother. Caesar! Don't get up. - I'm not ill. Let me get dressed. I'm well, I just got up too fast. You don't have to get dressed. Lets lie down together. No wait. Just... Cornelia... I never stopped waiting for you. I never stopped missing you. and now... Here... This is not supposed to happen. I'm back now, my love. Two years is just too long. There are those of you who work with Sulla. and those of you who worked... ...against him. But not all that worked with him agreed with his laws. I therefore propose that the rights of the tribunes be restored So that once again the people can be fairly represented. I propose a thorough reform of the courts. And an unqualified reinstatement of the senate As the principal body of government. Caesar! It's good to see you fresh from another victory. Oh he let's me win. It makes me feel old. I'm Glad to see you made it back safely. I hear you met with a number of obstacles. Yes. Fortunately your friend Nicomedias has proven to be a great ally. I never had a chance to thank you... ...for saving my life. You defied Sulla. He told you to divorce your wife and you said no even though it meant sudden death. That impressed me. And it... reminded me of something. You see my friend, Sulla once told me to divorce my wife. And unlike you I obeyed him. I left the one woman I loved. Life is full of lessons. So we thought each other a thing of two. Tell me how to get where you are now. Don't tell me I was wrong to hope you were spared. I have something to give to Rome. But I have no voice. If you want a voice in Rome, Win the people, speak from your heart... And when you make a promise, keep it! Pompey... I promise you if you ever need my help... ...just give me a sign, I'll come to your aid. My name is Julius Caesar. I'm here to honor my wife, Cornelia... ...publicly and for the last time. She was a good woman. She gave no thought to her own wellbeing. Only to the wellbeing of others. Rome was her first and greatest love. We shared that love. We dreamt of a Rome without dictators. Where sons never raise their hands against their fathers. Where brothers never raise their swords against brothers. Where Romans lived at peace with fellow Romans by their side. I ask you now to join with me, In honoring not only the memory of my good wife, But in memory of all the good men and women who have died fighting for a better Rome. People of Rome, I, Julius Caesar, make you this promise on the body of my beloved wife... ...I will not rest until the Rome she dreamed of is the Rome we live in. Join me. By not only the nephew to our beloved Marius, Who fought against the evils of Sulla who took his life from him. But I'm also a son of the Julia, Who are descendents of the goddess Venus herself. I offer you my hand. A power supreme amongst mortal men, Granted by the gods superior to kings. Let us work together comrades, in our quest for an empire, that is boundless, united...and free. We shall have to watch him. Or use him. Good morning to you, Caesar... Hail Caesar. Greetings, Caesar. Julia, I have something for you. Now then... Ah here it is. And I hope it will make you smile. That's the first I seen you smile in weeks. Stop it all of you! There is nothing he can do about it. What happened? - The price of bread has tripled. There is no grain in Rome. --Why? Because the grain supply from Egypt was cut off by pirates. Half of Rome is without bread. The city is close to panic. Only the very rich can afford bread. We must fight the pirates now or Rome will be crippled forever. So I propose that Pompey be given legions to attack this problem once and for all. It's not a question of weather or not we fight pirates, It's a matter of how. I propose we equip ten small armies to fight the pirates at different parts of the coast. So the pirates can destroy Rome one two by the time? The pirates are a bunch of uneducated hoodlums. I hardly think they could stand against a Roman assault of any size. Lets talk about things are gentlemen. Not the way we would like then to be. I can attest to the threat posed by these scavengers. I was a victim of one of their assaults myself. Then perhaps you will regale us with your sea stories Gaius Julius In the tavern after the work of the senate is done. The work of the senate is rarely done. You see there are not thousands of pirates in our waters. But hundreds of thousands. Enough for all the rogue bands preying on single vessels. There are pirate admirals seeking, With thousands of ships and troops more skilled in naval combat even than our own. Pretty speeches like this won't even cook our lunch. No speeches do as little work as the senate. How dare this arrogant newcomer insult this Auguste body? Auguste and plump, Bibulus, like your own body. Apparent from ardent chatter and inactivity. Enough, ...enough, ...enough! We have a man in our company who can resolve this conflict with the pirates. But do we honor him with that duty? No. I'm with Caesar, we have no bread. Now are we a great empire or are we going to be ruled by outlaws? To perform this commission, Pompey will have to be given an army twice the size of the one Sulla used to take Rome Have we learned nothing from the past? I see Rome should go Hungary because Cato can't find a single man he can trust. Not any man with an army would take the state. Not every man is a Sulla. some men are ruled by circumstances but men of character bend circumstances to their will. They make nature behave in such a way that their will is carried out on this earth. They defy the elements. And sometimes defy their own base of nature. In order to see their ideals come alive before their eyes. Pompey is such a man. Those of you who have lived know one thing to keep the nation small. Civil strife. Tribes fighting tribes rather than banding together in one arm of power. As long as we fight in this room seeking personal victories, enacting petty revenges, Rome will stay small! I propose we put our opinions aside and let one feeling rule us for a time The love of Rome. I propose we put our strengths together and become a force The world has never seen. I propose you let a man... ...a single man, lead us out of the dark. I propose Pompey. All those in favor. Marcus... - Julia. Julia... look at you. Brutus, wake up and tell Julia how beautiful she looks. Beautiful. - You like it? All dressed for Pompey's triumph... Who's going with me? None of you wants to join the counsel of Rome? No offense, father, but do you really think we're going to trail around with your lecters around. Rome's greatest general has returned. And we want to be free to run and follow him... Run yes, ...run...run Go and enjoy yourselves. Come on. - Thank you Pompus. Brutus? Arent you going with them? I want to return this to Apollonius. - What is this? 'Ah yes the Plato's law... Did you read it? - Yes. And? Plato thinks that democracy is doomed to failure. He thinks that a state should be run by a dictator. A dictator who's become enlightened through experience and learning. I don't think Plato would get along with your uncle Cato. Brutus! Hurry up! - Come on! Hurry and catch up with your friends or you'll have to come along with me. See you at the ceremony. Goodbye, father. See, See... Do you know what I want? Thank you for your kindness. Let me take care of my son now.. Mother... - Shh... rest. Something happened to me there. It's an affliction no more no less. Your grandfather suffered the same spells and lived into old age. Name something else. For happened those watching Pompey. He's been a friend to me. We speak together easily like brothers. Yet we couldn't be more different. He's a great army leader. His province has made him the richest and most powerful man in Rome. Your father wanted you to be a statesman and now you are a counsel of Rome. That would have been beyond his dreams. I need an army. To turn yourself into a Pompey? How would you pay and feed such an army? Your counsel ship already costs a fortune. Yes, I am counsel and I am broke. Your attack today was stronger than usual. There was something else mother, this attack was different in other ways. How? I saw something. I saw something at that moment. Not just about myself. But about the whole humankind. How we keep ourselves small. Then I realized I had not been inspired. And as I watched Pompey I saw that he was not inspired. And he would never be inspired. And I realized the difference between Pompey and me. Pompey has merely done something. But I, am for something. I need legions. Pompey has them. He will lend them to me. Why would Pompey do that diminishing his own power. What could you offer him in return to equal the value of an army? We trust in the wisdom of our fathers And in their laws. and I, Cato, trust in him. Hail Pompey! Cato, you flatter me. But let us give credit to another man. For I could not have fought a war across the sea Without knowledge that Rome was in safe hands here at home. For that we owe a debt of gratitude to my friend and fellow council, Gaius Julius Caesar! Hail Caesar! This is my daughter, Julia. - Yes I know we've met. It would honor my house if you would give us a recitation. Not in front of so many people? - You've done it in larger groups than this. Father I assure you that I'm not prepared for it. Come... The daughter of Caesar will recite for us. Tonight, Stands beside me and prays with me A man dear to me and dear to the gods. Mightier in victory than the kings of Mycnea With their golden haired horses. And stronger more than the battle ghosts That ride the shores of Troy. Hear me, Sons of gold headed men. Hear me sing the victory Of a man dear to me and to the Gods. Its really nothing. - No, Its not your fault. I'm not sure who's fault it is but I assure you I will find out and he will be punished severely. Thank you, councilor. What is your name? - Calpurnia. From which house? - Lucius Piso. I'm sorry for staring, I thought perhaps... ...we met somewhere before. Would you like to eat together? - I'd be delighted. What hour do you call this? I think it's known as the fifth hour. - Yes, The sun is coming up. You're right, I was out with him. We drank and ate and had entertainment. He cares for me. - Ah yes, he's twice your age. And your friend remember. Yes, he is my friend. I just want to know if he treats you with respect. I like him... I do. I don't love him not yet but, ...that may come Why are you behaving in such a manner? He is council. He's the first man in Rome. He has legions. The price is high. What price? It's customary for the father to offer a dowry. You know I have nothing to give you. I accept. I want a commission. Gaul. - Gaul? It's taken. By Cassius. - I need a victory in battle. Your not experienced enough in warfare and you need legions. Your legions... She's all I got, ...I want 50 thousand for her. 50,000 talents? Soldiers. How could you do it? How could you take my commission away? Because I think Caesar's the right man for Gaul. But I've put my staff to considerable expense preparing my men. And you'll be re-embursed. - What? And I'll propose that you will look after the garrison. The garrison? - This won't do, Pompey. We should put this before the senate... - Let's not talk business... ...At my wedding. It may tempt bad luck. I have a confession to make. What's that? We did meet before. or rather... ...I met you but you didn't meet me. It was at the Pompey's triumph. You fell. Nobody saw it but me. I held you to make sure you wouldn't hurt yourself. - Thank you. It shames me. I never know when its going to happen. Many believe those who have the condition are holy... ...Blessed by the Gods. Perhaps. What do you suppose a child of both our faces blended together would look like? I think that it would look rather beautiful. Do you? Is it something you'd like to find out? - Yes. Are you sure? I am less sure about my own name than I am about this. I am terrible to have to ask. - We have servants. And if I want to go to bed early? I'll follow you. Caesar... You must make me a promise. - Anything you like. Come back from this war alive. I promise you. And hurry. - That's two promises. And win it. - That's three promises. Now it is your turn to promise me one thing. Will you marry me before I leave. How many dead? - In the region of 23,000 Celts. And Romans? - 112. I'll have to prepare the burial back in Rome. We're not returning to Rome. We're going farther north. There's a lot more of Rome out there. Just hasnt called Rome yet. The Romans! We must tell Caesar to retreat. What I gave to Caesar, I will not revoke. Wait! Put down your blades. Why have you come here? This land is ours, you have no right to be here. What is your name? Vercingtorix. You stayed to fight alone? - This is my house. I built it with my own hands. And you'll burn it down. You're free to go. Give me a horse. You heard him. Give him a horse. My dear Caesar, The people speak of you with admiration. Some call you the great as they called Pompey. In the market people sometimes bow to me as they pass. You will also be delighted to know The marriage that began as an advantage, has blossomed into romance. Watching Julia and Pompey together delights me and saddens me. That you're not here. No one could be prouder to be your wife, Caesar. But after so long without you, I fear I'm getting used to my solitude. Come home soon my darling. Until then I will be waiting. Caesar has killed 300,000 Celts. He attacked peaceful villages, villages who pay taxes to the Roman state. Its beyond toleration! This is how you thank a great Roman general? Caesar sent 100,000 slaves back to Rome. Are you saying you havent taken any of them? Then if any come from him I would have got them from somewhere else. Pompey, you have to be worry. He's been away three years fighting with your legions. He's doubled their salary. They are totally devoted to him. My lords, As Cicero has put it so well: Strain every nerve for the preservation of the state. Look in every corner for the storms. They will burst upon you if you do not see them in time. I just remembered who he is! What are you talking about? - That man. Mark Antony? Running from his debtors in Rome to find wealth in the provinces. Like all of us. - not me! I still fight for the glory of Rome. My cavalry has been attacked. - By who? Gaul tribesmen. 14,000 dead. - 14,000? And many more wounded. They acted under one leader. His name is Vercingtorix. Where could we find him? - In Alesia. How long is the march? - Eight days. Vercingtorix is in there With 18,000 of his men. Its the most invincible stronghold in Gaul. We'll never break it. - We won't have to break it. We'll build a wall around their city. We'll trap them inside and starve them. Nobody has ever built a fortification of that length. Then we will be the first. Let's not waste time. What do you want? I'm here to see Pompey. - Come here. Cato... - Pompey. Julia... What brings you to Pisa? I've come to speak with you. Your absence in Rome has been.. criticized. As you can see, my wife needs me here. Can we speak privately? What's the matter, Cato? Did your conversation depend on speaking ill of my father? Sit, sit, Cato. Thank you. Caesar is about to take the last stronghold in Gaul. Vercingtorix has called for every tribe from the mountains to the sea. They are on the move toward Alesia. How many men? Two hundred and fifty thousand. And my husband? - Forty thousand. He'll survive. He has survived these many years. He's never been up against so much. Is this true? Will my husband lose this time? No one knows the outcome of war. You are consul, Pompey. Do something. If Caesar wins this battle... - He will become the next Sulla. Thats what you were going to say wasnt it? That if he wins he will become the next Sulla... Why are you worried, Cato? You said he didn't stand a chance against the Gauls. Why call him back? Why not leave him there to fight this battle to his own death? If you leave him there your next Sulla will extinguish himself. You're waiting for my husband to fail, Aren't you? And so are you. To arms! This is it. Soldiers at the gate! He's trying to fool us into gathering our troops here. How do you know what he'll do? Because that's what I would do I will wait here for Vercingtorix to make his move. His men are to weak to attack our main camp. He will move his cavalry here and try to break through the main wall While his allies attack from the outside. We cannot let these two forces join together. If they do, We will not survive. Retreat! Caesar your men are asking for you. It is with great sadness that I write this letter to you my dear husband. Your Julia gave birth early and she suffered some pain in doing so. The doctors were there and did what they could to ease her suffering. The child was a boy but frail their efforts could not save him. He looked like you Caesar, there was nobility in his face. Your daughter struggled to sustain this tragic birth. But in the end she could not. Pompey has kept himself from the senate, preferring instead to pass time in no company. He walks around the graveyard again and again, Keeping fresh garlands on her tomb. We take Alesia in the morning Open the gate. I know your only enemy is one man and he is standing before you now.. I'm giving myself to you, Caesar. Our women died for us. I give you my own life so that you may let my men live. If my men die there will be nothing left of the Gauls, and no one left to worship our gods. I beg you. Enslave my people if you need to. But let them live. Your men will live. My dear wife, You'll have to wait a bit more before we're together again. You see there are those in Rome who would have me branded an outlaw. So I have sent Mark Antony to talk to the senate on my behalf. Since there has never been a soldier with an army such as mine who would return to Rome without taking her by force, I too must be planning such an assault, ..but my crime is worse Because I return not in dishonor, but in triumph. And this the senate cannot tolerate. How long ago did Sulla ride into town with his army, Breaking the sacred Roman law stating no man! Must bring armed men past the Rubicon into Rome. How fresh in your memories does bloodshed have to be? For you to show caution. Caesar has done more for Rome than any other general in its history. How do you respond... You strip him of his councilship in his absence without explanation. He's more than doubled the size of Rome in the last eight years and what do you ask him to do. Lay down his arms. It's not Caesar, who is the criminal. It is this senate! This senate represents the people of Rome. This senate, represents its own interests. Sulla said the very same thing. If he said it, he was right. But the difference between Sulla and Caesar is The people feared Sulla, Caesar they love.. You know nothing... ...of people's feelings. Your right I don't. Let me ask them. People of Rome, I come to you with questions from Caesar. He needs to know what you want so he can better serve your need. The senate says they represents the people. But the senate wants Caesar to lay down his arms, and return to Rome as a man, Not as a soldier. And when he arrives, the senate will find him guilty of crimes against the state. Caesar's crime is spending eight years in battle, outside of Rome, With none of the comforts we take for granted with a daily treat to his life. Why? So he can bring wealth to the Roman people. Temples, libraries, holidays and games... are all funded by Cesars levies in Gaul. Yet what do they think in the senate? They think he's doing this for personal gains... I ask you If he's doing this for private gain, Why does he stay in Gaul? Why does he live in a tent? I, know why he does it. He does it so we, Romans, can live well. What are you going to do about this? Whatever these men may think, some of whom have never been up on a horse's back, I have never known a man tougher on the enemies of Rome nor gentler to his friends. When I call myself a Roman, The thing that makes me most proud, Is to share that title with one other man. A man who it has been my privilege to fight beside. A man that has shown time and again That he loves his own life less than he loves yours. His name is Gaius Julius Caesar! We must do something, Pompey. Caesar could march on Rome any time. I'm not going to wait for him to come to us, I'll gather our troops. And attack him before he sets foot in Rome. I'm going to wipe him and his legions off the face of the earth. Men, we have two choices. We can be slaughtered by the army Pompey is massing against us. Or we can fight for our lives, Just as we have done every day for eight years. I've made my decision. I'm going to Rome. I'm going to cross the Rubicon. Will anyone be coming with me? To Rome! Let the dice fly. My legions from Spain should bear up to Austria from the west. The Thracians will come to us from the north. and from the east the Macedonians. Caesar is on his way to Rome. How far is he? - Four days from here. That's impossible! - I heard it from Bibulus himself. Caesar has passed the Rubicon. We must leave Rome. We cannot defend it without troops. We'll go to Greece. We'll amass what strength we can, And then we'll take him in Rome itself. I only hope we don't arrive too late and find the bodies of our friends on the senate steps. It has been decreed by the new senate That the title of dictator is bestowed on Gaius Julius Caesar. It is decreed there will be fifty days of thanksgiving in his honor. He is given the courts and elected consol for life. Hail Caesar! You treat me as a king. Though I assure that is one role I shall never adopt. I am Caesar, and only Caesar. It is for this crown alone I conquered Gaul. Caesar... Caesar! Beware the Ides of March. The Ides of March. Beware. The men and women of Rome are crying out for your head. For a moment, I saw them as you do. You don't know how I see them. I was disgusted with them. How do you keep your purpose clear in your mind? When I met you in your village, I could see you had your purpose clear in your mind. And it was pure. I can see that it hasnt changed. What could you do to preserve it? You want to know? Yes. I only fight my enemies. You think we are similar, Don't you? Thats why it pains you to see me die. We are very different, you and me. I know when its over. And what's left isn't worth having. Give me the honor of dying alone, by my own hand. Instead of in a public spectacle of your Roman mob. I have to do what the people want, I have no choice. I thought power gave you more choice, not less. Listen to them. Do you hear that? For pity sake, give me a sword. Hail Caesar. The ranks here are depleted. My men will be joining you. How shall we explain to the people That these men have become senators? They haven't been selected by the provisional leaders The law is changed. And keep in mind the people trust my judgment. You will be joined by my finest men. I've spent eight years with them in Gaul. I must leave for Greece to fight Pompey. I'm leaving Rome in Mark Antony's capable charge. - Do we have no say in this? I don't want to distract you with bureaucracy. I'd rather leave you free to argue matters of the state. You think there will be black lists... There won't be any lists. Sulla killed his enemies, I forgive mine. Good day to you, gentlemen. They left in a hurry. Attention Caesar! I did not cross the Rubicon to kill old friends. I did it to protect myself against my enemies. I hope we can secure ourselves through mercy and not vengefulness. Your all free to go. - We owe, all our lives to Caesar. Did you say something, my old friend? I thought I heard you speak. I'm grateful for your clemency. Brutus, come dine with me. Caesar... make peace with Pompey. For years, His only hope was that one day, You would rule Rome, together again... With what? With Julia, uniting you both. He tolerated me, Because he loved Julia so much. Caesar he loved Julia because he saw you in her. He told me that Julia's death made life unbearable. And add to that the end of your friendship. He counted his life as finished. I'll make peace with him if peace is what you want. I want to establish some sanity in Rome. The people had enough of fighting. Will you help me? - How can I help you? I want you to go back to Rome and be my prteur. If peace is what you want, Then it will be my honor to serve you. Pompey has gone to Egypt. The king died, leaving throne to be squabbled over by a twelve year old boy and eighteen year old girl. Ptolemy and Cleopatra? I don't know which one I trust less. Help me ready the ships. I'll follow him in the morning. You don't need to take troops with you. Pompey has gone to Egypt alone. the troops went to Utica. With your uncle Cato? - Yes. Trust me, Brutus. Whoever wants peace, will have it. He was most cruelly murdered on the palace steps by his own men. It's rumored that they were bribed by Pothinus. By Caesar. There's only one enemy left. I am Pothinus, chief of the ruling counsel. In the name of king Ptolemy, I welcome you, Caesar. Your king is very generous, But as you can see, we haven't brought any horses. This grain is for your men sir. My men will eat indoors, Pothinus. I'm sure you will put us up very comfortably, in your palace. I'll tell you the truth, Caesar. Ptolemy fears for his life. There's been a great deal of discord in Egypt. So he has forbidden all visitors. You, of course, are very welcome in the palace. And my men. And your men. Pothinus, you wouldn't have anything to do with helping the king make his decisions? Would you? - The king is a boy sir. Forgive him, and forgive me. We are your allies and your servants great Caesar. We only have the interests of Rome in our hearts. Bring out the gift. This is Pompey's ring... Where is he? We thought you'd be pleased. Excuse me, Caesar. There is a servant with an urgent message from Cleopatra. Bring her. If you want to hear the message you'll have to dismiss your guard. What word from Cleopatra is of such importance? Cleopatra asks for your protection. Protection, why? Pothinus plans to kill her, as he did Pompey. Is that why you are disguised as your own servant... ...Cleopatra? I came to you, Caesar, Because you are the only man I can trust. Why does Pothinus want to kill you? My father wanted me to rule Egypt, he wrote it in his will. But Pothinus banished me with a price on my head. Now any servant can kill me and be rewarded for it. Caesar... You and I, are alike. You are the son of Venus, and I, am the daughter of Isis. You and I, live by the same divine heart beat. That's why we must help each other. - Are you trying to seduce me? I don't try. I seduce... ...or I don't. I do not have to seduce with my body. I have something much better than that. My country... ...It is the richest land in the world. Egypt and Rome are different. Rome is masculine. Egypt is feminine. Rome, is sunlight, Egypt is twilight. But its not part of Rome not yet. Make me queen, and the east and west will be united. We will be god and goddess ruling the world. You kiss me with the tongue of a serpent. I must test you to see if you are poison. And am I? - No, but I can taste Gaul. Will you stay in Egypt with me Caesar? - What does Egypt have to offer That Rome does not? - Have you heard of the fertile crescent? Is it the region down below? - It is it is! What grows there? I believe the region fertile enough to hut a king. If you doubt it try planting something there! Only promise me one thing. When you return to Rome, you must be fateful to me. But I'm married, I'm, already being unfaithful. - ...with you! - Let's go. Demand you give yourself to a woman. In politics you lie you're unfaithful. - We'll bury him with honors. I'll bury him myself Let the state celebrate his life. - Which state? Rome? The Rome of Caesar? To accept your honors would defile my name. And on behalf of my father and my family, I decline. Now I'm asking you to leave this room. There is no peace in the world like in my house. Calpurnia... Would you greet your husband with a kiss? Dismiss them. Can't a man return to his home and expect a warmer mood from his wife? How could you bring her to Rome? It was for the good of the state. Cleopatra rules a large part of Africa. And all of you. No one rules me Calpurnia. Not Cleopatra, not even you. But what I want is the love that you promised me when we married. You can't have it. You can have my obedience, you can have my loyalty. But I can't love those who dishonor me. No one can dishonored you. - You're right I dishonored myself When I gave my vows to you in marriage. - You made a good marriage you're Caesar's wife! I should have married a man other than Caesar, That would have been a good marriage. So I wouldn't have to watch my husband perform for Egypt every night, in order to keep the riches of that land flowing into Rome. Between you and Cleopatra, I don't know who is a concubine! Retain your dignity theres a limit to what I'll hear from you. I have no dignity left. Perhaps I ought to buy some. Maybe I should learn like you have, that you can be bought and sold. What's the price? What's the price of consulship these days? What's the price of being king? When did your hope leave and vision for the people become this lust for power itself? Was it when Julia died? I have nowhere else to go so I'll stay here. But I'll live apart from you, not as man and wife. May the gods forgive me for breaking my marriage vows. But I pray they forgive you for breaking yours. You're an early riser, Brutus. So are you. Lately I am. I couldn't sleep last night worrying about the honor of your name. You know something about these? I know the writing, but don't ask me who wrote them. Minds change quickly in these troubled times. And I take you to whoever doubt these men. Oh Brutus I did my best to persuade them that you are a man of honor, Though you wouldn't pledge to keep Caesar from becoming king. I gave you my pledge that I'd oppose him in the senate. But some of us feel that to oppose a man like Caesar with words is the same thing as handing him the crown. I try to use words before the sword, Cassius. Just as I try to use reason before passion. People say, calling on reason before passion can lead to idleness. And sometimes action is required. But I know that you're a decent man And that your meek and gentle nature is how you feel you best serve the good. I'm not gentle in defending my beliefs. But you have given me no proof that Caesar will demand the crown. Do you plan to be at the senate at the calendes of March? No, I will be here. They say that on that day Caesar will move that he be made king. I will come if I am sent for. - Ha ha! This is what they mean. People say that this is weakness to come when you are summoned and at no other time. To accept the favors of a tyrant like Caesar. He spared my life. - But he took the life of Cato, Your wife's father, who treated you as a son. Has she ceased her mourning? No, and neither have I. So you're grieving over Cato's death... - Cassius, yes I'm grieving. But private affection and public duty are not the same thing. And yet they say that in your grief, you just weep and say prayers and fill your wife's drinking cup and go to bed. And when Caesar comes to you tonight you'll be like his boy and fill his cup as well... Who is saying this? Who? I don't act for Caesar. I act for Rome, ...always for Rome. Brutus I've done everything to convince them you're a man of action that you love Rome. I've spoken in your behalf many times singing your praise, condemning those who speak against you. But... some men have ideas. They think highly of those who gave their lives to expel the kings from Rome. Your ancestors! And they were only men, not gods. Please don't stay. - I am staying. Why do you want to torment yourself? - I won't be tormented. Will he? Isn't that what you wanted to do? It will be the best thing for all. I don't trust that you or any other man knows what's best for Rome. I will take my seat. A woman has a right to see varity, doesn't she? Calpurnia... Portia... Romans we're here to celebrate the return of Caesar! His return, not only with her majesty Cleopatra, But with Egypt itself. Where he has transformed the richest land in all the world. It is now not only Egypt,. It is Egypt... and it is Rome! I said before and I will say again... I will not be king of Rome. I an only Caesar. I need no crown... ...to act on your behalf. Do you still believe that ours is not just cause? I'm with you. We have to act soon. We will wait when Caesar brings the senate to order. Lepide will call for the elections. Casca, you will ask Caesar to consider the petitions. You, Cassius, will step behind Caesar. No man should go for his blade until we're all in reach of Caesar. Every knife must enter Caesar's body at least once. And if, ..we fail, our plot is discovered before we even begin, we turn our knives on ourselves, ...without hesitation. We all agreed? For the senate. I will meet with Caesar at Cleopatra's house. Go. Brutus... Why are you pacing like that? - I'm concerned we will be late. Caesar! Calpurnia, What are you doing here? I had a dream last night. Please don't go out today. I'll come to you later, at our home. I saw you slaughtered, in your own blood. It was horrible. Well I cannot let dreams or flights of birds direct my actions. I can't let you go. I swallow my pride today to come to you, Because your life is more important to me than my pride. Now you listen to me... The senate is conviened for the consul. They can't conduct one day of business without their Caesar? There are matters on the agenda which can only be dealt with by you Caesar. They can wait a day. - And what should I tell the senate? That their consul is at home, because his wife had a bad dream... As your friend Caesar, I have to advise you on this. You called the senate together. Show them you're a man of intention. Meet with your senate. They are waiting for your guidance. I'll be with him lady. I'll never leave his side. I'll come to you later. Hail Caesar! Portia... I'm not fit to be alone today. Sit down. Bring us some wine. - Yes, let's have some wine. What business do we have today? Two legal briefings, And election for a questeur, and the petitions from the senate. Let's get the election out of the way. - The election I move we take the petitions, first. I called for the election the election will commence. But a... Marcus Octavius, who is running for the office, is not yet here. Petitioners, then. Approach. I'm glad Caesar is with Brutus today. Why? Last night I dreamt, He was stabbed to death. Brutus... Caesar, I ask mercy for my exiled brother. Why are you petitioning what so recently has been denied? Who is the next petitioner? I want to ask mercy for my father who has been put in jail. I ruled your father be in prison and my word is law. Old man... You said something foretell the Ides of March. nothing has happened yet, The ides have come. They have come, but they've not yet gone. I want to ask for your pardon, my great Caesar. And I pray for your soul. Stop it! Caesar! Caesar is assasinated! Brutus...
