 

                        Yeah, that's it. I was out there on the road Life out of control She became a victim to my busy schedule And I know that it's not fair That don't mean that I don't care This one's dedicated to the girl out there - Okay. Good job. - Thank you. No. If I shaved right now... Shave it. No, I'm not doing this, bro. But why the mustache? I wanna feel I'm grown up, you know. There's a phase you go through when you think that the mustache actually looks good on you. But, um... It's delusional. It's just all... It's all delusional. Basically this 'stache is to make me think or feel a little bit older. See, when I can grow a full beard like that, I'm gonna be rocking. But this right here, it's coming. - So, um... - You should slate this. Okay, let's slate it. When you've reached a certain point in your life, there are people out there who sit waiting, wanting to see you fall. But rather than let gravity take you down, sometimes you have to take matters into your own hands... ...and fly. Let's go! What's up, Miami? How you feeling tonight? If you're ready to believe, let's make some noise. You're beautiful, beautiful you should know it You're beautiful, beautiful you should know it I think it's time Think it's time That you show it You're beautiful, beautiful Baby, what you doin'? Where you at, where you at? Why you actin' so shy? Holdin' back, holdin' back We're not the only ones Doin' it like that It like that So DJ bring that Bring that Bring that Bring that back 'Cause all around the world people want to be loved Yeah 'Cause all around the world Miami! We need you to put your hands up! They're no different than us Right now! Yeah 'Cause all around the world People want to be loved Yeah 'Cause all around the world They're no different than us All around the world All around the world What's up, Miami? You know I've been all around the world, right? Well, tonight I wanna take you with me. You ready? One, two... All around the world People want to be loved Yeah 'Cause all around the world They're no different than us All around the world All around the world People wanna be loved All around the world All around the world They're no different than us All around the world All around the world They're no different than us All around the world You... Beyond all the lights and, you know, the hype and all the scrutiny and the pressure, at the end of the day, it comes down to a young man in a room writing a song. I don't know about you... That's where it all starts. And with Justin, it starts with a pad of paper and a pen and a melody in his head that's probably been there a very long time and he just needs to get it out. Music is his therapy. Music is his release. If I was your boyfriend... There? If I was your boyfriend I'd never let you go I can take you places you ain't never been before Baby, take a chance or you'll never ever know I got money in my hands that I'd really like to blow Swag, swag, on you Chillin' by the fire while we eatin' fondue I don't know about me but I know about you So say hello to falsetto in three, two Let me hear that pass. If I was your boyfriend I'd never let you go I've known him for four years now. And when I met him, he was just a little kid. Yeah, man, yeah, man, yeah. Ready? It'll look like I'm gonna die. But I'm really not gonna die. Just watch. - I'm gonna do it again. - No, no, no. You gotta shower. - Get in the shower. - One more time. Here, you take this. I gotta go do something. It was just us, you know, in a van going around the country. And really it started as me, Ryan, Pattie and Justin. - Last one. Go. - Ready? Fantastic. Then it went to the My World tour. And in that tour, he went from being a kid on a stoop who sang on YouTube to being a worldwide arena veteran. I'd like to be everything you want Hey, girl, let me talk to you Man, the trials of being a teenager, period. I mean, it's tumultuous, but, I mean, you just add on top of being one of the most sought after young icons of our time. It's like a Pandora's Box. Justin feels a lot of pressure, a lot of unseen pressure, to keep outdoing himself. There's a lot of expectation on him. You know, part of his childhood was taken away from him from working very early on, and, you know, he's constantly being judged. He's in a constant search for validation 'cause everyone's just waiting. You know, they're constantly just waiting for it to stop. In a weird way because of doubts, we keep finding ourselves the underdog. Hey, what's the situation? Whoa I'm just trying to make a little conversation Why the hesitation? Whoa Tell me what your name is For your information Don't get me wrong You know you're right Don't be so cold, we could be fire Tomorrow we go Let's start tonight You know what it's all about I can take you out I can take you home I can take you, oh... Where you wanna go I can pick it up We could take it slow I can take you home Oh, oh, oh I can take you out I can take you home I can take you Where you wanna go I can pick it up We could take it slow I can take you home Oh, oh, oh I can take you out I can take you home I can get you out I can take you home Oh, oh, oh Baby, seorita, ma chrie Please be my little lady My little lady, yeah Mi amor, you're the one I adore Come on, be my little lady My little lady I can take you home I can take you home I can take you, oh... Where you wanna go I can pick it up We could take it slow I can take you home Oh, oh, oh The first time he told me that he wanted to name the album "Believe," he said, "I just want for people to believe in me, "but at the same time I want them to know "that they helped get me here." I've been supporting him since day one. Ever since those videos on YouTube before One Time. That was us. We were the comments. I loved him from, like, the beginning when he was making videos on YouTube. And, oh, my gosh, I don't know. He's just so amazing. He's so hot. The haters are just jealous. Yeah. And they don't... I don't think... They just don't understand his music. They don't. Yeah, they just think, "Oh, it's Justin Bieber, he's a guy, we can't like him." But, like, that's not it. He's a musician, not just a guy. I thought he was cute last year, but, like, as I'm getting older and as he's getting older, like, oh, my God, he's just getting even more cuter every day. He's an idol for me and really talented, so... - Pull up that acoustic for me, Brent. - All right. You know, we have different relationships with different producers, the people that he goes in with and sees if he vibes with. Mike Posner, Max Martin... - ...Will.i.am. - Can you feel it in this beat? Okay. No, that's my heart, girl. And Rodney Jerkins. Working with Justin, he'll play me 20, 30 ideas and say, "No, man, I got ideas. I got ideas I gotta get out of me." And I thrive off of that because that just shows me how much he loves music. You know, Rodney Jerkins, that's like Michael Jackson, that's Mariah Carey. Like those are, like, the top of the top. Like, Rodney Jerkins, he's a legend. They start working and Rodney just has this beat. And he's hitting the drums and he's hitting the piano. He's going back and forth with the drums and the piano, and Justin's vibing out and then Justin starts, "Can I try something? Can I try something?" And Rodney's like, "Go, go, go." And then Justin starts trying to figure out hooks and melodies, and then Rodney's doing his hooks and his melodies. And then it just kept growing and growing and growing. We have a responsibility to our journey. Even though you're singing a song and it's about your situation in your life, you're singing it for everyone else to connect to. So what you're going through, tell it, tell the story, make it come to life, 'cause that's what it's about. Just take them on this crazy journey. To get them second-guessing and be like, "I already know how the song's gonna end," then boom, you smack them in the face with a Filet-O-Fish, you know what I'm saying, you get white stuff all up the side of their head. So, like, that's what you wanna do, you know what I'm saying, 'cause they think you're hitting them with French fries. A lot of times, he kinda just starts rapping, and he'll just start rapping his verses. And then the verses will start coming onto the songs. Take it slow, girl 'Cause things get... No, girl 'Cause things get crazy up on that road He'll get a track and then he'll start getting an idea. He'll write down a little bit or write it down on his phone in his notepad. Hey, you are the one thing It would be that I just... And then go into, like... I... I... I want, want, want you, you, you And then he'll go back on it again and he'll start putting more words to it. I want you, you, you I want you, you, you I want you, you, you Okay. I just... Don't let it get in the way Let's take it easy Oh, oh Don't let it get in the way You know, it just naturally kinda happened. You know, the song started flowing and... And the kids have been waiting for Believe for so long. We revved up the first single, and all they know is the name is "Boyfriend." - I can just guess how it goes. - How does it go? If I was your boyfriend... That's exactly how it... Never let you go That's exactly how it goes. Ever, ever, ever let you go That's exactly... Girl How did you know that? I'm just guessing that that's how it would go. I worked on the record Boyfriend, and originally the song was gonna be called "Inside of Your Bedroom," and I always hated that. Then we were in the studio with Justin and, like, really hit a wall. Like, what can we say instead of that? Finally we came up with, "If I was your boyfriend." And I loved that. I knew that was it. Let's do this! And we're just in full-on countdown mode. One day, 12 hours, six hours, 30 minutes, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. If I was your boyfriend I'd never let you go I can take you places you ain't never been before Baby, take a chance or you'll never ever know I got money in my hands that I'd really like to blow Swag, swag, swag, on you Chillin' by the fire while we eatin' fondue I don't know about me but I know about you So say hello to falsetto In three, two... I'd like to be everything you want Hey, girl, let me talk to you If I was your boyfriend I'd never let you go Keep you on my arm, girl You'd never be alone I can be a gentleman - Your new song, that's pretty sexy. - Oh, you like it? I tell everybody that you're not the Biebs anymore, man, you are Mr. Bieber. Tell me about picking Boyfriend as your first single. I feel like every single that's dropping is like this... Right, right. So I wanted to do something a little different, slow it down, something a little bit more mature. When the faders are up and you pull all that music down, and all you have is that vocal, if it's a hit then, then it'll be a hit always. People absolutely love the record. It debuted number one on the Billboard charts, and everyone really received how his voice had matured. Let me talk to you If I was your boyfriend I'd never let you go Keep you on my arm, girl You'd never be alone I can be a gentleman anything you want If I was your boyfriend I'd never let you go Never let you go Yeah, girl If I was your boyfriend If I was your boyfriend There was so much talk about what you were going to do next. I mean, everybody in the music business, everybody in the world had an opinion about it. Did you listen to all that? Did you shut the door and say, "You know what, I'm not gonna hear any of them, "I'm just gonna focus on what's inside of me?" I'm the only one who can ultimately make those decisions because, like, I'm gonna have to live with my career for the rest of my life, so I have to make those decisions, where I want my career to go. So she was sleeping and I was waiting till, like 12:00 a.m., like, for when it was released on iTunes. And right when it was released, I called her and I was like, "We have to buy it. We have to buy it right now." So we bought it and we just listened to it together on the phone, like, the whole time. Justin Bieber's album Believe scored the number one spot on the Billboard 200 Chart, selling 374,000 copies in the first week. It was about making music that was real to him, but that was also real to the fans. You know, it had to connect emotionally. We were on the phone together and we were both crying listening to Be Alright, and we're like, "This is the best song." Best song ever. As Long As You Love Me, it's definitely the best. Yeah. Thought of You, I love that song. That's a personal favorite. Oh, my God, that's his bus. I'm psyched to play it on the radio. This is a massive, monster hit. It feels good. Girl, I'm in love with the thought of you The album was out. It's number one. But at the end of the day, Justin wants to be known as an entertainer. You wanna be one of those artists that every generation waits for that concert to come to town. And we needed someone that Justin really trusted creatively to direct our tour. That person was shooting a movie. One morning I got a call from Scooter, and he said, "You know, last time you did a little enhancement on his show. "What if this time you got it from the ground up "where there is no show right now "and you would work with Justin to create the show?" And we were going to force him one way or another to commit to us. Justin called me and Scooter kept calling me and... Me and Justin had a plan. And I said, "Hey, me and Justin are over here, "we're hanging out, come over and see us." I'm, I'm hanging out right now. And, I have my friend Nick DeMoura here. Hello. And we have a special announcement. Um, Tom is back, our production manager. And, um, uh... Oh, oh, this is Justin Bieber. What's up, everybody? I'm Justin. And as soon as he got there, Justin and I just completely cornered him. They said, "You're not leaving this house "until you agree to do this show." And, Justin, we have a special announcement - about the Believe tour. - What is it? Well, I think someone's just joining on officially to come and help us creatively direct it. No, really? Yeah, yeah, to creatively direct it. - No. Who did? - Who did what? - Why don't you sit down over there. - Maybe it's Jon Chu. - Jonathan M. Chu. - Hello. What's up, everybody? And then Justin was like, "So are you in or are you not?" I said, "Well, I don't know yet. "I gotta figure out my schedule. "I gotta see your guys' schedule." He's like, "Jon, you're not leaving this until you say you're in." Jon has a problem saying no to Justin. Oh, my God. Can I open this one now? What do you got? She's crying with tears of joy, right? Let me see. Tears of joy. Oh, my God. Catherine, let me see. - Live Justin Bieber tickets. - What is it? Say you love me As much as I love you, yeah Would you hurt me, baby? Could you do that to me, yeah? Would you lie to me, baby? 'Cause the truth hurts so much more Would you do the things that drive me crazy? Leave my heart still at the door? Oh, I can't help it I'm just selfish There's no way that I could share you That would break my heart to pieces Honestly the truth is If I could just die in your arms I wouldn't mind 'Cause every time you touch me I just die in your arms Ooh, it feels so right So, baby, baby, please don't stop, girl Music is what brings us together. I can't tell you how many friends I've made because of music. Oh, if there is a reason... Music is a universal language that could describe any moment in life. I hear a certain song, it reminds me of my first heartbreak, first love. As any human being, you've heard a song and it catches you and it's a visceral reaction. Your mind isn't doing any work, but your gut, your heart, your soul, whatever you wanna call it, it feels it. Oh, I can't help it I'm just selfish There's no way that I could share you That would break my heart to pieces Honestly the truth is If I could just die in your arms... I love music. I love making music. I like making music that travels all around the world. And people are all in different countries, Mexico, London, France, all over the world are singing the lyrics. They might not even know how to speak English, but they're singing those lyrics. That's what it's about. If I could die... Don't stop, baby, no It's what you do to me Yeah, yeah Have you been in love? Have I been... Of course I've been in love. Um, I think being in love is the most powerful thing ever. It's an extreme feeling, being in love. Have you ever had heartbreak? Yes, yes, definitely. That's... That's even, I would say, it's about just the same feeling. As much as it is to fall in love, like, in that... It's that explosiveness, that fire, just when you break up from that, if you give them everything, and you break up from that, you're... It's the same type... It's like that clenching feeling like... Oh, like, when you... This is my feeling. Like, "Oh, I love her so much." But then that's the same feeling when we break up, it's like, "Oh, like, this hurts. This hurts so deep." It's just the same emotion, but, uh, flipped backwards. I'm here at Justin Bieber's world tour audition. This is the first time he's using girls, so I feel pretty honored to hopefully be one of the first to do that. Over there are a bunch of lovely ladies fighting for the gig. And there's limited spots, so it's pretty nerve-racking standing next to a good friend and knowing that one of you may make it, and one of you may not. Move, cha, pa, boom, boom, hold! Move, ba, da, da, hold. Pop, pop, shoo, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, hold. Let's go! Let's go! Five, six... Eight. Hold... Whoa! This is something that has been itching on the inside. Like, I've never really been on a tour before. And this would be such a dream come true. I'm getting older and I feel like if there's one time to do it, if there's one moment to have, it'd be this one here. Here we go. Let's get cracking. Justin just came in. Yeah, so no pressure, you know. I just was, like, so in there. I was like, "I want this so bad." So I was really nervous, but I worked so hard at that audition. I was fortunate enough to work with him before on the promo tour, and I see how he works and how dedicated he is and how involved he is with his music. It's not people just telling him what to do. It's really coming from him. So it'd be such an honor to be a part of his growth and watch his journey. Here, brother. Hey, CJ. It's, uh, Jon Chu. Most jobs, you don't get a personal call like that. So when that happened, it really, like, I really feel like I earned my spot. I remember your exact words. You were like... You got the job. You're going on the tour. Are you serious? I was, like, screaming. I was like, uh, just tears. I'm so excited to work with you, Jon. - I'm so excited. - Me, too. And then that moment that it became ours, it was, I mean, yeah, completely indescribable. I think he just started crying. I think he was crying. We made him cry, yes. - Make your dreams come true - True Miami... I need you to put your hands in the air, right now, hands up! Show you off Tonight I wanna show you off What you got A billion could've never bought We gonna party like it's 3012 tonight I wanna show you all the finer things in life So just forget about the world We're young tonight I'm coming for ya I'm coming for ya 'Cause all I need Is a beauty and a beat Who can make my life complete Once again, Miami, hands up right now. Let's go. It's all about you Hands up. When the music makes you move Baby, do it like you do... We had about eight or 12 weeks to put this show together. We had to build custom sets and design the costumes and the music. In the middle of it all, Scooter and Justin came to me, they're like, "Hey, we're gonna shoot this music video for Beauty and A Beat." "Oh, that's great, have fun." Scooter said, "I don't think you understand. "We'd really love it if you were to help Justin direct it." I said, "What?" All right. No peeing in the water. So five, six, seven, eight. One more time, sorry. One, two, three, four. It's all in his hands 'cause he's the one who's holding the camera, shooting the thing, directing the thing. And he's dancing in between all of that. Yes. And we have, like, 50 dancers, synchronized swimmers on the side, people flipping into the water. We gonna party like it's 3012 tonight I wanna show you all the finer things in life So just forget about the world We're young tonight I'm coming for ya I'm coming for ya 'Cause all... Nicki Minaj will be there. We're gonna throw her in the water. Uh, I'm just kidding. I wanna know how Nicki Minaj is gonna get on that platform. I feel like there's a lot of things we haven't thought about yet. We should probably harness her in somehow. - Just lift her. - Yeah. When the music makes you move Baby, do it like you do In time, ink lines Bitches couldn't get on my incline World tours, it's mine Ten little letters on a big sign Justin Bieber, you know I'mma hit 'em with the ether Buns out, wiener But I gotta keep an eye out for Selena Beauty, beauty and the beast Beauty from the east Beautiful confessions of the priest Beast, beauty from the streets We don't get deceased Every time a beauty on the beats Body rock, oh I wanna feel your body rock Raise your hands up, let's go. 'Cause all I need is a beauty and a beat Who can make my life complete 'Cause... Here he comes, here he comes. Yeah. And everyone's cheering at the end. That is true, true joy because everyone's so tired and excited that Justin got to direct his first music video. That's awesome. Justin Bieber. Yeah! Oh, my God. - Hannah? - Hey, that's enough. You got me tickets to Justin Bieber! Okay. That's enough. When I start choreographing, I just try to hear what the song is about. I try not to, like, control the song, what I want it to do. The song was there before I was, so I let it move me. I try to, like, show you what the song should look like. This show is crazy. We rehearsed, you know, 12-hour days, you know, for about two months straight with Justin. Hey, not like that. - Zoop. Zoop. - Yeah! - All right. I'm good. - Zoop, yeah. Hoorah, baby. I think the hardest part was taking it from the dance studio to the actual set, and the actual toaster lifts and the actual fly gags and timing-wise and transitioning everything, I think that was the hardest part. And I'm going up while this is playing? Justin, he had a lot more input. Here he had his own ideas he wanted to contribute, so it's a lot more of him giving himself to his fans, um, which makes the show a lot more personal to him. Being young and in the industry, there's a lot of things that people tell you to say, right? The music that I'm making now, it's all creatively coming from me, and I wanna do what I want. Like, if I'm not happy with what I wanna do and who I wanna be, then who... I'm not gonna be happy. We talked a lot about what does this album mean. And he says, "You know what, a lot of people want me to fail." But he's like, "That doesn't bother me. "'Cause no matter what, my fans are there "and they'll make me fly." And that really triggered, in my mind, like, "All right, we're gonna make you fly." You're gonna come in and you're gonna fly. With the cheers of your audience, they're gonna keep you up, and you're gonna fly in on wings made of instruments because it's your talent. And instruments, not just random instruments, but instruments that you play. So we have drums. We have keyboards. We have all these things that he plays built into these wings to symbolize that he's built of many, many parts. That's what makes him Justin Bieber. As long as you love me As long as you love me We're under pressure Seven billion people in the world trying to fit in Keep it together Smile on your face even though your heart is frowning But hey now, you know, girl We both know it's a cruel world But I will take my chances As long as you love me We could be starving We could be homeless We could be broke As long as you love me I'll be your platinum I'll be your silver I'll be your gold As long as you love me As long as you love me Love me I'll be your soldier Fighting every second of the day For your dreams, girl I'll be your Hova You could be my Destiny's Child On the scene, girl But don't stress And don't cry No, we don't need no wings to fly Just take my hand As long as you love me We could be starving We could be homeless We could be broke As long as you love me I'll be your platinum I'll be your silver I'll be your gold As long as you love me As long as you love me Yo, B-I-G I don't know if this makes sense But you're my hallelujah Give me a time and place, I'll rendezvous it I'll fly you to it, I'll beat you there Girl, you know I got you Us, trust... A couple of things I can't spell without "u" Now we are on top of the world 'Cause that's just how we do Used to tell me sky's the limit Now the sky's our point of view We'll be stepping out like, whoa Cameras point and shoot Ask me what's my best side I stand back and point at you You, you the one that I argue with I feel like I need a new girl to be bothered with But the grass ain't always greener on the other side It's green where you water it So I know we got issues, baby True, true, true But I'd rather work on this with you Than to go ahead and start with someone new As long as you love me We could be starving We could be homeless We could be broke As long as you love me I'll be your platinum I'll be your silver I'll be your gold Miami, make some noise! As long as you love me As long as you love me As long as you love me As long as you love me As long as you love me I'll be your platinum I'll be your silver I'll be your gold As long as you... As long as you... As long as you... As long as you... As long as you love me We could be starving We could be homeless We could be broke Justin! Baby, baby, baby, oh Six-year-old Avalanna Routh is a huge Justin Bieber fan. And now there's a Facebook page dedicated to trying to get her to meet the pop superstar. Avalanna had become Mrs. Bieber at her hospital. She had a rare disease. She loved Justin and they got a cardboard cutout of Justin. And she had a whole fake wedding at her hospital with this cardboard cutout. And it was on the news in Boston. And I was just blown away. She was adorable. So I called Justin. He said, "Let's meet her. "I'm gonna be in New York next week. "Let's bring her down from Boston." And, you know, it was supposed to be a quick meet and greet, and he ended up spending hours with her. I met with her and it wasn't... It wasn't normal. It was different. It wasn't like I was just meeting another fan. It was like... It was so special. I sat down. I played board games with her. I thought she was super adorable. It is. And they got really, really close like a big brother, but she called him her husband. And he called her Mrs. Bieber. - Name is? - She is Mrs. Bieber. And basically she had her own little wedding - at the hospital. - Yeah. She was like, "You're my husband, "so my mom's your mother-in-law." And she's so little and it's like, "Wow, she's so cute." Ducks, ducks, ducks. Quack, quack, quack. Smooth. Avalanna put her hands over her ears and he was singing to her. And then he goes, "What's wrong?" And she goes, "It's so loud in here. Why are they screaming? "You're my husband." What, are they... Are they just really loud? They're very loud. They're very loud. But that's a good thing. That's a good thing because that just means they're really supportive fans. Yeah. So, we're gonna get you back over there to Mom. But did you have fun up here? Yeah, I have to wear earphones. Okay. Okay. Well, we'll get you another pair of earphones side stage, okay, and you can watch the rest of the show? Is that gonna be cool? Yeah? Wanna give me a hug? Okay. We'll get you some earphones, sweetie. Come on, let's go. I love him. That was so cute. That was adorable. Oh, my God. And, uh... I'm sorry... Oh, my God. It's just like... But... Give a round of applause for Avalanna. Then slowly... ...her talking, her speech... ...started to slow down. And her eye started shutting on her left side. And, um... It was just... It was just hard to see. But... I miss her, bro. Our first show, Avalanna unfortunately died just four days earlier, and all of us were feeling it. Tonight's Lonely Girl is super special because, um... This song is dedicated to, um, to sweet Avalanna. So, um... Avalanna, if you're listening, I love you. And everyone... Everyone in here loves you as well. So, um, this one's for you. One less lonely girl One less lonely girl And Justin didn't feel like it was right to sing to a girl that night 'cause he had just shared the last time he performed One Less Lonely Girl, it was her in the chair. We took a bunch of pictures. We put them into a huge montage. During One Less Lonely Girl, we put them up on the screen. How many bags you packed Just to take them back? Tell me that How many either or's? But no more if you let me inside of your world There'll be one less lonely girl... And he didn't walk to the chair. He walked to the top and he stared and he sang to the screen. Before I saw you Now all I see is you Oh, no, don't need these other pretty faces 'Cause when you're mine, in the world... I think that was his way of saying goodbye. There's gonna be one less lonely girl One less lonely girl I'm coming for you One less lonely girl I'm coming for you One less lonely girl There's gonna be one less lonely girl I'm coming for you I'm gonna put you first I'll show you what you're worth If you let me inside of your world There's gonna be one less lonely girl One less lonely girl I'm coming for you One less lonely girl I'm coming for you One less lonely girl There's gonna be one less lonely girl She touched all of us in her short time on this planet, and, you know, those are the things that make the job real. We'll never forget her. That's row four, seat one. Hot seats. So things have changed since the last tour and Never Say Never. It was an amazing experience and something that we'll all be proud of the rest of our lives, but now we can't go outside. - You guys need tickets? - No, no, we've got tickets. Kenny goes outside and gets mobbed. Kenny! Dan Kanter We wrote this song for you We hope you like it We really do You know, Allison can't choose the One Less Lonely Girl anymore, so when I go outside now I have to literally disguise myself or hide to navigate the giveback that we do every show, 'cause we still give away those tickets. Can we have a picture with you? Would you mind if I hug you? All right. So here's my problem... Yeah. - I don't have enough tickets to take care of everybody. - Aw. Who's gonna stay outside out of your six? You gotta pick one person. Can we have a minute to talk about it? - You wanna have a minute to talk about it? - Yeah, a minute. I can't do that. I want, like, you don't... I can't. No, no, you were like one of the... What? So you won't go? All right. She's gonna stay. Hug her 'cause you guys get to go in. No, no. Hey, wait, come here, come here, come here... You guys trying to buy tickets? You have tickets? You have any? - Yeah, we did. - What happened to them? They're fraud? And they said they're fraud at the box office? - Yeah. - Are you upset? Yeah. - Oh, my God. - Shh. Shh. Oh, my God. I can't breathe. Oh, my God. I'm gonna cry. Guys? Yes. Girls, you have to hurry to get to your front row tickets. Front row! We still go outside and make sure kids are taken care of. We still go up to the top deck and upgrade people. And there's no better feeling in the world. We just gotta be a little sneakier about it. You don't owe me anything. We're good. We're good. Watch the cables and watch your fingers, video wall coming in. Okay. Lock number one set, everybody. Being on tour, we go to city to city to city, that schedule, it's so draining. He would just be on the bus and he'll just be in a stare, just like... And I'll just be like, "Hey." It's 7:00 a.m., barely slept anything, just had a show, three shows in a row, so exhausted. You just wanna run in the hotel and just go to sleep. This go round is way more popular than in my world. There's a lot more people outside. There's a lot more people at the bus, so it's hard to be normal. We can sneak off and try to be as normal as possible. But feeling normal, I don't think that's possible. When he's hiding in the trunk of a car so we can go get ice cream, sticking his hand out of the trunk just to feel air so he doesn't, like, go crazy of claustrophobia, and we're doing all of this just to sneak to go grab some ice cream. How can that even feel halfway normal? He's gotta go through things with everyone watching every step that he makes. Justin, do you love your fans? Do you love your fans, Justin? There's somewhat of a gift and a curse in being popular. Move out of the way, man. You gotta move out of the way. What'd you say? I'd been chased by those same people that whole trip, and they were talking nonsense the whole time, like verbally assaulting me. As a human being, rage comes out, and I happened to snap, and I opened the door and I was like, "What do you... "What are you guys..." I really wanted to hit him. We ended up peeling off. I learned from that. That's what they wanted. They wanted to get a reaction out of me so that they could print that, so that they could make me seem like this, "Oh, I'm out of control." But really I'm just... I have a heart and I have feelings. And when people... When people... ...like hurt my heart, I'm gonna get angry, upset and lash out sometimes 'cause I'm a human being. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. She don't like the flash Wanna keep us in the dark She don't like the fame Hate it when we're miles apart Here we go. It's getting to the point where it's too much for her Throw us all away 'cause it's too much for her She can't hide away 'Cause the world knows who we are She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't Don't wanna share with no one else Want me to herself Don't want no love in front of the camera She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights Bieber is no stranger to flipping off photographers, but is his behavior becoming more erratic? He's out of control. She's giving ultimatums She don't like this life She said if I loved her I'd give it up, won't think twice I can't do that It's getting to the point where it's too much for her Wanna throw it all away 'Cause it's too much for her She don't wanna live this life - Oh - She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't Don't wanna share with no one else Want me to herself Don't want no love in front of the camera She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights How can I choose between the two When all the lights are all I know? I wish she could see how good this can be I hope that she waits a little bit longer 'Cause I don't wanna live life Without her by my side 'Cause she gives the light that's in me But she don't know She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights She don't, she don't, she don't She don't like the lights People on the outside look in at celebrities, especially people like Lindsay Lohan, Britney, almost... They feel sad. You look at Michael Jackson, you feel sad because they're like, you can't... - Yes. - ...escape this. It is an inevitability that a young person will become a train wreck. Do you think about that? And are you conscious that you are the perfect candidate to become a train wreck? You are. - We talk about this all the time. - Um. What? We talk about this all the time. There's no train wreck. What... I'm living here, I'm 19, by myself in this... In this great house, just... But that's where the train wreck can start. - How can... How? - 'Cause it's safe. - 'Cause it's a bubble. - But there's no... No one can tell you no. So now what? Now what are you gonna do when no one can say no? No one can say no, but here's the thing, for me, I've seen it happen. I can't... I'm not gonna be stupid enough to... For me to let that happen to myself because I have a good head on my shoulders. Maybe I might make a few mistakes, sure, I'm 19. But I was raised, like, Sunday school every Sunday, like, I was the... My mom broke it down to me, like, this is who you are, you're gonna be a good person, you're gonna help people, you're gonna be quick to forgive, you're gonna be a humble, genuine person. And if you're not, there's gonna be consequences. She doesn't agree with some of the decisions that I make. Sometimes... Well, all moms don't agree with... But she knows that I got a good head on my shoulders. She did what she had to do to raise me. And she did a wonderful, wonderful job. And I'm super, super grateful for her. You know what, I don't like your attitude, to be quite honest. You're mad. Because, you know what, you're too young to be peepeeing in buckets and driving up and down the highway fast. I don't think your mom would really mind if a stranger whipped her son. You ain't spanking me, man. Ow! What are you doing? What are you doing? Whoo! So who are you dating now? So I'm backstage at, um, my concert. I just wanted to make this video because I just saw Justin's VD. You really inspire me. I really, like... You're the reason why I wake up with a smile on my face every morning. Yes, I will stay with you forever. I just love you so much, Justin, and hope you're gonna see this video 'cause otherwise I'm really gonna look stupid. Yeah. Thank you for everything you've done for us, for the fans, for everybody and... Justin's dedication to his fans and his fans' dedication to him is what keeps him alive I think, because if he gets too far off track, they're there to kinda be that moral compass that brings him back always. Oh, my... Look, how close we are. Oh, my God. It all started... It all stemmed off from my fans showing up at each radio station. My fans posting, like, video responses before I was signed. It all started from the fans, so it's gotta end up with the fans. It's all about the fans. - Thank you, Justin. - Thank you. I might cry a little bit 'cause that was so cute. Oh, my gosh. Look at that hairdo. My music is evolving 'cause I'm growing up. My fans are gonna grow up with me and they're gonna like my music evolving because they're getting older. And I want them to be a part of this journey with me. Songs like Believe and Be Alright, pure acoustic, represent hope and represent a connection that a lot of people need. Hey, Dan, you ready? Always ready? All right. Well, I gotta make sure my safety is first, right? Safety comes first. Oh, you guys like safety? Miami must love safety. All right. Across the ocean Across the sea Starting to forget the way you look at me now Over the mountains Across the sky Need to see your face I need to look in your eyes Through the storm and through the clouds Bumps on the road and we're upside down I know it's hard, babe To sleep at night Don't you worry 'Cause everything's gonna be all right Be all right My show now is super elaborate, but my favorite part is literally just the intimate moments with the fans when I'm on that crane and I'm in the crowd with them and I can see each one of their faces, they're jumping up and down screaming... There's nothing like that feeling. I have goose bumps right now thinking about it, for real. You know that I care for you I'll always be there for you I promise I'll just stay right here Yeah I know that you want me, too Baby, we can make it through anything And everything's gonna be all right Be all right Through the long nights and the bright lights Don't you worry 'Cause everything's gonna be all right Thank you. Yeah. Oh, my God. Yo, no, close the door. Close the doors, bro. Push the front button down there. Where's the button? Back up! Back up, back up! Back up! Yo, watch out, watch out, watch out. Lock the door, yo. You said you wanted me But I said no 'Cause all I can say is Please We have a journey. We have a responsibility to our journey. We must complete our journey the best way we know how. But along the way, we have to tell the stories of the journey. 'Cause that journey, by the way, is gonna help someone make it through their journey. I need some space To come around you Around, around, around, around, around You know, if you're an artist that is after fame, after money, and you achieve those things, then you have no reason to go forward. If your goals are to make great music, to be a better and better singer, to be a better and better writer every day, then that's a lifelong journey and that doesn't end. It's a weird position to be in when you've only been winning, but he doesn't really understand what the loss looks like. That's why it's important for him to just stay humble, stay on that humble path, because the minute something goes wrong, everybody's gonna try to tear him apart. You know, and he has to always remember what got him there. You gonna get through the whole time this time? I'll try. All right. Go ahead. Um, yeah. If I wasn't scared that'd be a bad thing. We've had moments over the last year where it's just been straight yelling, screaming, tears, hugs. I mean, we're going like this and he'll call me and be like, - "You just need to come here." - Just come here. And you need to spend time, you need to be around me, and I want you to be around me 'cause I want... I want you in my life and I want you to see what's going on. And... No, but it's always gonna be that way, and honestly I'm a better man because he's in my life and because I'm going through these struggles with him. - That's so sweet... - Thanks, man. Appreciate it. That's one of the sweetest things you've ever said. But, you know, we're gonna keep going through... Hey, man. Um... We're gonna keep going through these struggles and it's not gonna get any easier, but at the end of the day, he's worth it. You guys seem to help. Believe, believe, believe. It's our last show. Time has gone by fast. I remember thinking about this day in the rehearsal. I can remember the first show. Yeah, yeah, yeah... Just feeling that energy that his fans just, like, give to us for the first time, that realization that I'm fulfilling my dream and I'll never forget that feeling. I've always dreamed to be a choreographer. Like, from the day I started dancing when the first show happened, I sat down against a wall and I just, like, really started crying to myself. Oh, my gosh, no, how about the audition? Yeah, so no pressure, you know. It was so surreal. It was something that we had all been working really hard towards and something we had wanted so badly. I remember being, like, 10 years old and going to concerts and, like, watching the dancer and I always knew that I wanted to do this. I'm really, really grateful because I got to dance with him on stage. It's amazing and I'm so thankful that I got the opportunity. Being right now in my home city where dancing all started for me, seeing my mom out there and, like, thinking about how much she sacrificed for me to do what I love to do, and I'm here with my boys and I'm here with one of the best artists I've ever worked with, yeah, it's amazing. It's amazing. I think that believing is the most powerful thing that you can do in this life. You can come from absolutely nothing to something, to be standing right here, so I think that, I'm ready to share that with the world just like Justin does. And now here we are doing the last show. Oh, my gosh. I might cry tonight. - Oh, for sure. - We might cry. You might see some tears. - In Believe. - In Believe. The music plays until it stops. And when it does, what have you learned and what do you believe? Do you believe this hype, or are you creating something greater, a deeper passion that will not only help to articulate who you are as an artist, but also help people to be able to identify with you? Believe means, like, be all you wanna be, do what you wanna do and don't stop believing in yourself, just go for it. I would listen to it when I was really upset and it was, like, I don't know, it's just really helped me, like, pull through and, like, not give up. Justin, in a lot of our car rides, he'd be singing in the back and I'd be telling him to shut up because he'd never stop. But I didn't know this was gonna happen obviously, right, so this is his life, this is what he loves, nothing's been given to him and, yeah, I'm very proud of him. I was just looking at him the other day, and he had such a baby face, and he's my baby, and just to look at him now with, like, his little chiseled jaw and his attempts at facial hair. He's just... He's growing so much. And as busy as he is and as much as he has on him, he still continues to give back. And, you know, as a mom and just seeing his character grow, I think that's one of the biggest, um, achievements, in my mind. But, Justin, I still want you to pull your pants up. ...of a night that they can't believe. I pray that you will be with everyone on stage, bless them all, help everyone just to have the best show... No matter what religion, no matter what race, not matter what you are, you can always believe. It's all about positivity, all about believing in something great, believing in a higher power, believing in yourself, believing that you can do anything if you set your mind to it. I don't know how I got here I knew it wouldn't be easy But your faith in me was so clear It didn't matter how many times I got knocked on the floor But you knew one day I would be standing tall Just look at me now 'Cause everything starts from something But something would be nothing Nothing if your heart didn't dream with me Where would I be, oh Where would I be If you didn't believe Would I know how it feels To touch the sky, yeah If you didn't believe Believe, believe It didn't matter how many times I got knocked on the floor But you knew one day I would be standing tall Look at us now 'Cause everything starts from something But something would be nothing Nothing if your heart didn't dream with me 'Cause everything starts from something But something would be nothing Nothing if your heart didn't dream with me Where would I be If you didn't believe Where would I be, if you, if you If you didn't believe Would I know how it feels To touch the sky, yeah If you didn't believe Believe, believe Oh When you've reached a certain point in your life, there are people out there who sit waiting, wanting to see you fall. But rather than let gravity take you down, sometimes you have to take matters into your own hands and fly. I'm Justin Bieber. Thank you for believing in me. 'Cause I believe in you. This was me. My pants were like this, guys. - Normal, normal. - Higher, higher. And he said... He said to me, he said, "You can't let the pants wear you, "you got to wear the pants." That's when I started sagging. - That's true. Hey... - And that's your fault. No, listen, I will tell you one thing though, I've lost a pair of pants, bro, walking. - Yeah? - Lost a pair of pants walking. No. And it's not like, you know, like, you're out at a bookstore just browsing the nonfiction section. - Yeah. - The nonfiction section. And your pants are a little bit low. I'm just saying that one day, just be careful, bro, because I've lost a pair of pants. - Okay. I'm just saying... - The nonfiction section... - You were the... You were the one... - ...at Barnes & Noble. You were the one that said, "Hey, don't let the pants wear you, - "wear the pants." - That's right. That's why... But they... Hey... - Wear them though. - Yeah, wear them. When they're on the ground, bro, they're off. - Yeah, yeah. - Nobody's wearing them. Oh, no. Smile big! One, two! Perfect, yeah. Don't cry too much. Told them he's gonna fall. When I was 13, I had my first love There was nobody that compared to my baby And nobody came between us or could ever come above She had me going crazy oh, I was star struck She woke me up daily don't need no Starbucks She made my heart pound It skipped a beat when I see her in the street And at school on the playground But I really wanna see her on the weekend She knows she got me dazing 'cause she was so amazing And now my heart is breaking but I just keep on saying... Hi. Oh! Does this look like I'm walking downstairs? My man, Ludacris, everybody. Give it up for Ludacris!
