 

                        1 Kaaka Muttai (Crows egg) What's that lawyer saying now? Another thirty thousand just to get bail Thirty thousand rupees Then what about the money we've already paid? All gone, I guess Eat your vegetables! You could come, too... He asked to see you the last time I'm not coming Have you got money to get there? I have a hundred rupees I'll hitch a ride with Sarasu's husband Don't wander away, you two! Hey, water lorry! Wetting the mat every other day... Why did you hide this? Hey, don't run! Wait till I catch you... Ill chop your wee-wee and feed it to the crows! What a brilliant idea! Why didn't you lock it up in a suitcase? You sneak rice from home! It's not the same thing Shut up! Hey, Crow's Egg! Want to play cricket with us? No thanks! Buzz off! Is it there? It's here! How many? Three! Get all three! No! One for you, one for me and one for the crow Boss, this Karna is a real fraud Goes on demanding interest over his money Go on promising to pay him Hey! Still drinking this? Why? Boss, drinking this will make you muscular! Boss, the leader is here Let's go Greetings, leader! Greetings, brother! Hello, Naina! These are our boys, sir They work in television Call them if you need a local commercial... ...but they're frauds! This doesn't look like ten thousand square feet It will be accurate, sir It better be! We're investing eighty million on this Did you say eighty million? Then our commission is eight hundred thousand But we agreed on four hundred thousand! Sir, you first said it was forty million ...but your man says it's eighty! So it's eight hundred thousand, right? One percent! It's just a slip of the tongue Sir, some men you've got! Hey, come here It's impossible to find ten thousand square feet of real estate these days Everyone is breaking it into little pieces and selling! - Ask dad for the cell phone - You ask him if you want it! Don't you want it? You won't give it to me anyway I'll give you! Ask him! Hey, did you drink crow's egg yolk? No! Can't blame you It's your Granny's fault Give it to me How are you? I am okay Are you taking your medicines on time? Why have you become like this? Why? There's nothing wrong with me What's up with the Old Lady? She's okay! She wanted to come, but I didn't bring her along Where are the kids? They're outside They say kids are not allowed inside the T.B ward It's them, right? Hey... It's Daddy! What are you doing? We are playing with the cat Playing with the cat! What are you yelling for? My sons are outside You can't talk to them Daddy, can you get us a cell phone when you come? What are you doing? Constable, ask them to be quiet They are shouting at the outside Time's up! You need to leave Are they going to school regularly? Didn't have money to run the house So I pulled them out They're picking coal now Why did your dad go to prison? Don't know Why is your name 'Pazharasam(Fruit Juice)'? I used to eat only fruits and juice when I was a kid! That's why What are you eating now? Rice and vegetable stew My name is 'Kaaka Muttai(Crow's Egg)' 'Fruit Juice' and 'Crow's Egg' I'm 'Little Crows Egg', he's 'Big Crows Egg' Will you shut up? Or should I tell mom? We'll come here tomorrow, right? We will, if you keep your mouth shut Superb! What's in the bag? Char! What's that? Char from goods train We pick it from railway tracks Oh, you mean coal! What's it for? Can get money for it in the shop Three rupees for a kilo Lokesh! Time up! Okay, bye You took so much time for this tiny poster? And the flags look like horns over his head! Change it before he arrives And make your photos smaller! Go on! Why so little today? There's five kilos in this Get your money from Sister Hey! - Where did you get this? - None of your business Just cough up the money Careful! Who'll bend over if there's an issue? You've purchased the goods You'll have to bend over, obviously Yeah, right It's always me Look what he's saying! There are two more lids in that apartment Why didn't you get those? Mr. Greedy! That's for tomorrow's drinks... Here! Careful, they'll rip you off Sure, we'll be careful! You get there before the shop shuts Here... Snacks for you Sister, can I take this watch? Take it! Tamil, think about it Even if he toils in the field all year... ...he can't make so much money! And Master said he'd keep his wife and children happy for the rest of time! - Is that what he said? - Yeah! - Shall I say something, then? - Tell me, tell me, tell me! I'll give you a hundred and fifty thousand rupees... What for? To pour molten tar on your behind! What? You'll pour molten tar on my behind? Don't worry, man! If I pour molten tar on your bum... ...you can't go to the courts ...or to the toilet ...Or shake it like this - Shall I say something, then? - Tell me, tell me, tell me! I'll give you a hundred and fifty thousand rupees... What for? To pour molten tar on your behind! What? You'll pour molten tar on my behind? Don't worry, man! If I pour molten tar on your bum... ...You can't go to the courts Or go to the toilet...or shake it like this Listen to me, Lawyer I'll keep your wife and kids... Keep them! What? I'll keep them happy So long, then! Do they actually talk like this in the movie? Or are you making this up? No, Granny! Simbhu said a lot more He can't remember the dialogues If you think you can do better...come here! Come here - Such a big mouth! - Mom? - What's it, dear? - Will You get me a TV? First stop wetting the mat And then I'll buy you a TV Why do you keep harping on about that? When he grows he'll stop Let it go! Where is the money? Five kilos Will dad get us the cell phone like he promised? First let your dad come out What did your husband say? You've been down since the visit He used to be so macho! Doesn't look the same now Aren't you angry with him? Or are you pretending? I'll get angry, but after I bring him home Just tell me, is there a way to get him out? You have to go and see that creep I mean that area leader of ours Shameless bald oaf! Lawyer said, with just a word from leader, I can bring my husband out But the leader is busy, you can't just meet him whenever it pleases you! Is this your brother? No, it's my son Hey, he's calling you inside! Here I come, sister! Okay, come back later Let's go - What is it, leader? - Get it from him There are eight bundles My boys told me... It seems you own many shops? We have branches in every part of the city! Then you must be a big shot! Whats the total investment? Must be quite a few Adyar, Besant Nagar... What are you doing? Sir, he's my guy! Why don't you come work for me? Yes, come straight Stop pushing the gate! Go away! Know who you're talking to? This is where we play This is our area! Your area, huh? It's been sold off! Go away - Are you building a talkies? - What? Oye! Pull the rope on the other side... You're in the way! Pull it! Pull the other way! You can't drink crow's egg yolk anymore! You can't play, either Where will crow go at nights now? Shut up and come! Granny, it took only a minute, They just chopped it off So what if they chopped this tree off? There's another tree near the temple, right? They have chopped it already and built a statue The crow there doesn't lay any eggs...it only shits First you finish shitting! Won't you keep quiet? With these two running after crow eggs... You know Sarasu? Even she makes fun of me! Can we afford to buy them chicken eggs everyday? So what if a crow is black? It's also a bird, right? And crows are always with us You're always taking their side! I don't want to see them climbing any more trees! Or else... Are you done? No! Is she at the ration store? Yes, she's waiting in the queue Mom! - What? - What's that, mom? Come home, I'll show you Tell us what it is, mom! It's a TV! You wanted one, right? Wow! TV! Mom, you said you'll only get it when he stops wetting the mat They gave it for free at the ration store! - For free? You could have got a cell phone! - They won't give all that - Shut up! I want TV only! - Hey, it's mine! No! It's mine Keep quiet! There's another TV here! How did you get it? Kumar came and gave it How did you get it? With my ration card We have two TVs at home now? Yay! Didn't you get rice? No stock, it seems! Hold steady! They'll only get it next week - Is it nice? - It's awesome! Long enough? "Fly high with your wings" Kid, is the wire long enough? Not enough! I need more length Got it! "Crows egg, it is your life now" Mom, he has peed again! Move your leg! It's become a habit, now "Stars depend on us" "Path is crooked here Go forward" "Seek new pleasures" "Think all you see as your own Fly high" Idiot! I roped in that owner for them I don't know when they registered it! They cut me off without any commission! Why do such terrible things happen to you, Boss? Who was the man of lower caste; Who did not know politics? Dedicating himself... The great emperor Sivaji, dedicated himself... Look, I've got a new watch Just like yours This is a toy watch! See, the original one Brother, please make this watch work Idiot! How can anyone make a toy watch work? Shut up "Gunny bag is your umbrella if it showers" "Liquor scrap bottle is our lamp" "Raw floor is our cushion bed" "Petty fights is our routine" "Back to affectionate hug in a jiffy" "Have doors but no name plate in our neigbourhood" You'll break the roof! Granny, we're not up here! "Go Go Fly away" My dad bought this - How much? - 25,000 rupees "Think as yours and move on" Why do I have a belly button? Everyone does Babies come from belly buttons, right? Will a baby come from mine? Who teaches you all this? My friend Fruitjuice! Fruitjuice? Like my name is Crow's Egg Crow's Egg? Yes, my name is Crow Egg Little Crow Egg and Big Crow Egg! Hey, don't run! Mum, Lokesh's puppy's face is so flat ! Twenty five thousand rupees, it seems "Pocket Hole short pants Stray dogs are our buddies" "Just 5 rupees daily make us a prince" "Our experience speaks than our education" "People yuck to dirty drains" "But they are our swimming pools" "Beetles become Beatles for us" "Pet dogs become our family members" Here "Seek new pleasures" So...what's your name? Little Crow's Egg! Why is the picture so grainy? For an illegal thirty rupees conection, that's all you get "Climb breeze to reach the sky" Why has Simbhu still not come? Is he really coming? He's started! He'll be here in five minutes Inauspicious time starts in five minutes Just kidding! Sir, who is this guy? My school friend They fly it down in a plane, it seems Foreigners eat it everyday - What's it called? - Pizza, granny Look, look, look! See how tasty it looks? Looks like it'll be sweet Mom, I want pizza Behave yourself 'I want this, I want that' This is the limit Why are you yelling now? You keep quiet! It's all your doing I'm running around here and there, trying to bring him out You're all pissing me off Mom, I too want pizza Not dad Did you hear that? I have a policy against hitting But if you go on annoying me... - What's your name? - Little Crow Egg My name is Big Crow Egg Have your lunch and go! How do I get to the main road? Brother... Is there pizza inside? Yes! Will this lead to the main road? It's a dead end brother How do I get to main road? Going straight, take a turn, there is a circle...go inside it and then take a left - Right it is - No, it's the left What you showed was 'right'! Is there a shortcut? Yes, if you show us the pizza, we'll tell you Just once! Just once! - Tell me, where's the shortcut? - The shortcut? Here it is Little rascals! Is this the pizza? Actor Simbhu eats this? Why? Won't he eat rice and stew? Have you ever eaten pizza? Oh god! It says 300 rupees! And it's very small We're going to eat it Mr.Little Crow Egg... To buy this...see that goods train over there? You'll have to pick an entire coach of coal Understand? Bye It's a new place? Have you eaten pizza? Yes, I have If you call this number, they'll deliver it to your home At home? Yes They'll deliver and get the money Will they come to our home? Yeah! Do you have money? We need to pick a coach full of coal to make money for pizza One whole coach? How much do you earn in a day? Ten rupees Ten rupees...? You can earn three hundred rupees in a month! Hey, who are you calling? To Pizza shop? We don't have money The other day a brother came to deliver pizza near our house, right? Let's ask him! We'll pay him in a month Hello Hello, Pizza Spot! We want pizza Address please? Near the Maariyamman Temple Tell us in detail In detail? If you ask for Crow Eggs house everyone will know That brother also knows He's come to our area before Ask your parents to call Hello.. What are they saying? What's our house address, Granny? Address? Sudden Lane...Near the Mariyamman Temple That's what I said But he said that's not enough He said something about 'parnet' Who? That pizza guy If we can give the right address, they'll deliver it at home How much is it? Three hundred rupees! Three hundred rupees? If your mother finds out, she'll beat you black and blue! If we save up for a month, we can make that much money, you know? Wait Why should we give money to someone else? Go to the shop and get the things I say Take it Do you know how to make it? Brother, tomatoes for 2 rupees and onions for 2 rupees Here Chillies for 2 rupees... No, No, it's capsicum! Capsicum...Capsicum Hurry up, brother! Wait, I'll give you Take it Is it ready? Wait! Doesn't smell like it... Don't sniff your food This is not it, Granny! It's stringy, like thread! Only spoilt food gets stringy It's not pizza if it's not stringy! You said it'd be sweet? How will a dosa be sweet? Dosa? Yuck! You're trying to fool us! We'll save money and buy it Come, let's go So you won't eat rice and stew? It's pizza that you want? I'll show you a place You shouldn't tell anyone Swear on your mom? Swear on my mom! Why didn't you tell us sooner? You never asked! "Twine is dry lost control " "Kite is cut off touches light house " "Atom bomb is hot tears in to pieces" "out or in truimph is marked" "Hey..." "He wins revels fet'es makes merry" "Hey..." "Does what he says " "Permeats and is pervasive " "Guys, do you eat the cover also?" Greet you, bro! If you are caught that's the end of you! "In the marble game we are the kings" "If it is fire crackers we propel like rockets" "We walk with chest held high like Undertaker " "We are the swift fighters" Wait wait Bro ..have you seen this cell phone? Can take photos and videos Other day you said When your dad comes from jail you would get a cell phone No we'll not buy cell phone Let's eat pizza No petty lies Like the pizza Simbhu ate? Hey... He wins revels fet'es makes merry Permeats and is pervasive "Hey..." "Does what he says" "Permeats and is pervasive" (Loud speaker blares a song) Boss, are you in a wineshop? Great! Have you brought all ... You shall never steal again How much is a quarter bottle? Catch hold of the dwarf fellow "When we amass money would go to AC bar" "and make merry" "Would not misfield Would toil hard and win" "Would not panic man" "Gale will you take away" "If you have lung power It is nothing" "Flaunt.. pride is yours" "Hey..." - 300 Rupees - What you do with this? We will have Pizza - Does your mom know? - Yes she knows "Twine is dry lost control" "Kite is cut off touches light house" Wait wait Where are you going? - To get Pizza - Pizza? No more Pizza It is all over The other day, Simbhu came and- Simbu...? Get out of here! Get out I say What? It's nothing, sir They're slum kids They've come to window shop; annoying me I'll handle it You don't bother yourself, sir Go away! I said, go! He said we are slum kids How does he know our house? By seeing your clothes Clothes? Of course! Won't he know if you wear such dirty clothes? How do you know all this? Once when they were arranging my marriage... Seeing my dirty clothes, the girl rejected me My mother said, any person will be judged only by their clothes Didn't even feed the boys well this past month... ...I gave all our money to the lawyer But now he says, it doesn't even cover his fees till date Parasite...makes his living out of others' lives Scoundrel! Can't we find a new lawyer? A new lawyer? Then the money we've already spent goes to waste Each time I go to visit him at the jail, the way he looks at me... ...as if to say 'get me out of here' But this moron lawyer is not even talking about the bail yet You are struggling all alone I am not even able to help in a small way All I do is eat and sleep Mother-in-law, stop talking like that Only because you're here I'm able to leave the kids and go around What would I do without you? Granny! We went to eat pizza today They didn't let us in Fruitjuice says, we need good clothes to go in Is it so, Granny? It's not that People in nice clothes will have lot of money While you won't That's why they wouldn't have let you in But we did have the money! What? What? I'll do the dishes Let it be, I'll wash them Go to sleep He won't come Hey, Crow Egg Sorry for being late! I've got you something Tadah! Wow, pizza! Take it, I brought it for you It's for us? We don't want it We'll buy it on our own Why won't you take this? Where did you buy this shirt? This? City Center in Mylapore - City Center - Mylapore - Come, let's go "Black Black Black" "Did aversion to black colour.." "make crow change its egg colour?" "Mere appearance alone Does not make a man" "It's no more the bod Attire counts" "Struggle battle it out" "toil day and night" "Think mull over and when the desire is expressed" "Black Black Black" "Did aversion to black colour" "make crow change its egg colour?" "Mere appearance alone Does not mke a man" "It's no more the bod Attire counts" Where is FRUITJUICE? Who? He used to work here That guy? He stole coal from the go-down... ...and asked supervisor where he could get more He got busted Don't know where he's run away now But, is his name Fruitjuice? Ledger shows some other name Poor Fruitjuice He just tried to help us Where will he be now? We can't take coal from there now We should have taken the pizza from Lokesh You just over-reacted Don't you want to eat pizza like Simbhu? "Charisma and attire complement equally" "Gosh! Who said this?" "It's true, our diginity" "flew off like a kite" "Till yesterday we ate" "to quench hunger" "Who made the shift?" "Now we have a penchant for taste " Why no money for 4 days? Are you picking coal or not? Nope We went to play What? You went to play? We are visiting your daddy day after tomorrow Hope you remember You only listen to him We're not coming What's your problem? Don't speak like that, dear You should also pitch in to bail your dad out, right? You shut up All you can do is eat and sleep Oye! Want to get bashed up? Watch your tongue Don't yell too much We should have eaten the pizza from Lokesh He gave you his leftovers Want to eat that? A man of lower caste, who didn't know politics Who was it? He was a mighty emperor, Created a mighty empire The great emperor Shivaji! Sister was looking for him, right? Not born of the ruling class... With no ancestral rights... The citizen with integrity, who saved his kingdom's, too Seeing the valiant Shivaji, riding upon his horse... Everyone acknowledged him to be a wise man! Sister! What's this? He got drunk, sister Okay, I'm off Wait! Now he gets drunk and crashes out on the street, huh? Take this Buy yourself something to eat Do you even know how to pick up customers? What is this customer service? Want to get beat up? Get lost! Disrespectful oafs! Brother! What? Where's your house? Why? For what? Give us twenty bucks... We'll drop you at your house if you pass out Come on, let's go Someone's coming! Run... Run... Run... Shall we sell our dog? Want a dog, sir? Started selling dogs now? Is this your new technique? Want to buy a dog, brother? Sister, want to buy a dog? No, thanks It's an amazing dog It'll do everything you say We have a dog at home Want to buy a dog? Brother, want to buy a dog? It can bark so loud It'll shake hands and everything How much? 25,000 rupees What? 25,000 rupees! Oye, buzz off Brother, please, brother Go away! 25,000 for a stray puppy... idiots! How many? Five including this one We've got a hundred and twenty rupees If we make another ninety, we can buy the clothes Where are we buying it? City Center, right? Yeah, at City Center! Why is he giving this to you? What? It's done, brother Already? For yesterday and today... ten each Hey Will the pizza man accept this? Why? There's a hole in it, see! He'll take it Don't mind them Hey, Crow's Egg! Did you eat a pizza? Just come, man! How much will our new clothes cost? I told you, around two hundred rupees How much do we have now? Around one fifty Let's check 160...170...180 190... 200 210... 220...230 What? We have 230 rupees! So we've got the money! How to get to City Centre? Where? Mylapore Take the 45-B bus What for? We're going to buy clothes Ticket! Ticket! Got it already Please move Where to? We're going to buy new clothes Good for you! But which stop? Know where it is? City Center Yes... City Center...Mylapore That's twelve rupees Brother, where is the City Center here? What? Way to City Center? It's right here Wow! They most definitely won't let us in Daddy! Pani Puris! No no, it's not hygienic You don't buy us anything we want! I just bought you new clothes! But we never asked for them! Eat all the fruits we've got at home Wait here, I'll be back Do you want Pani Puri? Ok Sir, I'll do that! Hey, How did you buy it? Where are the clothes? We sold it! Watch this! You threw it away! Hey you, stop there I already told you not to come, get out But we're wearing new clothes now See? If you wear new clothes, you think you can barge in anywhere? What a pest! Go away! Why so much noise here? Same kids, sir They keep causing trouble It's not us This guy is only causing trouble Your granny has left us! Where were you? What's this? Money for the pyre This will cover the pyre What about the rest? This is all I have How can you say there is no money at a funeral house? Mom... This will do! Tell me the truth How did you get this money? We didn't go to play, mom We went to pick coal Found lots of coal I liked these clothes... ...so we went and bought it without telling you Hey, Crows Egg! To the pizza shop again? What's up? They got beaten up at the pizza shop yesterday Why did they go there? To eat pizza It was crazy! Why did they hit them? They didn't have the money? They had money and even wore new clothes! Just check this out - What is it? - Just see it It's awesome, right? Kid, let me keep this phone I'll return it later It's my dad's cell phone He'd get angry That man in the train was your dad? I'll tell your real dad, shoo away Wish I hadn't showed it to you Why the cell phone? I'm gonna make some money with it It's a bad model Won't fetch you anything Dumbo! Not the phone Look at this video The pizza owner would get the chills seeing this Oh, like that! Superb, Boss But why would the pizza shop guy be afraid of his own store? Come closer He's hit the kids? He'll pay us money if we show him this What are you saying? One pays for hitting? So many people have beat us up No one ever paid us What's this? Sir, my area kiddos got beaten up by your man It'll become a big problem if word gets out especially if it reaches TV channels You already said that over phone What do you want now? What can I say, sir? We will take what you give us, sir Okay, I'll let you know Okay, sir! Sir, here is my card Call me when you decide We'll wait Leave it there Bye, sir! He can speak to a camel face to face! How tall he is! He might be tall, But he'll have to bend for us His ponytail is in our hand now Why can't we just give it to Kumar and get money? If we give it to Kumar, he'll give it to Sun TV He makes a lot of money but gives us only 1000 bucks But this guy will give us at least 5,000 We shall share 2,500 each What say? 5000 is too much boss Let's ask for 3000 first You need to think big if you want something! Karna wanted his interest money, too Don't delay any further Call him immediately Me? I won't talk to those idiots Idiots? He was smart enough to copy it on a DVD! He's not an amateur And this is not a small issue, either Not just the supervisor, even our shop is visible in the video If they find some legal point on human rights... ...or ill-treatment of slum children Then they will lock and seal all our branches Not just that! They might even arrest you for hiring a supervisor like him Hey At least don't grin while saying such things Whose side are you on? Mine or theirs? Definitely yours I won't switch sides Sir, in U.P. last year... ...a cop beat up a little girl very badly for stealing sweets from a shop That became huge issue when someone took a video of that We should not take this problem so lightly How about talking to that slum's political leader? That man is an even bigger fraud! He will demand a commission even to sneeze We need to deal with this on our own If I finish this deal successfully, I will get more than 3 crores Hello, who's this? I'm calling from Pizza Spot Who? Pizza...Pizza... Sir? Tell me This is a small issue You can't expect too much out of this Sir, why would we ask for more if you give us a fair price? Here's my final offer One hundred thousand and no more Boss, forget 3,000 Ask for 2,000 What is he saying? Hello? Okay, sir For you, we'll adjust Come hand over the source video and take the money You're very lucky He agreed What's he saying, Boss? What did you ask? You asked if they will give 5,000, right? Do you know how much he is giving now? How much? 6000! Boss, you're the man! You are such a genius! You've made us a fortune out of some penniless boys So cool! I'm proud to be your sidekick Mom! He hasn't wet the bed today, mom He's become a big boy, now! "There's a shop on roadside Shop has Vada as snack" "Snack was prepared by the white lady granny" "Tricky fox sold the Vada to crows Fox filled its coffers" "Granny who prepared it got only half of it" "Fox shared the rest" "Crow who owned the shop was deceived" Sorry sir, got a bit delayed Source video? Give the money and take the video, sir Here, sir Thanks Sir! - Boy...! - Tell me, sir? Having the talent to make money is useless... If you can't be alive to spend it Don't ever come back here No, sir My dealings are very straight-forward, sir Bye, sir Got any other source? Nope, gave you all the copies, I promise 'Pizza Spot has a new outlet in Chennai's Saidapet area...' 'An employee of the establishment has brutally assaulted two children...' '...who had gone to the shop' 'Our news correspondent has captured this incident and brought it to light' 'Let's watch this horrifying incident' Tell me Boss, guess what I did! What did you do? Thinks he's some big shot, that pizza shop guy He said he'll only pay 6,000! Sun TV Kumar put 7,000 hard cash in my hand It must be on the news already Boss, the booze is on me ...and the side-dish is on you I'm waiting! Why is he still not here? Hasty moron! Why did you have to rush in to it? Why are you hitting me? I've kept your share safe You've sold it for 7,000, stupid! Do you know how much he offered? How much? How much, boss? Hundred thousand Now it's all gone One hundred thousand Wanted to fool me, huh? Did they hit you? They beat me black and blue! He took me for a dunce! I'll show him If we'd paid him off the first time around, this wouldn't have gotten so complicated But you didn't listen I enquired at the news channel They've just used it as a filler No chance! Do you think channels are that stupid? They've left it at that because the kids' faces aren't seen clearly Once the boys are identified, they'll blow it up! Sir, what about your friend in police department? Tried everything They're all after money If we give 10, they want 20, If we give 20, they want 40 Is this the time to be stingy? They might cancel our shop license Get up! Stay out for sometime He's my school friend! He's tensed about something. - Coming for interview? - Yes sir Excuse me, sir Saw the news this morning I know the kids' house I've been there once before Why did you go there? Lost my way when I went for a delivery, sir Do one thing... Go and bring the kids here Okay sir Idiot You go with him! Issues orders after screwing up... Bring them here without anyone's knowledge Okay, sir! How can we let it go, leader? They've hit boys from our area! And when I went to demand justice, they hit me as well And you went to demand justice...? Yes, leader He went all alone to demand justice They bashed him up! We've applied turmeric on the wounds on his back. See? Show him! Oh Jesus.. Organise our slum women Okay, leader We will do a protest That will be great, leader Just your presence is enough I'll inform all the TV stations and make it big! Greetings, leader See you, brother! Leader, why let these petty guys organise the protest? Only if someone creates problems can we politicians solve them! Shall we talk to MLA? Let's see what happens Leader Your phone is ringing The pizza shop guy? Yes, leader Hello, sir! How are you doing? You must have heard everything I did hear! You could have come to me when the issue was smaller... The thing is.. Never mind! We need to stop this immediately Or they'll dig up everything We won't allow that It's all under my control I'll make sure it ends in your favour This time, don't pinch money, sir! Be generous! 'Pizza Spot is a chain of restaurants in Chennai' 'Footage of an employee of this establishment assaulting two children...' '...Who had come to buy pizza has surfaced recently...' Following this, this incident has gained... ...a lot of attention in the Internet 'It's is evident that the boys had sufficient money to buy the pizza...' '...And the reason for the attack was that they were slum dwellers' Sarasu, there's a protest tomorrow, are you coming? Only for a little while They're giving 100 bucks and a free meal I've got work What's it for? Someone beat up our slum kids it seems Our area kids? They must have done some mischief, surely You? When has she ever come for all this? Carry on. I'll come if I can. Okay, give me a heads up! Ignored by society, almost 400 families live in this part of the city Over 600 children live with parents who have no permanent source of income On a quest to taste something that has become the symbol of the good life The boy who was assaulted, also belonged to these slums Many such hopes and dreams are stuck in these five acres of land For New Generation Network, this is Gayathri with cameraman Ganapathy What's up? Naina was looking for you Why? Werent you beaten up at the pizza shop? It even came on TV, I heard... What happened? Hey wait, don't scare them away! So tiny but they do so much! I need to call Naina This one's crazy You need to stop hanging around with that Naina Where's my phone? How did we come on TV? I don't know Come back! Take your money and go They've left? Need to get them soon. Go faster Be patient, sir. We can get them We could have at least come by car Keep quiet, sir. Stop nagging Even bikes can't go there Look... Look... Look... When did they take a video of us? - Back already? - Machine broke down.. They gave us the day off What a surprise! Not watching TV...? Mom- What? Nothing! Something seems fishy here... - Is the water flowing today? - Yeah, it is I'll do my very best, sir Ok Sir! OK You're complicating it unnecessarily It'll only become a problem if others get hold of the kids Leave it to me, Let me handle it There you are! I went to the factory looking for you You should stand right in front at tomorrow's protest Me? Why? Why? Don't you watch TV? They've been showing your boys on T.V since morning. My boys? You mean, you didn't know about the pizza shop guy hitting your sons? What! They hit them? You've got two T.Vs at home. Won't watch it? The protest is for your boys! Where are the kids? They were right here. Now they're gone... I knew it! It's all their doing. What are you saying! Whose doing? You don't worry. The T.V channels and politicians are on our side I'll handle this Let's go - Have you seen my boys? - They went this way Where are they? We don't know. I condemn this act! Who is responsible? When will the disparity between rich and poor come to an end? First of all, this is not about being rich or poor. Our friend is getting emotional We need to really think about this issue The boys didn't go there without money Just a minute, sir. Let's watch the footage once before continuing the debate Tell us, sir? Watching this makes my blood boil! I'm reminded of Poet Bharathiyar's lines "My heart can't take this" Why call them "slum kids"? Why not consider them as our own? Rather than trying to sensationalise this... I think it's our responsibility to handle the effects of globalisation well. Like I said before, this is not about rich- -One minute, sir. Viewers, this heated debate will continue after a short break. I'm calling from New Generation T.V channel, sir. We wanted to interview Mr. Sivachidhambaram. Have you seen my boys? They came here. But before I could say anything they ran away. How heartless they must be to hit such small boys! Was it that bad? Why? Didn't you know? Leader asked you to come I know everything. About your kids.. husband. I have spoken to the lawyer. Let them be! I'll take care of everything. You don't worry yourself. They're just kids! They must be roaming somewhere here They will be back Something to drink? Tea, coffee? No, thanks. Don't want? No. I've looked everywhere. Everyone is saying something or the other. Listen up! I won't let go of the men who made you are your boys cry! But- as soon as you find your sons, bring them to me. Pizza selling oaf... You don't deserve laurels. Down with the... pizza owner! Hey, Bush-head! You've got the spelling wrong. Here's the deal- you gather some 10 women. You should wreak such havoc that they should shut the pizza shop. We'll totally do that! Relax We're all with you. I've borrowed this money for interest! We haven't even started the protest, and the police are already here? Wait... Greetings, sir. You've come at the right time, sir You're their mother? Yes sir, she's the mother of those boys. This is the Crow Egg's house. What's the kids' names anyway? Where are the boys? I don't know, sir. They've been missing since yesterday. It's my fault, really. Should have bought them a pizza when they asked for it. If I find that pizza shop guy... I'll beat the crap out of him. That's how you talk around a cop? Why open a shop near a slum and taunt those without money? Fine. Where do we look for them now? How's that? Have you ever eaten frog fry? Yuck. It's yummy! Peel the skin out... Add salt and spice, and heat it up! It's so tasty. You're bluffing. Have you ever eaten that? No... ...just thinking about it now Those boys who got beat up by pizza guy? Have you seen them? Don't tell them! They're here! Sir, those boys are here. Hey, stop running! It's mom! Where did you go? We went to eat pizza, right? Everyone was looking for us, right? We got scared. This is my friend Fruitjuice. Come, let's go. It's okay, sir We'll manage on our own There are some formalities Come! We've found the kids, sir. They're with me. Okay, sir! Hey, Simbhu has come again, I think! Start the music. It's so cold in here, right? Come inside, mom. Are you well? We should have opened the shop at an auspicious time... Bring that pizza. We don't have money. That's okay, son. Whenever you come here, pizzas are free for you. Eat well. Eat it. You could feed them. The lungi won't be in frame, right? It's only till my chest? That will won't come, sir. This is not a news. It's an achievement! It's a victory for my people. I already said I'm not dating anybody. This is not about that, sir. The boys getting hit at the pizza shop... They say it happened because you opened the shop? I knew this was coming Happy to clarify In my opinion, that's not true. But if you feel that way, I'm very sorry. I apologise for the incident. These are gimmicks to save your business, right? Definitely not. I don't discriminate between rich or poor. In fact, I opened this branch here just to cater to all classes. 45 rupees. We've even introduced a pizza for 45 rupees. What about your employee who hit the boys? I have fired him. Are you sure it's this house? This is it, I'm pretty sure. It's empty. They must have gone out Have a seat Let's wait here. Why are you worrying sir? Putting a temporary pause to an issue that's growing day by day... Mr.Siva Chidambaram, proprietor of the Pizza Spot Chains.. ...he has cleverly retained his status as a humanitarian Gayathiri for New Generation News, with cameraman Ganapathy. You said there's some protest. There is nothing happening? Yeah! Where's our money? Why aren't you saying anything? Boss... Another goof up? Hey Do you like pizza? Yuck. No! It tastes bad, right? So sticky! Granny's dosa was a lot better, right ? How do we finish this? "We got what we aspired" "If desires persist..." "Then we realize the truth" "We got what we aspired" "If desires persist..." "Then we realize the truth" "Desires have no bounds" "If desires persist Life would be in trouble" "No one has truimphed over desires" "I realised it today, dear" "New desires would draw you" "Would ruin your sleep daily" "If one is receptive..." "you will relish what you have" "We got what we aspired " "If desires persist..." "Then we realize the truth" "Riding on desires reached the clouds" "We turned as crows incubating quail eggs" "When you relish dew on a grass blade" "enchantment for lighning flash would vanish" "Lead a life of contentment" "A new beam of life would come through window" "We got what we aspired " "If desires persist..." "Then we realize the truth" "desires have no bounds" "Life would be in trouble"
