 

                        Hey! stop Who are you? Samuel Fernando The Anthony lndustries heir? You gave up your riches for God. Like Gautama Buddha Christ's new recruit Hurray to him! lt's easy coming here. But becoming a priest isn't easy Now you've chosen this path, don't find faults We lead a frugal life l know You belong to a rich family, so why did you join us? My name is Bergmans. Can l call you Sam? - Why are you here? - For the same reason you're here No food at home. Here, l eat. Read the Bible on the side No peace at home. l came to find peace lt is said that... Satan knows the Bible inside out After Satan, l do. l know the Bible. And hunger l know only the Bible See you in class Satan is the elder brother. Jesus the younger That's what the scriptures say So the elder brother must have the greater share, right? Take this class. Satan has 12 men here, including me But...there is one man who belongs to Jesus - Agree? - Sure, Brother Floating on the waves together The girl who runs to me The way you look at me The one who rides on the wind What's this racket? Brother Bergmans, you're responsible for the indiscipline here Father, they've left their families to come here ls this some prison? Will God be angry if we laugh? Don't you agree? No grace? Why do you behave like this? Training for sainthood? You eat one roti. You don't eat meat or fish You don't laugh You pray all the time Why so strict? No scripture asks us to be unhappy Eat! Brother Bergmans What's going on here please open the door You'd better go Don't tell anyone. For Jesus's sake They won't doubt your word They won't let me stay. l've a large family to support Four brothers at school. Two sisters yet to marry My family will be ruined. We'll be defamed Brother Sam, don't ruin my family Brother, forgive me Yes, l am a sinner l'll do any penance you say. Listen! Hear me, Brother Yes, l am a sinner My first sin was not being born to a rich family like yours l don't fear dying. l fear you will sin again Shut up! Who do you think you are? Saint Xavier? You're blind to tears yet utter God's name No. l won't kill you now You must live And see evil flourish around you You'll sin and fall from grace l will be avenged then Bergmans, you are the brightest man here l don't know the Bible as well as you Beg the Superior for forgiveness with God as your witness l ask no one for forgiveness Bergmans, be gone! Mr. Saint! Our game has just begun We have a score to settle Don't you agree? Floating on the waves together The girl who runs to me The way you look at me The Sea Sagaya, open the door! - Who is it? - ldiot! Open up Will you open the door? Or do l kick it in? Wake your mother up Thomas! Open the door when l tell you. Go outside! Call me if anyone comes Sagaya, get up! ls this the time to sleep? You lame wretch. Are you drunk? Get up! Your mother is dead You slept hugging a corpse? Machadu! The lame woman is dead Who has died? Sagaya Mary, the lame woman The poor soul You're next in line Filthy whore! Grass won't grow on her path Chetty, this church is for God's children - So what do we do? - The corpse will start smelling Only after we bury her will Chetty buy us a drink People excluded from the church are buried on the outskirts. Go there! Shove it in No, we must put her in a box - Where do we find a box? - l have an old icebox - An icebox? - You want a sandalwood box? Shut him up! He's wailing like it's the end of the world Another sound and l'll slit your throat Sagaya is gone. But her lame leg doesn't want to go Snap it and shove it in lt's a corpse! Go on Snap it and push it in The full moon The wide-open sky And God who created it all They all stand alone Just as you stand alone Take a step, my son Take a step and reach for the sky, my son You here? Shameless dog! You bring your whore's son here? Who is this? Your heir? l ask you, must l feed your sin? Stop it! He must be hungry. Go away! Don't send him away. Cuddle him! Or must l? Stop it, filthy wretch You went sniffing around a whore, so your filth is here Father, don't Run, boy! He's only a child lf you come back, l'll kill you Starring: Arjun Arvind Swamy Gautham Karthik Thulasi Lakshmi Manchu Lyrics: Vairamuthu & Karky Art direction: Shashidara Adapa Story & Dialogue: Jeyamohan Screenplay: Jeyamohan Mani Ratnam Editing: Sreekar Prasad Cinematography: Rajiv Menon Music: A.R. Rahman Produced By: Manohar Prasad & Mani Ratnam Direction: Mani Ratnam Come here, sir. Look! You rascals! Go! - Fresh fish! - The church? Pearls of the sea. You won't find them anywhere Fresh fish! Just for you. Alive and kicking Sardine, mackerel, pomfret No, l want... You have a good face. You must be... ... my first customer. 30 rupees. All yours. Half price No, please Come on! Give me 15 rupees Did l ask for fish? No one loses. Ok? - l don't want any fish - What? You joker! You refuse to pay? You think we won't stop you? Seles, come here now Fool! Out with the money! He won't pay Haggle before you buy, not later Pay 2 rupees less Chetty has decided - Give me 12 rupees - Take 10 lf they keep murdering fishermen, we'll stop fishing No more fish for them They'll stop eating fish. You fool! What will you eat then? Sand? Who are you? l'm Sam. Where's the church? We have a church. But who are you? l'm Kovilkutti. l am the church You want a short prayer? Right away. Buy me a tea and a bun Extra for home visits Free for the ladies! - He's seen Jesus with his own eyes - On a calendar you mean! We can work out a suitable rate. Come l'm the new Father of your church Father or guardian? We can fix the rate Praise the Lord! There's a new Father in town He looks like the star MGR Look at the state of our church How many churchgoers in the village? We have 118 Christian families here Better we don't talk about their devotion Father, please wait They would have attacked you Why bother moving in here? lf anyone dies, perform the rites and go back to town Where is everyone? - Who do you mean? - The villagers Girls don't go to church. That's why he's here You're here to dry fish with us? Kovilkutti says... ... no one attends church. So l've brought it here Go away! Don't spoil business Do you want young girls to go to church? Your tricks won't work here lf the old women come, so will l Sundays are out. My man eyes me as a cat eyes fish Father, don't teach us about the church and God We could teach you Chetty! We know about your shark fishing and smuggling Shut your bloody mouth! He's a good priest. l am Machadu! Get lost, you drunk! Mother Mary, what is this? A tape-recorder? Talk into it l'll play your prayers to Jesus. Come. Talk into it - We'll talk to Jesus directly - On our way to heaven Let me speak Sea Goddess, give my family food and joy Next l don't know what to say Come! Mother Mary, my husband drinks non-stop. Make him see sense l beg you, give my son good fortune l can't speak - What are you staring at? Go! - Why should l? See how they behave, Father? Lay a hand on me and l'll pelt you Don't worry What's your name? Your name, son -l'm not your son - Your name, son - l'm not your son Want to talk into this? Come and talk Talk freely Say anything you want You scum! You stinking fool l feel like swearing again Shut up! l'll talk politely You fool You dirty scum l'll split your head open l'll kill you All right. Go on You stinking scum Keep talking - You idiot! - Yes? - You son of... - Don't stop ls that all? Say what you want l don't want anything l want my mother back Where is she? Mother, where are you? Why the hell did you go? Where is my mother? l want her Where is my mother? My father, Chetty, where are you? - Watch out. lt'll hit a passer-by - Whose guts do you want to spill? l know! The man who fathered him Right, Thomas? Beardy! Hey you, Father. Where are you? Destroy that tape l don't want my mother Chetty is not my father l'll slit his throat some day Where is the tape-recorder? Where did you hide it? Father! See what l'm up to Bus for Athur! Anyone for Athur? Stay put! Come with me. Make a sound and l'll tell everyone you're a thief The villagers will beat you to a pulp Get off! lf you dare to beat me, l'll come after you You stinking scum! You hit me? Drink up See you on Sunday Udukan Luka! Praise the Lord! He's the boy l talked about He's tiny l don't mince words. No one takes Satan's spawn to sea We depend on the sea lf the Sea Goddess gets angry, she'll swallow us He is God's child The boy knows nothing. The sea can be dangerous We could all die The sea knows him well. Go! We'll take him for your sake The tiger fish is in my sight. A pretty girl is by my side Jesus showers us with good fortune The tiger fish is in my sight. A pretty girl is by my side Jesus showers us with good fortune Row your boat Row that catamaran here! Let's catch fish full of fat l rig the sails Smelling the pomfret Here comes the tiger fish With eyes of an owl Donning a prawn's whiskers A tiger's mask When my sails blow in the wind... ...will it sing your name? You bring light into my life l cast my net for you l sit in penance Hoping you'll fall into my net. Crazy me lf you say no, where will Thomas go? Floating on a single wave l drift in memory of you Won't you smile at me? O Sea Goddess! You give us plentiful Your smile is like a wave Here comes the tiger fish Thomas, go slow! l get dizzy when we go too fast What did you say, Father? Should l go faster? There's Anthony. He didn't come to Mass on Sunday - Stop! - Forget him lt's God's day off. Let Him relax and enjoy the day He can hear you. He will box your ears So? What will He say? ''Sharpen your wits, get a haircut. Become a good man'' Slow down! What's the hurry? Aren't we late for Nagarcoil? The bustle there, the noise... ...the lovely college girls... Stop the bike! You ride a priest's bike to college to flirt? You were happy advising me, now you're scolding me Come on, Father. Relax! Morning, Father Finish your work. l'll take care of your bike Nice try! Stay here till l return Philomena, where is that girl? Sir, the convent girl is missing. Did anyone see her? Anyone seen her? Your biryani is the best No biryani like it anywhere Did you pack some for Father? You mean the priest who's wheeling the bike away? Father, don't go! Wait Give me the parcel! - Can't you get on at the bus stop? - Who knows where you stop Kaananthurai, Manapadu! Let's go! You scared me l thought my boat had hit a shark l bit my tongue You hurt me then offer me a green mint What's that? Were you in hospital? Looks like you just walked out Are you unwell? Are you mute? Can you hear me at all? - Where to? - Kaananthurai. One ticket Got a ticket? Which stop? Who is that? Your sister? Or eloping? Never mind. Give me another - l want to know who pays - What a pest! Here. Your ticket Want some biryani? lt's tasty l bought it for Father Sam. But he won't be appeased Have some l'll leave it here Are you from the convent? Why did you run away? Who the hell is that ass? l'm looking for a girl from our convent l won't go back to hospital So she does talk after all But a girl raised by nuns? Your worlds are poles apart Kovilkutti! - l want to see Father - Why are you dancing? He's lost it Thomas, are you drunk? Father, he wants to convert to Christianity What religion does he follow now? The religion of food Father, l want to register l'd like you to baptise me Tell us about your family. Let's see if they're in here Found it, Father? ls his grandfather a friend of Saint Xavier? Name: Thomas Village: Kaananthurai Mother's name: Sagaya Mary - Father's name? - Chetty. Chetty Barnabas What are you saying? lt's an official register Don't enter it Chetty will throttle us l'll handle it You'll be baptised next Sunday. l'll explain it to you tomorrow Come sober l dare you to come drunk! Chetty is here. You think Kovilkutti told him? Thomas, let's talk inside What's there to talk about? lt's a question of honour The son of a identified me as his father You blindly entered it in the register Just wait. Let the Bishop come. l'll slaughter you Chetty, this is a church. No violent talk here. Calm down Give me that register. l'll burn it Most mothers tell their children who their father is Hear me out What the hell? She was a whore, buried in a wasteland He's her son. Satan's spawn Born in sin. He'll die in sin Why allow him into the church? Why protect him? He's the son of Jesus. God's child Then register Jesus as his father. Damn you Chetty, mind your tongue You buried the lame woman The whole village knows l buried ten stray dogs too. Are their puppies my offspring? Ok, l will dig them all up l'll do whatever it takes l'll pay you anything Money, money! Am l a whore like your mother? You'll buy me with money? But l really believed... Better you die Chetty, enough! You worm, get out! Chetty, go Happy now? Why bring this on yourself? Chetty! Who's there? Who are you? Bergmans! Get up, Bergmans Chandi Mary Who is it? Father? At this hour? Please come with me The child is sleeping. There's food cooking l need a favour. Come Father, where are we going? A man is hurt, Mary. l need your help lt looks like a Mesakaaran He controls the coastline. The police are in his pocket Hold this for me Press hard. He's bleeding badly lt could be murder. Let's dump him on the shore He's been shot But l told you. He's a Mesakaaran He's important to me l owe him Bergmans, it's Sam. Recognise me? l'll take care of you l'll inform the church tomorrow. And take you to the hospital No, Father They'll be looking for me in every hospital - They'll be watching the doctors too - Who will? My business rivals From Goa l've committed many sins ln my rage, l destroyed myself. Not the world The bullet is lodged inside You've given me the chance... ...to redeem myself. l'll stay here till l get better But not telling the church... My life's at stake No more sins for me A small favour Only you can help Yes? l know a woman Her name is Celina She lives in George Town in Thoothukudi l'll follow the path of Jesus if she is by my side Let Father have a cup of coffee in peace You like coffee with jaggery? How do you know Bergmans? Some people were after him We sheltered him in this place We shared the food we had Never asked his name He came like a dream and left with a promise Do you know what he does? Even if he is a murderer, l'd stand by him Know what you're saying? Yes, Father The men l know flash their money Treating me like a whore He was the only man who said he'd marry me For that one promise l'd die a hundred deaths Father, l fed him some soup He still has a fever - Praise the Lord! - A black tea for me Father needn't have come here We'll bring the teashop to the church Chetty, who is a Mesakaaran? You're asking the right man Drunken fool, l'll whack you Father wants to know something A Mesakaaran is a gangster Give him a tight slap Mesakaaran is a smuggler This drunk will get you crucified Chetty works for Mesakaaran Let him go! There was an old Mesakaaran, Xavier Fernandes Bergmans killed him and took his place Yes or no? Why does a priest want to hear a smuggler's tale? Only undernourished kids need nutrition Only sinners need a priest Yes or no? A hundred percent ls he better? Did you give him his medicine? Here's food for you both Boatman, here l said come here! Take me to the other shore l have money. l'll pay The green mint girl l was looking for l've got it Shall l climb in? Girls! You can all come He'll take us across The boat can carry us all, right? They're from my convent Esili, Maria, Agnes, Anna And Stella Why is this boat so wet? lsn't it cold? The sea waves crash into it l'd love to play on the waves But l don't have a boat lf l did, l wouldn't know how to operate it But our clothes will get soaked Have to wear just underwear then! Only Bea has ideas like that Mother will be mad Where are you going? Will you come with us to the Sagaya Matha church festival? l don't go to church l'll take you lt is like watching a beautiful sunrise We're here Beatrice talks like a child l can tell l have money just for one - l'll pay later? - Ok You look nice smiling. Less nice scowling You opened my heart Who knows from where you came Hey girl Where do you lead me? Hey girl Where do you lead me? This strange path has many pitfalls But l trust you to lead the way This wild boy is now docile as a lamb Following you with eyes shut Drawing wings on a fish You set it free into the sky You taught me to fly Who knows from where you came Hey girl Where will you lead me? Your eyes hold up a mirror... ...to my deepest fears Clearing away the dust in my soul Painting it pure white Where do you lead me? Hey girl He's gone Who? Celina and l went to the boat. No Bergmans l left Celina there You looked everywhere? Sure! Any blood stains? He's gone He took the medicine with him Who is that? The priest? Drink up.Then you'll see the priest with two women The priest is a fraud Did he say anything? No Do you know where he is? Was Bergmans in danger? He didn't say much ''We'll leave in a few days'' That's all he said He'll come back Nothing can be done now Take Celina to her aunt tomorrow Surround them! Drag them out! We'll ask the priest what these women were doing here - Hit him - Show the priest some respect Why did you tie them up? Let them go The Bishop is coming! The village is outraged, Father. They caught you red-handed l'll explain everything l won't hear lies. What's your relationship with that woman? Nothing untoward. l swear it Silence! Calm down! Praise the Lord! You all believe a sin has been committed in this church Your trust in the church is vital. We'll investigate the matter thoroughly lnvestigate? Strip him of his robes and chase him out - You shut up! - Chetty, let them investigate Think of the Lord and answer me Did you have a sinful relationship with Father? Were you in a physical relationship? This is the Lord's house Speak the truth l told you. The priest is a fraud Are you in a physical relationship with Father Sam? Yes Why are you waiting? Thrash him! Don't hit him, l beg you. He's a priest Thomas! - Father... - What about him? - The villagers are beating him - Why? - l don't know - Why are they hitting him? - Tell me why - Come with me to the church Did he hit Father too? You nailed Father Sam to the cross leave out where it is Mind your tongue Whose picture is that? Get lost! lf anyone keeps this picture here... Mesakaaran, this is the boy. Thomas Who's Sam to you? Your guru? Your father? Or God? Why do you fight his battles? Know where he is now? Palayankottai jail Know who l am? Know why you're here? l'd have come anyway They say Father Sam is in jail thanks to you Clarence, hear that? The boy is here to avenge Father So what will you do? Stab me? Shoot me? You need courage Cowards can't do it Father Sam couldn't He is bound by God But why did you stop? Has fear shut you up? lf you had wanted to kill me, you would've So why the sermons? Do you only listen to Father Sam's sermons? Father Sam and l studied together But l was the smarter one Mine is the path of survival His path is for blind sheep lf you follow Sam... l don't want to go to jail l don't want to end up like Father Sam So? l want the village to bow at my feet Every person in that village... ... has insulted me Called me Satan's spawn from the time l was born The church, God. Everyone They won't bow at your feet if you don't change You need to grow Conquer the sky So when you look down, the church will seem a tiny speck You must grow like me l will learn Hey, Clarence The boy is a viper He needs to be shot But... lf you spare him, be vigilant Peace isn't my preference. Vigilance is You're covered with bruises and scars They didn't spare you Yes. l've learned to fight back My strength was in my mind. Now it's in my body too You'll see, the men... ... who hit me will join my side. God's side But your Thomas... Your beloved Thomas is with me now That's the way Satan rolls the dice l'll teach Thomas the pleasure of sin He'll be a greater devil than l Your rage is against me. Keep him out of it How can l? Our score isn't settled yet Before l sleep each night, it's you... Sam Fernando that l think of You lying? Or were you lying with a bullet inside you? l was in danger then l didn't expect you to save me, but you did lt gave me the perfect chance... ...to settle an old score Could l let it pass? So you forced Celina to lie in church? l, Bergmans, used an angel to trap God's messenger l used Celina to send you to jail Then dispatched Celina to heaven A priest? So violent? You wanted money for the church Satan's offering Who is this? Your Father Sam had me thrown out of the seminary l lost my family, my mother... Everything was gone. Overnight So l joined Mesakaaran Xavier. He controlled the coastline His lovely wife Terese... ...carried the seed of my sin in her womb l am Satan So l had to kill Xavier before he suspected me l married Terese Now l have all this Wait. That's for me Come, Chetty. How are you? All well, Mesakaaran We're shark-catchers. We aren't checked much The going rate? Sharks are in great demand Yes. How true How much for this? The black market rate is 150,000. Right? But if you sold it without knowing the price, l lose money How much did you get? You made me buy back what was already mine Forgive me, Mesakaaran A bad mistake. Forgive me Spare me this once Please forgive me l'll never steal your guns again Forgive the dog l forgive you. Go! You know our fishermen are getting killed all the time The full moon The wide-open sky And God who created it all They all stand alone Just as you stand alone Why is this scum here? You show up at an auspicious time? A bad omen A cursed man should stay away Chetty will kill you if he sees you Are you drunk? Go away before he returns home! You wretch! They've shot Chetty His body is lying on the shore What are you saying? What do you mean? He never went to sea He's in Nagarcoil, booking a wedding hall. Stop lying! The man who buried my mother is lying dead on the shore Didn't you hear? You wretched demon! Curses on you, if you speak the truth Why did you kill him? l'm sure you did it My sister is getting married. And you bring bad news Damn you When a tree falls... another will grow tall But if the heart keels over... how will it rise again? Open the earth... you'll find treasure Open the flowers... you'll find honey drops Open the rivers... crops will flourish Open the future... hope will smile at you Brother Varghese Stop! l'm coming lt's urgent Hurry! Wait, l'm coming l must hurry Praise the Lord! Faster! Brother Varghese, stop! Turn the boat around. l have to go back l was thinking your face looks so familiar ls that your boat? Can it go fast? l didn't recognise you l felt someone's eyes on me Where to? Over there Beyond the fields. To David's house Hurry! Brother Varghese You're too slow! You've lost Praise the Lord! l'll ride your cycle. Let me take you l can ride l'm faster than a motor bike Are you a doctor? l'm a nurse - Where did you train? - At a nearby nursing school l scored top marks She's here The baby's head is stuck. They won't make it Save them! David, why didn't you call me sooner? Help us. lt's our first child Everybody out! No crowding in here A bucket of boiling water and a clean sheet. Now! The baby's head is stuck. l need help Come, Tom. Come inside Why me? There are so many women here They skin fish with their nails Their hands are dirty. You'll pull the baby out What choice have we? We can't infect the baby Jessie, try harder Come here! Pull the baby's head out gently. Don't be scared Jessie, push. Harder! Lift your head and push Pull, Tom The full moon The wide-open sky And God who created it all They all stand alone Just as you stand alone There's blood on your hands Whose blood is that? You cheeky boy! The police might get you You don't bleed only when you're dying So no one is dead? - This blood is different - So, what blood is it? The blood of Christ Thomas is crazy! Maybe l am Thomas is crazy Get lost! Don't remove the dressing. Keep it on for two week Albina, are you giving the right dosage? Who are you? Haven't seen you here before Are you from these parts? Who is unwell? l came to talk to you About what? What's your name? Studying? Or working? l have a boat. A fishing boat Praise the Lord! How do you know Bea? She travelled in my boat l came to ask about her Why did you come to see her? l asked you why l just had to see her l shan't misunderstand what you're saying David's child Bea is like a child. No one ever forgets her She finds a place in one's heart She's an angel. But her mind is child-like l don't understand, Mother Nothing wrong with her mind Many talented people - dancers, musicians, scientists Experts in their fields. But they have child-like minds like Bea She looks after all the villagers She must have suffered a trauma, and didn't develop emotionally ln psychological terms... it's a subconscious defence Her mind refuses to grow. Maybe it's safer where it is l was just thinking about you About me? What were you thinking? l don't know. l was applying the cycle brakes... lt just slipped my mind - Look at them dance! - Dance? So what game did you play when you were young? ''Fight for food'' game l saw a film yesterday Super film. A real comedy - Do dogs go home at nightfall? - Yes lf everybody goes home, who stays here? - Only ghosts? - Ghosts? Do you have a cough? - ls it bothering you? - Yes So stop coughing! A leafy odour - lt must be giardia - Who is that? A parasite created by God - When did you move here? - Just now Were you ten? No way. This young Two? No, this young Four? Five And your mother? Don't know her Your father? You don't know them? How could you forget your parents? Are you crying? Why? Your cycle? l borrowed it from Nadar. You return it Praise the Lord! ls that the priest? lsn't that the priest? The wretched man is back God knows what will happen now Damien, how are you? Muthu, give me a black tea What will befall us now? No fighting here Another tea Father, why did you return? Go away l didn't come here to leave Don't talk to him. Throw him out - They'll kill you, Father - Let them How dare he! For God's sake! Why come back? You have no one here Did Jesus ask you back? l'm not leaving l can die here. Anyone wants to kill me, go ahead l've work to do here. l'll finish what l started O Lord, You had wished to call dear sister Sagaya Mary... ...to Your side We are here to bury her body... ... once again. We bury her here with hope and faith Her soul... ...was wracked with pain while she lived on this earth She chanted Your name forever O Lord! We offer her into Your care Purify her... Purify her departed soul O beloved and blessed Father! May Your eternal light shine on her How are you? lt's been so long So you're far down another path? ls it a path of no return? l'm going, Father l have work You are God's gift to me Are you abandoning me? l'm not Everything just slipped away Fell and shattered into a thousand pieces ls that why you refuse to look me in the eye? l did everything l shouldn't have What you taught me in 13 years was forgotten in 13 days Tell me you and Bergmans are one and the same, then l'll go Tell me no speck of light is left in you Tell me you've never seen God in a human being Tell me Do you know who l am? Yes! Tom the boatman Not really l'm not what you think, Bea l've committed many sins Sins? Sins Things l shouldn't have done Like jumping over the wall without Mother's knowing? No, this is different You mean how l steal sugar to eat? Don't you know what a sin is? Drowning a man in the sea is a sin Shooting a man point blank Hacking a man with a sickle. My hands are bathed in sin Fine. Don't do it anymore l won't tell anyone. Not even Mother. Ok? Show me your hands lt's all gone The bamboo forest The fragrant herbs The deafening silence The sound of your song The full moon The dew-filled forest Walking a narrow path Hand in hand with you What more could l want? This is all l want What else could l need? When l have you The birds bathe by the pond Spraying us with water droplets Making nothing of it You gently wipe the droplets from my face Softly l embrace you What more could l want? This is all l want ln cold December... ...when the trees shiver When the cold freezes... ...the blood in our veins When bodies yearn for warmth We lie comforted by a single cover What more could l want? This is all l want Look who's here l want to talk to you You are my guru. You made me l don't know what you saw in me But l found strength on your path Then l walked on Satan's path for a while At last l see a new path ahead A girl showed me the way She led me on that path lt's your path, Father That's where l wish to stay l need your blessings Who is the angel who changed the Thomas l couldn't change? Praise the Lord! l am no longer ''Father'' Aren't you Tom's father? His mother His guardian, his everything? Mother Superior is all those things to me. But she's a little strict l hear you had a golden cradle when you were born. Really? You left all that to become a priest Praise the Lord! Think you're smart? You dirty scum You scum. l'll split your head open - l'll split your head open - All right. Go on, talk - Say what you want - l don't want anything l want my mother back. Where is she? Mother, where are you? Why did you leave me? Why the hell did you go? Get your blessings from God And her parents. Go! l'll pray for you Mother, is Bea an orphan? No, she's not an orphan She has parents. And maybe even a rich family Her name is not a typical name. Beatrice What about Bea's father? Where is her family? Are they from Thoothukudi? Why don't they visit her? They are important folk -lmportant folk? - They're busy - With what? Mesakaarans are busy people They never see her? Mesakaaran? What did you say? Are you deaf? Do you need ear drops? One more question. Mesakaaran from Thoothukudi? You mean Bergmans? Are your parents alive? ln that case, swear on God, you'll never see her again Go away! Tell me if you remember anything Here? Bea, stop! Thomas, what are you doing? Why is she here? Teaching a man to sin is as easy as teaching him to walk Teaching a man virtue is like teaching him how to fly He must sprout wings first Father Stop! l said stop! Look at me! Bea! Stop! lf you want to be like me, you must overcome two obstacles Father Sam and Bea. Decide now What has happened, my child? Bergmans phoned. He was furious She is God's child. Look at the state she's in No outsiders allowed. Go! Jesus's beloved son Satan's son has come to take you. Come! Pray on the high seas What's come over you? You mad? There's no room in this world for virtue l will destroy all trace of virtue that may be left in me l'll destroy everyone. Even my daughter, Bea ''Father, father'' Enough of that! Anyone who thinks l am a worm... ...will be sent to Jesus Bergmans will send Father Sam to Jesus Then Thomas Then my daughter Bea What do you want? Sir, we're far at sea Please don't l've always stood by you But don't do this Why not? Because she's my daughter? l have no ties. Keep going Don't make a sound, Mother. You don't know me Listen to me Where is Bea? l have to see her You don't frighten me You can't see her l won't leave l'll die but l won't go This is an institution. Don't cross the line Well, she isn't here Beatrice... . the angel who leads the wayward towards the light You want to go to Jesus? l'll send you there Do you know where you are? Look! Deep in the water... ...you'll see Jesus and your mother Want to join them? So, my daughter? Remember? We came here fifteen years ago l showed you the sea. And the sharks l should've ended it lt was my mistake Bergmans can have no ties Where is Bergmans? Satan challenges me again. He asks: ''Can you do it?'' - Father - l can do it! l can do it Satan challenges me again Why the dilemma? Bergmans, what is this dilemma? l can - Where is she? - l don't know Why not ask the sharks in the sea? l'll get you Father, what happened? Where is Bea? What have you done? Did you kill her? l thought you'd become like me But you joined Jesus's camp Look! Mr Saint is a warrior Don't! You won and l lost No, Bergmans lt is you who has won How dare you try to kill me? Taking your revenge on me for what you did to me? l turned out this way thanks to you l turned into a godless man lf l died at your hands now, virtue would have no meaning Don't, Father l was jailed when innocent...for your murder, l'd gladly return to jail Victory is mine, even now l will die victorious You'll live. A defeated man Pull him in! lf l was the old Thomas... ... l'd feed you to the sharks But your daughter has changed me She taught me to forgive And you killed her With Bea in my mind... ... l cannot harm you You have surpassed me Bea isn't dead My daughter isn't dead l couldn't kill her l have lost Where is Bea? l have lost Look at me lt's me, Tom l was so scared Nothing has happened to you. lt's ok Bea, don't you recognise me? Nothing happened l'm here Tell me you remember me Don't say you can't remember, Bea Without You what would l do? l stand at the gates of love Hold me Don't let go
