 

                        He remembers you of the faraway day or Father took me to part... ... to tell me that I worried too much the petty Morbid worry, according to him, However I lead for years a life that, even him, must judge normal except that to my rare lost moments... ... I write are some maybe him disappointed, him, but I ask... is this a crime? the Employee to the Archives ... ... has need of the Erlanger file I put back it yesterday steps to me To him in an establishment. ... as efficient as the our... ... so unusually a document gets lost, one risks of ever... ... to recover it it appeared simpler to me the messenger, it is I! the mistake... ... start my credibility your credibility. ... is without equal the fact that I carry a message confers to this one... ... an official downstream I take note of it you are not at the shelter of a return hello, Miss Rossman, or... good evening? one ridicules what you say do believe yourselves? you underestimate my power and you exaggerate the your steps now it is my turn to judge some, not to you while denouncing your delay to the Chief of Office... ... it is not I that run... ... a risk, if it is what you insinuate it is your work one pays me to make it a tablet? measly straggler note it in your pocketbook I work nearby I know you are the friend of Raban Eduard ah good? he/it told to know you and... one of you two are mistaken forgiveness, I am sure of you to have seen together... one looks at us! you don't ridicule you have ink on the nose write your resignation. ... at once you left your place without motive I knew that it would arrive it is therefore Kafka I look for Mr. Raban, who lives above I don't hear anything M. Rabans... do you know where he/it is? it was not necessary to raise you, I would have taken the key I don't doubt some it looks at you him? I am at home, no? out of here! He/it is not there. Go! you saw Eduard Raban? someone did he/it see Eduard? - Did you see Eduard, tonight? - Who? the other day, he/it made us laugh... it is not my kind he/it didn't leave with comedians? you come to the cabaret? I have work you don't ever sleep? you leave? you saw Eduard? who? wait. One comes to look for Julius. Do you know Anna? a long time ago what you is the? I arrive no, in city 3days. I passed at your parents you saw Father? I looked for you I wrote that I moved you had the intention of it have it you enough repeated I work henceforth here. You will save the stamps you know where to find me has it I passed at home - Eduard? - He/it is not there one the didn't see there since one day or two in any case, not his/her/its landlady I will iron there that have him you say? nothing, it is a grouillot Eduards said that he/it is a writer useful or dangerous it is not your bicycle one sees you at the cabaret? too late you prefer to go back you want to be alone? that you do write? a man's history who turns into bug I am thirsty as nearly all, the Castle is majestic seen from afar only one knows itself? I am called Bizzlebek the gravedigger in fact, marbleworker forgiveness sculptor, if I had the choice but the artist is the one that one pays for the being. ... and again your profession is loud bah, the noise is outside at home... ... the resonance is interior I read your writings. Extraordinary you astonish me, whom? everything that is published in dark magazines good to archive at the Castle with the paperwork one is yet interested to your case yours, The penitentiary Colony, for example... these tips that engrave the sentence in the convicted flesh it is new I also need myself a trick so that one notices my work I go to the cabaret. After the cemetery of the Castle. ... it is necessary for me to see shapes enlivened before going in bed good night my terrifying labor to the company doesn't change constantly harassed by tyranneaux... .. I write of the useless reports my Eduard friend disappeared I never dared to present it to you because it had been necessary to face the paternal despotism I learn that Anna paid a visit to you my relations with her were... at the very least difficult hope that Father won't have frightened it more your son... who likes you that sometimes like you your son incapable to like your son that family's life annoys to perish you knew it? he/it is called Eduard Raban inspector Grubach Kafkas... is it your true name? that would not have to? when have seen you Mr. Raban for the last time? Wednesday - To work? - Yes are gone you to drink a glass after? we greeted ourselves before the entry and he/it went back... ... at home you work... ... To the Co of insurances since seven years eight and seven months would tell yourselves that you were... ... do summon with Raban? if if, no, if, no - what? we worked in the same office since... ... three years one recuperated it in the stream do believe yourselves that...? that he/it committed suicide? the adults... ... do rarely fall to water, no? he/it had drunk maybe, in spite of what you say how did you find me? his/her/its landlady told us that you had passed... ... and that seemed you to hold... ... to search his/her/its business it was my... he/it didn't have another... he/it didn't have a family we know it that is all? it is not everything that we know I hardly frequent the old city... ... but the stream follows his/her/its course know that without having in me a friend... ... because us we don't know... ... and let's belong to antagonistic classes... ... you can consider me as, let's say... ... a third attentive I take note of it if you learn whatever it is that seems you... ... meaningful - Did you ask me? - Sit yourselves has close to 9years that you are here you worked with goodwill. Nothing to say in this domain but the goodwill is not all it is necessary to take into account the other I speak you honestly... ... he/it would seem that your social life... ... let to want my social life? you are a lone wolf. Too uncommunicative you put me ill at ease and I don't dare to imagine the effect that you produce... ... on my underlings but if I want to fulfill of my work... ... I hardly have the time... it is necessary to take it have wondered you... ... so much other had of the advancement, while you... ... who is here since longer... ... didn't have some no matter the quality of your work obviously, you get rid some. ... instead of taking there an active interest you were the friend of this poor... how already? he/it resembled you too much he/it resembled you more, maybe, that yourself don't ask me... ... why he/it has been decided... ... to grant you the advancement that one destined to him two clerks will assist you... ... and your treatment will increase consequently it is all one tells to me that you would like to be a writer well modestly you would need a more athletic pastime it would give you some colors you are my clerks? Ludwigs Oskars you are brothers? - Twin - In fact - Are you here for a long time? - Why? - No - Yes in fact a long time good, let's install ourselves you are free to eat lunch? Eduards, it is... ... a very difficult topic it was incapable to commit suicide the idea of the suicide obsessed it what surprised me, it is... ... the chosen moment, but not the gesture did have him two faces? one for you and one for me surely not do believe yourselves? I knew it well you knew what him was my lover? we had other activities outside of the office we accepted some the consequences what consequences? what occurred we ignore it one recovered his/her/its wallet on him you believe that that so-called the civilizes? if I am not a right to question some it is the police, there is the reason they killed it maybe but why? you would come, tonight? tonight? where? Musils district well that means yes? yes. Tonight you had to not get married? the last year, I got engaged 2times... with the same woman I am not... I broke Eduards wanted to get married and you? I mistrust the men who want to get married At what time? Where that in the District Musil? go to the esplanade. At 9o'clock from there, you will find entertain yourselves sit you I doubt... ... that Eduard spoke you of... us reason to mingle me to that? I ask the question did you read some of our writings? I must say that no all it lacks efficiency the problem, it is the quality... you could help us I write alone... ... for me you see? our work could change the things a work of which I am incapable even though my sympathies would go to your... reason I am incapable of it on order they risk to pursue you what kind of pursuits? the kind or the investigation is the suit... ... and the verdict. Eduard made the experience of it Eduards convened at the Castle, did you know it? and then? it was necessary to correct... ... any mistake of the medical file and one never saw it living again it proves him what one murdered it? one murdered it! a pass for the Castle, the opportunity was... ... too beautiful that evening, he/it carried away a suitcase of our manufacture with a message... for the Castle Eduards layer of bombs, does that shock you? useless to believe that all is true he/it is sufficient that it is logical the bomb didn't explode, it is therefore that they took it and executed that already saw itself "it is therefore"? Is that that... it is penpushers, to the Castle, they will deny all it is sure, they delivered it secretly to the police didn't have any reprisals. ... therefore Eduard didn't speak, and they contacted you, you, has the enemy then... ... of the policemen and of the archivists! the law and the order, in short you reprove our action? that suggest yourselves? one among you are he/it gone with Eduard to the Castle? you are there to distort the facts so that they center... ... with your dogma I know experience that the truth is not... ... so easy-going he/it only thinks about him it is for that that he/it came it is true it is for that that I leave I know how to not to swim! and this evening? - Good - Awful reason? when one goes in a night-club I would like to go in another you are... ... very tired Miss Rossman came Gabrielas you know it? and you? one saw it stark naked you think that to that! she/it took a sunbath on the roof one saw it changing itself/themselves one worked to Supplies stockmen one broke a lot him one is not pain, here, a double horrible life... and for only exit the madness, no? - Yes! - No - No - No I envy you you should be happy you would have to! you look for Gabriela Rossman? one opened it I close again it? that doesn't mean anything Burgels gave me your word I didn't confide to him that make yourselves? I take the business of Eduard the objects of value or the indications? the two you want maybe to make some as much. Is it yours? that probably is not worth the stroke he/it must have letters of me there that goes? the reason of your return? they don't have need of it. To send back me or to kill Eduard who that "them?" the authorities, the police, the Castle, Burgel! Burgels? I don't think that he/it makes part of it it is a nothing at all are necessary to mistrust the small the small have small ideas. Don't open it reason? while opening and closing again she/it starts herself/itself you said that Eduard has been killed while carrying the bomb if it is the bomb... how much has some? you value the suicide it is less bothersome for the police and for you - I want to know - Then, open they supervise us for them, we are all bound. The group, me, you, you will understand when he/it will be too late in the street... ... she/it was not there she/it disappeared between the room and the outside did you go to her? what? did you go to her? no, I didn't go there I understand reason would like one to remove this woman? she/it is called... Roseman? reason? you asked me to warn you Miss Rossman are meaningful I ignored whereas she/it was... ... the friend of Raban she/it was the friend of heap of people. She/it was the your one noted it, but where it leads him? To less that you have something to add she/it disappeared! that is sufficient you? yes, that is sufficient me one sent back it today me also, I would hide to sulk. Is it yours? she/it had to be right that she said? that maybe the police... ... serves something else that the truth she/it doesn't believe to the suicide of Eduard and besides, me either that doesn't rhyme steps in this context, it is necessary to let itself carry come to sit down I look for people sloughed in bugs! you hold something a method to land the women and to leave them spectacular entry, overflowing with concern for a friend call to the sensitive rope if the business begins badly, you leave under pretext. ... to pursue your research elsewhere. It is perfected it would be perfected... ... so such was my intention do exist some him of others? - Gabriela disappeared - We know it reason the police? that you did say? that I feared for his/her/its life we are in danger and her? the next one who will be? - You, maybe - Me, no tighten ourselves the elbows they hit the isolated remained with us we have the bomb she/it was at Eduard. Intact that goes from oneself! once open, there is not some anymore for a long time the police has it? no, she/it is at home where she/it doesn't serve to anything in good or in pain all of the same office that hides what? something enormous an embezzlement still money one doesn't miss... ... of theories. We need some facts it is necessary for us to know... ... why they convened Eduard excuse me you have the file Eduard Raban? yes then me there to look for his/her/its family's address? I would like to write to him nothing on the family something else? no. It is that I feel held to make something it was a very dear friend. If there is... ... any means to help to close the file he/it remains a report to complete. I will make it myself to submit it at the Castle ah yes the Erlanger business the Orlac business thank you, Mr. you are too sensitive let this poor wretch to rest in peace it is a "client" file, "used not" are Orlacs client? it is a factory of the north. An excellent customer you don't have of official demand but I will make an exception... ... for this time in any case, the file is up to date has so many accidents over there... that one is prolific in the region all that, last year? of the terrifying accidents of the crumblings - One doesn't recover the bodies an awful death the medical person responsible himself has been killed the photo. I am going to signal that that was the Dr Murnau? a big man, a visionary truth he/it spent his/its life in the hinterland... ... in all disinterestedness a big loss all these people treated the Orlac file? yes. Your friend's name is he/it there? he/it should not have intervened than once his/her/its name will appear in your chief's final report when a file go up to the Castle... ... can one recover it? but no! The directors have alone this power the scoundrel between not to the Castle To what good of the archives inconsultables? these are centennial laws, one doesn't throw them into question if I asked the directors... to see them, it is necessary to be convened and it doesn't arrive hardly ever where classify one our files to the Castle? we are a health insurance company to the medical file it is there that I should address he/it is, dear naf... ... that the chief of this service... ... to the Castle, is Leading at home if he/it pleases you! I must finish that you began indeed? he/it didn't make anything. He/it fears my superiority to assist me! as much to have two aliens one is not able to anything there one is anxious and uneasy what again? he/it constantly contradicts me constantly with time... ... our personalities himself interpntrent - And vice versa - It is awful - Imagine that that happens to you - Awful are going to eat lunch therefore go there the chief wants that tomorrow he/it says that you have some for one hour... ... or two doesn't have anybody more up there we leave it is that. It is very well you acted well you don't make to some. One will take care some attention excellent work he/it will be taken it into account you will be rewarded well we are of it nearly a last thing this gentleman is going to please you one regains his/her/its terrier? dig, dig... - One follows you - To the trace one takes you at the Castle it was therefore you and non Burgels he/it doesn't enter to the Castle consider that it is a favor our orders come from top very high! we deal with the person responsible that who is? - We ignore it - One must not say it one goes there? I believed you incompetent but faithful, what actors! - Yes - Thank you! once to the Castle... ... No scandal that would waste the good impression... dirty pig! ... that you made reason to be set against you? I felt tracked you bring back all to you when I see them to take someone... ... I recover it at the cemetery is this a coincidence? I want to go to the Castle but is worth better to go there alone some discreet means exist to enter there do prefer yourselves the official channel? he/it doesn't lead nowhere. He/it turns in circle I am flattered to enter in the confidence... ... even without knowing some the details that I believe very interesting your determination I am a sufficient reward did you enter to the Castle? it is in restaurant the tombs that I discovered that wait an empty tomb? it is an underground that dates of the big pestilence tack yourselves good luck if you like my writings... ... will you help me? again one? if I had to... ... not to see you again, would be going to take you my notebooks at home... ... to destroy them? my manuscripts... no one is finished. Burn them. Okay? what extraordinary request a friend would make it steps forcing a wife would make it you are lost? the medical file? it is the yellow floor but of course I already saw you? I am new catch it! his/her/its papers! I speak you! again how much, tonight? three, I believe it is long he/it gave us the pain help us to prepare it they make a few of them too much, no? it is the noise that embarrasses me and the odor quite you are not from here? in fact no. I surrendered to him... ... medical file I went there exactly bastard! I want to chat with you To you! how you feel yourselves? I know you it is better when all will collapse... ... you will be the first to die and you also one doesn't progress hanged man with the tripes of the cops incapable try this - That make yourselves? - That bell that they made? of you to me... ... I am only a salaried employee they tempt to create, how would say me... ... a more efficient being I get lost there the anger, happiness... ... the tastes and the colors... ... result from the chemical balance. How to change it? it is an imperfect science I perceived some as us all. They make what one tells to them they are "efficient?" physiology first, ideology then that is the good path? I must see the chief of the medical file you are convened? interesting another employee who resembled you a little has been convened... ... and arrived never no? Why? they killed it, in fact, reason? I believe that it was a question of accounting accounting? you understand... ... he/it received a paper by mistake a paper? it is serious? the bonus... ... for one death who had not taken place the workers procreate it is, alas, the only means to assure the relief he/it is good that the insurance... ... pour something... ... to the women who lose their husband people... ... want the progress. We give it it is the traffic of cadavers one called that the "resurrection", I believe I don't have myself resuscitated? Dr Murnaus the martyrdom of Orlac it was necessary for us to look for our topics elsewhere of the less rebel people Gabriela Rossmen? or of people already guilty of something reason to hire you with the anarchists? I would have... ... favorite one of your manuscripts honestly I was inspired by your work, of what I read to some, you publish little are this the result of a writing laziness? or are you... ... one of these authors that has, let's say... ... not need of readers? you despise me. ... by contempt of modernity but you are to the vanguard of modernism you show it in your writings whereas me... ... I choose to practice it the worse puzzle... to understand the human mind agree that it is common to us we don't have anything common I have tent to write some nightmares but you have some... ... built one you have your tools, I have mine but we are two visionaries it distinguishes us of the mass without face has a face of it! that you will say when the mass without face will come... ... to ask for the accounts that will answer you? one masters more easily a crowd that an individual the crowd has a common goal the individual's goal... ... is always put back in question it is what you tempt to eliminate what returns every human being different of the other but ever... ... you won't reach a man's soul... ... through a lentil it is necessary to be from the good side of the microscope stop it! quickly, quickly! catch my feet fools! are going up to stop that! where you were? behind you. Did you have it? I will have it he/it left you had told us... ... that Miss Rossman had disappeared one recovered it we estimate... ... that the report... ... must conclude to the suicide that think yourselves of it? commit suicide I agree maybe she/it was... ... afflicted by the loss of his/her/its dear M. Raban it is... ... an explanation you are... ... of a big help early, for once the chief of office asks you you wanted to see me? learn that I received two communications your convocation to the Castle... ... then an annulment of this convocation without explanation? my superior don't have to provide me of explanation... ... and less again to you it is that I had believed... ... that today... ... it would be different reason would this different be, today? very dear father... ... I always believed... ... that he/it is worth to know better the truth... ... that to live in the ignorance I am going to know now if I was right me then more to deny... ... that I make part of the world that surrounds me as me then more to deny... ... in spite of our differences... ... that I stay your son and me then only to hope that the things... ... maybe petty... ... that I understood recently... ... will pacify us a little all two... ... and will return us life... ... and the death... ... easier
