 

                        Before, when I was living in my home town There was an acupuncturist called Soetsu After the death of his wife He was living with his two daughters He saved his money little by little Eventually, he became a money lender On a snowy night before New Year He came to Shinzaemon's house to collect debts Shinzaemon owed the money lender The total amount is 65 taels of gold I won't pay means I won't pay! If you don't pay me half the amount I won't go The money is to prepare for my daughters to celebrate the New Year..... What a coincidence, I don't have money for rice too! But you have money for wine Shut up! I've never been insulted by an acupuncturist before You've borrowed and yet don't pay, that's unreasonable If you doh't pay today, when can you going to pay? Be careful what you say, or else I will kill you You are saying that you don't want to pay and want to kill me? You're insolent! Shinzaemon nearly chopped off his head Soetsu, crawling on the garden ground saw something it was a sickle lying in the snow You want to retaliate? What wrong have Soetsu done? Kicking on Soetsu who is lying on the ground He slash him again Shimzaemon! I hate you... Shinzi... Shinzi.... Shinzi,,,,, Not far away from here there is a river, where a woman called Lay was murdered by his husband From then one, those died there will never float up again A horrible rumour Shinzaemon didn't want his deeds to be exposed Order Soetsu's body to be thrown into the river God help us.... Sister..... The two newly orphaned daughters looked everywhere for their father Father.... Your father Soetsu is no longer in this world.... From then on, Shizaemon's family are having chains of misfortunes Finally, Shimzaemon became mad Killed his wife and then commit suicide His house was abandaoned Shinzi...... See for the last time This is the beginning of kaidan...... KAIDAN Director : Hideo Nakata Uncle, I am going Okay, be careful Cigarettes..... Cigarettes Shinzi, how are you? Okay Cigarettes One more time Wrong Try again heart...... heart...... heart............ Okay, one more time But....... It's really cold Cigarettes.... Cigarettes Do you want cigarettes? Er.... the next time I.....I think I want some now Soetsu's daughter Toyoshiga Shinzaemon's son Shinzi Even though they do not know the truth but they are drawn by fate together Please.... These two people's life are entwine Shinzi's , it smells good Don't have to go to other places to buy The taste is great. This is also good Thank you. Please patronize me from now on Very crowded Please, give me some as well You can give her the whole box What are you saying,,,, This is called generous. Treat you to some Don't talk nonsense I am going to the bath It's raining It's okay, it will be quieter Walk carefully Ah It's the rain Don't just stand there, come inside Teacher, are you going out? If the tobacco got wet then it wouldn't be good? I cannot trouble you You are troubling me by just standing there Come.... You are so stubborn It's snowing....... I am going now Teacher, Happy New Year Happy New Year Happy New Year Happy New Year You have to work hard in your practise this year Yes Has it been 3 years , right? But Teacher I want to improve my standard This is a good instruments Fool! You can just say that, even though there is not a bit of improvement Right! Haven't seen Shinzi around lately? We haven't seen him, so what? Yes There isn't one bit of improvement If he is not sick then it's okay Right Teacher The weather is not good Can't do business Haven't seen you around lately? Ya... Everyone is enquiring about you Still the same That's good Everytime it snows, I will meet you Don't think it will stop today It will stop before sunset It won't snow again, come.. From here to my house is very near, come No... The snow is piling up Ya... Don't sit there , come closer to the fire This will be the last time I see you Under your recommendations, business is good but...... this have to end Have anyone said anything? If I come here again, it will surely invite rumours What? They would say I am coming to meet you I fell in love with you on first sight I've been thinking of you eversince The more I control myself The more I want to see you What are you saying? We are like mother and son I like older man and they have to be tall I don't like..... Lately, there have been more childish man...... From the beginning, I know you would not like me You have someone you like? No Your body still need to grow Just give me one night like this I am very lonely The sky has cleared You can go back now Sooner or later, you will disappear, right? Teacher.... My father disappeared on a snowy night Actually,the next morning My younger sister and I went to look for him When the snow starts to melt in the afternoon The two of us is up to our neck with mud How are you? How are you? Sister? Sister, I am coming in I am dressed in the kimono you gave me Sister.......... You are here How are you.......... Let's go I don't understand? What is that greenhorn Shimzi doing with Teacher? Shimzi must be overjoyed! It is really shocking! I would also like the teacher to take care of me Really? To be drained of your energy wouldn't be so good Want to take one with you? Stop! What are you thinking about? That..... One more time, from the top From now on, don't retort back in front of all the people I did not Just answer will do How much do you want me to lose face, then you are satisfied? Yes... Look down on people If it's like this, you don't have to come here, then it will be fine I didn't ask you to come here But I want to learn from Teacher But my mother ask me to go somewhere else............. It's because you are good that's why she let me come here But the situation have been changed lately.... What do you want me to do? I have no reason to let your mother talk nonsense You go somewhere else then But I..... Go to the place your Mum likes and it will be okay Troublesome Osa Quick, get out! Teacher You can go if you like She came especially..... Come the next time I am not in a good mood today My only interest is singing If I go home, I will be scolded by my stepmother Not getting along well? Come back the next time I... dreamt of father again Always the same old words It has to be Toyoshida who will be punished by Heaven I don't care He is the one who abandoned us Sister I also hope that you won't continue with Shinzi You know it won't last but yet you still go on Forget him. Let's go back to our hometown I know you will be lonely but if you break off with him... I won't break off with him I won't break off with him Get out! No matter what, it's good to have Shinzi at my side Get out of here! If you want to go back, go alone! Sister! I don't want to see you again Sister..... Listen to me, sister What are the two of you doing? Stop it! Are you alright? Sorry I won't come here again Please take care of my sister Sano.... Take care Don't quarrel anymore You only have one sister and you are also very suspicious of your disciples Let them continue with their learnings Why are you siding with Osa? Her mother is her step-mother, that is already difficult enough for her and yet she still kept a smiling face, isn't that incredible? We are totally different Teacher, something is not right with you I've be troubling you for a long time. I am going back to my uncle's house No, it okay if there is no disciples But I can't live without you Don't be like this It's no good for you I won't let you go anywhere No, I can't live without you I beg you Let's break up No! Teacher! It's bad..... Painful? Ah....Shinzi? It's not a big deal I am really sorry It's me who is really sorry to let your beautiful face be scared No What is it with me? A bad mouth who always reprimands people and will regret it afterwards What is it with me.... it's because I love Shinzi What should I do? I feel so bad.. How nice if we didn't meet! I won't let you go anywhere I am a boring man without any good traits You are not in the wrong it's me who is not good enough for you if a woman who always have my interests at heart, to be by my side Shinzi.... is it true? it's true I will remember it I will never forget it Teacher Teacher! it is a bad swell if it continues to swell, we'll just hav to cut it up to let the fluid flows out Shinzi...... Shinzi! Don't leave me alone Shinzi....... I've had a bad dream My ears....my ears are rotten and they fell off It's just a dream Shinzi Bite me Bite me, or else.... Something is not right in my head Harder It's no good for your body When the body is healed Everything will be alright It can't be healed What are you saying? Think about it, if you are in my shoes I know. I... know that there is no hope I understand perfectly well Going out to take some fresh air Let's go and see the fireworks by the river? Not with my face like this! Can't go out with you together...... You go back first. Don't tell mother okay Shinzi! Shinzi, did you come to see the fireworks? No, I came to buy medicine for Teacher How is she now? Not so good. Still lying in bed. Let me visit her now Better not. She'll get angry if she sees a woman Is it.... Then.... goodbye Please come this way Please, take your time I've been thinking why I wanted to see you again Me? I want to leave home and? I've written to my Uncle in Yusan I am not getting along with my step-mother I ask if I could stay there Uncle wrote back and said that I can leave immediately Yusan huh? Very far We won't be able to see each other again Oh yes we will I was born in Yusan I can't remember it now Do you know why Teacher is so cold towards me? It's jealousy because you are beautiful Is that what she thought? My.... my feelings I think I'll send you to Yusan If you are not around, who's taking care of Teacher? It's because you think that Teacher is beautiful That is why you take care of her Another reason being there is no other woman besides her Another thing is there is no woman that can put me in so much diffiuclty as she did Why don't you give me some of your courage If I have such courage.... I.... I am very weak.... No matter how my stepmother beat me If I am to cry then I have to admit defeat. That's why I control myself I never want to go back to that house Not even for one day I am also going to Yusan If this continues, my relationship with teacher would not work out Ah! Shinzi....ah... Ah! Shinzi, what are you doing? Why are you leaving when the Teacher is sick? Hey! Shinzi! What are you doing with that? To sell it What? I am leaving Jianhu What about Teacher? I need to use that money There will be a way later on Stop fooling around! She treats you like a husband and loves you unconditionally Provide for your every needs Everybody calling you Shinzi, Shinzi and for what? She has been waiting for you Why did you come? I thought you hated me and left Teacher, please forgive him He is still young and not able to control himself but you said, if he listens to you.... Shinzi... It doesn't matter, anywhere you go it's just that I can't die in the water No reason to say this as long as you take care of your health She is not feeling well, be more careful Yes Yes? Wait a while Yes.... Who is it? Is Shinzi in? Shinzi, I've been looking for you for a long time What is it? Teacher....she... She died Don't joke with me We are just sending Teacher off Go back quick! Shinzi Where are you going? Teacher, she.. Shinzi Found this beside Teacher If you get a wife later on I will surely kill them If you get a wife later on I will surely kill them I thought you have gone to Yusan I am so sorry about Teacher At that time, if I was to stay I was the one who should have stayed Osa Are you still going to Yusan? Let's go together. With me You've made me cry again I thought our fate have ended It has not end Bring me away I beg you, bring me away Are you okay? If the rain continues We will have to fine a place to stay There will be, right after we cross the river I think the rain won't stop until morning Shall we go back to the inn? We left in such a hurry didn't have anything to eat Someone is following us Who? No one is following us Look It's coming Osa! Don't look! It's painful This stupid thing! Will I die? What are you saying!? If it continues to bleed like that, won't I die? If I die then you can be with someone else Osa, why are you saying such things Why do you have a face that is so handsome(vomit) It's just natural and you so gentle Then, what should I do? Can you please calm down? You abandoned me I was been abandoned Let go of me Let me go Osa! Come here for a minute Yes How is he? He is resting is it? He fainted on the road, due to starvation We discovered him there Wouldn't be a robber? Perhaps He was strangled like this Until now, he can't swallow anything Very strange! Shenchuan's niece just arrived here Anyway, shouldn't frighten her Miss, leave such work to me It's okay I am sorry Why do you want to save someone you don't know? If anyone's in trouble, shouldn't we help each other? Thank you for handling the account yes Can you inform the Village Chief Yes What is the matter? Not good. At the river, Osa... Please We let you worry Please.. Miss, convenient now? Boss, give some tea Sano, get some tea Okay, coming Thank you very much Give me some wine Yes Going to set sail soon Excuse me, can I take a ride? Get on board quickly Shinzi Why are you in Yusan? Your sister have died. I am sorry My sister was very happy to be with you She loves you from the bottom of her heart I loved her too From the bottom of my heart Such a coincidence that Sano saw Shinzi at the river mouth Shinzi decided to stay in Yusan Shinzi, rest a while okay You would like this It's very pretty Shinzi Come here awhile You are here Thank you for taking care of me the other day Our young mistress is looking for you How is it? You are not going to stay here? My daughter wants to..... to be by your side This is what I call fate Can you fulfill our wishes? I don't even know where I came from I am really grateful But...... I can't do it... Please accept my daughter's request I can't accept it Furi Furi Please forgive me You've already made your decision In Shenchuan, I have a woman who is like a wife to me Even though she is not around anymore but our fate can never be ended You can't forget your lover who have died? I tried every way to cure her but yet she still leave us Furi Furi Furi Furi Bring some water Come, men! Why is it like this? It is my retribution for I do not know where I stand Let me Furi was taken care by Shinzi but the fate between Teacher still continues The injuries on Furi's face is also a sign that the fate have not ended Shinzi have decided to marry Furi Shinzi forgot his punishments He thinks that Furi is as beautiful as Teacher Furi is also very happy with her marriage to Shinzi Not too long, Furi was pregnant This child will be the source of all troubles Such a good baby I thought he would be frightened and cry He must be a very strong child and he is very heavy Yes, mother-in-law You are awake? Are you feeling not well? You are always like that nowadays I think it's not me, it's him! I've never seen such a quiet child He is a healthy baby After drinking his milk, he will sleep soundly He have not even cried once? He won't even cry when he is hungry Look at his eyelashes, so long and beautiful When he grows up, he will look like you If he won't cry when he is frightened, let's see if he will cry if we beat him If he still won't cry, then he is definitely not normal You said not normal.... It's too much! You're not eating,Ikki? Young master You don't look too good Want me to bring you somewhere to have fun? Ikki, Sange, let's go Rub your bum... Rub.. Rub.. Sorry to let you wait.. Coming...coming... Hey, bring the wine over Bring all over Young master, let's toast Toast Drink with me Drink with me.. I am here Just like that and you look so fresh Are you from Jianhu? Are you not satisfied with me? No such thing! Then I shall start to play She is really not bad,,,, Below Komonwa's house is Wusi Komonwa? but you can't go Your status is only a bit Young master, wake up Yire's son-in-law, if not home by dawn, would not be very good Get up now I was watching you just now You came back.. Have a good rest You have brought in some unreliable people What do you think? Are you refering to Shinzi? After giving birth to a son, he's always going out He is from Jianhu Living in a small village , he will always feel restricted Young Master, going out? Yes Can you come with me for a while? Please go back Please go back.... Where are you bringing me? What is it? I think you must be very bored I am very lonely here Are you saying you miss your hometown? I still prefer to live in a more lively place With lighted street lamps and crowded places Shinzi Can you loan me some money? I want to leave but I need money, right? I've given you the money that you deserve My husband ash is mine That's what everyone does If you think you want to blackmail me, you've got the wrong person Such a heavy downpour Using the sickle like that, gave people such a fright You are saying that I am a murderer? Please use 100 taels of gold to buy this If it's resolve this way wouldn't it be cheap? I won't listen to any more of this! I ask some people in the shop to look for you What happened? Please speak... What? You... You have done many wrongs to your first wife That is why, Shimo and I are like this.... You are boring me! Don't look at me Hey, what are you doing? Such a child..... Please don't be like this! No! Please don't be like this! Go to hell! How can a father treat a baby like this! Get out! It's my fault. I.... You treat a man like this as your husband and allow him to go to any places he pleases What is wrong with that? Shinzi, if you let Furi suffer again I have other ways to handle you! Jiwaza is What to do with this thing? Put it on the 2nd level of that rack Yes Master, this letter it's from Jianhu Ok Ah.... Shinzi What do you intend to do? I haven't got any answers yet I've said before, I don't want anything to do with you In this situation you are still saying such things A person murdered won't come to life Why don't you kill me as well? What is the difference in killing one or two? Okay, I will wait for you tonight Looks like it's not enough... Give me that thing(sickle) I told you I want 100 taels of gold You're not giving it to me!? I told you I want 100 taels of gold!! The rest of it, I'll note it in the account If my husband is to die Won't you will be the owner of that shop? I will keep it all in my account You bastard! After my daughter, you even stole the gold! How much do you want to steal!? No one would cry if I kill you Ah.. Bastard! Go to hell! Bastard! Scram! Don't appear in front of me anymore Not thrilling enough! From today onwards.... I want you to support me How long do you want me to suffer until? Is it not enough? Still more to come? Until which stage will you be satisfied? When will you be satisfied!!?? Don't think of escaping Be a good boy and hide temporarily If anyone got suspicious, everything we've done would be wasted Go quickly. Ok I thought others have died But it turn out to be me Eh? Hurry up! Wait up! Wait up... Don't come over here! Qucik, go back! Stop singing, I can't get to sleep Since my father died, he hasn't been able to sleep His eyes is always open Don't know what happened? Don't even drink his milk Sleep.... Sleep.... Stop singing!! Recently there's been lots of death in the river That is not superstitions Fool! It's not superstitions, it's done by people Definitely, it's done by someone Who? Of course it's you Very depressing! The words of man! How about saying some happy things? Why can't we say it? People of high status in Yusan are dying But the money of Taka won't go into your pockets I don't want to hear anymore Why are you looking at me that way? What really are you looking at? Osa... Shinzi..... Shinzi..... I beg you, bring me away Bring me away Young Mistress, what happened? Young Mistress? Young mistress Coming Where is Shinzi? Hey, go to the dormitory and search! You go over there! Not here? No Where did he go? That bastard! I've seen him around here a number of times Are you sure? Hey, found him! Shinzi Stand still! Stop dreaming of getting away Kill him! Kill him! No...... Shinzi You will be discovered here Shinzi Shinzi Ah... Ah... Shinzi.... Shinzi.... Shinzi Sister... Shinzi We have been waiting for you # English id: en, index: 1 # Decomment next line to activate alternative name in DirectVobSub / Windows Media Player 6.x # alt: Chinese
