 

                        1 The sun-god has come, it has steadily risen Why was the sun-god, So late today in coming up? 11 ,1 7,18,20... 27,30, 31 ,32 50, ..98, 99, 100. Ready or not, here l come. l'm coming. There's no point hiding. Come out. l did spot you. Want me to come and touch you? Want me to say where you are hiding? Team DrC So many catfish in water Don't close eyes Ticket Ernakulam Got change? Don't close eyes lf you close eyes, you will die Ticket Got change? Why was the sun-god, So late today in coming up? The sun-god has come, it has steadily risen Why was the sun-god, So late today in coming up? Was late, seeing peacock dance ln the mountains where no peacock would enter. Was late, watching the bull-play ln the golden hill, where no bulls would enter. Was late, watching the goat-play ln the mighty hill where no goat would enter. Was late, watching the koel play ln the golden hill where no koel may enter. Was late watching the stork-play ln the golden hill where no stork may enter. Was late, watching the horse-play ln the mighty hill where no horse may enter. The sun-god has come, it has steadily risen Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell the story, tell, tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell the story, tell, tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell the story, tell, tell, tell, tell, O tell. ln the months of harvest Afterthe reaping in the hills With paddy upon the head, O patriarch, coming on, swinging Athousand Pulaya hands, Tell the story of the Pulayas Of Earth, the field of all, Tell us, with the tongue where Saraswathy, The daughter of the fields, dances Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell the story, tell, tell, tell, O tell. lsn't it the story of Pulayas Smashing the earth-lumps Cutting open the furrows And ploughing the field, Sowing the seed, And transplanting the saplings. Tell the story of old and famous Seeds germinating and growing.... The story smiling in the paddy-ear that rises like a lightning streak during the floods of high tide, The story swaying in its robust stems Climbing the tree-house at dusk Singing and drumming Scaring away the birds, and tigers Throughout the night, Koran's guard-story. Story of Neeli Who gets out of the gate Plucking away the weeds And the young master's devious glances Tell, tell, tell, tell, tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, tell, tell, tell, tell, O tell. The ancient story of Pulayas Who cultivated the whole earth Many times over and longed for the threshing floor of the future. Tell, tell, tell, O tell Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, O tell Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, O tell Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell the story, tell, tell, tell, tell, O tell. Tell, tell, tell, O tell Tell, tell, tell, O tell. Why was the sun-god, So late today in coming up? The sun-god has come, it has steadily risen Krishna,wait. Don't try to catch me -l'll give you a beating. l'll see you in the evening. Team DrC Pushakara, What are you doing there? Go work on the drain! l'm trying to get this fire going lf the tapioca is not ready soon,there's gonna be a revolution here. Balan, clean the bottom Let the water subside a bit. You might find the missing 'Kairali' Ship! Don't get scared Hey Pushkara, Come grab the ropes here. Let me grab a drink That can wait till the tapioca is ready. Snakehead fish, yeah? Hey! Who gave you the permission to empty the pond? This is public land, right? -Who says it's for public? This land was given to me by the landlord You can check that at the Village Office Why should l go to the Village Office? How dare you talk back to me? -Let go off Grandpa. Balan, stop it! Balan, stop it l'll see you later. Boss, What's going on, Balan? These guys need four-lined notebooks l want to talk to you about something, Come to the back. Keep the cycle here. You hit them where it hurts We need people like you Have a drink We are out of four-lined books Want this? Drink it. Josa is coming! Rowdy Josa is coming! l should warn Bhaskaran! Get out of this place! Josa is coming. -Who? Go from here! -Why should l go? Bhaskara, how dare you testify against me! Josa, please listen... Get out of my way! No Josa... Please don't hurt him! Thought you'll get away with it? Josa, please listen to us! Nobody testifies against me! Move aside Come here Everyone, listen up! This is what happens if you mess with Josa! Get out of my way! He is a giant! As tall as an electric post! You'd be scared senseless, if he looked straight at you! But we should hold the gaze... That's how Balan Chettan does it! Balan chetta, he's coming! You guys go Where are you going? -l'm going Stop, l'm coming too. -Hop on. Who are you? -Hit him Balan, What do you want? No... Come to me you sons of bitches. Hit him Salim! Come pig Balan, Balan, l couldn't sleep that night. And many nights afterthat. l was so scared. There's that prayer you say when you are afraid... Rama.. Rama.. Not that... 'Arjunan Phalgunan Paarthan Vijayanum' 'Vishruthamaayaper Pinee Kireetiyum' 'Shwetavahanan Dhananjayan Jishnuvum' 'Bheetheeharam Savyasaachi Bheebhalsuvum' 'Arjunan Phalgunan Paarthan Vijayanum' Hello. Hello Krishna, This is Ganga. l just felt like calling you. Something is amiss. Somebody is after me. Who? A ghost. Don't worry. l'll be careful. l just wanted to tell you this. You go back to sleep. You go back to sleep. Go to sleep.. Team DrC How are you doing Pendulkar Sir? -Very good How are you Krishnan? -Am good Very good. Any news about Rawat Sir?. There he is. -Go get him He was supposed to throw a party for us, right? How are you? You made a fool out of us! All your empty promises! A grandson is born You've got military liquor at home... -lt's not like that man l couldn't wait to see the child l caught the evening train and left for home Don't you worry. This Sunday, we'll party at your place Where today? -Pancharatna building today From there we take the diamonds to MlTC How much is the stuff worth? -50 crores.. 100 crores... lf l were you... -You'll steal it? Bullshit The vehicle is here. -l'm coming Sunday, Don't forget. At your place Tell me. -Where are you? l'm driving l want to see you Come home. l'll be there. -See you tonight Cut.Cut. Who is handling the background action? ldiots! ADs, take a look. Back to the first position! lt's insulting when you ignore my Whatsapp messages lf you are busy, just tell me you are busy l guess l don't have the right to get pissed You look good in a saree Patil's guys gave this How was work? -What work? You get paid for doing nothing My body hasn't seen work in ages Did you make anything today? As usual You have to be in good terms with Patil,to run anything here You gave my number to Ganga? You are making things worse for me! You should mind your own business! He called me up in the middle of the night and asked me for your number What am l supposed to tell him? That l don't know? You still drink this shitty hooch? This is good government hooch. Not the old bootleg! Try it Finally, you threw us a party Rawat, you are a lucky man Your son got married And now he has a child Yes l'm lucky He's not your average Security The ones that stand outside ATMs or apartments He's not like that He's a special kind That's true. He says l'm special He roams with diamond merchants Hello Krishna, This is Ganga Where you now? -l'm now in a safe place. Come soon. l'll call you after solving my problems Then you should do me a favour You should come and take Anita with you Ganga, Balan chettan was right She was meant for you... l came in between and messed everything up Hey Krishnan What do we do with Rawat? He's passed out! Let him sleep here. l'll bring him to the office tomorrow Ok We're heading home Hey Shanker, lets go home The subscriber you are calling is switched off.Please try after some time l didn't understand half the things he said Something's up Otherwise he wouldn't have called me again He's my brother No problem. You sit at 39 You haven't been there for so long Bye man Keep me updated Why didn't you stop the bus? We've been waiting for long What's your problem? Public transport runs on our money Why are you shouting? ldiot! lt's the same everywhere... The Kammatipaadam boys would've stopped, not just a bus,but even a train! The Porkkumkoodu Gang is attacking Balan Chettan at Kavitha Theatre! Let's go! Let's go! Go to Kavitha theatre Come.. fight with me.. Pigs of Porkkumkoodu Come.. fight with me.. Krishna, What are you staring at? Beat them up. Beat the shit out of them! Beat them hard Come.. fight with me.. Come.. pigs Beat the shit out of them! The boys of Kammatipaadam will sell tickets in every theatre. We'll sell tickets in every theatre in Ernakulam. Beat them,beat them hard We'll sell tickets 3 rupees for a 1 rupee ticket. This is Balan talking. l dare you to touch us again. Drink up! lt's good for body pain What about me? -Wait... Pour him some Balan, Buy me a drink too l'll pay you later -like a loan... l will definitely pay you back Yeah right! Don't get used to this Take this Take this This is for today's work! lf you work, you will get paid! -Split it amongst all of you! Drink up Team DrC This is for you Split this between you guys Why are you loitering here? A chain... For you? No... for my sister What's your sister's skin colour?. -Dark or fair? Dark -Dark.. For dark skin And fortwenty rupees... ls it ok? lt's three more weeks before the yearly exam. We have a lot to study. Get on Let's go Touch the ground Now keep your legs apart One, Two, Krishna, Three, 'All the girls who are participating in the District Sports Meet 400m sprint has to report at the booth' 269, 401 , 501 . 527, ''Dark bird, dark bride, where is your nest..., where is your nest..., Don't bounce so much when you run, you'll go off-track! You dirty dog! -Let him go... Get off him! Stop it! Did you buy it? Yes. Where's your mother? -She's inside. l'm leaving You earned quite a name for yourself at school- Bully! Come on, l thrashed him because he teased you Who are you to punish him? Take it - What is this? Take it -Open it For the attention of believers After the procession reaches inside the temple the breakdance presented by Gangadharan of Kammattipadam will be shown Team DrC l'm going home, mom -You want to go home? She wants to go home -You want to go home? l'll be right back Careful Anita, -Yes dad? My friends from the theatre group are there l have to go back Are you okay, here alone? -l'm okay So brave! l wanted to see you alone -Why? l'm leaving To where? Dad wants me to go back to our village. So that l'll be a better person. You don't have to go anywhere to be a better person Be here... So l can see you everyday... Did you like the necklace? Yes What am l getting in return? Get out of here... Before someone comes Where did you go? -Home Anita was with you, right? -No, she went to her house Didn't you go with her? -No Did you see my dance? -Yes l did Where did you go in between? Tell me, where did you go in between? l went to take a dump! ls he the one? Get out of the way. There is a lot of swelling You should give him a mix of egg, Trellis Vine and Kanthari Chilli sapling in brandy No brandy! Let's get going doctor lnstead of brandy, drink your own urine in the morning! Why always brandy and urine? Krishnan? -He is by that window What is it? lt's Kanmadam. Grandpa Kochootty send this for you He asked you to take it with milk What is that? -Medicine Must be some kind of Voodoo thing! Stop hanging out with these low-caste people. Take it away Balan Chettan's car Come let's go Keep it inside. How many now? -26 now. Already time for another load! Where is it headed? -To Kollam People of Kollam are now going to drink our liquor Here comes the muscle man! -Get lost! Boss, Everything all right? -Are you planning to trash everyone here? Get out of here Could there be someone on your tail? -On my tail? l know all the roads here You haven't skimped on the monthly bribes? That l haven't. Here they come Here comes the losers... all banged up... What a shame! He was trained in Karate! -Karate... bullshit! Who is he? He is a member of the Porkumkoodu Gang. Biju He's a meat cutter in the market Shame on you! You want to hit him? You want to hit him? l said- Do you want to hit him back? We can bang him up... beat the shit out of him! Are you the Karate guy? Come, let's fight. Team DrC Let go off me.. come.. This is Balan.. Hit him,Balan chetta Hit him,Balan chetta Show me your Karate. l dare you to touch Kammattippadam boys again! Show me your Karate. Come pig Come let's fight l dare you to touch Kammattippadam boys again! Cheer for us. Pump it and kick it...Keep pumping it! That's what l'm doing, right! keep pumping it Release it slowly,release it slowly lt suits Balan Chettan Can l keep it? lt is for you. Train these kids to ride it too We'll need it Open the gate lt's Martin This is Menon Sir Hello Menon Sir -Come in Pump it before you kick it! You've got to have a knack for it That's what l'm doing right! -Pump it and kick it You don't have to keep turning that thing -l didn't turn it! Do it with flair! What are you laughing at? Get off it! You can't do it. Waste of time! Like he's going to do it Show him how it's done! Watch him do it. You saw that? Take it for a spin. Hold it lt's a tricky business l'm interested only if it's an equal partnership Boss... What is this? Lemonade? Let's get a proper drink! -Balan, come with me... l'll be right back What are you doing, Balan? We were having a serious discussion there lt's me, right? -lt's not like that. We were talking business there You see that guy over there, Smoking a beedi. We have to take care of him -for our deal here to work out Majeed, Get ready. The pig is coming. Brother, -Get in Get in... kick the shit out of him... You still want to play Union? You want to call in a strike? lf l see you nearthat bar again, l'll make a mess of you. We'll run Resmi Barthe way we want to! Boss Surendran is not like your Menon Sir! Get that you son of a bitch? Dump this pig somewhere! Lift the pig up. Cops! Stop Come out of the car. What do you want? What do you want? -Here l come. l dare you to come close! l dare you to come close! Here l come. This is Balan Who has the guts to come near me. Get lost you sons of bitches! Get lost! Team DrC lt's all about how you stab Stab him, turn it in him and pull it out... His intestines should come out! ln case you get stabbed, you should never let him turn it in you... Kick him down and slowly remove the knife When l was your age, l picked a fight with Baldhead Cleetus at the Ponnurunni temple festival He stabbed me l didn't let that bastard turn it in me l kicked him down! l ran all the way to the General Hospital pressing down on my wound! Within one month, l stabbed the shit out of Baldhead Cleetus at the Ponnurunni junction! Why the fuck are you giggling? Get me a boiled egg Somebody hold me! Pilo would be under the bridge Get me to her. -What are you going to do with her?. l don't have to do anything. She will do everything! She will do everything There's Pilo. Pilo... Pilo What the hell. Get out of my way. Pilo... My Pilo... Pilo... Pilo... What the hell. Get out of my way! Pilo... My Pilo... Get lost! Fucking Karate -What a strong kick man. He ran away when l showed him the blade? lt's ajeep Run Abu run. Leave the cycle. Stop right there. Don't mess with the police. Have we reached? Have we reached somewhere? Where? Should we go back? Ganga, Where did we keep the motorcycle? Did we come in Balan Chettan's car? 'The worms, leopards, insects, eagles Sea-elephants, jungle's creatures And we, live together here in this hellish place' Cochin? Not Cochin, Ernakulam. My village, no.. city. Ernakulam is a city. Not like Mumbai. lt's small. But, if people go missing... Then they are forever missing... Madhavan Chetta, Someone is here to see you l don't like it there Your sister and l don't get along Her husband is such a dud! Shenoy isn't kicking me out of here, because l wrote his accounts for a long time. Can l get some? There isn't any left l had to wait a long time in the queue to get this! As a father, l can't deny you! Take this Are you going back? l haven't decided yet lf you are, then take me with you... lt's me, Krishnan Did you see Ganga? No... Don't know what happened to him He's been missing forthree days lt is not unusual for him, but l'm still concerned He isn't available on phone Nobody is going to look for him... What am l going to do at this age l saw him run home through this road , as though he was scared of something... When l saw him run like a mad man,a sudden pang of fear shot through me... Team DrC Martin Sir was the one who asked me to call you After all the rotten things l've done for you guys, he can't answer my call! So let it be,don't pick up my call When l walked Anita home that evening, l told her he was home. To my surprise, he had dinner from home. He slept on a mat outside their room. His voice woke me up in the middle of the night. He was talking on the phone. When l listened carefully, l understood he was talking to you. l just thought of calling you. l smell something bad... l don't know what What's going on with you? l just felt like calling you After he called you that day, he was in the room telling her something... Dad, Dad, l'm leaving When l saw him leave, l wanted to stop him.. But l couldn't do it... You guys made lot of trouble when you were young. But this time, l was really scared for him.. Go somewhere to be good, said my father, Grandpa said the same thing... She said, if you want to be good then you can be good anywhere.. if you want to be good then you can be good anywhere.. l didn't turn out good..none of us did.. no matter where we went.. Team DrC Okay next guy.. Come here.. Come here.. l'm taking him Everything okay Bye Come on No Problem, dear l heard about what happened here yesterday We were just giving the big brothers a wash They were trying to drown him! lf l report it, you won't get out Go back to your place, find a job and lead a normal life Don't ever come this way again! Got it ? Dad, Come,lets go Have you been waiting for long? Quarter past eleven, there is a train lf we catch it, we can make it home before dark Ganga! -What are you doing here! Madhavan Chetta, you carry on. l'll bring him home! -Who is this? -This is Venu You can go, we'll get him home Get in Come on Venu.. Let's go! Don't worry about it man, We'll go home tomorrow... They are all waiting for you! You've grown a moustache -ls it good? They used to make me shave a lot! You are a handsome guy! Salman Khan! Get out of here! Oh my god! Who's here! Krishnan. Hey bro! Come here my man! Anto, look who is here Portuguese? Fuck you man. Do they serve beef in jail? Why don't you find out for yourself He went to jail for me... lt was pointless though He slashed the guy in a moment's fury What is this- a bandit camp! Yeah... big set-up! Look who has come! You've grown old. Who is this! Krishna my dear, you've grown up! Look he's totally grey! What a huge setup Balan chetta, look who's here! Krishna... My dear Long time... He's become handsome! He is my pet! Come let's have a drink That's water Pour him a fresh drink Here take it -lt's our stuff You've become good at it! Anto, walk fast You want me to carry one? No, l can carry it You guys go ahead Drive carefully Okay ls that Balan Chettan's girlfriend? No man Make it fast. The cops can be here anytime! What's he doing here? What is 1 75 plus 75 Portuguese and his stupid math Sometimes you put grapes in it lt's in here Oh really? You guys started? You want some? l don't drink and drive Driving is no simple task. You don't even know how to drive. Excise! l feel weak in the knees Let's go l'll drive Are they behind us? Hold tight. Team DrC We've lost a few cans! But that's okay. Pigs. They came all the way to take a piss Are they new cops? Sumesh, unload it Must be a new officer. That's why he is showing off You seem to have forgotten us, Venu Are you not the driver anymore? Who is this? This is my friend Krishnan. Come, Light it. Won't it burn you? -Good stuff won't burn your finger Excellent stuff! Johnny...That pig... He's the one who told on us! Who is Johnny? When we were loading stuff at the island, You saw a guy pass by in a Jeep? -The guy in the coffee-coloured shirt? That's the one He was the one who informed Don't worry, Balan Chettan will take care of him What happened here? -This is how it is now. Which way? -This way The road has become very narrow Everything has become narrow How many years ago did this happen? -Two years Everything happened so fast.They came and closed off the land Mom... Aunt... Mom... Dad, look who is here... When did you come? lt's been 2-3 days How are you feeling now? Okay Anita... Mom...come here... Krishnan How are you doing? Krishna, come here... l'll go see them No, l have to... -Come inside, eat lunch We got prawns curry -She's lying! lt's lentils today as well! Let's go out and eat Let's go man Grandpa, Your dad told me that you had come Don't spoil yourself hanging out with these guys... Go home, listen to your dad and live a decent life Grandpa is nuts! l'll kill you Bye Grandpa Madhavan Chetta, Madhavan Chetta, l've brought him home! We had to go on a small trip l got him along because he wasn't doing anything Mom, l had come to receive you only because your mom had insisted... l didn't know you were such a busy guy l didn't have the means to hire a carthough! Enough, come in son... Where is Savitri Chechi? She's inside l'm still here! Nobody has taken me away yet... Who is gonna take you away when we are still here! l'll see you later, Krishna Boss, he is the one who snitched on us! -Stop it, Balan! l don't have time for your infighting! l've got things to do Sumesh, make him understand -You can'tjust leave He is the one who betrayed us.The boys saw it Didn't you guys see it? -Yes we saw it! Why would the Excise chase us without someone tipping them off? Mathai, he is the one who betrayed! What informing did l do? Johnny, you should understand one thing- - Surendran, my father and l are paying the Excise monthly bribes That's why these kids are not in jail! This can't happen We want both of you working together But if you want to kill each other, then do that! We'll find someone else to do business with... Explain it to them, Mathai This is the last warning You guys have to find a way to share the business amongst you Shake on it... Balan... Let go of me, Sumesh Chettan l'll be right back Team DrC Where are you coming from? From my tailoring class... l was worried someone might marry you, before l got out ofjail So you plan to marry me? Yes, Then make it fast Someone's coming home tomorrow with a marriage proposal... Ganga, get them an autorickshaw l can't Please get one... That's Kumaran's younger son- Ganga Bye -l'll see them off Hello.. Hello.. Hey slow down. Hello, what's your name? -Binu What's yourjob? -l'm a mason Plastering works? -Everything...l do contractjobs as well Liked the girl? -Yes Good huh? There is a problem though, Anita is my customary bride. l'm going to marry her... The mason shouldn't come in between and create trouble for me... lf you step foot in Kammattippadam again thinking about my girl or marriage, see this shitty paunch of yours, l'll rip it apart! Got that you schmuck? Get lost you idiot! He keeps saying you are his girl and he is going to marry you... He's been saying that,for a long time -Can't you talk to him? What's the point in talking to him? He's crazy! Why are you standing here? Go inside! Krishna, you shouldn't talk to Anita in public We are about to get married! l don't like it Krishna, We have to go somewhere -Where? Come, l'll tell you Come, Come with me Rosamma, you'll look good in a Saree. Take it Take it Bye They are rocking, did you see? You guys have to accompany me! -We are here for you, Balan Chetta... Come with me. lt's gonna be fireworks there! -Don't scare me, jerk! l'm shitting bricks already! l'll hold your bag if you want You guys are behind me, right? -Yes...yes... Uncle... Uncle... Mom... Mom... Come with me man. -Where are you going? Go inside Mom, l like this girl. l asked her to come with me... Go in Stop there! What's her name? -Rosamma Rosamma, You didn't find anyone other than a Christian girl? Stop saying things! What's the point in talking about religion or caste now? Take her inside... She must have seduced my boy with her butt and boobs! As long as l'm alive, l won't let her in! Get lost you, whore! -Move aside! This witch is going to destroy my family! l regret giving birth to you now! You'll never succeed in life! Team DrC Call Balan -l'm not calling him Abu, Call him Boss, What's up Ganga? How's your sister-in-law? What brings you here? We have to talk Did you hear about me? -Of course l did. Greatjob! What's the matter? -There is an issue We've got land near Thevara colony, right? We can't start our construction there... We need to evacuate four more houses to make way for an access road... There is a guy in that colony called Pradeep, We need him out of our way! Where is he hiding? Majeed will find him Here he comes l'll talk to him What is this man? We have already offered you a good price Then why are you creating problems? We are day labourers who work in Ernakulam city With the amount of money you offered us, where are we going to find a place to live in the city? We'll be out on the roads! l don't know about that. l'll give you some money You can explain it to the people in your colony... Otherwise, you'll see who we are! Are you threatening us? No matter what you say, we are not going to leave this place! l don't even have the time to talk to you! He doesn't have the time... We'll see... Team DrC O woods, l am a bird that has been waiting l am the bird who has been yearning To perch on the branch the wind had sat on O woods! O trees! Passing the lands where the wind roamed l too have arrived, to sit on you awhile. You have cherished dreams, O wood. At a blazing noon, you turn into A shady forest, a mirage; A bower that pours burning infatuation like flowers in me.... l came seeking the branch To lean on you, and to swing in the breeze. Along with my sweetheart, O woods! O trees! l really like this place. We'll come here again.. just us. At the time of a lengthening dusk ln the blazing moonlight, the lake of cold, blooming l came searching for a perch, to lean into you And to go to sleep, for once, along with My sweetheart, O my woods, my trees! How did you get to Maharajas? -By Rajendra Ground. Ganga, When did you start evacuating people? -Why did you hit me? Evacuation? We did it on behalf of Balan Ask him! lnstead of beating me! Are you okay? Balan... Where is he? Come outside What's going on? Why did you destroy their homes? Destroyed homes? -You don't know anything? They've been paid whateverthey asked for! Why are you getting involved in such matters? -l should get involved, right? You are my grandson! You destroyed the houses of our elders and relatives... These elders don't pay my bills! My strength and my courage is what's providing for me What livelihood have you elders taught us? Working in the fields? Look at the fields now! You know what's going to grow here now- -not rice or paddy, but flats and factories! Times have changed... Don't ever get the old man involved in such things! l don't care about any relativess Come with me What's wrong with him? l know you give money to your mother. That helps with rent and expenses. But think about how you make this money -What's happening? Everyone's here... What happened? He's been sitting here since noon... He hasn't even had a drop of water... He isn't listening to any of us! Get up... Grandpa, Everyone is going their own way... We couldn't teach them a useful livelihood... l'm not moving from here... The kids might have said something stupid Why are you bothering yourself with it? Grandpa, How long are you going to sit here? Get up, let's eat something. Grandpa, Grandpa, Get up. Did you see him? Want to see? Come Balan chetta, -Get a drink Team DrC Hey brother... Hey brother... brother... Hey brother... Want some tea? No? Bloody hell! l don't want anything from anybody! l was always on my own... eating... shitting.... ..beating up...getting beat up... We were always together... together as one... Hai Portuguese! Who the fuck... You've become old! -Get out of here man... Come in Jameela... You don't have to remove your shoes You remember me? Krishnan... lf you had arrived 5 days ago, you could've attended the wedding Aisha's? Yes, here's the other two... Did you get married? Jami, get him tea! Sit down Krishnan What's Anto and Shaji doing? They are doing okay Anto is running Karate classes in Pulleppady Shaji works with the Kadavantara Union What about Ganga? He's a nut-case! l don't entertain such cases anymore! He had called me twice For what? Said somebody was after him l didn't understand half the things he said Forget about him, man You can't believe a word he says. Pest! lt's not like that Majeed... He's in some real trouble! l had gone to his house They have no news about him forthe past 3-4 days l have a bad feeling about it... He had been here on the wedding eve He was pissed- drunk! And he put on a big show! Are all those throats l cut, Mine O dear father? All the throats and hearts you cut Are everyone's my dear son. Aren't the blood and juices l drank Honey, my good father? Aren't the blood and juices l drank Honey, my good father? Where has the Pokkali-land Where has the Pokkali-land We reclaimed, gone, my dear father? lt has been cooked, along with The hot rice you scooped up, my dear son. That mighty mountain we see That mighty mountain we see ls not ours, my good son. These backwater deeps and shores Are nobody's, my dear son. The worms, leopards, insects, eagles Sea-elephants, jungle's creatures The worms, leopards, insects, eagles Sea-elephants, jungle's creatures Deities of different times, And we, the dwellers of paddy lands, Live together here in this hellish place The earth, my auspicious son This place dies in conflicts This world, my auspicious son! Majeed, l'll come l'll come That mighty mountain we see ls not ours, my good son. These backwater deeps and shores Are nobody's, my dear son. There was another song like that..What's the rest of it? And then l'm knee deep in mud Please wait a little my sisters And then there's mud up to my breasts Let me say goodbye to my husband And then there's mud up to my neck And then mud covers my hair We haven't been unfairto anyone We haven't been unfairto anyone Boss, big buildings have cropped up on the plots that we've acquired for cheap Do you know what happened to the people who lived there? They were living comfortably in their homes, now they are on the streets! My grandfather died of the pain because of all this! This can't happen again Nobody should buy or sell land anymore Take is easy Balan l haven't heard of the things you said Our company has a lot of partners now l'm not the one behind the project in Panampilly nagar, The other partners are managing it Whatever you say, l can't get involved in this lt's not like before,Now it's a big company Boss, you know me very well... Tell your parnters that l won't allow, this business of threatening people for their land... Bye boss... Bye Mathai Team DrC Boss Surendran is not like before... He's running a business worth crores He wouldn't have the time to sort out our silly problems Balan Chetta, Why can't we quit this and do something else? Quit what? What's wrong with what we do? You don't get it you fool! Times are changing... l say, we buy a vehicle and start a for-hire business! You have a lot of friends right? We'll get rides... Don't be stupid Krishna! We are very powerful in Ernakulam City today! We won't even make money fortea, if we try to go legit by running a taxi service! Stop it Ganga! You never agree with anything! You are right, Krishna... l also thinking about it We'll buy a vehicle.You know Porinju Baiju, right? He has a vehicle for sale. -He has a Traveller Enquire about it and fix a price. We'll buy it... Venu can drive the truck, And you can drive the Traveller. lf we get a permit forthis car, l'll drive this Then what the hell will l do? You can take care of the accounts... like Mathai ! Mathai bullshit! You guys haven't left? -We were waiting for Krishnan... He isn't coming with you. Hurry up! We don't want to leave Vaikom dry this Onam! Make it fast! How are you doing? Did you eat anything? Rosamma... -Tipu...you lazy bum! l'm hungry. Get me something to eat. -l haven't cooked anything l ate leftovers from yesterday myself. Oh shit...Are you sick? You come home whenever you want! l don't know if you'll even come back... You have all your needs taken care of, right? Don't interfere in my business! Yeah right! My needs are taken care... You only come home whenever you want to take care of your needs! l can't do that! lf someone sticks a knife into your guts,l'll be on the streets, alone! You don't have to worry about anything now We have decided to change our ways We are going to start a business of running vehicles for hire... Yes, we are going to start a 'travels'. You know what its going to be called- - ''Rosamma Travels'' You guys go and buy a bottle. Get something to eat as well Get Porotta and beef... Do you want anything? Krishna, Check the engine before buying the vehicle, or we may end up with a lemon! What happened? -We were trapped by the Excise officers at Puthiyakavu. There were 3 jeeps. l had to leave the vehicle and run. Then? -Vehicle's taken. Load's taken. Everything's gone. Where is Majeed? We ran separate ways. They didn't catch him for sure. Someone snitched on us! He goes weak in the knees when he sees excise! Come let's take a look! Come let's take a look Anyway it's good that nobody got caught... May be this will pave way for something else... We can't go on with this business for long You guys... Go look for Majeed. l have to go some where... Should we come with you? -No, l'll go alone! Come! Team DrC Balan Chetta, Balan Chetta, Check out our ''Rosamma Travels'' Take a look, Balan Chetta They are so wasted, they can't even hear us! Hey Venu... Hey Venu.. Take the van to Lalan's workshop and get the oil and stuff checked Now? -Yes, now How many did you down? Can you drive? Yeah l'll drive. l've been doing this for some time now. Oh yeah! We have seen it when we ran into the Excise. You were shaking like this with fear. Don't forget to change the oil We drove the Traveller so fast... You are not drinking? Hey... l need you to buy something! Look, here's the van named after you! We are celebrating it. Come get a drink... Oh you won't drink this You'll only drink the hooch your mother makes! l've been reminding you about this for a while now! Krishnan will buy it for you... No, l'll buy it myself! She gone? Pour another drink l know who snitched on our liquor-truck Don't ask me who l won't say There is no point going afterthem Grandpa Kochootty and the elders must have cursed us... l don't even have a child to light my funeral pyre... People are asking me- - is it my problem or hers... Who knows? You can't leave before paying for your deeds... Stop it Balan Chettan! Everything will be alright... We have this van now... Wait for it to hit the road Are you going to come with me? Krishna, get the van! Get up Ganga -Get me up guys Ganga, l heard you are going to get married? What, l can't get married? l know that you are after Anita... Forget her... You two don't make a good match Notjust that, such beautiful girls are not meant for us... l know it from my experience... Look, at my stuck-up beauty! Balan Chetta, will you please stop it! You are talking out of your ass! Krishnan is the one who suits her... -Why Krishnan? Stop saying nonsense. You are drunk! -lt's not the booze talking... You are totally drunk! Anita should like you as well, right? -You don't have to speak for her! Stop this drunk nonsense! Krishnan is the one... -What Krishnan! Stop the car! Stop the car! -Stop the car for him... You do whatever you want... -Where are you going? Get out He doesn't get it l don't care where he goes... Why did you bring it up? Krishna, Anita likes you... Ganga is my younger brother. But it won't work Her life will be screwed... You should marry her. l will arrange for your wedding... Rosamma... What did you say you wanted? Stop the car by a medical shop... -There's one after the turn Here goes the vamp... Go with her Krishna Balan Chetta... Hey Krishna, What happened? l think Balan Chettan is gone Mathai, Please see what is happening inside... You pig, you killed my brother! What did l do? What are you saying? You killed my brother! What did l do? You killed my brother! l will kill you! That truck rammed into the heart of Kammatipaadam! Tell me Ganga, who betrayed us? lt's we He came here one day l don't understand why he came to see me... l hadn't heard from him for a long time Wake up Wake up Ah it's you... Where were you. Haven't seen you in a long time... When l saw how he was, l felt something was up... He had borrowed money from me several times. Maybe he wanted to finish his debt... l was thinking of hanging it here... Team DrC Ganga.., Anitha.., Any news of him? He had been to Majeed's house on his daughter's wedding eve. Don't know where he went after that. Has he told anything to Anita? Nobody has told me anything. Sir, We arrested him under suspicious conditions. He has voter's ld and license. Have you registered a case? -No Bring him to me. Remember me? How can l forget you Martin Sir... You didn't change a lot Why did you come now? On a job? Ganga is missing... There is no news about him forthe past 3-4 days That's why you come from Bombay? Who are you? A detective? Submit a man-missing complaint. We'll take a look. l've helped him a lot He's useless Not very dependable What's keeping you in Mumbai? Kochi is not the same anymore. Stay here.l need people like you... Hello... Yes, it's him Mathai.. Come son... Go to the apartment. -Where are we going? Surendran wants to see you. He doesn't live with his kids after his wife's death Lives alone in the apartment Hello,Juhi l'm a little busy Am with them. l'll call you back What were you doing.. Why you roaming midnight l thought you might have buried your past,and moved on to a better life l had buried it, but a ghost seems to have risen up and is now on my back... Ganga had called me. He thinks someone is after him... Now he is missing... Have you seen him recently? l don't see him at all! When he got out of jail, l got him ajob at the factory. He got into a fight with someone there and walked out He comes to me when he needs money lnitially, l used to give him money,then it became a hassle! He'd show up drunk and make a scene, Office, club, house, anywhere... Stop. l told you to stop. Why can't you stop? Why can't you stop Boss, l had called you a couple of times. Boss.. Let's go. Boss.. Martin was the one who asked me call you. Remember all the rotten things l've done for you guys? l know how he made his money. Now he can't pick up my call. Let it be.. don't pick up my call. Mathai, Give him a ride... Krishna, You don't have to go around looking for him Martin will take care of it Get back to your life... You have a woman there, right? Who is going to marry a person like me? He speaks Hindi very fluently! l didn't want to bother you, but you should help me with this... l just want to know who is after him .l'll take care of the rest l am not in contact with such people l'm retired Kids take care of the business... Okay... Who do you go to when you need help with something like this? There is someone... You know that person... Who? -Rosamma! l'm alright. l'm alright. Don't you worry. Hold tight... Take my hand and hold it tight. Hold it... Hold it...tight... Team DrC l didn't get money from the chit fund When l went there, Leela Chechi told me that she needs money For her daughter's wedding. So she took it. l need money for the vehicle's monthly repayment... l gave the 300 rupees l had in hand to Ganga... He had bought medicines for my mother last month l didn't want to owe him anything! l saw him yesterday roaming around Kadavanthra He completely avoided me l avoided him as well l'll take care of the money.Don't worry about it Why don't we pawn this bangle? No. Your family will give you a hard time for it That's ok l'll make up something... Take it! No -Take it! l wish Balan Chettan had never left us... Hope our Balakrishna Travels will be a success one day... Let's get some tea... -No, l have to get back to work You should try to land a ride. Ganga is trying to rent a house The next thing would be a marriage proposal! -Are you planning to marry him? l didn't mean that... l have to get my elder sister Savitri,married before she runs away with someone... l'll be free after that Anita.. Shall i leave? -Yes Take a look at this one. Sikkim.. Bhutan.. Benny was looking for you. -Who? Slasher Benny? Don't want anything to do with him. Buggger. Where can l pawn some gold? You've won something. -Me? How much? -10 rupees. Hey man we need a ride.. To Pollachi. Our whole team is going. Our team? What team? -Ganga, Portuguese, Anto, Abu Shaji. l'm not interested. Find someone else. Why are you being a jerk? l can always find someone else. Come on, you can make some cash. l'll pay you double the rate. Go ahead. lt's our guys. Straight? -Yeah. Look who is this! Krishnan! Krishna.. My man.. long time.. -Abu, What's going on man? Hey Slasher, you couldn't find any other vehicle than this? What are you so pissed about? -Go to the front. Gimme a cigarette? -Why are you shouting? l've taken money forthis job.Otherwise, l would've called it off. Please stop it. What's wrong with you? Why did you hire this vehicle if you knew l'd make a scene? What's bugging you? We are trying to make some money. Why did you hire this vehicle if you knew l'd make a scene? Cool down man. -Bullshit Where is Marimuthu? -He is there Come let's go.. Ganga.. Hold it tight.. Hold tight, Ganga.Shaji, Anto, don't leave me. Abu, hold me. Yes, first door on first floor -You are not coming? No, l don't want to see her What do you want ? Rosamma, -Who are you? Krishnan -Where are you from? Kammatipaadam -Kammatipaadam? Go tell her! Team DrC No need to thimk about the rest. l'll try my maximum. ls they all sighned? Let's try what to do We'll take an anticipatory bail from the court Ask them to hide somewhere fortwo days Look who is here! You've become a big man! Tell me, where are you now? -l'm in Bombay Why are you here to see me? l need help in finding Ganga... He comes to see me He had come to me for help... But he couldn't ask for it... Mani.. Why did you come back? Would he have done the same for you? He took whatever was meant for you... l'll look around... l'll let you know if l find anything. Cheers lt's been long since we had a drink together! l was on my toes since Balan Chettan's death... Do you still drink? l can't drink like before because of my driving job... Why are you laughing? Remember how much you puked after drinking, ourtrip to Alappuzha? The stain is still there on the toilet wall! lt wasn't Honeybee. lt was OCR Surendran Sir is not here. Please leave. That's Sumesh Chettan right? Sumesh Chetta, Come here - Let's get a drink... Come here! Come here. Take a seat. He looks totally plastered You guys in touch with Surendran? Not much l come here everyday... l go to his office too But l have never seen him... or Johnny... Who? Liquor-lord Johnny? Can l pour you a drink? Do you drink this? -Hmm... Drink up! Yeah... That's right! My dad used to say- - Liquortells the truth... l wanted to tell you guys something... l never had the courage to do it... But now l have nothing to lose Everyone betrayed me... Balan was a guy of honour! l was the one who killed him... You pig! Let him talk. Talk. Tell us l didn't know anything... Boss, l am really worried You should do something about it l'll think about it Balan... l'm warning you one last time! Because of you l lost a truck... That's not a problem for me, but if something ever happens to my boys, l'll kill you! Let go of me, Sumesh Chetta! Get out of my way! Balan gave him only a slap... l didn't know Johnny would kill him for it... l'll return it afterthe construction of my house... You don't have to return it. You can keep it! l gave him that truck. l didn't know what he was up to. Sunny.. Get on the bus. You don't have to come back often. -Ok Ok then. Abu.. Get him into vehicle Slash him. Kill that son of a bitch. Slash him. Slash him. Kill him.. Go,get in the vehicle Come let's go Take the vehicle Abu.. Abu.. Our Abu is dying. Abu, don't close your eyes! Don't let him close his eyes! Abu.. Abu, Don't close your eyes! Don't let him close his eyes! Abu.. Abu.. Abu.. Abu.. Abu,Don't close your eyes! Abu.. Abu.. Abu.. Abu.. Team DrC Did anyone see us? Don't leave your motorcycle there. Krishna, look! What happened? That's Charlie Keep it inside What's going on? l went to the burial There were cops everywhere! At the mosque and his house! Majeed didn't show up. He could have gotten caught What happened to the other guy? -Johnny is in a critical condition We should inform our boss... We go at night? -Don't get out of this place man Ortake your vehicle... Why walk right into the police? We've been cooped up here too long. We've been in jail... This can't be that bad You gotta stay in here till the cops move on to something else Shibu, get glasses Krishna -Yeah, This could very well be our lastjob l'm done with it l feel like living a proper life now.. Get married... Buy rice ''and kerosene'' from fair-price shops.. Sounds good -Don't laugh at me! l'm being serious... l'm going to marry Anita... l know you guys are in love... But yourfamilies won't agree to it Have you ever told this to her?. Why should l tell her? Everyone knows it She is my customary bride You are the only hurdle l got You should forget her lsn't that betterfor everyone l'm hungry,l'm gonna cook something Anita, Please come out l'll be right back Where were you, Krishna? Go home, grab a few clothes and come back here immediately l'll be right back at five o'clock. We have to leave this place today! -To where? l'll tell you later... You don't trust me? Five o'clock. Just listen to me ls Boss inside? Who? Surendran Sir... Say it's Krishnan -Please take a seat. l'll call him. Come Why did you come here? Did anyone see you? Sit here What are you guys up to? Why did you hurt Johnny? We came to know that he was the one who killed Balan Chettan! That was years ago! Killing each otherfor vengeance? ls this your life! How can we forget Balan Chettan... Leave it! What do you want now? -l'm leaving this place... Will you give me some... money... Mathai, give him what he needs Don't stay here. Leave immediately Where is he- Ganga? -He is around Boss, Can you talk to Martin Sir and get us off the hook? This is much bigger than me lf the police find you, they'll arrest you! You'll be in trouble. Better leave here! Where are you going? Krishna, Where are you headed? l'm going to my uncle's place in Madras l'm taking Anita with me... Anita?Are you going to marry her? That low-caste girl! Did you hear what he said dad? lf he marries her, who will ever marry me? Will you please keep quiet! Let him go wherever he wants and live his life! Krishna... -Stop it. What can you do? Come here Don't worry Buddy, Krishna... l'd lose my job if l don't catch you... Where were you all this while? Where's he- your friend Ganga? Don't worry, l'll take care of everything... Take him! Anita, aren't you coming? -No, you go... l held on Ganga... l withstood... No matter how they asked me, l didn't give up on you... Team DrC l wanted to ask you something... Please keep an eye on it. Let me tell you something,l am not a thing you guys can kick around! Nobody cares about what l want or how l feel! lt was the same then, it's the same now! None of you have to feel bad about me l'll somehow manage on my own... l didn't come here to talk about this or to take you with me! l want to find out what happened to Ganga! l think he's in some kind of danger He wouldn't have called me otherwise... When his father walked me home the night before,he told me Ganga was home. He never comes home or eats anything from home. That day, he ate what l made. He didn't even lift his head to look at me. That's usually how he is. Lock the door and sleep. l'll sleep outside When he said that, l felt really sad. l've never given him peace of mind. My parents left us early because of the pain we caused them... l want to tell you something... l know l spoiled your life... lt was me... lt was me. l spoiled everything... Your sympathy and affection... l don't want your sympathy or affection... l've called Krishnan and told him He'll come Go with him. Okay? l'm leaving for a few days... l don't want to see you here when l get back! You should be with him by then! This happened right in the morning Looked like he had made up his mind... That was when l felt like crying for him,Krishna. l've given him as much pain as a human being can take... Ganga will be back... Nothing's going to happen to him l'll find him wherever he is! Don't worry... l'm not sad Krishna This might be my fate l can't hope for anything better Even now, you came for Ganga... l had waited a long time hoping you'd come for me... Now... Can l go? Hello... Kammatipaadam! Ma'am wants to see you! l came to tell you something... lf you want to know where Ganga is, you have to meet Benny. He took up the contract for nabbing Ganga. He knows who is after Ganga. Where is Benny? -He is sleeping What happened to you? -Why are you here so early? Why is he here? Where's Ganga? -Ganga? How would l know? He must be lying drunk somewhere! Who did you hand him over to? Get out of here! Sunny. The old liquor-lord Johnny's younger brother. Young, yet determined. What's the matter? -l need your help, Benny. You have to bring someone to me Money is not a problem,we can talk about it. Who is the guy? lt's someone you know- Ganga That's not going to happen l didn't ask you to kill him My brother wants to see him That's it We will get him even if you don't help us... lf it comes to that, we will have to take care of you as well... That mighty mountain we see, That mighty mountain we see ls not ours, my good son. Get me a drink. l'm really tired. l want to sleep You sit here. l'll get it Don't lock the door lf Ganga is missing, Johnny's guys must have taken care of him for sure! They want Ganga... They want you.. They are coming after you guys with whateverthey have! You go back To where? You go l'll go alone from here l'll take you there No Majeed We've lost Abu. What if something happens to you... l don't want to walk around bearing that You go Team DrC Do you know where Johnny's house is? -Which Johnny? The old liquor-lord Johnny. - Sunny's brother. Answer me. You give me this piece of shit to eat? Get out of my face. Son of a bitch. l didn't think you'd walk in so casually! Excellent Excellent You guys put me in a comma for 12 years Nobody thought l'd be back Where is Ganga? -lf l had gotten him,l'd have cut him into pieces and sent them to you. But l have you now, Nobody is going to come looking for you You are a dead man. l came here looking for Ganga. lf he is not in your hands, then let's end this right here. How can you leave like that? You are not going anywhere! Sunny! Where the hell are you idiots? Where is everyone? Don't let go off this pig. Call Sunny. Don't let this pig leave. Hit him hard. Beat him down you sons of bitches. Somebody kill this son of a bitch. Sunny! Kill me too. Kill me too. Kill me too. This game is not meant for you. Go.. Get lost. Ganga, Come out of your hiding, See the catfish we caught, it's still flapping around... lt's not dead... l've lost, Ganga. Come out of your hiding. Ganga... The sun-god has come, it has steadily risen Why was the sun-god, So late today in coming up? Found Ganga's body... There was nothing much left... Almost completely charred! Team DrC lsn't it better for you to leave this place? lnstead of roaming here and creating problems for us, Go to Bombay or Delhi. l'll ask the hospital to discharge you Are all those throats l cut, Mine O dear father? All the throats and hearts you cut Are everyone's my dear son. Aren't the blood and juices l drank Honey, my good father? Krishna, l couldn't even see him once! Where has the Pokkali-land Where has the Pokkali-land We reclaimed, gone, my dear father? lt has been cooked, along with The hot rice you scooped up, my dear son. That mighty mountain we see ls not ours, my good son. These backwater deeps and shores Are nobody's, my dear son. The worms, leopards, insects, eagles Sea-elephants, jungle's creatures The worms, leopards, insects, eagles Sea-elephants, jungle's creatures Deities of different times, And we, the dwellers of paddy lands, Live together here in this hellish place The earth, my auspicious son This place dies in conflicts This world, my auspicious son! l'll call you right back Mathai... Mathai... How did you kill him? Majeed, Stay here How did you get to the top floor? Mathai let me in... Then, where is he? He went down Damn it! He hung up on me! He isn't answering my call! Come, l thought of coming to Padiyath... They'd be crying and bawling over there l didn't want to see all that lt's not like the old days now People are waiting to accuse you of things... Drink No boss l'm taking medicines How the hell did you get stabbed? You know him... lt was Johnny's younger brother Sunny who stabbed me Why did you go there? l went looking for Ganga... l don't understand you! l had already told you, not to go looking for him! You don't know what kind of a guy he was! l wonder who finished him... He had put me through a lot of trouble lt's true, we had done a lot of bad things in the past... But that was then What was the point in coming to me for help now? Pain in the ass! You shouldn't say bad things about dead people... He had a knack for making life hell for decent people! ls that why, You clubbed him to death? Clubbed him to death? Someone burned him and dumped him somewhere, right? Why did you kill him, boss? What did he do? Surendran is coming. Ask him Then you'd come to know who Ganga is! You didn't get who l am, right? Mathai, Mathai, he says he doesn't know me You know how all this was built? See that piece of land over there, That was Ramu Mooppan's 3 cent household! The one over here was Unniyan's sons' 3 cents! That belonged to Kamala Bai's children... Ganga evacuated all these people... Surendran isn't living here anymore And these guys are saying they don't know me Surendran isn't living here anymore. -Then where is he? Come with me, l'll show you Son, l'm sorry, l came here thinking boss was here! Get in. -Mathai, someone is after me! l barely escaped from them and got here You get in They are not small players... l haven't seen them before What the hell are you saying? Why the hell did you go to my house in the middle of the night? Where else do l go, boss? l didn't know you moved here,that you are living in the sky! Somebody has decided to put me to sleep! Benny, that pig, he was the one who did this to me! l somehow escaped.But l bang him up. l'm waiting for this to get over They are going to put me to sleep! That's for sure Only you can save me l can't take care of people like you in my old age Every time he needed help, l have helped him, haven't l Mathai? Where am l going to go? l'm telling you straight, l'm not getting involved in any of your problems any more... Where am l going to go? -Go somewhere! Boss, they are not small players... They are big time They'll put me to sleep! l somehow got here Once l got here, l felt alright lf you are with me,l have no worries, l'm happy This is an excellent weapon l'm not going anywhere. l'm going to stay here! l don't have to be worried about anything here Who is going to come in here! Hello Krishna, This is Ganga What trouble ? l'm in no trouble l'll call you after solving this problem Then you have to do me a favour You have to come and take Anita with you! Balan Chettan was right She was meant for you... l came in between and messed up everything! Team DrC This city doesn't need Ganga... He was like a garbage! Who was he to you? Even his wife didn't want him Why are you still after him? He was a mad dog! lf a mad dog enters your house, you beat it to death! Yes, We are stray dogs! Stray dogs don't have owners, but they care for each other! We stand together even in death! And your Ernakulam City, it's not stable... lt's built on the swamps of Kammattippadam... lt's not made of bricks or cement, But with thick black blood! Ganga's blood! Blood calls for blood! We're going to hide, ok? Count out loud...Let's hide in the dark. Come here...This is a good spot... We have time. Let's see if he comes here. He'll find us wherever we hide. But he won't come into the dark. He's afraid of the dark. He won't look here. . lf you are scared...hum a song..
