 

                        1 Pick up the plates, bring potatoes If are boiled did you put the phynyl In bathroom it was stinking" put the cloths on dry. Wants something? Ponder on It leaving your papers.. Do they listen to me.. does it affect them. Move the tea there. It's accounts papers only, don't know when money will come. It will come when you stop taunting. Did you see the last months electricity bill 6738 of one month not year. Lets remove all the lights and the fans. We'll not get bill.. why do you speak bad. Did you call the plumber, It's leak for 3 days. It's has his number. you can call too look what happened. What? What's the problem.. why you're not picking up the phone. Why.. grandpa got heart attack why he didn't call me. I'll left for India... and we can go together. I don't need It. We've reached. don't have keys. Found It. We lost the bags they'll keep him few days for observation can we meet him.. meet him In morning. Who did this, whose footprints are these. Nothing ls changed. How's your novel going on. Work ls pending. How do you manage this plenty of work she's saying that I should open the branch here. Her all recipy are good. As much you earn In year, she earns In a 3 month. What does It affect. You're on the phone always, talk to us just. How's your job going on, I quit that job last month. Now I'm finishing my novel you should discuss with us. What do you know about my work. I'm not penetrating In your work. He has just come.. he always quit the jobs. If you wanted to taunt. you give me food In my room It's about few days.. you sleep In my room I'll be back. Since when you drink green tea. You're a kid... yes I'm.. Made the car crap there's on mattress In both room? You live with dad. If you're scared so learn how to drive. I know how to drive. She wants to see me naked. I didn't spent 21 years In army just like It. I'm saying hands up It's hospital, we're not kid anymore. Do one thing hold on 2 min I just have come tomorrow. What're you doing here.. grandpa got heart attack. Is everything fine? You ran away to u.s leaved me alone I'm working In papa': studio.. Turn off the phone first. What happened? who'll see this leak he knows it.. not doing It for free. Bucket ls full. I know. Doctors saying give treatment grandpa In banglore...it's not simple 7 lacs are spent.. what about your advance money? Money got stucked.. You ask for money with your younger brother. What's so shame about it.. Harsh kapoor gave the education money. From where will we get the money, break my f.d.. Help me. No.. you do you investment. What's the problem In breaking f.d.? The money I wasn't giving you for house chores. Where did you spent It. your business ls down. Shut up hold It. She makes the false stories.. How did she get so much money, how would I know.. Fell from sky.. might be. I'm tired of you all.. You went there for 2 month, this time go for 6 months. Stop shouting" tell me the problem. Why do you taunt me always. How much turn off your phone.. It's yours. You know that he's thief. you came here after 5 years.. Why you're behaving like animals. Everything was coincedence. What kinda friends are they of yours. Kishor, fuse ls poped again. I'm playing. He'll play it.. I should say sorry to you, I wasted your money are you friend of sahil. No, I'm friend of waseem.. Yes..he knows the owners of here. I was trying to call the waseem. Thorow him out.. I was joking" why're you tensed? It's bad day.. fight with girlfriend with brother. Why do I fight with maid/ bunglow was empty, this are belong to grandpa. When I was 5 we had shifted here. Tend to live here.. And he's the owner.. What're you doing In bathroom. we're taking shower. Is there any arjun here, me. Property agent ls coming to show you some places then we'll take grandpa to banglore. Why mother went to aunt house for 2 months.. For liad down me. Do I drink liqour or beat her? Mother needs your support. When I needed the support, so where were you all. Trying to do own business, was It wrong. Tell me something. Why're you like that what rude? Don't do that.. Just do relax.. He do whatever only for good. He's taking you to banglore to big doctor.. I don't want to go anywhere. Next week ls my birthday. I want to spend my brithday with my family I don't want any treatment. You're right" If you want to do something for me. So I have two wishes. After the death don't creamed me. So will you lay like it.. no idiot. Bury me.. with my friends.. Army buryal ground. and second wish. Before dieing I want to get soaped with my family I'lll hang It on my wall.. When uncle will come.. you do It to we've come here for few days.. Mom ls calling you inside. Listen, has ordered for 2 cigarette. Will you share it.. What doctors said.. what does it affect? Ask me what grapa said. Wants to discharge. Still managing? What're you doing" photo shoot. Can I snap ? yes I was expecting the owner looking fat-to. I look like that. It was my dream that I'm roaming between hawai beach.. Lets go to hawai In your birthday.. Those blue movies. It's very easy for your generation will not your grandpa like your grandma's big picture? You know grandapa, your grandma was sexy It's birthday.. I'm gathering people you're enjoying" take her inside.. Don't tell anything to uncle. about what? I'm speaking from ramesh.. ls there chaudhry uncle...? Only we we'll attend the party we'll do the party.. You're very busy.. what'll I do there.. If you won't come to live with me so how will you know what do I do. This place was closed for 2 years. If I'd be on your footstep, I'd come once In two months. But I'm afraid for sitting In ight. Everybody ls afraid of anything" It's not.. yes..do it.. If I did it.. you've to come to dance oor. If there's any problem, so tell me now.. Are you mad. He can't do It. What? You are going then? I'm going" It's late enough. You think he'll not take my house? This book will never finish ls harsh hasn't come yet? no.. He told me that he'll come with you bring out that. I don't know how I'm enjoying" can you see only his nose? Yes I'll take mother In morning I'll be there.. Karan arjun got patch up isn't It big for you? It's of bunko? Therefor I sent him away. Give sleeping pill to my brother. Problem was that his novel idea was same as mine. But writing style was different. What? It's not of your size what're you doing tomorrow evening? Why? It's his family.. What're you doing ? Orange ls my favorite color what do you do? I work In tea company will you have something" yes. I'm sorry for that day. I'm very embaraced.. Grandpa has come I'm getting It you're so cute and I was looking at you only you're picking on me? Will you come with me to hawai on date. Taste the soup for salt? Why to make bad faces put some more salt. It's my birthday.. I'll not do cheating I took 30 rupees.. I don't want to make someone feel shameful If you pick up next time, so I'll break you up my honor ls spoiled.. You don't move from here.. Forgot the cookies. Everything will be fine thats why finds the stories. Sometimes I think that I'd have completed my graduation" you're taking tension for nothing. You're just a novelist. I'm gonna try.. See your face.. I'm not interested In her. How do you make her roam? What're you doing? Do I break all the stuff of house? I'm driving the car. It's the insult on dad's name. Grandpa It was my idea. I thought I'd invite dad's colleagues. It's okay you go and book that my place why are you calling dad. Nothing happening" nobody like him I don't know rahul properly maybe he thinks It's coincedence to match his novel with yours It can be. I'm really sorry for yesterday, I didn't know that grandpa" I'm writing last time.. remember If possible .. So you.. When we're together. It feels like.. Do you think too? With arjun yes...l just made things complicated about his brother. Uncle aunt. We've booked the room you've come to my house. You're not allowed.. doctor has prevented you pretty lover. Play n. I'm feeling good to see you happy will you get me beaten up your that guy , holds your hand when he get the chance.. You told me that you'll take me outside but you worked all day I had convinced you to dance on song. You made many sins You bully I was stucked In a circle I think you can eat the shit for 10 crores.. He'll eat In 5 crores. I pressed It for you I think I should give the car to mechanic. It's your birthday? yes. Show some excitement, It's your birthday. I'm opening" wait. I'm coming after finishing the garage work it was my thirteenth birthday. and mom and dad. Were coming from canada. I was very angry because they weren't here for my birthday sorry I need to tell you something. Grab the thief.. Tell everyone come fast. Will I get an belt.. I'll see It. Whose photos are In laptop? Aren't of your girlfriend you must have think about us. About grandpa, and dad. What did he just said , he's In garage" nobody ls crystal clear In this house, everybody lies. It's not like that what you think call everyone. where's arjun keep your hand on shoulder. It's neighbour's wife? she's very odd. I'll tell you.. Why he's so annoyed. I don't want to fake act like happy family everybody ls waiting nothing happened grandpa" you move. You go .. I'm seeking forgiveness. Everything ls fine. you're fighting outside.. I'm sorry whatever I said to you move aside. Whatever I'm today ls just because of you, my career.. I've made a big mistake. That book.. In exchange of it.. Rahul was trying to write something for many days. He was stucked.. wasn't I stucked. I thought you're not serious about book you leaved the college In 6 month so you gave my story to rahul what do you thought? you don't think about me. I wanted to prove myself. I've packed your bag, taxi will come on 5 o clock eat that. Mother don't need us but you she don't want to talk to me. Don't know will she talk again or not can't you do something there's a lie which I lied to you all the life. I've no girlfriend In london I can't do that. Hello kids.. how are you I'm fine. I got tired to see t.v, thought to talk to you I always remind of you both or I'd hit the century I'm very alone. I see your dad's picture. Call your mother sometimes.. She's acting like It doesn't affect her. I'm feeling good. Do something for me. I've small request.. bring the whole family to me I told this to dharminder. he forgot. I'm fine. And he.. Your friend. You told me about your family I felt your pain. But feeling today I'm tired of my family.. so come back everybody ls here. where they were.
