 

                        Karate Girl (2011) In a country Place of origin of karate Teacher Kurenai shuziro Shuziro teach style martial arts techniques for self-defense Karate Kurenai Shuziro become founders shuziro Karate techniques Teacher shuziro practicing lethal techniques Shuziro is a master of discover new techniques Shuziro, have a son who inherited the ability Tatsuya Kurenai Shoziro teach everything her And Tatsuya as a new teacher Against tagawayu Kurenai Enemies of karate and wants to destroy the karate The students' second hostage he And he must fight for freed the two girls Opponent kill him .. Kurenai Karate Kurenai the best Karate Tatsuya beat all of them Yet, the he failed to save both daughter Ayaka Kurenai Ayaka And who was kidnapped is Kurenai Natsuki Nat .. su .. ki And it was an attack carried out by Kurenai sister shoziru kurubi And he destroyed all the dojo Dad Dad Dad Dad Dad I'll be fine Do not worry too much I'm sorry, could not help you from momuru Dad Dad Dad Dad Dad Dad Dad Dad Daddy! Karate Girl Hi you .. - Manager Regards How did things here you're not too busy, right? Yes Jambret Jambret My purse Excuse Stop .. sick .. ill Excuse Thanks - Thank you very much - Equally Great You're wonderful That karate Karate Can I take pictures with you? All forgive us Please theater was opened And please go to buy food And this thanks Please disperse .. thanks Please go there Please enjoy your movie You okay? I'm sorry to use karate here Thanks .. You survived Finally finished You know it is dangerous But you're really great karate But I'm still a little worried you Yeah I know, I know out inadvertently You know something to me ask .. Is your father's karate teacher? I'm just curious True he is a teacher Karate used to maintain self My father taught me Excuse me Hello Go there What is it? Well, I go there soon Good but .. Good I understand We'll see you there I should be alone? Both understand Goodbye What is it? Sasaki wanted to meet because there are problem Maybe he knows I'm using karate How? - why is that? - Is so Saki upset when I use karate dojo outside he was teaching at the dojo .. Kurenai dojo So that's it .. whether he should angry? Do not know but he always say no use if it is not important I do not understand Do not you understand? But I'm glad he's there Maybe you can meet with his What? no, I do not Like karate guy I understand But just this once This is where we train the best and all uses karate After all this is true very nice We can know who is strong and who is weak Soka Thank you for this It is an honor untuku Ato, Kizu Let's promote the art of karate we kizu have a strong attack and fast - True great .. - Yes that there are basic techniques of karate karete is our enemy Kurenai That is the teaching of shuziro I do not understand Sincerely All greetings Here to kill You have to kill your enemies You lose You're dead Korayami Warriors United Please fight That's great Saki .. all this we are prepared All trained hard sayori That's good Yes So we can enter the world martial arts and become the strongest This is all going to work We do not yet know all of that Kitsumi he is quite talented in learn I understand Susunero I understand Katage turtles Finally Yamasashero You set it all here Good I'm a little worried about the girl This It's I'm afraid she knows What happened in the past And then revenge on we Kurenai shuziro dead So he inherited to his son shuziro, and we've destroyed his We must speed up and all we will get There must be no mistake You must fast - Good .. - But we've been terrific in karate No one can match we You do not have to worry about Japanese karate tournament will we won Mastering Karate is not a dream we Kurenai shuziro Yamato considered as legeda god of karate Sonoto horida You're good kiz Good I would give it data will you opponent Excellent Good He made me very angry Do not know myself He no right to respect this karate belt Already let alone Good But Kizu he understands I'm sorry You go there Kurenai Tatsuya I've developed this You'll see my power I will destroy all yours Meto .. - Good You go and check all the true I will send people to Kurenai places to investigate we should get the belt shoziro The original I do not want to fail - do not let me down - Both how the tournament karate? In the cinema in Yokohama a female guard using karate women using karate against criminals in yokohama it's just plain karate nothing special about it this leg attack techniques yes that's what I'm investigating her name Ikeyami Ayaka and he can use karate is it possible? what? Ikegami? Ayaka Ayaka true Kurenai has a daughter named Ayaka I guess it's possible that he I guess that's probably could have so you mean he's descendants Kurenai yes, he is our enemy if it's true you have to bring him here I want to destroy Kurenai with my hand him .. could be a threat to our and he must have a belt shoziro impossible .. it is not possible I had to find her destroy him kill him good Finally .. hey - are you there? - Yes true I used to go there ordinary father taught there always course today I will introduce you our new students here to our dojo Ikegami Ayaka yes dojo became so great Ikegami be here to help our karate all give karate salute Osh please help us in karate you Ayaka glad to meet you all Ikegami Ayaka memoho assistance from all of you I'm still a beginner I want to learn karate This has become my dream of Small and I thank you and practice could be here I will study hard not disappoint anyone and also my father's dream was his dream once again I ask for help his forgive me if I'm wrong be shared among we and I love being with you training with all of you I'm very happy - yes I will fight you - Both karate who taught me said all the same karate great be used only for self and not anything else but nevertheless we do not need to take care of myself? I mean .. karate used only for urgent alone saiki taught me to last please help what you're right? all sorry please just a little - true .. - So show it to us - if she can? - Maybe only able to play dolls Ayaka let go sorry please do not go I understand well thank you whether you're going? all together - all grateful - Osh high kick I will show high kick technique please help great, really terrific awesome which Ayaka Kurenai is he? everything .. whether this is the place karate? - who are you? - We are here looking for Kurenai this is where karate sikini so why are you here what? This is very funny loser who is the greatest I understand it will Sonoko forward ready stop why are you blocking? stop this - I'm you're looking for - Stop I sought by karate momoru Ayaka if you still want to hit? Ayaka Kurenai are you? why do you ask? hey .. stop this finish here Ayaka Kurenai's true daughter of Kurenai how is it possible? already knew is all .. when Sonoko and soziryu lost so how is this? ability he can not underestimated not .. bring all people and bring him here you understand no matter what I do I just wanted everything destroyed but this Sonoko injured and if others also I understand but I do not care I do not understand Ayaka Kurenai but .. I feel there is something I do not wear the name of Kurenai again how one knows and karate is not used for harm to others I do not understand I think this is all you need forgotten I think you do not need to be involved again and anyway I can contact someone to stay with you not have to do it I can keep myself in karate and I just want home with you I do not want to go I understand me home This soziryu he was defeated and had to accept punishment you lose you die stop bring him here sakurata that beat Ayaka Kurenai he it should be considered but this do you mind? I thank you momoru do best Ayaka Kurenai my karate momoru can not do any not so we can not lose it Just shoziro Kurenai is a legend as teachers she teaches basic strength and heart good this belt me .. What is this? Kurenai shoziro kurobi true my karate .. so .. momoru? This technique Kurenai attack techniques focus on your opponent Natsuki? Natsuki nano? I .. Natsuki sakurobi we will meet again good good I understand what is it? this .. Ayaka Kurenai belt has shoziro really? and this is true belt he shoziro's belt also by Ayaka Kurenai momoru there against him by the sakurobi - What? is that correct? - of course - Excellent finally when it comes we will get he just be alone but he also uses a belt Kurenai not an easy opponent and he was a descendant of Kurenai shoziro get the belt get Kurenai coir shoziro saluted Osh all practice diligently practice and practice - as Kurenai - Osh exercise begins continue .. Attack more excited horse technique Kurenai watch carefully and characterize it as a sign of our basis of all techniques - do - Osh Natsuki Natsuki nano? did you meet him? say I get it now and now you have his opponent as punishment horse technique Kurenai is it true? I was .. I was .. was absolutely right you are Kurenai natsuk Ayaka Kurenai is your sister sister? it all right we went there to look for the belt picking belt shoziro we want that belt but why did I take? you do not understand we've set it from first master the entire karate not .. silent Ayaka Kurenai did you see this? Natsuki bring shoziro belt here if not your favorite sister will die .. -Do not come here silent I'll be there momoru you've come Ayaka Kurenai where Natsuki is? Natsuki? sakuraku? he betrayed and he was in law by us - Natsuki current release belt give advance if I give and then you'll let her possible we will get that belt he would take care of everything and you? kisuni will take care of you everything and your sister will follow your will die soon Natsuki where are you? will save your sister you where? - Stop sister nice, Ayaka Kurenai techniques .. Kurenai shoziro karate great here, Ayaka Kurenai where Natsuki? suicide - Osh sister Natsuki I miss you so where the belt Kurenai Ayaka Natsuki Kurenai brother .. I'd be opposed to him would be opposed to him reply to what he already do us as Kurenai me .. no .. we are .. will reply to all give belt shoziro give me belt Kurenai shoziro belt you lie you kill them all -No to hell Kurenai karate stop I'm sorry I was your uncle sakura you know I always love you seiha Kure ... ku .. re come on .. go Natsuki
