 

                        Have you come to watch a comedy film? l've lied to you. Actually this film is a tragedy. lf l say tragedy people won't come, so l lied it is a comedy. But in reality there isn't much difference between comedy and tragedy. One man's tragedy is another man's comedy, another man's comedy is some other man's tragedy, But Appalraju's story is a struggle between comedy and tragedy. But in a struggle, it entertains people involved in it. You've come here seeking entertainment. Expecting this Appalraju's tragic story would be a comedy to you. Yours Ramgopal Varma. Films...films... World is full of films... You and me are characters... God is the director... Life is a film... Horoscope is the magician.. God is the writer of this story... But the title given to it is Fate... That's why... One who imagines and writes a story is known as director... God has the technique to turn reality into imagination... Twists in films is routine... God is an expert is giving a twist every second... One makes a film to weep and weeps all through his life... God has the last laugh making life into a TV soap... Ramba Talkies 70 MM - Amalapuram Film is not yet over, right? Why did you wake me up? l'm unable to hear the dialogues in the sound of your snores. Oh God! ls this a film and it has dialogues too? Wastrel - Very good boy! After watching this film, immediately l want to go to Hyderabad with my story, and make a film! Forget about seeing a camera, you haven't yet watched a film shoot too, how can you make a film? You've grown body but not brain. Take for instance if we do cultivation, do we know about cultivation? Coolie would do his job. Broker would sell the grain. What do we do in between them? - Just supervising. Yes, that's what they do. We're seeing in TV channels, they sit before TV's in shooting spot, and give instructions only, what else are they doing? l'm asking ignorantly, without working as an assistant, are you Ramgopal Varma to direct a film? Ramgopal Varma? Do you've to use his name as an example? Why? Didn't he make a great film 'Shiva'? l agree 'Shiva' is a great film,. But did he make it with talent? - Then... Making film 'Shiva' by luck... Have you gone mad? Denigrating epic film Sholay... One who talks rubbish... ls Varma a director? Watching Hitchcock films... He made ghost films, is Ramgopal Varma a film director? Move! Talent isn't hereditary... talent isn't private property of few... Are Shankar and Mani Rathnam great? Did Vinayak and Vamsi came down from sky? Did Raghavendra made any great film other than milk, fruits, and navel? l'll strive for social welfare... l'll drastically change it... Krishnavamsi made films... Audience got disgusted unable to understand... Puri Jagannadh without knowing that 'Pokiri' is a fluke hit... He makes a film 'Deshamuduru', what to do? Did he forget his earlier film 'Andhrawala'? l've seen Rajamouli's film 'Magadheera'... l'll make a film upstage it... What sins have we committed? B.Gopal blows up umpteen number of Sumos... That's Appalraju is coming to tinsel town... To give directors a run for their money... Boyapati Seenu is like a cat, does he need to roar like a lion? What a tragedy! Srinu Vytla made 'Namo Venkatesha' but was left with a hole in pocket... Saying l'll not spare you Bommali, Kodi made the film 'Arundhati' with Anushka... Recycled stories of old films and cheated us with a head bandana... Sentiments of EVV and SV's films give you headaches... Gunasekhar put up large sets, they sank taking producers along with it... Bloody, l've got a cut already! Why are you still shouting cut? l'm practicing, father. - To hell with your practice. 0l was lucky to get a cut here, had it been little down? Your mother would've become widow. Doesn't your day begin unless you get chided by him? lf you really want to make films, so many marriages are why not videograph it? l don't want to become a marriage director, mother. l've decided to go to Hyderabad, father. l'll not return until l make a film of my script Nayaki. Yes, you'd be coming to Hyderabad, and producers are waiting in the railway station to give you a chance to direct. lt has been announced on TV9 channel. Please don't play with my emotions. Hubby, please mind your words while talking to our son. Where will you stay in Hyderabad? Do you remember the man staying behind our house? Subrahmanyam. - Subbi? He went 6 years ago with a dream of becoming hero. Forget about becoming hero, he wasn't seen even in the DD program of raising pigs! He's waiting for a hero's chance. You believe him? This streak isn't in our family, how did you catch this madness? Father, don't call it as madness, you'll never understand it. The day my name appears on screen as Story, Screenplay, Direction by Appalraju, l'll come back here that same day. Fare please. Excuse me, my friend Subbu... - Are you also here to become a hero? No, l'm here to become director. He has gone out for shooting. - Shooting? Has he become hero? - Top hero! Where's the shooting? Veera Hanuman Reddy Shooting in progress Who are you? What are you doing here? l'm hero's friend, who are you? Oh God! Are you hero's friend? l'm production boy here. Come...come... Get a chair! Give it to him. l'll inform hero, sir. - Okay. Will you stop your banter? Are my sorrows banter to you? Who would l share it other than with you? Greetings sir. My name is Appalraju. l'm a great fan of yours. Why are you laughing? Listening to your dialogue delivery personally, l laughed in happiness. Are you also doing a role along with my friend, sir? Your friend? My heroine is Anushka. Anushka is heroine, l mean are you acting with my friend? Your friend? Who is he? - Hero of this film, sir. Hero? l'm the hero. Are you the hero? ls it two hero film, sir? Who is my friend's heroine? You said my friend, where is he? That's him sir. - He? ls he my friend? lsn't he your friend, sir? Who the hell are you man? - l told you l'm hero's friend. Friend? Since how long are you my friend? l'm not your friend sir, l'm hero's friend. He's the hero. - ls he the hero? lf he's the hero, what's Subbu then? Who is this Subbu? - Hero of this film, sir. lf l beat you, your hero will vanish! Who is Subbu? Subbu is the hero of this film. Hero got angry and he paid for it dearly. lsn't there any value to the friend of the hero? How dare you beat me? Come to Amalapuram, l'll take you to task. ls it film fight scene? Didn't l tell you entry into films is difficult smoking cigarette behind Ramba theatre? You came here to become hero, why are you playing monkey? lts face value of artistes that counts! lf l appear on screen l must be a hero. Till then l can't avoid doing these masked roles. l've to earn for food and accommodation, right? You told me earlier that Puri Jagannadh is making a film with you as hero. He promised but his brother entered the scene. You said Ramgopal Varma promised to give you a break. After the flops of films 'James' and new 'Shiva', he stopped films with new faces. How come you're here? l've decided to become a director. Are you still mad about making films? lt's not an ordinary matter to become a director. lt's more than enough if director has a soft heart to understand films! 'Mayabazaar'! 'Devadas'! 'Chalti Ka Naam Gaadi'! 'James Bond' 'Adavi Ramudu' 'Shankarabharanam' Even after watching such great films, learning from it and if l can't make a film better than it, it's useless to become a director. 'Mayabazaar' 'Devadas' 'Chalti Ka Naam Gaadi' 'James Bond' 'Adavi Ramudu' 'Shankarabharanam' 'Yaadon Ki Baraat' 'Titanic' l'll make a try, l'll over ride it... l'll make people forget it... l'll direct films...l'll make films... l'll rock the box-office collections... l'll teach acting to Kamal Haasan... l'll change the style of Rajinikanth smoking cigarettes... l'll make Chiranjeevi to dance to my innovative new steps... l'll train Balakrishna to beat the thighs... l'll make a silent film with dialogue king Mohan Babu... l'll turn Tollywood into Hollywood not Bollywood... Appalraju is a big boast... l'll give mega hit film than 'Pokiri' to sexy lleana... l'll give a blockbuster hit better than 'Arundhati' to Anushka... l'll charge up charming Charmy... l'll take pretty Priyamani from bottom to top... l'll make 'Rangeela' differently with girl-next-door... l'll show you what story, screenplay and direction is... Seeing your confidence l feel you'd become a director before l'm a hero. There's a big lock to stop your entry into this magical world of films. There's a key to every lock. Many thousands of keys like me couldn't enter it. l'll make a new key to that lock with my script Nayaki. Just show me a way, l'll push ahead against all odds. Today there's audio release function of film 'Kottukundam Raa'. l'll manage to get passes to it. Look! Director Rajamouli is coming! Come, let's meet him. What's there to meet a director? As if you're a great director. You stay here, l'll make a courtesy call. Are you producer's guest? No sir. My name is Appalraju. l'm here with a friend. Who are you? Are you the producer, sir? l'm the Man Friday to all of them. l was little harsh without knowing who you were, sir! l never heard about you, sir. Never saw your photo in magazines or TV. Only if l get photographed, right? l hate media and publicity. l'll keep them away from me. l'm here to become director, sir. l've a script of Nayaki, a great tragedy story. lt's a heroine oriented subject. lf you listen to my story, l'm sure you'll agree that it's more tragic than Devadas. Story is the lifeline of the film. You said it great sir. While watching film in Amalapuram Ramba theatre, l too had same thought. l've one more belief sir. People immediately latch up entertaining films. But keep tragedy films in their hearts forever. lt has long life, sir. lf you read my Nayaki script, you'll agree it's more tragic than Devadas, sir. Read it sir. When can l meet you after reading the script, sir? Tomorrow morning...no... Mahesh Babu has invited me to lunch in his home. Day after tomorrow... l'm going to Chennai. Rajinikanth has called me. l've already postponed it twice. You please do one thing. Meet me on Saturday. l've become a director, almost! l got an appointment with Raki. - Who is this Raki? He's the Man Friday to all these producers. Their office boy? He's the man behind their success. They're not there without him. Never heard his name. He stays away from media and publicity. You said Allu Aravind, Suresh Babu, won't l at least hear his name? Who are you? Just a junior artiste. What's your range and his range! You're one among a lakh, he's one for a lakh! lt was good fortune that l met him on my first day itself. l've given him my script. lf he likes it... Come...shattering! What a story! What a tragedy! What a sentiment! What a drama! But, second half is little... What's the problem with the second half, sir? He'll tell you. - He is... He's Pushpanand, our company's creative head. He's distant relative of 90's super hit film's producer. What's the problem in the second half? lf hero dies, people won't watch the film. That's it! Our story is a tragedy, only when hero commits suicide unable to cope up with life, audience in the theatre would get moved, suicide is the highlight of our film, sir. People will not watch the film if hero dies. Who are you to decide that people will not watch film if hero dies? 'Marocharithra' 'Devadas' 'Premabhishekam' 'Gitanjali' were hits because hero dies. Hero doesn't die in 'Gitanjali'. May be not but in the other three films, hero dies. ln films 'Dilwale Dulhania Lejayenge', 'Pokiri' and 'Okkadu' hero doesn't die, so they were much bigger hits. A film's hit or flop doesn't depend on hero's death, it depends of the story. Hero committing suicide, not good! How about hero dying in an accident? Accident? What's the connection between our story and accident? Hero must commit suicide in that situation. lf he dies in accident, the story will reach graveyard not to our audience. How about hero leaving home? Where? To Peddapuram? Or Amalapuram? lt's not our point whether hero goes underground or up above or to forest, if hero doesn't commit suicide... lf you don't understand it, accept it graciously, if you don't like it, say you don't like it. But for God sake don't play with my Nayaki. l'll not change even a word in my script Nayaki. You make another film. - Hey you...why are you so tensed? Didn't l tell your story is extraordinary? You must narrate to many if it's a film script, people would come out with their own opinion. Final decision is yours, right? You've told your opinion, but there's a little problem. Not in your script. All my money is stuck in real estate. Unless the boom returns l can't sell those lands. l don't have money now, my last two films were flops, utter flops! To make a film now, we've to find a financier, there's big shot by the name Mastanaiah. l sent him your script too. He fell in love with it. He has a girl friend. You meet her. Why should l meet his girl friend? l mean she's mad about films. You mean should l give her a role in my film? Meet her once...just only once. Try to understand why l'm insisting it. Meet her! Did you read my script sir? Where do l've time to read scripts? l didn't but she read it. Baby, you said you liked a character in the story. Baby... Dolly, l'm not undermining your beauty or talent, l've a feeling that you won't suit for the role of my heroine. How about doing the other character Shanthi? She has only six scenes! You don't worry, once we start the film. 6 scenes could get stretched to 16 scenes, we can change as you wish! How can you change? lt's my story, my will and wish. Who are you to change it? l'll not change even a word in my script. lf Baby doesn't fit your character, fit your character to Baby! Till then l'll not lend even a penny! Baby, come. Sir, please finish the lunch. lf l make a film with Dolly, l should go back to Amalapuram and beg. l can understand your emotion. l expected something like this to happen, so l've invited another party. His name is Narasimha. story is just average, if you make little changes, it would be great! l've a brilliant idea. - What's it? Your hero is a painter, right? remove the brush from his hand and put a camera around his neck, that's all. Camera? What if he has camera? What would a photographer do? He'll take photos. Use beautiful sexy girls in your film, make them wear micro mini shorts, and make him take their photos getting wet in rain. Sex will ooze from our film! People would throng theatres! The more our film is sleazy, the more money we can make. Good idea! - My foot idea! What's my film Nayaki is about? A tragedy film running on sentiments and emotions. Sex in such a sensitive film. No Appalraju, sex will be good. What's good? Sir, fire such creative head and appoint a creative brain. lt'll be much better. lf you want sex, enjoy it. Don't watch it! Who would watch it l do it? Your story may be great to you, but to Mastanaiah his girl friend is great, sex if great for Narasimha, if your great is important to you, then their great is important to them. lf you say no, then get a top heroine, great financers would flock to us. How about star heroine Kanishka for our story? Kanishka is a glamorous star! Why would she accept? lnside story is that she's fed up with glamour roles, and wants to do roles that would fetch her awards. Kanishka is right on top now! lf she accepts we'll be on roll. What eyes! What a nose! What legs! What a waist! What did your parents feed to raise you like this? You're taking my life, O ghostly girl... ls it lips or red oxide? ls it waist or ice cream? Your every cell is blowing me up like an atom bomb... Your beauty is killing me... This hot Sun is torturing me... Bloody! Your expression is rocking! lt was my grandpa's expression in his 179th film holding Sridevi's waist. l know it sir, your body language too is what he did in his 50th film. Whether you accept or not you're better than your father or grandpa. How far has your love has reached with Babu? Who doesn't love Babu in the industry? About the affair... Why don't you act with any other Babu other than this Babu? While working out in gym, he saw and recommended me, Do you've any objections on exposing? l've strong opinions on exposing. l'll go to any extent if the character demands. Do you've any dream roles, madam? l'm fed up doing glamour roles, l wish to do award winning character, that's my dream role. Okay bye. Where are you going? Stop! Madam wished to do award winning character, l've a great story with me. l'll narrate it to her. Every day dozens of people like you turn to tell such stories. Meet KA, her PA. - Where is he sir? That red shirt man is PA's driver, meet him first. Excuse me sir, who is PA Teja's driver? - Why? l want to narrate a story to Kanishka. So l want to meet PA Teja. What's the budget? - Not yet fixed. Not the film's budget, my budget. Take it sir. How many people should l meet? You bring every day someone saying he's your relative. But he's my childhood friend. l promise on your mother. Okay. Story is excellent, l'll tell madam. You must narrate her after l tell her. Prepare well. l'm Appalraju, l'm here to meet Kanishka. PA Teja sent me here. - Please sit here. Who are you? - Greetings madam. l'm Appalraju, l'm here to narrate a story to Kanishka. PA Teja sent me here. - ls it you? Sit down. Tell me. Madam... - Baby has gone out for a jog. She has asked to hear the story, you carry on. Opening shot is a vast desert! ln that desert, two legs without slippers are running. Opening shot is a vast desert! ln that desert, two legs without slippers are running. A lightning strikes suddenly! Lightning! Opening shot is a vast desert! ln that desert, two legs without slippers are running. Heroine looks towards sky, it's thunders and lightning! She faints and falls down. Amidst the thunders and lightning... Heroine running the desert without slippers, faints suddenly. Sky is lit up with thunders, lightning, rain, she opens eyes and sees, opening titles start rolling, heroine runs in the rain and hugs the hero. That's all, end credits start rolling. lt's over, Mummy. - Over? How many costume changes are there for Baby? Not yet planned about costumes. Manish Malhotra has come recently from Paris. lt seems he has brought new collections. Any latest fashion, my Baby is the first to wears it. Before any other heroine wears it, let's get all those designs for our Baby. Excuse me, Mummy... - What? Heroine is middle class character in the film. So we may not need Manish Malhotra. Why? What are you saying? College girls flock to theatres to see my Baby's new dress collections. You write the story, l'll design her costumes. Carry on. ls the film important to you or the costumes? Both are important. lf heroine's costumes are not natural and realistic in the film, people will not watch the film. ln the film 'Pedinti Lakshmi', heroine starves in the film, but wore saris worth lakhs, the film ran 100 days in 200 centres. Did anyone ask about it? While watching the film in Amalapuram Ramba theatre, for this same point, the man next to me was abusing the director with the wildest abuses. No! People like you and that man are one in a crore. Just one! People would love to watch Kanishka with clothes or without clothes. Please don't insult my heroine. Let's do one thing, once the film starts, let's select Manish Malhotra, get him do the costumes as you like. Opening shot is a vast desert... Desert? Gone mad? Select some cool place. According to story it must be a desert. Then, do it, tell your producer to put up a set in AC studio. Okay sir. ln the same desert, your feet are running without slippers... My Kanishka's feet are tender to feel hurt for a movement, infact she wears shoes even while taking bath, There would be scorpion in desert, what if it bites her? Will you bear the pain? lf there are any practical problems, take care of it later. First let him narrate his story. As you run, sunrays hit your eyes directly. Darling, use latest Rayban glasses from Singapore for this scene. Sir, heroine shouldn't wear sun glasses in this scene. Remove it using graphics, do l've to tell you that also? Okay sir. As you run, you faint because of hot Sun. lt's difficult for her to keep feet in desert, how can you ask her to fall bodily? Do one thing, use beds or pillows. Suddenly is starts raining heavily! Rain in desert? That's my directorial touch. lf she gets wet in rain, she'll catch flu. Arrange the rain with hot water. - Okay sir. You get up in the rain and start dancing! Should she dance in the desert rain without slippers? Use a dupe! lf l've to use a dupe, why would l book Kanishka? Do you've any common sense? Give me a cigarette. After that... Getting Kanishka's dates isn't an ordinary thing. lts your luck. Not luck sir, it's the power of my Nayaki's story. Okay, agreed. l've called 10 assistant directors for you, interview them and select candidates you like. l heard you've years of experience! l was born in 1957 the day film 'Mayabazaar' hit the screens. after watching film 'Shiva', l had decided never to direct a film.- Why? Were you scared of not making a better film than it? What a lousy film it was sir! Even a cycle mechanic would take 10 minutes to remove cycle chain, but Nagarjuna snaps and picks it instantly. ls there any logic in that film? l was so upset with audience who made it a big hit, that l decided never to make a film and settled down as assistant director. Not the film you like the most, tell me your name. What genre of films you like? l don't like any films. Don't you like films? - l don't like films. lf you don't like films, why did you then enter film industry? To make a film l would like. l'm here to work as assistant for livelihood till l get a chance. What' your name? That is... What's your name? Brother, Annamacharya, sir. Why are you so scared, Annamacharya? Nothing sir. You say nothing but... Sir, my mother told me to respect elders. Look, we're going to work together here, there's no difference of senior or junior. Please don't say like that sir. l've brought this for you sir. What's this? To make your film a hit, l've offered prayers to Goddess Andalamma. Keep it there. Sir, your film will be a super duper hit! Were you an assistant director for the film Titanic? You've many cousins. How is the story, sir? Story is good but pace is stumbling block. lf the film has BN Reddy's screenplay and Adurti Subba Rao's drama, it would be much better. How do you feel it, Annamayya? Wonderful! Astonishing! l feel like l was born to work for this film. lf this film doesn't run for 400 days, l'll stop going to Tirupathi. Get up...get up... Sit there. What's your opinion? Do you like it? l'm making a film because l like it. How do you feel it? You like it, so make a film, why are you asking me? You needn't have to tell me to make the film, just tell me why you didn't like it? Why do you want to know why l don't like it? Are you making the film for me? You're making a film for public, they'll buy tickets to watch the film. Why the hell should l bother? My foot! l'm asking your opinion as an assistant director. l'll say not good, will you stop making the film? Tell me, will you stop making the film? How do you feel it? l meant should you've to ask me that also? lt means you like it, right? l've arranged a meeting with Megamax company. Megamax company? - A big corporate company in Bombay. They've opened a branch here also. Now we're doing business in corporate level. lnfact our film's finance is... You've a company head. Tragedy story! Heroine oriented films run only in places like Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Maldives. They don't watch our Telugu films. Recently released 'Arundhati' was a heroine oriented film, it was a super hit! lt wasn't a heroine oriented film. - Then? We're not saying it but our research and development database says so. What authority it has to say so? Films like 'Sharada' and 'Kartavyam' many years ago were heroine oriented. How could they become blockbuster hits? By then our research and development wing wasn't developed. What do you want us to do now? lf you book any top star as hero for Kanishka, we're ready. Sir, hero's character is too small. Entire story is based on Kanishka. No top hero would accept this role, sir. That's your problem, what can l do? She too can't do anything. We're ready to finance if you book any top star hero. Our database says so. Why did you go blank like that? There's chance of Babu doing this character.- How? lt isn't just enough to write stories to become a director, you must get to know industry's illegal points. What's correct? l asked you what's correct? Correct, but what's correct? Come on tell me. l thought he would've said correctly, so l said correct. lt's a public secret that Babu and Kanishka are having a secret affair. lf Kanishka posts this message in a weak or tender moment, Babu would do the role without a protest. To make Babu do such a small role, there must be something special in that character, right? There is madam, in one scene, you come running and hug the hero tightly, for that scene if there's another hero instead of Babu, what would become of Babu's honour? lf you checkmate him with such dialogues, our job is done. l'll talk to him. You're very lucky that Babu has agreed to do your film. Babu and Kanishka haven't yet given a flop. There's great demand for your product in the market. You've made table profit with a hit combination. Have you signed all the pages? - Over sir. Take your cheque. That's yours! This is our new office. You've made big stars to accept and directing a film without background. lt took a year for heroes to okay the story in LV Prasad's time. Shooting went on for a year. The film used to run for year. Now they're writing a story in one hour, heroes are okaying it in two hours, they're filming it in two months, the film runs for two days and leaves the theatre, you've become a director straight away, you're lucky man. This film is taking off because of Goddess Andalamma's blessings. lt's all God's grace. Keep this vermilion, sir. You're also happy, right? Why should l be happy if you make a film? You're also working for this film, right? l got appointed here long back, why should l be happy now? lf you're happy, be happy, why should l be? Unbelievable this is, Raju... Give me a shake hand, what a surprise... l got a chance to make film... l'll show romance on the screen... l know your talent, advance congrats... Raju is no joke, l'll prove my talent... All the best, go ahead... create a new record... While you walk on the road... l'll take a shot amidst flowers... l'll show the beauty of lips and imbibe it... l'll show what Kareena and Katrina lack... l'll give a new Bapu's doll to the industry... l'll capture the beauty of heroine in camera... l'll zoom in to film 24 carat golden body in 24 frames... l'll fill the frame with vibrant colours... l'll create history in Eastman... l'll give a run of their money to Hollywood and Bollywood... l'll make you a evergreen star like Angelina Jolie... Appalraju, l think our film is hitting roadblock. Hitting roadblock? Not hitting, it has hit already. What happened? Last night hero and Kanishka had a big fight. lt seems Kanishka has broken up with him in a fit of anger. Goddess! Such an injustice for breaking one coconut less. Babu has affair with Kanishka in the front, and running an affair with Bombay beauty Antariksha from behind. Kanishka caught him red handed. - l can't believe it sir. Babu loves Kanishka very much. l've seen it with my eyes. You've seen Babu with Kanishka only, you haven't yet seen him with others, right? He can have affairs with 10 girls at a time. That's his capacity. Poor girl Kanishka trusted him blindly. Forget about Kanishka's career, think about Appalraju's career. What career? Your career is over the moment they fought. We must meet urgently. ln film industry we take advance but never return it. Don't you know it? ln the agreement you signed with us, on page number 16, according to clause 38 D, if hero withdraws, you've to return the loan along with interest. lf you fail to do so, we'll start criminal proceedings against you. l told you to sign after reading every word but you signed it blindly. Look, you're in a mess now! l didn't read this clause only. lt was enough had you read this clause only. l've wasted a month in my life. Bye, l'll join another film. You didn't visit Andalamma's temple, that's why Goddess is angry on you and she has stopped our film. l'll offer prayers and cool her anger, l'll come back now. ln the times of B.Vittalacharya, if artistes commit to a film, there's no going back, Kanishka and Babu would do their films, you'll go back to your native place, but we stay here and face the flak. l'll face my difficulties, you face yours. l told my parents that l'm making a film. lf l go home now, l'll be valueless to my father. lf l want to stay back here, what should l do and how? l was confident when l didn't get a chance and was struggling. But now after losing a film, l'm very sad. Did you ever face such a situation in your life? Any time? What l told you now? l didn't hear you, l was typing SMS message. l'm talking to seriously about my life and you're typing messages. My SMS too is serious. - Serious SMS? Yes, serious SMS. Do you think only you're facing problems in this world? l got little emotional. - Me too sorry. l've got another SMS. Why are you asking me? Are you checking your messages after taking my permission? l'm asking because it's serious. - lf it is serious, check it. Why are you getting serious on me? My problem is as serious to me as your SMS is to you. My SMS is as serious as your problem is to you. Your seriousness is yours and my seriousness is mine. lt's me PA Teja! - Tell me sir. l've booked KT in the place of Babu for our film. Who is KT? - lt's our rebel star KT Rao! Why would KT Rao agree to do this film? He won't but our Kanishka made him to agree.- How? That's her technique! lf Kanishka leaves Babu's camp, she has to join KT's camp. Kanishka has already told everything to KT, you meet KT immediately and narrate the story. Greetings sir, my name is Appalraju. Kanishka's PA sent me here. Who is he to send you and who you are to come here? Everything is taken care by Him up there! Films don't run because of story, He makes it a hit. What's the character? l'm a character myself. People come to see me. Are you doing my film 'Nayaki' sir? Who is doing and who makes us do it? Everything is taken care by Him up there! My PA will give you my dates. lt's not easy to get KT's dates. l didn't give my dates for his story or for the character, its for my sweet Kanishka! He was a side hero in my film, that bloody KT who was out of focus standing behind me, with just two hits in his kitty, how dare he gets close to Kanishka. lf he has no sense, shouldn't Kanishka have some sense? You're like father of this industry, you took her to this position, how dare she rejects and settle with KT! l want her! Babu's glamour queen is my lover now. Seeing Kanishka by side, he doesn't die in jealousy, henceforth my name shall not be KT! KT's name is giving me heartburn. Let's gun him with media not with bullets. Media? Channels, distributors who would do anything for us, critics who write reviews without watching films, accountants who can fudge the collections, entire backbone of the industry in your family's hands. Let what ever be in his hands, l've his Kanishka with me. Your future is in your hands not in anyone else's hands. Yes, you're the only person to understand me and my feelings. lt's impossible for anyone now to stop my film. l'm not just an expert in making hit films, l know very well how to spoil the rival's films. Nobody can spoil a good film. l'll prove that story is the lifeline of films. l'll make a film without changing my characters to suit star's image. But they say your character is very small in the script. That's in the script, watch the film. Once the film shoot begins what ever he writes is unnecessary. What ever l say he must incorporate it in his script. l'll turn 'Nayaki' (heroine) into 'Nayakudu' (hero) Hail Lord Shiva! l promise on God, it's my responsibility to make Appalraju's film a big flop! God, bless me that my film is a hit for all the offers l made till now. Story, Screenplay, Direction - God l returned database company's cheque along with interest. What? Aren't we doing the film with Megamax company? He wants 70% overseas market. Don't know when he would take lessons or add new clauses. Who would finance our film then? l've already set up another party. He'll do it for 30% overseas. - Which company? He doesn't own a company, but a den! His name is Srisailam anna. A big rowdy! Rowdy? Will a rowdy finance our film? All we need is money. Not rowdyism. Corporates could be financed by Dawood lbrahim or Bin Laden. There's a Don behind every producer. Srisailam has stopped murders and turned a good man. Today also nobody came, brother. Who? - Nobody came to bump you off. Why are you disappointed if nobody attempts to kill me? lf nobody tries to kill you, why should l give you security? Am l useless man? lt's an order if l take a gun, it's a murder if l see, that's my style! People fear gun and gun fears me. But l don't fear you, brother, l'm brave! l didn't mean you, but about gun. The background which you've, who in this film industry has it? Brother! Not background but rowdies behind me. Brother, he's Appalraju. My film's director. Debut film? - How did you find it, brother? The sincerity l had while committing first murder, l can see in your eyes. My fourth murder was inside a theatre. - lt was fifth, brother. Fourth was in a birthday party. Do you want brother to ask you to sit? Sit down. l killed my enemy in a theatre, l saw the balance film to pass time. Ever since then... One more thing, For our film no need to hire knives, gun, rowdies and bombs. We've everything. Sir, our film has no violence. A great tragedy film with feel, emotions and sentiments. lf eyes shed tears, it's sentiment, if you get hurt, you need ointment. Brother Srisailam! Super! By the way, do you know brother composes good songs? Why are you looking like that? Do you want him to write all the songs in your film, right? What you'd make him write? Brother finances films to write songs. brother, tell me, l'll finish him. Gun has tears, bullet has scent. l'm really fortunate that a great poet like you is financing my film. What do you say Appalraju? lt's our good fortune. lf you use my songs in the film, guns will be replaced with pens, if not bullets would pierce through your heads. Srisailam is a criminal, how can he write songs for my film? Valmiki too was a criminal once. Didn't he write Ramayana? How can you compare Valmiki with him? Don't insult the epics. Gulzar too was once a pick pocket. Didn't he become a writer? ls Gulzar a pick pocket? - l know it. Appalraju, try to understand. Srisailam is financing our project for letting him write the songs. lf we refuse him, he'll cut our throats with a gun not with a knife. Why did you seek finance from such a guy? lf we refuse he'll start committing murders again. Should l fear him and accept what ever he writes as songs in my film? Has he any connection with songs? Does he know the spelling of lyrics? Who listens to the songs? They listen to the music only. You get the music you want and he'll write what he thinks is lyrics. lf you say no, this film would get shelved. l'll get beheaded! Come. lt's better to make dubbing films than making films with guys like you. l can't educate people like you. lt's all over. Now Srisailam will write songs. He won't write with pen but with gun. Whether its good or bad we've to use it. Go...go... Once in a year such a tune comes up! You're very lucky. lt was background score in James Cameron's Avatar. Recently l went to America, l gave them as gift, may be they'd used it. This will not suit to any situation in my film, sir. Getting tune for the situation is routine, it's good when it's not in tune with situation. Who is he? To whom?- To brother. - Brother? lf its for brother... You play! This is new tune, please listen. l told you sir, l don't want routine tunes. l want a tune with feel! ln the recently released film 'Ammaniyamma', when the mother character dies, hero carries her and sings a song with good beat. Who composed it? Me! l'll never make such silly experiments in my film. l want a good song with feel. Did you ever hear good feeling songs as ring tones? Are you composing songs to listen or for ring tones? People don't have time to buy CD's and listen to songs, they prefer ring tones only. l'll do a remix song. - Remix? Where can l add it? Use it where ever you want to. My name is Srisailam... my profession is rowdyism... Brother! Wow! Brother...continue... - Brother Srisailam...super! My name is Srisailam... my profession is rowdyism... Brother, your every word is a song. l feel like industry has found a combo of Sri Sri and Athreya. Who are they? - They are... How dare you compare them with brother! l'll kill you, l'll stab you... l was saying they were like you, brother. Brother, song is excellent. Please write a song on Goddess Andalamma also. l'll offer prayers every day and sing your song. You short man, come here. No use if lyrics are good, tune must also be good. Compose a good tune for brother's lyrics, if not brother would kill you. Why did you shut down the good running bar? When l used to dance in bar, you threw currency notes on me, l followed you here without finding you there. Turn your heads that side. Beau! Don't tell them anything. l want to dance for a song in your film. Beau, l want to be seen in a film! Brother! Drop Kanishka and take Sarala as the heroine. Brother, we've already given advance to Kanishka. With your money only. How about making our next film with Sarala as heroine? You can do the hero's role, brother. lntroduction to Telugu audience! A Laila Majnu, a Gitanjali, a Gulabi, a Anarkali, a Marocharithra... Brother! Beau! Am l your heroine? We can try like this. To remove madam's camera fear, we can create a role of Kanishka's friend, and make madam enact that role. - Shut up! Who the hell are you create a character in my script? How are you connected to my script? l'll kill if anyone dares to enter my script. Nobody must shout in brother's presence. lf you do, l'll kill you. ls the tune ready? - Ready. My name is Srisailam... my profession is rowdyism... My den is in Dhoolpet... anyone dares to cross me is dead... My job is illegal activity... l'm a local Don... l'll give life to a friend... l'll take the life of enemy... l drink at night... l kill if l get bored... l'm a boy from Chinthalbasti... if you want inquire... People will tell who murdered even while as a boy in shorts... Check the entire register of Chanchalguda jail... Get to know who escaped from there maximum times... Who made Dawood a fearsome Don? Who taught Veerappan to smuggle? lt's none other than one and only Srisailam... What the hell a hero does in films? He uses a dupe to fight and do feats... Srisailam is dashing and daring in doing original stunts... My punches knock you out of life... l was the one who broke the tooth of Tyson... Bruce Lee got saved from me with death... l'm the epitome of violence... lt seems there's a sensational item song in Babu's film. The information is from my camp. lf my film has to compete with his film, we must also do a sensational item song to bring down the roof. lt seems they'd used models from America. Let's use Russians. Sir, there's no situation in our film for an item song. lf there's a situation, why would they call it as item song? Situation isn't there, that's why it is known as item song. lf we film an item song, we can use it any scene. You're adding senselessly songs as you please, that's why people are not watching songs, they're going out! l've seen it many times in Amalapuram Ramba theatre. l won't commit a mistake knowingly. Who the hell you are to refuse me? What experience you've compared to me? l've given two back to back hits. And you haven't yet released your first film. KT's film must have item song and all other masala. lf not my fans would get disappointed. Films having too much of masala are burning audience in theatres. l've seen it many times in Amalapuram Ramba theatre. ls Amalapuram Ramba the only theatre in Andhra Pradesh? There are hundreds of towns and thousands of theatres. lf you watch few films in your Amalapuram Ramba theatre, and think you know the taste of entire AP, there won't be a more foolish man than you. Forget about making the film, learn first how to talk to a hero. Tell him, if not l'll walk out of the film. Never talk to mass heroes like that. lf you don't mind, there's truth in what he says. lf you're proud while making your first film, he's a star, how proud would he be! He has no common sense which a film goer has! He's a top star with top ego! A senseless man can never reach top. lf you talk so tough, it would've hurt his ego. Explain him properly how an item song would mar the film. l feel if you explain him coolly, he will agree. Do you think so? Sir, please listen to me calmly. Basically in our film, your character helps heroine in distress, and you sacrifice yourself in the last, l mean your character is great to commit suicide, in such situation, in the pre-climax before you commit suicide, an item song with Russian models, it means your character will its importance. We'll miss the emotion leading to the climax, sir. ls it right to kill your character for an item song, sir? Tell me sir. You're right, Appalraju. Let's do one thing. - What sir? Let's change the character. l don't want this hero, this film and l don't want to direct. l'm going away. - Stop...Appalraju! Go to Amalapuram! - What? What? Amalapuram? - Come with me. Get down. Go. - Where to? l got you a heroine, hero and Srisailam to finance the film, l did all this to give you a break, are you leaving me in dire straits? lt's not my idea to leave you in dire straits. lf you add an item song, it'll kill the film. You go to Amalapuram. ltem song is just 3 minutes long. lf you add it before climax... - One more word and l'll kill you. Who are you to take my auto? - You keep quiet man. Wait...wait... - Raki took trouble for you only. Please listen to us. - l'll go. Will you take me to Amalapuram or not? No, l'll not listen to you. You wanted to make film with heart, right? Think with your heart, adjust and get going. lf film gets shelved? Who would repay the money to Srisailam? You're always bothered about your script, your song only. Please listen to me. How many lives would you destroy for one item song? l'll get ruined, can't you see it? Can't you? Think, which is better, item song or change the hero's character? Which is better to us? Think over it. Ranganayaki near the ring road... My heart fell in love on seeing you sultry siren... How well you sang sir! Watch! l'll compose a tune. Brother, super! Had Athreya been alive, he would've died hearing this song. Who is he? - A poet like you. What a great song! Not just this song but all... Ranganayaki near the ring road... My heart fell in love on seeing you sultry siren... What a great line! How could you al like this trash? Does he have brain to write such lines? ls this lyric? How dare you say brother is brain less! He has written such a beautiful line! Right now, l'll get brother to write an epitaph for you. Brother, give me order, l'll stab him. Didn't you like my lyric? Brother is hurt, come on boys! Stab him boys! He set aside gun for 3 days and put pressure on brain to write it. And you say you don't like it. l'll tell him... Please say lyrics are great! Brother! You told me to write an item song, right? Yes brother, but director feels a change in lyrics would be fine. lsn't it , Appalraju? Brother! Killing a dead man again and rewriting a song is impossible! l'm telling you all the bars in the state will play this song only. Gun, cut his throat, l'll explain boss. Brother, give me order, l'll cover him in shroud. Kill him! Appalraju say song is good! Please say okay... Kill him! Accept. Your song is fantastic! Ranganayaki near the ring road... My heart fell in love on seeing you sultry siren... Come behind the tree chanting my name... You'll go mad with the punch of my youth... lf you say no, you'll feel for it... lf l say yes, what would become of my beauty... l'll get you exotic item in Ooty... You'll ask for more of it... lf you're my man, got to Tirupathi and tonsure your head... lf you get a chance, will you take me abroad? My youth is galloping like a horse... Don't wait, tie the knot... Though l don't have a six pack body... l've a family pack body for you... Your eyes are striking me like arrows... Your tale is out in hot desires and despairs... Waiting to try a hand on you... - Don't pull my sari because l'm free... l want 5 or 6 autos in this right block. ln this left empty place arrange few vegetable shops. Note it down. Entire centre must be colourful. What? Don't you remember someone on seeing me, sir? Who? Look at me properly, sir. Why should l see? Who should l remember? People back in my place say l'm a replica of Ravi Teja. Hero Ravi Teja? You? People come from every place! Okay, you may be, what do you want me to do? l mean not only others l too feel like him. So what? What can l do? l want to replace him. Look, l'm not making a film with dupes. My film is original. Take me sir, it'll be good. lt'll be plus to the film. Who are you tell me that? Every body is making fun of me. Everyone is suggesting a change. Give me one chance, sir. l'll over take the original. Add it sir. Come, sir here. Come. Sit there. Remove your glasses. - No sir. l'm asking you, remove it. - No sir. l'm asking you to remove it, why are you saying no? lt'll not work out if l remove my glasses. Not work out? Remove your glasses. l'll get caught, sir. How many times do l've to tell you? Remove your glasses. Different. l told you, sir. There's already a Ravi Teja to act like Ravi Teja, right? Why you? lt's difficult to get Ravi Teja's dates. Look, there's no character for Ravi Teja himself, how can his dupe have a role? Just give me one chance sir. - Get going. One chance, sir. - Can't you understand me? Go! l said go! He has come fully prepared. Ravi Teja is original, you're a dupe. Try to reach top place where he would be your dupe. Don't think of acting like his dupe. What's your name? From which place? - Amalapuram Amalapuram? From my place! Go back to Amalapuram and find yourself a good job. Stop dreaming such crazy dreams. lf you fix the rate, l'll fix the rating. You must spoil Appalraju's film. His film, his story, KT and Kanishka combination, spread bad reports on all the things. Raki, l'm media here! When are you giving a party to my gang? He's EV, senior most journalist. A great critic. He's Godfather to cinema journalism. Look Appalraju, a critic's job is, saving the audience from the filmmakers, not the other way of saving filmmakers from audience. Would you be happy if our films flop? lnnocent Appalraju! lf a film flops, the most happiest people are other filmmakers. Forget about all that. l've buried many a genius like you. Who are you to bury or push to top? lf the film is good people will watch it. lf it isn't good, they won't watch even if God recommends. People are not in the stage of accepting your silly reviews. Don't think commenting a creation is creation. Story of KT and Kanishka starrer 'Nayaki' directed by Appalraju, gossip from the unit says it's a copy of French film made 32 years ago, and songs are straight lifts from latest music albums in Europe, KT and Kanishka's combination is too bad in stills also, Babu and Kanishka's combination is super hit combination, people who had welcomed this pair with open arms, and they're unable to imagine KT next to Kanishka... What's this nonsense? Why is he talking nonsense about my film? This is Babu's strategy. He would've bought them with money. EV and Venkat have good connections with TV media. l'm unable to understand anything, sir. All this negative publicity would spoil our film, sir. Nothing will happen, you don't worry. lf they've media with them, we've much more powerful support, we've Deivagna Acharya. Who is he? An astrologer who can convert negative talk into positive. Entire film industry depends on him more than trying to make a good film. Tell me the third letter of your great grand father's name. My great grand father was Kanakaraju. Third letter is 'Ka'. - Ka? Last number of your car number. 07! - 7! Nayaki..ki...7... lf you repeat three times the second letter 'Ya' in 'Nayaki', and 'Ki' four times, if you change the title to 'Nayayayakikikiki', it'll run for 100 days. What? 'Nayayayakikikiki'! Audience may not understand it. lf planets understand that's enough, who cares about audience? Appalraju, if you change your name to Appapparararaju, your film will run for 150 days. Raki, if you change your name and reverse it as Kira, this film will run for 200 days. - Okay. You too change name as Agnanachari instead of Deivagna Acharya. Our film will run for a year. You'll live for 200 years. lgnorant man! You're insulting sacred text. lf l curse, your 'Nayaki' will go kaput. What ever you may say, my film is 'Nayaki' and l'm Appalraju. There won't be any change in it. Raki, if you want change your name to Kira. Thank God, didn't tell me to show the film to people? Who is he... - He's good man, but innocent. Can't avoid it, please excuse me. ltem song from his film is more popular than my film's item song. Everywhere l hear the same song. When l travel in my car, even my driver's ring tone is that song. Dresses of models in his film are shorter than models from our film. Exposing is sensational! The mistake l did was, l cut the obscene shots in the song separately, audience mustn't support such films and such dances, l ran a campaign. But my entire campaign backfired. lf clippings are like this, how would the full song be? Youth are craze about it. Song has become a raging hit. They've filmed their song richer than our song. Who is financing them to make a rich film? He has stopped rowdyism and entered film industry. The song was also written by Srisailam! Bloody bastard! Srisailam? l know how to deal with him. Kill them boys! What happened? lt's stuck, forgot to bring coconut oil. You kill them boys! Have you also forgotten coconut oil? - No bullets, brother. No? - No, run out of bullets. ln the recent shoot out, we ran out of bullets, second delivery...just a minute. lt's engaged. Send the bullets, bloody! Send it immediately. He's fighting, we're going crazy. Send urgently. Brother, don't kill, he's our man. Our man? - Yes, no attacks on you, to keep them fighting fit, l had arranged this drill. Mad boys, seek brother's blessings. Brother! Finding nobody is attacking me l think you'd kill me someday. Definitely, brother. l'll kill you and then kill myself. - Why? l've been working you for so many years, nobody has ever made any attempt on your life. Why should l work unnecessarily for you? Brother Srisailam! We're in neck deep trouble. What happened? Commissioner called and warned me. - What? lt seems someone has complained that goon is financing my film. Babu is very close with Commissioner. May be he would've told him. Brother, if we put your name as the presenter, l'm sure everyone associated with you would be in jail. This society can't tolerate if a criminal turns good man. Correct brother. lt can't tolerate a gun in my hand. l'll convert pen into gun and kill everyone who stops me. l'll write epitaphs for them. No...no...film has come out very well. Your song is also a big hit. lf you murder people in rush of blood, the craze for your song will diminish and film will get stalled. We've to take to guns and follow you as your henchmen. What should l do now? Your name shouldn't appear as producer, let's consult Deivagna Acharya and change it to Tirupathi or Annavaram. He didn't like his name so he killed his father and named himself as Srisailam. How dare you want him to change his name! Brother, order me, l'll finish them. Let's do one thing, removing your name as presenter, l'll put your girl friend's name Sarala. Like proxy property owners, let's run the show on sister's name. Once the police trouble is cleared, then let's call a press meet, and announce to the world, that brother Srisailam is the man behind this film. Till then if you stay underground, this film will reach top grade. Brother! Would you at least credit the songs to my name? Not just opening titles, l'll run your name in end credits too. l'll remove the interval card and run your name card. Yes brother. Appalraju, all our problems are solved. Cinema too is fantastic! Next is release only. The most important man for the film is coming. The most important man for a film is director, right? No, Appalraju! lt's distributor. Ontikannu Gavarraju, AP's no:1 distributor. Even the biggest director wouldn't know the flaws in his film. But Gavarraju decides a film is hit or flop in just half minute. l'm the sound of your foot steps, l'm the air of your breath, l'm the thought of your imagination, l'm always there with you. This is a CG shot, sir. We'll adjust in re-recording. Foreign technicians are coming. How is the promo, sir? People who watch this promo don't have anything in it. Nothing? The film's heroine isn't exposing. - Expose? Our film is a tragedy, sir. lt's a good heart touching film. Audience aren't satisfied with just a heart touching story, it must touch them in every place! - Every place means? You know film 'Adavi Ramudu', in it Jayapradha, didn't she drop her sari end for six feet? That's all, it was a mass hit! All shows full with whistles. Didn't Sridevi lift her sari till knees in '16 Vayasu'? For 16 days all shows house full. Cancel this promo, get 4 exposing shots of the heroine, and shots of hero fighting, just add it, it'll reach masses. Add family romantic song too, if not ladies won't come out to watch the film. Director, if you release the promo as it is, forget about your film running for 4 weeks, it'll become weak, nobody would buy in Andhra, Ceded and Nizam. Do you've brain? lf we show shots in ads which aren't there in film, are the people so foolish... Promos will appear on TV now, film will release some time later, by then people won't remember, it would get deleted. Your brain is already deleted. Check it. lf you don't cut the promo as he suggests, our film will not get released for people to see it. Why don't you understand it? Greetings sir. l'm discussing about the promo you'd suggested. No please. As l ponder over it, l feel Appalraju is right. Keep as it is. People want variety now. Even the makers themselves can't understand their own promo, and thrill the audience with confusion, only such films are super hits. l'm sure Appalraju's promo would be latched up by people. l forgot to tell you, l'm buying your film for entire AP state. Gavarraju is buying our film for the entire state. l've closed that film deal, when are we releasing our film? All the films of Babu released on Sankranthi were hits. That's why distributors call him as Sankranthi Babu. So, Babu wishes his film must release on Sankranthi. On Sankranthi day? My two earlier films were released on Sankranthi, both films were with social message, you know that? But both were flops. Sex films won't run on Sankranthi. Families flock theatres. Though they're giving a good build up for Babu's film, but l've reports from editing room and lab that film is bad. lf our film releases with his film, and if we manage to get the talk that our film is better, even if our film collects at least one rupee more than his film, it means l'm the top hero. 'Nayaki' must release on Sankranthi at any cost. Our next job is publicity of the film. We must rock it. Sir, story of our film is our publicity. We don't need cheap publicity which Ramgopal Varma generates. lt must new and effective. What if we say our film incites caste and regional feelings? What? - Superb! MLA's must discuss and fight in Assembly about our film. Let's ask forgiveness after the release. lf they still protest, let's remove the scene. Let's upload the same scenes for free on internet. Publicity... This is film folks activity... This is publicity... This is nativity of tricksters and cheats... Creativity to steal the pockets of audience... Making a film of Rs.50 lakhs and bill it as Rs.50 crores... They film song in Tank Bund and claim it as New Zealand... They will invite people to theatres promising many gifts... They'll cheat if you keep on trusting them... They act like saints before the press... You'll get stunned seeing my character in this film. A producer must make a film with passion. When l heard the story, l felt it was good... But director has made it extraordinarily. Keeping audience in mind, l've made the film using all that audience wish in proper quantity. l've composed lndian music with international inspiration. AR Rehman can pack his bags and go home. ln every theatre where this film runs, through a lucky dip, we'll select a winner, and give the winner an opportunity to spend a day with Kanishka... Every woman who watches my film would get a free sari. l've made the film with my heart, my film will move every person who has a heart. They claim to have mixed sentiment with entertainment... They claim to have shot the film in never seen before locations... Giving ads that everything you wish is there in it... Pleading and begging you to watch their film... They'll boast a flop film as hit... They visit empty theatres as part of success tour... Public response to your film is very good. Publicity is sensational. lf you give the distribution rights to our company, we'll send board of Directors and offer you more than the market rate. My film's business is closed. Gavarraju has bought entire state rights. l'm always late! That database guy has come to our knees. Gavarraju is not buying our film. He's buying Babu's film. lt was a drama played by Gavarraju, Venkat and Babu to trap us. How will our film release now? Why are you laughing at us? l had prior news of Gavarraju not buying your film. lf you want us to buy and release a film he had dropped, in the state, 70% and 80% in overfull, we want a share! This is really blackmail. Cinema is cheating. You cheat the maker before release, after release you cheat the audience. That's okay, forget about it, nobody can release your film other than us, before our board comes and asks your film for free, you please come to a decision, tell me your rate. lf our film has to hit the screens on Sankranthi, decide and tell him now. l think it would be better to release on Sankranthi. We can't release it on Sankranthi. Summer holidays is okay to us. What's your problem to release on Sankranthi? lnstead of releasing your film against Babu and Y.Venkat combination film, its better to sell the negatives in shandy. Who the hell is that database to fix the date of my film's release? l told you our film must release on Sankranthi. Didn't you find any other distributor? No one in the state has courage to buy a film refused by Gavarraju. ls it? Then, l'll buy my film. l'll release it myself. lt's a matter of my prestige. The film must hit the screens on Sankranthi at any cost. lf not my fans will get angry for chickening out in fear of Babu. No doubt! l'll release the film. Hail Lord Shiva! Today two big releases are competing for box office collections. One is 'Pranam Theestha' a Babu and Y.Venkat combination, second is 'Nayaki' with KT and Kanishka as hero and heroine, directed by debutante Appalraju. ln few hours we'll know the fate of these two films. Let's first get the opinion of critics. Film in the combination of Babu and Venkat is super duper hit, l feel this film will break the records of all previous hits. Highlight of this film is Babu killing 900 people with a strand of hair. This film is a trend setter for commercial films. l'm giving it 4 stars! Y.Venkat's direction and Babu's acting will dominate next generation too. l'm giving it 4 and half stars! Hereafter we can divide Telugu films as before and after 'Pranam Theestha'. l'm giving this film 5 stars! lt's not enough, but l don't have more than it to give. Thanks for giving your opinion on 'Pranam Theestha', how about 'Nayaki'? lf anyone calls it as a film, it's an insult to films. Ever since camera was invented, l think no language in the world, had ever produced such a lousy film. Don't know why the director made such a bad film? Don't know why top stars like Kanishka and KT did such a bad film? l had headache till l was watching 'Nayaki'. l feel Zandu Balm people made this film to boost their sales. l feel the hero must commit suicide in a particular scene. But suddenly the hero sings a song with item girl. Absolutely no logic. l feel beggars singing in trains would give better music than this film. Some Srisailam has written the lyrics, l doubt if he too can understand it. No opening lines or verse. The title 'Nayaki' is an insult to women. KT must try villain roles. There's a chance of showing 'Nayaki' in film institutes to show how not to make a film. My opinion is that people will not come even if it's shown freely. This film is waste of time to audience, waste of money to the producers, waste of dates to the actors, the film's director is total waste. Appalraju must return to Amalapuram, no other way. My rating is one and half. l'm giving one star. l'm giving half of a quarter star. l'm not giving any star to this film. Half star! Stars for this film... l'll kill them. - Shut up! What's wrong in their reviews? Your songs are worst than what they had said. How dare you criticize brother's song! How dare you say my songs are bad! lf l go crazy... - l'll kill you, bloody! Do you want to write songs? You've ruined my film. Get up! You...are you a hero? l said no to item song and you insisted. Look at the result. No Appalraju... - Shut up! You make sex films, you were born to murder my 'Nayaki' film. Where's your sidekick? Hey you, come here. Posing as if he's a great creator, giving me all silly advices, and forcing me to compromise in every aspect of film making, the things which l wanted to avoid in my films, you'd made me incorporate all that, what was the story l had imagined? What's the film l had ended up making? l told you not to change my story. l said no to item song in a tragedy film. l said hero must commit suicide. l said no make up for heroine, l said modern costumes will not suit my heroine, her mother wanted new clothes. l asked how can a rowdy write songs? l said ring tone Rehman isn't a music director at all. Nobody listened to me. What did l think while watching film in Amalapuram Ramba theatre, to achieve what l had come here, all of you joined and what have you made me do? Changing as one wishes, adding whatever one liked, you ruined my 'Nayaki'. Your film is a super duper hit! Babu's film is a disaster. Collections are dropping with every show to his film, and collections are increasing with every show for our film. lt seems our film's tickets are not available for Rs.1000 in black too. Repeat audience, whistles and claps! We're in dull mood and no jokes please. Joke? Please switch on the TV, you'll know it. Nayaki is sensational! No film like Nayaki had come in many decades. KT's acting is rocking! Nayaki is great! Kanishka is shaking as actor. What a performance! Srisailam's songs are sensational! Appalraju's direction is not just super but terrific! lt was really sensational! AR Rehman must learn from this film's music director Rehman. Ring Road song is the song of the decade. Didn't l tell you item song will make it super duper hit? Didn't l tell you people love to see me in modern dresses? Didn't l tell about Ring road song? Didn't l tell it'll be a massive hit? Didn't l say films don't need logic? Didn't l tell you film will be a hit if hero doesn't commit suicide? Didn't l tell you audience love bar dances? Didn't l tell no to new screenplay? Didn't l tell Andalamma would help? Didn't l tell you to add if l like it? You did! l didn't say anything. Sensational hit film 'Nayaki' directed by Appalraju, if l say it'll dominate this year's Gurram awards, l know no one would be surprised. Other than an urge to make good films, Raki, who never thinks of anything else, Brother! This is for you! Remixing an infant's cries with mourner's cries, Rehman Sharma, who gave all time hit music, Srisailam who out did many seasoned writers with his debut songs, future of film song lyrics, best song writer award goes to Srisailam. The award is for Ring road song. Fans were bored with routine steps, choreographing songs with the shake of bar dance, and creating a new trend in dance, best choreography award goes to our Sarala. With his creative thoughts and brilliant thoughts, pumping life into the story, one who gave a new meaning to creativity, special jury award to Pushpanand. For the character played by actor KT, without missing consistency, for performing the role perfectly, this year's best acting award goes to KT! Not just a glamour doll but can give a wonderful performance too, Kanishka who proved her talent, will receive the best actress award. Finally, the most awaited, as the witness of audience who laughed all through the film, the man who gave all time best comedy film, sensational director, Appalraju! Welcome... Have you realised now what is story screenplay and direction...
