 

                        Your new home How do you like it? Not very well, sir Why not? We should be in Russia For what? The final assault on Moscow You could transfer But by the time you got there, Russia would've gone like France, Belgium,Holland...all the rest We're all done fighting Now we are the masters of the world Do you understand? Yes, sir Good! We have been assigned to guard this pass, so here is where you'll stay Tell the men to get out Dismount! Hurry! Hurry! Machine guns come across the ravine into the Keep with us What are you doing here? I'm the caretaker, sir And they? They're my sons There's a 108 such crosses made of nickel embedded in the walls of the keep. You counted them? Or is it something to do with cathecism I'm Alexandru, my sons and I work here No one tours this place I thought the keep was unoccupied We go home at night, we live in the village -Where is the owner? -I have no idea -Who is he? -I don't know -Who tells you what to do? -We do what needs doing My father spent his life doing it, his father before him, and so on.. My sons... will continue after me There you are, you may continue your maintenance after we settle in -You cannot stay here -And why not? No one stays here And who forbids it? No one forbids, some travellers have stayed, we don't stop them -But no one stays the night -Ghosts,Demons? No, No ghosts here -Death then, Suicides? -No one's ever died here Then what drives people out in the middle of a rainy night? -Dreams -ha ha...Nightmares? Look man, The real nightmares, man has made upon other men in this war The bad dreams of your Keep, are nursery rhymes in comparison Come on, I want a tour Who built the Keep? Some say the Turks, some say the warlords of ancient Volakia How do I know this is not a fortress a soldier could walk out from outside the wall Why are the same stones on the outside, and the large ones, here in the interior? It's constructed backwards This place was not designed to keep something...out What is this place? No one knows for sure -Herr Officer, stop them! -Stop what? -There opening the walls!! -Old man, spikes for lights we have generators the Randoff doesn't live by candlelight Now is he stringing lights? Soldier! What's your assignment!? -To string lights sir -Then what the hell are you doing? Answer! Silver crosses,sir there is talk among the men they hide silver here Treasure, sir Private Lutz, it's been a profitable day for you not only have you learned the crosses are made of Nickel but you've earned yourself a place on first watch all week Get out!! Never touch the crosses! Never! And why not? You must not stay here Good day Alexandru Nickel! Nickel...yes, Nickel but not this one -I'm on duty! -Forget it, c'mon look at this! Silver! -Look it, look at the block -This is the only silver cross this block moves Behind this one block there may be more silver -Are you ready to be rich? -Oh yes A passage, I knew it Lets take this cross, block it and come back later that's stupid, we're here why share it Tie these around my ankle Silver, there's more silver Ah, Ah, pull me back! pull me back Lutz, Lutz! Stand down! -I need to hire a boat -Where to? Constantes, the Romanian coast Too dangerous, very expensive Steiner, last night it was steiner that makes five dead, and I checked with the radio man there's been no answer to your request for relocation Stop this! Stop! Wait! Wait! In this village, partisans have been operating against the greater german Reich -Are you insane! I am Commander Koempffer, is what I am Captain Klaus Woermann, is what you are your request for relocation is denied Woermann I am now in command over this emplacement And you, will not interfere with our actions You,you,you, you and you Bring them to the Keep There are no partisans in this village! these people know nothing! If one more german soldier dies, all five hostages will be shot And five more will be shot every time a german is killed We will continue until partisan activity stops or we run out of villagers They are no partisans! You, see to it that my command quarters are in order Those people you murdered are Romanian citizens we are an allied state! Let's have an immediate understanding Woermann who gives a damn about a few communists Listen to me MG 34's cover the entrance, lights illuminate the perimeter, And whatever kills us, gets in anyway Nothing we do, no security works we have seen no partisans! -Something has been released! Something? What do you mean something, Woermann? are you trying to create a mystery? To excuse your incompetence in protecting your men My competence, was proven in combat against soldiers who shoot back not slaughtering civilians And I am a political soldier Woermann and I shall say it once only your security doesn't work because your methods are wrong The answer's fear, Woermann, From now on these partisans will be afraid to kill because they will fear the price these actions cost these villagers to pay Now listen, something else is killing us And if it doesn't care, about the lives of three villagers If it is like you then does your fear work? Take that brilliant thought back to Dachau when you go If...you go Because here in this Keep, Commander Kaempffer you may learn something new neither you nor the Keep can teach me anything We found the rest of Steiner, well, Commander Kaempffer let's see the latest present our friend has left us Come Bring a hostage Explain this Kaempffer, this is what's happening to us -What do these words mean? -Herr officer, I don't know Don't lie to me, those words are Romanian What do they say, I want to know They look like Romanian Herr Officer..but they're not -I don't know what they say! -He's telling the truth Make him stop, What do you suggest I do? Arrest him? Priest, your next Teach him the art of translation Herr Officer, this writing is like Romanian but different, it's meaningless not written in the Latin alphabet, nor the Cyerilic alphabet What can you tell us about the Keep we don't already know? Me? nothing Yes, you were about to say more -You can tell us nothing, -No -Who can? -No one Don't lie to me or I'll shoot this man dead There's a professor of medieval history at the university in the city of Ayashi He made a study of this Keep perhaps he can translate that for you -His name? -Dr. Theodore Cuza He grew up in this village Herr Officer Dr. Cuza is not in Ayashi Then where? Dr. Cuza's a Jew He's wherever you've taken the Jews Good. The SS will bring them today from the depot Do you play at night? I don't play music here we suffer enough, not happy here Why are you here, girl? I'm Eva Cuza this is my father Dr.Cuza We are Jews, the gypsies are not the only ones who are enemies of the state When we reach that new settlement place they say we are going to, then I play music for you guys There are farms, and wheat fields there they said... Where are you going in such a hurry? -Into the pass -Get down How far? To the Keep Move away from the machine Open the case Don't.. touch that I will tell you something if you want hope the people who go to these settlement camps, there are only two doors, One in, and one out the one out, is a chimney You'd better find a way to be of use to me in three days Three days Or back to the camps, go you and your daughter What does it mean? Can you understand it? Well? The former is in the imperative It says: "I Will Be Free" So we do have partisans In zoltz navonic, but within the Gaelitic alphabet Your partisans are writing to you in a language that's been dead for 500 years Wood, we need wood for a fire Does he get that cold? Look at my father, does he look 68? He's 48 Eva! He's dying from a variety of Schleroderma With the temperature in this room gangerine will be in his fingers in an hour Alright, that's enough! He won't last Major Kaempffer's 3 days You'll get the wood, and some furniture and lights get your food from our mess Let me tell you two something the Major will snuff you out, like that He has his reasons for a quick solution I have mine I don't want any more of my men to die find out what is killing us And I may be able to get you to Bucharest And keep you safe And then again, you may not Mihail, how did you manage this? I didn't think I could You rescued us, for me it doesn't matter,but for Eva What fairy tales did you tell him None They made up their own But I made them believe that you could solve their problems just to get you brought here And now, now we must get you out How Today I arrange a guide, tomorrow you ask to see the old slavonic manuscripts in the church the guide will take you from the church across the mountains to Nyipa, from there the black sea,..anywhere How far do you think I'll get, I can't fight I can't walk, nothing You just get Eva out of here Listen to me They've already killed three villagers here, including old Seminesku, I was in Breschauf they're rounding up trade unionists, journalists Jews, gypsies,..God knows what happens to them We found out what happens I'm not going without you You'll have to try I'll carry you on my back if I must So, How long? don't ask whoever thought of sticking the miracle of human intellegence inside one of these decaying bodies He should of been fired so where else would God of put the human soul? In a desk maybe a street car, won't have been so bad, it breaks, you get a new part Blasphemy, one of these days your gonna believe in the divine You believe in Gods, I believe in men How's Eva? Eva? Hmm Eva wastes her youth, chained to an old man in a wheelchair I should have a nurse, she should live her life She won't let anyone else take care of you I have much to do Hey say yeah the writing on the wall yeah did you put it there? no How'd it get there, Mihail There is something you can do for me, make me feel easier Keep it with you, just two days Hey look tres, it's your sister -Can I help you -get your hands off me Sit down Get a healthy helping, ma'ar -alright, that's enough Eva! Eva Get away from my child take me and leave her What have you done to her what are you? Why are you, here? They thought I could find what was killing their soldiers And I have! haven't I? you turned into an ally you collaborate! No! Don't accuse me of collaborating with Nazis I'd do anything to stop them If you don't believe me, then kill me Papa Papa What happenend? your hands Your face! I feel warm -I know, it brought you here -Who? Father, it was a dream it was a nightmare It carried you here, I saw it too What I saw wasn't real Look at my hands, look at my face! It touched my body Look at you don't know what it is and I don't care -He's like a hammer, and can now smash them -What are you talking about? We're dealing with a golum? A devil A devil! Now you listen to me the devil of the Keep, wears a black uniform and has a deathshead at his cap and calls himself a sturbein Furor There were two more deaths last night you are going to stay at the Inn you have two minutes to pack Why? because I can at least keep you safe from what is killing us And after the incidence in the mess, maybe from the men too Maybe from the men.. I'm not going to leave my father here alone -Yes, you should go -No You now have a minute, 45 seconds A minute, 45 seconds for what? For fraulein Cuza to pack her things and moving her stuff She is not going anywhere I forbid it, I will not permit you to send my daughter away You, you forbid? Let me tell you something, you forbid nothing Nothing! Get her out of here! Are you ready? Almost Listen to me, my child you are the meaning of my life Whatever I will do here whatever happens to me leave me behind, escape Go without me, do not wait for me -No -Yes, go! Meet a man live a full life and you live for me -Who is this? -My son He died in Spain, 5 years ago this month Fighting on the Republicans side Were you in Spain? If I were, I would of been in the Itteral brigade, with other anti-facist Germans Your son and I, we would've been fighting on the same side But, No I wasn't What? Cross? Why do you, a Jew need protection of the cross? I don't It was a gift of a friend, A humane man Listen to me Captain Woermann, I pass the gift on to you Take it You're a humane man too and you... you may need it How did you get out? did they let you go? where's theodore? Still inside Anything for theodore Cuza down here, through this door I have no money to pay you right now Your father did me many favors over the years forget about it Thank you, Mr. Oppe What are you doing here? Is this the only room overlooking the Keep? Yes Than I'll take it It's taken by Miss Cuza It's okay Where will you go? Back into the Keep, away from here, I don't know Why's your father in the Keep? He's being kept there by soldiers Are you going to wait for him? Or leave? I'm going to wait right here for him Then you better stay here with me Why are you here? You Where do you come from? -I'm a traveller -From where? Everywhere Go to sleep And dream There is... Death around you -At your hands -No And what you sense is my fate in a death camp A place where people gather to die A place where people are murdered My people are murdered? -yes, and others from all over -who does this? There leader in Berlin -and the soldiers in black -I'll destroy them! I will consume their lies When could you do this? When I am complete in two nights If I can leave this place -Why couldn't you? because an object of mine the origin of my power must be removed from the Keep and hidden in these mountains and kept safe from people here And from anyone who may come here It must be done by someone I can trust like you Only then can I leave the Keep, and destroy the soldiers in black and their leaders Will you...carry this object out of here..for me? Yes -Mihail, -I'm not leaving yet -did you get Eva out? -Eva..Eva is at the Inn There is something here, a power this power is our salvation Power is God! And the messiah, his immortal son who took flesh of the holy mother and ever virgin mary, And I... I have been right And you... you Theodore Cuza you have been wrong I was right in my simple faith I was right Evil comes from the acts between man and man it wears a swatzika and it believes in black dreams you know this What's happening to you? Stay here, stay here with your daughter and burn with the others Burn with the misfits, the gypsies, the heratics, -I won't lift a finger to help you -Mihail Ha, Monster! Burn in Hell! And the dead and the glory, and judge both the living and the dead, and deliver of the grace! Pray for them Mihail! I never thought I'd see you alive again -Now we can get out -Not yet -Mihail, told me you didn't leave -you alright Mihail's gone crazy -What's happened to this place -I can't help Mihail What's happened is... that what was repressed within the Keep is spreading into the village Who are you? What do you know about it? This is... I know that you have bound yourself to him that you've agreed carry the talisman out -It's the source of the power It is not his, it's what keeps him inside the walls and if you carry it out, he will be released into the world of men what's happening in the world is worse than anything he could do -He is the same -look at him -what, it's my body, I don't give a damn about me, I'm not doing this for me That's why he picked you only someone uncorrupted could even get near the Talisman -Don't listen to this -Stop this..you stop it -What are you doing -let's just get out of here Don't take it out -What do you want? -there's a stranger at the Inn he asks questions I believe he's connected to the people who pay for the keeps maintenance Arrest the man, bring him to the Keep This place, seems to agree with you you look... healthier This place has it's strong points You're part of this Aren't you? Tell me! tell me The talisman that holds him inside is mine I have been here for ages watching.. and guarding against what is happening now He is being released I don't understand I have come to destroy him Now... and it may be too late I will end it What ends? When he goes..I go What? Then why? why did you come to me? Become my lover out of a dream To touch as only mortal men can do You are coming to the Keep for interrogation..now Stay here No! What's all the shooting in the village huh? -A civilian being interrogated resisted arrest -another civilian the courageous commander again is victorious Woermann Woermann! I will not! you will..nothing You will... die -All of us will die -you're falling apart Woermann you despise our ruthlessness but you do not grab history by the throat and write the next 1000 year future without brutality and courage! -Fairy tales Kaempffer romantic fairy tales, you tell yourself, then dress up in black and silver, so you can look in the mirror and maybe believe them Eich! Hiel Furror! A year and a half ago, SS commander executed men, women and children children for gods sake Ruthlessness Courage How many times in this Keep have you made your bed? Don't you talk to me about courage were you with the German anti-facist fighting us in Spain? No! Did you stop commadore posnack, No you have a debilitated german disease, Woermann Sentimental talk It allows you to feel sensitive superior, and yet safe, because you take no action your sentimental suffering makes me sick for once, your right Kaempffer I'm only half a man all that we are is coming out here in this Keep -Ha Ha Ha -the man sees the truth and what truth do you see? what are you discovering about yourself, Kaempffer...Huh? I murder all these people therefore I must be powerful! and you smash them down because only that raises you up it's a psychotic fantasy to escape the weakness and disease you sense at the core of your soul you have scooped the most easy psyches out of the german gutter you have released the foulness that dwells in all mans minds you have infected millions with your twisted fantasies and from the millions of diseased mentalities that worship your twisted cross what monstrosity has been released on this Keep Who are you meeting Kaempffer? in the granite corridors of this Keep? Yourself Jesus, protect me protect me What are you? where do you come from? Where am I from? I am... from you Carry it from this place take it out of here There's no one left to stop you Eva! I have it! take it back it belongs to Glaehic Mahistis No, this is power! It's corrupted It's changing your soul take it back No! -No! -Get out of my way! Kill her! and take the talisman out of here Who are you, that I have to prove myself to you by killing my child Obey me! Or you will return to the diseased state I found you in And I'll slay both of you! If this is yours, as you said then you take it out of the Keep You can't.. then this isn't yours and the Keep is a prison to contain you And you have lied, exploited, deceived And you are the same evil outside this place so you prove yourself to me! You take it out of here You yourself Take it!! Take it!! You Take your father and get out of this place
