 

                        [MUSIC] [SIRENS] you gotta stop listening to the same voices playing over and over in your head. I can pretty much get the voices to stop now but it's the images that keep coming back. Certain ones like the day they raided us, the tear gas burning my eyes, the moment they cuffed me, watching one of my best friends die. Maybe it's a good thing that I can't get rid of 'em. So I can't forget where I came from. [MUSIC] Everyone has their number. My number is 18. This is my 18th foster home placement and that goes along with other numbers, 11 misdemeanors, 9 felonies, 4 convictions and 1 new haircut at the insistence of my case worker. [GRAVEL CRUNCHING] [DOOR CLOSES] They say that when you get released from prison you have the glow, a new attitude. Who knows? I'm just hoping 18 will be my lucky number. We thank you for the food that you have before us and we thank for the loving hands that have prepared it. Lord, we have a new member of the family at the table tonight and we thank you for bringing Brendan into our lives and for the new life that you have given to him. We ask that you give him strength and wisdom in his new endeavors at school and may he always rely upon you. This we ask in Jesus' name, amen. Amen. So, you must be excited about school. Tomorrow morning we have a meeting with the principal. It's nothing special. That the transition's going smoothly. Okay. Northside's a good school. I've been a teacher there going on 25 years. Vanessa was a nurse there for how long, sweetheart? Long enough. Well, speaking of smooth transitions, your curfew will be 9:00 on school nights. You've had a curfew before? I've had a lot of practice being on time in the last few years. Yes, yes, I suppose you have. But it will be different without someone looking over you. I'm sure it'll all work out fine. Of course, it'll be fine. I just want to be clear on our expectations. There'll be plenty of time for these things later. [MUSIC] I smell alcohol on your breath, weed on your clothes, we have to report it. Same with fighting or erratic attendance. Now, what's going on with the community service? The Faith Club's working on a few projects this fall. He'll pick up the hours there. It's important that you don't fall short in that area either, Brendan. Yes, sir. (KNOCK ON DOOR) Sorry I'm late. He's volunteered to show you around. So you just moved in with Mr. Stubbs, huh? Yeah. That's cool. Yeah, he's a pretty cool guy. He mentors our Bible study after school. Yeah, that's what he was telling me. Well, look, Northside is just like any other school. We got jocks, geeks, princesses and even a few cool kids such as myself. When you are working with absolute value inequalities, there's a lot you have to keep straight. You have to combine everything you know about inequalities with everything you know about absolute values. [MUSIC] [CHEERLEADERS CHANTING] [MUSIC] Did you tell him he could work on Lewis's car? - Hmm? - He's working on Lewis's car. Yeah, he said he took some shop classes and asked if he could. Well, sweetheart, I really don't think that was your decision to make. Since when do you care about cars? You know what I mean. Okay, I'm sorry. You're right. Guess I should have said something to you. I can tell him. Well, you can't tell him now that you let him start. I thought we agreed we were gonna try to help the kid turn his life around. [ENGINE TRIES TO TURN OVER] Well, I just didn't know that Lewis's car would be a part of that plan. [ENGINE STARTS] So in the garden, we see him pitting man against God and in Job, we see him trying to turn God against man and in Matthew, we see him scheming to turn Jesus from God. Now, Jesus has just begun his ministry. He's only been baptized a few days prior. He hasn't even performed a single miracle and yet the enemy is already trying to bring him down. [MUSIC] So, Brendan, how are you finding it so far? - Uh, it's... - He doesn't say much. He's got that quiet thing going for him. Yeah, he keeps to himself. So does that mean you're not gonna join our volleyball team then? Volleyball team? Yeah, the Seekers has an intramural team and we play after school at the park. You should come out, Friday night. It's more like jungle ball than volleyball. And then afterwards you can check out my band. See, we play mostly alternative rock with some Christian skate punk thrown in and... They change their name weekly. Well, we're just still trying to find our identity, you know? Okay. [MUSIC] He helped him get insurance, too? Yeah, set up a payment schedule. Where's he getting his money? Mike arranged that he would cut grass at the school in the fields. I told Mike this was a bad idea. I mean, he barely knows this kid. How do you make a person trustworthy? Trust them. Mike trusted those roofers a couple of years back. They did half the job for the full price and then they disappeared on him. (DOOR SHUTS) Hey, Russell. How you doin', man? What, you hit a number on the lotto? You're giving away cars? I could use a high definition TV. You only fall asleep in front of it. Not if it was HD. You know, if you're thinking of passing on there's this new rec center the department is sponsoring and they're looking for donations. I remember Lewis had that foosball table he used to play on night and day when he was a kid. We're not sure what we're doing with that yet. Yeah. [MUSIC] [ENGINE RUNNING] [MUSIC] [FOOTSTEPS] Brendan, right? I'm Detective Russell Dwyer. I work for the county. Ever since I heard that Stubbs took you in. You've been in the system long enough to know that your record isn't gonna fold up neatly and disappear on you. I mean, conditional discharge where they seal your records, that's for misdemeanors. Drunk and disorderly, whacking mailboxes with a baseball bat. But that's not you. Now, I know what you're thinking, another cop hassling me for no good reason, but I have a reason. I am a stat man, Brendan. You into fantasy football or baseball? Oh, you should try it. It's a good distraction. Now, I love it because it's all stats and the guys that are really great at it, well, they learn how to dig through all the useless data and find what's really important. I checked the recidivism statistics on that boys club you spent the last three years in. Do you know what recidivism means? It's a 50 cent word that means messing up again. Do you know the recidivism rate of those rats that came out of that hole you were in? 90% arrested within two years of release. Nine out of ten and that's why I'm here, Brendan. Nothing personal, just the stats. Now the Stubbs, they're good folks. Never took a shortcut in their lives. And they had a son. He was a cop. He was killed in the line of duty, routine traffic stop. Guy shot him dead on the side of the highway. They don't need any more heartache. Yes, sir. I will be seeing you, Brendan. [FOOTSTEPS] [MUSIC] I heard some kids talking about you at school today. I guess they found a story about a Brendan King arrested in a drug raid in the city about three years ago. If you're uncomfortable talking about it, I completely... No, it's cool. Anyway, I wouldn't worry if it gets out. Girls love a bad boy. They love the challenge to reform a rebellious boy. No, they've done studies on it, man. (CHUCKLES) Did a car just go off the road up there? Wait, Brendan, stop the car! [MUSIC] Whoa. Hey! Hey, you gotta be careful, man. [MUSIC] Hey. (BANGING) Call for help! [COUGHING] [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [COUGHING] Hey, you okay? Sorry, it's gonna be okay, I'm gonna get you outta here. One, two, three. Ow! [COUGHING] [RADIO CHATTER] [BACKGROUND CONVERSATIONS] - She gonna be okay? - She's gonna be all right. - Could you give us a minute? - Sure, no problem. [RADIO CHATTER] We found these on the floor of the car. Wanna tell me about it? A Northside High student risked his life to pull a girl from her burning car yesterday. The 17-year-old girl who is yet to... It's a good thing you were coming by. That was a darn heroic thing you did. Anyone would have done it. I don't think so. Could have easily have gone another way. Well, the car looked like it was about to explode, so I hung back, but my friend... You being there was no accident. God has a plan. Hope you believe that. [MUSIC] Hey, is this seat taken or does Katie Couric want it so she can interview you? No, she just left, so it's all yours. We're rock stars, dude. Did you catch me on the news? I plugged you big time. You saved the homecoming queen, how crazy is that? You talked to her since then? No. Dude, you gotta get on that. You're like a super hero. - Now you've lost it. - I haven't lost it. What are you doing in this class? I've never been in this classroom before. Yeah, well... there are a lot of pretty girls in this class. Mr. Sheedy. Sorry. Just don't let this fame go to your head, all right? [MUSIC] (WHISPERS) Brendan, Brendan King.
