 

                        minimasubs, friday excuse me you are in touch with the young audience but still we didn't win you tried and that's what counts just believe in yourself maestro you did great with your movie steady and efficient, you succeeded i could increase your budget next year come on be grateful so, could we buy a battery light? slow down, next movie we're only writing the scenario now what? the sequel of "hot tear" we need your director's skills again you promised next would be our scenario kirishima? kirishima see ya "put all your heart in each ball" you go ah, right 1 2 stop crying muster lisa he says you're super-cute -didn't say that did too -did not i told him you're taken, made him sad -yep sorry -no problem -don't be sad obviously, this team can't be what it was there's no time until next season just keep training and focused tomorrow's match is still on schedule koizumi, you'll play in the libero position attention bow thank you lisa friday we can't wear our sweat suit today in shorts it was showing from the thigh down sorry quick, back to your seats what happened to your hair? it's quite trendy among whom? my little sister and all -but she's just 11, silly not silly -that weird? they're wet? -i was in the bathroom gross let me see it's soft don't touch -try it kasumi was better before? -shorter maybe shorter? terashima sit down pass it around all right this is for wednesday week it will be important for the 2nd year test ask your parents, ponder on it, then decide we'll use it next month for career guidance question? -no sir stand up bow hiroki -say today -hiroki, hurry -sorry see you after kubo sorry i'm still filling this, catch up later -kirishima will be upset hurry then sorry today too she's waiting for kirishima -she does great, every day he's their bold captain -bald? -bold they've been selected already what is it? -you know kirishima kirishima's team has been selected, right? announced at the morning assembly you're in it too we'll support you, good luck my application applications are for gorillas too? -it's above his league are you going back? hiroki doesn't come -training today? you should join a club too -we're waiting for kirishima's to end they're in the same cram school boys hang out in the weirdest places he's still taking baseball -hiroki? i still see him with the bag -he has a lot going for him baseball, it's all muddy, gross -you'd be on the same schedule he might look good in a muddy face -with his handsome face even a muddy body -you're getting filthy he heard? who cares this morning at the assembly sorry you had to wait "sorry you had to wait" the title of their movie like "wipe my hot thingy" -is that porn? i forgot we gotta go you're steady with your club, like it? it counts for my scores so it's serious -sana's scores are great in any case -not mine, you mean? i didn't mean that -she's kidding maeda is still here -he just went -all right teacher, that movie, the title? "you wiped that hot tear from my face" you're interested? -thanks, sorry definitely impossible to memorize your tear -we gotta go -bye fujita texted me to meet him at the fast food -you're going i'll simply ignore him -but he'll wait forever tell him you have a boyfriend it's precisely what turns him on -he'll never be a challenge for hiroki don't tell hiroki about fujita be sure not to tell, ok? that girl is sitting behind hiroki sometimes their eyes meet in class i wonder if something happened you spend too much time checking on him -right sorry i lied before the club counting for my score, in fact i love badminton the girls are always so serious see ya first time i see it, did you make it? a lucky charm to win the next match may i touch ok same firmness as my sister's muscles that explains your canon ball smash i can feel the tension compare here not really right i'm sorry, let's go your sister was playing in 2nd year? she was in the top 4 regionally so great -if she was still alive i'll never be up to her of course mika, you're lisa kirishima is not coming not here -maybe in the restroom, lisa is waiting where's kirishima? you don't know? you don't know just now, hiroki on the basketball ground kirishima -lisa friday hiroki hurry that was the principal -it sucks if he heard us about the condom why are they wet -i went to the restroom gross let me see it's soft -don't touch -try kasumi terashima sit down all right this is for wednesday week it will be important for the 2nd year test ask your parents, ponder on it, then decide stand up bow hiroki, say hiroki, hurry wait -you can join us later kikuchi? -hello cold today -right -maybe not there's a match sunday at 10 in kitako you come? your hair is longer tough luck, it was just farts the captain? he was upset because you don't train? -he asked me to come for a match why especially that match? -it's a match for training he treats you like a guest athlete keep up the effort yumi said she can't come i get it -you're not going to the club? in a while foul -no way foul change really what? your baseball supporters whatever you don't frequent a club neither do you they're gone -it sucks to have to club still, no one can stop me i'd rather be home relax ryuta i'm not your regular "club-less" not clubing is a challenge to me change what's that damn time off for example to spend ones free time in clubs or having sex? i guess one can have both you're not answering for example she's practicing sax every day she's sawajima in our class all right sawajima does it look like she "does it" every day? enough with that say there's no girl who doesn't like it unfortunately she never has a chance she ends up like that "like that" so if we compare with lisa? or sana? how much time they spend in clubs very much -wrong if their energy is not spent in clubs, what do they do? hiroki don't think it's related this is human nature sure however strange that he would be defending clubs i think some have a true passion for clubs kirishima for example how about kirishima? in his club is the captain lisa is his girl is it true she was dating a college student when she was 13? don't know looks like her this gave me a stiffy a person who can, does what he wants and someone who can't, just can't you say that because you can it's a merciless angle but she stopped her volley club what are you talking about? you sure? i went to that place the volley director was there i heard him how about kirishima? now? don't know what is it? kirishima quit his club i don't know if he stopped already lisa is waiting for him there really? -so i tell her? don't know hiroki did you talk with kirishima? my bad, i thought you knew tell it to lisa anyway quick excuse me sorry to bother, could you go somewhere else? friday information meeting for clubs we'll have the election for music club next sunday this year too we rely on your effort please offer your support next we have the great achievement of the boys volley club the head kirishima from 2-c has been selected regionally great you knew it? you should have told me why didn't he tell us? we'll start the meeting for freshmen we wish our best to each club where's kirishima? finally the movie club what? at the high school movie contest which just took place in koshien our movie club has passed a first selection unfortunately they didn't pass the second selection this is a great achievement for one of our clubs please give them a warm applause but they didn't make it the title of their movie "you wiped that hot tear from my face" it sucks we finished the club announcements for this month ok, rock-paper-scissors for the next hama-chan watachi well? kubo akki kato my knees hurt today -i too have hands don't matter for soccer let's see akebono see the boys of the soccer club hiroki, go for it you're his mom? sucks teacher is calling you let's go sana nice cut you saw him, great are you with us? ok, to the front quick ok, in front i was almost alone for the second goal -anyway we won no need to rub our face -i'll go to the restroom what? now? -need to take a crap gym is so much effort for so little reward ok, if it was for a big league -just tell them i won't i leave them in their error katayama said he wants to see us after class i suddenly remember this morning's events surely gonna bugger me again about my scenario yesterday i met hikari michishima -no kidding, where? in a dream -what situation? -won't tell i want to add it to a scenario tell me now -i can't -just tell you read treasure mystery? -you bought it? -i'll read it soon -let me see sorry they're so soft don't touch them -it's ok it's ok we'll wait for them he looks good in a muddy face a muddy body too -wait he heard? -who cares -what was that title again? sorry i kept you waiting when i'm a director i won't use them we'll see who's laughing then not what i had in mind write about what's closest to you your experience as students, your feelings friendship, love space zombies are great however have you yourselves experienced zombie-ness? sure -no, zombies aren't among us sir, have you seen a romero movie what romero? -george a. romero "night of the living dead" sure, but you're not into that madness "biohazard", "i am a hero" romero was at the origin of -i get it i got it, you're well versed into it, still but "hot tear" has been praised as "youth reality" still we didn't win you won the first selection believe in yourself maestro, you did great this morning should have guessed i'm hungry movie club, non-members keep off hello anyone bought gantz vol. 32? give me this let's do it but the director just opposed it look? "students meeting of the dead" the director he's only interested in his own stuff a sequel to "hot tear" he told us to write something else love is not our stuff if we can't produce our stuff, soon we'll quit if koshien doesn't like it, we'll go to pia or nhk right? how about it? -sure but -well why not all right we don't have to start today -i found a great, vacant location you're persistent -it's a great zombie location there's someone you tell her -how about you? -not a director's task you said this is the best location a musician, no problem she's in our section, you'll be fine excuse me sorry, could you go somewhere else? what? -just move away a little how far away? we're the movie club, we'd like to shoot here we won't record the sound today, if you could just go there sorry, i play a little more then i go for us, now is the best light i need to play -but you weren't, right now you were not playing but i was about to, i'll start now the sound is much different you wouldn't know that building provides a futuristic setting futuristic? -in the future, a virus arrives from space students are infected and become zombies well i over-simplify is that a game? i'm a real musician, you know if you wanna play just go play? but we mean business you have a permit? you need a permit to use this place if you don't, then we have equal rights permit equality -it belongs to everyone it's for everyone are you listening? eric paroissien, minimasubs, paroissien.com she's stubborn -she believes her muse is superior to ours we're ready for the gathering sure, i'm coming -you like it here it's spacious but any place is fine who are those? let's go we won they didn't do it today? basket players -why should i know beware of expanding your breath your tonguing was delayed next fight i'm coming i'm off balance too heavy with the baseball bag -just go cramming school is this your bus? you've been waiting? kirishima didn't come he's not answering his phone you know why? he told you? you're close friends i don't know anything either he's crossing going too far saturday one catch sunday my treat thanks i was surprised how great it was looks like something i saw on tv? "the fly", "alien", "body snatchers" "body x from the wandering star" sorry i don't know that's a memory from middle school you remember me then? -course i do we had a couple of conversations you watch that genre of movies -occasionally you know tarantino, right? the movie we saw today he was to make a remake of it you saw it -the project didn't see the light of day i see what tarantino do you like? i can't remember the title, many people died in it you could say that about all his movies i see sorry, gotta go see you -what? at school i mean thanks for the drink monday good morning good morning he didn't even talk on the weekend you mean kirishima? -lisa was so upset but he can't avoid her at school today like hunting a criminal say ida? not yet why didn't you show up at the training? i had to work on the application it's just once if kirishima was there you wouldn't -it's not about him what's going on? about kirishima? enough -what did he do? what is it? -stay out of this speak out he's upset because he was expelled you'll replace him finally you can play, good luck i saw "scream 3" late in the night my favorite is scream 2 kikuchi we lost on sunday the trainer is so upset there's a match next week if you could kirishima? not yet "unfortunate events in that wretched world" (classical literature) the classical imperfective tense mika doesn't have hers mika you heard? it sucks for volley club he went after lisa too -right it's gorilla and that small dude you know koizumi? -right, the both of them lisa told him " finally you can play" she left them speechless these guys have feelings too you know sure you're trying to make a point? -nope how about kirishima? he didn't come -isn't that concerning? what can i do, he isn't answering mail or phone i see guys are boorish, they could say anything to you yet I'm not granted a little explanation -sure did you smile? didn't smile you find all this amusing sorry, it's not like that i'll buy something -i'm coming too kirishima is not answering when's the application due? wednesday -you finished -sure you? -my mom's taking care of it -lame still nothing seems he doesn't know his friends anymore kirishima? he's got all talents volley guys told him he sucked that was the trigger who told you? a girl in the volley club this year it was all good for him, he was excited his father was in debts -surely not he's just preparing exams -so soon -can't harm but his club activity could help his entry in a university us 3, we could enter university together? we'd live together -no way there you are does it have to be now? you said we'd use it we have a field trip after noon, i can't do this redder would be more realistic today they'll have to vomit it, so add syrup we'll render the entrails' gore with sausage and squid you say that now? you didn't tell me about the entrails gore you're too loud if you're not in the line? -sorry thank you we eat in the classroom? for the movie? -yes, a prep -looks like fun i'd like to see it when you're done -what? kasumi see you later you're not changing? i feel funny koizumi gave all he had i thought he was great his small size, and considering he was replacing kirishima it's not that i like him or anything still they lost however hard they tried -what's that? all this for what? i so envy sana and all they don't question life -you think so neither you do get such feeling sure i get it thanks sorry i'd better go back what's going on in this school? cut all right -it's not all right with the friggin baseball-ers someone, ask them for a break, tagami tell them how about you takeda? -can't won't work, let's move, director keep it coming you miss easy balls, have you been training? we rehearse together? such a great spot do we even like basket? we were playing while waiting for kirishima and now? but in any case we enjoy it, right? it's just me? you register in the club going back? pardon me i suspected it when they saw you play many boys had a crush on you getting cold, winter is here since she changed class, mika has become distant don't you think? you're ok here? what's hiroki doing? he's not returning my calls tuesday kirishima was late today he had an interview for the selection who told you this? -parents network good morning good morning you heard? kirishima may come today if you have to talk to him i can come along why? sorry wait that girl is impossible to figure out -indeed, even from a girl's angle you have basket today -i don't think so -then let's go some place all right kirishima's situation is so messed up lisa found a way to meet him could we meet there and walk back together? where? our old place, behind the science building great, that's a date maeda kasumi going to the club? if i don't exercise every day i become restless -right sorry, i have that application -catch up later be there in a flash kasumi sorry about all that it's fine about what anyway thank you no one there you idiot kirishima told you something? about us? the volley club? he wasn't happy? no i don't think he cared teacher told you to stop? he forbids blood tell him blood is flowing in us at all times prolly upset because we took it up against his advice while he takes advice from no one what should we do? obviously we do it you said it yourself "just do it" i'm passionate, the whole team's never been so thrilled i forbid you to withdraw now take-chan -gross they're all waiting let's go forgot the script, i'll get it whatever he startled me was that bad? -don't mind that guy how about telling the others about us? no way, the girls would give me hell we had that fight last Sunday? i went to a movie to clear my head, i met that guy what movie? forgot didn't like it what? it's supposed to be a meteorite if it's for the color let me see director? how about this one? what's with that dangle here? thought it would be nice doesn't look like a meteorite told ya all right paint it all black and we'll make do ok -thanks why is she here today? i'll negotiate forgive me we're the movie club -i know we're shooting there we have text too, we need sound recording if you could understand sorry, this is an important rehearsal so the rooftop is not good that rooftop you were so keen about the rooftop is good, right? why especially today? are you harassing us? what the? -the school ground is not only yours -i know so you don't mind going somewhere else? what is it? what's the matter? could you explain? we need to shoot i don't know about music we have no other spot that is today today is my last i'm sorry what do you mean? i need to focus i have no choice i'm the head of the club i can't afford to dilly-dally so today, one last, good rehearsal i'm sorry about that sorry please sorry let's go, we'll use the rooftop first so we use the rooftop? teshu, the rooftop sorry, i was bit constipated today what? what's this? let's go wait kiss me kiss me here, now let's go go, go move in front one more one more come back quick go, go stand up fusuke fusuke stand up, hold your libero position what's this? he told you he'd stay in the team until graduation kirishima has nothing to do with this he didn't quit you man up to the circumstances i'm doing my best this is my very best i just saw kirishima what? damn it the rooftop you don't have to go it's ryuta hello? where? why? get it kirishima is here sorry where? hey we resume from page 4 from the start hiroki, this way could be on the rooftop let's go quickly kirishima ready action cut he was here he was here? kirishima? kirishima kirishima? it's just these what's this? -what's that? that bastard kirishima wait you apologize you guys apologize look, the sun is setting we can't shoot anymore today it's not your rooftop and we had an emergency so why did you kick our meteorite? meteorite? it's our special meteorite you apologize -apologize look, the uprising of the zombies no reason to get upset -keep out of this kirishima is not here, and we have to deal with these you are the weirdoes here go for it enough -don't interfere -brutality would get you kicked out of the team why did the dwarf stop him go away idiots, go who do you think you are? give us a break sorry eat them all i'll make a documentary with it "diary of the dead" what is he saying? we'll show it to romero ready action it was great, right? what was it? "we in this world "? "we have no choice but to live in this world" "we have no choice " what? "we have to fight for our world" "because we have no choice but to live in this world" just remember sucks tuesday let's go kirishima is here sorry where? kikuchi where are you going? where are you going? i have something you? training of course the baseball field fence is busted here time is short because we have to go to another place it's your 3rd year, right? why don't you stop? you should have retired last summer until my draft is done until my draft is done no one comes to you scouting for players? they're not coming until my draft is done sorry, gotta go what next? you can come, even only to support i feel we'll win next time hiroki, this way ready action we fight for our world what? cut i tell you, he was here right? here training let's go hiroki it fell thank you never seen a camera like this one it's an 8mm my father used it's not video? it's a 8mm film a film is good too -of course i'm not strictly partial to it, still none at all you can't touch the film, shooting is tricky, the image is not good "not good"? that's your personal opinion it give you the "film" touch the video could never render it has a special power i'm not too good at selling it may i touch it? - sure indeed, not too good oh shut up you'll become a famous director? i don't know -will you marry an actress? you'll win an award? well i don't think i will i can't be a director why is that? so why do you shoot with that shabby camera? that is at times there are movies we like, this one we're shooting i feel a connection the truth is, it happens rarely that's why here you're back-lighting you're so handsome you're handsome enough with me enough i said it's ok kirishima kirishima said we should stop the clubs (and start to live our life) [title of this movie] minimasubs,
