 

                        (FILM PROJECTOR WHIRRING) KIEV (SPEAKING RUSSIAN) - Are we rolling? - Yes. (HORNS HONKING IN DISTANCE) Wait a minute. Mom! Close the window! (WINDOW CLOSES) I was basically a tall boy, but I was skinny. Let's stop. That's not right. I need to take a break. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) The first professional fight I saw was a heavyweight match. For the first time in my life, I heard what it sounds like when a gloved fist strikes a human head. The sound was so unpleasant. I thought, "This is brutal." I was extremely nervous before my first fight. I was terrified of getting into the ring. My legs felt weak. I sensed the crowd. I knew the danger and was very scared. It's different in the crowd- not at the centre of the action. It all looks very different from the inside. (MATCH PLAYING ON TV) (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) Our opponents don't know about our secret weapon. Even with only one person in the ring, they're fighting two people, and together we are twice as strong. Your brother gives you extra strength and he gives you extra strength. No one can stop you. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING) Fighting is in Vitali's blood. He was born a fighter, I became one. As a fighter, or a second, you have so much adrenalin that you develop a kind of tunnel vision and you ignore everything around you. You think only about your strategy. he throws wide punches, so you stay all the way back or you go all the way to his side. If you go in short and punch short punches, he won't be able to hit you because he has to have swinging room. But you can't go halfway inside, and that's when you're getting hit. So you just went out and just started going right, real short, with short punches, and the guy couldn't hit, no coordination that close. Boom! And that was over. I want you to keep all your punches up and in front of the groin, no low roll, no rabbit punches, no kidney punches. In the event that you knock your opponent to the ground and from all the yelling and excitement, and then you pop him again, that could be a two-point deduction. If you're in there tight, and there's no action, I'm gonna give the command "Break! Stop!" And at that time, I want you to protect yourself and take a clean step back. (INDISTINCT TALKING) (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) It's very dangerous. A single punch can break your nose or take out your eye. You can even be killed. If you're afraid of being injured or damaging your health, if you're not ready to give your all, then you'll never be a success. (INAUDIBLE) (NADESHDA KLITSCHKO SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I worry when my children are boxing. It frightens me. It's their life and they have my blessing, but during their fights I always go out for a walk. I take my mobile with me, and wait for the call. (CROWD CHEERING) (BELL TOLLING LOUDLY) (CROWD CHEERING LOUDLY) Twelve rounds of boxing for the Heavyweight Championship of the world. And now it's time for the champions. The WBC Heavyweight Champion of the World, Dr. Eisenfaust, Vitali Klitschko. Wladimir Klitschko! Let's get ready to rumble! CHRIS BYRD: It's a weird thing. Vitali keeps you off balance the whole time. That's why it makes him harder. Punching-wise, it goes to Wladimir. CHRIS BYRD - FORMER HEAVYWEIGH CHAMPION OF THE WORLD I mean, dude, he hits so hard! I mean, not taking nothing away from Vitali, but I think he hits harder. (CROWD CHEERING LOUDLY) (SHOUTING) LAMON BREWSTER: The whole battle of becoming successful is outside of the ring. Can you go to sleep without eating? Can you get up and go run? Can you not have sex with your lady? LAMON BREWSTER - FORMER HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION OF THE WORLD Can you just be on time to the gym and dedicate yourself every single day? So what, you got a sore muscle. So what, your nose may be broke. You gotta keep pushing and keep pushing. That is what a real champion is about. Boxing separates the men from the boys. So, you know, this is definitely a man's sport, and he's right, you can't play. LENNOX LEWIS - FORMER HEAVYWEIGH CHAMPION OF THE WORLD You know, boxing is the only sport that keeps you honest. So if you're in shape, it shows. If you're not in shape, it'll show. If you're scared, it'll show. You know, boxing is a sport that will bring out all the things that you're doing wrong. So if you been eating a lot of cake that whole week and then step into the boxing ring, it'll show. (SPEAKING RUSSIAN) Mom? Everything's okay. He's doing fine. A small cut under his eye, but nothing serious. How are you? (NADESHDA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) He rang me and asked how I was. I said I was fine and we chatted. Then he rang me again. NADESHDA KLITSCHKO I asked if he'd forgotten something. And he said, "To tell you I love you." That's what he's like. (INDISTINCT) (WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO, SR SPEAKING RUSSIAN) Vitali and I were at the airport one day. A man and his son were standing next to us. WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO, SR When the boy saw Vitali he asked, "Is that the real Vitali Klitschko? "Can I touch him?" It was very special for him. I could see the happiness in the boy's eyes. Many people immediately feel very fond of my sons. Wladimir and Vitali have a very unusual situation from the family viewpoint. Your two sons to be heavyweight champions of the world which is, like, unbelievable, it's like a one-in-20-million chance of that happening. EMANUEL STEWARD COACH OF WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO And never ever have attended, or intend or plan to attend one of the fights. That, to begin with, is very unusual. And then, on the other side, extremely, extremely close. You know, you think back and realise how they grew up. I never hear Wladimir or Vitali talk about other relatives. It seems like the relatives, the whole family for the most part, is the mother and the father and Vitali and Wladimir. So, that's four. (VITALI SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I was born in Central Asia in the summer of 1971, but I am Ukrainian. I come from a military family, stationed in different places all over the Soviet Union. KAZAKHSTAN - ZHANGIZTOBE NEAR THE CHINESE BORDER (NADESHDA SPEAKING) I was a working mother. Vitali was six years old and Vovchik was one year old. Wladimir's pet name is Vovchik. Vitali had to take care of Wladimir. I had flexible working hours so I'd go home to make them lunch and then I'd go back to work and leave them alone together. (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) It was a big responsibility. I had to take my little brother with me wherever I went and I still have to look after him today. Nowadays, when I give my little brother a few tips, and he says, "Stop fussing. I know that, Vitali!" I tell him, "When I was little, "our parents gave me the job of looking after you. "They haven't told me to stop yet." So I'm still doing it today. (NATALIYA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I know that lots of people can barely tell the brothers apart. Many people think they're twins, NATALIYA KLITSCHKO WIFE OF VITALI KLITSCHKO but really they're very different. When Vitali gets something into his head, he'll follow it through. Wladimir has his own goals, too, but he's a lot more cautious and diplomatic. (SPEAKS GERMAN) Crazy. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Due to my father's job we moved around a lot from one place to the next. So I attended a lot of different schools. (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING) At each new garrison school that Vitali went to, he would get teased and picked on. All I could do was to teach my eldest son how to stand up for himself. I drummed it into him that if he was going to fight, then he had to win. Losing was not an option. (NADESHDA SPEAKING) We never dreamed that one day our children would be professional boxers. One day, a mother came to see us at home. Her son had a broken nose. I asked how it had happened, but he just stood there in silence. So I told Vitali to apologise. When he said that he wouldn't, I asked him why, and he said, "He deserved it! "He threw my hat in a puddle after I'd warned him not to. "When he did it again, I punched him." UKRAINE - KIEV FORMER MILITARY AIRBASE - ZHULYANY (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) My father was transferred here to Kiev from Prague in the former Czechoslovakia. Just for a couple of weeks. Then we were supposed to get a flat in the city. That couple of weeks turned into exactly two years. For those two years, we lived in this room. Five of us: my grandmother, mother, father and brother. My uncle, too, sometimes. We had that room, and a kitchen that was here. There was a dividing wall, which isn't there any more. So this was the kitchen. No shower and no toilet. The toilet was outside. It was in this corridor that Vitali said, "Wladimir, put the gloves on! Let's do some boxing." I was just 10 or 11 years old. I was standing just here. I remember like it was yesterday. Vitali was standing opposite and he punched me. I didn't like that at all. It made me scared of boxing. (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I often took them shooting at the military base. I showed them how to handle a weapon, how to load a pistol, aim properly and work the trigger. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) Of course, Vitali was the one who was always getting into trouble. He messed around with lots of things. One time, on a military base, we found some grenades and live ammunition. We threw them into a fire. It made a lot of noise. It was fun. (VITALI SPEAKING) One time we found an anti-tank mine. It was a huge disc. I took it home with me and the only place I could find to hide it was under my father's bed. I went to bed and then I heard my father shouting. He came to me and grabbed me by the ear. He said, "What is that?" I said, "It's a mine." "Did you bring it in here?" I said, "Yes." Our parents were strict, so he ended up paying for that with a belt on his bottom. (SPEAKING RUSSIAN) Comrade Colonel! Reporting for duty in the clean-up operation at Chernobyl. (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING) The first report just said that something bad had happened. The alarm was raised. I was the leader of an air force unit that was immediately relocated to the scene of the incident. CHERNOBYL April 1986 Directly after the explosion, several workers were sent to the scene of the accident. Using just their bare hands, they had to clear the radioactive debris. (DETECTOR CRACKLING) Come on, we're going. You, too, get out of here! (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING) We dropped lead onto the reactor until it was completely covered. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) They flew day and night. Their flight path was exactly 100 metres from here, so we heard them day and night. But after a while you stopped hearing them, because you'd got so used to the sound. (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING RUSSIAN) From the very beginning, the government tried to cover up the truth and play down the situation. We were given the impression that it was all under control. (SPEAKING GERMAN) The vehicles and helicopters then came back here and first had to be washed down. All of the radioactive water flowed into huge pools and I played in those pools with my paper boats. (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING RUSSIAN) It was a huge tragedy. Children were evacuated as a first priority. We sent Wladimir to a holiday camp on the Sea ofAzov. Those who were able to leave Kiev took the opportunity to do so, but if you're a soldier you have to fulfil your duties. Many of my comrades received fatal doses of radiation. They're no longer alive. (SPEAKING GERMAN) Our father spent a lot of time at Chernobyl and Chernobyl got him, too, in the end. The doctors said, "It's the result of Chernobyl. "Cancer." (SPEAKING RUSSIAN) This is our gallery with all our photos. Chuck Norris came to visit us once. Western martial arts were banned for a long time in the Soviet Union. You could be prosecuted for practising them. We were even banned from watching western martial arts films but as everyone knows, ANDREJ SCHISTOW KICKBOXING COACH forbidden fruits taste the sweetest. (GRUNTING AND YELLING) (VITALI SPEAKING RUSSIAN) We were crazy about that sport. We went to karate lessons and our parents made us kimonos out of some white cloth. We were always screaming "Kiai!" and running around everywhere. We got wooden boards and tried to smash them. They had posters of western stars in their rooms, like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Chuck Norris. All of their idols were wonderfully athletic and my children wanted to be exactly like them. Their room was plastered with photos and posters. (ANDREJ SPEAKING) One day some boys turned up to one of my illegal training sessions. As I was showing them the basics, one boy wasn't following me. He was completely uncoordinated in his movements. If you told him to go left, he would go right. He always did the opposite of what he was told. That was the first time I met Vitali Klitschko. THE KICKBOXING BAN IN THE SOVIET UNION IS ABOLISHED IN 1989 (CROWD CHEERING) He became Ukrainian heavyweight champion and then champion of the Soviet Union. Then we were invited to a contest in America. The USA versus the Soviet team. FLORIDA WEST PALM BEACH (SPEAKING GERMAN) I was brainwashed when I was growing up. Every morning at school we had to write about all the bad things in America. America was our enemy. America meant capitalism, where people treated others like slaves. We'd been fed all that since kindergarten. It was like a trip to the moon. We had heard a lot about Coca-Cola and when I tasted it for the first time, I felt I could drink a whole bucket! I was completely knocked out. We could spend all day in shopping malls with our mouths hanging open, looking around us. Of course, we didn't have any money. We just wanted to take in all the smells and be able to touch things. How can there be That's madness. There's only one type of cheese. It's called cheese. But they had 100 different types. I couldn't understand it. Why did they need so many shoes? One pair is enough. Okay, maybe two pairs, one for sport. When I got back, I said to my father, who was a Communist, "Dad, they've been telling us complete nonsense every day! "It's such a lovely country. The people are so friendly!" I remember him saying, "No, they just showed you the good side. "They'll use that as propaganda. America is a dreadful place." (WLADIMIR SPEAKING) My parents like living here in Florida in winter because it's cold in the Ukraine. I understand what my father went through. Today he has a different view of the world. He comes to Florida for his holidays. He doesn't just like the weather but also the people and the country itself. Look at the father. Here's a military man who believes in discipline and especially he's a ranking official, and he had to have been a very disciplined man in order to move to that position, and so that's why Wladimir and Vitali are very proud. You never saw them like some of the younger guys with their hair falling down, and the kids with all the excessive earrings and things. In fact, you could easily see Wladimir and Vitali in the military, police force or either in a top corporate position, that's just the way they have been raised. KIEV CSKA - ARMY SPORTS CLUB (WLADIMIR ZOLOTAREW SPEAKING RUSSIAN) Vitali came from the world of kickboxing. He was athletic but only weighed 90 kilograms. I soon realised it would be difficult for Vitali in the world of real boxing. WLADIMIR ZOLOTAREW - BOXING COACH, ARMY SPORTS CLUB - KIEV He couldn't even do a lap without getting a stitch. Vitali, don't go so fast. Shut up! (ZOLOTAREW SPEAKING) Vitali laughs and says I used to torture him. In a way, that's perfectly true. But the result is pretty good. (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) Vadim, my trainer, made me a lot stronger. It was really tough. I wanted to stop because I couldn't go on. I didn't want to go to training, I was sick of all the strain. My body was saying, "No," and my brain was saying, "You don't need this." But I carried on anyway. It was really tough. (SPEAKING RUSSIAN) At some point Vitali asked if he could bring his little brother along. "Of course you can," I said. From then on, they always came together. How can you compare Vitali and Wladimir? Vitali is made of stone and Wladimir is made of clay. When I taught Vitali something new, it would take a while for him to perfect the move. Carving stone takes time. Wladimir was easier to mould, but he would weather more quickly. They are two distinct fighters and needed different approaches. (FALK NEBIGER SPEAKING GERMAN) I first met them in a disco in 1993. An American place in downtown Kiev. FALK NEBIGER FRIEND FROM KIEV The boys drove up in a Lada, a car that was all the rage. The name of the colour was Wet Asphalt. It was the coolest car on the market. They sat there in their tracksuits and then came into the disco. It was the place to be in the Ukraine at that time. We called them The Panthers because they moved through the disco just like panthers, with all the girls saying, "Hey, it's the Klitschkos!" They were less well known then but were very recognisable as brothers - and as big guys who moved like panthers. I don't think they danced but they played pool and they threw the right glances in the right directions. A lot of people had left Kiev at that time. After the collapse of the Soviet Union many educated people, businessmen and so on saw no future for themselves here. So they left Kiev and emigrated somewhere. It was a difficult time in the Ukraine. (VITALI SPEAKING) There were a lot of problems. The economy had failed, the Soviet system had collapsed with no replacement at the time. There were no laws, no rules, nothing at all. (WLADIMIR, SR SPEAKING RUSSIAN) Social problems were rife. Many professional athletes turned to crime. Gangs of thugs would mug people in the street. They were real gangsters. (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) Because I was a strong boy, I often used to hear things like: "Hey, you've got what it takes. "You don't need to go to school. We can use you!" Those are the kind of offers I used to get. But it's not all about easy money. You need to know exactly what you want out of life. (CLUCKING) GERMANY FLENSBURG BOXING CLUB The centre of the ring was here. The ring started at this green line and went to here. The ring was five metres square. A team of between in case someone drops out. Every match is about winning so you can't afford losers. NORBERT ZEWUHN - FORMER MANAGER FLENSBURG BOXING CLUB, GERMANY We went to the World Amateur Championship in Berlin to see who was available. BERLIN We really liked Vitali Klitschko from the Ukraine and asked him to fight for us in the German Boxing League starting in November. He agreed but before the season began, he fought in Bangkok at the Military Championships and received a ban. We found out three weeks before the season opened. We'd already paid all the expenses and Vitali had been to visit us in Flensburg. His name was in our programmes, but he wasn't able to come. We were in a very tight spot. We put a telephone call through to the Ukraine. They told us something that we could hardly believe. They said, "No need to panic. "We've got a guy who looks like him and he's just as good." We had no alternative so we went to the airport and someone came out who looked just like Vitali Klitschko, the one we'd actually signed up. How could there be two people who look so alike? We didn't know he had a brother. They didn't say they'd be sending his brother, just that they had someone who looked like him. (COMMENTATOR SPEAKING) A new dimension to league boxing in Flensburg! The undisputed star is from the Ukraine, the 19-year-old Wladimir Klitschko. The match was over within a minute. Wladimir Klitschko has lost only 10 of his 121 matches to date. An Olympic hope for the Ukraine! We kept an eye on the Olympic Games because we'd already signed him up for another season. He won the gold medal, which was fantastic. We were proud to have a heavyweight Olympic champion on the Flensburg team. We were already thinking about building a new hall because instead of 1 ,200 spectators we were now expecting more like 4,000. Then the news came that both the Klitschko brothers were turning professional. So that was the end of that. When Wladimir won the gold medal at the Olympics the man next to me said, "Congratulations! "Here, take my mobile. "Don King wants to talk to you." Congratulations on your brother's win. I will be happy to see you and your brother. You're welcome to my house. (SPEAKING GERMAN) I was very surprised to be suddenly talking to Don King. Don King! The man who promoted Muhammad Ali and Mike Tyson. Talking to me! I was in shock. I spoke to Wladimir about it later and we decided to fly over and visit Don King. you got to have a good lawyer, you do. LAMON BREWSTER - FORMER HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION OF THE WORLD I've seen it so many times. I had a friend who signed with a promoter. I won't say his name, but we all know him very well, he was a good fighter, and I said, "Well, why did you sign with him without a lawyer?" He said, "Because he put more money in front of me "than I have ever seen at one time." So he told me that when he set the money on the table, he said, "Look, I'm offering you this now, if you... "You have to sign right now, because I won't offer it to you later." So he said he signed, but he signed his life away. Welcome. Welcome. How are you? How are you? Great to see you guys. Wow! Welcome. - Okay, so that's Wladimir and Vitali. - Wladimir. Vitali. Hi, guys. I follow all your career. You are the best one. You sign this contract. The golden mounts come to you. (SPEAKING GERMAN) How would we get these mountains of gold? I didn't understand. He told us just to sign. And I thought to myself, "No." I said, "Wladimir, we don't have to sign anything." to make money here, all over the world. Today here, tomorrow the world. We're one big happy family. Piano. Special for you. I play some special song. (SPEAKING GERMAN) He sat down and started playing like a professional. (MUSIC PLAYING) We were impressed and thought, "What a multi-talented person! "He's not just a boxing promoter. He's an artist, too." DON KING PLAYS: "DON GIOVANNI - OVERTURE," W. A. MOZAR Yes, he really was an artist. I walked around the side and saw that it was all a fake. The piano was playing itself. I could see one of the pedals moving without him touching it. That's right! I am a Berliner. (VITALI SPEAKING) He was certainly an actor. We decided to turn him down. We didn't want the deal. He wasn't an honest person. There's no promoter who can do that! No other promoter can play like that! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Thank you! Thank you very much! HAMBURG (KLAUS-PETER KOHL SPEAKING) It's normal for a heavyweight Olympic champion to get offers from all over the place, KLAUS-PETER KOHL BOXING PROMOTER but we had already built up quite a close relationship. Power! Get to it! Come on, jab! Yes! (KLAUS-PETER SPEAKING) There are several ways of training up boxers, but Wladimir was very young and had no professional experience and neither did Vitali. You can spar and train all you want, but it's not the same as a fight. PROFESSIONAL BOXING DEBU NOVEMBER 16th, 1996 (WLADIMIR SPEAKING) At my first professional match, with my torso bare, I had small gloves and no protection at all. I really had to grit my teeth. I felt my whole body tingling. You can feel the heat of the lights that are shining on you. Your opponent is there, and something clicks, and then you're off. My hands felt very solid and I could sense the amazing power in my fists due to my hand wraps and all the new equipment that you have as a professional boxer. Suddenly it all happened very fast and he was on the floor. In my head I was saying, "Don't get up." I had this killer instinct in me. "Don't get up! I'll kill you. Don't get up!" He got up. Five, six, seven, eight... (COMMENTATOR SPEAKING) A short right hook. It's a direct hit! Take the mouth guard out. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING) I thought, "Okay, we're just boxing." But I didn't expect to knock him out. It gives you a certain kick, knowing what you're capable of. I tasted blood, so to speak. (COMMENTATOR SPEAKING) Winning by KO in the first round after one minute and 36 seconds, Wladimir Klitschko! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're going to have fun with the Klitschko brothers. (KLAUS-PETER SPEAKING) From the very beginning they were always asking, "What is the plan?" and "What are we doing next?" The plan was to make them both world champions. From the start, I knew they had what it took. They weren't taken seriously because they were so tall and so different from each other. (HARTMUT SCHERZER SPEAKING) When they became professionals and started knocking everybody out, often both on the same night at the same event, HARTMUT SCHERZER SPORTS JOURNALIS that's when you really noticed that they were like forces of nature. Vitali has an unconventional style. His brother thinks it's terrible. It's impossible to second guess Vitali. He fights like a cowboy. His fists hang at his hips, then he suddenly draws the gun. He has great reflexes. He doesn't avoid punches by keeping his guard up, but instead by just using his reflexes. Wladimir's style, on the other hand, is more classic. He has a fantastic left jab, with which he can control the whole match. That's really his best punch. Wladimir's boxing is very intelligent. For him a match is like a game of chess. That made me realise that they had the ability to become world champions, at least one of them, if not both. WBO WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP HERBIE HIDE vs. VITALI KLITSCHKO June 26th, 1999 (VITALI SPEAKING) I'm pleased to say I broke a record. It's still a Guinness World Record to this day. I knocked Hide out at the start of the second round and I became World Champion quicker than Mike Tyson. In terms of the rounds and time it took to win the World Champion title. Ladies and gentlemen, after one minute and 14 seconds of round two, the winner and the new WBO Heavyweight Champion of the World, Vitali Klitschko! (DAN RAFAEL SPEAKING) Then in 2000, I start to cover boxing full-time as my job. Now you have to follow the Klitschkos, to see what's gonna happen with their careers, because they had such a big name in Europe. Well, Vitali had won a belt against Herbie Hide, but there was very few people, at least in the United States, DAN RAFAEL BOXING JOURNALIS that really considered that to be a serious championship. The expectation, at least on this side of the pond was, You know, you need to fight... "Good for you, congratulations on winning your belt, "but you're gonna have to step up and fight some of our guys "before we're gonna give you the props that you deserve." WBO TITLE DEFENCE VITALI KLITSCHKO vs. CHRIS BYRD April 1st, 2000 (BELL DINGS) CHRIS: I got in the ring and when the bell rang, I was like, "wow." Most of the big guys, they are not that good. At that time very slow. And I love fighting the big guys, 'cause I can outspeed them and outmanoeuvre them. CHRIS BYRD - FORMER HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION OF THE WORLD I couldn't. I couldn't even reach him. (KLAUS-PETER SPEAKING GERMAN) I think Vitali had a phase where he believed that his body was saying "No." It was his biggest handicap and that's what happened when he fought Chris Byrd. In the third round I took a punch or I did some kind of movement after which I had intense pain in my shoulder. I could only half see my opponent. There was a mist in front of my eyes. The pain was getting worse and worse and I could feel that I was getting weaker. (BELL DINGS) Vitali was far ahead on the scorecards late in the fight, when it seemed suddenly that he retired or quit and we could not understand it. LARRY MERCHAN TELEVISION BOXING ANALYS (FRITZ SDUNEK SPEAKING GERMAN) The rims of his eyes were black from the pain. When I see that one of my fighters isn't able to defend himself or he has no chance, I end the fight. FRITZ SDUNEK COACH OF VITALI KLITSCHKO The boxer's pain is my pain, too. I know them well enough to judge how much longer I can let them stay in the ring. against a guy much, much smaller than him, who he was winning against. And he was ridiculed by fight fans and, frankly, by the media. Really not given much respect for quitting like that, particularly when you don't see blood, you don't see a guy's eye hanging off or a broken nose or some serious injury. You can't look at a guy and say, "Wow, he's got a shoulder injury!" (FRITZ SPEAKING GERMAN) Afterwards I went to see Vitali. He was alone at home with the newspapers. They had labelled him a wimp. He needed psychological support. We talked and I said, "Vitali, we must organise a press conference for today." The doctors had said that if he'd carried on his supraspinatus tendon would have been destroyed and his career would have been over. At that point I received a letter from Max Schmeling. That helped me a lot, mentally. Max wrote, "I've hit rock bottom countless times in my life, "but the important thing is that you never stay there. "You have to find the strength to get up and carry on." "THE BROTHER'S REVENGE" WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO vs. CHRIS BYRD October 14th, 2000 First of all: we're not wimps! And secondly: I'm World Champion at the moment. And thirdly: I love my brother! Thank you. (HARTMUT SPEAKING) The title was back in the family, this time thanks to Wladimir. One brother always made up for the other brother's defeats, and put everything to rights again within the family. Max Schmeling was definitely an inspiration to me, inside the ring and even more so outside of it. I'm really happy that we became friends. Max said to us, "Boys, if you want to be real world champions, "you'll have to go to the USA. "Go and box in the USA." LOS ANGELES LENNOX LEWIS vs. VITALI KLITSCHKO June 21st, 2003 (FRITZ SPEAKING) We were preparing for a different kind of boxer and we got a message, whilst training in Los Angeles, saying that Lennox's opponent couldn't fight and asking whether we could step in. We said that wouldn't be a problem. The fight was three weeks away. We found new sparring partners and got busy preparing. Vitali was raring to go. From Kiev, Ukraine, Vitali Klitschko! EMANUEL: You must remember that until the Lennox Lewis fight, Vitali Klitschko was the one that was ridiculed by the public and said to be the one with no heart, because he quit in the fight when he was fighting Chris Byrd with a shoulder injury. So all throughout America, everyone looked at him as the one that was a quitter. COMMENTATOR: Lennox Lewis has established himself as the best heavyweight of his time. He is now on a victory lap to his career. UNTIL HIS RETIREMENT IN 2004, LENNOX LEWIS WAS COACHED BY EMANUEL STEWARD But I do know that this fight as an event was upgraded from business class to first class when Klitschko became a part of it. (BELL DINGS) Klitschko pawing with his punches, but throwing punches, as Lewis has not gotten his jab going early. EMANUEL: Lennox was always the taller guy. But for the first time he was not out of range, Vitali was punching from all angles and fighting with a very, very, very passionate determination and I could see after the first round that we were in trouble. COMMENTATOR: He's beating Lewis to the punch. He rips in again with the right hand. Lewis momentarily wobbles. And now Lewis is still wobbling as Vitali goes after him. He landed a really stiff straight right hand that wobbled Lewis! (FALK SPEAKING GERMAN) The change of mood in the hall was just amazing. At first they were against Vitali. Suddenly everyone was screaming, "Yeah, Klitschko! Klitschko!" (BELL DINGS) I told Lennox, I said, "You're losing "the heavyweight championship of the world." I said, "The guy's beating you, "so start jabbing and pushing him real hard and be very physical. "When you get inside, throw uppercuts, "left hooks, you can't try to box him." LARRY: To Lewis' credit he stood his ground. And even though he was behind in the fight, he started some hard exchanges and, um, and damaged Vitali. COMMENTATOR: And now Vitali bleeding by the left eye as well. And Vitali's cut is over the eye. DR PEARLMAN HICKS: what happens is that the force of the blow hits the area on the skull where the eyeball sits. DR PEARLMAN HICKS PLASTIC SURGEON AND RINGSIDE DOCTOR The orbit has very sharp edges. And these edges can be damaged quite... They can be quite sharp. And there can be quite a severe damage once the skin is forcibly pushed against the edges. (BELL DINGS) There are usually three things that are allowed for the cutman to have in a fight to stop the bleeding. One is Avertin, which is a drug that's used to start coagulation. They can also use adrenaline. Adrenaline which is epinephrine. They put this on the wound to stop the bleeding. And then there's another substance called gel foam, which is sort of a spongy-like material you can put on the skin to stop the blood from bleeding. (FRITZ SPEAKING GERMAN) Use your left and then dodge. Step to the side! at cuts in boxing like, "Okay, you get cut. "All right, I want a clean fight." And some guys, I call them the cowards, will be like, "No, I'll stop," and look for a way to get out. No, if you're a fighter, you keep fighting. (CROWD CHEERING LOUDLY) PEARLMAN: One ofthe most common things is lacing. And what it is, is the glove has laces on it, and so the fighter will throw a punch. But he'll use the laces of the glove, the bottom of the glove, to rub across the wound to make it bleed. (BELL DINGS) CUTMAN: He's still bleeding out there! (FALK SPEAKING GERMAN) The wound Vitali had above his eye was so deep that the swab was disappearing inside it. Just watching the footage is painful. (CROWD CHEERING LOUDLY) what an uppercut by Lewis! COMMENTATOR 2: Klitschko holds on. COMMENTATOR 1: And guess what guys? He can take a punch, too! COMMENTATOR 2: And he's got heart! (BELL DINGS) PEARLMAN: On a scale from one to 10, this cut was probably about an eight. Ten is an arterial cut that has arterial blood squirting out and blood's all over the ring, all over the fighter's face. The main danger of a cut like this is that it continues to become larger during the fight. And it could have torn his tear duct or could have injured the muscles of his eye, which could have been a permanent injury. So the discussion was whether or not to stop the fight. (FRITZ SPEAKING GERMAN) I don't have good memories of that moment. The ring doctor had a look at it and said, "Stop the fight!" The fight has been stopped, because of the damage to Vitali Klitschko's eye. No! No! No! (FALK SPEAKING GERMAN) I think that everyone in the hall wanted the fight to go on. I then realised that the injury was serious and that they did it for his own good. All respect to the doctor for standing up to Vitali's brother and Vitali himself, who was ready to tear him apart. Despite the loss, an extremely memorable fight, a tremendous action battle. The kind of fight that fight fans want to see in a heavyweight fight. And even though it was not the outcome that Vitali wanted, he knows that he gained immeasurable respect from the American public. And my good friend Larry Merchant from HBO put it best after that fight, I always remember that, that "Lennox Lewis won the fight, Vitali won the event." (LOUD APPLAUSE AND CHEERING) EMANUEL: So he became a guy who was known as a gallant warrior after that fight. And that is still 'cause he isn't doing nothing that much dramatic, if you think of it, even in all of his great victories that he's had. But that fight is what really lifted his whole image more than any fight that he's had. PEARLMAN: This wound was sewn up in several layers, because it went down through the muscle into the soft tissue. And you usually need to do several layers. So there may have been 60 stitches on the outside and I don't remember how many stitches there were. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) Boxing is no joke. It's brutal and dangerous. What I want is for people to see both sides. They go to an event and underestimate the opponent. Each and every opponent is dangerous. That's been proven time and again, like when legendary boxer Max Schmeling beat Joe Louis, who was unbeaten at that point. That was a surprise. Like Mike Tyson in Japan losing against Buster Douglas or when I lost against Corrie Sanders. He was supposedly past it and no one thought he had it in him. There are lots of cases in heavyweight boxing where one punch can decide everything. WBO TITLE DEFENCE WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO vs. CORRIE SANDERS March 8th, 2003 I lay there on the canvas and I was so angry! I thought, "You squirt! You can't do that to me." My ego had been bulldozed! I wanted revenge. (BERND BOENTE SPEAKING) Wladimir's mistake was that he didn't use his jab and wait for the right moment. Instead, he thought, "I can't believe it. He got me!" BERND BOENTE MANAGER OF THE KLITSCHKO BROTHERS And he just went straight at him without blocking. Corrie Sanders was a real pro. He was just waiting for that and he can punch like a horse. It doesn't matter if a boxer is seen as the underdog. Any boxer with enough power in his punch can end the fight with a single blow, and that one second can turn the fight around. Boxing is such a rough sport. I've had four surgeries and I gotta have one more to try to replace my cornea and hopefully that'll give me my vision back. LAMON BREWSTER BLINDED AFTER A FIGH AGAINST ROBER HELENIUS IN 2010 If you don't have nothing else in life, if you don't have a family, if you don't have money, if you don't have any job, no opportunity, you can do boxing. I don't understand why the Klitschkos would choose boxing, when there are so many other things. They are smart guys. They could have been doctors, they could have been lawyers. I would have taken the easy road. Hey, I commend them. They didn't have to come down here with people like myself, but they did. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) A year later I got a chance at the world title again. I trained for it in Los Angeles, together with Vitali. We both wanted to become world champions at the same time. That had never happened before in the history of heavyweight boxing. In terms of technique, Brewster was a good match for me. Klitschko gets the jab and the left hook going in, rocks Brewster back. WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO vs. LAMON BREWSTER - April 10th, 2004 This becomes target practise at that range! Wladimir was throwing a tremendous number of punches for a heavyweight and, um, and he was vulnerable to be hit back when Brewster could survive. It was one of those sudden turnabouts that sometimes happens in prizefighting and Wladimir himself never fully reconciled exactly what happened. COMMENTATOR: with a huge left hook. And Wladimir is in trouble now. (SPEAKING GERMAN) Then I heard the bell and the referee came between us, and I felt my balance going. I had to keep moving to stay upright. I stumbled over the referee's foot and was down. Then I just felt I couldn't get up any more. And now Robert Byrd stops the fight. Robert Byrd takes a look at Wladimir Klitschko and decides he can't continue and stops the fight. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) This woman was looking into my eyes. I couldn't keep my head up or open my eyes properly. She just said, "His pupils are dilated. "I think he's had a brain haemorrhage." (SIREN WAILING) I remember being in the ambulance and hearing the siren. My brother was next to me and I couldn't speak, but I just about managed to say, "I'm sorry, brother. I messed up." when wladimir was in the hospital, Vitali was on the phone really crying and sobbing with his mother, it was just a very bad moment. (NADESHDA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I saw a new side to Vitali. He wanted to spare my feelings, so he decided not to tell me the whole truth. He carried the burden of it all on his own. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) An hour later, I woke up. I was able to speak again. I got up and left the hospital. The next morning Vitali and I were on the plane and Vitali said, "Take a look in the mirror. "I think that's the end of your boxing career. "Think about it long and hard, but I think it's over." I and wladimir were walking down a street in New York going to eat and this guy comes up, like a little street guy, and he goes, "How are you doing, Mr. Steward?" And so I say, "Yeah, how are you doing, man?" "Klitschko, man, yeah, that was a hell of a fight with Lennox, man. "I loved you, man, you're tough. "You my kind of guy, you're a street guy, man." And I said, "This is not Vitali, this is Wladimir." And he says, "Wladimir? I know who you are. "You're the one that got no heart, you got no stamina, "you're the one who was falling all over the place, you're..." And it was so embarrassing and I wanted to start a fight and push the guy and Wladimir said, "Leave him alone." You could see Wladimir was walking with almost tears and he was so hurt and that's when he said to me, he says, "Emanuel," he says, "I've always, since I was a baby, was a fighter, "was the star. I was always on top. "And now all of a sudden, I'm on the bottom." AUSTRIA - GOING TRAINING CAMP (BERND SPEAKING GERMAN) Vitali had no belief in his brother after that. That was a low point for him. He replaced his entire team. "We do everything my way from now on," he said. "I have to develop my strengths and my team. "I'm the sportsman. What's important is what I want. "It's me in the ring. My team has to back me." I think I'm the only one left from that team. (VITALI SPEAKING) Wladimir loves people saying nice things about him. He doesn't like criticism very much, but I love it, because it gives you the chance to develop yourself. So I arrived at the training camp, and watched the sparring session. Wladimir wasn't on good form. His punches kept missing their target. He was making beginners' mistakes. His trainer said, "Excellent, wonderful." Afterwards, I said, "Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop!" "What was excellent? It was dreadful. "I didn't like it at all." Afterwards I made a big fuss. The trainer shouldn't flatter him. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING) He was always making comments. He always butted in, going on and on and on. Then we started to argue with each other and for the first time in our lives we yelled at each other. (VITALI SPEAKING) We had a big row. "Until you turned up here at the training camp, "everything was fine, and now you don't like it." We had a huge fight and afterwards Wladimir said, "Vitali, do me a favour. "Don't be angry, "but I don't want you at the training camp. "I'll do it on my own." (VITALI SPEAKING) I said, "You're a grown-up. "I know you have a good team. "You don't need your brother here. I don't want to bother you." struck me about the Klitschkos is that prizefighting to them was more of a sport or a game than it was for most of the American fighters. There is a saying in America, "You play football, you play baseball, "you play basketball. You don't play boxing." Boxing is serious stuff. And, in fact, from the prizefighters in America's point of view, they didn't believe they had the mental and emotional makeup to become really serious fighters, much less champions. And he realised that he needed to change everything. And so I've always told him that I believe in these white shoes, special shoes that I have made this energy, much lighter, the brighter the colours, they generate more energy. You wear black, sluggish stuff, you fight more sluggish, I would say. We, instead of using the Vaseline, we use a cocoa butter cream in training, 'cause the cocoa butter actually melts into the skin and keeps the skin soft where the Vaseline just stays on the skin and comes off. Also I was showing him how a protective cup has too much extra weight on it, so he took his own cup that we train in, himself, and with a razor, cut off a lot of the leather, restitched stuff like this, like a little old woman, to fix it up just so that's right. So we began to become detailed about everything 'cause the little, small things make a big difference in a fight. Paint it, man! Sauce. Just relax, man. That's my business here. Did you even know what a grill was before me? Don't be a dick. DAVID WILLIAMS: we sort of have a plan, I mean, it's not something that's really written out. But we do everything from scratch. DAVID WILLIAMS CAMP MANAGER Not a lot of salt. Not a lot of extra fat. No cream sauces, things like that. A lot of protein, lot of fruits, lot of vegetables. Just common sense. Except dessert. Chocolate cake, cheesecake. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) Nobody touches the barbecue but me. I love barbecuing. David showed me how it's done. I used to have no idea how to do it. But after four years of practise, I'm pretty good. And oftentimes I get a call from Vitali and it's funny, really. "This is Vitali, can you talk to Wladimir? "Because I want to come to the camp. "I won't say nothing. "I'll only be there for maybe two days, just one day." And then I get to the gym, I say, "Wladimir, I talked to..." He says, "Vitali is not coming." Before I can say it, he says, "No, he cannot come." Oh, you didn't take the skin off? DAVID: No. It's burnt! EMANUEL: And then we end up being matched against the most feared heavyweight at that time in boxing, even more feared than the champions and that was the vicious Sam Peter who was knocking out everyone, the Nigerian nightmare. ATLANTIC CITY September 24th, 2005 (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) Peter was unbeaten and had knocked everyone out. He'd won maybe two bouts on points. He'd knocked out 25 or 30 of his opponents. Peter had stated his feelings clearly: is a dead man walking." (CROWD CHEERING LOUDLY) COMMENTATOR: There are many Ukrainian fans here. So there will be a positive reception from much of the crowd for Wladimir Klitschko. EMANUEL: And so therefore, Vitali, Bernd, everybody was naturally caring and worrying about Wladimir, was very nervous, did not really want him to fight. Wladimir himself said, "I want the fight. "If that's the best out there, and I aim to come back." (BERND SPEAKING GERMAN) Well, I already had grey hair, but watching that fight certainly didn't help. That was extreme. (SPEAKING RUSSIAN) One, two, and you'll have him! wladimir, he will always be his little brother. And so he knows and sees, "If I just get him with one punch in training "and I get him out of balance..." Vitali is a nervous wreck. He's an overly protective big brother. (SHOUTING IN RUSSIAN) Keep at him! Again! Again, Vova! (SPEAKING GERMAN) Peter was incredibly strong. I hit him again and again. I really let him have it. I couldn't knock him out. He moved fast and hit back, keeping me on my guard. Peter makes it clear he's ready for an all-out war now. Boxing is over. It's gonna have to be a fight! If he wants to recapture his boxing skills, fight him! (SHOUTING) (SPEAKING GERMAN) He was down and up again in no time. He was floored three times, twice by illegal punches to the back of his head. (VITALI SHOUTING IN RUSSIAN) Jab! Vova! Vova! Vovuchka! Out of the corner! This is the moment of truth for Klitschko! (BERND SPEAKING GERMAN) The third punch was a direct hit and it showed that Wladimir could still take it, contrary to what some experts thought. He took that punch, even though he was very shaky. (BELL DINGS) This is a wonderful fight. I don't know what's gonna happen. EMANUEL: That is the most dramatic 12th round that I have ever experienced in my 56 years in boxing. I saw him going out for the 12th round with Vitali looking at me, he says, "Emanuel, will he be able to make it?" Because we felt he was ahead on points. Everybody was praying that he could make it through this 12th round and I was, "Oh, my God!" COMMENTATOR: Three minutes to define future identity in the heavyweight division. (SHOUTING IN RUSSIAN) Jab! He lands a huge one. And Wladimir is hurt! (SHOUTING IN RUSSIAN) Move to the side! Let him have it! (SPEAKING GERMAN) I then landed a left hook and he couldn't take it. most damage he did to Sam Peter all night. (SPEAKING GERMAN) To this day, I'm still amazed he managed to stay on his feet. He swayed from side to side like a kastanka. A kastanka is a doll with a weight at its base. Push it and it sways back and forth. (SHOUTING) (CROWD CHEERING) Ladies and gentlemen, we do have a winner. All three judges scored the bout identically, the Steelhammer, Wladimir Klitschko! (HARTMUT SPEAKING GERMAN) I have great respect for Wladimir. The real champions are the guys who get knocked out and really hit rock bottom and then have the strength to fight back to the top. HARTMUT SCHERZER SPORTS JOURNALIS the fight and to become number one, mandatory in IBF and WBO. And that's my goal, now I'm in this position to fight for the championship. (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) I'm a fatalist. I believe in destiny. I wanted to fight, so I went to the training camp. I got a slipped disc. I needed another operation. After that, I got one injury after another. I didn't fight for at least a year and a half. My enemy, my opponent, was my body. (BERND SPEAKING) Then he had problems with his knee and with his back. He was preparing intensively for the Hasim Rahman fight which would have been pay-per-view in the US. (VITALI SPEAKING) It was the highest purse in my boxing career: (BERND SPEAKING) And the week before, in the last training session, he tore a knee ligament. (FRITZ SPEAKING) He insisted on going ahead with a bandage on his knee. He tried it out, but I said, "Vitali, it won't work. "Imagine you're boxing and you step backwards "and collapse without being hit. "You'll look like a fraud. They'll never accept you after that. "They'll think you did it for the cash. "We don't need to do that to ourselves." (VITALI SPEAKING) If you can't change something, there's no use getting worked up. So I said, "That's it." (NATALIYA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) Both I and his parents talked to Vitali and said: "Maybe it would be better if you went into something else. NATALIYA KLITSCHKO WIFE OF VITALI KLITSCHKO "Does it have to be politics? It's such a thankless task!" But he said, "I've made my decision. I'm sticking to it." (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) The Ukraine has huge potential. But sadly it's not really being developed. Corruption continues to hold the country back. It's embarrassing to read the statistics: the Ukraine is the world's most corrupt country. The MPs have immunity. They have no qualms about hunting people down. We've seen many brutal examples. (ANNA STAROSTENKO SPEAKING) The democratic powers aren't capable of changing things. They're not able to get together ANNA STAROSTENKO - POLITICAL ASSOCIATE OF VITALI KLITSCHKO to push through reforms in the Ukraine. I think that's why Vitali decided that he had to set up his own party, a completely different one, based on western principles. KIEV CITY COUNCIL Vitali Klitschko has Not many, considering there are 120 MPs altogether, but nevertheless, we're the third-largest group. Chernovetsky, the mayor of Kiev, and his parliamentary group make money from their political decisions. Quite often they're unlawful decisions. So we decided to occupy the rostrum. Along came Chernovetsky's delegates and they tried to throw Vitali out. (VITALI SPEAKING) I told them, "Anyone who tries to attack me again "will get the same response as before: "'Keep your distance'." (ANNA SPEAKING) Here, people often go into politics to make money, that's their main goal. In Vitali's case, it's completely the opposite. (FALK SPEAKING) He always gives 130 % and he's twice come second in the mayoral elections. You've got to admire his courage and energy, but it's a bit like Don Quixote tilting windmills. FALK NEBIGER FRIEND FROM KIEV That's a good image. (VITALI SPEAKING) It's really stressful, both psychologically and physically, but just thinking about why I'm doing it is a huge motivation to carry on. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING) After fighting Samuel Peter I was the No. 1 contender, but I wasn't allowed to fight the world champion. They wouldn't let me. I spent crazy sums of money on lawyers in the US. I sued the IBF and Don King. I had to fight for my rights. It finally worked, and the preparations went like a dream. One of the most important parts of our training is not so much the boxing, we spend so much time talking. I have never trained a fighter that had so much of a psychology, it's like we're two hit men and we have a victim. And we're taking all kinds of notes and putting down everything. We understand how he walks, how he thinks, what he eats, we understand everything about him. (WLADIMIR SPEAKING GERMAN) My boxing became logical. When I was younger, it was like: "I'm in the ring, I'll start boxing "and hope to get a good punch in." I now fight tactically, following a specific strategy. Since 2005 it hasn't been boxing but chess, pure and simple. IBF WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP CHRIS BYRD vs. WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO April 22nd, 2006 Heavyweight Championship of the World. I expect a clean fight. Emanuel Steward really changed him. Made him stand up. He uses height and reach now. Not aggressive, going for a knockout, he systematically breaks you down with his jab. He stands on the back foot, he's harder to reach. He's using everything to his advantage. And so I'm looking like, "Man!" So you get in the ring with him and you're like, "This ain't the same guy that's going for..." You know, being aggressive. I'm the one being aggressive. Which is so stupid. I was so amped up for the fight, I aborted my game plan. But at the same time, watching him, I'm like, "Man. Okay, this is harder. "This is just like the first fight. It's harder than I thought. "Actually, it's worse." And he's taking his time just breaking me down. EMANUEL: We will not let him get into his pattern and rhythm, we will make him fight the distance and the pace that we want him to fight. And then, when it's time for, as Wladimir says, to pull the trigger, we will pull the trigger and a missile will come out. COMMENTATOR: There's another knockdown for Byrd as Klitschko is completely dominating. And that's the end of the fight, as wayne Kelly's seen enough, as Byrd's face is a bloody mask. And tonight, he destroyed Chris Byrd to earn a heavyweight title belt. And so there were questions about him at that time. Did he have the inner strength to deal with adversity in the ring? And it took some time before he showed that he wanted it badly enough to come back. It also took some soul searching. (CROWD CHEERING LOUDLY) CHRIS: And he congratulated him, you know, crying, congratulated him and said, "Keep the belt!" I think he was surprised that I actually went up to him, because he's probably like, "I just beat his dad up, he's probably mad at me," but I came up, like, "Congrats," 'cause he deserved it. JUSTIN BYRD SON OF CHRIS BYRD Because I thought my dad was, like, the best in the world, so I didn't think that anybody could really beat him and he proved me wrong. CHRIS: And, "Dad, you lost both of your belts to wladimir." "Yeah, but he's a great champion. So I can't feel too ashamed." Yes, I was sad. I mean, who really wants to see their dad get beat up? (BOTH CHUCKLE) (BERND SPEAKING GERMAN) That was the breakthrough in the US. Since then he hasn't lost a fight. He pulled himself out of his 'swamp', like Baron Muenchhausen, you could say, and rose up like a phoenix from the ashes. He wanted to show his brother. From being the little brother, always having to obey Vitali, he became an equal partner in the Klitschko duo. Between Wladimir and Vitali Klitschko there's the natural, which will always be, some type of a rivalry, that's normal. In fact, I was looking at one of the polls in the Boxing News, the British magazine, and it was having, the fans, who they picked was the best of the Klitschkos and I think it was, like, 52 % for Wladimir, so it's that close. (SPEAKING GERMAN) He's still a long way off winning. (LAUGHING) A long way. I always secretly hoped that Vitali would make a comeback, but no one expected it, what with all the injuries he'd had, and the operations. He has such a strong will and such a high pain threshold. He came to me and said, "Fritz, I need your help. "Can you test me? I want to box again." (NATALIYA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) The family was shocked. Everyone tried to talk him out of it: "What? Really? Why?" But in retrospect I understand why. He had never wanted it to end like that. He wanted to end his career on a high point. (VITALI SPEAKING GERMAN) Fritz is more than a coach to me. He's a close friend. I can talk to him about everything. (YELLS) Fritz knows my body better than my wife does. (FRITZ SPEAKING) A lot depends on a boxer's lifestyle, whether they get hit a lot. And Vitali hardly ever gets hit, unlike other boxers, who have to stop because they'd ruin their health if they carried on. WBC WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP SAMUEL PETER vs. VITALI KLITSCHKO October 11th, 2008 COACH PETER: What do you say? Stop. (LOUD CHEERING) Whoo! (KLAUS-PETER SPEAKING) I wanted them to be world champions at the same time. Sadly, it didn't happen in my time with them, but I was so glad when they did finally achieve it. KLAUS-PETER KOHL BOXING PROMOTER It was our dream from the outset. I'm very happy it came true. (BERND SPEAKING) It was great. And the celebrations! No cigar has ever tasted as good as that victory cigar that we treated ourselves to. It was just incredible. We looked back in amazement at how far we'd come in two years. KIEV GERMAN EMBASSY, 2010 (APPLAUSE) I'll never forget when he rang me: "Bernd, you'll never believe it. "They're awarding me the German Federal Cross of Merit." And I said, "Brilliant!" He said he didn't feel he'd really earned it. But he's involved in charities and many other projects. He supports the movement for democracy, and it's all from the heart. (FATHER SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I'm enormously proud of my children. I'd like to thank the German President and everyone who put Vitali forward for the Federal Cross of Merit. But above all WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO, SR APRIL 24th, 1947 - JULY, 13th, 2011 I thank the German people for all their appreciation. The Klitschkos as brothers and as a team are obviously unique. We have never seen anything like them in heavyweight history. It has to do with the old Soviet system. It has to do with family. And it had to do with what their particular talent was. (HARTMUT SPEAKING GERMAN) The Klitschkos are the most intelligent heavyweights ever. The way they combine strength and sensibility, the killer instinct and intellect. It's very rare for boxers to have all these qualities. People complain all the time that they don't have top opponents, but you cannot manufacture a top opponent for them to fight. They can't fight Muhammad Ali, they can't fight Joe Frazier. They can only fight the guys in their era and they've done that. And they have fought everybody in their era, and they've beaten all of them, frankly, mostly decisively. DAN RAFAEL BOXING JOURNALIS I mean, I don't know what else that they can do. LENNOX: Boxing is Iike the king of the hill. Numero uno. Only one champion. The king of the hill. So all of a sudden now, two boxers, LENNOX LEWIS - FORMER HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION OF THE WORLD two brothers wanna become heavyweight champions, there's four belts. So if you split both of them, two guys get a belt each. Then you have two brothers control a title, which kind of devalues it to a certain degree, because everybody wants only one champion. So, you know, somebody said, I think it was me, I said the two brothers should fight each other. (NADESHDA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I said to my sons, "The same blood flows through your veins. "Never do that! Not even just for fun." (SPEAKING GERMAN) I'll make you an offer. A draw? Okay, but only because you're my brother. (NADESHDA SPEAKING RUSSIAN) I wouldn't be able to bear the boxing if I didn't have their help. They often say, "Mom, you are the centre "and we are the satellites around you. "We're only happy when we know that you're okay." So I can sleep peacefully at night and not worry about them, they've promised me that they will never box against each other. And they've kept their promise to this day.
