 

                        arigon 2 CD DVD subpack for "CoWRY", merged to this version and resyced. Fixed long lines. Xenzai[NEF]  I've grown old. It's so long since I last dreamed of the Duke of Zhou. My ideals of ethics, music, humanity and harmony can be fulfilled only in times to come. Is it Master Kong Qiu, the mayor of Zhongdu? Indeed! Kindly follow me. Master Kong, you may bow inside. Announcing Master Kong Qiu, the mayor of Zhongdu. His Majesty arrives. Kong Qiu, you're here. Your humble servant Kong Qiu greets Your Majesty. Kong Qiu, you've been mayor of Zhongdu for about a year now. Many things have changed. Streets are safe, homes are secure. Your Majesty, as your humble servant has said of observing the rituals of Zhou, a year shows progress, I'd like to see your policies applied throughout the Kingdom of Lu! I have no position, it is not for me to say. This could be easily rectified. I'll appoint you to the right position. Lord Ji Yiru has just died. His oldest son Ji Sunsi has become Prime Minister and Chief General of the Army. But the post of Minister of Law is vacant. The 3 Noble Families all have their own nominees. But I'm inclined to appoint you. I cannot presume to be worthy. I will support you! You and your disciples could civilize the Kingdom of Lu. You could challenge those you've called unworthy in the past. Do you dare? Run! Hurry up! Run! Hurry up! My Lord, a burial slave has just escaped! What? Who is it? The late lord's favorite young servant, Qi Sigong! That little boy. My father ordered that this boy would be buried with him! Get him back! Yes. This way... Stop! There he is. Stop... Stop... This boy! Stop! Over there! Poisoned-arrow... Master, help me... Teacher, in your opinion, could the Kingdom of Lu grow stronger by emulating the Dukedom of Qi? Your Majesty, the people of Qi obey the law because they fear punishment. If we respect the law because we're civil, honest and have integrity and dignity, isn't that much better? When honorable and credible men are given office, theft and corruption will disappear. Men who care for their parents and children also care for others. Men should perform their duties while women would be given a home and family. Then orphans and widows, the old, the sick and the weak would be taken care of. Then the people will live well and work cheerfully. Universal peace and harmony will reign! Mother... Don't close it! Let me out! Lift the stone! Don't close it... Prepare the meal. Men should love their parents and children indiscriminately... Then the old would be taken care of, and the strong would apply their skills. Your father has returned. How do you know? I heard his voice. He'll be surprised I've brought you to see him. Hurry, take this to him. Father. You're back. You've been gone for half the day! Mother and I've been waiting. You haven't eaten yet? You must be hungry. Don't be afraid. Who are you? I... I'm Qi Sigong. Child. Master. Yan Hui, bring a doctor, quickly. I will. Hurry, call for a doctor. What's this all about? Master, as I came here, Ji Family troops were chasing this boy. So I rescued him. He was a burial-slave. The Ji Family soldiers want him back. Master, let's avoid trouble. I can leave him with my brother-in-law in the Kingdom of Wei. This might be better for everyone. No, Zilu, he can stay here. Helping others is a measure of bravery. Then Lord Ji Sunsi will be furious. Zilu, you did the right thing. Stop! What do you think you're doing? Who are you? General Gongshan Niu of the city of Biyi. Search the house! General Gongshan! Master... Kong Qiu. What do you want? It is reported that the Minister's escaped slave is hiding here. If you don't turn him over to us now, it may damage your relations with the Minister! Minister Kong, a word in private. Minister Kong, I too despise the arrogance of the 3 Noble Families. Today I can report that I found nothing. You and I should be friends and partners. Drive out the Noble Families and rule the kingdom ourselves. Tell me. What do you think? Our roads are different. General, it's getting late, you should be on your way. Go! My lords and ministers, everyone has come to observe the Winter Sacrifice. But before we can begin, a strange occurrence demands explanation. Yesterday, the officer responsible for the sacrifice of birds reported that one of the 10 pheasants prepared for the ceremony had pecked off its own tail! So today I must seek your exalted opinion. Ought we to cancel the ceremony? Or delay? I wish to speak. Speak, Shu Sunwu. In my opinion, since the Winter Sacrifice marks the most important sacrifice at year-end, it must not be delayed nor canceled! We address the gods through this ceremony the omen reflects a message from Heaven. Therefore, the pheasant should be spared from sacrifice. Otherwise we would disrespect heaven. We must obey the will of heaven and allow this bird to live. Good... Kong Qiu, what is your view? Your Majesty, your humble servant fully agrees with Lord Shu's opinion. Then you ministers? Your humble servants also agree with the Ministers' opinions. Since all are in agreement, so be it! Let the pheasant be released into the mountain forests. Good... Your Majesty, your humble servant wishes to speak. Speak. I request an end to the evil ritual of burying living servants with their deceased masters. Kong Qiu. Why do you make such a request? Because today your humble servant is pleading for this slave's life! Which slave? Him! Uncle. Isn't that the slave who ran away from your home? Kong Qiu! He was my family's slave. You brazenly took him into your house! How dare you? Master. Minister, please pardon him. This boy should not accompany Lord Ji Yiru to the grave. Don't you always approve of observing our ancient traditions? This is just one of them! Minister. Benevolence is love towards our fellow men. A ritual murder is still murder, even if it complies with tradition! Lord Shu, you showed benevolence towards a pheasant. Now I ask you, surely you must also speak up for this wounded boy. We come today only to discuss the Winter Sacrifice. This matter is unrelated! No, there is a close relationship! The Zhou code of ethics teaches us to value human life above all. The burial of slaves was practiced in barbarous times. It was outlawed in our dynasty when the Zhou reign commenced. Our Kingdom of Lu is the ancient home of the Duke of Zhou and known for its ethics. We should think afresh and abandon outdated traditions. Right... Your Majesty, my lords. On my own life, I ask that you spare this young slave. Spare him... Kong Qiu! It was Lord Ji Yiru's dying wish that those he loved should die with him. It is not cruel to bury this slave. Rather, it demonstrates the Minister's filial piety! His love for his father! General Gongshan! I know you served Lord Ji Yiru for years. I hear he said many times that he could not live without you. Right, that's correct. Given how close you were to him, he must still need you now that he has passed on to the next life. If you were willing to accompany your lord in death, I could not object to you taking this young slave with you. You. What say you? You... you're mad! It seems the General is not willing to serve his master beyond the grave. He imposes on others what he will not impose on himself. Your Majesty, your humble servant has no more to say. The scholar's words seem to be profound! I suppose. Approved! Release him. Good... Great! You need never go back to the house of Ji. Second bow. Boy! Don't cry, stand up. Qi Sigong, what's wrong? Are you alright? I'm not crying. May I really stay here? Alright now... This is a special day. Zilu, let's drink to it. Good! Ziqian, Boniu, help me fetch the wine. Boy, come here Come here. This is now your home. They are all your brothers. They will take care of you. I know, Master, I know. So we're family now! Master, I could hardly believe it when Ji accepted your proposal. Here comes the wine. Come, what about you? I have this. Drink all you like. Very well, drink up! Drink up! It tastes horrid! Your Highness. Making Kong Qiu a minister with many responsibilities will surely strengthen the Kingdom of Lu. And their strength threatens us in the Dukedom of Qi. Lu's strength is a threat to Qi. For almost one hundred years, all rulers of Qi have dreamed of conquering Lu. Clearing our way to the western border. Kong Qiu has already asserted his authority in the Lu court. Your Highness, perhaps we should call a meeting to congratulate Lu. We could invite the ruler of Lu and Kong Qiu to Jiagu on our border. Kong Qiu is a man of letters, unfamiliar with military affairs. He knows ethics, not bravery! During the ceremony, we'll take Lu's ruler hostage. And make him and the 3 Noble Families submit to Qi's will! An excellent proposal! Minister Li, prepare a formal invitation to the ruler of Lu. Invite him to Jiagu to discuss forming a new alliance between our states. Dispatch it immediately! Yes, Your Majesty. This meeting at Jiagu is my first challenge as a minister. It is a matter of honor or humiliation, gain or loss. And it will have significant consequences! Yan Hui. His Majesty agrees that you should take charge of the ceremony. Ensure that both parties have equal ground and equal respect. I will. Zilu. Master. You and Zigong will be the only men to carry swords on the meeting platform. Guard His Majesty carefully, regardless of what happens. Understood! Ran Qiu. Master. Go in advance to Jiagu to inspect the area around the meeting platform. Look for any hiding places. What do you want me to do, Master? Master, the military commanders are here. Our respects, Minister of Law... Please. Qi specified the place for the alliance talks. It's known as a ravine. A dead end. I'd like you to bring chariots nearby in case we need them. Minister, we're headquartered in barracks. We have only carriages at our command, no war chariots. Minister Ji and General Gongshan Niu control them all. Minister, I hear that the Prime Minister and Gongshan Niu are holding an archery tournament in Biyi. Very well. Then I'll have to pay them a visit. Master, we're approaching Biyi. Master, they say that Biyi has more mounted soldiers and slaves than any other city in Lu. Be advised! Those who shirk labor, within 3 days, will be dragged out and put on public display. Compete at what? Archery. Please. The alliance talk between Lu and Qi is a serious matter. Can Your Lordship provide army chariots to protect our ruler and show our might? How many? 500. Isn't it supposed to be an alliance meeting? Why do you need such a show of force? As Zhou Gong taught us, any civil servant should be back up words with weapons. Qi is a barbarous country which has long wanted to conquer Lu. So we must be prepared! Good. Then let us have a match. My teacher respectfully requests a match and drinks to you. If you win, I'll grant you The archery match will begin. Please take your places. You have my word. If you win, they're yours. If you lose, you'll get nothing! Agreed. A pure heart makes a pure shot. Right, full score! A new minister with high ambitions! Full score! Good... Who would have thought that the Biyi city walls would be more than 18 feet high? Built to conceal their injustices and their onerous taxation! The tyranny within these walls puts tigers to shame! Prime Minister, has all this escaped your notice? Good! Right, full score! Master Ji, may I ask how Lu stands today? It might just be that the Ji Family's real enemy is from within. Not across the border. Good! Right, full score! I hear you had no father. Who taught you such fine archery? My father was a warrior, but he left this world before his time. A diligent student needs no teacher. I taught myself! Right, full score! Excellent! Right wins. The minister has been most courteous. So you have your 500 chariots for the alliance talks. Address your request to Gongshan Niu. We have a kingdom because we have an army! And who raised and trained that army? Not your King of Lu! It was my Biyi! Right, it was our Biyi! Why should I blindly turn over my chariots to you? So that you can march my army into the desert and starve them? We will see. Let's go... See, what I say doesn't always count. I gave the order, but... Its implementation is your own concern. Master. Halt! Your Majesty! Master! Greetings, Your Majesty, Master! Has Gongshan's army moved or not? I don't know what's happening. Not one soldier or horse has moved yet. But that... that cannot be correct? Ji Sunsi ordered them to deploy days ago. Put our second plan into effect, immediately! Yes, Master. Go! Master, Qi has brought so much cavalry. Is there anything to concern us about this? Your Majesty, rest assured as we're prepared. Since Qi is host and Lu is guest, we request that the Nobles of Qi descend to welcome. Your Highness, no undue courtesies. We invite the King of Lu to ascend. Your Majesty. Lu is the Guest and Qi is the Host. The Zhou Protocols mandate that the nobles of Qi should descend. Qi initiated the alliance talks. How could Qi dishonor its guests? Your Highness, Qi and Lu share a close relationship. Our ruler has come to rebuild our brotherly alliance. Please... Please. It is our desire to respect each other and forever abandon war! Although our states have different surnames, in reality we are like brothers. With this alliance, we will be like a single state! What Lord Li says is interesting. All the territory and peoples belonged to the emperor. All the ministers and officials were just his servants. Therefore, Your Excellencies both have responsibility for protecting the Emperor Zhou's ancestral territory. Excellencies, your humble servant advises that when this alliance is formed, each state must commit to aiding the other. Should Qi one day find itself at war, Lu would be asked to provide 500 chariots to supplement our army. Excellent idea! Excellencies, your humble servant would also like to make a request. An alliance between us should be found on sincerity. And we request the return of the 3 cities of Wenshang won from Lu 30 years ago in war. I can see your point. Your Majesty... A gentleman's word is golden, Your Excellency. Good... I thank you for returning our land to us, let's drink to it. Kong Qiu, it seems that you and your Master have no plan to leave here today. Look. Yan Hui. Your excellencies, we've come here in peace today. We brought only But to safeguard the negotiations from any unforeseen threats, another 500 chariots are waiting nearby. Need we summon them here? Look! Your Majesty! The advance party is here! me to Jiagu. We await your orders. Minister Li, do you want to see this ravine run with blood? If this is how you demonstrate the workings of an alliance, who will ever again trust the Dukedom of Qi? Why are you still standing here? Dismiss the troops! Your Majesty... Please forgive my minister's shameful act. May the alliance between us last forever. We make use of one hundred ox carts to scare off Qi's 500 chariots. Another triumph for our Master! As he always says, military strategy hinges on innovation. Come on, there are drinks waiting! Our Lady... Has she gone missing again? Our Lady! Where are you...? Sir, the prince has stormed into the palace and is arguing with His Majesty again. Our Lady can't be found anywhere. She hasn't passed me. Then what can we do? This is awful! Let's go back. Go. Father, I'm almost 40! I have been prince for almost 20 years. You are getting old, and our kingdom is stagnating. But you just won't let go, will you? Kong Qiu in Lu has a saying. Women and servants are hard to raise. But you let a woman meddle in affairs of state! You let her make decisions! Madam, you're back. Your Majesty. What is so important that the prince demand a talk? There's a message from General Gongshan Niu. I wasn't asking you! This Gongshan Niu, he's an army general with the Ji family in Lu. He wants to know if we'll give him refuge in our kingdom. So Wei is to become a haven for cast-offs now? That's exactly why I didn't approve. Gongshan Niu is ready to serve us. Why can't we give him refuge? Giving him refuge would bring no benefit. He has served the Ji family for many years and the late Ji Yiru was good to him. Not only was he put in charge of Biyi, he was also exempted from taxes for years! And now he turns his back on them. What use do we have for a turncoat like that? I can control him. Learn to control yourself first! The kingdoms of Lu and Wei depend on each other for their survival. If we took in Gongshan Niu, wouldn't we offend Lu? Have you forgotten? The mighty Kingdom of Jin is to our west and the rough Kingdom of Chu is to the south. We have enemies on all sides! If we lose our main ally, what then? Get out! Next time, don't. If there's a next time, you'll no longer be the prince. The prince can't even weigh up gains and losses. How can I make him the regent? Invite Kong Qiu here to teach your prince. Then Wei will be safe. Your Majesty, write a formal invitation to Master Kong. Do you think Master Kong would come? Master Kong's talents are undervalued. In Lu, the 3 Noble Families keep his talent in check. Our invitation will be seen as an appreciation of his talent. If he comes, that'll be best. If he doesn't, Lu will put him to better use. Lu will prosper, and will bring Qi to heel. That will suit us too. What is this? Letters of invitation from both Wei and Qi. We should start using Master Kong better or others will take him. So how should we make use of his talents? One moment. This Kong Qiu has no proper line of ancestry. Your Majesty gave him a role in court less than a year ago. First he was mayor of Zhongdu. Then he was appointed Minister of Law. And now we're supposed to promote him even higher? Does Your Majesty plan to make him a living god? At the alliance meeting between Lu and Qi, Kong Qiu regained territory and enhanced our national prestige. The whole country praises him for that. Kong Qiu was born a commoner. But your father admitted he is descended from a noble Song family. He won back the Three Cities without using a single soldier or chariot. He may be a mere commoner but his ideal of civility in government works! When my father died, Kong Qiu was made Minister of Law. Now I could vacate the post of Interior Minister for him. If Your Majesty approves, I could serve only as Prime Minister. Very well! I am glad that our Prime Minister has such a breadth of mind. Good! This is wonderful. When a country is in turmoil, it has need of its talents. Besides Kong Qiu, most of his disciples are available to serve our country. Master Kong, this is an outdated tradition. The servant I dispatched to the palace has reported secretly. Minister of the Interior Kong Qiu is not focusing on his government work. He's been preoccupied with building the high Wuzi Platform. Doesn't he claim it's part of a defense against flooding? Yes, that's what he says. I do not trust him. I think he has something else in mind. Kong Qiu is a mere commoner. The ruler made him Minister of Law. Now the ruler's made him Acting Minister of the Interior too! Uncle, I sense a conspiracy here. He did not... did not eat again. Cut off your tongue if you stammer again. Get out! Yes, Master. Zhongni, I've made some new black ink for you. It won't wash off easily. Try it! Very well! Teacher, the petition is ready. Please take a look. It is fine! It's fine! Gong Boliao, ready the cart. It's so late! Where are you going? It is urgent, I need to go to the Palace. Wake up! Gong Boliao. Leave me alone! Rotten wood is hard to carve! Leave him alone. Master, you've worked all day and into the night. It's too hard! If this is for the betterment of Lu's citizens, I don't mind. Master, you're ordering city walls to be demolished. Won't the 3 Noble Families rebel against your authority? It's time to curb the power of the Three Families. We must act, and act quickly! Master, I think this is courting great danger! Yes, Master, this is very dangerous! Won't you reconsider? Reconsider what? Disciples, my late teacher Master Zichan had 2 fine sayings. Please remember them all your life. Put your country ahead of your life. And Obstacles will be many, so maintain your strength of spirit! What we are doing now is not only for the short term. Minister of the Interior Kong Qiu is here to see His Majesty. Tomorrow in court, your humble servant will call for Razing the Three City Walls. Razing? What exactly does that mean? When the Duke of Zhou ruled these lands, it was established that no fiefdom should build walls around its city more than The aim was to prevent the nobles from abrogating power to themselves. But in recent decades, these 3 families have made their cities seats of power. And their city walls have grown taller. I humbly propose that the walls of these 3 cities be razed to reunify the state. That is a serious matter. It will stir up discontent. Can you win this? If you fail, you'll unleash chaos everywhere. Your humble servant did a fortune reading. The reading was Headless Dragons. That's very auspicious. To strengthen the throne, the power of the nobles must be reduced. We must cut off the dragons' heads. Serve my man here with the best wine and food. Thank you, Minister... Didn't I say this would happen? It is vicious. Razing the Three City Walls! To pull down our walls is to undermine our strength! Kong Qiu wants to bring down the fiefdoms of the Three Families. Our fiefdoms? Have we any fiefdoms? Maybe Meng's fiefdom still belongs to Meng. Does your fiefdom belong to you? Or General Hou? Is Biyi still mine? Kong Qiu calls for demolition. Fine, that would benefit us. What should we do now? Laozi teaches us. Every gain is balanced by a loss. Support Kong Qiu! Raze the 3 city walls! More speed! We must reach Biyi tonight to see General Gongshan. Come on! Fight! Peck... Urgent report from the city of Houyi! Urgent report from the city of Houyi! Acting Interior Minister. Just speak. Yes, sir. Hou Fan, rebel general of Shu Sunwu's territory, has escaped from Houyi! Shu and Zigao's forces have succeeded in tearing down their walls. Excellent! Well done! Good, we caught them by surprise. The Minister must be congratulated on his famous victory! Come, drink! Today we must celebrate. No, it's not over yet. Hou Fan will continue his resistance. Ensure that Shu and Zigao tear down the walls quickly or the rebels will regroup behind them! As I arrived in the city, I saw Zilu and his army encamped nearby. Your Biyi is about to have its walls torn down. You need a plan. Let them tear down the wall! They'll be leaving the capital undefended! My plan is to seize the capital and execute Kong Qiu and banish the Three Families! Halt... Inspection! Don't you recognize the Ji banner? We are delivering Biyi's land taxes to the palace. Open up! The Minister of Law has ordered that all carts be inspected. Seize the king of Lu! Slay Kong Qiu! Seize the king! Slay Kong Qiu! Drive out the Three Families! Kill them all! Report! General, the king is not in his palace. Where is he? It seems he has sought refuge with the Ji family. Find him! Open the gate! Open it! In such a key moment, where is Minister Ji? He's out for a hunt, Your Majesty, follow me please. Your Majesty, be careful. Don't engage them, just try to hold them back for 2 hours. Then lure them to the Wuzi Platform. Yes, Minister. Ji picked a fine time to go hunting. Quick! Kill them all! Ruler! Kong Qiu! Three Families! Hear this. Today, in the name of the late Lord Ji Yiru, under heaven's mandate, I will annihilate all who defy the will of heaven! Annihilate all... Destroy them! March on! Kill the king, kill Kong Qiu! Retreat! Flames! Pull! Release. Report! Minister! Gongshan Niu and his rebel army are defeated. They are retreating from the capital. Uncle... An urgent report from the capital... It's just as you predicted. Gongshan Niu was defeated at the Wuzi Platform. Then what are you waiting for? Send the troops in, capture Gongshan alive. Yes, sir... Take Gongshan Niu alive! Pull... Release! Pull! Release! Nobody is demolishing my Chengyi. Why? Chengyi stands right on the border between Qi and Lu. The high walls of Chengyi serve as a bastion against a Qi invasion. They must not be demolished. How can you go back on your own word? Didn't you approve the razing of the city walls? Let him finish. Kong Qiu reclaimed the The 3 cities which used to belong to your family. But were they returned to you? No, they were handed to the ruler of Lu. Kong Qiu forced General Hou Fan out of the city of Houyi. And who is now in charge of the city? Zigao, Kong Qiu's disciple. And Biyi? Has it been returned to your family? No! Zilu, another of Kong Qiu's disciples, has been put in charge! See? And if they now take over my Chengyi, it will be handed over to the ruler of Lu. Will there be any land or city left to us? You Ministers, are you really willing to give the Kingdom back to the ruler of Lu and Kong Qiu? Acting Interior Minister. By the order of the Prime Minister, no one is allowed in. Please wait here, I will make a request. Master, those carriages are from the Meng and Shu families. Master! Kong Qiu is requesting to see you... I won't see him. They're all inside. Master. I'm sure those are Meng and Shu carriages. Master... Master. Come... Let's drink. All of you should drink more. Listen! Once all the walls have come down, we will truly become one big family. Am I right? Right... Father... How far is the Qi army from our border? Less than 30 miles. But the Duke of Qi has sent an ambassador, Li Chu bearing gifts. Gifts? What gifts? more than 100 horses. Has Li Chu made any demands? He demanded that Kong Qiu be dismissed. Off to the palace, we must see His Majesty tonight. The Acting Interior Minister is here! Your Majesty. We cannot pull back now! We've won back 2 of the cities, we cannot abandon the 3rd! Do you know? Li Chu has 30,000 Qi soldiers amassed on our border ready to invade. If they form an alliance with the city of Chengyi, we will be encircled. But you have proclaimed the razing of the 3 city walls, Your Majesty! A man of high principles must be willing to die by his word! He cannot bend his principles to save his life! Who will be left to care about ethics if we're defeated in battle? Victory and defeat are what matter. Not ethics! Don't you remember? My father Prince Zhao was driven out of Lu by the Three Families. He died in exile! If the Three Families turn against me now, my fate will be much worse than his. Your Majesty! Say no more! I have supported you for the past one hundred days. And so did the Ji family. Last night Ji came to see me. His words implied more than they said. If the walls of Chengyi are demolished, it seems the Qi army will seize the chance to occupy the city with an army of 30,000. Everything will be reduced to chaos. Kong Qiu... You should follow my example sometimes. Play a little stupid. Didn't your revered Laozi teach that accomplish everything by doing nothing? Kong Qiu, the times are out of joint. Chaos is everywhere. But you still go your own way with your rituals, music, benevolence and harmony. I'm so ashamed. I've achieved nothing. Then stop trying. Men habitually long for fame and authority. But such aims should detain no man for long. Then what should I, your pupil, do? I cannot hang useless on the door-beam like a dried-out gourd making no contribution to the world. Maybe no contribution is the true contribution. The weak survive, the mild persist. Nothing is softer than water. And yet aggression and force never triumph over water. So be like water! The Master's words are profound, but I must be loyal to my chosen path. The Master's way is magnificent and shapeless. It's beyond time and space, beyond all worldly matters. But my way keeps me in the world of men. Then tolerate the misunderstandings of those in your world. Unlike those who are rich, I have no gold to give. Only this simple advice. The sacrifices for the year's end ceremonies are over. Has the sacrificial meat been distributed to the nobles and officials? Yes, it has. And as you ordered, none went to Kong Qiu's household. Father. Have some of this. No point in waiting. I don't think we will be getting sacrificial meat this year. Good... My lord. What is it? My master wishes to see the king. His Majesty has no time for him. Well, give this to Kong Qiu. Don't say I sent it. Tell him it comes from His Majesty himself. Kong Qiu is a clever man. When he sees this, he'll understand. Yes, Master, I'll take it to him now. And this too! Enough to buy yourself a piece of good land. Go home now. Understand? Yes, sir! Come. Stable the horses from Qi. It's going to rain soon. Yes, sir! Yes, sir. Untie the horses and bring them into the stables! Father! Gong Boliao came back. The King told him to bring this to you. A parted jade! Father, why would the King send this? Parted jade. A parting gift. Someone wants me to leave. Did this come from the King himself? That's what he said, Father. Gong Boliao handed this to me and then left. He said he wouldn't be coming back. Find a chance to return my robe of office and the crown to the king. Father. The crown symbolizes ethical behavior. You have always treasured it. It's no longer important. Father, please wait till the rain stops... Please at least wait for your disciples. Look after your mother! Master! Yan Hui. How did you get here? The master is the body, the pupil is the shadow. I will stay with my master until the end. To be honest, I don't know where I'm going. Master. Yan Hui, you have talents. You would have no trouble finding a good position in court. But if you come with me, you'll have no home or family. You will always regret it. No, I won't! Yan Hui, look. There are nothing but hardships ahead. No prospects for a fortunate life. Only a vast wilderness. Aren't you afraid? Tell me, in what respect am I wrong? May I speak frankly? Of course. Master, you were wrong to put all your faith in the ruler of Lu. Master, you once told me that if a man cannot change the world, then at least he should try to change himself from within. Good. Well said. The humanity I sought stands before me, my complaints are groundless. Master... Master, Ran Qiu and I had some duties to finish. That's why we're late getting here. That's right, Master, look. We've brought all your scrolls. Master! Without me, who will drive your cart? And, with me at your side, nobody will dare be rude to you! That's true. Master! Who would have thought he snores louder than I do! Let's go. I am the special representative of the ruler of Wei. I am instructed by His Majesty and the Royal Consort to welcome you to Wei. Our Kingdom greets Master Kong and his followers. Master, what is your impression of Wei so far? Compared to Lu, Wei has a larger population. Yes, a larger population makes it more difficult to govern. There is more potential for disorder. Tell me, how can my government remedy the devastation? By making sure the common people have their due share of prosperity. The vast majority of them are quite prosperous. And yet there are signs of social disorder everywhere. Then the moral climate is not good. The people need education! Good! Good! The master is truly a sage! Then I hereby invite the Master to teach in our country. We will provide land to build an academy. And 60,000 stones of grain every year. Will that suffice? Thank you, Your Majesty. And I wish to consult you on one other matter. As you can see, our Kingdom of Wei is vulnerable on all 4 sides. Each one of our neighbors would conquer us if it could. So I'd like the Master help training our soldiers. As a mere wandering exile, dare I even speak of soldiering? But I have heard it said, the Master is a brilliant military tactician. If Your Majesty speaks of sacrificial rituals, I do have some small knowledge of them. But of military matters, I have no great knowledge at all. Alright... I won't try to force you. But there's one thing you absolutely must agree to. Your humble servant is a guest here, your wish is my command. My royal consort Nanzi is eager to see you. You won't say no, will you? Of course not. Better not to see her. Doesn't Master know? She has a very dubious reputation. This woman is a great beauty. But she is a succubus. Her very name taints the kingdom! Master. Do you know of this woman's past? This Nanzi was raised in the house of the ruler of Song. In Song, she had an affair with the ruler's son, there was a scandal. This kind of gossip is trivial. Do you know who now runs the Kingdom of Wei? The King, of course! I can see it isn't. Wei's internal politics are very chaotic, there are many seats of power. But I can see that the real power behind the throne is Nanzi. What kind of a man is this Kong Qiu? In my view, just poor and disheveled scholar. His only pleasure is in books and rituals. Poor he may be, but we could build up friendship. This Kong Qiu is a worthy man. You must treat him well. I still hope one day, we could ask him to be the teacher of our young prince. I have already promised him Please be seated, Master. Our lady will be here soon. Your humble servant greets Madam. You are the famous scholar Kong Qiu? Master Kong, please be seated. Thank you, madam. I have heard one of your axioms is, true benevolence is the love of mankind. Does this 'benevolence' extend to a woman with a reputation like mine? I hear that you are teaching "The Book of Odes" here. Yes, I am. I also love poetry. That line... A beauteous lady, a gentleman's fine match. Can you tell me what that means? The poem means even while courting, a gentleman observes all proprieties. Of the 300 poems in "The Book of Odes", so many speak of love! All 300 have one underlying point. In true love, there is no evil. I have liked poetry since I was a child. Will you take me as your student? I have taken on a new student in Wei, his name is Bu Shang. Although still quite young, he is some sort of prodigy. While studying "The Book of Odes" under me, he has shown much insight. So I humbly recommend that he becomes your study-companion. Our ministers consider your theories of civility in government to be impracticable. Do you truly believe they can work? Ruling with civility will benefit the state, its community, and its people. Why should it not be practicable? Without civility, a state will descend into chaos. Males are born lascivious. Their desires lead them into war and bloodshed. Since this is their nature, it will be hard to rein them in. The hardness of the task is the measure of the gentleman. Master, do you really believe that a gentleman's personal morality is the most important thing? My belief is that a man who wakes up living a life of civility will go to his death a justified man. Master, will you stay longer in our country? May we meet again? That would not be convenient. How so? Why inconvenient? Because I have not yet seen anyone who puts principles before licentiousness. Worldly people could probably come to understand the master's sufferings. But few will ever truly grasp the depth and breadth of those sufferings. It seems we should leave Wei now. Why's that? This land will soon descend into chaos. Come on, hurry up... Hurry up... Come on! Worldly people could probably come to understand the master's sufferings. But few will ever truly grasp the depth and breadth of those sufferings. That's scholar Kong! Let's take a look at him! By order of Commander Huan, Kong Qiu and his followers must leave the Kingdom of Song immediately. By order of Commander Huan, Kong Qiu and his followers must leave the Kingdom of Song immediately. Master, please begin. Poetry, books, ethics, music... a gentleman must understand all these. So today we will begin a review of our practices. Rulers should treat ministers with courtesy as ministers should serve rulers with loyalty. Loyalty and filial piety are the keys to humanity and harmony. All professions may prosper. Close to home, attend your parents. Further afield, placate your neighbors. There is also much to learn including the names of birds, beasts, grasses and trees. By order of Commander Huan Kui, leave the Kingdom of Song! Stop! The tree is coming down! Watch out! Master, let's quickly leave. Master, we must go! Excuse me, friends. Where's the river crossing? The river crossing? Who's that man sitting on the cart? That's Master Kong! Master Kong? The famous Kong Qiu from Lu? Indeed! Isn't he supposed to know everything? Then he should know where the river crossing is. You fellows should stay here and become farmers instead of wandering around with him! Avoid all the trouble out there! That's right! Stay here as farmers! Yeah, stay out of politics like us! His thought would not be practicable. Let's stay here! Why are you laughing? Let's go. Let's move on, we will ask for direction later. Go... Don't leave. Come back! Alright... Let's get back to work. Fei, is there any news of Kong Qiu? They say he spent some time in Wei, then went to Zheng and is now in the Kingdom of Chen. In time of war, we need generals. In time of trouble, we need thinkers. Back when we held the alliance meeting, Kong Qiu won back the 3 cities without waging war. But we sent him into exile. Now it's clear that Qi tricked us. With our ruler dead and a mere child on the throne, Qi seizes the chance to invade us. Our strength is not what it was. If it comes to war, we have no outstanding general. Now I have a mission for you. Bring Kong Qiu back to Lu! Father, we mistreated Kong Qiu before. We forced him into exile. If we invite him back now, people will mock us. We could invite his disciple Ran Qiu back first. He is Kong's foremost disciple, he has good military skills. He would know how to counter the Qi army. Alright, invite Ran Qiu back first. Wake up... Wake up, Master! It's terrible! The Kingdom of Wu is invading! We have to leave at once! Hurry up... Have you seen an elderly foreigner? At the city's East Gate... The Qi army is poised to attack Lu. Master, Lord Ji asks you to allow Ran Qiu to come back to protect Lu. Master, please agree, for the sake of Lu! Master, we cannot let Ran Qiu go! They turn to us only when they're in trouble. Remember how badly they treated us! Yes... How did you find me? An old farmer told us he saw a foreigner near the East Gate. A forehead like King Yao's. Shoulders like Zichan's. Had the air of an important man but looked as scraggy as a stray dog. We guessed it was you. I'm not brave enough to be important. And my features don't resemble anyone famous. But that old farmer got it just about right when he said stray dog! Master, you teach us to practice what we learnt. Our homeland is in peril! The Prime Minister asks Ran Qiu to return. Lu's very survival is at stake. As men of Lu, we cannot stand idly by. Well said, Yan Hui. Lu is in danger, I should allow you to return to save the kingdom from disaster. Ran Qiu, you should go. I will wait for good news from you. Master, once the battle is won, I'll come back for you. Pull! Greetings, Prime Minister. Father. General Ran has lived up to our hopes. He has routed the Qi army in the Battle of Lang. The Qi army has retreated back across the border. This won't go unrewarded. I will petition the king to put you in charge of the Wen Shang Cities. Prime Minister, this simple man does not want to be in charge of the Three Cities. I only have one simple request. Speak. My teacher, Master Kong, has been wandering for many years. He's destitute, but goes on teaching. But there has never been a moment when the Kingdom of Lu wasn't in his thoughts. This simple man's request is that you have him invited back to Lu. Well. I'll need to discuss your request with His Majesty. I fully recognize your talents. Stay here as our retainer. No more aimless wandering with Kong Qiu. Look, a 9-tailed sparrow! Seeing that bird fly past means there must be a village not far ahead. Really? That's great! We can finally get some food in our bellies! Hurry, everyone! Quick! I'm dying of hunger! Nobody around. Looks like this is another village torched by the Cai army. We're all very tired. Clean this place up a bit. I think we can spend the night here. Master, look. It seems that the Cai troops have us trapped in this valley. Master, I've found a small mountain path. It's very narrow, but I think it may lead down the mountain. Why don't I see where it leads? I might be able to find some food or at least someone who can help us. You can all rest here and wait for me. Zigong, you always find a way! Come back soon. Let's go, Zigao. Father, doesn't heaven reward those who are kind? What wrong have we done to deserve this? How is it that heaven allows us to starve like this? He's right! Master is wise. Maybe some cannot understand because their thinking is too backward. Master taught us. Only in winter, does the pine tree show its true strength. Master has been playing that instrument for days now. Yes, as if the music would fill his belly! Master, you haven't eaten for days. This soup is the last of the horsemeat. Please drink some. Are you alright, brother? Brother. Zilu, drink some soup. Master, I'm not hungry. You have some. Look, I'm having some, you have a little too. Each of us should have a little. I'm not hungry. You have some. Master, at last you're awake! Master! Are you alright? Master! Do you feel better? I'm back at last. You were gone for 7 days. If you'd come back one day later, you might have been too late! Master, you're awake. Zigong, tell me. What's happening out there? Master, we left the valley. We were hunted down, we almost died. Thanks to Yan Zhuoju, Zilu's brother-in-law. He brought others to rescue us. That's when we found out how chaotic the world has become. Men from Wu have conquered the Kingdom of Zheng. Men from Chu have devastated the Kingdom of Cai. The people of Cai were forced to move south. Come on... help me. Quickly... Master. The ruler of Wei is dead, and his successor greatly respects Zilu. He wants to appoint Zilu governor of the city of Puyi. What are you men waiting for? I'm waiting for a roast gigot! Let's boil the water and start cooking! I am proud to see one of my students so honored. But enter not a dangerous state, dwell not in a chaotic state. The political situation in Wei is not stable. To be frank, I do not much approve of you taking this post. Master, just wait for me to show my mettle in Puyi. Then I'll be able to raise a powerful army. I will deal with the chaos inside Wei and appoint you the new Prime Minister. Undue haste has no place in politics! Zilu, you are headstrong and demanding. That's very dangerous in this chaotic world. Master, I know this. But my undue haste reflects my wish to realize your ideals of harmony and civility in government. An official wears his robes of office but it's his inner character and spirit which reflect his true mettle. Never forget this. Don't look at, listen to, speak to, or do anything which offends propriety. Master's words will stay with me all my life. Qi Sigong, take care on the road. Master... Take care of yourself, Master, your students bid you fare well! Master. What's that sound? The ice is cracking! Hurry up! Move! The ice is cracking. Hurry up! Hurry up! The ice is cracking. Yan Hui... Hui, where are you...? Hui Yan Hui. Grab the rope! Yan Hui, come back up! Come back up! Master, please eat something. It has been 8 hours. He will not revive, Master. Let go, Master. Master... Master! Please eat something. Kong Qiu hasn't come back. Father, I have sent men to look for him. It's reported that they're approaching the border. He will never forgive what I did to him. Go in my place. When you see him, give him this. He'll come when he sees this. Master... Qi Sigong, you are back? Master, Qi Sigong is back... Master... Why are you back alone? Where is Zilu? Brother Zilu... he's dead. Wei was in chaos, Yang Hu of the Jin Kingdom has taken over the capital. Zilu tried to protect the young heir to the Wei throne. He went out to face the invaders alone. He... He was killed! Master says. When a gentleman dies, he should maintain his dignity. Well said. Well said. Mighty Zilu! You were a true gentleman! My father asked me to present Master with this jade. Master Kong, my father... He is dying. Master! I've found you at last! Ran Qiu, you've found your way here? Master, I... For the past years, Master, Minister Ji has been taking off from the court because of his sickness. I'm afraid he doesn't have much time. Whenever he looks back, he deeply regrets having you forced into exile. He has sent his own son to invite you back. He hopes to apologize to you in person. Master, please come back to Lu. A ring of jade. Stand up. Master, for the sake of Lu's future, come home! I can return. But you must tell them that I only want to teach. They must no longer trouble me with politics. I will stress this point to him. We will respect your wish. Master. Start packing up, we are going home. We're going home... Father, Master Kong is on his way. He'll be here soon. Go! Welcome him on my behalf. We're home, we're finally home! Lu! We're back. Lu, land of my parents. I have finally returned. Master, did you say something? Nothing. Pack up "The Spring and Autumn of Lu" and have it delivered. Yes. If the world will come to know me, it will be through this book. If the world will think ill of me, it will also be because of this book. arigon 2 CD DVD subpack for "CoWRY", merged to this version and resyced. Fixed long lines. Xenzai[NEF] 
