 

                        The one who says he sacrifices himself for someone or something - lies. One likes to play cards, another one likes women, someone doesn't miss any horse races, but I - love children. I don't sacrifice myself at all, I don't do it for them but for myself. It is me who needs it. Please, don't believe in this sacrifice thing. It's false and deceitful. Good morning. Good morning, doctor! I have an appointment with the director. But Dr. Goldschmidt will be here any moment. - But I am Dr. Goldschmidt. - So it's you, sir? We are very glad that you decided to work with us, doctor. Please sit down. I will take the opportunity you gave me. I have an idea. You know 'The Small Review', don't you sir? As you know, it's an extraordinary success. The whole newspaper is in children's hands. They write and edit themselves, even take care of the technical side. A whole generation of Jewish children learned to read and write in Polish thanks to this newspaper. And I think we could do something similar in the radio. I asked you to come here sir, to suggest you to... Temporarily suspend your broadcasts. - Why? - You see, sir... Political situation in our country is... - Yes, but... - Complicated... - I don't deal with politics, but upbringing. - Yes, however, you are a controversial person. There is pressure... I made a mistake when I agreed to work in here not under my real name, not even under my pseudonym 'Korczak', but as an anonymous 'Old Doctor'. I thought it would please everybody. I'm not there, there is no Jew, but just an old doctor, right? - Not to wake up the beast! - Doctor, I'd like you to understand it well. It's not my idea, not even idea of my supervisors. - There's pressure from the powers... - What powers? Tell me, what powers?! I see that my suggestion is absolutely pointless. Just for the time being. Doctor... We have a favour to ask of you. Next week you are having your broadcast. If you were so kind to say that it's your last one, that you say goodbye to the listeners, because you leave or something like that... Otherwise, we will get lots of letters from the hearers. Your broadcast was so popular that we are afraid of protests. - You are afraid of both authorities and the people. - One more thing... I would like to invite you to a small party after the broadcast. We want to say thank you, drink some wine. I've been fighting for children's dignity for years. And someone asked me once: who respects a man today anyway? What? What happened? Come on. Come on, Sabinka, what is it? It's nothing serious, huh? - I brought a letter from miss Maryna for the doctor. - I will give it to him. The doctor is busy, the former pupils came and he's talking to them. You promised to meet me by the church. - I couldn't go and that's it. - But you promised! I was waiting there for two hours like a fool. I was afraid they would baptize me! Doctor, we left the Orphanage convinced that the world is full of goodness and hope. You threw us out when we were Doctor, this upbringing in spirit of humanism and great ideas... Weighing, measuring, newspapers, courts, the illusion of democracy you taught us. We are absolutely defenceless, doctor! We think you should definitely take the proletariat's side. That's right! Instead of persuading us that Poles are our brothers. Doctor, they beat up our students and vandalize our shops. Jozek, don't swim so far! I told you so many times! Doctor, please tell them! Don't worry, madam. What if they drown? Isn't it the best way out for a Jewish orphan? Look, I'll show you something. I wasn't hired here to wash Jewish shit! Watch your language, please. You are right, washing so dirty underwear is parents' duty, not yours. And since I substitute their parents I have to take care of this. Doctor, let me wash it, please. No, I'm a doctor and such things don't disgust me. Doctor, it's Mrs. Stefa. Miss Stefa is back! Now please call me Mrs. Stefa. A woman having so many children can't be a miss. It's from Aron. Mrs. Stefa! - Hello, Mrs. Stefa! - When did you come? What a surprise... Eliasz, Ida, Bronek! How come you're here? We're having a bike trip. Your dress is too long, you should have it shortened. - Mrs. Stefa, did our people grow it? - Yes, in Aron's kibbutz. Look. What happened? I couldn't stay there. I dreamt of our children every night. Everyone in there say that the war in Europe is inevitable... and we should expect the worst. The war is inevitable. Is it the worst? I've seen three wars. The worst thing I've seen was a drunkard beating up a defenceless child. See? They don't work there like Jewish pedlars, but like free people! The world needs neither oranges nor work, it needs new faith! Don't cry. No, don't be scared. It's scary, but also beautiful, isn't it? What? Wait a minute. Don't be afraid. Wait a minute. Wait! Hush! Hush! Hush... Doctor, you're a wizard! Hello. Gentlemen, today we will be having the lecture in Roentgen's room. Let's go to the Roentgen's room, gentlemen. When you are tired, in a bad mood, when your children are unbearable and they make your blood boil... When you are angry and you scream, when you beat them up because of your anger... Look now closely and remember what you see, that's how looks and reacts a heart of a child. Warsaw, September 1939 [the beginning of the Second World War] Help be carry him, sir. Excuse me... Are you Janusz Korczak? I saw you in the cinema... - Give me that bag, please. - I'm so happy, I read all your books. I wanted to write to you a long time ago that what you write is wonderful! I... Young man, I don't mean to offend you, but you had to give me that bag. I haven't even dreamt... Sir... I... wrote a poem about what we live through. - Where is my rifle? - Get his rifle, sir. Sir, but... Why England and France aren't doing anything? It's just a tactical tactical manoeuvre, isn't it? They won't leave us alone, will they? Sir, I wrote a poem... About what we are living through here. Bring it to me to the Orphanage on Krochmalna street. There's no need... It isn't the end, it's just the beginning. Doctor, please hide somewhere, it's better to be unobtrusive. - What are you afraid of? - Take off the uniform please, it's very dangerous. - There's no need. - Please. You've never supported the army or acknowledged these primitive symbols. - But the situation is different. - It is, indeed. Have you seen anyone in the town wearing an officer's uniform? What did I teach you? Since no-one today wears an uniform I can't take it off! Everyone betrayed us. It's an uniform of a betrayed soldier. According of the order about restrictions of stay in The General Government from 13th of September 1940, a Jewish District is created in Warsaw, to which Jews living in Warsaw or those migrating to Warsaw have to move in. Jews living outside the Jewish District have to move in to the Jewish District until 31st of October 1940. Where is your armband? I don't have an armband. - Name? - Piotr Zalewski. - Jewish? - No, but... Take your things from the wagon. But sir, I've worked here for 22 years. - 22 years! - Shut up! Is she a Pole too? Yes. Polish pigs! Jewish servants! Don't let him beat my husband, please! Officer, I beg you! We're all together, we won't leave the Orphanage. Take your things from the wagon. I beg you. They are allowed to take only their refugee package and bedclothes. The head of the Judenrat [the Jewish council] will do the allocation. President of Polish City Council and the head of Judenrat are responsible for proper placement of Jews in the Jewish District and for punctual migration of Poles from the Jewish District. Where is the wagon with potatoes? Heniek, Heniek! The wagon with potatoes! It's gone. They stole it. - What? I'm going to tell the Gestapo. - Doctor, don't do it! To hell with the potatoes. Do you know how hard it was to get them? It's shameful! I didn't know you steal from the orphans! What's going on? Your soldiers have confiscated our wagon with potatoes. They took food for 200 children for 2 weeks! I demand it back immediately! - But it's a Jewish orphanage. - Yes, it's Jewish. - So what do you have to do with it, sir? - I'm the director. Is that so? But you aren't Jewish, are you? I am Jewish. So why don't you wear the armband? There are human and divine laws. You will stop being impudent in jail! What are you doing here? I came with Mrs. Maryna to say goodbye to you. That's great. You see... I will come to meet you. Please... I will think of something. I'm very glad... Where is he? He went to the Germans to protest. They stole our wagon with potatoes. He's out of his mind. - That's just his way. - God, she is so similar to my deceased daughter. Come here, Pola. - Maybe I could take her to our house... - No, we decided children should stay together. I'm an old freiend of Mrs. Stefa and doctor Korczak... And I'd like you to come visit me. I have many children too. You know, Polunia, you'd be fine with Mrs. Maryna. You could show her your collection of stones... You wouldn't have to clean our new house... - I want to see your stones. - Yes, darling. Please ask Korczak to agree to our proposition. We have great papers for him and a hideout. He could write in there. - Yes. - Excuse me. I don't live in our house anymore. You can't take the armband off. The doctor said that until you're with me, you don't have to wear it. Doctor doesn't wear it either, you know? I work at the dressmaker in Powisle! What a shame, what an awful shame I can't go with them. My God, I'm going to die in here. Calm down, director. - Pull yourself together. - The whole government cheated us. They just fleed and we will get smashed. You will get out of here and live throught the war, director. - How do you know? - I just know it. Do you bear a grudge against me? No. War brings much suffering and tragedy, you know. But it also erases some things and I think that it won't happen again in the future. A Pole will never persecute his brother, only because he's Jewish. I truly believe that. I'm happy I could live to this moment. Doctor Goldschmidt! Take your things! Take care of yourself, director. May God lead you, doctor. Hello, doctor. Your health doesn't let you stay in prison. I will not talk in German. Doctor, please. Dr. Korczak, I know that you speak German very well. I remember your lecture at the congress in Berlin, 1929. It was excellent. It has changed my life somehow. You're ill, aren't you? I'm perfectly healthy. Take your clothes off, please. Please. Do you suffer from a heart disease? I'm perfectly healthy. I confirm your immediate release. Heart is weakened, health condition is generally bad. You should take care of yourself, doctor. Were you beaten up, sir? Fine. I hope you will wear the armband. Next time you may not be so lucky. I will never wear the armband. Stop it! Aren't you ashamed of yourself?! It's a child! The doctor is coming! The doctor is coming! Hooray! They already got used to the new place. - Where's Pola? - You noticed? Maryna took her. She said she could try to hide a few more children. Of course we would have to choose. Girls with proper look would be good. You think we would make a selection? They are capable of anything, but they have to spare children. Even if... The most important is that we are together with them. Doctor, Maryna and your friends think that you should be on the Aryan side. It doesn't mean saving your own skin. You have to, it's your duty. You have to live. You must be joking. How could you think I would leave you all alone? It's out of the question. What will happen to them? It's very hard to get anything from the Judenrat. There are so many people in need that I'm ashamed to ask for help. You're ashamed to ask? What do you mean? It's all about our children, isn't it? I would like you to keep the gate closed all the time. We'll have to brick up all the windows facing the street. They walled us off from the world, we'll wall off from them. And the children cannot go out alone. We have to protect them from what's going on there. But it's impossible. I know that an absolute isolation is impossible, so we have to find some things to do in the house. I count on you, Mrs. Esterka. The same schedule as the one from Krochmalna, I mean breakfast, weighing, classes in groups. I will take care of provision and get the money somehow. You don't know me yet. Well, maybe Mrs. Stefa knows me a bit, from the past. We have been in despair so many times. A miracle can happen again. I have this strange dream about food, you know. A year ago I didn't even know what food I like. I know those dreams. Raspberries and buckwheat. Hare with red cabbage and white wine. Red wine, not white. Champagne and ice cream with wafer. I drunk champagne not even three times in my life and haven't eaten ice cream in 20 years. I was so silly... huh? I'm scared. Did anyone shoot? No, go to sleep. No-one shot. Where am I? In my room, in my bed. You want to go to your bed? - Do I disturb you, sir? - No, you don't. Now you will sleep, won't you? Left finger says goodnight to the right finger. Left hand says goodnight to the right hand, puts the right hand to sleep, now the right hand puts the left hand to sleep. Fine, now the left hand puts the head to sleep and says sleep well, head, goodnight... Go to sleep... When grandma was dying, she asked Will there be lancers in heaven? Hey, hey, pretty lancers, every maiden likes you! Do you know this one? There is not even one house, where Jewish girls don't fall for lancers. Hey, hey, lancers, every maiden... Mum, come on. Hey, hey, lancers... Mum! I can give you one, well, maybe two sacks of flour. But it's only for you, don't ask me for more! Actually, I counted for more from you. Max, the dinner is ready. Don't disturb us. - Maybe doctor would like to stay for the dinner? - No, thank you. Hey, hey, lancers... If the wealthiest and most decent people like you won't help us, who should we count on? It's your duty, not only towards Jewish children and the nation but towards yourself. Do you know what happens to me because I'm a decent man? Thousands of relatives from towns I've never heard of. Displaced from one spot to another, they suddenly get out of nowhere and all come to me. I'm damned! Have a look. I'd prefer to have nothing, so they would see it... And it would all come to an end! If you want me not to hate you, please don't come here anymore. Will you give me 3 sacks? I will. And 300 zoties. Hello. Hello, doctor. Isn't this sausage made from human meat? It's too cheap to be horsemeat. I don't know, sir. What's that? It's rotten, you are a cheat! What do you want from me, ma'am? These aren't goods, it's not a shop, you're not a client, I'm not a shop assistant, I don't sell, you don't pay, these slips aren't money. You don't loose and I don't gain anything. Who cheats today and what for? One has to do something, huh? They will kill him. You saw him. He walked through the wall. I won't die until I place him somewhere. He will be safe in your place. I beg you, sir. Why are you crying? You know you shouldn't. Szloma, this is the doctor. He will take you to his house. I beg you. No, no way. I'm not going anywhere. Szloma, the doctor promised, you will come here everyday and bring me food. They have lots of food there. He had lice. He shouldn't go out. He can bring typhoid or something. If you only knew where I go and what I can bring. Sir, you promised. Take your clothes off. Sit down. - Have you ever counted your scars? - No, why? You should count them. They remind you of war wounds and brave deeds. What's this? Were you bitten by a dog? - How do you know? - I know much. There was a big sheepdog by the wall, when I wanted to go through the hole. And here? Barbed wire? No, it was a fence. There was a nail. About twenty after a quick-look examination. And it's just a half of the body. Not bad. Now get your clothes on. What's this? I've had it since birth. My father said that when one has something like this, he will be a great man. His grandfather had it and he was a great rabbi. - You want to be a great rabbi too? - Rabbi sits in one place and reads books all the time. And you don't like reading books? - You'd prefer to travel. - How do you know? I dreamt about great travels too... - And I wanted to change the world. - But how? For example eliminate money so that there wouldn't be poor people. But it can't be done. You know it now, but I didn't know it then. Later I realized that world cannot be changed so greatly. But one has to try, don't you think? I don't know. Did you manage to be famous, sir? Well, I managed to do it a bit, but I think I can do much more. You are old, sir. Yes, that's true. But an old man can also manage to achieve something, you know. It's 19.5, doctor. Write it down, Anetka. Come. Jozek! This is Szloma, our new friend. Jozek knows the house and will show you everything. If I had a gun, I'd shoot this bastard. Don't say so. Maybe he's innocent, maybe he has an order, so what can he do? Maybe he just came here and doesn't know what's going on? You heard what the doctor said? Maybe he's a teacher or a gardener. Or a butcher. The doctor said so. We clean and serve ourselves. There's our dining room. We have workshops too, I made this wardrobe and a stool. It's just shit. What are you doing? You want to fight? I don't fight with younger boys. Actually, how old are you? I don't care. Generally they don't accept such old boys. I was 7 when I came here. I didn't ask for it. You're afraid I'll beat you up? Yes, I'm very scared. I don't like puffed up guys. There will be a court session next Thursday. A court session? Yes, we have a court and a council. We choose judges once in three months and if they are fair and we trust them they stay for another term. I've been for three terms once. I judged the doctor because he called one girl a name while he was angry. He got a hundred. I mean the 100th article, he had to apologize her. But actually, who is this doctor? - Don't you know? - How am I supposed to know? Everyone knows him. He's the greatest Pole in the world. - But he's a Jew. - He's the greatest Jew too. Maybe the doctor will agree... Show it to me. Abram, it's just a matter of a few days. Sabinka can wait. I won't wait! If he doesn't pay off this debt, I'll sue him. Swindler. Kamil, how is it possible that you eat so much and lose weight? Maybe I work too much, doctor. You want to wriggle out of work! No way. But I really work too much. Well then. Are you such a hard worker too? Doctor, how much did I loose? Last time she weighed 27. Doctor, look! - Look at what? - It's moving. - And so what? - Maybe you'll buy it? - No, I won't buy it. - But sir, please buy it. - It will fall out soon. - I'll buy it when it's out. - You should have bought it. - I won't buy any moving teeth. I'll buy if he brings it to me. It's not a good business. Doctor! What is it? Maybe you'll buy it? But it's moving. It will fall out, you'll loose it and won't give me my money back. No, I'll watch out, I won't loose it. Or you'll swallow it while eating something hard. I won't eat heels of bread. I see you're in serious trouble, Abram. Yes, doctor. Here you have 0.50 zloty, it's a lot of money. One could buy ice cream and two cakes for it before the war. Remember! Give it to me! - Where can we find doctor Korczak? - There, in the court. - Where? - In the court, over there. It's a big harm to accuse somebody in case of no proof. Even if Sabinka stole something once, it doesn't mean she will steal more. Zuzia was very sad because of the chocolate, since we've no sweets but miss Esterka is experienced and should know, that one shouldn't accuse in case of no proof. Will Sabinka forgive the accused? Yes. - Hello. - Hello. I thought that the children judge themselves, not the tutors. Tutors are the greatest tyrants. Here children can defend themselves. Doctor, I can't stand it any longer. How can I have any authority, if children judge me for such a silly thing. Judge is asking you to leave the room if you want to talk. Let's go upstairs, please, or they accuse me of disrespect. Doctor, I know that our position... is hard to defend from the morality viewpoint. But when I took over this position I accepted all the responsibility. If not me, not us, there would be someone else, worse. We have no choice between good and evil, we can only seek for the lesser evil. Me and the Judenrat took the responsibility for hundreds of thousands Jews in the ghetto. I know that the majority or at least a half of them has a slight chance of survival if the war lasts for more than a year. I know that refugees and the poor will die first. That's why we try to save so many people. Save the elite, people of great worth, save youth, children. Everything we do heads in this direction. God and history will judge us, whether we made some terrible mistake. We can't have doubts so far. Our situation is hopeless. The Germans still want more payments. Wealthy people refuse to pay taxes, we have to collect them from the poor, who die of cold and starvation anyway. Bourgeoisie rascals. No solidarity. How could you agree to form Jewish police? We had no choice. I'm sure that the German police would be more ruthless than our. Chairman Czerniakow is right. And Mr. Geppner does what he can to get as much as possible for the shelters. Yours is of top priority. Doctor, could you find some place here for a several dozens of children from Dzielna street? It's out if the question. I have 200 children, the building houses no more than 100. I won't put their lives into risk, you can't force me to do it. I can accept a few children, only the ones in greatest need, after a careful examination. We are not able to cope with this orphanage. It's a real dying house. The staff steals everything. A bunch of rascals with no moral rules, they think they won't be punished. You have to understand that it's not normal. You accept abnormal situations too easily. I have to assure maximum protection for my children. - There is about 100,000 children in the Ghetto. - Unfortunately, I can't take care of all of them. What are you going to do when the war is over? I will run orphanages for German children. To Jewish Commune. I make an offer for a position of a tutor in the orphanage on Dzielna street. Thanks to my experience I am able to cooperate with criminal types and born blockheads. I suppose that such types who are among the staff of the orphanage will voluntarily leave the institution, with which they are bound only by cowardice and indolence. I need to pee. I would like to have two meals a day as a payment. But I can resign it anyway. Goldschmidt. Dostoyevsky says that all our dreams come true in the course of years. But in such a distorted form that we can't recognize them. I can recognize dreams I had before the war. I didn't go to China - it has come to me, Chinese famine, homelessness of orphans and death of children. I accepted the job on Dzielna street. A slaughterhouse of children, a pre-funeral home. But I don't want to discuss it. The one who describes somebody else's pain steals it and feeds on it, like there wasn't too much pain already. JEWS - LICE, TYPHOID Please, don't go in there. My husband has returned from Gestapo in the morning. They kept him all night. He has locked himself and is asleep. As you well know, everyday more than a dozen of dead children is found on the streets. These are homeless children who die of hunger, cold or disease, or children abandoned by their parents, who can't afford to bury them. Or children wounded by a shot by Germans while crossing the wall. Hospitals are overcrowded and don't accept these dying children. We have to arrange dying-houses for them. It requires neither much money nor place. Just a room with some shelves, like in a shop. There are many empty shops now, we can arrange something. These dying children could be put on the shelves. Some coal would be needed to warm these places up. If we can't save these children we should let them die with dignity, do you understand?! Die with dignity! Thief! How did you get this chocolate? Sabinka was accused because of you! Now you're running away like a rat! - What happened? - Nothing. Isn't it too late to go out? I... Szloma bet me he'd jump over the wall. And he did it. He's bleeding. I will take care of it. I'm so hungry! - We're hungry too. - Are you? Go to the kitchen and check if Mrs. Stefa is there. We'll be there in a moment. - Mmmm, it's delicious, Natka. - It's very good. We really can cook, Natka. Doctor, you give him scrambled eggs while he's stolen Maniek's chocolate. It's not true! I found it... I wanted to bring it to... I believe you. Now eat. Ewa! Ewka! Come here. I will be back in a moment. You look beautiful. Where did you get it from? I bought it from one guy, it was very cheap. - It must be from the Ghetto. - I don't know. I have something for you. Thank you. Jozek, I'd like to ask you... not to come here anymore. To the shop. The owner asked me who you are. I said that you are my brother. But she knows you're a Jew... I will have trouble... You know... Don't be angry at me. Mum? Go away. Dear Ewka! I thought that you know how much I love you... I wanted to go to America... as soon as the war is over and come back for you with a big car. Now I know these were childish and silly dreams. Everything divides us and it will never change. Thus I have nothing to live for. Don't blame yourself for my death, it's my fate. Enough, boys! Stop it! Go to my room, now! What was it about? Jozek! You're the oldest one here. You've never hit anyone, while today you hit even Natka. - Mrs. Stefo! - What's going on? He's in love... - And that's why he's aggressive? - But not with Natka. He's in love with Ewka from our house on the Aryan side, that's why he's so angry. I don't want to be a Jew. Natka, do you want to sue him? No, I don't want to. Mum... Why did I come here? God, she's alone in there, without me. Why? What for? Your mother died in peace because she knew you're here. She wasn't able to arrange anything herself, only me... Without me... What for? And then Jozek and you stopped me. And you gave me the scrambled eggs. I came there when they were taking her away. Just one hour. They took her clothes and buried her naked... What for? Jozek, what happened? Jozek! What happened? I want to die. Have you ever thought of killing yourself? Many times. I wanted to commit suicide when my mother died, along with my sister. I was afraid that she will be alone and suffer. But she refused. Do you love Ewka? Yes. How can you tell? Earlier I could talk to her like to anyone else... but suddenly I started feeling ashamed. - Do you know that Natka is in love with you? - I know. See? Death is easy, life is very hard. Do you think that children have a right to die too? Of course. They often die more beautifully and decently than adults. I understood it when I worked in a hospital. Go to sleep. You're too good and brave human being, to kill yourself because of a woman. - Do you think I am a human being? - Of course. You are a human being. Szloma's mother died. Take him with you to work on the Aryan side, he's small but strong. Tell me about it. Go to sleep, human being. My canary died when I was five. I wanted to put a cross on his grave. But the servant told me it was forbidden because it was a bird - something inferior to human beings. It's a sin even to cry for him. But the worst thing was that the caretaker's son said the canary was a Jew too. And that I was Jew too. He's a Pole, a Catholic, he will go to heaven but I... I will go to a place which isn't hell, but it's very dark in there. I was afraid of dark rooms. What's up? I think it will be hard to keep him. I told them not to open the windows. Of course he caught cold. No, doctor, I kept the windows in his room closed and didn't let him go outside. Doctor, I took this child home, grew attached to him, and now I see I can't keep him anymore. Brick up the door, as I told you to. Last week I sent you a request for floor and got only 1/3 of it. Unfortunately, I can't multiply bread. What do you want, sir? I give you as much as I can. Even more than I can. The Judenrat attacks me for giving everything to children, at adults' expense. Look, there's a squirrel. It's gathering peas and eating it. Fine Abramek, come here for a moment. You have to show us how much you want to go outside. There are flowers, trees, mountains and sun. You long for it badly and we have to believe it's the most important thing for you to be there. Do you understand? - But I'm fine at home? - You're fine. Uncle is good for you, buys you toys and food. But... It's like a prison. Do you understand? I do. It's like the Ghetto, right? Yes, that's right. Gong please. Let's do the last part now. Open all the doors and windows! How are you, my boy? I'm fine, doctor. At last all the windows are open. And now be quiet. The boy is falling asleep. I will sit by him. Omol! I brought flowers. Can I put them in his hands? Yes. Thank you, sir. It was... - Who wrote this play? - Tagore. I thought it would be good for the children to get used to death. To accept it as something peaceful. Come in. Doctor... We want to get married. I don't know what I can advise you. These are just words. What can I give you? I can't give you God, because you have to look for Him in your souls. I can't give you homeland, you have to find it by yourselves with the work of your hearts and thoughts. I can't give you love, because there's no forgiveness without love, and this toil has to be taken up by everyone. What can I give you? Longing for a better life which doesn't exist now, but some day it will. And maybe this longing will lead you to God, love and homeland. Mazel Tot. Roundup! [most rounded up people were transported to labor camps or death camps] Let me go, sir, please. I have small children. I have Ausweis, sir. Calm down, children, let's go this way. Zuzka! Stop! Sir, I'm a tutor from the orphanage. Let me go! I'm just doing shopping with the children. Go tell the doctor! Don't go in there, doctor. The Germans are there. No, thank you. I'm sorry, it's because of this constant tension. Have a look. No-one knows what we... No-one knows. They want him to sign the displacement announcement. My God, displacement... So it's true they will remove the majority of the Ghetto. We try to prevent it. Czerniakow still negotiates. You can hear him negotiating. They have our tutor, Esterka Winogronowna. I know... Nothing can be done. I can do nothing. Do you understand? I can do nothing! Should I find someone else? And convict someone else? It's my choice! This is my power - to sacrifice ones for others. You think there's anything else we have influence on? Oh God, how much long... Try to talk to Gestapo. Maybe she could be saved... for a huge bribe. And what will happen with the orphanages? I vouch for them. What have I done to you, God, that You are not here now when my feet are tangled with thorns, my hands and heart are bleeding. I cry: people! There is no response. I cry: mother... Nothing. I cry for the last time: God... And so what? Nothing, I'm alone. We should try to live despite everything, like nothing has happaned. Stop! My God! Why aren't you wearing the armband? Excuse me sir, come with me for a moment, please. Just for a moment. Doctor! Icek Szulc! You recognized me, sir. I'm Szulc. Pour, Icek. Mainly smugglers come here. They have lots of money but they know they can die every minute, so they want to have fun as long as they can. The Yellow Ruben who sits over there is a lucky man. He knows how to deal with business. Do you know how much money is in the Ghetto? I make deals with Aryan merchants. The goods just flow through the walls of the Ghetto. The guy with the ones from the Jewish Gestapo is Gancwajch. He wants to oust Czerniakow and be the master of the Ghetto, like Rumkowski in Lodz. You have to talk to him, he's fond of artists. Well, I think it's our turn now. Silence! Silence! Waiter, a tray! Ladies and gentlemen! Today doctor Korczak is among us. A well-known writer and educator. Let's say it straight: he needs money. And we have money. Who gives less than 100 zloties will have to deal with me. Well! Mr. Gancwajch! You are generous! Why not? Doctor... Please join us! No, thank you, I have to go now. Doctor, I'm very fond of artists. Do you know who Gancwajch is? You're talking to the Ghetto's benefactor! Do you know who saved the orphanages from deportation? I did it! I know how to talk with Germans. The rabble has to die, the artists will survive. Play! I'm easily moved, you see? In the name of Jewish Combat Organization! Death to the traitors! They wanted to kill me... Did you see it? - Doctor! - Is he alive? Who? He's slightly injured. Damn! We scared the shit out of them, huh? Why do you meet these traitors, sir? I need money for the Orphanage. They have more money than anyone. You think we should be quiet and don't annoy the Germans? Judenrat wants to send us to death! We have to sacrifice the old for the young to survive, the sick for the healthy, the poor for the rich, the children for adults. "Don't revolt, Jews, the punishment will get at the innocent ones. " Bastards. They have to be killed like mad dogs. Only you from our boys are in this organisation? Yes. You didn't even teach them how to fight. I understand you, but you should understand me. I would go to hell if it could save my children. Where is your dignity? I have no dignity. I have 200 children. I have no dignity. Dear doctor! What happened? Nothing, I'm just resting. I don't feel like getting up. I have to lift one leg, then the latter... And then the first one again. It's tiring. My dear. You can't live like this. You are killing yourself. You have to rest. You can't live like this. At night you write, during the day you meet those scoundrels. I beg you... It is not good to be a Jew. It's worse to be an old, ill Jew. But the worst is to be an old ill Jew, who has to provide for 200 children. But nevermind. I had a very successful day today. Jews! Listen to me! Jews! Don't let the Germans put you asleep! Don't let them remove you! I come from Lachwia! I ran away from Lachwia... I'll go to the girls. ...to tell you the truth. They will put you to death! They have furnaces... In which they burn Jews... Brothers! Maybe we should let the children go away. A few of them have some relatives, some will manage to go out... There must be some chance. Children have to be with the people. If the people die, they have no chance to survive, no future. We have to think only about one thing: to live through our defeat in the most beautiful way. Then maybe... We should let the children go out. No. We would expose them to fear and pain this way. No. Maybe we will manage to be fine. Everyone promised you the orphanages will be fine. That's right. Now go to sleep. Goodnight. Sleep well. Goodnight. I thought I wouldn't manage to come. It's getting more difficult. I brought the documents for you. You have to hide yourself, can you hear me? Maybe they really transport people to the east. They work hard in the fields... Jews are good for such a job. I saw it in Palestine. Doctor, I beseech you! You have to understand... The hiding place is prepared. We will bribe the guard tomorrow. Jerzy will come for you at 9. I hoped we won't talk about it anymore. I asked Jerzy not to. How can you propose me such a thing? What would you think about a mother who abandons her child? How could I abandon 200 children in time of misery? How is this possible that you, such a close person to me... are not able to understand it. If only some support could come. The removals will start. They did that in other cities. Czerniakow assured me they will leave us alone. Kohn and Gancwajch gave me their word yesterday. I wonder what would he do if I nodded to him, or wave my hand in a friendly manner. My bald patch is an easy target. He has a rifle so why is he standing like that? He has no order. Thank you, Father, for the magical mystery of Your tale. I am happy. I don't call you either just or good. I just say: my God. I say: my, I say: trust. All Jews out! Out! What's the matter? Fine, gentlemen. We will be ready in 15 minutes. Mrs. Stefa, in 15 minutes. Children, we are going on a trip. We put our best clothes on and pack our bags. We have little time, so we take only things we really need. Doctor, it's a very good Swiss passport. I've arranged everything. You will come with us in the first transport. Izaak, go downstairs and ask them to take the dogs out and not urge on the children. Children will go by themselves, in pairs. - Doctor, this is... - Do what I ask you to. What happened? They started to evict orphanages. What about Dr. Korczak? Do you know anything about the Orphanage? Get in! Hurry up! They couldn't take the doctor! - Mrs. Maryna? - Yes. It's Jzek. I'm calling from Ghetto. - They have just evicted the Orphanage. - How's that possible? I don't know. They took all of them. Doctor, Mrs. Stefa, all the children. They are walking with a green banner. Other orphanages walk after them. Hello, Mrs. Maryna? They are all going to Umschlagplatz. We have to do something. Jozek! I can't talk right now. I'll call you later. Hello! Mrs. Maryna, they are still alive. Call Czerniakow, he knows the truth. I have a letter for Dr. Korczak. - Doktor Korczak wird gesucht! - Doctor! Doctor! I have... I have an American passport! In September 1942, doctor Korczak together with his children died in gas chambers in Treblinka.
