 

                        (croud shouting) today`s hearing is about to begin. say what you want to say? we want to bring peace. your party is threatening more from all of them. please be patitian. that was the world where decent people live. and thats the world where those live, whom decent people call mad. trust me Mrs. Varocha thats why i want to give donation. We Care Hospital, is not hospital means.. we take it as tample not as hospital. the life we give to our pation, can not be found in any other hospital Dr. Malik, you know what happen yesterday. Karay Dayr, killed lot of people in Kaliya Wala Baag. i have just speak to Gandhi Gee. he is very sad. tomorow there;s a speah, out side of the hospital. Gandi Gee is cheaf guest Neru Gee, Sardar Patel.... Baghat Sing, Sukh Dev Rajguru.. Baktiya Tobe, will come with his grand son... Bhadur Shar Zafar is not feeling well. thats why he is not comming. his poetery will be read... togather we will show the white man.. how strong we are... Vande Mahataram.. Vande Mahataram.. Ganga Dhar, pation of skidzo phnia growing the progress of this hospital, day by day. even today some time he thinks, our country is yet not free. actualy he was writing a book, on freedom fighters. before he finished the book, he end up here. Vande Mahataram.. clean cloths are symbol of clean mind, and clean mind is symbol of clean world, Dabu, pation of Cnitec Mutizam no one knows about his background. since he was 4 years old, he is here. when did he last speak, no one knows, when he is gonna speak, no one can tell. what is his mistake? Dabu what are you doing? cant you see they are hiting dog with the cane but there is no dog here? neighter is cane....!! why country is disbalanced? Abu want to know why it is disbalance. because 1 man eats 4 men food and 3 remain hungry throing garbage like this, would make garbage every where. if there will be garbage every where, then the crope will be garbage too, and if crope would be garbage, then there will be garbage for food, here`s start the cleaning social worker. were you use to work for garbage department? if he would be in garbage department, he would not work. bad mannars dont put your foot on the chair. why you see every thing with wrong angle? maybe chair is under the foot... move you foot from chair or i will move the chair... can you? here;s the fight begin. Raja lntermetend Explosiv Disorder`s pation. his hands are always angry. before him, that impire whos head has been broke beacause.. he said his ball a No-Ball i think hospital shoud made earthquack prove... so then if earthquack come again, the chair would not break. what do you say Raja? why you do suck a work, which makes you embarass i can understand. because without madicion you guys are feeling uneasy. but i have told you, when you feel angry, count from 10 to 1, you will be calm. sometimes, there;s no chanse of counting.. Doctor every thing is all right at home, you daughter and husband? i want to check him, l am doctor, today i am on round.. he was doctory, few years back, now he is pation. Mr. Muker Gee, take off you jacket. and from today do not wear any doctors cloths. come;on Muker Gee Obsesive compalsiv disorder`s pation. he is cleaing freak, he can inslut you any where if he found you throing garbage. i condut group therapy program because. and there are changes.. see Dabu... couple of days before Dabu was not taking anything.. but now we know.. that he understands us. right Dabu? when you help eachother, in group. to win from you weekness like a team. thats why i want to take you guys, to watch india v/s england cricket when you will see the match of indian team. then you will understand. how indian team play like a team. when? i sould inform Gandi Gee. tomorow... on indepandance day there;s a match. where i want to take you guys do you know what you are saying? want to take those 4 guys to watch cricket match? i want to connect 4 of them with out side world that Raja, can kill when he is angry, Sonali, i am not against you. but 4 of them, taking out side....?? being scare if child would fall, doesnt mean never stand him. so how he is going to learn walking? you are older in age and experiance with me. you have teached me.. that brain pation should not treat with brain. should treat with heart. and my heart says.. how do i look? is this the time of asking that? have to go to watch match. you are not ready yet? hurry up!! we have to at 7 o`clock in the mornning. and its 3 o`clock night. have i become ready early? after such a long time i am about to see out side world.. the time wasnt passing, i was watching clock again and again, i thought watch is running slow. there;a enough time left. you go to sleep... so what time we are leaving? i think it would be good if we leave at 5 o`clock we will leave at 7 o`clock. right now you go to sleep. wake me up, do not forget. sure... even Gandi Gee would not that much happy at the 14th august night, wake me up.. sure... what happen, cant sleep? neighter me.. waithing is strange thing. being wait is bad. and when someone elss waits, its fun. no buddy waits for us. our story is same. i left my family and your family left you. i am going to sit in the front. you are from old world,,, stop it, i will decide.. while we are going ahead Mr. Mukergee you will sit in the front. Ganga Dhar Gee you will sit when we will come back. Vande Mahataram.. why did you turn off the radio? its ok.. its ok.. come out, one by one... first i will go out. no one will go out because the stadium has not come yet. then why the car has stop? there`s my clinic, at back in the building. i have to collect some important papers. you guys stay here. girl go alone out side, is not safe. take one brave young from us. thank you, you sit here, i will be right back. Mr. Mukergee, take care, no one will go out.. ok? ok. i am watching from outside no one will go out. no.. not you also.. all right? i will be right back. come quick i dont want to miss the begining. in cricket, 10 overs in from start, and 5 overs from last that;s the game only, only thats worth watching. then why they play 35 overs in middle? you know here they shoot alot. shooting? movie shooting... horror movies shooting, horror movie on movie was made here.. the name was.. doctor;s death. just like that. there was a car parked on empty road. one docktor was sitting in that car suddenly some guy come at the car;s window doctor is not able to see him, because he is ghost. and the ghost move into doctor;s body and then his neck... break like this.. help me.. what happen to dabu? see you scared him. he wants to pee.. you go do it.. no one will go out. its not allowed.. you do it here. he is cleaning social worker he will clean it. no no not here... we have to find restroom find is quick or he will make the car restroom. one minut.. where is restroom? every where.. no i mean the restroom where it is? where? yeah thats what i am asking.. thats what i am telling.. where it is? Tabu go there see that wall.. do it there.. no thats not restroom.. if there is no restroom there if will become tomorow. indepanted national from indepanted country. go do what ever you want to do with freedom. today the country has free and today you are make it dirty? keep eye on him. dont look at him he is blashing. keep eye on him. keep on eye him like he never know. ok. he was blooding like broken pipe. the doctor was huge, skiny, use to wear thin tie.. and 2 pens in pocket i am not that doctor. you went to pee or you went to build restroom? why you are shaking? he is such a small dag, come on in.. give me biskits where is Dr. Sonali went? how are you? dont ask.. see this whats the colour... you are mad, according to your lawyer`s patition. and the court has apointed the panel of 4 doctors to examin you. and the 4th one which is not for sale, has been crinap. tomorow 4 doctors will check you formaly, and they will write in there report that you are mad. and after that you will take to mental hospital from jail and taking you out from there would just like taking out money from ATM. do not foget while taking cash out from ATM the fun you had with the cash, was given by me. if i did extosation.. so i got protectiong from you. if i did murder. you removed the stains. you took food from all my cash. if i am gone.... then..!! your complete system its nich to watch match. super match.. nice playing... what a short, ball went like bullet. stay clam. dont distract anyone. what is clam? its 34 overs and you are sitting here?? wrong ball. i will compaine to Dr. Sonail like human... like human.. every time Dr. Sonali.. Dr. Sonali..? shut up..!! i am gone mad.. i ask the one to shup up who never speaks.. i think we should call Dr. Sonali from her clinic. no one can sit here... come on.. Raja... be human.. be human.. what is the score? today at the 60th aniversery of lndia. i am standing in front on that great man. who give freedom to lndia. let;s ask these guys that after how they are feeling? Sir, tell how you feel when you take breath in indepanded country? very bad small.. garbage is every where.. guttar is open.. too much moskito.. alot of desises... blood preasure, diabties.. etc.. very bad condision... can you tell me who has writen our national antham? Javed Akthar. would you tell us please? Ravindar Natego. best from the world, our Hindustan. best from the world, our Hindustan. you know, when Kalidas heard our national anthum for the 1st time what he did? you do not know Kalidas ? even i dont know him..!! but i have read about him. he was in army of freedom fighters. and when he heard our national anthum for the 1st time, what he did. what he did? he become freedome fighter. like this.. then? then he wore his softy like this. he open his home door like this.. and then? and then he follow the croud like this. best from the world, our Hindustan. best from the world, our Hindustan. Gangadar Gee seem like real freedom fighter. but Gangadargee didnt tell that Kalidas somthing.. did he came back? where were you that long? on long vication. you use to use i am very angry man. i should treat myself.. so i went.. i was there for 4 years. just came back. how are you now? same. mad. in your love. half team has gone. who is bigest doctor in Dr. Sonali`s absence? me... who is inteligent in Dr. Sonali`s absence? only me.. before Dr. Sonali come we have to find them, who is going to do that? only me.. so i am going you stay here... dont worry,,, how much? what wants it? i want it, you want it.. whole hindustan;s need it. our comming generation need it.. how much this freedome is for? stupid women. speak... i said speak.. freedom is on 50% off. its very cheap, take it.. no signal? signal are proper, i am standing under the signal. Vande Mahatharam, how are you? life in front of brother? i was dying to see you.. Bapu (Ghandi) you back off.. sms me.. quickly.. how is mother, Bapu? get lost.. you cant leave us Bapu, white man took our doctor. who;s uncle? who is he? he looks crazy.. i will also come with you Bapu. slap on other cheeck too. move move.. you can not Mad peoples. lts my home. l have to go this way. and you? l know you are angry. And your angrness is true. l have done a mistake. May l come to your home if you dont mind. l want to say sorry to your dad. for my behavior You was taken me to introduce to your dad and what have l done. please tune inn the bussines chanel. l dont know but. lf its not tuned inn so turn it off. Why are you playing wrestling with remote? You know you seems like my Aunt. She also watching T.V all day like you Till six months she haven`t talked to my uncle. All day just changing channels and watching T.v she has broken remopte many times. l am geting something to eat. So what do you do? l am a cricket player. So what do you do? l am a cricket player. l am not asking about your hobey. What do you do for living? l am playing cricket for west zone. well shikha loves you. l dont have any objection. But.. What happened? He slaped me. what? Your dad is manner less. He is smoking at my face. so you can`t tell me to turn. You can`t see that l am sitting here. you have to ask before smoking. How dare you to slape my father. get out just leave. you are sending me out. you send him out he watches T.V all day. you are sick. First you slape him and insulting him. you are mad. Am l Mad? Am l mad. So what is it? l am going and l won`t comes back to here. Dad... Raja. l was very wrong that day. No not a toll. Actually you was right. l left smoking. Shikha please come in. Yes. l am just coming. She is inside. But why you take her here? Dad he met me suddenly. He wants to meet you thats why. your engagment has sattled with tanav. So Raja what do you do? l am still comes back. From where? U.S.A, Canada? No no. from mantel hospital. What? Actuall l am a mantel patiant. And my anger is my problem. l dont have any control on my anger l becomes mad. So Raja which thing makes you angry? Anything. No no no l am not mad like this. Some things which l can`t undestand. Then l becomes violent for example. When someone smoke infront of me l mean. l just hate smokers. They dont think about others. So what do you do? l am a creative director in a news chanel named Aaj Tak. And Shika also works there. Yes l know. We have to engaged. she is so beautifull. l want to marry her tomorrow if its possible. Marriage. you want to marry her. You want to marry shikha. l kill you, l kill you. Raja. Somebody stop him. Leave him Raja. You scoundrel. Why you do this to me? l love you shikha. You come with me. Come with me. Have you smoked infront of him? l was just taken out the cigrate. What? l dont know what was l dreaming in a moment. l have to understand that no one can wait for 4 years. Why can`t? Why some one will wait if you go without any information from his life? What you think only you can be angry? l told you to go that day and you went. You wasn`t turn to see me at once. and after 4 years you feels that you was wrong. You have to say sorry to my papa. you have choosen a very nice way to say sorry. Yes l am still like l was. l was a mad and still l am. my Dr. was took me here and l dont know where she goes. And other mads was making me bore in buss. where is she now? how should l know. lts not my responsablity. -You are right its not your responsblity.. Because a responsable man do this. When was l need you so you behaves irrisponsable. And when they need you so again you.... You can`t understand that. Yes l will not. l dont care of anybody. Not also you. Understand. l am sorry. l am sorry. Why you hit me from back side? Why you comes from back side. l was watching you how you somes from here when you went there. Because this world is rounded. l comes like this. But you was come down from car at here. No was come there not here. lf you coming from there so your car have to be there. Yes it was there but where is it now? lt was not there it was here. lt was not here it was there. One minute. Let me solve this problem. lt was here and Dabbu was pieing here. no it was not here it was there and Dabbu was doing pie here. Ok lets show me. Why l do when l dont feel. Dont do pie just act like that. Like Dabbu? Yes. Dabbu was there. And car was at his back side. and you moved from here. No hold. What are you doing? l was telling you that Dabbu was doing pie here and car was parked here. Car was here not there. lts not important. But where is car now? we was thinking this. Where is Dabbu? we have to ask Dabbu about this Just follow me. -where is team going without captin. Do you want to eat? He is always ready to eat. are you a police man? Sir l think he is a terrorist. he dare to laugh infront of you. ok arrest him. hey come inside. Dabbu are you ok? yes. Hello who are you peope and where you taking this dog. What patiant what happend to him? He is mantel patiant he comes from mantel hospital. How you know that? We are coming from there also Because we are coming from there also. You have some to right place now give me 200 rupees and take your car i have many work. lts indipendance day so let me take bribe freely. My wife has told me to wear a new sarhi today. You are not feeling shame. You want to give a sarhi to your wife with bribe money. What`s to be ashamed in it? Peoples are taking bribe after wear flag. And l am wearing flag after take bribe What you want? Dr. Sunali is missing from last 5 hours please find her. lts just missing from 5 hours. She is a lady dr. and she will must eating spicy some where She will come there where she left you. And its not an police station understand or not? We can`t make a report before 24 hours. What we do now? Just make a call incoming is free. l have her number may l use your phone? Yes. Thank you. lts unreachable. Make a call to Malik she will find her. And after that he will fire here and take us back to hospital. Lets make a call to her husband at his home. But how we get the number of her house. Take it. ls it connected? Yes. l am talking to him please wait. Ask him that is Dr. Sunali there Tell him that Dr. Mukharji want to talk. l am talking. Hello listen. ls it Dr. Sunali`s house? Yes but Madam is not at home. Can l talk to her husband please? He goes for lunch in veni sons hotel. We have to go at hotel. We will take lunch there and meet him too. No, no who are you? why you bring me here who are you and why you take me here? What is happening and why are you showing me my husband on T.V What do you mean by showing my husband on Q.TV Not for your entertainment. Who are you? not for your entertainment Who are you? l dont have time to introduce my self and you dont have also. l have no time for introduction neither you have nor your husband the man who can shoot your husband by camera then how much time he requires to shoot him by gun Which can shoot your husband with camera. How much time he will take to shoot with gun. No please you will not do this. So you have to do. No, please you will not do anything like this Then you have to do What l have to do? What do l have to do? Dr. Sonali tomorrow you have anoppointment in Victoria hospital You have an apointment in victoria hoepital tomorow at 11 am Yes, it is You have to examine a criminal of naming Rana Yes. You have to examin a crimnal that he is mad or not - whether he is normal or abnormal tomorrow you have to go with us and - write that he is mad if you wouldn`t do this then first -your husband will go and then your daughter who study in Punch Street No, please don`t do like that l beg of you l will do as you say One thing must remember that after signing if you have feel any desire in you heart to speak truth then remember we can kill your husband any where any time. Mr. Khalil your glass is empty it is not allow in my party waiter excuse me One more large glass of juice. Juice! till now drink Viski He is drinking Viski but call it as Viski lf leader will drink on 15th August then it feel guilty Ok, yes Did you speak to Shinday? Don`t worry Mr. Sanial we have contacted each person of every party - you will have all the votes of national assembly That is why l relying on you l relying all of you don`t worry Arrive at 6:00 O`clock ok Sir, waiter Hi, Hi, What is going on? Who are you? Mr. Sanial we have to talk to you urgently ls this the way of talking? No, one is allowing us to meet you l am Raja and we are the patients - of your wife. Then We all four get away with her from the hospital and now she is disappear - since last few hours Disappear! Yes, she is missing Don`t be stop it is interruption by stopping please continue, continue continue l will take it, it is ok l will get it please continue please Loud speaker please Mr. Sanial congratulations your wife has agreed to sign your plan to kidnap - your own wife has worked. Hey, you have get your wife kidnapped? Please don`t ..... let me.... please get a side stop it get him up Has he kidnapped Dr. Sonali? Yes tell me where is she? stop it... let`s go Thank you Shrivastave you have come on time l have phoned you from the hotel`s lobby as the phone disconnected l felt that there - was something wrong who are they? Sonali`s patients when she was kidnapped they were at there yes, yep Kill all the four Don`t be stupid don`t here take them out Ok, take away Excuse me sir, close this it is bad manner lt seems that Baghat singh, Raj Guru and Chander sheker Azad all four are being taken to hang Dye my colorful cloths dye my colorful cloth Wanday Mahtarum Wanday Mahtarum Wanday Mahtarum Excuse me, Mr. Ghosh come in Ashtray, shut up gun, this way excuse me, stop there Who are you? taking guns in hand like that in hotel DCP Shriwastave crime branch l am sorry sir They four are terroist we were searching them - from last few days what kind of securities you have in your hotel This man is lying take him away Shirivastave, is itn`t there any mistake? lf you tell us that they four are also with - your wife then we lift all five. When l asked her to bring papers from clinic then l didn`t knew that they are also with her Don`t worry l will burry all four in so much depth that they four were with your wife your wife - will forget that and we also forget. l will burry all four in so much depth that they four were with your wife your wife will forget Dubbu, where we are going? Where are we going? Kakori, to rob the train but no one should informed Excuse me sir, how mauch far is Kakori? hey, do you have piles in your mouth? piles in mouth, how can it be possible do you have attack in stomuch? do you have conjecntivies then how - can be piles in mouth? l tell you the meaning of pile please stand up drive safely and slowly be safety Drive on the road don`t drive by finding pits on road lf there is a road then we drive here is dug there is dug ahead is dug and behind is dug and if there is dug then will be dug tomorrow - and how much dirty do you keep you vehicle see how much dust is over here What happened? lt has cut.. Take this up it will get air yes, right there this way Hey, what is all of this? Get out, you are taking my girl friend come out What happened? You have hurt in your finger we are coming here to see that who? - get down get down - keep you finger showing get down quickly you show me finger..... Hey, they run away get them Ghangawati... Ranjeet, run away Long live mother land Long live mother land You should be cought worst, sinner He is right when national anthem was playing then he pushed my wife Who they don`t respect nationals they are called country`s cheaters beat all country`s cheaters Please don`t do like this make a queue and beat them we have to respect them not to go with them get out from here, move hey, stop Hey, stop here what happened What happened? even Mhatma Ghandi didn`t make such huge run to British Great Ghandhi hasn`t also make britishers run like this as they are making us run. that they are running us why we are running, if we didn`t run they will kill us Why are running so much? lf we don`t run then they will kill us because we know the reality that they have kidnapped Dr. Sonali because of know truth about them that they kidnapped Dr. Sonali then why are they catching us we should catch them if they kidnapped then why we are running then we should catch him no, we should report in police no, we should report to the police brother they are policemen They are police men and police has kidnapped her police has kidnapped her just you said they kidnapped her But you have told that they kidnapped her they are those policemen who kidnapped policemen They are the same police men who kidnapped Dr. Sonali and get it that if we don`t run and you know if we will not run we will die then will be killed and then no one safe us and Dr. Sonali and then no one will save us nor the Dr. Sonali if we run like that then they will force us to run but if we run like that then they will keep us in running then we have to run them like a freedom fighter Punkaj Udhaas then we should make them run like freedom fighter Pankaj das freedom fighter Punkaj Udhaas Freedom fighter Pankaj das! he is Ghazal singer he`s a singer but he told me that he was the freedom fighter when i told you, you have told me that dog runs after Punkaj jee then Punkaj jee runs behind the dog then dog stop run and stop running him that was not Punkaj Udhaas he was Jatindaas and you increase your study Mukherjee shab hey, it`s all become udhaas udhaas how you forget the name but i remember the dogs name, what was name, who`s name, dogs name hey dog, shut up shutup, i am tired with you, i will kill you actually he was the Harichan jee see if we want to save Dr. Sonali then we should live like a team OK team, we have a team yes, we are the team and l am the captain just keep silent, do as what i say see if we live like team they will not able to do any thing for us now we will not run we will answer to them tell me first what is the question which question? you mean four mads are clever then you i think those four are more idiot then those mads don`t worry where they will go Patel, Yes sir seal the whole area inform all police station that catch 4 mad when seen any place OK, OK sir go hurry up they will not gone too far Shrivastav, if those mads told something about us if some, no, no one will trust those mads if some trust those mads then inquiry will begin all planning will failed, that was your planning Sahanial shab that kidnap my wife will declared that Rana is mad then we will take him out of the mental hospital then what because there was no other way after 10 days he has date in the court if he tell our names in court then i will loose my Presidential membership you want to become MP and here i will loose my job you businessman and politician can free after paying money i will be catch at the end this will all happen because of your wife Shrivastav, i didn`t dreamed that court will make the pannel of psychiatrist and Sonali is being nominated in that pannel what is the number of your wife`s hospital yes, Dr. Kapata here ACP Shrivastav here there are 4 patient left from your hospital they disturbe whole city sir there`s our doctor acompany with them. Dr. Sonali there`s no doctor with them wait a minute Sir, police is looking after those four if they contact you or come to the hospital call me immediatly note down the number we should call. Where? Hospital hospital. Why? we have to tell Dr. Malik that Dr. Sonali`s husband kidnapped Dr. Sonali phone, phone, phone, at seven number table excuse me gentleman, will you please give me a phone can l use your phone, do you have change of 3 rupees no, there`s no money we have if no money how you`ll make a call please one phone, one phone idiot are you. Hey what you said. give me what a stupid people came here oye, drop the phone every where they are British sitting Raja, Namaste yes, what, phone we didn`t sold phone i don`t want to buy we have to do the phone, it will cost you 3 rupees. do it but how can we pay, we don`t have money no money, that is your father`s shop Mukerjee, ldiot, l will kill you why you open your mouth i make a call first then i say no money, what he will do but you should tell us first your plan, we are team we make a phone from here it`s not free you have to put rupee coin in that we even don`t have 1 rupee no, no, then we should borrow that will you please give me 1 rupee. why, i want to call, why i give because i asked for so you should give me tomorrow you will tell that Musharaf is needing Kasmir do you think we should give where the Mukherjee gone ask him, check he has 1 rupee sorry to say Mister do you have 1 rupee, Yes l have thank you. stay there. He has the one rupee then why you didn`t take you only told me to check where is Daboo hello Raja, l am Dr. Malik Dr. Malik, there`s a problem here problem, Raja where are you? l am at PCO at front of Chitra Cinema what, at the front of Chitra Cinema`s PCO yes, Raja, what is the problem? our problem is that. Tell him we do not have money tell him that i am hungry please, l am talking, one minute. Good Afternoon. wait let me talk, l am talk you can`t see, one minute Dr. Shrivastav, shutup l am the captain of the team speak to our captain where is Dr. Sonali yes, i want to tell same think, hello Malik this is, hello, Doctor phone disconnected give it to me, i want to talk Hello Good Afternoon, Dr. Malik Sonali got kidnapped Raja gets too much power and there`s no message of Ghandhi Jee please don`t cross your line Mukherjee Shab you`re understanding what l am saying, this is not fair you given the phone to Ghandha jee you didn`t love with me it`s cut and you didn`t talk l was saying that this work has to be done my some intelegent person you do not deserve caiptainship Raja, where are you going? Raja, you do the efforts and we are with you. Raja, Raja sorry, sorry, go away you don`t understand i know we are in problem but more then us Dr. Sonali is in a problem she always help us today she need our help and we how we are behaving please, please i look mad, you are mad i won`t leave me, l will eft you you don`t know me, you made me mad yes, i am mad. this is the PCO what Dr. Shrivastav told me no, no, no, get him, no take them, get him it`s mean that hospital is too involved now Ghandhi jee will do he`s the one who free our country one minute, where is Mukherjee My Daughter those curtain are now? yes, good! how are you Dr. Sonali said l am better then before i went meet you several time you ignore to meet me i need water she miss you alot Dhristi there`s a phone from your hopsital they were asking for you didn`t you tell any thing? even l don`t know our Dr. Sonali been kidnapped by some one me and my team has to save her and l am the captain of the team team, they are others with you they are out side don`t go anywhere in this situation i won`t let you go no if i will not go today then then i will never come again can i help you? do you have money? if you don`t have then, it`s OK i will your money, no our money there are only four hundered at home keep them that are much, really enough Papa see this l coloured mummy and papa, see i made this house as well mistery house give me a star you don`t know how to made star see i`ll show you mem, Raja name guy want to meet you tell him l don`t want to meet him Sir, l am sorry, Madam don`t want to meet you she`s busy at the moment l talk myself you lazard what are you doing? Security Security! yes mam take them out, see comon go away, controle yourself what is heppening here it`s really important l want to talk to Shekha please Prana take them out Prana please let me speak to her hey Prana, no. will not fight even if we will die i said stopit Prana, what is all this heppeing they are coming inside without permission Shekha please i said once that i don`t want to meet with you go away from here Shekha we are in big problem please listen to me once just once not for me atleast for them they are my friends Dr. Mukherjee hello! he`s Daboo and he`s Gagathal jee you always tell me that l am self-centered man that i run from my responsibilities Shekha today i am trying to changing myself will you not help me to do so Shekha l need you and for always help us Raja! nothing happened if l agree no one reacts psychiatrist information and what proof we have that Sahanial and Shrivastav involved in Dr. Sonali`s kidnapping kidnapped first we have to find out that where Dr. Sonali is and Sahanial can only tell us that why Sahanial will tell us. Because kidnapped Kidnapped! you are trying to say that we have to kidnapped Sahanial kidnapping, that this is out of our rules you know actually he`s right by kidnapping Sahanial we can find out where Dr. Sonali is silent you people. Kidnapped. What? this knot is good for his neck what you people want? they want to kill you Mr. Sahinial i am the new reporter they want that l give this news on my channel that you kidnapped your wife but when i said no to them, they Kidnapped. i didn`t kidnapped my wife if you didn`t kidnapped her then where is Dr. Sonali. l don`t know her mobile is off too, before leaving the hospital in morning l talked to here and after that don`t know where she`s yes, then she will come, if she didn`t come. Then! then will go to the police. Didn`t you! that`s right, i will go to the police, right look at here and talk, don`t look there if my wife did come back, l will go to the police yes, Mr. Sahinial love his wife too much yes, i love my wife too much who ever will find her wife he will give everything to him who ever, why looking there talk and look at here who ever bring my wife back i will give him rupees i will give him who ever bring my wife i wil give him 5 million rupees hello where are you going? where are you going? please even they don`t know how to tight up the rope no no, don`t worry about me, you just run country needs you, will you manage door is there. Thanks such kind of tape will i play in my channel how you got such idea in your mind not in our mind but in Shekha`s mind please help us you people right now go out of my office now, try to understand this is important you too are mad with those made peoples then i am mad, i don`t want to discussed this issue Parna, this is request, please help us, help me sure, sure, i will help you i call the police, no. Parna Parna i know how to handle you the mad peoples like you Parna what are you doing? Stay away. Raja why you are counting, just hit him what? hit him sinner. good shot MP R.K. Sahanial`s wife Dr. Sonali Sahanial got kidnapped according to our information this morning when coming back from the hospital some guy kidnapped her her hustband Mr. Sahanial told us himself about this if my wife didn`t come back l will go to the police Mr. Sahanial announce that who ever find her wife he will present 5 million rupees to that man who ever find and bring my wife i will present him 5 million rupees god, they fool me that girl too with those four who ever got any news about Dr. Sonali he should call at 9821688800 they are thinking that due to public will find out the Sonali do one thing, file a report at the police station report for what? your wife being kidnapped by those Dr. Malik did you red about Dr. Sonali`s kidnapping l was scared about the same they can do anything Raghu Patel! Moree! This tyre must have to puncture now, Couldn`t you keep extra wheel, How do l know that? Doesn`t she become concious. lt`s a worth of 5 crore, Don`t worry, tablet will work one hour Only we have to raise her to news channel at any coast, Here every one`s share is 1.25 crore, Stop the taxi, What? We want to go Verli, Then come, who stops you? What are you doing? Don`t you read only four passengers, lt means only four passenger, Stop! Now we are four, Will you go? Now how much? Shut up, l think l have seen this girl before, Where? l don`t understand where? but l`m sure l saw her, Recall where did you seen her? Who saw? Whom? to girl, l`ve seen her, When she was sitting in taxi then l saw her, it was joke, Laugh, Where did you stop the taxi? We have to go news channel, Why you have to need to go news channel? News reporter will come to you, Heh Banjragi! Hey Bali! Who is he? He`s our news reader, Give a breaking news of them, Hello! Who is speaking? l am speaking, Taxi Yadav! Where are you calling from? l am calling from Ghorpare, What can l do for you? Forget do, die, She`s along with me, Who? That doctor, that girl of 5 crore. Sonali has found, What? Dr. Sonail has found, where she is? ln Ghorpare, Where is it? Mahalaxmi, l know the Laxmi but where is it? lt`s such a huge area, What`s news? Write down the address, Take it, 15 Dhobi Para near Bajrangi Akhara. Shikha is coming, we have to wait, Look, we don`t have a time to wait, Did you called? Yes! Where is Dr. Sonail? Who are you? l am Dr.Mukherjee, Dabboo, Gangadhaar That`s enough. They are literate people, speaking in english, They are same, come on come on, Bajrangi Bhaiya show all of them, What happpen? where is doctor? l tied her with clothes here, then where is she? l can`t find? Hey lmli! l am coming, What happen? why are you shouting? l tied a bundle here where is it? l send that, Where? to Dhobi ghat, Dhobi ghat? Tell me which bundlem? l tied her in white bundle, Can`t you tied in black bundle? What are you looking at my face? Find the bundle, Open all of the bundles, Help us! Help us! Excuse me! Sorry! Gangadhar! Dabboo Let`s go, Dr. Sonali! l have to complain about your husband, OK! Gangadhar call for the streture, Where we find the streture? Come on let`s bring Papa, Mishra, when Raja shows up then you catch him from behind and you will insert him injection. No Sir, You handle Raja l`ll handle others. Poor, Look Who is dead in the morning? Dr. Sonali you have an appointment in Victoria Hospital at 11 :00 a.m. Stop! Stop! Stop! please! l have to go Victoria Hospital. lt`s matter of someone`s life and death, please give me lift. Get in, Get in, Thank you. Rikshaw! Stop the car, l am getting late, Please do it fast. Hello! Raja! Where are you? l`m following Shrivatsav, But why are you following him? Why he`s going in Victoria Hospital? Raja, Today at 11 :00 there`s a medical examination is going to happen of lnternational Criminal Rana in Victoria Hospital. Four psychaitrist are there Oh! My God! ls there any link between Dr. Sonali kidnapping with it. Excuse me, Excuse me, l`m Dr. Sonali! l have to examine one patient. But Madam, your patient hasn`t come yet. You please sit in the waiting room, When ever he`ll come, we will inform you. Shit! Come with me, l know where to go, Ready one two three go. Come on, come on. get back, get back, please, Doctor your patient has come, You can come, Thank you, Officer. Hey! Just sign the paper quick and finish it. Where are the other three doctors? They are inside. You! Dr. Sonali, we want to talk you on important matter, you come inside, What`s going on here? l told you l have to go. After that you do this crap. We are deciding about you that how to announce you a mental case. But where is Mukherjee? Thank you, lf you won`t help us then.... Say to misty then l miss her. l want to come back. l will, soon. Promise. Come on, ls everybody fine? Dr. Sonali. how are you? l am fine. How are you feeling? OK, You looking patient. Go! Are you all right? Shrivastav! How`s it going? Our job has done, lt`s done. Good! Your wife is just coming outside. Let this matter finished then take Rana from here.... Hi! Oh! My God! l was worried for you, sweet heart. l was worried for you, Are you all right? Sonali, Why did you do that? Why? What are you talking about? What am l talking about? Why l didn`t understand? that only my husband was known. that l am going to clinic in the morning. Then he sent me there, To pick up the papers. Then why it didn`t come in my mind? that... you... May be l love you a lot. Sonali! l was in trouble. That`s why you used me. whatever l`ve done, l am really very sorry for that. l am not crazy. Why you`re taking my snaps? We have to take criminal`s picture from every angle. That people remember his face very well. What do you mean? l am a Criminal? You can see, DCP Shrivastav is standing behind me. Who kidnaps Dr. Sonali. What are you saying? He`s a criminal in police uniform. Criminal? Me? Yes! What rubbish? Who says that l am a criminal. Yes! Me! l saw... Kidnap, To kidnap Dr. Sonali. He`s crazy. He`s crazy. Who will believe crazy? Yes we are crazy. We are crazy because we don`t know the rules of society. where four people call crazy one person then he`s crazy. And a normal man.. who is dangerous criminal. there is only a need of four signatures to make him crazy. Who is signing. A crazy decided that how much he is in senses, We are, who give him vote and sit him on the position. We are biggest crazy of him. We four are curing to ourselves. that we should enter in your society. Societry where... where we have to pay fine to break signal. but there is no fine to break some one`s heart. lf you broke some one`s head then you`ll be punish. To brake some one`s trust. there is no punishment of that. We are crazy that we need a clean society. society won`t clean to clean streets. Who will clean the mess in the mind? l`ll clean the mess in your mind. lt is the problem. We know. and may be it is wrong to know that smuttiness is in our mind. Bhagat Singh was also crazy. Becuase he was known that we have to free our country. What he would? He was mad. Somebody should hang on death in age of twenty three. lf you shut your ears then intelligent and if you won`t then crazy l will tell Gandhi Jee lf he will meet me. How many childrens crying here? We want to go back to hospital. Take us back to hospital. We are not able for this society, No. Raja! This society is not able for you. Today, a honest and true men like you are not in society. Here, every human lives for himself. And he kills his owns.
