 

                        Are you looking for someone? Dado. - Dado who? Dado Delic. Never heard of him. - Do you live here? - No, I'm just waiting for someone. - Hey, you ready? - Yeah, let's go. He is looking for Dado Delic, do you know him by any chance? l know Dado, but he hasn't lived here for a long time. - He got married. - Do you know where he lives now? He lives not too far from here, on Kasim Efendija street. His wife's name is Selma. - Take care. - Good luck. Earlier today by your entrance, why did you tell that man you knew... ... some Dado? - Because l do know him. - From where? He used to live in my building. Were you friends? We weren't really friends. He was part of the older crowd. The older kids didn't hang out with us younger kids. Sometimes they would send us to buy beer or cigarettes, or they would kick the football over the fence and send us to fetch it. Sweet fear. He was strange, and a bit shy. He never said hi to anyone. Right at the beginning of the war, his parents were killed. His brother is a Bosniac war hero, who died in the fighting. Dado was also injured. At one point, he just lost it mentally. He was gone. I'm not sure how... but he slowly recovered. He met a girl, and things seemed to get better. They married and they moved away. That's nice. But I heard they got divorced. So why did you send that man to see his ex-wife? l didn't know where else to send him. Maybe you should have said that you don't know him, or at least that you don't know where he is. Maybe you're right. Yes, hello. Good day. ls Dado there? Dado hasn't lived here for seven or eight years. Are you Selma? No, I'm the new tenant here. Do you know where they are now? They divorced a while ago. Selma died three years ago. Last l heard, Dado went to Zljebovi. Someone else told me that he might be abroad. We came to the refugee centre. They gave us some pillows and linens. They showed us our rooms. We headed upstairs. When we turned on the lights... ... I'd never seen a cockroach before. And we turned the lights on, and the cockroaches, scurried away from the light. My wife started crying. Forty families, two washrooms. l feel bad for all those people coming here. Those poor souls who came here. Future cheap labour. American, Canadian. Same shit. Capitalists. I don't know anymore. Are you listening to me? Look at him, he's asleep. l talk nonsense anyway. President Josipovic congratulated me on Serbia's efforts to deal with organized crime, and our continuing strong cooperation with the Hague tribunal. There was also discussion of Serbia's EU membership talks. Soon, we also hope to find ourselves a part of the Union. In Zljebovi, an unusual story has been circling for years. Dalibor Dado Delic, member of the Republika Srpska division SK, disappeared during the war. But Zljebovi's residents claim they still see him from time to time. Yes, he did come. About fifteen days ago. He used that road. Dado, along with other members of the division, is on Interpol's list of wanted people. He is also wanted by the Bosnian police for war profiteering committed during the '90s. I saw him about 15 days ago. I saw him here, by these large trees over there. He was coming up that path over there. That's when l... ... continued working and by the time I turned to see if he was still there, he was gone. Before that, l last saw him three years ago. While his uncle was still alive. He was officially last seen shortly after the war, but the villagers of Zljebovi, where some of Dado's family lived, say that he still makes appearances from time to time. Police have been collecting stories over the years. No one spoke with him. We just think it's him. When we did see him years ago, the man resembled Dado, or at least the way we remember him. His body has never been found, so some still believe that he is abroad. However, no evidence exists that he ever legally re-entered Bosnia. My name is Miro Kalinic. l was born in 1973 in Trogir, Dalmatia. ln Trogir, l went to elementary school Rudjer Boskovic. ln Split, l attended secondary school. My father is Jozo Kalinic. Mother, Anica, maiden name Dokic. Parents never liked Ivana. Ivana and l decided to go to Germany. We left by boat for Italy. From Ankona we went north by train. ln Venice, we were caught in a general strike. We took advantage of our bad luck and toured Venice. ln Venice we met a truck driver. He was transporting bars of soap. With him, we went to Hamburg. Ivana and l separated in 1994. She left for the Netherlands. ln 1995, mom and dad passed away. ln 1997, l came to Montreal. ln 1999, l moved to Toronto. ln 2003, l moved to Toronto. I've been to Montreal, I liked it there. It's a nice city. Do you love Marina? Yeah, I guess. Why wouldn't l? The more l think about it, the more l realize l shouldn't have come here. l should have stayed with Ivana in Germany. You always... never mind. Then why didn't you stay? l couldn't fall in love with anyone after Ivana. Then why didn't you stay with her, what was the problem? Venice. Venice fucked us over. What do you mean, Venice? l don't understand anything. We went to Italy from Croatia. Then by train we headed north. When we arrived in Venice, we got caught in a general strike. Once we left the train, we met a man transporting soap. He agreed to take us with him to Germany. That's where all of our plans changed. Are you saying that because of that strike, you aren't with Ivana anymore? l don't understand, but it doesn't matter. What is there for me to understand? There are more sandwiches. Take more if you want. One girl is dead, while dozens are injured in a bus crash. Good evening. A horrific accident has taken place on the road Han Pjesak Sokolac. One girl died and 34 children were injured after a bus flipped over. No one has determined the cause of the crash. The bus driver has been taken to the police station as the investigation continues. There were 51 passengers on the bus at the time of the crash, including 46 children. Observers note that in this tragedy it is lucky that there were not more casualties. The tree which stopped the bus from rolling further, prevented a bigger tragedy. At the scene of the tragedy, a crane has been brought to move the bus out of the ditch. The bus is in a horrific condition, which further attests to the plight these children went through. The children were sleeping when they were awoken by screams and the rolling of the bus. The driver was there and kept saying, "I couldn't break, I couldn't break." The driver most likely didn't start breaking early enough, and the road wasn't clear of snow. When he did break suddenly, he lost control of the car. There have been many such accidents on this particular bend of the road. It is obvious that this is a very unsafe stretch of road. However, there is still no conclusive evidence as to the cause of the crash. From the scene, emergency vehicles took the injured children to the Kasindol hospital. Thirty four children were hospitalized. Seven were kept under observation, but none are in critical condition. They really came through and helped us, like our own would. Please don't be offended, but I can't give any other statements at this time. One child has died. The news will be passed on to her parents. Hey, how are you? What's up? Did you go to Pero's party by any chance? - l couldn't make it. - l think you're avoiding him. - I'm not, l just had other plans. - Sure... Listen, I was wondering if I could leave some of my things with you. Where? l don't know, l was thinking maybe in the garage. - And for how long? - I'm not sure yet. - Can we do it Saturday? - This Saturday? Sure. My truck doesn't have much room, so make sure you pack everything well. l will. Thanks so much. - Take care. - Bye. - ls this it? - Yeah. - Did you want any of the furniture? - No, I don't need anything. Do you need an apartment? Pero is looking for a roommate, call him. I don't need Pero, I need a break from here. And where exactly are you going? Anywhere. I just need a break from this city. I'm sick of this shit. How did it go at the funeral? Not well. Most didn't even show. They blamed the snow. l worry that mom won't be around much longer. We help her as much as we can, but she gives everything to my brother, and that idiot just drinks it away. Why don't you bring her here? She would never leave Bosnia. It just keeps getting worse there. They decreased their pensions again. How is Sarah? - We're not together anymore. - Why? - She seemed good for you. - Please don't start now... I'm not, I'm being serious. You've totally lost it. What's the little one up to? Not much... I'm taking him to basketball practice later. But he wants to play soccer. He knows what's good. Chasing balloons. And Marina? She's good. But she's huge, you'll see. - Is it going to be a girl this time? - l don't know, we didn't ask. As long as the kid's alive and healthy, that's all that matters. How did it go at the funeral? Not well. Most didn't even show. They blamed the snow. l worry that mom won't be around much longer. We help her as much as we can, but she gives everything to my brother, and that idiot just drinks it away. - Why don't you bring her here? - She would never leave Bosnia. Do you happen to know Dado? Dado isn't here. He used to visit. It was about three years ago. He had some family problems, but he didn't stay very long. Some say he left the country, but I'm not sure. What happened to him? He was in the special forces during the war, the Republika Srpska army. The war changed him. He became more anxious, quick-tempered. It was hard on his family. I'm not sure if we're talking about the same Dado. l think we are, if he's Delic's nephew. That's him. He wasn't a bad fellow, but after the war... The war took its toll. Come in. - Are you Mr. Delic? - That depends on who's asking. Sorry for barging in like this. No problem, come and have a seat. - I'm looking for your nephew Dado. - Let's first have a drink. - Alright? - Sure. Cheers, and welcome. Thank you for having me. Dado comes here often, but we have nothing to talk about anymore. Your neighbor says that he hasn't been here in over three years. He's wrong, he knows nothing. - When was the last time you saw him? - He was here about a month ago. And then left to visit his aunt in Sokolovici. Sokolovici? You can sleep here. Good night. Good day. Have you seen Mr. Delic today? - Who? - Zdravko Delic. Are you crazy? He died three years ago. Where are you heading? - Hi there. To Sokolovici. Come in, l can take you as far as Gerusa, it's close to Sokolovici. Thank you. Where you were standing, there was a bus crash a few months ago. The bus had about fifty basketball players, mostly girls. They were coming home from Brcko. One girl died and about ten were injured when the bus rolled over. Emergency crews came from nearby towns. From Eastern Sarajevo, Sokolac, Rogatica. It could've been worse. The villagers were the first to come out when it happened. All of us helped pull them out. When the police arrived, they determined that one had died. The passengers were in total shock, especially the trainers and coaches. The driver also wasn't himself, after he realized what he'd done. He didn't adjust to the driving conditions at the time. I'll be making a left here. Follow this road to Sokolovici. - It's not far. - Thank you. - Good day. - Good day. - Are you Ms. Delic? - l am. - And who are you? - I'm Miro. - Miro who? - Dado's friend. Please have a seat. l feel like I'm intruding, were you about to leave? l have time. I'm waiting for a friend. - l wouldn't want to bother you. - You're not, please sit. Has Dado passed trough here recently? Dado hasn't been here in a while. When did you last see him? A long time ago. Before the war. He spent one night here. He said he was heading for America. l haven' seen him since. That was eighteen years ago. I've been looking for him. I'd been told that he came to visit a few weeks ago. He hasn't. I've asked around if anyone knows where he might be. But no one knows. Here he is. He looked the same the last time l saw him. When he visited before the war. - How have you been? - I'm good. I'm here in the summer. Close to nature, clean air. But l spend most of my time in Sarajevo. When l think about the day we arrived in Canada, l was with my ex-wife then, and we had a dog. An immigration officer approached us and said, "The dog is not allowed in the refugee centre." Have you ever been in a refugee centre? I felt sorry for our dog. We came with him all the way from Sarajevo. And he wasn't allowed in the refugee centre. They called a few organizations. The Humane Society, you know the one for animals? And they said, "We will take him but," "it will cost $35 a day." $35 a day! l only had $150 when we arrived. lf that even. Then they called again and said, 'lf we wanted to, they could put the dog to sleep for free." l was confused, l didn't know what they meant by sleep. And then it dawned on me, they wanted to kill him with a needle. But they would do it free of charge! Fuck them all. Their peacekeepers. Fucked up peacekeepers. While in Sarajevo, during the war, some of them sold chocolates to kids for 30 Deutsche Marks for each bar. My father lost 38 kilograms during the war. While the dog died six months after we arrived. For my mom SEKA NEZIRA DRLJACA =tosem=
