 

                        What a mess! Krishna... Krishna... Krishna... What am I going to do with this boy? Krishna... Yes, grandma? Whose sketch book is this? Mine, grandma. And who made these sketches? Grandma, why do grown ups sometimes ask childish questions? If it's my sketch book, obviously, I've made the sketches. Grown ups talk like children when children act like grown ups. Tell me something, how did you make such beautiful sketches? With this. Like I've made your sketch right now. See? Wow! Let me see! Rohit loved drawing too. Papa made sketches too? Yes. When Rohit was your age and he used to get tired studying he used to sketch. I want to be like my Papa too. You are like your Papa! Mrs. Mehra, I've called you here to tell you that... we want to take Krishna's I.Q. test. I.Q. test? But why, Father? Krishna's absolutely normal. No, Mrs. Mehra. He's not normal. What are you saying, Father? Are you telling me... that Krishna is the same as Rohit was in his childhood? No, Father. Krishna's a very bright child. He scores very good marks, he always gets A-plus grades. He even does his homework without any help. And that of other children too. What? This is the notebook of a Class 3 student. This is... ...Krishna's handwriting. Yes, Krishna has done this child's math homework. But how's that possible, Father? Krishna's still in Class 1. That's exactly why we wish to take Krishna's I.Q. test... so that we can ascertain just how bright, sharp and ahead he is... of other children his age Krishna, how do you define amount? Principle plus interest is equal to amount, sir After what age does the brain of a person stop growing? After the age of 15, Father. What happened, Mrs. Mehra? The I.Q. test was going so well, Krishna was answering all questions right... That's exactly why I brought him away. But why? You ought to be proud that your grandson is so brilliant. He's a genius, a miracle child. Earlier it was a hunch but now I'm sure. The powers that Jadoo had bestowed on Rohit... ...have been inherited by Krishna. You will see, Mrs. Mehra. Like his father... ...Krishna will also achieve great success. His name will appear in the Guinness Book... ...and the whole world will speak highly of him. That's exactly what I don't want, Father. What did Rohit gain, after all? They gave him medals, applauded him... but everybody only used him... ...took advantage of him, Father. And then... ...I lost my son and my daughter-in-law. I don't want to lose Krishna now. I don't want to lose him. I can understand your concern and fears. But destiny cannot be changed. And talent is a gift which cannot be hidden. I will hide it. I'll take Krishna far away... ...very far. Krishna... Krishna... Coming, Grandma! Toofan, let's see who gets home first. Hey... what did you see? As usual, I've seen nothing and I won't say a word to anyone. But as usual, I'll take something from you. Take this! I hide all your secrets and you always give me jaggery? It won't work today. Ok, ok, come home... I'll give you Bournvita. Bournvita? Yes. Don't you want to be like me? Yes! So go, wear something below and come. Krishna... You've come? Grandma, how do you know I've come? I make no sound at all! I can hear your heartbeats. But how, Grandma? Your eyes say that you've been up to mischief again. Mischief? Not at all, Grandma! No mischief? Then why're you hiding your face like a thief? Not hiding, just washing my face, Grandma Ok ok... lay the breakfast. I've come! What happened? Chintu dropped a glass, Grandma... Me? Chintu! Up to mischief again? Tell her the truth, Krishna, else I shall. Sure, go ahead I'll tell her since you've asked me to Grandma, Krishna was running faster than Toofan today What? Faster than Toofan? So? What's the big deal? And how about that? What? You climbed the mountain faster than the monkeys... Grandma, you know that tall mountain by the temple? Krishna jumped from it into the river. I thought it was all over. But he came back! Krishna, why do you do such things? I've forbidden you time and again! Why do you still do such things? What do I do Grandma? You tell me! How do I rid myself of loneliness? Who do I make friends with? Boys my age have gone away to the city, to either study or earn a living And those that are here don't want be friends with me They say... I'm not like them So I've made friends with animals and birds Keep myself busy with nature. But even out here in the open, I sometimes feel stifled I feel like running far away from here. Will you leave me and go away? It's because of you that I don't go! Else, I'd have left long ago Krishna has grown up, Rohit I'm not sure how long I will be able to hide him Where is Sonia Mehra and her grandson Krishna, Father? It's the third time in so many years that I've come to ask you And my answer is still the same. I have no idea where Mrs. Mehra is. I really don't know! Why do you keep coming to me again and again and waste my time? Because you are the last link to Rohit Mehra's family... and you're the last person Sonia Mehra met before she went missing You know where they are, but you're lying. What? You are lying, Father. When I asked you whether Krishna possessed the powers Rohit had... you said he didn't. But I was told... that the son was better than his father That he possesses all of Rohit's powers. So tell me, Father... I'll pay any price you ask How dare you! Mr. Sinha, this is a school! We don't indulge in business here! Please leave now! You're making a mistake, Father. A big mistake. Krishna! Look! What a huge kite! But where's the string? Must've snapped. Let's get it! Don't scream! You needn't be afraid Close your eyes and hold on to me tightly Stop screaming! Else, I'll drop you. Close your eyes Close your eyes, not widen them. Close them! Close! The glider came this way! There it is! Where? Up there! Oh my God! Where's Priya? There! She's breathing. She must've passed out Let's take her back to the camp The glider was at such a height, Priya Ma'am was down here... ...and she's still breathing? Just imagine! Just imagine. Imagine! Where am I? You're alive and you're with us Thank God you're alive. Not God, it's that boy we ought to thank That boy? Which boy? The one who saved my life A boy saved you? But there was no one there No sir! He must've been there! We fell from the tree together. Together? But you went in the glider alone. How did he come on the tree to rescue you? Did he fall from the skies? Yes sir. That's where he came from! Priya, trust me, you were all alone. Right? Ghost! What happened? G-H-O-S-T! Komal sir, ghost! Ghost? What are you blabbering, Bahadur? No blabber, sir. It's a chant. To drive the ghost away. What rubbish, Bahadur? Ghost in broad daylight? This is a jungle, sir! Night and day are all the same here Priya Ma'am, was he tall? Yes Well built? Yes! Fair-skinned? Yes! Kalicharan! Kalicharan? Kalicharan? Yes, sir! Kalicharan's ghost! Been wandering in the mountains for ages... upside down on trees Just imagine! What nonsense! A ghost in our times? I don't believe all this. I also don't believe all this! What happened? What happened? Relax... Sir, it's either a sprain or a fracture Oh no! We're here on a 10-day adventure camp... ...and you've already broken your foot! Honey, take her into the tent and give her first-aid Careful... Bahadur, go to your phone booth and call for a car We need to send Priya to the city for treatment I'll go at night, sir. I feel scared by day. What? Yes! Kalicharan's ghost. Scares people by day and sleeps at night. Just imagine! Easy, easy Just relax. I'll organize a painkiller C'mon guys. Let's go You're always screaming! Doesn't your throat hurt? Your eyes are widening again! You must never get scared... What happened, Priya? Why were you screaming? Honey, he was here! In this room! He was here, Honey! Who? Who was here? The boy who saved me on the tree... the one I told you about, sir... God! What's happened to this girl? Priya, it's just 2 seconds since I left... Are you saying that someone came and even went away in the meantime? You must've dozed off and probably had a dream. I didn't dream! Why doesn't someone believe me? The moment I closed my eyes, he entered the tent... he twisted my ankle and the pain... Hey! The pain in my ankle is gone! See! The pain has disappeared! Oh my God sir! My foot is all right! Look at this... I can jump! My foot has become all right Either this girl has really gone mad, or she's conning us! No, sir! I'm not conning you! See... I can jump! Believe me! I believe you! Kalicharan has cured your foot Just imagine! Kalicharan? So this ghost is also a doctor? Not is, was! Kalicharan's father, Lalcharan. Doctor Lalcharan. There's no Kalicharan, there's no Lalcharan... it's a pack of lies! It's some stupid local boy playing a prank on me I'm going to find him today, bring him before everybody... and prove to them that he's just another boy! Are you looking for someone? What? You! I'm looking for you! Where do you keep disappearing? Why don't you appear before others as you appear before me? And that stupid Bahadur keeps telling them that you're a ghost! You... you're not Kalicharan, are you? You're human, aren't you? Why are you kids giggling? Who are you talking to, aunty? Aunty? Firstly you call me aunty and then you ask who I am speaking to? I'm talking to this boy! Which Boy? Can't you see this boy here? That's a lamppost there, not a Boy, That's a boy Lamppost Boy! Lamppost! Shut up! One moment. Please Listen... What do you see there? A boy? Or a lamppost? Well... there's neither a boy there nor a lamppost. Look carefully... What happened? I'm feeling giddy. You seem unwell My house is nearby... come rest there for a while I'll get you a glass of water Okay! Why's his picture garlanded? My son. He died 20 years ago But how's that possible? Moments ago, I... It's a tragic tale that took place 20 years ago Champa and Kalicharan Kalicharan and Champa. Madly in love with each other They were like one soul two bodies. And then one day... What happened? Kalicharan was putting some flowers in Champa's hair... Lalcharan happened to see them. He went red with rage! And one day, he deceived Champa into drinking poison, in the name of medicine And poor Champa! She screamed, "Kali, Kali..." ...and died. Just imagine! Kalicharan just could not bear the pain of Champa's death Over there! Look at that peak! From that very peak, Kalicharan screamed, "Champa, Champa..." ...and jumped to his death! Ever since, Kalicharan's spirit has been looking for his Champa! Why're you pointing towards me? Because you are his Champa Me? Champa! I mean, you look like Champa I'm feeling terribly scared. We can't stay here anymore, please Nobody goes anywhere! This silly Bahadur talks a lot of nonsense... ...and you start imagining? Bahadur, you're not telling these kids anymore stories. Understand? And now get ready. We're going mountain-climbing You will use ascenders to climb... ...descenders to come down. And you will come rappelling, down. 'right sir. ok sir' Ghost! Priya! What... what on earth is that? Kalicharan! Just imagine Can't imagine Temperature. 104 degrees We had told you sir. But you didn't listen. Sorry, sorry We're not staying here any more Bahadur, leave immediately. And arrange for our transportation. Go! You've snatched my bread and butter. I'm broke even before I could make some money. Just imagine! Why did you climb the mountain like that, in front of them? What could I do? She screamed so loudly... ...that I got scared And now they are so scared, that they're all going back. Now keep searching for your Champa all your life! What do we do, Bahadur? How do I know? I did as you said You think of a way now Idea! What? Champa-ji... My name is Priya. In this lifetime In your earlier six births you were Kalicharan's Champa This is your 7th birth. If you leave without meeting him, he'll be very angry... And he'll follow you wherever you go Just imagine! How will he follow her? We're going back to Singapore He can reach Singapore too! He doesn't need air tickets Bahadur, she's not meeting any ghost! What if something happens to her? This ghost is a gentleman, ma'am. He hasn't harmed a soul Am I right? Yes I leave the rest to you Wait Bahadur! Honey... Yes? I think he's right You're going to meet him? Yes. Only then will he find peace And you better not stop her if Kalicharan gets to know... just imagine! No! I wasn't stopping her! I was only advising you, right? Listen, you must meet the ghost. He's such a gentleman! I'm off to sleep. Bye, good night! Champa... Champa... Hello! Kalicharan ji... Here I am... ...to help you get peace Please... could you appear before me? "I feel scared" Do ghosts also feel scared nowadays? "I'm not a ghost" You aren't a ghost? Oh yes, I get it... it offends you when someone calls you a ghost, isn't it? And you're right! You've ended your life for love And those who end their lives for love aren't ghosts... They are... they are... They're lovers! You're a lover, aren't you? I'm Krishna Look... stay right there! Don't come closer, okay? You sent for me and here I am. You'll get peace now May I go now? All I want is friendship Friendship? Hey... don't be afraid. I'm as human as you are Touch me if you can't believe that. Touch you? I'm sorry See? The color of my blood is red, too. Are you convinced now that I'm not a ghost? If you're not a ghost then that picture? That's my father's photograph. He's no more I look exactly like him. I see But the other day, how did you suddenly get on that tree to save my life? And yesterday! How did you climb that mountain so fast? Maybe because I've got used to it Right from my childhood, I've grown up playing among the trees and mountains... ...with the birds and the animals. I spend most of my time here I guess that's why they're my friends Would you like to meet my friends? Wow! I still can't believe it! I won't let you poke that pin again! It hurts because I'm not Kalicharan. See? He's not Kalicharan! I've always been saying that! That's what you're still saying. I'm Right! Kalicharan! You're so cute! Krishna, you really got us scared. But that was a nice prank. Boys and girls, camping continues! Krishna, you also join the group! Just imagine! C'mon! C'mon! Come From where are you getting a flower of a new color every time, Krishna? From the rainbow. The rainbow? Yes Look Wow Krishna! It's such a beautiful sight Had I not come here, I'd really have regretted it So would I I've never seen such a lovely place. It's so beautiful. So pure, so serene, so quiet You should see this place in autumn. It's a riot of colors When the sunrays touch the fallen leaves, everything turns to gold It's so beautiful Makes you realize what a great artist God really is Krishna, you speak English? And with such fluency? Grandma taught me. She's my school, my college and my university But you need talent to learn anything, Krishna And you possess amazing talent. You're amazing! You shouldn't be wasting your talent in this remote village You ought to get out of here. People in the world out there... ...not just need talented people like you, they appreciate them too But my grandma is my world I will never leave her. You love your grandma very much? More than very much Krishna, I want to meet your grandma ADLABS "Look, even the breeze..." "even the breeze now rises in a wave..." "having touched you..." "secretly, quietly" "There's a joy..." "there's a joy that now sings..." "having met you..." "secretly, quietly" "It just doesn't seem as if you have come from somewhere far" "For yours has been the face I have dreamt of" "Your path is the one I'd like to follow." "It's the first ever journey thats been so enjoyable" "Changing colors and smiling..." "are the desires of my heart..." "secretly, quietly" ADLABS "There are moments in life that get etched in memory" "And there are those wonderful people who never leave your heart" "Everybody understands the language of the heart" "it connects even with strangers," "Dusk seems to be saying something to you and me..." "secretly, quietly" ADLABS Grandma... this is Priya. Hello, Grandma We've met before. I remember. Tell me something... Why did you go away, the other day? I fled, grandma! Out of fright Krishna was playing a ghost to scare us Ghost? And that well-built Komal Sir was trembling in his boots! He was down with 104 degrees fever! What? 104 degrees? Is that true, Krishna? You shouldn't play such pranks on anyone, my son Why scare someone so much? Did you apologize? Yes, Grandma. To everybody Priya... tell me something about yourself I live in Singapore with my Mother. My father is no more I'm here in India on a vacation with my friend... Her family lives in Chandigarh I see I'll go and wash my hands Priya, for how many more days are you here? Days? we're leaving today. In fact, right now Oh my God! I must leave now. Everyone must be waiting for me. Here's my phone number. Whenever you come here again... ...please give me the opportunity to serve you again Where's Priya? There she is! Hurry, we've got to leave. C'mon, everybody! Get in! Nice meeting you. we really enjoyed your company, Krishna. We'd love to come back. It was great fun, Krishna. Thanks, Krishna! I had a wonderful time with you. I didn't even realize how ten days have passed by Really! I'm going to miss this place... And you, too. Look after yourself, Kalicharan. I have to go now. May I? May I go? Krishna, how will she go, if you don't leave her hand? Bye, Krishna Bye Priya... See! Looks like you're no longer Priya. You've become Radha. Krishna's Radha. What? I seriously think Krishna has fallen in love with you. I hope not... Honey, pray that the boss' mood is ok, we're five days late. Hi! Honey. Hi! Priya We are saying hi to them, Why're they waving five fingers at us? Stupid! The five fingers stand for five days. Oh my God! You mean boss too... You took a leave of 15 days... ...and have come after 20! So you girls are now fired! Why just India? Go on a world tour! Go! Stop, Priya. Sorry boss, but you can't insult us. Yeah? Yeah! Boss, you can't question our integrity. Agreed we were on a leave of 15 days But on the 16th day we got to work What amazing work have you done? We have found an Indian superboy. Honey! What are you saying? Let me speak, please. Boss, this boy scales high mountains as if they were mere steps for him! He runs faster than a horse! And guess what? He puts his hand in the river and pulls out fish! Just think of it, if a boy as talented as him were to come here... ...your rating's are going to soar! Just imagine! I hope you're not trying to make a fool out of me? No way, boss! You will believe it too... ...when you see him doing all those incredible things here! See him here! How? How's he going to come here? I tried to stop you, but you just wouldn't listen! Please, Priya! There was no other way of saving our job. Besides, what's wrong if Krishna comes here? There you go again! Relax! Sit down If Krishna's talents are showcased on our channel... ...he'd be the one who'd gain. Name, fame, money... He'll have everything! He'll be a big man! Just think! I know you're right, Honey... ...but Krishna will never leave his grandma and come. She is his world. But now you are a part of his world too. I know. Now do as I say. Call for Krishna! Phone... Phone... Krishna, phone He's coming! Who's coming? A boy? Is he an Indian? Does he live here in Singapore? Have you finally chosen someone, Priya? There you go again, Mom! I haven't chosen anyone So choose one! I will... ...please leave now, we got to save our jobs. And when will you settle down? Tomorrow Call from Priya! Priya? Hello, Krishna... Priya... How are you? I'm fine, but I don't like anything Me too I can't sleep Me too I want to meet you Me too He's not saying anything more than "Me too", so what do I do? You continue reading, read from here! Priya, why are you quiet? Krishna, can't you come here and meet my mother? Your mother? Yes, if you don't meet my mother... ...she'll get me married to someone else. Someone else? No, I won't let that happen! I'm coming there, Priya! But... how will I get there? Yes... how will you get here? Hello, Krishna! Don't worry. Just give the phone to Bahadur? Krishna! Aircraft! Singapore! Priya Ma'am! How? When? Just imagine! ADLABS "Come, let me tell you a love story" "There was a boy and there was a girl..." "She smiled" "He smiled" "Little did they know what was happening" ADLABS "What they couldn't say till then, they started saying..." "what they couldn't hear till then they started hearing" ADLABS "It brings a smile to my face to see us falling in love..." "We're lost in love" "The world didn't matter to them anymore" "There was a boy and there was a girl..." "she smiled, he smiled..." "little did they know what was happening" "Come, let me tell you a love story" "There was a boy and there was a girl..." "There was no yearning, there was no aching..." "they came together... their hearts skipped a beat" "There was no yearning, there was no aching..." "they came together... their hearts skipped a beat" "What was destined happened..." "They got lost in love" "They got lost in love" "Oh, how one heart ruled the other!" "There was a boy and there was a girl..." Grandma! I am here Grandma! Grandma! Put me down What's the matter, Krishna? You look very happy today. Grandma, I got a call from Priya! You told me that she'd forget me? But it's not true, Grandma! She misses me every moment. She's always thinking of me! And she keeps seeing me everywhere! And I never told you... ...I've been in a similar state. Ever since Priya has left, I never liked anything. But today with her call, I feel better. Grandma, Priya has called me to Singapore She wants me to meet her mother. Her mother? Yes If I don't go and ask for her hand... ...her mother's going to get her married to someone else I said I wouldn't let that happen, I'm coming. I did the right thing, didn't I Grandma? May I go, Grandma? It's only a matter of a few days, grandma I'll ask for Priya's hand in marriage and bring her back with me May I go, Grandma? You're not answering, Grandma When you've already decided to go... ...why ask me? Go on. Go. You aren't happy, Grandma? Don't you like Priya? I like Priya... ...but I don't like the idea of you going so far. If Priya really loves you... ...she can also come here with her mother But you're not going there! Why not? I said you're not going, it means you're not going That's it! But why can't I go? What's going to happen? I've been hearing this since I was a child! Don't go here, don't go there, don't do this, don't do that... ...don't go to the city with your friends! Forget the city, you don't even allow me to go beyond the river... Why? Now you've become so big that I have to give explanations to you? You'll have to tell today, Grandma! Why do you keep stopping me? Why can't I go anywhere? Because I don't want to lose you So what do you want then? Cut me off from the world and keep looking at your face forever? Bang my head on trees and mountains all my life? You want me to be alone all my life? Is that what you want? But I can't do I that, Grandma! I have my own life too... ...my own dreams. I too want to achieve something! I want an identity for myself! You don't want to lose me, even if I have to lose Priya You can't see me happy I have always obeyed you. And you can't agree to my one request? Today I realize, how selfish you are! You only think of yourself! Only yourself! You don't care for me! Had my parents been alive, they'd have understood my feelings! They'd have let me go, they wouldn't have stopped me! I wish your parents were alive. I wish! I'm sorry, Grandma. See these stars, Krishna... ...with these infinite twinkling stars in the sky... ...you, your father, your grandfather... ...and I share a very deep relationship. Your grandfather was a space scientist One night, he started receiving a reply to a signal he had sent to outer space Suddenly, we saw a flying saucer in the sky... ...the car swerved out of control I survived the accident... ...but your grandfather. I was pregnant with Rohit at that time... ...he had sustained a head injury in the accident... ...because of which he was born abnormal. ...even when he grew up, he had the I.Q. of a child. One night, in our small town, a huge spaceship descended. Some Aliens emerged from it... ...but one could not go back. And that is how Rohit met Jadoo. Jadoo had supernatural powers... ...which he passed on to Rohit. Rohit changed completely. Jadoo eventually went away... ...but he did not take back the powers he had given to Rohit. And thereafter, everything changed forever. My son could do things that were impossible for an ordinary human being. It was around then that Rohit married your mother. And very soon, his fame spread across the world. The chairman of the world's largest Information Technology Company... ...invited Rohit abroad. Thank You. Welcome to Technotronics. Come with me, Sir Dr. Arya shall be here shortly Mr. Rohit Mehra? I'm sorry to keep you waiting It's all right, Sir. I was, this book... Oh yes, that's the first copy of my latest book. Please read it and give your opinion. It's a wonderful book, Sir. You've done a lot of research. How can you say that without reading it? I've already read it, Sir. Read it? There are printing errors on page 126, 244 and 354 I've marked them. You've read this 400 page book in just 10 minutes? I forgot who I was talking to. Asking you such questions is an insult to your talent. It's an honor to meet you. The honor is mine, Sir. I still can't believe... ...that I'm standing face to face with a great scientist and innovator like you. Your achievements in the field of wireless communication... ...is no less than a revolution, Sir. You've invented the palmtop. People can watch cricket matches on their phones, thanks to you. I have a new dream, Rohit. A new vision... ...lf this dream comes true, it could change the destiny of the world. And I need your help to realize this dream. I want to build a computer that can see the future. That can see the future. Future? What would you like, tea or coffee? I understand your dream, your vision, Sir. You want to combine astrology, astronomy and technology... ...to build a computer that can see the future. Exactly! That's precisely why I've called you here. Because the people I have here are trained... ...not gifted like you. What are you thinking, Rohit? Sir, if we can really build a computer that can see the future then... Then, think of the good we can do for this planet and mankind! Wars can be prevented Earthquakes, famines, floods, can be prevented. Even if we can't prevent them, we can at least be prepared for them. You've already started seeing the future, Rohit. Welcome! In the hope that this union of brilliance and vision will become history. Create history! It took him two whole years... ...but Rohit achieved the impossible... ...he built a computer that could see the future... ...It was around the time when you were going to be born. Hello? - Mom? Rohit, I've brought Nisha to the hospital. That's where I'm calling from. Congratulations! You're going to become a father anytime. Come back soon. I'm coming, Mom... I'm coming! Rohit? What's the matter? You sound tense. I've been exploited. The world is very selfish But don't worry! I'll be back soon! But my son did not come back. Moments after you were born, we received word ...that a fire broke out in the lab... ...and they couldn't save Rohit. Your mother couldn't bear the shock... ...and passed away in a few days. When you were five years old... ...I got to know that you too were born with extraordinary powers... ...that Rohit had. I got scared. I didn't want the world to know about you. And that's why I brought you here... ...a place where nobody knew us. I didn't want to lose you at any cost, Krishna. You no longer want to see my face... ...but I'm living only for you, Krishna Yes, I'm selfish, very selfish. Grandma? What are you doing? I've taken out some of your father's clothes. You can't go to Singapore like this! But Grandma? I could shield you from the world... ...but not your heart. Go, bring Priya here. Krishna... ...stay carefully there Eat and sleep on time, don't talk too much with anybody. And don't get into any trouble... ...whatever you do, make sure you behave like any other man. Don't get carried away to do things that make people realize... Who I am? Right, Grandma? Yes, my son. Don't worry, Grandma. I won't let anybody know about me. I'll keep my strength, my abilities and my talent... hidden. That's a promise, Grandma. Welcome to Singapore, Sir. - Thank you. Your welcome sounds different... and nicer, today. Good afternoon, sir. A very good afternoon, Dr. Mathur. But sir... - Yes, yes, I know... I've come a few days in advance. But I couldn't help it. I've waited so many years... ...but now that we're so close to success... ...being patient is very difficult. Must say you and your team deserve credit... ...for making my dream come true again. Sir, the credit goes to Rohit Mehra... If it wasn't for his notes and research... ...it was impossible to build that computer again. Absolute genius! - You're right, sir The computer that Rohit made in 2 years... ...has taken us so many years to make. That's why I still miss him. Excuse me People say "Who has seen the future?" But in a few days, you and I... ...will change this forever. Breaking news! After years of struggle, hard work, research and patience... ...Dr. Siddhant Arya's most ambitious project is about to be completed. According to our correspondent, in just a few days... ...Dr. Arya will be able to predict the future of individuals, countries and the world! He'll also be able to change the course of their destinies. And the truth is, one who can see and change the future... ...is considered like God! Wrong! Not Like God... He is God! I will be God. Now no one can stop me. We're already late and then this is how you park the car? I can't even open the door! How am I going to get out? But neither can I! Great! Let's just sit in the car and stare at each other! You always mess things up! Krishna's flight must have landed... ...he must be looking for us. I'm sorry, Sir! You're not hurt, are you? Krishna Krishna, you're looking is so good in these clothes. They are my fathers. Krishna, welcome to Singapore! O my god! You look so handsome! You two have come alone? How can two people be 'alone'? No! I mean, hasn't your mother come with you? Mother? Is she also coming here? It would've been nice if she were here. I'd have asked for your hand and gone back to India immediately. Grandma's all alone, you see. He's in a tearing hurry! Has he brought a priest along to solemnize the wedding? Shut up! What happened? Well actually, Mom, you know... Her mom's gone. Yeah she's gone... Gone? To Hong Kong Yes, Hong Kong! Hong Kong? She'll be back in 10-15 days Yes, she'll come. 10-15 days? But what will I do here for so many days? Why Krishna? Didn't you take us around your village when we came there? Now we'll show you our city. This is your apartment. This is your living room. This is your bedroom And these clothes are for you This is your cell phone. It has all our numbers. You can call us anytime. But why can't I live with you in your house, Priya? Well... Because mom... ...is not around Yes! Mom's not around wouldn't be proper Hey! My phone is ringing! It says 'Mama' how do I take the call? Looks like I gave you my cell phone by mistake, Excuse me. Hello Priya, I have good news! I've found a boy for you. I'm busy right now. I'll call you later, Mama. It was your mom's call? Let me say hello to her. No, it wasn't mom It was my uncle. I could've said hello to him. Does he live here too? Yes... No! He lives in India. I see, where in India? Krishna, we've got to go to office. We'll give you her uncle's address later. with pin code. But we've got to leave now. Bye! Bye! - Bye How many lies do we have to speak to cover up one lie? The excuse of an uncle saved us today! - Tomorrow it'll be an aunt! There is no dearth of relatives. Relax! Did you see his eyes? They were full of love and trust. Honey, I can't do this! I can't hurt Krishna anymore. Hurt? He's going to become a celebrity thanks to you. And we'll get a promotion. And even if he gets to know, a small lie is not going to hurt him What happened? You? How did you get here from the 20th floor? I took the stairs. Stairs? Actually, Priya, I've got something for you... What? I'll go get the car ok? Close your eyes. Priya, why do you widen your eyes whenever I ask you to close them? Open them now May I put it on your finger? Give me your hand Looks nice? Yes, now it looks nice. Okay bye. - Bye What happened? I'll tell you later, lets go! No money- Okay Brother! Thank you. You're welcome Kristian Xuan Zhong Min Lee What? My name... too long Short? Kris Lee, okay? Oh, okay! Kris Lee. Nice name. My name is Krishna... Krishna Mehra. Krishna? India? Yes, India I work here in the Great Bombay Circus Must come, okay? Okay. Sunday, Okay? Sunday, okay. Ten days will go by in no time. Tell me how are you finding it there? Its very nice, Grandma. There are a lot of high rise buildings here. And my apartment is on the 20th floor... And I'm talking to you from the balcony right now. Ok, ok, take care of yourself. And give my love and blessings to Priya. Just imagine! That's the name of our new show. Can you imagine a human being climbing a tree faster than a monkey? No... isn't it? Well after watching our show today. You won't just imagine, but also believe that is possible. Get set then! On one end is the world famous orangutan Mao... ...who in a blink, will climb this pole. And on the other side is Indian superboy Krishna! What's happening here, Priya? What happened? You brought me here to watch a shoot! True. But then I thought if you can watch a shoot, you can even perform in it! But how can I climb the pole faster than Mao? Like you climbed the mountain! The zigzag manner... remember? But what if I lose to Mao? I'm sure you won't. But what if I do? well... I'll marry Mao then. No! I'll never let that happen. So do it please! It'll be great fun. Fun it will be. Sir we're ready Ready is it? Chao, is Mao ready? Ready Krishna... Ready? Priya, there's just a pole's distance between us and our success! Not a pole, it's just a moment. Stupid! Taking Roll camera Action Cut! What the hell is this? Boss, it's all about brotherhood Shut up! Sorry, Sir Come on Mao, come on Roll camera... Action Cut! You stupid ape! I've paid a lot of money for you, okay? And I'm tired of you monkeying around You don't get your act together; you're out of my show. Okay? I've straightened a lot of these smart alecs Roll camera! Action. Where is the fish? Cut! Roll camera! Action. I'm not going to the circus with you. Strange! Why vent your anger against Mao, on me? How can I help it if he refused to climb the pole? And the fish... instead of coming into my hand... They palmed off a can, a shoe and that... Wow! Priya smile! In India you caught the fish so easily! Actually those fish knew me, they stood by me. But you're not standing by me! I've come to stand by you for life, Priya. For life? When my mother asks you what you do? What will you say? I'll tell her what I do Love you. And... what else will you say? I'll fulfill all your wishes, look after you. And? I'll never let a smile leave your face. And? Whether times good or bad we'll always be together. just like eyelashes are with the eyes. And? You will dream and I'll fulfill them. And? In the scorching heat of the sun, I'll be your shade. and in the cold, I'll give you warmth. When the rains bother you, I'll change the course of the clouds. and when a storm blows... I'll turn the winds away. That's how I shall protect you all my life... from every danger. from every trouble. Now I hope your mother will agree? ADLABS "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "what have you ever done?" "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "what have you ever done?" "what have you done in this world?" "If you've never fallen in love" "what have you done in this world?" "If you've never fallen in love" ADLABS "you have set foot, On the moon" "you've made an abode, in the seas" "But have you taught those crying" "how to laugh?" "Even God will smile and ask you one day" "heart" "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "what have you ever done?" "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "what have you ever done?" "what have you done in this world?" "If you've never fallen in love" "what have you done in this world?" "If you've never fallen in love" "Life's also a circus" "straight now, upside down in a moment" "Those who get love have things straightened out" "else, they keep hanging" "It's the simple truth, believe it" "Heart..." "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" "what have you ever done?" "what have you done in this world?" "If you've never fallen in love" ADLABS "One more time" "If you haven't taken a heart" "if you haven't given your heart" Fire! Help! Priya... My daughter... My daughter, she's trapped inside please somebody save my daughter Help! Help! Mummy papa Help! Somebody save my sister's life! Is anybody there? Help me! I'll keep my strength, my abilities and my talent... hidden That's a promise, Grandma. Help! Help! Somebody help! Help me somebody! Please help, help! Help! Help! Somebody help, Mummy Papa! Look! Mummy, Papa! Our daughter is inside, Please save our daughter, sir... Please save my child! I beg of you, sir. Please! save our daughter sir. Please! Help! Help! Somebody help! Help! Help! Come! Come! Who... who are you? Krrish Friend Friend Priya! Are you all right? But how did you get here? You had fainted. I had gone to get some water for you... God! What a blaze! Come, let's go home. The most sensational news in Singapore right now is the circus blaze at Marina Bay which took place last night and the daredevil masked man savior who, in a flash, rescued many victims trapped in the fire and has become every child's hero overnight but his identity is still shrouded in mystery. Till yesterday, we only had a description and a picture of the masked man. Today, we've got to know his name and also got a piece of his mask. Let's find out how. He said his name is Krrish and this piece of the mask broke from his forehead. So his name is Krrish! KRRISH! But his identity is still shrouded in mystery. Whoever Krrish is, a bravery award and cash reward of 25000 dollars... has been announced in appreciation of his courage. So how are we going to identify Krrish? The one, whose mask this piece matches with, will be considered to be Krrish. And he'll be the one to be rewarded. Krrish! Krrish! After all who is this Krrish? Listen carefully, our priority at the moment is Krrish. Only Krrish! Get that? Krrish's identity... Our channel should be the first to reveal him! Do you get that? Our channel must be the first one to unmask this masked Krrish! Get it? Stop nodding and leave! Go, get him! Go, go! Where are the two of you going? To look for Krrish. Ah, forget Krrish. And look for a new job. New job? You both are fired. What? You better go back to India... and enjoy your Krishna's flute playing. Don't waste your time, Go, go! Out! Thanks to Krishna we're jobless. Now what do we do? Honey, I think Krrish is none other than our own Krishna. What? Yes, Honey! At the circus, I saw Krrish from such a close distance. I have a strong feeling that Krishna is Krrish. So why didn't you tell this to boss at the meeting? Because I wasn't sure, I need to confirm it first. Confirm? How? Listen, I have an idea... Honey, these guys? Priya! I've hired some actors. But I'm a bit late... I'll be there soon. What? So who are these guys? Oh my God! Help! This is now mine... bye! I'm so sorry, Krishna. I'm so sorry. I thought you were Krrish and planned my own kidnapping. But then, real goons turned up instead of the hired ones. Real goons? But why didn't you hit back? Why did you quietly take their beating? I wanted to see... whether it hurts you to see me in pain. It does. Where's your ring? Maybe they've... Who's he? Why's he here? I think he's the masked man. Masked man? Get him. I'm sorry, sorry. My friend Krrish! I'll tell everyone, I'll tell my sister. No, Kristian. Don't tell anyone. Why? You become famous! You'll get the reward. Here, Kristian. You become Krrish. Take it. Get the money for your sister. Make her legs good again. Take it! No, it's yours. You are the hero. Every human being who fights for a good cause is a hero, Kristian. You... are fighting for your sister. You are a hero. The biggest news of today! Superhero Krrish has revealed his identity to the media... and the broken piece of the mask fitting his mask has confirmed his identity Here today, Hero Honda is honoring Krrish for his bravery Well done young man. Thank you Not once did it occur to me that Kristian could also be Krrish! He was also there at the circus that night! Had it struck me that night I wouldn't have got a thrashing! I've said sorry, haven't I? What else do you want me to do? Close your eyes... again you... Now open them. How did you get it back? Krrish, he's my friend. Wouldn't he do this much for me? Thank you, thank you Take it Won't you put it on my finger? ADLABS "where the rays of the sun come from" "where the rays of the sun come from" "where the rays of the sun come from" "Where the moonlight dwells" "comes news" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "Where sleep hides" "Where sleep hides" "Where sleep hides" "Where dreams are made" "comes news" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" ADLABS "Flower, butterflies, the buds..." "they're all sulking" "Flower, butterflies, the buds..." "they're all sulking" "From them you have stolen..." "their ability to evoke love" "their ability to evoke love" "Where colors are created" "Where colors are created" "Where colors are created" "and beauty is crafted" "comes news" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "You have stolen my heart" "do you realize that" "You have stolen my heart" "do you realize that" "In you lies all the love in the world" "In you it lies" "Where people go crazy in love..." "Where people go crazy in love..." "Where people go crazy in love..." "Where Lovers Are Born" "comes news" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" "there's no one like you" ADLABS Priya! Move from there. Priya, you're watching TV here and there boss has ordered to vacate Krishna's apartment. Hello! Are you listening? I am & am not. What's this? Remember the explosion at the circus? I had passed out, but I think the camera was still on. Now switch off the TV and think about Krishna! Please! Oh my god! What happened? I'll rewind and show you. Krishna is Krrish! What happened? Why are you girls screaming? Where are you both going? Mom Office! I'll see you okay. Office? Come on Honey To get our jobs back! Ok bye! Priya, your mobile. Hello Priya? No, I'm Priya's mother Mother... hello. When did you return from Hong Kong? Hong Kong? I didn't go anywhere... I've been right here And who are you? It's me, Krishna. Krishna, who? Priya has told you everything about me, hasn't she? No, Priya has said nothing about you. You are Priya's mother aren't you? Yes... I'm Priya's mother. Where's Priya? Priya left for office just now. Office... Right... Thank you Priya, do you realize? Once this footage is telecast... Our Krishna will become a world famous celebrity! There's something about our Krishna! He fooled us so convincingly. In India, as Kalicharan, and here, as Krrish! Didn't I tell you Honey, the truth always comes out? Look Priya, the truth about Krishna the world is about to discover... ...is because you lied! The lie that you love him brought him here all the way from India. And imagine! Now we're going to create a big sensation! You're right. A lie sometimes leads to very big gains. You didn't even tell me! What could I say? When his honesty turned my feigned love into a genuine one... I didn't even realize I'm in love with Krishna, Honey Krishna, Krishna The culprit has been caught at last! He did his best to hide his identity, you know But I finally discovered who the real Krrish is! Why did you lie to me? Why did you keep me in the dark? Where was the need to hide behind a mask, even with me? You're asking this Priya? Someone who has never been honest with me Someone who kept me in the dark till today I have been unmasked Priya. What about you? What do you mean? Why did you lie to me that you loved me? I took your lies for the truth and came here. to ask your mother for your hand in marriage But you lied about her too! yes, Priya I've spoken to your mother Krishna... I'm sorry I admit, I lied to you in the beginning But now... I really love you Krishna Stop it, Priya! Stop it! you may have more lies to tell me But I don't have the strength to take them for the truth anymore! Listen to me, Krishna! I've done all this only for you I wanted to see you become a very big man and that's about to happen in just a few hours the whole world will get to know about your extraordinary powers and talent that's exactly what I didn't want Why do you think I wore the mask? because I had promised grandma that I'd keep my identity hidden that I would not let anyone know about my powers and you grandma was right people in the world only use each other for their own selfish reasons She tried to stop me, but I... But why does your grandmother want to stop you? Why does she always want you in front of her eyes? Why doesn't she want the whole world to know of your talent? Is she not being selfish? Priya! You really want to know? Then listen! having lost her son, grandma did not want to lose me because I posses the same powers but she still let me come here for you for my feelings, she gave in But what do I tell her now? Krishna, listen to me... Krishna! Krishna... Hello Honey We've got to stop the telecast of Krishna's tape Why? don't ask questions now, just stop the telecast but the tape is with boss My god, where's boss? I wish to thank all my investors in Singapore they are the ones who really deserve this applause for having had faith in my various projects I'm delighted to announce that our company, Technotronics... has made a profit of 400 million dollars this year I therefore announce 100% dividend to all our shareholders Any questions? Yes? Dr. Arya, congratulations on the phenomenal success of your company my question is 20 years ago, you tried to make a computer that could see the future What happened to that dream of yours? 20 years ago, you must have had a lot of dreams too... Did they all come true? Pardon me? some questions hurt the media ought to understand that dream died with the death of my genius friend, Rohit Mehra But from what I've read and heard of you, Dr. Arya... you don't ever accept defeat I'd have tried to win... had my genius friend been alive Any further questions? excuse me sir, I need to speak to that lady for just one minute Please! Krishna Anything left to say? Yes... This gentleman has something to say Who are you? My name is Vikram Sinha What do you want? Don't go back the way you came. What does that mean? I mean, you came alone don't go back alone. Krishna, your father, Rohit Mehra, is still alive. What did you say? This picture was taken when your father worked for Dr. Arya And I was the Senior Security Officer at Technotronics. He was younger to me in age, and I was a junior in status. And yet, we were very close friends. not only because we were Indians it was because of the sincerity in his smile and the honesty in his eyes. He was always smiling... but someone cast an evil eye on him. It's been so many years, but that time... seems to have frozen. That day, he was working till morning... because he had to complete his project and go back to India. Good morning, chief Mr. Vikram? Welcome! How are you this morning? I'm doing fine, chief but if you keep working round the clock like this, you're going to get insomnia I won't have to do it after today. Once the computer is inaugurated today... I'll hand it over to Dr. Arya and return to my family in India. Don't mind, chief... but I still can't believe that we can see the future. Not believing does not change the truth, Mr. Vikram. You will believe it, when you see it? What? You mean you're going to... Of course! Come see tomorrow, today and tell me how it feels to see the future. Please hold this. Retina scan, an identification of my eyes These 2 identifications of mine are the password for this computer. Without which, it won't start up. But when you're not around, when you've gone back to India? I'll change the password before I leave After that, only Dr. Arya will be able to start the computer. Tell me... What would you like to see? I... I don't want to see anything, chief! But you said your wife is pregnant Let's see whether I'm going to be an uncle to a nephew or a niece? Ok then... let's find out. Nisha! Nisha! My darling baby... Look, Nisha, your son looks just like Rohit. Now go to your Mom. My son's coming back to me. Congratulations, chief! Your wife's going to deliver a baby boy tomorrow! But I'm going to distribute sweets today! In fact, right now? What did you say? What happened to my Rohit? What happened, Mom? No! That's impossible! My Rohit can't be dead! My Rohit is alive! No! No! Which means, I... Chief, the computer's malfunctioning! Something's wrong with it! Dr. Arya! It's 6:40 there, it's 6:30 now! This means, in just 10 minutes! in this very room! Look! Dr. Arya! Have you heard of Shahjahan, Doctor Mathur? Of course! He built the Taj Mahal. Incomplete knowledge is always dangerous. Shahjahan had the hands of workers who built the Taj Mahal, chopped off! so that there would never be another Taj Mahal. Rohit Mehra is a worker for me and I'm his Shahjehan. You mean, you're also going to cut off Rohit's hands? No... his brain! because Rohit's brain will create problems, for himself as well as for me. Actually, I'm going to feel very sorry about it because Rohit is a very good boy. Sincere, honest, intelligent... They're coming here, chief. Please leave! No, no! I'm won't let this computer go into the wrong hands. I'll destroy everything! All right! I'll try and stop them! Hello! Mom? Rohit? I've brought Nisha to the hospital. Congratulations! You're going to become a father anytime. Come home soon, son I'm coming, Mom! I'm coming! Rohit... What's the matter? You sound tense? I've been exploited, the world is very selfish! Don't worry, I'll be back, I'll be back soon. Rohit! What have you done? I've destroyed your dream... I've destroyed everything! because I've got to know of your intentions But those who know me also know that I never accept defeat. I'll rebuild this computer using your research. But I don't need you anymore. Thank you so much for everything, Rohit Good bye Hold it, sir! Don't kill him, sir If you kill Rohit... then even if you build the computer again you'll never be able to start it You need a password to start the computer and the password is Rohit himself. What? Yes, sir I've seen it with my own eyes. Until scans of his retina and heartbeat are fed into the computer... the computer will not start. This means, I'll have to keep you alive till I don't build a new computer. But die, you will. For the world. Breaking news. Tragedy strikes! Following a fire that broke out in the lab of Technotronics... The famous Indian genius Rohit Mehra has met with a tragic death. Let's observe a 2-minute silence, so that Rohit Mehra's soul rests in peace. Ever since, I had no choice but to work for Dr. Arya. I couldn't even go to the police... because if Dr. Arya doubted me, he would've killed me. And I was the only man who could get in touch with your family. That's exactly why I've been looking for your grandma and you for so many years. And finally, I met you today, through Priya. Dr. Arya 20 years... for 20 years, he's kept a mother away from her son and a son away from his father It's because of his lies that I lost my mother. Where is my father? Here in Singapore. For 20 years Dr. Arya has used machines to keep him in a state that only his brain is alive, his body almost dead. Good evening, my friend Rohit Mehra How are you feeling today? Are these machines taking good care of you? Yes? Good! Tomorrow's the glorious and historic day when my, sorry, our computer will be inaugurated. Yes! Ours, because nothing was possible without you For so many years, you have shown such patience and understanding and cooperated with me. When the computer starts tomorrow your utility will come to an end, and so will your pain. See you tomorrow Breaking news! Dr. Arya has suddenly been reminded of the poet Kabir. Do today, what you must do tomorrow... and do right now, what you must do today. That's why, Dr. Arya has decided to start the computer today itself. and also end Rohit's life. Is this where my father is kept? Yes! But it's almost impossible for a stranger to get there... Dr. Arya has kept very tight security everywhere on the island So that now no one comes between him and the computer Krishna, if Dr. Arya starts the computer how much havoc he can wreak and the destruction he can cause, is unimaginable mine... yours... ours, the worlds destiny will come in his clutches. That's why, Dr. Arya has to be stopped at any cost. Now you have to save not only your father but the whole mankind, Krishna. Hello. Krishna? Grandma! Krishna, are you okay? Yes, Grandma I don't know why I'm feeling worried. When are you coming back? Come back soon Your father's death anniversary is nearing, you need to be here and fulfill the duties of a son. I remember, Grandma. don't worry... I'll fulfill all the duties of a son. WELCOME TO THE FUTURE Congratulations Sir! See, Rohit I've won! Now if you want you can end your life. Or do you want me to help? But what's the hurry? At least see how your invention is going to make me God! Rohit, we built this computer so that we can see our future and change it! I will also change my future and show you Today itself! Dr. Arya's gone to look for the masked man Masked man? Kristian! Krishna Look Dr. Arya! Come on, let's go! What had Kristian done? Why kill him? Dr. Arya has probably started the computer and, he must've seen... His future! It will be just as Dr. Arya has seen. I've changed my future! I've changed my tomorrow! There is no mask any longer... Henceforth the new face of God is... Dr. Siddhant Arya! How is this possible? I've killed him with my own hands. Then... who's this? Its 9:15 there and it's 9 here. This means, he'll be here in the next 15 minutes. that means he is already on the island! Stop! To capture him we need planning not power. Dr. Arya has kept very tight security everywhere on the island. You're good! Very good. But I'm better Yes, I am better Because I have seen the future. But due to lack of time what I couldn't see is what I want to know... Why do you want to kill me? And why do you want to rescue Rohit Mehra? Who are you? Come to me and give me the answer. come! I've told you, I have seen the future And I know who is with me... Hello! and who is against me So... please cooperate Who are you? We'll get to know right now. Who... are you? Your son... Krishna! Mom. Thank you, Jadoo. Thank you
