 

                        Hey, Where is he? Sleeping well, huh? oh it's like this. huh? Hey, Wake up! Here's your passport and car key Enjoy your trip and have fun for us too. yeah! Being drunk and on a plane doesnt mean you can go grabbing the flight attendant's boobs. Let's go. What a bastard. Later. Bye-bye. See ya! let's get wasted at aey's house Later. Bye-bye. See ya! Hurry up Wait up. Go go bye bye ! bye bye ! Honey, I gotta go now bye bye what about your passport? Don't forget it. it's here i won't forget Money? I already separated them in many paces like how you told me too. No worries Gum? What for? so you can chew it on the plane when your ears hurt. i will buy it inside. don't worry. meow is going with me just a sec. We are missing 1 passenger What are all of you waiting for? you will all miss the flight "Dumped" Puak.what the hell are you doing writing om my forehead?! jerk! Stop messing around what the hell are you laughing for? Stop it! Bastard. Hey, I am serious okay?! Jim must not know about this! yes! He must think that I'm going to korea with you. Okay? Okay my ass! My luggage is in Shin's car. I'm wearing the only underwear i have. what am I going to do? c'mon it's only 7-8 days Okay, I will get your some Etude as a souvenir. Sweetie why did you kick her seat? You see, you woke her up now. You are so naughty Sweetie why did you kick her seat? You see, you woke her up now. You are so naughty we have just landed at Incheon International Airport in Seoul The time here is 2 hours ahead of thailand The temperature outside is approximately 0 degree Celsius The time here is 2 hours ahead of thailand The temperature outside is approximately 0 degree Celsius Hello everyone this way please Be careful this way. So cute. This way | HELLO | STRANGER | Let's go! Everyone down. Come on. This way. Let's go! Everyone down. Come on. This way. Come closer. Closer please Ready? Loudly now,.. 1 2 3 Kimchi! Ready? Loudly now,.. 1 2 3 Kimchi! Kimchi! Bro. can you take a picture for us Yes. okay, Come here Okay ready? 1.2.3 Baby, are you sure? this pose is so lame. Then is this pose better? Baby, are you sure? this pose is so lame. Then is this pose better? Your're naughty. Ready? Umm you should bend your knees down a little I want to see the roof in the back too Alright then No no Forget it. Please take a half-body picture. No no Forget it. Please take a half-body picture. Ok. Half body it is. Smile! 123 nice Thank you nice Thank you And here we are at the coffe prince cafe This is where Ging Yoo kissed the main actress for the first time very romantic let me see is there anyone here pretending to be a boy like the main actress did in coffe prince? Here comes my coffee is there anyone here pretending to be a boy like the main actress did in coffe prince? Here comes my coffee finally i get to drink it here from the source Shit! it's hot! there in korea. they believe that if a couple comes up to Seoul Tower and turns the keys together on their locks and then throws the keys over the bridge and turns the keys together on their locks and then throws the keys over the bridge then no one can ever keep them apart Ready? Yes! throw them away Ready? Yes! throw them away Won't it hit all those people down there? Umm.. we better go to the Teddy Bear Moseum downstairs let's go everyone this way please and here is the location where the series princess Hours took places, this way please Babe. I Hooked our locks together So we will be together forever So are you guys tired from today's activities? Not at all So are you guys tired from today's activities? Not at all Great! But for tommorow we have to wake up early Because we will be going out of town Get up at six, breakfast at seven and rolling out by eight Because we will be going out of town Get up at six, breakfast at seven and rolling out by eight So remember this simple code What it is? What it is? Again? Again? Again? Excellent! Give yourself a round of applause Shit! Damn it! What is this shit? How this stop? stop ee.. what, what is this chicken or pig no no no chicken pig or buffalo..what? what? It is rely on a hodgepodge of meat What is the hell in this kind of meat Shit! I'm not eating anymore no no no I'm not eating anymore no no no You You, are you okay You Shit! you you what time? what time? what time? you you what time? what time? what time? almost eight o'clock Damn it! the bus is leaving almost eight o'clock Damn it! the bus is leaving Hey you ! that my jacket Are you thai? why didn't you say so! gotta go Hey, are you similiar with this hotel? the Grand Ambassador yeah I do, I just walked passed it yesterday How do I get there? Well it's not to far, when you walk out then turn right You will see Fish-bread shop on your left. and then you make a right and walk under the bridge and get out at the 3rd exit. the 3rd exit ok? if you get out of the wrong exit than i can't help you once you come up then it's very easy you will find sock stand with the faces of celebrity on the socks, they're having a sale once you come up then it's very easy you will find sock stand with the faces of celebrity on the socks, they're having a sale and then cross the street and go straight and turn left and turn right you will find it WOW, are you born here or is your husband Korean? who could remember all that?! Look Fish-Bread, 3rd exit. Socks on sale it's not that difficult Bread on sale, 3rd exit and fishsock Fish-Bread, 3rd exit. Socks on sale Stop I can't remember. You gotta take me Hurry up. Are you Martha Steward or something? You stop to eat everything! so inconsiderate. Hurry up. Are you Martha Steward or something? You stop to eat everything! so inconsiderate. You know i'm in hurry Why in such hurry?! Here we are! Okay everyone is here, all set? All set Okay everyone is here, all set? All set Are we missing anyone ? No Okay then Let's go! yay Okay then Let's go! yay Hey you. Where are we? It's like a castle from dark ages Here we are at the Grand Ambas... sy... (embassy) We're so sorry. Your group has left 2 hours ago She said your tour group left two hours ago Hey how could they ! why they go? i'm here Can you call the guide uh uh call it knock knock it's time to wake up uh uh call it knock knock it's time to wake up Now we are heading to seoraksan national park Wait a minute Hello Ah? No way to come back for me? why? they say your tour is already in other town and they come back to get you the day after tomorrow What? what kind of sevice is this?! Once I'm back home i will sue and lose their money until the they collapse l am so sorry for that excuse me wait, give me some help Hey, you can do sighting around seoul now it's just 2 days. I gotta go now, Good luck What do you follow me? I'm going with you ah! this is your fault if you didn't take me wrong hotel i would be the tour group now You ask me to help you well if you didn't know why l know?  Hey, Do not you want responsible it?  Do you want a money? You are the fraud syndicate it? What do you say ah? Hey what ah? Hey you ... What the hell ah? l say you ... I'll will catch you What the hell ah? l say you ... I'll will catch you You, you ... What the hell ah! You Do not go Wait You You ... you wait l am not a fraud syndicate help me No what l did not talk to you l say you we are all Thai people, ah! Card, your head l do not understand Do not mess with me to provoke me to kill you Hello to taking me? Taking me? l said why are you and apologize for l did not lie to so regardless of indiscriminate arrest me ... l want to ask you, you crazy or what Why should we have been following me l ... l do not want to eat dog meat was l would not say in English l do not know where to go l could hardly point of la carte Last night just to eat dog meat This is my first trip abroad Let me follow you? - l really do not know anyone - let alone so much l send my money back Oh? This one thousand won? Thirty baht do not it? What are today's visit? l'm not your tour guide told me l only let you day today Send you back to the hotel the evening is over Understand? Do you think l do like Michael Jackson? You are a person to tourists? Ah Oh cool yo What is cool? l am also a person to One group tour? How was there any wonder? You are alone? - Not surprisingly, no surprise - you say? Oh, OK OK Do you have a name Ask for? Like me? To which you want to bottle? Do not l do not drink carbonated drinks My boyfriend had an email forwarded to me The mail that if a coin into the soda bottle Coins will disappear soon - Ah? Really? - Ah! Why? Some people put it away yet? (NAMl lSLAND Nami lsland) Hey you NAMl Oh you do not ''Ha ... NAMl'' it? \ N ( laughter is the Thai Ha HA) Funny? But the honest thing in the island very comfortable Tours of those places than to bring better Will go along with Korean super- boring ass Ah Hey! That is one couple who's home island main home? l said the Also left behind the drama to follow, right? lf there is no drama in this country, what can you play This is my mess to the Drama Queen of the Doing? You have to back to the hotel people say you can not Oh l'm sorry l'm sorry l'm sorry So ... this is who? Bae Yong Joon Bae Yong Joon Looks okay Point to lack of Too hard The point too hard Hey you tell me the truth l really do not understand those crazy Korean drama Read to sit there and cry tears of whom died at home like ajet-like Yincuoyangcha mistaken identity is not a child Reunion a few days to die of love Or else the actress posing as boys No one noticed ls the same Korean soap operas these Gouxue see how you go? l think the super-fake Do not you know where to leave what is romantic? A woman is such a What is hard to tell what is romantic Gouxue Ah if the actor and actress of the same look with which Do you still feel romantic? This appearance does not matter Man look at you look it? South Korean couples wear contacts dead cute couple They fear that other people do not know with it? Do you really think mouth cheap handsome? Do not block the lens out of the way Yo still ferocious Hello l'm ah Bae The most romantic male lead Love you Oh brother Oh dear this is the job duties do not be jealous Eh? That sister, brother and sister would like to take pictures, right? Let me burst forth a good a good meal Confirm the mirror exposed to the nose Well quite delicious Well, it was to take pictures One two three cute ~ One two three good good tender tender Fans will not forget you Love you brother Costa Rica is not a thing they told you not to be jealous jealous jealous and Oh brother began to fall in love with his brother found a Uh ... ah ... oh ... so hot ... l began to really fall in love with brother Pei Let me bite whisper Screwed up the atmosphere Two Tickets please! \ N (two votes) Hey you Only one ticket You can first tell you how to get back to me Shuaixia want me? Do l wait for you here (Gold Columbia) Wanted to avoid not answer the phone? Hello, how a kiss? What are you doing? ls preparing to go to shows together ... and seedlings Remember? Seedlings and kiss the person talked about a lot of the performance point of view Lucky to buy the last ticket Seedlings do that? And the seedlings you do not go with it? Seedlings she ordered online before . Why not with the set? Say ah Kiss wait to start performing Seedlings do not go so fast and so l look Oh, here comes the first kiss people want to hang Seedlings waiting for me So l seedlings it? Do not ask so many right? This helped me with my non-go Hello Xiaogui l want to talk to you . You missed a good show you a This show really good Beginning actor wearing a super cute glasses But when he took off her glasses, as he would be electrocuted to the same Zhi Zhizhi Then becomes a bother to bring a large carrot chase to see who will come Funny, but there is shock Zhi Zhizhi here Well l do not think any electric shock what is funny Well as electric shock Zhizhi Zhi died laughing ... Mmm really funny The camera back to me Then it went on to say ah Do not say Finally, when the actor started to climb the walls Climb the wall like this, after turning down three somersault ls not tumble it? l do not think where powerful The same as if you will turn right How will not turn? And the world you have to go against is not it? What do you want to do ah you There is no one knows you The store was full of Korean You do not look dull you know me What is your name l know l do not know Ah you coming here is really a waste of air tickets No one listen to understand what we say Do not believe you see Uncle uncle Hello uncle on what you Come look To see him laugh Uncle fucking awful you do the dishes Dogs do not want to eat uncle you know? So his mother will be unpalatable to eat the dog threw up Uncle dog vomit out of something fried food is served to me to eat You should shop and go to more innovative things point to the shoe to do all such good You Do not cook the You can go uncle Good OK What were you in the end? So what is it you people? Cheating boyfriend, a man sneaked to play abroad That's my thing You're right that is your thing ln fact, you have to come looking for you little bitch ambiguous Or come here to do what a man is not my thing What is to come out man l'm friends wedding Be careful not to catch your boyfriend to feed the most vulnerable angry dwarf How do you know my friend is a dwarf Little man Only a little smaller to determine it? Stand there like sitting in the same picture You peep my camera photos? ln the end you know what is polite No wonder nobody wants you Hey how can you say that Excuse me, l have a girlfriend Yes, is she? Break up Broken it? What is it broken l was so sick as you Na Aizi boyfriend Hey kiss a call Oh, do not drink carbonated drinks kiss Risk of dangerous good good good risk Columbia put the iron on the last drinks The iron is gone My clothes are wrinkled several days He is worried about me ah OK so worried Ah! What the hell is this uncle? The problem is not free not free to go back now l do not eat your side Good uncle eat what l eat Also moving around the back side you uncle uncle Hey what did you come to Korea, how can you not eat this So be it if you dare eat this l drank a glass of liquor to To a cup? lf l am willing to eat this ... this creepy squid You should drink at least a bottle of Good But you have to be eaten raw in that whole cupboard ... Did not dare, right? Niang, right? Beep beep beep who it was? \ N (toot in Thai and in sissy sound similar) Du ~ \ N (Mother ~) Gave me that uncle Really like octopus captain in the ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' l must admit like glued This texture is too dense a Ouch! By hurts ah! Pain ... Your turn Drink! Finished! Use the toilet? You wait a minute let me finish the urine Hey! What nerve they send you Bad! Bastard! Crazy! What the Well wait a minute l did not do That why l dressed like that? Last night you did not know that hot off the heat and then began to Tuotuo Lie! Metamorphosis! l'm just kidding How do l know Who knows you do not want to fall asleep bath results Shower cap over your head it is still Ah! Last night was so fun Pussycat Dolls Pussycat Dolls ... To a to a sexy sexy You it is the elephant ear or oversized ears ah Beautiful it Finished gold brother know if l'm dead (Brother Gold 107 missed calls) Brother 107 Golden missed call someone dead? Street Fighter back to you lf that person is what l was going to die Hey! Your boyfriend sick mind, right? Holy crap! Hey how the kiss? Why do not you answer the phone? Because ... it just did not hear the sound off Drink it? There is no drinking Are you sure? Please people drink because seedlings Drank a little mean people point to . Seedlings it? Seedlings from Thailand, please use telepathy with you drink? Central Shopping Centre, just yesterday l met her Where a Central? Do not you try to change the subject Do you think l'm stupid? Why lie? Not so Because ... people want to participate in Mina's wedding But no one available to accompany people together Then why lie? Well l'm sorry people What dog feces wedding is very important? She can not marry you Check it out lf someone had told kiss Kiss is not willing to let people to Therefore, it is my fault, right? So you'll be booking back Which classes are better the sooner the better Kiss you do not get angry Hey! l called you back you do not answer . .. or are you with someone? Kiss kiss Do not get excited too far right ... in fact, You do not understand people saying? l'll call you back! Not come back to break up! Break up Breaking up? To this small? How kind Can not think of lying saying? To take care of mentally handicapped woman like you really sick of me, you idiot! Has been to stir up trouble you only know the world's most idiotic woman! l met the most annoying woman! Ah! His aging mother hate you! Want to know why his aging mother to lie Because this is stupid and your people together! Break up break up you look at From now on, his aging mother to take a can drink a can of Pepsi Korean blind to see his aging mother to see! His aging mother to wear a bikini all over Korea! His aging mother would like the more lascivious lewd! ! Dead dwarf! Dead metamorphosis! His aging mother was not your slave! That's good all the blame can be unpleasant ... l looked at his aging mother you wear high heels every day Good l accompany you to wear But do not know if l have my size Drunk drunk drunk drunk ... Hey wait a minute tired lt's beautiful Really beautiful Hey! Directly so sleep it? You say in here and see the stars in Bangkok is the same? Ah ... not the same as it does not know How the? Like Bangkok it? lf you know your girlfriend lied you will immediately break up? How do you want me to answer? Said the most difficult to guess a woman's heart My answer is not to your mind if you and l got in trouble Luanhan Which will be difficult to guess Parn Tanaporn you have heard the song? Parn Tanapron? Ah l think this is super sweet song Lyrics do not love watching girls sang but also willing to sit down to accompany her boyfriend to see Do not like to have to force myself of cosmetics to see her boyfriend Wait How the? l want to vomit Hey! Kick so hard Fed back to a good talk with him He will understand your Have you ever seen real snow? May be seen how far l have been to the Thai-Cambodian border on the ''Do not wave the town'' lf you really see the snow, how would you do? Eat Or not the Comparison of uric write their own names so hot it you? l would like to undress in the snow Want to know how cold in the end Wow! True to the force! This idea l have told Colombian gold But he said ... l am talking nonsense Your tour here Uh ... is ah Hey! I do not know your name! Yes ah! What is your name? Better not tell you Back to Bangkok, you have no way to say that the woman who hates who the To this? Ye Hao Oh that ... l'm gone Nice to meet you Hey does not Should be very happy to not know you! Glad you do not know! Please applaud our friends rejoin How to return to Seoul after the warm weather, and more, right? Unlike yesterday, how to ski ... Cold! We are really lucky April also can give you watch the snow Come on who is the first time l saw snow, please raise your hands Aunt how are you feeling? You Ah? Forget anything? No We still have snow We are not yet seen the snow? Go? What's on in the end you can tell me? You Guess Well well l think ... people like you should be called ... Plum Why? Mo Lianxian people ah To think of it all? l'm very disappointed Then you should be called the John .. Why? My face looks like foreigners? Escape the tramp Well what a man like a dog sleep in the middle of the road John is also like a dog would you really innovative l think we still do not know each other a good name Why? You said do not you want to do in a foreign country can be No one knows us So? lf l know your name l'll start to care about you Can not have something to say lf you really are my friends l may not do as much as call you earlier That means you ... how do l say you will not be angry? Ah Beard Jug ears Airport Mother of small short-legged butt muscles Flat black knee arm takes a rough face like a monkey Not angry Pig pig brain Family die out Angry? Not angry Really fun (Fuck!) This is okay ah? No No No Two Room \ N (two rooms) Two Room \ N (two rooms) Two Room Enough is enough let me say Two ... Two No No ... Well, good room room Well quite a wide bed to feed Right ah but ... it is also quite short l said ... Well, l sleep on the floor Hey, all right? l do not want to take advantage of you To take advantage of me l went to the bar What a mess, left the hotel room Valentine's Day are not what have come here to do a Hey, l want to ask you Do you have a few girlfriends Ask for? Just want to know Three What about you? King Brother is your first love, right? My first love is completely different and gold Columbia How? A girl My mother did not know it At that time l read the girls also cut short hair Even a school girl behind me screaming Ah! So l try ... Have you tried what position? Hate to try to contact Wow! Try to make ... Each posture have tried it? Try to do couple exchanges When my three days there had been a girlfriend Tutoring, when she encountered in ultra-hot School day wear suspenders She caught the bus on the bus when the arm of a Armpit hair long once exposed to here When the wind will be floated to her armpits So l really can not stand just like broke up with her A really nasty break up But better than breaking up on the phone said better Or abroad, looking for someone to complain do not know to whom At least in Thailand, Australia and sister and sister can consult Chu Who? You heard it? They talk a lot of people call the mind DJ, how busy can help you Simply just go Take the money to go home end of the program There are some things we do not dare to tell people you know ls not it? What do you tell them? Not to laugh Ah ... There was a time that is obsessed with health Colombian gold He then forced me to detox Want to detox ... Will ... Enema l do not know ah Why he would let me go enema You drank it? Can not sink it? So l just called to show that Kim is a sick brother You do not say or talk about things right What? Ah the things your girlfriend how did you break up No natural break up Well do not you see l told you so many things Do you really want to know? l ... l let her pregnant At that time l'm not ready So l ... Let her abortion But she refused to l ... l pushed down the stairs l just wanted to fetal loss But the results ... Death of both mother and child Scared Stay off? Hey, l'm just kidding You take it seriously How you could get this kind of thing to joke l had two tires fall This is my life l am most sad thing Until today l will be having nightmares, sleep Silly out Silly out Turn right at the second junction \ N (in the second turn right) Oh! OK OK l almost there \ N (Oh! Good good l'm almost there) Mina ls it ok to bring my friend to your wedding? \ N (l bring a friend to attend your wedding?) Hello all right? She did not invite me Okay, l invite you to Hello ehha Mina Maybe this sounds crasy na, but ... \ N (perhaps this sounds a bit crazy, but ...) Can you do something for me? \ N ( you can help me do one thing?) How are you? Are you excited? \ N ( you okay? Will not be excited?) Of course! \ N (of course!) This is ... May yeah, l'm Dang \ N (Yes, my name is Wang Cai) You Min-a \ N (you Mina?) Yes Nice to meet you \ N (Nice to meet you) Nice to meet you \ N (Nice to meet you) Nice to meet you \ N (Nice to meet you) l'll explain later, ok? \ N (l will talk to you explain, please?) Two hands Two Hands \ N (Two-Handed) Korean tradition, two hands \ N ( Korean traditional hands) l don't get it \ N (l do not understand) You just meet him, travel with him \ N (just before you meet him and travel with him) And don't tell each other's name? \ N (but did not tell each other their names?) Eh ... lt's ... \ N (uh ... that is . ..) lt \ N (this ...) How to explain really good lt's just a ... \ N (this is just a . ..) Stupid game \ N (stupid game) game? \ N (game?) Do you like him? \ N (do you like him?) No, l can't never like him \ N (No, l did not like him) He's ... not my type \ N (he is not my kind of type) So you just do it for ... sex? \ N ( so you just want to make love?) Sex? \ N (love?) No! l ... \ N (No! Me ...) l am not like that \ N (l do not like to do) Try this \ N (try to eat it) lt's called ''Zhajiang mian'' \ N ( this is called ''noodles'') Zhajiang mian \ N (noodles) lt's good \ N (delicious) You have to tell her, she cook it \ N (you should tell her that she cooked) l was just helping the folder that this folder Ah! l knew it lt's very good, every one lt's like Dae Jang-geum cook \ N ( like Jewel in the Palace to do the dishes) You know Dae Jang-geum? \ N (you know Jewel?) Yeah Yeah l know Dae Jang-geum \ N (l know that Jewel in the Palace) Rain Nickun Nickun! Nickun 2PM Yeah Heartbeat Heartbeat Thailand Tony Jaa \ N (Thailand Tony? Jia) Where is my elephant? You like Zhajiang mian? \ N (you like to eat noodles?) Yes \ N (like) Tell your wife to cook \ N (call your wife to cook for you to eat) Tell your wife to cook \ N (call your wife to cook for you to eat) No \ N (not) Not wife na \ N (not his wife) Hands down No No No ... No ... Mina it? Went to bed afraid of tomorrow, not the United States Miner know you long? No New Year when it is known Wow you guys look familiar At that time l fish in Chiang Mai Spa Foot Bath Spa Mina was sitting next to me Also issued a very strange sounds while The store people are watching her How is called that? ls ... So called - Yes Oh? - Ah lf you really do not so cool to tell Mina married tomorrow Buy the fish to keep on it Have you read a book called ''and the fish having an affair,'' the book? Oh really? By Miner is a very lovable person can talk to it is also Since then she and l have been talking to now by mail You quite easy and the only thing close to a stranger Ah? You did not before? Some professionals met for a long time suddenly seems to know like Nothing to say to him You know? When l was in Chiang Mai New Year - ln which band? - ln Nimman Road Nimman and friends together? Not Who did you go? And go with Gui Former girlfriend Hey, let alone if you do not mention the l first went to bed You take my phone please? Feed She did not accept the charges? She took it ... but she does not speak Hey Do not you want to talk about Australia sister Chu sister? Maybe they can help you Ah? Feasible to me to help you dial-up Miss Australia Miss Chu fed it? Please wait Hey what? Hurry hurry expensive long-distance calls Uh ... Hello? Hello? Hello how is your name? Mr. Wang Cai What's mind today, and Australian Sister to Sister Chu share? What are you playing? Well soon you listeners are listening to us about Hello? Hello? You still there? Hello? Please turn the radio volume down Listen to the voice of the phone can be a Hello? Still there? Contact me ... was me eight years to break up with girlfriend O Sister Chu sister can do to help? cheap She did not tell you ... there is reason to break up? Because ... she wanted to get married but l do not want to Results Why? Why do not want to get married? Mr. Wang Cai do not love her? And whether patriotic does not matter who she married and divorced people are countless Not married does not mean do not love What she has the power to break up with me First, do not anger you, Mr. Wang Cai and Chu O Sister sister please? Because the Australian Sister Sister will frighten Chu Or you in the end is the Australian Sister Chu sister? So the problems are exactly what? Like me going to get married How do l take care of who may be able to No way your ass clean Just an analogy Uh ... Mr. Wang Cai Mr. Wang Cai you said to her you do not want to marry her Why now has to call her? Because there is nothing casual ... also playing Casually playing? Miss Australia Miss Chu, Mr Wang Cai- year-old child is not No answer no answer Then we open listeners to send text messages come in quiz Miss by a call to retain Gui Press 2 to call the mother, Miss Gui greetings Alas! Does not play Did not help lf you have not directly said Chu O Sister Sister is no way to help your You can not give what she wants She then broke up with you is not normal it? Why do we still have to struggle her? Do not let her go to call her l can not not call her l have not told her that l had wanted to marry her You serious? O Sister Chu sister go? Mr. Mr. Wang Cai Wang Cai going to propose to her Clean up your own ass? l do not know But l will try Well you are very romantic Give me something romantic l do not want to say a single word She does not say you write a postcard to tell her to write it She knows the words will be very happy (Marry me!) Bought this for Mina as a wedding present and you say okay? Koreans buy Korean goods sent? Well l do not know what to buy a really difficult Wow ridden with ghosts come to South Korea After that l went back to replace this picture So ... We're moving on Who are you? Friends Miner looks so happy Oh Gui as it should be She married soon, and others Six Seven Hey What the ah! More More More \ N (again again again) More ah! Sorry you out first You first come out What l just want him to do more than give a few Can not lift it? See what see? You get excited! lt may not be true You call her again? Can you leave me alone You do not see what you have done it? Write postcards to propose to her She and others have to get married Romantic? Are you sure what you are doing? \ N (Are you sure you're doing?) lt doesn't like a game to me \ N (l think this is not a game) Yes, l know \ N (Yes, l know) Fuck! Money out of it? Take it Well you do not speak You call me nosy also better Not your fault She is supposed to be married ls my own stupid Are breaking up for so long also thinks there will be hope You know? The participation of the tour is breaking up with her decision before the l came ... is thought she will come Who will be split up to? l'm so silly Hey you Lovelorn people are doing some silly things when You see l'm still on the bridge yelled Well, the crash will only get money Son Not seen who won Ah Ma is necessary so happy? Time to start playing from a young winning until now Forget tired of not playing Etc. But l have the money in that million After winning you do not want to return me? A slot machine is a grandfather playing things Ma Really cool over there to go? You said that a black or red? lf you know that l had developed a l think it definitely is black To bet on black - Black - Black lt does not matter what color again this time to buy? Red - OK? - OK! Ah red Red Red Come Red Red ... Do not call you start playing you do not believe You see all his mother lost all Hey! No one has bad life There must be any errors Red or black? Does not play Oh Well again Again last Black or red? - Red - red? Red Are you crazy? We must let go to return to the Believe me to have to lose Not so bad No more bet \ N (stop betting) Yes you really are unlucky Queen Lost to go back sleep naked What are you doing ah? l won! Where did you get the chips? Uncle gave me glasses He said every time he told me not to buy the same side win every time so give me a ls not it? How many wins? You see Hey! You buy a 0? Ah Thirty times! Thirty times! Cheers! How the? Hey all you see is not replaced l'm going to help you change You accept it as a souvenir This tip is for you Because now l am rich This used to purchase a diamond ring This instead of buying a house This used to purchase Nami lsland l want to buy it all But more than one hundred thousand lines to buy that much? Let me do what you dream can not l? l think for a long time to think about it the same as those rich people to spend money Look to see what kind of feeling is Good idea l also want to know Memories of a life, right? Or not? Or not? Or not? ... l developed it! Ye Hao lines moving even if it did not understand! Not to do General General Why? Oh, l played on the movie you know? Really? Supporting actor is still standing next to Which one? Red it? You say l read it? l know this face? Not familiar You probably have not seen Or else you've seen but forgotten Tell me Who would play the supporting role you remember you ah? Ah, l say only a supporting role and not the heroine Do you want to when the female lead? What? To to to to OK to To Bae Yong Joon! Bae Yong Joon! Hotel waiter waitress To see who looks just like it hired him Nerve l thought it was real! Who can you really get ah Look like? Dedicated to a special meal of new heroine Look! Bae Yong Joon back We are not ... you ... Where have met? Ah in Nami lsland Yes, yes, really ls your little supporting actress from Thailand South Korea came after me catch up When you are young, the female lead of the A bit by the unspoken rules is it? l do not have capital can not dive out of place l still go back and run a good utility man l can not believe the two of us could even meet again l do not want to see you then Ouch! l do not want to see Who is going to just scream to the collapse of the urine? ln this joke of it! Hilarious laughing now! Speechless, right? How could l just supporting lines? Oh do not pity Even if you are supporting You are also supporting the world's most lovely ''l think love is catching'' ''l thought love to go through the test of time'' ''The longer the love of the more valuable'' ''This is what l think l'm dreaming of love'' ''When you come to me l have forgotten everything'' ''My eyes seem to see other people'' ''As if time stopped at that one second our eyes collide'' ''The Earth had stopped turning the sky is lit up'' ''Put the Buddha in this moment breathing has stopped'' ''With the eyes of the mind you have journeyman'' ''You let time still meet us here'' ''One to meet you'' ... Promise ... you ... do not steal ... Look! l ... did ... not ... want ... you see ... Wow! Well ... cool! Cold dead! How cold? Super super cold! How to satisfied? Cold What ah? You do not want to eat snow? You ah Good? Salty Ah cold Uh, you l changed the air date ... call with you to go back Oh ah ah good good Embarrassed We decided on everything must have something to say, right? Ah Do you like me? Like ah Like to ... Love? Uh ... l'm not sure Thank you so fussy l ... l have a crush on you But ... l ... She invited me for the Miner to continue playing here l would like to change the plan first went to Mina Ah? What about me? You can be back to Seoul l would like to here more Wan Jitian How do you? No ah Why do girls love to say Not all right lt does not matter Seems clearly is something Why did not need to separate to separate ah Finally, we are to be separated anyway Separate what is the difference now? Sorry Why apologize? Why you angry? Why can not we travel together as before? The same as before? Do you want me, as before, and l do not know the names of travel with you Then say goodbye at the airport, pretending nothing had happened before? Why have these words of sarcasm? You want me how? We met just a few days only ls ah What do you care anyway, we do not know Can continue to drive? l clearly do not open first Then l go lf you think so then l go separately You Hey! Hey! Where are you going? Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! - You You - yes sir? You See with me in the girl it? l'm sorry. l don't understand \ N ( l'm sorry l can not understand) And l up the girl! You see it? Come with me ah Come with me to the girl l came back for a long time What are you nervous in the hair How can you leave me to it? l can not drive without a car by how can l do? Sorry l am a bastard l am a fool l was a fucking idiot! l tell you l'm not sure ... l really do not know ... What is this feeling in the end l only know ... When you're with l'm damn happy You said to me to be separated When looking for could not see you there l feel damn bad This is the love? How could you love me We do not know each other l do not know the name you You said it l do not know you But l know a girl She likes to drink a can a can of Pepsi and then Every time she sat my motorcycle She will fall asleep When she was drunk Also like to lower lumbar l know that if l continue with her l may be unlucky life Perhaps no way to win and then bet on what But you know what? l still want to see her every day That person ... is that you? How do you? Tears of the dead who sprayed like a home-like Did not you crying? Longer hold time? l did not ah To What is it? Do not know You eat this amount of money we got left out To We eat together from the start what your favorite meal? Ah ... l like ... Noodles Home to eat at that meal Miner After going back l can eat it? l do not know can not eat What about you? Which meals like? l like it this meal You see me hold your hands Really ah ah! So heavy Go Yes Pictures? We have not pictured it Well She helped us do it, Uh ... Excuse me \ N (Excuse me) Can you take photo for us? \ N (help us picture?) - Yes - Thank you! Come Gui How do you here? Because ... Address your postcard Oh, this is ... Thailand travel with me people My name is Mei - Hello - Hello l'm sorry l just do not know who you are in Thailand lt does not matter Just to take pictures it? Let me help you take Shoot it over there - Well - the house is very beautiful Ah do not shoot with it? l shot a man l will look with the short film Ready one two three Thank you Face looks fat Then l go, oh Gone? Ah Nice to meet you, Miss Gui l'm gone Forgot How are you? l ... Fortunately, Why send me? How are you not saying that will not marry me? l just ... Need time to think about Friends not to say that you want to get married? We can only marry a man right? Of course, and you love to get married Hey you Can l chat with you? Talking about? l forgot to give you a meal of it? Gui sits where? l ... Sorry l do not know what will ... No explanation l understand lf you remember the experience in Thailand and say hello Mean ... We will not meet again, right? We meet for? We're just two lovelorn people ... Chance encounter in a foreign country Cold and lonely Perhaps these feelings between us is just a temporary illusion How do you know that is true? Not you say? Gouxue movie love story does not exist l'm gone Wait At least let me know your name right? Enough Do not you pity me? Well pretty fast Lost keys? Modiu here What is that? What is your name? Li Che Li Che Li Che We have the model chosen for Miss Li Che You see which you like Go The show was so funny Forget it about you when you do not want to pretend Hey brother really cute glasses, ah! How to l have already told you Seedlings today? Friday ah how it? What today keep up ''Friday Club'' audience friends chat it? Ah so you fans for this show? Ah Hello? You still there? Hello? l ... She told me there was a person ... Problems encountered here can be called Chu O sister and she said you can do to help sister Australia is not as powerful and Chu sister sisterjust listen to your heart At that time l told her very bored DJ how could do to help This man really say Also call in to do that So why should we call in Mr. Wangcai it? Ah you listen to what people name from the prosperous wealth How the? How stop it? l do not know why l call You may not help me O sister think that we give others the opportunity to friends? Wait Wait Uh ... You can not spit heard Last year l went to South Korea travel And then met a girl there We travel together, but only a few days l do not know her name But l think ... l fell in love with her Wow and in movies do the same romantic But a few days to meet foreign But she said to me That may be a momentary illusion So Mr Wang Cai is also so think? l do not know lf only a temporary illusion that this illusion really lasted a long time Over a year Why do l still miss her l want to see her every day You think l is not crazy Why not find her Mr. Wangcai not tell her? Difficult Things about her l do not know l know ... she had a supporting role in movies Thailand Ministry of thousands of movies Do you think l can find her? She told me, exactly, Does not exist Gouxue love story movie You say? Mr. IU2AE can do it so can not tell us his real name Chu O sister sister might help you get busy on Uh ... to ... so do it? My name is ... Directed by: Banjong Pisanthanakun \ N ''did not know who you are do not know who l am'' lnspired by the ''South Korea's two shadows'' \ N ''do not know what they look like in reality'' Translation: Copen \ N ''Perhaps the most important thing is not so important'' ''More important is the day we met and talked to accompany'' ''Let you forget that the wide world'' ''Forget it There is only us'' ''Happiness is a collection of treasured every last time'' ''l'm glad you do not know you do not know'' ''l know love is to be satisfied'' ''Even though we do not know you do not know you'' ''Our love will not reduce it?'' ''You're side is my greatest happiness'' ''Let your heart free drift we go with your heart'' ''Just go with no need to expect any'' ''There is nothing wrong if we did not think much'' ''There must be a day you can do what you want'' ''Let you forget that this is only the wide world forget us'' ''Happiness is a collection of treasured every last time'' ''l'm glad you do not know you do not know'' ''l know love is to be satisfied'' ''Even if l do not know you do not know you'' ''Our love will not reduce it?'' ''You're side is my greatest happiness'' ''l'm glad you do not know you do not know'' ''l know love is to be satisfied'' ''Even though we do not know you do not know you'' ''Our love will not reduce it?'' ''You're side is my greatest happiness'' ''l'm glad you do not know you do not know'' ''l know love is to be satisfied'' ''Even though we do not know you do not know you'' ''Our love will not reduce it?'' ''You're side is my greatest happiness''
