 

                        Dear Brother, on July 4th, 2003... ... in Suleymaniye North-lraq as l was on duty... for the security of the region with ten of my soldiers, the American troops, with whom we drank tea and fought together, have ambushed our quarters and pointed their guns at us. Sir, we're receiving insistent orders not to fight. Give it to me. Sir, it's me. We are 11 people. We have a machine gun on the roof. We have the firepower to hit half the They aren't intended to make a search, sir. The guys we served tea are pointing guns at us. lt is not against us, but against the Turkish nation. With my 10 soldiers, l'm waiting for your orders to die, sir! Sir, l said l'm waiting for your orders to die, sir! Put your gun down soldier. Sir... Son, this is an order, put your gun down! Search whatever you want, and get out of here! This is the smoking room. We smoke here. What the? Major, it's not safe for our allies outside. You asked for permission to search the building only. We will not go out. Kill us if you like. Don't make any mistakes or else we'll kill you. My men will take you to headquarters for questioning. You mean ''interrogation.'' About what? Well, you'll see. That's why it's called questioning. But while you're here why don't you tell me where the C4 is? We are soldiers. We are neither detainees nor prisoners. Your men are not wearing uniforms. So it's very difficult for us to decide whether you're soldiers or terrorists. We cannot know this without questioning you. You're not wearing a uniform. You don't have a stripe. You have no authority. - You're not even a soldier! - l used to be one. Arrest them! You have no right to do this. We're soldiers, don't destroy our dignity. Major, these men are soldiers and they're very proud. - Try not to let their faces be seen. - Yes sir. Turkish headquarters have been raided. - Who's done it? - Americans. Move it! Move it! Move it faster! Dear Brother... Everyday in lraq we asked ourselves, what are we doing here? Than we noticed that everyone, who had the power over this region, has oppressed the people of this land. Except our ancestors. On that specific day, we have not been able to prove ourselves worthy of our ancestors. We couldn't die for justice, for our fight against tyranny, nor for our honor. This is just what l ask of you now. lronic, isn' it? Your brother Suleyman. Long live the homeland. VALLEY OF THE WOLVES lRAQ - Where are we, Abdulhey? - We're there. Where is it? l cannot see the red carpet. You'll soon see the shining red, yellow and green. Traffic lights, Memati. Shaving is masculine. And a beard is feminine. No matter how hard the beard is, the brush takes all hardness away. First, you will nicely soften the beard. Soften it... Soften it... Soften it... - Come on in Ali. - What're you doing? - Dad. - Where's your mother? Go! There's a checkpoint ahead. Are they policemen or soldiers? Police in the city, soldiers in the mountain, it's the same. You remain captive until you tame your ego. Dad... Leyla, my daughter... Don't ever remove this until you're free. Passports! You too. Papers are okay, everything's okay. Are you Kurdish? Yes. Get off, we'll do a search. He says we should get off, boss. Let's give him something and go. We will get off then. Stand next to the car. Look inside the car too. l don't like these guys. Why are you causing trouble? Let them do their job, Abdulhey! What's your name? lt's in the passport. l'm asking you! Polat Alemdar. What are you here in Erbil for? Trade. What trade? Human trade. l was told that these things were cheap here! Lie down, we'll do a search. Lie down! Lie down! Lie down! What does he say, Abdulhey? Lie down. You will lie down! lf you're going to do it, do it decently. l'm not lying down! Yes you will! Let's go. From now on, this is yours. Very nice. lt's from my forefathers, very precious. Since Selahuddin Eyyubi, men of my ancestors gave this dagger to their wives, for them to protect our honor. My son's trust is with me. My son's trust is with me. ls this real? Of course. lt's a thousand years old. Since when do men give real gifts to women? Don't be jealous, none of you are married and you all covet my husband, don't you! l got my real gift. Haven't you got anything else? - Selaam Alaikum. - Alaikum Selaam. How are you groom? This is a great honor, you're welcome. Come on Abu Tarik. l said my son is your son, you still call him groom! l'm on the bride's side today. Your son is my son but Leyla is my beloved daughter. No one has opened fire yet, sir. They will start firing soon. You'll see. Sir, we've received the lists from Grand Harilton. The vehicle is in the hotel. Let's go. They are terrorists now! Let's go! Let's go! Excuse me sir, the gentlemen are from the police station. - They want to talk to you. - l'm listening. We will go to the station. Which station? Don't cause us trouble, mister. Which country's station are you inviting me to? lraqi Kurdistan. l don't acknowledge you. Let the owner of this place come and get me. The building is surrounded. You'll come with me. Bring me the hotel's manager. Right now! Or else neither we nor you can leave this place! ls there a problem? Who's organized this gathering? lt's a wedding! Sorry for bothering you, Mr... ...Fender. Have a seat, please... Look, Mr. Alemdar... l don't know what the problem is, but certainly my hotel is not the place to solve it. Unfortunately, this is the exact place. Please sit down and send these men away. Your customers are being disturbed. Let's go. No, not there please, here. Can l ask you a technical question? How many main supporting columns does this hotel have? - Excuse me? - Let me explain. Your hotel has six main supporting columns. When l blow up the first one, we sway. When l blow up the second, the building starts to bend. With the third and the fourth one, the building collapses. But l also installed C-4 on the other two columns too. Formalities, you know. What do you want from me? First of all, l don't want anyone to get hurt. Please evacuate the hotel calmly. Those who're responsible will come with us. l take the responsibility here. Sam Marshall is my friend. You can find nothing here. lf you must take someone away, l'll bring that person to you with my own hands. But that's after the wedding. They'll come with us. Right now! Search them all! l want to see everyone's lD! Give it to me. Come on, move! The lD! Quick, quick! You! Give your lD. Let's go! Please don't! What is it you want? Let's go! Ali! Sayid! Well, the hotel's been evacuated. Now, how can we settle things with you? Are you trying to reconcile, or are you trying to negotiate? Which one do you prefer? Sam William Marshall. l want him here. Mr. Marshall has nothing to do with our hotel. lsn't he on your payroll? ls the American capitalism not the patron of American soldiers? Excuse me? Call him please. Hello? Hold on. l'm listening Fender. We have a situation here, Sam. You must come to the hotel. l can't. l'm going to a party now. Sam, this is serious. Hello, Sam. Who is this? l am the one who will blow up the Grand Harilton into pieces. lf, of course, you do not honor us with your presence. May l have the desserts menu? l've heard that American apple pie is great. Am l wrong? May l have a kunefa instead? The apple pie you said, chief, is also available at McDonald's. Call the bomb squad, and tell them the situation at the hotel. l want the bombers to be identified. And call the Kurdish leader to tell him we're not going to make it tonight. Wait. Wait a second! We did a hell of a good job, lieutenant. They'll be traveling for hours. They will die of suffocation in there. You are right! Stop the car! Stop it! What the hell do you think you're doing? l'm helping them breathe. They're not going to die of suffocation anymore. These men could be terrorists. But don't forget that we're soldiers. Let me tell you something! Don't ever talk to me like that again. Do you understand? l'll report you. This infamy... l don't care who you're going to report me to. Get out of my sight now. You're not going anywhere. l'm arresting you. Dear guests, l am sorry to announce that Mr. Marshall will not be able to attend due to unexpected business. Yes... This patient is going to be in pain for a while. So if necessary, give him morphine. Okay sir. Okay, good. Good. What kind of man could do this? Rebels, sir! Stop lying to me, and tell me the truth! How many times must l tell you? These are human beings, not animals! l hold animals in higher regard, sir. lf you don't stop killing my patients, l cannot remove their organs properly. ln that case, believe me, l'll kill you in your sleep! l'll kill you! God! Take the injured to the infirmary right away! Right now! Let's be a little more patient, please... He'll be here soon. l am okay. But what you are doing is so wrong. Abdulhey! Mr. Fender says what you're doing is very wrong. Who are you? - My name is Polat Alemdar. - Are you a Turk? l am. What do you expect to gain by this? Mr. Fender, we bothered you a lot. You may go now. Thank you. Are you aware that you're getting yourself into big trouble? Are you aware of the trouble you are already in? What do you want? Blow up the hotel, if you like. You'll get nothing from me. l don't want anything from you. But you have something to give me. l will slip this sack on your head. The same treatment for your men, too. Then all of you will leave the hotel with your sacks on, journalists will take your pictures. You can give me this much, can't you? And in return, l'll give you the Grand Harilton. Then l'll go away. These sacks... Are they the same ones l put on your soldiers? Put it on your head while you, still have it on your shoulders. Or else l have a body bag that'll suit you just fine! Look Turk! l've been in this region for 15 years. l know Turks very well. They love praising themselves. You have your own rules, your own red lines. You have unchanging policies for lraq. You always say that nothing can be done here, if you don't want it. Let me tell you something, we've already erased all the red lines. We screwed your policies for lraq. l don't get it. This doesn't bother you, but two stupid sacks do. Let me tell you what you really felt offended for. The US have been paying you for the last 50 years. We supply even the rubber for your underpants. Why can't you produce anything? You want money and we send it. ls this why you cheat each other? You wanted arms, we sent them. You wanted to fight, but you started negotiating before sending in your troops. And then again you wanted money. How can you forget that you've been begging for us to save you from the communists! lt's obvious why you're offended, we don't need you anymore. l am not a political party leader. Not a diplomat, nor a soldier. l am a Turk, as you pointed out very well. l wreak havoc upon those who put a sack over a Turk's head! Now, shut up and put this on! Okay, blow it up. Blow it up and see if l care! You ruin my sacred place, and i ruin yours! You... Wait a minute. Whatever, look... We all have sensitive issues. By throwing that sack on my face, you've touched a sensitive issue of mine. This was not nice. l know what you're sensitive to! Bring them in! You are a despicable man. No, l love children. You know why? Because they are fearless. Just like me. They're also not afraid to die. But when they grow up, they become cowards, just like all sinners. You know, sometimes, l wonder, what the world would be like if we killed all the children before they grew up? What do you think? You are already a baby-killer! How many kids did you kill to get these 30 kids here? Now you tell me that l cannot kill them? Let me tell you something. l don't kill them! l don't abuse them! lf l did that what would be the difference between you and me? Let me tell you the difference. You cannot sacrifice eleven of your men, so you sit there and watch your country be destroyed. But l sacrifice 11 thousand of my men if necessary. You cannot spare thirty kids because you're emotional but l'd kill each one of them for their feelings. l kill all who'd destroy peace. Unlike you, l am not here by coincidence. l'm on a mission from God to establish peace. He who establishes peace is God's child. l do not have a child like you. lf you'd like to push that button, go ahead and push it. l'm leaving now! We shall meet again. God! Are you okay, kids? Thank you, sir. Yes, what's under there? We'll take the kids out if you like, sir. lt looks like it's going to take a while. Would you like to go home, kids? Thank you, sir. l think they want to stay. Do me a favor and get this table out of here! What did he say, boss? He said, he was the son of God, Memati. Son of a bitch. Be brothers, you people, this is what our God wishes. Everything passes away, and friends are the last ones to leave you. To humanity, to honesty. Open your heart to humanity, to honesty. Don't ever be afraid. Human beings are born free with the right to live freely! You're wonderful, it was great! Everybody, strip, now! l'd like to see you all naked in one minute. Everyone, take your clothes off. Everyone will be stark naked. Now! Welcome to hell. You can't survive here! You'll burn here for eternity. You'll only find pain here! Do you want to ease your pain? Sorry for you terrorists. You ought to think about it before you became terrorists! God, don't let anything bad happen to them. Let them arrive soon. God, don't let Abdulhey sit on the wrong chair. Don't leave me alone here in this place, God. lt didn't explode, Boss? lt did. Abdulhey, you weren't clumsy as l usual l hope? l want to stay alive and fight, my Sheikh. Only the Allah wills are important, not yours. The ones who have religious faith, do not lose anything when they die. However, as long as they are alive, it remains unknown what will happen. The only thing you can do now is to pray for others. Those prayers will all come back to you as Allah's mercy. Leyla? Allah witnessed all that happened! lf only l were killed, too. Stand up, my daughter! Stand up! You, the groveling cannibal... What are you doing? Kissing the ground?! l will show you how to pray now! Come on! Hurry up! - Where are you taking me to? - Go! Go! Don't you have fear of God? Aren't you afraid? Kill these disgusting men! Show them what torture means. ...Allahu Aqbar! ...The God is the greatest! My husband has died for God's sake. lf l shed even a single tear for him let God damn me! But why did they kill Ali? Why him? l swear l will walk towards them with bombs tied around me to blast those murderers. Then they will understand how many of them... ...are worth of one Leyla! Dad, please let me kill them all, together with myself. How can you think, l could approve such an action? How could one, who has chosen the way of Allah, wish that? How could one, who comprehends lslam, desire this? But, what else can l do? Leyla, choosing to be a suicide bomber means revolting against Allah's will in two ways by a single action. lt means first giving up your hope and committing suicide, and then accepting the risk of sacrificing innocent people together with your enemy. Can you know how many will die, when you're a suicide bomber? You can't! And since it not possible to know that, killing innocent people is like, killing the whole humanity. People who instilled this idea into the minds of Muslims, and recruited them as suicide bombers are the ones who recreate Hasan Sabbah's wickedness again. This is a sign of domesday my daughter and is certainly evil. l see your grief. However, l feel sorry to see your desire to be one... ... of the suicide bombers who make the world think that... ... Muslims are terrorists. Never forget that Allah isn't helpless, my daughter; our current helplessness and weakness is due to our deviation from The Quran and our Prophet's way and also due to our failure to be united. Each suicidal act increases this weakness and helplessness. That's why, our enemies desire the number of such acts to increase. Moreover, they may have already organized these actions themselves already. Our only hope for survival is to commit to Allah's way. We must to pray Allah, in order to wite and be free. - Selaam Alaikum. - Alaikum Selaam. Welcome, it's nice to see you. Hasan Agha. Here are my comrades Polat, and Memati. And this is Abdulhey. Glad to meet you! He worked for Turkish Special Forces, and had many assignments out of the country. On his last mission, he had to have facial plastic surgery to infiltrate the Turkish Mafia, causing it to collapse. And he did it almost single-handedly. What about the others? They are his team, also Special Forces. Are they on assignment for the government? No, not officially. Of course it's not, ''officially''. What is wrong with you? They allocated the mountains to the Kurds, the deserts to the Arabs... ...and the oil to themselves. There's nowhere left for us to go. This wasn't planned today. He doesn't even let us see each other independently. We've got to hold our meetings under his supervision. - Do you have an upcoming meeting? - Yes. - Where? - At the bazaar. Have you gone out of your mind? l'm here to save people's lives. You are trying to save the rich! lf you leave me no chance l'll report you to the authorities, you know l can do it. You are my friend, but we should never forget why we are here. l have always been here before, risking my life for your safety. l set the Kurds, Turks and Arabs fighting one another. But you're complaining about a cheap kidney to me. Are you kidding? How could you be so selfish? Could you stop putting pressure on me? Leave me in peace. Do you know how l can hardly handle it all? Do you? Don't bother me with such minor details! l only want your men to behave well to the convicts. l need them. l don't ever mind whom you kill. lt doesn't interest me how many you kill or why you kill them. l only ask you to order your men not to shoot convicts on the way as long as they bring those people to me. l need their organs alive! OK, l'll do it. l understand. lt's all right. You'll go out sooner or later. Haven't you started yet? How could we before you arrive! Very kind of you. Have you found the hotel bombers yet? Unfortunately not, sir. We're investigating the matter to the smallest detail. l don't think you get me. l have a single aim which is to hold lraqis together. And then, to form a permanent government as proof of the fact that you could all live here in peace. But as long as you continue your alliance with Turks, and you with Arabs, and you insist on establishing an independent Kurdish state, peace can never be established on this land. l only object to this polarization, gentlemen. Can l have a cold orange juice please? But you don't treat us as equals. We are guilty because we created Saddam. We're all terrorists to you. Why are the people at the wedding declared ''terrorists''? Just because they fired through the sky? No! The real reason is that you keep on training terrorists and bombers. All right. Tell me about your problems. l'll try to find the solutions. Look! Our villages are not being evacuated due to labour as mentioned before. Villager families are systematically forced to migrate by made-up excuses. And not only ours, but also Arab villages are being evacuated, too. ls that true, Abu Tarik? Unfortunately, yes. And there is only one reason for that: Oil! We are being forced out of oil sites in Mosul and Kirkuk one by one. Oil is the greatest value of this land. Don't we have a right to it? Of course you do! But, we must ensure security first. Then we will address economic matters. You can't expect me to share this wealth among you in the absence of stability. - How are you? - Well, l'm fine. Now let's move on to concrete demands as you wish. l'm listening to you. Unfortunately, there are a lot of innocent Arabs who were arrested or taken into police custody due to alleged connections to terrorist organizations. There are many families who lost their close relatives in these custody cases. l'll take care of this personally. Our demand is clear and apparent: We want the families who were forced out of their villages to come back safe and sound. From now on, Kurds must also give up treating us like a minority. OK. l will take care of the migrated families. lf any problems exist about their present accommodation, l'll do my best to ensure their safe return. We need more financial support for security and stability reasons, and more educated men for the development of the region! ln fact, there isn't a single trainee in the ClA who hasn't memorized the Kurdish translation of such sentences over the last twenty years! Hey, Abu Ali! Where are you going? To Ali. l beg you for God's sake. Don't do that! Leyla, leave this place. Please stop! For God's sake! Gentlemen, thank you very much. The meal was wonderful. Can l speak with you for a moment, please? Privately? l'd also like to speak to you indeed. Thank goodness! Let's go! This may hurt a little. lf it does, we can use morphine. How dare they? lt is pure insolence. Considering the life they have here, there are people dying to go to heaven with the aim of reaching that life of happiness beyond the veil. No, l don't understand those who have a dream of going to heaven, and yet do not embrace our Lord, Jesus Christ. So, you can go to heaven, but l can't! ls that what you mean? Christ bequeathed this world to you when he died. We were chosen by him in order to set up His kingdom. l've no objection to it. But my folks are the only ones who can bargain with God. That's why they wouldn't leave Heaven to anyone else, l suppose. What do you say? Morphine. Sir! One of Polat's men, disguised as a bodyguard, was reported to be at the scene. Well, bring that Turkmen leader to me. Yes, sir! - Anybody coming? - No, Boss. Any news from Agha? Thankfully, he is good, boss. They took him to hospital for examination. - Who was the bomber? - We don't know, boss. Go and get the news then. This way. Stop! We'll wait here. Don't tell anything l haven't told. All right, Agha! Hasan, you asked to talk to me in private. What was it about? Were you going to say: ''Sam, a bomb is going to go off in a few seconds,'' or was it ''Sam, the men that l hired from Turkey will open fire on you and your men after the bomb explodes''? Which one was it? Where have you been? The road was not clear, boss. We've got to leave this place. lt is not safe. Agha? But, you are treating us unfairly again. We were all there, that is to say we all were in danger. Hasan, l'm going to ask you one more time. Where is he? Polat Alemdar? Polat Alemdar? Where is Polat Alemdar? Surround the house, quick! They are runnig away, hurry! Come on, to the trucks! Quick! Which direction are we going, boss? We'll see, Abdulhey. Keep what's in the briefcase ready. People live in these houses, boss. l didn't mean to blow up the houses, Erhan! Chief, look! Light... Come on, this way. They're coming, hurry up! What does she say, Abdulhey? Get down! We lost track of them here, sir. - Search every house. - Yes, sir! You too! Hold on here. Chief, this girl isn't trying to trap us, is she? Well, if it's a trap then we will fight. What the hell? Go, go, go! Move on! Quick! There is only me and my daughter. What do you want from us? Aren't you ashamed for breaking into the house of a widow like me? Can l help you? Are you hiding anyone in your house? There is no one except my grandma and me. Where is your husband? He is in Heaven. Do you know what kills the Arabian men? - No. What? - Their wives. All the houses are clear. Let's go! You can go to hell for all l care. They have left, come up. - What's your name? - Does it matter? l would like to know the name of the person l owe. You'll learn when you return it. You have saved our lives. You've welcomed us into your home and showed us great hospitality. But we've got to leave. Americans are everywhere. You have to wait some more time. lf we wait for the Americans to leave, we grow old here, Leyla. We need information from outside and move accordingly. What information do you need? Let me get it! No, you can't do it. Maybe Abdulhey can, but they will recognize him. Here is the meal. lf you go out with Erhan, will you be able to walk around freely? Sir... Sometimes l want to revolt against you, because you don't want me by your side. Then l realize that my duties to you are not complete yet. Blessed is the man who endures temptation, or when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life. May you glorify the souls of heroes departed and heroes yet to come. May you give us peace. May you always guide us. These are sacrifices in a high calling the defense of our Lord, and the peace of the world. l try to fulfill my duties to you with all my might, Sir. This world was created so that l might prove my devotion to you through my deeds. Before you return to this world grant me the ability to resolve the conflict in Babylon as you promised in the Holy Bible. And as the next generations show their gratitude to their heroes who build the Kingdom of God, what a great honour it would be for me, should they remember me in their prayers. When St. Petrus left Rome, my Lord, you asked him: ''Quo vadis?''... ''Where are you going?'' This is Babylon, my homeland. And you will never ask me where l am going to. l promise. l will fade away here, my blood will water the soil of this land. My blood will flow till the promised day comes, that is till you return, and that is till the promised land is ours. When the promised land is ours peace will reign. And the one who sets the peace will be God's child! Before you all, l would like to share a surprise that l am not supposed to tell about actually. We can never forget what Mr. Marshall did for this country, and for us. As lraqis, we have informed Baghdad of our gratitude to Mr. Marshall. And our honorable president has returned this gratitude by a small gift. Mr. Marshall... You can call me Sam, please. OK. Sam! l would like you to accept the piano, which is a gift from Saddam's palace and is currently on the train coming here as an expression of the lraqi people's gratitude to you. Thank you! Thank you very much. l am honored, honored very much. What's that?! Holly smoke! Look! Thank you very much. Hey listen! Turkmens are done with. Now, it's the Arabs' turn. Take a photo of us together. Allah, we've heard your call and obeyed it: Allah is always victorious. However the situation seems, whoever the winner or the loser is, you are the only victorious and the only sovereign who rules it all. Allah, you're the one who even let our Prophet Mohammed take the test of defeat. You never behave cruelly, we have believed in and affirmed your clemency. We have tormented ourselves by not uniting in your path the desires of our egos, oppressing ourselves in the end. Because we behaved cruelly to each other now our enemy is oppressing us. My Allah! Give us shelter from the oppressors and from your wrath as well. We have been ignorent, have become sinners, then convicted, and finally defeated. We weren't awoken by the wisdom of the Quran and The Sunna (Prophet's Way)... so you've awakened us with the assaults of our enemies. Now, grant us the ability and power... ...to repel these assaults, and confer us conscious patience and perseverance, my Allah. Allah! ln reverence to our blessed Prophet who brought us the religion of peace, lslam, do not let us abandon his jurisprudence and morals that he remained true with utmost care even in times when he had no choice but to fight. Tell them that we have guests. You must not sit here. lt's not safe. You can be spotted. l am stuck in here because of Sam. He is oppressing people and l can't do anything! Sam is doing nothing new. His oppression has nothing to do with you! Nobody could want him killed more than me! However, we have no choice, but to show patience. How did you learn to be that patient? The life has taught me the unbearable part of patience; and my Sheikh taught me the bearable part of it. Sheikh? Abdurrahman Halis Kerkuki. He brought me up. What about your parents? l have never seen my father. And, when my mother died, l was too young to remember anything. He brought me up just as he did all the orphans and the homeless. What is your greatest ambition in life, Leyla? Before, l had only one dream: l used to close my eyes, and imagined breathing my last breath in this land while staring at the stars. That was my only dream then. Now? Now, my only desire is to stab this dagger... ... into that scoundrel's heart. Only then will l be able to understand... ... if he's also got a heart or not. And then l can die in peace. lf l prevent you from realizing this desire... ... will you be angry with me? Chief, how will we get on a moving train? When it slows down we'll jump on, Memati. ls there nobody in charge of the piano? lf there is, we'll shoot him down. What about the gun's noise? Then we will not shoot him, but throw him off the train. No, we can't! They would realize it then. - Hopefully nobody is there. - lf God wills! lt's coming. Keep a protective eye on our visitors. Don't get distressed over the high number of requests and complaints, ,and don't get annoyed. lt's neither your, nor my home. But belongs to the homeless. All right, Sheikh! Remember... Patience doesn't mean to bow, but to struggle! l'm sick of this Sheikh. The Turkmens, the Arabs they all go to him to ask for help. And his closest men are Kurds! Who is this Sheikh, for God's sake? He descended from the Prophet. All people respect him. l don't care about his descendance. lf he is trying to spoil all that l had done here, then he is the chief of terrorists to me! Please don't say so, sir... lf Abdurrahman Halis Kerkuki weren't here, who would look after the orphans and the widows? Who would help the unemployed, helpless people? Then everyone would be terrorists. lf he is that good, then he shall be the president of lraq! l have been telling you for years that this man is dangerous. But you have always defended him! Now tell me: Who do you side with? Me or him? What do you benefit from him? l don't benefit from anybody! Get your men ready, now. The Sheikh will be arrested. Yes sir! l am not going to take part in this, sir! Excuse me? l can't hear you. Speak slowly! My father, my grandfather and his father, even my grandfather's grandfather got our bread there. He freed us from the tyranny of Saddam. l can't point a gun at him. He would paralyze us! Paralyze you? You mean this man is a wizard? No, no sir. You know nothing about him. l've learnt enough. Thank you. l think this meeting is over. We would like everyone to see, what happens in the end to the American occupiers of lraq. Unless the Americans, Brits, and Jews go away from lraq, we'll behead them all one by one. Lord, please save me. l don't want to be killed! What are you doing here? Whom are you imitating? Whom? Are you trying to act like the puppets who work for those oppressors? Our Prophet never committed such acts. Then who taught you about this? This guy is a henchman of those murderers, he is a journalist. He is not innocent! What? Are you Allah... ... to know who is innocent and who is not? He may be cruel could be a liar as well. lf your heads are to be chopped off, he might even say that ''Muslims are butchering each other'', while taking your photographs with a great enthusiasm. But how can you regard such cruel things as suitable for you? How? Stand up. Stand up! Take this. Behead him. Chop his head off! Do whatever your heart tells you. Come on! l'm just a journalist. Do you understand? Thank you. Thank you very much. Darling, you are mine at last. You should be proud. Groveling bastards! What's that noise! Will you stop that please? l don't want any noise. Thank you! l'm trying to do some practice. Stop playing football, today is our lucky day. lt's eid! You should have seen it. That murderer's house has collapsed on him! The house has come down on him. God! Thank goodness! What does she say Abdulhey? Sam was killed. ls that true, chief? You gotta leave this place. l'm not going anywhere! He is dead now. What's he going to do? Can his filthy soul disturb me? Leyla, the hardest times are yet to come. The superceding officer might find out that you have gotten in touch with us. How can he? Leyla, somebody must have seen you and Erhan together. Are you still sitting here, while the kids are chanting, Turkey is proud of you outside screaming. Don't interrupt Erhan, we are talking. You don't even understand what they say. Will you be safe with the Sheikh? Why? l'll notify our neighbours. They were going to send us a food supply. Stop, mother! Abdulhey... We've got to be sure he is dead. Disguise yourself and go downtown. And find a vehicle for us. Are you proud of Turkey? Are you proud? Erhan, get the supplies off the vehicle. All right, boss! You can have a rest. Does your Sheikh come for the morning prayer? - Certainly, he does. - Okay. - l'll wash my face there. - All right. - Selaam Alaikum. - Alaikum Selaam. Where from? - From the city. - Mashallah. Who is your family? - l am from Turkey. - Turkey! Mashallah! Allahu Aqbar, Allahu Aqbar! What does the Hodja say? He says God is great, Abdulhey. And he adds that, we will still have a journey back to lstanbul! My woman died, and l get older each day. Let's marry you off with a Turkish bride. Our Sheikh wouldn't allow it. What is your name? Peko Hseyin. Only Allah knows, who will live, who will die! Boss! Take the briefcase and leave the car. They will not get out of this village! Burn every building to kill them. Yes sir! Run! Are you all OK? We are fine, chief. Give me a gun. Hold this point. Don't let them in! Get out of the mosque! Leave the buildings, for God's sake! Come out! Turn right! What's that? - Erhan? - Boss! They're killing everyone. He's still alive! Stop! - Erhan, go and support them. - OK, boss. Here you are... - Are you OK? - l'm OK. Nothing's wrong... That's all because of these Kurds! What Kurds? - Simply Kurds! - l am Kurdish too! You're different Abdulhey. lt all starts like this! Patience, Dante. Patience... This Turk is getting on my nerves... Patience means waiting your turn. They're surrounding us, l think! l'm taking the back! Abdulhey! Abdulhey! My God! Die like a dog! Leyla! Allahu Aqbar! Leyla? Does it hurt, Erhan? Yes it does, but not my wound! We have to find the boss! You'll never win! Have you killed him? lt was nice... ... to know you.
