 

                        From this movie, The "Oppa" of Korean word mean older brother or friendly older man, and the "Nuna" of the korean word mean older sister or friendly older woman Speed Scandal Yes, this is "Nam Hyun Soo's Afternoon Program". Hello? Hi! You know how women have a sixth sense? Yes! of course! Oh my god, well, he totally got caught! He was holding her hand and kissing her! Wow, and you guys are in the same school? Wah, he completely doesn't have an manners or concepts Seriously, he really doesn't! Anything can happen when you live for so long... Aha...Miss Lee Hana, what school do you attend right now? Right now? I'm in Eung-Hang elementary school. The water splashed fourth a little elementary school kid! Yes, this is "Nam Hye Soo's radio program" Anyway,this is how I feel. What's most important for a man is responsibility. Next...ahhh, this person is calling. The next person is our lively, strong, main character. She is our generation's most popular and single mother Miss Huang Jung Nam. Miss Huang Jung Nam? Mr. PD Yeah, it's all done? Hello? Yes. Yes! Jung Nam sshi, Hello! Yes. Yes! Jung Nam sshi! It's a pleasure to talk with you! This is the first time you are calling, right? Sounds like you're on the way to somewhere. I'm going to meet my father. Ah Yes! You are finally going! Yes! That is a good idea. Is it? Of course, Jung Nam sshi! When you sent in the letter three months ago, didn't I tell you? You should go look for your father! When you didn't know him, it was okay. Now that you know who he is, you should go. Then I'm really going to go... Of course you must go. Jung Nam sshi, when you meet your father, what is the first thing you want to do for him? What should I do? Excuse me? Uh, when a man lives alone... food! Yes, food. When he wakes up in the morning, breakfast is already prepared. Ok, I will definitely do that. Wow, I'm so envious! Jung Nam sshi, when you meet your dad, what do you hope for? I want to sing. Sing? Are you saying you want to become a singer? Oh, so you have a talent in music Yes, I do. - Wow, then we should listen to Jung Nam sshi sing for us - Hong dae yah, review it. - But because time is tight,we will not be able to hear you sing today. - Ok! Jung Nam sshi, do you know the program at our radio called "Boyung Radio" Yes, I know of it. Please participate in that program! If you win in the Gaeul Wang Juwon, We can certainly help you realize your dream to be a singer. yes, please participate in it. Okay. Ok Jung Nam sshi. Are there any last words you want to say to your dad on the radio? My child sleepwalks once in a while. Don't be surprised. Ok, I'm hanging up. Umm..yeah, ok, well...children sleepwalk. it's ok..don't worry. I hope you continue to send us your story. Thank you so so much for calling in today. Thanks. At an age when she should be nourishing her dream, 22-year-old Jung Nam sshi is raising her son. Now her father who will lovingly accept her and her dreams. And an adorable grandson. We at "Nam Hyun Soo Radio" hope that Jung Nam sshi will always be filled with happiness. I told her to go and she went! Man, what is that guy gonna do now? A child AND a grandchild?! wow... Could such a thing happen out of the blue? Sunbae, you should be careful too! she might come looking for you... Hey, I'm a pro. PRO. What day is today? The day that you shoot a CF (commercial)! BINGOOO!!!! Cut! Ok! Did it come out well? I told you I didn't want to shoot with these little boogers... I want...well, you know... What? What are you talking about? Oh yeah! Kim Joonyoung! What ever happened with that video scandal? Obviously there was chaos! Screaming and then getting fired. Ehhh, yeah, he "ate" so much money from others... So it was publicized that he got caught, huh? Yeah, that reporter Bong Pil Choong really got the story this time. That's his specialty. Wow, what a hyena of a guy. - So the whole's story out about him, right? - Yes, I guess... Wait, but I just saw that guys a few moments ago. Hey, Hyena's over there... (ahh...crap...) Oh hey! Reporter Bong! What are you doing here? Oh, there was a smell in the next set! Smell? Oh, you must be joking! Oh, I heard you chose a wedding date! Yeah! In the Autumn. You'll come, right? Of course I have to go Oh, but uh, I heard the big story about Kim Joonyoung... Yeah, I don't know if I'm gonna get punched by Joonyoung for this... When a reporter reports the truth, sometimes he'll get hit for it! And plus, he's always getting entangled with girls You know what? Now that I see, you never have any scandals. you're good at hiding things... What do you mean hide? What do I have to hide? Please, make me a scandal for god sakes! So I can be on the headline of the news! (Last sunday...) (Kim Joonyoung was caught on video with a girl...) How are you so sexy? (His manager has begun to stop the spread of the video...) Of course! I'm watching right now. I told gyung-bi that my cousin's coming over. I will surely make you into my slave. Who are you? - It's you right? - What? "Nam Hyun Soo's Afternoon Show" No, I'm not I think you found the wrong house... I'm Jung Nam Who? Huang Jung Nam So what? The person who called your radio station. Single mother. AHHH!!! Huang Jung Nam! Oh, you couldn't meet your father huh! Uh, why are you here? Huang Bogyung is my mother... So? Don't you know? Am I supposed to know? You should know... I don't think I would know... When Nam Hyunsoo was in the third year of middle school... The "nuna" next door Nam hyun soo's first time... For me, this girl really seems like my daughter! During my childhood, my materal grandparents had a house there! Your father had you when he was in his third year of middle school? Never listened to my friends...we were in the same neighborhood... (cluster of thoughts all together) Please go meet your father. Say hi to him, your grandpa - GRANDPA!!!! - WAIT, WHOA, HOLD ON, DON'T COME! DON'T COME! - GRANDPA!!! - Hold on! Stop! What do I do?! Go! Go! Hurry up! Listen now. It's not going to take long. Just be quiet and don't move. Ok? - But he has to go pee--- - Let him pee in his pants!!! Please, please?! Oh my, look at your sweat dripping Were you trying to make a romantic atmosphere? Um, hey, about today-- Today, should we just go all out? My goodness, oppa! this is a good time... Are we going to keep standing like this? It's just the robot vacuum. Automatic tub cleaner... It's so well-known... I'm not such an easy woman I have something very important to tell you. Say it... Let's break up. Did the guest leave? Listen carefully. I'll talk slowly I like it faster... Speak. Ok, if we look at this situation calmly... - You, young lady, --- - I'm a mother. Yeah, a mother! Anyway, this isn't it! Ok, sure sometimes there are those type of people When we (while broadcasting) talk about a situation for too long, I become comfortable, like a friend, oppa, uncle... And a father. THAT'S NOT IT!!! How could I possible have a big daughter like you?! Ok, Bo gyung nuna...it's sad that her life became like that. It's too sad. Just a moment ago, I was crying like crazy over there. But with her, I only...just once. Just once! I remember very clearly. Eh, it's not me! I didn't have that much stamina that time either to plant a seed! Well, you did plant! What skills does a 3rd year in middle school have to make a kid?! For me, it's 1st year of high school... Oh my God-- Who are you?! I'm Huang gi dong!!! Not that! Young lady, look. You're breaking the law right now. Entering a private residence is a 3 yr. imprisonment or a $5 mill. fine You wanna go to jail? You really want us to go? You shouldn't have even come. Even though it's his bed time? It's my bedtime too. Our car's out of order too... Always be healthy... Actor Kim joonyoung..video scandal?! Man, he's finished, finished! How did THAT happen? Good night, Grandpa! Good morning, Grandpa! Didn't you say that I should prepare meals for you? There's a lot to eat. Eat a lot. Hey, I thought about it a long while yesterday night. Young lady, You're not my daughter. I told you I'm not a young lady. Your surname is Huang. Mine is Nam. My mom's last name is Huang, that's why mine is Huang too. Huang Bo Gyung, Huang Jung Nam, Huang Gi Dong We don't look alike at all! Look! You have a double eyeli--- When I smile, you can't see my eyes! Lips! You're lips are completely different! Thank God You want to do a paternity test? They say that a blood test is the most accurate. - If you're not my daughter-- - Then what? We'll go to the police stattion. On one side, the actor and main character of the video, kim joon y-- Why do you keep insisting your my daughter without any evid-- Wow, this is completely... This kind of story is seriously worth broadcasting I told you something like this would happen! I have no one else I can trust but you, hyung (older brother). They do this kind of stuff in a dog house huh... Young lady, this isn't a dog house. Oh, a dog hospital. There's a resemblance in personality.... I can already feel it. We don't need to do a blood test. I'm feeling the answer come to me right now. "I'm Nam Hyun Soo's daughter". Whatever, when is the result coming out? In 10 days. Hey Mister, you used to play the drums, right? Oh, that? You were so cool at that time... Well, you're pretty cool now too... So, uh, what song did you think I was the coolest in? Do you know? You remember me? Hey, your daughter's so pretty!!! What's your name? I'm Huang Gi Dong!!! Hey! Gi dong! Come here, have some candy! What flavor do you want? Orange? Grape? She is your daughter. 100%. Let's make a house for you guys where you used to live. A child should live in a familiar place. You scratched, right? You scratched yourself just now! That's atopia! You'll keep scratching and then you'll die! That's why you should go live in the countryside. The air's no good here and the cars fly If you go outside, the kids break their legs and arms, and it's just a mess! Go outside and look for yourself! Sit. You must've had a hard time raising a child on your own, right? Well, yeah... Actually, your mother was my first and my last love. Although we were deeply in love We could only break up in the end Your mother, Bo Gyung nuna.. Possibly hid you because of this. She thought she would interfere with the future of the person she loves. It would've been better if I knew back then Sorry. I sing really well. I can cook. When I was young, I never rebelled. I just got pregnant. - As you can see, I'm the loveable, cutsy type. - Ah, yes... I'm going to go. Don't hold onto me! I respect your decision. Daddy should have a glass also. How could something like this happen to me? Right! Oh! Huang gi dong! Have a glass of alcohol! Just one glass! What are you saying to a kid! Oh, it's okay! don't be so strict with kids! - ok, 1 more bottle! - 1 more bottle!!! - Gran--- - Shhh!!! I have a meeting... You remember the promise from yesterday, right? Uh huh, yeah. Anyway, o well until the end of this month... I said I would leave... So, we'll meet next week? Yes, the meeting is until 5PM. - Please check the invitations. - Ok. I heard there's a really talented singer. Yeah, she's totally a professional. Hey senior, you have to take a look. (her name's Huang Jae In) Please, can you guys just take care of this Oh, also, the story about the single mother Huang Jung Nam... Netizens are getting restless because we aren't updating her story. The ratings have dropped for our show too... Hey, you really think because we didn't update her story, our ratings are dropping? Why not? People listen to the story for fun... Last time the manager also said that... Oh geez, since when did he show so much concern? If he's so concerned, maybe he should be the DJ Oh, there was that method huh... You keep putting on commercials. Of course the radio program's no fun. Um, I mean, when did I... Hey, didn't you tell him yet? You read her story to everyone, which made the rating shoot up. - Do you understand? - That's why, ummm manager, instead of just sitting... Why don't we look for her? I have a friend who's an experting at investigating people. His name is Ho Dong Gu. Why don't we take the opportunity to find her, bring her to the studio, and make her a special guest? And her father Good idea! Good idea! It's not a big deal to find a person. It's not like it's against the law or anything either... Right! That's not a bad idea, bringing her to the studio as a guest... Should I contact my friend right now? I'll contact him and-- WHAT DO YOU MEAN CONTACT?! I mean, isn't every situation beautiful on its own? There should always be an air of suspense...if we bring her to the studio, then it ends right there! Right? Am I right? - Aren't you going to continue your story? - Huh? I'm talking about the radio... I'm asking if you're going to continue your story When was I so self-centered and cheap like that? Huh? You took the credit card away from me, remember? What's so cheap about taking back my own credit card?! That's called being cheap! That's not being cheap! I mean, I took back my own-- Oh my God, Ok, I'll delete it! Look, it's all deleted already Of course you have to delete it all! I have nothing to write...absolutely nothing to write about... Geez, move over, move! If you write a story, you have to put some feeling into it! The generous father gave paid off my credit card bill and said this: You think that this bill is something? If you guys want, I'll do anything for you! He smiled graciously I, who previously didn't have a sense of filiality and only knew of money, decided: I have to make money and stop burdening my father. Will he be alright? Oh god, my baby... Wow, he sure is making a big deal... Excuse me?! If anyone is looking for me...PLEASE DON'T. A story has it's own beauty when it is happening. Laundry! I can't emphasize enough how much he loves kids! My child is noisy and disruptive. He takes up the whole sofa and watches TV all day. But my father never fights with him, and always gives into him. Sometimes I wonder if "sacrifice" and "devotion" are his other names. Get me water. You never even brought us to the amusement park. This is all BS "At the department store"...DEPARTMENT STORE?! Fine, we'll go, ok? We'll go! Wow, my father is so hardworking. He even brought me namebrand clothes! Thank you so much for your story, Miss Huang Jung Nam. Ok, here's the next section of our radio program! Our afternoon program! We'll meet our very talented music group, who passed through some hard competition! We'll also listen to some commercials meanwhile Hello (Oh my God, it's Nam hyun soo!) Hello You came! Oh hey, it's me. (yes, yes, oh I see, the left side...) What are you saying... Why did you call? Why do you think I called? Um, yeah, what do you feel like eating tonight? You choose, so I can buy it. I want meat! Eat chobab. ok? Chobab (rice wrapped by tofu) But I want to eat meat. Sorry! I'm sorry! Senior! Senior! lines! lines! Umm, uh, yeah, in the next section of our program, we will-- We have a group of five who are here for the music challenge. Wow, and there you are! Determination is a big part of winning Of course, the netizen vote online determines the results. But this is already... Ok, we have heard all of our contestants now. Uh wait, there's still one contestant. Miss Huang Jae In? (pronounced like Jane) Yes, hello. Your name is very special! Is it the same Jane as in "John and Jane"? My mother gave me the name. It means to "be someone" (become big, famous). Yes, we really hope that you become famous. Now please, just come onto the stage quickly. Yes, the program that everyone is watching, "Bo Young In radio" THE WHOLE COUNTRY is listening, so don't be nervous The song is Choi Young Joon's "Perhaps that" Oh well..wow, you like umm...very OLD style music. OLD concepts... Ok, do it. Ready, START. Ahaha, well, she got to nervous so...pitifully, the next-- No matter how I think, that was probably love  A memory that is already erasing  Now  I finally understand that feeling  Now all that is left is your shadow  Now... all that's left  Is the cold image of your back  It leaves me shivering  And so sad  For a long time, I stared at the gate  Thinking you would come by my side  In the morning, I looked out the window and said  That thing called love, that overlaps with time  That goes by swiftly and quietly like the wind  A love like that, I miss so much  All I have left are my feelings You can sing a bit... Yes, I do. Don't go to the competition I will. I was really wrong. Don't compete. Just treat it as my mistake. Why?! Why of all programs, our program?! You told me that I should definitely participate. Ok. Ok I admit that. These days, it's all about your luck. If you hold on to your luck, your ratings go up too. Let's say you're sick! Appendix! Let's say your appendix exploded! But my appendix already exploded 2 years ago... You...You practiced everything you were going to say, didn't you! You won't give into even a word! A person like you who has a kid should pay attention to raising the kid. You'll have to sing everyday. How did you grow up that you have no ethics?! Why?! What?! It's probably because I grew up without a father. Even a single mother has a lot of things she wants to do. What about the child? When you go to sing at the broadcasting station What are you going to do about the child? Umm, we can bring him together, I guess No, you can't! Do you know how many people I know at that station?! Is there a reason for us to advertise our relationship? Oh, he can go to kindergarten! Son, do you want to go to kindergarten? Hey, YOU. Who am I? Grandpa! ^^ Ok look. Here is a grandfather. This grandfather has three sons. so three brothers. The second son is my father This is the eldest son. The eldest son has two sons. Then the surname should be the same. Ok ok. DAUGHTER. Not son. DAUGHTER. Ok?! Then the surnames are differ-- AISH Ok, I'll start over. Grandfather has three sons The second child is my father Then this is the big daughter The big daughter has two sons How come everyone has sons... WHAT ARE THEY SUPOSSED TO DO?!?!?! What are they supposed to do about only having sons?! Am I the one delivering them?! Who am I? Uncle! How am I your uncle? My dad's grandpa's second son's son My uncle! What about your parents? Good job. - The principal will be here soon. - oh yes, yes... He's my nephew! my newphew. On the mother's side. Huang gi dong. HAHA JUST WANNA IRRITATE YOU! STICK MY BUTT AT YOU Hey! Come here and sit quietly. What? what are you looking at? This isn't my son. Do you like the kindergarten? Do you have a girl you like? What's her name? Hurry up! Really?! So what'd the principal say? Why don't you go in and play? I'm watching TV here, gosh... Are you curious? ehhhh, you wanna be in on this, huh? You're being very noisy. That's why he's whispering to my ear. Look at that! Who watches that? I'm enjoying it. At that time... You laughed! You laughed, right? I didn't laugh, ok? You're laughing right now! No, I'm not! Aren't you gonna give me food? Since I married 3 years ago, last night was my first night at a club Why did I marry? Those girls were dancing, and they're boobs were... wow... Oh my god... What do you mean "oh my god"... I don't like big ones (breasts) anyway... You report him, I'll be a witness. Yeah, maybe I really will!!! Yeah, that girl Huang Jae In. She had just the right size! She can sing really well, but doesn't she look "cheap"? I think she came from the countryside...her fashion sense is so tacky I don't know about cheap, but she definitely has a kid. Right? Yeah that's right. People from the countryside get into more trouble, see? Yeah, her boobs stick out and are really nice, and then her "Ah~~~" is a killer YAHHHH you perverted asshole! You call yourself a director/professional after describing her like that? You have a daughter! In the future, if a person describes your daughter like you just did... Report him, OK?! This kind of fellow deserves 10,000 punches - Oh My God, What the-- ARGHH - (What'd I say?!) Um I just wanted to say, I'm sure you're having a hard time because of my nephew... But is there something in particular you like to eat? You should pay more attention to your nephew There's a girl that Gi Dong likes But she said that Gi Dong is so tacky - So she won't play with him from what I see, he's a very cute child. He's my uncle, who's my dad's grandpa's second son's son! Yeah, he's my nephew...nephew... Do you have something that looks noble and not cheap looking? Why? Umm, well this... You don't like it? Um, no, it's not that...but, this... Here, now we HAVE to buy this. Ok? Please wrap this up and show me more clothes. These are all expensive? Oh, umm, expensive... Thank you! Farewell! Wowww, you guys look beautiful! So perfect! Since you guys have done this more than once... CAMERA!!! - Sang Min, get us something to drink! - Yes! Oh my God!, are you ok?! Miss Kim Miyoung...Hey, did you call Huang Jae In? She said she already arrived before Hey, if she comes, don't let her in What does she think she is? a star? Why does she want to be last? - She's here! - (I'll greet her!) Oh, you're a bit late! Just a bit! Wow, you really changed! Please, sit on that side! Excuse sir, please move to the other side for her. Jae In ah! You're Huang Jae In, right? It's me. Sang Min. Sang Min! Got this! Mom, it's your turn. Huh? Oh, Gi Dong, you won! Let's stop today. Hold on, ok? Ok You're teaching him the wrong things. Nobody asks who I am? No If someone asks, answer it like we practiced, ok? Ok Hmmm, some people should ask... You saw me on TV I'm really popular You "pooped" (lost 3 cards) Pi bang, ssang pan, and jung pang (awesome cards) (he got murdered by the little kid) WHA I need to pee Do you want me to mix it? I'm mixing it! Ok! Aim well! And shake it 3 times. Ok! Here Pass! (he won't split the "deck") LOOK! You little kid! Where did You learn such bad things! (go stop is a korean gambling game) I'm not playing! You used to like taking pictures. Now you're becoming a photographer! Are you still like that when you take pictures? Like what? I kept that so I could show you when we met again It took a really long time... How come you can sing that well? I think I watched that videos like 70,000 times Honestly, I cried a little when I watched Actually, the reason I participated in that... I thought maybe...you would see me if I was broadcasted And then we'd possibly be able to meet again...that was part of the reason (korean mocking) - Why didn't you tell me? the thing Gi Dong plays well Did he play GoStop here?! HEY! How could you play Gostop here-- Gi Dong ah, show Uncle what you did before How can you let him play here?! Gidong! Don't do it! Gidong! Wow, this kid! You're...pretty good... Anyway, you're gonna go to the principal's house for piano lessons from now on, right? Yes Ok, then can you help me find out if the principal has a boyfriend or not? So you have to act really nonchalant, pretend I didn't ask you to find out. If she has a boyfriend she's meeting If not, ask if she's interested in meeting someone. If she is, ask how she thinks of me Why are you riding that at home?! You did really well, Gi Dong! Let's take a little break, Gi dong! Miss Principal! She doesn't have one? GOOD Then let's try this, this time. Fried pork chops with black pepper on top? No sauce, just pepper? I really don't like that... Anyway, and then? A man who can play games? A man who can play games? Are you sure?! We don't match at all... I'm going out for awhile. Why do I hear a man's voice?! I know that you finished making the food But the grilled long-tail fish is-- no, I'm not being picky A person has to eat! Ah, I don't know! I'm hanging up! Oh, today my mother-in-law came to my house No, of course I'm at home! No, I can't come out right now. I'm in the middle of-- OK OK IT'S COMING OUT, IT'S COMING OUT!!! HOLD HOLD HOLD I'm filming right now. Ok, ready... ACTION! I cooked well for myself before too Hello Dinner? No, I didn't eat yet. Shall we go? But Gi Dong said he's tired... I wanna stay with grandma... What grandma? - My mother - (go, go, go!) I loved pork chop the most! You saw the advertisement right? Oh, and if you put black pepper, it tastes really good without sauce. I like that too Oh, really? Not many people like that! Is this destiny? What do you usually do when you're not working? Do you wanna play games some time? They say that I am quite a pro The other day, I almost hurt my back muscle yesterday, I lost finally I don't like guys that play games. I guess he heard wrong... Gi Dong is a child afterall, it's possible... You could've asked me directly that day Then...What..kind...of man...do you like? Actually, it's been a while since I stopped singing with Lee Jin Mang... I'm not that bad, so don't worry Just hold my hand... You said that the first time we held hands too... Jae In, I should've said this to you 6 years ago. I really... I really love you, as much as my life Even if I'm different from other girls... I love you Sorry! I'll go! before you punch me any more. bye! Go in! I'll go in that direction I won't get hit next time! Bye! Come back earlier please! Why? Are you worried? You met a guy, didn't you? Ah, why're you like this again? Oh my underpants! where are the ones I bought this time? Why're you asking me? If you can't find it, just wear mine. That's what I'm doing. But why's it so big? Is this a full size? Oh yes, Station manager Come home earlier! Men...like to...take...women... ARGH You know what I mean... What? What is it? It's just something... Why, what? They wanna do something? - you don't need to know - I wanna know BE QUIET! What? Should I tell you about my first time? What are you saying?! Are you insane? Or we can talk about dad's first time... What? Why would I-- Oh my God Hey, at the competition What are you going to sing? Seriously, what should I sing? What about my special edition cd, the third track. "Gift"? Yeah "Gift"! Wow, you know that, huh This song is such a classic We'll just have to change the tone to a female tone Ok, let's make a pose. The bride needs to be next to the groom and--STOP oh beautiful! Sangmin, one cup of coffee please! Wait, DON'T! DON'T! Sang min, don't-- Let's take a break right now (what the hell are you doing, causing such a mess!) (Oh my God!) What? Oh, nothing Um, you know that DJ Nam Hyun soo... I heard he doesn't have a good reputation... I heard he's an asshole and...I guess you don't look on the internet, huh I heard he likes young girls and he's a total pervert...he always-- It's not like that, ok? It's not what I'm thinking, right? Huh? You're not that type of girl...you're not...dating right? Right? I'll explain everything later You slept with him, didn't you You did sleep with him... I'm gonna find Nam Hyun joo that asshole, and knock him-- Hey! If you do that... What... now you're taking his side? You're hiding everything? because you're scared he'll get hurt?! Does he like you that much? Does you like living with him that much?! YEAH! that's right. I love it! I love it to death! I'm not going to leave Nam Hyun Soo alone. A reporter said if I give him the pictures, he'll take care of the rest. I'm going to RUIN Nam Hyun Soo! You haven't changed at all. I don't want to see you ever again. Are you so hungry? that you're even taking such girls? Someone already reported the story. Bong Pil Choong that asshole, he's already spreading the news. You've already been in this business for about 3 years. If anyone sees this news, you know how bad it's going to get?! I know That girl Jae In...Don't let her sing this time. If a scandal explodes, I'm not the one that's screwed. It's you. YOU I'm in here. We need to talk. It's...going to be awhile. Um, about the broadcasting competition You listening? Keep going I mean, I've had more advertisements lately And I don't have that much phonographs left But you... Don't perform there. Let's say you compete. And you get first place. And then what? What are you going to say? You're my daughter? And you're a single mother? Then it's going to be hard for both of us I know you won't, But if others find out... I'm finished. It's over. There was a strange phone call saying you live with Huang Jae In. He was telling us to be careful, that he knows everything. No wonder the PD was so angry last time... You don't understand what I'm saying, do you. I gave you an opportunity And now you're stabbing me in the back like this? You better end this matter. Jae In ah... Jae in ah, we need to talk I'll be good to you I'll be good to you! Let's talk. I'll treat you well As long as you haven't lost confidence in me. Wait, wait. Jae In, wait Nam Hyun soo, you ass, where are you?! Come out here! Go. We'll talk later. Talk with me now. I can treat you well Go! I'm begging you I could tell just from your looks. You want me to rescue you For me to help you That you want to leave the house and come to me I'll rescue you. I'll make money. TELL HIM TO COME OU This was your original intention, wasn't it? Did your mom order you to do this? I ruined her life, so you come and ruin mine? You never ruined my mom's life. Then why are you going this? It's hard to bring me down, so you brought another guy to help you? What's he say? He'll take care of everything for you?! What the hell are you glaring at? I came back Let's talk later. What do you mean later? There's no time later. Both of you leave. Pack up and go. Whether you end up sleeping at a newspaper stand or go on broadcasting Get your kid and get out. DISAPPEAR! Gi Dong, get in your room. GET IN WHERE?! Hurry up and go in! - I can't leave - Can't leave?! I'm your child. YOU'RE DAUGHTER! I have a right to live here. Is it because of money? I'll give you money. I'll even get you a house A car too? I said I would give it to you. I'll give you anything you want! Get out! Just get out of here! Did I come here because of the money? Yeah, you came here for money Because you can't raise a child on your own! No? then what?You want to receive fatherly love from me? Yeah That's what I hoped for That's what I wanted! Everyone else has a father THEY ALL DO! Why do I have to say I have no father when I do have one?! You think I was born because I wanted to be born? I said I would live quietly! I would even give up my love for singing to live quietly! What the hell did I do wrong? My eyes. My nose. This is all made by you I'm here! Why do you wish that I wasn't here?! WHY?! Why am I here?! I never wanted you. Sorry for bothering you all this time. You... I'll never come here again. I'll pretend I don't have a father. Be healthy. She didn't even call? No. Why don't you call? Why do I have to? Aren't you worried? I am worried. Why do you live so complicated? Just reveal everything Are you some idol? You're not popular at all I am popular God, stop the BS Are some unimportant people(netizens) important to you or is your child important? You should be thankful that she grew up fine and came looking for you. Man, you can't hide the fact that this is a dog hospital The noise of an animal mixed with that of a human... Just go get some wine Why don't you just stuff yourself with this, asshole Even those animals are making noise because they're separated from their children Excuse me, excuse me Just sign this and wait please. Excuse me. Yes! Oh, just forget it It's because I'm singing it here. If you sing it on stage with A 50-member chorus behind you And an orchestra, the audience will go crazy Hey (child's mother), 2 of the soups came out - 2 rice bowls for table 3! - ok! The soups are here Please give us some more water! It's self-service here...but since you're so good-looking, I'll get it for you! Excuse me, give us more fish cakes please! Yes, I'll get you the fish cakes right away! Oh yes, unni! - Do you have any seats? - we have seats! Can you two please sit together and eat? I'll give you free fried egg! Sorry about that Turn on the radio! Oh, my waist! Of course, health is the most important. Miss Kang Yun Joo, Miss Lee MaRi, I hope you two live healthily Thank you for your story and be healthy for a long long time! For the final story here on "Nam Hyun Soo's Afternoon Program", We haven't received news from her a long time, but here's single mom Huang Jung Nam's story I had a fight with my father and I left home. Although he said some hurtful things, I know he didn't actually mean any of it Dad was over emotional and just spilled out those words He's probably regretting it right now. Thinking about that, I really want to go back. But I don't know how to make up with him and go back Please tell me, Mr. Nam Hyun Soo Miss Huang Jung Nam If you are listening to this, please call your father. Goodbye! Are we not going to Grandpa's? Do you miss Grandpa? He's a good person That tickles!!! Let's go to sleep So they wanted me to go to the hospital, so I went, and I just did the surgery! (senior, senior, look at the text!) (So I thought, I'll just do what this guy wants me to do!) (Huang Jung Nam has called!) So I went to the hospital and cut off some of my bone! - Miss Kim Jang Mi - Yes? - Just break up with him - What? yeah, um, thanks for your story Yes, next we have Huang Jung Nam on the line. She hasn't called in awhile. Hello Miss Huang Jung Nam? Where are you? If you called, you should speak! You write very well, as usual Escaping won't solve your problems. I think the problem was the whole being of my existence Who said that? Did your father say that? Miss Jung Nam Even if your dad said the things he said (according to your letter) Maybe he was just overcome with emotions and said the wrong things accidentally It wasn't an accient Yes it was Do you know my father? Umm..N...N..No.... It was my mistake for thinking that I could intrude in his lovely life And expect him to accept me as his child. Then you think you can just follow your own thoughts and leave? You think that solves the problem? Shouldn't you finish listening to your father's opinion first? Tell me. For me to become my father's daughter, it requires him to give up too much. Thank you for listening to my story all this time. Wait, Miss Jung Nam! Hey Jong-gyu, MUSIC! MUSIC! Miss Huang Jung Nam If you are still listening, I'll just say one more thing. Even if you can't forgive your father...please continue with your dreams. There's something you really want to do right? Make sure you do it. Not for the sake of anyone, your father, or your son. But merely for your own confidence There are many things that even single mothers want to do, right? Hey, which lamp did you say doesn't work? Yeah, it's me - Is the thing prepared? - I don't know. Don't ask me - Where is he? - I don't know If I find him, I'll tell you Oh, here he is! Hello tell them to inspect the lamps again. The 3 background lamps. On the Left side Over there. No, not there, not there. What are you doing here? Inspection on #3! What should we do? Should we cancel Huang Jae In's performance? If we cancel it now, we can still fix everything How old is your daughter again? She's going to kindergarten next year. How long do you have to wait to see a grandson? What? Cancel it. We're having a rehearsal in 10 minutes! Please prepare quickly! - PD Lee! - Yes! Cancel the cancellation. Yes, thank you. Next, Miss Huang Jae In Yes, that's the center. Switch the lamps! Ok, ready? Did I sing well? You're pretty good Good Are we going to Grandpa's today? Do you like seeing him again? Miss Huang Jae In, please go to the dressing room quickly Please hurry! Son, I'll be right back, just wait here for a bit. Ok? Wow , we caused a craze again! Hey Oh, Hello I feel like you got even prettier Did you see the child that was sitting there a moment ago? Uh, no, I didn't see Oh, is it the little kid that was sitting next to the man? Huang Gi dong! Gi Dong ah! We're preceding with the broadcasting. I'll announce your evaluations now. - How about sashimi today? - Sashimi sounds good! I want meat Gi Dong ah! What do we do? Gi Dong! Get off the stage! What do we do about Gi Dong? What do I do?! Dad! Gi Dong disappeared! Pull her off! Hurry up! Hurry up! What do I do? Gi Dong disappeared! Dad, I said Gi Dong disappeared! Senior, senior, LINES! LINES! This is Nam Hyun Soo's Afternoon program... Hello everyone! I'd like to welcome everyone who came to see "Nam Hyun Soo's Afternoon program" broadcasting There is a special person in this concert Everyone has seen this star rise-- We are looking for a child. His name is Huang Gi Dong. He's 6 years old, and about this tall. he has curly hair. He plays Go Stop very well He's a piano prodigy He sleepwalks-- everyone in the audience-- Hey, asshole, take your hands off of her! Get off your hands off her , asshole! We're not going to search harder because you're here, or not search if you're not here... So go home. Is she your younger sister? Girlfriend? She's not my girlfriend, she's... What happened? We haven't received any news yet, but they're started to search-- These days, the search system is very good, so they'll find him. And Gi Dong is a smart child, so he'll come back no matter what Hey Huang Jae In! You even... When did you go as far as to make a baby? I'll take the responsibility to look for your child. AND YOU You have to take responsibility for my Jae In! If you make her cry-- He's your kid! Our son Gi dong, is your son! You are our child's father You said he died! Just kill him now! Then..who..are you? I'm this kid's biological father! You have to take responsibility for what you did! - No matter what, you can't hit someone in front of a police offi-- - AHHH! ohh... Don't hit him so hard! lightly!!! Wait, hold on! Hold on! - Hit him later! Um, Mr. Nam Hyun Soo! - yes? You little...I'll continue hitting you later. Um, so you're Huang Gi dong's father's grandfather's second son's son? Wait, umm...how did you... Then, is Miss Huang Jae In here? Wait, so Huang Gi Dong's eldest uncle's daughter's older sister?! Yes? What the hell? I haven't worked here THAT long as a cop, but this is the first time I've come across a situation like this Huang Gi Dong was crying while he was reporting you two! He said he waited until dawn and you guys still didn't come back I'm sure he said he saw Reporter Bong when he was in there... Gi Dong ah! You little scoundrel! Where did you go?! Why are you hitting him?! You have to tell us when you go! you little scoundrel! you don't listen! Why do you keep hitting him?! ("Nam Hyun Soo's scandal: a daughter and even a grandson") Yes, then Nam Hyun Soo's press conference starts now When I was young, there was a woman that I loved It was the first time I was in love. It made my heart pace so much that... - love-- - It's Kim Joonyoung! Kim Joonyoung! Kim Joonyoung! Responsibility is part... Just hurry and finish what you're saying! Movie star Kim Joonyoung bumped into Reporter Bong Pil Choong who reported his video scandal and started to hit the reporter repeatedly For a long period of time, Kim Joonyoung has been spending time in the UK very depressed... Was unable to continue to act because of the scandal As soon as he saw the reporter, he started bashing him What? Didn't I tell you?You're not popular! WHAT?! yes... The reason I hid the truth is... Even if I had 10 mouths, there's nothing I can say...I'm sorry... Grandpa? I don't think we were in a relationship... Um, yeah, we weren't... Then you don't have to be so sorry... Um, yeah that's true... But if we ARE to date, then...I would become a grandma, right? But how can an entertainer have such low popularity? What if we change your image concept to that of an older man? So this is the concept? Ajusshi? (older/married man) Your recent image has become that of a responsible man From a father's perspective, I will take responsibility Everyone is our family, Our life. - What? - Did I say anything? You're giving me a look! It's just funny... What's so funny? Hey, is that funny? I think it's good! SEE! He said it's good! Ok, let's just pretend it's good We're not pretending! See see see! It's that look again! I'm just saying let's stop watching! How many times do we have to watch that a day? See? It's here again! Fine, then go in and sleep! I told you we should just wear our normal clothes! What is this? Just live with it! Why am I here? I'm not even part of your family! - You should just thank us for squeezing you in, you loner! - sound like you never lived alone! Because there's a lot of pretty girls! and you look cool when you play the drums! (Don't slack off. Do a good job on the drums!) Yes, that was a very nice song by Kim Mu Gong hua's family! Next is a performance by Huang Gi--Oh, Nam Gi Dong! Gi Dong's playing the piano, his mom for vocals, and Grandpa Nam Hyun soo for guitar. So let me introduce you to this family band, Please welcome the "Overspeed of 3 generations"! And the drummer from the great band "Dae Hak gwon chool shin": the bachelor, Lee Chang Hoon!!!
