 

                        Manual translated by Billy Nugroho Prastomo - English by d3xt3r (thanks to Billy for manual) sorry if a lot of shortcomings Well, my father is very pleased that we can gather together again .... -Daddy, I want to visit that place -All right, after arriving home we will be there Sleep well-Lebik Kak, kak Come on. Come kak. :) -How? Is it any good? -Cool! Mother, mother, I can not wait -Wait, our first photo together -Pay off the first house, a new photo .. How do you like? Your father made his own The view here is very beautiful, none in Bangkok Mom knew what the Bangkok? Grandma, My school, my friends. -You 'can not get a new -They are not the same, bu If fathers do not change jobs, I will stay with them. Ben 10! Wey, Gekiranger! -Daddy, What is it? -It was a magical eye that follows us wherever You know what's it called? It was called "Magic Eye" Stupid. it's called "Eye Sensor" Each AC newest brand to have it. - But the "eyes" that follow where we go - Whatever want to believe what not. Nan Anyway, do not fight at the dinner table. -Well, my father is very happy ... -Oh, hello grandma. I'm glad my grandmother called. New home? okay. Ordinary housing projects. If stopped, the house can not sell Dikamar TV? we wrote already grateful have a TV here. -Nan, do not call over the kitchen table -Yes, my teacher says it's not polite. -What is your teacher taught you not to interrupt people talking? -Nan, speak more polite to your sister. -I've been busy preparing all this, and you're crying -Okay, sorry deh / i -Let me open the -Place the first glass: D -Need help? -No sombongnyaaa: 3 Fire, quickly grab the water! Rather than hold a shower, you're almost burned the house with a wine--" The maid will take care of it. Yesterday I raised a servant of Burma. he works well. Did you not excessive? salary only 60,000 baht. mortgage rates are only 30,000 baht Do not worry. I get an extra salary of 20,000 Baht. If not, I could not buy this house. Our company is indeed recently inaugurated, but we have been very great performance This Bpk.Thee, one of our members. During his 10 years of work in Bangkok, he was never a success But in just 3 months, 3 months he joined us, his career began to change. Tn.Thee, please tell what you achieve after becoming a member of our -I can pay a deposit .... -ADVANCES, WOW! -Hello, bu Addons-Mother used to buy a car for kids, not your husband! / i Addons - now my grandchildren have to go to school by bus / i - Mom, Nan's an adult, he can look after himself Addons - Do not keep "your husband's defense of it / i - I'm not defending him, but the mother should be more concerned -From the first we moved house, my mother did not congratulate Addons-For what I congratulated him for something to do? / i Sorry ma'am, I must go. Addons-Well, you have to catch the bus. Beware the hot air i/ -Good Go away. Go away. Go! -You are too indulgent of children Interest-0%. It'll pay off really / i -You're always spoiling them 3 -Uh, what was that stepped on? Cat-shit! -What is this?! -There is a problem? -Your cat has just defecated dihalamanku. Water my cat defecate? I'm sorry. Let me clean up. Nit, Nit. -Do not bother -Let us alone. My name is Somkiat. I worked out of town for several days ... -.. So that has not had time to get acquainted. -My name is Thee. This is my wife, Parn. -Cats we defecate their yard. -Forgive me, let me clean up -No, let us just -Should I just ... All also clean the shoes yes. -Family Somkiat looks weird -Do not be meddlesome, not good Lok, Lok, when did you start going to work? Mom, she seemed to like me / Why not? / Because I'm handsome / of course you're very handsome son. Reportedly she was a woman from Burma. he worked as a Pembatu Household -Mother, hold me Addons now we will try to get into his house / i -They're what? / They're filming Addons his home state of very messy and smelly / i Addons Blimey! / i Addons there is a woman's corpse in the refrigerator. Condition face is destroyed! / i a dead woman was found disebuah home housing complex in Laddaland / i Addons corpse of a woman from Burma was found dead inside a refrigerator with the condition crushed face and blow a blunt object. alleged victims were killed with a motive an affair with his girlfriend / i Burma-maid who want you to hire it killed this morning. -No Maybe -What kids are told? / Not yet. -Well, do not tell the kids first. These things scare me - Period / i the incident made everyone afraid? -Parn, get back to sleep Nam -Come on, honey. Makin! Makin! Makin! He is here he was here! Makin! Makin! Get off me! Get off me! he's here! Get off me! There was someone killed in our housing. And the father did not tell me? -You heard the news about more? -Yes, I heard he worked as a maid. - Addons Let us pray for the peace of the spirit. / I -I also always wanted to lift attendants, fortunately not so -I do not want to live here anymore -What do you mean? we do / i new lives here -Children 'was sleeping? -Nat already, Nan yet. There is a group assignment at home his friend ... -He'll be home soon / We have just moved house and he had dared finished the night? he's very stubborn. -What is it? -There was a woman passing in front of me, so I stopped abruptly Hey you. Hey, doing / i you there? Nan! Nan? Your turn, stupid. My house is possessed by a thief. Good thing I arrived early so the thief did not take anything. Okay, I'll let you know again -What is it? / Where have you been? -The task group / task what makes you come home hours a night? -The task is not finished / is it true? -True / Liar! why are not you doing tomorrow?! New-home, has been scolded. I want to sleep. Tomorrow school -Nan! / Calm down first. -You should be careful to hold -Forgive me. I just want to see it -You should be careful. This can be a deadly opponent -I just need it for protection. My house was just robbed. Let the children play together. so we can have both:) -What's your wound should be treated? -No, this is just a small bruise. Soon also missing. - Addons by the way / i, your husband is a little rough huh? -Yes kind of thing Anyway forget it. If you're there spare time, You may really / i stop kerumahku. -Well, this strange cat necklace -This is called a "small camera". Said the father of the goods being ngetrend / i in Bangkok. -Come see pictures -Laptop father upstairs. -Nat, liver "up the ladder -If may be, I have one request ... Now we see This cat trip. -Wow, cool -It is in our residential area of ??the pool. -Now he's spying on us -That picture our legs. What is it? -Hey, why do we stop? -They both stopped Hey, why turn back? I want to go home. -This is the house that he haunted? -It does not look scary, let's get into -You guys, I do not go / why not? Meyuruhku-home dad / you're afraid same / i father? You guys go ahead. I wear a skirt, can not climb. -Just kidding really / i -Damn! you this. Pim, Pim, do not enter. -Damn you guys, really ngagetin -You should have seen you look so funny earlier: D friends, opened the door! open! Friends ... Nan, Nan! going where you are! Nan! Nan open the door! Nan! -What is it, bu? -Nothing ', go back to sleep. Where are you last night? -Last night I saw a ghost -Do not lie -I do not lie, me and my friends "I went into the empty house .. -Do not lie to me! there are no ghosts here! No matter. Spend your food. I was busy, ma'am, what is it? Addons-granddaughter saw a ghost and no one believes? / I -Bu, Nan lied to avoid being scolded. Addons-But what if he spoke the truth? Do not continue to defend your husband / i -Why do women always blame on? Addons-because, he was responsible for all of you / i Addons-If you're not pregnant first, I will not let you marry him / i -Bu ... Addons-With men insolent / i Mom, please. why the mother must bring up this continue? I'm tired of hearing bu. -This is my family, I can take care of yourself ... Addons-You're really stubborn, just like your father .../ i -How with all this crowd, tn.Thee? -Good enough I want to tell something. The company will be late provide salaries this month Do not worry. All must be paid really / i I've been there once, for 3 months! I was very stressed, how can I pay cicilanku? But then the company gives my salary, plus bonuses! so now, when too late to pay, I'm unbelievably happy! Looks like I'll cancel the installment Blackberry / i Nan. Too expensive for high school student has a 1000 baht bill. I already told you, you are pamper them. Nan-Where? / He was working his group home. -What? he still dare to come out tonight? -Nan was stubborn, the more you forbid it, the more he rebelled -Nan was stubborn, just like her grandmother. I'm sorry to speak loudly to you earlier. Where is the house of a friend Nan? So, tell me what you clay yesterday -No. I screamed and ran out Ih-Evil banget: ( -So, you really do not see anything? -Of course, the ghost 's / i does not exist -Damn you! -Please, stop! Nan, Nan! -So that's what's called learning group? -That was just playing ", you know how embarrassed was I? Playing "? Hold men like it called the play? you've gone too Yes, at least play with them better than staying in residential haunted father. -My father still has not forgiven yesterday. Now this? Housing father-haunted. He just did not want to admit it. -No haunted -Haunted, haunted father housing -Talk again, I would .... -Of what? father clearly haunted houses -Housing haunted, haunted Housing-we are not haunted! -Haunted / No haunted! Housing haunted-us! haunted! haunted! what father do? Let go! I do not want to get into, Let go! Let go! -Let go! let go of me! I do not want to go! Let go! release! -Let go! let go of me! -You do not see a ghost? huh?! I went first, bu. -Nan -Nan friend to stay at home this weekend -Why do you allow? -Because if not, my mother would send him to Bangkok. you want that? -Where are you? -I was at the airport, the boss told me to take care of a branch in Bangkok. -What about me? -Thee, we've grown. I think you know what I mean. I have to go -I'm surprised you came here -Not easy to find yourself I heard your company opened branches here. glad to hear the good news. -I want you to work longer to me Addons-But you do / i already have a secretary -I take care of the new branch, sekertarisku so it does not work anymore to me -Your new secretary to work better than mine -But there is nothing prettier than you. So, would you work to me again? -Why did you leave early? -My head hurts, so I left early. Addons-Sorry, this profession is filled -These ads are running 3-4 days ago. / I Addons-Sorry, your age does not correspond to our criteria / i -Excuse me, I want to mop the floors. WANTED IMMEDIATELY CLEANING SERVICE Oh, you look handsome you're ready to work? -You know the famous housing? / Housing Laddaland? -Yeah, I heard that a lot of haunted places and I thought, only the brave and reckless course who occupy the housing. -Are you crazy? he was a customer -But he was stealing stuff! -Then go to the police, do not beat him. now you're fired! -I do not want to get fired! If I get fired, my family eat? -Golf, I do not want to play anymore, Golf ... -What is it? What are you doing, Golf? Nat, come here. -Why did you lock it, Golf? -We played hide and seek, she hid in the closet ... Play? what if no one at home? if you like it, do not play in my house! -Your son my son locked in the closet. What if no one at home? -Golf ... Is it true you do it? Hah! Satisfied? Sign, Golf! -Parn, Nat where? -While playing with Golf Nat, Nat? -Hello, Parn? Addons-Where are you, Nat had to go home! / i -Nat, who told you to go home, anyone? -Golf told me to take her cat. Your son has gone too far. He told my son in. the house was haunted. What if something happens? -And if something happens? -How dare you say that? / No problem, right? -He is your son, you should teach him! -My family, I'll take care of it. -Tell your wife not to interfere in the affairs of others. -Then back my money! -What money? -Your wife borrowed 100,000 baht to my wife last month. It's you alone can not take care of your family own? It's your money, now do not interfere in the affairs of my family! Damn cat! -Sir, sir. I want to pay -Well Do you want to add sausage again? -How much is everything? / 12 Baht. -Take your change -Why did not you tell me? -I will tell you -What are you wearing? -I have interview / i work tomorrow. I just borrowed it a bit. When completed will kuganti I'm going back to work. Mr. Manob opened a new branch here Want to return to work or go back to him? -I dengarkinerja you good. Can tell your market strategy? -All right. Based on my experience, if we change the target to be ... I'm sorry. So if we change the direction of our target be in line with our clients, then ... I'm sorry, there must be a sudden affairs at home. Hello Parn? I'm interview / i work. -Tn.Thee, what Mr. Somkiat never borrowed money from you? -From you, too? I think just from me Addons A murder occurs in the housing back Laddaland the father killing his family members / i -Poor Golf. I heard the bones of his face was crushed into -I do not want to live here anymore -Do not want to stay? This 's / i our homes. The house we shared. -You should also think of the children. Do not be selfish like that. -Then what do you want? -We moved to Bangkok, to start from scratch. -And leave this house? I bought this house, all my labor so I not constantly ridiculed by your mother. If the house is sold, I left what? We could rent housing like we used to .... -Your mother will surely merendahkanku again -Okay, my mother would understand If we return, your mother will merendahkanku, and thinks her husband is irresponsible. And I just got a job. I'm going back to work. Mr. Manob offered me a job, to help our families. You really want to go back to work? Want to go back to work, or go back to him? -I and pack Manob only limited co-workers, not more -Coworkers? then for what he's far away "looking for you? -So what? I'm not looking for him -No matter who is looking for anyone ... But, what do you do? I tried to believe when you're just angry. If you berfikiran'd better split up just bytes. Nat, Nat! Here you Nat! Why did you mess up the toy box? -I'm not the culprit -Then who? / Golf did -Golf is not back from a picnic, do not lie! -I do not lie, Golf did. -Do not lie! -I do not lie! Golf! I do not want to play anymore! Golf! -Why are you lying? -I do not lie -Nat, why did you lie?! -I do not lie -Why are you telling lies? -I do not lie -Why are you telling lies? -I do not lie Family Golf-not home yet! -They're back: ( -Why do you have to keep telling lies? -I do not lie: '( Why did you have this?! why lie?! Take this! this! Do not lie! -Why are you crying?! stop crying! stop! -Parn, Parn Why did you beat him? are you crazy? what's wrong with you?! Addons-tumben once you call the mother, touched me .../ i -Bu ... It does nothing i/ Addons If you're not strong, You can go back to Bangkok. / i Addons For mothers, both lebik look at your husband's face again .../ i Rather than knowing Addons ... children and grandchildren's mother suffered from / i Addons-What mothers need to talk to your husband? / i -No, ma'am. Let me do it. Nan, arose. We will back to Bangkok. Excuse me. Is there anybody? Nat, sit down here -Parn -Get off me! You never learn, huh? for what you did, see Nam, Look! All this because keegoisanmu it! Nam once had a father like you bad luck! Get off of my sight! -Parn -Go! -Pa, accompany me to sleep yes ... -Well -Nat, what do you like our new home? -Yes But I prefer our old house Parn, what was it you come and pick up Nat? HAPPY BIRTHDAY Golf, what Nat here? Where is Nat? Mr. somkiat, where my son? Tell me where my son, Damn! Nat, Nat, Nat! Nat, mother here, Nat. Build Nat, Nat! You know Nan, when she was your age, Mother had a lot of ideals But when the mother learned that pregnant women, All the ideals of the mother interrupted. At the age of the mother, how women can be mothers? how the mother can take care of the child? forming a family? Until then, the mother said to your father ... To menggugurkanmu ... We thought we would split up .. But the next day, Your father's mother came home ... And applying for mothers ... Your grandmother scolded him half to death But he was silent. He just said ... "This is my family, I will take care of" ... "This is my family, I would be responsible" ... He loved you very much, Nam ... "Love our families, whatever their circumstances" ... GatotNugrohoP,
