 

                        (soft oriental instrumental music) (car noises) (street and traffic noises) (Burmese) (low and indistinct chatter) (suspenseful instrumental music) (cheers) (screams) (music and sounds fade out) (melancholic instrumental music) (loud gun fire) (grunts and gasps) (melancholic instrumental music) (roaring motor, screeching tires) (sobs) (melancholic instrumental music) Mr. Aris. The doctor is waiting to see you. Hello, Michael. Hello, how are you? Please, take a seat. It's always very difficult to predict the progress of something like this. It could be as little as a five months or as long as five years. Enough time for you to put your affairs in order, I hope. Shall I ask the nurse to arrange for your wife to come and collect you? My wife? Would that she could. She lives in Burma now, you see. (street noises) Good morning. (Students) Good morning. Could we pass these around, please? Thank you. Today I thought we might talk about, how the Bhutanese people have always placed great emphasis on family loyalty, the bonds of community, and respect for their elders. (soft instrumental music) (doorbell rings) - Bloody rain! - Yes, come in. So it's definitely cancer then? Prostate cancer, as a matter of fact. And did they give you any indication as to how long before... In anything from a few months to five years. - Good God, Michael. - No, no. I could achieve a lot in five years. What about Suu? Surely she'll want to return to Oxford when she hears this. Anthony! You know as well as I do if she ever leaves Burma, they will never allow her to return. What about you, Michael? You haven't seen her for three years. She's your wife, she's the mother of your children. The red carpet would be rolled out if she asked to be allowed to come home. She can't walk away now. Too much blood has been spilled. Countless lives have been lost. Millions upon millions of people are counting on her. Anthony, promise me that you'll keep an eye out for the boys. Of course! You can count on me 100 percent, you know that. Yes. (soft classical piano music) - Hello darling. - Hello angel. How's the book going? Slowly. That smells good. - We're having Burmese tonight. - All right. Stop it! - Did you think of a title? - Yes. Well, it's original. It's... (street noises) (door closes, indistinct chatter) - There's storm coming. - Hi, Mum. Hi, Dad. - Hello, did you have a good day? - It's okay day. I'm starving, though! Supper's at seven. - Do you have much homework? - It's all done. - Kim. - Well, almost. You'd better get started then. Hello Alex. Mom. (female newsreader on television) (male newsreader) In Burma today, violence has erupted on the streets of Rangoon... - Suu? - Hmm? ...an incident in which students were mown down by the authorities. Eye witnesses at the incident claimed that hundreds of students taking part in a peaceful demonstration at Inyar lake, were shot and killed by soldiers at point black range, many more protestors sustained serious injuries. They are demanding an end to the military dictatorship that has ruled the country with an iron fist since a coup in 1962. Burma's government is known as one of the world's most oppressive regimes. But despite the authorities' determined attempts to crush this uprising, it appears that the student's movement, is rapidly gaining massive popular support. (phone rings) Hello. (women speaking Burmese) My mother had a stroke. I'll sort you out a flight. (traffic noises) Be good, won't you? Help Daddy around the house. It will be hard for me to get to a phone, so don't worry if it's a while before you hear from me. - How long are you going to be away? - A week. Or maybe two. Right, that's it. Come on, come on. We're very late. Come on, rush! Come on. On time. Okay. Bye. Bon voyage. I love you. Driver, please hurry. Please. I love you. Bye. (soft instrumental music) (music swells) (eerie instrumental music) - Uncle Leo. - You are as beautiful as ever. (street noises) The whole uproar started after our General in his great wisdom, decided to ban any denomination that wasn't a multiple of nine. Well nine is his lucky number. The universities can't provide lunch any more. That's why the students have taken to the streets. All this just because of the superstitious whims of a madman. (street noises) - Call me if you need me. - I will. Thank you for everything, (car noises) (street noises) Suu! Suu! Mum. - How are you feeling? - Tired. (soft instrumental music) (woman whimpers) (soft instrumental music) (doctors speaking in Burmese) - Did you hear about the massacre? - Yes. The riots, it made headline news across the world. - What's my little boys doing? - Not so little these days. (soft instrumental music) (low and indistinct chatter) Come on. There's no need for that. Come on, have a good day. Don't be silly. Come on, have a good day. Off you go. And Kim, put your collar down. Yes, okay. - Goodbye. Goodbye. - Goodbye, Dad. (door closes) (indistinct shouts and chatter) (instrumental music) - What are you doing? - They're looking for students. We must go. Hold on. She can't leave in this condition. She should stay here. Wait. Don't do anything hasty. Calm down first. I suggest we take her back to bed and then go down to see what's happening. (shouts, chatter and screams) (suspenseful instrumental music) Oh! All right. (dramatic instrumental music) (shouting) (dramatic instrumental music) (gunfire, screams) (dramatic instrumental music) (music swells) (female newsreader) Violence has once again erupted on the streets of Rangoon, when new demonstrations were met with wave after wave of reprisals. This morning, soldiers opened fire on protesting students close to Rangoon General Hospital, killing and injuring many. A curfew has once again been reintroduced. (street and traffic noises) (phone rings) - Hello? - (Suu) Mikey. - Suu, darling! How are you? - It's so good to hear your voice. You too. You too. You managed to dodge the bullets then. I was beginning to worry. - Sony, I couldn't get away until now. - Don't worry. - And I've been missing you all so much. - Yes, me too. Of course. (sighs) - How's your mother? - There's nothing more the doctors can do. - So, I'm going to take her home. - I'm sorry, Suu, of course. But so many other things are happening, I hardly know where to begin. (static noise) - Hello? - Hello? - Hello? I've lost you. Can you hear me? - Hello? - Hello? - Oh, hello. I can hear you again. - Are the boys all right? - They're fine. They're already in bed, but you mustn't worry about them. Tell Alex many happy returns of the days. - Yes, of course. - I'll make it up to him when I... - As soon as I come home. - Of course, darling. We're trying to organize the visas. We hope to join you soon. (static noise) - Mikey? - This is useless. Hello? (dog whines) (Michael) Suu! (engaged signal) (traffic noises) (soft instrumental music) (soft instrumental music) (chatter in Burmese) (soft instrumental music) I'm happy to be home. So am I. (traffic noises) Daw Suu. My name's Nita May and I have a message from your husband. He wanted me to tell you that their visas have finally come through. - They will arrive at the end of the week. - Thank you. - There is so much to discuss. - Let's start then. (street and traffic noises) (suspenseful instrumental music) (indistinct chatter) Leo. So happy to see you. It is good to have you back. C'mon, let's go. Please, after you. (soft instrumental music) Mum. Mum. Mummy. (laughter) - Oh! - I've missed you. You better be prepared for complete chaos. Ch? (laughter) Come on, come on. (laughter) Wow. Mon Mon! How are you? Lovely to see you. (indistinct chatter) - Ah. - Tom. - Dr. Aris. - Hello. - How do you do? - You look shell shocked. Well, I suppose I had taken it for granted, Suu was leading a solitary life, quietly nursing her mother. Not all historians get to be a part of history in the making. Enjoy it. - Please let me know if you need anything. - Oh, thank you. I will. Bye. (knocks on door) Michael. I'm glad you're here. Down, down, down, down. A little further. Okay. Stop, stop, stop. There you go. Step away, step away. (speaking Burmese) - What is he saying? - He's saying, that public discontent with government policies can no longer be ignored. And that because he's not totally free of responsibility, for the events of the past few months, and because he's getting on now, he's going... He's going to resign. There will now be a referendum on Burma's political future. (continued speaking in Burmese on television) (sound of fireworks) (music and indistinct chatter) - Hello. - Hello? Mum. Some men from Rangoon University want to speak to you. They said it's urgent. Madam. My colleagues and I are academics from the history faculty, and we believe you are the only person who can lead Burma into democracy now. As the daughter of Aung San, the people will automatically unite behind you. Your father fought and won independence for Burma. Here's an opportunity to finish what he began. Let's seize this opportunity. Quite apart from having no relevant experience, as you can see, my hands are more than full. May I ask that you take some time to consider? (soft instrumental music) (dogs bark) (speaking Burmese) (speaking Burmese) (speaking Burmese) (whispering in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) (shouts) (suspenseful instrumental music) - Madam, we will have to continue on foot. - All right. (shouts and music) Let's go. - Michael. - Stop the car. Stop. (shouts and music) - Dad! - Boys, come on. Keep up. Suu! Suu! Dad! (shouts and music) - Dad, we're going to get some food. - What? - We're going to get some food. - Okay. But don't go too far. Stay right there. We don't want to lose you. (sighs) It may be a little late to be saying this. But you realize I've never actually spoken in public before. And there's no time like the present. We'll be watching from the side. (soft instrumental music) (music swells, cheers from crowd) (cheers) (cheers) (cheers) (cheers) (cheers) (dramatic instrumental music) (cheers, camera's clicking, applause) (reporter) Aung San. Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of General Aung San, until now an Oxford housewife and mother of two, emerged today as Burma's bright new hope for the future. (indistinct chatter) - I was incredible, huh? - Yes. Yes, indeed. However, a quarter of a century of brutal oppression, will not be undone in one day. There is still a great deal to do. Glory days of the Raj. Used to house a staff of eighty Brits, before Ne Win had them all kicked out. Okay, here we are. Wonderful. (street and traffic noises) (suspenseful instrumental music) - I think we should go. - No, there's time for a few more (suspenseful instrumental music) (street and traffic noises) (suspenseful instrumental music) - Thank you, Tom. - You're welcome. - What's wrong, Kim? - You already missed Alex's birthday. And now you're going to miss mine. It's too dangerous for you to remain here. And I'd never forgive myself if anything happened to either of you. Anyway, a new term is beginning. You both need to be there when it does. Come here. Please. Try to be brave for me. - Look after your brother. - I will. And you. I want you to write to me every day. Bye. May May. - Be strong. - We will. - I love you. - Love you too. Bye. (indistinct chatter) (sighs) (shouts) (upbeat instrumental music) - Positions please. - No, I think you should be on the... (instrumental music) One, two, three... (click of camera) (applause) (light instrumental music) (shouting in Burmese) We have to unify all minorities, but Rijina is in the middle of the mountains. Democracy will only work if we include everybody. (chatter in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) They're coming! They're coming! (shouts in Burmese) - (Suu) Put your gun down. - (Michael) I think they should leave. No. Please put your gun down. Put it down. We shall not respond with violence under any circumstances. Dr. Aris, your visa is cancelled. - You are to come with us to the airport. - Do I have time to pack? One minute. (eerie instrumental music) You have a very busy schedule. Pace yourself. Eat well and get good rest whenever you can, okay? - We'll be back. - Let's go! (shouts in Burmese) (car noises) (sighs) (sound of crickets chirping) (soft instrumental music) (indistinct chatter) (car noises) (cheerful oriental music) I'll try another one. (cheerful native music) (doorbell rings) Ah! Lucinda, my savior. Come in. Come in, dear. - Anthony's still here? - No, he just left. (cheers) (soft instrumental music) (soft instrumental music) - No lumps. - It needs more oats. No, a little salt. There. Here we are. Here Looks good. (soft instrumental music) (heavy instrumental music) (male newsreader) The arrangements for the funeral of Dhaw Khin Kyi, the widow of Burma's great national hero, Aung San, were conducted in lavish style. While the authorities sought to prevent civil servants from attending the funeral, locking some in their offices and refusing sick leave, the gathering was the largest in Burma since the coup. At least 100,000 people surrounded the coffin on its procession to... (female newsreader in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) (shouts in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) Thank you. You have been a very dutiful daughter. Your father would be proud. And now your duty is completed. You will understandably be eager to get home again. As soon as you are packed and ready, our limousine will take you to the airport. That won't be necessary, General Nyunt. For the time being my duty remains here in Burma. There is an election to be fought. What about those young boys of yours? They will be missing their mother. Well, the sooner these elections come, the sooner I can rejoin them. Perhaps on your return, you could urge General Ne Win to make haste. (soft instrumental music) (indistinct chatter) (car noises) (shouts in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) The soldiers look very serious. We should come back another day. No. Just ignore them. We will continue in a calm and orderly fashion. Stay here first. (suspenseful instrumental music) (suspenseful instrumental music) (loud grunt) We have to go. (audience repeats) (growling) (laughter and applause) (oriental instrumental music, dialogue inaudible) (male newsreader) In an unprecedented escalation of intimidation, Aung San Suu Kyi narrowly escaped being shot by the military yesterday while out campaigning in the province of Danubyu. (instrumental music) Jesus Christ, Suu. (applause and cheers) (suspenseful instrumental music) (yelling in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) (cheers) A good day, today. Isn't it U Win Tin? (cheers and applause) (suspenseful instrumental music) Daw Suu! Daw Suu! Everywhere we went today, they were picking people up and taking them away. Where are they taking them? Some of them were taken as forced laborers at the borders, carrying weapons and drugs through the jungle on the account of the generals. And the others? (yelling) (laughter) (laughter continues) We should write to the UN and Amnesty International, and tell them exactly how the Burmese people are being treated by the military. Yes. Pen and paper, please. (Suu) My darling. Every day brings new atrocities. Committed by a regime who will stop at nothing in order to try to hang on to Pa. But there can be no turning back now and as my father once advised: "continue to expect the best while preparing for the worst". So darling, please, I beg you, try your best not to worry. Morning Dad. - Your mother sends her love. - How is she? Still busy. I hope she'll be rewarded one day for what she's doing. (indistinct chatter) - Good afternoon. You want to go through? - Thank you. (indistinct chatter) Professor Finnie. Forgive me. Forgive me, sorry. Sorry to trouble you. My name is Dr. Michael Aris. - I am married to Aung San... - Of course. I've been watching your wife's progress with admiration. I'm sorry to trouble you, but I believe you have some influence with the Nobel Peace Prize Committee. Would you be willing to forward her name? It is difficult to envisage a stronger contender. Anything that raises her international profile, will afford some measure of protection. The issue of Suu's safety weighs heavily on me at the moment. Look, if you have some kind of CV, I'll certainly ensure its seen by Vaclav Havel and his committee. Well, that would be tremendously helpful. You see, I'm haunted by the fear that her luck is about to run out any day now. Let me see what I can do. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Karma! Just the man I was looking for. Follow me. Dr. Aris, I've got to... I'm going to need your help Karma. Instead of sitting around worrying, I've hatched a little plan of action. Now, somewhere here... Somewhere are copies of all Suu's old essays. There's one she wrote about her father. Another on Burma under colonialism. Now, you take a look at these. See what you can dig out. We're going to put together an application to the Nobel committee on Suu's behalf. That's brilliant. You get stuck in there and we'll see how we go. Good man. (instrumental music) (street noises) (church bells chime) It's not much use my saying to you "Be careful!" But please be very judicious in everything you do. It's all a matter of timing. If I have any authority left at all as your very loving husband, please listen to me. Please be as gentle with yourself as I would be if I were there. Dad, dad! - Ta da! - Careful. Oh, goodness. Well, well, well. It looks like Christmas has come early. (rock music) - Kim. For crying out loud, be careful. - All right, Mr. Perfect. (phone rings) Hello? Yes. What? Oh dear. Yes. I'm sorry. Lucinda, I'll call you later. Okay, dear. Bye. Dad? That was your Aunt Lucinda. I'm sorry to have to tell your grandfather has died. And I shall have to go to Scotland to organize the funeral. (car noises) (shouting in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) Good morning. It's time to wake up. Morning. Sleep well? Now, I don't want you to be frightened, but this morning we have woken to find the house surrounded by soldiers. Perhaps it will all come to nothing. But in case I am arrested, I have made arrangements for you to be sent back to England. So I want you to know that whatever happens, you will be well taken care of. All right? Yeah. (soft suspenseful instrumental music) (yelling in Burmese) (motor revs) (suspenseful instrumental music) (yelling in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) (yells in Burmese) (suspenseful instrumental music) Yes, yes, I understand. But are all the lines to Burma down, or just this one? I see. Just this one. Thank you. (dogs barking) (eerie instrumental music) (noises from plane) Stop. Follow me. While you are in Rangoon, you are to abide by the conditions under which your wife has been detained. No contact with your embassy or any person engaged in politics. - Is that understood? - Yes. Enjoy your stay. (a car starts, yelling in Burmese) (street noises) What do you want? Chocolate? We don't have any. Boys. Daddy! Where is everyone? - Mummy is on hunger strike. - On hunger strike? Mikey. Mikey. They arrived early in the morning and arrested most of my colleagues. Except for me. I'm under house arrest. So I've told them I won't eat, until they take me to join them all in prison. - The cut the phone line. - With a pair of scissors. I can't tell you how relieved I am that you are here. - When did you last eat? - About three days ago. - Four. Four. - Three. Three. Shh. I must say there's never a dull moment. What on earth am I going to do with you? (shouts in Burmese) (soft instrumental music) (male newscaster) Fears are growing about the fate of Dr. Michael Aris, who vanished two weeks ago. He has not been seen since arriving in Rangoon, to visit his wife Aung San Suu Kyi. Despite urgent requests from the Foreign Office for clarification, the Burmese authorities have refused to provide any further information about his wellbeing or whereabouts. An Embassy official said that their only information... (talking in Burmese) Now listen, Suu. If you die, the boys will lose their mother. And your people their best defender. - Can I try something? - What? (indistinct chatter) Sit. Stand. I wish to put a proposition to you. It has been twelve days since my wife has eaten, and I must impress upon you how very rapidly her health is declining. She is prepared to abandon her hunger strike, if you will offer her a firm assurance, that her colleagues will be well treated. I cannot emphasize enough the grave danger she is in. She will not survive more than a day or two. I ask you to consider very carefully, the public consequences if you fail to act promptly. (translates in Burmese) (soft suspenseful instrumental music) Madam. The authorities wish to assure you that no harm will come to your colleagues. All right? (soft instrumental music) (dog barking) (soft instrumental music) (soft classical piano music) It's called music. Well, this has been one of the most bizarre few weeks of my entire life. Thank you, for everything. I couldn't have got through this without you. - It's going to be quiet. - I know. I'll continue to play merry hell behind the scenes. Let's pray this limbo is short lived. I'll be fine Mikey. Please don't worry. - The boys must be your first concern now. - I know. I know. Go. Go. (soft instrumental music) (female newscaster) Burmese authorities have announced that elections will be held in May. However, Aung San Suu Kyi has been disqualified as an electoral candidate, on the basis of an obscure law prohibiting anyone married to a foreigner from becoming president. Yes. I understand. Very well. Goodbye. - That was the most off wand of calls. - Who was it? The Embassy. They simply said the boys are no longer eligible for Burmese citizenship. They will therefore cancel their passports with immediate effect. It beggars belief, really it does. They have obviously decided keeping the children from Suu, is the most effective way of breaking her spirit. At least they've finally announced the elections. Let's wait and see. Hopefully everything is about to be resolved. Yes, hope. How we all cling to hope. (male newscaster) This is a day few people in Burma ever expected to witness, across the country, remarkable scenes, as thousands of people excitedly cue in order to cast their vote in the first election for 40 years, and here at Life we bring you the first estimated tally. Aung San Suu Kyi, 392 seats. The Burmese Military 10 seats. (cheers) (dramatic instrumental music) Oh, my goodness, boys. What fabulous news. (female newscaster) In Burma an extraordinary victory for Aung San Suu Kyi, and her party the National League for Democracy. In a country where public gatherings of more than five people are banned, The National League of Democracy look set to be celebrating until well into the night. (dramatic instrumental music) (shouting in Burmese, cheers) Ma Suu. (crowd shouts) Aung San Suu Kyi! (dramatic instrumental music) (phone rings) (crowd in the background) Aung San Suu Kyi! (speaking in Burmese) (crowd shouting) Aung San Suu Kyi! Hey! I just want to go and talk to them. Don't be ridiculous. You're not going to shoot anybody. (speaks in Burmese) (crowd screams) (gun shots and screams) (suspenseful instrumental music) (shouting in the background) (suspenseful instrumental music) Take a seat, Dr. Aris. Now that the elections are out of the way, I am pleased to say I have some good news for you! It seems the authorities are finally willing to come to an arrangement. If you were to write a letter to your wife, encouraging her to come home to Oxford at her earliest convenience, they would see no problem in allowing you to y out. I see. Well, since I haven't the slightest intention, of ever making such a request of my wife, I shall bid you goodbye. Those ruthless, conniving bastards. If they think I'm going to take this lying down, they've got another think coming. Let's go. (car starts) (male newscaster) Despite their resounding defeat at the polls, there is still no sign that the Burmese military will release Aung San Suu Kyi, to take up her elected role as the new Prime Minister. (shouts) Instead she remains under lock and key, while leading members of her party, the National League of Democracy, are arrested one by one. Now the monks have taken to the streets to protest, and the monasteries are being stormed by soldiers. (giving orders in Burmese) (Burmese) (Burmese) Let me assure you, Dr. Aris, that behind the scenes we are doing everything possible. However, it is our point of view that extending economic sanctions against Burma, would only play into the hands of Beijing. They would seize this as an opportunity to tighten their economic stranglehold. Forgive me, I have a very important meeting to get to, and I wish you all the best of luck, sir. (sighs) (sound of rain, ominous instrumental music) (phone rings) Hello. Professor Finnie. - How are you? - I've known better days. Well, I very much hope I am ringing with news that will cheer you. Oh? The joy and pride I and our children feel at this moment, is marked by sadness and continuing apprehension. I am not sure if the Nobel Peace Prize has ever been given to someone in a situation of such extreme isolation before. It has certainly never been given to a woman in that condition. Suu is now in the third year of her political detention, at the hands of Burma's military rulers and we her family, are denied any contact with her, and know nothing of her condition, except that she is quite alone. Selfishly I also hope, that our family's situation will be eased somewhat as a result of this supreme gesture of recognition for her moral and physical courage, and that we may at last be allowed to pay her visits again. We miss her very much. (newscaster continues talking on radio) I miss you too. One of us is going to have to make a speech at the actual prize ceremony. Any takers? I think if your mother still has access to a radio, it would mean a great deal to her if it was one of you. I'll do it. Good. Good man. (soft instrumental music) (applause) (soft instrumental music) Live from Oslo, the BBC World Sen/ice brings you the Nobel Peace... I now call upon Michael, Alexander and Kim Aris, to come forward to receive the gold medal and the diploma, on behalf of their wife and mother. The Nobel Prize Laureate 1991, Aung San Suu Kyi. (applause and elevated instrumental music) (suspenseful instrumental music) (voices on radio) (male announcer)... to take to the podium to make a speech. (Alexander) I stand before you here today, to accept on behalf of my mother, Aung San Suu Kyi, this greatest of prizes, the Nobel Prize for Peace. Because circumstances do not permit my mother to be here in person, I will do my best to convey the sentiments I believe she would express. We must remember that the lonely struggle taking place in a heavily guarded compound in Rangoon, is part of the much larger struggle, worldwide, for the emancipation, of the human spirit from political tyranny and psychological subjection. (speaking in Burmese) The lessons of the past will not be forgotten. It is our hope for the future that we celebrate today. (applause) (classical music) (playing along with the classical music on the radio) Music. (classical music continues) (applause) Those old generals can't cling on for much longer after this. - It's just a matter of time in my opinion. - I certainly hope so. We'll just have to wait and see. The military move in mysterious ways. - Your mother would be very proud of you. - Thank you. Well done. Oh, yes, thank you. Yes. No, no, no, no, no. No. Well, why not? Okay. - To Suu. - Mum. (church bells chime) (door closes) Kim, take of your shoes, and don't want any mud in the house. Dinner is at 7:30 tonight. Uncle Anthony's coming around. What's wrong? I miss Mum. (soft instrumental music) (speaking Burmese) (soft instrumental music continues) "The art of people is a true mirror of their minds". A- ha. Is that a new face I spy? What's your name? Do you speak English? So what's your name? - Arun. - Arun. Come here, let me show you something. It's all right. I won't bite. 'You may not think about politics, but politics thinks about you'. Those were my father's words. Something for you to think about while you stand there. (soft instrumental music) Your Grace, it's very kind of you to find the time to see me, thank you. My dear Michael, there is not a day when I don't think of Suu. I wonder what more we could be doing. I'm rather hoping you bring me good news of some kind. Well, no, I regret to say things are moving extremely slowly. The fact is that the generals are clearly indifferent to American and European disapproval. So without Asia coming on board, I fail to see how we are going to make much headway. No time like the present! Excuse me. My friends. Hello there. I wish I could have your time for a quick word. It's nice to see you again. (traffic noises) We carefully considered your request to join our association. And on a whole, we are inclined to accept it. I'm delighted! We should make a toast! However, though America and Europe are in many ways our competitors, we are nonetheless reliant on their good will. The democratic process takes time. It is not something you achieve over night. We understand. That's why we think a gesture from you will be appropriate. What kind of gesture? Ma Suu. Madam. Your restricted residence is at an end. You are now free to come and go as you please. (soft instrumental music) (indistinct chatter) (soft instrumental music continues) (street noises) (phone rings) Yes, hello. Hello? - Mikey! - Suu? Suu, is that you? You may not believe this, but I'm calling you from the British embassy. I'm free! Tell the boys, I'm free again. - I can't believe what I'm hearing! - All my colleagues have been freed. If I get my skates on we might even be able to be with you as early as tomorrow. - Yes, tomorrow will be a big day. - A wonderful day. And I'm hoping I'll be hosting the first reunion meeting of the NLD. - One of the happiest days of my life. - Hopefully, it will be tomorrow morning. I'll call the airport. With the time difference, it may be the day after, - but we'll see you very soon! - Yes! Because, Mikey, the fight goes on! - What goes on? - The fight goes on! (indistinct chatter) (soft instrumental music) (indistinct chatter) Suu! Suu! (soft instrumental music) I don't think I have seen you looking quite so radiant. I'm so happy you're here. - Hello, mum. - Alexander. Where's my little boy? - It's so wonderful to see you all here. - Daw Suu, we need to go. I just need to finish this quickly. All right? You carry on. You carry on. (soft instrumental music) - Dad. - Yes, yes. (soft instrumental music) There you are. - I've been looking everywhere for you. - Oh, you know me. I'm never very far. (sighs) You have no idea how long I've waited to hold you in my arms again. Oh Mikey. I have to keep pinching myself. I used to think about you, and try to picture what you would be doing. And often I talked to you. Sometimes out loud. You would always be reassuring. And reminded me of your unwavering love. Well... I suppose you know the world is now united in declaring you a saint? I don't care much for that cult of personality, as you know. And anyway, a saint is only a sinner who keeps on trying. - Well, what are your sinful qualities? - Have you forgotten? My terrible temper for one. My impatience for another. - And I'm stubborn. - I know. Well, I've certainly read some wonderful descriptions of you. The Female Mandela. The Star of Burma. My favorite was on the front page of The Times. There was a beautiful picture of you, and beneath it said, The Steel Orchid. Is that how you see me? Well, seeing you isn't something I've done very much of recently. Michael, if you should ever wish to be free... To start again. I want you to know that I will understand completely. I won't deny this prolonged separation has been very hard. Not just for me, for the boys, too. But I want to make something clear. Throughout everything, from the very beginning, we have always shared a common dream for Burma. And far from being an obstacle, I have always considered it to be the very thing that bound us. (soft instrumental music) (sighs) You really must be the most indulgent husband that ever lived. (soft instrumental music) (indistinct chatter and laughs) Ooh! (indistinct chatter and laughs continue) That was the last time I saw her. Since then it's been one refusal after another. I could fill in one of these bloody forms in my sleep now. - Oh, thank you. - You're welcome. Does Suu know about the diagnosis yet? For Christ's sake. You are going to have to tell her. All in good time, Anthony. All in good time. And how exactly are you proposing to break the news? (soft instrumental music) (phone rings) Hello? Mikey. Suu! How wonderful. At last. What a tonic to hear your voice. - How are you, darling? - You received my letter then? - I'm still trying to take it in. - Yes, of course, of course. Well, the good news is, I fully intend to fight it all the way. And nothing will boost me quite like coming to see you. And if all goes well with the visa and I rather think this might be the ammunition that could make them relent once and for all. There is every chance we might be able to see each other in time for my birthday. - We could celebrate together. - All right. Yes. So courage, Suu. Courage. Be of good cheer. - Hello? Are you still there? - Yes, I'm still here. Yes, good. An old student of mine, a former monk named Karma, - has agreed to accompany me. - Oh good. Yes. - Take good care. - All very soon. It won't be long. (clicking noise) - And Suu? Suu? - Hello? (soft instrumental music) - Mr. Gordon... - Shh. (sighs) Suu. Suu. Mr. Gordon, we have to explore every way of putting pressure on the authorities. I gather from Anthony that a lobbying campaign is already underway. He has already spoken with both Desmond Tutu and the White House. I want to assure you Suu, none of us has any intention of resting, until Michael's visa is confirmed. - Thank you. Thank you. - Yes. (soft instrumental music) (coughing) No, no, no, no, no. You are your own worst enemy. Please, Michael. I beg you, go back to bed. - It's nearly midnight. - I know, I know. Ten minutes, Karma. Give me ten minutes. There is a mountain of unanswered correspondence to deal with. It can't wait any longer. Who'll supervise my students when I'm gone? People depend on me. I can't just be lolling around in bed all day and night. Please, please, I'll go back to bed in ten minutes. - You promise? - I promise. - See you tomorrow. - Goodnight. (coughing) (phone rings) - Hello? - Mikey. Suu. How are you? Have you heard anything yet? - Quickly, before they cut the line. - Yes. I just need to know. Is there any sign at all that they will let you come? Yes. Any day now. I promise you. Not long now. - I've been wondering. - What? Should I... - Do you think I should come and see you? - No, no, no. Darling, you are not even to consider it. We didn't come all this way just to fall in the final furlong. We are being helped at the very highest level now. There's every reason... (static noise) Mikey? (soft instrumental music) Hi, Dad. That was your mother. She said to send you her love. (soft instrumental music) Madam, the General has considered your letter very carefully, and he asks me to inform you that unfortunately the authorities simply do not have the resources, to deal with your husband's medical needs. No one is asking you to do that. The Norwegian government has offered a plane with private equipment. And the Dalai Lama one of his own doctors to attend to Michael while he is here. Of course a wife would wish to be with her husband at such a time. I am here to offer you a seat on the next night home. You could be with Dr. Aris by this time tomorrow. But then you will never let me return. You are free to choose, Madam. Your husband and children. Or your country. (soft suspenseful instrumental music) Now, what kind of freedom is that? (soft suspenseful instrumental music) (man with megaphone, indistinct) (applause) (soft instrumental music) (coughing) Another refusal. And all the while, time slipping through my fingers. I'm simply not ready to go yet, do you hear me? And what's to become of Kim? And Alex? - Michael, take some deep breaths... - No, no. No. Come on. Oh, God. I feel like I'm losing my mind. Michael, please, calm yourself. Calm yourself. Hi, Dad. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so sick of being sick. (phone rings) - Allo? - Who's speaking, please? - I'm the maid, madam. - I'd like to talk to my husband, please. He had a very bad night and they decided he'd be more comfortable at the hospice. They left a number. His friend, Karma. Do you want the number? Yes. Yes, please. (phone rings) - Hello? - Karma? Madam, I'm afraid the news is not good. Michael is in a hospice now. - He is slipping away very fast. - There must be something we can do. They've explored every avenue. I'm sorry. (clicking noise) - Hello? - What? Karma? Hello? - Hello? - Karma? - Hi, Mum. - Kim. He doesn't have much time left. But I can't. My hands are tied. - I'm sorry. - I know. But he's dying. (soft instrumental music) Please, try to understand. Kim. It would be the end of everything your father and I fought for so long. (clicking noise) - Hello? - Kim? (soft instrumental music) Kim? (sobbing) No... (beeping sounds) Mum sends her love. (soft classical piano music) - Karma? - Yes? - You know it's my birthday tomorrow. - Yes, I know. A fitting time, for me to take my final bow, I think. (soft classical piano music continues) (male newscaster) The husband of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi has died of cancer on his 53rd birthday. Dr. Aris, an Oxford University academic, was prevented from seeing his wife, with whom he had two sons, for the past three years. (soft instrumental music) Mikey! (sobbing) Mikey! (soft instrumental music) Mikey! Mikey! (soft instrumental music) (instrumental music slowly building) (music: "Slug" by U2) Don't want to lose my shirt Don't want to dig the dirt Don't want you to get hurt Can't help but I'm a flirt Don't want to take your drugs Don't want to be a slug Don't want to overdress Don't want to make a mess Don't want you to confess not under duress I (crowd) Aung San Suu Kyi! (soft instrumental music slowly building) (music: "Soldier of Love", by Sade)
