 

                        Somebody died. Just then. And another one. Gone. Dead. God, how awful. How can you not care? You of all people should. We live and then we die. No-one can escape that. Not even them. Ah! She's going to sing. The chimpanzees in the zoos do it...  Oh, not to the beautiful people! ..I know some courageous kangaroos do it Let's do it Let's fall in love...  Julij! ..I know sometimes on the sly YOU do it.  I'm going to try and cheer up that poor Freddie. Can we have another bottle of champagne, please? Yes, of course, Miss Carr. And can you do it quickly, please, Julij? It's almost time to change for supper. Our last one. Oh! Argh! Do I need to save Miss Carr? No, no. Just make sure the bottle of champagne is here for when she gets out. Put the bottle on Miss Carr's bill, won't you, darling? I've had enough of that. Yes, ah... thank you very much. In fact no, I need more. Considering his behaviour - utterly putrid. If my so-called... Why don't you do something about your wife? She keeps glaring at me. She's jealous. To get me a decent bloody drink... You're beautiful and we worship you... Shut up, Freddie. For God's sake. Don't! Oh, lord. One of us ought to help her up. Judgement is not a quality we should encourage. In our position, we have special opportunities to influence others. We must not allow ourselves to become uneven. I'm becoming rather fond of the Reverend and his wife. Strange he won't let her talk about their little boy. And have some water. Oh, stop! I think we should leave. Come this way. I know what you're up to. Good night. You think you can have anyone you want. Diana! Admit it! You were trying to steal my husband. I've had enough of this stupid argument. Someone put her to bed. Really, Diana. Get off me. Don't look at me like that. Dreadful people. Awful to think they're English. And you! Don't TOUCH me! Iris. It's me. Open up. Yes? Coming! What do you mean, you're not leaving? Don't be ridiculous. I'll help you pack. No. You can't possibly travel back on your own. Why not? Is this because of what happened last night? No. Oh, I don't know. I'm so bored with everyone. I'm so terribly sorry we bore you. Not you. Bored with myself. If I spend a bit of time on my own getting on with it, it might help. What about me? What am I going to do? You're not bored! Fine. Don't be angry with me. You need us, Iris. You don't have anyone else. Now, I'll see you out the front with your bags packed. Well, then I should stay here with you. Absolutely not. All the English news this morning is full of some new flu in England. Everyone's dying. We could stay here until... You are not going to die. It's because of that silly old Diana. I don't care what you say. God! What an odious man. I can't believe you actually felt sorry for him. How do you expect us to have any fun if we're leaving you behind? You know it's you I love. Me, or my money? You really are staying. I simply cannot bear a single day without you so... Odette! Go home. Iris, I... Goodbye. Come on, Iris, you've got to come. Charlie, put me down. Stop it. Odette. In you go! Let's drive, go, go, go! Iris! Iris! Stop it, now go home. Bye! Bye! Leave early? I have matters to attend to. But I can't suddenly arrive home two days early. Well, that's not my problem. SLAP! Ah! Don't you ever do that again! You promised me! I made no such promise. Oh! Oh, ah! Oh, ah! This is just an adventure. That's all. Oh, apparently there has been rain in England. Goody. She's quite dedicated to our rose garden. We may need to get back to it. That man's face seems very familiar to me. There is definitely something mysterious going on. A honeymoon? I wonder if they're really married. Do you? Isn't it simpler to believe we are all of us what we assume to be? I think I'll take a stroll down to the village for a chat with my friends. If you'll excuse me. How can he talk to them if he doesn't know their language? Oh, he makes them understand. Sympathy and common humanity. Oh! Ah! Excuse me! You there! Where is the Hotel Cigoc? Cigoc. Hotel? Cigoc. The Hotel Cigoc. I am lost. Do you understand? Do you understand English? Oh, for God's sake. What is wrong with you people? English. I speak English. Just a moment. Damn it! I'm sorry we drove your husband away by talking scandal. I know he disapproves but I'm fascinated by the honeymooners. I do wonder why they have not bothered to speak to any one of us? Because they're lying. I thought they'd all left. I know I shouldn't judge others, but I can't understand how anyone can tell a lie. I mean people like us. You're rather young to be travelling without friends. Your family will be worried about you. I have none. No family at all? No, and no relatives. Aren't I lucky? She could do with a lesson in manners. She could do with a bit more than that. Yes. Miss Carr? Please, can I help? I'm fine. It's just a couple of scratches. Where did you go? For a walk but I got lost. I'm sure I heard gunshots and shouting. There are bad people in the mountains. You should have taken a guide. No. No. I was once told that because I have this square on my palm... do you see it? It means that I live in a protected area. That I'll always be safe. Thank you. Quiet tonight. You must get tired of all that horrible rabble. It is quiet. But I happen to miss my friends. Would you like to join our party for the return journey to London? We're going back to our little son. May I? Please. He's very beautiful, I know. Hard to think he came from us! If you'll excuse me. Ah, dankeschon. Would you send some supper up to my room? Yes, of course, madame. And would you prepare my bill for me? I'd like to leave tomorrow. Oh, I thought you were staying on with us for... I've changed my mind. Would you book me a seat on the afternoon express? Yes, of course. Thank you. You have a telegram for me? Oh, yes. The concierge from the Cigoc Hotel booked it for me. As I said, there is nothing in the name of Iris Carr. Fine. I'll buy another. I'm sorry, madame, there are no more reserved seats left on the afternoon express. What? The reserved class is fully booked. Well, surely you can find a seat for me. You are welcome to wait and see if there are cancellations. There is still time before the train. I have to get on that train. I don't care how much it costs. I cannot sell you a seat when there are no seats to sell. Please. I need to get back to London. There is a seat, but... I'll take it. Ah! Oh! Somebody hit me on the head. Oh, God! Oh, I'm stranded! I have no money and no passport. The sun. You fall on ground. Sunstroke. No. They stole my money. I have bag. I'm too late! Thank you! Excuse me. I have a ticket, for this seat. Would you mind terribly - the window? Baroness? Are you coming to the restaurant car to get tea? My name's Winifred Froy, by the way. Oh! Oh, come on. It'll be much easier if I pull you through. Oh, I'm so sorry. No, no, I'm sorry. Oh! It's you. I was just looking out to see if our tea was coming. We decided to travel back a day earlier. Well, I suggest we send the jolly old waiter back here with your tea, pronto. Oh, that would be kind. My husband is such a wretched traveller. Like so many big strong men. I'm sure the tea will revive him. Aren't we blocking the way? You're quite a fragile thing. I really don't think I should. Hello. Yoo-hoo! Your friend is trying to attract your attention. I think I'm imagining things. No. You are not. The Baroness has been very rude. Um, do want anything else with your tea? D'you know, I must apologise for not backing you about the window in the compartment. So I wasn't imagining their animosity? Well, it was stuffy but I didn't want to interfere because of the Baroness. That appalling woman in black. Yes. You see she is a member of the family to which I had the honour of being governess. Her brother was my employer. And now I'm under obligation to her. There was a muddle about my place in the train. I'd booked second-class, but there wasn't a seat left. The Baroness kindly paid the difference so I could travel first class in her carriage. She doesn't look kind. None of them do. Well, it's the authority they exude. But of course, one gets used to it. You have no idea of the power of my late employer. What he says goes. And he doesn't even have to speak, a nod is enough. Oh, you have no idea of the complex nature of life in the Balkans. People live side by side, but there are many intolerances. It's hard to know if it's in their nature to be volatile, or whether it's a product of it all. May I tell you something. Oh, I... My employer was away when I gave notice and it troubled me, thinking he might find my leaving an act of treachery. I went out for an early morning walk. You can't imagine how beautiful the grounds are on the estate. They really have the most spectacular garden. And I bumped into him. He wasn't away after all! He was supposed to have been out of the country. Anyway he was charming. One would think it was a relief to be leaving under such unpleasant circumstances, but... What? Do you know, I found an English newspaper this morning which was full of... Oh, I'm so sorry, my dear, have I bored you? I've bored you. Not at all. It's just terribly stuffy. Oh, no, my dear. You can't possibly leave them such a big tip. Please. I don't mind. Oh, please, I insist. And I'm happy to pay for your tea. Oh, do you know, my dear, I feel so reinforced, now that I've met you. We must stick together. No, don't look so worried. We'll have a wonderful time. Pater and Mater can talk of nothing else but my return. They're as excited as children. And so is Soc. He'll be waiting for every train until I return. Soc? Soc. Yes. Short for Socrates. Pater's name for him. He's a Border Collie and he's really devoted to me. Look at these beautiful creatures. I don't understand. Why are all the people from the hotel on this train? Has it been perfect? Oh, yes. Not perfect, then. But, darling, is anything perfect? Not when we're living a lie. That nun looks like a criminal. She's not a nun, she's a nurse. Then I pity her patients. This patient is the Baroness's sister. They're all terribly worried about her. Pneumonia, they think. She's been bleeding out of her ears. The good doctor, the tall man with glasses that came into our carriage, has taken it upon himself to bring her to Trieste. That fascist is a doctor? Oh, yes, my dear. And a very important one in these parts. I'd rather have a vet. It's him. Now, I'm going to remind you that we are English. As long as we keep an eye on each other, we shouldn't need to be nervous of our situation or the Baroness, even if I am under obligation to her. I'm not nervous of the Baron... of her. Come on, my dear, chin up. Of course Mater and Pater would prefer it if I never left England. I've told them I promised them I'd stick to Europe, but when I'm near a boundary I just ache to hop over the line to Asia. This fair curly hair would have a wonderful time and then there are all those languages! I can't think of anything more boring than learning a language. And I don't see why more foreigners don't speak English. That is even more boring. My dear, you can't be serious. Shall I tell you something that really happened? A woman who had been certified as insane was supposed to be taken to a private asylum. But the ambulance accidentally went to the wrong house and forcibly took the wrong woman, who was English, and could not speak the language of the country she was staying in, and she found herself locked up in a private asylum... Please stop. I can imagine the whole thing. Vividly. Would you mind if we stopped talking? My dear, whatever is the matter? Apparently I have a rather ghastly attack of sunstroke. I collapsed at the station before I got on the train. I have a large bump on the back of my head. Oh, you poor soul! Why on earth didn't you ask me to stop chattering before? You do not look well. An aspirin should help. I don't think you should have dinner in the restaurant car. I'll bring you something later. 'Pater and Mater can talk of nothing else but my return. 'They're as excited as children. And so is Soc. 'He's a Border Collie, and he's really devoted to me.' Try and keep your eyes closed, I do think it helps. Wo ist die dame English? Ou est la dame Anglais? Where is the English lady? The English lady who was sitting there! Wake up. Where is Miss Froy? I know no-one of that name. The English woman who was sitting here. You are the only English woman in this carriage. But she was sitting right here. I spoke to her. I had tea with her. Her luggage was right there. There has been no other English woman in this carriage. Reverend! Oh, you don't look well. It's the motion sickness. Can I help you with something, my dear? I don't suppose you've seen the woman I was with earlier? Would you like me to help you? No. Kenneth, please. You're not well. Yes. Thank you anyway. Are you going to pick up in the next half hour? Yep. Chest to cards. Pick up. Chest to cards. What about discarding? Discard, discard, discard. Yes. Yes. Does anyone here speak English? Can I be of use? Oh... Well, it's all rather complicated. I'm in a bit of a jam and I'm sure there's some horrible mistake but I can't speak a word of this miserable language. That's all right. I speak the lingo. Just put me wise to the trouble. May I offer my services as an interpreter? He's my old Professor of Linguistics at Oxford. But he's no good. He only knows grammar. Whereas I can swear in the vernacular in case we need a spot of profanity. An English woman has disappeared from the train. She's real... I mean she's a real person, but... the Baroness says that... there was no Miss Froy... Are you able to pull yourself together enough to make a coherent statement? She was sitting opposite me when I got on the train. We took tea together in the restaurant car. I wasn't feeling well and she looked after me. I went to sleep and now she's gone. Her bag has been removed from the luggage rack. And she's English? Yes, yes. Miss Froy. She's a governess. Did you ask the other passengers in your compartment? Yes. But I'm not sure they understood me. The next course of action is to interview them in their own language. Will you come too and swear for us? Like a bird... parrot, I mean, of course. Lead on, Professor. Um, allow me to introduce myself. Max Hare at your disposal. Better call me Maximilian, but if you prefer, Max. And you are? Iris Carr. Miss? Miss. Good. Two English gentlemen have come to make some enquiries about Miss Froy. Professor Hastings. That's so strange. What is? What are they saying? Um, I'll go in and check he's not missing any colloquial moments. Still hours and hours to go. Seems as though we'll never get to Trieste, let alone Turin. Anxious to drop me? I'm not thinking of you. Surely you're not pining after your portly husband or grisly children? Haven't I given you a memory you'll never forget? What a fool I've been. Miss Carr, you have made an extraordinary mistake. No-one is missing in this compartment and no-one knows anything about the lady that you say is missing. Are you telling me I invented her? Well, I hardly know what to think. Well, then I'll tell you. These people are telling lies. I feel I can vouch for each and every one of the passengers in this compartment. But you've only just met them. They are all in the employ or connected to the Baroness. This is ridiculous. They weren't the only people to see her. I had tea with Miss Froy in the restaurant car. Then there must be someone who'll remember her. Miss Froy paid for the tea. The waiter should remember. Well, you'll have to give us a description of the lady. Oh, she's middle-aged and ordinary, rather colourless. I'm afraid that's all I know. You sat opposite her at tea. Yes, but the sun was blinding and... Tall or short, fat or thin, fair or dark? I think she said she had fair curly hair. "Said"? You didn't notice this for yourself? And what did she wear? Donegal tweed. Oatmeal, flecked with brown. Two-piece, and the jacket was finger length, with patch pockets folded back to form a triangle. Small heart brooch with tiny cut sapphires on her lapel and she wore a natural tussore shirt-blouse, pearl buttons, pin tucks stitched with blue and there was a small handkerchief, embroidered with blue flowers - a different shade - in her handbag. You must be able to remember her face. You see, I had such a frantic headache. Cause and effect. The doctor said you were suffering from a slight sunstroke. The sunstroke explains all. You saw someone who wasn't there. When you fell asleep, you dreamt. When you woke up, you were feeling much better and there was no Miss Froy because she never actually existed. She was a delirium, a dream. If I had known the circumstances, I should not have intervened. I'm sorry for taking up so much of your time. As far as I'm concerned the matter is by no means over. Why should you imagine I am telling a lie? Apart from the fact that you barely remember what the woman looked like, perhaps you could explain why six persons should lie? I can't. Unless one person's lying and the others are backing her up. In which case it's her word against mine. As I'm English and you're English and this concerns an English woman, it's your duty to believe me. Do not confuse patriotism with prejudice. Besides your insinuation is absurd. What motive would the Baroness have for lying? I don't know. Miss Froy was... so insignificant. The Baroness paid for an upgrade on Miss Froy's ticket because there was a mix up. I'm gratified to hear about my generosity. Unfortunately, I know nothing of it. Perhaps the ticket master will refresh my memory. Are you bored? No. I was thinking about my Middlemist Rose. Oh? Might have missed it if we hadn't left a day early. Are you going to put it in the show? I hadn't thought of it. Oh. There's something else for you to think about. He does not understand a word. Iris. Impossible to know what was actually said. He spoke in a dialect I didn't understand. What? I'm beginning to suspect the only language anyone understands is "Baroness". I suppose I should ask how you know their language. I came here to build a bridge. And then I was asked to build another one. Four years later, I'm still here. Building bridges? You make it difficult to be open to conviction while you are unable to produce any kind of definite proof. I'll go back to the restaurant car and ask if anybody has seen a woman in tweed. If you'll follow me, I'm going to test some English memories. I can't prove Miss Froy is missing until I prove she existed in the first place. Correct? You want definitive proof. A witness. One or more will do. Who is that girl? She's part of that ghastly crowd from the hotel. I have at least one because there were other English people staying in my hotel and are now on this train. I know they saw Miss Froy too. When we arrive in Trieste, we must go straight to the British Embassy. They'll want to hold up the train for a thorough examination. We are not missing out on your Middlemist Rose because of that silly girl. I am more than happy to co-operate but I have absolutely no idea about whom she is speaking. No lady did me the honour to linger by my window. But you saw her. No. Yes, and your wife saw her, you were both annoyed. We are not a peep show. I am sorry. Do you mind if we shut the door? I'd like to rest before dinner. Can I take you back to your compartment? No. There are others. I know I can rely on you. You remember the English woman in tweed I was with in the restaurant car. I have no recollection of your companion. You said she was trying to attract my attention. Someone may have been with you but I can't recall. I'm afraid I wasn't wearing my glasses. You must understand it would be against our principles to identify someone of whom we were not sure. Miss Froy has disappeared off this train. Are you telling me you wouldn't lift a finger to help someone in danger? What kind of danger could one be in on a crowded train? Excuse me. Oh. The Reverend is having a little sleep so I thought I'd take advantage. Miss Carr. Oh, I hope I haven't driven you out. No. Of course not. And I expect you don't remember Miss Froy, either. The little woman in tweed? Oh! Thank you! Thank you. I am not mad. I am not in a delirium! How shall we play it? By confronting the Baroness. There must be some misunderstanding. There's no misunderstanding, the Baroness lied. Perhaps I misunderstood. No, you didn't. You were a clinking interpreter. You didn't slip up on a thing. I think she's disguised as the doctor. A wig to cover the fair curly hair. You are not amusing. You seem to forget that besides being a real person, Miss Froy is still missing. We need to act with some urgency. Admittedly. But it's a perplexing problem and I do not care to act without careful consideration. What is he doing? I think he's going to have a cigarette. I'll find her myself. He'll be back. I think it's better that we wait for him. He lends an air of authority that we quite happily lack. I'll wait as long as it takes to smoke a cigarette. You must be the most unselfish person alive. Am I right - Miss Froy is a complete stranger to you? Really, it's almost unnatural. I'm not usually like this. You see, the amusing part, it's rather the other way round. I can't understand myself a bit. It's too easy to point the finger at a woman and declare her hysterical or having seen a delirium. Yes, but... No. Let me finish. The whole thing - the sunstroke, the people telling me it's a dream, the jangling in my mind... Even I started to think I was going mad. I don't want to waste any more time. I know this sounds like some soppy picture, but her people are expecting her home and her fool of a dog meets every train. That upsets you? This kind of pathetic emotion is treason. You don't care about family? Seeing as I have none. Not since I was too young to remember. And don't you dare feel sorry for me. Miss Carr. Your friend has returned to the carriage. Apparently she was talking to one of the nurses in another compartment. Of course she was. Professor, Miss Froy has been discovered and I'm determined that you meet her. Miss Froy! You are not Miss Froy. No. I am not Miss Froy. I am Frau Kummer. I told you this when we had our tea together. But... No, this is not the woman. I had tea with Miss Froy. No. I am not mad. This isn't right. Mrs Barnes met her. She'll tell you this isn't her. I will fetch Mrs Barnes and we can put an end to this silly charade. Excuse me. My dear, you do look quite forlorn. Is something wrong? Would you mind awfully if I let you into my confidence? I have told the Reverend we had to leave early because I am missing our son. You may be frank with us, Mrs Barnes. The Reverend and I met late in life. Of course we understood the likelihood of a child was virtually impossible, so you can imagine our ecstasy when our son Gabriel was born. As you know, the Reverend forbade all talk of him while we were at the hotel. His logic for doing so... our devotion to him has, the Reverend believes, been tempting fate, and now I'm... Well, it appears the Reverend was right. Fate has been... I'm sorry to trouble you, Mrs Barnes. The, er, very emotional young lady wants you to identify the missing woman. Well, can't she do that herself? She says now that the lady is not the original one, who, according to her, is still missing. Well, I hope she is the right one, for your sake. Because otherwise, mark my words, she'll have you hanging around Trieste and you'll miss your connection to Milan. But I have to return to England - it's terribly urgent! Still, one has to do one's duty. Whatever the cost. Oh, Kenneth, what are you doing? I was worried. I'm just helping the Professor identify the woman who sent us our tea. I'll come with you. You're not well. No, I insist. I should like to thank the lady myself. Excuse me. Sorry. Thank you. I think I have the right waiter. And by the way, he's very proud of speaking English. I want you to look at this lady. Don't look at her clothes, look at her face. Now tell me - is this the lady I had tea with? Yes, tea. You're sure? Yes, madame, I am positive sure. Thank you. Erm, excuse me. Ah. Edna, my dear, is this the lady who ordered our tea? This is the woman. I'm very glad to be able to take this opportunity to thank you for your kindness. She was part of a group of people staying at the hotel. They were no testimonial for the English nation. Their lack of propriety... They were a party of near nudists, drinking all day and all night. A complete nuisance. And then there was the disgraceful scene on the terrace yesterday. Two women screaming about a man. Over a man. And everyone came out to watch. She was one of the women. I quite understand your feelings. You see, my point in asking your opinion is to see whether or not she could be hysterical. Without a doubt. No, I don't think we can judge whether or not the girl is hysterical. Well, herein lies my dilemma. Either the girl is telling a pack of lies to get into the limelight or she is suffering from a slight delirium as a result of sunstroke. If the story were true and the governess was hiding, she could be doing so for a strong personal reason. I think at this point we have to say that this is your dilemma and not ours. Although we do empathise with the situation this has put you in. Sorry to be such a crashing bore. I'm quite all right now, thank you. I'm surprised the Professor let me in here. I think you two may have got off on the wrong foot. Look, I'll be honest with you. You haven't given us one reason why this woman would be worth abducting. If she is real and it is true, then how on earth is she important enough to make this whole charade worthwhile? I wish I knew! And the worst thing is she may have told me, but honestly, she didn't stop talking and so I stopped listening. Well, do you know how she was associated with the Baroness? Her employer was a member of the family. The Baroness has a brother. And there are rumours, er... There was a story in the English papers about an intellectual who was murdered for opposing the king. It's the kind of thing that happens all the time here, but it's the first time that it's got into the foreign press. There is talk that the Baroness's brother hunted him down and shot him in broad daylight. Ah, now there's plenty of talk about other suspects. But if it is the Baroness's brother... I hate to burst your bubble. The brother was in Vienna. You have to understand the Balkans is a place heaving with conspiracies. You cannot trust anything anyone tells you. No, don't you see? There's one thing I'm certain of. By bringing out Frau Kummer, the Baroness has proved that Miss Froy exists. This has turned into something terribly sinister. Look, as much as I would like to believe you, and I would, I have to look at the facts. What facts? Only one person out of the whole myriad of witnesses has backed your story. And that one person, Mrs Barnes and her husband, the Reverend, positively identified Frau Kummer as the woman you were with. So you think I'm mad? Please. Be serious. This is the most awful thing that has ever happened to me. Well, I am grateful to Miss Froy for bringing us together. You may be prepared to give up on Miss Froy, but I am not. Second seating for the dinner start now. I'm not a bad person. I'm not a bad person. I'm not a bad person. Why did you lie about Miss Froy? I believe her name is Frau Kummer. You know as well as I do that she's English. She was kind to you. She's a very kind woman. I don't know what you're talking about. Whatever you think of me, I beg you... Her parents are waiting for her. If you can imagine what that's like for them... How would you feel if you never saw your child again? I'm sorry. The woman I saw was Frau Kummer. I don't know why you'd think she had an English accent. Come to gloat? I am concerned about you, Miss Carr. I have been talking to Mr Hare and we are both wondering if you are fit to continue this journey alone. I am perfectly fit. I wouldn't want anyone to worry on my account. And what if you collapse later? It would be more awkward for you and everyone else. I have been discussing it with the doctor just now, who has come to the rescue with an admirable solution. As the doctor is taking the patient to a hospital in Trieste, he has offered to see you placed in a recommended nursing home for the night. Of course... How clever of him. Oh, no, I think you've misunderstood, it was at my suggestion. Max is genuinely worried about you and he asked me to use my influence. No-one can influence me to go with the doctor. In that case, as there is no more to be said, I will take my leave. Can't you see that he's trying to kidnap me as well? The man is evil! I have seen nothing in his behaviour other than a man of medicine who is objective about his care for you. And all you see in my behaviour is a woman who is hysterical? If you want the brutal truth, yes. Then I won't pretend to be grateful for your interest. As you wish. But I... Yes? Nothing. Do you need a hand? Not talking to me? Why did you lie to the girl about the peeping woman? I thought you understood. Why did you lie? Well, I don't know. Because you did. I expect you'll appreciate that I was one jump ahead. You hadn't realised that I would have had to make a statement in Trieste. If you could imagine the headline. "English Woman Lost on Continental Express." And a photo of Mr Todhunter on his honeymoon. Now I am... I am more than aware of the penalties of fame. The English press would have jumped on it. "Sir Peveril Brown caught with mistress in Italy." All would have been lost, Laura, my dear. Yes. Yes. All would have been lost. You suggested I stop off at Trieste. Yes. I was worried stiff about you. Why? Well, hanged if I know why, it's not a habit of mine. For some reason, I'd like to help you. You said you didn't believe me based on the facts. But your facts are based on what other people have seen. Yes. How do you know your witnesses are reliable? They're all saying the same thing. No. It's because they're matrons and Sunday school teachers. Let me give you my facts. There wasn't only a mix-up with Miss Froy's ticket. There was also a dispute about mine. I ended up paying a fortune to bribe the ticket officer into giving me this seat. I can only take your word for that. Just hear me out. It wasn't sunstroke that made me fall on the platform. I have a large egg on the back of my head. From where you fell on the platform. I was sitting on a bench seat with a back. How could I have fallen backwards? One might conclude I wasn't wanted in this compartment. But not everyone from your hotel is involved in this. You said that the Reverend and Mrs Barnes positively identified Frau Kummer. Yes. The Reverend never saw Miss Froy. It was Mrs Barnes who spoke to Miss Froy because the Reverend was so unwell. It's the Reverend's credibility that made you believe Mrs Barnes. It is only her word against mine and why should I be judged at face value if it goes against me? I can't dispute that. You want to help - you tell me the motivation for making Miss Froy disappear off this train. But I can't. I'm only asking you imagine she exists. And don't pretend you're not clever. Well, they couldn't have bumped her off at home. That would have brought in the foreign press. An English governess disappears in Croatia. Disappearing on a train... that's far more cunning. Oh. They would have lost valuable time before they could prove that the lady had vanished. And no-one on the train would actually remember when she was here. Her disappearance could have been after she'd arrived in Italy. Or she could have stopped off in Paris for a couple of days to shop. It will be impossible to trace it back to the Baroness and her family. So they've probably already flung her from the train? The body would be found. No, much better to invent an invalid and that be the Baroness's sister. Miss Froy is in the last compartment disguised as an invalid! How can anybody recognise her with all that equipment around her? And why else would the compartment be sealed? So what happens to her when we get to Trieste? Dump her in some river, I expect. Weighed down and all that. We have to see the patient. We can't go marching in there. Why not? We still have no proof Miss Froy exists. This was simply a yarn that I made up for you. It's just silly hypothesising. Please go. Let me talk to the Professor. Don't bother. He's prejudiced in favour of those matrons. Can't you get your hair to lie down? No. Neither by kindness nor threats. It's my secret sorrow. Thank you. That's the first bit of interest you've shown in me. Miss Froy! Let me pass. You are in pain. That is not good, for you are young and you are travelling without friends. I will ask the nurse to give you something to relieve your pain. No. Thank you. I would like you to step aside. Nurse! Get off me! Ow! Uh! Why are we stopping? It's the frontier. Do we have to go through Customs? No, no. The officials get on here. Please. You have to help me! A woman's disappeared on the train. She's been kidnapped. No passengers off the train. Do you understand? A woman has been kidnapped. Get in! You can't stay here. Oh, for God's sake. Why is that woman holding up the train? You have to search the train. You have to stop the train here! And why can't they control that animal? It appears to be barking at nothing. I doubt it. Dogs see and hear things the rest of us don't, especially at night. Well, it's a good thing they can't speak then, isn't it, my dear? What are you staring at? The Professor. I thought I'd talk to him. I don't think he has enough money for you, my dear. I'm not interested in the Professor that way. Back on the train! You have to search the train! They're lying to me! I'm wondering if I could endure the name Brown after being known as Mrs Parmiter. On what occasion would you have to take my name? If I went to the Professor and assured him of the little spinster's existence... I would like to know your implication. Well... with all the publicity we would both have, we would be free to marry each other. When your wife reads about us in the papers, there'll be a divorce. No woman could stand that. And I quite like the idea of being Lady Brown. I hate to disappoint you, my dear, but my wife will never divorce me. And she is the only Lady Brown that there will ever be. I doubt very much whether there will ever be any risk of publicity. Unless, of course, you would like it? Miss Froy saw the Baroness's brother when he wasn't supposed to be there. This was tucked into Miss Froy's seat. An English newspaper. Yes! If I am the only English woman in my compartment why would there be an English newspaper there? Because it's over a week old. No. It doesn't matter. It's the dates. The dates are wrong. And she knew! She was squeezing my hand when I was falling asleep. And I didn't keep an eye on her. Please, don't encourage her. Look, I know this is all tumbling out of me, but you have listen to me. You said that the Baroness's brother had an alibi. That he was in Vienna. Miss Froy told me that she saw him when he was supposed to be away, but he wasn't. Because he murdered that man. And that's why. That's why she's disappeared off this train. And now they're trying to kill me. You cannot be serious. Very serious. And I know where Miss Froy is. And I expect you're going to tell me. Do go on, Miss Carr. Miss Froy is the invalid in the sealed compartment. I'm truly worried about the state of this young woman's mind. Don't you see? This is deadly, terribly urgent. When we arrive Trieste, it will be too late! Can it wait until after dinner? The young lady is in a very highly strung condition. I think, Mr Hare, you are right, it may be safer to reassure her. Miss Carr, please, sit down for a moment. Please. I have something to tell you. This is not something I wanted anyone to know on this train. But I feel in this situation, I am forced to take you all into my confidence. My patient started with an ordinary attack of influenza, which very rapidly turned into a most vicious type of pneumonia. Her respiratory system is compromised. She cannot breathe without oxygen. And this is not the only case I've seen in Croatia. Yes, there is news in England as well. You cannot be serious! I expect you are too young to remember the influenza of 1918, Miss Carr. On the contrary, I have cause to remember it very well. But I am not swayed by the doctor's lies. I would like to see the patient. Wait a second. No. If you are willing to risk yourselves, then I suggest we go and see the patient. I'm sorry. I really don't see any other way. We have to take this seriously, Miss Carr. It is not only our lives you risk. The patient is the Baroness's sister. You may be scared of the Baroness, but I am not. I must apologise, your dinner will be spoiled. Oh! Do you have any idea of the way you look? I don't care. I won't let you. You're hurting me. I'm sorry. Rather impetuous of you to burn my poor nurse just because she offered a tablet to relieve your pain. No. This nurse. She is not, not the same. See how her face twitches? I cannot be sorry enough about the burn, but there was some excuse for my doing so. Oh, such as? The Professor tells me you offered to put me in a nursing home in Trieste. The offer is still open. With a patient whose health is so compromised? I would have organised another driver to take you to the nursing home. Stop it! You are a terrible, evil man. You may be able to manipulate the Professor, but you cannot manipulate me. You risk everyone's lives for the sake of your silly delirium. Yes. Iris, you can't... We all see your true nature. It is only for yourself that you live your life. It is all right, Doctor. Perhaps I know a way to keep everybody happy. My sister. I'm so sorry, Baroness. I'm so sorry. Miss Froy! They've moved her. Get back to your carriage. They've moved her. When we arrive in Trieste I'm going directly to the British Embassy. Iris. Stop. Directly! Iris! They've moved her. I know it. They're all lying! Right, that's enough. At the border, the train stopped and I tried to get help and that's... They panicked, they moved her... They've hidden her somewhere else on the train. You need to sleep. How can I sleep? Are you with me or against me? Will you stay with me in Trieste? No. You won't be staying in Trieste either. I will pay you. Oh, please spare me the indignity! Iris, sit down! Don't tell me to sit down and don't tell me to fall asleep. Iris, for your own good, please. Look, you pretend to care but you just don't. She certainly knows how to get excitement out of a train journey. Ooh! I will take responsibility for her. All the way back to London? I'm not sure you're the right person to do that. Oh, has she done something else? No, no, no, no, no. Um... As a medical man, I find myself faced with responsibility. I believe Miss Carr is in a dangerous mental state. I believe what she probably needs more than anything is sleep. I think, she could even be quite well afterwards. She's refusing to sleep. My suggestion is that we give her a harmless sedative. Which should be given by force if she objects. I thought it important to give my opinion. Thank you. Wait, wait. I think I agree with you. She said she felt much better when she woke after the tea. It would be easier to look after her. It would be a gross interference with Miss Carr's personal liberty. What do you suggest we do? Well, I believe that Iris is hysterical and a salutary shock will bring her to her senses. Can I offer you some advice? I don't want advice. The doctor says that as a result of your sunstroke, you are very slightly and only temporarily deranged. I am not mad. It's nothing to be worried about, but unless you can manage to keep perfectly quiet, the doctor says he may be forced to ensure that you do not travel alone. You only have to keep calm and everything will be all right. You have been a public nuisance and it has to stop. Miss Froy told me this story about a woman who was mistakenly sent to a private asylum because she didn't speak the language. No. This is what you have to stop. Yes. Have you come to your senses or not? Yes. Will you admit that you invented Miss Froy? I promise not to make any more scenes... and I admit that I invented Miss Froy. I'm not sure you can cure illness with a scolding. But for the first time in my career, I hope I am proved wrong. What's your opinion? You feel he is cleverer than you. I think he's making a mistake. You and I may not see eye to eye on many things, but this is agreed on. And frankly I do not understand your hesitation with sending her to sleep. Unless, of course, you fear the young lady's anger when she realises she's been tricked. She has what you call spirit and I call temper. Please. Please. Please stop. I'm trying to think. Well, there isn't much time. I'll write a declaration that the drug is harmless should the lady be taken ill afterwards as a direct result and I will give you a sample to take back to England. I hope I have given you all the assurances you need. Now frankly, I have to go back and see my patient. Wait. I've brought you some soup. I don't want it. Just a sip. You need the nourishment. Do you still loathe me? Iris... I don't want to go back to my compartment. Right, well, then you need to drink the soup. I can't. You can. Please. It's terrible! Same soup I wolfed down at dinner. I promise you'll feel much better soon. I'm not used to people looking after me. Cheer up. I'm sure you have a colony of friends. What do you do when you're in London? Nothing. Play about. With other chaps? Yes. We all do the same things. Silly things. There's not one real person among us. Sometimes I get terrified that I'm wasting my life. What's at the end of it all? Well, I never know what's going to happen next. Somehow, something always turns up. That sounds fun. Why don't you come with me on my next job? You shan't be bored again. You're proposing to me? I take it a lot of men have proposed to you. Yes... But I'd rather have an adventure. Sweet tea not sweet pea, do you see? Oh, very good. Very good. I never thought he could laugh. To a man who can kill a houseplant at 20 paces... Perhaps you could tell him to keep the noise down. No, don't go. Would it make you nervous if I told you I liked you? I knew you'd be a good kisser. Let's run away together. I hope this pain is not because of me. I am unwell but not insensitive. Never insensitive. It's my fault. Oh. No. This... is beyond our control. Oh, I have done this to you. Forgive me. What's he saying? We're coming into Trieste. At last. On with the motley, as they say. I have to get my bag. There won't be a porter, of course, not for love nor money. Iris! What's wrong? Iris! Oh! That soup. You... All this time, I was terrified the doctor would drug me and it was you! Please, I only did it for your own good. I'll be lucky to get out of this alive. Iris, listen to me! I trusted you. Iris. Don't touch me. Iris! The doctor... with the patient. Where has he moved her, where? Where is she? We arrive Trieste. No, no. They've drugged me like they drugged her. Do you understand? I sorry. I not really know English. Iris! Need help? Leave me alone. Excuse me. I'm sorry. Excuse me. Let's stop these silly games, shall we? Oh! Help! No way out, Miss Carr. Help me! Please! Oh, Miss Froy! Perhaps we could say goodbye now without a cloud of witnesses. Yes. Let's. Thank you for your hospitality. It's been a cheap holiday for me in every sense. I'll get a porter to get my bags. Excuse me, excuse me, are you travelling with the Professor? Er, yes, he's still on the train. Can you give him a message for me? I'm afraid I have to rush off. Er... I can't. I'm looking for someone. The girl who was staying in our hotel spoke about an English woman in tweed who was standing with her as she peered into our coupe. The girl was right. I'm not quite sure why my husband lied about us not seeing her. I do hope the Reverend and Mrs Barnes come back soon. It's a cheek asking us to look after their luggage. Do you know, I thought I almost smelt your Middlemist Rose as we got off the train. Ah! Professor, are you coming with us? I can't find Max. Surely you can't be expected to wait for him? I certainly do not want to miss my connection. You know I cannot understand how they expect us to move from train to train with this amount of time. We are in a hurry. He probably doesn't speak English. He's fine, he's all right. Our boy... Splendid. Right. Stand aside. If we have the opportunity to right our wrongs we should always take it. Professor. We need to speak to you. Iris? Stop! Miss Froy! No! Let me go. Your friends have all left the train. There's nothing you can do. No-one cares about a woman who is hysterical. Who do you think gave us the idea of... what do you say in English? The mad house? Your little Miss Froy. So harmless, you think. But she will happily destroy my brother. Leave her! Leave her. Iris. Mr Hare. Don't worry. We're taking her to a reputable nursing home. You'll do nothing of the kind. You're very kind, Mr Hare. Thank you for taking Miss Carr off our hands. She is rather troublesome. Miss Froy. Poor woman, you can see how even now she remains deluded. How can you still listen to her? Where is she? Baroness. You are under arrest. She's in the goods van. Oh! Look after her. Yes. I've got her. It's all right. Mmm! Mmm! Miss Froy! Mmm! Mmm! Get off! Ah, ah! We're almost there, you'll be pleased to know. Are you all right? Mmm, just making up a story to tell them back home. Mater will be thrilled. Do you think it wise to tell her? At her age, it might prove a shock. Exactly. No, I'm going to keep quiet about that. She'd throw a fit and never let me go back. You can't go back! I can and I must. I'm a witness at the trial. The Baroness's brother has been charged with murder. A little spinster from England has seen to that. But it's too dangerous! Not speaking out is dangerous. I had many lost hours on a train to realise it. Very fortunate for me, you already knew the importance of speaking out. Don't worry. Mr Hare has kindly offered to escort me. It's Soc! Soc! Do you feel anything like emotion right now? She and I will always be in touch. I guess that means you haven't forgiven me yet. Is that an answer? I won't ever forgive you. Fair enough. How about coming with me on my next trip? I wouldn't know how to trust you. Where... where are you going? Back to London. You're leaving me here? Well, it is my car. I thought we'd travel back together. No. What about Miss Froy? Don't you want to say goodbye? She knows I wasn't going to stay. Where will I find you? Give me your address. I don't have one. You must have a house here. No. You live in a hotel? Yes. I can work on it. The trust thing. Really. So will you? Come with me? Perhaps. Which hotel? And I thought you were clever!
