 

                        I feel like something bad is gonna happen to me. I feel like something bad has happened. It hasn't reached me yet but it's on its way. I don't know why it's important... ...like, how it helps people to deal with loss... ...by making up stories about ghosts or whatever. Alice kept secrets. She kept the fact she kept secrets a secret. It's hard for some people to understand. You've to believe you're to blame... ...otherwise there's nothing to hold on to. Emergency services. My daughter Alice has gone. We need... She's been missing. Send someone up. I need you to talk to me for a second. Can you hear me? The normally tranquil setting of Ararat's novel dam... ...was shattered with the disappearance... ...of 1 6 year-old Alice Palmer... ...while picnicking. We received a call around 6 p.m. tonight... ...over a missing girl. Upon discovering the nature of the situation... ...we called in the search and rescue divers. Police divers entered the water around 1 0... ...with volunteers joining a fruitless search. They'd swum out to the middle of the dam. I could see them from where I was sitting... ...in the picnic area. I think I'd been in the water 1 5 min... ...and I said I'd get out because I was cold. So l started swimming back and she didn't come out with me... ...she said she'd stay there. l remember Matty got out. A few minutes later l heard him ask... ...where was Alice. So l stood up and looked out across the dam. The water was completely still. So I called out. I looked out over the water... ...to see if I could see her. And both the boys had kind of checked... ...you know, the bush land behind. l could see Alice's towel. She'd left it on the ground. She clearly hadn't gone out of the water... ...because she would've picked up her towel. That was the last time that l saw her. Police continue to hold their search... ...for 1 6 year-old Alice Palmer... ...who disappeared while picnicking with her family. We were told to go home. lf the search and rescue divers found anything... ...then they'd let us know immediately. It felt very strange in the car on the way home... ...because there was one empty seat. One minute she was there and then... ...gone. I went back to stay with the Palmer's that night. We were just mostly waiting. Waiting for news... ...and for bad news. There was that expectation. We got a call from Russell on his mobile... ...at about 9 o'clock at night. He said there'd been an accident at the dam... ...and Alice had gone missing. So, we thought... ...we'd better go. l remember June was a bit funny... ...about seeing lris. There was a strange feeling between them. lt felt a little strange having my mother there. Mum, l and, therefore, Alice. It just didn't feel like the right order of things. It was an awful, awful night. Worse night of our lives. I went into Alice's room later that night. Her phone went off a couple of times... ...but I didn't answer it. I remember the bed was made. I remember thinking how neat everything looked. I got a call from Alice's mum, June. She'd said that Alice was missing... ...and presumed that she drowned. l did not believe her... ...but, I don't know, it was hard to take... ...so I actually called Alice's mobile. l just... l wanted to see if it was a joke or something. A real shock. Just didn't really feel like it was real. Everything was the same as always... ...but people were saying that Alice had drowned. Are there memories from that night stand out for you? l remember we had the porch light on. We still do, actually, just in case. And why is that? Just in case she comes home, l guess. Divers located Alice's body at approximately 9:25 p.m. They used sonar to locate her. She drifted someway... ...and came to rest on a shelf... ...at the bottom of the storm water system. Obviously we contacted the family immediately. As soon as we were told they'd found the body... ...June and I went down to the dam. It was all very official and formal. They asked me to sign a statement of identification. June stayed in the car. On reflection, l think that was a mistake... ...because she didn't have any closure. I just couldn't bring myself to identify Alice's body. She'd been underwater all that time. l guess it's not how l... I didn't want to remember her that way. l thought it my responsibility... ...as Allie's dad, you know? That's what a father does. The car stalled on the way back from the dam. The only gear I could get into was reverse. So we drove back to town in reverse... ...which was either that or walk... ...and given everything that had happened... ...it seemed like the better option, really. The autopsy was performed on the 27 th. Then the coroner released the body... ...on Tuesday the 28th. It was very strange... ...spending Christmas day with the family there... ...while Alice lay alone in the morgue. I don't know, it was like I hadn't seen her for a week. lt didn't feel real. Death takes everything, eventually. It's the meanest, dumbest machine there is. It keeps coming and it doesn't care. There's nothing else to know about it, really. It was a somber day for the family... ...and friends of Alice Palmer who gathered to pay... ...their final respects to a young woman taken too soon. She was a great person. Very popular... ...clever, lovely. Alice is remembered as a happy, fun-loving girl... ...with a zest for life. Described as always... The Palmer's were really doing tough at the time. l think about how bad it was back then... ...it was hard to imagine how worse it would get. the 1 5th of January... ...stuff started happening around the house. Noises on the roof. Sounds coming outside the windows... ...and other movements that seemed to come... ...from Allie's old room. So we rehung the door... ...to Allie's room and we got a pest controller... ...to come in and check for termites. It didn't help at all. Doors kept slamming... ...and we still kept getting noises from her room. There was just something weird about that house. It had a fairly strange feeling about it... ...I can't explain to you what it was exactly. You'd go in there and have this bad feeling... ...in your gut. I started having these nightmares... ...and they were so distressing... ...that sometimes I wouldn't want... ...to open my eyes. l'd woken up but l didn't want to open my eyes. There was one particular one. It was quite vivid... ...and recurring. Alice would come down the hall... ...still dripping from the dam... ...and just stand at the foot of our bed... ...staring at us. It was quite terrifying. As I said, I didn't want to open my eyes. By early February... ...my nightmares were getting so bad that... ...I began to go for walks at night... ...sometimes for hours at a time. Just so that I didn't have to go to bed... ...close my eyes and go to sleep. Sometimes, I'd actually go into people's houses. I didn't feel like I was doing anything wrong. l guess l really wanted to be in someone else's life. Do you remember how Russell was doing? Yeah, Russell was working a lot. At that point, I think it might've helped him... ...with his grief. Russell and I met on a project in '98. We worked together. You've known each other for years? Yeah, a good few years. Do you remember him after Alice's death? -What changed? -It was work as normal. It was troubling, I didn't know what to say. Did you notice a breakdown? Not really. Everyone grieves in their own way. lt wasn't really my place to tell him how to feel... ...but l certainly was concerned. I was really grateful that I had my work. l felt really guilty about that at the time... ...but l just wanted to get on with it. One night in late February, I came home from work... ...and I was sitting in the kitchen. I heard a noise coming from Allie's room. So I went into Allie's room. I don't really know why... ...but l found myself sitting down on the chair... ...in front of the dresser. Before l could work out what l was doing... ...Allie walked in. She went over to her desk, sharpened a pencil... ...and looked like she was checking... ...for text messages on her phone. l was completely freaked out. She was completely oblivious to my presence. l don't know what happened... ...l must've moved the bed or squeaked my shoes... ...but she went completely rigid. l knew then that she knew that l was there. She slowly turned around, looked me right in the eye... ...fully for what felt like forever... ...and then she just came at me. Stood up and said: ''Get out! Get out!'' l got up and ran out as fast as l could. l could hear Russell crying. He was here in the kitchen... ...Mathew and l found him in here. He was sobbing. He was absolutely inconsolable. Did you believe Russell when he said he saw a ghost? Yeah, l do. l believe he saw what he saw. He's not the kind of man to make something up. So, l believe he saw something. Whether it's a real ghost or not, l don't really know... ...but l'm sure he saw something. I remember trying to talk to members... ...of the church about how to help June... ...and how to help the Palmers. There didn't seem to be anything we could do. I think part of the reason was... ...because they weren't church-goers... ...and didn't know how to offer them comfort. I don't even know what June believes in. l found myself mostly concerned about Mathew. I guess because those two were always so close. I was worried how he would cope. I remember he was spending more time alone. We were worried about him. Mathew came in with some unusual bruises on his body. Unusual in terms of distribution and depth. We obviously took a history trying to exclude trauma... ...but there was no history he was able to give us. We tested him for vasculitis, excluded poisoning... ...or toxins in his system. We were unable to turn up anything conclusive... ...and several weeks after the bruises... ...resolved spontaneously, we were never really able... ...to establish a cause for them. My name is Steve Wilkie. I'm Mathew's best friend. l usually stay at Mathew's two or three times a week. We started a band together. We normally play music at my house. Mathew seems to be quieter... ...but he was always very quiet. I guess there weren't warning bells going off. I'd heard about June going into people's houses... ...and Mathew never wanted to talk about any of that. l never asked him about any of it. I know that he was always interested in photography. At this time he was starting to pursue it... ...with more passion. Mathew was very keen to learn about photography... ...so I was more than willing to help out. That's what I do. He was picking my brains about anything... ...from equipment, to techniques, lighting. He was a great learner and employee. Mathew, can you talk to me about... ...the photographs of the backyard... ...that you've been taking? Yeah, basically l've taken that same photo... ...with that composition every three months... ...for the past four years. It's just a photograph of the backyard... ...looking out, you can see the hills. It's like a little project that I set up... ...for myself when we got here. What was in the April 28th photo that was different? Well, it was basically the same shot... ...but it would appear... ...that Alice is standing against the fence. Remember what the reaction was at the house? I wouldn't say the mood was good... ...but it was better than before. lt was like it gave us something to focus on. All of this. The photographs were taken on the 3rd of April... ...they were developed on the fourth... ...l looked at them on the fifth... ...and looked at the dams and water levels. l was quite happy but the following night... ...it was pointed out to me by my wife... ...that there was something in the background. This image came up. When I first looked at the photograph... ...I didn't know what to make of it. The image was quite unsettling because it certainly... ...looked like Alice. It was an incredibly discomforting image. l became convinced that Alice was still alive. I didn't have any rational explanation... ...for who was in those photos. But l did notice something about Alice that June didn't. l'd seen Alice's body. l didn't think she was alive. l knew she wasn't. l became convinced that Russell made a mistake. He himself said it didn't look like anybody anymore. June was so convinced that l'd made a mistake... ...that l actually started having doubts myself. l started to think maybe... ...l'd made up in my mind it was Alice's body... ...before l looked. The circumstances were so compelling to me... ...that l decided it was her. More than 3 months after the funeral... ...of Ararat teenager Alice Palmer... ...her grieving parents formally requested... ...her body be exhumed from the cemetery. Has been some contention... ...from the Palmer family about the accuracy... ...of the original body identification. June and Russell Palmer were adamant... ...that DNA testing be carried out. They couldn't be sure the body they identified... ...was indeed Alice. Alice's body was exhumed in the presence... ...of the funeral director, Dr. Slatter. There was a representative from the coroner's office. It was transported to Ararat's hospital... ...where they took DNA samples... ...and she stayed there till the results came back. A few days later, we received a copy... ...of the coroner's full preliminary report... ...and Alice's identity was confirmed... ...by the DNA sample. It was only after they'd confirmed... ...it was Alice's body that I realized... ...how much l'd invested in the possibility... ...of it not being her. l can't tell you how much l... ...wanted there to have been a terrible mistake... ...even if it had been mine. Really, really wanted there to have been... ...someone else's kid in that dam... ...runaway or murder victim. Anyone else's... ...as long as it wasn't my kid. As long as it wasn't Alice. Alice was reburied two days later... ...on the 7 th of June. But the question remained. Who or what was in those photos? I continued to hear things. -What did you hear? -l was hearing noises. They were relentless. l heard them in the hallway... ...so I thought I'd set up a camera to see... ...if I see anything. If I see something. The first night I looked back... ...and there was footage of a figure... ...moving from the room, across the hallway... ...to the front door. You're on Voice FM, two minutes past eight. I'm Helen Bath and we're taking calls... ...with psychic consultant Ray Kemeny. Next, we have Nigel on the line, Ray. Hi, Nigel, how are you? What can I do for you? It was around that time that I decided... ...to seek out the advice of Ray Kemeny. I had heard Ray on the radio over the years. Opinion was quite divided. Some thought he was the real deal... ...others were unconvinced. Next, we have Annie on the line. Hi, Annie, how are you? Thanks for taking my call, Ray. My pleasure. What can l do for you? I just wanted a general reading. General? Not just medical? I'm Hungarian by birth. My parents came out here when I was quite young. I have a 1 5 year-old daughter who lives... ...with her mother in south Australia. My Christian name is actually Scholtz... ...but I changed it to Ray. I think it's a more trustworthy name for a psychic. Australia's psychic of choice. Most of what I do is when I'm dealing... ...with the sick or dying, they're a third of my clients. lt allows them the possibility that death isn't the bitter end. lt's not the full stop... ...which is a consolation l'm happy to give them... ...considering the fact that what happens... ...after death is up for grabs anyway. lt's somebody very close to you. Someone you haven't seen for a while. Someone who's going to come back to your life. Someone who'll be of great comfort to you. Anyone fits that bill? Yeah, I can think of someone. l won't lie to you, Annie, l can see obstacles here. I think that this person who's coming back to you... ...is going to make a great difference... ...and will be of great solace to you. Thank you. See you, Annie. Where I come from, when someone dies... ...they block out the mirrors in the house... ...to stop the dead from finding their way back. Things like that make a difference. Hello, l'm Ray. lt's okay to die, Annie. lt's just the start of something else. lt's all right. I liked Ray immediately. He wasn't what I expected. l don't know what l really expected... ...but there was nothing kind of spooky... ...or fake about him. Okay, ready? Want you to close your eyes. I usually videotape my sessions... ...so they can be reviewed by the clients... ...especially when there's elements of trance... ...or hypnotism involved. I keep a copy for myself and one for them. Better to be safe than sorry. Okay, so you're standing outside your house. Tell me what you see. My house. It's a white house. I'm walking towards the front door. l want you to go inside the house. l want you to move slowly from the house. l want you to describe what you see... ...where you are, give me a guided tour. Okay, I'm walking down the hallway... ...towards Alice's room. What's there? I can see Alice's shoes outside her room. What does that mean for you, June? She always used to leave her sneakers out of her room. I want you to go inside her room now. Open the door and just move inside. Do you feel safe enough to go in to Alice's room? -Okay. -Now open the door. I'm going inside her room. You can see something, can't you? Tell me what you see, June. She's... Alice is sitting... ...on the wicker chair at the end of her bed. She looks up. I first met Ray when... ...June brought him home for dinner... ...the night of her first consultation. l'm completely indifferent to psychics... ...l don't have a position on them at all. l barely mind having him come to dinner... ...but I didn't want to upset June. He was a pleasant sort of a bloke. He wasn't spooky at all. I was on my best behavior. A few days later, maybe a week later... ...l suggested to the family that we hold a sance. June was really keen but l remember Russell just... ...flat out refused. l think Mathew finally talked his dad around. Mathew, how did you feel about having a sance? At the time l was actually quite interested... ...sort of curious. l don't think Dad was thrilled about the idea... ...but, yeah, l thought it would be interesting... ...and l suggested we filmed it. And I recorded this with a video camera... ...which is the PC9. l'm getting a strong presence in the room... ...in the house. I think we all thought the sance was a failure. Ray didn't really come up with anything... ...like any signs. So after about an hour... ...we called it quits. lt was not until the next day... ...that Mathew was reviewing the footage... ...that there was an image of Alice. Make your presence known to us. The new footage was completely different... ...to the hallway footage. For one, it was significantly more detailed... ...so it was less ambiguous. lt was impossible to dismiss it... ...as a coincidence of shadow play... ...or digital noise. There was something inexplicable in our house. That was beyond doubt. I was concerned. This was pretty unfamiliar territory for me... ...and that was terrifying. Ray got Mathew to help him set up... ...three permanent cameras inside the house. Recording in time lapse configuration 24 hrs a day. There'd been a lot of speculation about Ray... ...what he was doing there. When people don't know... ...it leads to a lot of talk. l had heard rumors throughout July... ...of video images reporting an apparition in the house. l was skeptical as to their legitimacy. And your view on Ray? Also very skeptical. l think they had me as a Rasputin figure... ...mesmerizing the Palmers, stealing their money... ...altering the photos of Alice. Happy birthday to you! Mathew in particular seemed to be... ...really struggling. Happy birthday, dear Mathew! I thought I might be able to help by being there. That's it. My main motivation was professional. Something was happening... ...and l wanted to find out what it was. What was your reaction to these images? We were completely gob smacked by them. But before we had time to take in what they meant... ...the Withers video came out. -Is it good? -It's great. -Can I have a look? -Yeah, be careful. Cathy and Doug were at the dam... ...on April 3rd, the same day... ...the Bob Smeet photo was taken. -Careful! -What do you think I'll do? Be careful. Take my hand, babe. lt was a couple of months later... ...at the end of July... ...when we were looking at our footage... ...that we'd shot at the dam and kind of crossed... There's a figure in the background... ...which we identified as Bob Smeet... ...which interested us because we thought: ''Oh, it was the same day he was there... ...when he captured the image people were talking about.'' Then we went through all our footage... ...to see if we'd captured the figure as well... ...and we did. To see if the camera saw what Bob saw. We did find a figure in the background... ...like the image that had been described... ...in his picture. We looked more closely... l got in right on the computer... ...and from what could... ...have looked like a female figure... ...from a long way away, up close and tight... ...you could see it was neither female or Alice. It was Mathew. Do you guys believe in ghosts? No. No. This is where I was... ...when the Bob Smeet photo was taken. l was wearing Alice's jacket. l looked up and l saw a man on the hill... ...who turned out to be Bob Smeet... ...and l didn't want to be in the photo. So, l walked off through the bush... ...l didn't see there was also a couple filming... ...who turned out to be the Withers. When this came out, Dad came to me... ...and asked me if I'd been involved... ...in anything else and I didn't want to lie. So, I told him. I told Dad I was responsible for the image... ...of Alice in the hallway and the bedroom... ...and that I created the April 28th photo... ...and the sance image. I told him what I'd done. I got two photos. A photo of Alice in the backyard... ...and I composited the images. That's a photo l took of Alice. Mum kept talking about getting Alice exhumed... ...and she was keen on this idea... ...of identifying her body. So, l knew that without more evidence... ...it wasn't going to happen. l made the photograph. I just used an old video of Alice... ...and I played that on the T. V. I had the T. V. up on the bookcase... ...it was as simple as rotating the mirror... ...so that the reflection of the T. V. came up. The mirror is quite small so I cropped out the edges... ...and I filmed that. Same with the kitchen... ...and the bedroom, what you see is Alice... ...on a television in a mirror. It wasn't about trying to trick people. I guess something was better than nothing. Do you think what you did made it worse for June? l think that... Yeah. Yeah, l probably did make it harder for her... ...but that wasn't my intention. l'm not quite so sure about his reasons. l don't know that l... ...totally... l don't want to say l don't believe what he said... ...I'm just not convinced that he really knows... ...why he did it. When it all came out... ...people wanted to do stories, books... ...women's magazines, the whole lot. We just didn't know how to handle it. We had to protect Matty, protect ourselves... ...protect Allie's memory. We just didn't have any experience... ...dealing with this interest in something so personal... ...that people are making incredibly public. The Palmers weren't coping well at all. Things were very bad. It was tough. This was like the end of hope for all of us... ...but especially for June. She just really wasn't ready to let Allie go. She needed to hang on to her a bit longer... ...and I don't think she would admit it... ...but she was devastated. She's an interesting girl. She seemed to not get on with June so well. l thought they're quite alike. lt's interesting how the two of them did not get on so well. They always seemed very much alike. You could see that Alice took a lot after June. Also, things got quite clear after Alice's death... ...perhaps a sense of deprivation... ...they shared. Thanks for that. June was, still is... ...keeps to herself a lot... ...and it became clear that Alice did that too. The sense of privacy, the sense of their own life... ...that they'll choose to share or not. It's wonderful when your children come... ...and that new expression that you have... ...but as a mother you always have doubts... ...that you're not doing enough or the right thing. I can only blame myself. It comes from me. It came from my mother. I've never been able to... I've never been able to give myself wholly... ...to June. I feel June is a little like that too... ...that she couldn't give herself wholly to Alice. I hope Alice did know how much I loved her. I guess I held something back a little as she grew. That would be the saddest thing... ...to think she might not know. Ray suggested that Mathew accompany him... ...on one of his country Victorian tours. He was doing consultations... ...and Mathew jumped at the chance. I think I realized when I was away... ...how much I missed Alice. That I was never going to speak to her again. I guess that's something all of Ray's clients... ...are coming to terms with. They want to talk to someone or contact someone they lost. And so did I. I was one of Ray's clients in a way as well. -Is the shot at you? -No. -Let's see what happens. -What do you think? It's going to hit me and I'm going to get angry. That's what'll happen. No! Watch yourself. What are you doing in my room? I don't know. When me and Ray went on the tour... ...we left the two rented cameras... ...where they were in the hallway. I was sure there was still something in the house. Obviously because we were away for three days... ...we couldn't change the tapes or anything. We were probably going to get... ...about a day and a half of footage... ...but we left them running. We got back August 22nd. At which point, we checked the tapes. Only Russell and I were in the house... ...when these images were recorded. We couldn't have had anything to do with them. They proved there was a ghost in my house. Alice's ghost. Do you believe in ghosts? Didn't used to. lt's a hard thing to prove or disprove. l think... Yeah, sometimes l think maybe they do exist. There are ghosts everywhere. lt's a scary world. l don't know why it's important... ...like, how it helps people to deal with loss... ...by making up stories about ghosts or whatever. It's a real question mark over everything. I went back and reviewed all the footage... ...that had come before. All the material taken inside the house... ...following Alice's death. It was while I watched Mathew's June 1 3th... ...hallway material again, that I noticed something. There was a second figure, not Matthew in the hallway... ...but someone else, squatting in the dark... ...in Alice's room. At first I thought it was Alice... ...then I realized it was our neighbor. Brett Toohey. What was this man doing in my house... ...in my daughter's room, six months after her death? When I found Alice's safe... ...I realized exactly why he'd been there. He was looking for the tape. That's it. -Did you smoke? -Yeah. Getting nice and cozy with Alice. Alice began babysitting for the Tooheys in 2002... ...and she continued for the next two and a half years. The Tooheys boys were five and nine. I literally could just not believe my eyes. It just made me feel so sad. As far as I'm concerned... ...the Tooheys were complicit in Allie's death. I believe if it hadn't been for them... ...she would've reached out to us. Wouldn't have felt guilty. She wouldn't have felt the burden of that. She wouldn't have been isolated. How do you feel towards Brett now? lf he was around the corner l'd throttle him. He seemed like a nice guy. He was nice. We'd speak. He was never mean. He had a pool at his place. We used to swim there sometimes. Yeah, in summer. You could go to his place and swim there. I was really bewildered about what happened. It took a lot to believe it. l had no idea that Alice would... Be with somebody. l know. A complete surprise. We never thought she'd do something like that. Why do you think Alice had the tape? She didn't want them to have it. Why is that? Didn't trust them anymore, l think. He must've been really desperate to get the tape. From the moment they'd heard... ...of Alice's death, they must've been living... ...in constant fear of being found out. l'm glad he couldn't find it. l'm glad he knows it's not over. Had a lot of dealings with the Palmers during this time... ...as part of the investigating team trying to locate... ...Brett and Marissa Toohey. Initially, we were optimistic... ...that they would be found and charges laid... ...but unfortunately, the case dried up... ...so investigation stalled. The police advised us... ...that even if the Tooheys were caught... ...they'd get off on a suspended sentence... ...by claiming the sex was consensual. A claim supported by the video. Did you know about Alice's involvement with Brett? No. No one did. Obviously l didn't. We wouldn't have gone out if l had any idea. No. l thought we were pretty good. It left so many unanswered questions. Why was she involved with him? When did the relationship begin? Was he in love with her?. I just don't know. The Tooheys sold their house and moved... ...six months after Alice died. Alice kept secrets. She kept the fact she kept secrets a secret. lt does change the way you see somebody... ...when you realize they did hide things from you a bit. I think I knew one Alice, her mum knew another... ...and there was another one that none of us knew. I found Ray's business card taped to Alice's diary... ...on the page marked 1 2th July, 2005. Why'd you come to see me, Alice? Can you interpret dreams? Sometimes. How do you feel when you wake up from them? They scare me a bit. Alice came to see me She called me on the radio a few times... ...and then we made the appointment. Take a deep breath, close your eyes. Imagine you're standing outside your house. Tell me what you see. -Okay? -Yeah. I want you to go inside the front door. Go into the house. Tell me what you see... ...where you are. Ray, why didn't you tell June you'd met Alice before? It was not a case of hiding something. I was honoring Alice's request for confidentiality... ...but it was damned if you do, damned if you don't. The living room is straight ahead. Then you go to the right... ...and my room is in the back part of the house... ...as you go towards the kitchen. Do you see anything unusual or different? No. No, we didn't feel we could trust Ray anymore... ...for whatever reasons he may've had... ...of keeping that information to himself. lt still felt like a betrayal. I wanted to help June and the family. I think they wanted me to help them. I wouldn't have been able to do it had they known. There was a bit of resentment. Mathew wouldn't even speak to me. What l think hurt them more than anything... ...was what they saw as my failure... ...to see Alice's imminent passing. Looking back, it's kind of strange... ...that someone would be as close to us as he was. I think he needed us as much as we needed him. Alice came to see me because she was upset. She was a very troubled person. ''I had a dream last night. I was cold and wet. I felt heavy... ...like I'd been drugged. When I woke up, the sensations didn't go. I was feeling sick and confused... ...and I was starting to get scared. I needed to see Mum, to talk to her. I stumbled to her room and as I stood there... ...over the bed watching them... ...I was overcome with this intense sadness. Then the sadness turned to fear. l just stood there paralyzed with fear... ...and l saw there's nothing that they could do for me. l'd never felt so utterly alone. Everything felt wrong. My body... ...the way things looked, then l realized... ...there was something wrong with me. I started to cry, standing there at the bed. '' Lake Mungo is in Southwestern, New South Wales... ...and that was the location of the school camp... ...that Alice went on from August 2nd to 5th, 2005. When she came home... ...she said she'd had a good time. I particularly remember it. She came home without her mobile phone... ...which we'd bought her a month previously... ...and her favorite bracelet and watch. Other than that, you know... ...she didn't really talk about it much. Wait up, guys! Kate didn't show me until a year after... ...she got back from camp the stuff she'd taken. Why did you decide to tell June? lf we didn't tell June... ...it'd be like we were hiding something. So, l don't know why. l don't know why but... ...why not? Jason told us about the film footage... ...that the girls had taken at Lake Mungo. The girls were looking so happy... ...but she looked quite forlorn. I was worried. l was convinced that something had happened to her. Kate's phone footage was taken later that night... ...once the girls had spread out. Anytime. Anywhere. It's like Africa. Like the desert. There was an image of Alice... ...very hard to decipher at the bottom of the frame... ...kneeling under a tree. It was only after viewing the clip several times... ...that we realized what she was doing. She was burying something. Did you know what would've happened... ...that night with Alice? No. l knew she'd lost her phone. l knew she was upset... ...because that was pretty obvious... ...but l didn't know why she was upset. She didn't say that she'd seen anything... ...she didn't really say anything to me. I didn't really take it that seriously at the time. lt was like context. We were just having a good time... ...and l just thought she got a bit upset. It started simply enough. Alice left the group... ...and started walking off by herself... ...but it was obviously, something was distressing her. We wanted to try and find out what it was. We understood from the footage... ...that she had buried something. We had no idea where that tree was... ...because of what we could see in the video. We didn't really wanna go down during the day... ...because we didn't want to be digging... ...where tourists were. We decided to go at night. June and I started digging and after a bit... ...June said she'd found something... ...and pulled out a plastic bag. Inside the plastic bag there was... ...Allie's favorite necklace, her ring, her watch... ...her mobile phone. Her most precious things... ...buried out here on a school camp. We didn't know why she did that. We knew from the video that she'd buried something... ...but we didn't know what it was. lt was low on battery. You scared of dying? Yeah, of course I'm scared of dying. Isn't everyone scared of dying? Would you like to tell me what happens in the dreams? I feel like something bad is gonna happen to me. I feel like something bad has happened. It hasn't reached me yet but it's on its way. And it's getting closer... ...and I don't feel ready. I feel like I can't do anything. At some point, this figure came towards her... ...from out of the darkness. I recognized the face as soon as I saw it... ...on the phone video. It was the same face... ...of the body I had identified at the dam. It was Allie's body. Allie's face. There's absolutely no rational explanation... ...for what she saw on that phone. Oh, my God! It's raining! I'm convinced Alice knew she was going to die. I'm convinced of that. I think the figure at Lake Mungo... ...was an omen for her. The burial of her possessions was symbolic... ...it was a ritual. I was never convinced that Allie knew she'd die. She had morbid thoughts, sure, but who doesn't? She had nightmares that upset her... ...enough to consult Ray. l don't know that anybody is really convinced... ...that they're going to die. What about the image of Lake Mungo? How do you think Alice would've explained that? How could she have explained it? l think Allie saw a ghost... ...but she wasn't to know it was her own. l believe she recorded a ghost. l believe she recorded the future coming to get her. We found out about the Tooheys... ...Ray and what had happened at Lake Mungo... ...and by the time we returned home... ...the house felt different. lt was calm. I think Alice... ...wanted us to know more about her. She wanted us to know who she really was... ...before she, you know, before she could leave. In the weeks and months after Lake Mungo... ...we started to feel like a family again. It just crept up on us, really... ...we were a bit wobbly... ...but a family all the same. -Hello there. -Russell, nice to see you. You too. Come in. Ray called out of the blue... ...and said he'd be coming through town... ...and asked if it was alright if he could visit. Six months had gone by and I just felt... ...under the circumstances, it couldn't do any harm. I think we all felt better after Mungo. In a way, it had been closure. For each of us it was different. We made our own peace. It seemed strange to me... ...that Allie should withdraw so abruptly... ...and we didn't help her, we didn't change anything... ...I think we collectively made a decision to move forward. Moving was a big part of it. Starting all over. It will be difficult to leave the house. Sometimes, you know, l just forget that... ...she's not coming back. l forget. Okay, close your eyes. Imagine that you're standing outside the house. Can you see it? Go inside the house. I'm going through the front door. I'm walking down the hall towards Alice's room. Someone's there. I think someone's coming down the hall. The door is open. Do you know who it is? Do you wanna go inside? Yeah. Okay. What do you see? It's my mum. What's she saying? She's not saying anything. l don't think she knows l'm there. Alice isn't here. She's not here. What's happening, Alice? You talking to her? ls she talking to you? No, she's going now. She's leaving the room. She's gone. Open your eyes. She's going now. She's leaving the room. She's gone. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Mathew!
