 

                        Good Lt. Karan Shergill - y es sir Welcome to 3 Punjab You've been assigned to him - Yes sir Are his quarters ready? - Yes sir - Good You have to report to the regiment CO right away Come with me - Yes sir Come in Wait here - Yes sir Sir, Lt. Shergill is outside March him in Lt. Shergill, march in Carry on Sathish Sir Lt. Shergill reporting sir At ease Karan, come here Sir What do you think... is this frame straight? Sir? Does the frame look straight? Sir, it's a bit... With your permission sir - Yes... yes. Now it's straight, sir Good Things don't feel right unless they're perfect Karan Shergill - Sir Be at the mess by 1900 hrs, the officers will be there Allright - Yes sir Carry on Sir Maj. Kaushal verma We heard you were coming today Through the IMA? - Yes sir Is Lt. Col pratap Singh still at the Academy? - Yes sir He's an old friend... pratap "Discipline" Singh! Akbar... Mishra... come here Morning sir - Morning boys Meet Lt. Karan Shergill - Sir - Hi - Hi Meet Capt. Jalal Akbar He's from the IMA too Which course, sir? 91 course NDA, 100 course IMA This is Capt. Sudhir Mishra He's a doctor You're getting very fit these days, doc? Jogging a lot! Sir, I worry about Akbar Won't he need a doctor if he faints en-route? Your bag is kept inside Go, have a look At what? - The bag or the room? The room of-course!! He must have seen his bag before You go ahead, Karan These two are always at it Right sir - See you Now, the front will become exciting When is the Bachelors party? Whenever you want, sir - How about tonight? Hey Karan, Good evening, come on in Good evening sir - Hi Meet Capt. Manjit Dhingra Hello, nice to meet you - Nice to meet you Lt. Vishal Srivatsav and Capt. Ramanna My God! Did you guys see that? Ramanna actually smiled! Didn't say much as usual but smile he did! Excuse me sir - Yeah... yeah Meet Maj. Binod Sengupta Hello sir - Hello Karan And this is... - We've already met, sir Good Akbar, you're going to post 21 tomorrow? Yes sir I want the Operation Log and analysis by tomorrow evening Right sir Take Karan along with you It's time you saw what you've been sent here to defend Yes sir Come on Take it - Thank you sir You see that These trophies, medals, certificates They were won in different battles, on different fronts by the brave officers and men of this regiment Sometimes at the cost of their lives This regiment has always given the nation and its army news of success and victory from this moment on, you are a part of it's legacy these trophies belong to you too It is your duty to preserve their honor and dignity And to help you do that you have the blessings and faith of a billion people A billion people... who trust us to stay awake so they may sleep This trust is a great honor and a great responsibility You understand - Yes sir Good Cheers gentlemen - Cheers sir Hey, buck up To the net! Get to the net! Hey come on ...get upto the net! Not under it! What's the score? Is anyone winning? Good morning sir - Hey, morning Shall I put your clothes in the room? Yes and... keep the keys with you Wife? - No Girl friend? - I don't know Shall we go, sir? Sure, let's go Good morning Sir! - You go ahead Aren't you playing today? No, pritam Singh, Sahib Karan, this is Sgt. Maj. Pritam Singh, he is Lt. Shergill Welcome, sir pritam Singh is a very good man and a respected veteran It's officers like you that have taught me all I know We should get going now Hail India (jai Hind) - Jai Hind This is the last Indian village before the Line of Control Soopra village Hello - Hello Where are you from? Delhi The Capital I'm from Maliyabad Ever heard of it? - Yes, sir When was that? Just now sir, from you! This highway goes along the river from Srinagar to Leh It's the only link between Kashmir and Ladakh You see those mountains? The LOC is behind that range and across it are pakistani posts You'll see it today Everything okay here? - Yes, sir. Nothing to worry Where's Capt. Ravindran? - In the bunker, sir Allright, carry on Do you see the pakistani post over there? Wow! Unbelievable That pillar marks the LOC and from here to there is no man's land... Not ours Not theirs Even so, we exchange fire almost every day If there's firing we also retaliate That's amazing It's like I've always known, but somehow... I've never felt this Indian before I'm an Indian I still remember seeing these borders for the first time I understand how you must feel Come, let's go I have been moved by the affection and hospitality... ...extended to me... ...and the delegation of eminent persons... ...who accompanied me jammu and Kashmir is one of the issues... ...we are discussing... ...within the framework of our composite dialogue You were watching our live telecast from the Wagah border This is a historic day Today, India and pakistan can hope that these steps... will bridge the distance that has long divided us Stay tuned for the news in English, Thank you Out. - Guruvindhar, was that okay? - Perfect Romila, call for you Thank you Hi Rajiv, tell me? I've to read the news at 8, lets meet after that Okay, bye Thanks This must be special - What do you mean? I mean, we met by chance kept running into each other and now we're more than good friends There must be something special - perhaps How about getting married? What do you think? Rajiv, its very sweet of you We're friends, why not leave it at that? Do you plan on marrying someone you hate? Look, it's not like you don't know me or don't like me... I hope - Of course I like you You know it Then what's the problem? I haven't thought about marriage So give it a thought now Okay, say you'll think of it Or is it asking too much? No, it's not that I'll think about it Hi mom When did you come? - A little while ago Dinner? - I've eaten What're you reading? Have a lecture at 9 tomorrow, just making some notes Rajiv asked me to marry him What did you say? What should I have said? I think... whatever it was you and Karan shared ...it's in the past? It's something like that What do you think? You can't spend the rest of your life in mourning That's true but... But what? Nothing Come on! Come on Good shot Well done Karan! Well done Come on! Come on Hello sir - Hi Karan You see that? Sir The snow is melting Summer is here How cold does it get up there in winter, sir? Minus forty degree, minus fifty degree - Really Yes, it's difficult to stay up there Both, the pakistanis and we vacate our posts in winter It's like a gentleman's pact that neither of us will take advantage of this Once the weather changes, we man our posts again I'd like to go there, sir Someday you'll have to Check - Check Sure you aren't a cousin of our Grandmaster vishwanath Anand?! Good morning sir - Hey morning Coffee? Why not? Ashok, another cup please? - Yes, sir from home Do you like mangoes? - Sir? Mangoes? I like them Ever eaten mangoes from Maliyabad? I will if you get them, sir The fun lies in eating them fresh at the orchard Hey, Mishra! Want to come home and eat mangoes next season? You plan this every year but never take me there! I wonder if he really has any orchards at all! Come on! It's your move Check! - Again?! Why don't you... Hey Karan... Isn't she the girl whose picture is in your wallet? What happened? A tiff? Excuse me sir Hey Rajiv - Hi brother What's up? Where you coming from? There Where's Romi? She's busy preparing for tomorrow's protest march protest match? Again!? Okay friends, the pamphlets are here Now our volunteers must be at every gate by 7 in the morning Okay? - We'll be there Every student should be given one, Okay? And please ask them to read it pamphlets are meant to be read Is this poster okay? Good Where are the Hindi posters? Almost complete Don't worry Okay I'm going home Call me if you need anything Or tomorrow at 7 A. M, okay? Hi Karan What's going on? Preparation for the march put up posters opposite the vice Chancellor's office... ...this very night, okay? No more of the vice Chancellor's dictatorship! No more! No more! Uncle, be honest... Are all these rallies and demonstrations of any use? Everyone has a right to speak out in a democracy But you shouldn't disrupt law and order Law and order? Hello aunty! Hello Karan? - How are you? I am fine! Where's Romi? - In her room, Aunty Sit please The police resorted to using water cannons at the last rally Water cannons! She was lucky to get away... or else she'd be in jail Like mother like daughter! I remember being arrested in my student years Aunty! Under arrest!! Akhilesh... - Yes? I'm going to the India International Centre Okay - Bye... bye Karan - Bye aunty - Bye So tell me, what are your plans? I'm going home right now Then I'm meeting my friends this evening... I don't mean your agenda for today I'm talking about life Life...!? You mean life! Right uncle! It's worth a thought You know... Whatever you do in life, it's very important to do it well You can become a scientist... but what's the use if you aren't a good scientist? Mow lawns, if thats what you want to do as long as you do it well Do you agree? You're right, uncle Anyway, I should get going Aren't you waiting for Romi? No problem! I'll call her later Has Karan gone? - Yes, he had to leave That boy is very confused That's his only problem, papa He just can't decide what he wants to do His life doesn't have... what's it called...? An objective Thats it! Objective! He has no real objective But wait and watch, the day he finds his calling ...you'll see how far he goes Your juice, sir Switch on the geyser, will you? Do meet them they're good people You're in philadelphia now and they are too Sridhar, breakfast - Don't mix them! Put the clean ones aside! You're mixing them again!! You should keep in touch with family friends, son Is that Udesh? Give me the phone, please You've know them since you were a child just a second, mom! It's important give it to me Yes! - Mom Here! Just speak to Karan first! Udesh! Can you check if the jurassic park DvD is available just check! It must be just courier it to me, okay, talk to mom Hold on, Udesh... please go speak to your father About what?! He wants to speak to you About what?!! Hi dad - Hi You haven't gone to the office today? I usually don't on Sunday's Oh! Is it Sunday? How would you know? Sunday, Monday, it's all the same to you! Are you going to do anything in life? Of course I will, dad But whatever I do, it's very important to do it well I could become a scientist... but what's the use if I'm not a good scientist? Mow lawns, if thats what I want to do as long as I do it well That's what I feel about life That's good But just thinking won't help, you have to do things Udesh is just two years elder to you, look at him! Parvesh, tell me something parents, especially fathers... Why do they always ask the same thing? What do you want to be? What do you want to do? Isn't there any other topic? Who'll ask, if not fathers? Mine is reverse! I've told my parents I'm doing hotel management before they could ask me Girls have become very sensible today! Look at Romi! She's been clear about wanting to be a journalist all along please, her father's the editor of a leading daily What problem would she have becoming a journalist!? What're you saying? Whatever Romi decides to do, she will do well She's really different and really smart How could I forget who I'm talking to!? I'm sorry lover boy Romi is a genius! Guess what, guys? I haven't told my parents yet but I've decided What? - Army Army? You! Join the army! You'll be court-martialed the first day! Ever woken up before noon? I will when I need to! Why should I for no reason! You want to be an engineer Did I ever say you won't make it? Calm down! Why are you over reacting? Because you always put me down But think about it, buddy Army life isn't easy Nothing is easy in the world But I've decided and that's that! I'm joining the army I feel my country needs me! Aren't Army uniforms the smartest, Ashu? You guys are giving me a complex! You're joining the army, you engineering... you, hotel management I'm the only one left! Sometimes I think I'll do this, sometimes that! Why am I like this? Why am I like this? Why am I the way I am? When did I ever know what I am supposed to do? Looks like I'll be singing this song all my life What will happen to me? Will someone please tell me? Why is it so difficult? Will someone help me understand? Why am I like this? Why am I the way I am? Now I feel like doing this, but then again it's that But why? I just don't know... What it is that I must do! What now looks clear and simple... Tomorrow will seem all twisted I feel like my life is... - Completely upside down! Will I ever change? Will I ever believe? Will I ever improve? I don't know if I will What's to become of me now? What do you think? What's to become of me now? Will I just remain the way I am? When did I ever know what I am supposed to do? Looks like I'll be singing this song all my life What will happen to me? Will someone please tell me? Why is it so difficult? Will someone help me understand? Why am I like this? It's just the way I am! I don't know why you are the way you are You think about it Don't you get bored? Where's the time to get bored? There's so much going on in the world... ...if a person is interested, how can he get bored!! Yeah I know You are right How come a girl like you is into someone like me? Why do you love me? You want to be praised, is it? Seriously... I've never seen you behave small or petty I've never heard you talk badly of someone I respect that about you I like that - Really? You're a good, big hearted person that's why I love you Thanks Know what I think? You're not too bad yourself! Shut up Karan Your juice, sir Switch on the geyser, will you? - Yes Hello Aunty! Is parvesh home? What happened? Romi, you always say that I keep drifting That my life lacks a... An objective The world is objective - Exactly Objective! Now listen... It's all clear to me now I'm joining the army You will join the army!? Are you serious? Romi, I've decided and that's that! I'm joining the army! I feel my country needs me We all must do something for our country But when do we ever realise our responsibility! I have realised it! The IMA is in Dehradun Indian Military Academy I have filled out the form There's a written exam first... If I pass, there'll be an interview and a medical test I'm sure to be selected By the way, guess who's coming with me? Parvesh! I'm really stressed, man! Remember we had applied to IMA last month? Yes, so? I got the letter today, for the exam, didn't you get it? Maybe, I'll check at home, why? I don't want to go! Don't want to go!!! What are you saying? I applied because of you I told you, this guy in the army? He gets up at noon! That's not the point! My dad told me... If I do an MBA from any American university... ...I can get a job the very next day in the U.S. I can't believe you're off to the U.S. Now! What'll I do alone in the army? Man! He's so unreliable! Tell me something... How many years does it take to an MBA in America? What is this? What is this? Did you apply to the IMA? Are you planning to sit for the exam? Actually parvesh and... Did you ask us before making this decision? Answer me! Did you ask me or your mother? You've lost your mind! Think you can do whatever you feel like? Not in this house! You better understand that! But Daddy, what have I... - Shut up I've had enough! Shalini, it's all our fault He gets whatever he wants! I'm here to earn the money!! Where's the need for him to do anything? Apart from his regular nonsense Now see this... he wants to join the army! Karan, look at me... You will do as I say Understand that! You will do exactly as I say! Enough is enough He's very upset What's gotten into you! Just see how Udesh... please mummy, I am not Udesh! Karan, don't feel so bad yeah parents say things they shouldn't when they're upset But they don't really mean it How do I know that? I hear what you say... and I see what you do Do you remember how in school... ...both your parents would come on parents Day My mom would, but did you even once see my Dad? You will do as I say! ...sorry, but I won't! I want to join the army and I will!! If you're serious, then don't listen to anybody Do what your heart tells you But if you're being stubborn or egoistic because your father has said not to then this would be a wrong decision No, Romi, it's not about being stubborn or egoistic I want to join the army So! It's decided then Now cheer up Come on... come on... My God! I never knew you could get so angry! I am really scared now How did it go? Romi, I'm sad I can't show you my papers There's just one fear What's that? I hope they don't think I've copied everything ...because every answer is just perfect! Very good Now that it's clear what my future is... other thoughts are brewing in my mind Like what? Like, in a couple of years I'll have to get married... So what do you say? About what? About marriage! Karan, I knew that someday we'd discuss marriage But I never thought you'd say it in this manner! How should I say it? I mean... Can't you be more romantic? I see So you'd like me to... ...get you flowers... ...gaze into your eyes and say... Don't be stupid I didn't say that But it could've been said in a nicer way - Really! If I say that I'm in love with you you are my only desire what will you say? If I say that I'm in love with you you are my only desire what will you say? I will say... that if you had said it with a little more panache and a little more charm It would be nice If I say that you are as fresh as morning dew Your lips as luscious as flower petals... Your eyes twinkle like fireflies... that my heart beats faster when I think of you... If I say If I say that the moon is pale in comparison to your beauty What will you say? I will say... please don't compare me to the moon it has many blemishes And not a flower either they wither and wilt As for fireflies... they just vanish without a trace If you'd stop using cliche's and say it in a style unique and original and with a little more charm It would be nice If I say that I'm in love with you you are my only desire what will you say? If I say you have confused me with your answers How should I say what I have to say? Nothing I say seems to please you Because I think you don't even believe me! If I say If I say Why is it that you don't know... ...that you already have my love? I will say... My heart does say we are meant to be together If we truly feel it in both our hearts then words don't matter Don't worry, Shalini, let him go if he wants! He'll be back in no time, i'm absolutely sure of it But I'm really amazed that he got selected! Gentlemen Cadets... I, Adjutant of the I.M. A, Lt. Col. Pratap Singh... ...welcome you to the academy Today, you are stepping into a new life And I expect, that with every passing day... ...you will prove worthy of this great institution Know that you are here because you are special The Indian Military Academy is a great institution ...who's commitment cannot be praised in just words first, our country... second, the army... then, his unit and finally, concern for himself... ...that is the trademark of an I.M. A trained officer Gentlemen cadets you must preserve the honor and traditions of IMA So, good luck to all of you Gentlemen, there are three basic rules in handling a weapon One, a strong grip Two, a focussed mind Three, precise trigger operation You will now learn how to acquire a strong grip Karan shergill - Yes, Sergeant Detail, get ready to charge! Charge! Attack! Stab! Draw! Hit! Cut! Charge!! Detail, get ready to charge! Charge What's the matter? Where's your energy? Didn't your mother feed you? You need to have fire in the belly! Move out of line and watch the others Come on, move fast Next Detail, get ready to charge Why're you scared? He's getting nervous for no reason, it's very easy You're next, we'll see All right, Rakesh my boy! I'll wave to you from the top very bad fail You had to do it in a minute, next! Go up, cross and jump, all in a minute! - Sir Make it fast Sergeant! - Yes, sir? All well? - Under control, sir Good carry on - Yes sir Gentleman cadet Karan Shergill - Yes sir You fell because you were not concentrating Do you think you can get away for lack of discipline? - No sir You shall be punished! - Yes sir You will crawl in that trench, no stopping till I say so! Now, go You guys think it's a joke! How do you like the taste of mud, eh? Don't get up, go again Move it! Fast! Hands low G.C.!! It's not easy becoming an officer, is it? Come on, hurry up! Don't get up Hurry up Come on Hurry up Come on, move Don't get up you will stay on your knees all day Is that understood? - Yes sir What are you thinking? - Nothing much Let it go, man! It was just bad luck the Company Commander came by And you did give him reason to punish you Now forget everything and get some sleep Tomorrow is a fresh start Don't give anyone a chance to punish you Okay? See you in the morning - Good night Karan, Saket said goodnight, at least wish him! Good night Did you get into a fight there? No... I just... Sit down Whatever I have earned, acquired... All that I have... who do you think it's for? What did he bring with him? My entire family stayed in one small room When I grew up, I'd hear of the house we had in Lahore... ...the status our family had... This would pierce my heart like an arrow I vowed that... I would restore the family position to what it once was And I succeeded But my father didn't live to see this Now all I have is my family and if you have no respect for what I have done then all my effort has been in vain You must help him, son Start going to the office from tomorrow, okay? All right, go Didn't I tell you he'll be back in no time I know him Shalini, he's good for nothing Let it be now At least he's back Only you expect anything from him I fail to understand... Why Karan can't be more like Udesh What's this? You arrived yesterday but called me today! Nice hair style Anyway, how long are you here for? I'm not going back - What do you mean? You ran away, didn't you!? For once you had made your own decision only to be defeated in a few days Your parents were upset But you said "It's my life, I'll decide what I want" Is this what you decided? I can understand you're annoyed, but... What do you understand, Karan? Remember, it was here that you said... you wanted to marry me perhaps even that decision has changed! What are you saying, Romi! - What should I say!? When someone can't respect himself or his own decision... How can I expect him to respect me? Please listen to... - Don't touch me I don't think I ever want to meet you again You accept that you have done wrong You accept that you have disgraced this institution please answer yes or no? - Yes sir Are you ready for any punishment given to you? - Yes sir Your act was not a minor misdemeanor You will undergo a 28 day restriction period After that, your plea will be considered - Yes sir Say it loud and clear - Yes sir This is your path... You know it now This is your dream... You realise it now This is your path... You know it now This is your dream... You realise it now Now you have to prove it Nothing can hinder you or stop you You will fulfill your objective Your objective... must be achieved at any cost When you walk with your heart full of courage The ground will tremble beneath your feet Distances will not matter Your goal will step forth and embrace you When you walk with your heart full of courage The ground will tremble beneath your feet Stride forth, day or night It's not for you to rest or stop You will fulfill your objective Your objective... must be achieved at any cost This is your path... You know it now This is your dream... You realise it now Now you have to prove it You are now officers of The Indian Army Congratulations - Thanks mom Udesh had called He said to salute you on his behalf Typical Udesh Your father did want to be here But an important meeting came up at the last minute It's okay, I understand My mom - Good morning mom Meet my friends, Saket and Abeer They've graduated as officers today Congratulations And once these stars are on my shoulders... I'll be an officer too Lt. Karan Shergill The enemy's worst nightmare! I will do my duty... honestly & faithfully... serve in the regular army... of the union of India... and go wherever ordered... by land... sea... or air... and that... I will observe & obey... all commands... of the president... of the union of India... and... the Commands of... any officer... set over me... even to the prior of my life Welcome once again to "To each his own view" for those who have just tuned in... our topic for today is... Today's Woman in the eyes of Today's Man Mr. Trivedi, you were saying before the break Yes, first and foremost... Woman is a mother, wife and homemaker If you try changing her role it will cause an upheaval in her life and in society It's okay, it's your belief We'll come back to you Mr. Rajiv Kohli you are a business executive Do you agree with him? - No, I don't agree with him Today in the corporate or creative world or any field, for that matter Women are not only matching strides with men... but are gradually going ahead No, don't clap, it's a fact Today's woman is a success story A shining example is with us today Miss Romila Dutta Thank you Only soft drinks tonight? How's it going, kids? Call for you - I'll be back Hello Hi Romi - Karan Congratulations - Thank you I called to give you the good news By the way... I've got a job as a correspondent for Global News Why wouldn't you? When are you coming to Delhi? Why? We should meet You can't make all the decisions, Romi You decided that we should not meet Now if we should or should not meet I will decide Okay, bye! Hey Karan, where are you going? - Home fansukh! One's missing, look over there Okay Ashok Thanks for coming to the airport The army has polished up your manners, I see! You wait and watch I'll see you this evening I must get to work now I'm planning to go & meet Romi this evening When did you last speak to her? - Why? She's getting engaged today Reports of intrusion are coming in from Drass Intruders have also crossed the LOC into Kaksar and Batalik Regretable thing is that after returning from Lahore prospects to peace is rendered impossible Oh my God! What's this new problem? Hi mom Where have you been all evening? Come in What's this news from Kargil? You're posted there, aren't you? What news? I haven't heard anything Really? There was something on the T. V about it Hello just a moment! It's for you Hello Sir! Lt. Shergill here Sir Yes sir Sir Right Sir My leave is cancelled But what's happened? You just got here! It's this news, isn't it? What did he say? That I should report back at once He must have said more! What are you hiding? I don't have anything to tell you, Dad!? I've to go Due to commencement of Operation vijay you are being made an Acting Captain Army Intelligence has reported that our neighbours... have betrayed our trust They have crossed the Line of Control and infiltrated... regions from Batalik to Drass with armed intruders Our unit is responsible for peak 5179 I've called for a briefing in the next 15 minutes Come what may, we must recapture peak 5179 At any cost! This is the mountain known as peak 5179 on the map We cannot access it's northern side... without crossing the LOC And we have been given precise orders... that under no circumstances, can we cross the LOC So! That leaves us with three sides The western side is a sheer cliff 850 to 900 feet high The enemy has a natural defense here That leaves two sides This is the southern side, facing us But there's open plain from here to there No cover at all The enemy perched on the mountain... can easily watch our movements from his bunker upto 3 km This means that we are left with only one option the eastern side That's right We will send a small team They must move undetected and explore and chart possible routes that will provide us... with maximum cover There! Their bunkers must be across that ridge line That's the only access to this side They would've definitely covered it Hello, Ghaznavi 1 Hello, Ghaznavi 3, come in, over Sir, I can see Indian soldiers one and half kms away A patrolling party, perhaps No firing Don't reveal your position Understood, sir, over Karan, get back! Why were you in the open? - Sorry, sir I felt a presence on the mountain I felt like I was being watched Come on, get the camera, quick! Come on... come on... hurry up Hey, isn't that Romila Dutta? You're right Hello - Hi! How far is that shelling from here? - About 3 kms away The pakistanis on the mountain... ...are trying to cut off the highway I see - Don't worry, they won't succeed Where are you going? - Kargil Actually we are from Global news You don't need an introduction! Hi Hello Hi The shelling you hear is from the other side Our Artillery will see where best to retaliate and then fire back In mountain warfare... the side occupying the heights holds the advantage Therefore! Before any attack on the feature's eastern side... we need to know... the exact position of the enemy's bunkers The strength of their fire power An aggressive patrol will be sent to accomplish this What's the plan, sir? Thank you sir four teams! The first from this side You will lead it Second team, Kaushal - Yes sir You will apply pressure onto this area Third team, Satish and Capt. Ramanna You will go till here And Akbar, Karan & Sgt. Dharamvir Singh You will position your team here and open fire This will not be an actual attack but they should feel that it is real When they return fire... we'll get to know their positions and weapons Yes sir Engagement ring! - Congratulations - Thank you. Alright! Here we go... Ready pradeep - Yes sir All teams open fire! Sir, Oscar Tango 3 degrees, distance 800 metres they have a medium machine gun Here! NW of team D! Sir! Hello Tiger! This is team 2 here Hello tiger, there's a bunker on the Camel's Hump Bunker on the Camel's Hump? Okay vinodh! Hello Tiger - Go ahead Koushal - A bunker! On the landing! Bunker on the landing, mark it! Oscar Tango 23 degrees, distance 650 metres There's a bunker on the ridge On the ridge! Return to base All teams return to base... Mission accomplished... I repeat, Mission accomplished They have a medium and light machine gun in these bunkers There are 4 bunkers up there And they have an 81 mm Mortar at the top of this feature Sir... - Yes, pritam Singh, go on They have two 81 mm mortars up there, not one It takes at least 10 seconds to reload this weapon... but the second round comes in well before that He's right Now that's experience Hello Sir, we pushed them back - You fool! They came to check out our bunkers and weapons... and succeeded! Stay prepared and alert The real attack isn't too far now! Over! Understood, sir! Over! Yesterday, at one point I thought my gun had jammed and almost picked up a stone to chuck at the bunker Sir! - Relax... relax As per the CO's plan, we must shift base today The new base will be closer to the eastern side At Soopra village Right, sir Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear We must keep moving now with one single thought in all our minds We must keep moving now with one single thought in all our minds Come what may! We will melt stone with our intensity Come what may! We will overshadow mountains like clouds Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear Lets enter the battlefield ready to sacrifice our life Never rest until we have reached our destination We have the courage to laugh in the face of adversities We have the strength to twist the arm of death We are a wall of steel guarding our borders We are alert and ready for any enemy Come what may! We will melt stone with our intensity Come what may! We will overshadow mountains like clouds Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear Keep the flame of fervor alight in your heart And you shall sing the song of victory Keep the flame of fervor alight in your heart And you shall sing the song of victory The portrait of victory we're out to paint will be coloured by our blood We all know, in our hearts now... It's either do or die! Even if fire and lightning befall our path You will not be alone, my brothers in arms Whatever be the hardship whatever be the strife... Your comrades are with you now and forever Come what may! We will melt stone with our intensity Come what may! We will overshadow mountains like clouds Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear I often think about the one I love Her memory torments my heart I often wonder, that letters from home... seem to be written on paper, moist with tears Memories are like shadows, always with us Dreams are like friends, travelling with us No dream will be shattered No promise will be broken May the one you truly love be yours when this is done Come what may! We will melt stone with our intensity Come what may! We will overshadow mountains like clouds Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear The valleys are echoing the song of our caravan The earth and the sky are resonating The wind and time are resonating Every path, every mountain, every plain, echoes and says We shall win, yes we shall win, every battle! Shoulder to shoulder, stride for stride... when we move forward, the enemy quakes with fear Rolling... We are at the army hospital Today, the Srinagar-Leh highway and Kargil... have faced heavy shelling from across the LOC Many villages and houses have been hit by shells The number of casualties is yet unknown... but many wounded have been brought to this hospital villages near the LOC are being evacuated Alwyn, come on I know him! Please move out of the way! Doctor, Is he alive? Cool down, please Rakesh - Karan, long time Longtime Where are you posted? - Drass What brings you here? Bad news Abeer Saxena died today Abeer? How? Shell hit his truck What's going on, man!? Muskoh, Drass, Kaksar, Batalik Same story everywhere I don't understand Why do wars happen? What are so many people dying for? When will we understand... that war can't solve issues! Only peace can just shut up Go give this lecture somewhere else! Just go out I think you misunderstood us... You want peace? We want it too What should we do? Stand by with folded hands... ...and gift them our country on a platter? Peace! Capt. Abeer Saxena also wanted peace He didn't go attack another country It was his country that was attacked! The road that he lay dying on... is a part of India! First, go have a look at his dead body! Then give these lectures! Go! Look at him! I'm okay His dearest friend died today I met Capt. Abeer Saxena once Excuse me Any problem Our driver has gone somewhere with the car Do you need a ride? Thank you! - Thank you - Good night Go head Alwin, I'm coming Do you remember saying, us meeting again would be... your decision Yes So should I assume that you have decided? I don't know Thanks for the lift - You're welcome I should have said this before Congratulations, for your engagement - Good night Are you crazy... You're going to Kargil!? My boss also said the same thing - He was right Why go some place involved in a full fledged war? Why take needless risks? - There's no risk And even if there is, it's not needless Any way... - You should have spoken to me first - Why? Why! You are my fiancee! So? See, it's better we get a few things clear right now If we want to be together, this attitude won't do You'll have to make some changes Change what? What's so difficult to understand!? We'll be married soon people marry to settle down That won't happen if you keep heading off to war fronts You're vice president Sales of your company You travel to New York, London every other month Will you stop going after marriage? That's my job! - And this is my job To be honest, it's more than a job The mountains that have been occupied are a part of India and I am an Indian Come on, give me a break I'm an Indian too I haven't lost touch with my culture and values And I'm upset with you because those values are still alive in me I see and what does it say? That I must dance to your tune if we want to be together, right? I didn't say that - But that's what you meant! Remember when we met on that Tv show? The things you had said Life is not a Tv show! You will not go to Kargil! Rajiv, I can't thank you enough... ...for telling me how you truly feel Your ring At sunset tomorrow at 20.00 hrs, we will launch our first attack This is their false front We have to destroy all their bunkers here... and convert their false front into our firm base Attacks on the upper ridges will be launched from there Everyone must be clear about the Operation and the part they have to play in it! Artillery will start shelling the feature at 1600 hours, sir Good! 4 hrs of pounding should soften the target Behind me here, our artillery is bombarding peak 5179... with Bofors guns The shelling has been on for the past 1 hour The Indian army seems to be getting ready to attack Romela Datta, Global news fire! Alpha company... This is Tiger... Alpha company here... come-in Tiger All teams, the time has come! I repeat, the time has come! Okay sir Take cover! Come on, fast We will advance to the trench up there Tarsem Singh, cover us - Yes, sir! Let's go Take him to the medic tent! - Yes, sir You'll be all right, sir Carefully Move forward! Glory be to our true guru! (war cry) Get out of here! Sengupta to Kaushal Kaushal here fire on Bunker 4 with the LMG Okay, we'll fire on Bunker 4 with the LMG LMG group, engage the enemy in Bunker 4 fire! Charge! Captain! Hello, Ghaznavi 3 Why has the firing stopped? Ghaznavi 3, come in Why has the firing stopped? The firing has stopped because Ghaznavi is dead! Leave now... or I swear by Allah, we won't spare you! Swear by Allah!? Are you Muslim? For you I'm Indian! Great job! Kaushal, Sudeesh, well done - Thank you sir Sir, have a look at this! They aren't terrorists but soldiers and officers of the pakistani Army See these identity cards They're from the pakistani Northern Light Infantry We found a ration card and some letters That one there is a Captain This identity card was in his pocket Keep this Sir, these weapons are from the bunkers They had come quite well-prepared, sir I see... I see... Show me that We found a fair amount of rations, sir I think they had planned a long visit, sir There's a saying in my mother tongue... A person who can't manage his own house... ...shouldn't set out to conquer the world!! Sir, a photograph with your unit? - Why not? Come on boys Ready sir Thank you sir - Right? Sahib Dharamvir Singh... Organize some soldiers and give them a decent burial Okay sir What's the matter? Pradeep? Sir, I think... everyone is reminded of the condition... ...in which they've returned our dead soldiers bodies I see... There's a difference between us & them & it should stay that way! Lmagine what kind of army refuses to accept... the bodies of their own officers and soldiers! Should we become like them? This is the Indian Army We maintain decency even in our enemity Sahib Dharamvir Singh! Give them a proper burial -Yes, Sir Allright gentlemen, we've made it this far, but only half the task is complete We have to reach the upper ridges of the feature... from where they are targeting our highway pradeep! - Sir! - Send for another Company, All these officers and soldiers will go back to the base pradeep told me how you saved Ramanna's life Well done! Thank you sir Rajtilak Singh, you add plenty of spice to everything you say! Sir, he always exaggerates I swear on my mother He narrowly escaped death at least 6 times... He was behind a rock and as he moved, BANG! A shell landed Bullets and shells landing all over... Bang! All except where he was standing - Then? Then he and Kishorilal moved forward... Kishorilal was hit by a bullet, but not him! Have you heard about his luck sir? I have now - You can have my luck, buddy I'll take it right away! - Here you go! Raj Tilak - Yes, sir Didn't your wife just have a baby? Was it a boy or a girl? A Girl, sir - You're a lucky man You see that, sir? These soldiers were sad yesterday... grieving for their dead comrades But see, how quickly a soldier overcomes his grief What else can he do? People tell us that war is bad I ask them who knows this more than a soldier? Then why have wars? Sir, the Almighty made only one earth But man's greed divided it This became mine, that became yours I'm glad the moon is up in the sky we would have cut it to bits, had it been down here That's so true Sir! I went to the Army hospital Ramanna is out of danger - Good news sir He's asked me to give you a message What's that, sir? Thank you Sir, the CO said the work is only half done lt'll be complete, soon Take this - What's this, sir? The area map of our final objective Keep it with you and study it Every path and trail of this mountain should be ingrained in your memory - Right sir - Go ahead We are here to meet Col. Sunil Damle Do you have permission? - No we don't but... Sorry you can't go ahead without permission just for 5 min's only... We are from the press, this's my card, please understand Chakradhar! - Yes, sir Let them in Hi What are you doing here? We need to meet Col. Damle Some soldiers of this regiment are in the hospital... we wanted to interview them He'll be here soon, you can wait for him, but no cameras without permission Okay, I'll keep it in the car You can sit over there The people of this village too? Yes, shifted to the camps... for a few days I've seen many empty villages near the LOC these days How strange villages look without their inhabitants That's true You know Often, I've wondered... what must life have been like here And now? Look over there That's the village school, the officers stay there now There's the mosque... and the village council... Not even a trace of how it was You've changed Haven't you? I can remember so many things... the images in my mind as vivid as photographs How can I forget them? How can I make my heart understand? I have much to tell you... but my words can't find their way out I hope that someday you'll hear me for today, you are as lost as I am Why didn't our story have an end? When did this distance come between us? Questions lie unanswered but yet, we are silent I don't know who is to blame? Webs of confusion have filled our minds Is anything to be gained by our loss? Why do I feel so helpless? How did we lose our way? How did this distance come between us? I have much to tell you... but my words can't find their way out I hope that someday you'll hear me for today, you are as lost as I am I can remember so many things... the images in my mind as vivid as photographs How can I forget them? How can I make my heart understand? The moment you've all been waiting for... ...has finally arrived Tonight, we will attack the upper ridges But remember, it's going to be tougher this time first... the mountain paths are steeper And second The enemy who has already lost half the feature... will be more alert and better prepared No problem sir - Good We will move at exactly 2300 hours And finally On the highest point of this peak... I want to see our flag fluttering Tomorrow morning! It's so inspiring, the way our CO speaks Then we must fly the flag exactly where he has said I've done half the work Here is the flag... Now all I have to do is hoist it there I hope I'm there to see that happen You will be, trust me Is that so! - You'll see! Dear Karan... I hope you are okay We miss you and await your return By the way, Romi is there too Have you met her? She broke up with Rajiv... just a few days after the engagement I don't know what happened between you two... but I feel you guys were made for each other Now win the war quickly, and come home so we can have a rocking party! Your friend, Ashu Karan & vishal, let's go Dharamvir Singh!! Advance that way There's cover ahead Yes, sir! You three, move forward We'll cover fire Tiger, come in! There's heavy fire coming from the bunker, sir It's difficult to move forward Down! Get down! Kirti! Everybody take cover! Take care of him, Manjit come We're getting bogged down! We can't stay here any longer There's no cover on this side, sir Raj Tilak! - Yes, Sir Take a soldier along! See if there's a way ahead past those rocks! All right, sir Sir, I'll go with him - Okay, go! Tarsem! Get up! Come here, Tarsem Tarsem! Come here Stop the bleeding first! Quick painkiller, quick! Stretcher! Take him! Gopal Singh! - Yes, sir It's pointless to stay here We must advance Take the rest of your men... Sir! You okay? Yes, I'm all right Sir, you can't go forward in this state Stay here, sir... I'll get them! - No, Listen to me! Give me fire cover when I say I'm going to the other side of the bunker Now! Sir! Sir! I'm all right... l'm... Hang on, sir... Capt. Mishra is down there! Ghanshyam, take him! Quickly! Be careful!! Sir, I'm sending Ganga Singh to get help Don't send him alone. You both go! But how can we leave you in this condition? If Ganga Singh gets shot on the way... ...they won't get the message! Sir, why do you want to save my life? I will not leave you here! Jogendra!! I may be wounded but I'm still an officer! This is an order! Now, go! Hail India, sir - Hail India Ganga Singh! Akbar? Akbar!! Just relax. Don't worry, you'll be fine! Don't give up, Akbar - No... Mishra... the flag... ...up there! It must be hoisted! You will do it, you will, Akbar! Forceps! I need the forceps... quick. Hang on Akbar! We've to make that trip to Malyabad, To your mango orchards there? Cotton! Now! Don't give up! You had promised we'd go together Don't give up... don't... please Akbar Sir! Are you all right? Alijoo, stop the car You okay? You always said... ...that my life lacked an objective Do you remember? Now I have one That is my objective Sunil I don't doubt your determination and courage But you've lost many men of your regiment Many are wounded and the remaining troops... must be exhausted I think it's wise to give the remaining task... another Regiment We will succeed I don't have time, Col. Damle!! The intruders are shelling the highway from peak 5179 Our convoy of trucks can't move ahead Arms, ammunition, medical aid all supplies... Unless the peak is cleared... the highway is not safe for us Do you understand what I'm saying? I need more time, sir I can give you two days 48 hours! You'll be given marching orders after that Gentlemen, this regiment... has always accepted, any challenge offered... and has delivered, whatever the cost or sacrifice If we fail to do so today... ...the reputation of this regiment... ...will forever be tarnished We won't let that happen, sir Give us our orders Our regiment will remain on the eastern side We will continue shelling from here... but the shelling will serve as a decoy Meanwhile, you 4 officers... and 8 soldiers who can rock climb... will, far from the enemy's sight... go up the western side of the mountain... and launch a surprise attack How high is the cliff, sir? Approximately 800 feet pradeep, photographs. This side won't be watched because it is impossible to climb it But you must make it possible The team leaves at first light Start the preperation! Yes? Sir, I promise you... Either this mission will be successful... or I will not return alive I promise you that, sir Good luck. We have to report at the helipad at 0530 hrs Sir, I... Go... go ahead. Hi - Hi I miss you I think of you all the time Me too I'm going on a mission tomorrow I'll wait for you I might not return Then I'll wait, forever Hello - Hello daddy Karan? Where are you? How are you? I can't tell you where I am... but I'm okay, dad Thank God for that Your mother's been praying day and night... and when you've called, she isn't home This call is for you To tell you something I have never said You have given me so much in life... but all I have given you, is grief Why are you saying this, Karan? Please don't think that I'm not aware of this But... I love you dad. I love you too. Now, let me tell you something Not one business associate or friend... has a son or a brother out there These people just talk big! But I can proudly say, my son is on the battlefield There was a time I was upset with you but today I'm proud of you very proud Thank you, dad. For when the mission is successful We shall await your signal Right sir Karan, all the best - Thank you sir Sgt. Pritam Singh - Sir... I know them from experience If they lose... they will counter-attack immediately Don't drop your guard if you win Remember my words I will Hail India, sir - Hail India I have something to give you This is the flag Akbar wanted to hoist Take it On his behalf... on my behalf... on behalf of us all, you must hoist it! It will be hoisted, doctor... It will be! Karan, are you okay? Yes, vishal? Sir, you have to go back! Don't worry about me, the mission must be successful Where is my gun? Give me, my gun Bhagirath and I will cover you Manjit, you lead one team Karan, you the other... understood? Yes sir - Go boys We are out of contact The radio set is destroyed My God! Okay... Raj Tilak - Yes sir Move the bodies there with due respect Yes sir You will stay here, Babulal Bhagirath is badly wounded Take care of him - Yes sir Leave some painkillers and first aid with him - Yes sir If we don't return it may take two or three days... for our regiment to locate you Here's some more water Alright, the 6 of us will have to finish this job Let's go - Wait! Let's not get carried away and do something... that will benefit our enemy What do you mean? Think about it We're half our strength now... and don't know, how many intruders are up there!? So!? We'll die trying! I'm not afraid of death! But if they realize that this side is accessible... We won't get a second chance! All I'm saying is... if we attack, we cannot fail! Why would we fail? You don't understand!! Listen to me Col. Damle sent 12 men for this mission Now we're only 6! We may be 6... but if we believe in ourselves... we're no less than 12! All right! You can sit here or go back I'm going on ahead! Let me go alone. Whatever has to happen, will happen! Come on, keep moving We must reach the feature in two hours Tiger den calling twelve oak Can you hear me? Over No response, sir Keep trying - Right sir Bharasingha Come in... Do you read me? Climb this sheer cliff at night!? It can't be done! It's not possible - So, now what? We must climb it now - In the day! He's right, look at this map The pakistani's can't see this side from their area As for those up there... we had assumed they aren't watching this side There's a ledge, 100 feet below the ridge We'll climb till there during the day And when our artillery starts shelling the peak... from the other side tonight... we will scale the last 100 ft The plan sounds fine but it will take time to climb so high What if someone spots us? That is a possibility But it's our only chance Ghazanavi one basline calling over - Ghazanavi one here, over Ghaznavi one, What's the situation there? Over The snake's still under the heel... over Good... keep it up... over & out Recognise the voice? - It sounded familiar Brigadier jamshed Baloch! I've heard this Brigadier is quite a fox You need men like him for jobs like this Is that why you're in charge of this peak, sir? You could say that Everything okay? - Yes, sir! A few more days and we're through How is that, sir? There's been news that... Western powers will broker a ceasefire soon Then everyone stays put where they are now It can't be that simple, sir That's what happened in 1948 You see that highway down there? That road is India's neck!! Get a stranglehold on that... and India will lose the Siachen Glacier Siachen, today, and Kashmir, tomorrow! By God's will To control the highway, it's essential that we don't lose this peak! How can we lose it! Who can seize this peak from Maj. Shahbaaz Humdani!? They tried from here but failed Not only did we shoot the Indian soldiers We took our time to aim... and shoot them here! On the forehead!! They don't stand a chance! Over here! 3 kms of open plain Even a madman wouldn't come this way Behind us is pakistan and there, a cliff! A 1000 ft wall Where will these Indians come from? It's not far now, up there I'll try and get to it Okay, be careful Sir? What is it? I feel giddy, looking down Take my advice Don't look down! - Right, sir Twelve oak, can you hear me? Twelve oak!! Yes, pradeep? There's been no contact, sir We don't know where they are I think we should send out a search party, sir Maybe tomorrow Today, we will stick to the plan Shelling starts at 0400 hrs Yes sir. Keep a lookout! They've attacked this side before They'll try again any movement? - None, sir Even so, stay alert! If they do come, it will be from here! Sir! The shelling has stopped Why did this shelling happen? Why did it stop? Shelling is done to provide cover to one's soldiers If there's no one coming this way... To the cliff! They must have scaled the wall, go! Move forward! Capt. Srivastav needs support! Yes, sir!! This is Tiger's den Sir... Brig. Puri Yes sir What's the progress on the task you took up? Your 48 hr deadline is almost through Our team... that had... Sir... - just a second sir Yes, pradeep? We've heard gun fire on the feature - Okay Sir, I will report to you in a short while Right sir Grenade! - One more! Move forward, I'll cover you - Okay? - Sir... go Hail India! It's no use resisting now! Vacate the post!! Don't worry, sir, he's breathing He's alive pritam Singh was right They always come back! They have done it Our boys have reached! Inform Brigadier puri Our boys have re-captured peak 5179 Objective achieved We still have 2 mins left for the deadline Well done Well done, my son! Thanks dad Let's go home No, right now he has... to be someplace else Hi Hi You've achieved what you wanted Now what? Now I have a new objective You
