 

                        - Did you take your shoes off? - Of course I took them off. - I'm going to keep my socks on. - What do you want to do that for? - Shall I put my shirt on? - What do you want to do that for? - Where the hell is your pillow? - It's the wrong way round. Hello? Who? Tenu here. Lulu's not at home. No idea when she's coming. No. Bye. Hi. Somebody just rang for you. - Did you remember the tea? - Yes. You don't usually remember anything. "All the sick lined up, woken up at six o'clock." "Unnecessary running about, time wasted queuing, poor service." I can't find a clean cup. Wash a cup for me, would you? And a spoon. - Here you are. - Thanks. "Countless people in hospital beds..." - Hi! - Hi. You didn't miss anything by not going to that lecture. Have you heard anything from my uncle? No. Now he's ringing. Alatalo. Yes, just a minute. Tenu! It's for you. I know, it's Hessu. Hi, how are you? No money? I don't have any either, no more than two or three marks. Hang on, I'll ask Liisa. - Liisa, got any money you can lend? - No. Lulu, can you lend me some money? "Country people queuing, feudal rights of head doctor." There you are. She doesn't want to help a friend. Could you ring a bit later? I'll try and persuade them. Yes... Well, all right. Bye, try and manage. "The Central Party conservatives have unified their ranks"- - "but will they succeed in preventing the modernization of their party?" Hello? Where from? Just a minute. Hello? Thanks. Quiet, please! Hey, quiet there! Tell everyone to come out of the backroom here. Quiet, everyone! Now let's concentrate for a minute. Quiet, friends. We've finally got the manuscript we've been waiting for all this time. I can promise you, we've got an interesting time ahead of us. We've already studied this with certain people. Some of the roles have already been cast. The purpose of this meeting is- - to study the role of the chorus in the play. The chorus plays an important role. All right. Let's have the girls on the right and the boys on the left. Come on, let's get moving. Let's see how the chorus divides up. Can I have a little group of say four people up in front? Kaj, you play something, and I want to hear some singing, too. O Lord bless our sovereign - Grant him the bounty of thy grace - Thanks. Over there. A real fascist. Thanks, that'll do. I know how this one sings. O Lord bless the Finnish nation - Grant it the bounty of thy grace - That'll do. Let's take "My father was a soldier". - Oh! - Powerful song. My father was a soldier And handsome in his youth when only... - Thanks, that's enough. - I'll sing the same one. That's enough. - Same one, please. - I know you and how you sing. O Lord bless the Finnish nation Grant it the bounty of thy grace So that at all times As thy chosen people Wave, red flag, wave Rave, red priest, rave Rage, red spleen, rage Wave, red flag, wave The worst of all is not to talk about sexual matters at all. That's what those teachers say- - theology students that never finished their studies. I reckon those are the sort of school things- - where Little Kalle's school is a lot better. Little Kalle was once asked: "What's the capital of Finland?" Little Kalle answered: "Capital F." - You're kidding. - Not me. And then to the summer house we went Where Cupid sits with his thing all bent And then the Charleston we would dance if we only had a chance And then a kiss of two darling I love you - Give me a beer. - Get in the queue there! Hello, it's only me. Hello. I'm Alpo. I'm 21 years old. My time has not yet come. That was Corry... Corinthinians 2:400. It's so typical. They didn't make the Wall just so they could tell jokes about it. There's no point in me trying to look like him. It's those attitudes. You've got a big cap. - No need to get drunk tonight. - It's the May Day Carnival. But you could come to our place for the night. Paasikivi says that Finland is a country- - where if you bow to the west you show your arse to the east. - That's Chydenius's music. - Yes. - You were in the play, weren't you? - Yes. That's a big hat you've got. When I took my final exams, my head got fatter. - Then it shrank again. - They always get fatter. Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's- - and unto Alpo that which Alpo desires. Look, I'm just a mess. I've had my time. Now I want something real, something... You've got a nice dress, nice lace here. - Don't, please, don't. - Don't go yet. It's the last bottle. Don't take it! What's the number I'm calling from? Give me Pablo, Paris. - Is Hessu coming? - Doesn't look like it. Is that Pablo? Have you done any drawing lately? You haven't? Things going badly with you, too. This is... Bye-bye. Liisa, where are my tapes? Where's my jacket? Hey Nipa, I'm going to the whatsit. - Are my tapes here? - Yes. They left, not that I should care. - Not you. - Is there still someone there? All sorts I have to put up with. Have I done something wrong? It wasn't the first time I've seen you there. I'm just bitter because you're the only one I've let do it. "Rich is Life" by Miss Europe nineteen hundred and something. Workers forward march Sceptres, crowns to pieces we'll break Slavery's chains from our limbs we will take Terrible sometimes our purging must be But this we must do to make people happy Hey! That's why we fight without pity for you Still we know the workers will one day win through Bourgeoisie, butchers, to hell with them all Mercy for all the others Hey! Our one ideal alone... Yes? We're just practising a song for a play. No, I'm not going. The weather's so bad. - Are you going out? - In weather like this? - Aren't you going to march? - No, I'm certainly not. ...a type of society governed by industry... ...in faith we accept this word... WORLD PEACE JOBS THROUGH INDUSTRIALIZATION! Coming along nicely, 85. - Here are the ones. - Thanks. Y is equal to plus n square root of two- - plus x squared divided by two. The function is thus small f and y as mentioned before. Hey, Petteri! The former Miss Europe has written a new book- - "Childhood's Environment". With May Day we experience the awakening of spring. - I dropped off during the lecture. - I nearly dropped a test tube. - How did your May Day go? - I was visiting relatives. Are you coming to the biology class tomorrow? Of course, they're the only lectures I attend. Every time I wake up... The book's called "Bread or rockets" or something. - Has it got anything to do with? - Indirectly. If the seed is treated... This result was reached- - because it was considered that the most burning questions- - are biological in essence and that biology can solve them. According to some conceited people- - there is no such thing as a population explosion- - because the world population is increasing by only 2% annually. Then the rodent eats the seed... Excuse me, would the gentleman there like to continue? - I'm sorry. Please go on, sir. - Thank you. In the past thousand years, the number of people has increased- - 20,000 times more quickly than previously. If a substance burns 20,000 times more quickly than another one- - we should certainly call it an explosive substance. And it wouldn't be gunpowder, it would be a hydrogen bomb. As a solution, the biologists have offered two methods: One of them is to increase the production of food- - and the second solution is birth control. In this connection, biological research certainly offers- - more pleasant methods than for instance mechanics. Still, biological means are granted about a millionth part of the funds- - that are devoted to the more traditional method, that is war. The morality of our society is based on theses- - according to which birth control is immoral. Is it morally right that the human race should become the cancer- - that will take our planet back to the ancient virgin state- - with the only difference that in this new situation- - no new kind of life will be possible? Thank you. - Hello. - Hi. Tenu! Let's go along the shore. A Swedish professor says that if you eat six pheasants in a row, you die. Our children and grandchildren will stand side by side on Earth- - eating algae off each other's shoulders- - and making love to whoever happens to be standing next to them. I only hope my son happens to be next to a really nice-Iooking woman. I don't see it's got to get as bad as that. The straight line leading to over-population will start bending. I bet they'll think up something before that. They'll think up some new wars to thin the population out a bit. In my opinion the pill is the easiest way. - We go this way. - Bye. - Love to Lulu. - I'll tell her. I read in some paper about a Swiss couple adopting an Indian kid. It's one way the individual can help. Yes. Still I think most people want to have their own babies- - even if it's only to see what they'll look like. Why does there have to be all these frontiers? Why do Indians have to be crowded into a too small bit of land? Why can't the Chinese and the Japanese walk over their frontiers? Statesmen talk about population policy for developing countries- - and breed like rabbits themselves- - without ever thinking they could adopt a child from India. Yes, that's true I suppose. But all the same... Are they going to use all those pictures in the play? She just asked do you mean to use all those pictures in the play. I don't think it's so important whether we use the pictures or not. What is important is what relation and contact we ourselves have- - with this Finnish fascist movement. These pictures help us to find that out. By Christ and by this hand No one blasphemes here Against our God and Fatherland Our Fatherland so dear - Next line, please. - We cannot wait till law is sent We cannot wait till law is sent To bring the reds in line The government We cannot trust The Lord God Only be our sign And the Lord's chosen leader Together we'll bring order to this land And the Lord give power to this hand If in revenge I trust You're sure to suffer from that too For more revenge to come and come it must I revenge, you revenge, we revenge anew Forgiveness is wiser and better He'll be forgiven that learns to forgive Forgiveness can't make a man less clever Learn to forgive and you'll learn how to live God is truly strong but man is weak. I don't understand it at all... Does it have to be done this way... I can't use any old mannerisms. But when I think of what has happened in the past few days- - I feel the weakness... This is going all to hell. Man is weak but God is strong. All right, I can do that any way you like. - I feel weakness... - Listen, Petteri. Now if you make that caricature so bloody strong- - we'll be running into farce and our reviews will suffer. Isn't this a comedy after all? It's not the same thing to do comedy and make farcical types. Let's try a song. If we can get the song going as simply as possible- - you'll find you can do the lines too. Let's try it. The earth is pressing, pressing on the beam The earth is pressing Earth is pressing on the beam And the dead one's pressed Into the earth Yes, now it's coming. I thought so too. The colourless aspect is the main thing. All right, let's try it like that. So it's... tomorrow then. My uncle is a pastor and he's a very nice man. I see. The way you do that fascist priest in the play- - is that your idea of the clergy? No, it's my idea of the fascist priest in this play "The Lapua Opera". The pastors and bishops of that time distorted the image of the church. How do you know? Were you living then? There's clear documentary evidence about- - how the clergy helped in acts of violence by giving their blessing- - and by choosing "the God's chosen leader". They even went so far as giving their blessing to murder. Have you ever thought about the private motives- - that the priest might have had that made him act that way? They don't really interest me. You talk too much about the individual. I'm interested in how what he did affected the nation as a whole- - what he achieved by giving his blessing. You don't seem to think much about individual. If we try to have an effect on some whole, on a herd- - it's got to be intensified. You can't handle big masses with feather-light stuff. If they come and it has a terrific effect on them- - and they're shocked when they see the play- - what will they do then? There you go talking about individuals again. If we can affect the general opinion, then we should do it. It's much better to do that than if we don't do anything. The motives of the Finnish movement- - were pure, patriotic and unselfish. Communism was a national threat. It threatened the recently-achieved independence. The Communist Party was forbidden. Nevertheless Communists operated publicly, openly, communistically. The Government could not ensure that its decisions were carried out. The independence of the country was in danger. Independent action was an ancient tradition- - independent action to the point of taking up arms. And then they made widows and orphans. How can you ever justify killing other people? Still, it must be true- - when there's evidence of kidnapping and murder. Why didn't they tell me all about that? Who can I trust now? - Is Kari here? - Yes. - Juhamatti? - Yes. - Karipekka? - Here. Anni? Heidi? Juhapekka? Kalle? In the water do what you've been told. Put your head in the water- - and slide along flat and kick. If conditions are ideal, a child will learn to swim in three days. - What will we do then? - There are various examinations. The public is again requested- - not to spoil the view by hanging clothes on the trees. Grown-ups have wicked eyes They spy and they frighten Grown-ups have ugly mouths They spit and they sneer But children have happy eyes, happy eyes, happy eyes And pretty mouths with little teeth, little teeth, little teeth Grown-ups have hard hands They hit and beat and whip Grown-ups have such big feet Feet that stamp and kick But children have little hands, little hands, little hands And white slippers on their feet, and white slippers on their feet Liisa! - Hi, you here already? - I've got something to tell you. Can you wait a minute? I'll just see those children are all right there. Let me turn you like that. - The baby's not supposed to sit. - Just a little bit. Oh dear, dear. There you go. Don't cry. I've already started looking for a new apartment. I'll just go and get my things. Then if Hessu's mother would look after it every now and then. Let's make our little nest here. Our first task should perhaps be to find a cool cove by the sea. Mimmi splashed among the waves but I began to tire Mimmi's little brassiere set my heart on fire Tenu, when are you going to tell Hessu? - We'll see. - Hi! - Are the boys here yet? - They're there somewhere. That's enough. - He's biassed. - Who? The referee. Have you seen Petteri? He was supposed to be coming today. - Has he gone to the wrong beach? - Probably to the Munkkiniemi beach. - Hungry. - Have you got food? - Hessu, want some juice? - Juice? No. Not juice. How about if I go and fetch some nice seawater? I know just the place, good clean water from the polluted sea. - Hi there! - Hello. - I missed the bus. - We noticed. - Anyone been swimming? - I dived in right from the top. It's really warm and clean water. Look, a couple of hot numbers. Yes, I saw them when they were undressing. Well, maybe one ought to leap in once again. - Anyone else coming? - I've been in the water all day. - Me neither. - I'm going to have a go, anyway. Here I go. - This is Nipa and Hessu Limited. - Incorporated. - Friendship. - Free intercourse. Turn with confidence on your backs. - I could have both of them together. - It might be a bit tiring. - Specially if they are demanding. - They are nowadays. What if one woman had two men at the same time? There are women who can take seven men all at once. And there are chaps who can manage several women in one night. - All at the same time. - What a man of steel! - Where do you find one like that? - I can give you the address. Don't give her mine! If you had seven women in one night... - What would it be in a year? - A lot of alimony, at least. Lulu... I see. This one is much quieter. In India they sterilize all the fathers after three kids. They get a transistor radio as a reward. I know one case you should give a TV. Wife of a Finnish farmer who was pregnant for the 26th time. Her doctor said: "I've told you how you can avoid getting pregnant." The poor woman replied: "But our pastor says that is a sin." They should sterilize the pastor's mouth. How can there be such ignorant people nowadays? Or are they lazy? Maybe it's the work of the Holy Ghost. Women nowadays ought to know what they're up to. Science has gone so far. They've invented all sorts of pills and coils and what have you. Besides, you couldn't get a modern woman pregnant even if you tried. You bloody pig! I'd never marry a bastard like you. - And it's your sort become fathers! - Don't! This is the landlord's old sewing machine. I bet you can see a long way from here on a clear day. You see all sorts of things from here. Once there was a big ship- - that got burnt before it was finished. They repaired it. One day there was a man dressed all in black standing there- - as if he was waiting for something, as if he had something bad in mind. And girls go on the ships, quite young ones. Tenu must have known about it already when there was that lecture. The man with the yellow beard is David Massahide. The woman is Countess von Leueth. It's summer. This is winter here up in the top corner, children and their sledges. They love each other so passionately- - that butterflies flutter around them and animals roar. - What about that one up there? - That one? That's Krethen and Jacob, exchanging hearts. I see. What's that one down there then? There's a man and a woman in the shade of a lilac bush. - And that one in the middle? - That's just another version. Is that some sort of halo? There are butterflies. - No, those are lilacs. - Oh, they're lilacs... - And there up high? - They're in the shade of the tree. - Same couple? - No, she's got blond hair. Should we get going? - Are they all Art School types? - No, it's a school picture from 1906. That's my grandfather, a head taller than the rest. Lenin. Liisa's uncle doesn't like it being there, but there it is. I'm sorry but I have to go to bed now. I think Nipa's gone already. Don't think Petteri's gone yet. Why should I? - Are you still here? - Just a few minutes. - Now you're going home. - All right, all right. I'm serious. I'm going to sleep. I've got to get up early tomorrow. - You can't come to bed! - Just to sleep. - Go away. - Why can't I just be here? Because you can't. I suppose I can sleep in peace in my own bed. Chasing round all the time like a hyena. - I'll be here quite quiet and small. - You can't stay here! - People are running through here. - It's the middle of the night. - Liisa's uncle could turn up any time. - He's abroad. - He might turn up any time. - Petteri is still here. - Try to understand, people always... - It's quite quiet here. Tenu is pregnant and everything. What does Hessu think he's up to? Despite all the big talk, he seems to know nothing. Why didn't he use them? I've always got... Get out! Don't try anything. Why can't we? No-one's coming. There you see. - Do you believe me now? - No. They've gone already. Look, you can't stay here! - Come on, why can't we? - You're hopeless. - No-one will come anymore now. - Listen... Now I'm getting out of here. Why the hell should I feel ashamed? They were in my pocket... Why aren't you in your own bed? I'm not staying here another minute. Won't catch me riding bareback, that's for certain. Stop hissing! Excuse me, miss. Nipa, come here in the bathroom! Alpo is quite impossible! Nipa dear, I'll run you a bath. That's just what I needed. Nipa. Bloody Nipa! Why do I always fall in love with the wrong women? I was much happier as a child. Nipa dear, let me wash your back. Nipa! Hey, Nipa. It's time to go home. Don't feel much like drowning myself. Take it in your hand. Get up, I'll help you. The door is this way. What are you clowning about for? It's not me who's clowning, it's Lulu. Bit raw this morning. You messed up a good start. What do you mean? I was just sleeping there on the balcony. A soft female hand comes and wakes me up tenderly- - and tells me to get the hell out of there. And here we are. What are we lacking? And what have they got too much of? When one shouts no, another shouts yes How can we believe them? Where can we get the truth? Autumn gets it, I don't. I've just got to go over there. - Hi. - Hi. - When can you get away? - Soon. But I can't go anywhere because Mummy is coming to Helsinki. - But ring me later, will you? - All right. - I must get back now. Bye. - Bye. Mummy! What the hell's brought her here? - Draught. - Bottled. - Draught. - Bottled. - Draught. - Bottled. - Draught. - Draught. - Draught. - Bottled. - Draught. - Draught. - Bottled. - Bottled. - Draught. - Bottled. - I must go and phone. What? - Nothing. - Bottled. - Draught. - Draught. - I must go and phone. She's coming to our place. - Draught. - Bottled. Give me some matches. What kind of matches? These aren't matches. More foam, less kids. That was funny, Nipa. I forgot... - Draught. - Porter. - Brandy. - Yes, brandy. - Bottled. - I'll have the same. - No, not the menu. - Brandy. - One more. - Porter. Do something For Johanna She's tried a hot bath She's tried a cold bath She's tried one after the other She's heard it's one way Do something For Johanna Look at the poor girl's tummy Her baby's six inches long already. You're four months late. You're late thirty thousand times a year. You're late again - What's that cabaret called? - "Women and people." Oh, dear. Only a certain kind of man says no. What the hell are these women studying for? They just get married and have children. Don't you think men have anything to do with having children? I suppose I'm old-fashioned- - but I believe a woman's place is at home. Let's just watch the show. You're studying art history, right? Let's hear what you think about modern architecture. See, you got nothing to say. All that art history rubbish has got nothing to do with architecture. Can't you keep quiet? I'd never marry a woman- - who has some silly notions about having a career. No-one like that would want you. That got her. Never mind. Why do they keep making such a fuss about women's rights? It's clear that a woman should stay home with her children. - You're quite right there. - What do you think? - Are you leaving? - Yes. Bye. Why did you leave like that? I couldn't stand that man. Then you started to tell me off. The chap was so drunk you shouldn't have answered him at all. I know but he kept pushing his ugly mug into my face. - What shall we call it? - How about Jussi? No, not Jussi. There are plenty of other good names besides Jussi. Cheese. In this country there is unemployment, hunger, want. We have had to become accustomed to many high-handed methods. But when men of darkness destroy the freedom of speech- - then a dagger, or rather a Finnish knife, has been sunk- - deep into the heart of our civil rights. Marxism must be destroyed right down to its last remnant! And it will be, even if we first have to destroy the government. The government should show that we live in a constitutional state. Do we have freedom of speech, freedom of press? The newspaper in question almost outdid the reds who shared its ideals. The only proper measure to take was- - to destroy the printing press and render the paper harmless. - Freedom of speech is for everyone. - Not for socialists. The protection of the law is for everyone. Into the car with him! A man like that talking about law and rights. Lawyer! Judge! Got no balls. Where did you lose your balls, mate? A pig ate them when he was little, as you can see and hear. - Put him in the car! - Send him all the way to Asia! - Shall we take him far? - Not this time. This dirty bastard can take himself. We'll make him take the Lapua Oath- - so he won't interfere with the affairs of patriotic citizens again. Men! If necessary, he will confirm his oath with blood. The Lapua Oath! Through the dark woods you hear the drumming wheels Of the black cars that clear away the Reds Bold are their tasks and bold are their ideals Bold are the patriots who proudly hold their heads high Our driver's never stopped by the weather Nor by the fear of any stranger's gaze Destination unknown, driving hell for leather Only the task and the order he obeys If it should happen that the police came And ended the journey before the task was done Our driver never would tell even his name His tongue is silent always as the dumb If all goes well, with no-one interfering And the car reaches the Russian frontier No fear of awkward witnesses appearing No fear the mystery ever will be clear The black car boldly drives on It's not sure that about man Anything good will be said after the bomb If the journey goes on to the grave Man's behaviour will earn no praise But must it go there? No! If the command is senseless And against humanity It cannot bind us If we really understand this language Then our heritance will be the land Not the grave I cannot burn my military passport. I don't have any other papers. I can't get into a bar without it. What was it all about, the burning of military passports? It may seem a bit emotional at first sight- - but all the same it emphasizes the common sense... Yes, I agree- - that from their personal point of view it was ethically right- - but it didn't end any wars and it won't stop the next one starting. All of us have to stop and think- - about our personal attitude to these matters. The passport burning was a kind of self-realization of this reflection. Yes, but when war breaks out, what are they going to do then? Then it will be too late. This is kind of a preventive measure. They should get women in the army, for service jobs, for instance. The prettiest ones could become entertainers. There has been plans for a women's army here, too. Women can be just as cold-blooded as men. First they give birth, then kill. We would probably be reserve lieutenants, Liisa. - Tenu would be a second lieutenant. - Let's talk about something else. Everyone goes on about developing countries and black children. What about the poor backwoods of Finland? That's just the wrong sort of patriotism- - thinking that Finns should only care about Finns. Hessu just means that there's no reason to go there yet- - but of course you've got to take a universal view. We've got to help everyone. Anyway, that's what both of us think about the matter. Forest Finn. What's the use of all this talking and burning passports? Do something so people can see how you think. At least people talk about these things. Talking is better than keeping silent. While we're chattering away, children are dying in Vietnam. They become blind or crippled or burned. Mothers are being shot and their children starve to death. Why are they born at all? Why don't you do something for the children born today- - instead of talking and thinking that you'll persuade- - people all over the world to become pacifists? I don't know what to think anymore. I've been told the world can be changed. Let's do it then. I feel tired. The world is such a huge machine people can't control it. It just goes on and on. Everything is so complicated and mixed up. I don't even know what to do with my own life. I used to sit and plan my future for hours on end. But I can't anymore. I'm frightened. You said the world's so huge that people can't affect it. But the world is in people. That's how the world can be affected- - somebody else's world you're in love with. You don't need to think about India or Vietnam. You don't need to think about that all the time. - I love you. - I love you, too. If the pomegranate's in bloom. Come my love to the countryside. In the village we'll spend our night. In the morning we'll see in the vineyard. If the vine is budding. If the buds are open yet. If the pomegranate's in bloom. There I will give my love to you. Hasten my love like a gazelle. Like a mountain deer on a balsam hill. There I will give you my love. Come my love to the countryside. In the village we'll spend our night. The berries of love are fragrant. And before our door fruits grow. Costly fruits, fruits new and old. For you my love I have saved them. Hasten my love like a gazelle. Like a mountain deer on a balsam hill. There I will give you my love.
