 

                        Hi everyone The topic we are going to discuss today is "Extort a Confession through Torture" Suppose the police had arrested a suspected terrorist We also know he had placed a time bomb in a crowded place and it was activated Time pass minute by minute He denied that he is a terrorist and does not tell where he places the bomb I would like to ask, will you torture him until he tells you And if doing so, do you think it is right or wrong Of course it is right. No matter what, saving people is the most important thing So... Whoever agrees with his opinion, please raise your hand Good, thank you From the point of utilitarianism If the pain of a criminal could exchange several hundreds of life This viewpoint is not wrong Today, I am not going to tell you any preachment I just want to raise a few case studies to inspire you to think of what is right and what is wrong Anyone here have the chance promoted Commissioner, Senior Superintendent and senior law enforcer, therefore... It is crucial for you on right and wrong Let god decide If it is the front, you are fine. Otherwise, you have to die "Siu Ming Visits Guangzhou" "Rides the train, fast so fast" "Ma ma what to buy?" "For our best friends, uncle and aunt?" You are very noisy, Laughing Sir! My buddy said you are very noisy Pick the ball back! Time's up for leisure; go back to your cell! We will temporary keep this bag for you Sign here if you do not have any questions Fok Tin-yam, your number here is 77015 Yes What crime did you commit? Drug keeping and drug producing What are the terms of imprisonment of You would like to apply for a visit... so you can continue your psychological therapy for your patient? Yes This is approved Thank you, sir. Bring him back to the cell Yes, sir! Get in You are too bossy. Do you think you are still a police? Here is the prison Sit down! Sit down and eat! You had taken my seat I will leave after I finish I can't eat I will leave after I finish. Excuse me I had killed someone... I had eaten human flash. No matter who you are... Do you believe that I will bite you to bleed? - What are you doing? - What are you doing? He bites me! Bites me... I did not bite him. You see. Nothing I just play with him Sit down and eat now! No more trouble! Eat! I had met a lot of serial killer They like the feeling of pain They said the more painful, the more pleasant feeling they have Seldom people like you, shout even before I touch you It's understandable, as you were raised in a single parent family and you were maltreated by your step father and step mother. Leaving you full of scars And you worry people will look down on you. That's why you said you got the scar from fights So people will scare of you and even adore you However there is one thing that I can't figure out Why did you being silly this time. Why you admit the crime of serial homicide Did you offend a lot of people outside so it is safe for you to stay in the prison, right? Eat it. This is a treat Laughing Hi, Fok Tin-yam I heard that you are a professor in university How did you settle Kui Chuen? I studied criminal psychology Psychology? Can you tell if a person is really crazy or pretending? Yes I can How? Chat with him Focus on the content of his talking If he pretends to be crazy... There will be inconsistency of the same content What if he doesn't tell anything In this case, talk to him Keep talking to him and keep your eyes on his body language His eyesight's angle, the frequency of eye blinking and... sometimes even moving his finger could be a leak But to do so in-depth, you need to study for few more years What if... Move two cartons outside for me! Be quick! Thank you, senior Laughing Sir, I finally transfer to Cat-A (Category A) to see you Are you insane? I didn't get you wrong last time and I won't this time I did shoot and kill someone. The court sentenced so You can fool of everyone, but not me, Yeung Lap-ching Office Lai, I think Lau Chung-chit's file is very suspicious It is impossible for him to open 12 accounts in 8 banks in less than 1 hour Did you mention it to others? No I have a new mission for you Window number 8 Laughing, I miss you so much You girlfriend had died for so long Can you just look at me? Tai Chit has done nothing yet A guy called Yeung Lap-ching had come Tell Office Lai to take care of him Michael! Michael! Michael, I am Paris. Where are you Michael! Michael! Michael... Michael Michael... We... we are going to have a ceremony We want to get married... We want to get married How come you have slept What happened... Get up... Michael! Your honor, I admit guilty It was me who shot Michael to death What's up, miss? - Calm down! - I am going to kill you, Laughing! - Calm down! - Let me go! I have to kill you, Laughing! I have to kill you! I have to kill you! Sit here You agree to meet me finally Patient, Paris Yiu, Day 1 Paris Yiu's newly married husband was murdered that leaves her symptoms of Post-traumatic Stress Disorder She shows a strong will of revenge Professor, do you like to eat egg cakes? Yes, I do I'll buy some and eat with you here in future Paris Yiu, Day 5 During the healing process The patient had already transferred her emotion to me completely She treats me as her deceased husband and shares a lot of their previous experiences I will continue the transference therapy to treat her Michael, I really miss you I want to see you everyday and have the egg cakes with you Paris, you have to remember. Don't stick to the past any more OK, I promise I would not think of anything in future, I won't think anything That's good Go check them Please feel free to look around Miss, do you think you can get rid of me if you go around like this? Excuse me, I was CIB (Criminal Intelligence Bureau) before Sir, I was an ex-CIB (Criminal Intelligence Bureau) police, Yeung Lap-ching I am also Laughing Sir's right hand Are you a member of triad society? Right hand Sorry, sir. Sir, when I leave Stanley. I discovered he has been following me Therefore I made him here Miss, did you say it wrong or did I mishear you? Actually I used a sophisticated surveillance skill to follow you here And you have the guts saying you made me here I am not that bad As I need to be the coordinator of Laughing I had studied his details thoroughly How can't I recognize you? Do you know what case is Laughing investigating? Don't know yet. But obviously a big case We are investigating a huge corrupted police network Their organization is very strict. The only clue is... in the prison. It must be There is a Cat A (Category-A) prisoner called Tai Chit in the prison He was a sergeant from Narcotics Bureau I am Sergeant Lau Chung-chit When we followed the leak to those corrupted police, he came out and confess and shouldered all the bribe taking crime I am a corrupted police I am here to confess my crime I know there is someone behind who made Tai Chit to do this Therefore we need Laughing to go into the prison and make contact with him I understand. I completely understand Sir, you have told me all the stuff. Is that means I am in? I've checked you Laughing needs a hand in there Thank you, sir! Officer Lai. I am going out if there is no other business Officer Lai. I am going out, too Just a minute. I had hidden myself tightly. How could you see me? Officer Lai had already told me I am here to help you with all my effort These stuff was from someone Okay? It's me, Laughing Paris Yiu thinks she should bear the greatest responsibility on Michael's death She remembered few years ago, if she had helped Michael with the lawsuit Michael would not be put into jail If Michael didn't put into jail, things would not happen Later, Paris Yiu has psychological problem Fok Tin-yam is the one who in charge of her therapy Therefore I've chosen two of Fok's book for you I think he has unique point of view The most interesting thing is, one of them mentioned about prison It seems to me that he knew that he would be put into jail "Prison and Power" "The Puzzle of Crime" I want to take a bath I want to take a bath Just ignore him. Come here to take a bath Are you gay? The two smelly polices are bastards Such a big scar, did you get this when you were a police? I heard that you were full of power and prestige in Narcotics Bureau You also had cleared up some big cases Why did you confess you had triad society background while you have good future Did anyone force you to? Tell me Do you know anyone from other district and Narcotics Bureau? Say a name, see if I know him Don't ask me... Please don't ask me Why do you step on my clothes?! Don't ask me. I don't want to tell... Strangle this bastard! Strangle him! I don't want to tell Strangle him! Strangle him... Strangle that bastard! I don't want to tell! Tai-chit! Tai-chit... If you want to strangle him, you need to be harder I had studied that it doesn't take more than 2 minutes to strangle a person You can do it What's up? Go away! Go away! Let me do it Tai-chit... No! What are you thinking Once you hesitate, he will resist and strangle you back Yes, harder or he won't die See, he is losing his breath Just a little bit more. Come on. Strangle Harder. He will die in your hand Don't move! Sit still Don't move It seems to me that you want to make friends with Tai-chit I was a police before. I just want to help him Which department? Make a guess When there are a lot of people, you got to find something to back you up Or you keep your head down to avoid people from recognizing you I think what you did are not to be exposed, right You must have offended a lot of people Besides undercover, what else So great How did you get in here? Murder You know the dead, too How about you? I was set up Criminal specialist could be set up? Stock agent could also lose on stocks You are a police, also a member of triad society You have been doing undercover for so long, do you know how to differentiate black and white? Is there a clean cut definition on right and wrong? Just like I went to school when I was young, there were a lot of poor kids Some of them are so poor that they have to apply for Comprehensive Social Security Assistance And don't know why that some of them didn't get it There was a classmate A who could not stand that So he made up a plan to make a fake document for him And it finally being approved Other classmate noticed that classmate had made it They also asked this classmate to help They submitted one by one and finally it was revealed He was dismissed by the school and was sent to boys' home Now, I still think that classmate was violating the law but not committing a crime What he did was 100% correct He was just helping people, right? It seems that you haven't finished your story Your classmate A then worked very hard He entered the university on his own effort and studied criminology and became a professor However their destinations are the same He was put into jail with a classmate L and they are squatting under the basketball stand and boasting boringly Actually classmate L should be a script writer You can convergence the plot so smoothly Hey! Come here! Come here! The doctor suspected that he has psychological problem. He will be sent to the psychological clinic after 2 days He had taken psychological medicine and is acting funny now You have to avoid stimulating him in these two days Do you hear me? Tai-chit Are you ok? I have a friend that you also know Senior Assistant Commissioner of Operation, Ma Siu Kwong Telephone number, 28603311 Chief Superintendent of Narcotics Bureau, Choi Kam Hung Telephone number, 28608850 Senior Superintendent, Ho Yiu Lung Telephone number, 28608861 Time is up! Go back to your cell! Go! Buddy, please help my son Brother Tak What's up? How is Tai-chit? They are doing emergency rescue for him in the hospital. Stay out of it Professor Professor What did you say to Tai-chit this afternoon? Why did he dig his kidney out? It is not good to talk in here I am leaving here soon. I will tell you some other time But you have to remember... You and me are doing the same thing Miss Choi. What is your relationship with defendant Fok Tin-yam Fok Tin-yam was my boyfriend and we lived together Defendant Fok Tin-yam, on 16th May this year You was accused drug keeping and drug production crimes You are the one who made him to the prison in the court that day How come you are here to say something for him suddenly? I should not hurt someone I love Seeing him suffered... made me realize that I am the one who suffer most I was a chemistry professor The Ketamine that the police had found were made in the university laboratory by me Fuk Tin-yam said he would like to break up with me I didn't want to let him go I said if he wants to leave me... I will frame him on drug producing and drug keeping I'm wrong. I'm sorry Please forgive me You are the only one that I really like According to the new statement from the deponent My litigant is absolutely innocent Therefore my honor, please announce the verdict soon Court! The result of jury's vote is 5:2 It is declared that Fok Tin-yam's is not guilty on drug producing and drug keeping He could be released immediately Court! I've helped you with this I've told you that it would be fine I've told you that you could do it Thank you Come on Tai-chit was disappeared from the hospital last night Officer Lai would like to know what actually had happened to Da Chit Someone don't want me to investigate further Inform Officer Lai that I need to get out as soon as possible Tai-chit is in trouble. I heard something I suspect that the head of triad police is Cheuk King-chuen, Senior Assistant Commissioner Ho Yiu-lung, Senior Superintendent Telephone number, 28608861 Senior Assistant Commissioner of Criminal Department, Cheuk King-chuen Telephone number, 28602536 Cheuk King-chuen Cheuk King-chuen will be promoted to Commission next month We've brought Tai-chit here I will take care of the rest The Commission successor has excellent ability Thank you, Officer Cheuk The hospital had already re-connected Tai-chit's kidney However the function of his kidney was damaged Professor, you are going to adopt an ambivalence for kidney transplantation The duration of operation is 3 hours If there is no question, we are going to give you anesthesia now No problem. Thank you, doctor A pain of a criminal could exchange several hundreds of life This viewpoint has nothing wrong However I would like to know the view of those who have not raised their hands Torture is intruding human's right Moreover... If the person is innocent We are even doubly wrong What you've said is comprehensive However if we go back to the point of utilitarianism According to the years of experience on anti-terrorism in the United States The result they have achieved is... the information they got from torturing has very low dependability As it's related to a lot of lives Shall we try even if we have 1% of chance only? Maybe we should change to another question In order to make the criminal tell us where the bomb is The only way is... to torture his daughter who is only 5 years old Will you do that? Father Chit One month ago, we had transplanted a kidney for Chit He has recovered already However I actually... You have to thank professor It was professor who donated his kidney to you He had laid on the bed for one week for you I don't deserve you doing this for me You could abandon your life because of our believe It's nothing that we provide you with a kidney in a safe and comfy place Please get well soon. We are waiting for you to come back Laughing was right Cheuk King-chuen's informer is a doctor in black market One month ago, he had bought a kidney in the black market and transplanted it for a kid That kid is Tai-chit's son We couldn't figure out before on why Tai-chit was willing to do a scapegoat We know that he wants to give his son a kidney transplant It's time for Laughing to come out Bring all the information and wait for me in the entrance of the car park Yes, sir. Go! Go! Stop the car! Officer Lai Officer Lai is dead All the documents that proved your identity are all gone Officer Lai died in front of me. He vomited a lot of blood I am afraid We were talking couple minutes ago I'm only twenty something I have never been to Japan nor Europe I have a lot of things that haven't finished yet I don't want to die like this Why? Why did Officer Lai choose me to be your coordinator Why is it me that discovered Tai Chit's case is suspicious I have to face all these all of sudden, I don't know how to handle at all I don't know how to handle Carmen You are doing very well already Today, the topic I would like to discuss with you is "Extort a Confession through Torture" Suppose the police had arrested a terrorist suspect We also know that he had placed a time bomb in a crowded place You're back? They said that you went for an operation Yes. The doctor let me come back after a week What's up? Are you worrying about me? You joined the triad society because of me and that's why your leg became like this If you didn't need to pay for my study, you wouldn't be like this... I am fine now Don't worry. I have promised you... But your leg... your leg What happened to my leg Look It's fine. I can walk and run, right? It's fine Really? It's fine There is a psychologist who is going to evaluate for you Come with me Last time, you mentioned that you are doing the same thing as I am What do you mean? I was just guessing last time Carmen confirmed it already You met Carmen? You are an undercover sent to the jail by Security Bureau to investigate corrupted police So am l Officer Lai didn't tell me he had sent someone else here My purpose is same as yours which is to investigate if Tai Chit is really crazy or he is pretending He hasn't told me about you He hasn't ever told me about you How do you explain that after you've talked to Tai Chit He dragged his kidney out That day in the canteen I decided to use my last chance to comfort him and see if he has anything to say But he was not very conscious and was so crazy dragged his kidney out and kept saying that he was to save his son I am quite sure he has illusion at that time I suspect that someone actually fed him a huge amount of psychological medicine That means someone doesn't want us to investigate anything Now Officer Lai had died. No one knows I am an undercover Have you thought of breaking out of prison? You are a murderer for a life time in here You only have chance to prove that you are innocent after you escape Is it possible? Next week, there is an annual fire evacuation exercise Actually if I fail on my appeal, I will leave that day Trust me. That day is going to be a chaos I will be locked together with Ye Po Sir, I'm almost done. Thank you Let's go My name is Fok Tin-yam It was the prison consultation team who sent me here for you You have applied protection and being locked separately ls there anyone bullies you in here? Who will bully a crippled person like me It was me who doesn't want to see people Actually I am here to let you know one thing Because I know... that you have applied for Open University but was rejected I am the one who rejected you Why didn't you allow me to study? Why do you need to study the law? To appeal for yourself? What could you do if you could catch up? What could you do if you could appeal Even if you leave the jail with a diploma do you think you will be given one more chance by the world? Don't be silly There is one thing called labeling Once you are a prisoner, you are a prisoner for a lifetime Yes. I am the worst What else can I do except killing myself? How could you be fooled by the world? If the world is unfair to you, you have to fight back If you are not happy with the system. You have to join the system as to break it Study law? What is law? Most of the law... were created by the beneficiary so as to protect themselves The world shouldn't be like what it is now and could be different from what it is now Black, doesn't have to be black White, doesn't have to be white All the revolution in the history... started from breaking the law I want you to join us and change the world together Sir, everything is ready Let's start when it's ready The fire evacuation exercise is commencing. Fire in area A Area A copy All areas on fire Yes, all areas on fire Hurry up Evacuate all the prisoners in area A and area B now OK, hurry up One by one Move faster The firemen are standing by in area b Good. Hurry up Main gate of area A is closed. Ready to open all the auxiliary gate Be quick Firemen standby Firemen start to move into fire area of area A Prisoners of area B are leaving auxiliary gate of area B Prisoners of area A is passing through the pathways of area C and D According to the Financial Report 2010 Correctional Services Department had used the prisoner to work and had earned more than 300 million dollars for the whole year However after implying the minimum wage ordinance those prisoners who have been working for 6 days remain 500 a month which is one tenth of the minimum wage What is happening? Shut the broadcasting system now I am going to take care of it Do you think it is fair? A pack of cigarette had increased to But the prisoner's wage has never been adjusted We are being exploited, bullied and pressed by the people who have power We have to fight back Let's fight back together! Release the prison Unfair... Unfair... Shut up! Shut up! Let's fight back together! Release the prison Shut up! Shut your mouth! Go! Go! Go to hell Go... I'm not going Go! Go, Officer Laughing What are you doing? Stop it! Put down the hose Prisoners escape! Prisoners escape! Prisoners escape! Go! Go! - I am not going... - Let's go Go I am not going! I am not going... I won't go away if you don't leave here Be quick! We are leaving! (Burmese) As a member of Correctional Services Department, why did you assist the prisoner to escape? I did not assist the prisoner to escape I was to stop them from escaping, Sir! Many people witnessed... that you used the fire host to shoot the member of Correctional Services Department I did shoot. But I was shooting the prisoners and stop them from escaping If it wasn't me, there won't be only 2 prisoners that had escaped But you were shooting your peers It was them who rushed here and being shot by themselves I can't stop them, Sir! Come Professor! Seeing you is knowing you. Hello I've brought someone you want to see Thank you Let me introduce to you. Miss Sa Po Yau Do you know her? She is in charge of the Golden Triangle So what? Just a drug trafficker The poppy you planted is harming the whole world I think you are not very familiar with them as well as the Golden Triangle Do you know that Golden Triangle was a place where no plants grown There is only one plant can be planted, which is poppy I don't know how you see poppy But I think it is the most beautiful flower in the world Because it represents my living It allows me to live Only if I can continue to live, I will continue to plant poppy I don't mind whatever you call me at all Do you know how many people you had harmed? But do you know that they were being harmed, too In those years, European needed to spread their colonialism The Eastern Indian company of Britain had made the opium trade They brought the poppy seed to the Golden Triangle and taught them how to plant poppy The local people had tried very hard to work and earn their living Compare to a lot of people who live in the society of capitalism who could only think of stock market and real estate... as well as investments who keeps eating each other up... They should receive more respect This is the second time that I come to Hong Kong for a trade We had some incident last time which made me lost a fortune My people had starved for 3 months Tomorrow, I will trade with a group of cops who you think are illegal By then, you will see who are the ones that really harming the society Come Cheuk King-chuen Don't be nervous. Let's see what's next I want you to know what we are doing Mr. Cheuk Please check Ok Don't take this dirty money! Papa (Burmese) Sa Po Yau, don't repeat the mistakes again Give me the gun What does he wanna do? How many times I've been telling you not to do the drug trafficking Have you listened to me? build an empire and need a lot of money I was ready to fight hard Finally, I was sentenced to thirty years imprisonment This is the result of drug trafficking In these 15 years I've been thinking on how to rescue you I don't want you to rescue me! I should pay for my guilt You are not helping me if you help me to escape but you are helping Ye Po You personally said that there would be our own national flag We have our dignity, are we? I have never forgotten So why you keep on planting the poppy? Can I not to plant the poppy? If I don't plant it, many people will lose their lives So you tell me, in order to plant the poppy How many times we fight hard with the government force and other drug traffickers? How many people had died? So do you know when you are in the prison how many people from our end were died from starving Don't come over! Papa... (Burmese) Papa... (Burmese) Papa... Papa... (Burmese) Remember... (Burmese) Papa... (Burmese) your ideal... (Burmese) your ideal... (Burmese) Go! Don't kill him! Give him to me. I will persuade him Is it necessary? I really... want you to know what we are doing and what our believe is What is so great about your believe? It was police colludes with drug trafficker Laughing I didn't bring the drug out All those drugs were brought by Cheuk King-chuen instead Professor has his own way of thinking Cheuk King-chuen had given us the confiscated drug and left it for us to look for a buyer We found a buyer when we closed the deal He came to arrest us and confiscated the drug in his police identity He had arrested the buyer who harm the people most Those drug could be retrieved and being sold again If we keep doing in this way We don't need any drug in future But my father doesn't know this Ye Po has done nothing wrong neither do I You are breaking the law No one wants Ye Po to die, it was an accident What do you mean by breaking the law? Do you know why people break the law? It was because they could not... have a fair treat in a legal way in this world He can only get his things back in an illegal way Tell me why homosexual is illegal? Why mercy killing is also illegal Because law is legislated by human But why do we need to follow... the law which is legislated by other people and is unfair? I think it is fine if the aim is correct, right? Join us Excuse me, I understand every single word that you had said But I don't understand when they mean I only know that I will stop you guys How do you stop us? What identity you use to stop us? You are an escaped prisoner now You cannot threat us at all Mister. I would like to... give him some time to think it thoroughly Can we just let him go and think for a while? Let him go Keep your stuff safely It can help you to retrieve your identity It's me Carmen! Carmen... Please check the relationship of Fok Tin-yam with the police for me Why do you want to see me? I am just an ordinary people I applied Executive Officer, not a police I don't know how to handle an escaped convict I am not an escaped convict. You know I am innocent Don't force me! I said I am an ordinary clerk What do you mean by ordinary? Does ordinary means care of nothing? Does it mean you can keep your hands off even if you see people committing crime? I am an ordinary police, too But no matter how ordinary I am... there is something in the world that we have to do Papa! Rest in peace! (Burmese) I'm sorry. I didn't expect things would go like this There would be sacrifices when we have big goals I'll go to Golden Triangle and visit you later Bring your girlfriend with you I want to let you see... the most evil and beautiful flower, poppy Does it looks like... the yellow reed field that we've been to? She is my patient But she treats me as her husband Does she have mental problems? It depends on your point of view It is normal to obey the powerful in this world Those who doesn't go with the main stream of the society are crazy Her current situation is the most comfortable situation in her subconscious mind It is the happiest living status I don't think there is any problem Actually you know her husband, too I know Sa Po Yau is a woman long time ago But I didn't know she is a beautiful woman So you better grab the chance to look Ether Club owes you more than a hundred million dollars on the drug Do you really want to kill me? Do you think I don't have the guts to kill you? If everyone refuses to pay like you... How could the people from my end survive? Do you know that they've been working very hard for what? For the blames from all over the world and 50 US dollars a month It's only enough for one person's living What do you Ether Club had done? You don't need to do anything You just need to be an agent who earns the most money out of it What kind of world it is? This world only helps those capitalist... who eats the flash and blood from us, the labor I can stand that you take 99 dollars out of 100 Why can't you give us the remaining dollar? If I don't bring back the money, my people will starve to death A day's lateness would cost a life of our children that die from starving I cannot die, too I've promised my wife that I will go back to pick her up I know Ether Club has money in Swiss Bank I am trying to withdraw the money I will return the money to you very soon Ok I'll give you 5 children's lives Let him go I will return the money to you after 5 days! The information you want The list of police who attended the professor's course Cheuk King-chuen and Tai Chit. They've already started... to participate in the course organized between professor ad police five years ago Their attendance had exceeded Moreover, look at this After calculation, they've seized from the drug trafficking case that the police cleared in Tuen Mun It worth 600 million dollars in the market It is the biggest cocaine case in Hong Kong history including one Hong Kong people and his Colombian wife The 6 western people arrested earlier were already prosecuted for drug trafficking It will be mentioned in the Tuen Mun Magistracy tomorrow Office Lai had brought me to Director of Public Prosecutions They should be willing to see me Please hand these two things over to him for me If he wants to see me after seeing these two things, please arrange OK. I've already given the video and document to the professor What did you say? I'm sorry After Office Lai died, professor came to me I agree with his believe But I really couldn't get over myself I've betrayed you "Don't worry, I will help you Fok Tin-yam" I was guessing last time Carmen had confirmed it You met Carmen? Please give these two things to him for me If he wants to see me after seeing these two things, please arrange The only way to make the suspect to tell where the bomb is is to torture him until he tells So you are actually on professor's side Professor has been hoping that you are on his side Impossible! He gives you a way out. You don't have to against him I am a police! I will never befriend with a criminal! He is violating the law, not committing a crime He is a revolutionist Revolution needs people's blood, Laughing You must trust professor, right? He really wants to change this world as it has no justice This world needs to be changed But not by his way Between bastion of iron and an egg I will always stay by egg's side It's obvious that your professor is not going to give me a way out Help! Go! I'm only twenty something I have a lot of things that haven't done yet I don't want to die like this Professor. How is it My kidney is in Tai Chit's body After he died, I feel like a part of me had died The feeling is strange Who are you? I'm asking who you are What is your relationship with the person with you just now? I am asking you. What is your relationship with the person with you just now? The informer and the police. Person in charge and undercover One kills, one revenges I killed his woman. So what? You are very cruel If I am not cruel to people I am cruel to those who care about me I will shoot anyone if necessary But he let you go in this situation... means he treats you like a buddy He let me go because he is a cop Besides being a cop... he is also the deceased's husband I think your stakes are too high this time Or maybe... for the code inside the rings? For the six hundred million US dollar that Ether Club has in the Swiss Bank? However what a pity, the rings were broken Did Sa Po Yau send you? I don't know any Sa Po Yau I think you've got it wrong But I also think you know too much You just said he let you go because he is a cop This is the most incorrect thing that you have said Because I am a cop, too! His sacrifice is worth something Nothing would be wasted Do you think Tai Chit should die? How about Carmen? It's you who sent Tai Chit to kill Laughing I admire the professor very much He could hurt his body like that in order to save you Chit Junior and I are very grateful to him If you are really grateful to the professor, words are not enough There are two people who will harm the professor One is Laughing I know what I should do The other is you I promise you that I will take good care of your son Tai Chit should have died in the prison As he life is saved, I don't want him to die again To be honest, you, myself and Tai Chit are walking the same path Although we are of different ranks, however we are on the same boat after all. You treated him like that... which violated our principle and sacrificed Carmen I will be the Chief of Police next week All Hong Kong police are under my command If there is any mistake at this point we would have wasted all our effort Before Carmen died... I have been spying on the conversations between her and Laughing I admit that I am unhappy. But I have never blamed it on her and I had never thought of killing Carmen If nothing else happened and you are not making the same mistake I will keep this video only to myself as a private collection I wholeheartedly hope that you could be your Chief of Police dutifully next week Move to the right in threes, right turn One Squad, by the left, quick march Left, right, left, right Two Squad, by the left, quick march By the right, eyes right Check up Eyes right Check up I want to go to the washroom Congratulations! What are you doing? Go away! Go away! All of you! Go away! Go away! Put down the gun! Don't follow me or I will shoot him dead Put down the gun! - Put down the gun! - Put down the gun! Step back 50 meters, all of you Or I will shoot him right the way! Step back! And I want to see Fok Tin-yam I want him to stand right in front of me within 3 minutes Close the curtains Laughing, you are dead I've prepared for it However before I die... I will not let you control 30 thousands policemen Laughing I am Fok Tin-yam I am coming in now. Do you want to see me? Then open the door Laughing, don't do anything silly Let us work together I promise that you will be fine An escaped murderer who abducts the Chief of Police Can I be fine? Do you think you are God? When you say I am fine I will be fine I can help you get your identity back Can you? What if I do it? If you would only work with me after shooting him dead I don't mind at all Cheuk King-cheun, you hear that You are no different from an ant He doesn't care if you live or die Tai Chit can sacrifice himself for a word from Officer Cheuk I think Officer Cheuk would sacrifice himself for my belief Are you Officer Cheuk? Shoot, then Why don't you shoot? Bang! After that sound, you will feel content and not hateful This is the feeling you want, right? Why don't you shoot? Ah yes. You haven't flipped the coin so it's hard for you to decide I had listened to your self-defend in the court You said you had been an undercover 4 times and you are the one who performs most undercover tasks among all current police Maybe you have been doing too much undercover work Therefore you find it hard to differentiate black and white in this world There is no borderline between right and wrong Therefore you need a coin to make decisions every time Because no matter what happens, it is the coin's fault Laughing, do you know? This world shouldn't be like that and cannot to be like that Join us. Let's change the world together You should know better about Black and White heroes Professor, you are good at talking I feel touched every time I hear your saying But I don't understand any of it and I don't want to! However there is one thing you said that I do agree a lot Laughing! Laughing... I am violating the law, not committing a crime That's what you have taught me, right? I know you from head to toe already When you studied in the United States. In order to publicize your belief you brought a gang of people to wrack a fast food chain store You grew in a single parent family You had serious depression when you were young You had tried to commit suicide Do you still think of committing suicide now? But I wouldn't let you die easily If I shoot you dead no one would know what crime you had committed Do you need to flip a coin? I can lend it to you A 5 dollar coin minted in 1997 Someone from the sawmill picked it up for me Because I am also a cop! Can you recognize me? It was you who taught me If the world plays you, you cannot let it If the world is unfair to you, you have to fight back I am listening. Why do you want to kill me? Do you know... Between bastion of iron and an egg I will always take the egg's side If you don't like people exploiting you, don't exploit others Let alone relying on Ether Club You shouldn't help those wealthy and powerful people You have violated my belief You had done wrong Professor. Promise me. Take care of Paris! It was you who sent someone to kill Michael It was him who violated my belief Therefore I don't want you to go on the same path Step back! Step back... Moreover, I want to see Fok Tin-yam I want him to stand right in front of me within 3 minutes If I shoot you to die no one would know what crime you had committed Do you need to flip a coin? I can lend it to you Someone from the sawmill picked it up for me It was you who sent someone to kill Michael It was him who violated my belief Get up... We need to get married... Michael! You've killed Michael! - Go! Go... - Go! Go... Put down your gun! Actually violating the law and committing a crime are two different things Two different concepts Why someone would violate the law It is because they cannot receive fair treatment... from the world in a legal way Therefore they resort to illegal ways to get back what they should have Therefore fairness and justice is very important in this world Father, see what I've caught I have actually never seen this bug before But how come it looks familiar It's not strange Your eyes did see it before We had found the organ donation card from the body of Jodie Will you follow her wish to donate her organs? What other bugs did you see? A few more... You don't have to bleed to have an ideal world When there are people like Jodie we are already living in an ideal world This world shouldn't be like this And cannot to be like this
