 

                        So there's nothing I can say? I guess tomorrow it'll all begin. I'm sure everything will be okay. Nikki, please. This game is real. You don't know that. Check your mirror. See if it's cracked. You don't get it. Once Mary takes the dare we're all dead. So what are you going to do? Ryan! Ryan! Ryan! Ryan! Ryan! Amy! Amy! Amy! Amy! Amy! Amy. Amy? Ryan. You'll be mine too. Ryan! Ryan, please! - Amy! - What? What? What happened? Nothing. Sorry, it was just a bad dream. They're called nightmares, babe. Thank you for clarifying. Maybe you should talk to someone about this. I'm fine. Really. That's like almost every night this week. Well, I have good months and this just isn't one of them. I don't remember a good one. What about your professor friend O'Neal? Please. You know what? I don't need help from O'Neal or my folks or even you. You know what? You just can't keep blaming yourself forever. # I've been crying out loud for a fantasy # # You're lying in my mind like a water drain # # You feel so soft underneath the swell # # Gonna bring it to me now # # We just can't tell # # I can't wait # # To be with you this time # # Gonna run to that place # # Where you take me inside # # Your heart # # Inside of you # # My heart beats faster when I think of you # # My blood pumps harder when it's time to go # # All the things that make you feel so good # # Between the sheets like lovers should # # I can't wait # # To be with you this time # # Want to run to that place # # Where we can't be denied # # I can't wait # # To be with you this time # # Get you down on your knees # # So you'll take me deep inside # # Your heart # # Inside of you. # You can tell Terry this is gonna take awhile. Well, how long? A lot more time than he wants. Unless it be thy contention that immaculate conception hath been visited upon thee, Mary Worth, thou wilt name thy unborn child's natal father. If there be but one among us wishing to claim paternity to save this child of but 16 year from the gallows, speaketh now. If it be thy seed that hath spawned this unborn child speaketh now and the Lord shall forgive thee. The sin of adultery doth pale in the blinding light of heresy. Thou wilt not then name the fornicator with whom thou hast lain? Citizens of Idlewood, hear ye in this silence a blasphemous testimony. There hath been but one Immaculate Conception known to man. To claim otherwise doth constitute but sheer heresy. It is clearly the devil's child. Mary Worth, thou knowest how the court doth proceed in such matters. Wilt thou confess then to lying with the devil? Wilt thou repent for thy sins and save thy soul? I'm sorry. It's a little loud on my end. Who is this? You don't know me but you know my boyfriend Ryan Cumane. Oh yeah, Ryan. This may sound a little weird. Um, he's been having nightmares. Nightmares? Yes. And? He... see, he rarely talks to anyone and he's been... he's mentioned how easy it is to talk to you. Look, I'm not a psychiatrist. And besides, I know nothing on sleep disorders. - He doesn't need a shrink. - Then what are you looking for? I thought you were a priest. - He needs a priest? - He needs help. Look, Rachel, I'm not sure what I can do. Besides, if he needs a confession, I'm not that type of priest. Well, what kind of priest are you? Busy. Look, can you at least just talk to him and maybe convince him to see a professional? Nightmares, huh? Yes. I'll meet him at the school's coffee shop at 3:00. He'll be there. Shit. No wonder he's having nightmares. I thought she was going to tell you. One would think that would be appropriate rather than showing up to a mini intervention. It's not that at all. She's just concerned, wanted us to chat a little bit. So who do you have for American Lit? Like I said, I'm not interested. You still thinking about Creative Writing? Really, I appreciate your concern, but I've always had bad dreams. Always? You believe in the devil, right? Sure. It's complicated in today's age, isn't it? What do you mean? Faith. Faith. Faith has had its issues throughout the history of the faithful. What about your faith, Ryan? What about witches, Father? Do they have a place in reality anymore? I believe that humans have made deals with the devil. Different cultures have different names... warlocks, wizards, magicians, witches. Just different names for the same thing... people who use the dark arts to conjure evil. Maybe it's easier to get the devil to listen than it is God. God's always listening. It's the devil that needs to be invited. What if you don't believe in the devil? The devil still believes in you. In the spring of 2001 I had a sister who was just getting ready to graduate high school and I was just going in. You remember that horrible storm we had that year? Yeah, well it was coming down really hard. We had those hurricane warnings all day. Ryan! Ryan! Ryan, please open the door. - Ryan! - Amy. Amy. Amy? Amy? Amy, stop screwing around. Ow. Amy... Amy? You better not be fooling. Oh my God. Amy? Amy, are you in here? Amy! Amy! Christ, I thought you were dead. What happened? She went missing that night. The next day she wasn't in her room, she never showed up for class. We never saw her again. The nightmares started after that? Yeah, they started that night. Ever since, my eyes have turned blue. Do you feel somewhat responsible for your sister's disappearance? Why, do you think I should? No. Well, thanks for the chat, Father. I feel better. But you'll have to forgive me. I'm going to end my psych analysis. I've got a class I'll be late for. Whatever came of the investigation? Nothing. Called the police precinct every night for a year and got the same shitty answer. "Sorry, kid. But don't give up hope." No, you can't. Well, I did. So what do we got? You were right. Carbon dates the bones back to late 1680s, early 1690s. What about the police? archeological not criminal. What about the construction? Since it's on church property we've got as long as we need. When can we begin digging? Filed for the permits this afternoon. Should be able to begin marking a grid by tomorrow. You're amazing, Clair, I don't know what I would do without you... I don't know, what would you do? You know what this means, don't you? What? The diary. You're not thinking this is the missing mass grave, are you? Yes. He wrote the church was built upon a grave to bless the land. I just don't know how far you can take the diary of a man who wasn't even there. He wasn't just any person. He was the governor. He personally heard Reverend Whittaker speak of the plague ravaging the entire town. Well, if more heads start popping out of the ground I'll believe you. Clair, you truly are one of a kind. "Thursday, October 28th, I arrived in Idlewood early morning to find the streets bare and the town all but soulless. All but for one... the Reverend Whittaker. My concern for the townspeople is grim. But the Reverend Whittaker was cleaning human bones when we arrived and had spoken of pox and plague ravaging the entire community. By a fortnight word will have reached Salem that the plague has wiped out all of Idlewood. My concern layeth with the Reverend. I fear the strain of such a loss has disturbed the poor man. I feel a church... a just monument and a beacon of hope... to be built upon the graves of thy towns founding fathers. It is very honorable. Very honorable. Governor Holbrook, may I present the head of our reconstruction team, Reverend Samuel Blake? - How do you do, Reverend? - Governor. I have every confidence that word of what hath transpired here shall remain strictly confidential. Yes. Of course, sir. This site is to be cleansed and built upon. Indeed, Governor. There, you see? Jesus! Jessie, how did you get in here? Sorry. Jessie, how'd you get in here? Let's get you some food. Amy! Look, I'm sorry I yelled at you earlier. I realize you just called him 'cause you care. And I was wrong to get angry at you. But you have to realize something. I've been through a dozen different meds and a dozen different shrinks. And the only thing that I've found is that it doesn't work. Come on. You can't be mad at me forever. How about I ditch my morning class and we go to Clark's for breakfast? Don't call me. I'm over this. Wait. Oh, Jesus. Oh my God. So how long do you need the gymnasium for? Uh... a few more weeks. Ryan. I'll see you later. Hey, how's Creative Writing coming along? Did you have another nightmare? Yeah, but this time it was... it was different. You know, it felt more real. Stronger. Why don't we step into my office? All right. So how's your girlfriend? It's Rachel, right? - She left me. - Oh. Well, you know, you just got to give these things some time. I guess. Everything all right? It's deja vu. Some cultures believe that deja vu is God's way of letting you know you're on the right path. Is that so? It could also be a hiccup in your brain chemistry as you process new information through a memory cell. So which one is it? - Why couldn't it be both? - Both? Sure. Why couldn't the chemical hiccups have a purpose? Everything does. It's all part of the master plan. So what about my nightmares? Are they also part of the plan? Sure. Why not? There's so much we don't know. It's called the Butterfly Effect. Yeah, a flap of the wings on one side of the planet can cause waves on the other. Something like that. Everything that ever happened in history happened from a chain reaction from previous events, which still continues to this day. Our lives are governed by it. You're a prime example. Did you choose to have these nightmares? No. But I chose not to have them. So how's that working for you? Great. It's all about cause and effect. We need to find out the cause that effected you with these nightmares and see what we can do to effect it to stop. You know, my sister wasn't the only one that went missing that night. There were more? There was four. There was Nicole and Jennifer, her two girlfriends. And, uh... Greg and John, two guys that they met at the party. Party? Yeah, they were planning this big senior year blowout and they needed the ultimate game. You ever heard of the game Bloody Mary Worth? Well, my sister did. She told her friends. - So, like, you almost done? - Relax. It's the server. Probably the storm. Just give it some time. Well, we need to go over the music list with Amy. - You did ask her, right? - Ask her what? I did. I'm just playing with you. She told me to call back later. It's 9:15. Should we call? If you want to call her so bad, pick up the phone and call her yourself. What is with her? She probably fell asleep or something. Forget it. Girl is probably dead to the world. So what's next? Hey, this might be cool. You could get one of the guys to spit out pea soup. No thanks. No pea soup and no pissing on my carpet. Look, it's another urban legend list. We got the bright lights warning, buried alive, goatman legend, kidney theft and harvesting. Or how about the killer in the back seat? No, no, no... and a special no to the goatman. We need something scary and cool... something that'll scare the crap out of everyone and will have everyone talking about my party for the next six months. Right. Amy emailed me. That bitch. She wouldn't answer my call but is emailing you? Relax. She emailed me two hours ago. Well, it better be a music list. Come on, already. What does she have? Gangsta rap or polka? Nicole! Whoa, what is this? Mary Worth. - What is that? - I have no clue. "This website is devoted to all those who dare to play the legendary game Mary Worth." Wow, look at the crazy icons. "17th-century Salem court, Mary Worth was sentenced to death for the crimes of witchcraft. On October 31st her sentence was carried out. Mary had to endure brutal beatings for hours as the townspeople tried desperately to make her confess who her unborn child's father was." Mary Worth, thou hast been granted bountiful occasion to divulge the proper name of thy bastard child. It yet be the opinion of this court that one who walketh among us hath made thee a whore. Thou wilt not confess to heresy, to having lain with Satan himself. If that be thy contention, then it shall be done that no man among us shall yet covet thee again. No man's loins shall yet be stirred by thy countenance. Mary Worth, when the last of us hath made his mark, if thou hast not confessed, thou shalt be excommunicated from the church and left to die. "The local magistrate felt the mirror was a just punishment to remind her that vanity was the ultimate sin for her unwillingness to confess." "Mary stared into the mirror and begged whomever lies within it to take her. She then cursed the town and all its people and vowed to have her revenge." "One of the townspeople that was present during the execution was quoted in saying, 'I believe in Mary Worth."' Fellow citizens, children of God, it is a hypocritical legacy we so-called Puritans bear. For there is not one amongst us without the stain of sin, not one who is blameless. Mankind be wretched and culpable. "Now she's trapped in the mirror and seeking vengeance, waiting for someone to believe in her and someone to release her." "Unfortunately, many have learned there is a dark truth to Mary's game. Several poor souls wrote their names and those of their friends onto a mirror and then, believing in Mary, in short, marking themselves for her vengeance." Hello? We are just way too jumpy tonight. Nicole? Nicole! - Hello. - Jen? It's Amy. - What the hell happened to you? - Where do I start? You sound pretty out of it. I am. Did Nicole get my email? - About the website? - Yeah. Yeah, I think we found our game. No, you didn't. What are you talking about? It's perfect. I just played it. You did? So how was it? I really don't remember. I think l... I think I passed out before I finished counting. Amy, what happened? I don't remember if I finished. She's gone. She'll call back. She played the game. Sounded like it freaked her out. Well, maybe we should play something else. You have to be kidding. Did she call them back? Well, the police said that she called Nicole three more times that night. But I never spoke to her again and I'm not sure what they said. Excuse me. - Hello? - You sitting down? Yes. Sonic scans show we hit the mother-lode. You may just be right about that mass grave. I'm looking at the first scan and it's huge. Almost 30 feet wide. I'm kind of in the middle of something. Can I call you back? Something more important than this? - Thanks. - You know what? I appreciate you listening, Father. Sometimes it's just a comfort to share. Did you just hang up on me? You did, didn't you? Well, if you need an ear, I'll lend you mine. Careful, you're the only one I got now. I might take you up on that. Hi. My name is Ashley, and I'm here to play the mirror game. Just me and my trusty V-cam waiting to see Mary. Okay, first I have to mark myself. Remember, kiddies, don't try this at home. The color red signifies blood. I think I'll mark my friends as well... Kelly and Samantha. Now the only thing that is standing between me becoming the only person to survive the Mary Worth legend is Mary herself. Bring it on, bitch. I believe in Mary Worth. I believe in Mary Worth. I believe in Mary Worth. Come out, come out wherever you are. I survived this mirror, bitch. - Oh well, so much for that. - Shh. What happened? The site crashed. Hit the refresh button. It should bring it back up. Not sure I want to. You're out of your mind. This game is perfect. It will scare everyone. And I already have my first victim in mind. Who? Detective Romano. - Yeah? - Father O'Neal here to see you. Oh Jesus. Send him in. - Detective Romano? - Father O'Neal. - Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you too. Thanks for seeing me on such short notice. Like I said, any friend of Ryan's... - especially a... - A priest? Exactly. Well, I'm trying to help out the boy. He seems to be plagued by some bad dreams. Look, I told you on the phone, I'm not homicide anymore. I understand that. But if there's anything about the case that could help me understand Ryan better... Nice kid. Called me every day for just about over a year. I felt bad for him and his folks. They deserve some closure. - Was she kidnapped? - It's a strange case. No signs of a struggle. Her bathroom mirror was shattered, but that's it. No prints, no blood, nothing. She just vanished. Then why did homicide investigate it? At first we didn't. We were on a case where four kids got ripped apart at a party. Blood, guts, shit over everything. No bodies. Witnesses gave us some names, we did some digging, found out two of girls who planned the whole thing had a friend go missing the night before. - Amy. - Yeah. Then we find out the whole thing was a big fucking game to get some girl back for dating somebody's ex-boyfriend. Needless to say, at first we thought Amy split because she was part of the bloodbath. And what changed your mind? It's not completely made up just yet. Why not? Look, even though Mary doesn't remember Amy at the party that night, it doesn't mean she wasn't there. Mary? Yeah, Mary. Mary's the girl they set up. She's the only one to survive. Or at least the only one that didn't disappear. It's mainly her testimony that gives us some insight into that night. But she was whacked out on so much LSD that her story's more comic-book lore than testimony. They put her in a psychiatric hospital for a couple years. - They never charged her. - For what? - Murder. - You think she did it? Only one with a motive. - And what's that? - Revenge for the game. And she was the one dating one of the girl's exes that went MIA that night. You mentioned some testimony from someone else. Yeah, Nicole's brother. He overheard a few conversations the girls had about hazing Mary at the party that night. - Why Mary? - Why not? Her mom's been ragging on her the past couple of months, um, her father split last year. Her mom's a complete nutcase. Exactly. Look, she's got a lot of crap to deal with. - So let's prank someone else. - No! This isn't about Matt, is it? I don't give a crap about Matt. If Mary wants to have my leftovers, - she can have it. - Mary said... I don't give a crap about what Mary said. I'll call you when I get home. Meg should be back by 1:00. Don't let Amy creep you out. She's just in one of her moods. Now learn your lines. Use the mirror if you have to. You need to come off convincing. Your job is to make sure Mary takes the dare. Look, I have nothing against Mary. She's the new kid. And the rules are: all the new kids get screwed first. - Fine. - Call you later. Okay. Have you ever heard of the legend of Mary Worth? Not many people have. Well, not anymore anyway. After so many unexplained deaths to those who played "the game" no one ever dared tell anyone how to play. Till now. I dare you to stand alone in the dark with a candle and say... "I believe in Mary Worth." I believe... - in Mary Worth. - What the hell is wrong with you? - Idiot! You almost gave me a freaking heart attack. Sorry, but I've gots to go. I should make you piss on yourself. What's with the mirror? It's none of your damn business. So Nicole played the game as well? Yeah. Apparently she's responsible for starting this whole fucking thing. How so? From what I remember, you can actually mark others when you play this thing. - Like a curse? - Yeah. Nicole marked her friends. All but one went missing. There was another girl? Yeah. Um, Maggie. Hello. I'm back. Okay, you call Amy and I'll call Maggie. Okay. Hey, is everything all right? Yeah. Yeah. It's just... forget it. Okay, I'll call Maggie. Maggie! Maggie. Maggie! What? Maggie! Jeez, what? Maggie, damn it, don't you hear me calling you? Hello. Hey, it's us. We need to talk. The party is less than 18 hours away. I need my pills, damn it. I said I'm coming. God, why do I have to do everything around here? Maggie. Mom? Mom? Reggae or hip-hop? Maggie? Have you been listening? Hello? I'm still here. - Did you hear that? - I think we lost Meg. No, it sounded like Meg yelling. Hold on, I've got Amy on the other line. - Hello? - Nice of you to call back. Sorry. It's been a weird night. Tell us about it. We've been jumpy all night. Look, I'll try Meg's home number. Jen, it's like past midnight. - Maggie, what is the matter? - No no no no! Maggie? Maggie, stop it. Stop, please. Maggie, stop it. What is wrong? Maggie, stay here and don't move. - Hello? - Hey, is Maggie... Maggie! Maggie, stop it. Maggie, stop it, baby. Stop it. No. No. What is the matter? Maggie. Maggie, stop. Stop. Stop, please, Maggie. Stop it. What is wrong? What happened to the two girls? Mary and Maggie? I think they're still in a psych ward upstate plagued with visions and nightmares of Mary Worth. Last I heard they had them isolated in rooms without mirrors or reflective surfaces. Sounds like whatever happened to them is happening to Ryan in a milder form. Yeah, but from what I remember Ryan never actually played the game. Neither did Maggie. Yeah, but apparently she was marked by Nicole. Well, thanks for taking the time to meet with me. I know you're busy. If it was another day, you know I could... No need to explain. I understand. Seems this game has some type of placebo effect on those that play it. Or those that have been told they've been marked by someone else. But Maggie didn't know. I know. It's puzzled me all these years. Maybe it's no placebo. Fucking nut. How long? Okay. Can you arrange for me to speak with her? I'd hate to make the two-hour trip for nothing. Thanks. I'm so sorry. I can't believe you hung up on me. I'm so sorry, Clair. I had a pressing issue I was dealing with. How about a return call? Well, I'm still sort of dealing with it. I'm not going to begin to tell you how upset and frustrated I am. No, you know what? Actually, I will. One would think that the head archeologist of an important dig that he is heading up would have the decency of showing up to approve the plans instead of some student aide. But you know what? It could be forgiven if, say, the site were on the other side of the planet and the scientist were needed because he was giving up a kidney for an orphan child. I know how you feel. But no, actually, this site is within walking distance of his office and on school grounds. This is just as important, Clair. Trust me. Need I remind you that one of the reasons the school brought you in on this was so that you could organize and structure - the church's history here? - No, you don't. Then I take it you're on your way back here. No, actually I'm going upstate to visit a patient at a psychiatric hospital. You are kidding. Clair, I trust you. I trained you. I feel you have full control of the situation and I'm confident you'll do just fine. You cannot be... you are serious. I'll call you when I'm on my way back. Hello? Hello!? What? # Baby, I got my feet pointed right at you... # What's going on, man? Are you all right? Yeah, I'm all right. If she's not gonna put up with the baggage, she's not worth it. Yeah, but I can't either. Yeah. He doesn't deserve you. You've got something called integrity. And he needs to get his shit together. His problems are his own and not yours. Hey, a few of us are going across the street. You should come. Did it ever occur to him that he needs to just do it? You know, maybe you should just get it over with. What? Play the fucking game. Thank you, Mary, for taking the time to meet with me. Mary, I really don't want to disturb you. So where do we start? It was Mary. She did it. She did it. She made me watch. What did she do? She took them. Where did she take them? Into her world. Reflections... she keeps them there. Tortures them. What does she want? Revenge. Thank God. I thought the power was going to be out all night. Are you sure you won't change your mind? I'm not sure about anything anymore. What? You cannot be serious. Even after all that's happened tonight? Look, Jen's not listening. I don't care, Nikki. Screw her party. I'm not going. - I don't have a choice. - Yes, you do. Fine, I can't stop you. But whatever you do, just don't dare Mary. Okay? Look, I tried it a few minutes ago. - We're fine. - What? I just played it. Nothing happened Don't tell me you marked yourself. Nicole! For Christ's sake, tell me you didn't mark yourself. It's no big deal. Nothing happened. Oh really? Wait, who else did you mark? You marked us? You marked me, Meg and even stupid-ass Jen? Look what happened to Meg. I didn't do anything to Meg. Yes, you did! Why did you mark me? - You played it too. - I didn't mark you. I didn't mark you! Ugh. # Let me know # # How to let go # # Life's dragging me around # # Face down # # On a life that's long past gone # # Incomplete # # Take a stab or retreat # # Can't make up my mind # # I rewind # # The footsteps that led me here # # To mourn # # What's dead and gone # # Mourn # # Mourn # # Try moving on # # Mourn # # When you're incomplete # # And you can't retreat # # Just accept defeat # # And mourn # # Mourn # # Mourn. # # Anti-drug and I stopped myself # # Can you help me out? # # Voices say # # Get out of my way # # Voices say # # It's safe to say... # Jamie? Jamie? He-hello? - Hello? - Did you just call? No. Forget it. Amy's not coming. What? Wait, I'll get her on. Hold on. Amy? Hi. Nicole just told me you're not coming tomorrow. - Why? - I have a bad feeling about this. Everything is already set. You can't back down now. All you have to do is make sure no one goes into my parent's bedroom Nicole will make sure Mary goes into the bathroom and John and Gary will take it from there. You can leave right after. - No. - Damn, Amy. What is with you? I don't want any part of this. Nothing is going to happen. Nothing. It's a prank. I don't want anyone to get hurt. Especially me. You're acting like a child. Look, she doesn't want any part of it. Don't come to her rescue. She's a big girl. She found the site, for Christ's sake. What if she doesn't take the dare? Oh, she will. Nicole will make sure of it. And if she doesn't, fine. We'll pick someone else at the party, okay? Okay. Nicole? Fine. I trust you have good news. - Where the hell are you? - I'm at the church. No, you're not, because I'm... standing at the church. What? I'm sorry, Clair. I had something fall into my lap. Well, I hope you have strong knees because I'm about to throw some more on. - What happened? - We found something. What did you find? Have you ever heard of the legend of Mary Worth? It's come up. Why? We found Reverend Whittaker's diary. And you're never going to believe what it says. It was under the bones? Peter uncovered a leather flap sticking out from under a child's skull. How much have you read? Just the last entry. It was enough to know it was Whittaker's and that it was something much worse than a plague or a pox that killed that town. And they also found this. I awoke this morning with the intention that life in Idlewood could now have peace after such a wretched and painfully long trial of Mary. My heart has been cut in two and by none other than my own hand. I have purchased the vanity mirror that had been used in Mary's torture. That should be adequate. This way. I do not know why I do this. My hope is to somehow forgive myself and settle thy soul in some matter. But truth be the guilty cannot resist torturing themselves. I spend days just staring at the mirror hoping to see her face just once more. Mary had vowed revenge upon the town for wrongfully killing her. What irony that she useth my own hand who haddeth condemned her fate as the instrument of her wrath. When Mary released her hold of my mind I was covered in the blood of my townspeople. I buried the mirror and the bodies in hope that I could prevent Mary's wrath upon future generations. I can only pray this be enough to absolve my stain of sin. Why do I always find myself getting dragged into something ridiculous when you get that look? I think I know how to help Ryan. Ryan? - I'm gonna need your help. - Who's Ryan? - He's the boy with the nightmares. - What are you talking about? Nothing. I need you to get me this document. - Okay. - It's gonna be easy. And you'll need to permanently borrow it and meet me here tonight with it. What? I need you to acquire it from the church's historic documents. - Are you insane? - 100%. - Where are you going now? - I think Ryan needs to be here. It's Ryan. Leave your info, I'll get back to you when I can. Ryan, it's Father O'Neal. Call me when you get this. Yes, hello. I'm Professor O'Neal. I need to get ahold of one of my students. I need an address. His phone isn't working. Can I help you with something? I'm looking for Ryan. Can you tell me where I can find him? - He left. - What do you mean? He quit school and he took off. You're just gonna give up? You're just gonna walk out like that? It's not normal to wake up every morning screaming my fucking head off. No, you're right. It's not. I can't handle it here anymore, man. Um, that's it, man. Cool, take care. Did it ever occur to him that he needs to just do it? Maybe you should just get it over with. Play the fucking game. Why? I'm not the one to ask. I need to find him. Ask Rachel. She might know. Where can I find her? She works over at the soup kitchen. - Okay, thanks. - Yeah, you bet. - Rachel? - Yes? I'm Father O'Neal. Father O'Neal, hello. What can I do for you? I'm looking for Ryan. He left. I know, I know. I need to get ahold of him. It's important. I tried talking to him but he just won't listen. If somebody doesn't listen, then maybe you need to listen to them. His parents live about two hours west from here. If he's heading home he might still be at the bus stop. I know there's two busses that run every day. I think there's still one going in about half an hour. Okay, thanks. Father! Yes? If you see him, will you tell him I'm sorry? I'll tell him, but that's something you need to tell him yourself. Hello? I'm having some difficulties. What's wrong? First it was morals and ethics. Now we've moved up to grand larceny. Did you find it? Yes, and it's not as easy to take as you thought. I don't understand. It's probably in the basement. What's the issue? The issue is the school is having a field day with this archeological dig you're supposed to be supervising. They've decided to take anything that looks old and dates back to the early days and put it on display - all around the school. - And? And it's currently behind glass and under surveillance. You know what? I wish I could help you but I'm not going to prison over it. Look, Clair, I'm not sure how you can pull this off, but I need you to get that document. I can't believe you. I'm not risking my job. This is more important than your job. What could be more important? Your soul. Ryan! Ryan! What are you doing here? I should be asking you. I'm done. I can't take it any longer. I'm sick of hurting all the people that care about me. I believe I found a way to end the nightmares. I just hope it's not too late. It is. I don't believe so. Mary Worth was excommunicated from the church falsely. Okay, so? So she's trapped in limbo. If I destroy the papers and reinduct her back into the church, she'll have a door to leave through. She was also killed in front of a mirror... a mirror she uses as a portal between our two worlds. Mary's mirror needs to be destroyed and I think you should be the one to do it. All right, people. You have to clear this area, all right? It may be a false alarm, but don't stick around to find out. Let's move it. # I'm the beater # # On the drum # # Getting weaker # # Getting numb # # Never laughing # # I never know # # Heaven won't you help me # # Save my soul? # # The more I change # # The more I stay the same # # The more I change, yeah # # The more I stay the same # # I have nothing # # Left to say... # - You have it? - Have I ever let you down? - That's Ryan. - Mmm. Let's get this over with. Wait, what? What over with? Clair, the mirror must be broken. - There is no other way. - Fine. Release her. - What is he talking about? - You know that's seven years bad luck. It'll be all right. And I can pretty much guarantee that. Oh, not the mirror. What the...? Ryan, what's the problem? Something's got ahold of my hand! Ahh! Ryan, throw it! Throw it! Hurry! - She's preventing us from breaking it. - How can she do that? I'm out of here. Clair, get the rock. Now throw it! Throw it! Oh, what the...? Shit! God! Go! Get off me! Get the fuck off me! Get off! Help! That bitch messed up my hair. Clair, you truly are one of a kind. Thank you, Ryan. Is that it? One more thing. What? No nightmare. Mmm, so it worked? It did. You should call Father O'Neal. Yeah, I think I will. I'm gonna go take a shower. Okay. Mmwha! Hey, so my roommates don't attack. How sweet. Hello? - Hey, it's Ryan. - Well? Well, it worked. No nightmare. That's great. I was worried after I talked to your roommate. Why? He told me how he pressured you into playing the game. Yeah, but I never played. But I saw lipstick on the mirror. I never played. Could anybody else have? Um... well, the only one that knows how to play would be Rachel. But she was never here. Rachel. Hello? Your roommate said she stopped by looking for you after you left. # There's a girl that I met the other night # # She's so beautiful and perfect # # Yeah, I think that she is right for me # # But there's another girl that I like too # # She's intelligent and sweet # # Best of all she looks like you # # And we went out # # And then there's Jennifer who I met at the dance # # But I found out she's into girls # # So I don't think I stand a chance with her # # So tell me now just where the hell I am # # I wonder why things never worked out # # Just the way we planned # # 'Cause every time I'd think about a girl # # When a good girl comes along # # Then another girl steps in # # And the cycle, it begins again # # And everything comes crashing to the ground # # When I fool around # # There's a girl, yeah, she's really got me down # # I used to think about her always # # Except when she was out of town # # I used to think that we were meant to be # # But now she says she never really cared too much for me # # 'Cause every time I'd think about a girl # # When a good girl comes along # # Then another girl steps in # # And the cycle, it begins again # # And everything comes crashing to the ground # # When I fool around. #
