 

                        Each week teenager to attend "Lemon Tree Passage" in NSW, Australia, These adolescent risk their lives driving at high speeds hoping to glimpse the ghost believe that haunts this stretch of road, The following video was uploaded to YouTube XANDERTUPOU claims to have captured the ghost on camera, O my God, it's here! Awesome! O my God! This is wrong Friend - Do we have to do it again? - Yes What happened? Are you kidding? O God! He went It's a damn ,,,, O my God! There's someone behind you Sam Sorry love a dog ate the thing, you can have mine Here - I do not understand this map - Do you see a map? I'm just saying Give it to me How about going north - Give me my camera - You the tapeworms No, I gave it in the big banana Do you think mom and dad punished me to send this journey together? Well ,, At least I am not adopted (we could get to the Eiffel Tower) Maybe you lose your passport and you're stuck here - Perhaps someone catches your ass - At least my ass is not the size of a house At least my dick is not the size of an ant (Or we can go to Central Park) You have a dick? Please pay attention run Forrest You'd be lost without it Since we are Jordi, the whistle is ready If he is not with me ,, Thank You OK We have all afternoon to find the hotel - Toby, tell him we were - We were Hello, girl map - Hello - Still Lost Ever heard of a game called Cricket ,,, Tip Tip Tip ,,, ,,, Each time she woke up frightened put his hand next to bed so your dog lick and made her feel more comfortable so I could go back to sleep ,,, Tip Tip Tip ,,, ,,, It reawakened but this time was to see where the noise was coming - You forgot to put a plug in somewhere - Do Not! - I forgot to put a cap - Do Not! I go to the bathroom and written in mirror writing said blood "Humans can lick" And the shower was hanging dog The tip tip was his blood That's the end - Is that - It's a good scary story - If it is good - What? It's an American classic If it is good ,,, Why do it? Why Americans do? They sit by the campfire and tell stories of men What else are you gonna do? We do not do, right? What do they do? We sat at the campfire telling a true story O please, real stories Ok, give us a true story I'll give you a true story And no, the torch should not need special effects or anything like that to make the story better Ok, this is how the story begins There is a dark side to this city ,,, The Academy Award for Best clich goes for Oscar here is It is about a man Is he handsome? - I need to know - I do not know if I bet, say that if This guy owns a motorcycle It is always careful when driving because has two beautiful children and a wife, So you're driving home one night Take the intersection of Lemon Tree Passage Okay ,,, look left ,,, look right and see that there's nothing there So that rolls gently BANG !!! They had stuck For a car full of teenagers They went above Then stop to see that they did They know not pass above a kangaroo Seriously, They killed the guy So they left, they are teenagers, not want problems It is said that the ghost of this type stalks Lemon Tree Passage And every time a car full of teenagers passes A bright light illuminates all the way - And that's how a story is told - A True Story - Have you seen? - Of course I saw it, I would not believe if it were not so - And where is it? - As 20 minutes BUUU God Toby, just You did not hear hot hot hot It's like a mistletoe - That I ever worked - Is that what your problem ,,, - Left here - You Here? You will see, they will not be able to believe Worked but needs go faster - But I will - No, faster You do, there's nothing there Keep your eyes back, we'll see And if you work owe me a kiss Keep looking, I promise At any time we will see ,,, There it is! I had told them! I had told them! I can not see I thought you were joking We have real stories here real Stories - I can not see - Can not you see that? How can not you see? - Are you sure it's not a car? - As it can be a car It will stay there for a while, right remains Check this out and see how it goes in that hole there Wait ,,, Wait ,,, Wait Ohhhh - That was spectacular - Come again - Come again - How good was that? That I was spectacular, let's back Wait, because back, Toby is drunk, back If the house, we go for another drink, I have thirst We stayed at this hotel and ,,, Melbourne? - Melbourne? Melbourne We had to share a room with about 20 other people and there was a girl he liked ,,, Duck Quack !! I thought I'd lost you Mahia Waki Waki Mahia - Nice to meet you - Sounds like fun, right? They are ,,, You're watching history You are more adorable than your friend - Ohh, hey - I'm sorry She loved him, took him with me everywhere I thought it was very old - How old were you? - 16 Should return with others This evil know, I'm not going to get there Mahia? - Sorry, I did not - Who the fuck are you? Sorry, this is my friend, Mahia She is traveling with his friends in America Yes, we're watching a movie, you want to see? No thanks - Mirete ,,, Living at the foot of your word - Pardon? Kissing every Australian who crosses First we did the second you said it - Really? It does not sound to me - Not at all Mmm, oh oh Jordi Goodnight Emilia oh Sam, mua mua Are you scared? Your you were? It felt good OK Let Why? Please! Get her out of there Calm down, calm down Get away from me Mahia, Mahia, fine Where am I? These closet Are you okay? I think I had a bad dream I think you were sleepwalking Let - Cursed cork? - Basically it says Australia Cursed before all Okay ,,, Cursed cork - That's it! - Come on, give me a OK, try this - Watch Out! - Lava faster then Sorry That's what they say when Australians deceiving, Let Al bum no babies Your saw something last night? Rather, a ghost Do not you? Do Not What I have to do to convince them to go? Stand on the middle of the damn road? I can not believe that you're doing to do this - Say something friend - Friend fuck - I hear you - OK I'm standing here in the middle of Lemon Tree Passage and It is almost dark, - You're so weird - Shut your mouth! It seriously Ok, we are you going Still no sign of the ghost, but if they see ,,, Oh, damn, friend, friend, are standing next - Where? - Right next to yours Ok, I call to report that I'm really a real ghost, - Can you see it? - I can not see Dude, this right there Wait and turn around to give you a better look - Tell us where fetch - Ok, I'm walking on the edge ,,, Oscar, Oscar, Oscar What are you doing? - He missed the call - Call it again - Hello - I'll turn around, where we find for ,,, Haha, this is the voice message but if you have cute tits as the mother of Jordi leave a message - Turn around and we pick - Yes Listen friend, are imagining things That is not happening, calm down You know what happened, just olvdatelo Find it or I will Hey Mahia Maybe we should go look for Oscar maybe we should They have a flashlight Oh, you're going to have fun with it Here you have one, and another here think - Have fun - You do not want to come with us, do you? Someone should stay here in case back Yes, what if you stay here and we will hunt Have fun friends Good luck linking This is so wrong - Ahh, found something - Yes How about this? - Bebe - No, no, listen This is a classic, you have to know - I like - Please, you're killing me here You will kill you, you know? - What? - Smoking Are you okay ?, okay? What is happening? Are you okay? What the fuck? Try to stay calm, okay? Have got cold? Just for a minute but it will warm Do you smell something? - Nafta - Turn it off O no, Oscar! Wake friend! Come on, let You have to take him to a hospital, we It works, it works! Jordi not know what that means Damn shit! unknown number You are more adorable than your friend What? What happened? - Mahia? - O my God Emilia Where is? It's in the car, was an accident Oscar is in the trunk, is dead - Get him, we have to remove - Leave - He still may be alive - There he is, he's dead Hey, help - Help - Stop! - Hello - What the fuck? Hello! Hello! Jordi, he is no longer Where is? It was right here Oscar! You know, I can not believe you - This is so wrong - That's a horrible joke, you stink - We do not lie - Ok, then where is it? - Toby! - Emilia wait! - Do not be lying in this - I do not know what to believe - Believe us, it's not a fucking joke - Well, I'm going to find my brother - Emilia expected - Toby! - Alto have to go back to the car, he knows where is the car - We were going to find long time ago - Ok, Where? - I should find where leave - Alto need to return the car, because Oscar ,,, - We need to understand what happens - I need to find my brother look - Mahia do you do? - There was a light out there - What light? - I thought I saw the light of Toby Mahia for I do not know what you saw, but I saw a light I have to pee Go behind that bush, fast Ok, I'll give them this humorous The vagus no baby Dude, fuck Ok, I'm standing in the middle of Lemon Tree ,,, No, I can not see I'll stop there and see if I can see better Ok, I'm going to the edge of the forest ,,, Hear this, is Oscar - Where did you get it? - Squeeze play I play it! this broken - You know what, I'm so tired of - It was Oscar and someone was hurting Mahia, we are all tired and scared Sometimes it may affect your mind - I do not suppose ,,, - Shut up Help! Where does? - Toby, Toby! - Emilia Help! Son Toby shoes Toby! Nooooo! Run Toby! Ok, stop Damn! So what Oscar said the type of the bike It is not real But I saw Tell us the story again A guy they passed up on a motorcycle, by a bunch of guys, It is a warning not to go fast Fear of missing 19 year old girl November 26, that's today O my God Why do we pursue? It's a stupid story, is not looking for us But how do you know? You're tired Why not rest It's the wrong story Alto! What the fuck is wrong with you Make it stop Let's go back to sleep probably doing the same as before Who's there? Who's there? Sal or I'll blow your head Your brother is here She will kill him To, to, for She is here She is here - Who? - You know No no no, stop, stop Stop, stop, do whatever you want You're dead She was in the closet, I was scared ,,, Look! Let She went to the closet yesterday also Mahia! Mahia! Mahia! Mahia no! Do Not! Bring the rope trunk Let Let If you loose, you promise not to scream promise Help! Dress You saw what you did Let O my God Sam Sam Sam! What are you doing? Keeping you watched I can not believe Are you going to tell you why you're here? O my God Why the fuck are you here? Do you want to talk Let's try this I'm here looking for Jordi So, why the hell are you here? Here! O my God, you're crazy Jordi, Jordi Okay, I will, I will Let me go! Please, let me go I left mine up! Come on, I aguntatelo Te I have Ok, let's go - Where is Emilia? - She is ,,, Come on, let She was here Emilia! - Wait, I saw something down there - What? I do not know, a vision or something - Come - No, listen, we're not safe I'm fine, Emilia it is not ok, this girl Brought here What is happening to us happened to her Do Not! Listen, listen Police are looking for this girl who was lost a nightclub on Saturday November 26 On November 26, it is now Do not have time for this It's her! If you do not find Emilia O my God, you're right Jordi Jordi I saw your car on the road brother I found your American friend Jordi What is that? It's music - What the fuck is Sam doing here? - Huh? This is Sam's car Well, it could not have gone far Mahia Emilia! - Mahia - Emilia! O my God Are you okay? What the fuck happened? O my God, Sam We have to go from here, he has a gun Jordi destala You'll be fine, I promise Come on, hurry up I can not check the car for a knife Be right back l - I can not see - Did not you see? - We are following - Look! I was put colder? It's in the car, was an accident Have fun friends Do not you dare - Help - Nooo! no Emilia Wake up please Let - Nooo! - Curse Nooo, nooo No, please Jordi Come on, let You are viewing Do you like it? What? Nothing to say Your friend was much more talkative Okay Can you see this? Am I not crazy? Right? You can see You can feel Perhaps it is sharper than I remember Mahia I'm Jordi Mahia Mahia is a weird name I like What you did to Oscar? The same thing will happen to you Well, a little different That was more gaseous Would you rather be strangled? Having something in your throat? Cry a little I see, I see Who are you? ok - What do you want? - Spit Sam! What the fuck are you doing here? hello Became old Buu No, no, no Your brother and I have known long ago Do not listen to Friend I am offended It is very rude to forget anniversaries 5 years, how much is that? Tuvi, tavi, tuo That is not appropriate What is speaking Sam? Yes, Sam Better tell what's going on Fuck Let my It was a dark and stormy night And you killed me! Were not you listening to my story? - I said it was a dark and stormy night - What are you talking about? - It's nothing - Nothing? Just a bit of fun I want to hear you say ok All Right We are waiting You ruined my life Did I ruin your life? That's an idea I never had a hearing before a final Did you enjoy the lights? If instead you're dead I like that I really enjoy telling stories I'm so glad you came Did you bring me a present? Sam, you have to give Why? I can kill you too I do not expect to be fast or something I love surprises say so We will do it a little easier for you I'll turn And contare for 5 5 ,,, Sam, what are you doing? 4 ,,, You can not bury this Sam 3 ,,, Jordi, close your eyes now No, no, what are you doing? 2 ,,, - I'm sorry - I told you ,,, let him What have I done? Mahia? Do Not Who? Sam did Are you okay? What happened to me? Was not you I do not understand Why is it ,,? He ended
