 

                        Comfort and gladness You give me joy Hey, one, two, three! Whoa! Yeah! We're singing out to him Sing with me now! Yeah Singing is the way we Way we celebrate Freedom to express ourselves in every single way I can't help but let out... ...every song I feel inside Do your dance, it's your chance Let it shine Sing of your love Love Your love - Oh, come make a joyful noise - Make a joyful noise Come and rejoice Joice - Make a joyful! - Oh, come make a joyful noise Yeah... I didn't... Come make a joyful noise I know you feel it Jam rock soul Joyful noise giving the feeling I can't control Way down, deep in my soul Top let back with my beat down low Turn it up No need to be under The boom in my bass will rock you like thunder So make way for the joy when it rains Down with the sound of greatest in the game Sing of your love Love - Oh, come make a joyful noise - Oh, come make a joyful noise Come and rejoice Joice - Oh, come make a joyful - Come sing with me A joyful noise Come make a joyful - A joyful - A joyful noise! Come make a joyful noise Cyrus, why do you want to embarrass me? That's not what I want to do. Then what was that nonsense out there? When I appointed you choir director, I assumed your talent would be used to sing praises to the Lord. Well, I know, Dad. That's why it was a gospel rap and not, you know, something inappropriate. Any rap is inappropriate as far as I'm concerned. Rap is the devil's music, and does not belong in a house of worship. Honey... We will not have this discussion again. Yes, sir. Kris, you know I'm comin' through with the hot beats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, who's rappin' tonight? Bling? Again? Man, I can't stand him! Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Yo, let me get on this. I'll see you at the club. Man, no, I don't have to sneak out. All right, I'm my own man. Hey, people don't know, but my rap game is tight, too. I just, you know, I keep it on the low. We always enjoy you, Kris. We should get together sometime, you know, and keep this whole vibe going. Anytime. Nope, nice to meet you, I'm Cyrus, Kris' invisible friend since kindergarten. Oh, my bad, man. Did you wanna meet those honies? No, I wasn't interested anyway. They're not my type. Wait, "fine" is not your type? No, I just want a girl who's about something a girl who has substance. A girl I can take to the Atlanta Jazz Museum. You feel me? No, I don't. Forget them, all right. There are plenty of honies in here. Cy, what up with the new beats, bro, did you hook me up? Yeah! Got it right here. - My man. Catch you later. - All right. Cyrus, quit dogging! Oh, Levi. Sorry, I got caught up. Yeah, come on, get these tables bussed. I'm on it. Hey, bro. You think you could play this for me, please? - Yeah, all right. - Yes! Thank you. Sure. AH right! Welcome to Club Off The Street. The coolest place to hang and be on the street. I'm your boy Levi and you know how we do it every week. So let's go from rhythm to rhyme as we crown this month's rap king! All right! We started with eight. Now we're down to two. Give it up for newcomer, Da Boss. And returning champ from last month and the month before that, Lord of Da Bling. - You're going down. - Nah! You're gonna get it. The party's goin' wild Tonight's the night Come on, come on This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go, let's go The party's goin' wild Tonight's the night Come on, come on This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go, let's go Yeah, they call you Da Bling But your jewels looks spoiled Your platinum chain looks like aluminum foil Your hat's too small 'cause your head's too big The hair under your arm's like a real big wig Stop, quit, Bling retire Your breath's so bad that your face needs a shower A marathon wash Two or three hours The roof of your mouth Your mouth is on fire It's about to go down Come on! Come on, come on! It's about to go down Put your hands in the air It's about to go down They call you Da Boss But you have no wealth No employees You should fire yourself And your pants so tight that you can barely move You're a bum that says, "I'll rap for food" You're an actor dude with an attitude I'm the streets' theme song You're an interlude Gonna put you on a plate Watch you get chewed They should call you a ghost the way you get booed The party's goin' wild Tonight's the night Come on, come on This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go, let's go The party's goin wild Tonight's the night - Come on, come on - This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go! Lights off, lights off Anything you can do, I can do better Bring it when you want to I'm ready whenever - Show me what you got - Come on! - I'll show you what I got - Come on! Will you rock or roll The winner takes all Lights off, lights off, lights off, lights off Lights off, lights off, lights off, lights off Lights off, lights off Come on, come on Lights off, lights off Come on, come on Lights off, lights off Come on, come on Lights off, lights off Come on, come on I know I'm ready and able But I'm stuck here bussing all these tables I could show I got what it takes But I already used my 15-minute break I'm working for minimum wage when I should be up on the stage Feel like I'm in a cage I need to turn the page 'Cause the other guys are fake I could leave the crowd amazed The party's goin' wild Tonight's the night Come on, come on This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go, let's go Gentlemen, round two! I'm bling like my watch so let's get it tockin' Your clothes are full of holes like your granny's ripped stockings Your style is old, not a good look Watch Da Boss get burnt like the food she cooks Bling, I think you need a shower I hear you scream But your odor's much louder No, that's the sound of victory Now do your day job and get my car for me Ooh! Lt is over! The party's goin' wild Tonight's the night Come on, come on This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go, let's go The party's goin' wild Tonight's the night Yo, yo, come on This club is on fire, put out your lights Let's go, let's go All right, all right. Now this is how we do it here on our street. It's summer break so we give kids the beats to keep them off the streets. And Bling is still king! Wait! And one more thing. I will be takin' home the crown at the Rap Grand Slam this year! All of Atlanta will know who Bling from Midtown is. Midtown, stand up! Let's go, let's go! I'm sorry. Yeah, you are sorry. You messed up my new shoes, stupid. You lucky you didn't do it while I was spitting my hot rhymes. It wasn't that hot. What? No, he did not just call me out! Listen up, y'all We got a brain to find 'Cause this whippersnapper's done lost his mind I'm getting rich off my words But now I'm getting challenged by "revenge of the nerds" Whoa! Is that the best you can do? "Revenge of the nerds"? I mean, come on, man. That's just way too easy. You got some basic skill, I'll give you that. But you ain't all that with the rhymes. Oh. Oh, really, Mr. Nerd? So what you really trying to say? I can come up five better, and more clever ways that you could've dissed me. Five? Please! In your dreams. One, I'm tripping literally I should be dish-washing Cause I got bow-legged knees and often they be crossin' Go ahead and ask my bosses They'll tell you that I'm clumsy I'll probably fall into your fist so you won't have to punch me Yeah! Clean it up! Let's go, baby! Come on. Two, I'm vegetarian So I don't want no beef You floss expensive jewelry I floss my crooked teeth I sing in church choir My daddy is a reverend I tried to be a gangster, but my curfew was 11:00 Three, I drive my Vespa through the streets And wear my helmet proud Do my homework every night And then come here to this rowdy crowd I signed up for the battle Filled in all the basics But when they saw that it was me They put me on the wait list Four, I run from bullies in the streets I don't know how to fight I don't throw lefts or rights I just left and sprinted right I'm skinny, y'all Scrawny arms and a tiny chest Shoot, I could hide behind that pole if I just hold my breath Five, my apron looks like a dress I should twirl around like a pretty princess I'm not a busboy, I'm a waitress But I can't get the drinks right Taste test Let me buy another round for your guest My hands got sweaty and I lost my grip My shoes don't fit They're hand-me-downs From the Salvation Army right downtown When I walk into the room, the lights go down I'm so ugly, Mom won't hug me And that's 10 better disses than you I beat myself Something you couldn't do Really? Really? Yo, yo, everybody! It seems as if Urkel over here thinks he's a pretty clever rapper. Yeah, pretty clever. So, I'm calling him out. Urkel, Urkel, Urkel, Urkel, Urkel, Urkel. Yo, Cy, don't worry about that clown. That fake jewelry is gonna put a rash around his neck. He straight-up embarrassed me. One day he'll get his payback. But seriously, Cy, what's your deal, man? 'Cause I know you got the dope rhymes in the notepad. I don't know. It's just... It's different when I'm writing songs by myself. I can't do all that up on the stage when everyone's watching me. Cy. All you need to do is get your flow tight, get some new phat gear, work on your stage presence, hit the gym a lil' bit, get a haircut, moisturize that ashy skin, and if you put some zit cream on that forehead, you'll be straight, dude! I'm telling you. Oh, and then I'll be straight? - Yo, show's on. Come on. - All right, bro, turn it on. Welcome to Eb&Flo, the best urban music showcase on the planet. I'm Ebony Wright. And I'm Florida Ortiz, and we are here tonight with Roxie! - That's our girl! - That's our girl! Dang, man, she is looking fine! Dude, just think, we were all in third grade together. She was missing a front tooth, remember? She's not missing anything now. We're here to talk to Roxie about her new video. What's up with this group criticizing your music and how you look in the video? What else should! wear, a parka? So I put on a little somethin'. It's not a crime. Oh, it's criminal. Rumor has it that you and Atlanta Records are working on a hot new project. That's right! You make it, we break it. It's a contest where one amateur artist will get their song produced by my record label and made as a video for On The Beat. Just send in a track and a recent photo and the winner will be announced live on EB&Flo. - You're so cool! - Right here! So, listen. What do you say to those wannabe stars out there who want to enter a song? Just keep it real and write from your heart. All right, okay! Now let's hear it for Atlanta's own Roxie! I'm gonna submit a song for the contest. - For real? - Yeah. I'm gonna win it. I don't know about all that. WW you say that? 'Cause I'm doin' a song for the contest, too. 'Bout to bust my rap skills out on you, son. Okay, we'll see who has skills. And that would be me. All right, bro, it's getting late. I'll catch you later? - You know it. - All righty. Peace. Her beauty's crazy I watch her from the crowd Her voice is so amazing She'd make her momma proud I tried to send her flowers But she has no address Her home is in my heart It's like she never left This is more than a crush More than a like-like More than a love Baby, imma make you mine And I ain't givin' up This is more than a crush More than a like-like More than a love Baby, imma make you mine And I ain't givin' up Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Normally I couldn't turn your head That's why I had to write this instead Let's be friends Start out slow Get to know you beyond your glow You're more than meets the eye Girl you're pterodactyl fly Way back when you knew my name Tell the truth is what I claim. Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Oh, no. Now, we were talking about my generation, now I wanna talk about today's youth. Today's youth... Door needs some oil. Amen! It's nice to see my son, our choir director, is almost on time for church. But almost don't cut it in the kingdom of God, do it? - Amen! - I heard ya, I heard ya! Today's youth. They say they're not in church 'cause it's too early on Sunday and they're too tired. Well, guess what? I'm tired, too. - Amen! - I heard ya! Tired of being blasted by harsh language out of car stereos. I heard ya! Tired of seeing our girls with their shorts and their skirts too high. Tired of looking at our boys wearing their pants too low. But most of all, I'm tired of rap and them rap clubs keeping our kids out so late on Saturday night that they can't get up early on Sunday morning and go to church 'cause they're too... Tired! You all know what place I'm talking about, too. That place downtown. And don't you all let them fool you into believing that it's a good thing. It keeping our kids safe, and "off the streets. " What I am sure about is that I wouldn't let my son or daughter support something as blasphemous as that club, and neither should you. People, we gotta come together as a community and eliminate the harmful influences of hip-hop and end the powerful grip it's got on our children. - You're right. - Yeah. Young women gotta stop being video vixens and start being valedictorians. Come on, man! Amen! Young men gotta stop being gangstas and start being graduates. Young people gotta turn off that stereo and turn on G-O-D! Ah-ha! G- O-D. Uh-huh! G- O-D. Uh-huh! G- O-D. Uh-huh! That's ridiculous. Don't Run Away by Truth. Wait, I know these guys! Hey, we went to grade school together! Oh, really? Let me see. Wait, I need that magazine you're trying to hide from me. - It's nothing. - Lyla, come on! Let me see. Don't worry about the critics, they get paid to criticize. But I'm sick of them saying I'm hiding my real voice just 'cause I use a vocoder. I mean, lots of other artists use it. Why do they have to pick on me? Because you're a star, and you're hot. And that, my friend, is all by design, thank you very much. Lyla, you've done a great job getting me to where I am, but, you know, a little respect would be nice, too. Mm-mmm. Do not use the "R" word with me. That is for indie artists playing the underground circuit who have a message, and no per diem. Sweetie, you know I love and respect you. And not just because I told your dad that I would take care of you on the road. You're right. So, do we have a winner of your contest or what? Yes. This one is good. So, he calls himself Truth and it's real music and it says something. Plus, it's so cool that these are my boys from back in that day. He's cute! And he can rap? Looks like we do have ourselves a winner. Hello, Truth! Excuse me. We're from On The Beat. A rapper named Truth won our contest and gave Off The Street as his address. - Know where I can find him? - Never heard of him. - Oh, he's right there! - Hey, what's up, sweetie? On The Beat is in the house! What's up! EB&Flo is here at Off The Street. We are in Atlanta to reveal our big contest winner. You submitted a song to On The Beat's contest. Right? Yeah. Most definitely. Well, since you decided to make it... - ... we're gonna break it! - ... we're gonna break it! Yeah! This is incredible, yo! So you won the rap contest? Yeah, son! Can you believe it? I guess, if that's what they said. You're happy for me, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, why wouldn't I be? I just didn't get a chance to hear your song. Oh. That's because I made it last minute and just threw it in the mail. So, how's it feel to be rap's next big superstar? Hypothetically speaking, of course. I can only speak English, so... He's too much. Well, however you spoke, it was good enough to win. And now it's time for you to meet your new biggest fan. - Roxie! - Roxie! Hi, hi! Hey! Kris and Cyrus, I can't believe this! Believe it, baby. - Kris, you look great. - Thanks. And, Cyrus, you look the same. I mean exactly like you did in third grade. Thanks, I guess. But you, you look better than ever. I mean, not like you didn't look good before. I'm just sayin' now you're just like all this... I mean, not like all this. I mean, I don't mean it like that. I mean, some people here might think that, but I knew you back when you were in kindergarten so it's... Just, here! And grown up, but just... I'm just saying you look awesome. Thank you. So, congratulations on your success winning the contest. Thank you. Your song was amazing, it really touched my heart. And I may be crazy, but I felt like you made it about me. Oh, fa'sho. Yeah, yeah, you were most definitely what I'm rappin' about. Roxie! Roxie! Roxie! Y'all need to quit! I think your fans want to hear a song, right? Yeah! No, I really wasn't expecting this. Come on! But, if you insist. Okay! Okay! Okay, here we go-oh Gather all around, you don't wanna miss this show If you don't know It's about to get serious A Miss Roxie experience My energy can make you delirious Take a chance if you're curious Follow my lead, up outta yo seat We're about to P-A-R-T-Y Y'all ain't seen nothin' like this Ultimate non-stop excitement My pyro technique is about to blow-oh-oh your mind It's curtain call, the stage is set Spotlight's on You ain't seen nothin' yet This moment is something that you won't forget Oh, no, you won't, because I'm saying that I'm something you gotta see right now It's the only place that you wanna be right now I'm gonna make some magic That's what I said I can be anything, like a chameleon I'm one in a million It's gonna be dramatic That's what I said That's what I said Okay! Okay! That's what I said, that's what I said That's what I said See a party ain't a party without me, the element And anybody who's anybody be yellin' it And when they can't even scream, they be spellin' it That I be getting it hype There's no comparison I don't mean to sound conceited or even arrogant Is it the way that I sing or my appearance that Be havin' them sayin' ya girl got a mad flow And now they following my swag like a shadow Oh, so gather round, gather round now 'Cause I'm about to break it down, break it down now There's too much room to be standing around We ought to be shaking the building, feet stamping the ground I'm saying that I'm something you gotta see right now It's the only place that you wanna be right now I'm gonna make some magic That's what I said Yeah, I can be anything, like a chameleon I'm one in a million It's gonna be dramatic Hey! That's what I said That's what I said Hey! That's what I said That's what I said Hey! That's what I said That's what I said Thank you, thank you! Thank you, love y'all! But please, give it up for our new rising rap star! What up, y'all? He keeps it so real, he calls himself 'Truth'! - Truth! Truth! Truth! - Truth? They got my name wrong. No, I'm Kool Kris. Who in the heck is Truth? That's me. I'm Truth. What? Well, why are they saying that you won when I did? - That photo I sent in. - What photo? I sent in a photo of both of us. They probably thought that you were Truth. They made a mistake. Sol really didn't win nothin'? No. I mean, no, you didn't. Man! I guess we gotta straighten this out, then. Yo, On The Beat, what you want with this wannabe? You need a sick rapper, not a sucker MC I'm like a pit bull and he's a puppy A candle-lighting, incense-burning spoken-word-reading yuppie, a rookie And plus his flow is garbage, sucky Guaranteed ain't nothing gonna touch me. Kris, don't even lower yourself to his level, okay? Truth is better than that, right? Roxie. Roxie, please, just don't. Now look who's talkin' Roxie, the diva She's got him on a leash like a golden retriever Standing over this under-achiever She says he's the truth Well, I'm not a believer It's time to go. Time for us... Let's go. I'm gonna tell her, all right, bro? All right. What you staring at, Opie? Man! I mean, who knew my homeboys both had talent. I mean, you with the fly tunes, and now Kris is the king of rap? I mean, come on, who knew? Kris isn't the king of rap. I mean, there must have been some kinda mix-up. The song that won the contest is mine. I just sent in this photo with both Kris and me in it, and I guess they thought Kris was Truth, 'cause he's tall. That's messed up. But, you gonna tell Roxie the truth? Yeah. Kris is about to tell her right now. Hold on a second. Yo, can I talk to you for a sec? Yeah, what's up? All right, look, we been boys a long time, all right? And you know that I don't usually let one woman tie me down. But with Roxie, man, I don't know, I mean, she loves my flow. I mean, your flow. But when she looks at me, she sees somethin' in me. You know, like I'm deep. And I ain't never been "deep" before. Because you're not. I know, but Roxie don't know that. Look, I just wanna see where things go between me and her. So you gotta think of somethin', man. Please. Okay. She likes you because she thinks you're Truth. Okay. So why don't we just keep letting her think that? But, how do we pull that off? I'll teach you my flow. I'll stay in the background. I'll be your DJ, so if anything goes wrong I can try to think of something on the fly. We just... We really gotta keep this under wraps. Snap! Man, that is it! Cy, you're a genius, baby! Yeah! Stay cool. Hey, so, I gotta take off. But, Kris, Lyla says you need to re-record the song for the video, so maybe I'll see you at the studio tomorrow. I'll be there, fa'sho. I forgot to tell you, Cyrus here is my DJ. He produced my track and everything so he's going to be rollin' wit' me. Cool? Yeah. Wow. You did some really nice work on the track, Cyrus. Thanks. Okay. So I guess I'll see both of you tomorrow. Mos def. I cannot wait for the day to end so it'll be tomorrow. I'm just going to go to bed now. Night, bro. Yeah. This is pretty huge. Now come on, we're gonna be late. What? Go, go! All right, I'm a little nervous, okay. I need to record your song, but I don't sound like you. So you need to record it. But if Roxie and Lyla are in the studio with us, they'll see it's you. This conundrum is just now hitting you? This is not a condominium, bro. It is a studio, and we need to think fast. Okay, you can copy my style. You just gotta feel it. Just feel it? Yeah. All right? Just gotta rock wit' it. Okay. Im rocking It's time to rap, it's time to roll Time to rap like you never rapped befo' Here we go... Yo! I'm 'bout to rap I like cats, do you like cats? I'm getting money Jump higher than a bunny I'm getting money... This ain't gonna work, is it? You're late! I knew you'd be late from the minute I met you. You got that "late, no watch-wearin"' kinda look, suspenders all dangling. Roxie is late. My engineer is late. I have to be downtown in 20 minutes, otherwise my whole day is shot. Which is not gonna happen 'cause everybody is late. That is perfect! No, I mean it's perfect that I can work alone with my DJ slash engineer. That way I can get into the zone and flow. You're an engineer? Yes. He is highly qualified. What studios have you worked in? - He's worked all... - I'm gonna need you to... Okay? Yes, ma'am. What studios have you worked in? Only one in my room, really. But, I can show you what I can do. He's great, I promise. Sixty-four tracks on this board. But if you know what you're doing you can get a good sound out of 24. But if you don't want an inexperienced kid like me who charges half what your regular engineer makes, I understand. Wait. Hold on. Hold on, hold on. I'll give you a chance, but if you damage anything in here, anything, you'll never work in this town again. You understand me? She is just scary. Let's get to work. They say true love is blind That real romance is timeless You're like my favorite movie Play it, don't rewind it 'Cause, baby, you're the finest Your love, I'm gonna find it And when I do, I'll run away with you Somewhere where they can't find us Yo, it's Roxie. Lay low, she didn't see you. Stay right here. - Hey. Hey... - Hey! I hope I didn't interrupt. But I heard you from outside, you sounded great. Oh, thanks. I'm just gettin' warmed up. I bet when you play it back you can't even believe it's you. You can say that again. I remember my first time. It was like I was hearing somebody else's voice. I know exactly what you mean. So did you really write that song about me? Come on, girl. What you think? I think, if this blows up like I expect, people will be looking for another song. Another song? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Maybe when I record my next CD we can make some music together. Yeah. Yeah, baby. I thought you'd never ask. Great. Then let me hear you freestyle. Freestyle? Like, right now? Yeah. Here, I'll give you a beat, you drop something hot. Make it intelligent and romantic. You know how you do. Intelligent, romantic, right. Here goes. Girls love me 'cause I'm so pretty I got babes in every city LA, DC and Cincinnati The tall ones, the short ones, even the uglies Gotcha! I'm messing with you, girl. Well, stop playing. Speak from your heart. Hey, Kris, repeat after me. If I speak from my heart, I'm afraid it'll be broken. "If I speak from my heart, I'm afraid it'll be broken. " I'm scared what you'd say about the words I have spoken. "And I'm scared what you'd say about the words I've spoken. " I'd rather make you laugh and act like I am jokin' than tell the truth about the feelings that you have awoken. "I'd rather make you laugh and act like I am jokin', "than tell you the truth about my feelings you've awoken. " Oh. Sorry. Excuse me. Yes! That was awesome, Cy. Did you see the way she looked at me? We were really vibing out there, man. Oh, and she said I can rap on her next CD. What? You said you'd rap on her next CD? Are you nuts? Yeah, look, I'm sorry about that, man. I got caught up in the moment. But now I got Roxie on the ropes. Kris, what are you doing in there? It's easier for me to talk to you like this. Yeah, but now you sound funny. Come on. Come back out. I like hearing how you feel. Don't be shy. It's hard for me to say how I feel in person. Just let my words caress you. What are you doing? Can I tell you something now that I have your attention? Now that you've got my hopes up. Please tell me. You wanna know the truth. Check it out. How should I describe you? Sweeter than Godiva But your thoughts go deeper than a scuba diver Whether you're in sweat pants or dressed in Prada You can make me dizzy like a race car driver I wanna take you to a party Hold your hand and show off to everybody Me, I could be in jeans and a hood 'Cause you're so fine you make me look good You're the passion in my life You're the secret I can't hide There will come a day I can't wait to say you belong to me Girl, and if! let you know tonight It will be all right, I bet You don't know it yet, but, baby, you belong to me You've been looking for the one I've been looking for a dime Maybe we can both find it at the same time I'm blinded by ya shine You're kinda like the sun 'Cause the world revolves around you till my day's done I tried to say something But you had me speechless I had to hit the booth to tell my secrets See, I could spit a line But it's more than my words How can I describe what an angel deserves? You're the passion in my life You're the secret I can't hide There will come a day I can't wait to say you belong to me Girl, and if I let you know tonight It will be all right, {bet You don't know it yet, but, baby, you belong to me Wow. That's the most beautiful song I've ever heard. Yo, I think she's falling for me. You really are amazing. You mean me. Nice job, son. Kris, I'm coming in to see you. Yo, switch spots. Quick. - There you are. - I'm all yours. Ready to go again? Oh, hey, Roxie! Hey, Cyrus. I didn't know you were there. Story of my life. Let's go again. Precious Lord Come on, take my hand Oh, lead, lead me on Lead me... Hey, sorry I'm late. Sorry. Thanks, Ma. Thanks, Ma. I got it. Oh. Honey, I was just teaching them Precious Lord. Got it. Okay, well, then, here you go. Just carry on. Thank you. Hey, Cyrus, a few of us were talking earlier and, you know, we were wondering, could we spice up the song a bit like when we did with Joyful Noise? That's not possible. Just gonna stick to the basics. Let's take it from the top. Hey! What are you doing? Just doing some different things with this new track. It's a duet for you and Kris. Did Kris ask you to do that? Did he ask me to do what? Cyrus is working on a duet. Is that what you wanted? Yeah. For sure. So let's hear it. So it starts off with you, strong and soulful, and then the staccato of Kris' rhyme will come in hard with the counterpoint. Now I'll drop out the hi-hat, bring up the harmonies... It'll be just like The Beatles' All You Need Is Love. Yeah, man. See, that's what I told you to do yesterday. And it's about time he got it right. That track is hot! Nice work. And I love The Beatles. Oh, me, too. Yeah, that's my favorite group. Really? What's your favorite album? You know, the Greatest Hits. You are too cute. Well, I was thinking for this track, the two of you actually have a conversation. Like, talk back and forth throughout the song. I'm telling you, once we're done with that track, - it's going to be beautiful. - I feel you, man. Hey, team, I like what I'm hearing. Conrad, great work on the board. CY"- Is! And my future star, Truth. I think we're going to update your wardrobe a little bit. Okay, go with me, Justin Timberlake meets Usher with just a dash of will.i.am. Cool, I'm down with that. Great, 'cause I got big plans. For real? Talk to me. I just got off the phone with The Rap Grand Slam people, and they're looking for a headline act. What? Yes! I can't believe this. I mean, that's cool, I'm the headline at Grand Slam. A, don't touch me. B, what, are you insane? No, Roxie's gonna be the headline act. Not you. Oh. What? The Grand Slam wants me? That's right. You seem surprised. Well, you know, they usually go for more traditional soul vocalists. She means real singers. No, I mean real old-school singers, not new, hot and flashy singers such as yourself. Well, I made a few phone calls, stroked a few egos and I convinced them that Roxie, here, is going to help boost their ticket sales. I don't know, Lyla. I mean, The Grand Slam audience isn't very forgiving. They don't care how many CDs you've sold, you just better be good. Yeah. And you will be. Yo, yo, yo! Yo! What's up? We gettin' busy or what, yo? You know it! Okay. Okay, who are you guys? Oh, these are the dancers for my video. Dancers? Oh, you came to work? Levi, I should've called. Yeah, you should have. I had a full house last night. Sorry. I forgot and I fell asleep. Just in a really weird zone. - Weird zone, huh? - Yeah. Is this about that girl, Roxie? No. No. I mean, why would you say that? Just look at you, your shoulders are all slumped, you're lookin' all lost and pitiful. That girl's got your nose wide open. Is it that obvious? Yes, it is. Yes, it is. Did you tell her the truth? That you're Truth? Not exactly. What does that mean? Well, Kris is into her and he asked me if I would help him hook up with her. So, for now, Roxie is going to think that Kris is Truth. What? Man, that is just dumb! No. Listen, now you tell Kris that you were feelin' her first and he needs to back on up! I can't do that. I mean, me and Kris been homies since we were, like, five years old. I don't wanna be a hater. All right, Cyrus, there's nothing wrong with you tryin' to be a good friend to Kris. But if you use that as an excuse to not man-up because you're afraid you might get rejected? Okay, I can understand that, too. But you can't live like that forever. Ah, yeah, I thought so. You won't tell your daddy you work here because he won't approve. You freeze up when Bling gets in your face and it's time for you to get up on that stage. And then you get tongue-tied when it comes to telling Roxie how you feel. A girl like Roxie would never go for a guy like me. I mean, look at me and look at Kris. He's cool, good-looking, got that swagger. And I'm like wallpaper in a hoody. Kris is a perfect match for Roxie. Hey, that's not true. You just got to speak up for yourself and be who you really are. Who am I really? You're Truth! Oh. Yeah. And Truth is a bad cat! He is? Yeah! Truth won the Atlanta Records rap contest. He got skills. He's smooth. He got that sound. And you know what? That's you. I guess that is me. Yeah, but Roxie wouldn't know it. I mean, how can you or Kris even call yourselves "Truth" when y'all both are just living one big lie? I guess that's a valid question. Look, I gotta go. You need to figure out what it is you want and then do somethin' about it. Lock up when you leave. They say I'm young But my purpose is the inspiration of a nation Innovation, till I change the talk into a conversation I'm like a doctor and my patients are anxiously waiting Healing all the hating That faking and the paper chasin' It's hard to live up to these expectations that I'm facin' And gain the admiration of an older generation That's why I'm pacin' back and forth Contemplating, meditating How to use what I've been taught as a positive force - Oh, this is who I am - It's all me, ya 'H I wish you'd understand I've been freed, ya 'Il It's time to set me free My guardian angel - No, no matter what I do - They try and stop me - I'm still a part of you - But they can't stop me I hope you'll always be My guardian angel S'up, Atlanta? It's ya boy, Truth. I wanna be the greatest in the world Not for the money or the fame or the girls Not for the car keys or the jet skis Or the vacations in the West Indies But simply 'cause I love it When I write I'm like a puppeteer Puffin' my string til! the melody sings And the honesty makes me spread my wings Calling me out was out your mind Send that thought back down your spine I'm on the grind, it's all on the line Road signs say both ways at the same time Most days I can't wait to rhyme Express my stress, elevate and shine Progress, regress each step's a climb So I take that test and! testify Of course he's late. They're open? I feel so misunderstood 'Cause my intentions were good If you could only see that poetry can hide in the hood The passion and philosophy of possibilities Every dream is in my reach I find my freedom in this beat Follow me now as I break new ground Swallow your pride I'll make you proud All of my life I've lived out loud We just preach to different crowds Cyrus? Roxie, what are you doing here? I came to meet Kris. You were just rapping. You sound just like Kris. Oh, that? No, that wasn't me. I was... This mic's not even on. See? I was just lip-synching. Lip-synching? Yeah, that's one of Kris' old tracks. I guess I'm not just his DJ, but I'm also his biggest fan. Wow! You might just be the best lip-syncher I've ever seen. Well, I do a lot of karaoke so I'm pretty good at it. What are you doing here? Well, I came to meet Kris so we could grab an early dinner, but he hasn't shown up. Great. He's not gonna make it. The car dropped me off here and I'm starving. Oh, that's too bad. But I haven't eaten. I don't know, maybe we can go grab something together, or not, I don't know what you were thinking, where your head was at. Which... I don't know, but I'm just saying. I mean, we could... It's up to you. Okay. - I like the way you handle yourself. - What do you mean? You know, when people like Bling and those journalists say stuff about you. Oh, that flattering article in Ether? Yeah, I mean, people think they know about music, but don't know a thing. Like that vocoder you use, just because it's the "in" thing. It's a choice. I can tell you can sing a lil' bit. A "lil' bit"? I mean, you ain't given me nothin' more than what I've heard on the radio, but I've got a good ear. Oh, really, Mr. DJ-Engineering Lip-Syncher? So, you got any other music besides your pop hits in your vault? Yeah, I've got a few special ones for those who can think outside the voice box. But Lyla says that vocoder's the "in" thing right now. And she really knows the business, so. Not everyone who sells uses one. Well, I mean, I know my voice is good, but I don't know if it's special. You know, to be just belting out tunes. I remember when you sang in church and you were like eight years old. You remember that? Yes, of course. The little girl with the big voice. You were awesome. I don't know about all that. Okay. Yeah, you were raw, but the voice was there. You've got a really great sound if you ever care to bring it out. That sounds like a challenge. It's more of a nudge. Maybe someday I can hear some of your other music. Maybe. Oh, it's raining. Is this bad? Do you wanna go inside? No, no! It's perfect. So, what kind of music do you like? Besides the obvious ones, R&B and Hip-Hop. What else do you love? Oh, Jazz, rock, country, salsa, gospel, reggae, opera. Opera? Oh, yeah. Pavarotti? He's the bomb. Bocelli, too. I also like female opera singers, like, Maria Callas... And Marian Anderson? Yeah! She's awesome! You like opera? I like great singers. Me, too! I don't know, I just like to be influenced by all kind of things when I rap. What? I mean, when I write for Kris. Yeah, I just think it brings more foundation to the sound. You know, every note says something. And when it's all strung together, they should tell their own story. Wow. You do know your music. That's funny. It seems like we have more in common than Kris and I. Hilarious. I liked Atlanta and all, but I was just so lost when my mom died. I think the whole neighborhood felt the loss when your mom passed. She was good people. Thanks. That's sweet of you to say. Hey, look! Come on, let's check it out. Hey, yo, yo, yo, here we, here we go, check it out. Call it. Heads. Yeah, let's see what you got. Check it out, y'all. Phantom come alive in the nighttime I spit freestyles I don't have to write rhymes Flow unrehearsed I spit a killer verse When it comes to your rhymes Uhh, they're the worst Your flow's sloppy Punch lines I brush 'em off me Yeah, I'm so cocky No way you could stop me Swag's through the roof Believe that's the truth How'd I know that? Yo, I'm livin' proof I just do what I do when I'm in the booth I've got a finer chick Hotter whip, sicker crew You just got lyrically smacked Better think twice before you try to clap back What? Okay. You like rap, huh? Only when it's real. Yo, why you gotta get up in my face, like an air bag Dude, your breath's bad You need to step back In fact forget that You need some gum, jack Plus a stylist 'cause you got no swag DJ's say your whack You wouldn't have rhymes if you stole my notepad And you can quote that, put it on a blog So everyone could read it I've never been defeated Free-styling is a competition sport And Rev is king Why's this fool on my court? It's not a battle It's more like a roast Grab a white sheet I turned phantom to a ghost And it's like that One time for your mind Revelation with the rhymes All right, all right, all right. Let's give it up for Phantom style! Yo, give it up for Revelation! - Yeah! - Yeah! Yo, that's what's up. Revelation takes it, remains undefeated. The question is, who thinks they have what it takes to bring him down? Man, I got this. Roxie? Oh, I see you out on the town with the geek. What? You come out on the street to battle, but you're too chicken to go up against me in the club? Whatever, man. What? Yeah. That's right. Can't stop, won't stop. Go on. Run away, little boy. Leave him alone. Rox. Mm-mmm-mmm. Sol hear you're headlining the Rap Grand Slam final. Which is great, so you can hand me my trophy, since you know I'm the only real artist performing that night. And, busboy here can bring along his dish rag and polish it up for me. Come on, let's go. Go. Busboy! Go! What was that all about? Nothing. He's just a jerk. So how's your mom and dad? They're good. My dad made me choir director so I'm at the church a lot. Look at you getting your praise on. I should come up there. It'd be great to see your parents. Yeah. Hey! - You made it. - Yeah. Think you could help me out? - I don't think that's a good idea. - Come on. I'll play your song. Same one you sang when you were eight years old. Remember? Just go to church with it. Okay. Ooh, yeah With reverence I enter into this holy place A home that's like no other Full of mercy, love and grace And though it's been a long time I've never felt that far 'Cause you were always on my mind And you were always in my heart So good to be home Where I know that I belong Inside this house of love with a family so strong And I'm here to worship and pour out my offering In the presence of his love I'm never alone It's so good to be home Yeah, yeah, yeah So good It's so good to be home And by faith we believe And proclaim our deepest love To give our everything Everything To a glow beyond us And when it's cold outside It's always warm right here Yeah It's so good to be home Oh, it's so good to be home Oh, yeah So good to be home, where I know that I belong Inside this house of love with a family so strong And I am here to worship and pour out my offering In the presence of his love I'm never alone It's so good to be home So good to be home Yeah Well, well, well. Praise to my son, Cyrus, for directing our wonderful Mighty Uplifting Youth Choir. Now, let's get to our word. As I look amongst you all... I said, as I look out amongst you all... I see many God-fearing, righteous souls. But, a few of us have lost their way. Many of us were raised the right way, but some of us just can't resist temptation. Now, I know you do a little prayer every now and then when things get a little dicey, but one day of praying won't erase all the years of betraying the goodness you was raised with. So, you see, the church, we can be forgiving. But even our patience can get thin. You see, you can't walk with the Devil on Monday, and then with the Lord on a Sunday. Yeah, yeah, see, yeah, you can't dance like a vixen, and then ask God to do the fixin'. You can't get all this made up and then don't want me to say, "Wake up. " God knows who does their living in hypocrisy. Or should I say hip-hop-crisy? Turn to your neighbor, say, "He talking to you, he talking to you. " - Turn to the other neighbor and say... - Roxie. Well, that sermon went well today. I think I deserve a little extra sofa time. I agree, dear. That is exactly where you need to be. Because that is where you are going to be sleeping tonight after what you did to poor Roxanne today. She's what's wrong with music today. I gotta practice what I preach, otherwise I will look like a fool in my own church. Honey, you look like a fool anyway, picking on that innocent girl in front of everybody. She didn't look so innocent in her videos. I don't wanna talk about this right now, hon. Fine. Not another word. Ooh. The sofa's too soft for my back. Dad, you slept on the sofa? No, no, I just fell asleep doing some work. It's no big deal. All right. Well, I gotta go. Okay. It's early. You scheduled a choir practice? Oh, no. I just have some errands to run. It's nothing. Later. - Honey? - Yeah? It's says here in the paper that Roxie's new rap artist is filming a music video today. And, you know, I am willing to bet that she's going to be there. Which means you can apologize to her. Today. Yeah. - What do you think? - Hi! Wow. Matching outfits? Styling, right? This, my friend, is hot. This, my friend, is not. I don't know there, Cyprus, I think Kris has his finger on the pulse. It's Cyrus. Rox. Hey. Look, I'm sorry about my dad yesterday. It's fine. He's entitled to his opinion just like everybody else. Yeah, but his opinion is wrong and unfair. I mean, he should never judge you like that. Rox, baby! You look fly as always. Thank you! And so do you. Hey, before I forget, I've got these two passes to this Middle Eastern art exhibit. They've got these great abstract and impressionist pieces, and it's tonight only. That sounds kind of deep and all, but America's Funniest Home Videos is having a four-hour marathon tonight. You know, the one with the dancing baby? He falls on his butt and then dog, like, rolls around with him? Yeah, I can't miss that. But, you know I would love to catch, you know, the next art situation. Kris, Kris, you really are the truth. I spoke to the folks at the Grand Slam, and I got them to agree to let you perform with Roxie. Yes, that's great! But the Grand Slam has a no lip-synch policy, so you're gonna have to perform the rap live. That's no problem. Don't worry about it. Great. Roxie, look what I got you. For the show! Aren't these hot? You're gonna rock it in these. What? No. They're, like, a foot tall. I could break my neck in those. Which is exactly why I got these! Knee pads. Fall down, bounce right back up. You'll be fine. Hey, Truth, can I talk to you for a second? Wassup? You have to rap live at the Grand Slam. What're you gonna do now? Bro, you got the good ideas. Think of something. I mean, after all, the ladies love me, the camera loves me, and Roxie loves me. You sure about that? What'chu mean? You're not turning into a hater or nothing like that, are you? Just trying to see where your head's at. That's all. Look, bro, all I'm saying is Roxie's a great girl and all, but I pretty much got the situation in the bag. I mean, after that video comes out, and this Fox thing happens, I'm gonna be on tour with all kinds of honies, you know, so I'm not really trying to be tied down. Wait, I thought you were serious about Roxie though. I am. For now. Kris, she's not like other girls. Dude, I know, but that's what I mean. All these girls, they are different flavors and the variety is what I like. You know, you can try a little burger, son. They got the ribs, the chicken fingers, and the shake. I want all that. Don't you? Come on, man. - Wassup, ladies? - Hi. All right, everyone, here we go. Rolling and playback! Her beauty's crazy I watch her from the crowd Her voice is so amazing She'd make her momma proud I tried to send her flowers But she has no address Her home is in my heart It's like she never left This is more than a crush More than a like-like More than a love Baby, imma make you mine And I ain't givin' up This is more than a crush More than a like-like More than a love Baby, imma make you mine And I ain't givin' up Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Normally I couldn't turn your head That's why I had to write this instead Let's be friends, start out slow Get to know you beyond your glow You're more than meets the eye Girl, you're pterodactyl fly Way back when, you knew my name Tell the truth is what I claim. Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Don't run away Don't run away from the truth 'Cause I'm not giving up on you Cut. But, hey, the lip-synch seemed a little off. Okay, want me to zoom in tighter? No! No, in fact, keep it wide when I'm rapping and only go tighter when I'm not. Okay? If you say so. All right. Cool. Hey. Hey. Man! The camera loves him. Is it just me or does he sound better than he looks? No argument there. So, things going pretty good with you and Kris? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it couldn't be better. Was that even believable? Not really, but I'll play it off if you do. Well, I mean, I just don't know why I feel like I can talk to you so easily, but not Kris. Okay, this is kind of hard for me to admit, but I'm not sure about myself. I mean, am I ready to be there for Kris? And be the girl he deserves? Wait. What are you saying? I'm saying Kris deserves somebody who's real. Am I even worthy enough to be his girl? Please tell me you're just kidding, or I'm gonna, like, throw up in my mouth. Excuse me. I'm looking for Miss Roxie. Ah. Dad! CY"- Is! What are you doing here? I'm here to apologize to Roxie. Roxanne, I'd like to apologize for my behavior in church on Sunday. My righteousness was sinful, and I'm sorry. It's okay. Cyrus, may I ask what business you have here? Listen, Cyrus, I need you to get to work. The place is a mess, and I'll never have it ready in time for opening. You work here? Yeah. But just part-time. The part where I'm not at the church. 'Cause that's my priority. How could you disrespect me like this, Cyrus? Do you know how this makes me look? This isn't about you, Dad, okay. It's about the music. It's what I'm good at. If I wasn't doing this I'd be disrespecting myself. We will continue this conversation in private. We're going home. And don't make me repeat myself. No. Excuse me? I'm not going. Levi needs me here. I have a job to do, and that would not be fair to him. Oh. We'll deal with this later. Well? I apologized to Roxanne. Oh, good. Now that was the right thing to do, Jacob. When I was there at the club, I saw Cyrus. Honey, he works there. - You found out. - What? You knew? We need to talk. Honey... Hey. You okay? Yeah. I think Dad's upset. I'm more than just upset. I'm disappointed. But you don't understand. I'm a songwriter. I don't care what you are. I don't care if Jesus himself told you to go up in that club and get a job. He was testing you. And you failed that test. Will you at least just look at it? Cyrus, not another word. From this point on, you're on punishment. You will not set foot in that club again. You're gonna work long, hard hours with the church choir the rest of the summer. - But, Dad... - That's all, Cyrus. Jacob! He's just trying to show you his songs. What kind of songs? Honey, does it matter? Your son wants to share a part of himself with you. Is it so important what genre of music it's in? Honestly! It's about time I figure out where I'm gonna go If you don't like what I decide, you gotta let it go I don't wanna be stuck in between just wasting my time So, give me, give me, give me, give me some room to breathe Yeah! Who I'm gonna be isn't up to you, it's up to me Where I'm gonna go I don't really know, it's a mystery If I don't do it my way I'll lose myself completely Yeah, who I'm gonna be isn't up to you, it's up to me Go ahead and try to box me in, but that would be a shame If you won't see what's underneath I gotta walk away So, give me, give me, give me, give me some room to breathe Yeah, yeah! Who I'm gonna be isn't up to you, it's up to me Where I'm gonna go I don't really know, it's a mystery If I don't do it my way I'll lose myself completely Yeah, who I'm gonna be isn't up to you, it's up to me Yeah, yeah, yeah! Gotta be me, gotta be free Or it doesn't mean anything Gotta be me, gotta be free Tell me, are you listenin'? Though I'm hearing what you say I gotta do it my own way Who I'm gonna be isn't up to you, it's up to me Where I'm gonna go I don't really know, it's a mystery If I don't do it my way I'll lose myself completely Cyrus? Come in. Hey. Oh, hey, Dad. I'm just reading the Old Testament. It's dope. 'Sup? Please don't use "dope" and "Old Testament" in the same sentence. - Right. Sorry. - Mm. Mm-hmm. Someone's here to see you. Hey. What are you doing here? Hey. Well, you disappeared on us. I had to come check up on you. Oh, I'm just laying low. You know, letting the storm pass. Yeah. Cyrus, I just need someone to talk to. Do you mind if we walk? I think better when I'm moving, you know. Yeah. Did you hear that idiot Bling made it into the finals? Yeah, I kinda figured he would be. The last thing I wanna do is share the stage with that jerk. So, things going well with you and Kris? That's what I wanted to talk to you about. - It's not going so good. - Really? I mean, really, that's unfortunate. Well, I just don't get him. I mean, Kris writes me amazing love songs, but when we're alone it's like he's somebody else. You don't say. It's like we don't really connect on a deep level. Like we see the world in totally different ways, and I just don't know what to do. I guess I just wish he and I connected more like you and I do. Well, you can't really force a connection, I guess. No, you can't. Hey, look! I love this song. When you appear All of my dreams are coming... So old school. You should do something with it. What? You know what I mean. Go to church with it. Record it. No. The label would never let me. Well, have you even asked? You have to put yourself out there, Roxie. Roxanne Andrews, the girl with the big voice from church. That's the voice that the whole world needs to hear. You're just being nice. No, I'm not. You have a gift, Roxie. You just got to step out there and show people what you can do. Show them that you're the real deal. Well, what about you, Mr. Lip-Syncher? Maybe it's time you turned on the mic. I gotta go, Kris is taking me to a jazz museum, which is by far the coolest place he's ever taken me. And, Cyrus, thanks for being there for me. Have you girls got tickets to the Grand Slam tomorrow? It's gonna be a slammin' show, starring me. I heard you're gonna rap live. That is so cool. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's the plan. Excuse me, I've gotta make a phone call. Yeah. Kris. Yo, Cy, just the man I need to see. 'Sup, baby. How was your date at the jazz museum? If you could just excuse me for one second. Yo, easy, son, there are other females here. You don't have an original idea in your whole body, do you? What's your problem? My problem is you playing with Roxie's emotions and getting her all messed up in the head with your nonsense. Well, hold up, preacher's boy. All right, you as much a part of this as me, so don't act all innocent. Yeah, I had my part in this, and now I'm starting to regret it. Listen, you need to chill out and get wit' me about this Grand Slam show tomorrow. We in this together, Cyrus, like it or not. And I got a little plan that makes sure my talent goes fully recognized, you feel me? Kris, you don't get it. Okay, you get up on that stage, you pop, you lock, you jump around like an extra from You Got Served. But you don't hear the music at all, and you don't feel it at all, and forget about your rapping skills, son. You couldn't wrap a present if I spotted you a bow and some scotch tape. And you ain't nothing but a hater. And you know what else? You're a punk. 'Cause you're one of the best rappers I've ever heard in my life, Cyrus, in my life, but every time Bling comes around you let him punk you, what? 'Cause you're scared? You ain't got no guts, son. And no heart. You're just a wimp. Hey! Enough! I said that's enough. You all know I don't tolerate no fighting up in here. Now go home. Get your mind right, or don't come back at all. Go on. You're on your own tomorrow. And when everyone laughs at you, you'll see how it feels. I don't need you! I don't need nobody! Cyrus, honey, are you okay? Kris isn't Truth. I am. What? I've been covering for him this whole time. I mean, I can't let him get up on the Grand Slam stage by himself, he'll be humiliated. He won't be able to show his face anywhere, at the club or anything. His life would be much worse than mine ever was. Okay, so, what are you gonna do? Oh! Going somewhere? Dad, I know I'm on punishment and all that, but today is a very important day. Not just for myself, but for my friend also. So, I gotta do what I gotta do. So I'm gonna head out. Right now. Maybe not right now. Maybe in, like, an hour or so. Cyrus, I know about your show. And before you say another word, I've been reading your song lyrics. And I've actually enjoyed them. Once I got past the fact that they were rap songs. See, Son, I've realized I've been focused on the type of music as opposed to its message. And your songs have messages of caring, of sacrifice, devotion. Good Christian values. So maybe I've been too harsh to put all rap into one box. So I guess what I'm saying, Son... I'm sorry. Okay, you two, we better get going or you are gonna be late. Wait, you're gonna come watch? If that's okay with you. Come on, honey. Okay, baby. Sure. Lyla, I'm not wearing this. What? Why? You look fantastic. Sweetie, I am bringing you to the next level. I've got this whole lunar landing theme for your next tour. I'll explain the details later, but tonight we test the look. No! I can't hide behind these gimmicks anymore. What good is it to get famous if nobody knows who I really am? I have my own voice. I have my own style. And if that's not good enough, I guess I don't wanna be a star. Okay, listen, we all love you for who you are, but this is show business. You gotta play the game. And I, my friend, am the best coach in the game. Look, I know you think you're helping, and I love you for that, but I don't love me like this. So I'm starting fresh tonight. - Sweetie, you have to trust me... - I'm sorry. Maybe you picked the wrong girl. Maybe you need to find somebody else to wear this wig. 'Cause I'm done with it. Yo, Kris, you all right? Yeah, yeah, I am great! You guys, you're on in five, let's go. I'm gonna be sick. You don't look too good. CY! Cy, you're here! I couldn't leave you just hanging out in the wind like that. But after what I said to you, you'd still come through for me? We've been friends since back in the day. Besides, I said some hurtful things to you, too. Yo, listen, all right? You didn't say anything that wasn't true. All right? I was the one being rude, selfish and disrespectful and I'm sorry. I mean, to be honest, I was jealous. I was jealous that I'm really not Truth. I mean, there have been nights where I couldn't even sleep thinking about the fact that I'm not you, and that I could never be you, man. You wanted to be me? Yeah. I wanted to be you. - Really? - Yeah. Well, look, the truth is, you deserve to be with Roxie. Besides, I'm not the guy she fell for anyway. It's you. So, what do we do now? We gotta make this right. Tonight. It's the only way. My man. Oh, not you two busters! You know, you have a lot of nerve calling anyone a buster. Whoa, whoa, whoa! Oh, okay. Well, listen up, Poindexter, okay? Why don't you and pretty boy here get out your pads and take notes on what it really takes to rock a mic. Yeah. Yo, Cy! Chill! Just swinging on folks now? Must've been drinking a Thug Life energy drink or something. All right? Just do what you came here to do. Yeah. You got it. Good evening, Atlanta. I'm your host and! welcome you to the Rap Grand Slam final. Today, we have a very exciting show for you. For the last two months, rappers across the country have competed in single elimination rounds until we have just two rappers standing. For our first finalist, he's from the dirty-dirty, Ba ton Rouge, Louisiana where cornbread and biscuits grow on trees, show your love for Revelation! Our second finalist is from Georgia! Right here, Midtown, y'all! Atlanta, show your love for Lord of Da Bling! Just tell her. It will be fine. The "truth will set me free," right? Not too much. Lightly, lightly. Come on. I don't want to see any creases. Roxie? Cyrus, hey! You look different. I hope that's not a bad thing. No. No, you look better. Thanks. We gotta go on. Okay. Wish me luck. You don't need it. Just do you. In a short while, these two will battle here, live, for the Grand Slam Crown. But first, we have a musical performance by Roxie! Along with a newcomer whose single is blowing up the charts. So, Atlanta, without further delay, I give you Roxie and Truth! You're spinning round and round and round in my head Head Did you really mean the words that you said? Said This is it, I gotta know Should I stay or should I go? Show me the truth Is it gonna be me and you? Wow. "Wow" is right. She's gonna be bigger than I even imagined. You ready? Ready. Yo. Are we going on or what? Nope. Not today. Give it up to the up and coming performer that's close to my heart. Truth! I know you gonna be mad Feelings that you thought you had Was for another guy Well, I'm that other guy I'm just a shy kid camouflaged before your eyes And I knew my lyrics were the key to see the other side I shoulda told you, but I never had the courage And I thought you really wouldn't understand And now I'm up here just to let my feelings surface Apologizing for disguising who I am Tell me are you who I thought you were Or who I wanted you to be? Did you do it all for him, or were you only playing me? I did it for you, but I couldn't see it through Roxie, I'm sorry You're spinning round and round and round in my head Head Did you really mean the words that you said? Said This is it, I gotta know Should I stay or should I go? Show me the truth Is it gonna be me and you? Is it gonna me and you? Is it gonna be me and you? You. You're all I ever wanted But I got caught in a shadow in the background But I'm back now And Kris was all this and that And my look didn't really fit the rap It didn't match He had the style and I had the swag So I locked up my feelings in the words he said Give me your hand, and I'll take off my mask If you give me a chance, that's all I ask What you expecting me to do? First you were him and now you're you Now it's just me, and you got me on my knees Roxie, I'm sorry Give it up for Roxie and Truth! Or whoever that guy was. So who's ready for some rap? Then, ladies and gentlemen, put your hands together for Revelation and Lord of Da Bling! Rox, come on, open up. I'm sorry, but we were electric out there, couldn't you feel it? No. Did you feel that? I can't believe it was you this whole time. You two are just one big lie. No, you see, what had happened was, I... I don't wanna hear it. Please just get away from me. Such an idiot. No, Rox, you're not, I am. I should've been upfront with you from the jump. It's just hard to understand that you didn't wanna hear my words from me. You wanted the hot guy and the hot music all at the same time. Wrong, Cyrus. It wasn't about his looks. I fell in love with his. I mean, your words. I just wanted someone who was real, but now it's clear that that's neither one of you. So both of you just stay out of my life. Hey, where you going? We want you to present the trophy to the new champ. Thanks, but I'm not in the mood. Why don't you ask Truth to do it? This is his night. Follow me. All right. So we've heard from our finalists. But there can only be one champion. Atlanta, show your love for Revelation. That was a whole lotta love! Yeah! Atlanta, show your love for Lord of Da Bling. We have a new rap Grand Slam King. Congratulate Lord of Da Bling. Yeah! Midtown, baby, let's go. I told you I'm number one! Our trophy will now be presented by newcomer, Truth. Oh, man! Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo. Look at this. The busboy just brought me my trophy. Oh! Congratulations. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on, hold on there. You gotta polish it up for me there, busboy. Oh, oh, oh, wait, is it Truth or is it Baby Ruth? You know, you don't deserve this trophy, because you're not the best. I mean, you're not the best in Atlanta, you're not even the best in the building. Yo! Is that a challenge? Yeah. It is. Yo, I'm gonna love beating you in front of everybody. We have a challenge. So let the challenge begin! You want this battle, huh? So you're a rapper now, oh. Okay. Here we go again Prepare to meet your end Just looked you up on Facebook You have zero friends This kid's a loser Yo, he ain't even kissed a girl You write her love letters I buy her ice and pearls So how you like me now? Even Roxanne's in the background Saying, "Wow, Bling's got style" I'm off the gold chain If you're a rapper why is Kris your backup dancer Like an extra on Soul Train? I see your mommy and your daddy in the front row They must be embarrassed for you, bro You're not a real MC You should quit hip-hop Now be a good busboy and go get your mop Bling, you don't wanna battle You're the snake without the rattle You're the boat without the paddle You're the duck without the waddle You're the horse without the saddle The ranch without the cattle The day without the shadow Son, I think you should skedaddle Kick gravel, sayonara, punk, arrivederci What language do I have to say it in for you to hear me clearly? Adis, amigo You're over with, finito This clown couldn't wrap anything but my burrito Kid, you have to hold your mommy's hand Before you cross the street You have to sneak out the house Just to clean and sweep And now you look queasy I made him go mute Put your camera phones up so you can post this on YouTube Truth's got a screw loose He's terrified to bust So lightweight that I could blow him over with a gust You're weak like seven days You deserve boos You should walk around in some high-heel shoes, ha! You should rock pigtails and a skirt You're shaking in your boots Are your feelings getting hurt? Well, maybe I should hurt more than your feelings Maybe I should rip the roof off the theater ceiling Maybe you should start kneeling His eyes are getting misty You're so whack if you were me you couldn't diss me Kissy-kissy Roxanne, did you miss me? I'll take you out for dinner after I've eaten this pipsqueak And when we're on vacation I'll let him house sit Here's a couple bucks Buy yourself a better outfit - Get him, Cy. - Come on, Cy. You know what? You don't have a stack of cash or a flashy pad I saw you last week driving a taxi cab Your secret's out and now they know, sport We'll call you if we need a ride to an airport In fact, you can drop me off at home after this Then you can take your couple bucks back, but as a tip You're playin' yourself like solitaire Tellin' everyone that's here that you're a millionaire You're not a baller, you're a phony I bet your whole crew is a bunch of rent-a-homies At night you lie in bed lonely Your persona's a facade The only girls you get are in the pages of a catalog Here stands Lord of Da Bluff His lies were legendary till the Truth made him hush And what's funny is your truth is enough Why'd you have to make up all the money and the stuff I guess it's easier to play the role and act hard 'Cause you don't have the guts to tell us who you really are So you can keep a trophy that you don't deserve I might just be a busboy, but you just got served That's my boy! Sorry, man. Get out, man. Man, whatever, man. We have a new Grand Slam Champion. Truth! Truth! Truth! Truth! Truth! Truth! Roxie, please, wait. Roxie. Come on, just open up. Just give me a minute, please. All right? What? Look, you got one minute, and I've gotta go or I'll miss my flight. Look, Roxie, I am sorry. All right? Cyrus and I, we never meant to hurt you. He did it for me. I saw you looking all fine and I thought that we'd be great together. Just like when you saw that picture with me and Cyrus in it? You thought I was the rapper and he was, like, my roadie or something. He's not wrong. It's show business. I was the one who asked Cyrus to help me trick you. And he saw you feeling me and me feeling you and he just wanted to do what was right, you know? Of course, then I started feeling every girl in Atlanta. Yeah. But if it is the real that you were looking for, that's you and Cyrus. All right? And you know that as much as I do. We gotta go. I gotta go, Kris. Roxie, wait! Please! Cyrus. - Kris? - Kris! How you doing, Mrs. Debarge? Reverend. Do you mind if I join you all today? I hear you're doing some powerful preaching, sir. Cyrus, Son, it's time to celebrate and be glad, 'cause this brother of yours was lost and now he's found. Yes. Cyrus Debarge, I don't know if you remember me, but we went to school together. Sure, I do. Roxanne Andrews. Nice to see you again. Oh, yeah Oh, yeah Oh, yeah Oh, yeah It's been a long road, but we're finally here And the view from the top's so beautifully clear We could see for forever Not a cloud in the sky Picture-perfect weather every day of our lives Just imagine if everything you wanted came true Well, it happened to me So it could happen to you We're on a journey of truth and belief is the key So open up your heart and let your light free And I feel like I'm glowing And I like where I'm going Tonight I'm showing up to shine This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine I'm gonna let it shine This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine Front to back, we're packed in stomping Clapping, laughing, singing, dancing Passion everlasting When I'm rapping to the track and askin' Everyone to put your hands up, stand up Roxanne, come take my hand and make the congregation rock We're celebrating and it feels so good If I could thank everybody here I would I feel like I'm finally free and! Yeah, I'm ready, I'm ready I'm ready to fly Oh, I feel like I'm glowing And I like where I'm going Tonight I'm showing up to shine This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine I'm gonna let it shine This little light of mine - I'm gonna, I'm gonna let it shine - Yeah You know what's come out Don't hide your shine, y'all Now put your hands in the sky 'Cause your light is your love Here we go! Oh, yeah, oh, yeah Oh, yeah, oh, yeah Come on and sing Here we go All right, all right, all right This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine Yeah, I'm gonna let it shine This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine I'm gonna let it shine Shine - So, do you, like, manage a lot... - One second. Oh. Hold on. Whoa! Look at you! - Matching outfits? - Stylin' right? This, my friend, is hot. This, my friend, is not. I don't know, Simon. I think Kris here has his finger on the pulse. It's Cyrus. I don't know there, Seamus. I think Kris has his finger on the pulse. Cyrus. I don't know there, Serious. I think Kris has his finger on the pulse. It's Cyrus. All right, relax there, Sinus. I think Kris has his finger on the pulse. Cyrus. I don't know there, Cyclone. I think Kris has his finger on the pulse. Cyrus. Cut! We've got this one.
