 

                        What else do you want? No more What's your order, Miss? All I want is a little rest A pot of tea please Sure Mo, the meat buns in Mao's restaurant really are big and good Yes, nice, smooth and big as a bowl A bowl's not big enough. A teapot Let me show you the two buns I've just bought Why are they missing? How come? I really bought them Missing Just look around Get away Miss, have you seen my buns? Brother, she stole them; she's got them Stop making trouble here Keep away, old man! Give me back my buns Again? Get away Miss, they really are tough They'll get help. Run now! Faces up Banker takes all Brother Yes? Damn, what's become of you two? Brother, a woman did it You can't beat a woman? You deserve it Brother, she's excellent in kung fu Right So you suffered a glorious defeat! Shuffle Brother, her kung fu is no fun What? Is she equipped with lots of biceps? And her chest is as big as a teapot Yes, it's true You'll too fall... for her low-cutting dress Let's go Seeing is believing It's up there Try to keep up Halt! How strange Not her Damn, is it her to not? You must mean my sister Have you got a sister? She's Fei-fei, carrying an umbrella, right? Yes, she did carry an umbrella Miss, your sister has wounded my brother How are you going to make good the damage? How did they get hurt? She... She's rude My sister's an arrogant man-hater She's not as sociable as I am Are you? Let's... You're tall and handsome, and their big brother I'd jump at the chance Great, let's do it now Hold it What? You're changing your mind? How can I alone cope with you five? Never mind, serve me first They'll join later Right, you go first, brother Follow the queue Don't fight Don't fight, I still have 4 sisters over here Come out Each of you will have a share This is for me She's curvaceous Possessed by evil spirits! They're gone Never thought we could've come upon this soon after we came here to seek perfection Don't ever let sister know about it or she'll blame us for our behaviour I won't Well, where has sister been today? If the Wutung fairy was any good, I'd offer a pig That woman next door said he's good Is he? Thank you Hello, Miss, some candles? Why are there... only female worshippers here? No men? You must be a stranger here I've just moved in Wutung is deity of fertility Any barren women blessed by him... will be pregnant Come on Serve some incense now He's handsome Taoist priest, be on your guard Yes You should be on your guard, Miss My name is Hsuan Kuei What's your name, Miss? We're only strangers Let's not exchange names One not going straight is not a devout believer Old Taoist, what are you up to? You know what you've done What have I done? You were lusty in the presence of Wutung you may encounter fatal disasters Nonsense Why are you picking on me of all the many female pilgrims? Is it taboo for me even to think of it? That's all right for women in general But not for you Why? Women are human. Human and demons can't mix no matter how you yearn for it But you... What about me? You're an accomplished vixen going about your wicked ways in human form Your lust in Wutung's presence... invites disaster Woe betide only those who ask for it Repent now Enough, old priest, you really have the guts Watch out! I can't help if you don't take my word If anything happens, come to see me at Pi Tan Falls Sister Have you cleaned up everything? We've done it most of the day See for it yourself Those who seek perfection must be in the right mood When you're peaceful in mind, there's peace in your heart You should understand this principle Sure, sister, you've said that repeatedly Though we're sworn sisters, I mean every word of it Remember that after 36 days we may shed our animal frame and be immortal During this period, monsters, within or without may try to ruin us Guard against this Don't worry, we'll bear this in mind How can... there be monsters over here? Speak of the devil, and the devil appears How could... there be visitors right now? Fei-fei, go and see who it is Greetings, Miss Who are you looking for, madam? You're... I'm your neighbor. My husband is Wang Let's greet you as Mrs Wang then As you please It's spotlessly clean here Please sit down Thank you It's a big house Only the 3 of you here? Yes, we three sisters only Only you three sisters, and not a man? No You really are great Nowadays cases of women getting pregnant before marriage are not uncommon I must be off They say: A neighbor is closer than a distant relative This is only a courtesy call Please just tell me if you need anything Be free to come over to me Just drop in when you have time What a busybody She means well Where's she now? Go over to see how our neighbor is Three girls have just moved in as our neighbors You never go out How do you know? Well, you're right I must go for a walk now Wait, you haven't answered my question yet I saw them in the garden Did you dig a hole over there? No, I climbed up the wall Forgive me, darling, I won't do it again I really won't do it again I really won't do it again I'm finished, I'm finished The old Buddha's statue's fallen. Why? He needs a rest after such a long practice Don't make fun of him It's late. Let's eat and retire Help, help! Don't run! Stop! Help! Help! Stop, or I'll chop you dead! Stop! How could you use violence... in broad daylight? Miss, you come at the right time Let me butcher this kid this take you up the mountain to have fun Brother, are you all right? Let's go Forgive me for touching... your body accidentally Forgive me Scholar, you had a narrow escape Don't be formal I remember now I was pursued by 3 bandits and fell I can't remember what followed then I've driven the bandits away for you You did? You're only a frail girl I've learned boxing from a famous instructor Who are you? How did that happen? I'm Wu Ming sitting for the scholastic examination I've been studying... in the hut for it I was going to town to buy some daily necessities I came upon these bandits and nearly got killed May I know your name, Miss? I'm Pai So-so Thanks for your help I must take leave now Are you all right? You can't make it Don't be silly You can't go back the way... you walk Let me help you Proximity between sexes is not decorous But the sage says: Cases of emergency are excepted Come on, let's go Take care Thank you, Miss Here I am. Let me go in now There's a saying: "See a good deed through" Go in My humble dwelling can't admit of distinguished guests I'm neither a distinguished guest nor a priest You're a mudman Go back and change Yes, Miss, please You... I cleaned up for you. Are you satisfied? You did that in only a moment Scholar, girls can do such chores much more efficiently than men "Men take charge of outside, women, inside" is the saying Do you live here alone? Precisely You cook your own meal every day? Yes Does that take up much of your time for studies? There's no other way out There is Let me buy you food and necessities every other day No, never Why not? I'm too poor to afford an amah I didn't ask you for wages I can't feel at ease then Just pay me $1 every day Are you serious? No kidding It still won't work Why? It's inconvenient for us to live in the same room If this becomes known it may affect my name and your chastity I won't live here long I'll just put down the things and leave Sister, where have you been the whole day long? Only for a walk What's she doing? Why hasn't sister risen yet? Sister After breakfast, do your morning lessons Where are you going? I'm out for a walk. Don't wait for me Scholar, anything else... you need besides food? Nothing, I'm only a poor scholar Who's it? Miss Pai? A burglar for a poor scholar's home? Who...who are you? I'm...Fei-fei I don't know you I'm So-so's sister Why are you here? To see my sister I happen to see you taking a bath You peeped at me when I was taking a bath? That's misdemeanor Aren't you ashamed of it? I'm sorry A girl trespasser peeping at a bathing man Have you no shame? This is my study. Please go now Go now That man scolded you? And he loudly threw me out too Damn you, creep! Sister, you... I must settle scores with him Don't, it was all my fault Sister Moonlit night and shooting stars How dare you bully my sister, poor scholar? Watch out! See if you can get away Keep away. Let me splash you Splash me? I'll burn all your books Help, help! I want nothing but to kill you today I'll fight with you I'll fight with you Don't get hold of me, damn you! Sister Where's sister? Back, and doing her evening sessions Sister, what've you done to that scholar? It's over now. Never mind him Have you killed him, sister? No, but he's suffered enough Why are you here again? I've come to say "sorry" There's nothing between us It's between you and my sister I'm really sorry She has a devil of a temper She sure has She can hurt others easily Never mind, she didn't hurt me You lie She hurt you badly Let me dress up your wound She's gone too far She shouldn't have done that I asked for it You're badly wounded, it's fatal Get up Sister, get up Is it very late now? It's late morning now. Get up I'm so tired Where have you been last night? I went out for a walk You talk like elder sister Hall of Repentance, Examination on classics and analects Miss Pai, please sit down I'm not here to sit Do you need anything? Nothing Let me fix up everything for you Isn't it all right now? Let me fix the bed for you Thank you, Miss Wu Ming, who left this hairpin? I bought it for you. Satisfied? You lied The hairpin is greasy. It's been used My late mother left it to me You lied. I must leave Miss Pai, please calm down and don't go You've another girl No point in me staying She can't match you Who's she? Your sister Fei-fei Fei-fei? You had an affair with her? When was that? Miss Pai, please calm down Speak up The romance left behind by you and Fei-fei? No Another girl? Yes Who? Your sister Hua-hua My foot! Miss Pai Miss Pai, are you all right? You knew they're my sisters and yet you... I couldn't help it They offered themselves to me I always respect you I cherish no evil thoughts for you Why? You're so pure that... I don't feel like doing that to you How do you know I don't want it? You're erudite, elegant and virtuous And you observe the "four don'ts" called for by the ancients Miss, you're chaste I speak, see and hear nothing against propriety but... Don't, Miss, don't touch anything against propriety Now shut up I'm waiting for you Wait Sit down There's something inside you Spit it out if you do And you too You think so? Sister, we can see it I don't deny it Don't put pressure on us then Well, let's spit it out in one sentence only Good You, first Sister, sorry, I've taken away your man Sister, sorry, I've taken away your man too And you, sister? I've taken away your man too Wu Ming? I'm here Drink Drink again? Eat again? Darling, I want it Keep away. Each time you turn me on you lie down like a worm I'm your husband, you can't turn me down Hell with you! My little darling! Mrs Wang, have you eaten? Have you got guests? Only ordinary guests Not so ordinary, I must say What social depravity Three unmarried girls keep a man at home Scandalous! Mrs wong, we didn't mean to offend you You may say so, but you disturb others... with your noises You may have no shame, but you can't disturb others You're getting your neighbors involved Now you've influenced my husband adversely Sorry, Mrs Wang, it was our fault I'll have to report... to the village head Sister, why did you let that bitch lecture us? Sisters, she's right We must practice to become human beings Wu Ming's presence has ruined us all Sister, we... Let's turn over a new leaf Let's start anew by removing the evils Otherwise, we may be back to our original forms And we'll never make it What now? What now? Let's go in to explain to Wu Ming Why? What? Blaming me for getting up too late? Wu Ming, listen Go on This is the place where we sisters practice You mustn't blaspheme this holy ground We had a good time together a few days ago It was different Remember, don't ever come here anymore What about me? Go on with your studies for the exam I see, someone must've tried to sway you I don't care any more At worst I won't come any more Wu Ming, we'll come to you if we need you This is in the distant future Forget it now. Let's have fruit After that, I'll leave Yours And a pineapple Enough It itches It itches It itches badly It itches badly What are you doing? Darling, do it with me, I beg you No, I'm not yet recovered from the last wound No, keep away I don't care, I'm your wife Don't turn me down Don't! Get me a woman, quick! Or I'll become old and die soon Sister Getting up so early? Wu Ming hasn't been around for days That's a good thing He may obstruct our practice Where's Fei-fei? She hasn't got up yet How come? Sister, what happened? I'm dying, I'm dying Sister, what happened? Sisters, I'm going to get back to original shape Look The mirror reflected my animal self Don't cry. Let's think it over Sister, what caused this? Practice gone and body turned back This is the cause of the retrogression Sister, we didn't do anything Why have we lost our practice? We did. It was Wu Ming Wu Ming? Since he entered our hearts this happened It must be linked with him Sister, Wu Ming is only human He can't possibly hurt our works Right, and he hasn't been here any more Only for the past few days There's something eerie about his presence He may have resorted to evil means to take away our magic So we've returned to original form Right, we must take it up with him Sisters, what monster is he, so horrible? He's not a monster, he's Wutung Wutung? His name speaks for itself - Wu Tung He really is crafty Sister, I'm scared At worst, we won't see him any more If we don't, he may come to us What then? You go back first. I must go somewhere Pai So-so, you've come at last Taoist priest, I'm ignorant I got involved I've come to you to seek help Men court disasters themselves You can court them, you can expel them Wu Tung is powerful I can't beat him I'm seeking your help, Taoist priest You can't cope with him when you're still haunted by evil thoughts Pai So-so, skeletons and demons have no heart Don't hesitate at this crucial hour Please enlighten me, Your Worship Here's my message for you Power against power, evil against evil A devil has his power, a god has his magic You won't lose Thank you, I'll take my leave What a bad smell You've gone too far You'll die without burial Come on So-so Hua-hua Fei-fei I really don't understand what's happened between us Let's go to bed to have a good time Come on Wait Beast, they've woken up and their lust's over What are you up to again? Priest, this is my business, not your business Doing good is godly; doing evil is satanic I won't forgive you Conquer evil with a sword Keep it Evil finds its root Thank you for your help, Taoist priest
