 

                        Isn't he pretty? Can you... can you speak English? - Yes. - What...? - What day is it? - "Yes, I like to move it, move it." This is best day of my life! - No, I'm asking... - Ah, what the day? - Yeah. - Er, it's, er... Wait a minute. Stupid question. What day is it? - Oh, sorry. - OK. It's 24 July. And what a day it is. It's the best day ever. You might be wondering why I'm up at this ungodly hour. Like others, I believe that the time between 3:00am and 4:00am is one where the veil between this world and the next is the thinnest. Often during this time of the day, I hear the sound of my name uttered by an unseen presence. Good morning. Wow! And here we go into the garage. That's right. We're going to ride the elevator. All right. Let's ride it. Here it is. This is the elevator at the market parking garage in Round Oak, Virginia. This elevator has been made famous right here. Here we go. Here we are at 6 which is burned out. Just your basic Dover elevator. For all of those of you at Dover Elevators, it's a good brand of elevator. Now we're gonna go back down to 1. All right. Now it's time to go off to work. Wasn't that fun? You know how much strength it takes to rebel? Huh? So, this is a night in the life of S Grey, man. You know what I'm saying? Sleeping on the couch. With no bag. Grinding my ass off every day. 'Shorties' not enjoying their mother. Man not enjoying his wife or his woman, his lady. Just bullshit, man. Alpha male... ...trapped in and locked in through religion and politics. Soon enough, man, my plans will all come into perfection. - I love you. - I love you, too. Today we're gonna videotape Sasha doing his first ever shave. - Oh, boy. - All right, Sasha's how old now? Er... 15. Oh, good, good. First thing Sasha's gonna do is get the water hot for the, er, hot cloth that you're gonna put on your face. Yes. So it'll warm up your face and moisturise your skin. Does he have like a nice warm face now? - It's always been hot! - Whatever you say there, dude. I think we should probably do a close-up of those whiskers. They're really long now. Thank you. You need to, like, really lather it up. OK, I don't think you need to put it on your nose! Yeah... A five-blade razor which we got as a sample. - Is it time? - Go ahead. OK, you're shaving for me. This is embarrassing. - I'm bleeding. - Yes. Don't worry. - You will survive it. - Wow! Don't worry, you'll be all right. This is torture. Does it hurt? - Yes. - It'll sting for a little while. All right, dry yourself off and let's take a look at the nice, clean shave. Good job, buddy. Here's what we do. Hey, don't... Face the camera here. Put a little piece on there. See, and it sticks to the bloody part. And voil. He's done. Hey, wait. High five, buddy. You survived it. We're documenting everything. Bobby, let mommy sleep. Are you feeling OK? Oh, I just feel terrible, you know. You feel weird? OK, this is how you'll be weirder. - OK, let's let mommy sleep. - OK! Bobby, get down. - We're gonna let mommy sleep. - Son of a cuz... Oh, thank you, thank you. Erm, I do have a question though, cos I... My biggest worry is, of course, my bandages and stuff, but I know I can take a shower, but I haven't. I thought maybe I could at least try take a shower before you got here. Is that OK if I just go ahead and do that? Oh, good. - Dad, can I come down? - Bobby, can we have a talk though? Please, please. I just need to have a talk, OK? Because grandma is telling me, with all the pressures, what a great boy you are, and of course I know that. And I know that it's hard. I've never been in a hospital. I've never been like this before. But I just think we ought to help each other, OK? I know that sometimes when we ask you to do something to help, sometimes you don't wanna go upstairs cos you get scared. - And that's fine, I understand that. - Dad's fault. If it's because you're scared to go upstairs by yourself, just tell me that. I will! Sometimes you're going down. - And stop videotaping! - I'll give you the camera, too. We're gonna do a project, a family project, OK? Can we all agree to do the family project? - Do you want the camera? - What? Do you want the camera to videotape me? - Hm-mm. - It's gonna be a family project. I need to have a happy boy today, OK? You have to be happy if you have the video camera, though. - Why? - Because it's a happy film. - Right? - And it has a happy ending. OK, we're coming in! First of all, and I'm sure he hears me by now, let me explain something to you. Everyone, can you hear me loud and clear? My son was supposed to be cleaning his room yesterday. Come on! Boy! - Woman! - Woman. Oh, it's gonna be a long day, as most are. He's always a bundle of joy when he wakes up. Come on, come get in the shower. Get the day going. We got things to do. Places to go. People to see. Futures to make. No job is too big or too small. And even down to a few minutes ago just wiping my bum, because I... I had my first, first poop. In a bloody a week or so. So one of them came to the rescue and said, "Listen, would you like me to trim that up for you, sir?" So I said yes. And, and, er, a very, very, very, erm, erm, courageous young lady, in my case I think, er, did the job. And, and, er, just, er, just, er, all in a day's work. I'm, I'm very, very grateful for these people that have treated me like... ...just treated me so well. And... in a short, short while... ...Ill, I'll, I will be on a road to recovery. And I'll be out there again doing crazy things. And enjoying life. Here's the mask. Would you lean forward for me? I'm Amanda. What makes me joyful this Saturday is this. A little terrified. And really excited. "A Day At A Time") # I wanna drink from the clearest water # I wanna eat the things I ought to # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # I wanna reach the greatest mountain # Climb if I want without all the shouting # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # Clouds really should be white at least # And oceans should meet us at the beach # And I don't want to over-reach # When I know what's in store Roar! # Love life a day at a time, boy # Love life a day at a time, girl # Love # Love # I wanna drink from the clearest water # I wanna eat the things I ought to # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # I wanna reach the greatest mountain # Climb if I want without all the shouting # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # Clouds really should be white at least # And oceans should meet us at the beach # And I don't want to over-reach # When I know what's in store Roar! # Good morning, everyone. Bonjour. Buenos dias. Namaste. Salaam alaikum. Travel toothbrush and toothpaste. Essential if you're spending a night with the goats. Fifty pesos. Sweet! Erm, first is a Canadian flag, because some of my ancestors were from Nova Scotia, Canada. Next is a German flag, because some of my ancestors were from Germany. Some of my ancestors lived in Wisconsin. Some of my ancestors were from Poland. Aoteman that came in a chocolate egg. Erm, electric die. It's an anti-evil eye protector. Metal saw. Metal eagle. Metal wheels. Anybody want some granite? My name is Randy Ray Sides. And this is Kenneth V Fletcher's house. Giant 'I' beam. Basket with grapes. Pipe bender. A billion boxes. He's kind of a hoarder. I moved here four years ago. Er, a terrible drug addict. And in four years, er, Ken has done two things. He has sobered me up and he has lost everything. - Good morning. - Good morning. Kenneth V Fletcher... Tomorrow, Ken leaves for the Canary Islands, where he has gotten a job as a massage therapist. And I go back to Nebraska, er, where I'm going to be living with my folks. He's one of those guys that has a billion ideas and never completes any of 'em. Ken wanted a piano as a kid. Ken couldn't get a piano as a kid. So, three years ago, we looked on Craigslist all summer and went over the Twin Cities and got... pianos! Man's a genius. He just never quite had the time. And it looks like the auctioneer's here. What's in my pocket? Well, it's a key. And, er, it's got a really neat little logo there. This... is a Lamborghini. And this is my life in a day. This is my wallet from Marc Jacobs. There's a Marc Jacobs key-chain that I love. Mirror. My iPod which is my soul. Rosary. Very good way of spending your time profitably in the eternal dimension. Telephone headset. Extremely good way of wasting your time in the earthly dimension. What do you have in your pockets? It's my knife. Erm... OK, you can go ahead and judge me all you want, but there are some crazy people in the world. My Ruger P94.40 calibre handgun. 'I take this with me wherever I go.' This is balut. Only in the Philippines. You see that? Look, let's put some salt right there. That's salt. And then... watch this. Ahhh! Today is Saturday 24th July. For the last three years I've been away from home. I was doing my degree, and as soon as that finished, I ended up getting a job at a very demanding company. So, I don't really get to see my old man that much. But whenever I do see him, we always go to the same place, do the same thing and have a catch up. I just phoned you. Yeah, I just got it, actually. I was about to phone you back. - How you doing? All right? - Not bad. - Mouthful? - I'll have a mouthful. You sorted the tyre out? - That tyre's fucked. - I haven't had time. That tyre's fucked. You'll get done for that. Seen it? You got a rip in it. - Is there a rip? - Yeah. Why don't you film down there, Jack, let's see if we see a cop? Jesus! You're not a student now, you know, you're a working man. There's no excuse. Two small beefburgers, believe it or not. Imagine what their large ones are like or medium ones. Ridiculous, isn't it? Unbelievable. Anyway, there you go, Jack. This way. I'm gonna sit in the car. - What you got? - This. Oh. Is this a photograph of you at uni? - Yeah. - Fantastic. That's fantastic. I'm gonna get that in a lovely frame and that, cos Nina's got a frame like that. That's really cool, Jack. Thank you. Now you should be very proud of yourself, Jack, considering you almost got chucked out of school. You was lucky there, weren't you? You've matured actually in the last year or so into a real proper lad. A real gentleman and a nice boy. Thanks for that, Jack. I love being me. I love life. It's all such fun. Grass, dirt. Dirty river smell. Hmm, smell of a campfire that gets stuck in your hair. Coated chicken baked in the oven with seasonings. What do I love the most? Well... ...you're looking at her. I really love my family. My brothers and sisters. - What do you love the most? - Er, women. So much. I love you, Julia. You are my only love. You are my first love. For me, love is all about you. I love my wife. I love my son. I love my land. I love my animals. My dogs. My ferret. My chickens. My horses in the background. I love my life. But what do I love the most? I love my Lord. My heavenly Father. My creator. From whom all blessings flow. I love doing about 150 miles an hour down a motorway, in a good car. I love football. I think football is only sport that bring people together. - What do you love? - Women. - What do you love? - Freedom. - What do you love? - Power. I love the word Mamihlapinatapai. It's from the Yaghan language which is now a dead language. But it was spoken in Tierra del Fuego, the very southernmost point of South America. I've never heard the word said properly so I could be pronouncing it wrong. But the meaning is quite beautiful. It means... ...that moment or feeling when two people both want to initiate something but neither wants to be the one to start it. It can be, perhaps, two tribal leaders both wanting to make peace but neither wanting to be the one to begin it. Or it could be two people at a party wanting to approach each other and neither quite brave enough to make the first move. You can hear the kookaburras now. Currently I'm calling my mom to ask her what I should say to Emily today. - 'Hello? ' - Do you have a second to talk to me? - 'Sure.' - Tonight I am hanging out with Emily. But I was planning on telling her exactly how I feel about her, and then I don't know. So I was calling my mother to see what should I say to this woman. 'OK... ' 'I don't know. I just think that... concentrate on the fact that, 'you have very, very high feelings obviously for her. 'That she's somebody you always admired... ' Esteem? Is that the word I should use? Esteem? - Do you think she'll like that? - 'Well, why not? Yeah, whatever. - I just don't know if that's... - 'You hold her in very high regard.' - I don't know if those are... - 'She's the special person in your life.' OK. I'll try all that. 'And you would like to find out if there's a possibility of being her boyfriend... ' Hey, I'm on the train now. This is my friend Emily. Hello, life in a day. I'm still with Emily and we're still hanging out in Chicago. Erm, this is... We just came out of this place which was cool. But I'm gonna leave this thing on in case anything gets climatic. Theresa, look at me. Off! Oh, my God! Well, so here's the deal. I asked her if she wanted to go on a romantic date with me some time, and she says, er, no. Just, just no. That's really all she said, no. She didn't want any of that. Ever. Possibly never, ever. And so actually I said, "What about the possibility of a possibility?" And she said no to that. No possibility. None. OK. Let me say that it is meant for women to kneel down. For example, a woman is supposed to kneel down for a man. Do you want to show us how you do it? So you greet Moses like traditionally. Wow! Wow! Moses, how do you feel about it? She comes in and she kneels down every day. Yes. Because I'm a man she has to respect. It's the culture. Hi, grandma. It's David. How are you? I'm good. I'm still in New York. It's, yeah, it's been really hot here. Erm, but I'm having fun. Er, anyway, I wanted to call you because, erm... ...you know my friend, er, Nick that you've met a lot? Yeah. Yeah, I know, he's a very, he's a very nice boy. Well, I wanted to tell you that he's, erm, not... not just my friend, he's, he's my boyfriend. Er, and it's something that I've wanted to tell you for a while but, erm... I wasn't really sure how you would react. So I was a little nervous to tell you. Erm... I, I love, I love you, too. Yeah. I love you, too. And I'm hoping that, that maybe you can love Nick too. Erm... because he's really important to me and so I'm hoping he can be really important to you too. Yeah. Well, that, that means a lot to me. Yeah. Thank you. I... Yeah, I love, I love you, too. And you, yeah. No, my parents know, yes. Well, grandma, they call it being gay now. You don't have to say homosexual. It's not... Yeah, it's... Yes, it's not, it's not a disease. Thank you! Here, throw some cheese to those ducks. Get closer to 'em, I'm taking a video, Sarah. - They might bite me. - No, they won't bite. Ducks don't bite. Come on, I'm making a video. Walk on out into 'em, it'll be a good video. Would you like me to take a picture of you? - Thank you. - Just tell me what do you want me to do. Just go like this. Love is a battlefield.' Listen, you two are going to fight like hooded roosters. But just get it out there. It's science. You know, place any two animals in a contained area together, you know, there will be awesome tenderness but also there will be blood. That is my pocket, Walt Whitman. Please. He was surely one of the greatest poets that ever lived. If my babies can read Walt Whitman day and night and learn from him, I'll be very happy. After all, babies, he did say... "I am august "I do not trouble my soul to vindicate itself" No, he didn't say soul, he said "I do not... That's enough, you'll use up all the memory! This is self-indulgent and please stop. They need winding. Please stop, Tristram. - "...trouble my spirit to vindicate..." - Stop being so selfish! I've been looking after them all day. Just stop it. "I do not trouble my soul to... I do not trouble my spirit... - For Christ's sake, Tristram, stop it. - "...to vindicate itself or be understood." OK, fine. Ann and John are today renewing their vows in the light of their 50 years' experience of marriage. Rather unusually, each of this special couple has agreed to write the vows of the other. That is, Ann has written John's vows and John has written Ann's. John, it is necessary to address one or two shortcomings in... ahem! ...the physical side of marriage. Surely no one would argue that there are certain physical demands a wife can request of her husband. And, Ann, I ask you that you address these issues right now. Do you agree to wash the windows inside and out? John asks if you will agree to let him do that thing you once told him you would let him do on his 40th birthday but still not have yet done. So, Ann, in anticipation of your previous answer, John says, "I suppose an occasional blow-job "is completely out of the question?" Finally, in spite of men obviously being from Mars and women from Venus, do you both promise to love and treasure each other and enjoy your lovely family life together here at Appletree Cottage, for as long as you both shall live? We do. Do the jerk. Please do the jerk. By the end, I'm gonna get the Commander to do the jerk. Why you gotta stick your tongue out? Punch Easton in the face. Oh, my God! That's the Rebel Alliance. And there is the Empire. Hi. This is my room. And this is our garden. So my name is Masoud Hossaini. I live in Afghanistan, Kabul, and I'm a news photographer. Here is my house. And he's my father, drinking tea. My mother is praying. Farid, my brother, is just again staring in the refrigerator as always. Right now, I'm in my car going to Kabul's old city to take some pictures. Sometimes I like to just walk around there looking for a good shot. These are like my two babies. I carry them everywhere. - Salaam. - Salaam alaikum. 'Here I am. By myself.' 'Because my husband is a half a world away, 'going to work, fighting for us.' What shirt should I wear? Which one do you think will Phil like better? Hmm? Which one do you think? That one? Is that one the best? Here is the market in the old city. Most foreigners think it is dangerous to walk around the streets of Kabul, but, as you can see, there is no danger for us anyway. # Waiting game # Waiting game So this is a street that's normally selling birds like this. They call them love birds because they are always kissing each other. Where are you? 'Hi, Sharon.' Hi. - 'Hi.' - How's it going? Can you see me? Of course, it's our date night. Afghanistan, the name of my country, comes with the conflict, war, suicide attack, and all the negative points that we hear and listen in the news. But there is another side of Afghanistan that you don't normally see. These girls make me feel optimistic about the future of my country. 'I love you.' I love you, too. Stay safe. 'I will, honey. You too, OK? OK. - 'Bye.' - Bye. Daddy, you seen my war? Oh, and the red is bad, the white is good of the helmets. Oh, it's not so bad. No? Is there something that's bleeding under my arm? Let's see if I can just get this. Oh, oh what, what is it? What is it? Did that come out of your hair? No, it was on my back. It's a ladybug. Any kind of monster. Or ghosts. Or a witch. What do zombies do? OK, you do a great zombie. I have a fear of dogs. Wasps. Spiders. I fear... robbers. Rapers. I fear growing up. I'm afraid of losing this place. I am afraid of homosexuality. Homosexuality is like... is like disease, and I am afraid of disease. I stay in my room and all I can think about is whether, in a couple of years, someone else is gonna live here, someone who is not Israeli, maybe someone Palestinian. I guess politics scares me more than anything. I wonder if we're gonna get in another war. One of the things I fear more than anything right now is that my hair has started to fall out. This is me. This is what I'm afraid of. That my husband will leave me for another wife, because of our lack of "you know what". I fear loneliness. Not waking up one morning, and nobody finding you for a week. That'd be interesting. That's why I find it very hard to really... ...really connect with someone. Because what do you do when they're gone? And that's what I'm afraid of. Being in this grave. Life is so frickin' short, you know. Dying, I guess. Three, two, one... Welcome to Love Parade! Oh, come and have a look! Many of the thousands of revellers were unaware of the tragedy unfolding at the tunnel entrance. # I wanna drink from the greatest water # I wanna have all the things I ought to # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # I wanna reach the golden fountain # Beat everyone without all the doubting # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # Crowds really should be right, at least # Oceans should be there at the beach # Who needs books when we've got speech? # Cos who knows what's in store? Roar! # Love life a penny at a time, boy # Love life a penny at a time, girl # Love life a penny at a time... # Who do you love? My silly boys. The Bobby-ells. OK, what do you fear? Well, I guess... I'm fearless now. I guess my fear was that you'd get cancer and you did. That you'd get it again, I mean, and you did. But it's over with. So I'm fearless. July 24th, 2010. It's nearly midnight now and I'm running out of time to make this. I worked all day long. On a Saturday! Yeah, I know. The sad part is, I spent all day long hoping for something amazing to happen, something great, something to appreciate this day, and to be a part of it, and to... ...show the world that there's something great that can happen every day of your life, in everyone's life. But the truth is, it doesn't always happen. And for me, today... ...all day long, nothing really happened. I want people to know that I'm here. I don't wanna cease to exist. I'm not gonna sit here and tell you that I'm this great person because... ...I don't think I am, at all. I think I'm a normal girl. Normal life. Not interesting enough... ...to know anything about. But I want to be. And today... ...even though... ...even though nothing great really happened, tonight I feel as if something great happened. # I wanna drink from the clearest water # I wanna eat the things I know to # I'm just one, I know # But I feel strong, you know # I wanna reach the greatest mountain # Climb if I want, without all the shouting # I'm just one, I know
