 

                        We've been in Utah for a couple of weeks now, but it's just a stopover. But it sure is beautiful up here. I don't know if this probably doesn't do it justice, but there's 11 of us now, which is good. We broke down the campsite this morning and we're about to hike off the Mountain. It's taken me a lot longer to get this done than I ever expected, but here it is. Enjoy. Excuse me, sir, ma'am. I was wondering if by any chance you heard of a company called life tracker limited? It's okay if you haven't. I read about them on the Internet. I'm just out asking people what they might think about... No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Sorry, no English. Hi, I was wondering if I could ask your opinions about a news story I read today? When in Rome, right? Absolutely. On the news. Excuse me, ladies. Have you by any chance heard of a company called life tracker limited? Have you heard that a company called life tracker thinks they can use DNA to predict the future? This is the palm reading of the 21st century. I mean it could be possible. Wait, am I supposed to look at you or the camera? Wait, what are you asking? Oh, sure. They've been looking at people's DNA for years to try to stay ahead of anyone that poses a threat to the political machine. They say they can analyze a strain of DNA sort of like a timeline. I'm not really comfortable with the... What if knowing your future could change it? Like in back to the future? You know how easy it is to get DNA nowadays? I mean from like a discarded cup from a fast food joint or hair or... Period blood. Good one, honey. Dad. You're implying that someone is doing tests on used hygiene products? Not just someone. The president. But if your DNA knows your future then it would have already factored in that you found out you future. Is it hard to make a movie? Now, son, what did I say about talking to strangers? Not after you learn how. How can I learn how? If you know you know and you can't change it. If all of a sudden aliens came out of the sky it would change how people thought about things, which would lead to change. Do you have a camera at home? Yeah, I've got a camera. Uh-uh. No, you know what? I think we've had just about enough of this interview. Is this going to be on TV somewhere? I came across a news story I thought was pretty interesting. So, I decided to go down to Hollywood boulevard and shoot a little, just play around. I thought maybe I'd get a reaction from somebody who... Hey, Dillon. Hey, dil. What are you shooting? Just an intro for some interviews I did. It's going to look like crap with you shooting it all by yourself. Ohh, hello beautiful. Get that out of here. Just take my help. I'm here. I'm already framed up. All right? Action. I'm Dillon Smith and this morning I read an article about a company that says they can use DNA to predict the future. So, I'm headed down to Hollywood boulevard to see what people think. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Dillon, we're so proud of you, honey. It was good, buddy. But if you want someone with a little charisma to host your documentary ideas there's always me, Scott orenhauser. 'Cause you have charisma pouring out of your veins. You know it, you know it. Bye, Dillon. Catch you later, dil. We're proud of you, honey. Later, guys. so, Scott is always talking about this grant that they give to documentary filmmakers. It's called the clemens grant and it's a big cash prize and tons of sponsored equipment to use as finishing funds for your feature length documentary. I don't know if it's jealousy that's getting my ass in gear or if I'm just sick of listening to opportunity knock and not answering. So, I went back to the footage that I shot a couple of weeks ago and it's bad, but I looked up the story and there's more news. What I'm about to show you is the video of Richard 'rocko' hutchensen. He's the coo of life tracker limited. Interesting character, to say the least. Regular Howard Hughes. Video already has over 300,000 views. If you're watching this video it's probably because you heard something just crazy enough to make you Google it. We can predict the future. Ooh, magic. No, it's not. Don't be a jackass. This is science. Everyone told Galileo he was a whack job when he suggested the sun stars didn't revolve around the earth. But he had science on his side and now we know that we're un-special cosmic dust at the edge of a puny galaxy far, far away from the center of the universe. What we're talking about here is a scientific way to look at DNA as a biological timeline of a human's life. I could explain it in more detail, but you're not going to understand it. Put it this way, your body knows and documents things that we're never consciously aware of. Until now. We made these discoveries over seven years ago, but we were shuffled into the depths of the legal system and our tongues were tied. Now, freedom of speech has prevailed. Kind of. Powers that be still say you're too stupid and irresponsible to know about all of our discoveries. They're probably right, but who made them the bosses? Would... Mako garden apartments, can I help you? Even the press secretary made a statement about him. All right, check this out. Says, "not enough information "exists to prove the accuracy "of such a tool. "Foods, drugs, "medical processes, "and new technologies all "have to be rigorously tested "before public use. "It is a government's "responsibility to protect its citizens." Uh-huh. Wait. Wait a minute. You see that? Wait a minute. So, this information is in my own blood and I'm not allowed to know about it? Anything more than a glorified hotel room, you know, as an apartment. No offense, dil. None taken. And I drive 1987 Nissan pickup truck with 290,000 Miles on it, okay? I rely on you guys for weed. I don't own squat. And now I don't even own my DNA? Pretty much. Where are you going? Welcome to America, buddy. My wonderful boyfriend didn't get me a beer. You didn't say you wanted one. Why they would want this stopped. Here we go. No, I'm serious. Okay. What if Mr. walk the walk, talk the talk. Me? You. Mr. schmooze over here found out that all of his ass kissing and networking functions were completely pointless because he found out from his print that he was going to get cancer and he was going to die in a year? What then? Why not just give up? Why not just, bam, end it early? Oh, now, that's some deep shit we're talking about Scott here. It's not that deep. Oh, cheers. Ouch. Oh, dang, baby. You are sexy when you're feisty. Careful though. You might confuse Drake's sexuality. Just let me suck it once and I promise you'll like it, buddy. It's not going to suck itself. Let's go. Okay, change the subject. Banana. Where did you even get that from? But what about the good that it could do? What about the other side of the coin? This is your life, Dillon Smith. Oh, great. A lonesome life behind his camera, a dead end day job stuck in mediocrity, never finishing a project he starts, but he gets his print read, finds out he's going to be hugely successful, have ten awesome children. Just ten? And die happy in old age while receiving head from 18-year-old Brazilian triplets. Whoo! Oh, brother. What can you do? This information could give him the confidence he needs to come out of his shell and go after his dream. You realize I have the power to evict you, right? Yes, but at least the rent I pay you comes from working in a field I went to school for. Oh, burn. Damn. Wait, hold on a second. I don't think that this print thing is going to be able to tell you if you're going to be happy or not though, right? Happiness produces hormones. Can't that be measured? Yeah, he's got a point right there. Just saying. Why do you always not shut up? It's okay, sport. Are you still talking right now? This was on the local news today. One of those middle of the day things when they know nobody is watching. Sorry to use this stuff from the web, but I don't have the pull to get the interviews myself. Today, we're joined by honey joans, a political science Professor from uc berkley and Abigail Wesson-levitt, a philosophy Professor from carnegie mellon. Welcome, ladies. Hello. Hello, Susan and thank you for having me. Yes, thank you. So, we are curious to hear what you know about life tracker limited. Sounds a bit like a science fiction movie, doesn't it? It really does. From what I can understand, if my body's chemistry is involved it's recorded and from there we can make assumptions? Exactly. I'll give you an example. If it's in like a person who has an excess buildup of white blood cells that can mean this person is sick. Now, if it's a specific kind of cell or a physical reaction we may be able to tell what sickness it is exactly. What's up, dude? Hey. Come in for a minute. Dil, I paused the movie upstairs. Bell is waiting. Just give me a second. Sit over here. What's all this? I was a little pissed off the other day when you said I never finish anything. It pissed me off, but you were right. Well, I know I was right. That's why I said it. I was pissed because it was true, but you didn't have to say it in front of everyone. Wait, wait. Just please, please. Dil, whatever this is, you're making it awkward. I want you to help me hold myself accountable. Accountable? I've decided I'm going full force into the life tracker doc. I don't know if it's the best topic or how long it's going to remain newsworthy, but I have to finish something. Great. I'm with you. You're with me? Yeah, I mean I don't think it's the greatest idea either, but I do think you need to finish something. So, I'm with you. Well, I didn't say I thought it was a bad idea. Neither did I. But you don't think it's good? Okay. Why this topic? Just because it happened to be what we were discussing when the subject of you having no follow through came up? That, and I think this story could go somewhere. I mean think about it, man. I'm always bitching about a father I never knew. I don't have my own family medical history. Life tracker could open that window for people. Do you have any idea how long science takes? If this is even real science. And what? Are you just going to keep using this camera? What about lights or actually getting good sound? What about release forms? Interviews, are you just going to keep interviewing random strangers and your friends? Is Google your only research tool? I'm going to deal with all of those things, okay? I might have to cut corners, but who doesn't? And my first goal is to fill out the application for the clemens grant. That would take care of half of the problems right away. Dil, they don't just give the clemens to anyone who fills out the paper work. I know. I'm not an idiot. I mean what are you telling me? Not to try? You're trying, aren't you? Of course I am. Look, let me know if you need any help. Tomorrow. Tomorrow? Really? Really. You know where I live. Oh, and just for the record, all you folks at home you heard that, right? All right. Now, can I go watch my movie now? Yes. All right, buddy. I'll see you tomorrow. Release of the life tracker... The release of the life tracker... I'm getting way too many shadows from these wrinkles. Less than a month away. Do you seriously not own an iron? Spokane, Washington where Richard 'rocko' hutchensen... Do you think maybe we can pan in when we start this segment? No, I think it should just stay still. Some movement would liven it up though. Yeah, and you're already going to need a genius editor just to key off this damn sheet. I stole a picture off the ltl website we might be able to use. Oh, yeah. I know a guy in spokane that might be able to swing by and get some video too. Awesome. To be the first to get their print. There are many reports of people lining up at pharmacies to be the first to get their... You should totally cut to the people lining up. You can even interview some of them. Do you know where people are lining up? No, where did you hear it? I guessed. Jesus. They're predicting the future. People have to be lining up somewhere. Can we just shoot this? Wait, can you...? Never mind. Just action. Are you sure we can't pan in? I swear to God, Dillon. [Clock ticking] I'm good. Just any time. Okay, okay. We're good. Do you have any thoughts on life tracker or rocko hutchensen? Is that that mean old bastard who thinks he can predict the future? I can't really afford a reader, but I found this website that teaches you to read it yourself. The reader doesn't come with the print order? No. How much does that cost? It depends on the reader's rating. I've seen anywhere from $300 to $1,500. Well, what's the rating of the $300 version? What do you think people will be saying about this story 20 years from now? I mean if it changes the way that we think about how we've arrived at our predicted futures we could be sitting on the dawn of a worldwide cultural awakening. That was, yeah, that was exactly right. That was it? Yeah. Yeah, and there's that ltl guy in irvine who killed himself. We heard about that. Sad. Yeah. Do you know what his motive was? Maybe he didn't like the future he saw. I don't know. Anyway, I've got to run. Sorry, I'm going to be late. Good luck with your movie though. Thank you. A couple more and I think we've got what we need. Okay, yeah. I know I agreed to help you on this, but what are we doing out there? We're doing it, man. You know, I mean follow through. All right. I now you think we're doing it, but you've got nothing. We've just found out about a suicide at ltl. From a random stranger on the street. And the best interview we've had all day is from a friend we planted. So, what are you saying? I'm saying you need to get some better interviews or this is going nowhere unless you talk to somebody who is involved or directly affected. Yeah, I have an issue too. What? I don't think I'm the best choice to be on camera. Oh, my God. I am so glad you said that and not me. A teacher of mine [indistinct] Pulled some strings he had with the connection to the ltl suicide. Sounds crazy, but it's our first big interview. So, today we're going down to irvine to interview Mrs. valliani. She's the widow of Abdul valliani. Abdul is in rocko's inner-circle and it's a pretty small circle. All we know about his suicide is that it's shrouded in mystery. We don't know if it has anything to do with ltl or if he was just a secretly depressed guy. Where's Scott? No hi bell? You look nice this morning, bell? It's good to see you, bell? Sorry. He can't make it. You get me. What? He better have a good excuse for screwing me. He's hardly screwing you. Really? Besides that's why I'm here. I just totally made a joke about screwing you and I can't even get a chuckle? I knew he wasn't into this. You and Scott just have different strategies. Strategies? Bell, where is he? I don't know. Some breakfast function with some dude from discovery channel. Not hirsch Baker? That's the guy, yeah. Traitor. Okay. You know what? Here, take this. I'm done. Bell? Bell? Hirsch Baker is on the board responsible for giving out great. Good for Scott. I'm applying for the clemens grant. I need to meet hirsch Baker. I mean he didn't even tell me he was going. He knew you had this interview Dillon. This is a big slap in the face. Admit it. Admit it, bell, on camera that this is bs. I'm not doing this. Bell? What? I'm sorry. I need your help today. You're right and Scott is lucky to have such a brilliantly talented girlfriend, incredibly sexy, always correct. Your urine cures cancer in orphans in third world countries. Your penis is much bigger than mine and prettier too. All right. Get in the car, freak. Better be nice to me. ? Music this is nice, dil. Students are all using newer models than that. It's pretty good for what we need though. Bell, what are you doing? I want to see me. Okay, but I need to drive too. Mr. Smith. Oh, jeez. I've heard that in typical mad scientist fashion that you will be purchasing your own print and letting it be known to the documentary viewing world as a sacrifice to the quality of your art. I hope the quality of my art isn't dependent on the quality of my [Indistinct]. [Laughing] When does your print arrive? I ordered it, but they've pushed the release date back a couple of times already. As you may already know, death dates will not be available with the purchase of your print. Ltl is currently fighting for you and we're confident in our future legal victory it will give you the back the rights, the information of your own DNA. Those commercials are so annoying. The message boards are all talking about religion. It's easy to pick something like religion, but think about how this could weave its into every nook and cranny of our lives. Like? Well, like, okay. Since women are physically connected to their children during pregnancy, ltl claims that women, not men, women can use their DNA prints to get a glimpse at any future children that they're going to have. It's something to do with half the kid's DNA belongs to the dad. So, take the kid's DNA, match it up against a database of male prints and a woman can find out who she's going to have kids with maybe before she even meets the guy. Dating without all the game play. Well, that takes the fun out of it. Maybe for you. I have no game. I mean I would much rather just knock on someone's door and be like, excuse me ma'am, I have this print here that says we're going to have kids together. Yeah, that's weird. What if you could forward your print and take it to hotties and use it to get laid? Oh, and I'm the weird one? I think you have some urges you need to let out. Have you met...? Who? Bell, have I met who? Have you met Ellie's roommate? She's really cute. You should totally go out with her. Out of my face now. Oh, come on. She's girlfriend quality. Look. She should be expecting me. I asked you nicely, but if you push the call button one more time, the cops will be called. Goddammit. Turn off the camera, bell. There's nothing to see. Wait, this changes everything. It tilts the scale towards conspiracy theories now. There's even more mystery behind this guy's death now. Whatever. Excuse me? You're just going to give up after one let down? What the hell do I have on my life's resume that says I have what it takes to make a documentary on what could conceivably be the biggest story in 50 years? What are you talking about? I'm a 32-year-old wannabe deep in debt to wasted education. I have no savings, no retirement, no investments, let alone a relationship or a family. I mean the only reason I can even afford my apartment because it's free to me for being a slave to the building. Great job, bell. I mean I'm never going to get a promotion. Stuck in a bad salary most of which is services rather than cash. I don't need a print. My whole life is a print. I know my future. You're right. This job was too big for you. Next time you fill an occupation box you should just put apartment manager. I get it, bell. Turn off the camera. Wow, tough life, man. Callouses on your hand must be rough as sandpaper. I get it. Now stop. You know what? You should just follow in Mr. valliani's footsteps. It's just too tough, you know? You're a little bitch and everyone knows it. So, why don't you just [indistinct]? Enough, bell! That's enough. Enough! You know that he was dead, all right? So, why did you ask for an interview? Is it because capturing someone else's pain so good for your movie? Is it? Well, here. What else? You want me to tell you that knowing his future was too much for him? Fine. But you know, you know what's worse? Is knowing that you can't lie to yourself. You can't say I did what I had to. I had no other choice. Or if I had chosen another route. Because if you did something wrong or bad it was inside you all along. It was you that was bad. Not the decision. All right, bell. Get in the car. We've got to go. Okay, I see. You got what you came for. You can forget about me. Go on. Get out of here. I'm calling the police. Mrs. valliani, I'm sorry. No, I'm sorry. Bell, get in the car. We're leaving. We're leaving now. I'm sorry. [Crying] Frankly, I think it's dangerous. It's the lack of knowledge of the future that gives the human race its drive and determination. Well, can you give us an example? If you already knew you were going to win the lottery would a person work hard towards a goal or simply try and... No one is saying they can predict lottery numbers, Abigail. We're talking about biological predictions. Fine. How about this? If you know when you're going to die it certainly has an effect on how you spend the rest of your time. And you're only proving my point. If you know when you're going to die you can choose to spend the rest of your days with the people you love or you can choose to do just whatever you've always wanted to do, Susan. Or you could fall into a depression and give up on life early. Okay, the package has arrived. Little later than expected, but there's very little chatter on the net. So, I'm pretty sure I'm one of the first to get one. Let's take a look at this. Oh, God. You scared the piss out of me, man. Bell wasn't sure you'd still be working on this. Well, neither was I after you bailed on me. I didn't bail on you. It was our first big interview and you had something better to do. Might I add you went behind my back to get a better shot at the clemens. I didn't pitch my idea, asshole. I pitched this. I'm supposed to believe that after you went without telling me? Okay, full disclosure, I was hoping I would come up with an idea as good as this before I got to the interview. So, now it's a good idea? Yes, now it's a good idea. I don't want to depend on you if you're not in this with me. I'm in. Or I want in. My grandpa Joe was in Vietnam with a dad of some military guy that has some thoughts on all this. I got us an interview. Hmm-mm. Yeah, I thought it would be a cool social experiment for Scott orenhauser to work on a Dillon Smith project for a change. Might give you a chance to learn some things. You know something? I'm open to the possibilities. Cheers, buddy. I don't need a tripod if you're here. So, this is it? Yeah, this is it. Oh, is this the camera you borrowed? It might be one we actually used at school. Well, let's get to work. Show me this thing. It's actually pretty genius. It works like a blood sugar test. Drop of blood goes here. And you plug it into this USB drive, which I guess I can do now. Then you download an app from the ltl site. Of course that costs $10. Yeah, all right. Well, I guess... Well, let me get this good. Yeah, we're going to do it? Got it? Can you see? Let me get in close. See what we're doing? Ooh, mommy. You got this? Can you get it in the hole? That's what she said. That should be good. Let's plug this in and pull up the ltl site. I've read most of this already. Reader's cost, or readers have to be certified by ltl. So far nobody's even scored higher than an 83%. Readers who fail the certification are still given their ranking, but they're not publicized by ltl and they're far less accurate, but way cheaper. That reminds me. Let me see. A reader with a 70%, the borderline pass is going to cost $800. Oh, damn. When you go to get your print read you have to fill out an 80-page survey of questions about your life. So, if they know that, say you had the flu at a certain time in your past they can look for times in your future with the same genetic response. Let's see. I'm confirming the sample. Can you see it? Well, they definitely made it idiot proof. So exciting. Are you ready? Once you do it, there's no going back. Screw it, right? Screw it. Let's do it. It's over a hundred pages of unreadable hieroglyphics. Well, that was terribly un-exciting. Maybe we should go back to Dillon smithworking on a Scott orenhauser project. I guess we got to go see a reader. We really want to thank you for doing this for us, sir. Oh, save that for after the interview. Well, we're all set on my end. Whenever you're ready. Sir, would you please state your name and rank? Brigadier general Anthony Morris. And have you heard of life tracker limited? Seems to be the only thing everyone is talking about these days. Are you a believer? They can predict the future? Well, I haven't had my own print done, but I see no reason why it's not possible. Are you in favor of releasing the death date information? Well, this case represents two aspects that are intrinsically American. Freedom of speech and a free market. Seems to me Mr. hutchensen has the right to run his business the way he sees fit. Maybe I've been misinformed, but I was under the impression that you were against letting this sort of technology get out to the masses. Correct. Sometimes there's a difference between what is allowable under the constitution of the United States and what you think one should or should not do even if they are constitutionally allowed to do so. Can you explain? Well, if I had my say in the matter I would ask Mr. hutchensen to allow the U.S. army to study how this could be used to protect and serve our country. Can you foresee any specific way in which ltl technology might be useful? We don't know the depths of this technology. No one does. Hell, not even rocko himself. But it seems to me if you gather enough data imagination is the only limit. What about personal privacy? Well, you've got to start somewhere. Look, all I'm saying is the technology is incredible and if used properly this would be a great tool for the safety of Americans. Downtown LA. You only see it like this after it rains. Hey there, future viewers. It is 2:34am. Can't sleep. Aren't sequential numbers on a clock supposed to be like good luck or something? Now, when I lay down I feel like I could pass out, but I just stare at the ceiling awake. So, I'm up on the roof with my cameras. Tomorrow is a big day. Scott, bell, and I are going to go down and get our prints read. We were able to get $2,000 together. Scott borrowed, I sold my baseball card collection. But that wasn't going to be enough for all of us to get a certified reader, so Scott had a brilliant idea. Why I agreed I still don't know, but one quick trip to Vegas later, and we have $200 less than we started with. It could have been worse, though. We could have lost the whole thing, but now we each get an uncertified 64% reader for $600 each. But that's not what I wanted to tell you tonight. In the three weeks since we last shot, the ltl story has landed itself firmly in the 24-hour media cycle. At least here in California anyway. Take a look. First, we don't even know if it's a viable test. It's unproven. Well, it's not going to be proven until we lead by example. Second, the highest rated reader to date is at 87%. Now, those might be good odds if you're in a casino, but not when you're letting the whole world study your genetic code and make judgment calls about you. If you were Chuck lamont wouldn't you be worried? Third, what does this have to do with the state of California? If you could look into the future and see if a car you were buying was gonna blow a head gasket two months later, would you buy it? Listen, an ltl print will let us check his oil. Fourth, let's say we could find a reader rated at 100%, not going to happen, but let's just say it. How is it possible to be sure that that reader is impartial? Chuck, enough with the counting. Fifth, let's talk about the issues, the economy, the prison system, the debate over charter versus public school systems. I don't want to play politics. Business? This is about... You don't want to play politics? Well, what do you think you'll have to do am I going to get a chance here? The reality is game playing for Megan brown, problem solving from Chuck lamont. Here we are. We want to thank our good friend Zack for helping us out on camera two. Zackie! So, we all went down thinking we were going to walk out with some sort of fortune cookie, but it was actually a pretty in depth process. Yeah, you don't even meet with the reader. It's all based on your print, which is analyzed against your personal survey. And I'm fine with my print being added to the national database. But I will die if anyone gets a hold of his. Oh, really? Yeah, tons of personal questions. I mean usual things. Who your parents are, personal medical history, but tons of almost like freudian questions. Right, like how do you feel about your mother? One of them was named the top five most emotionally painful experiences of your life, then rate the pain on a scale of 1 to 10, 1 being orgasm, 10 being contemplation of suicide. Yeah, nothing if not vivid. And you have to remember how old you were to the week if possible when these things happened. Right, because there's this fine print that basically says one of the ways a reader's accuracy can be compromised is if you mess up your timeline. Which we're not going to say. Before we... Before... Wait, wait. Before we do it, this is for the documentary, right. No judgments. No judgments. No matter what. Plus, our trip to Vegas kind of downgraded our reader's qualifications just a bit. Yeah, 64%. That's what we got. Never split tens. Okay, okay, okay. Can we? Zack, can we do this? Say go. Do it. Damn girl. Oh, there's an index. Talk about excited. Skipping to the good stuff. Oh. Hmm, all right. Looks like I'm going to have problems with my lungs and all of the wonderful diseases they have listed, it says mesothelioma is the most probable. Score. You've got to get something. Yeah, jackpot. Well, I'm going to have a dependency problem. Shocker. Most probable culprits being marijuana, alcohol, and/or opiates. That's more like predicting the present. Opiates? It said it, not me. What it's talking about. It's my turn. It says I'm going to spend a couple of years closer to contemplate suicide side of the scale. This is depressing. There's no way to know when any of this is going to happen? Oh, no, dude. Check out the last page. It's one giant call to arms demanding that the death dates be released. Good, I'd like to know if I'm going to get lung cancer tomorrow or 50 years from now. Guys, I'm going to have two boys and a girl. And it says that the bloke is already in the system. Oh, really? This better not be your cute way of telling me you're preggo with my eggo. Oh, not that I know of, Mr. 1-0-0-4-5-2. I am track number 1-0-0-4-6-1. Give me that. This dude is going to be such a piece of work. Getting your print done is still sort of like an elitist thing. So, he's probably very wealthy and very powerful. Right, right. Like Larry king or Carl rover. Okay, they both have incredibly sexy minds. So sexy. All right, never mind. But it could be someone like, oh, javier bardem or gael Garcia bernal. I'm sure. Or not. She doesn't even know how to say his name and she's going to have his babies. That's awesome. We're so having babies. Yes! Seriously? Okay, you can name the boys. Wait, you guys aren't...? It's a joke. Excuse me? Of course not. Scott? I mean it's got to be like a mix up, right? It's... Honey, come on. This is stupid. It's wrong. They've mixed up the numbers. It's all fun. 64%. You can be one of our babies. Okay, okay. I'm going to just, I know, I know. It's stupid. I'm going to... Can we just cut? Dude? Yeah, it's a little awkward. I'm so sorry. I don't... No, I mean I don't get it. You guys want to start right now? Shut up, Zack. So, update time. Scott isn't talking about the giant pink elephant in the room. It's been two weeks of weird half mentioning it, which is just making it worse. One thing's for sure though. He's completely switched sides. He's now totally convinced that this is all just a parlour trick. Bell just smiles and rolls her eyes at the whole situation. She hasn't said if she thinks the prints are predicting the future, but she's convinced that this is a fluke. As am I. I'm actually very pro-ltl. That said, we went to a crappy reader. Scott and bell are perfect for each other. End of story. It's just so ridiculous that we have to deal with something like this. How much does a reader with a 30% cost? $50. $50? That's not much of an investment in your future. Um... 79%. Let me guess, about $1,800? Yeah, you're in the ballpark. I've got to know what you get for that kind of cash. I mean a bunch of random stuff. I guess the biggest thing was that he saw the effects of some sort of anti-depressant in my future. How does that make you feel? A little depressed. Jon Stewart got his print read? He read it himself on the show. He's officially reader rated at 1.5%. That's awesome. You've got to find the right suckers and match them up with the right snake oil, don't you? At this point, I prefer to look back rather than look forward. My name is Dr. uriel Patterson. I work at the Mountain spring lake laboratory in New York. I'm here at ucla doing a study on the mental effects of receiving an ltl print reading. Can you tell us a bit about the study? Well, the fact that they haven't released the death date information is really hindering our progress. How so? Well, it's not just the date of someone's death that ltl has been ordered not to release. It's also anything that would help to figure out that information. So, like what exactly? We all know our birth date. So, we know the starting point. When we get our prints, everything listed before the date you took your test is listed chronologically. Right, okay. For example, our producer Dillon was able to see when he broke his leg from when he was eight because of the spike in his osteo somethings. Osteoclast and osteoblast, right? Exactly. That's what the body uses to repair and mend broken bones. Did you mention your leg in a survey? I did, yes. And did the print predict any other broken bones in your future? A couple of times actually. When? Doesn't say. You see the problem? If it's possible to link a piece of DNA with an injury in a person's past, then why can't you measure the distance between the two incidents and figure out when in the future it will happen again? I assume you can't. Of course you can. But how does knowing I'm going to break my leg sometime in the future effect my death date? Well, then you would know you weren't going to die until after you broke your leg. Like your own personal book of revelations. Everyone waiting for the seven signs of their own apocalypse. Okay, so how does this hinder your progress? You're a filmmaker, so I assume you like movies. Assumption correct. Name a movie that's more suspenseful because of what the director doesn't show you rather than what he does. That's easy. Jaws, the Blair witch project, Rosemary's baby, psycho. Good, good, good. Jaws, that's a good one. Let's use that. We only really see the outcome of what the shark has already done. When we see the shark it's only terrifying glimpses out of the corner of our eyes. That's because our imaginations are far scarier than anything than Spielberg could have put on screen. Most people have some kind of mental anguish. Not about what's in the print, but about when those things are going to happen. In all honesty, I believe that if the death date information was released people would be more at ease. Because their imaginations wouldn't be running wild trying to figure out if today was the day that they were going to die or get a disease? Or get pregnant, or find happiness. It's not always a negative thing that causes anxiety. It's simply not knowing. Looking pretty bad out there. Hey, I got a couple. Out of how many. A few more than a couple. Were you recording that? Don't worry, Keanu. For all people know you were surfing fumes out there. That's good. Because that's exactly what we were doing. Maybe you guys should check your prints to see when you'll stand up for longer than three seconds. Yeah, that'd be nice. Okay, I was thinking about it and I don't really get it. Get what? Well, how they're figuring certain things out. I mean it doesn't just say that Jack screws Jill. So, how do they know that? Well, obviously, it's more complicated than that. I mean I have no idea how a microwave makes my dinner. How? I just know I stick it in and two minutes later it's done. Listen, it's like blue's clues for adults. You, basically, just gather as many clues as you can and draw the most logical conclusion. I was reading about the discovery of DNA last night because in the early 50s and at the time all they knew that it was shaped like a double helix and it might be responsible for heredity. And I could see how at the time that would seem pretty useless, but now it seems like we use DNA for everything. So, you're a believer? Yeah, I guess. I guess I am. You're just saying that because you want to get into bell's pants. Oh, God. We went to a 64% reader. We can't be sure of anything he told us. So, you believe there's a 64% chance bell is going to have your babies? No, I think that's part of the 36% that's bogus. Okay, I thought documentarians were supposed to show both sides of the story and let the viewers decide. Right, because Michael Moore's docs aren't slanted to the left at all. Well, maybe that's what this one has going for it. Well, Scott over here thinks this is all a publicity stunt to make quick cash and you think we're going to have sex someday. I don't believe that. Then what do you think? I think you should stop being jealous because you have nothing to worry about. Is that so? I'm going to get you all wet. I can understand a disease being stored in your body after you've gotten it, but what life tracker claims is that all of this information is already your DNA from the start. Well, think of an iPod. When you plug an iPod in all the songs are already there. Because the playlist was made before you started listening. Well, it's the same thing with our DNA. Our DNA, Susan, was made at creation. Okay, now you're getting into religion. Is this proof of God? If it is, do we want to know what God knows? Do we want to play God? Well, are we playing God when we go see the doctor or the dentist? So, with that argument, does that mean we should let our teeth rot out of our heads because that's what God gave us? I'm not arguing that there's no possible good to come from this, but I think it's a huge mistake to not also think about the negative possibilities. Back off, dil. Would you just tell me what's wrong? I'm trying to help your little documentary here. Here we are in filmmaking capital of the world, always sunny Hollywood, California. Hi, Dillon. Thanks for talking with us today. Bell, what happened? Your new film about ltl technology to predict the future so brilliant. Is it a scam? Or will it change the world and how we see it? What are you doing? See, folks? It changes everything. Nothing has changed. That's the most amazing part. It simply plants ideas in your head. Ideas about the future and it's how you react to those thoughts that change everything. Earlier, in this magnificent documentary you were witness to our prints telling us that Dillon and I would have children. Talk about the perfect conflict to keep the audience buzzing. Will they really? Or was it just an honest misinterpretation from a lousy reader? Suffering from inner turmoil I'm sure about the validity of this asinine reading, Scott decided to call over a needy ex-girlfriend for emotional support. What does it all mean, Rebecca? Are my girlfriend of four years and my best friend going to cheat together? If that's what the print says, then it has to be true. I can't believe they swore they would never do it and we had a really low rated reader. I can't imagine your pain, Scotty. I think I know what will make you feel better. What's that, my slutty ex-girlfriend? A goddamn blowjob! Bell, bell, calm down. [Crying] So, ladies and gentlemen, you have your answer. Throw your protests down and accept it. Now, what you've all been waiting for. Dah-dah-du-dahh. Dillon, please. No, no. What's wrong with you? If Scott messed up, work it out. But don't make a bad situation worse by digging the hole deeper, the print was wrong and you know it. I don't need either of you. Who's your pick for governor? Bell told me what she did. I promise I didn't want any part of it. No, man. She told me that too. I messed up. Like big messed up. Are you guys okay? Yeah, I think so. But we're not perfect for a while. You know if she didn't love you she wouldn't be so upset. This whole life tracker thing, man. It's just messing with my head. I'm sorry, man. We cool? Can we be done for the day? Hi, I'm Steven buchanon. I am the coadjutor bishop for the Los Angeles diocese. As a member of the clergy you have a viewpoint on life tracker technology I found a bit surprising. You're not against the claim to scientifically predict the future. True. I think science and religion go perfectly well together. God's method for the creation of everything that we know to be the universe is what we call science. Sort of a recipe? If you like, yeah, or like an artist who mixes colors and chooses specific brushes and canvas. Every brush stroke brings his painting to life. All the hows and wherefores that mankind learns about the existence of life are really the brush strokes that God used in the creation of his masterpiece. But how do you feel about people being able to look at the blueprint? Oh, I don't think it matters. I mean we can no more change our genetic makeup than we can God's plan for us. What's there is there. I guess I'm just a little surprised at how accepting you are. There seems to be a lot of religious turmoil in the press. Son, I am not going to be the man who stands on the high ground shouting to the heavens that human flight is not now, nor ever will be possible while the Wright brothers, prepped their plane at kitty hawk. We have no choice but to accept. What about free will? A father sets a bowl of ice cream and a bowl of vegetables in front of a child and asks him to choose which one he wants. The ice cream of course. The ice cream of course. Did the child have a choice? Choice the child would make before he made it? Difficult concepts are often that way just because the way they're worded. How do you feel about the pending decisions regarding the release of the death date? Do you remember those Chilean miners awhile back? Of course. They're trapped in the mine, and the rescuers are able to drill down a small hole that for air, food, and water and they put down that video tap. So, we all watched while the experts predicted that they wouldn't be able to get a rescue tunnel down to those poor men until Christmas. But people and resources came together. And they were able to get those men out by mid-October. Two and a half months early, which doesn't negate the fact that those poor souls were down there for 70 days. It would have been nice for them to know in advance that they were going to live. If we'd known in advance that there was no danger, would the story have touched millions of people around the world? Would it have brought us together as one people for that little brief moment? Now, here's a thought. If it had been predicted that those men would die down there would we have even tried to rescue them at all? Judging by the looks of their site, they knew this day was coming. Hmm, damn. It's all npr spoke about today. All goddamn day. People are lemmings. So, if people aren't interested in what you're interested in then that makes them lemmings. Is that what you're saying? Those lemmings are the same people that made the twilight movies successful. I liked those movies. Just a bunch of experts talking about how important the life links are to the entire process. Just experts. You don't want to know when you're going to die? And be like 75% sure? Great, just enough to scare me, but keep me hopeful. To find out when you're going to die, first of all. And rocko says it's 98% accurate. Rocko says. Oh, well, if rocko says it... It's everything. But you can just create an account online and sign in with your print ID. I have an idea that I told bell and she's in, but we're going to need everybody. So, you take over, babe? Yeah? So, we have ten raffle tickets at $25 a pop. If your name gets drawn out of the hat. May I? Uhh. I know. I'm sorry. If your name gets drawn out of the hat you get your death date for only $25. But some of us never got our prints and Zack always cries poor. That's because he is poor. Yeah and I doubt team Edward got his. You doubt correctly. Okay, so that means 5 of us and 10 tickets. Great. Then I'm in for two. Oh, and the site lets you use multiple forms of payment. So, we can all charge it. You guys start our account? Yeah, sure. You know what? I'm in for one I guess. Yeah? Really? Awesome. There's seven left. Dil? Two. Sweet. Lemming. I'm not sure I want to do it. Hmm-mm. Put another two on my card. Two? You can just pay me later. I can afford it. I just said I'm not sure I want to do it. Fine. Put me in for two. Yes. Oh, all right. Look, if she's in for two I'm in for two. I can't believe we're doing this, guys. What a lemming. Shut up. Sheep. That's one ticket left. Don't look at me, dude. I've got to put gas in my car. I'll take the last one. Yeah, Dillon. That's three for Dillon, two for me, two for bell, two for Ellie, and one for Drake. Zero for Drake. Zero for Drake. Thank you. All right, Dillon. This doc is your creation. I think you should do the honors. Drum roll. [Tapping on counter] Melodramatic. Yes. Oh, come on. I think you better check the tickets to make sure they don't all say Scott on them. Right. Come on. I've almost got all the cards. Hang on. Thank you, sir. Hey, guys. You want to kill him now so we don't have to waste our money on finding out when he's going to die? Ouch. Ohh, or kill him now and see if rocko predicts it. Even better. Ohh, I'm getting interested now. Scott, I need your print number. It's down here. While we wait I've got some good news to share. Announcement. You're pregnant with Drake's love child? Thank God. We've been trying for so long. Close. I got the clemens grant. That's awesome, dil. Dillon, that's huge. I thought they weren't announcing the recipient till next week. They're not, but they notified me early to see if I could make some awards banquet. I'm not supposed to tell anyone yet. So, you get like tons of money, right? Some cash, but it's mostly goods and services. Goods and services. It adds up to like $50,000 though. That's...Congrats. $50,000? Nice. Hey, Mr. networking and schmooze master, didn't you apply? Scott is on my application for the life chair [Indistinct]. Scott put his own idea into it, though. Don't, bell. What? You did? Really? Can we say catfight? Yeah, come on. I entered the last three years on my own. It just felt weird not to, but dude, don't worry about it. We're going to get some kick ass equipment and we may even want to reconsider reshooting some things. This is awesome. So, you're going to use the money to produce the film, right? that is great news because now you can give me my $25 back and we can write this off as a business expense. Yeah, okay. Here we go. When is Scotty going to die? All right. Lemmings. All right. We're holding. Done? Okay, okay. I... Get on with it. It's not me. Hold on. Here we go. Death date. June 8th, 2015. That's not right. Come on. What does it say, babe? I knew this was a bad idea. Babe, what does it say? You probably... You know, I put the wrong number in or something. I mean... Okay. Yeah, yeah, that's got to be a mistake. It's got to be. You know what, Jay? Maybe just turn the camera off. I don't think... No, no. It's just... It's great. It's... I'll be gone and you two can magically fall into each other's arms. Congrats, man. Dude. You're going to have a perfect little family. Scott? Jay, turn the camera off. Scott? Dil? Yeah, Jay. Yeah, please. I apologize that life tracker limited is taking up so much time and energy, but with the possible threat that ltl raises, no precaution is considered too great. If you don't know by now, the justice department stopped fighting the release of the ltl death date information. We simply needed to make sure that the technology and the information was safe before we allowed it out to the masses. However, now that have been released we are faced with another problem. Now, fortunately, this is a problem that we have faced before. I'm sure many of you remember the turn of the century and the y2k phenomenon. Of course we all had a little chuckle when we woke up on January 1, 2000 and we had found that our computers had not all rebelled against us. Well, here we are again. In the 72 hours since these death dates have become available, two major predictions have been made by this ltl. The bigger and the more dramatic of the two, that the end of the world is coming. A staggering 99.9% of all people who have gotten their death dates predicted including mine, it's all on the same date. It's June 8, 2015. Now, I'm fully aware that I sound like I am reading from some sort of comic book, but I know that this is going to cause a media stir. And I assure you we are completely confident that this is not a prediction, but a company's sick ploy to achieve worldwide sensationalism. My office will be taking every measure conceivable to prove ltl false and to protect every American citizen. Believe it or not, a major part of the solution lies with the second big prediction. The second prediction made by ltl since Tuesday's release that every single person in or associated with belfast, northern Ireland that they've received this death date and it's been predicted that they will all perish on September 22, 2014. I'm telling you all this not only because you're going to hear about it in the media anyway but belfast is going to be our proof that ltl is nothing more than a party game. And then on September 23, 2014 when the good people of belfast, northern Ireland wake up safe in their beds, my hope is that this fear of looming worldwide doomsday will fall by the wayside. For now, you must know that the president, of course, is being kept up to date to everything that's coming in and all pertinent information as it unfolds we're going to immediately pass it on to the American public and to the world at large. Please remember the world is the same as it always was before anyone heard the name of Richard 'rocko' hutchensen and life tracker limited. I can assure you that the only thing we need to do to get back on track is to simply worry about the present. And we'll be working hard to prove all of this to you. I have time for now, what if we had a collection of data that would allow us to foretell an epidemic before that epidemic happened? I think public is fed up with everything digital from credit cards to our iPhones. We are literally tracked night and day. We only think we live in a free society. Well, why does it matter if people know where you are, what you're doing, Abigail, if you're not doing anything illegal? Are you listening to yourself? Ladies, we are out of time on this subject. Are there any last words you'd like to leave? 20 seconds. I'll be quick. Yes, I would like to say something. I don't think giving up a little bit of our personal privacy is too much to ask. When we're talking about a technology that could conceivably help with world health, world hunger, and world peace. And world domination. Uh, here. Take this. I have to say something. We're still shooting today, right? I can't work on this project anymore. Because of the death date thing? I just...I think I need to work on my own stuff. But this was your stuff, our stuff. Listen, I appreciate you bringing me in on this, man. I just... I don't have any reason to believe any of it and I definitely don't think I can keep an indifferent eye while hosting this shit. This shit? I thought you were... Sorry, not the doc. Just this. All this, this shit. And talk to people about doomsday. I mean you don't think that's worth shooting? Exactly. Doomsday. Doomsday? So, I'm doing it alone again. Listen. This doesn't change anything. You're still my bro. Honestly, this is... I'm just afraid that if I keep working on this, we're going to lose that and it's not something I'm willing to... You know. Yeah, okay. I don't agree, but I get it. But you owe me today. You owe me today or I'm having sex with bell. Go ahead and stand right up here. Cool. We good? Great. So, you had your print read? Yeah, everyone I know already had one. So, I figured why not? Did you pay for the death date upgrade? I kind of figured that was a waste of money if everybody gets the same date. Yeah, I'm just stocking up on water bottles, batteries, you know, that kind of thing. So, you were chosen then? Chosen? Like the matrix? That's weird. Anyway, I'm not. My print says I'm goners just like everybody else, so... In hindsight, I sort of wish I hadn't got my own date. So, we decided not to get his. Sort of an ignorance is bliss kind of thing, so, how do you feel about the idea of using the belfast track as a test to prove doomsday wrong? I think it's a little sick, how so? Well, it's sort of like having someone test your meal for poison before you take a bite. I mean, okay, so what if belfast does tumble? What then? Mass hysteria? Cats and dogs living together? Have you heard about the chosens? I know that Los Angeles has over 200. Do you know out of how many? No, do you? Over 780,000. Questions? Sir. General, the story seems to be growing fast. Is there anything specific we should be fearful of? Now, the media is going to make a big deal out of this and I am sure that our biggest safety concern is going to be the amount of people that are descending upon belfast. Now, hopefully that plague will put money into the local economy. To see something good come out of this. General? Sir? Yes? I heard that you were interested in meeting with ltl to discuss [Indistinct]? I have never said that. I have always believed that the ltl technology was a joke and that Mr. Richard 'rocko' hutchensen is a fake. And we will have our proof on the morning of September 23, 2014. Next question. Has rocko been charged with any crimes? Yes, he is currently, he is currently facing charges of incitement among other things. [Indistinct]? Yes, there is a charge of terrorism, but I am currently not at liberty to speak about that. One last question, please. Should people continue to buy the prints? Absolutely not. We do not want to put money in the coffers of life tracker limited. Buying prints and paying readers, it's only adding fuel to the fire. Dillon, I was surprised to get your call. Do you mind the camera? I suppose not. I mean unless it becomes incriminating. You know you can get your death date online, right? I know, but it's for the movie and it's more visually stimulating if I get my information from my reader. I charge a little more. I understand. I have the money. Well, come on in. 1-0-0-4-5-2. Let's see. Now, this information is fully accurate no matter what my rating is. However, I'm sure yours will be just like mine. June 8th, 2015. I've been hearing that date a lot lately. Yeah, you believe it? Well, the stuff in my print is definitely not true. No offense. None taken. But there's also evidence worldwide that seems that shouldn't be ignored. True. What do you think? Well, don't you think I'm a little biased? I do currently make my living based on this technology. I realize. Well, I'd say I'm about 64% convinced it's not a joke. Those aren't very good odds for the people in belfast. But good odds for you. January 4th, 2060. Man, you're going to live a long life, Mr. Smith. and it looks like you are number 287 in Los Angeles county. Just over 81,000 worldwide. Huh, I guess the question now is do you believe? But what if I had been some schmuck off the street? The Attorney General would have buried me. That's what. Mr. hutchensen, I'm going to have to end the interview if you keep using that language. Censorship, there's another place the government should keep its (Censored) Away from. Sorry, penis. Listen, I represent the people, the people all around this country that are trying to make something of themselves. The only difference is I'm not a pathetic failure. Should not be allowed to dictate what the private sector offers the American people. That's communism. So, anything anyone wants they should be allowed to have? What about drugs? Weapons? Don't try to paint me into a corner. I understand the government protecting us from drugs and guns. The government needs to step in when we start slipping roofies to pubescent boys and shooting up our schools and workplaces. But how's the service I'm offering going to hurt anyone? It will change what people do and how they think, how they act. Are you an idiot? Checking the weather report before going on vacation changes what people do and how they act. The president is attacking me and my legal business personally. He has all the money in the U.S. treasury to prevent me from releasing a product in a free market capitalist system. Is that fair? It's been a matter of weeks since you released the death dates and ltl's prints are telling 99.9% of the people who have taken the test that they're going to die on June 8, 2015. Your point? Well, my point, my point is don't you think that's a bit far-fetched? A bit drastic? Well, that's two questions. Far-fetched? No. Was it too far-fetched to believe at one point in our world's history that 25% of the population died because of fleas on rats? (Censored) Happens. What about the claim that this is one big publicity stunt? I think it's a brilliant way to fight me. Bravo, team usa. So, it's a stunt? I heard that your print said you were going to grow a brain tumor. How's that working for you? This interview is not about me. So, it's true? What was it that I heard? Four months? Four months, wasn't it? I heard that you had four months to live. I'd prefer if we stayed on topic. Mary mother of Christ. So, your print was right on the money and you're trying to convince your viewers that it's unreliable? Are you serious? Mr. hutchensen. You irresponsible stupid (censored). Thank you, Mr. hutchensen. It's been a pleasure having you. Okay, so, things have gotten just a tid bit crazy in the last few weeks. So far 890 million people worldwide have gotten their death dates predicted. Out of those just under 2 million are predicted to live past doomsday. That's one in every 450 people. I mean I don't even think I know 450 people. And that means that out of the approximately 11 million people that live in the greater Los Angeles area, only 25,000 will be left. Some are calling it nature's answer to over population and everyone from scientists to bums on the street are predicting how it's going to happen. Theories range from simultaneous worldwide natural disasters to what christians call the rapture. And some are even taking things into their own hands and there have been a number of cult-ish, Jim Jones, drink the purple kool-aid mass suicides. I mean it's crazy. And chosens, that's what they're calling us, chosens are having support groups, meetings, gatherings to try and figure out what it is that we have in common. You know what it is that makes us-- did you think I wouldn't find out? Stop it. Stop. Why didn't you tell me? Oh, I'm sorry. Are you too good to talk to me now that you're Mr. chosen? Okay, because after I found out how special you were, I went and got bell's death date. Are going to have long, happy lives together, does that make you happy? Are you...? I bet you pray this is all true. You're just antsy to have her all to yourself. Scott. How you feel about her. Stop. It's not like you hide it well. You're really not going to say anything? Scott, stop it. Son of a bitch! You know how I know this is all fake? Because I can [Indistinct]. Scott, get off of him! Get off. Scott! How does it feel to be chosen now, Dillon? How does it feel? Scott! Get off of him! [Water splashing] Are you insane? What is wrong with you? What is wrong with both of you? Headed to spokane. Couldn't get through the automated telephone system. So, I'm just going to show up and try and catch rocko by surprise. I figure what have I got to lose? And I mean I can't really make a life tracker documentary without trying to talk to the man himself. Wish me luck. Okay, home sweet home. Found this in the lobby. So, I guess I am just going to go wait outside of his office building. Rocko, my name is Dillon Smith. I'm making a documentary about life tracker. Mr. hutchensen isn't interested. I just want to ask you a few questions. Don't make me repeat myself. Who are you? I'm Dillon Smith. Are you making a movie? Why? What's that going to do? Does that prove something? No, the only proof is predictions coming true. Sir, that is enough. Put that camera away. You want your proof? Here it is. My print will be made public tomorrow and because of it, today will go down in history. Now, leave me the hell alone. Now, put the camera away. You know something that the world doesn't? What does your print say, rocko? [Gunshots] Get his gun. Get his gun. One shooter. One shooter. Get him. I just wanted my family to be left alone, but no. You had to make that goddamn prediction, didn't you? Huh? About 20 minutes ago I heard on the radio that a group of chosens were meeting at a house in the valley when a group of apparently violent demonstrators showed up. I came out to grab my camera and I found this. The letters cbw stand for chosen by who? And the slashes represent the number of chosens that live in the building. Me and bell. If they looked us up. Or if they saw this. Dear Dillon Smith, Anderson Cooper is putting together a round table discussion of the recent verbal, emotional, and physical abuse of chosens. We've attempted to call, but our calls have gone unanswered. Have footage documenting life tracker limited. Anderson would love to talk to you about being on the show. Please call at your earliest convenience. This is why I haven't answered their calls. I was expecting a little more than this. I know it doesn't look like much, but I promise it's everything we need. Your footage of rocko's death went viral pretty fast. I'm still trying to get over it. Wrong place, right time I guess. So, should we start? Absolutely. I think most people already know you as a news correspondent, but would you please state your name and point of view? Sure. My name is Abigail Wesson-levitt and I am an international activist for the pro choices cause. Do you want some water? Sorry, I'll be fine. Your stance is that it is better to not know your future before you live it? Precisely. I'm pro choices, which is a movement against print readings? Because we believe that your decisions... Once tainted by predictions are no longer your own decisions. I have my print and I still make my own decisions. Do you? You don't think that your decisions are tainted by information that you found in your print? My reader only had a 64% accuracy rating. I had your print re-read by Mr. ranchaw here. He has a rating of 92%. Nobody has a rating of 92%. Wait, where did you get a copy of my print? I also know you're a chosen. Would you like to conduct a little experiment? We took the liberty of asking some very specific questions to your print. I'm not sure how comfortable I am with this. Well, it's your doc. So, it's your decision, but I can prove right now that the future is changeable. Okay, I'll play along. We asked your print, when was the last time you had sex? That's a bit personal, don't you think? Looking at specific hormones a body produces during intercourse, your last ejaculation was four days ago and you're not scheduled to do it again for another two. Excuse me? We have 92% accuracy. We compared it to my own print and I haven't had... I haven't been... I haven't been active in the two weeks since we scheduled this interview. This is really weird. I'm sorry. I'm not comfortable with this interview. Wait. No, no. I'm getting to my point. I promise. It will only take a second. If either of us were to have intercourse today. Now, then we've proven the whole thing fallible. Even at 92% accuracy. I am sorry, Dillon. This is weird for me too. Crazy. What does this prove? This doesn't prove anything. In a battle of science I believe that human nature wins every time. Human nature is the basis of science. Okay. You've proven your point. Just... No, no, no. Okay, stop, stop. If I stop now then I will have proven the opposite of my point. I want to prove that you can change what a print says. And both of our prints say that neither one of us is supposed to have intercourse today. Human nature says that you are a 30 something year old straight male who hasn't had a lot of experience with women. It also says that if a woman, almost any woman who is willing and determined to have sex with you that there is very little you can do to fight off what is a completely natural and unpredictable event. Seriously? You don't have to do this. Please. You have no idea how hard it was to get up the nerve. Please. Bell just called and said she needed to talk. She said she didn't want to do it over the phone. So, I told her to come down. To actually use this in the movie and I feel guilty enough about it already, but I don't know what she's going to say and she sounded desperately serious. She's literally on her way over right now. So, I'm covering the record light with a piece of gaff tape. I'm sorry, bell. What's going on? Is it Scott? No. It's me. I'm just so confused. About what? There are things in my print that change the entire plan I had for my life. I mean, what do you do with that information? Do you just hold onto it? Or do you just accept it and change? What if I'm changing something that I shouldn't have changed? Bell, you just have to go on living the life you were already living. Scott is pressuring me to get pregnant. Don't you want kids? Yeah, but he doesn't. He just wants to prove his print is wrong. Maybe, but he loves you too and I'm sure you guys were going to have kids anyway. And I mean wouldn't that do it? Tangible proof that this is all bs? I don't want a baby as some sort of science experiment. Then wait. I've always wanted kids my whole life and now I don't? Maybe I don't love Scott. Yes, you do. Okay, maybe I do, but maybe, maybe love doesn't matter as much as we thought it did. Maybe what matters most of all is survival. Dillon, maybe you and I are meant to be together. You don't think Scott wants me dead enough? What if the print is right? It's not, okay? I can't be with him anymore. He's so angry. He's drinking all the time. He's always stoned. He's getting the shit end of the stick, bell. I mean not you, not me. If you and I are just destined to be together I just want to get there. Do you understand that? I just, I want to move on. Wow. Thank you for the romance. I've always fantasized about the day my dream girl would settle for me because she just wants to move on. Dillon, I'm sorry. I didn't mean it like that. Don't be sorry to me, okay? Be sorry to Scott. The reason he's pissed is because he loves you. So, maybe you should try comforting him. I'm sorry, Dillon, I-- [door closes] This probably isn't very good for the success of this doc, but who cares, right? Belfast is safe. People are safe. Doomsday fear is a thing of the past. Now, we've got to figure out how to put ourselves back together. But I think we're going to wait until the night's over. Cheers. There's my car. I haven't been the best documentarian. Before the belfast party last week I hadn't turned on the camera for months. I don't really speak to Scott or bell anymore. Scott says hello when we pass in the halls and bell smiled and waved the other day when I was on my way to the pool. But as for being friends, that seems to be over. I don't know. Things are going good for them though. Scott put in his 30-day notice and I saw a ring on bell's finger. So, two and two equals four, right? As for the rest of the world, I can't say it's been that easy. It seems like every day I learn something else that I didn't realize could be affected by the prints. Here's a montage of things I stole off the web. Belfast is fine. In fact, the town has been invigorated by a kind of new hope. Elsewhere, we found quite a different story as much work remains to pick up the pieces of a world broken by false expectations. I don't think lives were spared. I don't think belfast was ever in any danger. In Pakistan, they're reporting 37% unemployment and 100,000 dead and the main cause is cholera. Cholera? You and your group believe that the belfast track was planted in the technology by the American government. Yes, sir. No, please. In Brazil, there are no imports or exports. They're reporting 22% unemployment and untold dead. We assume that number to be big, but there's no way of knowing because there's no press getting in or out of the country. This one can't be blamed on wall street. I mean people made rash decisions because they literally thought they knew the future. Data can be analyzed countless ways and each way poses the possibility of a new hypothesis. It took over a year in legal mire for ltl to even be allowed to release this technology and then months and months before they were free to release the death dates. And then the government just gives up. Can you tell me why not a single female under the age of 14 who has had their print read is predicted to ever have a child? Some have tried to build new lives, others have attempted to rebuild their old lives. Steven Carter and countless others have simply decided to end it. Some are going as far as to say that these sad cases are not suicide, but cold-hearted recklessness at the hands of Richard hutchensen. I think that rocko hutchensen got exactly what he deserved. Last time we met, we'd talked about a broken bone in your childhood. You remember that? Sure. Well, I probably owe you partial credit for this. I sought out all trial patients who had predicted levels of bone mending cells. One gentleman had a print that said he would be injured in a few weeks. Now, just to be safe we surrounded him with a rotating deluge of interns to watch over him for a whole week just in case the print was off a little bit. Now, a person can break a bone just standing up. So, we literally made him comfortable in his own bed and took care of all of his needs. A week of reading and watching movies he actually thought it was relaxing. So, you were able to prove it wrong? Mr. Marshall lives on a residential street at the end of a t-intersection. At 3:00 on the fourth day of our test a kid paying too much attention to his cellphone blows through a stop sign and slams into Mr. Marshall's house. Let me guess. He broke a bone? He suffered a broken ulna and three small bones in his right hand. That means ltl was able to predict the car accident? It predicted that he would break bones, but how many other things went into that prediction? If he hadn't been part of our study been home in bed at 3:00 in the afternoon. So, his DNA essentially had already factored in that he'd be part of your test? Hmm, who knows? Maybe. Maybe he would have broken a bone some other way. Maybe he wouldn't have broken any bones at all and we set up some terrible coincidence. I'm only calling because I thought you deserved to know. Are you sure it's mine? Yes, I did it on purpose, Dillon. Are you saying you set me up? That really sounds bad. Yeah, it does. When are you due? Three weeks. I just don't understand. You planned this. I knew who you were because of your [Indistinct] When you called about an interview for your doc I did some research. I couldn't believe that my print matched up with yours. When I learned you were a chosen it just made sense to make our baby with a chosen too. And through it I could still somehow live on. Is it a boy or a girl? A boy. I mean what were you going to do? Just leave him on my doorstep the night before doomsday? I don't even know. I even had his print done in utero. I don't know what I'm supposed to say or do. Look, if you want to be a part of his life you can be. If not, that is fine too. You know I could probably even be convinced to give him up for adoption. I'm going to need some time, okay? You know, to wrap my head around this. I understand. I'll call you. I'm sorry. Me too. Bye. [Whistling] Hey, what's up? You going out for doomsday? No, I was planning on watching the festivities on TV. Ugh, boring. I want you to come out with us tonight. We're going to this place called the warehouse downtown. Zack's got a gig there. Um, uh... No rush. We're leaving in a few hours. It's going to be me, bell, Drake, Jay, Ellie, the whole crew and well hopefully you. This is sort of out of the blue. Yeah. I figured tonight was kind of the obvious time to start over, you know? And I come with a peace offering. I got five of them at my job. They're corporate advertising bribes, but they're pretty impressive little bitches. I thought maybe you could use it to shoot some stuff as a button for the doc. The life tracker doc. Oh, yeah. I sort of stopped working on that. Yeah, I hear you got a job at red and tan productions. They're keeping me pretty busy. That's great. Yeah, I mean I have to start paying rent though, I don't have time to manage this place. Oh, poor baby. I've had it easy. Well, shoot whatever you want with it, but it's yours. We're all going to have them tonight. They fit pretty snug in your hand. They're nice, man. I miss you, man. Bell misses you too. We're getting married. I heard. Congratulations. Thanks. Can we put this all behind us? Sorry for all of this. No, it's not your fault. It's no one's fault. I'll get ready and come up. Cool. And look good. Use the end of the world as an excuse. If you can't get laid tonight, you're hopeless. [Cheering] Oh, yeah. Thank you. Everybody raise them up. Raise them up. Come on. We're all dying in a couple of hours. End of the world! Give me some cheers. Give me some cheers. Yeah, yeah. You know what? Before I drink too, I just want to say for all the people... What are you doing? Look at this. This girl is totally chatting with Dillon. She's cute. What do you think she's saying to him? I work in movies. Really? Because I'm an actress. It must be fate that we met tonight. Yeah, it's just like it's too bad it's like the last night on earth, right? Oh, my God. I guess we better make the most of it. Look at her hands. She's holding hands with someone. What? He better not be paying for that whore's drink. Oh, my God. She's so busted. No, look at her. Oh, she's brushing him off. She's brushing him off. What a slut. What a slut. Oh, my God, Dillon. No, come on. Poor Dillon. Buddy. Man down. What happened? Did you guys film? Did you get all of that? Oh, we got it all. We got it all. Yes, but you know what? I'm sorry, man. I hope you couldn't hear it. No. No, we didn't hear it. Yeah, [Indistinct]. It was worth a try. Cheers to the next. Aw, Dillon. We love you. We do. Yeah. And you look so handsome tonight. Oh, well. Shucks. We're going to find you a way sexier girl. Okay, good. We're going to get you laid tonight, buddy. Yeah, yeah. I know. If I can't do it tonight then I'm hopeless, right? Then you're hopeless. I know. [Clock ticking] Well, here we are. Technically, it's June 9, 2015. Doomsday ended three hours ago. The only thing to end on doomsday is the last chapter of this doc. [Knocking] Come in. Hey. Hey. Scott went over to Jay's to keep drinking, but I was done. It was a fun night. Zack was great. Yeah, he was. I just wanted to make sure you got home okay. I actually didn't drink that much. I'm really glad you came out tonight. I missed you. I missed you guys too. Crazy about that reporter lady, huh? I know, right? I'm going to call her tomorrow. Good luck with that. Well, off to bed. Hangover breakfast tomorrow afternoon? I think I can be convinced. Good. [Laughing] I'll call you when we wake up. Good night. Night. [Vibrating] Oh, my God. What's going on? [Car alarm beeping] Bell, this way. This way. Get down. Bell, get down. Dillon? Hold still. Hold onto me. It will be okay. It's going to be okay. [Banging] [Screaming] [Indistinct] Dillon? I think so. We found this partially standing house to take shelter in. We've been here for three days. No one's come. People who lived here had some hiking backpacks so we stuffed them full of clothes, scavenged for canned food, some survival tools, couple personal keepsakes, and maybe it's dumb but I'm bringing my cameras and my archives. Battery light is blinking. Epilogue, this movie didn't turn out to be the polished and masterful cinema that I had hoped, but thanks to my new friend Ryan Whitney with the help of his harmonica and guitar we were able to at least get a score, which is incredible. And now that it's done I can see that it really wasn't a movie that I was making at all, you know? I think it's more of a time capsule. What the world was like before and maybe even a little bit about why and how it collapsed. I don't know if in the grand scheme of things I was meant to capture it all on tape or not, but here it is for anyone who wants to see. The rest of the chosens think that... That word chosens, it's just still really strange to me. But anyway they think I'm nuts because I took a gas powered generator from an old home depot and used it so I could power up the cameras and my laptop so that I could edit this thing. And they might have a point because carrying that stuff around has been a bitch. So, thank God that it's done. I'm leaving the generator behind. There's a copy of the movie on this camera's drive and I'm leaving it behind too. I've got my copy on the camera Scott gave me. As I say goodbye to this chapter of my life I need to say goodbye to those that I've lost. Mom, I love you and I miss you. Pat, you never got your print read. So, who knows? Maybe I still have a brother out there. I'll never stop looking. To the rest of my friends and family, I promise to keep your memories alive. Come on, dil. We're off. Coming. And Scott, I can't tell you how much you're missed. Bell loves you so much. You were everything to her and I will never let anything interfere with that. And I promise you, my friend, I will never let anything happen to her. I swear. All right. Bye.
