 

                        We can't let anybody tell us that when we are no longer children, that we become adults! We don't stop being children at heart. Where are we really going to be? Are things really going to be okay like this? As long as we stay ourselves, a little bit of us remains... Graduating class of 2004, Shiba High School... And, cut! How was that? Uh... one more take? The last part? Tomayashi, I have to go... Hold on a sec The last part? Where she says "...2004, Shiba High School," there isn't much "impact" Impact? Impact huh? Well how should we do this? Well, I guess the first take was okay... Alright? Good enough? Alright then, it's okay! Is it really okay like that? If you like, we can do it once more... Once more? We can go once more. Maybe it's best to redo it. Umm... so what am I doing? What do I have to do? Let's do that last line once more, please. Okay... OK, let's do this. Like before... ready? 2004, Shiba High School... CUT! "Linda Linda Linda" Masami! Is Kei here? Probably in the club room She's been holed up in there all morning, she's not listening to anyone Coming with me? Umm... not now, I'll see you later Kyoko Where's Kei? Masami said she's in the club room How are you? Good? I'm taking pills for the pain I'm headed for the usual spot. Wanna come with? No, it's better if I don't. What happened before... it's ok Those two are too irritable You know, they're touchy Anyway... I'll see you later. Good day Rinko There's still a bit more left to do. I'll print the rest for tomorrow Hmm... maybe we should make flyers and distribute them Flyers? It's alright, I'll take care of the rest. Are you stressed? No Really, you should have more fun Well... I'm heading back to the classroom. If you need me, call, ok? Okay So, why was Imamura's injury the reason for their fight? I told you, I don't know Did you ask them? I tried, but it was useless They didn't say? Not a word. Kei Ichibana and Rinko Muramoto are so alike They're made from the same mold Is it okay? Imamura's injury, I mean. From what I've heard, she dislocated her finger playing basketball in gym class The middle finger; it might be broken or just sprained. So they asked me to sub For what? For the band Rinko asked me to play guitar... But yesterday she said it doesn't matter anymore I asked 'why? ' but she won't answer. And the others... do they know? They aren't saying. But they probably just don't know... But isn't it your job as organizer to resolve problems? Why don't you ask them personally what's going on? Wouldn't that be better? Hi Seen Kei? She was here a second ago. She just left Is it true that Kei and Rinko had a fight? Who'd you hear that from? Everybody knows Don't go telling everyone... leave them be Yeah I know... always the same story! Well, yeah... that's how they are Do you already know everything? Who started it? According to you, who started it? I don't know, Rinko maybe? And for Moe... It wasn't nice that she already had a replacement right after she got hurt I don't think Kei got pissed just for that... ...just for that?!? I thought the same thing... Kei hates Rinko That's not true! I never said that Well, anyway... So, what's gonna happen? The band... you still going to make it? Hey Yamada Is Tachibana there? Nope Kei. Told you that we'd find her here Didn't you hear the PA? The teacher's calling you. Why? You need to speak with him Abe wants to know what's up with the band Oh right... what are you gonna do? If you're thinking of quitting, we need to reschedule everything So? I'll take that as a no. Alright? I'll do it! I'll do it! I'll play guitar! Are you going to do it? You've gotten quick at reading comics, you know, Son?! Mh! Because it's a comic I chose myself When there are great stories, you read more quickly So it's a quality of mine, right?!? Mh! In that volume, Yuki first gets kissed and then there's a stabbing Don't ruin it Don't worry, it's interesting How about Shiina Ringo? No, it's too difficult And Puffy? Are you kidding? So you'll sing? Yeah... Oh... what should we do... What are you doing? What is that? They were in the cabinet, Princess Princess, the Boom Bowy... I don't recognize these bands It's all old music Oh, look, there are unicorns on this one The Tamio band? Mh, the Tamio band How do you know them? Oh, Jitarin Jin That one you bought for me is an earring in the shape of an upside-down giraffe What? A giraffe? Turned upside down... One more time, the giraffe is... Upside down... That can't be real. Where is it? Here... Is it that ridiculous? That isn't it! Mh! I want to be beautiful Because there is a beauty that can't be photographed Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda If one day we meet and speak to one another I hope you will realize the significance of love Alright. The first person to pass by there will be our lead singer Where? Over there What are you talking about? You're singing then! No more discussion. You do it, Kei I can't do both at once Come on, it's not the first time No really, I can't do it What do you think about Moe? Moe? Her voice isn't like The Blue Hearts But it could be interesting... I want it to be a girl What are you guys doing? Do we have to cancel everything? I'll tell Abe I already told him, You already spoke to him? Yeah, we're making the band... We were thinking of doing The Blue Hearts Just you three? We're looking for our lead singer You wanna sing for us Rinko? Come on Then let's do this again Even if Moe's not here... It's the Blue Hearts or nothing I couldn't think of doing this without Moe Alright, we'll find someone who wants to sing Perfect You don't want to? It's not that I don't want to, but... What sense is there?!? There doesn't have to be a reason Son, Son, do you want to be part of the band? Yes You want to be the singer? Yeah We're singing The Blue Hearts Okay Is that ok, or no? That's fine Good luck then Thanks This is no good! No, no! I can't! Why not? She can always learn Japanese I mean, can she memorize this in time? The same goes for us I think that... we should ask her first if she wants to do this You're exactly right! But Son responded about it, without really understanding... We're all caught up in this Kei you're really irresponsible! I said sorry Then... if Son says she doesn't want to sing... Fine, then I'll do it Son, what do you say? Can you do it? What's wrong? Are you ok? Hey, what's going on? You ok? What? Son, you're crying Thank you Here Thanks Do you always take this bus? Hmm? When you come to school... You take this bus? Mh Then maybe we've already seen each other Did I see you? No. I've seen you Oh... me, you've seen me? Mh Yeah... I never thought about it Since when? Actually, I don't play guitar! Keyboards Oh keyboards A while back I used to play the piano so I don't really play guitar... Ahhh I can... do my best? Of course, do your best Alright, I'll explain how it works Drink as much as you want for 560 yen You're a student so you can choose from the non-alcoholic ones... Oh... I just want to sing You can't just sing! To be able to sing you have to order drinks... Just singing Just to sing... instead of paying a fixed price, you can order one drink; it'll cost you less... ...a Coke, a ginger ale, a lime soda, an orange juice... I told you, I only want to sing Yes, I understand, but... ...is it the first time you've been in a place like this? That can't be possible... Listen... if you don't drink, you can't sing Oh, geez... that's weird... It's like that everywhere But I don't want to drink If you don't drink, you don't sing! But I don't want to drink Then you can't sing Oh, sorry I'm hot, I'm hot, I'm hot Be quiet Do you know where my right hand is? Do you know where my right hand is? Um... it's disappeared Kyoko! Kyoko! What?! There's a guy on the phone Who is it? A guy, a certain Kazuya Oe What? Some guy, calls himself Kazuya! What did you tell him? Nothing... Hello Oh, hello It's Oe... Oh! Right... The bananas were too small! Ah... the bananas... At that size, one should be enough for 4 people Ah, for 4 people So how many people should I prepare for? Oh! Um... know anything... about hotplates? Oh, yeah, we have one. Oh, really? Can you bring it tomorrow? Sure, ok Great... See you tomorrow then. Hello Mh... See you tomorrow Mh, I'll bring it tomorrow It's disappeared I'll distribute posters through the whole city to find her It wasn't your fault, Moe... you know... It was a problem between Rinko and me A fight So you don't have to say sorry! Rinko said exactly the same thing But it's my fault, all the efforts, all the things we did have gone to waste because of my stupid finger... I'm sorry Tell them to come in Okay Good evening Going to Kyoko's place? Mh Don't worry Thanks for the guitar Use it It's much better than the other one I'm going to play guitar I can't explain the tears... Today, tomorrow, and the day after I'll try something I'll seize the microphone like nobody's ever seen it done before I'll sing in a style like nobody's ever heard before And so Do you know where my right hand is? Kei Kei... hey Kei. It was terribile This is the popcorn stand Here you go Thank you This, on the other hand, sells fried spaghetti You want a little? The sales are going well. I'm in front of the house of horror of class 3-2 Let's try going in Let's go forward, let's go forward. No, I can't I'm off to make a delivery to the 5th class Thanks I'm exhausted; why did I choose to do this? Remember, it was your idea I'm regretting it! But why do they want them delievered? Kazuya, can you please take over for me? I need to participate in the quiz. Mh A chocolate and banana I want a chocolate and banana Hey Yamada? Yamada, Yamada Look at Kazuya's ears... aren't they incredibly hairy? Stop it Don't be shy Here you go Hey, there's another hotplate. Whose is it? It's mine, I brought it But I didn't ask you to Did you call her? No, I didn't Sure, you couldn't have... did Sachi call you? Mh Ah Rey! Take this raw dough The delivery boy is too busy Coming with me? Don't be lazy Sorry for being late. Where is everyone? Nozomi... And where's Kyoko? She hasn't shown up yet We're ready... should we start? I'll distribute posters through the whole city to find her I can't explain the tears... Today, tomorrow, and the day after... Thank You Sorry, I have to go now... Mh When do you think you can get back? Well, I can't promise anything Come back by 4 if you can We can't leave Kazuya to do all the work alone Okay Don't worry, I'll try to get back as soon as possible A crepe with banana and chocolate Okay, just a minute. I'm sorry You're late What do we do? I'm really sorry... Kei always does this Hello Hey Kei What? Yeah, I'm fine What's up? New boyfriend? No... Only kidding! This period? I'm recuperating, I'm not doing anything Studio Q? Yeah, it's open Greetings Excuse me Good day Oh, Kei... I didn't recognize you You look completely different in uniform Something we don't usually see Good day Is Mr. Nakano there? Mh, yes. You said you were going to Tokyo Yeah, next month Are you driving there? No, I'm leaving the car at home My brother's going to use it Oh, I see... But I'll come back... at least once a week Come and find me some time Ok... So, what are you guys going to sing? Ah, The Blue Hearts Really? Uh huh Cool... And which songs? 'Linda Linda', 'My Right Hand' and 'A Song Without End' Cool, really cool! Son Son You're staring... Hi Hi You singing? Are you in 3rd year? Are you in Kei's class? And you're also part of this club? No? It's not like that? I come from Korea You're an exchange student? Oh, but... cool... And you are... Kei's ex boyfriend? You're nice... I like you What's wrong? What's the matter? It's this here Can you do it? The strap's all twisted. - Do a banzai (in the sense of "raising the arms") - It's good like that What are you doing? Go outside, we have to practice You're blushing... Shut up Do you have the energy? We have to pratice... go! Don't break anything Go! I'm going to wash the car What's the matter? Let's do this You can see all your underwear Sssssh! It's not going to work like this Terrible Sorry... It's like this... Masami... and Moe were already friends from middle school So then Moe joined but then Masami left Then Kei asked me to be part of the band We were at the beginning of second year, right?! Then, there were no more changes and then yesterday, Son joined the group Right Did you get all that? Not really Not really Kei and Rinko were the only original members Sure, they were the ones who started the band Oh yeah? Sure. So how did it end up like this? There was hatred between them... because they were too close of friends But, you know about harsh words, right?! Actually, my parents were like that They're cold Thanks - Here girls! - I want that one What were we talking about? So, what shall we call the band? Name? Right, we can't use the one from before We need to concentrate on playing well! It's important! It's my motivation... It's like when you give a vicious dog a name you grow accustomed to it, and they can't be separated From appearances, she likes to lead What... Why not? I didn't say it was a bad idea Yeah, I like it that way Perfect Hmm? I didn't say anything What's wrong? Come on, change the topic... We can never forget moments like this! I want to say, what Kyoko said on the fact is important I understand what you're trying to say... We'll probably be so preoccupied and concentrating during the concert... that we won't remember anything... Look, Masami is angry, but it's not my fault Don't laugh It's not funny. Don't laugh Son Don't laugh That's so rude Come on, don't get mad Like a rat, I want to become beautiful Because there's a beauty That can't be photographed Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda If one day we meet and speak to one another I hope you will realize the significance of love Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Japan-Korea Cultural Interchange Takako! Hey Kei Have a seat You want some juice? Sure What kind? This one! Thanks What are you doing? The manga bar You're my first client Lend me your guitar You're not playing this year? No Everyone else graduated... You can always perform on your own No, It's not fun to play without the others Are you still going to Tomoki's concerts? Oh... You broke up? Yeah I heard you're transferring to Tokyo next month Well... Rinko and the others? - Hmm?! - For tomorrow We were going to... but then Moe got hurt and a bunch of stuff happened So, what, you're not playing? No, no... we're playing but not original songs... Covers? Yeah So then?! Once you're there, it's enough to just play! What are you playing? The Blue Hearts Cool! Linda, Linda, Linda Awesome... Tomoki once played The Ramones and other stuff Blue Hearts eh!? Nozomi, let's go Nozomi wake up She never gets up! What do I have to do? Smack her on the head Nozomi, let's go It's not working Maybe if you plug her nose Good day Let's go Let's go Mh Son, let's go Son What is it? It was here on the bench It's in Korean. What's written there? Please, come to the prop room at 2 What time is it now? Ten minutes to 2 Are you going? I'm not going You have to go I'm not going Come on, go! Hey, it's Maki Who is that? Hey, hey, hey... on this side What's happening? What? Ahh, Yusaku What does Maki want from Son? I'm not sure, they often cross paths when he goes to throw out the trash and he's in love What!? Love at first sight? It must have been! Good day Yes, good day We always see each other at the incinerator Where? The incinerator, the incinerator Oh, the incinerator We always see each other at the incinerator I don't remember I will go... always... to the incinerator... to see you I... come... to... school... to... see you What's going on? I love you Oh... yeah Ummm... I have to go do rehearsals... Son, I love you Can I go now? I said I love you I don't dislike you, but I don't really like you either My friends... I want to stay with them... Hmm? What did you say? Ok? Hey, wait Son... Professor, this is the lineup for tomorrow The timetable? It's all there Oh! Here Oh, this But things are still flexible. Well... I hope I can manage as things go along Mh, I understand. But... The juniors will prepare everything tomorrow morning Mh! So... Everything's in order Hey Marumoto Yes Ummm... Kei, Kyoko and the others... are in another band? That's what I heard... I see So... you can tell them they don't have to do rehearsals in secret Good or bad... the school festivals, in my time... were... Can I go now? Sure, go ahead Hey... Wait! Tell them what I just told you Garlic Son, I don't need three heads, one's enough I didn't find it Seek and you shall find One for me, one for Son... So we can buy two Why do we need to get two? Then get one for Nozomi But that's not fair Why not? Oh, whatever, we'll get this one since there are four types But I said I wanted the pudding Here Wait, what are these? Desserts I only have a thousand yen, go put these back And dessert? Mom made a little jello Jello? Put them back Nozomi Which one? This one This is Nozomi from last year And this is Kobayashi Look at their hair! It's all messed up And her? Is it Mitsuo? No, although they do look alike Incredible, look at them and this is Kazuya Oe It's him... except he had long hair Is he the guy you like, Kyoko? Mh Really? In these matters, the first to ask has the advantage Oh, Kazuya Oe! Were you in class together? Only last year If you don't tell him now you'll miss your chance You're talking nonsense I don't understand anything It's better if you tell him you like him He's single I know, Even Maki gave it a shot Hello It's Yamada... Sorry if I couldn't help much today Oe, are you free tomorrow? The concert? Yeah, we're doing it, but... can we meet before the concert? Just for a bit... Hey, what time is the concert tomorrow? 3:30 Hello The concert's at 3:30, so we'll meet at 2:30 in the prop room, ok? Okay... see you tomorrow Bye Did you ask him? Yes You want to play "Whack-a-mole"? Welcome Try our fabulous wurstel You want a massage? It'll make you feel so much better Oden, most delicious oden... Sweet crepes for sale Delicious fried spaghetti Try some Ummm... Today I would like to thank you very much for coming here Today is the last day of performances And so, we are truly honoured Oh... Now I introduce to you the sleepy band... because we stayed up all night working On drums! She always skips rehearsals... but... she's nice, Kyoko On bass! Her cooking is a little salty and she's also a little shy but she's cute, Nozomi On guitar! She has an irritable character Look out when she's angry but she's really sweet, she's the one who recruited me Kei And singing Son! Good, let's begin! Like a rat, I want to become beautiful Son, let's begin ...but the dreams will always come true! Nearly asleep in your eyes, lies a dormant heart these tears are ready to flow I can't explain them Today, tomorrow, and the day after I'll try something I'll seize the microphone like nobody's ever seen it done before I'll sing in a style like nobody's ever heard before And so Do you know where my right hand is? It's good It's good No, the guitar was amazing We're not finished here! It's not a mistake to await a miracle! We can't let high school days become just memories This wind... is the same one that will blow the day after tomorrow The will and the courage will remain here This is our kingdom! 2004 Shiba High School festival Final day Cut! We'll bring the drums and the freshmen can do the rest Oh Hey wake up What's going on? It's morning We need to bring all the instruments and props out It's going to be a fun-filled day of hard work Good luck This line is for kids And that one is for adults Wow! Bullseye Son, good morning Morning Hey, you have a friend Who is it? Hi Thanks No, no From there Bullseye! I'm starting No, wait a minute We're not finished Sorry That's fine I'm starting then Hold on hold on... Excuse me, sorry Ok, we can make some mistakes but we have to try to play to the end Kyoko you're not so slow Really? Play your piece for a second - Yeah, that's good - Good? Kei Kei? Kei Sorry... Shit... I'm going to wash my face Kei Yes? Thanks for making me part of the band What... all of a sudden? I just wanted to say it Thank you Son, for joining us We're both thankful The concert's today, let's do our best Right! What's going on? Kei, happy birthday Oh mom Kei, happy birthday Happy birthday Kei! They said your hands were too small... so Try it Happy birthday Thanks Thanks Uh-oh! Our long voyage is coming to an end Thank you Now we'll do our last piece Mika... miMika... mi. Don't we have to call the next group? note, the boy's name is Mikami The next one is... Kei's band... Someone go find Kei's band. Makoto, you go Okay Imamura, have you seen Kei and the others? The Tenchiram have already finished? No, but there's not much time left and I can't find Kei Hold on Thanks Hi What is this stuff? Alcohol? The Budo theatre, from up here, is smaller than I thought The view is completely different when it's full Today there are guests who came here especially for you, Kei The Ramones and Mr. Taki Hello Yamada? Hmm? What? To say "what"...it's a life that I'm waiting for What's going on? Oh! Hello, Yamada, hello What should we do? Huh? For the moment, Moe can do something Good luck ...well... I'll sing you something The water is wide I can't cross over and neither have I wings to fly Build me a boat Oh no Fantastic... Oh, love is gentle and love is kind The sweetest flower when first it's new But love grows old and waxes cold and fades away like morning dew I'm Nakajima Here we go We are scattered, Even when we meet from time to time, we do not speak to one another Hello You still haven't found them? Yeah, you're right but... Anyway, there's not much time let's go somewhere we can be alone... Oh! Oe called Really? Sorry, I forgot to tell you Oh!! What? What's the matter? What's wrong? I forgot the bass in the studio but I can always borrow one from the school Are you crazy? Go get it But we'll be late Go get it! Imamura, Kei hasn't arrived yet. Please, one more song Just until they arrive Another song? Mh, ok ...magnificent... it flows from you I'm living with total abandonment! You... Son, Son, you ok? You can put it down Everything's fine, I'm ok Yamada Oe Excuse me, I'm late I know... What happened!? Let's get started Son! Yeah Rambling here and there, vagabond, vagabond Also with the passing of the years vagabond... You're late Excuse us Where were you? And what were you doing? Makoto, bring a towel Where's Yamada? Coming! Can they begin? There's no more time What? We can't play? There's not even 10 minutes... Ok, let's go There's no more time Yes, I heard It's your fault, you know I know Are you ok? Meh Not really Good luck Mh Finally you got here I'm sorry Sorry Sorry Good luck You're up Yeah How'd it go? Hmm? I wasn't able to tell him Um... we are The Paran Maums Like a rat, I want to become beautiful because there's a beauty that can't be photographed Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda If one day we meet and speak to one another I hope you will realize the significance of love Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Like a rat more gentle than any other Like a rat warmer than any other Even if it's not love, it's affection I won't let you go I have only one power very strong that can never be defeated Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda Linda The Paran Maums At 3:30 in the gym We sing a song without end for this shitty world We sing a song without end for all the rabble Mistreated in life, I wept alone in the night Until now, there were many times I thought I wouldn't make it But that moment of truth scares you to death For that, I've wanted many times to run away We sing a song without end For me, for you and for them We sing a song without end So tomorrow we can laugh We sing a song without end for the nights I wept alone We sing a song without end for the days which I've been dealt... We sing a song without end for this shitty world We sing a song without end for all the rabble We sing a song without end for me, for you and for them We sing a song without end So tomorrow we can laugh
