 

                        Good Lord! What respect!! Sir, you're a politician Why are you getting up? Thanks to him, I became a politician Let me respect him until I marry his granddaughter Greetings, sir Hey! Get him a chair Kesavan, turn the crane at the temple a little to the left Let it face the temple tower Yes, drill the temple Don't Listen to me I'm a Govt. officer You deserve to die Do you have any idea of the stakes involved? Sir...sir, someone is coming Son...sonny, who are they? Who stabbed you? If you want to save this village... ...open up the temple Open the temple If we have to save our village... ...our temple next to the dam should be opened at once King Lingeswara built this temple near the reservoir 70 years ago We should open it immediately This isn't my order The King wishes it so I'm just repeating (clears throat) ...what he himself told me in my dream I thought as much When the man who drilled the temple was killed by a wild deer... ...I knew something like this would happen What do you say, MP bro? If our village will benefit we should act immediately Yes, we can open it But you should know this We are not eligible to open the doors of the temple built by King Lingeswara My father promised the king only his heir will do the honors! The king's only son is dead is what we heard The king's grandson is alive Wonder where he is now Let's find him, whichever part of the world he may be "Hey! My bosom pal so true Come...shall we rock, dude?" "Hey! My best friend and ally Shall we open up the sky?" "If affection many a gallon, 24x7 doors will open in Heaven" "We'll indulge in every trend diving for precious pearls, my friend" "In our right palm, the endless sky and earth in the left, life is ours to fly" "Hey! Well-wisher, so true Shall we live it up, dude?" "Hey! Boon companion, bull's eye Shall we unlock the blue sky?" "Friend, giving forever" "Amigo" (Spanish) "Fragrance spreader" "Ami" (French) "Famous laughter" "Amico" (Italian) "Sparks sparkle in mid-air" "My blood brother" "Mitra" (Sanskrit) "Giver renowned" "Mitharya" (Sinhala) "Scent Godsend" "Dost" (Hindi) "Cheer laden" "Rakan" (Malay) "Tongues of flame extend" "Lady and love, meant to be relished In both cases don't cross the limit" "Go with the flow to avoid misery Fish, don't swim beyond the sea" "Gather your good fortunes together You need a friend to rejoice, remember" "Follow your forefathers' policy Change with the times if need be" "Hey! Close friend I most value We'll kick our heels, dude?" "Hey! My guide and mind's eye Shall we unlock the sky?" "Celebration spree Glee to the nth degree" "Shall we sing readily? Shall we play headily?" "Shall we dance feverishly? Shall we live it up lavishly?" "Joy on earth is natural, sorrow artificial Don't carry a cross, additional trouble" "In life's cycle, sorrow follows happiness Pal, don't lose control of your senses" "Try living with a heart of gold Your joys will multiply manifold" "Share yourself with everyone World will be yours to enthrone" "Hey! My bosom pal so true Come...shall we rock, dude?" "Fountain of laughter cheer laden Have a ball, paint the town red" "Hey! My backup and back bone The boundless sky shall we open?" "Fragrant present Godsend scent" "Wholesome flavor to savor forever" "If affection in plenty, 24x7 doors will open in Heaven" "We'll indulge in every trend diving for rare pearls, my friend" "Endless sky in our right hand, earth in left, life is ours to command" "Best friend, my 'nanban' true Let's rock and roll, dude" Sir, 'Lord of all lands' Yes, my friend? Even when you are in jail how do you dream away to glory? Which are the cities you wandered today? Brazil London Philippines Norway Are we with you in your dreams? - No - Thought as much You'll bring us into jail with you But if it's Germany you'll have solo fun How do you go around the world in 7 days? Do you think he is a scumbag like you? He's blue blooded royal clan King Lingeswara's grandson Haven't I told you not to bring up that man's name? Sorry, my tongue just slipped! You travel millions of miles in your dream, right? Don't you want to see America and London 'live'? Wish-list is plenty, fatso But my bank balance is zero That's why I said 'let us pull off 1 last heist' - You're turning a deaf ear - With you in our gang, huh? When we went to steal in that bungalow... ...they went and rang the door bell! And he talks of a huuuge heist! Politics is our best bet Even as a councillor we can settle down in Canada Hey! Aluminium amphora! Why be stingy and settle for less? Why not aspire to be a Governor, Prime minister or Chief minist- Inspector is here You'll deny us the joy of a helicopter ride Praise be to You, Goddess Mahalakshmi Look at Lord Ganesha's mouse showing off his cool coolers! Bad penny back again, huh? Good morning Have you filed a case against them? Not yet, sir Why didn't you, man? Haven't got any matter, sir Don't you know about this gang? They won't share their spoils No one will come forward to bail them out either Sir, why don't you let us out, just like that? Phrase 'just like that' doesn't exist in my dictionary But you simply get paid for sitting just like that? I'll pierce this baton from your mouth to your back Oh! You're a magician too? Show me a demo It's not magic If I really pierce you your life will be a tragedy You can never get married File a report against him Here, sir - Sir? - Who is that? My name is Lakshmi, sir Lakshmi...? Place your right foot forward and step in as my lucky charm Look at him drooling over the name 'Lakshmi' Who is she? She sparkles... ...like Hindu ritual bronzes scrubbed with tamarind What do you want, dear? Take out on bail, sir Bail, huh? Who, Mahalakshmi? - Oh wow! - Shut up Who is it you want to take bail for? Aren't you King Lingeswara's grandson K.Lingeswaran? Yes, what about that? Then he's the one I need to take out on bail, sir I have no clue who she is, sir Shut up The whole place knows you are the 'super star'! Don't try to fool me Listen, dear Nothing happens here without Lakshmi, dear - Without me? - I didn't mean you I meant Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth Not enough, dear Like a girl who has hidden notes to copy in an exam... ...she's picking up notes from all parts of her body Rs 10,000 Okay, dear Release Lingaa alone Lingaa won't come alone It's either all or none He's a true- ...friend! If you want me to release everyone... ...Goddess of wealth should be more generous Ugh! Yov! That's disrespectful You don't deserve respect You are looting more than we ever did File a case against us We won't step out I won't forego money from Goddess Lakshmi on a Tuesday I'll collect the rest later Take your gang and go What a modest girl! Serenity personified!! Take them, dear Hey! Leave now Visuals are clear? Yes, madam - Audio? - Okay, madam Come in Oh gawd! Media Cover your face - Get ready for the shoot - Light, come forward Ready, madam Roll camera Rolling 'Good morning viewers' 'What you just now saw is the footage from...' '...Shivarajanagar F23 A Police station' 'This inspector-' Yov! Turn 'Rajavarman' 'Without filing a case, you saw him clearly accepting bundles of money' 'This is the worst racket in our country at present' 'This is the basis of all thefts' 'With cameraman Devaraj Lakshmi from Public TV' On your knees All of you kneel down Shut up What's with you? I swear when I see you, it's like Goddess Lakshmi is in front of me Such a moron, I saw the money and didn't see the camera, dear These chaps only taught me to be corrupt and take bribes I'm like a child Very innocent I'll disregard my Tuesday sentiment and return the money to you, dear Give me the money Here, sir All yours Short by 6 Is that so? Who flicked that? I took it assuming it is my share, sir Just by the twist of a wrist he flicked 6 notes He seems more criminal minded than us You tore my dignity to tatters Can I take them, sir? Please do, dear Come along with me Ma...ma...madam What now? Footage you filmed Hear it in Public The public will only thrash me 'Public' TV! You want me to open the temple in Solaiyur? Are you trying to be funny? If it has been locked for 70 years the doors are bound to be stuck Take a few carpenters and get the door opened Why call him? Ho...joke, huh? Good joke, laugh out loud If it's weak, turn a deaf ear For a whole week, do you know how many people... ...have been hunting for you all over the place? That's the stamp of a celebrity! How did you find out? I anchor a reality show Instead of palaces, I looked for him in the cities he was born and raised I never thought such royal blood will be holed up amongst rogues Do you know your grandfather was the most revered king ever? How can you resort to thieving? Yes, agreed I am a thief I've also heard all the tales My grandfather built a temple, dug a pond, served the people What did he do for me? What did he give my father? Not even a tiled or thatched hut! My father was a teacher till his last breath Do you have any idea how much my parents suffered? When I think of it my blood boils! My grandpa lived life royally, had his fun and passed away I'm living in my dream world Do you know how many days I've stood outside the palace? I wasn't even allowed in He drained his wealth to the last paisa and left behind only his name I'd have deleted Lingeswaran too But since it is Lord Shiva's name...! So I shortened it to Lingaa Eat, man Don't gape You don't respect your grandpa one bit Come to my village, you'll then realize how people worship him Money brings name, fame and the whole works But when you're in trouble, no one will lend you a hand Holds good from mythological Karna to film comedian N.S Krishnan All you want is money Isn't that why you steal? Tell me how much I'll give you You thought the word 'money' will make him flash his 'close up' smile? Money it seems! Okay, how much will you give? Don't be cheap Listen girl, I'll get involved in a job only if my heart says so Only if I've shed my blood and sweat, I'll accept money But stealing is no sweat for a thief! Dear, ear, eye, nose, mouth, limbs, heart and brain work as a combo... ...only when it comes to stealing Any job you can do and sleep in peace But this is the only sleepless profession! They won't understand Zip-zoom! I haven't finished eating Stuff the rest in your pocket Lingaa...please You didn't let us finish our meal We are all down to the last penny But style we have in plenty! Why? For getting us out Can I hug you? Will you come just once to my village, please? He'll tell only once You should take the hint Shouldn't bug him like someone pestering for an insurance policy! Job over? Zip-zoom! 'How can I take him home?' Oh gawd! My chain? Give Rs 8000 Who should give? Me give Say 'I will give' Teach this moneylender to speak proper Tamil As if he'll ever learn! Bargain and close the deal 8000 bucks won't even last for 4 days, Sait If you flick chains from modern girls, that's all How do you know she's a modern girl? Because they prefer chains light as feather We would love to flick chunky jewelry But such decked up women don't show up even in a grocery store Will your wife be covered in jewels head to toe? Oh! She loves wearing them But all covering Imitation only Why do you give her such cheap stuff? As if you don't have real gold? I have a gold mine! But too many thieves around Not you, man He meant himself Here...all yours Why stress him out for no reason? Lingaa, why team up with these petty thieves and settle for less? How do I hit the jackpot? They all wear fake gold I must only target a bank You can't do all that Even high tech men get caught Listen, for 3 days in a 5 star hotel... ...Lalitha jewellery is holding an exhibition and sale Just 1 necklace flicked from there he will give you 15 million bucks Huh?! I will give you That's a whammy 1 necklace is 15 million? That's not just gold Gold necklace studded with emerald Wait, Sait He's twirling his gray cells to see how to pull it off Is emerald that expensive? Of course Besides, the necklace is an antique piece We don't fancy aunties Lingaa, before teaching me Tamil... ...help these morons to speak proper English - Come this side - Yes, my lord Tomorrow Lingaa coming with that 15 million antique piece It isn't a walkover like you think Nothing in life comes easy But with effort nothing is impossible Zip-zoom! We thought it over for a looooong time - What's your place? - Solaiyur We decided to visit your village, Solaiyur We cancelled Chilikanur So do we have a choice? Now it gets a place in your heart, huh? Otherwise they'll get us, no? Only because we like it we decided to visit Don't kill us with questions, please Take us to your place Oh! Are you also coming with us? How can a king travel without his ministers, dear? - Bro...? - Boss! Where are the other two? They've gone to their hometown You mean both of them ran out of town?! How did you find out? The financier got caught... ...thanks to me You black sheep! The moneylender got his due for his misdeeds You'll pay for yours soon enough Why this venomous vengeance against us? Not vengeance, man...plan! My plan is to take the king's heir to Solaiyur She isn't even a female! Let's go somewhere else Zip-zoom! Don't you know? What? That I'm a female Why are you touching him? Hands off! Don't think you can attack He's high voltage You'll be reduced to ashes Hey...no touch 2 feet gap What about no gap near the cupboard? That was situational You fell into my trap This is also situational You fell into my web! How? I've called the police They'll be here in half hour They'll bruise us black and blue! We won't be able to take it Then come without putting up your price? Just nod your head Please say 'yes' Okay Aren't you getting too taken in? Okay...okay Long live the king! Even if you say 'no'... ...looks like the people won't let go of you! I meant the respect they're flooding you with Greetings, sir Welcome This village is showering us with so much respect Not for 'us' But for the lead All the grandmothers of this village are here Your grandpa must have been quite a player! He squandered his wealth... ...and made me a pauper instead of prince! Just walk along with me Wherever he walks he's got style- Hype it up some more! Greetings Everybody is so happy by your arrival here He's a politician from my village He won by a huge margin in the previous election But I didn't get your vote! - Can we click a photo? - Be handy if cops get us Raja, I have a very important appointment - I'll take leave - Please...okay Greetings, sir I'm a poet Our clan's custom is to sing in praise of the king who'll reward us I want to follow that custom today What does he want? It seems he has begged by singing for generations! To beg is to take with permission That isn't wrong My ancestors have said 'to steal is a crime' How does he know about us? That's what puzzles me Please sing If he sings you must pay him - Got money? - He won't ask! 'What will he bestow? What will he endow?' 'Wondering though' 'He'll shower gold Lavish gifts untold' 'If 'not enough' I declare He'll pile more on a platter' 'If even these don't suffice his own self our king will sacrifice' 'Even he'll forsake his life for our sake' 'Lord of compassion!' Just throw him and squash him flat Poet! Old man!! Kothandam, I left my gold bracelet in the car, please bring it for me Shall I sing another song in praise of you? Kots...come here He wants to sing another song it seems Please sing 'When shade is necessary nearby will be a tree' 'When enmity erupts a support will show up' 'After the dark night dawns sunlight' 'There is a bright future for each and every creature' Boring bee! Everyone has a future, do you? Yes, I can see it right before my eyes Kothandam, I've kept a Rado watch along with my bracelet, bring that too Sir, another small song Kothandam, please wait Akon hasn't finished singing Last song Shall I? Good...go ahead 'Beautiful' You? Not you 'You are beautiful' 'Your walk is breathtaking' 'Your laughter is spellbinding' 'Tamil you speak is endearing' 'Only handsome man living' 'Most stylish man ever' 'You're Mr World forever' He's got epilepsy Hold him Kothandam, along with the bracelet and watch there's a Rs 1000 bundle - Please get that too - That's Rs 100000 Let it be Bring that and take the car back home Would be great if I could receive it from you He won't come Hasn't he gone only up to the car? No...no, he'll drive straight back home Then all that you wanted to give? - Poet...? - That's me...me When you sang in praise of me... ...how happy I was You should be When I said I'd give you bracelet, watch, money... ...how happy you were? Of course! Then we are quits! I never expected this from you You'll borrow songs written by laureates Kannadasan, Vaali and Vairamuthu And I should pay you, huh? Get lost Sir...! Grandpa, you need not have any doubts He's our king's grandson I have all the proof needed, from his birth certificate to DNA test I don't need any of those, dear His face is proof enough He is from that king's lineage The same laughter Welcome, my son You should open the temple the next Full moon night Shall I go ahead with the preparations? No rush, grandpa We were planning to rest here for a while You can stay here for many years This is your place This place is ours? How many acres? Thanks a lot Son, I need to talk to you in private Shall we go in? No need alone Whatever it is we can discuss here It's very important He's calling you in, right? He might show you some bureau Check if we can line our pocket! Signal from inside Owning such a big bungalow, why do you work in a TV channel? If you rent it for a TV soap your bank balance will overflow What can I do in this village? At least in the city I can check out a few handsome hulks Whaaat...? You go out on dates? Why do you pounce like a monkey for that? So many girls end up in a drunken stupor After all she's only dating! This village is under the impression the 'linga' in the temple is ordinary Let me share with you something even my granddaughter doesn't know It is made of emerald Made with the most precious stone After this temple is opened, with tight security... ...you should be the one to announce this fact to our folks Okay This is a big matter, sir Here, sir Thanks a ton You've saved me from a huge crisis This is life and death for you That is even bigger for me Look over there Next week, celebrating 'Cancer awareness'... ...I'll ensure these huge balloons float in the sky When people are busy looking up in awe... ...we'll finish our job below - Got it? - Understood, sir It will definitely be done, sir 'Linga' studded with emeralds, huh? Yeah...! If an emerald necklace is worth 15 million... ...won't an emerald linga fetch about 15C? 15C and 21C are all buses parked in Mandaiveli terminus! Cheapo! Stop thinking at cow dung level Junk piece! It will be worth more than 300 millions "Cash, dough, dollar, rupee, money" But we have to wait for the Full moon night You'll wait patiently till 10 p.m for the wine shop to open Can't you wait for this? We can lift it only after the temple is opened We'll do it today We'll do it right now And then we can scoot from this place Correct Ideas and chips are same If you delay they lose the crunch! Zip-zoom now Hello! Your latest plan is to steal what? Linga- Don't blabber, she didn't eavesdrop properly! We're telling Lingaa about your height, weight and bright- And the sun rises in the west! - She isn't believing me - Then say it so she'll buy it We were discussing who the chap is back in the city you intend hitting on! As if he doesn't know Tell and then touch No time to announce It's a spontaneous gesture Heard that? Even the stiff one bites the dust! You angle to tangle I'm off to bed I'm also not sleepy Let's just stroll around the village Why choose this time of night? That's the fashion now Day is too much disturbance Yeah, it's like A.R.Rahman style But remember not to go near the dam or temple Why...why is that? I believe ghosts frequent that place 'Smash you with a slipper' 'Bash you with a broomstick' My father used to say ghosts will fly hearing this Yeah! Zip-zoom? Landing in this remote corner... ...building a temple with an emerald 'linga' ...if your grandpa had chosen Madras our job would've been eas- Don't yell Lord Shiva, guide us to- Why do you carry this yellow bag like a gypsy who tells the future? It's a retribution bag If I carry it, no ghost can come near us Liar! You're with us all the time Your route is truly unique All-ways! Check if the wood is strong Are you intending to make it into door jambs? Get in soon Climb up fast Stop harping like a bus conductor Who is that jumping into the temple compound? Come fast Wait, my yellow bag has got caught Come It is so ancient What if someone else has stolen it before us? Why do you invite bad omen? We've taken the trouble of scaling this wall, we'll get it - Get a stone - Here Hit...hit Hit harder Are you breaking a betel nut? It's a lock, give it one strong blow Success! Move aside Did God know we were coming and latched the door on the inside? Let's push barefeet with sanctity! Well done Is spider man living here? So many cobwebs? This temple doesn't look like it has been shut for 70 years More like 700 years Lingaa, this doesn't look like an emerald 'linga' Then Abraham Lincoln or what? Bring water from that well You call the officers I'll go and call the villagers Before you bring them they'll escape What to do now? Snake! Do something How did you pull this miracle? Just one glare and you made the snake disappear Are you such a brave man? Enough of pressing your foot on the sewing machine pedal No other go I can hear the alarm Come...come quick Snake has slithered away Come...come Watch out Your head Bend down Who sounded the siren? See if we can escape that way Look there You look this side Did you see face to face? We both saw Circle the temple Go all around Like crows diving for dried fish, they are zeroing in on us No way out We are dead meat They will skin us alive Are we boiled eggs to be peeled? - Arrogant ass! - Don't bite me Bro is grinding his gray cells He'll come up with something Wait and watch Move aside Give way Greetings, sir Who saw? We did, sir Do you know who jumped? Our king's heir who has come from out of town and his 2 stooges You nincompoop! He's of royal lineage He's the grandson of the one who built this temple Why do you get angry? If we open the door we'll know the truth Let's do that If you give us permission we can open the temple door If the heir whom I thought should open this door... ...is now a suspect, what's the point in waiting? Open the door Let the entire village lend a hand Come, let's open Push...push Push harder Push some more 'From His thick forest-like hair agleam and matted, flows a clear stream' 'In His consecrated neck hanging is a splendid garland of serpent hissing' 'Damad damad damad damad To this sound of the drum' He danced His divine Tandava May He shower prosperity, Lord Shiva! 'From His thick forest-like hair agleam and matted, flows a clear stream' 'In His consecrated neck hanging is a splendid garland of serpent hissing' 'Damad damad damad damad To this sound of the drum' 'He danced His divine Tandava May He shower happiness, Lord Shiva!' 'In the pan of His matted hair agleam' Praise be to Lord Shiva the destoryer of all evil 'In the well of his hair-locks Celestial Ganges st(r)eams across' 'Dhagad dhagad dhagad flames on His forehead's surface' 'With crescent moon as jewel on His head' 'May I find joy always in His constant Grace' You gave me such a huge honor I won't forget it in this birth and all my births to come This village has been blessed even more than you, son Someone said he committed a misdeed We were the ones who made the mistake We planned a Full moon night to open Lord Shiva's temple That was our biggest mistake What's today? 'Holy night of Lord Shiva' That's the day the Lord married his consort Shakthi That's why we were made to open it tonight Even if what you say is true... ...why jump over the wall to open the door? If they had told us we'd have done this... ...in a grand, religious manner He did so because the temple closed by the entire village... ...should be opened in the same way You may be unaware Or some might have died with this secret to their grave But he knows his grandfather King Lingeswara only too well Just like him, one day the king too came here He came to our village from some unknown place Everyone is part of a looting gang, huh? No, we are freedom fighters A brave man is one who attacks his enemy Not one who loots Freedom is when one struggles for his country Not for your house We are also patriots fighting for our country Then why did you jump on to a running train at midnight? To kidnap you Who? We came to kidnap a British Collector But I never expected him to be an Indian Only the unexpected is always interesting What do you gain by kidnapping the Collector? I'll hold him as hostage and free our imprisoned freedom fighters If you get them freed...? We'll release the Collector If they are arrested again? Will you kidnap another Collector? Fool! If you're truly patriotic instead of being so stupid... ...join the real freedom fighters and support their cause If you want the non violent 'ahimsa' way, follow Gandhi If you want to take up arms join Subash Chandra Bose's force Use your brain Don't wear a hood and fool yourselves Go on...move it Greetings, sir I'm the Sub Collector of this district Lingeswaran - How do you do? - Fine, sir Johnson? Leave them Let them go No, sir You remember all that I told you Careful Don't get beaten up again How far is Solaiyur? 6 miles, sir Stop Stop the train! Stop the train please This has become a daily ritual here Move aside, man Blocking our way Wonder what trouble they will cause now! Yov! Bone marrow! Why didn't you stop? What, man? You're also huffing and puffing just like your train? Why did you come early today? Aiyo! This is the right time Oh! So you come late daily, huh? Don't mess it up You'll make me lose my job Yov! Start the train, man You'll move from here, huh? Try leaving without giving us water! My dear girl! I can't give water Collector is watching me So what? Why should we be bothered? Each of us will give you 2 tapiocas Just give us on the sly and 'chug-chug' away I have a family to take care of My job is at stake Listen to me - Collector sir - Gawd! He has seen me Ask him to give us water Okaaaay, sir You'll break your insides, bone marrow! This is for you, Bag-o-bones My boss is watching Collector sir 'Tanks' a lot No mention Want a tapioca? Thank you Naughty girl! Oh my Lord Easwara! Greetings, sir I'm the village chief of Solaiyur This is Sammandham, once a wealthy man He's Kavi Bharathi Big shot in this village He is- A very good afternoon to everybody Come to the point We have handed over countless petitions expressing our troubles We even sent telegrams But it has all been in vain If we submit 100 petitions... ...Collector will come He'll meet all of us And promise to look into it later and disappear They were all British And they didn't lift a finger You seem to be one of us We are sure this time we will be lucky As a Collector whatever I can... ...I'll do my best Tell me what your problem is Water is our problem See the river over there Look how dry it is This is how it is 9 months in a year We have to walk 6 to 8 miles daily to fetch drinking water Otherwise, know the rail engine? Half the crowd will rush to get hot water from the engine Suddenly rains from somewhere will cause a deluge in the river The flood will wash our village away The boy standing there lost his father in the flood This young girl lost her husband The flood will even wash away the goats we rear for our livelihood In this drought season we won't have water Fields will be dry No rainfall But hunger alone is here to stay in our village In a nutshell, we are at a loss... ...whether this river is with water or without My God! An entire family has fallen into a huge pit That isn't a pit It's an old well Poor souls! Often our folks are forced to commit suicide Bharathi! Imagine their anguish to end their lives like this God knows how many more will die in this famine? In a state of total despair unable to survive without food... ...they preferred to end their lives This is the plight of our village This kind of farmer's suicide isn't a rare incident It is a daily occurence Rather than live in misery if we ask them to find work outside... ...they refuse saying they were born here To die in hunger like this what does it matter which soil? Our pleas fall only on deaf ears Wonder who will take total responsibility for this death toll We don't know who will come and prevent all this, sir Hereafter, not even 1 life will be lost due to famine in this village I won't let it happen Hasn't he eaten? Not yet Sir, why haven't you had your dinner? If I skip 1 meal in a day it isn't the end of the world Only if one is unable to eat even once a day...! 'If an individual is denied food we'll destroy this world, we would' We have to build a dam for the people of Solaiyur Yes, it is a dam I want to build for the people of Solaiyur Damn it! Mr Lingeswaran, you got no idea the cost of constructing a dam Not one of the Collectors present here is aware Even I don't know But you definitely do! Why? Because, you haven't passed just the Indian Civil Service But an efficient engineer who has studied Civil engineering in Cambridge Yes, sir, I know as a civil engineer what the total expenditure will be So how will we get such a huge amount? Why can't you build it with the taxes collected in India? How does the British Govt benefit by doing so? If we block the waters which would otherwise reach the sea... ...and build a dam, how fertile the surrounding land will become Don't you know that as a Collector? And are you unaware of the increased income you'll get? And how much tax to levy on the farmer... ...should an Indian teach the British Govt, huh? We are fully aware No necessity for you to teach our Government Mr Lingeswaran, first approve my plan that you objected You see, if you laid a train track from Madurai to Cochin... ...Govt.can see returns Won't that cost money? It will, but- In spite of it, at once you'll gain multifold, right? That's why you built all these railroads in India From gold, diamond, emerald, ruby, coral, pearl, lapis lazuli to pepper... ...countless products you planned to smuggle from here to your country So you laid these tracks Or else to enjoy with your family in hill stations I am sorry As Madurai Collector I can't approve this Yes, we won't sanction the approval either You're also working for the British Govt So don't plan on what to give the people here Think of what you can take to Buckingham! In fact you should think of what you'll take when you finally go up You are letting your tongue run! Yes, wishing to do some good for my motherland, I'm talking too much You have to get your salary from us Don't forget that I work as a Collector for the British Govt Not for your salary I want to serve the people For the joy it gives me And for my satisfaction What if we dismiss you from your post as Collector? What's the use of being useless to everyone? Why should you dismiss me? I'll myself resign By resigning your Collector's job... ...you've already failed I haven't failed I've just postponed my success! I know where and how to get permission to build the dam See you soon No use trusting this Govt Even the newly appointed Collector has resigned his job it seems Only God can save us hereafter My...fabulous! What a palace!! Do you want one like this? What a joke? Hey Janet, never ever underestimate me Oh! Bless you - Madam? - Not for me, thank you That is fantastic It's Italian, sir Sir, please come with me Collector, sir, he is the landlord of Rayakottai Nice to meet you Evening Governor is on the way Be alert Your Excellency! Maharaja is coming Hey! He's Collector of Madurai, right? Not anymore He was the Collector of Madurai But always a king! Ladies and gentlemen and my dear friends As you all know, His Highness the Maharaja of Kodiyur... Raja Lingeswaran has so graciously invited us here tonight for dinner and... ...celebration of his birthday And to him I wish a very long life Everything is made of silver and gold He really is a very rich man Yes, I've just come to know Well! I have been here more than 10 years I know Tamil Just a few words But I understand it very well Was this your father's place before it was yours? So you are following in your father's footsteps? Actually my ambition was to become an engineer So my dad sent me to study in London But his last wish was for me to study ICS And become a Collector Why ICS? My father used to tell me quite often Our ancestors had a lot of power when they were kings They could do what they wanted for the people without constraints But in your British rule only Collectors have the power So he wanted me to become a Collector and I studied ICS Then why did you resign? I couldn't do what I wanted Go on, what did you want to do? Tell me I think this isn't the right place and time to discuss It's always the right place and time to discuss things between friends, right? With my resources I want to do a lot of good for my people Who is going to object? This isn't about objection I want your permission What do you want my permission for? I intend building a dam for the people of Solaiyur You are going to build this dam on your own I have enough resources to spend on my own and build Permission granted Thank you very much I'm really honoured on my birthday God bless you, my friend Thanks a lot Congratulations Excuse me, sir What is it, Lawrence? If an individual builds a dam in our British Govt... ...that's an insult to us, sir Do you actually think he can build a dam by himself? Impossible, sir Then why bother arguing about it? Right now, all these rajas are watching us closely Already we are facing problems with Gandhi in the north Why create a new one here? We also need India's support... ...in the 2nd world war which has just begun We need the support of each and every king on this table We can't oppose any of them You understand he'll never build that dam, don't you? Absolutely not Your Highness, my man here, Collector Lawrence, tomorrow morning... ...will bring to you the orderyou desire That's what we were discussing We didn't consent, so you used your birthday dinner as an excuse... ...and in a devious, cunning manner got the Governor to agree, right? Didn't you come into India as traders... ...with East India company as a smoke screen ...and deviously deceived the kings here to loot our country? Was what I did worse than that, Mr Lawrence Hunter? Anyway permission alone isn't enough, Mr Lingeswaran Without our support let me see how an Indian can build a dam? Haven't you seen the Grand Anaicut in Trichy? King Karikala Chola built it 2000 years ago Look at Kodiveri dam in Coimbatore It is strong even today That was when they ruled as kings All that a king needs is the support of his subjects Always by God's grace I have my people's support in all ways I don't care who supports you You can't build that dam alone It's a challenge To achieve a goal supporters will be in plenty But one man as enemy will be the reason to make it happen You'll be that reason to finish building this dam It will never happen Wait and see Is he coming? No, he isn't Coming? Not yet! Hey, give it to me You're not lucky at all I'll take a look Give it to me How long I've been asking for your earrings Give that to me first Why are you always eyeing my earrings? My father wears studs But he refuses to buy me a pair Okay, when my father gets me another pair... ...I'll give this to you, okay? - Promise? - I swear That's half a promise You didn't pinch! - Is he coming? - Yes, coming - Coming...what's coming? - Some 'pleasure' is coming 'Pleasure'? Horse carriage that the British use Oh! See who's in it Remember the Collector we saw in the station He's coming Why is the Collector coming? - Hey, Collector is coming - Oh my God, Collector is coming! Stop...! Stop the car Boss, some girl is running in the middle of the road - Stop...stop - Yes, I see her Please stop Stop...! Bharathi, stone Oh gawd! Looks like someone set this nail deliberately Look out...water! I showered in the morning! Bharathi, I'm talking about being flooded And you are simply walking away like that? I heard some noise Let me go and check Our boys would've used explosives to dig a well Why waste time? You cleaned the car that was covered in dust in seconds?! Drenched completely Hmmm...who was it meant for? - Math teacher - For what? Because they didn't do the sums properly... ...look how he has hit them Hey, show him Seems quite a hard blow Bruises are a ripe purple! - Why didn't you show? - Why don't you...? - Chee...! - Likewise You saw the bruises That's why We did this to teach a lesson to the teacher - So...whose idea was it? - Bharathi You got the brain of an engineer! Lord Easwara! Hey! How can you call our boss by his name? Good lord! Didn't I tell you the Collector is a good man and won't get angry? Who told you...? Of course you'll be punished! Sir, hold tight You seem to be a pro What's that village? Palaiyur Rain water has started flowing into the river I don't know when this place will get flooded I thin- Do as I told you When you do things on the sly, you do it happily, right? You intend building a dam? That would cost a king's ransom! How much are they spending? Permission is theirs Expenditure is mine Cooperation is your contribution! You'll be doing our people a huge favor Why won't they cooperate? We'll take care of that! Thank you very much By the way, how will you collect that huge an amount? I'm the only son of king Parameswara of Kodaiyur Lord Easwara! Does that mean you are a king? I haven't come here as a king But as an engineer to build this dam You are a king not only because of your wealth Even your heart is made of gold Finally good time has dawned on our village You've got the king himself in the palm of your hand You're something else! Sir, because of the rain the whole place is flooded Won't it be difficult to build the dam now? We must divert the river and then start work Won't it be too laborious? If you want your wish fulfilled you got to sweat it out - Greetings, Your Highness - Come...welcome This is my only child Mani Bharathi She wants to work here Will you take her in? A very naughty girl I've seen her! But what work can she do? Household chores Help the cook She can do all that But she's a teenager And this is a small village Won't people here gossip about this arrangement? I'm a follower of Bharathi, Tamil poet and social reformer Like he visualized, I raised my daughter as a liberated girl I don't care what the villagers will think If you got any problems let me know! She can work here as long as you're fine with it 'Danks' This was built for the employees of landlord of Rayakottai to stay You intend staying here? I've also come here only to work But you're a king, used to a royal life in the palace Whatever heights we may reach... ...while sleeping we occupy the space of only our height! Excellent...! I'll take leave Sami Pillai...? - Bharathi? - Father? This is another level! Behave accordingly You're the only girl here to have studied the most Let that not make you high-and-mighty I won't let it go to my head, father Make sure you don't spoil my icon, poet Bharathi's name! Are you the only girl here who has studied the maximum? Of course, my father sent me to a faaaar off school of repute - What have you studied? - 4th grade! Hey, hit it hard Bang on its head! Sir, when can I join work? - Your wish - 'Danks' Hey! Why are you taking your own sweet time walking? He feeds you thrice a day and also pays you, buck up! Why are you looking at my face? Paint properly...paint...paint What a slipshod job! It's still so dirty Wash it with water 'Was...was' Sir, palm jaggery coffee -Thank you very much - No 'mansion' This is a flood zone If we build the dam here water will get collected here Sir...coffee My God!! What have you done? Do you know how important this plan is? You've become too playful these days I don't want you working for me Clear off From now on just serve food I don't even want food Get out I'm starving! Sami Pillai...Sami Pillai Everyone is fast asleep Where do I find food now? Wow...Bharathi! Steamed rice cake is soooper 'Tanks' We also agree 'Puttu' is real yummy Can 'inside' coming?! In this whole village, only my 'puttu' has a special flavor My father swears by it Hey hold...hold My plan...grab all the papers Catch the papers 3, 4, 5 8, 11, 12 Sir, forget it We'll draw a different one That was a crucial plan I have to measure all over again Easier said than done Go back to work What do you know? Sir, I didn't miss out even a single plan There are 38 in total - Thank you - No 'mansion' Oh! Important plan Catch it...get hold of it 39...39 Catch...over there How are you today Mr Lingeswaran? Fine, thank you I came this way to hunt Looks like you're also hunting! Just to see how you'll build that dam... ...I got transferred to Madurai By deceiving the same Governor Oh! I see But doesn't seem like you're working on any dam I think you're only working on wooing this girl You're doing a good job Marry her, she's very pretty Thank you very much 'Marry her She's very pretty' "Oh king, Your majesty I'm not the only beauty" "But unrivalled leader you are" "Yes, you are our Super star" "You wished to seize stars teeny-weeny You ravished this silver moon readily" "Enamored by stars teensy-weensy you devoured this bright moon headily" "Lion-hearted untold Will you touch my life with your soul?" "Your eyes, pierce eagle-eyed in search of flowers denied" "Your hands, fingers unbidden explore for roots hidden" "I relished plucking stars itsy-bitsy I ravished this silver moon greedily" "Sir Galahad the gallant knight! Will you touch my soul with your life?" "Bold, blue-blooded beau Blend my soul with your life, will you?" "From tusks of elephants five score ivory armor on your chest you wore" "With my domes I invaded your armor to plunder your heart with my ardor" "Southern flower untouched Cave island, honey drenched" "Milky white swan you are I'm your hungry lover" "Pot of desire nectarous Pearled waist sensuous" "With your bosoms beckoning spread me a feast, my queen" "You relished plucking stars itsy-bitsy You ravished this butter moon greedily" "Dauntless in body and mind My life with yours will you bind?" "Snow-white buds the sun hasn't seen hand them in my hand, my sunbeam" "Conqueror of 7 lands and seas, this king craved for your pinky toe, imagine!" "From basics to base 4 let's enjoy an encore" "Let our souls venture to the summit of surrender" "Evolved scripture Beloved sculpture" "Let's revel in rhapsody Most revered majesty" "Besotted by stars teensy-weensy I feasted on this full moon hungrily" "Besotted by stars teensy-weensy you feasted on this gilded moon fully" "Courageous to the core Will you touch your life with my soul?" "My daring dashing beau Merge our life and soul, will you?" Bless us, boss May you be happy What's this, Sami Pillai? Her people are hell bent on ruling our country I thought I could overrule at least one and show her hell! So I married her What did that girl say? Get back to work! Not 1 or 2...I've spoken with all our village folks Not even in his dreams can he construct this dam You might think I'm lying By this time our people would have chased that king out of this place What if they change their mind? No, they won't I've set up our men in every village around here That's why our budget exceeded a little bit Bring me the good news that the king has left this place I'll even bequest an entire village in your name It's all in cash- Subburaju, why is everyone smiling from ear to ear? You've chased the king out of this place, right? Come and look for yourself Rangan Murugan...go Palanisamy...go Maintain the queue Ramasamy Muthaiya Yes...go Ganesan...? Kuppusamy...? What happened? We came just like you said to chase him away from here True, if we build a dam here... ...not 30 but 36 villages to the east will submerge That's what I've been surveying all these days Not to worry, 8000 acres of land in the west belongs to this man Landlord of Rayakottai My childhood friend He has offered you this huge extent of land I thank him for his good heart! I'm not good hearted He is golden hearted! I'm not giving this land free of cost He has already paid me! Whoever has land in the east, he has asked me to transfer... ...the same extent of land in the west in all their names! If we construct a dam in the east, then in your land in the west... ...you can harvest for 3 seasons in a year! Thank you very much Thank you so much But on 1 condition! You must transfer in my name your eastern land that will be flooded Only when I own all that land... ...can I build the dam without any hassle! You don't have to donate it free of cost I'll pay you twice today's value Are you willing? You're giving us sugar cane and paying us to eat it! Will anyone refuse? Of course we are willing Aren't you okay with this? - We accept - We agree Hey! Stop it All that can't be done That land belongs to my grandfather How can I transfer it to you? All that can't be done Tell him you can't Listen, he's giving his land to replace ours And also offering to pay us twice the value of our land Why? For our village to prosper That's going over your head! This is my ancestral property I refuse outright Is the welfare of this village important? Or your dead grandfather? You're keeping quiet while he's letting his tongue run You better accept it Otherwise the whole village will unite and destroy your entire lineage - What, man? - Of course Say 'yes' Or else we'll pack all of you to hell Lord Easwara...! If we had protested further... ...our own folks would've burnt us alive! That's why we also accepted their money He beat us with his money You can beat me with your slipper! What's the point in beating you? Dammit! True! All dam's fault! But he can't be stopped The dam will be built for sure Lord Easwara...! 83, 84 Look at this It's pathetic! Break it Break it real hard How can you ask students to help? Stop this Get up You should study "Indian...join me en masse to build anew Himalayas" "Youngster, bright and bold Let's turn rainwater into gold" "Tiny drops of water make a river That droplet in history is your avatar" "Lend a hand, strong man Your right hand will be the dam" "Prop mountains, stop the river let's build a scientific cloister" "Shall we unite and plan as one caste and clan?" "Shall we in solidarity unite as a sea of humanity?" "Let our villages converge With enthusiasm plunge" "Revel in a golden period Joy widespread" "Indian...join me en masse to create a brand new Himalayas" Hey ladies! You can't build this dam even if you become grandmothers Hit you hard! Hit you if you don't wear sandals at work! Only iron helmets will protect you Wear it...secure it firmly Our king When he comes to the court chamber This was on his birthday Boss...sir...? - Hey...hey...hey? - Aiyo! No 'mansion' Subbu, ask them what they want At once, sir Eat well What do you want? Shall I serve you some gravy? That's why I warned you! I told you, before starting a project of this magnitude... ...it's our practice to sacrifice a goat Do we sacrifice for famine and also to eradicate famine? Well said! Shouldn't there be a limit for superstition? It's safer to sacrifice If you kill 100 goats, villagers will be happy! Even if we kill you, the whole village will rejoice! Shut your gob Listen, if we build this dam without any mishap... ...I'll build a temple for this village - There won't be any hitch - Glad to hear this, sir Why are you back? Go and take rest! It's just a small wound I'll get back to work "Human race without water can't survive...so volunteer!" "Change won't take place without human species" "Come out into the light and like a tiger fight" "Shall we join forces as one family, no fences?" "Shall we bond and grow as people, no high or low?" "As bonded beasts forever will we live hereafter?" "Golden period to treasure" Don't show your British arrogance here! Go Come here Serve here Hey Shanmugam? - Yes, sir? - Come here Planning to get your daughter married? She's still young What's the rush? - But she's in a rush! - What are you saying? Look over there - Get lost - Don't play the fool They are just kids playing with each other And you're making a mountain out of a mole- If you get them both married, you won't have any hassles later How can you even say this? You know very well that boy is from a caste lower than ours Oh big deal! How can caste be a criteria these days? Look there From barbarians to gypsies... ...castes, high and low They are eating together without any discrimination Can you differentiate by caste, creed or religion? In those days even wells were segregated according to castes Aren't we building the dam over there without hierarchy? Tomorrow when we get water from that source... ...people from all castes will go and fetch water We will all work together for our daily existence? How come caste comes into play only when you start a family? Hey Vasantha! - Get up from there - Father? You brainless nitwit! You are eating along with a boy from a lower caste Are you all bird brained? Sit according to your caste and eat If you still want to eat, ask our caste to eat first Then serve food to other lesser mortals Hey! You think we are beggars to eat leftovers? You stupid numskull! Your skull is the thickest Hey! Shut up - People, get up - He's demeaning us If they have an ounce of pride, let them go If I send a couple of men like you behind Gandhi, we'll rule India... ...hassle free for another century Not 100 years, sir but 1000 years- Aiyo! Madam is coming! What the hell is this scoundrel always doing here? Not 'Gounder', my lady I belong to another caste! Sir, how come there isn't a single soul here? Where have they gone? Things are strewn all around Bring it Listen to me carefully This is your life This is the progress for your children This is your future, livelihood, labor, food... ...clothing, shelter, happiness, everything Now, this very moment, to build this temple and dam... ...will you lend me your hand? Or do you want to die of hunger and starvation? And turn this village into a graveyard? Decide for yourself! One more announcement I don't want any Mudaliyar to come forward to build this dam Nor do I want Naidus Chettiars, Gounders, Iyers, lower caste, higher caste Hindus, Christians, Muslims Not a single soul Beyond the barrier of caste and religion... ...if one of you in this gathering ...if he or she is an Indian ...and if the Indian blood is running in your veins ...I want only that Indian to come forward I don't want anyone else Sami Pillai, pull up a chair for me I'll also sit Do I have to sit facing these dumb people? Turn it around the other side! "Indian...join me en masse to build anew Himalayas" "Youngster, bright and bold Let's turn rainwater into gold" "Tiny drops of water make a river That droplet in history is your avatar" "Lend a hand, strong man Your right hand will be the dam" "Prop mountains, stop the river let's build a high-tech cloister" "Shall we unite and plan as one caste and clan?" "Shall we in solidarity unite as a sea of humanity?" "Let our villages converge With enthusiasm plunge" "Revel in a golden period Joy widespread" "Indian...join me en masse to create a brand new Himalayas" 'Pongalo Pongal' 'May your life brim with prosperity on this harvest festival day' Sir, please forgive me Plenty of events happened when you weren't here What happened? Sir, now I understand why millions follow Mahatma Gandhi That king has a weapon more powerful than your cannon I'm talking about man power! Sir, you'll shoot something and my people will burn me to ashes! Hey fool...! You British villain! Step forward and take a look Satisfied? You shot this flag Shoot now Let's see how many flags you can shoot That's an Indian for you! "Dispelling Whites' darkness may Gandhi's nation become famous" "Let Ganges hurry to touch Cauvery" "Let us leave footsteps in our desert sands" "Shall we bond as 1 nation with no discrimination?" "Shall we win over Fate's endeavor?" "Shall we create history? My precious rosary" "Good times shall we see? Look forward to eagerly" "Shall we rewrite history? Autographed with melody" "Will life be hunky-dory? Sheathed in glory" "Connect to win; nothing in this world is too big" Only if you work like these ladies... ...will you go through a normal delivery this time "Isn't the sky that flies considerably huge in size?" "But in front of wings sky is of no significance" "Let us merge our nation without exclusion" "Shall we be one nation without apartheid notion?" "As one single force let's seal fate's doors" "Indian...join me en masse to build anew Himalayas" "Youngsters, bright and bold Let's change rainwater to gold" "Tiny drops of water make a river That droplet in history is your avatar" "Lend a hand, Superman Your right hand will be the dam" "Prop mountains, let rivers be still let's build an illuminated temple" "Mountains propped Rivers stopped" "Scientific house of prayer let's build now and forever" "Let's live without bias Not be caste-conscious" "Shall we conquer Fate's signature?" "We built mountains substantial Shall we build a dam for survival?" "Shall we rule our country, our flag fluttering in victory?" Sir...he's coming Sir, chair? I knew you'd come in search of me Mr Lingeswaran King of Kodaiyur Only now you're standing in the place fit for you Our ancestors didn't put you in your rightful place That's why I'm standing Mr Collector! What's the matter? First, rain has flooded the western Ghats And before the floods target us, we need dam's shutter equipments Otherwise are you worried, your dam will be washed away in the flood? No, I'm worried this whole village will be washed away in the flood How can I prevent that? As District Collector, you have confiscated all the equipments Why should I? Ego You suffer from a complex you may lose this challenge I have nothing of that sort Then grant me permission at once Okay What's your 2nd problem? Not mine People's problem I transferred land from the landlord of Rayakottai to the people of this village Your Govt has confiscated it As per our Govt's orders, landlords can own only a certain amount of assets It isn't the landlord's property It belongs to the people now But our Govt already bought it Thanks to your conspiracy You predated the document by 2 years and cheated my friend You found out, huh? The whole country knows you inside out So what? What do you want me to do? Simple As a Collector, pass an order stating the farmer owns the land he cultivates Can do, but now it is Govt. property We can't lift our finger without any proof I know only too well State your rate Do you want twice or 5 times the present land value? I want 100 times the present value My God! Thanks to the dam it is now fertile and equal to gold That will be its value tomorrow "A lion can conceal its growl Tigers can smile and play foul" "Some are pro in deceiving Wolf in sheep's clothing" "Praise you right up to the skies And then drop you in an abyss" "Within a bouquet there is a snake that will hiss" "Even if the mighty elephant falls into a bottomless pit..." "...no one can trample its spirit unshakable" "Truth will triumph one day when you'll get a standing ovation then" "Only you, this village will proclaim You deserve all the name and fame" "Lies blow like a tempest But truth speaks the calmest" "Instead of thorns on that day roses will pave your way" This is atrocious! Let's meet the Governor Go to the High court Or if need be, even to London High court! We are running out of time now This is not the work of a mere individual It's a joint conspiracy! Okay, I'll pay I'll pay your price I need 4 days grace time Why 4 days? I don't have ready cash Only immovable assets To make final settlement for the sluice gate... ...I have to sell gold and silver from my palace To pay your exorbitant rate I'm forced to sell the palace I need time to finalize the deal Why sell it to some random stranger? I'll give you money to pay for the sluice Give me the palace With all the gold, silver, furniture and fittings Done Tomorrow I'll come with my palace documents Wait...! Janet, can you please take her inside? If you want our deal to be implemented... ...2 conditions You shouldn't tell anyone what transpired between us Ettappan like Brutus will hide behind you 2nd condition? Accept the dam was not built by you but by the British Govt I'm prepared to go to any length for the dam and my people, okay? Will you keep up your word? See you tomorrow Very good, sir I've prepared an order... ...stating the Rayakottai land belongs to the farmer Hand it over safely at the Collector's office Yes, sir Come...come Come fast Look, he bought these lands for peanuts from us That's the land document He's selling our lands to the British! Holy cow! Look at those piles of currency notes He's taken many more such boxes before How do you know? One of the cops here is my nephew...he saw them Why is the dog barking? Security, check if anyone is there! Let's scoot All the silver is in the car How can you still smile? You built a dam for the people You lost your name and wealth You lost your title and palace But I haven't lost my peace of mind How long will you live hoarding all this? For what I did today... ...many generations will benefit in years to come, you moron! Come, Sami Pillai Why is this 'linga' green in color, sir? It's made of emerald Really costly We'll tell your father to appoint tight security Okay We'll inform the village later! Yes - Hey Dubash! - What, ma? Where are your wife and children? Gone to her parents' house Why? For the next delivery Where are all our people? No idea Everyone is aware we are opening the temple on Lord Shiva's Holy night Your majesty, please call a chaste virgin With goodness of heart let her light the lamp The whole village will be prosperous! Bharathi, light the lamp He'll soon want you to light his heart and home too! You took the call before me, huh?! Go, dear Leader...chief! Why are you dragging him? Chief...please listen to me Go away Better clear out of this village Hereafter, you don't have the right to step into this village What are you saying? You don't know You didn't see But we all did! We saw him accept a box filled with loads of cash from the British Collector Who...he did...? Did he take money from our enemy? Yes...see if he can refute my allegation! Your majesty, did you take money from that British Collector Yes Now do you believe me? He himself has accepted Ask him why he did so? How can he answer that? How can he reveal what happened there? Blue blood it seems! It's an insult to him Hey! Why should he be humiliated? Sami Pillai! As if we won't know if he doesn't tell us! He told us if the dam is built... ...then all lands to the east will be submerged So he bought them from us for pittance Then he sold it to the British for a king's ransom! And went to and fro collecting box-load of money from the Collector Isn't it the truth? Tell them We saw him hand over our documents to the British Collector Yes Why did he give our documents to him? Land that may submerge in water should only be with the builder What are you saying? Ask him that question If the dam was built by the British Govt or by him? Sir, was this dam built by the British like they are saying? Yes, this dam was built by the British Govt Then all these days why did you act like you built this dam? Forget that He gave us the land owned by the landlord of Rayakottai... ...which he bought to replace ours Isn't that also a drama? Show him the notice Did you take a good look? He has sent us a notice asking us to return those lands! British took those lands from the landlord of Rayakottai long ago Read it What's your answer? We've lost our lands What do we do now? I know what to do I will take him apar- Stop there Don't even dream of stepping into this village again Go away Correct, how can he tackle the British? Let's all fall at the feet of the Collector and request him He'll return all our lands I can guarantee you that! Why should a king stoop down to do all this? Business, naturally He has done the same wheeling and dealing all rich people do He isn't guilty the way you all think I'm talking from my experience! Look at his face Does his face look like he'll harm anybody? Old lady, you'll vouch for him and leave this world We have to live with it Go...go and build some more palaces What are you looking at? Listen! It's hard to build But easy to demolish! After all this, if you still wait here... ...we'll ourselves destroy the dam we built with our sweat and toil Want to see that happen? HE will take care of everything Thank you very much He betrayed us and built a temple like he's a saint! Let's first shut the temple doors Come on "Truth will triumph one day when this world will glorify you then" "Only you, this village will acclaim You...you sure deserve that fame" "Lies blow like a storm But truth speaks slow and calm" "On that day, in your life you'll win over all strife" "Don't buckle under Don't sign over" "Don't knuckle under Don't melt under pressure" "Don't weep...never Don't lose hope ever" "Don't let the doors close Your dream don't lose!" "Even Lord Rama cried" "Yudishtra was also teary eyed" "But you however didn't weep" "You will never face defeat" Stoppppp! Please stop Hey! That's our girl Stop the train Bharathi, what are you doing here? Where are you going? Get off the train How can you leave the place you were born- Train is moving Will you get down or not? Tell me to die and I'll gladly do so But I won't go back to that village The people there don't have a heart But I lit the lamp with good faith in my heart- Who denied that, my dear? If you don't like me... ...drop me in some other village, but not Solaiyur Had it been like before... ...only the houses along the banks of the river would've got swept away Wonder what will happen now! What will happen? Dam will break and the whole village will get washed away! Kill-joy! Why are you always negative? If I'm positive, dam won't break, huh? You foul-mouthed fellow...! Hey! Our king studied engineering abroad He'd have built it real strong If you believed that why didn't you stay behind? Why are you struggling along with us? Shut up, man Nothing has happened to the dam, it is safe Good time has finally dawned on our village That golden-hearted king will only think of our welfare I told you people Did you listen? Brainless blockheads! Hurray! Good time has begun Solaiyur can at last enjoy a golden period Greetings, sir What's news? The newly built dam survived the storm and flood It has passed the test The king is a shrewd businessman But he's an engineer who knows his job- All that's irrelevant Sir, only you should maintain the dam your British Govt has built You should open the sluice for our fields to be irrigated To enable our farmers to cultivate their crops... ...please provide water by opening the sluice Your Govt should return the land belonging to the landlord of Rayakottai... ...to us farmers, so that we can cultivate the lands, sir You can levy whatever tax you want Just give our lands back to us - Yes, sir - Please, sir If I should do what you want then embed a culvert on that dam 'This dam was built by the British Govt' ...should be the words inscribed on it Invite me formally to cut the ribbon Only then I'll allow it Nonsense! How can you take credit for something you didn't do? Are you not ashamed? Go inside at once Why should I? Whatever you wanted to grab from that king, you did Isn't that enough? Like a coward you now want to usurp his name also Would you change your father's name also? Shut up You cunning dastard! All of you are stupid You have no hang ups licking anyone's feet? Who built that dam? You don't know But I do 'I want 100 times the present value' 'Okay, I'll pay' 'I'll give you money to pay for the sluice' 'You shouldn't tell anyone what transpired between us' 'For what I did today...' '...many generations will benefit in years to come, you moron!' 'Come, Sami Pillai' Hey! What are you doing, idiot? Look! Your king sold his palace to this man... ...to get the order for you to be the legal owners See my husband's- Sorry The Collector's signature on it That man, that rajah is your God Don't you ever come looking for this devil here again Get out of here Madam, even amongst the British there are a few good souls! You proved it today We are deeply indebted to you Where are you going? I'm ashamed to live with you anymore I want to leave you I can't cope with this anymore You are an embarrassment Listen! But there is nothing wrong on my part I just behave according to the Govt It's known to the world... ...our Govt has been looting this country for generations But there is real justice And even bravery in it You are nothing but a coward And I will not live with a coward anymore But I did all this for you For what? For me? You wanted to bury me in that palace Janet! Please, Janet Let go of me I can't live without you I can't live without our child Please, Janet Then do one thing 'Built from 1939-1944 by King Lingeswaran' I am sorry for what I have done This dam was built by King Lingeswaran only Not the British Thank you Traitor We won't spare your life Stop! Trying to escape? King Lingeswara Forgive me Why are you so deep in thought? By mistake we closed the temple he built Bharathi, we should throw ourselves at his feet And make only him open this temple once again We don't know his whereabouts He sold this palace When he left he gave all of us land for our upkeep Thanks to his generosity we live without any wants The last we saw of him was when he took the 'linga' from this temple He told us, 'Solaiyur is my village and my relatives still live there' 'I plan on residing there' He has many such palaces Why don't you ask around there? Let's spend the night here and look for him in the morning We can't go back without finding the king Father, I'm hungry Where will I find food at this time of the night? Please bear with your hunger till tomorrow morning We are all as hungry as this little boy Yes, chief Sir? Who is it? We were told we can get food here Come inside and sit Eat this 'puttu' first Food is getting ready You said you were hungry Eat...why are you getting distracted? Please eat Bharathi, dear Welcome, father Eat first We can talk later What's all this? I can't bear to see you like this I am fine, father You must be hungry Please eat Where's Collector sir? He's in the backyard You first eat Oh gawd! I have sinned What I did was unforgivable When did you come? Please forgive me Forgive this sinner How can you say this? You're all big shots More than you?! Stop crying, please When did they come? - Just now, sir - Did they eat? No First serve them dinner Okay "A conch even if burnt remains white, dude" "There's an air about nobility They carry a definite dignity" "Even if exiled by our society our king will always be royalty" "Even if fallen from grace helping hand is never in disgrace" "Even if he loses his land and everything in hand..." "...no one can rob this engineer of his inimitable cheer" "Truth will triumph one day when this world will glorify you then" "Only you, this village will claim is a man worthy of name and fame" "Lies blow like a hurricane But truth unhurried has its say" "On that day, in your life you'll win over all strife" "Don't give up hope Don't lose faith and mope" "Don't be low-spirited Don't be brokenhearted" "Trust in 'This too shall pass' It'll be the nightmare that was" How was the dinner? Was that dinner? It was a royal feast! Feast, huh? How is the dam? It must have withstood the wind and stormy weather Unshakable As strong as you No one can shake it even for a 1000 years more How are our people back home? Forget all that Why are you like this? You saw me as a king, Collector, engineer And now you're seeing me as a cook, you mean that? What work we choose to do isn't important But it is important to love whatever we do You gave comfort and stability to people in 36 villages But now...like this- What do I lack? I have this hall built by my father to welcome tired travellers I have the means to feed my guests without saying 'no' Didn't you see the cows giving us fresh milk daily? What else do I need? You sold your palace You lived a life of royalty- I'm the king here too! Your daughter is the queen Am I a king only if I live in a palace? Wherever one is, to be happy and to give people what they lack... ...whoever follows this way of life, is a king However much you may justify... ...we want to see you as king like we did before This isn't good enough We'll return the lands you gave us villagers You buy back the palaces you sold May you live as the king we love for 100 years majestically Even now I can go back to my old life if I wish I'm educated with ample mental strength And my body has a firm backbone But I've seen that side of life I like my present lifestyle I asked my wife Bharathi She said she's happy this way If heart beats with happiness... ...one can be happy anywhere If that joy is missing here wherever one goes- Sir, come back to our village We'll treat you like royalty In my lifetime I wanted to leave something memorable behind Solaiyur dam is my identity Having built it my work there is over Don't hold whatever happened in your heart Sammandham- Why rake up the past? Forget it Son-in-law? Can I call you so? Can he call me 'son-in-'law'? Very funny! At least come and open the temple you closed What's broken once cannot be patched up Please don't compel me I'll take leave See you, Bharathi'ka See you, dear Father...? If I feel like seeing you and my mother... ...I'll send word Will you visit me? Karunakara, come here Tell the people back home the king is happy in his palace If you tell all this, they won't understand and they'll feel sad We toiled for their happiness Please keep that in mind But Your majesty, when you are ready to forgive us, come back to Solaiyur The temple you built will until then be closed This is a promise I make on myself! The promise made by my father... ...has come true today 70 years later, through his heir Just as the king wished... ...the temple has been opened on Lord Shiva's Holy night And the sacred offering to God has been made And the man who made this happen for us... ...you're accusing him of being a thief? Not just this idol The temple, dam, green fields and 100s of villages around this place... ...all belong to his family They gave it to us graciously as charity Why would he steal his own possessions? Lingaa...? Don't call me Lingaa hereafter Call me Lingeswara I'm privileged to have been named after my grandfather You said you were going back home...why? I don't want to spoil his name Wait, I won't stop you My grandfather kept this in memory of king Lingeswara Son, hear me out The king didn't tell me in my dream to open the temple That was a lie The chief engineer who inspected the dam said 'If you want to save this village open the doors of the temple' We've opened the temple now as per the engineer's last wish But we are in the dark about the danger in store for this village Villagers think the engineer was killed by a wild deer, that's not true I saw 4 men stab and kill him When we thought our village will be totally destroyed... ...the king, your grandfather came in time to save all of us Once again our village is facing danger 70 years later Only you must protect us To save the village, why did he want the temple opened? But we were the ones who opened the temple Hey! Give me your yellow bag 'A very good morning to viewers of Public TV' 'In order to create Cancer awareness...' '...Mr Nagabooshan, MP of Solaiyur has released a latex hot air balloon' Morning, sir You're putting up your price it seems I can't do it, sir I'm too scared to do it Let me go, sir This is exactly what he also said I won't I won't bow down to your vile threats The dam IS strong I've certified it faces no danger sealed and even signed it That's what I want Where is it? It's safe and sound in the place it should be Hey! Go in and search Get hold of him As soon as you get his report, burn it If I don't find it? Burn the house down Hey listen! If Uthaman bore the brunt of the wild deer's antlers... ...remember you've taken 15 million from me as advance You'll end up as a mound of ash! Don't, sir Tell me what I should do You'll come tomorrow for the dam inspection, right? You'll be drilling a hole for 50 meters, right? In those small holes, place bombs given by my men and connect them Certify the dam is weak and you can go your way Will the bomb explode, sir? I'll detonate them one by one The explosion will be drowned by the sound of the water But if the dam breaks because of the explosion? Bomb is mine Village is also mine Will I destroy my own constituency? Go...go See you tomorrow He wants to discuss something important He'll be here anytime, madam Hey Latchu Why did you want to see me? Sit inside How much longer should I wait for you? Did I ask you to wait? You didn't But you know this is a childhood bond! I know Even my beard is going grey! You didn't have it dyed aspiring for a minister's post! Look at that! Come and talk to my grandpa tomorrow Is it raining or what? Today is my lucky day! Luck always piles up in a heap That's also said of trouble It never rains but pours! Call the contractor Why are you blocking the road? To find out why you've assembled here As if you don't know! None of you know? We have come to inspect the dam With the Court order And police protection Hey! Is he trying to scare us? Are we thieves to be scared of them? As if we've never seen a cop! You came and inspected this same dam last month What happened to that? Good question This has become a habit for them! Tell him, he has every right to ask True, our engineer came to inspect the dam But he died before he could submit his report He didn't die of natural causes He was murdered Look, that's a different case If the engineer had submitted his report... ...then our visit now is totally unnecessary Who told you that he didn't submit a report? Certifying this dam will be strong even after 1000 years... ...sealing it with Govt stamp, signed and scanned ...it has been thrown inside the temple Everything inside the temple was old Only this 'rudraksha' was new This new armor against negative vibes has come to save our old dam Insert this pendrive into your laptop and check Get your laptop Oh no! You deleted it It's on its way already on a worldwide procession Too late to try and push it under the rug Sir, its already in Facebook, Email, Twitter, V-chat, I chat- Enough! They got the message - Lingaa? - Sir They've anyway come here Let them do their duty and go If the previous report is endorsed again... ...it is to our advantage! MP sir, they aren't here to inspect the dam But to place bombs to destroy the dam Who said so? You did What do you mean? Lakshmi sweetheart, you recorded all that he said in your OB van Please play it for him LED screen ready? Look over there She's a very bad girl, sir See you No one can guess where she will place the camera Look there You can't miss it Good news! We'll get the certificate tomorrow attesting that the dam is damaged You've paid me only half the money Transfer the remaining amount 40 billion into my Swiss account We just won't miss it this time They aren't coming to inspect the dam But to place the bombs in strategic points Even if anyone files a case to the Supreme Court... ...that the dam is strong If they come and check, dam will obviously be weak! Transfer the money tomorrow Yov! Playing the fool with me or what? Did I use my party, office and influence... ...to build a new dam for 400 billion bucks And got sanction from the centre? You're cribbing to pay me a 20% commission? You'll also earn 25 to 30%, right? Transfer the money immediately Why glare at her? She's my girl I had my doubts about you That's why I sent Lakshmi to your balloon function - You...! - Hey!! Scumbag! You move 1 step forward I'll burn you alive Now I know you murdered that poor engineer You pride yourself in being... ...a Member of Parliament? You tried to kill the people who voted for you? How can he kill us? We'll squash him to a pulp Come on Hey Lingaa! You take 1 step forward my men will kill your innocent people I'll kill this girl Don't move Is there only 1 dam in India? Your deposit is safe with me If not this contract I can get you another Listen to me You don't know about my political connections Crap! Drive straight to Madurai airport Speed up With bashed up faces... ...are you trying to blow up our dam? Move it Or I'll shoot What are you saying? I'll convey the message to him They've dismissed you from the party I lost 40 billion I lost my dignity amongst the villagers I lost my post as MP now The girl I wanted to marry backstabbed me in every way After everything is ruined for me why should this village alone exist? Not just Lingaa The dam that was of no use to me should also be destroyed Hey...hey...drive straight to the balloon function place Get the nitro glycerine bomb we have stocked Put it inside a balloon I'm on my way there How much longer? We'll go up in a little while, sir Go...go up fast I don't know anything about this, I'm not involved You think you can escape after doing all these villainous acts Yeah...via Sri Lanka There's a yacht waiting for me It won't happen Who can stop me? Look over there Hello...! Bike is cool But it has no wings, my dear fellow How long will it take to be right above the dam? 3 minutes according to my calculation, sir Set the timer for 3 minutes I'll strap the bomb on to you and wheeeeeeee! In another 3 minutes, you, your Lingaa... ...the dam his grandfather built, this village, everything ...will go up in smoke Lingaa, are you ok- You're a respected elder and how can you bow your hands to me? I feel I am seeing King Lingeswara in person Why don't you live with us here, son? This is your village I'll take leave, sir Let me achieve something to prove I lived in this world And then I'll be back In the last minute they blew our cover Our dignity and self respect will be in tatters I thought I shouldn't tarnish my grandfather's name Looks like that is a pipedream, Lingeswara Oh! The mastermind, huh? I was wondering why he hadn't made his special appearance?! Do you know who he is? He's 'Finishing Kumar' Asst. Commissioner However important a case, he'll only give his finishing 'Celluloid' touch! Why are you saluting me, sir? I came here to catch you with proper evidence But after hearing your grandfather's story... ...I got a new found respect for you Sir, what's the problem? Don't worry Since he saved the dam and protected the people here... ...Govt is conferring an award So I've come in person to escort him right royally! My friend! Still there's a minor enquiry Will you get into the jeep quietly? Thanks a ton for saving our self respect, sir Welcome We won't leave you and go away at all You are only our king They will betray you and then fall at your feet it seems! Stoppppp! Wait for me When the whole village was gathered she could have come then, right? Raja's pair, Rani needs to make the grand entry Grandpa, bless me Don't run in slow motion The next show will begin Do you want me to take her also for enquiry? We can get them married in your august presence Okay Done For her height she can even get into a lorry without help Her hand is taken! Zip-zap-zoom! "Indian...join me en masse to build anew Himalayas" "Youngsters, bright and bold Let's turn rainwater into gold" "Tiny drops of water make a river That droplet in history is your avatar" "Lend a hand, the entire clan Your right hand will be the dam" "Prop mountains, stop rivers specific let's build a classic cloister scientific" "Shall we unite and plan as one caste and clan?" "Shall we unite in solidarity as a sea of humanity?" "Let our villages converge With zeal and zest plunge" "Revel in a golden period Joy widespread" "Indian...join me en masse to build a brand new Himalayas" "Human race without water can't survive...volunteer!" "Change won't take place without human species" "Come out into the light and like a tiger fight" "We shall bond as 1 nation with no discrimination!"
