 

                        In this power 20th century, almost every nation in the world has at some time been in conflict, the empresses and the empressed, the victors and the vanquished The people of war are tragic entightment of our civilization At time, when much of the world was looking for ways to increase their influence, power and riches Political reasons, restoration of the glory that was Rome In 1911, Italy joins the hunt for terriroty Libia on the other side of the Mediterranean sea is the target. Landings were made at Tripoli then Ghazi, Zvona, Cert, Dona and Trubak The local population fighting on many fronts, made fierce and resolute resistence to the invaders thus bringing the war to a stale-mate The beginning of Mussolini's era of dictatorship The conflict in Libia escalated as more and more fascists might was thrown against the scithening resistance of the local population "We will overcome them" and then we will take the fact of fascism to the Rome" Ready charge More... More... I don't understand If we defeated the Beduins, why are we still hanging? Why do I have to fort troups even when victory is upon All I wish my generals will try to distinguish, one telling me of their glorious victory and one telling me of their defeats Can't go on.. I will not let this go on give This green is ever green That's your gile The rest is brown paper just need someone bold enough to roll up Grechiani come with me I sent 5 governors to Libia in 5 years Not... no military logic of fascism will not compromise Its wrong with Alway, Giadi, Baynets, Banu, Don What we are fighting in reality is just tribesmen, ghosts I want their leader brought here and the revolution crushed What's his name?|Omar Muktar Omar?|Omar Muktar? Omar Muktar You know general those Columnists that we sent over pacific from the south they cost us leader for leader almost as if we put them up in grand hotel Now something must be wrong No... I will have a handful of Beduins stop the progress of a forty million battallions I'll give you Libia then least have a name that will frighten them May I shed duty when i crush their belly I do so with a clear conscience What did Muktar do before the rebellion? He was a Teacher A Teacher?|Yes I was a Teacher Be careful you don't end up as the five who went before you, taught by him Well, I'm the man who likes action...|Go to Libia General Bring me back Muktar driven or bring his neck In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful It is the God of Mercy who has meant in the Quran, he created man and told him speech He set the sun and the moon in their courses He raised the sky up and sat the balance of whole things Stop right there Why do we think we begin every chapter of the Quran with God, the merciful? Because, one of the names of God is mercy mercy.. thats right And how.. how does God show his mercy? He taught.. taught people how to speak How to speak.. thats right.. yes And then there was something helse in what we wear could anybody... anybody... can you tell me what that was? it was... it was... |let me give you a hint it was the what?| it was the balance|that's right.. that's right then why.. why did God set that balance? Boys... Boys... why did God set the balance? because.. because.. without the balance everything would fall here.. let me see that much you read... everything get fall apart take it to your father Where's the Omar? Yes Matari, what is the news? A new governor.. again? They come like lions and go back home like worn-out goods well, who is it this time?|Grechiani the butcher of the Zion Grechiani... It was only a question of time before they let him loose on us It will mean you offensive My father used to say: "Bellows don't break your back" "Strengthen it" It was so Grechiani, some spine It tells me that Grechiani loves blood I don't like to believe those stories bring the attack to When is he expected?|They decorate in Bengasi for him Senmorite, Senmorine, his excellency, General Grechiani, governor of Sirinika his royal highness, prince of Adol, duke of Pausta Gentlemen, thank you.|But the ladies are present we should be at ease.|Let the dancing continue General|Colonel Bercent Senuri-tamate Colonel Deodechi Sir Ah yes... Deodechi, I read reports on you.|They say that you could make friends with Beduins with a hand-shake I'm not so sure that I like that it implies that the rest of them are strangled to make peace Sir, there are 5000 displeased Beduines outside my force I have no food for them. I've difficulty controlling them and they need ...what you need Colonel|What you need is to be a little bold for that Who is that man? Sheriff Agiani He's quite used to us, old friend of Omar Muktar peaceful, you say? Bring him here I think you will find that you can rely on him General Grechiani|may I present his excellency, Sheriff Agiani I understand that you did your man Omar Muktar..|I did What would it take to get him to surrender? I don't know| Even as a boy, he was terribly stubborn But the price could be of help in any way, I should be very willing to agree You'll find that we could be terribly generous Tenant Engineeri, urgent message sir Can't it wait? you see you are disturbing my guests Excuse me gentlemen. |They say, the flagman has lost his manor while sleeping on his despatch What is this?| Another waster of minova? How many dead at this time?|20 dead 50 wounded sir And they let him go again|yes, sir| But, this time, he was seen He was seen? How do they knew he was seen when nobody know him, how do they knew he was seen? It was only for a moment sir. | But they are sure. It was Muktar I suppose I should decorate them just for being brave to have seen Muktar There could be.. There could be.. Could be anywhere.. Tumani, I want you to use it, fast, how hard a hitting force is and you could take whatever Omar Muktar was like I'm disgusted that we have never seen him go for his blood| go for his circulation| go for the revolution that is inside every Beduin Muktar's been fighting chance | 3 months ran with him and next 3 months peaceful times Tumani, no peace Hameed, take your brother be at| be at| be at those 3 at the end there ...and ...and ...and you two ...and ...and ...and yea... let young go... Some of you have conflicts, instead of good 3 months|...with Muktar you go to your useful labor while you be out of chawla give the half of the gift to Muktar burn half of everything Its a bullet would sir You were shot running with Muktar, weren't you? what have you to say? what have you to say? Beduin? Well, you wrote it on yourself|Execute him Not, not out there. Here|Let them see it In the name of God,|give him time to pray you are old, be careful Aisha Aisha ma, I must do something Oh God I must do something my family, they burnt its tree I saw what happen, my brother and Aisha then look at my father. |I'm going to see Omar Its not your turn yet I became old enough today mother Hameed I need you They must pass through here start this ground out there| that is it How, you can't hide a lizard out there. Ustad Omar Ejid Check the other side Sir, at last we got them, where we want them Let's crack it of them, move it Lets go He's there. Mount They'r running. Put your foot down They'r on a trap|we must warn Tumani You hear that? Its Leutinant Adri sir what the hell he is doing? may be warning shots sir all stop all stop Geytuari, do you see anything? no, nothing sir nothing They are getting away. we have them in our hands full persuit Look at those machines We do not kill prisoners|do them not They are not our teachers He's a boy Here Tell your general it does not belong here My husband... I have... I have brought his book home never turned his back on... come here what is your name?|Ali Oh, yes Ali This is yours This is your book now you tell your mother to keep it for you Do not let him see you crying too much for they will carry on the fight He truly should remember him strong, with confidence never broken go inside Let us go and see the camp Ali This is my friend, Ali He is Umatari| He is a little boy just like you He is in Kufr, far away, in the desert he misses me. We have some work to do careful... Oh... Is that supposed to be me? How do I look? Go to bed back.|Otherwise, I cannot win you go... you go to the tent over there wiped out.. one Leutinant... and one scout out... that is all its left of the fighting force I did not come to Libia to be stunned by Bandits Senorite Tumani is going to be left in his conffins This young boy saved our honor by coming back with the flag sir...| yes yes yes, you will be decorated with the medal of honor I've never in my career lost a fight Gentlemen, I will repeat once in perfect to you We will not be in fight with Muktar or 200 of his men here or 50 of his men there we are fighting a population I am therefore taking the first 3 final steps straight to eliminate rebellion in this economy Its really quite simple and really should have been thought out before I propose to concentrate on the Beduins concentrate them? Yes, put them in a high walled camps and keep them there until we find prudent and safe to release them No need of any pity for them| They have brought this upon themselves We will fill their wells, we will burn their fuels, we will destroy their trees| we will turn their land brown Now, if they cannot live with it, they'll leave it And.. if we meet the resistance?|you answer it prompty with your own punishment for rebellion Thats the message Turn around As mutinists and rebels,| you will be decimated One... Two... Three... Nine... Ten... They've taken everybody Who can fight such a war? Not against army but against innocent people people will be dieing in those camps and compounds people will be dieing without food, without any choice or was it my fault?| indirect choice? look what they did [ raised the sky up and set the balance of all things ] Its the Omar No We will be massacred you have a chance to get away| Take it Go with this mare| Don't think of it Go... Go... Ali Ali Up behing me| Up behind me Go back.. Go back for that boy The horse won't take too|His mare knows that Hurry up Ustad Omar So, you are the brave young man The brave young man who saved Muktar from me why did you do it?| you are young you had your whole life behind it Tell me| Would you want to live? come on I want him to live more You will make a fine soldier Would you think of joining us?|You earn more with us lion prince you will corrupt him Get him out of here| Give him Riyals, fruit, honey.. whatever Don't harm him| Hang him..| in the morning Desert is their home, General| I'd be careful.. next You may be next to him, even if its a small paragraph in a newspaper in Rome You touch my strength Prince A gain in the mind of Rome is more important to me than the generation of men of Libia And what happens if you are... you are forgotten in Rome and you are remembered in Libia? Why do you worry so much about that? | you see, we will write the history| Libia is our crown of thorns Libia is our career locate it locate it Its always the same| We can never persue them in the desert I must conquer the desert as much on a crusade from here to here|Simple.. isn't it? No, its not But, its only empty desert There's nothing there, just wind and sand, not even much opposition what can you get from it?|worry for Rome an extension of the Emperor and finding the revolution to the mountain my name, a new page in military history seize it as quiteful as offense I will surprise you come in Diatich, now is your time. Please sit down The man who can make peace with a hand-shake Do it now.... Hands across the desert I wish to instigate peace talks with his excelleny Omar Muktar That will not be so easy now.| Now, you will do it, won't you? And what are the pre-conditions for talks with Omar Muktar? No pre-conditions. The whole of Libia is open to discussion. Look at it Look at it We go to the conference table with no pre-mind or not He fought us for 20 years. | We are anamoly, he knows He'll sack all our promises Its a war. It's a hope man would be mad to get on his high horse to back false promises. When may I... your excellency's man sit down with him? When you talk to Omar Muktar, it must be with the speed of the tesh Regress whether you are talk or not. Interest in your tie-in Yes, I will try Thank you very much Thank you for coming at very short notice| It was very kind of you Thank you Well, let us settle this.| Duditch is not the right man. He will offer. But Muktar can't take and Muktar will ask what he can't give which makes me think, you want things go long No I want some fair chance, I want some peace course I want to win that peace But sometimes Prince when you are strong, it means natural conquest is not enough He won't give me peace| But he will give me time what I need is time So, thats what he looks like After all these years, we are the first to see him The Old Lion! Colonel Duditchi?| yes sir Please This side Curnel Barilo, military Governor of Merch! This is Commissionor Roberto, has come directly from Rome for advice and assistance You invited us here to talk We are here You Excellency, | it is my one wish to see the Italian and the Arab together in the Solopian desert I could see a future of common cause, give and take of character skill, our civilization and your culture in marriage of virtues I want observators to come from Tunisia or Egypt to witness any agreements between us ... as for as I am concerned Out of the question Duditch He is seeking International Recognition, as if the Beduins were an independent nation which they are not They are subjects within our province Our arguments are not within nations, but between Italians We cannot permit outside interference in our internal affairs They why must you represent this. We are not Italians, and do not tell us who we are We were born where we were born only by the will of God and only by our own mothers. We are not you And who will come as Foreign Observators later uh? As yet, nothing written, nothing witnessed But, we have written You must have muslime schools.. | Oh, yes no question. Freedom of education, no question The schools will be re-opened We must have some form of national protection We must have our National Parliament.. | Your Parliament is a matter for Rome This tent is not the place Why not? | You pitched it, no conditions you said, no limits, no conclusions, everything open on this table in this tent Let us say that, at present we will note your demand for the parliament Mark it well The confiscated lands must be given back well... I wouldn't say confiscated lands I would say lands reserved for settlement and cultivation, lands to be developed To be developed by Italians? I tell you there is no space 20 years.| For years, the land would be packed with people Why do you think we fight you? | But, the new settlements will provide employment as long as you take our lands, as long as where I was born, we must fight you must?| yes, we must But, I have it on religious authority that your Quran does not allow you to fight a war you cannot win Now, you are going to interpret our religion first... The Book leaves no doubt.| It is our duty to God to defend ourselves against those who have driven us out of our homes I think this might be a good time to adjourn| We are in no hurry why are you delaying? Your excellency, we are obliged to refer your demands to Rome On 3rd, the next meeting, we will give you their answer and make our proposal Atleast.. Atleast we know that we all want the blood-shed between us to end An Italian Invasion... The first use of aircraft in combat, the first Portekts of the desert history will mark that gentlemen What we need was time.| Now, we have achieved that time with talk peace | with a lot of weapons Go on... Go on Go on... The Government reserves the right to punish any persons who committed a crime before this agreement Omar Muktar will have no right to protect such persons That even subjects for discussion The Italian Government undertakes to pay Omar Muktar a pension of 50,000 Lirahs a month and to provide him with a comfortable house Do I deserve so much? I've been so successful to offer me 50,000 Lirahs a month? You know, by offering me bribes, you are insulting me Your excellency,| I made that proposal Believe me.. It was not an attempt to bribe you only to make your retirement | comfortable How can I be comfortable when my people are in concentration camps? and where is this General who bombs and burns and hangs? Why has be never come here? Once he sees this agreement between us General Gotchiani will be happy to see you I do not want to see him.| I want to see the last of him And why is he landing troups?| Where is he going? to the last Oasis? He is going to Kufra He never wanted peace.| All you wanted was time We will be with Gotchiani If you will not come to these terms, I'll promise you immediately terrible war Oh I know the power of your Government, the power you threatens with... we've stood against you for 20 years| ... and with the help of God we will stay with you till your end I knew this conclusion would.... poor folks| They think they can ride against the Golden Army Its Kufra, no question those soldiers and machines, all going to Kufra Gotchiani is doing what no one has ever done| he's putting tanks in a desert The tanks... that is insane Gotchiani is marching south to Kufra| We, attack North. |We throw him back We must fight him for Kufra Sometimes, it is braver not to die. If it is lost, country is not lost We know your family is there But, to defend Kufra is to die there I must go Yes, yes you must Are you ready to platter them?| Yes sir Good... We've been given help Colonel Andriani, open fire Go now Fire everything on them Borm it on their front Murderers What are you doing?| Consolute Gotchiani's orders No retreat, we fight and die here Gentlemen| This is Kufra The seizure of Kufra has hurt us deeply it has closed the south The only road for military supplies is across the Egyptian Border We are in desperate need of supplies, food... Hilgariani's coming up the Merch Road How many?| Three| They are flying white flags Let them in We will finish later Sheriff Hilgariani To come through, we have to use the Italian cars you sound and comfortable?| We want to talk to you alone What we have to say cannot be said in public Then, it is not to be said to me Omar, why do you not surrender?| We've obtained the best terms you can from the Italians Mohamed will re-direct a safe conduct out of the country safe conduct? | Where to?| Egypt To Egypt... To hide with his brother You are the only sonusi left in this country I look at it Just... just look at him But, my people have fought| to defend your own privileges Where are you now? Omar Muktar... The Italians are shrewdness.| You better get back to them My friend.. they are the Government of this country No, they take this land by day, but by God we take it back by night Omar Muktar, you are alone cut off from the rest of this country,| isolated from the rest of the world In the legal nations, it will not speak and if they should not listen, noone would care This battle is not being fought in the league of nations, this battle is being fought here on this land Omar, you cannot win this war Your blood against their metal? Every man has to die his own day... and he truly lives your children are starving, dieing in the concentration camps dieing... because you persist in fighting yes... yes they are... as in this war but not one of them betrays me not one has asked me to surrender | because they know and I know that if I surrender, I betray them Omar, you and I grew up together.| Don't you remember 70 years ago, we were boys together yes, yes I remember Look how far apart we have grown This may the last chance you have for seeking an honourable peace They steal our land, they destroy our homes, they kill innocent people and you call it peace? I will not be corrupted by that man's peace Perhaps we should go.| Yes, I think you should yes you should Matluka?| yes a lot... Yes, we seek with the Omar I've prepared it for you Once after he showed him in the battle, he gave it to me The bright boy? Will you be back? yes but not for some time go go now Up you get| come on | out her child is sick sir| I don't care you are accused of giving aid, confort and sustainance to the rebels in the mountain Do you admit these capited crimes? So, you are admitting your guilt you will all hang by your necks until you are dead As the holder of 'Medal of Honour' Leutinant, you will have the privilege | of giving the order for the execution No What did you say? | You will do your duty Leutinant I did not join the army to hang women, sir Very well... Leutinant Chandrini, you will consider yourself under arrest Cend your God for the lives of the given What am I to do? | You refuse duty In-subordination is a very serious offence When your officer starts crype options, you were to learn, do you? I'm prepared to answer to the Court Marshall sir Indeed... and I am not prepared to loose one of my Colunists for news here Here are all I created | I will not give you the pleasure nor the publicity of a Court Marshall Cendrini As an officer, you were taught to obey orders without questions ...Yes sir, but | You can't dispute with me The State has needs that out-way the conscious of an individual, the demand that goes beyond individual intelligence, isn't it be? yes sir You will report to Assasi for duty in the mountains I will give you the honour of dieing for the service Get this stuff loaded  Zailab, take care of the tanks I will drop the Benzene Gentlemen, this time he won't get away First, we take the bridge| get our men behind him| artilery in front of him then we pound him into submission| The bridge sir, I'm surprised that Muktar hasn't tried to cut it That's because he's an artful fighter, not an educated one, he didn't go to military academy like you gentlemen Now is the time, we tank him at date Take the bridge Sargeant, take the bridge All clear Right, check the next bridge | I will hold this one here He is careful He is showing his naive That is bait | We should have blown up the bridge No He has come close, we must stop him Give the signal Did you see? The mice they could never resist the cheese, could they? Prepare the artilery to open fire Bust them Now, send in the army Now, he has made his move Look, over there Ambush Now He is good He is good This old man is good My dear General My dear dear General | I hoped you are the man who share some of your credit that after all I chose you I hope to say that I can...| you can only hope you won | you are the most fortunate man in this room I have physically moved the war from the desert into the mountains The last man into the enemy now run into whole three, find ourselves into a position whereby we are forced to pull them out by their necks one by one Dutchia, I didn't know I know You are having difficulties you don't have problems with them being in the mountains I didn't seem to have an enemy to fight, yet they attack and assasinate I mean, they have no form and they have form that I could beat them with form but they have no continuity of movement | no fixed point position I haven't have to come to Dutchia I have a radical solution A New Hadrian's Wall except Adrian used his walls to shut the Barbarians Out I mean to shut them in I propose Dutchia to fence in Libia To run a war, impossible war across the desert, | from the Mediterranean to the shores of this sea of moving sand It will cut the enemies off from his supplies out of Egypt and cut him off from his retreat into Egypt Dutchi, Dutchi! Hundreds of miles of barbed wire But, is it possible to know the cost? | Why do you question Adrian's Wall? Remember, it was Adrian's Wall that kept the Romans in Britain 100 years longer How many bullets have you?| 12 At this rate, we will be soon down to fighting them with stones How long can we last? a months time Nothing has got through for months We are fighting barbed wire Wire will win| While it takes high spirit Only then yes yes the wire is menace It is... It is around our neck but it is God, not Gotchiani that decides what becomes of us What is the will of wire compared to the will of God? They have 3 million guns, we have one They are going up to Becoz sir| They were trying to get through wire cutters and 5000 arms of ammunition well This is that| Now, they have to trickle from the concentration camps We will tie it up gentlemen We will tie it up Go.. Go... We will hold them off Its suicide sir| They tied their legs so that they cannot run No No You are taken in arms you.. shoot him There are more in there. Follow them up Go on You took him. Shoot him You idiot| I said... shoot him Where is he? well? yes I confirm with the identification He is Omar Muktar I don't trust I am seeing him like this How can you say that? He lead the rebellion against us for 20 years As a battle ememy, Omar Muktar should be treated by us with dignity and with respect with respect? | He should have been whipped all the way here You forget yourself sir Sir Is there anything I can do for you? If you will allow me a little water, I can make myself ready for prayers of course and the chains while I pray | out of the question He only wants to pray | I am too old to try more sir to fight bare-handed Remove his chains for an hour | On your own responsibility sir? Yes Bring the water Thank You No No need I have come a long way to meet you Now, you must wait I want to ask you one question You did you keep going at this alone? I assure you that you cannot try it out because of the religion? we fought you that was enough But you care nothing about the nation or your country you are the ruining nation of my country What would you do if someone occupied your land? Did you ever think your attacks will seem to us as ambush? Lead it by night | Destruction by day threats against farmers | farming in our land Libia is not your country | You have no right in it, not to a pasture of one cow, not one minute of right Italy has as much right as anybody else England has right to Egypt | France to Tunicia and Algeria Spain to Moracus The Pentagon have opted to agree We have hundreds of years of right here So, you will take everything from us | and you want me to justify your tax? No nation has the right to occupy another We are back here, thats all - Imm | No one can deny us Meet the date in this coin Its a coin of the Cesars, dated, minted in Libia You will also find Greek, Turkish, Tunician coins all over Libia you will find them, buried in our sand Yes, I had forgotten You are short sighted, aren't you? Your spectacles I believe the day they brought them to me | I knew you wouldn't be too far behind My spectacles | have bought you prisoners That will not be real | Take them back | Here... Yes, it does have an interesting past | you don't try to buy too much with it today I learnt it... like the glory is not permanent But I respect your past | and you must respect ours It too have a history and science, mathematics and medicine In your dark ages,| we lead the world to learn How many days will it take you to arrange the surrender of your men? we will never surrender we win or we die and don't think that it stops there We will have the next generation to fight, | and after that the next, | and next As for me, I will live longer than my hang-man What makes you think I am to hang you? Um? I made suit my papers better to pension you If I hang you, I won't want the risk of having the open trial But, on the other hand, you are the prime example You can only do to me what God decides for me These chains are uncomfortable? Yes, uncomfortable effects Sit Down Thank You ...Do you know... I had always hoped but you and I ... | in-packable enemies and sit down on the day of your capture and discuss like Cesar ... General | Omar Muktar cannot give you the conquest of Cesar | I never wanted you to do this alone I mean knowing each other will do | an idea | come to us and we'll release you and today's the day I work for you? Why don't you ask me with your life, I am guilty! and then... What do I give you? my coloboration? No No You are too late for bargains Muktar You are far too later I have not asked you for my life Do not tell the world, in the privacy of this room I asked you for my life No, I will not do that I will not lie about you You are a man of king Let us see if you can keep that courage tomorrow Rope of your justice is always hanging in front of me General Have him fed now | I wish my enemies to be regluded Instruct the President of the Court that he must be hanged in front of his people They must be there Omar Muktar, you are accused of open rebelliong against the lawful Government of your country What age are you? Are you the head of the forces in Libia fighting against Italy? Yes, I am Have you taken part in attacks on Italian Soldiers? Yes, I have For how long, have you taken part in attacks on Italian Soldiers? How many attacks? No... I... I couldn't remember the number Ordering the torturing and murdering of Italian Prisoners? I did not Never You were captured with arms in your hands Yes, I was The enemy was insulted In the field, I would reason it ... but here I am obliged to I am appointed to defend him You are an old man older, than all of us here and I will not abuse you with too many questions Did you ever submit to the Italian Authority? I did not Did you ever receive money or other subsidy from the Italian Government? as a condition of good behaviour? I did not Never I declare that Omar Muktar never submitted to us never took subsity from us never recognize our right to rule in this colony | He cannot therefore, | illogic or justice betrayed by us as a rebel When we captured Omar Muktar, | after 20 years of battles we are morally obliged to do with him | as a prisoner of war Quiet... Silence in Court Captain Antono, you were ordered to defend this rebel against the charge of treason You have over-stepped your orders The sentence on you Omar Muktar is that by HANGING in public at the dawn of Sadook at 7 O'clock tomorrow the 16th of September, 1931 You denign of the Fascist Era From God we come | and unto God, we shall return In the name of the Government of the Republic of Italian Selanaica we execute this sentence as agreed by the military tribunal Thengiazi on the 15th day of September 1931 | year 9 of the Fascist Theorm Omar Muktar, you have been found guilty of high treason | both morally and materially on staging the rebellion against the Italian Government of this Colony Your sentence passed by the Court | thereby hanging in a public place will now be carried out making Nasiyath | to be hanged by the hands of the enemies Untie him we will never surrender we win or we die We will have the next generation to fight, | and after that the next, | and next As for me, I will live longer than my hang-man
