 

                        Siam Museum Why do you like to take this kind of photos? I like close-up photos because They lead us to see something... that we cannot see if we look widely So When you shoot face close-up picture... Where is your focal point? They maybe eyes Excuse me, my little baby is crying So handsome Too bad he's already had a baby How are you my son? Why are you crying? You must have been hungry You look so angry Haaeee Don't be mad at me "All of us" "have someone who is hidden in the bottom of the heart" "When we think of him, we will feel like umm.." "Always feel a little pain inside" "But we still want to keep him" "Even though I don't know where he is today.." "What is he doing" "But he is the one who makes me know this" "A little thing called LOVE" Mario Maurer Pimchanok Luevisedpibool I get it, why you ask us to visit this shop everyday is because of this Because of what!!! His motorbike is so strange Hey...Look at her, she is this beautiful Look at her He is super smart, it's not weird that you would crazy about him Are you non-sense? I don't Mom, Fried rice and breakfast at this table Nam, after you serve that table go to the market for me? Sure Umm Cute How are things at School? Good, I'm still with Cheer Gie Nim Aren't you bored with each other? You've been with them since Grade 1 She has no choice, The appearance like P'Nam and the gang, No one would like to be with Friends are friends not because of only appearance But it should be the first thing to consider I'm lucky that I look like mom If I looked like dad like P'Nam.... I surely couldn't have boyfriend when I grow up Hey.... Stop Stop You have grown up, but still have a quarrel Pang you too, Don't speak about dad like this If he know, he will be sad Go to where you want Dad is in America, he cannot hear us Mangoes? You want mangoes? New Grade 10 students are all smart Yes, we studied at girl school since kindergarten, so boring Have you calculated it? Nim got 28 25-35 The man who's with you must have leadership characteristic You'll be warmed So.. He should be P'Tom, the leader of Buddhist club Cheer's is 15 15-25, The man who suits you is a sport man....... So is should be P'Ken those basketball player Uuyyyy he is not your man,then For mine, A gangster for sure Yes, you're right. For you, he must be P'Maew......He is a bit wild Nam's is 30 The man who suits you is an artist Umm who is he? When it is an English class, you guys look saturnine huh? Be cheerful like when you're in the lunch time Don't smile Nam You're good at English subject but for other subjects SO BAD Dark skin! Ok, Today we will learn Vocab and Grammar From lyrics Pass the lyrics to your classmate His name is Shone, a grade 10 freshman But his past is so terrible, he's wicked That's not true? Students, for Inspiration you change A to E Then, it will be Inspire Two girls had to resign from school because of him, a danger boy (I don't believe) Don't meddle with him You know? You know? My friend used to be in the same school he was in (What are you talking?) (What are you talking?) (It's my matter) (But I'm teaching) But I'm teaching Cheer Stand up What is the meaning of you're the inspiration? What is the meaning!!! Right, you're the inspiration (in Thai) You're the inspiration It's true, It's the thing that we must have.... Even me I love Read the heading line at the same time (Women's Bathroom) Karin Do this question Who did this? "It's because of you that come to me" "To stay in my heart every night and day" "The world has pathway" "This world has stairs" "Has love and heart" "That lead us to meet each other" "In this world" "Has two of us" You're good When will you register as a school forward player? Playing like this everyday is fun enough You're still scared? Let's continue to play then.. P'Shone P' Shone Ka Hey, I'll be back Who is that girl? Where? What she's thinking she is, P'Shone has to go for her It may be the girl whose P'shone used to... No way!!! I'm sorry Uncle Chang!! Mom, P'Nam Uncle Chang is here Sawaddee ka, I miss you Uncle Uncle Sawaddee ka, P'Chang Eh Pang, it's you Haven't seen you in a long time, but your hair still has bad smell Eh Nam, You've grown up a lot Eh, Pim!! You're asleep? Yes, I still cannot adapt myself from the America flight No Is my dad fat like you? He works as a chef assistant He has to lift food tray, he has muscle He also give you picture Let's me see Wait Pim Your husband... want to tell you that he will send money at the end of this month and he also told me that (handsome voice) Pim, my darling I promise that I won't let the house seized Pim and daughters, be patient Dad should come to visit us (normal voice) Your dad told me that If one of you get the 1st result in the exam He will send a plane ticket from the US but the ticket is expensive Will he really send it to us? because he know that this is very difficult for Pang and Nam Let's see I will get the 1st ranking You will see, dad From the 30 th? two red, two green please Aunt Pepsi two glasses, Hurry we're hot P' Why did you do like this? Sorry girl, I'm tired, I'm thirsty Do you have problem? We're the school team Have you heard.... Please let men, children and basketball players Because I'm a basketball player Aunt, 4 glasses of Pepsi for football players Is Pepsi ok? Yes Damn it Hey You're spreading the dirt on me Sorry Understand? Hey, let me do this Nam Nam Nam They're fighting at the back of the school STOP STOP STOP Nam, where're you going? The motorbike is faster Hurry I think you can do this You want to be the province hero like your father? You dad couldn't kick the penalty goal successfully Hey you guys know what... our province didn't get the national trophy because of his Father! We couldn't find the opportunity like this anymore Damn his father Unfortunately they're gone, I want to see P'ding get punched Let's go back Will you drink this pepsi that P'shone give you? Why not throw away if you won't drink (Don't Drink!!) If that so, why put it in the refrigerator Ok students, today I have two things to announce Our school is so dirty because students don't drop garbage in cans From now on, you will have to pay fees 1 piece, 1 Baht You think it's too expensive? I give you a new promotion package throw all day, throw anywhere, do it Pay for all the pieces, 50 Baht Throw it scatteringly, I will clean it up After this morning standing Students whose name are on this list Go to the ruling administer room urgently Jakkawan M.4/5 and Ashawin M.4/7 cross the arms!! If you fight each other again I will call your parents Understand? Especially you, Shone You have some skill for taking pictures Now, The province has pictures contest You should go to register Maybe you will make some reputation to school It's better than a quarrel Understand? Yes You can go now Thank you teacher The next queue!! P'......I umm Yesterday.. I'm sorry It's ok It's not because of you Plaster... Get well soon Nam Thank you Hey, P'Shone know my name He know my name He know my name Hey look at this This shop has this kind of book? 20 Methods Get senior to be your 'boy friend' There they go, white ribbon gang I'll be back Look at her When does she be friends with that gang? (Get to the 1st in exam) Are you for real? Yes I miss my dad Never seen him for 5 years Earn P'Kai has confessed love to me Because of this book! Is it true? This book works? Yes before Pooh becomes P'Tor girlfriend she also bought this book "9 recipe of love (for students)" It really worked for her Aww, don't you go with that gang? No I walked with them but they blamed me that I stole the scene The 1st method win his heart by The Greek's belief Go to the place where you can see many stars on the sky Then, use your finger draw the line connecting stars as the abbreviation of your man Get out of my way Look at them, wow I won't step there then, the area is full!! Hey, Nam Don't you want to draw with us? No, I won't I think, it looks non-sense Um, they are clearly seen I will go to draw it at my home I'll go, Nam See you "The only star" "that I always wait to see everyday" "I want it to be the same star..." "that you also keep an eye on" "that only star" Oh! You guys are diligent Where are you going to compete? compete around here You catch it! Hey, my hands are not free I told you, my hands not free kick for what(E-san's accent) You are Chinese? Uh, I'm sorry When I'm angry, I think about my ancestors Hey, look at this Look at this come on Shone The poster for the 3rd photo contest that you asking for Look at him He always Play Play can play all day But he doesn't dare to play for the school He plays for fun, he's not serious If he's serious, He will not dare If only I could score that penalty kick Again, you blame yourself again Our son may not afraid of taking penalty kick even though, his friends tease him about it Or, if he's really afraid He will pass the fear one day Look at the real person who missed the kick He can pass that bad time till today Why you look strange today? This My doctor suggested me He want me to use this new dental brace Beautiful right? Eh You think it's beautiful? It's not beautiful at all Hey, look at it again I don't see it's beautiful Hey, you intend to do it with P'Ken Yes YOU HAVE TO EAT, EA EAT,EAT,EA Yeah, P'Ken has eaten the rice You're crazy It's because he's eating How can you call it hypnotization What are you two doing? This, The 2nd method It's the old method from Mayan we have to concentrate our mind Then, look at our beloved Try to control his mind Tell him to do things we want If he follows our command it means that he is our soul mate (Turn this way, Turn this way) (Turn, Turn) Hey, P' has turned to me Who? Who's turned? Nam? No, It's nothing Did you hypnotize P'Shone? Hey No, are you crazy? I didn't So, why did you tell us This book is non-sense? because, it takes beliefs from many countries, that island, this island It surely cannot be trusted Then, did you follow the methods? Yes, I did Eyy You shouldn't disclose this little matter I'm afraid that I will be teased You don't have to worry about being tease Because We... Will definitely tease you The 3rd method This comes from Scotland sneaking to bring things that have the meaning of heart to him and he must not know who gives the gifts so the target will know that there's somebody who interested in him that's My jelly, be careful How could you make it fall? thank you very much teacher Pon sated egg for you Yes It means that when you're traveling you thought of me all the time I will eat them till they're all gone Thank you very much thank Teacher Pon's salted egg, Eh Pon's egg, Salted teacher, Eh!! Teacher Pon's salted egg, Eh!! That right Teacher Pon's gives me ka Teacher's Pon's salted egg You're not going to tell me that.... Yes, Teacher Pon bought these from the trip How many of the boxes? 4 ka 4 boxes? Damn it, Salted egg!! Maybe, you cannot finish all of them, be careful then We forgot one thing our country is tropical Mangoes? Yes Other people give flower or handkerchief but you would give him mangoes? How is it romantic? Hey, Hey That's him Oh!! He's so handsome haha Let's go, go, go Mango cake ka I did it myself Thank you It looks delicious Are you ok? I'm ok It's The end We totally lost She only did a little but it works yes She's cute good future housewife How can we compete with? Change the one you love, then Actually I have another appointment But teacher Pon invites me to your house for dinner Importantly, It's the first time Umm................... If you are really not free, it's ok We can meet next term Ohhhh, wait wait ka Actually, In is free Ka I can go Teacher Pon Ka See you this evening But, teacher Pon This dinner is not for the two of us? Oyy, please don't call it dinner It's better to call it summer celebration party Many teachers will come to the party I guarantee it will be fun Uhh, ok Teacher Orn!!! Teacher In.... I've never surrendered to whoever This war.. is very important!!! Teacher!! That's my answer sheet Ouyy! Higher, Higher Teacher Lift it more, more, Nam I get an idea P'Shone must ride Nam to home Yes Nam must have dreamed about it for once in a lifetime It is right? When P'Shone ride Nam to home When getting off the motorbike When giving mangoes So romantic Eyyyyy!!! Try to look like your motorbike is breaking down How can it break? When he try to start... He will know it Uh yes How about losing the key? How comes it will be missing? It's here Hey It has lost Hey P' Shone He's there Oops Oww, N' Mango cake How is your leg? I just stumbled on the ground maybe my leg is twist Come on, I will ride for you Never mind, I'm ok Oops Come on, you better come with me How clumsy I am Oh, This is so drama Did she graduate from acting school? Bye Bye M.1(Grade 7) Good luck my friends See you at M.2 class Mom, Mom Look at this mom Pang, stop, Pang!! Mommy, P'Nam has a boy friend Nam If that so, how can you go to see dad? For this matter, I think you should grow up more before you can involve with it For today You should think about studying only Owww Cheer, you come here? Pang called me that her sis is being heart-broken Have been listening to music for a weak I think you can forget about P'Shone Ha Ha Ha Lower the voice! My mom will hear Your mom's not home, she went to the market Cheer, it's crowd Nam, when will your mom broaden out the stairs? Hey Nam, Let's look at another method? Listen carefully The 7th method It's the Gypsy's method The love must build up our self Use the power of love to make us smarter More beautiful and be better in everything He will look back at us finally Ehh, What're you doing? P'Shone is handsome So Nam must be beautiful Awww!!! Umm, her skin is almost strip out "Monday, I'm waiting" "Tuesday, I'm still waiting to see" "see..see...if you are fine" "Wednesday, you're still not here" "Neither in the morning, nor later" "Thursday is also empty" "Friday or Saturday or even Sunday" "None of the day that I don't miss you" "None of the day that you will come back" "To be in our old days" "How long it will be like this? I don't know" "How many months or years?" "How many billions of our past memory?" -Eh what is it? It's Kamin (wipe for brighter skin) "I never don't miss you" Heyyy Hello, girls Tell me if you want something Take it easy (Shock!! Pornchai made the team lose to the champion cup) Nam We cannot find Maybe he's out Maybe he's not home I don't see his motorbike Hey, girls Have you found it? Uhhh found it This Aww, what do you come to buy? You play table-tennis? Why do you look yellow? Do you have Jaundice? P'Shone Aww, N' Mango cake What do you come to buy? a dozen of table-tennis balls Ok, follow me Ayyyyyyy Come over hear boys and girls register to drama club with teacher In?? Drama club is here We have many stories to play you can be princess, prince Hero, heroine, it's up to you my children Mum, Teng, Nong used to be in my club Come on ka Are you interested? Uh, Khun Panya Nirankun also used to be in our club Is it true? If you want to be famous, come to our club Come on children (Thai classical dance club) It's the place to register, not walking pass You should take of your glasses, Nam I'm not used to.. I think We are not suitable for this concept at all White skin, Beautiful, Chinese-look alike whatever quality of that classical dancers Yes, it's true. Every year, teacher Orn selects only good and beautiful children and when they're dancing the whole school students come to see them Umm, that's right it's not like those drama club students They are all ugly Nobody wants to see them performing Huyyy but we should try it The four of us may be not white, not look Chinese but beautiful, dark skin pioneer generation Heayyy, P'Shone P'Shone Which club do you want to register? Photography You can tell me, if you want a model for pictures I like to take scenery pics, not people Hey, are you kidding me? Ok, I'm kidding then Come on I will take it So, you already aren't yellow? Do you get brighter? May be a little.. I will wait for you guys on the school festival day You see? Nam You got good feedback from P'Shone that you're brighter You have to be confident If we can perform the dancing We must be famous Must be good and beautiful Remember it If not sure about the beautifulness you can go to other clubs Hey Faye, why did you speak like that? No, I didn't I spoke with Kwan Did I? Kwan? Liar You criticize us!! Hey, you must stop The ones who make problems, Go out! Wait Faye and Kwan Stay here Nam I'm sorry for that matter I have to apologize you too. I bought a surplus drink You can take it I give you Wait!! Stop it Let this girl drink first Why don't you drink You should leave If you don't want to drink water with fish sauce then, don't forget to pour it away Look at that girl's behavior You're here!! I've been searching for long Look at my face Smile be sullen Laugh It's perfect See me at the auditorium tomorrow,then OK Teacher ka Don't speak out loud cause I offer limited students Understand? Teacher In Teacher In Ouyy, why do you stretch your mount like that? Teacher In, Teacher In!! How are you? You alright? Teacher In, are you alright? Teacher In Do you need something? Head master No, Nothing Are you fine? I'm fine Hmm See you tomorrow I'm fine Ohhh Water Nooo!! It's suitable, I'm guarantee Teacher Oh, you come too late I won't let you play huh? It's good ka Oyyy wait wait wait I'm just kidding nahh Teacher we.... are going to tell you that Don't worry I will let you play good roles Umm... Teacher ka, We are going to tell you that....... Umm.. We'd like to dance Do....Do Do Do.... Hard or not, we will never be afraid cause we want to perform drama with you very much For the stage drama that I will proudly present.. in this year the name of it is.. Snow white and the seven Dwarfs sss. sss. Nam You're the best in English language So..... You'll play as Snow white Me???? Ready OMG!! A rabbit!! What are you doing here? Paint color Paint color 'inside' the box? I bough interior painting color Go paint other place Wait Wait You, go jot down tel number of all art students Must not miss any Teacher Pon ka My students... have a gift for acting I'm guarantee that... Uhh... Teacher In krab Are you sick? No.... I'm ok Orhhhhhhhh Teacher Pon may not used to my natural face For the lipstick... it's wasted to apply it More importantly I give an advantage to 'someone' So Teacher In give an advantage too much? Oyyyy!! better measure with work result cause about the beautifulness I think they are about the same and now, I taught my students wear make up in my style When they grow up they will be natural beautiful And now!!!! This is the natural beauty!! suit their age Are you sure that... You've already taught them? Is this stage drama or... stage comedy Teacher In? It may be Monkey drama then, Teacher Orn This is children's creativity (9 recipe of love book) Aww, you're going home? Yes (P'Shone 086-xxxxxxx) Be careful She walked normally when coming in Why claudication when going back? Teacher krab Ka? Water?? Thank you ka Uhh Teacher krab Ka? My football will become flat I'm sorry This is P' Pin, M.5 senior She will take care of clothes and make up for our drama clap the hands welcome her I'm counting on you Pin I think we should start Ok let's start.. So, start with me first. Oyyy I forget I don't play the drama Let's start with Snow white begin with Nam first?? Yes, Nam first How about it, my make up skills? She looks the same Snow white with dental braces Doctor!! I don't want to wear dental braces anymore Will get them out Nam, is Nam here? OK, You're ready. Stand by Nam The prince? The prince? He has diarrhea Is he crazy? Have diarrhea in this big rehearsal day. Hey You!! You! Who is painting the color? Come on, rehearse instead of him Me? It's not long, act as the prince Come closer, closer When I say action, you'll be ready to kiss Action!! Oh Ehh Nam Nam!! You're almost fall to break your neck Aww You stare each other too long Go paint! Nam go stand by Koy ready! You don't know anything Aww Ready? Start when I say action Action! Hello? Sawaddee krab Pornchai sport shop krab I'd like to speak with Khun Shone Yes, I'm speaking Hello? Hello? Hello? Aww He's already hanged down Aww you!! Where're you going? Toilet? The witch is here It's the climax It's an excellent part See? See? She not dead yet! Believe me! Our student got the championship for photo competition No one ever tell me Uh.. the committeeman just called me. Herrr Khun, You should pay attention to your student's performance Hurry up I'm ironing but the heat is not enough Khun Rabue, this!! Uhh yes Plug it in for me It's marvelous You're great. Very good You've already ironed it The shoe's trail is still here Aww, I ironed it, not wash it Or we should wash it? It's too late Go Go Go!! Grab your bag Hurry -Krab Excellent Ok, This evening I will pay for your dinner! (To Snow white) (I've tasted it, no poison) Wait Wait Wait Listen to me Not full Not go home!!! Hey To Snow white Who is the owner? already eaten It must be P'Shone's You dare to speak Hey Nam, It may be that boy Frog prince a frog princess and a frog prince.. suit each other He's too bad Why you didn't come to see the drama? You went to see those dancers, right? You're bad I told you, he isn't hurt. His head is solid Hey Have you greeted your daddy, my son? Hey, How do ya come? Hi Hi Hey, you guys This is my friend, Top Known him since kindergarten Sawaddee krab Waddee krab Waddee krab He's cute N' Hey, it's enough. Go Will you be here for long? Umm, my dad may stay here till retire But If I can entrance to uni in Bangkok, I will go Who is that? He's cute He's cute like P' Shone Let's go to the school cafeteria Wow, Wow!! Beautiful girl Hey girl! What's your name? It's you.. What's your name? Hmm, embarrassed. You're shy Oww, where're you going? going? Hey Hey N' come to fight with me? Maybe Teacher In projects it. Already shown here all day? Hey Hey Hey That's N' Snow white that is in the TV She's cute Does she has boy friend? Might not but I think you shouldn't court her Hey Why? Is she too young? I used to ask for Tel. number of grade 5 girl. (End of M.2) (Passing to M.3) Shone krab It's your turn krab Again, every times that I play football... You always give me to kick penalty Kick it by yourself, then You still don't recover from it? Till now, your dad may have forgotten it No, it's not that it's because the kick is too easy So I don't want to kick Oh ho, Christiano Ronaldo P' Top ka, Could we take pictures with you? Krab Me too? So, who will take it for me? You take picture for me first ok? Uh.. I will take it for you two No, I won't Thank you ka Stand close more One... two three Oh, What!! What!! Why you're doing like this? You must apologize! What's going on? STOP STOP Stop Hey, You could make something like this? I don't know I'm the referee, head master How many days left for the region sport competition? about 2 weeks ka but athletes and cheer students have practiced so hard Who will be the drum major, then? Look like I have to consult with teacher Orn Maybe she can help Don't worry, head master I will get it done My mouth is hurt Nam!!! Since I was born till I am fully adult I've never seen anyone who are perfect and excellent as much as you You're good looking very much Teacher In, you should speak straightly Do you have something? Umm......I.... I want you to be a drum major for our school In the region sport day Ha!!! Don't need to Ha!! anymore It's you You're the most suitable girl but, it's only 2 weeks I don't think I could do but I don't see anyone who could help Except you, Nam Ok, I promise I will become a nun for your favor Become a nun? How about two years? or all of my life? I can do it, Nam be perpendicular Look up Throw Just after throwing, look at the spear After that, when it's near ourselves Grab it Then continue to walk Is it difficult? It's not hard at all Can you try? I've already had my spear You just have to do it, that's yours This is mine Ready? Aim at the target If you're ready, throw!!! One Two Three, Throw! It's hard Why doesn't she find other girls? Hey, don't get discouraged These are only a few days Here, this method is important In the 9 recipe of love book The last method was written that.. If you want to do because of love Do it all-out with your heart Your beloved will come to you finally Heayy, Nam You've come this far Fight with all your might It's not only for school drum major You will be the leading drum major for our province Fight "Far.. Far away" "Too far left... Too far" Top, pass to me Top! "Far...Too far" Hey Again, you glance at girls again Head master I can guarantee that our marching band will be the most remarkable How about drum major? Oh don't worry at all Beautiful, Tall, White skin Overall, she's wonderful Teachers, Be careful!! I'm sorry Don't tell me she is our leading drum major Yes but she has been doing well in all the past-time Today, it may be her first failure Throwing like a boomerang like this? If she also fail in the real day, what're we going to do? It may not happen replace her or else I will replace you! but we only have 1 week left, head master I am in trouble The head master get hold of the spear? Who will be the school drum major? I don't know, serve Teacher In right She didn't select beautiful and skillful like us She insisted on that whoever girl Each of Her students are so terrible It's good we're not her students If so, we would have low profile How can you speak like this? Because It's true Bug face I will make those girls see that Teacher In students are not terrible Use Broom? Where did you get it from? I borrowed from the janitor Even though it's light, it's ok to use I won't let anyone look down on us and Teacher In Everyone Today Play at the utmost of your strength That That Will you do it? My son is going to kick the penalty goal? Let's get back Wait Wait! What a surprise, he's going to kick the penalty? Uh, Am I deceptive? It's ok It's ok Do you know? It's because of his dad, our province couldn't get the national trophy Hey, I will let you kick the penalty again The previous kick was just a warm up Your aunt's house set this rule? Yes, it's from my aunt's house My uncle's house also has this rule My house too More importantly, I haven't blown the whistle He'll kick again You can play as a forward player for our school now Yes Shone is good! Shone is good Hmm, sweet smile huh? I understand "Far It's too far" "Far It's too far" "Even though, It's too far from here" "I will reach there" It's perfect, my daughter Aha, OMG Umm, excuse me Teacher Orn I'd like to know that Did your dancers use to throw headdress and catch it like her? Higher Higher Great How's your sister? Is she beautiful like the mom? Alas! She's more beautiful than mom Very beautiful, Nam I don't want to move anywhere I see you speak like this every time Nam, your beautifulness is too much huh? On the last year Valentine, She still had dark face haha It's from P'Kai, It will be mine Did Nam give you? I don't know Nam, I'll take this pink chocolate? Yes How is Nam? She looks lonely She's waiting for the only one And he haven't come Nam, Come on Hurry Go on Here It's from a friend of mine Nam See you tomorrow 4PM In front of 3rd floor stairs I have something to tell you Hey Shone Going home with us? I'll go afterward Nam I'm certain that you would come Is this letter from P'Top? Yes, That's mine Do you have something to tell? Will you be my girl friend? Uh, Did P'Shone has something to talk with me? Orhh I just wanted to ask.. Why did you come up here Now, I know the reason What is the answer? If you don't answer I will think you're ok with it? Ha!! P'Top? How come? P'Shone only spoke like that? Yes How about you, Nam? What did you tell him? I didn't answer What am I going to do now, Cheer? You should wait and see P'Top is P'Shone best friend If you do something without considering P'Shone will surely be angry at you Are you free today? Let's go to see football match Uh I'm not free today It's not long Shone will play as a real player for the first time I can go Nam Water - Thank you Hey, do you have some drink? No, I don't Plan B Run more You know it, mr button? I want to sit behind P'Shone on his motorbike (The first semester has end) (See you M.3) Cheer, which cake do you like to eat in your birthday? Choose it by yourself Vanilla cake Nam likes it Hello, Nam? Where are you? We're choosing birthday cake for Cheer I come to a dam with P'Shone and friends I can't go on time I called Cheer this morning but no one hung up Happy birthday to Cheer for me then Yes, I'm sorry Ok Ok I will tell Cheer P' Ka, This piece ka Squid I'll be back What are you doing here? Uh, I think this area is beautiful Do you want to eat Squid? Have you heard of the squid's story? No I will tell you Once upon a time There were two squids They had traveled till they met each other Then, they fell in love They became a couple Finally They got married On the day of marriage Squid priest told them to hold hands So, they held each other hands held the hands held hands held hands held hands, held hands Ha, P'Shone Crazy But cute The teller or the squids? The teller Eh the squids Umm, I'm confused I kinda don't want to eat them I've never eaten squids for so long Since I heard this story So... Did you use to hold someone hand like the squids? Once An awkward-face girl was falling down from the stage So, I held her hand Nam! Why don't you eat squids? I prepared it myself, it looks delicious No!! No!! Why? It's delicious I'm asking you straightly Do you like Nam Uh, You be with her Why asking me? It's noting kidding nah Are you alright? I'm Ok, just a little hurt Let's stand up Come on, ride piggyback me Mr Button Today, P'Shone carries the bag for me Nam?? Cheer's not home went with Gie and Nim Nam didn't go with them? No ka Try to call them I miss the old days When we're doing home work altogether An angel must be in heaven Who want to be in hell like us Cheer calm down we still have birth day again in the next year Nim, I only have 3 friends If I were her, I wouldn't do like this Cheer, will you come to do home work at my house? Why don't you ask P'Shone and friends? Top has not come yet? He appoint me to teach a M.3 student He hasn't come He go to borrow books to do project work for a M.3 student that day My mom stayed in the hospital Which day? The day that my dad missed the penalty kick I was born that day So, my dad gave a birth day gift to me by quitting playing football his entire life I'm the one who brings bad luck Look at it The province had never come that far till that day Are you ok? For me being teased? I'm ok I'm used to it It becomes my surname Shone whose dad couldn't score penalty kick But it's ok I am a football player Do you want to become a footballer? I don't know For now I need somebody Nam I couldn't find the books Help me find? Wait a bit, Shone Love you but you don't know Only conceal it withing my heart P'Shone, I've heard that there will be a surprise for P' Ake birthday Let's wait and see Want us to be together Love you but you don't know Love you, only if you know Love you but you don't know It's the time for our special show tonight It happened when we studied grade 5 That time, both of us secretly loved the same girl Her name is Boe, a grade 4 We tried to compete each other by practicing dancing So one of us could dance with her in the school party But when the real day came Our P'Shone had chickenpox So the right to dance with her was mine But finally... Khun Top gave up his right So, we both failed Aww, That's because our P'Shone Intimidated that he would break up with me After that, we promised each other... We will not like the same girl That's right Come on Islander's dance Happy birthday to you Nam, tomorrow I will come here the same time Let's watch P'Shone play football P'Top doesn't need to pick me up anymore Why? You will not be free? No, I mean that.... Don't involve with me anymore You're angry at me that I kissed your cheek? But you're my girl friend? P' Top ka I've never accepted that I'm your girl friend So, what's the meaning of all these time I'm sorry I have the one I love Who? Nam, who is he? Nam Since I've been with girls She is the most painful I beg you one thing, Shone No matter what you won't hit on Nam? Do you think that the reason she broke up with you is me? No It's just unbearable That my best friend be with the girl I love You said like this I cannot deny Are you ok with it? Yes "I don't understand" Thank you mom "Why it must be you.." "To be the one in my heart" "I have met many people" "But It must be you eventually" "Who are in my heart" "Love" "Is not a coincidence" "Love" "Can connect you with me" "There's only the heart that knows" "Who is the one in my dream" "You're the one that I've been waiting" "Because the heart is begging" "Cause the heart is calling for" "Born to be your forever" "It's because my heart" "Never confused" "It's certain that you are the only one" "There are not many reasons" "It just because my heart chooses you" Hey, I've called my friend who is the manager of Bangkok glass team and? He told me that He would accept you to practice in Bangkok Glass club You cheated me to lose the ball? For this important matter, who are willing to lie You should prepare yourself Maybe after you have finished this year's exam You might have to go study in Bangkok Dad!! Thank you krab Teacher Pon should tell me sooner so I could get a scholarship to go with you I'm sorry I was busy so I didn't tell you but there will be a new sport teacher Oh! At this point of time No one can replace you I confirm Before you go I beg you one thing What is it? This It's shame Uh, I asked for the heart But he gives a whistle Umm, there he is The new sport teacher Aho!!!! Um I think Teacher Pon..... should go now You may miss the flight Uh, I'm feeling that I'm busy right now Hurry up Oh Teacher Orn!! Come fast, Claim fast? Sawadde ka -Sawadde krab Are you the new teacher? -Yes What's your name? - Boat krab I want to ride a boat (Bye Bye M.3) (See you M.4) Cheer, why don't you continue to study M.4 here? cause the vocational school that I admitted Has pink uniform Crazy It's cute The whole school is pink, very sweet huh? Monday, I'm waiting Tuesday, I'm still waiting to see see..see...if you are fine Wednesday, you're still not here Neither in the morning, nor later Thursday is also emply Friday, Saturday or Sunday None of the day that I don't miss you None of the day that you will come back to be in our old days The day that I met you The day that I was close to you The day that we held hands The day that I loved you The day that I spoke to you The day that you listened to me How long it will be like this? I don't know How many months or years? How many billions of our past memory? I never don't miss you Cheer I'm sorry Why you're crying? Singing a song like this As if we are acting in a soap opera Yes, why we are crying? No, we're not crying we're laughing "Friday, Saturday or Sunday" "None of the day that I don't miss you" "None of the day that you will come back" "To be in our old days" Nam! We just come back from eating ice cream in the market We met Teacher In She said that you got the exam's... Told that Nam.... got the position of... got, got what? Nam got the 1st position I think so... Ha!! The first!!! Mom, I got the first position Nam, you can meet your dad,right? I will meet my dad! My dad! My dad! Let me kiss you P' Nam, I got the 8th Let me go too? Yes Heayyyyyyy I will buy you some sweets Nam did it collect the snow for us? P'Shone Hmm, you took it? lemme see 50 Baht? 100 Baht If you can't, hand it back I took his picture for you I also had to run away from dogs How about 70? No way You bargain too much Hand it back,then No, I won't let you... Super handsome Pang's boy friend? No, he's Bam's boy friend I just took the pic I'm a tom boy P' Nam Don't tell mom, please Mom Pang....she -No, P'Nam Umm...Have you finished preparing the food? Pang is hungry Wait a bit, my daughter I know that Don't be precocious too much How about you? Dessert for children - Thank you ka It may help lining your stomach Nam, Does P' Shone know? You're so endurable Secretly in love with him since M.1 till now I think, you don't have to tell him The world will record that... There is a crazy girl trying to be beautiful for a boy for 3 years Even though, he never know anything Nam! From now on, you may not see him again in all of your life Won't you do anything? (9 recipe of love) I've done every methods Don't be afraid You still have us to support Right? Yes You're this beautiful Good studying Good habit So drama and endurable very much Why he doesn't like you? Did you really praise me? the 10th method It's from Thailand the most sincere Nam, I give you this Thank you ka Sign too Sign too Take pic Picture! Love Love Sign upon my shirt Thank you (Upon) (Upon) It's the time! Go! No you can't come in Nam, you haven't signed my shirt? P' Shone ka I have something to tell you I like you very much been loving for 3 years I've done everything changed myself in every aspects because of you Nam Applied for a classical dancer club Played a stage drama Be a drum major Be better at studying It's for you But I know for now that The thing that I should do the most And should have done since a long time ago Is telling you straightly that..... I love you (Pin love Shone) P' Pin? and P' Shone? When? Just a week ago P' Pin and P' Shone are together You two are suitable Cute Hope you'll be happy Nam! Nam! I'm ok I'm ok Nam Very suitable Nam, are you alright? Nam! Let her go Nam, what's going on? Hello dad Welcome the junior bangkok glass player Thank you krab dad This is uncle Neng, the manager Sawaddee krab uncle - Waddee and this is uncle Nguan, the coach Thank you uncle Neng Uncle Nguan Chaiyo! He's happy haha I'm glad with you son Shone Hurry to prepare your clothes Tonight you'll have to go with Uncle Neng Uncle Nguan Tomorrow, you'll be in the camp Ha!! Today? Yes, why have to be slow son "Don't know how long is it" "That I have to resist everything" (This book is funny but It makes me know how much that you have tried) "Hide all of the truth in my...heart" Be careful "Every time we meet" "Every time you turn to me" (I want to tell you that you had succeeded since you began to do) "that I pretend to be still" "Do you know how much I have to force myself" "Can you hear that?" "My heart...." "Is telling you I love you" She looks the same Snow white with dental braces (Answered Pin that she looked the same) "But I cannot reveal my true feeling to anyone" (She looked the same, cute as always) "Can you hear that?" "My heart..." (Touched her hand for the first time) But I had to release it cause others would curious) "Is waiting there for you to open" "Can only hope you will know it" "Some day" (Gave her an apple but I bit it) "Though I love you" "Though I feel it" "But deep inside isn't brave enough" (You've been better, Fight! Nam) "Every time we meet" "Every time you turn to me" "That I pretend to be still" "Do you know how much I have to force myself" "Can you hear that?" (Love can win everything especially fear) "My heart....." "Is telling you I love you" (The first day) (It was very difficult to grow) (One worm) It's from a friend of mine "But I cannot reveal my true feeling to anyone" "Can you hear that my heart.." (Today, I gave the rose to Nam) (I said it was from my friend) (It's because I am tight-lipped) "Is waiting there for you to open" "Can only hope you will know it" "Some day" (Today, I saw Top confessed...) (You know I'm hurt) (Why our time never match?) (Me too, wanted you to ride on my back) Nam Will you be my girl friend? "Can you hear that..?" "my heart..." "is telling you I love you" "But I cannot reveal my true feeling to anyone" "Can you hear that....?" "My heart..." "Is still waiting there for you to open" I beg you one thing Shone You won't hit on Nam? "Can only hope you will know it" "That I'm the one here to love you" "I'm begging you please know it" "Some day" 9 years later This side has windows Kai, take care of the customers for me? A moment Hi, handsome boy Do you feel asleep? I'm sorry to bother your time, Shone Never mind Your son is like my son You're a cry baby again My hair is messing Pin I have to go now See you boy If only his real father would love him like you do Speak like this again Call me later? Shone How about the TV show that called you? Will you go? I don't know Bye Bye Shone Bye Bye, you yawn Hurry up Continue to Break 2, are you ready? -A min Ok Clothing staffs ready? - Yes No worry, It will be perfect I'm ready Please be relax our show isn't formal Yes You're beautiful -Thank you ka It's good that P' Nam is fashionable If P'Nam is beautiful as mom like me.... Dare to speak Teacher Boat Sawaddee krab Since then, I've rode this boat all the time I'm jealous He likes to do sweet things I'm jealous He always surprises me Surprise again Uh.. That.. That is a rose I have to eat, if not he will sulk 5..4..3..2.. Now, we're here with Khun Nam The designer of the beautiful clothes that we've just watched Sawaddee ka Our fans may know her well cause she is the designer in only a few of Thais that are famous in New York and this is the evidence This is only a part of her work Khun Nam, do you know that... In Thailand, you're also well-known I still have to develop my skill So, what work will you do as you came back to Thailand? There's a brand that would like to organize a fashion show I think it's interesting, so I agree to do and because I want to come back I miss my mom Khun Nam used to tell reporters that.... When you were young Umm... I'm sorry You were so ugly (bug face) and had bad sense of fashion That's totally different from now What make you've changed yourself this much? Because, I fell in love some one falling in love? Could you tell the story? Yes, He was my senior M.4 senior He was a football player and very cute At that time, I......... Had bug face studying M.1 Developed myself a lot If It could make me to be beautiful, to be better I tried to do it and tried to study better so he might interest in me Did he know it, in the end? He knew but it didn't have a happy ending I went to study in the US to stay with my dad It's bad but when I think about it He is like.... my inspiration He made me use the love in good way He is like.... The power that support me to be better and better Till I am today's Nam Khun Nam, you remember this notebook? You may recall it? Yes, I remember If so, let's welcome the owner of this book Khun Shone, the former footballer of Bangkok glass Now, he's changed his career to be a pro-photographer I want to give it to Nam krab Nam??? It's Nam's Please sit Khun Shone, after you've never met Khun Nam for 9 years..... Do you have something to tell Khun Nam? I want to tell you that...... This button is not mine It may be Ding's How about you Khun Nam? Do you have something to tell him? I want to ask P' Shone that...... Have you been married? Umm......... Um...I have I have been waiting for some one to come back from the US "Can you hear that?" "My heart.." "Is telling you I love you" "But I cannot reveal my true feeling to anyone" "Can you hear that?" "My heart......" "Is still waiting there for you to open" "And I can only hope you will know it" "That I'm the one here to love you" "I'm begging you please know it" "Some day"
