 

                        1 Hello, Patty. I heard you threw your man around Pick him up just to let him down It's a shame, baby, but I always knew Just the way you're gonna do Incredible wordstoday, Reverend. Thank you very much. Just a psychotic girl and I won't get lost... It's a beautiful day. Oh, it's hot. Did you see the new carriage the Andersons have? Father prefers we walk. Mr. Borden, how is everything? Fine, fine, fine. Your daughters are looking lovely. Lovely? If they're so lovely, why don't I have many grandchildren by now? Are we having the mutton again for lunch today? You don't have to eat it. I do worry it's making us all sick. You will eat what's put in front of you, or you won't eat at all. May I please be excused? No, Lizzie, you may not. Excuse me, Father. I've asked younot to make noise while I'm in this room. Pardon me. What are youdoing here, Sousa? Don't you ever come to my house. I need to pay my men. You can't cheat us, Mr. Borden. We've had enough. You get paid for the work that you do, not a penny more. You're not gonna get away with this. Mrs. Borden, the church is always short of funds. Fight the horde, scratch the nails 'Ware the charging lion's tails In all the blackest of the blues I need a longer fuse Whenever I... My father thinks he can forbid me from going. What will he do? Lock you in your room? Believe me, he would if he could. How is Emma doing? I love my sister, but she likes to hide her head in the sand. I've always wanted more, more than she's wanted. I just wish I had the freedom to live the life I've always imagined. Nothing wrong with dreaming, Lizzie. Hmm. It's difficult to dream in that place. Sometimes, Alice, I have a feeling that something terrible is going to happen there. What do you mean? Well, my father has so many enemies. There have been so many arguments and disputes. I fear someone might try to hurt him. Miss Borden, your mother said that we aren't to extend any more credit to you without her permission. Oh. Well, how embarrassing. I suppose I'll have to pay the old-fashioned way. That would be fine. Thank you. All ready, Miss Borden. Wonderful. I'll have Bridget come by and pick it up. Of course. I hope you enjoy your party. Thank you. Father? What are you doing? Father's upset. Did you steal a mirror from the dress shop? The owner said you took a mirror from her store. That's ridiculous. Why do you lie to me, Lizzie? I don't lie to you. You lie to everyone. So what did father do? He paid, of course. Could we have a moment, please? It was an accident. The mirror must have fallen into the dress box. Don't think you're going to that party tonight. Of course, I'm going. Who will be your escort? I am perfectly capable of walking there on my own. I don't need an escort. I will not have you traipsing about Fall River all alone at night. You will not go unaccompanied. Oh, Father. I do love you so. But I'm not that little girl anymore. No, no, no. The answer is no. Whoo, boy Whoo, boy Give me a shout, so I'll be hypnotized With them swinging hips and them workout thighs Oh, Lord, what's a man to do? Spent all my time at bars Trying to find what I'm looking for But, baby, baby, I still ain't found you Whoo, boy! Lizzie! Alice. Took you long enough. Stanley Jefferies. Lizzie Borden. Are you actually here? Think of me as a figment of your imagination. Lizzie, I don't know much about you. I've seen you at church, but never had the chance to speak. Aren't you a Sunday school teacher? Only on Sundays. - Lizzie. - Nance. Lizzie Borden. Come on, I have some peoplel want you to meet. Whoo boy! Lizzie? Wake up. You're wanted downstairs. Lizzie, there has, uh... There's been a robbery. Mrs. Borden's gold watch and chain were taken and, uh, $20 in cash. The watch that my mother gave me before she died. That's terrible. Do you have any idea what might have happened? Of course not. Marshall. Um... As I was saying, Mr. Borden, there seems to be no sign of forced entry. And since your maid saw or heard no one enter, well, I'm inclined to think that... Yes? Perhaps there's another possible explanation. Well, Marshall Fleet, I want to thank you for your help, and if we hear anything more about the situation, you'll be the first to know. What do you have to sayfor yourself, Lizzie? Honestly, Father, what are you thinking? We don't see how anybody else could have gotten in. Oh, is that so? How can she steal from her own family? I did not steal those items from the house, Father. Nor would I ever think to do so. Don't walk away from me, Lizzie. Let her go. Why bother with her anymore? You let me deal with my daughter in my own way, please. You let her accuse meof stealing? In our house? She's the thief. The one stealing from you and me and Emma. She's bleeding you dry. It's her family coming to you for loans and handouts. You bought them that beautiful house on the hill, while Emma and I are prisoners in this horrible place. You are blessed to havea roof over your head. I have prayed for you.I protected you. I have paid for your fines. And you have tested and shamed me as a parent and a Christian. Have you never felt grateful in your life? You don't want me to become anything, do you? You just want me to stay here forever with you. No, that's... That's... Preposterous. That's preposterous. That's... It looks handsome on you. I remember the day you gave it to me. You'll find someone. Someone smart enough to see you for who you are. To marry? What if I don't want to get married? You want to grow old alone? A spinster? That's not what I meant. Never mind. Lizzie? I'm leaving for Fairhaven. My friend Greta had a baby, so I'm going to make myself useful. I shouldn't bemore than a day or two. Yes, you should stay a few days. Lizzie, are you all right? Perfectly. Bridget, you've got to get these windows clean before it gets too hot. Yes, ma'am. Hello? Morning. Morning. Bridget? Since when do we lock the dead bolt? Was the door locked? No, no, Bridget, I just like to knock on my own front door for a bit. Beg your pardon, Mr. Borden. Where is Mrs. Borden? I'm not sure. Perhaps... Mother went out. She did? She received a note from a sick friend. She must have gone out to see her. Oh. Father? Lizzie? Lizzie, that's enough. Are you all right? Yes. Why are you sweating so? It's hot. I'm glad you're home. Father? What? Are you going to take a nap? Yes. Hello, Patty. Hello. How are you? Fine, thank you. Miss Lizzie? Is something the matter? Father is dead. Someone came in and killed him. Help! Help! Dr. Bowen, help! Dr. Bowen, please! Dr. Bowen! Bridget. My goodness, what is it? Mr. Borden. He's been killed. Ladies. Officers. Would you like to sit down, Miss Lizzie? Would you get him some water, please, Bridget? Yes, ma'am. Lizzie, what happened? What's going on? My father is dead. What? Someone came in and killed him. Your father? Oh, my God, Lizzie. Oh, my God. Where is your mother? Who? Where is Mrs. Borden? Oh. Uh... She said she went out to see a sick friend. I didn't see her go. Why don't you check upstairs? The guest room. Do you need the room cleared? Gentlemen, we have to take some pictures. Stand back, please. Gentlemen, please. Doctor. I had no idea we could fit so many people in this house. Miss Lizzie. I need to ask you some questions, if I could? I would like to know what, if anything, you know about what happened here today. I... I was in the barn, so I don't really know what happened. And what were you doing in the barn? I was looking for my fishing tackle. We are going fishing next week. I ate a pear. I beg pardon? I ate a pear. I ate three pears, and then I came inside and I saw my father. Perhaps we should talk tomorrow when you're in a clearer frame of mind. Yes? My mind is pretty clear right now. If you could excuse me for one minute. What are they going to do? That is the medical examiner. They need to examine him now. In the dining room? Yes. Please. Miss Lizzie, could you please show me your hands? My apologies for this. It is just a procedure for anybody who was in the house. I understand. You're seeing if there's blood on them. Over. Thank you. Miss Lizzie, what is this stain? Oh. It's stew, I think. Stew? I see. Arms up, please. District Attorney Knowlton. Marshall. Who are all these people? Neighbors. Word travels fast. Has the Medical Examiner determined a time of death yet? He believes the lady was taken at approximately 9:00 this morning, the old man perhaps an hour after that. Was there a struggle? The setting seems to be undisturbed. Evidence of theft? Not at first glance, no. Marshall, get this area secure. And get these people out of here so we can conduct a proper investigation. You said she received a note before she left? Yes. Do we have that note? Do you have the note? Why would I... No. Bridget, do you? No, ma'am. It must be with Mrs. Borden. Mrs. Borden is your stepmother, correct? Yes, she was. Miss Borden, did you love your stepmother? How dare you ask that question? Of course I did. Marshall, must we endure this inquisition? Emma, it's okay. Mr. Knowlton, what else would you like to know? Did you love your father? This... My father is a complicated man, and he was known to be difficult, but I loved him like any daughter would love her father. Should we stay here tonight? I'll stay with you both, if you wish. Thank you, Alice. Why don't I have some food brought over from my house? We have some roast lamb. I am rather hungry. See you soon. I suppose we should move now. The Maplecroft house is for sale. Why are you talking about this now? You know, Lizzie, that I'm always here for you, to protect you. Is there anything you want to tell me? What would I want to tell you, Emma? Why didn't you run when you saw someone had killed father? Why would I run? Did you know the house was empty? The madman could've still been in the house, he could have killed you, Lizzie. It didn't feel to me like anyone else was in the house. But how could you know that? I told you what happened. Do you think I'm hiding something from you? No, of course not. Good. I'm so glad. You know why I didn't run? Why? Because I thought to myself, "That's what killers do. They run." I didn't want to look like a killer. Cuba moon, pitch-black sky Chasing smoke on a thin white line I've got a dangerous... One misused cleaver, one broken ax handle, one ax head without a handle, dusty. Two larger axes, both war axes. One ball-peen hammer, one large pair of scissors. Oh, I've got a dangerous A dangerous, dangerous mind Good afternoon. How may I help you? My name is Andrew Jennings. Mr. Jennings. I was a friend and associate of your father. I'm so sorry for your loss. We were having tea. Oh, I'm disturbing you. No, not at all. Join us. I'm surprised we haven't met before, Mr. Jennings. The last I worked for your father was on the Wilson Tanning and Dye case. Oh. Well, that's too bad. Those people said the most terrible things about our father. Yes, I remember now. You were his lawyer, weren't you? That's right. In fact, I am counsel for the family. I'm on retainer. So technically, I am your lawyer. But that was a criminal proceeding. Are you a criminal lawyer? Criminal law is my expertise, yes. Do I need a criminal lawyer? You were present during a murder. I was not present. The police, as you may imagine, Miss Borden, are under a great deal of pressure to apprehend the culprit of this terrible act, to find someone to blame. So tell me, Mr. Jennings, who will they blame? So none of these are the murder weapon? No, Mr. Mayor, they do not appear to have blood or any other matter on them. What about this day laborer, Mr. Sousa? He's being questioned right now by the police in Tiverton. Hmm. What are your thoughts, Hosea? We should look at the children. The two daughters? Really? Yes. If you consider the order of the murders, Mrs. Borden was killed before Mr. Borden. Why is that so crucial? Because if Andrew was to pass first, the entire inheritance would go to Abby Borden's family, not the daughters. But wasn't one of the sisters out of town? Yes. But Lizzie was home, alone, in the house, the entire time. Abby Borden was killed at 9:00, Andrew at 11:00. A violent crime scene. Are we to believe a stranger came into that house, killed Abby, and hid for almost two hours, unnoticed? It's inconceivable. Are you saying that the girl did it? Yes. I think Lizzie Borden killed both her parents with an ax, in cold blood. We cannot bring these two loving souls back to us, but we can celebrate them by living our lives the way they did, with honor and dignity and piety. I also ask that we, as a church, as a community, offer love and support to the poor, stricken girls left behind in this tragedy. May they both be comforted and may they both realize how fully God is their refuge. Amen. Amen. All these troubles, Lord All these troubles, Lord All these troubles, Lord They got me seeing blue... Hold it. All these troubles, Lord I'll go determine what this is about. Gentlemen. This is a private service. What is the meaning of this? No disrespect, Reverend, but we've been instructed to remove the bodies of the deceased. This is church property. Reverend, we have documents issued by the court instructing us to exhume these remains. The bodies are to be taken to Cambridge. Lord, Lord, Lord They're exhumingthe bodies. But how can this happen? Are they not to be buried? All right, I'm done. Alice, would you mind reading? My eyes are too tired. "Reward offered. $5,000 reward. "The above reward will be paid to anyone "who may secure the arrest and conviction "of the person or persons "who occasioned the death of Andrew Borden and his wife. "Signed Emma L. Borden and Lizzie A. Borden." Mr. Mayor. Mayor. Good day, Mr. Mayor. Good afternoon, ladies. This is Mayor Coughlin. Your Honor, this is Lizzie and Emma Borden. It's a pleasure to meet you both and please accept my deepest condolences. Thank you. I'm here today to inform you that the county coroner has taken it under advisement to open and conduct an official inquiry into the murder of your parents. Your presence is requested tomorrow morning at 9:00. An officer will be sent to escort you to the police station. Very well. 9:00. It's just a formality. That's all. And what about lunch? - We'll be done by lunch. - Well... And we'll get you home right after. Thank you, Mayor. It was a pleasure meeting you. Thank you. The Mayor in our house. What do you think of that? Lizzie, stop! Didn't you hear him? We have to go to the police station tomorrow! It's only a formality, Emma. It's interesting. Interesting? Don't you think? No, I do not! Our parents are dead! Good night, Emma. Good night. Look right. Do you have anything to say to the press? The Herald wants to know. Give me your full name. Lizzie Andrew Borden. What is your date of birth, please? July 19, 1860. Your mother is not living? No, sir. When did she die? She died when I was two years old. You don't remember her, then? No, sir. Have you any idea how much your father was worth? No, sir. Have you ever formed an opinion? Never. You have been on pleasant terms with your stepmother? Yes, sir. Cordial? That depends upon one's idea of cordiality. What dress did you wearthe day your parents were killed? It was a blue cotton dress with embroidery. Do you know whether there was any blood on that dress? The Marshall checked it for blood, I believe. Marshall Hilliard? Yes. When did he do this? When you were all at the house. You mean the day your parents were killed? That day, yes. Well, there was blood found on that dress, Miss Borden. It was not brought to my attention. Where is that dress now? I have no idea. At home, I suppose. We'll need to seethat dress in evidence. What does that mean? We will send a court officer around to collect that dress and admit it into evidence. Lizzie? What are you doing? What is that? It's that dress. Don't you need to bring that to the police station? This doesn't concern you, Emma. Lizzie, you can't burn that dress after they've asked for it! They'll think you're hiding something! Just go back to bed! Do you want to go to jail? This will get you in so much trouble! Just go back to bed, Emma! Excuse me, I'm here to speak with the Staff Sergeant. Go right in, Miss. Thank you. We attempted to collect the item, but the officer was told it no longer existed. No longer existed? What does that mean? She burned it. Your Honor, she knowingly destroyed evidence in order to conceal culpability. We asked for the dress, she destroyed it. She didn't just throw it away. She burned it. That is enough to convince me of her guilt. Well, I'm just having a difficult time believing she could do this. Because she's a woman? Insane asylums are full of insane women. She's an insane woman. She killed her parents. So do you want to formally charge her? No, I want her to confess. Don't be too ambitious here, Hosea. That woman hacked her parents to death with an ax. This is not about my ambition. You are in the barn, you are looking for a tackle kit for a fishing trip that is not going to happenfor another week. And yet there is no fishing tackle to be found and neither Bridget Sullivan nor your own sister even know you own a fishing tackle kit. And while you're in there, you stop to eat, ot one, but three pears, in a hot and dusty barn, ext to a filthy pigeon coop. Did you go into the basement that morning? No. Did you get an ax from the basement? No, sir. Did you go upstairs and have an argument with Abby Borden? No. Did you conspire with others to do away with your own parents in order to inherit their estate? Absolutely not! Did you see your father's face, dead on that sofa? Did you see his face? Yes. Yes, I did. Did you feel sorrow for the man? I... I was in a state of shock. Remorse? Remorse? I don't understand. Remorse because of the fact you slaughtered the man with an ax. Stop it! Stop saying that! You are a murderer. You lied to this assembly... These accusations are slanderous and unfounded. Just please stop. You destroyed evidence. Just stop. And you killed both your own parents in order to garner their estate. Please stop. Just stop! Compel this man to stop! Counsel. Ma'am. You startled me. Sorry, Bridget. I understand the police spoke to you for quite some time after I left the station. They did, ma'am. They wanted to know my whereabouts at the time of the... On that day. What did you tell them? I told them I was cleaning windows and such. Did they ask you if you thought I did it? I told them there was no way that you would ever do such a thing. I appreciate that. Bridget, things are different around the house now. With money being what it is, Emma and I can't afford to keep you on any longer. There are enough funds here. It's three months' wages. Are you letting me go, Miss Lizzie? That is what I'm saying, yes. You must be quite exhausted. It was a very long session, Dr. Bowen. From 9:00 till noon. Mmm-hmm. Well, now you can get some rest. What is that exactly? It's just morphine. I'd never been in a police station before. These small doses are for you. You use them if the anxiety is too great. No more than two a day. Very good. Thank you, Doctor. Emma? Do you think there really was blood on my dress? I don't know, Lizzie. Here. Just try and rest. Just try and rest. Hello? Oh, look up, look down Look out, look all around Shook up, shot down, shook out Shake it all around The New York Times. What can you tell us about the case? Yeah, mama, shake it, baby, now Yeah, mama, shake it, baby, now Yeah, mama, shake it, baby, now... Did you eat breakfast that morning? Did you eat breakfast that morning in the barn? You said you were eating in the barn, correct? I was eating, so yes. Yes, I was eating. Then what did you do? I asked her to draw the curtains because the sun was so hot. Asked who? It must have been Mrs. Borden. Are you sure you were in the kitchen when your father returned? When he returned, I was upstairs. Miss Borden, you have told us several times that you were downstairs when your father came home. I don't know what I've said. I have been asked so many questions, and I'm so confused. So you were upstairs. Were you with Mrs. Borden? I don't know a thing anymore. Were you with Bridget? No. No. Bridget was outside. Did you see your mother upstairs? Your Honor, please. Did you see your mother upstairs? Miss Borden, did you love your mother? She's not my mother! Lizzie. Miss Lizzie, Judge Blaisdell sent me. "Lizzie A. Borden, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts complains "that you did, feloniously and with malice aforethought, "make assault with a certain sharp instrument "in and upon the head of Andrew J. Borden." Please, stop. What exactly does this mean? We have to take you into custody. Under whose authority? I was sent by court decree. You know what they think. Your attorney, Mr. Jennings, is waiting for you. When the aim is low When the shot is wide You got to set your shoulder Keep 'em satisfied And the honey flows And the black is white You got to lock and load And leave your soul behind Why is this happening? Lizzie, you are under arrest. They're officially filing charges. They believe you killed your parents. How could they believe that? The prosecutor is very determined. And why have I been brought all the way out to this place? Because Fall River has no facility for housing female prisoners. You'll be taken care of here. We'll bring you what you need, meals, anything. And what will happen to me now? Are you telling me I was arrested because I burned an old dress? No. But they think the act is enough to show intention and motive. They looked at it once. I was never told to keep it. Of course not. It is not evidence, not admissible. It provides no insight. It proves nothing. It's that act of burning the dress, Lizzie, that created suspicion. Can they keeplying about me? Everything they say is a lie. All they have are the stories they create. Your statement at the inquest is not admissible at trial. Everything I said? Not admissible at trial. They didn't advise you of your rights. They thought you would confess. Why would I do that? Exactly. We have the truth on our side and we have the law on our side. But you need tothink about this. Your case is now headline news. Everything you say, your every move, will be examined and dissected, and you will be judged by your actions. I hate this photograph of me. Do you understand the gravity of these charges? The penalty for this crime is death. But I am innocent. I'm innocent! There she is! Comment. The Boston Globe has a question for you. There she is! She couldn't possibly have done it. She's pretty. She couldn't kill anybody. Are you well, Lizzie? I'm fine. Upon the fourth dayof August, an old man and woman, husband and wife, each without a known enemy in the world and in their own home, upon a frequented street in the most populous city in this county, were first one, then after an interval of almost two hours, another, severally killed by unlawful human agency. Fact and fiction have furnished many astounding examples of crime that have shockedthe senses and staggered the reason of men. Yet, I think not one has ever surpassed the mystery of this case. Today, this woman of good social position and unquestionable character, a member of a Christian church, active in its good works, the very own daughter of one of the victims, sits before you in this court, charged by the Grand Jury with these crimes. The brutal, indeed savage character of the crime, the audacity of its location, and the extraordinary accusation that the youngest daughter of one of the victims is the insane fiend who carried out this act. It was an incredible crime, a bloody and unthinkable crime. Because the cold merciful fact that confronts us is that it was committed by a woman. You might come to believe that only a feral thing could dispatch their own forbearers with such malice and impunity. You might wonder what kind of dark heart resides in that soul. But I am telling you, that dark heart is in this room right now. She did not strike her father one time. Not once. Not twice. Not even three times. But 11 times in the face, with an ax. Harry? We're going to take a short recess. I'll see counsel in my chambers. Your Honor, look at the facts of the murder. Female victim, struck numerous times with an ax, nothing taken. The killer hid inside the house. Same time of day. It's the same modus operandi. And our suspect was locked away in prison. We don't know all the facts. We don't know if that was a crime of passion. We don't know anything. The state has spent months building a case against this woman. We can't just stop this trial because of a similarity. And so the idea being presented here is that there is yet another ax murderer loose in this very same city? I agree with Mr. Knowlton. The machinery we have impelled cannot be ground to a stop. The case will go on. And Miss Borden will be tried in the matter of which she was accused. The prosecution calls Miss Bridget Sullivan. Do you swear to tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? I do. You mentioned something when we had our interview that I thought was interesting. You said, in all the years you worked there, you never saw Lizzie give her father a gift. Is that a true statement? No. She gave him a ring. A ring. It was from her high school, I believe. Other than this ring, did you ever see her give her father anything as far as you know? They weren't that kind of family. What kind of family were they? Your Honor, is the witness expected to answer such a broad question? Counsel. You were present on the morning of the murders? I was there. We have established that Mrs. Borden was killed around 9:30 that morning. Was Lizzie present at that time? At 9:30? Around that time, yes. And then around 10:30, when Mr. Borden came home, you saw Lizzie at that time also, correct? Yes. Was this when you had the discussion about Mrs. Borden's whereabouts? Yes. She simply said that she had to visit a friend who was sick and you were to finish the windows. Summoned by a sick friend. Was the friend named? No, sir. Did Lizzie show you the note? No. Did Mrs. Borden have a lot of friends? Not many. Not many or not any? Maybe one. Has she been known to help people in need? Not especially. So while you were being told Mrs. Borden was out attending to her sick friend, the reality was, Mrs. Borden was laying dead in that guest room upstairs. Is that correct? Yes. I was upstairs looking out their window and saw her walk out back and place the dress into a pot they had in the yard. Did she burn the dress? Yes. Was there any reason given? No. Your report indicates that you saw a small stain on her dress. I did. But you determined that it was not blood. I saw a small stainthat looked old and did not appear to be blood. What did you do when you observed the stain? I asked Miss Borden about the stain and she told me she thought it was from a stew. And that was all you needed to hear? Feet away from two deceased souls, both violently murdered, that this possible blood stain was stew, and you left it at that? Would you explain, for the jury, the basic natureof your duties when you arrive, 92 Second Street, Mr. Hilliard? I secure the area known as the crime scene, in this case, the house, and I conduct interviews with anybody who might have been present, uh, what is known as the eyewitness. Did you interview Miss Borden? I did. What did she witness, according to her statement? She discovered the body of Andrew Borden. She found her own father, dead. Did you examine Miss Borden on your arrival for any marks or for any blood on her person? Yes, I examined her for blood or injury. Miss Lizzie, could you please show me your hands? And you found neither? I did not. The records do indicate that you did find a small stain. The nature of the assault would have produced much more blood than a single stain. Unsolicited! Can the testimony adhere to what is known and not what is assumed? Is this your first visit to a violent crime scene? It is not. And is it your opinion that a bloody crime scene is likely to produce a situation in which blood would be found on the perpetrator? That is often the case, yes. Did you, on arrival to 92 Second Street, find any evidence of blood on anyone in the house? I did not. Thank you. Did Lizzie Borden visit your pharmacy in the days leading up to her parents' deaths? She did. What did she wish to procure? Potassium cyanide, a very toxic poison. Excuse me, Mr. Bence. Will this powder kill the rats in my attic? She indicated that it was for a vermin problem. The Bordens experienced extreme gastrointestinal distress prior to their deaths. Could that be the result of cyanide poisoning? It could, yes. Mr. Bence, did you sell any potassium cyanide to Miss Borden? No. I did not. Did either Abby or Andrew Borden show any signs of a defensive wound? Neither did. No marks or cuts on their hands? No, none at all. Anything to show that they fought for their lives? No. Can it be ascertained that the first blow to Andrew Borden was enough to kill him? Yes. Evidence of incised wound 4 inches long, beginning at the cavity of the left eye, reaching to lower edge of lower jaw, cutting through nose, upper lip, lower lip, and slightly into bone. So the first strike was the fatal strike? In my opinion, yes. And how many times was he struck? Eleven. So a single strike with an ax killed him, and then 10 more times. Your post mortem report from the scene of the crime indicates that you found that Abby Borden died around 9:30 in the morning and Andrew close to 11:00. How can you make such a determination? Well, judging by the state of rigor, the condition of the wounds, and the texture of the blood, I would say more than an hour passed between each act. So the picture that's starting to form seems to emerge thusly. Someone killed Abby Borden with incredible violence. Then paused, somehow, somewhere, for almost two hours. Then managed to repeat the crime on a second victim. All without being detected by two women who were in and around the house. Your Honor, as you know, we've had the bodies exhumed and the certain parts have been preserved to be brought here for your consideration. - Order! - Lizzie! Order! Order in the court. Order! There are three exterior doors. The front door, leading directly from the sidewalk. All right. At approximately 11:00 a.m., someone stepped up to Andrew Borden and struck him 11 times with a hatchet-like weapon. The blows left a 4-inch gash through his temple and cut into the boneof his upper and lower jaw. Thank you. I've sent Alice Russell a note advising her she's no longer welcome in our home. They're having metestify today. Mr. Knowlton will try to intimidate you. Prepare yourself. I'm nervous. I don't... I don't want to say anything wrong. What could you possibly say? That I'm capable of murder? No one in this town thinks I'm capable of anything. Just tell them the truth. Good morning, Emma. Would you, for the members of the court, describe your relationship to the defendant? She is my younger sister. Has Lizzie ever shown violent tendencies or irrational tendenciesin her life? Never. Well, then how would you describe her? Kind, gentle, devoted. She is deeply involved in the church and in the volunteer service. And how would you describe her relationship with your parents? She was a good daughter to them. Obedient, respectful, loving. Is this the ring your father wore on his fourth finger? Yes, sir. Did Lizzie give it to him? Yes. Did he wear it often? He never took it off. Did your father love Lizzie? Very much. Did Lizzie love your father? Of course. Do you believe your sister murdered your parents? No. I do not. Thank you. You said, "Of course," your sister loved your father, because one assumes a man's child loves him. But Bridget Sullivan, in the house for five years, testified that Lizzie never bought him anything, ever. Bridget Sullivan is not the most reliable person in the world. Did she lie on the witness stand? She didn't see everything that happened with our family. I suppose not. I want to ask you about the night of September 15th, when your sister burned a dress. Yes. You were with her when she was destroying the dress? I was. Did she tell you why she was destroying the dress? We both agreed the dress needed to be discarded. You both agreed? Yes. It brought back too many terrible memories. We hated having it in the house. So I said to her, "Let's get rid of the thing." Lizzie, you can't burn that dress after they've asked for it. They'll think you're hiding something. Were you made aware that the police inquest wanted to see that dress? Not until the next day. Lizzie did not mention it? Just go back to bed. No. I gave her those exact instructions on the day the dress was destroyed. Did you or did you not conspire to destroy that dress because you knew there was blood on it? No, I did not. Did you or did you not burn that dress to destroy evidence of your parents' murder? No, I did not. If Lizzie did something that was wrong by burning that dress, then it was my fault. I told her to do it. Why did you tell her to do it? Because it was old and terrible and we wanted it gone. Because it was old and terrible and you wanted it gone. Emma! Tell us the truth, Miss Borden. What did you tell them? Emma! What's happening? Is Lizzie guilty? It was a terrible crime. An impossible crime. But it was committed. Mrs. Borden had been slain by some sharp and terrible instrument, inflicting on her defenseless head 18 blows, 13 crushing through the skull. The prisoner before you at the bar is a woman. It is hard to conceive that a woman could be guilty of this crime. I need say nothing with regard to the blood, for there was no blood found. I need say nothing with regard to the physical evidence, because there is no physical evidence. There is not one particle of direct evidence linking Lizzie Andrew Borden to this crime. No thief did this. No random assailant. There was nothing in these blows but hatred, hatred and a desire to kill. We have heard testimony of a stranger who was seen about the household on the day of the murder. They have produced no suspect. But the mere fact that persons unknown had access to the property is more than enough to introduce an element of doubt. If you can even conceive of any other hypothesis in which it is possible that someone else did this deed, then you have a reasonable doubt in your mind. Lizzie Borden, loving daughter, ever went up those stairs, never went up those stairs that morning. Something else went up those stairs. Something unholy and devoid of feeling. Something we cannot fathom with our own minds. That was the Lizzie Borden who pursued that poor woman up the stairs to her death, and then waited, weapon in hand, for the appropriate moment and did the same to her father. To find this defendant equal to that enormity, her heart so blackened with depravity, her very existence such a web of violence and crime is to find this tender young lass guilty. But to do that, you, gentlemen of the jury, you must allow your minds to consider her not just a brute, but a deeply, pathologically depraved butcher. Miss Lizzie Andrew Borden, although you have now been heard from fully through your counsel, it is your privilege to add any words you may desire to say in person to the jury. I'm innocent. I leave it to my counsel to speak for me. Very well. Now, gentlemen, the case is committed into your hands. This court nowstands adjourned until verdict. An hour and 10 minutes. They must have known all along. She will hang. All rise. Is it a bad sign that they are back so soon? We must maintain our composure. Lizzie Andrew Borden, stand up. Gentlemen of the jury, have you agreed upon your verdict? We have. Please return the paper to the court. Mr. Foreman, look upon the prisoner. Prisoner, look upon the foreman. What say you, Mr. Foreman, of the charge against Lizzie Andrew Borden? Not guilty. Order! Order, please! Business of this court is concluded. Them black-eyed dogs are out Go in ahead I just seen you In the eye of the storm Will you stay in this town? Morning, Marshall. You are not welcome. "Take courage, my children, cry to God "and he will deliver you from the power and hand of the enemy. "For I have put my hope in the Everlasting to save you, "because of the mercy that will soon come to you "from your everlasting Savior. "For I sent you out with sorrow and weeping, "but God will give you back to me "with joy and gladness forever." Drink up, everyone. It's almost New Year. Nance, I'm so gladyou made it. How could I miss it? I've missed you. Ten... Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one! Happy New Year! Is this really the life you want? Why are you so upset? I just can't believe how cavalier you can be sometimes. What am I being cavalier about? Those people, they're not your friends, Lizzie. Nonsense. They aren't here because they like you. You're a carnival attraction to them. They think you got away with murder. What do you think? Please. Do you want to know? Lizzie, stop. Lizzie? Miss Lizzie? Is something the matter? Father is dead. Someone came in and killed him. When she saw what she had done Gave her father 41 Lizzie Borden took an ax Gave her mother 40 whacks
