 

                        Ming Dynasty, Chenghua era (1447-1487 AD) The Emperor tolerated the eunuchs to accumulate excesses power and wealth Eunuch Yan Dang has given every right to crush the opposition The emperor set up Dongchang (eastern factory) and the Xichang (western factory) as two major forces With the right to monitor civilians' actions and words A series of assassination whose real perpetrator is Dongchang factory has been transpired The corrupt eunuchs has been wielding every major position in the bureaucratic live In the terms of the investigation, the Western factory even in one hand held the power of life and death Western factory acts like Forbidden City secret agent Spying for the emperor, responsible for the national distribution of secret network and investigation Cook up false charges repeatedly and throw honest officials in the prison Panic-stricken officials gather inside and outside the capital Once arrested of suspected treason they immediately tortured to extract confessions Dongchang leaders summons every officials in the court today The emperor has select eunuch Duzhuwanyu to become the Longjiang naval shipyard Supervisor But in reality he went against his order to arrest honest officials And executed them on the spot. Execution on the Spot Summon the former court doctor and justice minister quickly! Hold them tight! Bring the prisoners! Bring prisoners! Prisoners to the front! prisoners to the front! Prisoners kneel! You two made reference to the emperor that I have bribe to get this position How would you expect me to forgive you? Your message to the Imperial councillor has been Fell into my hands Dongchang leaders has been treating you two well A small mistake is not a problem But a big one Will linger on the sky But did I not feed you enough? How dare you to accuse me in front of the emperor?! I'm certain that someone is behind you Five districts Military Governor Qian Jin step out in front! Five district Military Governor Qian Jin reporting You are really worthy of a very good villain you get this two as scapegoats You all dare trying to be clever All of your family will be executed for treason Guards! I will add a little wine for your dead body today! Cut off his tongue! Prisoners with me! Be carefull over there! don't hit off the Drum Tower Hold him right of the reviewing stand Wei Long is in their hands Do not be surprised, we are to rescue you So you wear the golden body armor Even when you martial arts is so good You also bring a bunch of men, I'm surprised that you afraid of death I don't have a reputation to protect Have to know who brought the wine to the party I will catch you My name is Zhao Huaian But you need not bother to remember my name It will be engraved in your head forever It's clearly you're about to die Oh! These men are the remnants of the board of civil chancery They were afraid that the Duanzijuesun will destroy them This remnants organisation of you You are afraid that the same kind species of your will be rotted Even this rotten organisation of mine is thousands times better than your Dongchang factory dogs! You usually drink so much wine that Now not even a sword can pull it out of you I see you are still up to dying You are too presumptuous Pickled thief! Your hands is wet with the blood of the person you want to harm! You will see the end of this! They will end your world as the stories were made public! Hit the road! Go and report this! Closed all gates! I'm Waiting for the command Yes sir! You are all save now masters You don't have to worry us You can quickly end your lives and your family with your carelesness Please be careful with the travel Thank you three heroes, until we meet again Once the good government is loss The human kind has been fall from the grace of God The Emperor has retreated from making important decision What a pity! ah! Good government are gone There are the bastards who deal with Those Dongchang eunuchs They serve only the best interest of a few leaders The past six months we have done stealthily In order to put down the Dong Chang Those old good officers on the back of the cart Is now save in a high mountain Once we encounter an extremely expert swordsman The situation is not so smooth as we expected The guards has been heavily stationed at the temple front and rear doors Each side of the temple has been covered by nearly a hundred Guard Now they can try to infiltrate the inside and outside of the defense You have no worry. Out of those... . . Don't you step down on the rule Yes sir! The emperor pay us how to write of the imperial way We proposed a meeting To carefully consider our situation Zhao this security is bad They forced us to hide here Do not report how this happen Do not report the incident at the Shipyard that day despite the presence of outsiders? Who can we trust to direct the info across the Imperial eunuch Chao? If only you have not went out of your mouth.... This is not that simple Reports! From the intrinsic vice captain! Western Factory chief suddenly came here He had entered the Main Hall Dongchang think the Western factory will only watch and sit What harm is his opinion? An arena swordsman He made you put down a False Alarm Even their own did not dare to enter into the door Where did the cowardly hide? People are breaking secret. Dare to say that I did not consent with it What breaking secret? Only to a few faction They will be executed by Dongchang Longjiang naval review Heavily guarded but still can be infiltrated Chao's a nameless thief. Three measures two-type Building on the metaphor of 'taking a million guys to eat' Left vulnerable without you guys? Vulgar old man What can this person handling ability? That eunuch Duzhuwanyu missed a moment of the opportunity Underestimated his opponent Underestimate It is low Several so-called experts of the Dongchang are so useless, you killing the wrong man Secretary of ceremony. Prison staff. Chief of Housing Soon turn to a few of you You are too presumptuous Sit down! Hiding in the temple sight will helpful. . Let an officer who is worked sub-optimal performance for the emperor What kind of things the Western factory Planning? You set up less than half the Western factory Why do you join this meeting? Share to care the info with us? Report! You asked me what the Western factory plant? Now I would like to tell you Dongchang can not force me to break the secret of the Western factory plant Also You'll listen well.... I can not break the secret for Dongchang people Dongchang do not control the things I control A word of advice... I must manage the all of my business myself, Dongchang peoples do not care, what I have to do First gains Chao's trust. Imperial eunuch This is the Western factory way Clear enough Royal Lady Wan has call him to the palace Only six months before the project Into bringing the palace under our hegemony Also the Imperial Bed Royal consort Wan Consort Chief Chao of the Western factory has been waiting you for some time Pass him My good dog You come ah I've send you to the Western Plant You are now in charge of the palace power Why should you try to provoke Dongchang? Your job is to prevent the palace ladies from becoming pregnant by the emperor This is me on the back of the dragon emperor bed Why should I put in some effort and Dong Chang won the power struggle that I start? Better to stay in the harem Ah I am happy to play with the coax Royal consort's slaves dare to live up to the letter As long as you as a woman head the palace the emperor would not looked at other women They will not live to see another day Please be assured that the position of empress is empty Western factory will not allowed the palace to crumble Some time some of the palace lady can be pregnant The day before yesterday I found some suspicion Who wallow in object? Let the white man take advantage of The four slut The three is having an affair with the pregnancy assessment Whether or not the baby is the crown prince are a nuisance I have them executed Four slut Executed three I do not have a news of the fourth She ran from the palace She's called the Su-Hui Yung The men have been sent out to silence her They ride so fast Who should pay attention to it in the end? See the banner Western Plant's men shouldn't be there They go to the Red Rock Valley direction We will keep pace with them See what happen next.. There is a man sitting above a Cable It is the last place that people choose I'll keep an eye on him Boatman! Over here with the the boat! We rent the Ship Great masters. You are here to check boat. Paddle fast closing Faster come over here! Right away... No one else on board? We are on a way to down river Explain to us... Ah. . Come on you did not mention that... Misunderstanding misunderstanding ah ah. . Masters.. We take to this river every day ah All right You have a few women on board this boat All go away to bow up What? Dropped from the boat Go and report it! Reporting. . Master Third head gear This bag is pulled from the water This embroidery work is look very familiar Who told you to sit down? Do not hit the woman Master, I am sick and going to the doctor downriver What sick... .? sick to stand up? Please spare us....... Get Up! Please don't... Get Up! This bag is valuable Why should thrown into the river? The smell.... You have to see her She ran out of the palace Master... ... I You look hesitant..... It seems that the stomach have a clue Cut open to look at it! Up front! Hold on to her Ah. . Please don't master Let me go... . . Please let me go.... You are Su-Hui Yung Understand that master Note that he is alone Sorround him! Let this woman go I will say one more time... Let this woman go Release her All away They still coming Do you want to live? Get out! You want to harm me Yeah? Tell them to jump into the water Jump! Swim! Jumping into the water Hurry! I'll leave you with a good life You have do one thing for me before I go back Western factory put my name on the bulletin Zhao Huai an Zhao Huaian You are Zhaohuai An! You are to climb to the stair and to stay there! Do not move until two hour.... Done that, then I'll let you go I've tell you, you are not allowed to to move You shall loose your sight Now I do not want to go Heroes Great Man We must leave, hurry..... I know your martial arts is good Yeah, but you can not stay here too long I have to wait for... The others? Who are you? Savour the moments of beauty Drink! Zhao Xiong He and a few times before, like to drinking Yeah That being the case. To accompany him to drink a glass of wine He posed as you to save the others Want to lead you out to meet him Do not have to care for him Don't you help us save lives? Few more so I drink a cup of wine with Zhao Huaian Zhao Xiong Well, evidently he is your old acquaintance Why not meet him? Trees of Guying Rivers and lakes are enemy Meet, why have we met? The pigeon Western plant is certainly put those pigeons to fly Flying westward, my friends That is to say Their plant has a hedquarter in capital Strange So so many men out of Western plant Just to catch a pregnant woman There will be more Pursuers that came See if I can help out Report to Lord Commander everything is normal! Yes sir! Reporting! We have receive a Message What the message? is there from Redstone Valley? Lord Commander ... Su-Hui Yung has been rescued by a swordsman It is Zhaohuai An, the swordsman Nearly good enough... With these situations you expect Zhaohuai An escape with Hui Yung They will go in that direction East of the capital It has the back road North near the border He will go north With just two days he will be able to reach the border With a pregnant woman.... It is hard to travel fast Northwest is a waterway that... . . But they will slow down They go off at Jiayu North and west to the gantry To the gantry so that they go Raised a large sail Right rudder!! Heading northwest That is the Western factory sub lieutenant I want to see what ability he have on this top black yarn Hands-on He is good I hear the Western factory have good large stock of great martial artists Take care the main sail behind the commander...... Who are you in the western factory? Chief attendant Yu Huatian Your courtesy name is... I am what your western plant call enemy Zhao Huaian This way to escape Surround them by archers Yes sir! Archers ready Go up with Chongzheng Go to island countries Die you... Go Lord Commander This Zhaohuai An It is the only time of your failure to catch him The peoples who Su-Hui Yung mix with How come that they appear here? Could it be that he is a fake? Definitely not His concept is to deal with his words and deeds to destroy Dongchang Unlike the false If he is the original Who is it that took away Yung Su Hui in the Red Rock Valley? We don't need to care about how many Zhaohuai An I should be hanging their heads before the Palace Mantis stalks the cicada is eaten by Magpies in the post I will catch Su Hui Yung Will use them as a good example on how to look Dongchang Yes! Lord Commander Hero The two stone tablets inscribed with the word ah what it is? The above stone was from four hundred years ago, from Tangut The sand erode them for long time Dragon head and tail, leaving only the word dragon most clearly So this place is called the Flying Dragon The place is not so far from here to west You can now be at ease They are not chasing us anymore I have no home We have walked a long way I had already told you then.... I have to take you to a safe place You can't go on your own Come on Hero..... Ah you have been playing that flute for some times I guess this must be your keepsake tokens of love. Ah right? You're only half guessed The flute is indeed a keepsake tokens But the love is not given to me She is with another person Who is she with? With whom she have the relationship... Anyway, this is not that part of my business now I was asked by the owner to give it to that person Afterall the flute are not allowed to mention to anyone else Otherwise I will not tell you a word Understood? Understand Lot like.... Like what Like the person you're looking for? I remember you What I have to do is to bring you to safety I dropped you in there Whether you never had that... Jump here... I'll catch you I can not I am pregnant I can not jump Heroes Good to see you Tomorrow is the day after the latest It's sure sign of the black sandstorm You see the birds do not just fly past That is the messenger Sandstorm does not have eyes Took the child in when it buried the inn Without water and run out of food Even we had to move up the Inn Quickly two noodles, two noodles Coming in . . Not to mention the sandstorm Passing through here? Eat or spend the night? We have a lot to offer. Ah the food is good here Fifty mile from this inn That there are that mountains Blowing in the wind, but a large mountain Feed this food and drink the water Camel team come here half a day ago We will have more Water There is no water in the sand for some time. Food.... I forgot to bring dry food Remind me to bring the food next time Offer a lot of food There we go Safe journey Mounted the horse Pi! Goods journey I told you not to let anyone come in to that door. And into the inn They pay large tip Yeah I could not file any complaints Please settle down You order for how many person? Two Peanuts, dried fruit. Sent it What dish would you two want? I would have a bowl of mutton soup... . . Mutton soup... there I'll have only plain bowl of soup..... Others are not so delicious Come.. come come My waiter will soon... Two bowls in the kitchen to say it Plain Two bowls of soup coming.... Be patient Here there is a rule for ordering With our own chopsticks is what called on 'stroke a cents' With their chopsticks called 'Food Forum' This is the rule of unscrupulous Unscrupulous? What is the unscrupulous? Careful... Some swordsmen came here often to duel and die They washed the blood stains around there Shopkeeper So what you told that men there? Where is our dishes? You Want us to eat a white meat White meat Line with others What took you so long? We come here first ah Sorry for mistake Waiter, quickly with the meat ah.. What is the white meat? Why they so that angry? White meat is the meat of Food Forum What is that meat? Human flesh Chopsticks to eat with unscrupulous people is for human's Meat Coming.... Two Bowls of soup Empty... Lot to offer. A lot to offer Offer a lot of food You hurry go back to the kitchen We are heavy-handed Riboud uncle Wash your hands clean This ten days have you seen any faces that look like female came here? ah Yeah not seen any female faces to The way it is I have a brother in the capital to buy a woman When took the door he was about to walk away Our gang of brothers ah Wrong... he is not a gang of brother He Is my big brother They are to bring that slut back So if you've seen these two days with that woman.... My mistress said.... She run off into your group like a forced prostitution of eunuchs Women who eat rice also called your mother? You are slut Animals are not as hot.... Hahahahaha The peoples out here only give your boss two strokes ah.... Do not hold a grudge Your regular customers They are also regular customers uncle Lu His regular customers should all be pleased Well we are all familiar with them You are an outsiders Not come from the capital Dependent of each other I blame the ill-greeting I drink with your big guy You give me a welcome face Fuck you! Fuck you! She wasn't what he just told me a two strokes We really have to talk to her sooner or later You listen well.. This is for not to receive other guests, half of it We booked all room in this inn This is not good at uncle Keguan place's Here in western desert is about to blow a large sandstorm We quickly rushed to the inn whomover there who need a shelter Stay in the inn to escape death from sandstorm You have so much sand here... Dragon black sandstorms can be scary... This radius of hundred miles will be buried in the sand, my friends..... The Inn in time will be blown to look like what only God knows You take the money Don't go away I have the final say It is not in here.... Just those from the relevant foreign guests I dare not to offend them, too.... We are not afraid to offend you So much nonsense... Uncle Keguan ah Yeah I have not received much of these silver You persuade them not to go in I really do not know today we must turn people away You do not have to worry about this Since the sandstorm is about to blow Peoples that want to live does not go out I will send them on the road early And all day eating... You are like your mother's reincarnation... ah Sigui I'm hungry Of course you hungry A large sheep over there You dare to eat..? You eat every day Rest assured, eat it.... If it's a human flesh, these two guys would not be so noisy What do you want? I am a man of word, master The money is with the treasurer there Spare me, uncle We are only servants in this inn You find something What is that sauce? mix it into wine Dragon Inn three years ago is an unscrupulous A court lady that has been a fugitive is somewhere here... Do you guys want us to play the hard way? Please stop playing as a villains..... There are several fugitives? We don't dare to hide them Then do as I say I'm obedient.. obedient... Put it into the wine Give it to that Tatars This is terrible acts Yeah a lowly servant can not afford to be magnanimous Masters master ah... . Hero, can I ask you a question? Depends on what you ask How do you know this place so well? You are not a regular guest You will not be that Don't utter a word. Look at your step What is it you want to ask? You are not... Three years ago, you never been here? If I were coming here We'll have just many folks who know me What do you think? Understand A bag Picked this up outside the kitchen The sky is black with clouds It seems this is really the black sandstorm To put an escape route in this case is not good Lord Commander may be somewhere more than 50 miles away from here Call Lei Tung to hold the stable Once we retreat In addition to our horses, he'll have to let go other horse Okay The name of this place is flying dragon Get from the stone block inscriptions out there The commander is wise Local people are told to come here Open Tte side gate of the camp shelter....Let them in.... Clouds are all over the east sky Lord Commander, the caravan came to the camp to sheltered from the sandstorm It will soon be crowded here Please master commander, immediately ordered us what to do To capture the fugitives Continue to be vigillant Understood Lord Commander Zhao Huaian wouldn't really appear here This person foolhardy I expected all of his every move Try to make him relax his guard to put out bluntly I would have come here in this situation Great... . . masters Master second head gear, it took us all of our men to search You can not find them? Track them I will send someone to search them (Singing lively in the storm) He is poisoned How can this happened? Poisoned What do you say? My mistress said, whatever of your plan is backfired I know you want to poison us First move you only poison your own man Damn you!! Shopkeeper We missed the closing hour Rushed over to spend the night Diagrams of the flag outside show that your stack is not full Why shut the door ah? The rooms are fully booked friends, go out!! Fart!! You want us eating out in the sand?! Is there no place to sit for another peoples? Open the door! You just go to the them I told them to go I told them to go Open the door ah! Uncle Keguan Came in disguise. don't enter the door with your melancholy air Melancholy melancholy melancholy ah you dog's head!! As much as the fire burning out the incense Aren't you a bright guy? All other inns are closed You are all came from the road I came in there not to talk How come the commander coming here in that disguise? Perhaps there is only some likeness with him He is not necessarily the main Commander We will try to talk to him latter... You are two heroes You see people are lining up I don't have any other chair for you If you would just stand we give you a place to sheltered from sandstorm Please move to the outer inn over there The house are big and solid More local people have been sheltered under it You don't have to We'll give them that room behind the owner son room Two people who lend you a room If the two of you would mind it I'll put the ending to the two of you Please come to drink a glass of wine with us a glass of wine with swordsmen Have we here the taste of the old wine? Cattle piss taste better In the martial world real man only drink a real wine As if... Drink a few glasses of wine over two compliment Okay put that on your tab Immediately go to the fortress to see if the Lord Commander is not there You brothers often travel in this road before? Yeah we travel a lot That martial art rules Thanks for opening the door for us Let us talk about just why you let us come here.. I'm asking with the big brother I Did not talk to you It does not matter to you But I talk to you Also the manner of how you ask it does not matter to me I'm should now explain For the wisdom of me, I will go out of this place Is it so? Does not need Now? The brothers along the way The Woman with the big brother company only attract bandits You are not bandits are you? In the words of our old man and you want to rob us That's the way you bastard!! How dare you say it loud!! You are the bird that talk all the way are you? Dare talk to me We're enough So I respect your big brother Just now, a toast Big Brother Haihan If you Do not mind Respect your brother Brother please You dare to drop a poison in the wine?! Not in it Ah how can it be a toxic wine I have been watching your guy which fall early Face are very sick You did not poison this wine You drink You first Drink it Drink it now!! This fire burned ah ye very ignorant.... Yeah more than a toxic wine, toast.... What are toxic wine We did not drink toxic alcohol drinking over Not toxic your wine, their wine is toxic.... What is going on? I love your face If I turn this will be difficult Turn up quickly My mistress said 'I love you' Oh is not she like you The owner said you can go to his room to drink There was no harassment, it's clean Do not drink anything Gargle with water to rinse out what is left This taste Go back to the home then Okay Keguan Ready Here Big Brother I've packed... the room waiting for you Well Dragon and Tiger will be on the occasion. time for battle. Both good and hard to go... I go... ... ... Come back to touch the man at the end of it Excuse me Consulting his Lord commander We had followed your orders The black stone have been moved back to the city What is written above the monument? What is in the main monument is inscribed with the Tangut scribe, commander... The erosion by wind and sand give it the present condition Can only recognize the words A flying dragon Others have been blurred But one thing is to report to the Lord Commander This is when the two stone tablets unearthed This has been regarded as an ominous thing Dragon sand for many years been It is said that with this inscription on Recently, abnormal weather in Gobi desert Having read the inscription Lord commander Please place the monument on the back of the building It is perfect place for virtue Melancholy world philosophy We just lift the monument Please spare our life ... . . We do not know Please spare our life... ... ... We will lift the monument back I had a plan If the snake is out of its hole Happens to you to alert the guard Lord Commander The porters wearing Zhaohuai An sprinkling shoes He Is already a in the dragnet People easily broken with a pair of shoes to go on Since the swords are already unsheathed they have to see the blood Turn over and turned it upside down to Zhaohuai An Yes Lord Commander! Search the inn! To the grain storage You have a few business passengers to the Dongying Yes Bring the horses Yes sir! Keep up What do you want? So you really like Back to the Lord commander There are eyes that look like one-third of seemingly small-minded But this person frivolous manner. Absurd behavior... Even the commander are not the main one in a million charm Useful for this person We can make him to make a sudden movement Go back if you notice anything, Tan Luzi Wait for my instruction for every step Lure the enemy into the trap Lord commander, if the main trap is... To lure the real one, not just the pretender Uprooted them Really good ideas In order to carefully progress only. Since it is doubtful Lord commander please notify us before In case we made a mistake in identifying you I'll give you a code word The code word is A flying Dragon A flying Dragon. . Next sentence is True and false glance True and false glance Military code word is to remember Remember as if I engraved in your chest Remember remember A flying Dragon.. true and false glance A flying Dragon.. true and false glance Before the three of you down here finding someone to lookout ah Everything is in order Tatars brothers they stare at the top of this building Let the boss talk, man Sit I'll give you introductions to an awful Industry, fellow brothers Shuo Chen is playing with danger Pingdingshan is just about to be the Yellow pioneer We lead the way to the boat in Bu Square Rivers and lakes knife on him in the wind Of this letter is that he happens to come There is Life-threatening impermanence very small text Tatars with her brother My hands. Ha just hoarse children Burried in the sand three hundred years ago Is western Xia country's capital palace That was when the Mongols Sent many soldiers whose surrounded the city for a year The Whole isolated city had only a hundred soldiers They are massacred They use childern and women all sealed in a palace of gold as a Collective martyred The sandstorm was burying the city with sands overnight In fact, the word on the stone should be read upside down It is to a swirling dragon Sea of sand offer a Shaman A sandstorm is every six years to six decades Tornado is black dragon sandstorm God, the door in Western Xia palace is the door of the city Every sixty years the black desert sandstorm will blow open Buried palace in the ground will be broken out of the sand This time We can find the treasures inside the palace Dragon Inn before this is the nest of those people That's treasure is waiting Unfortunately, only half-way has changed They are also have a woman as a master Even for a man to burn the inn Since then, life and death are unknown This person is called Ling Yanqiu So you are.... We listen to this There are many ancient maze This map is a way to the treasure Outlet Why there is no entrance into this maze in this map? Because it has only one entrance But the way to go through the maze Is not drawn in this map Lao Chai, what troubled you recently? Why there are so many officers and soldiers in disguise? They said they came for a woman The wind in your message is so loud noise To say it they are from western factory chasing out someones Their goal is to catch a woman who has been slip out from the palace I have seen two female that came here during the day Gouguan here is the one to slip them on the drug They eats with their own chopsticks Even if he is trailing people Getting the money for all the info we give him is difficult Missed the first sixty years of turmoil He would have to wait for the next life They have to give way to me Those officers and men are awed to see the Ma jinliang Difficult to say as they are mistaken you as their leader They also have a boss that look like you If the table is also really ... People have been put on the table Difficult to feed the mouth that do not eat Accompany me to eat what you are poisoning to played against him Don't suffer him to eat with his mouth on the first kick Then I go with you that does not in You forced your home Ma Jinliang. Hello also to face Several of you could not go there Brother Jinliang, you must go ok, I'll go How if they know that I'm fake? Since you called Ma jinliang Your self-defense must be very good There are two bills you do not help the Not at all to greet you in case an accident soon We will be rushed to save you with a bunch of brothers You say is not Ma Jinliang is a mouth to eat around the lakes by His effort also There's brother Ma Jinliang If I see you in that government outfit..... Seems soo much matching than they are They say you are only have to act tough to be an official..... If you say so He is coming in, second head gear Your disguise..... You will put in a big posture Idiots, everyone knows that you are the official disguising as travellers Yes sir Something wrong? Say it This matter is entirely in our hands Master give us Instructions... It is entirely in our hands..? What is the indication of that This mess, how do you fix this? Master please be patient Whose the villain is not clear What did you say is in the sense of this chaos? As you master.... Said once in the planning stage... Be careful when you go Go here Lao Chai When you rebuild the inn In addition to this dungeon Have you not found the other authentic part of the inn It was previously left behind I have not seen the other authentic part It is said that when a female headed this Inn..... Called Ling Yanqiu She had a lot of authentic organ heavy cloth I think there must be more than one of this dungeon Find it.... During the day there are two woman hid below Hurry Lao Chai.... Xin Ping... Lao Chai... Where are you? That's her During the day I saw those two. One was her. There was this another woman I think you were her.... So familiar with the terrain here The only previous female head of Dragon Inn Ling Yanqiu Master, in that time What is your plan? Where? In Dragon Inn? They saw it, it is your end What do those Tartars people traded with you? I ask you to help you remember what is the purpose of... I sent you for? You say it! Western plant steward three head gear....Seventh class Officer Nonsense! There is no such a thing I ask you to do You told me that You remember why I sent you here? Of course I remember If the villain does not do well.... Ask the master it is a minor crime of opportunity Make Atonement! Use your poison into poisoning You have to chase people who arrived early here You also have Huhututu squatting room, etc. Make Atonement, I'order you I know that you come here to find the treasure Unfortunately, what are I seeing is the officers and men Almost lost a fortune. Forced to slip away Now you ladies bring this But the trick is to... make them fight again each other..... Like fishing in the muddy water... You do not think about it I can negotiate terms with them This are their only opportunity Then the officers and the men can walk away.... Still it is our treasure You say... How are you going to deal with those people of the Dragon Inn? Kill them with poison Let them dying in here Sandstorm will finish it. All will be buried They can not run As long as we are looking for peoples that are still hiding in here To do so on the sandstorm. Pre-emptive them At daybreak kill them all at once Then slowly digging the graves I am looking for people to dig to Yes sir Who Zhao pass from the camp back there Master would you like to visit in person Of course Master Ma Jinliang You are the Ma Jinliang Remember the marketplace...? I traded with you I am a court commander. Zhaohuai An Do you remember me? With an advice You people see through their disguise? Just hold on What happened? Who is she? I finally meet with you this day The past three years Every day I think of this day Large boundless love for the two of us Mention about breaking heart? Your safety is in danger Three years ago I picked up your love token that you left Now I can finally... All of men are so selfish He was selfish what is your problem with me? When we do not break a pledge Do business, don't only talk about feelings Why don't you go back? First record a current account. To see how much you dare to eat... I am with you count Yeah remember how the accounting... ... ... ... Since he was unwilling to talks Then you have come here to do I was tracking the Western plant man that came here Unexpectedly encounter the Ma Jinliang I think they found out what Ma Jinliang is like Like their chief... Yu huatian Western Factory Chief? Yu Huatian will bring in about five hundred of field troops into this Inn He will send troops to this place Force to the kill.....? People here will not let that go That is a joke They want your life We kill them Yeah we are doing killing... How do you think Yu Huatian will easily surrender? He looks so much like that person... It let you posing like him Moreover, Ma Jinliang.....We are also going to pose as other men If..... This plan can deceive them They would not called the Western Plant Yu Huatian should be here in the dawn We will count on the plant. Pre-emptive them We have the element of surprise The first step is to divide the enemy They don't have a lead the way in the drug With him, to start around This day I will save you This is you with a poison antidote After you have used this antidote You will not die if you move, but the poison is still in your body If you want to save your life. Please help me do one thing I did not dare... ... ... . . You are practicing Martial arts... . I love my mistress but she love other man But thinking about it. I want to kill that man.... For my plan to go smoothly, you have to go along You go to the stable Make some noise and then let go the horse Then He can not mount a horse to leave before the sandstorm He Will be buried in the desert You... ... This Act is not so easy like it was said This is not a trap I am afraid I'm not be able to see my mistress again At that time there would be no way out Now take your chance to live You choose This package countain only half dose of antidote to poison If you do not do according to my order In three days later you will suffer to die.... Three years With this you have been my most beloved memory Going to the ends of earth... You know? Unfortunately we missed the affectionate time Something to live up to your mind Although I did not wait for you I have something you can see in my heart.. I took this bamboo flute Envied its owner She was gone for long With this in mind you she She died to save me This debt Lifetime debt is not clear I understand You see me I was afraid I'm going to trouble you Licks the wounds Better to forgive themselves I still do not understand the meaning of words you say Life or death Feeling regret People who were with me die one by one One day you will leave Why bother to stay alive I also have a wish I give you the bamboo flute You take it out of this bloody place and do not ever come back Want to throw me The second time to see you run for your life I give her the medicine I can help you fulfill your wish A woman heart is completely dead Will leave you So that she will be unaffected I ask you Why are you then set fire to this inn? In fact, I... ... . . Is tired of these desert You really have to living up in luxury To stay together to find treasures Individuals who love to put a word in act I just like them Talk about talk about the feelings of this..... without money This world can not buy anything Yeah I think like that too before But Some things that you can not buy, you get it yourself I do not buy rare things One day you will understand In time You will change I know I was wrong Walk with me Do not think the two of you deceived me You are not that kind of person Why spend so much time with your mind to go? I also took away the heroes If this blade can protect your life then use it To escape the evil If I, before all good people must coose... Yeah there you go Now where I'm going to go is not important If I stay here I will only put you in danger Too soon to see the commander again A flying Dragon What? Something wrong? What master told? You are not looking for me to lead the way.... Your man that has been poisoned... How he had.... He was bribed to do that He had release all your horses in the stable You all want to starve in the desert So you all want to die here Xue-yong see it Yes You are not yet in bed paralyzed by the poisoning Why can you go to the stable? I... I.. Interesting You think the poison will detoxify.... It seems that you are not vulnerable to the poison Zhao Tong Get him to eat a bag of poison To see what solution he had One moment one moment one moment I will be vulnerable to the poison I ate their antidote.... I only eat half the dose The drug also did not cure other simtomps Continue..... That man give me an antidote That giant called Hagangtonga He.. He.... He took a fancy to his mistress Want to deal with his rival I took the antidote Asked me to help him To release the horses Report The following two gang put up to fight That Tatar women who fight with another woman That is the woman Also set fire to the inn Even if this is a fraud we also may wish to withdraw from the Inn See the situation out there Call all of our men in alert Bring out that luggage over there quickly This is official uniform Here also, you know Quickly go out. Go to the next room fast You want to be discovered? Go Sure enough, on account of that movement they are a false alarm Zhao Yong Tong. . Jixue With your men immediately go check it out You see the situation You men....You go to this side... We'll go right there This becomes really strange weather Bigman and strongman you go to the kitchen You man go to stable The rest of you follow me to the other rooms Yes sir! That is Our western factory men I do not know if this is true or false Very suspicious What is our code word A flying Dragon Of true and false glance A flying Dragon We have to move a luggage over there quickly Wear that uniform Here also, you know you have immediately move out A flying Dragon What made you distracted A flying Dragon I guess it is a code word True and false glance They know the true and false True and false glance I bring one thousand men Ah you are here for any deployment Lord commander.... Just inside, the inn is in fire For fear of a trick We withdraw of our men first to check the situation You observe that situation now? ah The following men also did not report You count in other men to report and you.... Still standing here? waiting for other reports? They slipped away from the back Yes commander... Follow me!! Master second head gear, we can not find other peoples in this inn Many men with wet towel in the thatch house. Attempting to suppress the fire Smoke everywhere make the men confused Sure enough, this is only a diversion Report to lord commander Outside is our men. why they shooting at us? We are ambushed raise an alert See who is outside The men in the Outside is not know we here I have to go with him with the code word A flying Dragon What to say? A flying Dragon Shoot Your grandmother...... When they reach a inside and outside I wait for them to come back until recently by Allright..... Go with the preparation... Two men found in the room Our official uniform was stolen The lord commander in the otside is an impostor A flying Dragon this is also fake to arm.... This place is your burial ground.... Shoot!! This is our opportunity to arms... We want to use the terrain and wind as a potential diversion to go near the Dragon Inn We Broke down into smaller four group The first group, Laochai You stand in the most favorable location Identify the location of Yu Huatian Pointed in his direction with a banner The second group Ha ha gang with just very few men Take your troops South from the inn's and attack in the confusion kill as much as enemy troops The third group, Gushao Tang You lead the inn's men From the other side of the inn outflanking the enemy bring in a few men Head to the place near where Yu Huatian stand Be careful with a man that wear a black mask Do not underestimate his two swords The fourth group I find the way to Yu huatian to deal with him - What do you come back for? -I come back to help you The Archer at that time in Fangleng Jian..... Try to beat him down I'm heading to where Yu Huatian go... It will not work You deal with the Archer I deal with Yu huatian You will deal with that person on your own Yes I deal with him carefully be careful Ha ga tongga just go A Desert tornado Stop killing inocent men... Yu huatian There.... That is the place where we decide who will win or loose this fight This is the time when I'll put you to your end.... I'll wait for you Zhao Huaian Zhao Huaian Ha hatongga The storm is Blowing over the inn Quickly seek shelter in the original inn Zhao Huaian Zhao Huaian Zhao huaian Zhao huaian There is light out there.... Its a reflection... It's the Golden Palace We finally found the western Xia treasures I will not leave you here How do you find Zhaohuai An? Zhao Huaian are you okay? Yan Qiu was the dagger in his hand can cut through anything Careful He is the Western factory... . Westernt factory's chief attendant Yu Huatian I have to deal with his now go with the others I have been familiar with his sword style You are only distract me To see what flaws he make I'll kill the man who lead a bunch of smelly ladies who here There you are. Zhangtoushumu... either you do like this or not I dare you to swordsplay You smell is the most repulsive You can try to beat me now We are capable to beat more peoples with a foul mouths like yours This is for you...! Dodge You've been more helpful More than one person to consider for the hostage I'd like to see anyone who willing to act as scapegoat to kill her You people.... They are not here for the money.... Notoriously greedy, obviously you are here for them.... This rooom is packed with gold. Enough to make you the master of your own state You can ensure no others than you is more rich in the later years of your live... You can save yourself from other bureaucratic infighting Corrupt Official.... Think for yourself.... Good I am trully what you has you say in a whole I have means to live well Unfortunately, this group of people you None of them are worthy of being my opponents I'll easily put you to death Ultimately the gold is not my interest The Western Xia cities. Why has it not been found until now? Because an hour later. Another sandstorm will come At that time the city will be submerged in the sea of sand You are a clever person. How much time you have? an hour to move the gold? If this deadlock continues. In the end both your life and wealth is forfeited No good for you It seems the two of us individuals.... We are fully expected to go together But some people do not want gold, but this power I just want life as one powerfull eunuch Have their trouble gone as they have enough wealth As such Let both sides got of the even hand. To get rid of these two person How is that? Don't listen to this criminal.... Away from here. I'm afraid he will still hunt you as long as the money is in your hand He was not as truthfull as you can smell You say you are a Zhangtoushumu Look at you now Now we're stop fighting, not me will gain the money He A sword in my hand, I have the final say I can not get rich Like you will die Or persuade him Perhaps enough time to move out the gold A group of people are here for the money This kind of man used drive a wedge between us They are easy to convince us If We dare to tip off against them..... Since you are all for the money Do not waste the time for me Yu Huatian I pledge to you As we move out of gold You will release Gushao Tang. If it means you agree to do so Convince me how?! Here you have this many people... How to move the gold? You have to ask Take their own share of gold as they want it How much gold that can be move is my own business to see This move method I can be good.... I want to watch a person you have to move the gold Not much to move Then why not move now..? I know you want to get rich But many will worry Here's of course a way to move the gold and then finish us If you only want to move them, then we are all feel at ease I mentioned the other men We send for each other to monitor each of our movement... Yu Huatian I'm stay here with Gushao Tang The other peoples are to move out the gold There are three of us here The other peoples out there who would carry the gold will not have to come back So you can rest assured of it... Good so it is decided You do not try to come back here... You are going to do with him in the roof, nearly agood plan.. What took you so long to find the exit? You are not in the wrong way I do not go according to the map To come out of this maze there is a two way About to the exit Clearly the creator did not Really want us to go back and find them They also does not want to go back with how to do with Gushao Tang Big day out on the earth If you will also go Results may have been different There is the exit I go out there Out with the gold Let's go. Let's go back and remove the gold How are you? This person... This person had.... A hidden mission You have to go Why did you have to come back for me....? You are the secret agents planted by the Yu Huatian They have planning this for long You gave me this dagger... You will suffer Now here is what my opponent did a mistake You left Zhaohuai An witohut a sword To resist us What Wishful thinking Of martial artists and you can not match our trick Now I'm going to kill Zhaohuai An We can not let her go Ma Jinliang Hey why are you here... Don't go there! Do not move forward!! there is a trap front of you Ha Ga.... You said you would go after a western factory woman So why you also hold me damn you? Mistress You see that woman has lay a trap Ha Ga this is just what we saw... It is Very sharp. It is the Western factory gold wrapping She laid that many trap That is, to prevent us Into noticing Zhaohuai An Hero How are you hero? Well, they fight among themselves for the gold Severely beaten the others Come with me We are on the roof... All that you plan is in vain and they are acting up Let's also stay here to fight Zhao Huaian Just you and I we finish this Now. Do you want to chat again? Hagatongga It is a danger signal You are so afraid of the Yu huatian He then came in here to catch you... why are you not fear him anymore? Why do I come here.....? I was helping him to deceive Ling Yanqiu And to kill you together with this wretch This is the voice..... Of the peoples obsessed with power and gold...... Unfortunately, this all ultimately is the property of the lost one If you and me wait. We will have the same outcome And may also buried here Lord commander, go With me There it come.... You get out. Let me handle this Come.... We'll come out from that good side Do you think I couldn't keep you here It really is my goal You go up I know you already made a commitment You Will not leave here Walked carefully, Su-Hui yung have placed all over this place,... with traps Do not hang on those lines. . They are very sharp... Are you all right How about her?? She was in there How is she? Where is she? She's severely wounded She did not want to let you see her last moment While you are still not wake up. She left Some things I do not want to take away One that you left me Life and death without any regrets just like You've said if I had gone happy So long.... She's gone in that direction To the south Be sure to see that I will find her Well let's go That's in vain She handed me the flute She left it so they will come back They will return They Will Six decades Sixty years is a person's life..... We have plan carefully. In order to have this piece of sand on us I want to be an official A high position in government will do I told you to go If you can not wait for them then... Go to the capital and looking for me I'll wait for you My good dog, bring it here... Kill her That's an order? Understand Mistress ah Come on people Quickly called the imperial doctor The Mistress has been passed away... Two year after the death of Lady Wan in 1475 Emperor Chenghua discovered that he had a son (later Hongzhi Emperor) who survived and was raised in secrecy Hongzhi was a wise and peace-loving ruler and also holds the distinction of being the sole perpetually-monogamous emperor in Chinese history This Subtitle is brought to you by: Artisto1, a peace-loving guy
