 

                        Michael, I heard this kid isn't too reliable Keep an eye on him, okay? I know Damn! Do you want to die! Young Master, the kid is here Michael, it's all done I'm coming right back Phone call for you What? Phone call for you Thanks It's a girl Is it May? Brandon, I'm finally dancing May, speak a little louder I said, the Manager has finally agreed to let me dance today That's great! I pick you up for work Don't be late All right, I won't be late Meet you at the same place, Be on time! Bye! Bye! Hung, look after your brother and sister Come, follow me Don't crowd Hung, watch your brother and sister What happened? Mom left on the bus Let me get you back to her What is it? Mom, Sister is gone How did that happen? You were holding her hand Sister Sister Mom Here she is I'll play with you again soon What's your story this time? How much time do you have to listen? No time, we're late! You forgot this is my first time to dance I didn't think May could dance this well, not bad Boss Hello Mr, Tang, when did you come back? Manager Please, sit sure Uncle, you made a fortune from our last shipment It's no big deal If we killed that guy for no big deal I feel sorry for him Kau, what are you blabbering about? It's all right, Uncle, I would have done the same if I were you But that guy died a painful death Uncle, with me watching over you and your son, you must feel great But that depends on whether you know how to behave Cut the crap, what do you want? Kid, you're still wet behind the ears, when is it your turn to speak? You have a lot to learn from your dad But, Uncle, you're making too much Your brain is too stuffed with money you can't calculate any more The last shipment was worth five million But you only gave me a pittance You know those were inferior goods So much flour was mixed in how can it be worth so much? Uncle, stop treating me like a child I handled that last shipment I know how much it's worth Give me twice the amount this time I'll take this now Go home, think about it If anything happens, it's your head Dad, have the lCAC arrest him Use your brain If he stays, we'll die Then what shall we do? Kill him Get a fresh face to do this Manager, may I dance again tomorrow? Again? Do something useful Get to work, don't break the camera Take a picture of you? Fatso, did you smile? Of course, I was in the picture with you You looked great It is nice Pay up, Fatso Thank you Miss, take a picture, please I took one of you yesterday Yes, but you weren't in it with me But... Please do me this favour Take a picture of us, please? Sure Smile Michael How are you? Have you seen Brandon? He's working here, too Are you two still together? I have to greet my clients How many in your party, sir? We don't need you, get the manager Michael is there I'll go over in a minute Kid, get me five beers Hurry Right away Five beers Brandon Michael! It's been forever, I thought you disappeared I had to take care of family business Sir? You're looking for me? Are you the manager? Yes, can I help you? Of course Otherwise we wouldn't have come We are collecting protection money Protection fee? Someone has already collected it... That is them, this is me Well... How much? Eighty grand Eighty grand? Is that too much? It's not But please understand I cannot make that decision Come back tomorrow You're trying to trick me If you're not the boss, save your breath Get me someone who can decide I'm sorry, pardon me Pardon me...get me another one! Why are you still standing here? Go! Sorry Put these flares away for me We'll set them off after work Yes, sir I will get my boss right away They're not easy to handle, Be careful Let me apologize to you One punch each, fair and square I just work here, why are you making fun of me? Making fun of you? You're making fun of me not the other way around Kid, come to the alley with me if you dare Kid, I've been street-fighting for years No one has ever beaten me I'll knock you out in 3 seconds How many seconds do you want? Brandon Come here What happened to you? I'm fine Why were you beating people up? What? They were beating me up! I'll show you something you've never seen before Truly, this will be your first time This is a 0,44, just brought over from the Philippines One shot can kill an elephant Get some bullets and try it out Careful! What happened between you and May? We're fine If you're dumping her, give her to me I don't mind wearing old shoes As soon as it reacts, I'll shoot it I'm just kidding, relax I'm kidding, too, it's not loaded This gun has tremendous kick You have to hold it with both hands You don't have to work two jobs Why don't you work for me? I pay more in a month than you'd make in a year I'm not suitable for your jobs What's wrong with you? Are you blind? Miss, when do you get off? I'll wait for you Let's go watch a movie All right In your dreams! Wait for me What are you doing? Going to the restroom Thanks You're always with him aren't you bored? Forget it, Michael We're getting married next month What do you want? My boss Kau said he didn't like your attitude that day You two better come up with the money You know what happens if you don't Are you okay? I'm fine Are you all right? Who are they? Kau Who is Kau? This is personal, stay out of it You were beaten up! I can't stay out of it! We are friends Forget it, stay out of it Forget it Okay That man went upstairs ClD! Freeze! It's okay, he's one of us Kau Kau, that shipment belongs to Uncle Don't threaten me with him Take it all away Kau, don't lose your temper over young people If you're unhappy about anything just tell me I was here, drinking all night I don't know what happened outside Then it's my bad luck $3million worth of goods, gone You're talking about tonight? That was a routine check We made a deal last time Why was there a routine check? You understand, I can't resist pressure from above But I'm lucky to get information Uncle, it's only a few million It's a pittance to you Fine, this is my apology to your boss We'll discuss details over dinner tomorrow night Uncle, you have such a tight hold on purse strings, How can we discuss? No need to discuss anything If you are okay with this bring the money tomorrow Dad, pain now is better than problems later Let's use my plan These two guns and bullets are identical At that time, I'll carry one, and Fool will have the other Kau will surely die this time Will it work to use the kid as a scapegoat? Just take care of yourself We must make our move in person and not rely on your men We must be punctual Kau? Yes Just say what you want See you tonight at the Middle East Restaurant Okay I like living here, it's less crowded What are you thinking about? I have it figured out By working two jobs now I will have saved enough money in five months to buy something I like This model is great A motorcycle? So? You just think about the motorcycle I'm nothing to you This bike is powerful, has a great motor, and is fuel-efficient It makes steady turns, all the cars behind it will eat its dust And I have no part in this You do, the back seat is reserved for you It's not practical to spend the money on a motorcycle Motorcycles again! Fine, I won't buy a motorcycle I'll save this money for our baby Don't think about motorcycles Brandon Yes Sorry I got you hurt that day Come for dinner at the Middle East Restaurant Now? Yes I don't have time You must come, we'll wait for you Brandon, over here What took you so long? This is my first time in this kind of restaurant Wash your hands, that's the etiquette Please give me a knife and fork We don't use utensils, Middle-Eastern food is eaten with your fingers With my fingers? Yes, just your right hand, try it I caused you to be beaten, sorry I'm fine, you're worse What does Kau have against you? I'd like to know myself Sir, someone is at the door for you That's Kau Kau We'll talk over there Need help? No Please sit Dad is ill, so he didn't come I don't care of he sent his dog here... as long as the amount is correct You're trying to trick me again Business has not been good lately Dad said to ask you to take half first Bargaining is for women's markets Take the money back to buy coffins for both of you Go to hell Stop Kid Freeze Stay away, punk I'm a cop, put down your gun He's not a cop, don't believe him Punk, it's none of your business He's my friend Michael Young Master, how is your foot? It's fine, just a little scratched Good thing I wore a bullet-proof vest Kid, you have guts Just shooting people like that Do you know who you killed? He was Kau, Chief of the Narcotics Squad in the Police You're looking at a long jail sentence Wait and see Are you satisfied, Chief Lau? Thank you Uncle we'll work together again Bottoms up! Make yourselves at home Money earned belongs to everyone That was a brilliant move You would even betray your friends Like father, like son Mr, Wong, as our lawyer, when you visit the kid tomorrow... try to persuade him... to remember to say he was alone Boss, don't worry He's simple-minded, easy to handle This way, Chief Lau It's important you don't say the wrong thing now I will compose your oral statement for you Just recite it when you are in court How is Michael? He's badly hurt but recovering now That's why you must not say that you were together That is very important As for your girlfriend, don't worry Michael will take good care of her And we will do the same Is this a serious crime? You only killed out of self-defence It shouldn't be serious I will try to lessen the sentence It's most important that you trust us I declare that Brandon Ma is... guilty of manslaughter... and will serve a sentence of eight years to commence immediately Name? Brandon Ma On what charge? Manslaughter How many cages? That means, how long is your sentence Eight years Are you in a gang? No Do you wish to appeal? That means you haven't decided From now on, we will call you by a number Your number is 1368 Your life and behaviour... will be under our scrutiny The alarm rings at 6,00am You have five minutes to make your bed... groom, and use the washroom You have fifteen minutes for breakfast You will work eight hours a day... five and a half days a week During work, unless permitted... you may not speak to anyone Your daily pay is $1,60... out of which we'll keep 40 cents... to return to you upon your release You must absolutely obey the instructions from the officers... but you have the right to complain Are you clear on that? In here, you and I are in the same boat You wait for release, I wait to get paid We're both killing time in a jail So I hope you will behave Inside Get up, Get to work! Go Incredible This is from me A real man admits to what he has done I deserve my punishment Don't worry, I live well here I like your haircut May, did Mr, Wong call you? Sorry, I promised to marry you... but now, I won't be able to You must be disappointed I don't smoke, you take it Keep it, this is money, it's useful Come one, give me another one What's wrong? He owes me cigarettes How many? One more Let's go Are you all right? I'm fine You're a real pal Be careful, it's complicated in here What did you do? Weapons, I'm a gun dealer Hey! You have many cigarettes He's a newcomer Shut up, not you You! Come here Either you kiss my ass or you call me "Papa" Squat down! Don't move Squat down! You must have started it How could you let this happen? You know life is complicated here Everyone here is a major criminal And those damn Westerners Actually... Since you know the bosses watch us... you shouldn't do stir up this major stuff If it happens again, I will not deal with it You'll deal with it yourself Watch what you do Get out Yes, sir Your punishment is to serve three more months You'll get more if you misbehave May, I have never written such a difficult letter I hope to get out of here as soon as possible This incident ruined all of our plans You must be very disappointed I don't know how much longer I have to serve Mr, Wong came a few days ago I know Michael is worried about me He is a true friend You must take care of yourself Ask Michael for help if you need anything He will take good care of you for me Love, Brandon Please wait outside, we'll know soon Thank you You're welcome Congratulations! Tell your husband, he will be a father Come back for a check-up in 2 weeks Miss, don't go This is from me Thank you Shall we talk in my hotel? Your hotel? I'll give you a ride I want to talk about Brandon with you Sorry Miss, I have another gift for you Miss How have you been? Do you know I've missed you Is there a chance to appeal Brandon's case? Appeal? He killed a man We're lucky it's only eight years What more do you expect? You're still young, isn't it better to marry me? You are such scum! Brandon is in jail because of you and still you say such things Stop, I want to get out Don't pretend to be proper I am nice to you just to save you face You think you're a lady? You're a whore! Don't let her get away Help! Somebody is... Manager, are you all right? They will find you You must not stay here Go! Go to Macau or even to Lantau Just hide Avoid Michael if you can I heard rumours that... the cop at Middle East Restaurant... was killed by Michael's men Brandon was only a scapegoat You must go And you? Don't worry about me, go Stop crying The Manager told me about you It's bad for you to stay in Hong Kong Come to Brazil with me, avoid Michael My wife died years ago I have no children I would like a companion I am pregnant That's fine, I like children very much I just cannot have my own Please understand, I'm not asking you to marry me I just want a companion Discuss it with your boyfriend before you decide A personal gift, Four-eyes Hey, you've got a big mouth Get away, freak Are you talking to me? Son of a bitch What's wrong? Ignore him Hello there, Four-eyes I knew you would come because you're nosey Okay, how do you want to play? No more Papa, are you okay? Piss off, piss off Later, when we arrive, what will you tell your boyfriend? If you say you're pregnant... would he worry even more? Get down, it's Michael's men Driver, back up, quickly! Let me get off In this case, you shouldn't see him You must leave Hong Kong now I'll have the Manager tell Brandon Where did May go? I haven't seen her for weeks She left Hong Kong with Huang Huang? The old overseas Chinese who came every night They went to Brazil I don't think she will come back How can she leave at this time? She has no choice, Michael was after her Michael? He promised to take care of May Take care of her? She almost got raped by him Also, I heard about... the incident at Middle East Restaurant... Michael's man killed Kau You were just a scapegoat Are you sure about this? You've worked for me for so long Why would I lie to you? Don't feel so bad You just made a bad friend May will be happy with Huang She found a good home You should be happy for her Time's up Behave yourself! Time's up What's going on? Drag him back in Go! Stay cool, you have 8 more years of this If you can't take it now... how will you be in two years? How will you last past the next few years? You want to escape? There are many sharks out there Swimming out there to feed the sharks? Isn't it better to stay nicely in jail? Eight years will soon pass Work! You know it's a dead end, yet you still want to go You want to escape? I have a way Stay right there What are you doing, Four-eyes? I wanted to pick up the trash down there Get back up He is my friend Are you sure this will work? If it doesn't work, give me back my money You're crazy, if it's guaranteed, I would have escaped long ago Why would I still be here? Listen to him, 1368 This map can get you out There will be a truck at the gate at 2,00am Do you want to risk it? I do And you? I'll be released next month see you outside Stop You may go Thank you, sir What are you doing there? Come out How did you get on the truck? I ask you, how did you get on the truck? How did you get on the truck? Sergeant Yu, how many strokes? He has appendicitis, send him to the hospital Yes, sir Kid, I know all about you Even if you went and killed him... what good would it do? You'd just have to come back to jail Think about it Time for you to go, and me to start Manager lp Sergeant Yu Manager lp Sir, why does the guard tell me Brandon is in solitary confinement... and cannot receive visitors? He nearly killed me You're kidding He tried to escape What happened? I did not report it I will watch him for you It's not for me, I'm also helping a friend How is my son doing at your nightclub? I don't want to talk about it, he almost got me fired What happened? I assigned him to washroom duty but he stole from me He stole the washroom? Not the washroom itself He took toilet paper, soap, ashtrays... to use at his home That punk Don't worry, I'll watch your son But... I'll also help you watch Brandon I told you it's not for me I'll watch him for your friend Here's the ferry, let's go Brandon, don't think too much about it May has gone with Huang to Brazil She will be happy there She has a good family now You should be happy for her Bless my health and my family Bless my family's health Dad, you used to come here only on the anniversary of Mom's death What's different now? I was busy before, now I have time See, I don't even have to walk So I'm saving up some good deeds I don't think I'll live long I will join your mother soon Michael, things are chaotic now It's a good chance for you to develop your business While I am still alive and can help you There are many virgin territories now Get what you can Establish relationships with people you think will be good for you Get rid of those who are in your way Chief Lau Let's work together again, be there early tonight I'm sorry, Mr, Chan There are no tables tonight But I have a reservation Someone bought out the place tonight No, we're not closing down Today is a bit special I know you booked a banquet of 30 tables a month ago We'll pay you back, don't worry Mr, Wong, this way, please I am sorry Sorry I am late Please sit Get two more bottles of champagne Cheers, bottoms up Bottoms up! Brandon You don't have to worry any more From now on we'll make money together I have made all the arrangements We have a great future ahead of us Great, we'll celebrate with a good meal It won't take long Let me try Sure Get up Where is the washroom? Fill it up, understand? Brandon, when were you released? $300 please, sir You're still at work, right? I'll come back to take you to supper Can you go now? Let's go Shut up Listen, he works at the Shell station Keep an eye on him Boss Yes? I want to quit after today I won't take this month's pay It should cover your loss You're good, why are you quitting? I found another job, sorry What a troublesome night Hurry Brandon Why did you come back? I flew back from Brazil just to see you You are still wearing the ring? Mom, are we leaving? No more playing Stop flirting, get to work Goodbye Brandon, I must talk to you We'll talk another day Thank you Thank you, Room 601, please Room 601 Stop it I want the most luxurious room! With a bed that can sleep three Young Master, you're drunk, let's go I am not drunk I am not drunk, go wait in the car Go up, hurry Stand over here Mom, why are you so scared? May? It's really you Where have you been all these years? Don't be afraid, I won't bite Leave now or I'll call the police Who are you? I am her husband You would rather marry an old man than go with me How dare you despise me Come with me now Into the room, quickly Kit Bastard Hurry Go in Open the door Mr, Wong, what's going on? Open up Please do not disturb our tenants Mr, Wong Please go downstairs Mr, Wong Let's go, don't make a scene in public What are you looking at? Take Kit, leave Hong Kong now But I haven't talked to Brandon yet It's too dangerous to stay here I'll talk to him for you Front Desk, we're checking out now Have a car take us to the airport Go back, get May and the boy back for me Go now! Let's go Mom, you left a bag Kit Mom What do you want? What do you want? Shut up Old man, fly back to Brazil right away Call the police, and they will die Young Master If the boy is the son of the jailbird... We'll be in trouble Will he live long enough to know? Brandon Michael captured May and your son My son? Yes He's your son, not mine When I left Hong Kong with her eight years ago, she was pregnant Please understand I treated May as my own daughter No! Stop Stop Over there Can you see him? No Go find him Close the door Here is all the goods I have Michael I'm coming to make you pay Good, I'm waiting Stop the jailbird Brandon, take my car Go to hell Sit tight Okay This is none of your business, go I put in so much, and you tell me to go? Someone's up on the head Hoi, bullets Find him Brandon And you? Take it We'll split up Let's go, we'll look for Michael tomorrow But your son may be dead by tomorrow This is no big deal, I won't die Go, I'll wait for you Wait for me Come out, Michael Your... son Come on Shoot! Didn't you want to kill me? Why isn't Daddy coming? Divxplanet.
