 

                        Tae-Kwon Tae-Kwon Where are your shoes? I brought the wrong bag You've obviously underestimated the importance of auditions at this school He'll just have to dance barefoot We're judging his dancing, not his dress sense When you're ready You've just mixed three dances. Do you have any idea what you're doing? Thank you Excuse me If you don't get into the school What will you do? I don't know Classes start on Monday - 9am Congratulations Thank you I want your best performances Relax Excuse me You here for the job? Yes You fast? Yes Ok - bucket and sponge, over there Ok As you practice your routines today Think of your posture The competition is only a month away... so walk tall That doesn't mean you walk on your toes Jun Did you hear that Tae? Everyone - this is the very late Tae Kwon Class starts at 9 - which means you begin warming up at 8:30 Go and get ready Tae I hope you brought the right bag today Let's begin Straighten your back - good Grace, you're next Head up - nice Ok Tae Stop Start again Stop Have you ever been taught to walk? No How could your past instructor teach you to dance, but not teach you to walk? I asked you a question? I never had a teacher How did you learn to dance? Books Books? Ballroom dancing books Have you ever danced with a partner? No All right - who hasn't walked? Jun - yes, stretch through your spine, stand tall and proud Lynn you're next. Stay straight and proud. Yes, good. It smells a bit, it's been closed up for awhile But - it's close to your dance studio Nice desk How much? Only $800 dollars Tae, I want you to hold her like she means something to you Let me show you You've never had a partner and it shows I want you to lead me I'm waiting You're giving me too much space Pull me closer Good You're coming along really well Keep practicing Emi, I don't want you teaching anymore Why? After what I saw I think you should take a few months off A few months off? Who's going to prepare them for the competition Look I don't care about the competition, I care about you not breaking your ankle It's got nothing to do with my ankle I just don't want you to get hurt What are you doing? Dancing You're strolling, and your partner would have been lost because you have no direction You arms are too weak Hey You're new here right? My name is Tae Kwon I say this once Keep your hands off Emi What? Leave her alone and everything will be fine Emi is my teacher And you're her student Don't touch her Got it? I remember the day the dressmaker measured you for that You may think I only care about stopping you from doing what you love The truth is I'm stopping you from hurting yourself Emi You still have a pin in your ankle It feels fine So does my knee but I can't compete anymore It has nothing to do with my ankle What do you mean? It's the spotlight It always has to be on you Is that what you think? How many times have you watched me dance? That's right You were never there Not even once You were a champion And now you have students who will pay for your instruction Do you think they'll pay if you return to the floor and come in second? Or fifth? Or if you fall again? It's over It's over Easy To Learn - Dancing Waltz Sometimes I come here Find a nice place on the grass... ...and listen to the music You know I used to do ballet But when I was 9 years old... ...I saw a group of ballroom dancers So I asked my mom if I could try it... ...and I fell in love with it Whenever I was down... ...dancing lifted me back up It must be great to win a competition It's not about winning Tae It's about who you become... ...when you try Close your eyes Imagine the music is inside you It's going through every part of your body Do you feel it? Lead me But... I have to go See you on Monday Bye You've not eaten much I'm not so hungry How were your classes today? They were fine. Yours? No Fine I think I will have a drink Do you ever think about... ...competing again? A true champion retires once Why do you ask? No reason Hey Hey! I didn't come here for that A list of every other dance school in the country I don't have money to go to another school How much do you need? A thousand? Two thousand? Take it Find another school Ok - let's begin I don't want your money And I'm not changing my school You sure about that? If you're still here in seven days We'll meet... ...on that floor You and me Or I'll find you in the street and there'll be no rules But I... If you beat me... ...you can stay If you lose... ...you go back to where you came from But I'm... ...I'm a dancer That's your problem Did you study those dance books... ...in your bedroom Tae? I want you to imagine... ...that you have red paint on the bottom of your shoes After you dance... ...I expect the entire floor to be red... ...not just the corner of it Applications for the competition close soon If you can't get things right... ...you'll be watching with me Go on Hi May, it's Emi I was just wondering, do you have any dancers looking for a partner? Great! No it's for me Really? Can you let me know if you hear of anyone? Ok, thanks May Twenty thousand But I need you to do something for me first What? You know what I'm talking about I already told you I don't do that kind of thing That's right. You don't do that kind of thing anymore What do you want me to do? There's a man in a blue suit at the back of the restaurant He owes me a lot of money Remind him of his debt Take the class If you came back for the money it's no longer an offer I cannot beat you in a fight Then leave the school But I can beat you at this You're gonna learn that in a week? And if you lose? I will leave Do you know who that is? He came second in five national championships doing that exact routine He came second - to me Now you can save yourself a lot of wasted energy and leave now, or You can embarrass yourself in front of everybody Your choice See you next week Hey Emi doesn't have to know about this Gentleman: Tae-San Kwon Lady: Emi Lim You took the money and you never touched the guy Pick up the phone Pick up the phone Don't say you weren't warned Bye Tae See you Singapore Ballroom Dance Championships Gentleman: Tae-San Kwon, Lady: Emi Lim Thank you Are you Tae Kwon? Yes Put this on Locker room is over there Be on the floor at 9 o'clock Does anybody know where Tae is? He said he might have to... Might have to what? Give it to me Emi... I just came to see you... I just came to see you dance Why now? I just want to see you happy All I ever wanted... ...was to dance again ...and you took that away from me It's too late I'm sorry Emi I'm sorry Emi Get up Emi It's not about winning This is our moment Let's paint the floor red
