 

                        Somewhere ... The pilot said we're over a thousand miles off course. - on a mysterious island ... - This place is different. - 48 passengers ... - If we can't live together ... survived the crash of Oceanic 815. we're gonna die alone. - 108 days pass ... - I'm one of the survivors of flight 815. - and six people find rescue. - So we can go off the island? - But their friends ... - Sawyer! are left behind. We need to go back! And the island ... is suddenly ... gone. - Wait! Don't move! - Anyone?! - Taking the few who remain ... - Run! - on a journey ... - What the hell is going on? through time. We're either in the past or we're in the future. Now ... - flash forward. - We made a mistake. - Three years have passed. - Somebody knows we're lying. The people I left behind need our help. - And those who made it home ... - It wants us to come back. What is this place? - find a way back ... - Ajira Airways flight 316. to save their friends ... You have a bit of a journey ahead of you. - to change their fate ... - Now I know why I'm here. - to fulfill ... - You might wanna fasten your seat belt. their destiny. There's no turning back now. LOS "A Journey In Time" We're coming in for a landing. Now there's a lot of press that wanna speak to you. They're referring to you as the "Oceanic Six". The journey of the survivors of Oceanic and tonight we explore where both have led. If we were to sum up season five in sort of one simple concept, it's "going back". The first part of the season was about the Oceanic Six. If we get any questions that we don't wanna answer, let's just keep our mouths shut. - They'll think that we're in shock. - We are in shock, Jack. When the season started, we had our characters in two different places. We had this group of six characters who had returned to the real world and then a bunch of characters who got left behind on the island. The island itself had disappeared when Benjamin Linus, the leader of the Others, turned an ancient wheel to move the island and keep it hidden from his nemesis, Charles Widmore. And so to protect the friends they left behind, the Oceanic Six agreed to lie about their entire experience. We were in the water for over a day before the current took us in. By then, there was only eight of us left. Ms. Austen, what was it like giving birth on the island? Scary. Mr. Jarrah, is it possible there are any other survivors - from the crash yet to be discovered? - Absolutely not. We come to realize that there's an entire chapter after that for Jack and for all the other characters. They come back, and they discover there's nothing left for them in the real world. There's this sort of gnawing sensation that there is a greater destiny to be had. Hello? Who's there? The island needs you. You have to go back. Kate is rising Claire's son Aaron as her own. She knows that Claire, who's Aaron's mother, is now gone. And the only way that she can protect Aaron to say he is hers. - And we later realize ... - Hey! emotionally, Kate is still reeling from Sawyer's decision - to jump off of the helicopter. - Sawyer! This man that she really loved left her, abandoned her, - decided to stay behind on the island. - What a coward. - He was trying to do the right thing. - He was trying to get away from you. She's trying to heal the emotional scar left by Sawyer taking himself out of the equation. He made his choice. He chose to stay. And ever since that moment, Jack has wondered, what did he say to her? - Why won't you tell me? - Because he wouldn't want me to. And the fact that he still has this jealousy, what does this mean for them? You have problems. You need to figure them out, 'cause I can't have you like this around my son. You're not even related to him! Excuse me, Mr. Widmore? I'm Sun Kwon. Sun leaves the island, and she's devastated because she's just seen her husband die. Jin! And there's one other catch. Sun was pregnant when she left the island, so they now have a daughter, Ji Yeon, who Jin has never met. I miss you so much. She wants to bring to justice the person who she blames for Jin's death, and she goes to Charles Widmore. You mentioned that you and I had common interests. Why don't you tell me exactly what they might be? To kill Benjamin Linus. Ben left the island when he turned the wheel below the Orchid station ... and was transported to the Tunisian desert, ten months in the future. I just want to bury my wife in peace. Mr. Jarrah? There's a woman outside. She said she knows you, but she wasn't on the list of family members. Nadia? Sayid is incredibly happy because he's reunited with Nadia, the love of his life. And things seem to be going great until Nadia's struck by a car. Ben claims Charles Widmore was responsible for Nadia's death. Why would these people want to murder her? I don't know. His heart is black now because his wife has been killed. He very happily goes to work for Benjamin Linus and starts killing people. Is this your first time in the Seychelles? He believes that he is assassinating associates of Charles Widmore, who, in the opinion of Benjamin Linus, is sort of the big bad guy. I just killed a man who's been perched outside this facility for the last week. I want you to come with me. - We're not going back, are we? - No, just somewhere safe. I don't think we should lie, dude. I mean, the island disappeared ... Bloop! You think anyone's gonna believe that? They're gonna think you're crazy. Hurley really resists telling this lie. Of all our characters, he's sort of the most morally grounded. Surprise! Interesting choice of theme. Yeah. My Mom ... really doesn't get it, dude. For a while, Hurley seems to be living a fairly good existence. He gives away all his money. He occasionally sort of crashes at his parents' house. But then he starts to become haunted by visions of Charlie. Help! Help! What the hell is wrong with you? He gets himself thrown into a psychiatric hospital. - I saw Charlie. - Take your meds, Hurley. Charlie said someone's gonna be visiting you, too ... soon. Jack Shephard was the character who wanted the most to get off the island. Good-Bye, John. The rest of us are going home. - You're not supposed to go home. - Then what am I supposed to do?! You know that you're here for a reason. And if you leave, that knowledge is gonna eat you alive. Once he got back to the real world, however, he discovered that things were not what he expected. I miss you. He finally gets to bury his father, even though he doesn't have the body. - He resumed his practice. - Jack? He had these problems in that he was seeing his dead father around, and that was very disturbing. He starts popping pills and drinking. The great and glorious life that he was expecting to return to off the island didn't really exist. But he's very steadfast in his decision to leave the island. I don't think we did the right thing, Jack. Hurley ... - It's gonna do everything it can ... - We're never going back! He's not a guy who changes his mind often, but then something very significant happened, and that's that John Locke is off the island. Locke returned to civilization three years after the Oceanic Six came home. What are you doing here? - We have to go back. - Of course we do. Jack, the people I left behind need our help. Because it's our destiny. How many times are you gonna say that to me, John? Jack says, "I'm not gonna pay attention to you". - And Locke says ... - You're father says hello. What? The man who told me how to bring you all back? He said to tell his son hello. He said his name was Christian. My father is dead. - He didn't look dead to me. - I put him in the coffin! He's dead. This really emotionally devastates Jack, and this changes his entire attitude, so he starts flying again, hoping that he'll crash. Then he learns that Locke has died. Jack began to realize that going back to the real world was a mistake. We ... were not supposed to leave. Yes, we were. That this thing that he had wanted, not only for himself but for all the other characters, maybe that wasn't the best thing for him. And it's Locke's death that catalyzes Jack to return to the island. Hello, Jack. Didn't mean to scare you. Did he tell you that I was off the island? He told me that after I left the island, some very bad things happened. And he told me that it was my fault for leaving. And he said that I had to come back. All of you have to go back. We're gonna have to bring him, too. The day the Oceanic Six left the island, John Locke was appointed the leader of the Others. Hello, John. Welcome home. But his new position did not last long. Richard? Richard?! Time Travel There's a lot of mystery surrounding the idea of exactly what is skipping through time. Is it the island? Is it the people on the island? When the sky lit up, where did you go? I didn't go anywhere, John. You went. Here's what we know ... There is a donkey wheel in a very, very cold place down below the Orchid station. We know that when you turn it, the island moves. When the island disappeared it was basically set off its axis, and it started skipping through time. Next time we see each other, I'm not gonna recognize you. You give me this. It's a compass. The only way to save the island, John, is to get your people back here. - How am I supposed to do that? - You're gonna have to die, John. Time travel had existed on the show earlier. We saw Desmond's consciousness travel in the episode "The Constant". Hey, hey. You okay? We've had Sayid listening to a transmission from the 1940s. - It could be coming from anywhere. - Or anytime. But in this season, time travel becomes much more overt. Whatever Ben Linus did down at the Orchid station dislodged us. - Dislodged us from what? - Time. Our characters have these encounters with things that took place in the island's past. And none is any more significant than Sawyer wandering through the jungle, - seeing Kate helping Claire give birth. - Come on, Claire! Push! And this is an incredibly powerful, emotional moment for him. And we realize that is also the night that Locke first saw this light shining out of the hatch. That light in the sky ... It was from the hatch, wasn't it? The night that Boone died, I was confused, scared. The light came on and shot up into the sky. At the time, I thought it meant something. It was just a light. All these things are happening for a reason. So to tamper with them, it's kinda like cheating. I needed that pain to get to where I am now. And this is just a very Lockeian, philosophical way of saying the same thing that Faraday's saying. You can not change anything. You can't. If we try to do anything different, we will fail. Whatever happened, happened. We discover that Jin basically survived the explosion of the freighter and he washed up on the shore and was rescued by these French people. - You Danielle Rousseau? - Yes. That's right. This is a young Rousseau who's pregnant with Alex, and we discover the things that ended up driving her mad. You! - Jin? - Sawyer? - Well, what do you say? - Where is Sun? Our characters also find themselves getting attacked by these flaming arrows. Run! And it turns out that the people who are massacring them are the Others. But it's not the Others that have been terrorizing us in the present of the island. - This is the 1954 version of the Others. - What are you doing on our island?! And what's cool about this is we meet Charles Widmore as a teenager. Your name is Widmore? Charles Widmore? What's it to you? We also meet this young blonde woman named Ellie. Who are you and what are you doing on our island? Daniel Faraday asked her to bring him out to this bomb that's called "Jughead". It's a hydrogen bomb. And he tells her it's very dangerous, it's leaking radiation. You need to take it off this platform carefully and bury it. Is that why they moved to 1954? It feels like everywhere they move to, none of those moves were arbitrary. Every one of them had significance. I expect you to tell me how to get off the island. - That's very privileged information. - Oh, no. They land someplace, and a few minutes later, there's a bright flash of light. There's this incredible noise. They disappear, and they find themselves in another point in time. And it's causing enormous problems for our characters. Our brains have an internal clock, a sense of time. The flashes throw the clock off. If you fly to a different time zone, you're sort of off your axis. But when you do it traveling through time, it's much worse. In fact, it can be fatal. We have to go back to the Orchid. Ben used it to leave the island, and if I can do the same thing, I believe I can save us. Hello, John. I'm here to help you the rest of the way. It's Locke's genius idea to go turn the wheel again. If that's what got them into this problem, maybe that's the way it'll get them out. Say hello to my son. Sure enough, that works. It puts the island back on its axis. I think it's over. I think John did it. But the survivors were left stranded on the island in 1974, and spent the next three years with the Dharma Initiative. Locke went on a far different journey when he was transported to the Tunisian desert three years in the future to 2007. John, my name is Charles Widmore. I met you when I was 17. How long has it been for you since we first met? - Four days. - That's incredible. Widmore wanted to get back to the island, so he helped Locke find his friends. The folder contains your people's whereabouts ... Everyone that was on the island that left. It looks you have a visitor. John Locke came not only to see Jack, but he saw Sayid, he saw Kate. And John Locke says, "You never should've left the island. - You've gotta help your friends". - I'm not going back. - The answer is no. - No, I'm not going anywhere with you! You leave me alone, and you leave the rest of them alone! Locke believed he had failed and saw only one option. - John? - But in Locke's despair, Ben saw opportunity. - Wait, John, stop! - What are you doing here? Locke is the man that Ben left in charge of the island. I couldn't get a single one of them to come back with me. Ben is now thinking, "Maybe this is an opportunity for me to go back and get my old position". - Jack booked a ticket. - What? From Los Angeles to Sydney, tonight. And if you've got Jack, you can get the rest of them. There's only one way I can do that, and that's if I kill John Locke. You haven't even been to Sun yet. I promised Jin that I wouldn't bring her back. Jin ... is alive? But Locke has a very important piece of information that Ben doesn't have. There's a woman here in Los Angeles ... Eloise Hawking. That name means something to Ben. And she knows a way to get back to the island, so all he has to do is kill Locke. So Ben kills John Locke, and then he starts these manipulations of everybody else. I'll miss you, John. I really will. Ben went to Eloise Hawking, hoping she would know a way back to the island. - Any luck? - Yes. Benjamin Linus is not the type of guy who wants to be vanished. His one goal in life is to be the ruler and leader of the island. You only have 70 hours. So what happens if I can't get them all to come back? Then god help us all. The only way that Benjamin Linus can get back on the island is if he gets the Oceanic Six to want to go back. Ben had a difficult task, but Jack was already convinced. Find yourself a suitcase. If there's anything in this life you want, pack it in there, - because you're never coming back. - Good. The Journey Back Hello, Hugo. Ben started trying to manipulate them into wanting to go back to the island. If you come with me, you won't ever have to lie again. - Let me help you. - Never, dude. He hires a lawyer to start harassing Kate. We're here to get a blood sample from you - and one from your son Aaron. - Why? To determine your relationship to the child. This is Ben trying to put enough guilt in Kate's mind to get her to go back to the island. Why don't you leave me and my son alone? Because he's not your son, Kate. And it's something that kind of freaks her out. We were in the supermarket, and I turned around for one second, - Aaron? Aaron?! - and he was gone. All I could think was, it's about time. Why would I expect him to be taken? Kate doesn't realize that she's replacing the wound left by Sawyer with Aaron. Because you took him, Kate. Ironically, it's pointed out to her by an ex-girlfriend of Sawyer's. Sawyer broke your heart. How else were you supposed to fix it? So Kate has a change of heart. She returns Aaron to his grandmother. I told him that you'll take care of him while I'm gone and that I'll be back soon. - Where are you going? - I'm going back to find your daughter. Sun had no intention of going back to the island. Move away! Instead, she was determined to avenge Jin's death. But before she's able to kill Ben, Ben stops her and he says, "Your husband isn't dead", and he gives Sun a wedding ring ... Jin's wedding ring. All those people back on the island, Jin included, need our help. And it's proof that Jin's still alive, and that is how Ben is able to convince Sun to return to the island. - I thought I said all of them. - This is all I could get on short notice. The Lamp Post We discover that there is a Dharma station off the island. The Dharma Initiative called it the Lamp Post. This is how they found the island. And we meet this character Eloise Hawking down there, and she can use the resources of the station to determine where exactly the island is located at any given point in time. There's a commercial airline flying from L.A. to Guam that's going to go right through our "window". Ajira Airways flight 316. The show can be strange or weird or magical, but in this case, the Dharma Initiative used good old-fashioned math to find the island. So stay in school, kids. We just get on that flight and we just hope that it works? No, that's not all, Jack. Eloise Hawking says, "It's not just about being on this plane. You have to try to recreate the emotional conditions surrounding you at the time that Oceanic 815 crashed. John Locke is going to be a substitute, which is why you need to give John something of your father's. Wherever you are, John, you must be laughing your ass off. 'Cause this is even crazier than you are. For Jack, he was transporting his father's dead body from Sydney to Los Angeles in a coffin. Now that's gonna be John Locke. - And your relation to the deceased? - He was a friend. This whole idea of, "Wow, history seems to be repeating itself here". I thought maybe you might change your mind. If there's even a chance that Jin is alive, I have to be on that plane. Kate was in handcuffs. She was a prisoner. This time around, it's Sayid who is the prisoner. Sayid has no desire to go back to this island. And he's drinking himself a very expensive glass of scotch, and he meets this very fetching and beautiful woman who's sitting at the bar. Things look sort of romantically promising for Sayid, and then boom ... He gets kicked in the face. It works for some people ... - just not ... Not for Sayid. - Not for Sayid. - I was hired to bring you to Guam. - Who hired you? The family of Peter Avellino, the man you killed last year on a golf course in the Seychelles. Can I ask you a favor? Can we get the next plane? This is the plane we're taking. Hurley, what are you doing here? The last time we saw Hurley, he was in prison ... I'm totally cool. I'm in L.A. county lockup. incarcerated for double murder. It turns out these were people who Sayid killed. But Benjamin Linus' lawyer apparently got him off. All that matters is that I'm here, right? So there are a lot emotional circumstances surrounding the Ajira flight, echoing back to the original pilot of the show, even though it's three years later and they've been through these amazing adventures together. - You made it. - Yeah. I made it. Wait! What's he doing here?! He can't come! - No one told me he was gonna be here. - Who told you to be here, Hugo? - Are you working for Benjamin Linus? - Who's Benjamin Linus? He's the monster responsible for nothing short of genocide. - Why would I work for somebody like that? - I did. Flight 316 Our guys get on flight 316. They kind of have this sense that they're gonna get back to the island. You don't think it means something that somehow we're all back together? We're on the same plane, Jack. Doesn't make us together. What they don't expect is that they hear an announcement over the intercom. This is your captain, Frank J. Lapidus. Welcome aboard. Frank Lapidus was the helicopter pilot that came on the freighter and was ferrying the, uh, science team to and from the island. - Well, hello, doc. - What are you doing here, Frank? I fly this route all the time. Sometimes I take the big birds into new ... Delhi. Is that Sayid? And Hurley. Wait a second. We're not going to Guam, are we? Lapidus is flying along and he has a strong sense of foreboding. - You all right there, Frank? - I'm just fine. And sure enough, they're struck with turbulence. Dude, you might wanna fasten your seatbelt. They find themselves flashing from night to day ... Mayday! Mayday! And it's all Frank Lapidus can do to safely land this airplane. They land on the island, and four of them have disappeared. There's no Jack, there's no Kate, there's no Hurley and there's no Sayid. - Where'd they go? - They're gone. - Gone where? - How would I know? So the plane lands on the island in the island present, but these four characters ... appear on the island Help! Help! - Kate. - What happened? Eloise Hawking has said that you have to replicate the circumstances of 815 exactly. - They were not able to do that. - Where's the plane? Which is what triggers some of them to move to 1977. Jin? When John Locke stopped the flashes on the island ... My nose isn't bleeding anymore. he saved the lives of his friends. - Now we wait for him to come back. - For how long? As long as it takes. Unfortunately, it strands all of our characters in 1974. The only people that are on this compound are members of the Dharma Initiative. The sub returns in two weeks. Until then, you can stay. Horace says we can wait for the next sub. With any luck, Locke'll be back by then. And then what? When the Oceanic Six left the island on the helicopter, Sawyer was assuming that they might return because Locke said, "I'm gonna go get those guys and bring 'em back". - I'm going to leave. - Just give me two weeks. - That's all I'm asking. - All right, two weeks. Dharmaville Somehow, two weeks turned into three years. Hey, welcome to the island, man. Who wouldn't love living in the '70s? The Dharma Initiative sort of have it all. They're living on this beautiful island. They go to barbecues. They get to wear cool jumpsuits. They listen to cool music. And over the course of that time, Sawyer finds himself in a leadership role. Mr. Lafleur here can fill you in on the situation. - "Mr. Lafleur"? - It's creole. Improvised. - And he's really good at it. - Mr. Lafleur, sorry to bother you. Here's a guy who was always sort of an outsider and a bad boy and a rebel. He is actually now the head of security of the Dharma Initiative. He's well-respected. Good man ... Lafleur. Runs a very tight operation. Sawyer's got, uh, a whole security team that works for him, most notably Jin and Miles. They happen to have been assigned to security as well. Evening, enos. People like him. He doesn't ruffle any feathers. They have a truce with the Others, so the biggest issue that he's dealing with is public drunkenness. More significantly, Sawyer's begun a romantic relationship with Juliet. And they are cohabitating and they have a wonderful life. - What does that mean, living together? - That means they're living together. Then they are cohabitating. At least until our characters return. What? What? No. Don't bring 'em in. Who was it? Sawyer and Juliet get along great. There's none of the sort of, uh, emotional fireworks that existed between he and Kate. - Everything okay? - I gotta go. But now Kate's back, and as soon as they see each other, that chemistry just locks in for both of them. Dude, I can't believe it! Easy on the ribs there, Kong. And that throws a big wrench in the mechanism, doesn't it? Huge. So what's up with you guys in the old Dharma jumpsuits? We're in the Dharma Initiative. It's 1977. Uh ... what? All right, listen, you all are gonna be the second batch of recruits coming in off the sub. Sawyer kept the arrival of his friends quiet and brought them into the Dharma Initiative as new recruits. I never actually thought they'd come back. So they're back? Nothing's changed. Juliet gives a warning that their life is over, and Sawyer really doesn't think that's gonna be the case. And although Sawyer says, "Juliet, I'm in love with you", Juliet also acknowledges that this is the beginning of the end for them. - Everybody say "Namaste". - Namaste! Sun comes back to the island for one reason only, and that is to find her husband Jin. She goes back to Dharmaville. Now it's all dusty and overgrown. I don't think we're gonna find your husband here. She happens to find none other than Christian Shephard. - Where is my husband? - He's with your friends. I'm sorry, but you have a bit of a journey ahead of you. She doesn't know how she's going to reunite with her husband, who is also on the island, but is on the island in a different period of time. Hey, you understand the concept of knocking? Jin doesn't know where Sun is. He doesn't know where the plane is. - Can you check with the other stations? - I just told you. I would not ... Check with the other stations. So he's very invested in any way that he can get back to Sun. Where did you get this? Who gave this to you? He said his name was Christian. He said if I ever wanted to see my husband again, I had to wait here for John Locke. But considering he's dead, we ain't holding our breath. Well, you might want to look outside. Locke is alive John Locke is very much alive again, and that's sort of one of the big revelations, particularly for Ben, who actually killed John Locke. My god. And Ben is incredibly surprised. Like, what does it mean that he is alive? Because it's one thing to believe it, John. It's another thing to see it. And that is a question the audience has rightfully been asking ... What does it mean that John Locke is alive? Locke was dead. He remembers being killed by Ben. - I remember dying. - And that's it. Now he's back on the island. The island's given him life again. The first time he came to the island, he was in a wheelchair, and then he could walk. This is now that times a thousand. So he really feels like he has this incredible sense of purpose and destiny. Well, Ben, I was hoping that you and I could talk about the elephant in the room. I assume you're referring to the fact that I killed you. Yeah. Because it was in the best interests of the island. I was just hoping for an apology. So having come through this experience, there is a tremendous amount of faith and confidence. What he's up to, we don't know. Locke is a mystery again, like he was when we first met him. How is it that you know where you're going? And that's kind of a very exciting place for him to be. I just know. John Locke seems to have a far superior sense of communication with the island, and this really makes Benjamin Linus very upset. I've seen this island do miraculous things, but never once has it done anything like this. So the fact that John Locke is walking around this island ... scares the living hell out of me. For Hurley, the '70s were a chance to make the world a better place. I made lunch for the crew. - You're waiting for the next van. - Why don't we carpool? It'll help with global warming, which hasn't happened yet. So maybe we can prevent it. Hurley is really going with the flow here in Dharma times. When he first arrives, he's very confused about time travel ... Okay, answer me this. which we think makes him a lot like the people who are watching the show. If all this already happened to me, why don't I remember any of it? Because our experiences in the past and the future occurred before these experiences right now. Say that again. But once he sort of gets into the groove of things, he becomes a Dharma chef. He starts cooking. Don't forget to try the dipping sauces. They really bring out the ham. And he's working on a side project, which is that he's writing "The empire strikes back". George Lucas is gonna be looking for a sequel, so I figured, make life easier and send him the script ... with a couple improvements. And there's this big mystery hovering over Hurley, which is, why did he come back to the island? How did he know about Ajira flight 316? What's up with that guitar case? What is his mission really? The fact that the numbers brought him here, that he may have been cursed. Oh, hold on a minute. It's smudged. - 42. - 42! - How the hell did you know that? - They're building our hatch. And Hurley becomes friends with Miles, and he discovers that Miles is actually the son of Pierre Chang, who is the star of these Dharma orientation films. Third day we were here, I was on line at the cafeteria, and my mother got in line behind me. That was my first clue. And Hurley sort of takes it upon himself to get these two characters back together. We should all get together for a beer sometime. How awesome would that be? - As Hurley made new friends ... - We got a hostile inside the perimeter. another Ajira passenger had a far different experience. Unlike the other characters who jumped back into 1977, Sayid is separated, and he is not able to get indoctrinated into the Dharma Initiative. - Sayid? - Jin. Shut up! He's out in the jungle and is captured by the Dharma Initiative. I'm sorry, Sayid. He meets this young kid who comes to bring him food ... I'm Ben. none other than Benjamin Linus. How you doing? A 12-year-old Ben Linus brought me a chicken salad sandwich. - How do you think I'm doing? - Sweet kid, huh? There are two fundamental ways to look at time travel ... You can change the future, or you can't change the future. And Sayid, all of a sudden, a light bulb goes off in his head and he says, "I know now why I came back to this island". I think I can help you. He thinks that, "If I kill Benjamin Linus", just like if someone were to kill young Hitler, that person won't grow up to be the bad guy that they grew up to be, - and that he can change things. - I really hate it here. He wins young Ben's confidence. He gets young Ben to help him escape. Sayid repays him by shooting Ben. Which leads one to believe that this is where Ben's trust issues were born. Doc, I need you to come with me. The kid's losing blood. We need you to show us where he sprung a leak. No. If you don't come with me, Jack, that kid's gonna die. Then he dies. Jack seems very willing to sort of let fate and destiny guide him, in a way, and not be willful anymore. He's just a boy, Jack. You can't just let him die. When we were here before, I spent all of my time trying to fix things. But did you ever think that maybe the island just wants to fix things itself? Jack has become this man of faith, and he has this sort of Zen-like quality. - I liked the old you. - You didn't like the old me, Kate. - We can't just sit here and do nothing. - Maybe there's something they can do. The Others. And lo and behold! Kate saves Ben. If I take him, he's not ever gonna be the same again. He will always be one of us. You still want me to take him? Yes. So Ben ends up living and becoming Ben. Ben, I'd appreciate it if you joined us. What, John, don't you trust me here with my former people? Afraid I'll stage a coup? I'm not afraid of anything you can do anymore, Ben. Now that Locke's back on the island, he's got an agenda to go and find Alpert and the Others. - I brought dinner. - John? Who's that man he's talking to? He's a kind of advisor. His name is Richard Alpert. Richard Alpert is a very interesting character. It's clear that he's been on this island for a long time, and he doesn't age. You do remember birthdays, don't you, Richard? And one of the most important things about Alpert right now is he's the only character on the show who's in both times. He's in 1977. He's also in 2007. - I am the leader now. - Yes, John, that's right. Good, then I would like you to take me to Jacob. - We all answer to someone, John. - And whom might that be? His name is Jacob. There is this larger spiritual presence that the people on the island refer to as Jacob. - Jacob wanted it done. - Jacob talks to me, John. We've seen apparitions that may or may not be Jacob. That was Jacob. If we've met Jacob, we haven't been told that. - Are you Jacob? - I'm Christian. When we met Christian Shephard, for example, in the cabin, he says, "I'm speaking on behalf of Jacob". No one else has ever seen him. - That's right. - How convenient. For some time, you all have been accepting orders from a man named Jacob. And John Locke says, "I'm very curious about a lot of things on this island and why Jacob is asking us to do the things that we've been doing". "And once we have that conversation, I think I'll be able to lead you a lot more effectively". So I'm gonna go and see Jacob, and I'd like all of you to come with me. I'm starting to think John Locke is gonna be trouble. Why do you think I tried to kill him? I'm here to follow you now, so if you need Jacob to help you reunite your people, then I'll do whatever ... I'm not interested in being reuniting with my people. Then why are we going to Jacob? So I can kill him. - Hey, can I get a hand with this? - Yeah, yeah. Sure. After a 3-year absence, Daniel Faraday returned to the island in 1977. - Dan. - Hey, Miles. Long time, no see. Daniel Faraday is an expert in physics. Particularly in the field of quantum physics, and he knows about time travel. And he leaves the island and he goes to Ann Arbor, Michigan, joins the Dharma Initiative, and he goes over all of his life's work. Right on time. Faraday is convinced that he actually now has a significant mission to perform. The Orchid station was under construction and becoming a dangerous endeavor for the Dharma Initiative. The same thing is gonna happen at the site for the Swan station, and the accident ... is gonna be catastrophic. What could possibly qualify you to make that kind of prediction? I'm from the future. For most of the season, Daniel Faraday basically said, "If you try to change the past, it's not gonna work out", except now Faraday appears to have changed his mind. I finally realized ... People. We think, we reason, we have free will. We can change our destiny. And he's determined that, "Yes, you can change the future if you do something really significant". And he says, "The way that I can do that is to prevent the hatch from ever having been built". The Dharma folks at the Swan work site ... They're gonna ... They're gonna drill into the ground and accidentally tap into a massive pocket of energy. In order to contain it, they're gonna have to cement the entire area in like Chernobyl. They're going to spend the next by pressing a button ... A button that your friend Desmond will one day fail to push, and that will cause your plane to crash on this island. All this is about Faraday pushing the reset button in a huge way. I think we can change that. And that hatch will never be built, and your plane will land just like it's supposed to. And just how exactly do you plan on destroying this energy? I'm gonna detonate a hydrogen bomb. - Hey, James. - Welcome to the meeting, twitchy. So he walked into Sawyer's house and he addresses everybody and he says, "I have a way to get us all back to where we belong". Does anyone know where I can find the hostiles? - Why do you need to know that, Daniel? - Because one of them is my mother. Your mother is an other? You met her back in 1954. They were calling her Ellie. This character Eloise Hawking ... She is Daniel Faraday's mother. Where is Eloise? But now in 1977, Faraday's mother is now 20 years older - and encounters Faraday again. - She's not here right now. The hydrogen bomb I told your people to bury ... Where is it? Just put the gun down. - Faraday has the misfortune of dying. - Right, yes. He gets shot by his mom. - Who are you? - I'm your son. We have to go, Jack. We have to go right now. Jack and Kate are captured by the Others. And Eloise Hawking has, like, a new motivation herself, right? Because she's hoping that "You can change the future" because she would certainly very much like not to have her son die. How is this my handwriting if I don't remember writing it? Because you haven't written it yet. And Jack finally realizes, "This is why I'm in 1977". What you just did, it was an accident, and I think that there's a way for you to take it all back. "My destiny is to prevent myself from ever having come to this island in the first place". Your son came back here because he had figured out a way to change things. He doesn't have to be dead. You don't have to have killed him. - Does he know what he's talking about? - He thinks he does. All right, then ... I'll take you to the bomb. - You two know how to swim? - Why don't we just go around it? We have to swim under the pond to get to the tunnel. I'm not going. I can't go any further with you, Jack, not this time. Kate ... Jack makes her very uneasy and uncomfortable because he's really undergone an incredible transformation as a character. And if you're wrong, then everyone on the island dies. - Do you understand that? - I'm not wrong, Kate. This is it. - This is our destiny. - Do you know who you sound like? Because he was crazy, too, Jack. You said so yourself. I'm going back to find the rest of our people, because if I can't stop you, then maybe they can. Kate made her way back to the compound, where Sawyer and Juliet were planning an escape. You called it the minute those yahoos got there. I should've listened to you. Fairly quickly, everything unravels. One of Sawyer's trusty security guys finds this videotape with evidence that Sawyer is not who he says he is, and, of course, all the Dharma people are shocked because Sawyer was the very beloved head of security. That's not good, right? That woman ... Where is she now? They beat the crap out of him trying to find out what he knows and where young Ben is. They got Sawyer and Juliet. And there are 30 of them and they all have guns. We gotta do something. I mean, Sawyer would never leave us behind. Dr. Chang. Your friend Faraday said that you were from the future. - Dude, that's ridiculous. - What year were you born? - Uh ... 1931. - You're 46? Who's the president of the United States? All right, dude, we're from the future. Sorry. Your friend, the physicist ... He said there was going to be a massive accident at the Swan. Now is that true? He's been right about everything so far. We need to evacuate the island of all nonessential personnel, and you need to do it ... What the hell is going on here? Aren't you supposed to be at the Swan right now, Chang? We're supposed to break ground in less than 20 hours. If we start drilling, there's a high probability - of a cataclysmic accident. - We are drilling and on schedule! He's right. It ain't safe. Put the women and children on the sub and get 'em the hell out of here. Sawyer makes a deal with them and says, "I will give you the information you want as long as you put me on the submarine". He's content, at this point, to just sail off to the real world with Juliet. Once we dock, wherever we dock, we're free. - I love you. - I love you back. Hold on! Don't close the hatch! - But then, unfortunately ... - Kate gets tossed in the mix. Oh, Kate. - Hey. - Hey. Apparently, she's come back to try to warn them about what Jack's up to, but she's now captured by the Dharma Initiative. So now you've got those three characters sailing away from the island, and Jack back on the island, on his way to a hydrogen bomb. There are crazy things happening on this island. There is a sense of destiny and purpose. But all of that is secondary to the fact that these people are here for a reason. These characters are intertwined in ways that they don't even fully realize and understand yet. The relationships they form, the friendships ... Who's gonna live? Who's gonna die? Those are the really exciting stories that we wanna tell, starting in this finale and rolling into the final season of the show. We've been excited for a long time about where the show is going, and now we finally get to share the rest of that journey with the audience. We think the best part of the story is still yet to be told in this final season, and we hope people will enjoy the ride with us. Well ... Now what? dima360
