 

                        "THE LOST SAMARITAN" I have a delivery for Mr. Michel Leave it here What? I have a special delivery to Mr. I heard I told you stop here I can not do that You can not do what? Leave it to you I'm his private secretary get all their supplies Sure? What happens? Give me the damn package It is not a package Whatever it was dmelo I will give it to Mr. Harris It is impossible Not possible? - No So sorry I ask him to withdraw Look lady I know this I love my job and do it right If the client tells me Give it to the person So I do But if you asked me me to go well But this shipment should arrive in a or And believe me when I say one way or another What is it? Look lady the sooner I go Someone else will And the next I do not think is so good like me Well See you can do Mr. Harry If you feel It is a special dispatch And you have to personally pick If Already Thank you ... Jamie It's funny Looks more like a ... Cintia Is he? If Is Mr. Harry? Sorry - What? Good morning - Mierda Are you okay? - No, I burn Sorry I do Crap On this ruined pajamas Buy another - No longer sell Ponte other Apparently not understand Try to stay well is not only pajamas Ok It's like the other night When you stay up late Margaret and I stayed in I thought it was her Yes, everything is a joke Because I am an accountant Margaret understood That funny Margaret can talk about the rise of her husband Being promoted is not all Not all, but it is something I love you Put otherwise ok Have a nice day It? You can do better I love you too Well Bye - Goodbye Hey Will how about the job, and you end up? Already Well here's What is it? The need for Monday No, it is impossible not finish on Monday Will, anything is possible if you proponents I know nothing about this account It is one of mine True and why does not it work? Because I have plans I am your boss What kind of plans? A hot date A man like you may not know but I say Sometimes it's good to do Overtime pay? Clear Listen you do a favor Do this I promise to support you and what we talked about That was 6 months Yes, and if you get for Monday it won Terry? Do it better old because you do not have much humor Enjoy your date Hey, you know that I will Ok? How was your date with the law? And no lawyer After the battle? Listen she never knew Well More coffee? If Miss please fill Something for you? Juice And something else Ok, do the following and we're going home Not a week and rested I need Most do Thank you And heard enough of your crap Malditos stingy I can not wait to finish Only a more It is the latest work It is an investment Shut up Only leads Come please Hello? Hello baby Bad news When you arrive? Sorry I know I said no more What's the novel? I may be about 5 or 6 hours Ok Wake me when you get home ok? If home It is assumed that I stay here tonight You know when you hate when you run in the office What is We then explain Fucking bastard The good is notica That seems to me that an increase will So I love you What is You are so good I told Rioja terminare for Monday AND BACK Hello Cold night outdoors Dmelo what's the morning Coffee? Please And what can I offer? Sounds great you stay? If Me neither Work? Soy counter Nice to meet you And what can you bring? They can not take What the ... hamburger? Nor have these Why not? Because they do not cook And you? I either breakfast I can do I do not want breakfast I want this So it is not always what you want But if you need If Apology Dinner ready? I told you not call me here Yes, it was specific I do not call it work I will not do it now No, I have customers Yes, I know I call you back ok? No, look, I gotta go I call you later bye Damn There? Me Call for help Gasoline Your name? Alan Alan what? We draw here ok? I got Hey, if is an emergency I am a victim of the accident Hang Now we are at the hospital What? Are you okay? Singer also What? What is that? A Seven Zero Are you okay? Almost there What? -1,2,7,0 What is that? This is He was in an accident Gonna be okay Okay? Yes, I'm fine Wait for someone to come talk Excuse me sir? I can speak for a moment? I hope that if Sir? Arthur what is it? Why am good? Only a few questions Sr You can stay a moment please No, I do not think so Is your car? Tal ves Why let it escape? You wanted to do? Shot in front of the hospital? Why not? Hello Friend David talks I need an address If you clear I have the license plate number First and I said And second only to I know you like Terry Then what are you waiting for? You can expect? True What? Hear something No, those accustomed Catch Me If You Can I will atraparte This should be What are you doing? I thought let it go No, you're not shooting the front of the hospital Well Best for me Where is your car? Must be in the garage Clever Oh no So you're Mrs. Peo Who the fuck are you? What happens? We have the wrong guy What next? We can handle at least? Crap You are so lucky She is not wrong What next? Put down He will come sooner or later Until then Try not hundirte We are invited be happy to have us Tal ves Are you okay? Only'm Watching They are the worst Now listen that holds the fate / i To tauro They are going to make something good, / i So Come on, do not be afraid Demonstrate manner / i Hey back I'll give you one minutes No, I'm fine What can you give? A cup of coffee and Ok Another cup of coffee is Thank you Excuse me? Bathroom? There Thank you It's like the other night Me to stay where Margaret I thought you liked If you and your work Being promoted is not everything Is not everything, but it is something I love you Already back ok ' Have a nice day It? You can do better I love you too Well Bye bye I thought you wanted something to eat Ok thanks Do not be paid Thanks again I'm not flirting Sorry I misinterpreted No I understood Want ... sit I am somewhat busy Ok I can do it later It seems that coqueteas I have no where to go This is a restaurant And then what? An You can ask why? Not even know me Just do what I feel After someone else here? If good Friday night is my Never treat anyone achievement I am an owner It seems to be the destination There is something Not gave me a good tip Just gave you coffee and gave me a good tip Only the tip? Fair enough So? Balls balls? This is Ok I hope Eres tu How to live well eh? It seems that many things went today You know the guy who saved tonight Yes, tell me It seems that if It is true Probably we were friends if you do not kill You make me feel bad But you were fucking his wife Yes? Still there Everything is fine Just a little talk With whom? With them No, so we stay there We will do Give it ok? You did Hey Sorry How long was this? A little over an hour Bad night? If you have no idea A little more than coffee if you want to talk Sounds good Thank you Provided here is dead? Depends on a point of view It is always quiet It is not strange to see someone asleep So why bring it to me At least these tu I'm just deciding if I let you go I'm not .. Insurance follow Believe in fate? Destiny ... if There are many paths You can decide whether or not Well when you follow your path Life opens in front of you as A good trip And when you go against Everything is painful Not working poor relations Until now I have fought against I do not want to continue fighting May I? Why was that? I think you stole my heart The rest depends on you You can tell me about it There is nothing to say After tonight Term? If, end Until 10 seconds was the worst day of my life If you say the word I stay with you forever Not even know my name Say what you will or sack? William - William? William Arthur Ok, William Arthur what else? What is yours? Ellen Hase a taste Ellen We can do that Well There is one thing Or if this place? Oh no will be destroyed when I go You are here after the call that I had tonight It was my boyfriend well my ex boyfriend We had a fight last night I told him I was gonna leave And it would not call And then you were here I never told anyone this Once I was married Back one night and surprise And I can see almost exactly the same And when it comes to the house found something more These men's boots The clothes on the stairs Clothes everywhere The first thing that came to my head is whether she was raped, murdered? The truth came out when I entered the room Died As quick as you Deserved to die I hope I can forgive her husband Are you sure? I do not understand I was never more secure I'll go with you ok Not a nice guy - More reason to go with you There is Your dog Waiting, watching I told you does not end unless you tell It was reasonable Who the fuck are you? A friend of her He said that the accompanying She does not need help Why not go back where you came from You do not need to speak well Do not do this man Or what? Just let go You let go? Are you okay? If Are you okay? If Just give me a second How much? As what? You As? Tonight As an hour or two One of those things destination If I do not know what to say Sorry Cudala Thank you Sorry No, it was very romantic Five years ago It's a good boy but you can not say no At least shut Well, we already have a house What? Something? No And what do we do? We hope The boy is counter what the hell could I do? Again soon I hope he is right I can not resist more All this scares me Are your eyes So do not look Crap Who the hell wants to be an accountant? Bingo Could take time You stay? No, I'll go with you Safe? I'll cover It appears that Ms. Hand Her husband has new female company Yes? You are here Who are they? He and a woman Look familiar I go on the way stay there, ok? Take your time this will be easy Betty? Betty? Are asleep? What Mr Arthur? Why? There is why Mr. Arthur Tell me when, where and with whom But why not But why they shot He did a favor she was cheating Hello Mr Arthur If a man in my house I need to leave now We quit Tell me Say what? Tell me about tonight I do not know anything about that They have a gun Let Arthur I count on you Please come The girl where is it? She is not here Where is it? Here What to do? Nothing Come The number to call is not available - Curse Manny? Where are you? Get off the gun Roll Can you explain what here? Can Slowly Specialist FBI Curioso My friend gave me a call We have searched a man William Arthur What is the name of your friend? Manny Rodriguez Better come with me Why? Any idea why his team was here? I told we are looking for Arthur An accountant who lives here gave us that direction I received a call that Manny Told me that he had spoken And he came here Their investigations are always well, no? Always arrive early? Sometimes the window Manny and I have come a long but this research is It seems that their suspect had some deaths Was suspected of extorting their customers But he had no reason to suspect Parce that his wife had an affair The woman was the man Both were fired with a 9 mm gun This is shown in all And he? He also was shot But what we see gave fight He was crushed to death So it must be a dissatisfied customer You can give me one second? Just do not touch the body by footprints You are a motherfucker Manny In truth this time cagaste Beast But I miss I had to do it your way and cagarla Damn fool What the fuck was that? Why they tried to kill you? Why kill your wife and that man? He was unmarried The worst night of my life I came here when I leave the office There was an accident a man out of the car Exploded Take you to hospital the same guy That was in the hospital I was in my house What the boy, the car? What of it? Everything is damaged He turns to me You know who he was? No, it is in the hospital Well el chico del hospital Tiene algo que ver hello Cul era su nombre Allan Robins Allan Robins? Lo siento pero el muri Ok Esta muerto Mierda Trataron de matarlo Los vi Ahora tratan de matarme Quien mierda son ellos? Qu les hiciste? Mataron a mi esposa Dios! Lo siento Qu hacemos ahora? William Arthur es responsable Por la muerte de su esposa Su mediadora Terry Baskins Y el agente especial Rodrguez Ahora huyo y est en peligro Esta en compaa de una mujer no identificada No tengo que advertirles que es peligroso Es un asesino Tomo dos vidas en sus manos As que haremos las preguntas ms tarde, no? Palabras fuertes Mat a mi compaero Inocente hasta que se pruebe su culpabilidad Es el estilo americano Esta paz no durar Este hijo de perra mat a mi compaero Y son todas las pruebas que necesito Tal vez si escucha algo Srta. Llmeme a este nmero Necesito aire Imbcil Bingo No s quien me podra llamar ahora Hola? William Arthur? Hola? William Arthur? Si Quin es? Soy especialista del FBI Tengo un presentimiento que sabe porque llamo Esta por entrar en problemas Sr Arthur Mato a mi esposa Quien la mat? Estaba en mi casa Mat a mi esposa y me estaba esperando Es una gran pldora para pasarla Espera que crea que el agente Mat a su esposa y amante? Y espero que llegue a casa Para que tambin lo mate? No s su nombre solo s que trat de matarme Y su amante? Terry Basken Es mi jefe Sabe que creo Sr Creo que llego a casa Y encontr a su esposa con su jefe Y mat a ambos El agente rodrguez slo escogi La peor noche para venir De qu habla? Esta en investigacin por malversacin de fondos El agente rodrguez Era parte del equipo de investigacin Vino a su casa esta noche El me trato de matar Tiene que creerme No mat a nadie Mat a mi esposa S, soy un contador no un inversionista Nada de esto encaja Necesito que venga firme Y tendr oportunidad de defenderse Quiere que vaya Qu hars? No s qu hacer Haga lo correcto No mat a nadie No mat a nadie Dnde est Sr Arthur' Sr Arthur? Le dir donde estoy Si no le gusta lo que digo Me arresta y no hay nada que pueda hacer contra eso Dnde est usted? Estoy en el American Dinner Le dar una oportunidad No me desilusione Espera a que vengan a examinar el mdico Ya viene un equipo Richie habla Kat, necesito un favor Si s que es tarde slo necesito el profile de alguien Es de el agente especial Trevor S que es uno de nosotros por eso dije que es un favor Oficiales, qudense aqu ya regreso No te preocupes Manny enviare a estos al infierno Ok amigo Esto ira jodiendose si no me cree Ir a la crcel Por mucho tiempo Cmo pas? Ni hice nada Will Ven sintate Est bien Eso espero Eso espero Qu mierda hago? William Arthur? Si Y usted? Es una amiga Su amiga tiene nombre? Elle Ellen orhaouse Estuvo con l esta noche? Si Por qu? Qu quieres decir? Es una pregunta simple por qu? Nos conocimos esta noche, Despus que encontr a su esposa Y la mat No, Dios no - No! Fue ese hombre El agente del FBI es del hombre que hablaban? No s qu agente pero puso su pistola en su cabeza Pngase estas Sintese Estamos bajo arresto? No Es slo algo mo Puedo? Cul de ustedes empezar? Ok Dejemos que ruede Mat al agente especial Rodrguez, cierto o falso? Dnde est? Cierto Y mat a su esposa, cierto o falso? No No lo hizo Cllese, tendr su oportunidad Cierto o falso? Falso No mat a mi esposa No mat a mi esposa Necesito que ambos miren esto Es el que te trata de matar? Si Es l Ok, entonces slo responde cierto o falso Descubriste esta noche que tu esposa te engaaba? Si Cierto No ests aqu te quedas en la oficina Dejaste tu casa sin confrontarlos Cierto Conociste a esta chica y decidiste empezar Cierto Ambos fueron a tu casa y encontraron a tu esposa Y su amante muertos por el agente de FBI Trato de matarte Te defendiste Y en eso lo mataste Qu hacemos' Todo eso es cierto Muy difcil de creer Como puedo regresar a mi departamento Y decir que todas las evidencias que apuntan A un crimen pasional El sospechoso es un inocente que Trata de empezar una nueva vida El problema es Que te creo Pero como convenceremos a los dems? Por qu? Por qu? Suena desilusionada Pens que .Inocente Hasta que se pruebe su culpa Es para lo que vivo Hay cosas que no se mezclan Hubo un cuchillo en el piso, una mordida en su mano Si, lo mord Todas las evidencias dicen que l te quera matar Era el nico que posea un arma Todo lo dems apunta tu desesperacin por escapar Lo que no entiendo Es por qu? Dile del accidente Hubo una explosin, en un auto saque a un hombre Lo lleve al hospital - Cuando fue eso? Esta noche Mierda Ellos tratan de matarme No esperaba que el carro rodara as Aun sigue vivo El cuerpo humano es asombroso Me pregunto que hars con el arma Qu crees que har? Hey djame hacer esto a mi manera ok? Ok, le dispararas en la cabeza? - Si por qu no? Mi forma es mejor Tu forma es mejor? Ok mustrame esperar Ya regreso Qu? Lo siento no te escucho Aydeme Tienes la bomba? Por qu piensas que explotar no es mejor? Tranquilo, tranquilo Un carro viene vmonos Salgamos Hay alguien all? Mierda - Ayuda Vamos, disparmosle Llamar por ayuda Hay gasolina en todos lados Cul es su nombre? Allan - Allan qu? Lo sacar de aqu Qu diablos pasa hombre? Debe haber algo Mierda .Pens que dijiste que eran las bateras Eso no es batera Debo ir a darle en la cabeza? Olvdate del show Djame hacerlo a mi manera Ahora lo haremos a mi manera Hola? Si es una emergencia Tengo una vctima de accidente, pueden esperarme Les debe un pequeo favor Dijiste que murmuraba nmeros o algo Si, deca nmeros extraos Bien? No se cuales son los nmeros Estas bien? Qu es eso? Estas bien? Casi llegamos Qu es? Puedo ver su identificacin por favor? Es esto Es una coincidencia? Cules eran los otros nmeros? Qudese aqu Es la agente especial Kat. Necesito hablar con el agente Barks, rpido Thank you De qu se trata? No s Espero que este de nuestro lado Resh tienes que hablarme Esta ajustado? No puedo creerlo Cierto Esto acabo Resh Te llevare a cenar Iremos a ver Mira estoy un 99% segura que dices la verdad Pero mat a un agente, y no puedo dejarlo ir as Lo llevar a un lugar seguro Seguro? Pero esta muerto? Es el nmero de su compaero Agente Davilan Y piensa que quiere matarnos? Hable con el departamento Trabajo junto a rodrguez por aos Bosnia, fuera de las leyes Sobrevivi a los 80 no querr meterse con el Estas son necesarias? No ir a ningn sitio Precaucin Cuanto piensa que tomar? No mucho Agente especial Vzquez Estoy aqu para su prisionero Devilan En mi custodia no es necesario eso Mi amigo aqu dice lo opuesto Voltate Por qu ahora? No importa Solo dmelo y todo estar bien Lo bueno es que trabajamos para el mismo gobierno No, yo trabajo en el gobierno Hay una gran diferencia Terminaste Devilan Lo siento Fuiste una amiga mejor que eso Lo siento Apresrate Will Salgamos de aqu Por qu? Mejor salimos Nadie nos creer Vmonos Arthur! Tenemos que salir de aqu No ok Ahora es el momento de luchar No vamos a morir Arthur! No me haga gritar Sr. Arthur Debera estar orgulloso de si mismo Ambos malograron un bonito traje Esto debe parar Slo djenos en paz Por favor No funciona as Ese no es el juego S que no es un juego Slo quiero mi vida de regreso Lo siento no puedo Hago cosas y no me arrepiento Usted era un contador Sr Arthur Debera entender Que todo lo que hago es mantener el balance Alto! Hijo de perra Muy mal Sr. Arthur Es la segunda vez que me disparan hoy No sabe los dramas? Le dir sobre las municiones Tengo miedo Lo siento mucho Salga Sr. Arthur Y usted tambin seorita No puedo Saldremos ambos ok? Solo no dispare por favor Me dio poca propina Qu? Usted y su amigo Me dieron una propina de mierda Muchas palabras he ido a muchos lugares Debera estar orgullosa de usted Que usted ha sido la que ms duro Me hubiera gustado prestarle ms atencin antes Y ahorrarnos muchos problemas Ahora es tiempo de morir Maldito bastardo Thank you Thank you Qu hacemos ahora? Pues ahora Sr. Arthur Depende de usted Nuca estuvo aqu Vyase Thank you Se devuelve .Gracias Buena suerte Cmo te sientes? Me siento Me siento bien Sra. Arthur
