 

                        Help! Be careful, sit down Are you okay? I beg you to rescue my parents! They're still in the sea I beg you to rescue them! Last night's storm was too powerful I'm begging you My mother gave me the last plank of wood Don't be afraid Fisherman Uncle is here for you Don't be afraid Tell Fisherman Uncle your name My name is Xiami Dried Shrimp Xia as in Summer, Mi as in Rice Xiami Are you hungry? I'll get you something to eat Mother Mother That accident at sea changed my whole life Father, Mother, I still think of you I recruited you because you know how to read lips If you won't even use that Why do I need you? Get out! Lawyer Gao I came here to apply for a case investigator position That's a job I can definitely do well Get out! What do you want? Lawyer Gao, Mr. JK is here Mr. JK Long time no see Please come in Go out! That scoundrel He's been cheating tourists on that island of every penny I want you to get a good investigator to collect information on him No problem Isn't there coffee? Change it Darling I already wired the money over to you Xiaoli Let me take that Mr. JK, here's the coffee you wanted How did you know I wanted coffee? I saw it from outside You saw it? Yes, because I can read lips You can read lips? I am Lawyer Gao's assistant investigator My name is Xiami I'm going to find you an amazing investigator No need I've already found one Thank you Mr. JK! Thank you boss! Mr. JK Miss Xiami is our best investigator! My friend was vacationing on Love You You Island And the boss cheated him of a lot of money I want you to collect... his business records So I can sue him and win (Person in charge: You Lele) You Lele I'm going to get you Ladies and gentlemen I'm Captain Love You You Beautiful bride, May I? Sure! What's your name? Linda My buddies... Attack! Take out your cash and credit cards Please don't hurt my wife! I'll give you anything you want George, I'm so scared. George Password? Whose birthday is 1210? My mother's Your mother's His mother's In that case, I have to check Go there! Did you ever Touch that sexy secretary in your office? How do you know there's a sexy secretary in my office? Hurry up and answer But what does this have to do with the robbery? I'll answer, I'll answer Yes I did fantasize about it But I never touched her I swear And have you ever taken a mistress? How could I when I wasn't even married? You intend to have a mistress when you're married? I don't mean that Don't argue. Shut up That sword of his must be fake If we attack him, we'll definitely win Why do you want to marry her? Why? Because... Spit it out I kill without remorse Because... I'm making the first strike - C'mon, let's attack together - Because... The sword is so sharp, hubby! Very sharp Hey! Boss! Attack! Attack! Why are you not attacking? Why should we attack? A misunderstanding! Actually it's all a misunderstanding He's just the organizer of the wedding This is just a test for the groom My wife! I want to see you next to me when I get up every morning You need to pay extra I was injured on the job I'm not with the couple. Just treat it as an accident You're so righteous You pay for it then Why should I pay you anything? Moneygrubber I'll pay, I'll pay! I'm very satisfied with my husband's answer I'll happily pay you any amount Good! As long as someone pays Buddies, we're done here! Love You You! Give me your phone number I'm leaving! If there's anything you need - Feel free to call me - Trash Look, our phone number's right here Our resort has many wedding games And performances Remember, my name is You Lele Go back and tell your boss, this is what you get for bothering me Heard that? You Lele "Trash" "Trash" A true piece of trash "Trash" Hey! Hey! "Trash Trash Trash" "Trash" Order anything you want Have another glass Drink up! Passport? Passport! What do you want? Think you look better from the left side? Passport! We need the passport for registration! Boss What? Some scores have arrived A whole group of scores We'll conquer them! Luxury brand Also luxury brand Another luxury brand Truly scores He's indeed a moneygrubber Ladies! Welcome! Welcome to New Century Magical Beach What's this? Why is it so expensive? Not expensive at all As part of the new generation of sophisticated ladies You pursue luxury brands Why not pursue spiritual luxury? Let me show you Southeast Asia's most famous Magical Soul Ritual It'll be an unforgettable experience What is it? Liar Let our Master Chicken... Chicken! Be the captain of your souls Let him unburden you of pain I want you. I don't want him Only you Of course Let me take you on a tour through the horizons Leave behind your sorrows And then finally You may rest against my chest What do you say? Follow me! I heard the story of the Fisherman Uncle who saved Xiami Very famous Correct, you know your stuff This is the sand sculpture of Fisherman Uncle If you take a photo with him and Place it under your pillow In just 7 weeks, 43 days - You'll be able to... - Isn't that 49 days? Yes, but bringing it earlier by a week is better No matter if you're praying for love or marriage Or fair weather Or beautiful looks Have you chosen what you'll pray for? Doesn't matter if you haven't decided Take a photo first. One photo for 1 00 dollars Click away Here's a fat girl sand sculpture She's not just any fat girl Her name is Xiami When she fell into the sea, nobody could save her Because she was just so fat It was only Fisherman Uncle Who was able to use all his strength to pull her out of the water Who knew that Xiami would be so ungrateful and even tried to separate... Fisherman Uncle and his girlfriend Because she wanted him for herself Nevermind We have here a magical stone Born from thousands of years underwater If you throw this stone at Xiami here Your romantic rival will starting hurting all over Even in the butt So... catch this! Don't rush. There's more over here There's a discount today Money Cheat! What right do you have to call me a cheat? Because I'm Xiami I was there when it happened! Did you lose weight or something? Should have said so earlier, I would've made a slimmer sculpture He's a cheat. Don't believe him! This is my girlfriend She became like this from praying too much So you have a girlfriend No, I broke up with her some time ago No! Your girlfriend! I'm now single Your girlfriend Yes! We have a floating wedding hall on the sea But you have to be willing to spend Good! Miss Sophia, don't worry I'll give you a most memorable wedding Leave it to me, thank you! - Chicken - Yes? Get ready, we're starting work! You're paying such a low salary, who would do the job? Woke up, eh? Why are you still here? Actually my passport and purse were stolen at the harbor Go to the police station It'll take time for a new passport to arrive Are you hiring staff here? I'm willing to work for free As long as I get food and lodging Work for free? You're willing to do anything? Scrub it again, hurry! Miss Can't you move faster? You think you're on a shopping trip? Stop listening to music! - Xiami, come over - Would you like to order? - French fries - And you? - I want chicken chop - Chicken chop Xiami Xiami! Showtime, girls Come! Follow Master Chicken He'll help soothe your pain. Come Which island will we spend the night on? - Can't tell you that yet - Why? Go Xiami go! Get to sleep! What Magical Soul Ritual... Lecherous, greedy cheater... Trash! There's a first time for everything You can only buy this here You can't find it elsewhere I know, so I came to look for you But your brother didn't call me I'm here - it's the same thing - We're old customers - No... I only did it because of your brother Come on, help out Ask your brother to call me Can't stand it anymore? Hey Get to work! Magical Soul Ritual Sand sculpture photo You're indeed a moneymaking machine Impressive So tired, I'm going to bed Thank you Sorry! Weird girl... Sleepwalking? What do you think? Heaven on earth! Wow! So beautiful Hubby! Isn't it great? As long as you like it Deposit, come this way No problem We built the law firm together Everything you do is in your interest. Is that fair? Miss Sophia Please take a look. This is the menu for the wedding dinner Event schedule Please take a look here These are the rooms for the wedding guests We'll do everything you request As for fees I guess you need the deposit? Yes Thank you Have all the other resort guests moved out? Of course Take a look at these people around us Once I receive the money, I'm going to chase them all off the island Thank you A guest has booked the whole hotel So we're moving to the new staff dormitories We have staff dormitories here? Let me tell you I'm very good to my staff Sleep in this tent? Isn't this blissful? Most people sleep in the sea! I know you're a fan of sleepwalking Careful you don't sleepwalk into the sea How do you know? Did I sleepwalk last night? Let me warn you first They are my important guests Don't you scare them away Hey I'll be right there Useless piece of garbage Boss, he's indeed a big cheat I've already gotten hold of his business data I'll return tomorrow Good But Mr. JK wants you to stay behind And get all the data from before July 28 Yes, I understand, Boss Hubby Shall I go over to your room? Didn't you say we needed to sleep in separate rooms before the wedding? You're not smoking are you? No... I was just getting ready for a shower I... Wait a minute An improvement, at least no crash this time Hey Hey Get up. If I said she was sleepwalking Would you believe it? Ah! So I guess that girl in the nightclub was sleepwalking too? I promise I was only entertaining clients that time If I don't work hard with my clients, how do I earn money for us? Fine. Next time just take care of your work and not me When have I not cared about you? Everytime I tell you I want to keep a pet cat, have you cared? Didn't I say keep one if you want? When did I ever stop you? How do I keep one? Everyone's so busy now Then just get a cat next time How long do I have to wait? When I'm an old lady? Everytime I reply to your question, you're not satisfied. What exactly do you want? I want to discuss my problems with you Am I not discussing your problems with you now? Do you think you're talking to thin air? Everytime I talk to you I always feel like you don't care about me If that were the case, would I be discussing a cat at midnight? I feel like I'm just talking to your shell I can't feel your soul Why don't you tell me what you mean by not feeling my soul? If you love me, of course I'd feel your soul That's bizarre Where are you going? Running away as usual My soul's here But I'm taking this shell of mine to bed Please go ahead and converse with my soul No wonder my father didn't want me to marry you Your father wouldn't let you marry me? He said you were completely unsuitable for me He really said that? Really Your father's really wise And all these years To think I've underestimated him all these years I want to cancel the wedding It's you who said it And you're my witness You weird girl I already told you not to sleepwalk into my guests' rooms You sleepwalked into my male guest's room Why didn't you sleepwalk into Chicken's room instead? Which room is Chicken in? How in the world would I know? Let me tell you This is my big client I spent so much effort on them Now all this money I was going to earn Is gone! I want you to get out of my sight now Wait a minute and listen to me We can find a way to reunite them Reunite, wow, reunite You really think it's like the Fisherman Uncle sand sculpture? "Take a photo here, click click!" "Put a photo under your pillow for just 7 weeks, 43 days" You think it really works like that? Who cares how many days? Get lost by tomorrow Unless you have a great idea on how to reunite them You can get out of here now I want to sleep Mr. Haochang Listen to me Actually, come to think of it You're about to get married Don't give it up because of a small misunderstanding This misunderstanding helped me realize My wanting to marry Haochang Is a real mistake Women, you see What they want is For you to care for them a bit more Once you do, there won't be any problem at all How else can I care more? Take work for example Everytime she's unhappy at the office, I always tell her to just quit If he really cared for me He'd listen to my complaints Right? He shouldn't always evade the issue And just tell me to quit Us men We have great pressure at work Huge When we're under pressure, can't we watch a game and unwind? What's wrong with that? He's just obsessed with watching games That's very normal Everytime he has problems at work I show him so much concern I spend all night analyzing his problem and provide suggestions You know what I can't stand? I can't stand that She always forces her suggestions on me Be this way, be that way. Do this, do that. I feel She simply doesn't trust my abilities Exactly, I totally agree. Men are the worst because They don't know how to treasure what they have Right, you're so correct What's most important to a man? Face Face, exactly. Face And what's worst about women? They always want to change us men Without face, we have no honor Cheers! Pretending to care about you at the beginning But then later Once they have you, They just start going through the motions Make you feel meaningless And worthless! Absolutely right! Just like some instant noodles they've finished eating Dumped straight into the trash Dumped anytime they like Although they keep saying they don't mind That's all lies! My good friend, you're so right! At the beginning They act like some lovely thing Promising to never leave you But with time, they become vicious harpies! Exactly They're horrifying like that Men... Men! Cry, my brothers! Ain't no crime in crying! Us women, we just need to live like we want to All those jerks who don't appreciate us Will live to regret it! Go ahead and cry! Business is ruined. I'm done for Keeping a cat She can't even take care of herself, and now she wants a cat If a woman has a guy for company, what does she need a cat for? So, by wanting to keep a cat She's hinting that you're not keeping her company enough Why doesn't she tell me directly that she wants me to care more? Of course she won't ask so directly How unromantic would that be? You think it's like your boss sending you a memo? So... Women like using hints and metaphors! They like to use ambiguous... ways of communicating with you If you're really her soul mate You'd completely understand her hints Women are simply troublesome Go find a man if you think women are so troublesome Miss Sophia Not sure if you remember But you said you wanted to book our resort for 2 weeks So I rejected all other guest bookings for those 2 weeks You said you wanted a wedding hall on the sea And I provided you with Southeast Asia's most beautiful most unique floating wedding hall Don't you think it's a pity? What's it got to do with me that you rejected other guests? Running any business comes with risk Don't you understand this basic philosophy? In any case I came here because you told me there was a floating wedding hall You're sharp Of course I am No wonder men don't like you What did you just say? I meant, such a sharp woman as yourself Is surely irresistible to men But sometimes playing a bit dumb Will help make you more lovable Am I right? Tell me again, what exactly do men want? What exactly do women want? Give me an example of what you don't understand I'll analyze for you Well She often tells me that I'm Annoying When I ask her what's annoying about me, she never says She sometimes claims that I bully her Why in the world would I bully her? I'm a man after all Men Iove face So women need to give men face Men are simple creatures They don't like complicated issues If you want to keep a cat Just tell him directly that you want a cat Right? She says you're annoying But you're not at all annoying She thinks you're the most lovable person on earth She says you bully her My dear, you think women are so easy to bully? She only lets people she likes bully her! What's more You're the only person in the world she'll allow to bully her Actually What you think your partner cares most about is Actually what you yourself care most about Yeah? So in the past when I thought he placed work over me Actually It was I that placed work over him When I was sick, he'd always stay by my side Even though he can't take spicy food He'd eat spicy food with me Is it because I didn't work hard enough to understand her? She really is very special to me I guess I really do quite miss him I quite miss her Good news! - Haochang says he misses her! - Sophia says she misses him! - They just need an opportunity to talk - We'll give them that opportunity! Yeah! We'll organize a big meal for them... for free! For free? No, Xiami, we can't do it for free! All these years Whether it was for love or work You've given a lot It's been tough on you Actually I've been adding to your troubles Sometimes You can be just a little bit troublesome But actually A beautiful and occasionally troublesome woman is the most lovable kind Why not We get married? Time to get to work then Cheers! Put it on or not? Is it okay not to put it on? It feels uncomfortable when it's on I'm not responsible if anything happens because it's not on So you're responsible if it's on? Of course Okay Put it on properly And you'll be safe Yup I'll put it on too This way, even if you take to the skies or climb over mountains Even if you go feed the sharks in the sea, I'll know Good night! Are you any good at drawing? Better than you! Prove it Hey Time to get back to work Well said You're becoming as hardworking as me! Otherwise we'll never finish painting this Yeah It's a wrap You look beautiful today! Thank you! - Congratulations - Thank you You're so beautiful Makes me want to get married too! You can hurry up and try! You're so cool You're still sleeping? Even if you set off now, you won't make it Who's going to be the witness at the wedding now? I'm so sorry The witness is on his way He's stuck in traffic... boat traffic Boat traffic? Uh, it's Monday Everyone's rushing to get to work It's you? Sorry for the wait... yes, I was always going to be the witness True moneygrubber... you even want to make money like this Ladies and Gentlemen Welcome to Love You You Resort Thank you for attending... the wedding of Miss Sophia and Mr. Haochang To share in this joyous occasion Shakespeare once said We'll lose even the most beautiful things one day We'll rouse from even the most beautiful dream one day Even our most beloved person will depart one day Even our most beautiful memories will fade one day If you abandon something, never regret it If you don't treasure someone, it's better to part ways What are you talking about? This is our wedding day! You can't be friends after parting ways, because you'll hurt each other Neither can you be enemies, because you were once lovers And so that's how life goes and how your marriage goes Mr. Haochang Are you brave enough To go out on a limb In taking Miss Sophia as your wife? I do Dear Miss Sophia Mr. Haochang's taking a big risk Are you willing to marry him? To be Or not to be? You do? Or not to do? I do Say it to him I do You may kiss the bride Congratulations to the newlyweds on bravely taking the plunge This is a wonderful beginning, thank you! Please put your hands together for the new couple! Boss, we're having problems in the kitchen Excuse me. Thank you Cheers! This is the most amazing wedding I've ever seen Well, you're my most unforgettable guest Alright! Everyone This next song... I wish I could Sing this to her for the rest of my life I'll sing this to her forever "Love you you" "Love's like a wordless book" "It can't express" "The warmth of love" "I wish to give you happiness" "But you're guarded" "At this turning point" "All that's left is a wasteland of broken waves" "Love you you" "I lost my way in the sea" "I cannot find. Where my heart belongs" Why did you run out? You think my food tastes bad? Not at all That song... it's a little sad So I left A little sad? In that case, I have something that will cheer you up It's beautiful Does this beautiful dessert have a name? Name? A dessert is just a dessert. Why would it need a name? It reminds me of the sea Why not call it Heart of the Sea? Heart of the Sea? Where's the heart? Is there a heart in there? It's like how you can't get to a woman's heart right away That makes sense Heart of the Sea... Not bad... I'm going to charge you a copyright fee! No way! You're beginning to think business like me more and more Of course! How about I cook for you instead? Okay! Actually you're a pretty good cook Why not be a chef? Instead of spending your time getting into fights? Even though I wanted to be a chef Mother made the choice for me to work in the family's hotel business One day my grandfather announced That his grandsons would each run an island resort for 6 months The one with the best results would take over the family business My brother uses unscrupulous ways So every punch I throw Is to protect my dream Of giving my mother a better life Lele Now that your father is gone Mother is left with only you If you don't work hard... in the family business Many bad people will bully me Mother, I promise to provide you with a good life when I grow up Good morning, boss I have a question to ask you Are JK and You Lele brothers? Are they involved in a competition to take over the family business? Xiami, don't bother so much about these things Complete your assignment and come home right away Boss! Where the world were you? This is Curly. He is the manager of the superstar singer, Nana Hello! He wants to book our resort for a few days Welcome! So I come tomorrow with 40,000 ringgit check and the contract? That's perfect! Miss! - We need to order now! - Coming! Miss You know how long we've been waiting? I don't want your mother I want Nasi Lemak Give a little more spice but don't make it spicy And bring on the bak kut teh But I don't want no taste of teh Satay, satay, just two will do Boss! What? I have no idea what you're talking about! The bigger the satay the better More juice, more meat, more black pepper sauce How can you hear when you're wearing your headphones? Can you hear? Can you hear or not? Did JK send you here? Yes Boss! Are you ok? Better than ok! Get to work! Coming to my rescue when the fight's already over, geez It's nothing - Just a scratch - It looks like it hurts! Nay, it doesn't You're bleeding! It's really nothing (Katherine) Very painful? Nope, I'm used to it Katherine Is she an ex-girlfriend? The person I love most Are you jealous? How could I be jealous? No? You looked really concerned... when those guys were beating me Did you almost cry? Don't be so full of yourself Since my parents passed away, I've never cried in front of anyone That sounds tough That's what it feels like Boss, time to get to work Let's go Where are you taking me? Magical Soul Ritual Pretty girls! Hold on a second Let me have the boat, I'll pay you back double next time - Oh, - what's going on? Sorry... we'll use the boat next time I don't want to go You don't want to go? Don't you want to know how I use the Magical Soul Ritual to cheat people? No, not really But it's my proudest accomplishment Just see it once Come on! Chicken! We're taking off! This way This place is so beautiful! Hey! Where are you going? Home! Going home? Bye bye! Get back here! I wouldn't throw that bag if I were you You'll be counting on just that bag tonight! Trash! You big cheat! Trash! Trash! I'll never trust you again! Father, Mother I miss you so much! I really miss you I may not mind, but my mother minds Since my mother cannot accept you Nothing can come out of our relationship Let's break up You study all day and don't bother to help out at home Raising you all these years has been a waste of my time! Thinking about going to university? In your dreams! Father, Mother I miss you so much! No one loves me, no one cares for me Mother I beg you to save my father and mother They're still in the sea I beg you! What are you doing here? Take off your clothes Get away from me! Take them off! Get away from me! Take them off! What do you want? Just do as I say and don't ask questions! Good morning What exactly are you doing? The scarf too The scarf... just hand it over Here This is you Leave the old you behind here Everytime I'm sad I'll come to this island Shout at the world for one night Cry alone for one night When I wake up the next day I leave all unhappy memories behind here And take off with a fresh start Can you take me to a place? Chicken! Stop the boat! It's right ahead Close your eyes Don't peek Father, Mother, I've come to visit you I'm all grown up now Boss! We've run out of oil Run out of oil? What's going on? You didn't bother to check before we left? - Sorry - Forget it Let's just go to the nearest island to buy oil Gurdeep We want to buy oil Four cans, 1 000 ringgit Boss, I don't have enough money Are you kidding me? Put it on the credit card Hurry! Mr. You Lele! I don't welcome you on my island My boat ran out of oil Just grabbing some cans of oil here We'll be out of your way in no time Long time no see Since when do you visit my island? What a coincidence, your boss just called me He wants something rushed back to Beijing Have you forgotten me? We met at your office Miss Xiami You know him? Don't worry I won't expose you, ok? I won't help you anymore - Why? - Boss Mr. Lin has been waiting a long time for you in the meeting room Fine, take this lady to my office while I meet with him Hello, please come this way Please sit here for a moment (Gao Law Firm Xiami: Work Performance Evaluation) This is JK. I'm away from my desk. Please leave a message JK. I'm Curly This is about Nana booking your resort Is the 60,000 ringgit price okay? Please reply quickly Call my new number Miss Xiami Seems like you and the scoundrel are getting along Scoundrel? He's your brother! Same father, different mothers. Let's be clear about that I find it strange You'd rather help a scoundrel than help me Because I'm a scoundrel too So I won't be helping you anymore You already have What relationship do you have with my brother? How would I have known he was your brother? I'm asking you a question What relationship? You're nuts A woman just wants her man to be more tolerant Tolerant? If I weren't tolerant, I would have flipped a table already! If this table weren't nailed to the ground! Xiami, actually This guy got all worked up over you This shows he cares a lot for you Cares? He cares too much. I don't need it. How come both of you are so good at giving advice to others but not to yourselves? You've done such a great job helping us How come you're unable to communicate with each other? Wear this in case you sleepwalk into Chicken's room Otherwise I'm not responsible. Regards, Love you you Goodnight! And to think he said he'd be responsible You Lele! So you have 2 passports Miss Xia Don't you owe me an explanation? I don't owe anyone anything I'll leave In fact, I'll leave tomorrow Mr. Lele These are the dates for Miss Nana's stay and a confidentiality agreement Take a look If there are no problems, please sign your name Of course Here's the deposit for 40,000 ringgit It says 60,000 on this check Come over here... Actually Please wire the difference of 20,000 into my personal account Here's the account number Sure, I only care about the money I get. I don't care about the rest Thank you! Mr. Lele is indeed clever I'll write a receipt for 40,000 to you That's a done deal then, Mr. Lele. Thank you very much We'll see each other when we check in Thank you! Bye, Chicken. I'll take off first - Hope we have a good time working together - Great Chicken Thank you for all you've done this year I know you've been working really hard lately And you're getting married soon Whether or not I win the competition I'll help take care of your wedding and honeymoon expenses Start work! Everyone has been working hard over the past 6 months Today we'll announce the results of the competition Youpei, 620,000 JK You Jiekai, 920,000 Youmin, 750,000 And You Lele... ...with 950,000 Therefore the winner is You Lele Wait a moment Sorry to interrupt But is this competition fair? Of course What if someone has broken the rules? Then he's disqualified Ok Lele pretended that his boat stalled And used that excuse to come to my island He even got his friend to snoop in my office To try and steal my business records JK, it's Curly here About Nana wanting to book your resort Is the 60,000 ringgit price okay? Please reply quickly Call my new number Count me unlucky But Xiami heard Curly's whole message And here I have a receipt for 40,000 ringgit It proves that Xiami gave the information to You Lele And the very next day... He stole my customer Curly is very honorable and is willing to be my witness It's true You Lele told me he was willing accept a price of 40,000 And even gave me a 20,000 ringgit kickback This bank statement proves it Here, inspect it And I have another important witness Mr. Chicken My boss did tell me to pretend that the boat stalled And to use this as an excuse to steer the boat to Mr. JK's island He then told Miss Xiami to steal information from the office You bastard No wonder you told me the boat ran out of oil It's really unfortunate That we have a scoundrel in our family Then again it's understandable Like mother, like son What did you just say? Insult me if you dare, but leave my mother out of this Look! What a scoundrel! Son, sit down! - Sit down! - Mom! Mother, I did nothing wrong. I've been framed! You must believe me Of course I do. You've already done your best To me, it's been more than enough Since Lele played foul I officially deem him disqualified Good Sorry I didn't win Son, having you by my side is enough for me Sir I can prove You Lele's innocence Did I hear that right? You're a thief trying to prove another thief's innocence? (Disabilily: Deafnece (Severe Degree)) You have severe degree of deafness? I only have 30 percent hearing ability in my left ear So if I don't wear a hearing aid, I can't hear anything at all I can only read lips and observe people's expressions What did you say? That you're... Deaf? You expect me to believe some random medical certificate? We'll never believe you! Enough! Sir, that video footage we saw has not been authenticated Miss Xiami, I'm sorry. We wronged you Listen up everyone. The winner of this competition Is You Lele! Son! - Congratulations, brother - Thank you Your hearing problems have worsened If not for your deceased mother I wouldn't have taken you in Are you listening to music? Let me take a listen - What music is it? - I hear nothing That's not a music player It's a hearing aid - She can't hear - Hearing Aid - Don't bully her - She can't hear What are you doing here? I brought you some food I've told you... not to wear that hearing aid when my mother can see I may not mind, but my mother minds What's the point in going on like this? Let's break up Xiami! Hey! Why do you shout at me from behind? You know very well that I can't hear Now you know why I'm always wearing headphones Because I hate having people shout at me from behind I just wanted to say thank you No thanks necessary. You deserved to win Let me explain I'm sorry. I didn't mean to investigate you You didn't do it on purpose but you never trusted me Do you know that When you hate someone Your right foot always fidgets I never thought this would happen to me You've never believed me I didn't know my foot did that You're very surprised that I know that, right? Ever since I stopped wearing a hearing aid I pushed myself to study everyone's expression closely To study lip reading I wanted to pretend I was a normal person And keep my deafness a secret I know, I know that... You know that? What do you know? You really think I'm that strong? You think it's that easy pretending to be a normal person? That simple? Sometimes I'm so tired of trying that I don't have the will to live Listen to me You can stop pretending I can be at your side. I can protect you I can... I can help you do a lot of things I won't mind at all What right do you have to mind or not to mind? Why? Because I'm not a normal person, right? You know what? If I could go on pretending I'd rather pretend my whole life than hear the words you just said Xiami, can you please not leave? Can you please be brave for once... for me. Just once Brave? Are you brave? You don't even dare fulfill your dream of being a chef That's why you hide out in the family business Because you fear you won't have an excuse if you fail What right do you have to tell me I should be brave? Miss Xiami! Miss Xiami! What are you doing here? When I was copying Lele's computer files that day I accidentally copied his journal I hope that you'll have a change of heart after reading it It's the only chance I have to make up for what I did I'm begging you Hurry up! This JK is always sending thugs to make trouble Scaring away my guests This battle is getting harder to fight Since someone wants to pay me to play a pirate Fine, I'll play one Heck, for money, I'd be happy to play a turtle Some people say When true love appears Time stands still Hey, what's in my line of sight? Turns out it's a shoe Why does she never reply When I call out to her from behind? So strange I suspect she is... Today, I want to confirm my suspicion I chewed gum and pretended to be talking to Xiami To think she really thought I was talking Turns out... you really can't hear You've been reading lips all along At that moment, I wanted to hug her And ask: how you suffered all these years Do you ever break out in song when you get frustrated? Have you ever been moved by music? Have you every enjoyed these simple things in life? That night, I finally realized Why you left the dinner in such sadness I want to make you happy I'll use every means I have to make you happy Delicious (Magical Soul Ritual) Why? That day, I decided to show you my Magical Soul Ritual Watching you so sad I was sad too Watching you cry I cried with you I keep asking about what's going on between Xiami and JK But I fear the answer will hurt my relationship with her So better to avoid the issue and hide Besides, I'm used to hiding from problems Weird girl... Sleepwalking again Spending the night with her was amazing... The sun is scorching I should find her some shade Oh, and get her a towel I really didn't mean to investigate her Why did she choose to leave instead of explaining? Do I mean so little to her? If I tell her that secret Would it make a difference? Perhaps I should really tell her that secret Lele! Lele! Hello, is Lele around please? Are you Xiami? Yes Lele has left He said to give this letter to you if you came back I'm Lele's mother You can call me Katherine Thank you Xiami I didn't know my words Would hurt you so badly I can only imagine what you've been through That made you so sensitive And guarded I'm really sorry When my father died Mother considered leaving me with my late father's family And remarrying That's why when I was younger I vowed never to return to the restaurant business Not only because I was afraid of failure But also afraid of losing... my mother's affection Thank you for scolding me earlier Today I'll let go of everything I have And bravely fight for my true dreams Hopefully my bravery Will encourage you to be brave as well To wear your hearing aid again And hear all the sounds around you I don't know when I'll get to see you again But I hope when that time comes You can hear me saying this to you LOVE YOU YOU I left you a small present in the wedding hall I hope you'll like it (Dried Shrimp) Good morning, Xiami! Xiami! We've been waiting for you, darling Have you eaten breakfast? Would you like some coffee? We got a difficult client in You girls are always asking me to help put out fires We'll buy you lunch next time - What would you like to eat? - Please do us this favor Alright Hello, Mr. Liu. My name is Xiami I hear you're looking for a good fund to invest in Hope that we can help you with that In your opinion What kind of fund would you recommend? Mr. Liu, forgive my presumption Your shoes are very expensive And they look like they've been worn for 7 to 8 years It shows that you lead a frugal... and low-key life You might be most suitable for our 375 fund I'm exhausted! You're always handing me the most difficult clients I have no choice You're our gold star salesperson! Our whole team counts on you What do you mean gold star salesperson? I'm just a firefighter Dear firefighter You deserve to spend some of that hard-earned money on a trip! My cousin went to a Southeast Asian island last month And said it had a beautiful floating wedding hall - It's pink! - Guagua, I'm tired Let's talk tomorrow instead. Don't be late Oh, alright. Bye bye Bye bye What do you think? Does this brand work well? Of course it does Ah! Miss Sophia Xiami! I miss you so much! How have you been lately? I've been searching so hard for you Why? On the 23rd of next month, it's a Saturday Haochang and I will celebrate our wedding anniversary By returning to the island for a celebration You must attend I need to check my schedule No checking! Just come! I'm now working at an investment company And often have to work on the weekends That busy? Hello, do you have a Watson's membership card? - You accumulate points and enjoy discounts - Let me get that Let me! My purse is already out So is mine! Sophia Dinner on me tonight Treating me to dinner? That's very nice of you I owe you one from last time There's a really popular restaurant I heard about Let me check online This website is amazing Since you love dessert most This restaurant has a signature dessert dish called Heart of the Sea Heart of the Sea? Is your dessert here called Heart of the Sea? I'd like to order it I'm sorry. This is the last part of our dinner set menu It cannot be ordered a la carte Does that dessert come in layers and layers? In blue and green, just like the sea? I'm sorry I cannot give away the ending The chef would like diners to experience the full set menu What does this chef look like? Is he always fierce when talking? Always getting into fights? Walks a bit like this? Our chef would never walk like that! I've never seen him get into a fight either Hurry! But I'd like this instead Just hurry! Alright Are you that hungry? There's a long story behind this Although I'll no longer be your boss You'll still have to get to work So get to work! Boss, actually we'd all like to go work for you Yes, Boss I'd like to take you too, but the contract makes it clear I can't open a similar restaurant in this country within 3 years You guys will do fine here! Boss I'm getting my stuff. Have the car wait at the first floor After that, I never managed to find him Wow That was really touching So are you my good friend? Of course Come on Soup! You can serve the soup now! Coming Can the main course be brought out at the same time? The restaurant's rules state that The soup must be finished before the main course can arrive Slow down, don't scald yourself Yep Look Wow, that was fast. The fish isn't even ready yet How can it not be fast when she drinks her soup like this Thank you - I'm going to make it! - Do your best! You haven't been out there for 1 minute She sure is fast Miss Chen, you brought a friend! Sorry Miss, you cannot enter the kitchen I just want to ask Is your chef's name You Lele? It is Where's he now? Our boss just left You Lele! You Lele! You Lele! You Lele! You Lele! Boss, your car has arrived Once upon a time, there was a fisherman Who loved a girl But the girl buried her heart at the bottom of the sea The fisherman could not get to it no matter how hard he tried So he became a chef And named a dessert after that girl's heart So he'll be reminded of her when he tastes it (Person in charge: Katherine) Let's go over Dear friends May I have your attention for a minute There's something I'd like to share with everyone here First, thank you for joining us... on this beautiful island To celebrate our 1-year wedding anniversary We're very grateful Shakespeare once said Couples marry when they're drunk And part ways when they're sober If that's the case I'm willing for the sake of my wife To spend my whole life drunk Cheers! - Congratulations! - Thank you Congratulations, my dear Miss Sophia Ah! Moneygrubber Why did you get here so late? Congratulations I wanted to come for sure But I have to leave soon after seeing my mother So soon? No way Why the big hurry? You just got here Have dinner before you go There'd be no 1-year anniversary without you and Xiami And the 1 0-year anniversary. And the 50-year one! I'm going to work in France I actually invited another guest to accompany you She could make you stay But too bad she didn't come. I tried my best I'm leaving. Take good care of yourselves. Keep in touch! Hey Missy Looking sexy! Gimme your number! Hey Go! hurry up! Miss! I think this belongs to you Thank you Don't you owe me an explanation? What was the secret that you wanted to tell me... ...at the end of your journal? You peeked at my journal? Chicken gave it to me you really sleepwalked your way to Chicken's room I didn't! Don't change the topic What was the secret? I've forgotten You couldn't have! - I really did? - Hurry up and tell me Secret! Secret! I want to hear the secret! Quick tell me You'll be safe when you put this on I'll be responsible for you In that case, I can relax If you're relaxed, you can tell me the secret, right? Hey My name is... Xiami Are you alright, You Lele? I'm alright Xiami
