 

                        Love Sick There are 6.8 billion people in the world Of which roughly 2.7 billion are young adults between the ages of 18 to 38 Subtract the 1.5 billion that are women Take away the psychos, anti-social, homosexuals, etc And you've still got about Out of your lifetime, you'll probably meet about 7,500 of them Of which you'll date about 1% of those men Of which you'll only stay with about 3% of that 1% In hopes that one day you'll end up with just one And during my freshman year at Beijing University I found... my one Yes, that's him! My knight in shining armor Do you know? When you find a fallen eyelash, you can make a wish Here What would you like to wish for? It already came true And why did he pick me? Because you are my girl He said this song was written just for me He was also the first guy that ever held my hand The first guy that I ever kissed And the first... CUT! This is PG-13! Hello! Besides, I'm not that kind of girl He was the perfect man As perfect as a man could be We were going to build our future together And then something happened... He became a pop star! How can I let you go When my heart is like a hurricane Tangled deep inside me I wrote that song For my sweet, lovely Tina Liang She was the first girl whoever believed in me Happy Graduation! Thank you! Aaron, your new... Tina! Let me explain Aaron She's just a girl Let her go back to Taiwan Encore! Aaron! Encore! Aaron! They say that You're only meant for one person But what happens when you lose "the one" Or Worse "The one" never loved you in the first place It's devastating, like nothing matters You don't even feel pain You're just Numb Everyone tries to find ways To keep you busy Why don't you volunteer at Grandpa's hospital? Or Maybe, go help your aunties Angry Divorced Women ADW is a support group for women who were burned by men That's my aunt Glenda After her third divorce She started this group To help the countless divorced women out there And he even bought a Tiffany bracelet for that tramp Tina Please pass out Mr. Bastard to everyone All right Men are only known to do what? Lulu Screw you! Good Women who've been injured and hurt, must find ways to protect themselves from these bastards You have 60 seconds Go! These aunties were my only grace and strength When I had nothing left The Lord truly understands you Because He doesn't betray anyone's heart And then One day I snapped out of it And I swore to myself that I would never allow anyone To hurt me like that again! The more gorgeous they are, the more they are what? An asshole! An asshole! Good Now keep up with me Rule #1 Always be on your guard Never be vulnerable or caught off guard By men Assholes comes in all shapes and sizes Hi Let me rock your world! Can I Upgrade your hard drive? My name is Casanova Rule #2: Be your own hero! Learn to be strong and stand up for yourself! The Fighting Princess Chapter 89: The Howling Trees You're surrounded, Princess Give it up. Give up the panties! Let's face it The reality is relationships are hard work and difficult So women need to learn to protect themselves Because Rule #3 tells us that "True love" only exists in fairy tales (5 Years Later) From the moment I saw you My heart Fluttered like a butterfly From the moment I saw you My heart stopped And for a moment, I thought I had died Is this guy for real? Honey, what are you doing? Playing around like this? What's bothering you? Why do we have to come to these boring things? Honey, when you're working in the real world You're going to wish you could've attended more of these "boring things" in your youth Really Here's to fading youth Let's mourn Cheers Drink up Goodbye youth Why aren't you drinking? Do I need to start grieving this early? Just be supportive We've been there for you, haven't we? Cheers To youth That's my father Next to him is my grandpa The only two good men left in this world Girls, let's freshen up Yes I have to brush my teeth Why hello I'm the best man, David... ...Dong And you are... Me? I'm here just to eat and drink Look at those bleached teeth And those manicured, midget hands I bet he's going to ask for my number Or out to dinner Or If I have a boyfriend So I was wondering, if you're not seeing anybody How about we get each other's number Go out for some dinner Sweat a little Have some fun What do you think? Greedy bastard Well, I think You should know that I'm not your pussy cat! I'll pick you up later She said yes, she said yes Happy Heart Day Here's a heart for you And some heart candies too This is my best friend since childhood, CoCo She's beautiful with a smoking hot body But I don't know if she's innocent or simple-minded Naive or dim-witted And men won't even care about her inner beauty So I've got to protect her Did you just say "Happy Heart Day"? Yup! It's something I created I wanted to find a way To express love to the entire world Let me use your computer for a sec Of course This Heart Day you created It's really just a sales gimmick, right? What gimmick? That sounds so un-romantic Love is big money It's the easiest way to make money off people Love It's the most romantic thing in the world Love... It's also the biggest scam That's crazy expensive! Who's gonna buy this? I'll take it Actually, I wanted to buy them for you Please... call me when you have time Please call me when you have time I almost forgot Your grandpa brought this over earlier for you Said it's some kind of new hospital program? And there will also be two newcomers joining us today A brilliant young doctor from Peking Union Medical Hospital: Brandon Lu And my granddaughter: Tina Liang Tina! Nurse Dorothy! Remember, your job is to make sure they laugh At least 20 minutes everyday Not just a smile But those big, deep laughs This is really important even though it's not in the report Report? Don't worry, Miki's here to help My god Why did I agree to help grandpa with this laughter program? Okay, make them laugh Just make them laugh Hello everybody! It's my liver that's bad Not my ears Where's Dr. Li? Who? We want DR. LI, DR. LI, DR. LI! Freakin' old people Miki do something! Okay! Wait! You can't just leave me like that Don't leave me here alone You should hurry up and follow her Those puppets are you going to put on a show for us? Are you going to put on a show for us? Can you do that song Can you do that song from Frankie Valli that goes... So he likes that song Of course not But If you behave If you behave I just might think about it I just might think about it Now, anyone want to help? I do! Me! Me! All right Let's do some laughing! Keep going okay guys? God, what's with all these weird people in the hospital? God, what's with all these weird people in the hospital? Ta da! I've got some really good candy She's freaking scary My candy! My candy, my candy! Are you okay? "Hi, I'm Tina!" "LET'S MAKE OUT RIGHT NOW!" "I have to go!" I have to go! So recently I've been thinking Botox Botox? What's the point of women spending so much to turn themselves from 50 to 45? To a man, is there really a difference between a 50 and a 45 year old? Isn't there a difference? Can't I just make myself look pretty? It's Tina Hello What? Calm down - what happened? A man pushed you? A man! And the guy made you look into his eyes? NO! I almost slipped and he caught me and I accidently looked into his eyes and Oh my God Tina Relax Breath in Breath out Remember all our training from ADW My body feels hot, my palms are sweating, and I can't calm down! I bet the guy's an asshole I mean gorgeous, isn't he? He's pretty hot Oh crap! Tina, remember you've already broken Rule #1 Did he apologize? He didn't run into me I accidently ran into him Tina! She's already defending him! This is bad Tina! Get a hold of yourself Don't you remember everything that we taught you? Men are all what? Assholes! And they only want to do what? Screw you! Yes, so Don't you dare go soft Seduce him! Right! Seduce him Yes, seduce the guy It's the easiest way To take control and expose the pig Oh my god - he's coming Everyone act completely normal Tina What kind of game are you playing with the wall there? This is our new doctor in the neurosurgery department, Dr. Brandon Lu He also just joined us here I still have a patient to attend to Can you please show him to radiology? Hi, my name is Tina Are you okay? You know - you almost fell back there (Seduce Him!) Oh, it was nothing Not like I've fallen for anybody before Fallen in front of... fallen in front of! You're used to falling? Hell no! I mean, just, occasionally Uh... Where're you from? I was born in Taiwan Moved to Beijing when I was 5. Did my studies at Peking Union Medical College But you're like young I skipped some grades Overloaded the rest into my semesters So I graduated early I'm sure he got it through connections Connect what? Nothing, nothing I was just saying Wow, you're exceptional I'm here for the new Experimental Neurosurgical Program How about you? I'm doing Humor Therapy Actually, I think it's called Laughter Therapy You're funny Seriously, which department are you in? (Major Asshole) Uh... What I mean is Laughter Therapy that sounds really interesting I just didn't know we have this therapy I'm not a doctor I'm just a volunteer here Oh, you're actually not a doctor That's right I'm not a doctor But I do know that Laughter can increase the flow of nutrients in the blood which triggers a boost in the immune system that can combat nasty diseases And Laughter can help maintain a positive attitude Which I know how important that is to their doctors Take that loser! But you already know this, right DOCTOR? Uh... If I have any questions on Laugh Therapy May I ask for your help? Sure Thank you We're here He's a doctor A neurosurgeon But I'm sure he's just a Self-righteous bastard Single? He wasn't wearing a ring Didn't know you already checked him out No, I just noticed by accident What kind of shoes, what kind of watch? Citizen watch Calvin Klein shoes You see It's these type of men women go stupid over Including you He just holds you for a moment And you have a panic attack Good Lord It's like everything we taught you was a waste Well look At least the guy's rich and comes with medical insurance Besides he's a doctor so there's got to be benefits I now want Lipo, forget the Facelift Tell me straight up Are you into him? Of course not! I don't fall that easily Well good Then the next time you see him, you better teach him a lesson No problem Here here! Girls Let's drink to Tina's promise You go girl! Oh my God! You're so good! You could be a pop star! And when that soft light glows and those baby birds chirp and that clock chimes That's when I'll let him have it! The wine don't lie. I knew it, this is bad We need to figure out a way watch out for her Oh My God Control yourself! Enlarge, bigger! No - stop looking! STOP LOOKING! He's just too hot! I wish he'd look over at me Oh God! He just looked at me! No - he was looking at me! So adorable... He's cute even when he's clumsy Seriously, aren't you guys're over doing it just a bit? I'm gonna go do some real work Jeez, what's her problem? Isn't it obvious? Totally And where are you going? Has everyone taken crazy pills? He's not a freakin' celebrity! Go away! I don't want to laugh I'm going to die anyway Get help! Now, Tom, don't be mad We... We're all here just trying to help I'm sorry, it's all my fault No, Miki, you did great Don't worry about it C'mon Tina think think think! How did that song that he likes go? You're just too good to be true Can't take my eyes off you You'd be like heaven to touch I wanna hold you so much At long last love has arrived And I thank God I'm alive You're just too good to be true Can't take my eyes off you I love you baby And if it's quite all right I need you baby to warm the lonely night I love you baby Trust in me when I say Oh pretty baby don't bring me down I pray Oh pretty baby now that I found you stay And let me love you baby Let me love you Oh God! It's HIM! All right, party's over. Let's get back to work! Dr. Lu I didn't know you could dance so well It's been a while, but your granddaughter Quite a handful, isn't she? I could barely keep up Where's Tina? Nurse Dorothy, where did Tina just go? What time is it? She probably ran off to the flower shop Tina? Everything's fine, it was just a dance It's no big deal, everybody was doing it Besides, I was just doing my job, I'm sure he knew that Tina? Focus, Tina, Focus! Right now you need to cut the stems! Cut the stems! CUT THE STEMS! Why can't I do anything right, right now? Thorns! CoCo, have I gone crazy? I can't even cut flowers right Don't move Got it! CoCo, do you know You really should be more careful on how you do things What do you mean? You just got to protect yourself That's all I'm saying, all right? What're we doing down here? That guy... he's stalking me! He's pretty cute! Let him stalk you CoCo! Remember the rules, the rules! Okay, okay So... what do we do now? Go out there But don't tell him I'm here Why aren't you here? Tell him I'm sick! You're sick? Tell him I died! You died! I've never seen you this nervous before Do you like him? Are you crazy! He... He's a loser, punk a gorgeous asshole! And you! You're so sexy... go out and seduce him and he'll be drooling all over you like a pervert! Go! Seduce him! But how do I do that? Like this! Oh God, look at those boobs! Now go get him you sexy kitty! Meow? Excuse me? That tickles Hi! Stop, don't move! I'm... I said, don't move! Not moving, not moving I was just wondering... Of course! You just need to tell me What you like and how you like it And I'll do my best To make you satisfied Miss, I'm sorry But your shirt Sorry, I spilt some coffee on it Is this guy homo? Is this guy homo? Is Tina here? Is Tina here? She's dead She's dead?! I said sick, not dead! Oh, what I mean is She's sick! Not dead That's kind of a big difference in the medical world Tell him I have a disease! She has a disease A disease What do you mean? Like she's dying? Can you tell me what kind of disease? I think she got it when she was traveling in India Ginacuritus! Ginacuritus? Never heard of it? I think monkeys sometimes get it Well, if you see her, can you please let her know Brandon dropped by? I will Thank you That was stressful What's going on? That guy He's trying to make my life miserable But, he doesn't seem like a bad person You got it wrong! And I'm not going to let ANY girl fall into that man trap I've got no choice But to get rid of him Time for some planning The easiest way to destroy a man Is to make his life stink And I don't mean just his reputation I mean literally make him stink It doesn't matter if he's dashing on the outside Show people he's a slob on the inside And it's bye bye pretty eyes Dr. Lu It's been a 36 hour shift for you Don't you want to rest a bit? I do but still got a presentation to do Bye bye Sorry to keep everyone waiting Sorry, my shaver wasn't working this morning All right, so patient 301 needs to have his blood checked every half hour Dr. Lu You showered, right? Oh god, sorry, I think it's me I'm really sorry That's so yuck Uh... I think I forgot my deodorant too I'm sorry I think it's coming from your shoes No, it's definitely your pants Hurry, we're on a tight schedule And still have lots to do! So the surgical program's success rates have been very high And this is extremely positive news So in conclusion I hope we can all keep building on our good work And become one of the most successful neurosurgical hospitals He's so MAN! My Prince Charming! He's too amazing Thank you And then he trashes all his clothes Did he have a tight body? Shut up What the heck am I gonna do? We're dealing with a serious guy here He's not only survived what you've thrown at him But Somehow come out even more popular from it Right! So now Looks like we've got no choice Time to get serious here You've got to go on a date with him Go on a date with him? Go on a date with him? Discover what this guy's REALLY hiding Discover what this guy's REALLY hiding I just want him to go away Well then quit whining Well then quit whining and take your game up a notch! And take your game up a notch! Girls YES Why the heck did he have to come to this hospital? Pizza... I smell Pizza! Oh, I'm mixed ethnicity Mixed? What're you a mix of? I'm part Shandong, part Shanghainese Miki, you're the best! Miki Lin, Miki Lin, please come to the Nursing Station! No, no I'll clean up... you go Thanks You sure do like falling... And you're a hard person to track down Well, I'm busy Super busy Crazy busy I heard from your friend that You're sick? What're you talking about? Oh right! I'm sick Why'd she go tell you that I'm sorry, I'm sorry! But what exactly is Ginacuritus? It's a disease that monkeys sometimes get Don't you know that, Doctor? I knew it! But you're not a monkey... All right! Then I got to go! Wait! ...Sorry But I just thought maybe If you want, we could go talk about Ginacurtitus Over dinner Oh thanks, but I just ate. A lot Gross isn't it? Wait, how about this If I can get you to laugh Will you have dinner with me? Are you kidding me dude? Okay, here we go There was this girl she wanted to marry a man that had two things: One, he needed to be a knight in shining armor And two, he needed to have a chariot So, she went to her computer to search for a match And it told her the answer was Chinese chess! You know - Chinese chess! Because there's a knight and also a chariot Chinese chess! Chinese... What a retard... I'll think about it, okay? Hello, this is CoCo! CoCo What's up? I have a date but don't know what to wear... Hello? Been waiting long? After you How'd you hear of this place? Oh, from your grandpa, he told me... My grandpa? Yes, your grandpa... I'm sorry, sorry It's ok, I need to go clean up really quick What's wrong with me? What am I gonna do? Grandpa knows I'm on a date with Brandon Calm down Relax I'm trying to relax too Your grandpa's not the type to tell everyone, okay? Now what's our goal? Take down Brandon And get the real dirt on this dude Very Good Not you! Now go have some fun And destroy him Okay? Don't call if it's not important Excuse me, miss May I need your help You see my friend over there He's having a hard time getting over his last breakup and feeling kind of down So I was thinking Maybe you might have the ability to give him some extra attention? You know, I've noticed there're quite a lot of pretty girls here Checking you out Really? Now, here's where our hot, sexy dancers are gonna bring out some of you lucky people to dance! C'mon honey, the show's about to start! But wait! It's show time Song's not over yet Pretty impressive. I didn't know you could dance to Latin Well I did live in Spain for a while But that was a long time ago Oh... for a girl? Actually, I did residency at a hospital in Barcelona... Hola You were pretty good back there You were pretty amazing too If you like, we could go dance in private And what I serve is much better than what they serve here Ciao Bye Oh right, where was I? I learned a lot in Barcelona on surgical techniques How did that have no effect? And from such a sexy woman! Is he really homo? How about you? How long have you been at the hospital? Since Aar... ...A long time ago Anyways, everyone's really good to me whenever I volunteer So, it makes me really happy They are great people And they really take care of me too But every now and then it still feels kinda lonely You get lonely? Doesn't everybody? Thanks Let's split it Did you hear? Tina went out with Dr. Lu? I heard that she threw water in his face No, I heard she sucker punched him Or maybe she did both! What're you guys doing? Is it true? Did you and Dr. Lu really go out last night? It was just dinner Just dinner, no big deal Where did you guys go? Just some place called the Latin House Well, did you guys... Dance? It's not like I had a choice Brandon pulled me onto the floor But that's not the big secret I discovered See, the big secret is... He already has a woman No way! Just check out the picture in his wallet A doctor who's young and successful Of course he's got a woman But that doesn't mean He's a good man who doesn't cheat on her The pig's lucky I didn't sucker punch him in the face Checkmate Brandon Lu All of you shut up! Making up all this crap because of the way a person looks It's all a load of BS And you! You got a mouth as black as your heart! Don't you dare say his name? Who was that? That's Denise Excuse me, do I know you? Go away You judgmental prick Easy with the cursing okay? What'd I ever do to you? Stop acting like a dumbass You know exactly what you did Miss, you really need to learn some manners Yeah But at least I don't talk crap behind people's back Is Brandon your doctor? Are you really retarded? You're - you're the girl in that picture Brandon's my brother You don't know the first thing about him What he's gone through How could I have...? I may be handicapped, but at least my heart isn't rotten Unlike you You've got nothing but poison on the inside Completely worthless Why the long face? Carlton, am I a horrible person? No, don't be silly Why would you say that? What if I was lying to everyone about Brandon today? What if I was lying to everyone about Brandon today? Then that probably wasn't too bright But good men don't exist anymore And I thought he was just like the rest You can't believe a word they say All their sweet whispers and promises Just turn into a knife that cut your heart dry Here, take a look at this Maybe you'll see not all guys are animals Love: You don't have to understand it, describe it, or define it This. Is. Crap. You just know when love appears Because when you wake up the world feels a little less scary Tina? Why're you stalking me? Um... may I join you? What a coincidence So, I met Denise today She curses you out? How'd you know? She's my sister, I know her really well I'm sorry about that, she's really not a bad person The pain's just made it tough for her, and a little erratic Never mind, let's talk about something else I'm starving, what's good here? Actually... Brandon's kinda cool And his life's a lot more interesting than I realized Not only does he spend his free time speaking and presenting He also travels to third world nations on medical missions work He works out, like cooking, and at times, stays in step with dancing But spends most of his free time taking care of Denise Oh yeah He also sponsors two kids in Africa Then he said all this medical jargon that I couldn't understand But one thing's for sure It's all so he can one day be invited to speak at medical G2 conference in Beijing And, if this hospital gets invited to G2 And, if this hospital gets invited to G2 My research could save thousands of more lives My research could save thousands of more lives But I've got to do a great job first Because if I mess up, it could be years before I get another opportunity like this What? How about you? How did you get into Psychoneuroimmunology? You mean Laughter Therapy? I thought it was kinda silly, at first But you know what? I really do enjoy helping out my patients I'm sure laughter has its merits But you don't believe laughter's can heal, right? Tina, if laughter was all we needed A lot more people in the world wouldn't be in pain All we've got is medicine, and science But you can't deny how much Laughter encourages people Laughter encourages people gives them hope gives them hope But they're all just temporary Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're the smartest I don't wanna argue with you Stubborn pig! Sorry, sorry! I really didn't mean to do that I tell you what How about when we're at the hospital When you're working, I'll go check out what you do? And when I'm working you can come check out what I do? Fine And why not make it a competition then A competition? Loser has to buy the winner an expensive gift Okay, let's do it then (AUNT GLENDA) (AUNT BING) (AUNT LULU) Genius! Quite impressive, doctor Your sock puppet wasn't too bad either Want to grab something to eat? I'm starving I know this place with really great Peking duck Dr. Lu, we have an emergency in room 219 You should hurry I'll just go pickup the food for us Okay, thanks! (Peking Duck) Here, here I got you Didn't anyone tell you to knock first? I got it Sorry! You're slipping I said I got it! Would you let go? Jeez, let go! Stop it you STINKING GUAVA! You're a STINKING DURIAN! Well, please let this Durian help, okay All right! I sincerely apologize to you Your brother... is a really great ma... Nice person I was wrong Do you like him or something? No way Why not? Everyone does I feel so hungry all of a sudden If there was only some Peking duck But I got this for Brandon I knew you liked him! Faker Oh, relax My brother's already married - to his work I won't tell him nothing Oh, don't worry about this He'd do anything for me Sometimes I get really pissed about that Pissed? Because he thinks this is all his fault But it's really not... Whatever I never liked heels anyway Denise Can you tell me what happened? Denise was actually brilliantly talented Admired at school, with a bright future ahead of her Don't you know that's a limited edition basketball? Go get it already Hurry up! Denise was rushed to the hospital For emergency surgery But she suffered major blood loss and damage to her spinal cord In the end, the doctors couldn't do anything Brandon blamed himself for it all And swore he'd help Denise walk again So he spent all his time and energy to be a doctor So he spent all his time and energy to be a doctor Brandon says this is the only G2 union hospital that may be granted a surgical program to cure my legs So all these years of hard work It was for you To go to Beijing? To go to G2? Well duh! It sucks always living in a stupid ass hospital And you You're actually all right But you sure do say the ugliest things So what you're saying is We're actually quite alike I'm tired Don't forget your blanket and catch a cold now You really should stop sleeping on the job now Looks like you really are tired... What's wrong with me? And you... Did I fall asleep...? You know When you're not all feisty, you're really pretty Why're you looking at me like that? Never seen anyone drool before? What are you thinking? And what're you doing? Should I run... or maybe I should just... Wait! Why should I let you... But... I don't... it's been so long since... So long... DAMN! Tina! Why haven't you been picking up? You've got some explaining to do! YES! See! Not every girl falls for your tricks! YES! I told you seducing him would work! Yes! Yes! Please, let this be a dream! Please! This can't be real, I have to be dreaming! Tina! Where are you going? Come back! Come... Will this make you feel better? Sometimes I think I'm a pretty horrible person Nonsense You're one of the sweetest girls I know Sweet? Would someone sweet punch a guy like that His nose was even bleeding You were just scared because he got close to you Have a bite You've never tried this one before Why would he scare me? Because you care that he'll see into your heart So you punched Mr. Perfect If he's Mr. Perfect, he'll forgive you Please, there's no such thing as Mr. Perfect If something like this happened to me I wouldn't even forgive myself It's not like Mr. Perfect isn't human He'll still get upset And feel sadness But if he can cherish you, the real you, all of you Then he's your Mr. Perfect But what if I'm not his Mrs. Perfect? That's okay You can still apologize and be good friends Dr. Lu, I just want to apologize for... Sorry, I must have the wrong office No, no, you're right This is his office, he's just not in yet Oh! That's okay, I'll come back later then... I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry! You all right there? Be more careful, or you'll make a mess Are you... Tina Liang? How do you know me? I've heard so much about you Hi. I'm Lisa Didn't think I'd run into you so soon You've been running my Laughter Therapy program, haven't you? YOU'RE DR. LI? But, you're (Gorgeous) (Perfect) (A Bitch) Supposed to be out of the country? But I just returned And I've already heard about what you did How you punched Brandon? Don't worry Brandon's a man, he won't hold it against you But if you really want to make it up to him my suggestion is you leave him alone for now he still has a sister to take care of And really doesn't have time to babysit little girls Tina? There you are! I've been... Brandon! Lisa? Aren't you supposed to be in... Wait, does this mean? Yes! Really? How'd you do it! Tina! Lisa and I... Brandon, I found this great research while in Beijing I got to show you, come on! Hurry! Okay I'm glad I punched him Helps me remember That I'm not even the right type for him Tina You don't have to change yourself for other people You are your own type I hate my type If you're always focused on yourself You'll never find the clarity to see other people As perfect as he may be He still doesn't know what you're thinking inside It's true there're lots of bad guys out there But there're still some good ones that'll always take care and protect the girl they hold close to their heart and protect the girl they hold close to their heart Do you think Brandon's that type? Do you think Brandon's that type? Do you think Brandon's that type? Beats me Well, at first, I swore He was just another gorgeous asshole But in the end, all I see is his heart and determination It's good you can see that in him Yeah, but I don't have any of those things in me I can't even compete with that Dr. Li I wish I could just be like you CoCo? So pretty with a hot body You don't have to envy anyone It's a miracle that you actually met someone that your heart both feels and hurts for Do you know how many women wish they could have that? Because that's how you know what you really feel deep down And it makes your love story a real one That's some deep stuff I've never even asked you How many boyfriend have you had? Including last week? To be exact, I believe it's... Zero Then how can you still believe in true love when you've never even met your Mr. Perfect Just because I haven't doesn't mean I won't But with that face, those boobs, and those legs You always have guys lining up for you! Thank you! What I'm saying is you ain't right! Tina It doesn't matter when we'll meet our true love We just have to keep believing we will Why can't this all just be easy? Why does love have to be so complicated? Because you're just lovesick And everyone's waiting For that someone who can help cure us of it What's with the long face? Something bad happen? Nothing I just... really successfully Screwed everything up Hey, as long as you can laugh about it You're going to be all right Thanks I feel even worse now All right I want you to know That you've really helped us here Even our medicine tastes better now To be honest, we're grateful for you C'mon Give me a nice, big, happy smile Tina Your grandpa wants to see you in 10 minutes Crap What's the psycho witch doing here? I'm sorry about earlier I feel like we got off on the wrong foot I heard you've been doing such a great job with my program I was actually a little... jealous Jealous? For real? Thank you Tina For being there for my patients when I was away It was the right thing to do Did I really misunderstand her? Can you forgive me? It's no big deal Dr. Li Please, call me Lisa You know, she's actually kinda all right Looks like you two have already met Tina I have absolutely wonderful news for you In these last few months, you've been doing such a great job That you've been recommended to be the next supervisor to take over the laughter program Are you for real? Of course I'm for real And this wouldn't have happened without Dr. Li's recommendation on your behalf Lisa... you? Congratulations Tina Will you take it? I promise I won't let you guys down! But what about you, Lisa? Dr. Li will be leaving us, unfortunately This week actually Oh yeah! Oh, that's horrible Dr. Li will be leaving to represent our hospital at the G2 Medical Conference in Beijing And she'll be going with Dr. Brandon Lu The people at G2 are very interested in Brandon's research And if all goes well Together, they'll be speaking in Beijing and then all over the world over the next 4 years And pioneering the future of Neurosurgery with Laughter Therapy Oh that's... that's great news I knew you'd be happy for us In fact we were going to throw a big party to congratulate your promotion And I guess We can make it a farewell party for Brandon and I also I know what Brandon needs is a mature and capable woman And once we're in Beijing I'll make sure we have a good life together But I want to thank you For being such a good sister to him Tina Where've you been? I've been looking for you these last few days I just, wanted to talk about what happened that night Right... Sorry for punching you that night What's going on? Nothing Nothing's going on Stop acting like nothing's up You're gonna leave anyways what else is there to talk about Just 4 years, right? Actually, 5 You should go celebrate It's something you've been working so hard for I know It's just... I don't know why... And Lisa... she's been so good to me Yeah, unlike me She understands you She knows what's best for you What are you talking about? Congratulations You won Here That was our deal Loser buys winner a prize I... Did I do something wrong? Why do you just feel so distant right now Once you're in Beijing It'll feel further What the hell! Definitely excited I'll be returning to Taiwan to kick off the tour Then it'll be China and a lot of other stops I'm looking forward to showing everyone a brand new Aaron Stop hiding What is it? It's a love letter from Jin He And then, he slowly held my hand And I was so surprised My heart felt like it was going burst out of my chest Tina You know all those rules you told me about I don't want them And I don't need them What do you mean? I just want to tell Jin That I love him already! NO! He just held your hand Aren't you afraid you're going to get hurt? Rule #3 True love doesn't exist No! Your rules suck! So you do, love him? What if he doesn't love you back? But if I don't tell him, I'll regret it for sure I'd rather try to love, than be scared all my life It's just giving yourself a chance I hate never knowing and living in fear And all those crazy rules of yours To be honest They're all just excuses because you're afraid So... He means that much to you? He means that much to me too... That much to me... Miki, what time is it?! Are you ok? No, not okay! Where to? The airport! Can you please hurry! Oh my god! Sir, I'm so sorry But I forgot my wallet But I really need to tell someone that I love him! But I really need to tell someone that I love him! I've seen folks like you before I've seen folks like you before Especially from the Ximending (party) district Get out if you can't pay! I'm not like that at all! I'm Tina Liang I work at that hospital back there Please! I promise I'll pay you back I just need to make that 9 o'clock flight Because this is the first time, I want to believe in... Love Love! All right Hang on now! Which airport are we going to? Oh crap! I don't know Wait! Wait! Hello? I'm in the middle of retrieving my youth, I don't have time for your crap Tina Liang I hope you know what you're doing Girls Pull out your smart phones, we've got work to do! Okay! Hey! You big STUPID GUAVA! Open your eyes! I hope you rot and rot and rot! Hurry up and tell me which airline! Oh damn Mandarin Airlines and Eva Airlines both have a 9 o'clock flights Calm down Is there any smart person around that you can ask? Freak, freak, watch the freakin' road watch the freakin' road! Freakin' road! Um... Sir do you think it's Mandarin Airlines Or Eva Airlines? Mandarin! It has to be Mandarin Airlines! I took their flight when I went to Beijing for my Wushu competition (Donnie Yen) Their flight attendants are so pretty It's Mandarin Airlines! Donnie Yen says it's Mandarin Airlines! D- D- Donnie Yen is in the car with you?! Stop joking around! I'm telling you Mandarin Airlines is in the first terminal Hurry up Hello, I'd like to check... I found it! Mandarin Airlines 9: 05 direct flight to Beijing Boarding gate B7 You hear that B7, GO! I told you it's Mandarin Airlines! All right - rocket fire! My taxi is a god damn rocket! We're here Here? Thank you! Go get him back! Sorry! Sorry! Miss! Sorry ma'am but you can't cut in line Please just hear me out My name is Tina Liang And you have a passenger named Brandon Lu, who's... I'm sorry ma'am But I can't help you unless you show your passport and ticket Molly Your name is Molly, right? Molly, have you ever made a mistake One that you truly regretted Have you ever genuinely loved someone? Have you ever genuinely loved someone? But because you were scared of getting hurt But because you were scared of getting hurt You pushed him away Pushed away your happiness Have you ever said dumb things you didn't mean And only when you wanted to finally tell him how you felt He already left your world Molly, please, I'm begging you to help me I have to let him know how I feel And we're SO close Please, please help me Miss! Get out of here! You're causing trouble for us all And there're people still waiting Take it It's my ID card Just take it! Hurry! Go! Stop! Stop right there! But I have this! I have this! STOP RIGHT THERE! STOP! STOP! Brandon! Brandon! Tina? Tina! Brandon! Brandon! Tina, what're you doing here? I don't know I mean I do know! I- I gotta to tell you something Something horrible Something really bad But I really have to tell you I... I... What's happened? Brandon, I've screw up a lot of things I... I'm really pathetic And I'm horrible! I've acted like a monkey, a crazy diseased monkey What am I saying? I'm trying to say that Today, I spoke with a girl She... She was afraid But she knew one thing She didn't have much courage But she knew this one thing was really important to her And that's why I'm here And I don't have courage either And I'm all out of time But I really have to tell you that... I don't know why you're always so good to me! Because I love you I don't know why but I get all nervous when I see you I really don't understand why I know you're kinda crazy Sometimes mean You hit hard like a man I think there's something wrong with me And I'm a doctor and I don't get it But I do know one thing And that is, I love you Do you... Can you can tell me If you want me to stay Then I'll stay I do I do, please don't leave me I don't want to pretend anymore Please don't hurt me I'm so tired Tina! What're you doing here? Brandon The whole flight's waiting because of you Let them wait! You don't have to tell me how you feel I can understand But if you tell me to stay I'll stay But, if he stays What'll happen to all those years of research? And what about Denise? I can't be this selfish Because of you I can finally walk away from my past And feel love again But, I can't do this to you Because if I do I'll just be like all the other wretches out there And I'll never forgive myself for it Hey! What're you doing? Let her go! Sorry sir, but this lady needs to leave, and you need to board the plane now Go What? Go. And don't ever look back Is this what you really want? Go! And don't come back Say something Say something! Don't forget me... Hi everyone Honey Everything's gonna be all right I'm good Oh, it's no big deal, really I'm really glad he left Just like that You guys want to know what he said to me? He actually said if I told him to stay Then he would stay Such a liar I did it I finally... I finally got rid of him I'm so happy that he's gone So happy... Aaron? Tina? It's really you! It's you... It's been such a long time The last time I saw you was... How have you been? All these years I should actually ask YOU How do think a girl that got broken would feel? Do you have any idea how hard these years have been? Rule #1 Always be on guard against men Rule #2 Learn to be your own hero Rule #3 True love doesn't exist You taught me that Until the day I met him Who made me forget all those god damn rules But all I could do was watch him leave Are you happy now? Now that I've got nothing But I still want you to know Even if I'll never see him again I still want to say I love Brandon Lu I love him, I love him I love him, I love him, I love him I love Brandon Lu, can you hear me! Did you hear what I said? Me? You! It's all because of you! Tina I'm really sorry Poke him in the eyes! Doctor! Doctor! How is she? Trauma to the head, blood pressure is normal Brandon Are you okay? How about I get you something to drink? That girl is a crazy lunatic! I can't believe she punched Aaron I heard Aaron even had to cancel his tour All because of her (Aaron attacked by crazy fan!) Something wrong? Nothing Let's go And not be late for... I love Brandon Lu I love him, I love him Brandon! I love Brandon Lu, I love Brandon Lu Can you hear me! Can you hear me! I love him, I love him, I love him I love Brandon Lu! Can you hear me! Can you hear me! Brandon This girl's really not worth it It took you so much time just to get here Are you really going to throw it all away? There're still a lot of people who need your help Especially your sister Denise Brandon Congratulations Lisa You just got promoted I don't understand Why are you such an idiot? What is it that she has that I don't My heart Lisa That girl has my heart Brandon? My sweet Princess! You're finally awake You had us all scared out of our minds I'm sorry, Grandpa I didn't mean to scare you It's all right I know you're a fighting princess How do you feel now? Like I just got the beat down I'm kinda tired And kinda sad Because of Brandon? But I guess it's all too late It's not too late Sleeping on the job are you? Still asleep? Not afraid I'll punch you again? I'm sorry You're here I'm here You hope you meet that person one day Who loves you for you. The real you And that if you were down and out and lost it all Somehow, you'll still have a place In their heart Maybe this type of love is asking too much in modern relationships these days But if you can just keep believing in true love Then maybe lovesick people like us Can finally find our cure Of course You can choose not to believe in love Then I can recommend you to join ADW I'm hungry My aunties will happily welcome you in My aunties will happily welcome you in They'll even give you a membership discount! Hello, are you still there? Hello? That, yes yes yes Ariel, you didn't... Damn, that surprised me I'm the best man, David. D - A... I'm the best man, David... Tao I'm Korean Korean? When did you come to Taiwan? Because I'm mixed What're you a mix of? Shandon and Shanghainese Shandon and Shanghainese That has nothing to do with Korea With that beautiful face, plastic doll breasts... sorry! Because there's a knight and a chariot! Here! We're here! We're here Where the hell are you looking! Go get him back! Wing Chun! Snake! Tiger! Eagle! You can do it! I need to find... I found it... Brandon! Brandon! She was too fast! Did you feel the electricity? I'm so pretty! I'm a pretty man! Yeah! Brandon Lu Do you take this beautiful lady as your wife? I do Tina Liang, Do you take this... Don't ever ask me if I love you Even if one day I lose my memory and forget my own name I promise I'll never forget you Because you made me believe that anything's possible Well, let's not wait any longer I now pronounce you husband and wife Brandon, you may...
