 

                        Ten long years Living a mere faade of life Ten long years Wasting my time on smoke and noise In my mind I hear melodies pure and unearthly but I find I can't give them a voice without you! My Christine Lost and gone The day starts The day ends Time crawls by Night steals in, pacing the floor The moments creep yet I can't bear to sleep till I hear you sing And weeks pass, and months pass Seasons fly Still you don't walk through my door And in a haze I count the silent days till I hear you sing once more And sometimes in darkness I dream that you are there but wake holding nothing but the cold night air And years come, and years go Time runs dry Still I ache deep in my core My broken soul can't be alive or whole till I hear you sing once more And music, your music It teases at my ear I turn, and it fades away And you're not here Let hopes pass Let dreams pass Let them die! Without you what are they for? I'll always feel no more than halfway real till I hear you sing once more! (AUDIENCE CHEERING) Coney Isle Glistening and glimmering! Rising bright Drenched with light See it smile Beckoning and shimmering! All a-gleam like a dream Every fantasy set free! Sodom rising by the sea! Wonders and astonishments for your delectation! Phantoms and automatons for your fascination! Marvels undreamt since the dawn of creation! Coney Isle! Miracle on miracle! Speed and sound Whirling round Mile by mile Loud and lewd and lyrical Thrill on thrill Never still Welcome one and welcome all! Welcome to the monster's ball Welcome to the, welcome to the Welcome to the, welcome to the... (SCREAMING) Coney Isle! Miracle on miracle! Speed and sound Whirling round Mile by mile Loud and lewd and lyrical Thrill on thrill Never still Welcome one and welcome all! Welcome to the monster's ball Welcome one and welcome all! Welcome to the, welcome to the Welcome to the, welcome to the... Mr. Y welcomes you to Phantasma! Featuring Dr. Gangle, master of ceremonies! Miss Fleck, aerialist extraordinaire. The amazing Squelch, the world's strongest man. And direct from Paris, France... It's Coney Island's Ooh-La-La Girl... Miss Meg Giry! Meg Giry! Welcome each and every one to our festival of fun! Something notable and new! We bring glamour from afar plus a touch of the bizarre! And it's only for you! See the wonders of our age all assembled on our stage! Too fantastic to be true! What sensation-seekers seek! Every kind of living freak! And it's only for you! If it's marvel and illusion that your soul and body crave you'll be leaving here content without a doubt! Are you ready? Are you willing? Are you braver than the brave? There's an oh-so-simple way of finding out! Is your life a little humdrum? Is your wife a little glum? We've the remedy for all who wear a frown! We won't bite you, we'll delight you! We invite you to succumb to this singular attraction which is offered at a fraction of the price of any other show in town! We've got jugglers from the east! We've got bird and we've got beast! It's a pretty heady brew! We've a fiddler from the west who is said to be possessed And it's only for you! We bring magic, we bring mirth! We've been halfway round the Earth from Teheran to Timbuktu to present to you today this delectable display which is only for you! Such a show you've never seen! Such a show there's never been! And today's our grand debut! Prince and pauper, come on in! Let the spectacle begin 'cause it's only for you! Let the banners be unfurled! Raise the curtain on our world! Without any more ado! Mr. Y has all you need Satisfaction guaranteed! And it's only for you! Welcome each and every one to our festival of fun! For you! (CHEERING) Ladies and gentlemen, Miss Meg Giry, the Ooh-La-La Girl! Five shows daily. Only here at Phantasma. And not forgetting, the fabulous Miss Fleck... Hurry up, people! You have four more shows to do. No time to dawdle. Mother, did you see? Was it all all right? Mother, was he watching? Was he keeping out of sight? I was frightened half to death and I had to catch my breath as the lights began to dim! I was suddenly aware of a presence in the air and I knew it was him! Yes, I know there were some snags There are moments where it lags Mother? Mother, what's wrong? A surprise announcement from Mr. Oscar Hammerstein. Christine Daae left Paris this morning to sing at the opening of his new Manhattan Opera House. Christine, Christine... Christine Ten long years Not a sign, not a word Ten long years, now she comes to our shores We must pray she keeps away from us and from him and his dreams and his scores What do you mean? In Paree when the mob surrounded him who was there? We were there! Where was she when the lawmen hounded him? Gone, long gone We stayed on Who concealed him safe away? Smuggled him up to Calais? Found a freighter out of France? I don't see the problem This is ancient history And who helped him buy his first sideshow? Mother, don't. And who plied the politicians? That's all over now. Charmed investors and the press? No, not her! And who stayed with him helped him and advised him? We stayed with him loved and idolized him! She betrayed him shunned him and despised him! She chose Raoul, chose to make a new start Chose beauty and youth over genius and art Fixed her aim on wealth and fame Fled from the master yet fled with his heart... It seems a hundred years ago when you and I were both on show dancing side by side shy and starry-eyed The waves now bring you back to me and any day we soon will be side by side again just the same as then Ah, Christine! Long ago how I watched, as you rose like a star! Ah, Christine! We have all traveled long traveled far! Ah, Christine You seem a thousand miles away and yet your ship sets out today Sails across the sea bringing you to me And I will show you all the sights Manhattan's noise and Coney's lights! Friends at last again just the same as then! Just like way back when (CHUCKLES) (SHIP HORN BLARING) (ALL TALKING INDISTINCTLY) Hey, have the passengers disembarked yet? Yeah, they're going through customs now. Here they come! Hey, it's Mrs. Astor. Hey, Mrs. Astor! Over here! Over there, Lucille! Is that the latest Paris style? Look, it's Colonel Vanderbilt! Thanks, Colonel! Hey, Colonel, is Christine Daae still on board? I believe so, young man. What's she doing? Waiting for the conductor? Hey, Christine, where are you? (YODELING) Look, there she is! Christine Daae! Miss Daae, over here! WOMAN: Christine! MAN: Christine! Her name... Her name is Madame de Chagny! Stand aside. Stand aside! Gustave, come here. No pictures, do you hear? No pictures of the boy! Hey, Christine, sing something! Your first performance in years! Why ain't ya singin' at the Met? The vicomtesse has been engaged by the well-known impresario, Mr. Oscar Hammerstein, to open his new Manhattan Opera House. How'd he lure the great Christine Daae over here anyway? It's the money, right? All that American moolah! My wife is an artist. Oh, yeah, and her art is payin' off your gambling debts, is what they're sayin' in France. Is it true you left your entire fortune on a roulette table in Monte Carlo? You insolent jackals! How dare you! Hey, kid, how does it feel to have a famous mother? Your first time to America? It's two weeks till the Opera House opens. What are you gonna do? You gonna go see the Statue of Liberty? Gonna ride the new subway? You gonna go to the baseball? I want to go to Coney Island. And learn how to swim. (ALL LAUGHING) (THUNDER RUMBLES) Mother, look! Right over there! Across the square! That carriage! Look at that! No horses! That's the darnedest thing I've ever seen. How does it work? Honored friends welcome to America! Take a seat! Rest your feet! Honored friends Mr. Hammerstein's expecting you Climb aboard, fledgling lord Gustave! Where is Hammerstein? We were assured he'd be here to greet us in person! Here my dreams can wander free Tell me what we're going to see! This way, prima donna! We three will escort you! Please, Monsieur Mr. Hammerstein sent us to transport you I give up. Take us to Hammerstein! Mysteries and melodies play inside my mind Fairytales and fantasies silently unwind Ask no questions, have no fear Anything can happen here (THUNDER RUMBLES) I am your Angel of Music Come to me, Angel of Music What a dreadful town! What a vulgar place! What an awful mistake to have come here! To be on display in that shameless way for the crude, common lower-class scum here How could he dare to treat us so? Father, dear, come play with me Come and see this toy I've got What a snub, at most from our so-called host Did he think sending freaks would be funny? Could the fool have thought that our pride was bought by his filthy American money? What a farce! What an outright slap in the face It's an utter disgrace I've got a mind to pack and go Never you mind the debts we owe Who would believe we've sunk this low? Father, please, come play with me Gustave, enough! The answer's no! (PLAYING SOFT TUNE) Must you play now? I think it's beautiful. RAOUL: What is it, anyway? I don't know, it was just here on the piano. Well, it hurts my head. Please, let's not fight, dear I'm sure Mr. Hammerstein never intended a slight, dear How dare he patronize us? We should never have accepted We need the money, that's all That's why things haven't been right, dear Why doesn't it surprise me that I get the blame here? Let's leave tonight, dear if that would serve to ease your troubled mind Leave the hurt behind Father, dear, come over here and look at what they gave to me Wind it up and, Father, see Look, it plays a melody Raoul. (KNOCKING) What's this? What is it? It's from Hammerstein. He wants to meet me in the hotel bar. Alone. Alone? Well, he may lack courtesy, but he does show a certain savoir faire in choosing a business rendezvous. Raoul, please. Please what? Nothing. Father never plays with me Doesn't he love me? Oh, darling. Love's a curious thing It often comes disguised Look at love the wrong way it goes unrecognized So look with your heart and not with your eyes The heart understands The heart never lies Believe what it feels and trust what it shows Look with your heart The heart always knows Love is not always beautiful not at the start So open your arms and close your eyes tight Look with your heart and when it finds love your heart will be right Learn from someone who knows Make sure you don't forget Love you misunderstand is love that you'll regret Look with your heart and not with your eyes The heart can't be fooled The heart is too wise Forget what you think Ignore what you hear Look with your heart, it always sees clear Love is not always beautiful (LAUGHING) not at the start But open your arms and close your eyes tight Look with your heart and when it finds love your heart will be right Time for bed now, Gustave. I'll be in in a minute. (GASPING) So it was all an empty lie? One final lie to fool us all? To make your death our story's end? To put your life beyond recall? How dare you come and claim me now invade my life, ensnare my voice? If you could know the pain I've known then you would know I had no choice My Christine Your Christine I was yours one brief night long ago Long ago with a man that I no longer know Ah, Christine! You came and found where I hid Don't you deny that you did that long ago night! Once, there was a night beneath a moonless sky too dark to see a thing too dark to even try I stole to your side tormented by my choice I couldn't see your face yet trembled at your voice and I touched you And I felt you And I heard those ravishing refrains! The music of your pulse The singing in your veins! And I held you And I touched you And embraced you And I felt you And with every breath and every sigh! I felt no longer scared I felt no longer shy BOTH: At last, our feelings bared beneath the moonless sky And blind in the dark as soul gazed into soul I looked into your heart and saw you pure and whole Cloaked under the night with nothing to suppress a woman and a man no more and yet no less And I kissed you And caressed you And the world around us fell away We said things in the dark we never dared to say And I caught you And I kissed you And I took you And I begged you With a need too urgent to deny And nothing mattered then except for you and I Again and then again beneath the moonless sky And when it was done before the sun could rise ashamed of what I was afraid to see your eyes I stood while you slept and whispered a goodbye And slipped into the dark beneath the moonless sky And I loved you! Yes, I loved you! I'd have followed anywhere you led I woke to swear my love and found you gone instead And I loved you! I loved you! And I left you! How I loved you! And I had to, both of us knew why We both knew why And yet I won't regret from now until I die the night I can't forget beneath a moonless sky And now? How can you talk of now? For us... There is no now. Once upon another time our story had only begun You chose to turn the page and I made choices, too Once upon that other time we did what we thought must be done And now, we have no choice We do what we must do We love, we live we give what we can give and take what little we deserve Once upon another time I knew how our story would end and maybe I was wrong but now the moment's gone Were it still that other time I'd make time itself somehow bend! But now I'm not that strong and time keeps moving on We love, we live we give what we can give and take what little we deserve We love, we live we give what we can give and take what little we deserve Once upon another time (PANTING) Ten long years of yearning years of dreaming of this moment when that miracle that peerless instrument plays for me just fleetingly lays the ghost which tortures me Tortures me Ah, Christine I know what Hammerstein is paying you. I will double the amount for just one night's work. Here, in my concert hall. No. Just one night, Christine. One song. That is all I ask. Why should I? For 10 years, you've let me believe you were dead, and now you lure us here and expect me to do your bidding, submit to you again. I won't do it. I owe you nothing. Mother, please, I'm scared! What a dream, an awful dream! Someone strange and mad Seizing me and drowning me Gustave, it's all right, darling. Come and meet a friend of mine Welcome to my world, young friend Your world? Where are we? We're in Phantasma, little vicomte. On Coney Island. A world of fantasy where illusion is emperor. Tell me where you'd like to go Tell me what you want to see Madam, please, I insist Could you show me, if you please all Phantasma's mysteries? All that's strange and wild and dark in the shadows of the park? You shall see it all tomorrow. In fact, I myself will show you. I promise. CHRISTINE: Back to sleep now, Gustave. Why does he wear a mask, Mother? Is he a magician? Yes, darling. In his way. What a child. Full of life. Full of you, my Christine. Help me through this sadness Do this kindness for your mentor or your progeny that perfect specimen, may disappear on Coney Island Vanish here on Coney Island Ah, Christine What are you saying? How could you? After all that we've been. Who are you? I am your Angel of Music! I am dying, Christine! Suffocating here in the dark! Give me breath! Give me life! Sing for me! Or I will take from you everything you have ever loved. No, no, you can't! Oh, but I can. A man as hideous as this, believe me, is capable of anything. And what am I to sing? One song composed by me And then we're free to leave? And will, of course, receive a princely fee Is it on with the show? Does he stay, does he go? (SOBBING) (HUMMING) He's nowhere to be seen. Insolence! Who? Hammerstein. What the devil is going on in this place? Darling. Christine? Things have changed, Raoul. Bathing beauty on the beach see her practically glow! Takin' the sun in, till all the boys are runnin'! Rollin' in clover, and gettin' tan all over! Wearing a smile and giving Coney Island a bathing beaut of a show! Bathing beauty, say hello Gentlemen, gentlemen, you must take care. Go spend some time working with Meg. Ladies, come, let's go over the port de bras. Gentlemen, remember to pli before the lift. Then some control, gentlemen, please. (GUSTAVE LAUGHING) Slow down, Gustave. There are people working here, be careful. But I want to find Mr. Y, and go see the island. I'm sure he'll send for you when he's ready. Who is this Mr. Y? What does he do? Apart from spend ludicrous amounts of money on light entertainment? Father, look over there! Gustave, slow down! Heaven help me, could it be? No, it couldn't possibly Sorry, do I... Yes, I think you do! Have we... Go on, take a guess! Wait, it can't be! Is it... Yes! Oh, my God, I can't believe it's you! Look at you, Christine! Regal as a queen and beautiful! Meg, and you as well! I could hardly tell it's you! My dear old friend! Can't believe you're here, old friend! After all this time! Christine, you came! You look sublime! You look the same! My sweet old friend never thought we'd meet, old friend! What of your career? Everything's great And isn't fate a splendid thing! It brought me here... To see the sights? And sing! (GIRLS LAUGHING) Oh, my goodness! You! My God, it's you! It can't be true Is this a dream? It's been 10 years What brings you here? Who do you think? Christine She's here to sing I read the news. For Hammerstein? No, plans have changed. He's been outbid Outbid by whom? The contract's here. It's rather strange Sorry, did I hear you right? Here to sing? Tomorrow night That seems odd, there must be some mistake That's the leading lady's slot I've been booked No, surely not This was meant to be my lucky break Look, I hardly sing Just one little thing, an aria Christine, it's a thrill just to share the bill with you My dear old friend it's becoming clear, old friend someone's overlooked his leading act Well, double booked to be exact Now, my old friend Can you clarify, old friend this Mr. Y with whom we've signed who hides behind the pseudonym? You haven't guessed? I've no idea It's him! Him? That's what I said You work for him! Now you do, too And my poor wife, we thought him dead! She'll be appalled! Unless she knew Darling, please, are you all right? Tell me now, this music! Who was its creator? Darling, please, don't squeeze so tight Something's going on here I'll deal with you later What's this about? I wish I knew The truth will out before we're through My dear old friend Can't believe you're here, old friend My dear Christine My dear vicomte What does this mean? What does he want? My grand old friend I don't understand, old friend Maybe it's a joke! Some silly game! And what his aim is in the end I couldn't claim to comprehend Old friend! It isn't fair! We need to think I need some air I need a drink My poor old friend Isn't this a bore, old friend? I'm still amazed I'm still confused I'm feeling dazed I'm feeling used And yet, old friends let's not get upset, old friends We can sort this out I'm sure we will Without a doubt Because we're still such grand old friends such devoted, grand old friends Back again at last with everyone Isn't it great? Won't this be so much fun? With two old friends trustable and true, old friends! Let us raise a glass To times gone by To Mr. Y To happy ends To such sincere and very dear old friends Old friends No offense, but I need something stronger. Raoul! Madame, I shall see you tomorrow night at the concert, where I am sure you will both surpass yourselves. Good day. Raoul! Please. I can explain! I'm sorry. Meg, I wonder would you mind... Gustave? What's wrong? My son. He was with... Gustave! Gustave! MEG: Christine, wait! Come along and follow us Come and follow faster Come along and follow us Come and meet the master Hurry up and follow us Hurry if you care to Soon the dark will swallow us Follow if you dare to What is this place? This is my realm, illusion's domain where music and beauty and artifice reign One moment, little vicomte, while I prepare our adventure. May I? Does the young vicomte play? (PIANO PLAYING) What's this? Just a song in my head Go on. I think it's beautiful Hear how each note seems to float? Hear how they all die and fall? Just like the night It's beautiful This boy... So very beautiful! This music... Music that comes uncontrolled He plays like me... Haunting and lovely and bold He's just 10 years old Ten years old! My God! Come with me. I need to show you something. Follow me. I want to know what you think! Have you ever yearned to go past the world you think you know? Been enthralled to the call of the beauty underneath? Have you let it draw you in past the place where dreams begin? Felt the full breathless pull of the beauty underneath? When the dark unfolds its wings do you sense the strangest things? Things no one would ever guess? Things mere words cannot express? Yes! Do you find yourself beguiled by the dangerous and wild? Do you feed on the need for the beauty underneath? Have you felt your senses surge and surrendered to the urge? And been hooked as you looked at the beauty underneath? When you stare behind the night can you glimpse its primal might? Might you hunger to possess hunger that you can't repress? Yes! It seems so beautiful! So strange yet beautiful! Everything's just as you say! And he's so beautiful Perhaps too beautiful What I suspect cannot be And yet somehow we both see the very same way! Is there music in your head? Have you followed where it led and been graced with a taste of the beauty underneath? Does it fill your every sense? Is it terribly intense? Tell me you need it, too need the beauty underneath! When it lifts its voice and sings don't you feel amazing things? Things you know you can't confess? Things you thirst for nonetheless? It's all so beautiful! PHANTOM: Can it be? Almost too beautiful! Do you see what I see? Heavenly! To him, it's beautiful! My world is beautiful! How can this be what it seems? All of my most secret dreams somehow set free! You can feel it? Yes! Come closer Yes! You've no fear of the beauty underneath? You can face it? Yes! You can take it? Yes! You see through to the beauty underneath? To the splendor? And the splendor! And the glory? Glory! To the truth of the beauty underneath? The beauty underneath! You'll accept it! GUSTAVE: Yes! PHANTOM: You'll embrace it! GUSTAVE: Yes! Let me show you the beauty underneath! To the splendor! Splendor! And the glory! And the glory! To the truth of the beauty underneath! The beauty underneath! You'll accept it! Yes! You'll embrace it! Yes! Let me show you the beauty under... (GUSTAVE SCREAMS) MEG: Gustave! CHRISTINE: Gustave! Gustave! Gustave. It's all right! It's me! It's horrible, horrible! Shh. Don't be frightened. PHANTOM: How could you think I wouldn't guess? How could you think I wouldn't know? Do you have something to confess? I want the truth, right now, if so! Listen, darling, I want you to go with Miss Giry back to the hotel. All right? I have to talk to Mr. Y alone. Meg, do you mind? Please? Please. Once upon another time you loved me yet left me alone But that's not all you did You left me with a son Ever since that other time I've wished you could somehow have known I kept the secret hid the secret my marriage forbid What else could I have done? Just love A son! Just live My son! Just give what I could give and take what little I deserve Forgive me. He sees me and shuns me as you did once Take him now, take him and go! Go now, be free! But swear one thing to me He will never, ever know! I swear it Believe me You know you have my word And I swear this music won't remain unheard This music your music will live again! One last time just as I swore! BOTH: And soul to soul we will once more be whole when I hear you sing once more From out of ugliness, such light! From out of darkness, such a flame! In him my wrongness is made right and yet he loathes me, just the same! So let him shun me in disgust! Let him flee this cursed face! If I must hide from him, I must yet he shall be my saving grace! For Christine, my Christine if it's true, he's my reason to live! Ah, Christine then our son shall have all I can give! Ah, Christine! All I create on this Earth all that I'll never be worth all shall be his! All shall be his? Ten long years, and he casts us aside! Ten whole years, this is how we're repaid! Ten dark years of toil and tears and now what we've worked for will go to that child! All our hopes were at last in our grasp! All the dreams and the plans that we laid! Everything is vanishing and we get discarded, rejected, reviled! All of the bonds in between us, now torn! All of the love that we gave him foresworn! All would be ours if that bastard had never been born! One more. Ah, buddy, don't you think you had enough? It's practically morning already. One more, I said! All right. All right. My shift is over anyway, so let's settle the bill, okay? Jeez, you're in a bad way, ain't ya? Worse than most that wind up here. Here's the morning shift. Maybe he'll know what to do with you. (SCOFFS) Yes. Yes, what to do with me. That's the question, isn't it? That's always been the question, ever since the beginning. She looks for sympathy I give her sorrow She asks for honesty I've none to borrow She needs my tender kiss She begs it of me I give her ugliness Why does she love me? She yearns for higher things Things I can't give her The rush that music brings I can't deliver And even when she sings And soars above me I try to clip her wings Why does she love me? One more drink, sir That's what I need, don't you think, sir? Leave the hurt behind... Did you hear me? Another drink! She wants the man I was Husband and father At least, she thinks she does She needn't bother Beneath this mask I wear There's nothing of me Just horror, shame, despair Why does she love me? How 'bout you, sir? Tell me, what am I to do, sir? Leave the hurt behind Morning, Bernie Coffee, please Hurry up before I freeze I'll just take it black Vicomte. Fancy meeting you here. Miss Giry. Drowning your sorrows, are you? On the contrary, I'm celebrating a reunion with old friends. Friends I had long thought dead and buried. And you? Me? I've been for a swim. This town is coarse and cold and mean It's hard to keep your conscience clean Faceless in the crowd Anything's allowed And so I come at dawn each day Come to wash it all away Sink into the sea Blue and cool and kind Let it set me free Let the past unwind Leave the hurt behind Miss Giry? What do you think will happen, Vicomte? At the concert. Have you thought? When he hears her sing again? When she sings... Miss Giry, I wish I knew. But I'm afraid her music has always been somewhat of a mystery to me. But there's more to this than the music, monsieur. Believe me. I saw it. There's something... I don't know. Just take her away. Now. For all our sakes. Sail across the sea Put us out of mind Close your eyes and flee Let yourself stay blind What do you mean? What are you talking about? Trust me, monsieur. Don't let her sing. Once he gets into her soul, there's nothing she won't do for him. Leave this place behind Miss Giry! Miss Giry! He's not Mephistopheles, you know? When it comes down to it, he's just another circus freak. I'm not afraid of him. No. It can't be! Not afraid of me, you say? Stay back! Or I'll kill you, I promise you. Insolent boy. You think you own more of her soul than I do? She is my wife! Your music may speak to her, but her heart will always follow me. You think so? You really think so? Follow you? With all your charms? Look at you, deep in debt Stinking drunk, pitiful Shall we two make a bet? Devil take the hindmost? Look at you, foul as sin Hideous, horrible Call the stakes, deal me in Devil take the hindmost Our Christine shall choose tonight Let her choose Is she yours or mine? Draw the line If she sings, you lose tonight I won't lose You leave from here? Fine Disappear? Fine And if she won't? If I win? All your debts wiped away Very well, let's begin BOTH: Devil take the hindmost Our old game You think you have the odds It's been changed You think you're in control Every throw... You think you've fixed the dice ...riskier Well, I will gladly roll All the rules... I'll bet against the house ...rearranged I'll even double down Fate has redesigned most Fortune's on my side Cut the deck I won her long ago Let us play I won her from you then You and I wager even now Once again I'll win her back again In the end And when the game is done Either way BOTH: Devil take the hindmost Now Christine shall choose at last Is she yours or mine? We've a son Our bond's secure Are you sure? What? Are you so sure? What do you mean? Such a child Strange to see Talented, musical Is he more you or me? Which one do you find most? You lie! Yet you doubt No woman could Doubt your wife Or ever would Doubt your son Love such a man Everything You're insane Now we play... So now I play... ...for your life ... for my life BOTH: Devil take the hindmost Deal the cards I call your bluff Let them fall The game is on Choose your hand And we will see... Try your best ... who wins out He who wins... Once and for all... BOTH: Wins it all Devil take the hindmost (GROANS) She walks, you leave together Pockets full, debts paid She sings... You leave alone Devil take the hindmost Dear God, what have I done? I could lose her forever. My Christine! (AUDIENCE CHEERING) Ladies, gents You, good sir And you, my friend ALL: Everyone Time for fun Starting soon upon our stage The performance of the age Wonders and astonishments for your delectation Phantoms and automatons for your fascination Plus a finale to sweep you away BOTH: Brought from Paree to perform just one day The beautiful, breathtaking Christine Daa But first, for those of you whose taste is a little more earth-bound... It's Phantasma's famous Ooh-La-La Girl! The incomparable... ALL: Meg Giry! (AUDIENCE CHEERING) I took a little trip to Coney Island To get away from all the city sprawl I couldn't bear to choose Which bathing suit to use So goodness me, I guess I brought 'em all But when at last I got to Coney Island And found myself a spot upon the sand I noticed something strange Ooh! There was no place to change And so I asked my friends to lend a hand Girls? (VOCALIZING) GIRLS: Bathing beauty Take a look at you Bathing beauty on the beach Bathing beauty, say hello What a cutie! What a peach! Bathing beauty, watch her go Posing under her parasol She is what ya call a real spectacle Prim and proper with class and poise But she's got the boys apoplectical Bathing beauty on the beach See her practically glow Wearing a smile and giving Coney Island A bathing beaut of a show Bathing beauty on the beach Checks. MEN: What a cutie! What a peach! Stripes. ALL: Bathing beauty Bathing beauty Dots? GIRLS: Dots? Dots? Dots? MEN: Dots? Dots? ALL: Dots! Bathing beauty on the beach See her practically glow Taking the sun in Till all the boys go running ALL: Rolling in clover And getting tan all over ALL: Wearing a smile And giving Coney Island ALL: A bathing beaut Of a show Bathing beauty, say... Hello! Whoo! (AUDIENCE APPLAUDING) Ladies and gentlemen, Miss Meg Giry, the Ooh-La-La Girl! In just a few moments, Christine Daa, the world's most celebrated songbird, will be making her American debut. Mother, did you watch? Everything is solved Mother, can you tell? The new routine it went so well I was worried just a touch That it might've been too much Just a bit Well, rather free But just listen to that crowd Why, they've never been so loud Screaming only for me Meg... And the master must have heard Every note and every word Mother, tell me, did he see? Meg, stop it. Even he will now concede I'm the only one he'll need Meg, sweet fool You did all that you could Charming, bright And yet still not enough What do you mean? How you danced! They're all entranced Yes, all but the one whose entrancement we sought He wasn't even there? Where, poor girl, do you think that he was? Yes, that's right, in with her all along With Christine? Dreaming of their son, their love Too smitten to spare you one moment of thought Their son? All that you gave him has all been a waste No, you're wrong! All that you've done It has all been erased Don't say that! Now he has them As for us We have both been replaced No! No! Gustave, could you hand me those earrings? The sapphires on the left. There! How do I look? You look so beautiful So very beautiful Like a queen in a book You, too, are beautiful So very beautiful Once this performance is through We'll spend some time, just us two Won't that be fun? Father! Doesn't Mother look lovely tonight? Indeed she does. As lovely as she looked the very first time I came to her dressing-room door. And look at you, Raoul. You look just like that handsome boy in the opera-box, the one who would always toss me a single red rose. Please, Gustave If you don't mind Would you wait outside a while? But when's Mother going to sing? We don't want to miss it. Go and wait backstage, my dear Soon Papa will fetch you there You can both watch from the wings. Since our wedding day Things have gone astray Raoul... I'm not proud of the way that I've acted We've both been... The demands I've made All our hopes mislaid I'm aware of the price they've exacted Though I've no right to ask you to There's one thing more I'd have you do If you love me as I love you Anything, darling. Don't sing the song, dear What? But... You have to know something's terribly wrong, dear But I have to do this It's what we agreed to That hell-spawned demon He's had us playing his game all along, dear Let me just get through this Listen, please I need to You need so much, it's true And I've denied you You need the man you knew Back here beside you You'll have him back, I vow Just ask it of me But we must leave here now If you still love me But, darling, I'm due on stage in 10 minutes. How can I possibly... I beg you please. Please. I have a passage for three to Cherbourg on the Atlantic Queen. It leaves tonight. Let's be on it, for both our sakes. And for Gustave. Leave this place behind Go and find Gustave. Tell the stage manager not to disturb me. I need some time. You know his love is not enough You know it isn't what you need You know you're made of finer stuff I think on that we're all agreed It's time to leave him in the dust It's time to be who you should be It's time to do now as you must And set the music in you free In moments Mere moments Drums will roll There you'll stand Just like before The crowd will hush And then in one sweet rush I will hear you sing once more And music, our music Will swell and then unwind Like two strands of melody At last entwined Fulfill us Complete us Make us whole Seal our bond forevermore Tonight, for me Embrace your destiny Let me hear you sing Once more STAGE MANAGER: Five minutes, Miss Daa. Twisted every way What answer can I give? I know I can't refuse And yet I wish I could Oh, God RAOUL: Christine! Christine! Don't think that I don't care PHANTOM: But every hope and every prayer Rests on you now (VOCALIZING) Ready on the rail? STAGE HAND 1: Ready on the rail. (CONTINUES VOCALIZING) Will she sing? Will she flee? What is she thinking now? Is it him? Is it me? Devil take the hindmost STAGE MANAGER: Ready on the floor? STAGE HAND 2: Ready on the floor! RAOUL: Will she stay? PHANTOM: Obey your heart Will she go? And sing for me Does she know even now? You want it so, stay and be mine Please, Christine, stop the show Eternally BOTH: Devil take the hindmost Now it's time So make your choice Do it for our son PHANTOM: Use your head RAOUL: No time to wait Hesitate We're all undone! STAGE MANAGER: Ready in the pit? STAGE HAND 3: Ready in the pit! Perhaps she won't go on Perhaps she'll lose her nerve Perhaps her voice won't serve And she will fail him now And then my child and I We'll get what we deserve ALL: Devil take the hindmost Perhaps she won't go on Perhaps she'll lose her nerve Perhaps her voice won't serve And she will fail him now And then my child and I We'll get what we deserve ALL: Devil take the hindmost Now it's time No turning back All is on the line Here it is The final dance One last chance To get what's mine I hope Christine is worthy of you. I hope her singing makes up for what your blindness has done to Meg and me. Devil take the hindmost STAGE MANAGER: And curtain. Who knows when love begins? Who knows what makes it start? One day it's simply there Alive inside in your heart It slips into your thoughts It infiltrates your soul It takes you by surprise Then seizes full control Try to deny it And try to protest But love won't let you go Once you've been possessed Love never dies Love never falters Once it has spoken Love is yours Love never fades Love never alters Hearts may get broken Love endures Hearts may get broken Love endures And soon as you submit Surrender flesh and bone That love takes on a life Far greater than your own It uses you at whim And drives you to despair And forces you to feel More joy than you can bear Love gives you pleasure And love brings you pain And yet, when both are gone Love will still remain Once it has spoken Love is yours Love never dies Love never alters Hearts may get broken Love endures Hearts may get broken Love never dies Love will continue Love keeps on beating When you're gone Love never dies Once it is in you Life may be fleeting Love lives on Life may be fleeting (GASPS) Love lives on (AUDIENCE APPLAUDING) Ah, Christine My Christine What a triumph you gave me tonight My Christine All the dark, silent years now put right Ah, Christine The song was beautiful It sounded beautiful Every note Every word And it felt beautiful And I felt beautiful BOTH: Lost in the music once more Feeling it rise up and soar Alive once again (GASPING) "My dearest wife. " Little Lotte, I beg you, forgive me Raoul, no! RAOUL: Little Lotte Ah, what fools we once were BOTH: Long ago, in our youth "In Paris, at the opera" Romantic idiots. "Those two people are gone. " BOTH: Now I must go Our choices are made The opera is done The last notes have been played May your angel of music Watch over you now And give you what I wish I gave you somehow Yours, in regret... "Raoul. " Gustave. What is it? Gustave. What's wrong? I told him to wait for Raoul. Before he asked me to... Surely he wouldn't... That perfidious Raoul I will kill that drunken fool That he'd dare take this child A child that isn't his SQUELCH: Sir. The Vicomte de Chagny left here alone, sir Saw with my own eyes, sir There was no one with him Was there anyone else here backstage? Madame Giry, she was here With that vicious little sneer And that comment she made The ungrateful, back-biting snake Go now, quickly Bring her round Bring the boy back safe and sound Then I'll make that vixen pay What is the meaning of this? How dare your circus ghouls manhandle me in this fashion? The boy, woman! What have you done with him? The boy? You think I took the boy? Why would I do such a thing? Do you think I don't know who he is? FLECK: Sir? I just passed Meg's dressing room It was silent as a tomb But her mirror was smashed All in pieces on the floor God, I left her so distraught God knows what she must have thought Foolish child, she must be caught My poor Gustave! But she won't hurt him! Meg would never hurt him I know where she's going. But we must hurry! (OMINOUS CARNIVAL MUSIC PLAYING) (ROARING) Please, Miss Giry I want to go back Gustave! GUSTAVE: Miss Giry, I can't swim. I want my mother The sea is calm The sea is gray It washes everything away Please. You're hurting me. I can't swim. Don't worry. It's almost over. Sink into the deep Blue and cool and kind Then drift off to sleep Let the past unwind Leave the hurt behind CHRISTINE: Gustave! Mother? PHANTOM: Let go of the boy, now! Not another step Let go of him, girl. Not another word Always wondered how to make you watch Well, watch me now I took a little trip to Coney Island I took a little trip because of you I did as Mother said And followed where you led And tried to do what little I could do But here's the way it works on Coney Island They make you pay for every little crumb I gave what they would take I gave it for your sake Now look at me And see what I've become Bathing beauty on the beach Bathing beauty in her dressing room Bathing beauty in the dark On their laps In their arms In their beds Meg. My little Meg! And who kept singing Desperate for your favor? Who kept dancing Hoping you would save her? Who kept dying? And this is all you gave her CHRISTINE: Gustave! PHANTOM: No, don't do that, girl. Please. (PHANTOM WEEPS) Now that I've got your attention at last (SOBBING) Here's the big finish And then you can go No, Meg, don't! Give me the gun, Meg Give me the hurt and the pain And the gun, Meg Give me the blame for not seeing the things That you've done, Meg Give me the gun, Meg Give me the chance to see you clear at last See me clear at last You feel ugly You feel used You feel broken You feel bruised Ah, but me I can see all the beauty underneath Yes. You've been robbed of love and pride Been ignored and cast aside Even so, I still know There is beauty underneath Yes. Diamonds never sparkle bright If they aren't set just right Beauty sometimes goes unseen We can't all be like Christine Christine? Christine! Always Christine! (GUN FIRES) (SHRIEKING) (GASPING) No! No! Madame Giry, get help. Quickly! Meg! Meg! No! Father! Where's Father? Gustave! Your father... Christine, no! I know. I promised. But you are all he has now. He has to know the truth. Christine, please. Gustave. Your father, your real father is here. No. No. Look with your heart And not with your eyes The heart understands The heart never lies No! Gustave! Once upon another time Our story had only begun I had a taste of joy The most I ever knew Now there isn't any time And somehow our story is done And what about the boy? What am I to do? Just love Just live Just give what you can give And take the love that you deserve BOTH: Just love Just live And give... I'll give all that I have And take what little I deserve Come closer I beg you Closer still Remember Love never dies Kiss me one last time No! (SOBBING) Love never dies Love never falters Once it has spoken Love is yours Love never dies Love will continue (AUDIENCE APPLAUDING) (AUDIENCE WHOOPING) (AUDIENCE CLAPPING RHYTHMICALLY) (AUDIENCE CHEERING LOUDLY)
