 

                        1 - Mommy, I want my mommy. Please, I want my mommy. Mommy. Mommy, please, I want my mommy. I want my mommy. Mommy, mommy, mommy. Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy. Mommy please, mommy please, I want my mommy. - Mommy what if we never find her? - We'll find her, I know it. We just have to look everywhere. - I found her! - Good job. Please don't put her on the ground anymore. Hold her in your hand, play with her, and put her back. We may not be able to find her next time. You don't want that do you? - I know, I know mommy, I'll be more careful next time. - Follow through, follow through. There you go, alright, switch up. - Hey baby. - Hi baby. - How are you? - I'm good. Thank god all this. But they're so booked up that there's no flexibility with the timing, so I have to get ready for that time slot that they gave me. - That's a big show. - No, it's gonna be tough but I can get it done. - It's okay to ask for help sometimes. - With you I never need to ask for help, you're always there for me. - Mommy, daddy open the door. Open the door mommy, daddy. Daddy! - Hi Alex. - How are you? - Mommy! - Thanks again for last night. - Back up, go back, go back. Beautiful, now come all the way there, and give me one of those beautiful turns. Beautiful, that's my girl. Alex, will you put Mina to bed? - Yeah baby, I'll be right there. - Aw, you're the good girl. You're the one who takes care of your mommy. Good girl, daddy's coming home tonight. You're gonna see your daddy tonight. - You know, during the day, when you're out at school, I'm here, I'm here sitting on a shelf. Huh, that's crazy, that's why I always feel like I miss you. - Okay, now hug me the biggest hug you can ever do, and squeeze me. - That's a good idea, I'd actually love to do that. You're so sweet. - Harder, harder. - Ahhh! - Harder. - No, not too hard, we don't want to hurt you. - No, you're not gonna hurt me. - Is it yummy, Mina? - Very yummy. - Oh yea, if it's yummy then why don't you eat it like this? - Oh my god daddy, not again. - I just made her baby. - She'll be alright. Come grab her, come grab her. - No, you guys are crazy. - Daddy, is that mommy on TV? What is this channel? - That's the lobby channel, Mina. It's so you can see who comes in and out of our building, so you don't open the door for strangers. Come on, Mina. - Are you done? - Why can't I scare you? - What do I gotta be scared of? What is gonna be in tiny little condo with you two knuckleheads? - Mina, please put that away, it's not play time. Come and get ready for bed. - It was really cool when I saw you on TV. - When I was you're age, we didn't even have cell phones. If my mommy went out and we wanted to reach her we couldn't even call her. Never mind seeing her on TV. - Can you sleep with me? - Why? - Because like sometimes it's really scary when it's dark. - You know back then there was a war in my country, and then sometimes the electricity would go off completely, in the whole city, there would be no light. - What, blackout? - Yeah, just like blackout. But we loved it because me, and my mommy, and daddy, and my brother, and sister, we would all sit under the candle light and then my daddy read us poetry, tell us a story. - All in the dark? - All in the dark, dark can be really good. Sometimes dark brings the whole family together. Sweet dreams Namaka. - You fed Henry. - Yeah, Hen was all good. But fluffy just keeps stinking up the place, huh. - Don't say that, you know how much Mina loves that little rabbit. - Alex, you're still hung up on Peter and his family? Baby, you have to let this go. - Baby, I just can't believe it. Do you know what Peter went through to get his family over here? Now she's gotta take the kids back to that fucking war torn country. Yeah, it's like it's not bad enough that your husbands dead. - I know, but it's not your fault baby, it was an accident. - Yeah, it was an accident but I was driving the car. - Oh Alex, baby, you have to stop blaming yourself, baby. - Mina, Mina, Charlie! Mina! Mina, oh my god, Charlie! Mina where are you? Charlie, Mina, Mina. - They're not in the basement. Fucking hell. - Charlie. - Mina. - Oh my god, what are you guys doing in here? - We're playing hide and seek, I scared you for the first time didn't I? - Everybody was really, really worried. - I didn't do it, please believe me. I would never hurt them, they're my entire life. I'll do anything for them. I swear to god, I swear to god it wasn't me. I fucking love them so much, I would never hurt them. I will fucking fly Peter down to hell if he makes me hurt them. Nobody can make me hurt them, nobody can make me hurt them, nobody can make me hurt them. - Mommy look, it's the gift I've always wanted! - What is it? - It's a camera. - Thank you so much, it was bugging us for a camera for weeks. - Oh I couldn't help but over hear, that's why LeAnn and I got it for her. - Thank you! - You're welcome. Wow, look at you, a witch on your birthday. - Is Mina asleep? - She's out like a light. Pocket full of poseys Ashes, ashes, we all fall down - Hello? - Daddy. - Shhh, don't wake him up He needs to rest. - Is he ever gonna wake up? - Of course, he just needs a few more days. He's gonna be okay. He's gonna be alright. - Mina ma ma, wake up. It's time to go to school. - Is daddy awake? - Not yet. - I needed to tell him something. His friend was here last night, and he said that I have to say hello to daddy for him. - Which friend? - I don't know which friend, he just said that he was daddy's friend. - Weird dream, huh? - No, he was actually there. - Okay, okay, come on, you'll be late. - Can you wake up when I come back from school? - Oh no, I'm not going back to work. I still don't feel comfortable leaving him at home. Yeah, thank you. The nurses still comes once a day. I don't need any help here mom, I'm okay. If you just get Mina from school, that'd be fantastic. - She was practicing karate and punching the other day. She said the next time you take her for practice, she doesn't want to be rusty. - Can I kiss your mustache? Moma, how do you spell airplane? - Shhh, what is it? - How do you spell airplane? - Oh, a-i-r-p-l-a-n-e. - Thanks. Mommy, my mittens. - Shhhh, daddy's sleeping. Come, we are really late. Come on, run. Run, run, run. - Ready or not, here I come. - Gotcha! Too much noise, let's play in the hallway, grab a sweater. - Mommy. Mommy. Mommy. Mommy. - Gotcha! - You scared me! - Now you know how it feels when you scare somebody. - You actually scared me this time. - Oh ma ma, I'm so sorry, I didn't know you were gonna actually get scared. - But you said no hiding in the staircase. But what if you guys just suddenly disappear, and then I have to get sent to the orphanage by somebody? - Oh, Mina. Always going to have your mommy and daddy. Always, always, mommy and daddy are going to be with you. - Of course baby, I'm feeling a lot better now. You've stayed home long enough. - So baby please, just a lot of rest. No unnecessary walking around. Yes? - Of course. - I love you so much. - Hi baby. Alex, are you okay? You were supposed to be resting today. - Three, two, one, action. Hi, this is my daddy, and this is me, and we're playing dress up, and my daddy is filming it. My daddy had a bad accident, so I decided to dress him up but he didn't look that pretty when he had the accident. So I decided to make him handsome. Daddy, go look at yourself in the mirror. - Okay. - You're not even supposed to be walking right now. You totally forgot everything that the doctor say, you know the consequences if you don't recover properly. - Baby, I'm not suggesting. - Don't baby me, this is not a joke. - I'm not joking, I need to go back to work. We have bills to pay and there's no way you can pay all of them up in time. - You know that this is just gonna put off your recovery, not speed it up. But it doesn't matter, as soon as I leave the apartment you're gonna do whatever you want to anyways. - What is that supposed to mean? - Guys, don't fight anymore, it's a really good part now. Guys, wake up, you guys are on camera. - Mina, it's Saturday, let's just sleep. - You guys it's late, it's already 7:00. Get up, get up you guys, get up. - Mina, again with the camera. Not really sure how a video blog is gonna help with my head injury, even the doctors say that it's just a pile of project at the hospital. I guess no real results guaranteed. Like as far as giving a brief history as to what happened, to tell you the truth, I really don't remember much. My health just sort of is improving, some days are better, some days are worse, I don't really feel like myself to tell you the truth. - Oh my god, Mina, I'm here. - Mommy. - I'm here, I'm here. Mommy's here, it's okay, it's okay. - Just don't talk to anybody about my health. Let's just be done with this. Move it! - Slow down, baby, please, just slow down. - I really sorry, so sorry, baby. I really don't know what came over. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I got so upset. - It's okay, baby, it's okay. It's okay. - No, this is just bull shit. I mean fuck, can life just become normal again? Fuck! It's not okay, that's the whole point. This is not okay, what the fuck! - It's all gonna be okay baby, we're gonna get through this. - Now this is the way I'm treating you? - Wow she really listens. Wow full trained. - Yeah, I trained her really well. - I didn't bring them down. - You sure? - What the fuck kind of question is that? I'm not gonna remember bringing down fucking 35 wine glasses, am I crazy? What the hell stinks in here? Your stupid rabbit stink up the place again? - Mommy. - I don't know, no matter what I do, I can't sleep at night. No matter what I do I keep falling asleep during the day, I get up, I don't know how long I've slept, go off like a fucking shotgun, get angry for no reason. It's absolutely not at all like me. The pills are not working. Now I'm hearing sounds in the condo? I don't know, maybe they're in my head. - Mina ma me, wake up, it's time to go to school. - Why mommy? - Good morning Mina, I will help you get dressed. Go brush your teeth. - Okay. Mommy, come and skip with me. Come on, let's go, go skip together. - Alex, I know the rabbit has stunk. He could have been taken to the pet shop, did he have to die? - What are you talking about? Is fluffy dead? - In the closet. - What the fuck, baby, what are you talking about? What the fuck is this? What the fuck happened here? Fuck it, I'm calling the police. - Alex hold on, let's talk about this. - What the fuck is there to talk about? We had a fucking break in. What the hell. - How does that make sense, somebody broke in? We been home all night. - Baby what are you talking about? God that's completely unacceptable. - Sir, at this point, there's nothing more that we can do. - It's just completely unacceptable. How much more evidence do you guys need about the break in? - Sir, sir, you need to calm down. - Oh my god, you know what officer? Thank you, thank you officer. I'm perfectly calm considering the situation. - Baby. - Yeah, now, so in your mind, I did this, no other possibilities, right? Husbands a lunatic. - Alex, you just had a big trauma on the head. The doctors already told us. You might have times that you do things you can't remember. Baby, that doesn't make you a lunatic. But we have to go to the doctor anyways, they have to do something, because we can't have incidents like this anymore. I love you so much, baby. We're gonna go through this together. - He loved me, he would never escape. You guys just sent him away on purpose. - Minishka, you know that's not true. We would never do such a thing. - But daddy already said he stinks. - Mommy, mommy. Mommy! - What is it Minishka? What is it mama, did you have a nightmare, again? - Uh uh, daddy woke me up. - Daddy is asleep. - Daddy! - Daddy is sleeping Mina, go back to bed. - No, he was here, he woke me up. - Daddy was asleep. You just go back to bed. - I want to see daddy. - See Minishka, daddy is asleep. - Is Mina okay? - Alex, where were you? - I was in the wash room, what are you guys doing up? - She wanted to see you. - To see me? So after my daughter's pet rabbit was killed, which I was blamed for, I went to the doctor's office. And what did they do? They prescribed new medication, again. Now they have this new theory about my condition. They think that the injury that I suffered might have been self inflicted, and now, since I'm doing these video blogs, they're recommending that I use different filters, so here I am in x-ray mode, because they think that if I play the videos back to myself it might help me to regain my memory about the incident. They say that maybe it'll seem like I'm hearing information told back to me, by someone else. - Oh, what is this smell? Mina, you're sleeping on the floor mama. Come on Minishka, something's stinking. Have to get up, I don't know mama. - Why do you keep scrubbing so hard? Do you think fluffy came? I smell like him, right? I think that fluffy came back. - Look at all this shit. - I don't know, the gallery owner said they have never seen such a thing happen. 40 prints coming down at the same time. - I know, that's so strange. So how long does it take you to put the show back on? - Well, they closed down the gallery right now for insurance and renovation after all that disaster that happened. They don't even know how long it's gonna take and it's eating up into my exhibition time. I have to go get Mina. My mom called, they have to leave the country. My grandma is sick. - Is she okay? - I don't know she said they have to go see what's going on with her. - Are you okay, baby. - I don't know, I'm just worried about so many things, but most of all is Mina. Who is going to take care of her when I have to go to work? - Don't worry about Mina. - Can you keep her? - I can keep her, baby, yes. - Wake up sleepy head. Mina mama, wake up. Mina, Minishka? Mina ma me, wake up. Mina, oh my god, Mina. Are you okay mama? Mina, wake up mama. Are you okay? - Mommy somebody was right there! - Alex, don't bring Mina into this. She just had a little nightmare, she had all the reasons to have nightmares. - And I have all the reason to do all this shit and not remember any of it? - Fuck, what the hell. - Hi baby, how are you? - I'm okay baby, how was your day? - Not so good, I think I'm gonna lose my biggest client. For some reason, I took all my pictures in the wrong format to the printer. And on top of that, today is the last day of my show, and I only sold one print. - What the fuck. - Baby, you are still watching this stupid security channel? - Ugh, fuck, ugh. Snap out of it Alex. Wake up. - Are you okay Alex? What are you trying to figure out watching the security channel, baby. - I'm okay, baby. - It's like you're waiting for something to happen. - I'm okay, I'm okay. - Can you turn it off? I have to talk to you about something. - Baby, why do I have to turn it off? We can talk. - Well Mina's principal called, she says that she's completely tired and keep falling asleep in the middle of the class. I don't think she's sleeping properly at night. - Yeah, baby, because there are things in this apartment that don't let her sleep. Okay, wait, have you ever, in your professional life, ever prepped photos for your clients in the wrong format? - Alex, so this thing inside of our apartment reformatted my pictures? Come on baby. - Baby, just no, seriously, have you ever done that in your life? Fuck, shit. Anybody there? - Dinner is ready baby. Tonight you are going to sleep like a baby. You are going to think about good things, because it's very important mama, when you go to bed, you think about good, happy things, okay? Think about how much mommy and daddy love you, think about how much fun we are going to have at school tomorrow. Baby, what's going on? - Baby, what's going on? This apartment is fucked. - What are you talking about? - What am I talking about? Baby, I'm not a fucking idiot. Okay, we have to sell this place, and get the fuck out of here as soon as possible! - Keep your voice down. Mina doesn't need to hear any of this. She's traumatized enough. - I saw him today, in the building, it's Peter, and he's fucking with us. - Oh my god, so that's our new story now? After all these years, Peter have come back for revenge. Coincidentally, right after you had a head trauma. - You don't understand okay. I'm telling you I saw him in the building, looking exactly the same way he did on the day he died. - Alex, this is insane. - Saw him! - I have no energy for this. Alex, we've talked about this before, baby. You have to let this go, it wasn't your fault. You have to stop blaming yourself. You're allowing this to fuck with you. - I'm allowing this to fuck with me. - Yes. - I'm allowing it to fuck with me? Is it a coincidence that I'm not recovering? Fuck. Baby, I'm allowing this to fuck with me. Peter wants me to go crazy, he wants me to hurt you and Mina, the way his family was hurt. - Oh my god. - I'm allowing it to fuck with me? - I cannot believe you're saying these things. I cannot believe it. - You can't believe I'm saying these things? Baby, I don't understand how it's not effecting you. How is this not effecting you? - What are you saying? - Fuck. - I'm not suffering enough for you? - It's just so obvious. - What the hell you want from me? Have a good day baby. Don't forget to pick up Mina after school. - I'm so cold, I wanna go home. Daddy! Daddy, daddy! Daddy are you awake? - Leave me alone, Mina. - Ugh, I'm so cold, I wanna go home. I want my mommy! Mommy! Mommy, mommy! - Oh, excuse me officer, I think I hear them coming. Just one second, excuse me. - Minishka! Where have you been Alex? - I'm freezing, we were in the park. - The park, you took your kid to the park in the middle of winter? It's 10:00, why didn't you answer the phone. - I'm sorry. - Oh my god, I'm so sorry officer, they came home. They were in the park. Yeah, they're all okay, they're all okay. Yes officer I know. Absolutely, I'm so sorry to bother you. What are you doing? Baby, please pull over, pull over, baby. - Did you see that, did you see that? - Yes, yes we got all his new medications and I understand what you're saying doctor, I agree with everything that you say, but I just feel a lot more comfortable if we could get a psychiatrist opinion on this. So if you know somebody that can refer us to. Yeah, that would be great. - And you sleepy head. - Minishka get ready, we are going to go out. - I'm not going anywhere. - But we are going to John and LeAnn's. - Is daddy coming? - No, just you and I, daddy's not feeling well. - Ugh, daddy's always not feeling well! - Watch your attitude. - Hey don't touch my camera! - Just putting it here, get ready, we're leaving. - Is Alex at home? - He is, but sometimes he's not feeling so well. I don't feel comfortable leaving her alone with him for extended hours. - I'm sorry, I didn't know that. - It's okay. - But yeah, sure, bring her up any time. - Really? - Oh we love that little kid. - Just leave me alone, why doesn't he leave me alone? - Baby, it's okay, you're gonna be okay. We are going to get you help. - Mommy, it hurts! Ow! it hurts! Help me mommy, it hurts! - Oh my god, Mina, what happened? Let me see. Let me just see what happened. - It hurts! You stay right here, I'll be right back. You too? I know, I know. - Exactly what I'm talking about, seriously. We're complete idiots if we don't believe that he's the one that's actually doing this to us. - Oh my god, Alex, don't start this again. You're all distressed, people crunch their teeth when they're stressed. - Yeah, all of us in one night? - Shhh! I know, I know it's fucked up. But it has nothing to do with ghosts. - Baby, think this fever is back again. I'm just gonna go to bed, okay? - Okay, baby. - Goodnight. - Goodnight, baby. - Mommy, daddy, mommy! - Mommy, mommy, daddy, mommy, daddy! Mommy, mommy, daddy! Mommy, daddy! Mommy, mommy, daddy! Mommy! Mommy, mommy daddy! Mommy! Mommy, mommy, daddy! Help my daddy! Mommy, mommy! Mommy, mommy! Mommy, mommy! Mommy, mommy! - Mina, Mina, Mina! - Mommy, mommy! - Oh my god, Mina! What's going on? - I was on the staircase, all of the doors were locked. You are my sunshine My only sunshine You make me happy When skies are Grey You'll never know dear How much I love you Please don't take my sunshine away - Thank you so much doctor. - Nice to meet you, Alex. - Baby, I'm gonna go home. - Don't worry so much, I see this a lot. - You stay here with mommy. - This prescription is for six bottles, one bottle per week. Just make sure he takes the pills in the order as directed on the bottles. If he takes the whole regimen, it will help. - Thank you so much doctor. - Then just try to provide a comforting environment for him. - Mina, stop filming. - Hi baby. What, she didn't get on the bus? No, no, just stay, baby just stay there. I'll be right there, just stay down there. - I didn't know that, mommy. I didn't think about it, but thank you for coming and getting me. Are you mad at me? - No, Mina, I'm not mad at you. Just when, baby slow down. Slow down baby. I just wanna make sure you're safe. You can't get, you have to get on that bus. And why do you get into fight with these kids these days? - I don't know, mommy, but the principal said that you have to come to school and talk to him on Friday. - Really, when did he say that? - Would you two just shut up! - May I please have a cup of tea and a blueberry cookie please? Sure. Sure you can, because you're my friend. - What the hell is that supposed to mean? Are you suggesting we don't go? - Alex, not use explaining our problems to the principal. What are we going to tell her? That we killed her pet rabbit and put it in a closet? Or we took her out in minus 20 degrees to the park to freeze? - Oh ok, we or me? - It's not about finger pointing, Alex. I know shit is going on and we are trying to fix it, but it's not so easy to explain it to other people. What are we supposed to tell to the principal? - Baby, we need to keep some normalcy, some normalcy in our lives. - I'm not saying to stop a normal life, just things that are gonna cause problems that we can't fix, like her going back to school. - Oh my god. Fuck! - May I please have a cup of tea, too? Not you, you are a very bad doll! - That is the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. - Shhh, oh my god, shhh. - Baby, every kid has problems at school. We can't just keep her at home. - Alex, keep your voice down. - Oh my god. - It's not forever, but right now school is not safe. - Oh, school is not safe. - Today, she didn't get into the bus. Tomorrow she's gonna get into a fight. The following, she's going to run into the street, get hit by car. - Okay, so schools not safe? This apartments not safe. - Shhh. - Hey man. - Hi John, come on in. - Is this a bad time? - No, no, no, no, no. - No of course not buddy, it's a perfect time. Yeah, couldn't be better. So they tell me that all of my symptoms are because of the pills I'm taking. Meanwhile, they prescribe new pills for me to take. This time for crazy people. Pills for crazy people, so pills that make you crazy, and pills because you're crazy, pills that make you crazy, because you're crazy. - Mina, Mina, Mina. - Mommy I'm here, I'm here. - Masa, are you okay baby? - Stay somewhere I can see you. - Baby, baby, Mina's asleep. Masa. - Yeah, I know. You should be, too, go to bed. Baby, it's not that easy, and I don't think it's a great time right now. - Baby, I know money is tight right now, it's just a short trip, just for a few days. We all need the rest. We all just get away and live together, just have some time off. - Time to go. - Coming. - Come on kiddie. - Thank you dad. - That was fun, just nice to be back home. - The trip was good, looks like the pills are finally working. I feel a lot better, we all do actually. If this apartment could just leave us alone. What are you doing here? What are people doing here? - Hi baby. Alex? Alex, baby? Alex, oh my god, you're sleeping? Alex, Alex, Alex, wake up baby. Alex, are you okay? Oh my god, are you breathing? - They were here. They were here. - What, baby, you got into fight with somebody? - They were here in the house. - It's today's footage that is all like this. The live feed was fine, cameras fine. Today's is all almost like this. - Yeah, that's bullshit. - Baby, are you taking your medication? Baby where have you been? I got really worried. - It hurts. - Mina has this weird fever, again. Did you bring the groceries up? - Groceries? - You didn't go shopping? - Woah. What the, ugh. Just leave us alone! Hell, leave us alone! - Alex. - If I tell you that I didn't do any of this, you're not gonna believe me anyway. Just say that I moved the furniture around. - Alex. - Don't bother with the surveillance camera, either. It's fucked. Is that supposed to happen at fucking 4 P.M. in the middle of the day? No, not under any normal circumstance. - Baby, are you hungry? - I'm in the middle of a fucking recording is what I am. Can I just have some fucking privacy? - Okay. - You know what? I should really say this for the record, because I seem to be the only one here that sees this fucking shitty situation for what it is. There is an entity in our fucking apartment, who's messing with all of us, and who's not gonna stop until our whole fucking family is destroyed. Taking over all of our fucking lives. But me, oh, but I'm gonna keep taking your pills. Yeah the pills are the answer. Fucking pills are the answer, right? Keep taking the crazy pills. - Mommy, mommy. Why did you leave, why did you sleep here? - Are you okay? - No, I'm really cold. - Okay, come on, we'll go. It's okay, mommy, it's okay. You go back to bed, I'll be there in a second. They keep telling to keep the fever in check. How long am I supposed to do that for? She's so sick. My whole body is in pain, what the hell is wrong with me? - Oh my god, baby, I know you don't believe me. No baby, I'm telling you, okay, it's Peter. Baby, Masa, it's Peter, I saw my blog last night, I can't even recognize myself. Okay, he's gonna make me hurt you and Mina. - Oh my god, Alex, we talked about this nonsense enough. You know these are hallucinations, and you know your pills are causing them. - Hallucinations? - We'll maybe it's not just your pills, I know there's something definitely wrong with us. I woke up in the middle of the night on the couch. I have no idea how I got there. We have to ourselves a reality check to really figure out what the hell is wrong. - A reality check? Check for what, baby? So they can prescribe the same fucking pills I've been taking? - No, to see exactly medically what's wrong with us. - Medically. Mina, Mina, Mina, Mina! Mina, oh, Mina, Mina! Oh, Minishka! Thank god, thank god. We have to go to the hospital! - What are you doing? - We're not well, we're not well. - What are you doing? - What happened to you, Masa, what happened to you? - Mommy, mommy, it's hurting me. How many more tubes? - Minishka, hang in there. It's almost done, it's almost done. - Just hang in there, baby. Just three more days. We'll get the result on the blood work, then we'll know what the hell is wrong. No, no, no, no, I have all the prints. Just make sure that the clients stay there. Don't let them leave, I'll be there in 15. - Don't make me do this, don't make me do this. Don't make me do this. Mina, you're back, Minishka, Minishka. Hey John, is she okay? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, no, she's okay. Look, sorry dude, I know I'm supposed to look after her today, but something came up, and Le and I, it's an emergency, we gotta run. Can you look after Mina for the rest of the day? - Yeah, oh course man, yeah, we'll get through the day. - You sure, you're okay? - Yeah. - Okay, look, if anything comes up, just give me a call, I've got my phone, okay? - Thank you John. Thank you, man. I have an idea, Mina, why don't we go swimming? - Uh, okay. - Mina! Mina, Mina, Mina, wake up. Mina, baby, Mina, come on, come on, baby. Mina, baby, Mina, Mina, Minishka. Mina, wake up, Mina! Stay with me, Mina, please! You're gonna be okay, Mina, okay? Gonna call mommy, she's gonna come home. I'm gonna run you a bath, okay? Hang in there, Mina. - Daddy open the door! Masa, Masa, Mina, Mina, get away. - Daddy! Mommy, mommy, mommy pick up the phone! Mommy, please! Please, pick up the phone! Something's happening to daddy! - We're not home right now, but if you leave us a message, we'll all call you back. - Mina! - Mommy, Mommy! - Minishka, it's fine, mommy's here. Why are you still in you're bathing suit? - It was daddy, I called you, why didn't you come? - Daddy's okay, he's okay mama. - No, it's not okay. Daddy, something was happening to daddy, and I drowned. - Minishka, what do you mean? - Alex, Alex, oh my god, what's going on, baby? Oh my god, Alex, oh my god, oh my god. Oh my god, baby, oh my god. Wake up baby. Hello, yes, No he's never had that before, I don't know. Baby, baby. Mina, Minishka, are you okay? Oh my god, you're nose is bleeding. Get up, get up, come on, baby. Get your head back, get your head back. Oh my god. It's okay mommy, you're gonna be okay. You're gonna be okay, the doctor called. He said daddy's gonna be home in a couple of hours. That's good huh? It's good news, it's good news. Hello? Yeah, this is she. What, died? What are you talking about? I just talked to his nurse, she said that he's feeling a lot better, and is coming home in couple hours. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, should be a mistake. They said he's coming home in couple hours. Okay. Minishka, Mina, get up, we have to go. Put it on. - Mommy. - We have to go, we have to go. - Where are we going? Where are we going? Masa, Masa, Mina, baby open the door. Baby! Baby, Masa, Baby. Baby, baby what's wrong with you? Baby wake up. Masa, just wake up, baby. Mina, wake up, wake up, Mina. What the fuck! Baby! Baby, wake up, baby, wake up! Baby. The hospital has no record of anybody calling you to say I was dead. Masa, my god, you still don't believe me. Oh my god, do you realize if I hadn't gotten to you guys in the car when I did, you'd both be dead? He hasn't been able to kill me yet, huh? But he gave you a taste of what it would feel like if I had died, Masa! Like that is the exact same shit that his wife went through. Okay, enough already, enough already. I can't wait for you anymore to agree with me. We just have to leave. We'll figure the shit out later, Masa. Oh my god, Masa, it's okay. - Mommy! - Mina, go back to your room. Masa, just, it's gonna be okay. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. - Mommy, fluffy's in the closet. - It's all like this? - Yeah. - I can't believe this. - I fucking believe it. Fuck, shit. This is bull shit, I don't remember any of this. Oh, fuck, oh my god. Oh my god! Baby, there he is, fuck, do you see him? Oh my god. - Mina, Mina! Oh my baby, oh my baby. Mommy's here, mommy's here. Alex! - We're not home right now, but if you leave us a message, we'll all call you back. - Hello, this is Dr. Anderson calling. I'm sorry, I have to explain the results of your blood work to you like this, over the phone. Although we still need to do more tests, at this time it appears your all suffering from extreme chemical and hormonal imbalances in the body. Unfortunately, the results are still very confusing. Your symptoms might be caused by a number of invasive factors. That's why we really need all of you to come back to hospital as soon as possible. And the conditions are extremely life threatening, especially for your daughter, at such a young age. In this circumstance, hospital policy has required us to contact social services, and the representative is here to speak with you about how this could happen to a seven year old. I'm really sorry to inform you about this like this, but if you don't contact us within the next 24 hours, we will be forced to take further action. We have to make sure that Mina is brought to the hospital for immediate attention. - Mommy, what's he talking about? Where do I have to go? - No, no, no, Mina, don't worry. You don't have to go anywhere. He wasn't talking about you, he wasn't talking about you. Come on, come on, we have to go. Come on. - Masa. - Hi John, I'm sorry, I have to leave Mina with you for couple of hours, is that okay? - Yeah, is everything okay? - Mommy, I want my mommy. I want my mommy, mommy. Mommy, I want my mommy, mommy, I want my mommy. Mommy! What did you think of my little film, or well come on, let's give credit where credit is due, I should say our film. I certainly couldn't have done it without you. I wish you had time to watch all of it. - Mommy where are you? - I mean, you guys have really done a fantastic job. I mean exactly what I wanted you to. Hopefully, people will enjoy watching it. A horror film is a horror film after all. Always fun to watch. So interesting, we create all this technology, social media, drugs, so easy to prescribe. - I want my mommy. - And for what? - Mommy! - Only to have them used to manipulate us. What I did, what I did, Masa, wasn't so difficult to accomplish. Rent an apartment on your floor, convenient, high end surveillance cameras, and people, you would be surprised what people will do for money, they will do anything. That was all I needed, to be able to watch you 24/7. To have you act, and react, exactly as I wanted you to. - I want you, I want you! - We talked about this. Be quiet! It's really quite unbelievable how often I can be inside of your happy, little home. - Mommy, mommy! - All these things, they're just technicalities. The essential ingredient that makes my job possible, is how easy you were to manipulate. You're filled with the notions, that can be used to control you. Like poor Peter's ghost, give me a fucking break Alex! Ghost and demons, are you fucking insane? What can they do, possess you, make you do wicked things? But you're not in control when you're doing them. - Mommy, when are you coming? - Now human beings, they can get you to do wicked things willingly. - Mommy, I want you, mommy. - See what I did? And I'm only one man, isn't that so much more horrifying? - Mommy, I want my mommy! - Please don't disappoint our audience, Alex. Let's just put our differences aside, and finish the last show to my film. Everybody already knows how it's going to end. Ready. - Mommy, mommy! - Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy! I want my mommy! Mommy! Mommy! I want my mommy! I want my mommy! I want my mommy! Mommy, mommy! I want my mommy! - She's not here, she's not here! She's not here! - What are you talking about? - Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy! Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy! Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy! Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy! Mommy, mommy, I want my mommy! - He's dead, what have you done! Amazing grace How sweet the sound That saved a wretch Like me I once was lost But now I'm found Was blind but now I see Twas grace that taught my heart to fear And grace my fears relieved How precious did that grace appear The hour I first believed Through many dangers, toils, and snares I have already come Tis grace has brought me safe thus far And grace will lead me home
