 

                        'Chennai' Sir 0 to 100 in just 5.6 seconds With a top speed of 250 kms/hr The power is 345 BHP, sir All disc breaks are set up with ABS, EBD Break assistance with ESP For safety it has 12 airbags with Compressor Massagerfunction, mini fridge, and night vision assistance... Solar sun roof and number of other features So it doesn't have an AC? - Excuse me sir - l asked about AC Will the company give or should l pay extra and get one? Sir This is an international car standard lt will come with AC of international standard Asking if the car has AC is like... ...asking if the car has tyres? But this colour will not like my wife We have options for colour Come sir l will show you So...l should have been finalised tomorrow Come with my wife Ok, bye Sir Visiting card please - Ok - Thank you sir Ranjith VB, Janaki Tailors lndia is developing No Let me see l if l get at least the 8th prize? l have lost the money spent forticket The Kerala state will never progress What brother Did you not get a lottery prize this time too? lt was Kerala Karunya Bumper ticket Poor people in that state benefit by this lottery l purchased it only on that idea Lottery ticket sales are banned in Tamilnadu l bought this ticket in black market ls it? - Do you know Muthu - What is it? l know a business which would earn more than this bumper prize - Then why don't you do that business? - l don't have money to do that business lf you have money, why should you do business? Eat sumptuously, spend lavishly, watch a Vijay movie and live peacefully First of all you don't know what economics thing is happening Because you don't know that You will not comprehend - Brother - No point in talking to you Brother l have something to say For 5 years the leftists rule Next 5 years the rightists rule These 2 parties rule alternatively What progress did the state witness there Whom are you talking about? l am talking about the 'Gods own country' There would be at least one hartal every month Transport strike, power cut, Endosulfan issue... ...and now it is Mullaiperiyar ls there a state without issues? ln Delhi it is outrage ln Kashmir it is terrorism ln Bombay it is the underworld ln Bihar it is Naxalites But they are not ordinary people's problem What are the problems of an ordinary man? Development of basic amenities Let them learn it form Tamilnadu Lots of over bridges... When you finish saying the word 'metro' it is there, lT park, Textile park ln between like coconut shreds for puttu 2 G spectrum, land grabbing That is for a fun in between Though they accrue personal benefits their politicians take care of the public How about our place Neitherthey eat or allow us to eat Because we are here long since we are all safe You are right l came here looking for a job Now l am the owner of this first class 5 star hotel You came here to become a star You have become a first class tailor Do you consider this safe? l was doing small roles in films and an olive branch was in sight At that time... ...those two brothers took the entire Malayalam film industry to our place Because one guy is from Kochi half the shoots are done at Kochi The other brother is from Trivandrum So the other half of the shoots are done there When Nazir sir left the scene l felt my two wings were clipped Anyway it was good time for Malayalees Yes Else if you had become an hero Malayalees would've stopped watching films One strong tea But a day would come when the same Malayalam film industry... ...would honour me with a golden shawl ln Ambattur lndustrial Park l'm starting a garments company in my name l have obtained the sanction What is the connection between movies and dresses? Do you know one thing Bhaskaran brother? Many of today's big businessmen have all... ...walked through small steps like this to reach the top Similarly my venture garment company... ...would progress step by step and transform to an Export-Import company l would earn crores Make my daughter a heroine and produce a film Afterwards it would be awards, Padmashree Later it would be receptions, honours - But your daughter is just 5 years old - That will do lt is all about films By the time l make money, my daughter would be 14 years old Right age to become an heroine Besides, present day superstar's show interest to pair with heroines of that age Your plans are good But if you are planning to make a film, keep your sewing machine safely You may need it -Are you a Malayali? -Yes Have you come to become an actor? - No, for music direction - That is much more promising ln case you need a room orflat l can arrange one for you For the time being l am put up with Assistant director Anwar When l arrange for cash l will let you know Ranjit brother There is a customer foryou l am coming Bhaskaran Brother Regarding the garment company l have to go out for sometime l have to meet many officials ln case someone inquires ask them to call me on mobile phone Those who take risks only prosper in life Everything will become alright - Go - Let your words come true You say you want to wear this for a wedding lnstead of altering this why don't you stitch a new one? What you say is right But my husband has suffered a loss in business He has gone to Bombay looking for ajob There is a money crunch When there is a money crunch the blouse should be loose... ...and not tight like this Ok, l would keep it ready - Come later - Don't you want to measure me? l know your measurements, go l said l know your measurements Come later - Then shall l come tomorrow?. - Come tomorrow Bye Dad and mom are not at home No one to forbid us Sumitra's hubby is jailed for a cheque fraud case Yes He cannot come out unless he manages to get 6 to 7 lakhs - ls it? -Yes ls this the story behind his Bombay stay My goodness She is a... What happened - What is it? - Looks like some problem there Don't know what it is Come, let's go You stupid You have dashed at me My leg is hurt ls there no one to question him? My leg is gone This guy has dashed me lt is paining me Move Move Who the hell you think you are... Are you blind? Can't you see a car on the road? Don't everthink you can blame me for this You are a mad girl Who let you out of your house? l am asking you Who let you out of your house? Answer my question l know what to do l know what to do Move Hey man This is lndia Pedestrians get the first priority on streets Give respect and take respect This is Chennai buddy Brother The mistake is not on my part l was driving at a slow speed No, he is lying He dashed and broke my leg My leg l swear, l am not lying Brother Please stay quiet Quiet please Give Rs 2000 and settle it Why should l? l did not dash the car on her Then make a Rs 1000 discount and give her Rs 1000 Rs 1000 My Jesus See, l am a doctor Come, let's go to hospital -Are you a Malayali? - No...Yes -You -Yes Don't want to go to hospital They would inject You give me money l'll get medicines - How will l walk with this leg...? -Wait, l will tell you You stay quiet l'll check with him and tell you Give her Rs 500 She is enacting a scene to make a livelihood The rate would increase if they mob you - l give you Rs 500 -Why only Rs 500? What is this madam? He is giving you fondly Get it Get it from him Come Why all of you are crowding here? Go Disperse Madam Had you become an actress you would bag the best actress award Go All of you go All of you move lf something happens all of you will crowd together These people have no work to do - Sir Are you a doctor? -Yes Sir When l turn my head like this l hear a sound -You mean this side -Yes Then turn this side - How is it? - lt is good sir All these guys need good thrashings Not only in Kerala... Even in Punjab, Gujarat, Orissa why add more... Even in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district our kids are there They have come out through these hands Here the doctors hands are the hands of God We have undergone many types of treatments at many places Now we have come here Finally you have reached the right hands lnfertility treatment requires money and your time Money is not an issue We want to have a baby That's it All people who come here have the same emotions A mother's feelings - Can l ask you something? - Come on Because it is expensive, is it possible to get twins? -You mean two birds for one shot? -Yes l can't assure you That depends on the bird's time You do one thing Go to the counter, showthis slip remit cash and get registered We have to do some tests - May l come in doctor? -Yes Anbumurthy Wait there l will come there My wife is pregnant - ls it? -Yes Congratulations - Same to you -Why? She became pregnant because of yourtreatment Did you mean that Did l not tell you earlier...? - Sit down - Thank you lt is a miracle l told him to wait for some time after the treatment, to see the results He lost patience and one day he went to the extent of hitting me ls it not? How do you feel now?. lt is all your good luck Nothing is in my hands lt is all divine providence You are absolutely right doctor My wife went to a Godman's ashram 3 months before... Now she is 2 months pregnant Along with your treatment and the divine intervention the baby is ready But you had problem and not your wife But that was cured by yourtreatment Why do you confuse me? Where can we meet this God man? Do you want to join the prayer meetings? Don't want... First get treatment You go and remit the cash at the counter Go There are lot of Trusts Doctortake some sweets - The god man's number - Number... Sit down Some godmen are out there to ruin our practice ldiots - How much is this tomato? - 15 Rs a kilo - 15 Rs? -Yes Can't even make ends meet - Carrot? - Rs 30 a kilo Beans 35 Rs, onion 40 Rs Brinjal, Onion, Potato give me 1/4 kilo of all these Seems to be a bigmouth No, l don't need a cover l have a cover with me - Give - Put inside this ln lieu of the cover, give me coriander and curry leaves You are too smart madam - How much is it? - Rs 120 Janaki -Where had you been? -Went to supermarket for shopping Nearby you have Senthil's vegetable shop You could have bought there Even though bit expensive the quality is good there - That is more important - ls it Ok Bye Janaki Janaki What is it Kannamma? For my son, we have bought one computer Sir has gone to get internet connection Come and see Has he bought it? M hubby Ranjith wanted to buy a laptop l told him not to go for it Computer and internet are very dangerous Children would be spoiled Daily in newspapers, my god... ...all of them are disturbing news -Where is your daughter? - She is studying for the interview For Megha we are trying for admission in Dawn international school The interview will be very tough You mean Dawn school That is a posh school Will you be able to afford? M hubby would earn for that Very soon we would be starting the garment company With in this year we would vacate this house He has plans to buy a flat in Adyar Ok dear, l have some work Bye Uma, Latha Vasanthy - lt is already late - l am coming - Come fast -All of you get in Quick None of them are punctual lt is Shankar sir's shoot l have to manage to get 700 of them today Even if there is a shortfall of 6 of them He would pack up for the day What is it Pappetta Seems you are very angry lt is very difficult to getjunior artistes Can't you come for shoots? Now your daughter is grown up Though it is my earlier profession... ...now my hubby would not permit me to act as a junior artist lf it is a main role he said we can consider Really? My goodness - Vasanthy - Coming The heroine is not confirmed in Suriya's film Why don't you inquire about it? Heroine Quick Get in to the vehicle Papetta What is it you have? Pressure, sugar and Cholesterol, until recently lf l get anything more will inform you l am a little busy now Bye - Have you finished studies? -Yes father Yes dad What about the lottery result? - Nothing - Nothing? Anyway don't lose the ticket Some times there will be printing errors in paper Lottery or loan, one of them could help us Lot ofjealous people around us - They don't want us to prosper - ls it? Then we will prosper without anybody noticing us Cracking jokes? Don't you know your comedy sense has lost its teeth? ls it? Try to start the garments company first Let people know about our range l am now going only with regard to that First l have to go to the industries office But regarding the cash remittance... We should have been more time for the payment l'll try my level best to get the money Why are you laughing? Bye Survey number 11/2172 - Unit number 107 -Yes sir 30 feet road in front of the plot Right side left side ok lt's very difficult to get a plot here How did you manage? The local MLA's wife stitch her blouses in my shop l had to beg her and somehow managed to get this allotted All unit allotters have paid the money, except you When are you going to pay the advance 2.5 lakhs? The due date has elapsed Sir Give me two week's time l would get the loan in a week's time l came only to inform that Sir please Sir Look There is great demand forthis land lf it is not you, it will be someone else - l can't give you two week's time - Sir please Foryour sake, l can give one week's time Ok But you have to prepare an important document for that lt is a little risky job Document What is left out? l have given all the papers l mean that green paper That is more important Try to remit the cash as quickly as possible Else the land will not be yours lt will be allotted to someone Sir Give some alms Granny M garment company will be located here - Pray for my well being - Bless you Bye - Greet you sir - Come sir Couldn't see you for a month You said you would come last week What happened Nothing l will get the loan after a week Thereafter l would give advance for machines l came only to inform you about it That's all ok Dollar value is increasing lf you order now, l can give at this rate Because the machines have to come from Thailand Sir Please don't tell me the machine cost has gone up l will not be able to manage any escalation Then do one thing Pay 50 % and block the machines The balance you pay at your convenience and take delivery of machines Please wait for one week, for my sake Would block everything l waited so long Will l not wait for one more week? - Come again - Ok Megha When you go inside they would give chocolates You should say 'No thanks ' Why? Kids of big shots don't eat anything given by strangers - ls it? -Ya Wow lt is a new philosophy Megha Ranjith Come -Are you a Malayali? -Yes sir Basically Malayali but settled in Chennai sir Your dress is very nice -What is the colour? - Pink Very good, take it - Can you sing a song? -Yes ma'm Then sing a terrific song Why this kolaveri kolaveri di? Why this kolaveri kolaveri di? Distance ila moon moon Moon colour white white Stop it Come - She is selected - But sir... Wait That was not after hearing the song There was a question in the application... What do you want your child to become...? Others have written as doctor and engineer But you have written you want her to become a 'good person' Yes That is the best answer Education's goal is not to make everyone doctors and engineers They should grow as good individuals You can proceed to the admission desk - Great performance in the interview - Brilliant girl l neverthought you would be so cerebral in filling up the application There is a business man, an artist and a singer with in this costume designer Thejasmine... No song now Let us pay the fees now lt is for Megha Ranjith - Megha Ranjith -Yes sir - Total fee 1 lakh -What? - 1 lakh -You mean 1 lakh? Yes They said it is Rs 50,000 50,000 tuition fee Apart from that 50,000 one time registration fee is also there We didn't know about the registration fee Not that, we were not informed Don't worry You can pay it in a week's time Are you paying 50 now or later you can pay full amount... Take this Take 50,000 now - Balance we would pay later - Ok madam Have this Had l known it is Rs 1 lakh we could have gone for some other school Why were you so haste in paying 50,000? People are prepared to pay lakhs to secure a seat here Even the chief minister recommends Why should we lose a chance that we get? lf we had not paid this 50,000 they would give this seat to someone else We have paid the advance and blocked the seat So even if there is some delay, they would wait But howto get balance amount within a week? What would we do? lf there is no other go... ...we can pledge daughter's chain and ear studs Nothing doing That can't be done School going girls wearing gold is risky l would not give Don't cry my child Even if we pledge both, for the remaining l may have to find ways Come, let us go Come dear Just 20 crores l will take care No problem Documents? l would get them ready Don't worry You come with the suitcase Get the cash and go Convey my inquiries to your leader Ok Thank you Shall l hang it? Mr Ranjith, your loan will not be passed in the nearfuture Will it not be passed? Sir At Ambattur lndustrial Estate... ...my garment company's land has been sanctioned l have not paid the advance l managed to extent it till today Everything was based on the prospect of getting this loan lf l don't pay within a week... lt has to be sanctioned by the Head Office l am helpless Bank should be convinced your proposal is viable Sir Please You must trust me l am confident that my unit will be successful How can l grant loan on the basis of trust and emotions Then what did you say over phone? ls there no value for big money? To get 10 lakhs there are 10,000 roadblocks lnstead of starting a tailoring shop l should have entered politics Ranjith Don't get upset Sit down There is a way out l tell you this because you are a fellow Malayali There is a scheme for Self Development of women A maximum loan of 5 lakhs can be obtained under this scheme Give an application in your wife's name l can speed it up in best possible ways Ok sir - Muthu -What brother? lron this quickly This is the heroine's costume for a song sequence Heroine's... Before l get an abusive call from the designer... ...this has to reach AVM Where is my phone? - Muthu -What brother? Where is my mobile? l doubt if l have left it Bhaskaran's tea shop? Check there lt is ringing somewhere - Hello - This is designer Shilpa He lost his phone He has gone to tea shop to see if it is there lf the phone is traced l would ask him to call you back Has he lost his phone? We are waiting forthe costume Ok madam Brother Designer Shilpa from AVM studio called l told heryou would call her once you get back your phone Where is the phone? What is it you are having? ls it a time piece? Take it M God M god The blouse... My goodness - Sorry brother -What is this man? -What is this? - Forgive me Go man lt is my mistake l will make one ready Watch out, bro Today l will... Brother Attend the call first M God They will start the shoot only if they get this blouse There is a way out Rubbish What have you done? You have not stitched the design given to you Will you stitch a design of your choice? Madam The design you gave was out dated This is a new fashion This is called iron box cutting Like this... You don't teach me designing This is not Hindi or Tamil movie This film must reach family audience But what you shoot it is an item dance Shut up What will l tell the heroine now?. This iron box cutting... What's the delay? Where is the costume - Costume... - Show me Madam Asmall mistake Sorry lt's really nice lt is my latest isthiri cut design lt's very peculiar cutting like this - Ok Everybody go out - Thank you very much Walk fast man The shoot has started, go Did you bring the dress Get the amount immediately Producer may not give later l wanted to meet you That's why l came personally to give the blouse Daughter got admission in Dawn international school The fees is little higher than expected You must give Rs 25000 and help me Why should you seek admission in a posh school? Peck what the beak can hold... The beak will hold Let me start the garment company lt will all become alright Rather than thinking about giving good education when l can afford... ...is it not betterto go for it right from start? You know about my position Last Tamil film's balance payment l am yet to receive Junior artists are pressurizing me l told them they could get it either today ortomorrow ln case he gives full payment sometimes l may be able to help you But l can't assure you Pappeta Can you get from somewhere... Mister Yourjunior artists are not performing well That is why they are still junior artists Else will not they become Mammukka or Mohanlal You come Let us go inside and watch the shoot ''Come on say l am a beauty'' ''Come on say l am a beauty'' ''Come on say you like me'' ''Come on say l am a beauty'' ''Come on say you like me'' ''Like a flirty whisper'' ''Like a celestial bloom of flower'' ''Like adorning henna'' ''Like the humming of breeze'' ''Stealthily...'' ''One glance'' ''Carved the sun...'' ''l would guard it sans blemish perpetually'' ''l would borrow dreams on credit'' ''Come on say l am a beauty'' ''Come on say you like me'' ''l would say you are a beauty'' ''l would say l like you'' ''With stupor in eyelids...'' ''With energised legs...'' ''Whispering in ears with elan...'' ''Walking in tender steps...'' ''At the corner of eyes...'' ''Exhilarated...'' ''Arching the rainbow...'' ''...adorned a sparkle in your eyes'' ''You are brimming over to spurge'' ''Come on say l am a beauty'' ''Come on say you like me'' ''Come on say l am a beauty'' ''l would say you are a beauty'' ''Come on say you like me'' ''l would say l like you'' ''Flirting must be disguised'' ''Glances must be masqueraded'' ''Singing fervent songs...'' ''...must feel the chill deep down'' ''ln my dreams...'' ''lf you would come...'' ''l would make a note in omate lips...'' ''...and would wait for the day along with you'' ''l would finish my flirtatious dance'' ''Finish my flirtatious dance'' ''Finish my flirtatious dance'' Not only in US... Korea, Japan, Holland, ltaly... ...briefly in all 7 continents our kids are there They have come through these hands But a Malayali couple from US is here forthe first time We can just say we are Malyalees l am born and brought up in States Alex and family is settled there for quite sometime We don't have much acquaintance with relatives in Kerala You know doctor First we went to Gujarat for surrogacy But they are not ready to show the donor And finally Dr Cherian suggested you The woman who let her uterus... l mean the donor Normally we don't expose them to the clients Afterthe delivery, we get the baby and hand it over to the parents That is the procedure Me and doctor Cherian were classmates at Vellore Medical college Just because he has recommended you, l would show you the donor l am particularthat whatever l do must be perfect Actually l expected bigger setups here Do you have facilities for delivery here? lf the patient becomes pregnant... l would register her in an hospital where l work as consultant The treatment and delivery would take place there That's fine l have also planned for a 50 crore setup with all amenities - Great - One minute Sir, you have received a notice for not paying the car loan Car loan? Will there be a delay in getting Benz Then book Land cruiser l want it immediately l am in a meeting Don't disturb me Luxury car is my weakness Regarding perfection... l also don't lag behind That is why l have located a wholesome donor foryou l will show you Ask Aishwarya Devi to come here Best Aishwarya Devi She has been a surrogate mothertwice Both times it was a successful delivery Doctor Can you just ask her to wait outside Muthu Doctor l am sorry We are not happy with this lady We want a beautiful, elegant lady lt is foolishness You know the procedures of this treatment Because Swapna's uterus is not capable to hold a baby for 10 months... ...we are renting a lady who has that capability The baby developed for you both... ...is just placed in another woman's uterus There won't be any biological relationship with the donor So none of the genetic features of the donor... ...would manifest in the baby - Then what bothers you? - l knowthat doctor But l want the best in everything Why can't we try for some other options? lt is very difficult People from good lineage don't come forward for such jobs Let's try... lf they compromise... Doctor, we are ready to pay even extra forthat Extra money... We will try our best Doctor None of them is suitable lf you can't get a good person with in a week's time -We would try in Mumbai - Don't be upset lnfertility treatment will take its own time ln one week's time l would get a suitable person There are plenty of beautiful girls in the country Ok doctor, all the best - Thank you - See you Beautiful uterus... ln this world... Sir bill has come from workshop for the repair works done - Shall l pay Rs 2000? - Rs 2000? Where do you have money for that? - Pay later - Ok sir lf the car dashed her, l can agree Robber - lt is paining - Give her Rs 500 She is enacting a scent to make a livelihood The rate will increase, if they mob you Gold rate increase has no significance l knew about it when l went for pledging They charge exorbitant interest There is a shortfall of Rs 7000 to remit the fees What will you do for that? lt is said, in a person's life there must be friends or relatives... ...at least 5 persons to help him financially Do you have any such persons? l don't have any Do you have any? But we don't get in to such a situation - Good afternoon - Good afternoon My God Was it you sir the other day... Yes, l am doctor John Chittilapally Why are you here doctor? Any problem with that lady? - No, l need your help - My help? Yes, l am running an infertility clinic lnfertility clinic means... ls it not the clinic which makes babies? Yes, is she your wife? You can say like that also An American couple has come to rent an uterus They didn't like the beauty of the women whom my agent bought Quite natural Any one will like the baby to be beautiful This is a misconception There are many types of lVF treatments The lady has a weak uterus lt can't carry a baby So the parent fertilised embryo... - Embryo...? - Foetus Will be placed in another woman's uterus 10 months later the delivered baby will be handed over to the parents There won't be any blood relatioship with the surrogate mother Similarto keeping unripe plantain clusters in paddy chests to ripen it After it ripens the cluster will not have the features of the paddy chest Correct Astrange metaphor There is a similar scene in a Mohanlal movie l have not seen the newfilm of Mohanlal This is not a new film Avery old film... - ls it 'Manjil virinja Pookkal'? - Not that old Not 'Manjil Virinja Pookkal' - lt's 'Dasharatham' -Yes exactly But in that movie the baby's mother was the real mother But here that is not the situation -Yet, it was sentimental - l wept a lot An elegant woman who would rent her uterus is required You must help me to locate one What do you think of me, doctor? lt is true there is paucity of funds for me l do real estate and many other sundry business, l agree But so far l am fortunate not to indulge in cases related with women - Doctor you may leave, go - l didn't mean that The other day l dashed car on a woman She is the right one for this You said she has no means to eke out a living Rs 10 lakhs is offered to a woman who donates her uterus ln addition you will get Rs 25000, as commission lf l meet her directly, it may not work out But you have the grasp to convince her l have, still... Because it is related with women... Fees... What you said is right She needs money But to convince herto agree forthis will be a huge task One... Fifty... lf you give 50,000, l can try 50,000? lf you want 50, ok l agree But l need it immediately Then we can go now, isn't it? Do one thing doctor Let your vehicle be here We will go in my vehicle Ok where is the car? - Get on sir -You mean this one? We have to go through narrow lanes - Come - Okay Ride carefully ls this vehicle home made? - She was residing somewhere here? - Don't you know?. Sumithra, Mosque street Yes, this is the one Come You first find out if she is inclined... lf she is willing, l would tell her the details Don't upset her What you have been told is correct First l will go Damn with his English ls it you? To my house M God Come in Come Come inside You, in my house... Sit down - Husband... - He... l told you the other day He is in Bombay - Has he not yet come from Bombay? - He will not come What is this? Why have you come at this time? What's the matter? Hello, is he your son? Ganesh get up Go go and play He has gone Nowtell me lnfinity of fertilisation -We have been to... - Tamil... Because this is about physical relationship... ...how can l tell you openly One... When a man and woman consummate a baby is born Now, even if they consummate the baby may not be born Forthat... Forthat, there are lot of safe methods Not that... Sperm Sperm lt needs an uterus, isn't it? Then only things will happen ln a nutshell, with regard to this... ...if you cooperate it would happen When you say so much, will l decline? At night, come through the back door l would keep the door open for you Can you get me some water for drinking? One minute M god Doctor Have you explained to her? This will not work out We will go for someone else - So will it not be possible? - lt is possible - Then l will talk to her - Not that What we planned will not happen -Why? - She is very decent -You get on to the vehicle - l don't understand Has it become an issue? My dear... Slowly For quite sometime we are roaming like this Do you have any one in mind? People with lot of hardship and suffering will only agree forthis What? l said people with hardship and suffering will only agree ls there anyone like that? A stunt artist called Murugan He had an accident in a shoot He broke his back and is in bed for last 2 years - He is in adversity -Very good ls his wife good looking? Wife is good looking She will suit us ln that case, go straight to his house Thank God All people who reside here are poor For your sake, l have come here Else l don't come this side This is a good place ldeal for a resort She is Murugan's wife Come come This is the way Greet you madam -Why have you come this side? - No, doctor has come to see Murugan - DoctorJohn Chittilapalli - ls it, come please -Where is he? - He is here Come How are you Murugan? For last two years l am bed ridden No means for livelihood God only should pave a way for me AGod in the form of a human being Doctor has come He will explain the rest to you You know Mr Murugan... lnvitrio fertilization is notjust a treatment lt is a service and a divine duty Doctor you can talk in Malayalam l have performed as a dupe for all Malayalam hero's l can understand Malayalam - Money is our problem - Their problem is having a baby Talk in Malayalam l like your wife She is beautiful and elegant lf you can turn a blind eye, we can make some money using her lt is only a matter of 10 months lf she becomes pregnant once, This house would get Rs 10 lakhs Have you not understood? There is an American couple Their embryo has to be deposited in your wife's uterus Just that You dog ldiot You buffalo Madam what doctor intended was in English... Enough Please go Listen to me, please go Seems he has not understood what l said... No doctor, come Check if they've gone or not? You said he is bed ridden But his kicks were solid Doctorthe way you talk anyone would boot you He would have thought embryo is an abusive word Had you said foetus even a child would have understood Should you not talk about it subtly and with little niceties Even if l am subtle, this is what is required to be conveyed She was like a former Miss lndia Anyway we have lost her We will go for some one else Miss lndia you mean this woman Take this Fighter Murugan was my only hope But my plan got failed now Murugan is also gone What will we do now?. ls there any otherfight master or dance master like him But his wife must be good looking Get lost doctor - How much it is? - 50 rupees Ok brother - Can meet tomorrow at Rolands hotel -You just give me a call Ok bye That girl is good looking -You mean that girl -Yes - She is a case - ls she an advocate Not that case Brief bundle Rosili, she is a Malayali She will not be suitable How will the Americans know about her? lf she is elegant and has an uterus inside that will do My god, it didn't occur to me This will surely happen Doctor do you have a kerchief? Why? lt would be better to cover the face - ls it a must -Yes come Will people with esteem agree to this? Come with a brief Don't you have mother and sisters at home? Trying to make me pregnant lf l walk along with a swollen stomach, what would people say about me? Talking about people What would they say lt is for nothing lt is only after paying you 10 lakhs The money will take care of your shame lt would lf l leave the field, people are queuing to take my place When l come after delivery there will be no demand for me lf a girl delivers a baby without husband, will anyone marry her afterwards - Doctor will you marry? - l am married - Tailor will you marry? - l will not... -Will you? - No She is a hothead Before she goes to the next level, let's go Bye sister Don't take it to heart - So we need not wait here - Fellows don't have any self respect Don't know if anyone has noticed us No one knows me in this area Hi buddy How are you? l couldn't get you Don't you know me? l am your Facebook friend nine For yesterday's picture post you commented as 'awesome' Does your profile has film star Nayantara's photo? Yes Now l have understood My god he has deceived me What is it doctor? Have you met film star Nayantara? - No... - Then see him Now he is doing this business Ok buddy - Nayantara bye - Ok bye dear Start Landed in a problem Start the bike They are transgender, go Ranjith Ranjith l can't run Stop the vehicle Don't throw it madam No one gives respect Doctor Should we not do thejobs we are supposed to do? l am not for this uterus business any more Don't take a vow like that We will give a short break, come Janaki Bring some water What happened? Did you not succeed? Then what will we do? What can we do? We can't kill or rob someone The school fees, garment unit advance You can get good money for gold Only forfew days Once l start the garment company This is a letterfrom the industries office lf we don't pay the cash before this Friday... ...the allotment of the unit to us will be cancelled Looks like all our hopes will be ruined lf we couldn't start this... l don't think we will ever be able to start it May be forever we are destined to live with the tailor shop... ...and one room house lf we play smart we can escape There is a way What is it? By play, l mean it is an act as though l get a role in films l would play that role with ease What is that role? A pregnant woman's role Did he not say he would give Rs 10 lakhs for the uterus donor? Yes lf we get 10 lakhs all our problems would vanish... ...and we would be safe, isn't it? Even 8 lakhs will do for us Once the company is started... l can show you how we can earn Then can we look in to it? What? 10 months would pass quickly We would get Rs 10 lakhs too What are you trying to say? lf l take up the role of an uterus donor... What nonsense are you talking? Uterus, rent it's all very complicated We don't want any fortune earned this way How could you say this? lf l had not stopped acting... l would have acted as a heroine for Mammukka or Mohanlal lf l act as a wife sometimes, l may have to act as a pregnant woman Similarly this is also an acting Pregnancy in films is made up with pillows But this is a real American pregnancy Life is not like films Forget all this... What would you tell if our relatives and friends ask you? Why do you talk about relatives? Our people expelled both of us because ours was a love marriage Friends Must tell them it is a second baby and distribute sweets What will you do if they ask forthe baby after 10 months Must tell them the baby was still born -Janaki Are you so callous? - lt is all theatrics Tell them the delivery was at an aunt's place in Tambaram So we couldn't inform anyone Even if there are few murmur once we become rich and pompous... ...that would change gradually America has shown as a way to get out of this mess Don't reject it Hearing this makes my vision blurred Then hold a candle and sit there Long ago they wanted me to do a role opposite Chiranjeevi in a Telugu film l never knew about it At that time our love was soaring and l left the house with you Else by now l would have been like Trisha and Asin What can l do? lt is my destiny, l should suffer like this Acting is an art that requires physical exertions Must run, jump and fight Like that this should also be considered as an art... ...that requires physical exertions, is it not? Not only that, helping childless people... ...will it not be a large hearted benevolent act Besides, since there is no blood relationship with the baby... ...we can return the baby easily Absolutely Why did not the American people come little earlier? There is a time for everything - Doctor You didn't say anything - Should we do it? Normally women who come forward for this... ...does not have any emotional feelings But an home maker like your wife... You need not get tensed over that Regarding this, she is more interested than me So come to clinic, tomorrow Some tests have to be done lf the tests are ok, we can meet the American people Agreed After amassing money l want to start a beauty parlour Betterthan that would be to employ a beautician - ls it? - Have this - Get ready quickly - l am ready Janaki You have studied up to what? Doctor did not say anything about studies... Studies... lt's ok, l merely asked l like you Ok doctor, let us proceed ln lieu of donating the uterus they would give you Rs 10 lakhs 5 lakhs advance... Balance 5 lakhs after delivery when you hand over the baby Doctor Can't you give 10 lakhs in one shot? The medical practice dictum is... Half the job is done by doctor and the other half by God Though we do everything to the best of our ability... Sometimes it may not be successful Sometimes problems could arise due to the carelessness of the pregnant lady ln such a situation they should not lose the entire money We can not move forward without mutual trust Ok doctor We have come forward to do this not merely for the money you offer Helping a childless couple to get a child is a benevolent act l really appreciate your generosity Once you become pregnant... Protein, Calcium, Fiber you should take rich nutritious foods That will cost extra Nutritious foods are very expensive lt is ok, tell me how much you want? l want... lt's ok, l told know lt's a benevolent act That's good After embryo transfer, they want to return to America Both of them are employed and busy They can come again the next day after the delivery Now we can sign the agreement This has 5 lakhs ''Like a five petalled flower bloom in sky'' ''At dawn a star appeared and vanished'' ''Like a soulful transparent gem Like the prosperous divine music...'' ''ln the woods at prolonged night time it gleamed and bloomed'' ''The pain, sorrow and the mute grief disappeared'' ''lntense warmth blossomed again like a lotus'' ''Would celebrate Onam in some dream'' ''Hard times would come to mind without recollection'' ''Would push behind the distance travelled'' ''Like a five petalled flower bloom in the sky'' ''At dawn a star appeared and vanished'' ''Like a soulful transparent gem Like the prosperous divine music...'' ''ln the woods at prolonged night time it gleamed and bloomed'' First or second...? First or second? First one? First one is a daughter So you would be longing for a male child this time Boy or girl lt is all same for me That is also right These days boy or girl expenses are more less same Who is Janaki's husband? You sit down They are calling me lt's me Here your baby Yes it is me lt is a male child -Janaki How is Janaki? - She is normal After some time she will be shifted to room You may take him You could have taken the baby in your hands There are people to do that l don't have faith in all these Sweet boy -Why is he wearing a shirt? - Doctor said it can be worn How do you feel now?. l just fed him He is very fair All new born babies will be very fair More over baby's parents are Americans You look very tired Agood sleep will make you alright Shall we take the baby to the doctor... ...and ask for the settlement Dear Count the cash correctly Should you tell me that specifically? May l come in doctor? Thus everything ended well Doctor Look at this baby See how charming he is Not 10 lakhs, even 50 lakhs can be given You are right So doctor Receive this trophy... ...and give the balance amount Where are those American guys? There is a small issue They have not yet arrived What happened? Have they missed the flight? Not that There is a small disagreement between them They are divorced and separated They don't want this baby now What? l have a meeting l just forgot about it What is it? Wait for a moment Can't you hear the baby crying? Should someone tell you to feed the baby? Fed milk just now No milk to feed again Will you stop it All the time weeping Have you seen feather touch? When l am getting mad you are talking about touch Not that l am talking about the film 'Feather touch' There is a scene in that film Give Dear Hey stop there Janaki Stop there Janaki What is it? Stop Let him take, if he wants You stay here - Stop there - l am asking you to stay there Give the baby Give the baby Janaki Let him take, if he wants Dear Give Move away Man's children are His fortune Come Man's children are His fortune From each one's deeds His varied fortunes rise Get on Sorry dear l can understand a mother's grief lt is ok Not grief lf that mad guy killed the baby... ...and dumped him in garbage bin we would be behind the bars You are right That's why l took him back Don't become too sentimental -Was it little excessive? - Little Come, let's go You must listen to me To leave a baby in orphanage or give for adoption... ...there are few legal complications You must remember one more thing Americans change their mind at the drop of a hat Today they may separate Tomorrowthey may reunite ln case the baby's parents come... ...to take the baby after a week orfortnight? Will you not get your 5 lakhs? But...if they come again... l would not give the baby unless they give 15 lakhs 15 lakhs? Don't give until they pay 15 Now you take the baby and go Little brother Little brother, are you playing Janaki You did not inform us your arrival Yesterday night only we planned Darling Eyes are like his mother - Nose is like his father -Yes, yes How is it possible? We've sent the money to the company Machines have also come Sir, please How can you ask now? Sir What l want to convey is... Don't worry ln two week's time pay the balance amount... ...and take delivery of the machines Will you give cash? Tell me You should tell him no You don't brood over it When a door is closed another door will open When you venture in to a business these things do happen Don't become diffident over this Some way out will be in sight - Hello - Ranjith The loan you applied in your wife's name is sanctioned 5 lakhs ls it true sir? Yes Come tomorrow with your wife - She has to sign few documents -Will come sir l will come in morning itself Okay lt was the bank manager 5 lakhs loan applied in Janaki's name is also sanctioned God has saved us When some babies are born along with that good times also start Goddess Lakshmi can be born through such babies too That is true Gods can manifest in any form When manager informed about the sanction of loan... ...initially l thought it was a dream Howto describe my happiness lt was like a snake bite under a thunderbolt Whatever it is our good times have started Now we should become the top drawers But the adage you said was not appropriate For predicaments like this... Coconut falling on the head of a pooping dog would be appropriate That can also be said But for such situations there are few proverbs in English Whatever happens should have been there... Not like that Should have been the pening, happening That one... - Some one is calling - Ranjith Yes, come in -Where is he? -Who? See Have a good look Very beautiful child ls it ok? Ok Please stay out for some time l would come there What is this Pappetta? They are from Vijay movie There is a scene where Vijay as a new born baby They need a baby for that He is ok for them ls this the matter? You scared me Why? So Pappetta, is there a combination scene with Vijay? How idiotic are you? This baby has to grow to become Vijay l didn't think about it Shall l proceed further? - Okay? - Okay They are not very interested in films But l somehow convinced them They are ok for Rs 50,000 Give Rs 25000 as advance Give balance at the location Take this - M commission is additional - Okay Take this fortutious advance Rs 25000 Balance 25000 will be paid at the location Sir What is the baby's name? Baby's name Name... He is yet to be named But we are contemplating to name him as Baghynathan Yes But at home we call him lucky He is not mere lucky He is a lucky star Lucky star ls it son? Mom would you give milk Come Lucky darling Come ''Forthis little cherub we would place a dot on the chubby cheek today'' ''When the baby is dolled up...'' ''Nourish her with smiles'' ''Sport smiles and have fun Nowfly high'' ''Narrate the story of trapping uncle moon in a conical bowl'' ''lt's a word that effused the water that entered the boat'' ''Thoughts and dreams are insufficient'' ''Need a lamp that guards the trove'' ''Need a vision that looks inward'' ''Forthis little cherub we would place a dot on the chubby cheek today'' ''When the baby is dolled up...'' ''Nourish her with smiles'' ''Have fun sporting smiles Nowfly high'' ''Narrate the story of trapping uncle moon in a conical bowl'' Where have l kept it? Megha Megha - Did you see my phone? - No Check if it is there in the fridge? Will anyone keep phone in fridge? Don't know where that boy would keep it Let me check We should not go after love lt should happen on its own lt should ravage us Should turn us upside down Always should be with me That is true love Hey cut it Gaurav Don't do like Simbu's dad Do like Simbu We should not go after love lt should happen on its own lt should ravage us Enough ls mom's phone your play toy? Not playing lt's my film's shoot, sister Are films shot in mobile phones? Sister This is a new generation film Hereafter, if you touch mom's phone... ...l would throw away all your toys, mind it Pack up Lucky Don't get upset Of late all fools have taken up direction Let us play some other game Come Gosh Lucky ls this the way to do colouring? Elephant should be given black colour Have you seen a green elephant anywhere? And red colourtusks On the whole you have messed up Dad See how l have coloured it? ls it not super? Fantastic Great -Am l not a genius dad? -Absolutely Why not we send this to some magazine's colouring competition? lf they select this you would get a big prize Good idea Those who run the magazine are not fools Why do you waste money on postage stamps? She is jealous of you Go and complete it son This is Lucky's progress report The maximum he got is B or B+ l don't see him evince any interest in studies He is not doing lAS Don't get tensed over the studies of a 1st grade boy See if his cognition develops, if he can manage his own routines These are the things one should check at this age When he comes to higher grades he would secure Aand A + - ls it not lucky? - lt is very difficult Dad, l have something to tell you l don't want to study in a school where education is merely academic l told you not to enroll me in sister's school He studying in my school harms my reputation too l am school's best student Keep quiet, bright student Dad Next year admit me in Gaurav's school They teach swimming, skating and Karate Then l will secure A+ You mean Mount Carmel School Exactly Getting admission there is bit difficult Nonetheless we can make a try What do you say? You are only pampering and spoiling him Don't dance to his tunes Give him two whacks and make him study A and A+ would come automatically Did you see the Hindi film '3 idiots'? ln that film, regarding children's education... - l am not an idiot like you - ls it? You are after all an old 10th grade failed girl -What about you? - l am an 8th grade fail Make a brochure giving importance to spring collections Ok sir Because the designs include a variety we may secure good orders Sure sir Vincent l called you some time ago ls the Mount Carmel school principal your relative? lt is about an admission for Lucky? Yes my son Why not? Any time l can come and meet you Ok, bye Give it to the printing section Ok sir Last time Ranjith was the main sponsor for a race event conducted by our school He is one among the few Chennai Malayali's whom we can rely upon anytime Very glad Merit is our criteria for admission There is an aptitude test for lnter school transfer He must get through that test Hope your son is a brilliant student Yes, he is brilliant But he is more interested in sports and skating We do considerthose who excel in sports too Then we can try on that quota Let it be... Ok father We would submit his application - Thank you so much - Welcome - Good morning - Hi Jan You are late today l was replying to my birthday wishes in Facebook l didn't know, it took so much time You know l have 3654 friends l am contemplating about starting my own like page ls it your birthday today? Many many happy returns of the day aunty -Aunty - No call me sister Anyway thanks We have a grand party in the evening Everybody come Ok - l am going man - Why so early? - Today is mom's birthday -What gift you are giving to your mom? l don't have money to get gift There is a gift that doesn't require money -What's it? - Come, let us see Come on man Ok, right Then where has he gone? His pranks are going too much Let him come today Mom He is not there in park too -Where has this boy gone? - He would be milling around somewhere Have you understood now?. He is not much attached to mom and dad You both all the time pamper him Keep him on your head and coddle him Megha Don't talk as though you are grown up Where would have Ranjith gone? - He is coming - Here he is Lucky Where were you so long? You keep loitering You trouble us on a good day l will see how you go out for playing henceforth Have a shower and change your dress Mom Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you What bolt can bar true love Lucky Stay there l said, stay there Today is Sunday Where are you going dad? Dad has to attend a meeting at Taj -When will you be back? - Evening So will you have your lunch at the hotel? Yes, l will - Will there be chicken? - Likely Then l will also come Then l am not going for any meeting today, is that ok? Dad This is his regular ploy to avoid studies Dad Not like that... lt's because it is boring for him Come my son You go to the ground beyond that park and skate This time we must win the prize When l return from the party l will get you some nice chicken Promise Promise Go - Bye - Bye Sister Catch me Lucky stop Mom Lucky Very very nice l will write l know, it's very exciting event for me l've been running around life time for this very big time But finally the wedding day is here The marriage is at St.Louise Cathedral Ya l'll give the address Just a second lt is 695, Stanford No excuses You should be there at time Thanks Swetha Can l call you back? l will call you back Chennai business man Ranjith and Janaki's son Lucky... ...fell in the drainage and is missing The entire water waste form this drain finally flows in to the ocean At all junctions fire force have installed nets Since the water level is low... ...fire force says the boy can be saved Lucky is a 1st grade student of Chennai Dawn international school Reshma from Chennai along with cameraman Akil ls it doctorJohn? Yes Hi l am Swapna from US Can you recollect? Ya ya Swapna l remember - How are you? - l am fine How are you? l am fine Tell me Nothing l was just browsing the Facebook l saw a video in face book - lt was about an accident to a boy -Yes, that is your son, Lucky Dr John Yes -Any news? - No new information They are still looking for him The Malayali boy Lucky who went missing... ...after he fell in the drainage at Chennai ...was rescued with the help of army after long hours of rescue operations At a distance of 200 meters from the place... ...he went missing he was located near a ditch Son The boy is in lCU His condition is still critical What do you mean Swapna? lf you want the wedding to be postponed... ...you've got to be kidding Steve You don't understand l can never be a mother So l want my son l really do want him See Swapna You need to take a decision Either it is your son or me But once you go Once you decide to go... ...don't expect me to wait here for you - Excuse me - Tell me madam - Room number 202 - Go straight and turn right Ok, thank you Madam Who are you? Madam Don't worry He would be discharged in 2 or 3 days time Should l inform someone...? This is the wedding gown for minister's daughter She is little fatty So do it in a crushed material in dark colour Give small folds in the side That would make it appear slim - Sir You have a visitor -Ask him to come Long ago when he was an MLA l have stitched few blouses for his wife Do it quickly in Photoshop Good morning Mr Ranjith Have you not recogonised me? Yes l have recogonised But meeting you here, quite unexpectedly... Can l sit here? l am so sorry Please sit Thanks All the designs are good Thank you There is a great demand for lndian designs in America Sometimes l too get orders Beautiful How is Lucky now? How is Lucky? He is fine ln 2 or 3 days he would be discharged - He is fine - Thank God Afterthe divorce, did you meet him again? Yes At a mall He has married an American woman and his father of two kids Did you... l didn't get married again l have come here to take Lucky to America That is not required l told you, he is fine He doesn't require any treatment at America Not for treatment l want to take him permanently to bring him up as my son there - Tea or Coffee? - No thanks Ok You didn't answer me How is it possible? Lucky is my son M wife delivered him Though your wife delivered him he is my blood Blood relationship has no great say in this Whoever takes care to bring up the child... ...is the dad, mom, brother and sister We are not formal like you Americans But what is his condition here...? He has fallen in a waste water hole When l sawthe news l felt guilty l am responsible for this l want to take care off him and do justice Hey, relax Whatever precautions we take and if the destiny is something else... ...whatever must happen will happen You might have been instrumental for us to get Lucky But today we love him more than our daughter We treat like him as our own son And it will continue to be so That means... We can not lose Lucky That's all See you soon Mr Ranjith l am going to handle this legally ls it Surya Hospital? Can l speak to Dr Venugopal please? Yes, it is urgent, please Lucky lie down Mom l want to sit in hall l want to watch TV You need not watch TV Lie quietly Else they may take you to hospital and inject again You need not have asked for discharge now Don't you know he would be playing around here What was wrong for him spending 2 or 3 days more in hospital? Who knows what quakes will happen 2 or 3 days time? l need some water She is playing with me... lf she plays with me... l will teach her lessons Are you going to act in any drama? Not drama, it is real lt's real and live Afteryour business clicked l understand your standard has risen But when you talk to me talk straight, no innuendo's She... That American lady has come Which American lady? The lady who rented the uterus then - Same lady - ls that all? You could have told her we have stopped renting uterus She has not come for that Then...? To take back Lucky - Leave me mom - Lucky She has just asked She has not taken back Lucky l am with you Don't worry Nothing l understand what you say But they can not comprehend this Average lndians still hold their relationships very dearto them Have you not heard the adage relationships are like gold But one thing Try talking to that lady Amother will understand the grief of another mother Ok, l will meet her -Janaki l want to talk to you - l don't want to hear anything Then l am going to hold a press conference and announce it Let everyone know about the secret you concealed so long You discarded him for 5 years What is the guarantee that you would not do it again? From the day he was born not even for a single night... ...he slept away from me l can not live without him You don't know about the losses l have suffered l was planning to start a new married life But forthe sake of Lucky l discarded everything Now l am alone M Lucky is not the pluses and minuses of your weightings You don't understand the feelings of woman who gave birth to a child l am not prepared for any loses foryour sake This obduracy is not good Janaki One compromise... No compromise on Lucky She wants to file a suit Let her do it Any court will have a conscience She has come with sentiments after so long We can give her our house and all other properties But him...l just want him Hi Lucky Lucky come There is a new rider in the park -Angry birds - l am not coming - l am afraid - Come on Why should you be scared? Go with them and enjoy For next week's skating competition should you not win the first prize? Then only you will get admission in Mount Carmel school - Go...go - Come on ''Angry birds Angry birds'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds Say'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds Say'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds say'' ''Angry Birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds say'' ''Fly all over the world'' ''To destroy the pets'' ''Fly all over the world'' ''To destroy the pets'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds say'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds say'' ''l want all of them to fly and fly'' ''l want to make a picture make them cry'' ''l want all of them to fly and fly'' ''l want to make a picture make them cry'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds Say'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds Say'' ''Angry birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds say'' ''Angry Birds l want to fly'' ''Angry birds say'' Ya man l am coming Probably in 5 minutes At this time, where are you going A party at Sham's house His sister has passed BDS Why throw a party forthat lt's the duty of children to study and pass You go inside and study Dad, leave me my way l know what to study when to study Just keep ready money for UK MBAadmission ls that ok? Bye See you Hello, ya ya l am coming Dad There is somebody foryou l am a doctor who change the grief of people with no children Forthe first time l am in troubles... ...after giving a baby to a childless couple lf she files a case will you be on our side? Based on the old agreement and the DNAtest ...she will easily prove the boy is hers lf we can not win the case... ...why not we go for a compromise? That is what l have also suggested Acompromise But that is not on the premise that you will not win the case Because for cases related to surrogacy... ...there are not much legal precedents in lndia Besides as per lndian Law... the woman who delivers the baby... ...will be considered the mother of the baby On that premise Janaki is the mother of the baby here But l am suggesting a compromise... ...taking in to account Lucky's future The small kid is gleefully happy... ...should we drag him to court? Not only that for cases of this type... lt might take more than 5 years forfinal judgment By the time he would become 10 to 12 years old At that age he might be able to comprehend ln case he changes his mind...? Why did you separate him from his real mother... lf he poses this query to you then... lf he asks you why did you reject him the comforts of American living? lf he believes his life should not end in Kodambakkam That day will he not go looking for his mom? That will not happen He is my son Kids are like arrows released from the bow Beyond a certain limit we can not control them To answerthe queries posed by children... ...parents search in Google these days From his real mother and all comforts you made him stay away lf he feels that was because you both were self seeking Will he not hate you? lf mistakes can be rectified it is always better to do that Day after tomorrow is his skating competition Doctor inform this to her Chennai roller skating Federation holds... ...the 16th roller skating competition We welcome you all l request parents and spectators to be seated quietly So son Concentrate and run Run well and win Then only we can get admission in Mount Carmel School - Ok? - Ok Careful Careful Bad smell lt is from this boy The boy who fell in the drainage Lucky Lucky Lucky Come on Come on Lucky Come on Come Lucky Lucky Come on Lucky Come on Get up Lucky Come on Come on l went to your house The kids said you are here l gave the kids chocolates Lucky has won the skating competition l saw your love for him To encourage him to rise up in case there is a fall for him in life... ...and to show him the right path whenever he goes wrong ...perhaps a dad and mom like you both would be better than me So l have decided not to take him with me lf he comes along with me he would only get a mom But here he has a dad, mom, sister and so many others You must permit me to come and see him once in a while You need not tell him l am his mom Tell him l am an aunty from America That's enough for me But that is not the right thing to do He should go and live with his real mother You must take him Ratherthan he considering us as his foes after knowing the truth years after... ...it is betterto part now though it is painful But Lucky... We have a daughter to love and caress But you don't have anyone Swapna No woman should be in a situation to say there is no one for her Lucky would get on with anyone easily He will love you too For having won a small competition... ...he is going to America fortraining That too...a small kid like him going alone But he is not going alone... There are other kids also who have won the competition Then...did not an aunty give you chocolates the other day That aunty is taking him But still something baffles me You need not get excited over this Go and study Dad Sister is jealous Don't mind it l would go and come back After going there l will go to Disney land, snow skating Enjoy everything and get back quickly Good boy Listen to what dad says carefully And don't tell this to Lucky He is going with his real mother The aunty who came the other day is his real mother He stayed with us like a guest quite accidentally When you grow up l will tell you every thing Will he not come back? l can not live without him dad You need not cry Let us imagine he has gone to some boarding school far away And we will wait for him to come for every vacation l have kept a CD in his bag Every night l used to tell him tales l have recorded all those in a CD ln case he does not go to sleep easily Play them once He would go to sleep l am indebted to you l knowthat can not be paid back Forgive me for the anguish l have caused Wherever he is it's enough if he is happy l want just that - Bye sister - Bye Bye dad - Bye - Bye - Hi - Hi Aunty stop Lucky Dad l have something to tell you What's it? lf l like America l may extend my stay there for some more time Then only l will return Don't chide me Bye
