 

                        Screen test? What is this thing screen test? Camera is a maker's eye, When you entered in office my mind clicks that she was the girl what l've been looking for, Sona, PerFect name for screen, You know the character's demand, You totally fulfill that demand, You don't believe it, Destiny brought you here from in P.K. production from kanpur, Evemhing is written on here, Now you just keep meeting me, because.... it's necessay that artist and maker should understand each other. And to understand we have to spend our time together. Do you understand, Kamla devi! Stop! Where is rupa? Rupa has gone far away, You forget suppose she was a dream, Eveyone watch dreams, but only that dream come true, what human don't want to forget aRer many tries, Rupa is not my dream, she is my reality, Tell her, How it was? It was good, Half an hour, Punit! how was my shot? But in middle l hesitate on one place, l almost follow rupa, l am not going to do four scene role, then raju told me that you have mo scenes with Amir khan, then l said fine, When your chaudhy's movie will start? Within this year, l can't eat standing, come let's sit there, She has only one dialogue, Don't know she's fooling chaudhy or chaudhy's fooling her, l wish you refused when we met, but it shouldn't happened, You showed me beautiful dreams, and l move on to take these hands in my hands, Enough! enough! What are you doing? She is your lover, She broke your heart, How many times l told you feel it, Feel! What you call actor? Actor is the person who deep down to his character, And what is this beautiful dreams, pronounce it proper, But Vikram! You do too much of under play, We need projection cinema in commercial cinema, Energy, ln Hollood it's easy to become hero. But in Hindi movies, it's vey hard, Hindi movies hero notjust do acting, but he sings, he dance, he does comedy, action... You need many guts to become a hero in Hindi movie, And for heroine, Honey! you need the same, then from tomorrow your training will be start, Today is your last day, in Nand Kishore School ofActing, Look! whatever l can't teach you, l already gave you, But.... Acting is a river like as much you go deep down it will become more deep, But you don't forget one thing, that here along with talent luck is also a big factor, l'm vey thankful to Mr. Mac, that he came here from his precious time, that he could distribute these certificates in our students, But before he distribute the certificates, l would like that you say something to our students, Sir! please speak that sholay movie dialogue once, Sholay! Sir! Entire fim thousand, Have you talk to Mr. Mahesh according to me or you forgot, All movies are under production, Today you please manage my internet connection, Why you talk rubbish? He won't do anything for you, Mahesh is the assistant with Mukesh Bhutt. He used to give breaks to new actors, But will he will look aRer his direction chance or look aRer for you And he already have a problem with you, From me? Why? Don't know, You submit your photo in offices, and do theatre in free time, Theatre keeps the inside actor alive, but it's hard to live for crowd. Sona! What? Where you've been? Here! Yesterday l watch your TV serial. You did good your scene with father, He is Vikram, He came from dehli to show something in industy, You are in que, Who is she? Ranjit, you became a director, You are a director, Mr. Rolly have his own style, l can't imagine a movie without lafar, l won't understand it, Business is not evemhing, You must have some emotions, Actually, l never thought l'll become a heroine, Animal's doctor, l just want to say this.... as much you gave me your love since past years, now give it to my daughter too. l was so nervous. On Tuesday and Friday wear it on this finger, and.... this is permanent, lt will keep you cool mind, Pandit Jee, he always said okay, but always listens to his heart, How many times l told him... that 5 is your lucky number, Start your movie on 5. You're talking like a children's. On 5 lafar was shooting mani ratnam's movie, how could he leave it, Only l know how hardly lafar adjust 9 for me, Menty! he doesn't do for anyone else, lafar respects you a lot, l understand this song situation, but before mo scenes heroine's sister has died, then how she's dancing with me, l have put my entire emotion in death scene, ifwe will show more cying then picture will be dull. But it's not a logic, lafar! lfyou will go in so much logic then you can't make a commercial film, And l am still justifying, Death sister's friend took heroine in disco, and while music starts l shows that heroine went in imagination, and anything could happen in imagination, You come and check the set, Tara has put such a nice set, Really! He is a fool, He is teaching me, Man you're an actor you do your work, We were also actor, Has the lighting done, Yes, We found out that camera man is taking footage, You've become a star, Yeah, your shooting has stopped because of me, Where is make up room. back side. Tell him that give you a costume of death sister's friend, She don't have any name? Alka! then call character's name, Alka's costume, One minute, Take it, Don't you it another colour, l just got this, You're looking vey prem, She is looking so prem, You are cying, What? Emotional, l want to talk to you, Your vanity van is coming, l just want to say that have you seen costumes, Order from Gucci or Versace, lt's her first film, You've made many costumes, Why Nina always talk nonsense, You know the ladies, she will double up your costume budget, Today's heroines wear short clothes, How much clothes they use for it, What is this? Are they dancing or prade? Bring some grace, Come on let's do it again, This song will be the highlight scene of movie, We will start the short from empty stage, That girl is the friend of death sister, Here l go to the close up of girl, and now music starts, How do you like? Superb. This lafar is amazing, He is best. Have you notice one thing, Chitra is a dance director but he is asking evey step to me, Did you see that? Yes. Now eveyone tells me, Laxmi you show us how to do, This year l must have to become a dance director, l am tired ofthis assistantjob, and who will give you chance? Why? l'll manage anhere, you just wait for that scoundrel chaudhay's movie. Hi! Mohini Aunt. Will you please give me 500 Rupees, My money will come in You will return it, but do you have any idea what you doing, Your father has a huge store in dehli, Go and help him, You're wasting your time here, l read in newspapers, Either producers makes hero his own son, or hero's son, Who gives the chance to outsider, l don't have any problem you're staying here, but l should know how long you will be here. Ramesh Thorani? You? Vikram Jai Singh, l am an actor, He is sitting in stoy sitting, l just need his mo minutes, l told you he is in sitting, Can l wait? Fine, Hi! Hi! What she is saying? She is saying that he is in sitting, and sitting is running, Listen to me, give your photos to her, He won't meet you, then why you are sitting here, l have an appointment for secong lead, He is Raju. He look aRer myjobs, Hello! Hello! Second lead? Vey good, ln fact l am doing a role of parallel heroine in pinky productions, Pinky Productions? Yes, Satish Chaudhay, He is a regular producer, He is making love birds at a moment, that Akshay Khanna and Kareena Kapoor movie, ARer that my movie will go on set, He didn't decide the title. Just suppose that few days shooting is remain, lt's a love stoy but it's great, you just look it's mounting, You will say aRer watch evey frame that satish you've invest good money on movie, Didi! our evey penny is invested on this movie, He got a high blood pressure with tension, Put some more Vodka, Next project... lt's a great project, l've signed a new director, l shouldn't say but script is vey powerFul, Here is the first half and here is the second half, lt's all fine but what about cast? John Abrahan and Bipasha Basu, And l'll sign a new heroine, Will John and Bipasha do, l'm not loser, Our new director is good friend ofJohn, So l think why you are getting a new director, You talk to Brother and introduce him from corporate company, He feels shy how to say, You leave it to me, l'll talk to him, that intorduce satish from any nice people, Look! Mr. Chaudhay. lf producer like Mr. Romy has recommend you, Brother has mentioned you that... We have already talked to John and Bipasha, and dates.... And we are vey happy. But our basic criteria is propem, ln Hollood we call script is a propem, But here we call propem is propem, We have to bring culture in your industy, there should be some change in mind set, Change is coming, We didn't sign john and Bipasha that they are stars, they are stars... but we took them because it's script's demand, And another role we have a new girl's demand, that's why we will must sign new girl. Ramesh Jee meets me vey well, he said Raju l like sona's test, Not a parallel role, he have a role of hero's sister. Hero's sister? l said l will talk to her and then tell you. ln Josh movie Aishwariya played shahrukh's sister role. so she became a sister, It's a different matter, You know love bird has finished, lt will be fine for me to play these cheap roles, Refuse him, You're sitting outside here too, Nobody wants to meet you, No, Abhi told me that he will be at home but.... ...he will come, till then ifyou want then you can buy me tea, Where you've been? My fridge is not working, l don't have time to fix it, so my neighbour verma aunty... l kept evemhing in her fridge, Your neighbour is vey good, She is vey good, She charge me money for using her fridge, She also have to run her house, Her husband was a stunt man, He was doing car chase shooting in some movie and car has really crushed, He died on the spot, She is calling producer since long, but she didn't get money yet, Where do you live? Me, Bandra! Don't know when Abhi will come back, What's your programme, Why? l've done mo more movies like Teer and Talwar, but it's not worthy, theyjust release in small cities, And you're sure that this Satish will make a huge film with you, l mean people just said it, No! Chaudhay will do it for me, There is someone in your life who can do something for you, He is married, They much helped me! l have no problem with..! Someone says...! success and failure only choices we make Can l ask you some thing? What? Shall we eat bhelpuri? No! He have the lists.. You have to talk with... lts uper than my status.. lafar done his first film with me.. So my last film should be done with him...? l'm still paying the first film's tax. They didn't pay full... and excusing like kids.. They set director to homjeet at me.. How are you sonejee? What's up ... your boss is still in make up room? ls there any problem? What l say... l seem's like that.. You heared the script a-z.. You had said its fantastic.. its your words... l knew initially that role is out. don't take it negative. but Anti lts better Anti... l'm ready to do it.. But couldn't understand. l'm not lafar khan.. lafar khan is an image. And he's asking contineously, do you have my fans permission to do it? We'll change the script.. and we'll turn the role as positive. Did you see that? New glitter. My regular column is coming soon from end ofthe month. Evey month? how is the title? Shall l give you an news? Don't mention my name! lafar's film has an serious problem. With director and script too.. How would you know? someone tells me. Cant mention the name. Should we turn it positive? l've no problem but Rolly.. How would poster will be made? lf l tell you why l took you as writer.. l'll think. but l written by the DVD of ranjeet. What? But its India ranjeet..! Here's audience is different. Don't think cause oflafar.. l had feeling he'd have positive character.. we should do that the police doesn't arrest him.. So?. So he fall In love so his inner man woke up.. ARer that we can put the scene ofthe temple.. l know its old but ifwe do it with convinction.. so it works Then we should cut an empty frame. and in empty frame.. a big execution trap.. And suddenly the hero comes in. And hero is seeing the execution trap. The execution trap is spinning. The trap is symbolic. and hero is thinking. Should l commit suicide or not. And then he grabs the trap ,smooches then puts in neck.. Hey Institute.. l'm not making the film for the festival.. Sir. l was just.. What are you buying? You always eats packed food. Who will cook? You should do it. l recalled the home.. so go back.. l can cook chicken vey good. So Take it.. where will you keep it? Your fridge is not any more in this world.. Do you want new fridge? Means? Means you'll not need buy. Look at that. fill the form.. Ifyou won so fridge is yours. What do you think...if filled the form so l have chance to win? l think ifyou don't fill the form, so you've no chance for win. Sory l don't know much English. What do you think? You are too smart. You are shopping with Sona enough. There is nothing like that. So it will be... keep going.. cut the crap.. just concentrate on your work. l'll reach at location sharp 6 o clock. Ok..l'll call you later. what happend.? yesterday there was requirement of grand father clock up on set. lmran hashmi Is going to new lealand for the month. film is on releasing Where from you'll find the grand father clock up? Go to the stolen market.. the shop wouldn't be open so early. your grand pa? Shut up.. l'm saying truth. You kept me in your house and gave me the love of mother. now l'm nothing but l wish to serve you anyhow. l'm taking your grand father's clock for polishing. l know you loves aron uncle's last symbol.. When this clock will polished so l'll be happy to see you happy. your so called son... You did amazed. Take it inside quickly. lf its rental so? Not at all. Just make it polished. lt will be definitely. come l have to introduce you with Imran hashmi. Will you do the kissing scene? Bring the tea.. ls there Mahesh Bhutt..? he's gone for week. Listen. what are you doing in the evening? there is a premiere of pyar howa tumse. will you come with me? l have the pass.. Thanks for brought me in this pam. Again hellow..? she's with her mother Nina.. l wish to say with my friends that ninajee talked with me. Can l tell you an weird thing.? ls that...mom and dad were together in the college.. They became friend because they both were your fan.. Some time ago they saw you in any pam in real life. l'll call her and tell her today.. My daughter nikki... lfthis generation's kids talks like that so l... You are the editor and you know what is my relation with lafar. He is like my kid.. l know.. l have heared that.. he have given your whole work to someone else. is that funny? Will l lie to you.? l'm waiting for Suzy.. whole sectay are hungy. l really don't know where for he leR.. lfyou don't know so who knows? ask to someone. and call me in the minute. why are you getting upset on while eating. come here.. breads are hot.. l'm fade up with industy. You better know eveybody is same In this industy.. Don't take this seriously. Why shouldn't l.. He don't pick up the phone.. even my messages.. There is no respect in today's generation.. there was a time when it felt happy to make film. Now Its over. l used to run aRer the boys and girls of my kids for the date. did it feels good? l have no honor aRer so long time.. don't say like that.. eveybody respects you.. Really.. you have still honor.. They leR one by one. and now here's the walls.. and the silence ofthe room. which is asking to me that... Which path you'll choose.. My inner says.. in which problem you are? You are human being.. and human being deserve it. Abhi is too talented.. And hard working too. He Is rehearsing the play for last mo months.. he would be have break anytime.. Why you says like that? He vent that sord of fire.. Do you have? l don't want it.. why don't you want to wish? And now in the air this eye brow will wave. slowly to your wish to the earth.. where the open gutter is waiting for it.. l have my sister in Chicago, suddenly with family.. now its all right huh? Yes...but no.. l was thinking.. how much will you take sugar? No l'm on diet! l was thinking. l didn't took the break for the three years.. Yes It is. you are working hard. you are blessed.. yes But till when it will going on? lfyou'll do bad.. So it'll be good than others. l want the favor from you. Just let me go from this film. What are you saying? you'll not work with me in my film? can l think like that? we have no relation only of film. we'll do next.. we'll do a lot.. whatever you faced looses.. He would have to care about it. ln this my daughter's future is involved. What l tell you. he said to me, evemhing is for heroin. but l'm. You'd be big star...but this film is my fianc.. Script will be made like that. So he says... so It will be hard for me. To whom you'll take as hero? Don't wory.. ls lafar was doing this film huh? l just recently done three dramatic roles.. And cant give you the explanation of date C'mon uncle you are making me shameful. lf l will do that film so it'll go to in controversy.. l want to do something unique. Shanti will give you the date at 2015 You were saying that contestant king have to change the culture of industy.. And now you are saying who is hero.. What l do. we have to answer our share holders.. We should start the project of mr.chaudy.. you have recommended.. You are not starting my project in my recommendation. l'll not tell you how much years we have old relation! Otherwise you'll come to my age.. when he heard all this.. so he felt too bad. l'll finance complete film.. bravo.. l have no connection with film industy except Nina.. l'll sign on the agreement. But aRer that l'll not concerned with any more.. Bravo.. What do you think about the hero? l thought a lot.. l seems that lafar not doing this film This role demands new face... lf l'll got this role in free.. l'd not take it.. You should tell to dhramjee that you'll need one more boy. he poor guy would not be deny. You always laugh at my sister. What we do ifyour sister is so genius. You should give me any suggetion. l read it now. What? that announcement. About the john and Bipasha. yes l printed on the paper. now intrduce me with director.. l'm donning something in filmistan.. Come nearly mo o clock. My film is going to start. who Is photographer? named abheet. why you laughed? why are you asking. What is it? what is? All are angels... some straight pictures.. you'll not get break for going to these kind of parties. What are you talking.. lfyou are feeling bad that you friend brought me to pam.. So why are you showing your anger to the pictures. l'm not getting furious.. l'm just giving you advice. You'll not become an actor by showing this pose.. lts not the way. Really you know the way. so tell me.. why are you still there. what are you talking about.. who says l'm still there.. l'm doing mo shows in television, and l have honor in theater.. and l don't take money from home and friends like you. l'll return your money.. but l came to know your reality. so listen the reality.. You are not an actor.. and you cant be.. lfyou obey me so go back to Delhi and handle your fathers shop. Where are you going.. what about is he talking.. He used to roam in Delhi with empty pocket.. A lot oftime l have given him money And once he gave me money and beheaving like that. Let him.. he's drunk.. what happens if he's drunk.. And telling me that l'm noting. Nothing will happen to me.. l have to go back to Delhi. You don't need to go back anhere. l like your pictures... You have guts.. Look at me.. Yes l could had to wait.. but When l'm having too big break so who can stop you? Sona you were sleeping tight.. so l don't thinks to awake you. l couldn't congrate you in yesterday's mess up. Therefore giving you now. l wish your picture will complete quickly and will hit. lts good. Where It found. make me have it. shut up shamless. Give it. l'll be back. Did you see today's interview. lts interview ofjohn. He said that he is working in your picture.. l saw. l talked but.. There is an problem. What is the problem? He need new girl for second role. Yes...but l'm also new. Where from you are new. You worked on Teer or Talwar. you done mo bhojpuri pictures. And don't know in how much movies you have worked. All this l did by your orders.. Evey time l asked you and you said do it... Look l don't want to put myself In mess. ls that mess..? You promised me that you'll give me break.. you'll give me peralall role.. And aRer wasting my three years. you are saying it is mess.. you are saying that you remains only for me. or you'll become big star. The trend has changed. only super models are becoming heroines. But l have talent.. l can do acting.. Who need it? l don't want hurt your heart, but fact is that no big hero will work with you. So you'll not make film with me? No ...its impossible. You just keep touch with me.. l'll do what could do.. Stop...acting.. l'm all ready tence.. you here and l... What happend? may be you couldn't recognize that she used to work in our films.. But what happend? l came to give this pictures. your pictures. lts of my cousin.. tell me ifyou have any role for.. l'll call to...lf he deserve so.. lts needed...l need money.. My mood is ruined. Yourjudgment used to be always correct... What are you doing...keep there rejected and accepted here. lf are accepted so l keep. There was a generation of personalities come pinky.. Did you forgets the way? l had some photos. l thought you'll use it. Pinky became casting selector.. always family is worried at that time.. he came to the right time. Who will eat food which you made out from home.? Don't wory... he will eat it.. Hello! Yes! Who are you? One minute, Vikram, Your phone... from Romy Rolly production, You're wetting the entire floor, It's just a phone, No, no problem, l will come, Would you tell for which role? Vikram! l was drunk that night, So shall we meet tonight, we will drink again, Today l got a phone call from Romy Rolly productions, What happen? Satish Chaoudhray's film. That's not making, lt's making, but l am not playing in it, l think it's not in my luck, lt's not written in luck, What is this luck? This word is for those who don't have courage to make their own life, l didn't show courage in my life, What l got? ARer 3 years he sis saying to me that l can't do anything, He is scoundrel, And a scoundrel will decided that you can do something or not, Tell me one thing, You came here to do chaudhay's movie or to become an actor, You believe on someone else since many days, now believe on your self, We don't get chance, but we have to make them, Success didn't come to us, but we have to go for it, Keep walking on your way, Keep walking, Sooner entire world will come on your way, For which role they have called you up, they didn't tell me anything, Just call your name, age, height. then a scene, And l've spoke it, It would be some stupid role, Rather Romy Rolly productions hire stars for some stupid dialogues, Possible there must be few roles, From Morning l saw many fools, At least we got one, Now how many shot have been listed, Two, One more test, Show it, l've got diploma from Nand Kishore Acting school and l did theatre in dehli, l think theatre kept my inside actor alive, Brother! He seems sincere, That's fine, But who dance bemeen all ofthem. Yes, check it. Nowadays hero dance more than heroine, l met this boy before, We got four more new photos, But he is so cute, You're doubling my work, Tomorrow you will read this scene with Nikki walia, Don't say much thanks, we isn't decide anything, Understood! Yes! l was also an actor, confidence is a good thing, but you shouldn't over confidence, Listen! How do you know Nina Jee? l don't know her l just met her once, She seemed that she.... She saw my screen test? Her daughter is a heroine ofthis movie, Brother, Nina Jee and Me, we have to take decision, You also came here for test, So l came here without any reason, Yesterday, l came here to take this scene, then l heard Mr. Ranjeet talking to someone regarding you, Regarding me, What are you saying? He was saying that.... You are Kunal, right? Yeah! He was saying that Kunal have confidence, He have that aggression what we need in this role, l have already met you, Yes, in premier pam. Ratna! open your hair for this test, l already told you, make it fast. Exactly you wore the same color Saree. You remember a lot, Are you nervous? Little bit of, No need of it, Shall we read lines once, Oh! it's okay, Why it is Priya? What? that we become vey closer with someone in first meeting, You can't answer this question in words, What you can express in words, that you can express from flowers, Take it, l didn't have flowers so l thought l should give you something, What a charm in this guy? No, Miss. Nina what are you saying? That's another guy Kunal, He looks young Shammi Kapoor. No, Vikram is better. Have you seen Kunal's test. He is so over confident. He is much agressive that multi plex audience will be angy. Have you seen his body. Remove his shirt in few scenes. l like Vikram most. l like this guy. Vikram! where are you? Here! and what about your screen test? What did they said? they said what they have to. Sona Jee, l've got that role, l won't go in details. There were many propositions for youl But l said no. l am here because ofyou. lf God will wish then you will sign many films, When lafar came to me so what he was? and where he is today? Son! Guess it. How much money l gave lafar in first movie, How would l know? Guess. Tell any figure. And this 5 will raise you to the sky. Vikram has called, He was saying, Ma'am thank you so much, l've got this movie because ofyou. Anay, l told him tomorrow come here for rehearsal. Here? It will be fine. Excuse me, if l got both of yours photo then it will be great. l mean look at me, Take her picture on that wall, It will be vey good. Tell me something about your boriend, Why? That Romy and Shubhna are closed friends, now he became his hero. then l have to write something, Shubhna won't do this job for free, You won't do for free then why should l? Your boriend become a big star then you will become.... ...star wife. You will go Rome, Paris for shopping, and you will say about your star husband. God gave you success. l have to reach at 1 1 . Mohini Aunty... l was thinking, l should ask some loan to papa. As soon as possible l should organize a flat. Why? Now Mohini Aunty's house seems small for you. Till you wish you stay here. l have a support you are living here. My sister couldn't suicide. Someone killed her. One minute, Yes! Not kill speak proper. l'll make it murder. Ma'am we'll remove kill word you say someone murder it, Shall we move. She was happy, She was in love with someone, And Man can sacrify his life in love. And he can take life too. What is my line? Nikki was saying you are not well. Just a flu. Come, Sit. So, how was your rehearsal? lt's all happening now, We got dialogues on set, But you did amazing perFormances. Have you sign your contract? They have called me office tomorrow. He was saying 50,OOO. Romy was saying that 5 is his lucky number. lf Romy wants then his Iucky number should be O. l will talk to him, No, Miss. Nina. He will mind it that l... Nothing will happen like that. l have recommend you. Now l am getting 5 lacs, because of Miss. Nina. ls it her pleasure or you show them your charm. Look! My grandma said it.. ifyou want to cook sweet then you have to add some sugar. You are clever. And which type of Nikki is? She loves her puppy. You are going for one month, l will be bore, Why? Before evey Indian movie has shot in India. This location is not less than Switzerland. lfyou would have any star then you will be in abroad. This Vikram is from theatre but he is vey dashing. Nowadays many people came from theatre in bollood. Don't call it bollood, l hate that word. l'm tired standing. ln the end of movie she will make you mad. l'll start the sequel that heroine's horse become out of control and run and here comes my hero on horse. And he jumps and took the heroine on that side. Here l go from here in slow motion. lt was necessay. Nowadays girls..... that's why Miss. Nina nobody is like you. You're still here. lfyou finalize something then l should leave. You have easily said that l won't go on outdoor. How? You've already shot one scene ofthat picture. You were in song, Aren't you? That song was shot with lafar. and it's gonna be re-shoot. What is your problem with that? You just do your own role. Raju, ty and understand. Now Vikram is playing of hero role in that film. How it will be that l do three scene role in that movie. Nobody is making mother India. You don't work for me anymore, Okay? l don't have work shortage, Today shooting starts late because of me, Actually, my dress man forgot to bring my costume. l and wearing blue black and grey in my all serious scenes. Color schemes are necessay for perFormance, Where is Miss. Nina? lf she will know that l am sitting here at this time. And Tania? She is watching movie. ls it yours? All clothes are mine in this room, lnstead ofthose what you're wearing? What Tania said about you? What she says? She said.... l told her anything, Eveyone thinks that star kids got evemhing easily. but it's not so easy. we have much expectations. lf she is Nina, then you are Nikki. lf unit people will know that l am in your room, what they will say? They are so narrow minded, Do you have any girl friend? You should be careful. Tomorrow l am going to Bombay, And when you will return, It will take few days. Tania is also talking about go back, Laxmi! Where are you? Good to hear you. l was calling you, Why? Is evemhing alright? l don't think so. Why? There is some mess bemeen your Vikram and Nikki, Are you mad? Last week l talk to him 4 times. He mokes about Nikki Walia. Anay, you don't think much and ask where l am calling from. Where are you now? ln Vikram's hotel, don't tell him, l will give him surprise, When did you come? l'll see! l thought that even with you.. l'm living here in expence of producer. New comers position would not be like that... Doesn't matter...l'll live with my friend In other hotel.. How will you go.. l shall bring car for you. There no need.. l Know its nearly.. by the way today is the rehearsal of song.. Can you meet aRer shooting at dinner? Nikki and you have afair? Not at all. l have confirmed news.. Do you know the hair dresser of item girl...Ratna.? She was saying. that day went to her bed room. Then bed was same.. Do you understands the meaning? Nina is coming back today! So how there's play is going to over? this nani will out .. What then? Where are you going now? l have to talk with.. are you gone mad? look...your honor is in your hand. What will you do to go to there? You'll fight with...and get degreted.. l'm his girl friend.. When will you understand the role ofworld. That boy got the role in too much big movie.. Are understanding something? No one is for him.. Sit down.. with how much suitcase you came? you know big actresses used to go with a lot of suitcases... Really. so much suitcase are reaming to become big actresses. Where from this dram is running on? there is nothing like that! Your teeth will come If l will slap you. you are getting me as fool. Why are you so serious.. smile.. There is good report in industy about our film.. When you both will go back.. so whole media will cover you. Media always finding sensation. lfthey seems that.. That you both have something with each other.. or something else.. you both are friends... you does joking with each other. Look ..it should be happen that evey girl thinks that.. l wish he would be my boy friend.. And evey boy thinks that l wish that she'd be my girl friend.. And If not happens like that.. Why someone get wrong impression.. did you see ..he understands what l am saying. just like that...not to sit too closer.. l know you are angy... But we have talk with each other.. l came to your house.. but you were not there. l got the flate in varsova. Some friends are coming.. so you must come ifyou are free. You remember l was writing the script...what? want to hear the narration?t easily...fantastic role for you. So deep thinking. l was thinking how life changes in this city over night. new house...new car... l borrowed the money from dad. New girl friend...new friends.. lts my star couple.. you were coming earlier in opposite oflafar and now new comer how is it? Artist runs by his talent.. what it matters who is in front or not. About her works.. l don't say big words... eat some snacks... You know my 1 friend... Sona mishra.. who Sona? She our friend.. ls evemhing is going good? Did she thanks you? Upsides comes in industy like that. Someone writes unique role.. but do nothing. And new comer could get break. seven big actors did it.. the role gets strugling actor... an amrita bacchant.. Right answer.. why didn't you tell me before. you didn't asked me. Sit down. nikki and with her new boy.. they are having an afair.. there is Niki's friend who lives in Bandra.. l am tanveer... l want to talk with you. Open the door. Vikram Is in those peoples who used people like ladder.. Vikram almost was living in her house. The truth is that...Vikram spend his useless days in support of Sona. He starts to see with evil eye at Nina and nikki aRer having film Eveybody knows what mother did in her generation. And daughter is not less than.. The member of unit tells us.. That In outdoor shooting Vikram.. was flirting with Nina in day.. And was playing hide and seek with nikki Because Vikram knew that his name. His name linked to unknown stardom.. lt is not good for his carrier.. how dare you to print it out.. You frustrated idiot... Shut up. and listen.. lfyou don't print out the apology for me and my daughter.. So my name is Nina... l'll destroy you.. l told you to keep away from her.. But mom...what Is the fault in it ofVikram No. he didn't tell anybody that... Shubhna dreamed.. lfyou again meet with him.. so l'll beat you.. You told me you've no girl friend! Yes l have no girl friend. just friend...either was.. My first cover stoy is this.. You gained... you should think about me.. l gained..! And l gained..! The new comer from Delhi.. lf he got in news with the daughter of Nina. so he must be gained. Mom was saying right. Either listen to her ifyou ty to learn some acting so you'll gain. l came many times.. cant you heed me.. Cant you ty to understand.. l don't want talk with you. lfyou don't want to talk with but you wish came true to talk with press. What? Look at that.. You came for it... you think l made it written. Who can write this.. Its your friend tanveer... lf tanveer write that so l am responsible? Listen one thing...My first movie is going to release.. l just know how l reach to here. Now l'm having the chance to be success.. lfyou want to see your face In press so do something by yourself. You'll gain nothing to do that with me. What is it? look what has come.. congrates.. Did you filled up the diwali contest form ever? you got the prize.. He was right. ifyou want to gain something in life so you have to struggle. have to step in.. Which he teaches me. But l couldn't thanks to him. because l could've understand that matter properly... He was gone... Whatever happens only for good.. this publicity will work for us. peoples knows about you... he says anything.. you just see what l do. lt was not possible without you and demi god... Nikin set India on fire.. l'm coming to meet you. What Nina was saying? The Niki's film has hit.. and she become super start... Cabal pors advance booking queue had mess up.. one man died.. The boys report is amazing. That day l brought that photo to you. Do you remember that girl Sona mishra.. She brought the photo that he is my cousin... lt all printed now.. l just knew they have afair.. Why didn't you tell me.. Where from the photo came of girl and where to reached.. The destiny of boy is good. lt called luck.. So talk... now her phones are coming. What industy we have.. What is all this? lndustrials sent the flowers for you. Vikram's call was for you... call him back... You talked with Vikram...''? Yes picture is hit... Producers wants to cast you both in next film.. You are saying that.. You told me by same tounge.. and he is hit so you... l cant understand you... What will you understand.. l was 16 years old when my mother with producers to me.. what'll you understand.. Where are you hidden? l recalled something.. now you are became star.. recall whatever you wish.. Just don't forget us... Who are you ... You real work will start now. your first film chosen you. And now you'll do.. you'll choose... Are they your friends.. yes.. they were with me in school.. Wont you go? No l'll meet him tomorrow. Stardom is an cocktail... Vey danger passion it has.. But one thing you have to think. Don't forget them... who knows you when you were nothing... Listen to me.. don't want to listen.. l have decided that now.. Sulakshna will not live in this house.. Whatever anger is for sulakshna in your heart.. l must say that... The line is cressed in this house.. Sulakshna didn't crossed it.. What is hero is doing here? l met with tanveer... l messed up evemhing... with nikki.... With nikki in unconscious.. l made an mistake.. And she suddenly came. and l couldn't understand how l face it. l said only lie... Now what you want.. l just thinking about you... how can l forget that how you support me.. How much trust you did at me.. even my family didn't. You were just in front of l... Without any fear what will you think about me.. l need an support... and its only you... Don't you believe me.? There is nothing like that.. l know you are telling truth. because you really selfish.. l was listening carefully... How l was the part ofyour life. how l supported you.. even today how can l become and anchor an support for you. But all this is about you Vikram.. ln this where is my part... Now you are feeling guilty.. Therefore you came here.. and tomorrow a new segment will come in your life and you'll gone. there is not your fault in... What can you do? Some peoples are like that... your serial is vey popular.. you are appreciation... our magazine's people wants to know about you... So where is your family? Kanpur.. Now only my parents are there... My mo sister got marriage... first one is in Delhi.. and second is in dehradoon. What was your parents reaction when you were coming in films? l just came.. ln my village eveyone thinks that l run away from home... And then a new scandle committed in city and people forgets me... but my parents never talks with me ever.. sometime l could talk with megha.. She was saying yesterday.. that their anger is decreased.. They sees me in TV.. lt seems slowly slowly evemhing will be all right bemeen us. May be they can see that in our whole family... l'm the only who is established on itself.. Theyjust were wanting to mary to me with someone.. his good luck was that he was of our caste... no one asked here about caste.. lfyou know your work.. so path made itself... Cant get easily... l feel sometime ifwould not come in this field. it was better. Sometime l feel to be alone... and get sad... And even then l thought that Its my place... today l just don't go to work early morning.. either goes to do that work which by l gets happiness.. How much peoples are in this world who can say that... l couldn't become big film star.. l feel sad about it.. Or l can feel good about that l'm an actress.. Who is working properly... and earning money.. l decided to be happy.. Someone says. human choose success and failure by himself.. lts meaning l came to know now...
