 

                        Why are you standing up there, Charlie Brown? Memories, Linus. My pitcher's mound may be covered with snow, but the memories are still there. Happy times, huh? Some of my happiest memories. But what about all the games we lost? lt was the fault of my right fielder. lt was always my right fielder. Are we going to have a baseball team again this year? Yes, but we weren't going to tell you. We were all hoping that you wouldn't find out, because we all know that you're the worst player in the history of the game. Put me down for right field. Well, how does our ball field look this year, Charlie Brown? l think our groundskeeper is doing a good job. The infield looks great, and the grass in the outfield has never looked better. l think it's because we have a new automatic sprinkler system. My pitcher's mound looks great. And our new scoreboard will keep track of the games we win this year. Then all we have to worry about is the sound system. The sound system? This year, let's try to get the ball over the plate, you blockhead! The sound system is still working. l think our team is in trouble this year, Charlie Brown. We're weak at every position. Except for right field. She's exceptionally cute. Our right fielder is completely hopeless. But cute. l need your advice, manager. Since this is our first day of practice, what do you think l should do with all the money l'll be getting for playing ball this year? We don't get any money for playing baseball. We don't? Nope. We don't get a thing. Well, one of our players gets a little something. Okay, Lucy, stand way back there by those bushes. l'm going to hit you a fly ball. Try to get it back as fast as you can. Catch it, Lucy! Catch it! lt's in here someplace. lt's not very easy playing right field. Okay, everybody, listen up. This season, we're going to emphasize speed. We're going to have a real running team this year. We're going to steal bases and steal more bases. We're going to run, run, run! We're going to be the runningest team in the league. lt's going to be go, go, go! lt's going to... l can't stand it. All right. Let's not have any of that fancy one-handed stuff. The only way to play baseball right is to use two hands. And a good set of teeth. Hey, manager! lt's too windy to practice today. Don't be ridiculous. Just because your cap blows off, it doesn't mean it's windy. Now, that's windy. Remember, if a fly ball comes your way, don't forget to allow for the wind. l'm working on it. Hey, garbage head, strike this guy out! You're not supposed to insult your own pitcher. Why can't you yell something encouraging? Come on, Charlie Brown! You can do it! You can do it! No, he can't. Come on, Charlie Brown. The game is starting. You're supposed to be pitching. l can't pitch knowing Lucy is in right field. She's out there, just waiting to do something stupid. She drives me crazy. l'll get you a drink of water. l know she's out there. l can't look. She's out there, isn't she? Here, Charlie Brown. A drink of water will calm your nerves. Thank you. lt's just what l need. See? l'm hardly shaking. l'm pretending Lucy isn't even around. Okay, let's get this show on the road. Our first game is Monday, and l can't sleep. l'm a nervous wreck. l can't sleep. l keep thinking about all the errors l'm liable to make. l'm no catcher. l'm a piano player. lt's 2:00, and l'm still awake. l wonder if any of the others on the team are having trouble sleeping. Good grief! lt's morning already, and this is the day of our first game. l'm no manager. l can't run a baseball team. Everybody knows l'm a lousy manager. Nobody even pays attention to me. They all hate me. l think l'll just stay in bed. Maybe it'll rain. Maybe no one else will show up either. l'll just stay in bed, and l'll... Okay, manager, rise and shine! Why do we have to play the first game so far from home? That's the schedule. The only time l hate being the catcher is when we go on the road. l wonder if we're going the right way. How much further, Charlie Brown? Only about two or three more blocks. l hate being the visiting team. They're here, sir. Hiya, Chuck. Welcome to our neighborhood. We appreciate you coming over here with your team for the first game of the season. Thank you. Why don't you guys take the field for a little warm-up? Then we'll start the game. Okay. l'll hit them a few flies. Good grief, Lucy! You're going to have to do better than that. What did you expect? l'm suffering from jet lag. Oh, no, you don't. You get fed after the game, not before. l hate these salary disputes. Good grief! May l ask you how you intend to play shortstop with a supper dish in your mouth? l should never ask. Have you seen our baseball schedule for this year? My team plays your team 12 times. We slaughter you twice in April, smash you three times in May, and ruin you once in June. We murder you twice in July, annihilate you three times in August, and pound you once in September. lt's a great schedule, huh, Chuck? Yeah. Just beautiful. Hmm. Something is missing. You know that, Chuck? This is our first game of the season, and we don't have any opening-day ceremonies. l remember, once, when l saw a game on TV, they released a huge flock of pigeons that soared up into the sky, and then flew in great circles around the stadium. We need something like that, Chuck. We have a surprise for you. Open the cage, Snoopy. That's not the same thing at all, Chuck. We're the home team, Chuck, so you guys bat first, and we'll take the field. Okay, Snoopy, you're our leadoff batter. Let's start things off big. But look out for Peppermint Patty. She's a good pitcher. Here we go-- the first pitch of the season. Oh, how l love baseball! Yike! What kind of game are you playing? You beaned my best player. l didn't do it on purpose, Chuck. He was crowding the plate. l was just trying to brush him back. Forget it. l'm taking my team home. You can't forfeit the game, Chuck. lf you go home, you lose. Don't forfeit the game, Chuck! l'm disgraced. Winning a game from Chuck's team by forfeit is the most degrading thing that can happen to a manager. Maybe you should forfeit the forfeit, sir. Stop calling me ''sir.'' Well, manager, we've lost all ten games so far. So what are you going to do about it? l think we can beat this team today. They've only won one game. Wow! The greatest catch l ever saw. l just know this is going to be our lucky day. Hey, pitcher, hold it for a second. Do you think baseballs are livelier than they used to be, Charlie Brown? No, but l am. lf you throw a fastball right across the center of the plate... ...it can have strange side effects. Hey, big brother, someone from the baseball magazine just called. Really? Do you think they want to interview me? No. They said your subscription had run out. Hey, pitcher, l'm going to bring you something l think you need. Well, we lost again, manager. Your whole team is ready to quit. Our season is in ruins. l've made a big decision. This is the time of year when all the big baseball trades are made. l'm going to try to improve our team with a few shrewd trades. Hey, that's a great idea, Charlie Brown. Why don't you trade yourself? Hello. Hello. Peppermint Patty? l was wondering if you'd be interested in trading a few baseball players? Well, l don't know, Chuck. The only good player you have is that little kid with the big nose. You mean Snoopy? Oh, no, l could never trade him. l was thinking more of Lucy. Hello? Hello? How are your baseball trades coming, Charlie Brown? Terrible. Peppermint Patty said the only player she would be interested in would be Snoopy. l told her no, but maybe l was wrong. You mean you'd trade your own dog just to win a few ball games? Win. Have you ever noticed what a beautiful word that is? Win-- what a wonderful sound. Win, win, win. Hello. Peppermint Patty? l've decided to take you up on your offer. That's great, Chuck. l'll give you five players for Snoopy. l'll guarantee, it'll improve your team, Chuck. Why don't l bring a contract over on Monday, and we'll settle the whole deal, okay? Uh... okay. Okay, fine. Fine. Good-bye. What have l done? l've traded away my own dog. l've become a real manager. Okay, Chuck, here's the contract. l'm trading you five players for Snoopy. l'm kind of nervous. l've never taken part in any big baseball trades before. Maybe l should think about this a little while and... Don't be ridiculous. You want to build a better team, don't you? Come on, sign right here. Try not to let your hand shake so much, Chuck. You're spilling ink all over the contract. Snoopy, this is a hard thing for me to say. l've traded you to Peppermint Patty for five new players. All l ask is a little understanding, and some sign from you that you don't hate me. You did what?! l've traded Snoopy to Peppermint Patty for five good players. He's the only player she would trade for. l had to do it. But he's your own dog! Does winning a ball game mean that much to you? l don't know; l've never won a ball game. You traded your own dog. l'm so disappointed in you, Charlie Brown, that l don't even want to talk to you. And stop breathing on my blanket. l was so wrong. l can see it now. l simply lost all sense of proportion. The thought of possibly winning a few ball games, blinded me to the duty l have to love and protect my dog. Look, Snoopy, l'm tearing up the contract. l'm going to tell Peppermint Patty that the deal is off. What did you say? Oh, good grief. What's this? You've torn up our contract, Chuck? You must have gotten my message. What message? Those five players l was supposed to trade to you said they'd give up baseball before they'd play on your team. Sorry, Chuck, the deal's off. l hope your feelings aren't hurt. l'm crushed. Now that Snoopy's back, maybe we can win some of our final games. Hey, manager, l have a great idea. You know what we ought to do to win? We ought to pray. Pray? Would that be fair? Why not? l pray all the time out there in right field. Me, too. l always pray they won't hit the ball to me. Please don't let him hit to me! Please, not to me! Not to me! Not to me! Oh, thank you! Thank you! Oh, thank you. Amen. l just can't stand it. Hey, manager? How come we don't have cleats on our shoes? Cleats? You know, spikes. Whenever l come to the mound to talk to you, l stand here like this, and then l start to slide backwards. lf l had cleats, this obviously wouldn't happen. We'd have a better team if we all had cleats on our shoes. We'd be a better team if you had something under that cap! l'll bet Babe Ruth had cleats on her shoes! Somehow, we've got to get rid of Lucy, or we'll never win a game. l just got a great idea. lt's too darn hot. l'm going to go stand in the shade under that tree. Try to pitch the ball so they'll hit it to me under the tree. l have a better idea. Go home and pour yourself a cold glass of lemonade, and then sit down in the kitchen. Leave the back door open! l'll pitch the ball so they'll hit it through the door, into the kitchen, where you'll be having your cold lemonade! l wonder if he was being sarcastic. What's this? My fielder's glove and a pepperoni pizza, which is going to be my snack between innings. What happens if you get the glove and the pizza mixed up? Boy, you must think l'm really stupid. Let's not give up, Charlie Brown. Remember what they say: The game isn't over until the fat lady sings. Or until the shortstop wakes up. What would your fantasy team be, Charlie Brown? A team that doesn't have you on it. l should never ask questions like that. Hey, manager! Let's see them try to hit one over the fence now! l'm ready for him! Ugh! Do you think we can get the ball back and leave her on the other side of the fence? Lucy is driving me crazy. How can we get her off the team? l'll show you. Get lost! Go away! We don't need you! Go home! Tell me who you guys are yelling at, and l'll help you get rid of him. How could we have lost Why couldn't the score at least have been 53 to 1? We were robbed. Hi, Chuck. You've been over here and watched some of our games, haven't you? Sure, l'm one of your biggest fans. You have a great team. Well, good. You should come over today because it's fan appreciation day. When you go to some ball parks on fan appreciation day, they always give away caps and T-shirts and jackets and gloves and bats and everything. Hi, fan. We appreciate you. You mean, that's it? We have a low budget, Chuck. Can't talk now, Chuck. l'm having trouble with my right fielder. You, too? Sir, why do l always have to play right field? lt's traditional. The worst player always plays right field, and you're our worst player. But you wear your glove well, Marcie. Thank you, sir. l really appreciate the compliment. Hey, Chuck. l'm calling to see if you're interested in trading right fielders. l hate baseball. Wow. Of course l'd trade you Lucy for anyone. Sure, l'll trade you Marcie for Lucy. Yeah, l know, Marcie isn't very good. l hate baseball. But she has a lot of enthusiasm. Oh, how l hate baseball! You've got a deal. Thanks a lot. The greatest trade in the history of baseball. You what? You traded me for that stupid girl with the glasses? You were robbed, you blockhead! No, l think l got a better deal. She agreed to throw in a pizza. Hi, Charles. l'm your new right fielder. l've heard that you have sort of a weird team. Marcie, you should be out in right field. l'm happier standing here with you, Charles. Actually, Charles, l hate baseball. l'm only playing on your team because l've always been so fond of you. But what if someone hits the ball to right field? Who cares? l'm happy just standing here next to you, Charles. We don't win any games, but l have happy players. Okay, Lucille. This next hitter is pretty good. So keep your eye on the ball. That's hard to do when you keep moving around. Get back out there in right field, where you belong! Women managers are even crabbier than men managers. Sorry l missed that one, manager. Maybe my glove isn't big enough. Big enough? Ha! You know what you need? There. Use this to catch 'em. Good thinking, manager. Aah! Catch it, Lucy! Throw it, Lucy! Throw the ball! Throw it! Throw it! Throw it! Sorry, manager. lt took me a while to unplug my hair dryer. l made a mistake, Chuck. l admit it. Lucy is the worst player l've ever seen. You've just got to take her back. l know you traded her to me for Marcie and a pizza, but now l want to call the whole deal off. What do you say, Chuck? But l already ate the pizza. l hear l just got traded back, Charles, so l just wanted to say good-bye. l guess l wasn't much help to your baseball team, l didn't score a single goal, and l never even made a free throw. Maybe now that Lucy's back, she'll play better. Catch it, Lucy! For one time in your life-- catch it! Are you crazy?! You can't catch a ball like that! And it's not even raining! That's what you think. Hey, where's everybody going?! lt's just a little rain!
