 

                        Snooping Crown Prince Ludwig! Crown Prince Ludwig! Royal hi hness! Crown Prince Ludwig! Quie . - Royal highness! Next. - Crown Prince Ludwig! Where is he again? (Aufpeitschende music) (Farewell my dear swan, "Lohengrin") Ludw g. - Ludwig! - Hush, Otto. Count Holnstein coming! The entire servants Search Their royal highness for hours. His Majesty, your father, you expect. - And do it now. - Yes. Plea e. Fir ! Please the new Z dnadelgewehre! Now, already makes. Vite, vite, vite, vite, vite. Com ! Let's go. To Set ! Fir ! Did you the g'sehn? Brav ! This Zndnadelgewehr is a stroke of genius. I Drfte time, please? Also, on a thousand steps you can still take. The enemy's heart. Png! And load quickly again and again Png! Thank you for Their impressive presentation. As I hear, Bismarck this new wonder ... Fr already ordered the preuische army. Why we should use them from us. One day you will be the highest warlord of Bavaria. lf you realize that? I wo ! Have you seen it? May God help me then, to prevent wars. In order to secure the future of our country, we need a powerful army. - It's that simple - But Militr, the guns ... How is one because ... You are a dreamer, Louis. And always with your Wagner! The writings of this people are just as dangerous as his music. Wide you know what is your love for art really? Weakn ss. Nothing but weakness. No (Exciting music) (dramatic music) (Ludwig) What for a perfect script. (Lutz) Some say it is the mirror of the soul. Did you know? Oh! Royal highness. Sorry. As you Helen for? John Lutz. Assistant to the Kabinettssekretrs Pfistermeister. And you have to work here all night? This is not to create different. The minutes of the ministerial meetings otherwise never finished. Then do not let that stop you. Is this the arrival of Lohengrin with the swan? You know the music of Richard Wagner! I have seen the "Lohengrin". So happy as in this Auffhrung I'm not even been in my life. This is exactly like mine. The M sic they trstet our heads about the Schndlichkeiten this world. She closes us on an unknown realm. And suddenly you realize how Sect life be k .. (Ruspern in the background) With the blessing of music. I am obviously still not managed to get up your royal duties zuknftigen closer. I have therefore instructed by the Minister Pfordten gather smtliche d cuments where is our Bavarian Knigtum committed. Since you so love reading, I can only delimit, you will study these writings ... And report to me every week report. Count Holnstein, be but us as well. I'll be better, dear father, and all the details of the policy have yet to learn. Minister of the Pfordten has put together a lesson plan for you you've observed exactly! Is as simple as that Your Excellency, please. It is an honor for me Crown Prince Ludwig the games of power and teach politics. (heroic music) One, two, three, four ... and five. And no one. Since the last change of horses Highness ... 37 and eight-tenths of kilometers ridden. You are now at this point between Eschenlohe and Murnau. The bread time in Murnau is very drftig. There's nothing here to eat better? Since it is never full. Unfortunately I'm not allowed to put more sovereignty to Verfgung. Fits scho. I let sovereignty but starve ned. Ludw g! - Ludwig! - Thank you. Father wants to see you! It's about something very urgent. How long do I need another? Eighty-three and seven-tenths miles inner city to Munich. These are precisely ... 512 laps and thus almost four hours. What should the rubbish, Ludwig? You're already in Munich! We are in. .. - Murnau. - Murnau. But I hurry me. - But Ludwig, please. How do you come to Munich? You have to come to father! Please, Ludwig! Fas ! Fas ! (Heroic music continues) By the ame. Quiet omm. An hour ago, because he has not eaten. With large appetite. He even laughed. And then suddenly his heart started to flicker , and he has only created after you. There is an acute attack of erysipelas. It must be given an immediate injection. Ludwig, do not go away. (Church bells lute) Ludwig, come on! Gegret Hail Mary, full of grace , Blessed art thou among women ... , And blessed is the fruit of thy womb ... Ludw g. Ludw g no one was expecting it. And now you are our king. You can tastefully appointed me, Louis. I'm going to be in this difficult time, aside. I have my late brother always promised. Thank you, dear uncle. But now ... Now I wre like to be alone with my father. Is this p ssible? - Ludwig if ... - Mother! Please. If it wnschen Majesty, then it is our command. Otto, come on. (Holiday music) (Ludwig) Dear strict father, how many times I've gewnscht me that again would you find understanding ... For me and my ideas. Why did you leave me so frh? Our Fa her, who art in heaven, give me the strength to be a good king. Plea e. Majes y. Majes y. Our condo ences. Long live the king! Long live the king! (Steps, then a door is closed) No pov rty. Peac . In my country, as singing and dancing. No day should pass, is not sung at the in my ... No DerTele raf. The tech ology. Yes, even the art and science ... Will flourish like never before. I schwre ... (In a loud voice) l schwre! So help me God, under the Constitution to reg ... Why I will not forget the time? Constitution and the laws of Knigreichs. Constitution, laws. Constitution, laws. Constitution, laws ... L rely on God. I'll build ... l build on God! Yes, that's good. That's good, that's good, that's good. Force! The power and the glory. Loui ? I'm going to bring Bavaria to bloom. I'm going to go this way to get my Bro .. Go How does a king? I tell you, there will come a day when are to understand the people, that art ... Is more important than the tgliche bread. Bayern will be the beauty of the center . (Dramatic music) True to the oath which I have just done, and in the spirit of our tried and tested by almost half a century Constitution ... I want to lead the scepter. Destination point of my endeavors is the welfare of my beloved Bayern people. Untersttzen me all ... In my weighty re ponsibilities. Brav . Long live the king! Long live the king! The King is coming! Long live the king! (Glocken uten) Long live the king! I've known. He will charm everyone. Do not worry, my dear. Ludwig will enthusiasmieren. - You look adorable. - Thank you. Ladies, we drink to my son. - Ludwig! - Yes? Do I have to address you as Majesty? Dearest cousin, for you I and I remain always Ludwig. And of course, your truly devoted Lohengrin. (Sings) fame kingdom and big. Your name shall never perish from this earth. Thank you for the worm gift, dear Sophie. This brings me to an idea. Come with me. But your people are waiting on you yet. Want to Bang and probably without Grau'n you entrust my protection? My hero, my savior, take me back. L'll give you everything that I am. Good. There along. (Aria from " ohengrin") (singing) Drum seh'n let me if I manage to meet them. Wait a m nute! Soph e? I am the Lohengrin and not you! Waiting imes. We are very grateful to have majesty confirms us as a minister in office. As of wear Majesty, we have compiled all that what LHR cheaper father last worked. Thank you, gentlemen. So I will concern myself first. A little reflection, however, I need already. The you will surely einrumen me in lhrem timetable , right? How to know Majesty, King was Max ... The militrische Aufrstung our state very important, because it has been neglected strflich. The purchase of the new weapons could be unfortunately not signed by him. A quick decision diesbezglich ... Wre for the safety of our people extremely important. Diesbez lich? Fri the welfare of my people I have already made a decision. Soon will transform the wonders of poetry and the music throughout Bavaria. The creator of "Lohengrin" to come to Munich. How? Richard Wagner? - Yes. But Majesty, he is a Revolutionr. He wanted strzen the monarch in Dresden! Your Excellency, I have white, that you were minister there and drove him to flight. But it is now back to results already twenty years. I'm sure the only what today counts in Richard Wagner's life, - this is the art. - Art? Majesty, Wagner is obsessed! He poisons everything he touches. Through him to Majesty issued in big danger. It's my job to protect the state , and I will not tolerate anyone, knnte cause of the riots in our country. Gentle en. What you want from me? Man drags me like a criminal out scares my wife to death. Especially in the most beautiful place! Excuse me, Mr. Lutz. But His Majesty, the King of Bavaria, you wnscht to speak. I'm here to you to lead personally to him. It is a matter of urgency. Majes y? No, this can not be. Majesty confusing me with someone else. Certainly not. Well, go! You may not have to wait Majesty. Howev r. - Majesty? - Yes? - Mr. Lutz is there. - Oh. Mr. Lutz. Moment. H, please check the palm down here. Mr. Lutz. elcome. It is my great honor that majesty remember our flchtige encounter. How do I knnte a friend of the music of Richard Wagner Password? Unfortunately, Wagner for years hunted like an animal. I mchte that this finally last forevermore. I need this master to prepare my citizen to the miracle of art, , and you, Mr. Lutz, you will be the one, finds him and bring to me. The confidence of Majesty honors me about the Maen , but this task is a must Exceptional challenge. I do not know I think the bersteigt my competence. A music lover is not a detective, Majesty. It leads to all sorts about Mr. Wagner. It leads even he hut killed himself. This is only a rumor, but it knnte be that we come too late. Mr. Lutz, Wagner lives. I fhle it. And I think you have talent. I'm sure it will succeed wages sent, untersttzen to me in my projects ... And lackey Mayr wages sent berreichen ntigen the means to do so. A riddle, is not it? Caution, Palm. And this is only the beginning. I leave all my nmlich Rume remodel in the residence. But now back to results to our plan. Once you have traced Wagner, then pass him personally first the ring, then the PORTRT from me. And you do this with the following words. Please est! Just as this ruby ??glht, glht King Ludwig the Second of Bavaria with desire , get to know the largest word and composer this century. Now test it. Just as this ruby ??glht, glht King Ludwig the Second of Bavaria before ... Please, do it slowly. And sub ime. Plea e. As well as this ruby ??glht, glht King Ludwig the Second of Bavaria with desire ... - On request ... - ... With desire, the best word and composer this century know. Very good. One more time. Krftiger. As well as this ruby ??glht ... Glht King Ludwig the Second of Bavaria with desire ... The best word and composer this century know. (Various animal sounds) (bark ng) I'm sorry, I want you so berfalle withdrawal without notice. It is said that you huts Richard Wagner maintained? Who says that? - The people in the village. You say he was very ill, and huts hiding it because he was in danger. - The vui tell about. - Not that right? I do not know any Mr. Wagner. Too bad, I have some good news for him. But thank you. I mchte not belstigen lnger the fine lady . (Heroic usic) Majes y! Majesty, we have Richard Wagner found. He can not wait to meet majesty. Mr. Lutz! You have performed a miracle. I knew it you wrden not disappoint me. Without my dedicated groom wren we have remained unsuccessful. But of course, Count Holnstein. You are right. May I introduce Majesty Richard Hornig? That young man has proved a Sprsinn, which can only envy. He has spared no Mhe. And Richard Wagner has already arrived? And he's all right? Yes. And he has asked me to pass his letter Majesty personally. You are a G terbote! Hesselschwerdt, you know what to do. I stole M jesty. (Ludwig) Mayr lackey! Get Barber Shoppe! What Majesty also wnschen to it filled me very much. Unfortunately ... With the current hair this is not possible. I have to burn it. Whatever is ntig, do it, Hoppe. L am ready. How majesty wnschen. And now you read it to me again please before. My dear, gracious king. This heavenly tears Rhrung ... "Himmlischster" Hornig. "Himmlischster" he wrote. "Himmlisc ster". This tears himmlischster Rhrung I send wages sent to wages sent to say that now the wonders of poetry ... Like a gttliche reality came into my poor life. (Voiced by Wagner) His last densities and TNEN heard now wages sent, my merciful young king. Replete you about it as LHR property. In hchstem Entzcken, faithful and true, LHR subject Richard Wagner. (Ludwig) In lhren works ... I have found the beloved of me German legends. The first Opernauffhrung my life was "Lohengrin". Since my childhood, the Grail Knight lived in my dreaming. By Her work he took before my eyes shape. He has deeply touches me. From then on, you were ... the only source of my joy. You spoke to my heart like no other. ("Lohen rin") l am longing of wages sent ... To be initiated in all Their secrets. The secret of Art I want to discover by you. It is my deepest wish. You will stay with me and work together with me on lhren works. You get DAFR everything you need. Maje ty two weeks ago I was at the end. I always wanted to leave this hostile world, fr You are gttlich, my king. Because, you must have erhrt me in my distress. Now, do not overdo it once. Majes y. Gentlemen, you know them already. After twenty years of hostility the time has finally come, lay down their arms between wages sent. I'll leave you alone now with confidence, that you will find a way to meet my wis es. Ins prison you belong. Not in the side of a monarch. Your condemnation of then is still true. And you smell still aus'm mouth. Your level is obviously still below the Grtellinie. This will be easy for me, to stop you, me to put them behind bars. Kick back to results immediately. You're nothing more than a vile , brokrat'sche creature. I will never tolerate, that you are in Munich ... Their political machinations shadow operate as then in Dresden! The Zustnde in this Europe 're ripe frTotalabbruch! In the Kurier is, I, the total debt ... 've Repaid by Wagner. All details, even the exact sum are aufgefhrt. Have you read it? Pfordten Minister of the learning of the payment. And the press informed. I can not believe! How much falseness I hut not have expected this respectable minister. How could I have fooled me so? I have sworn to myself Majesty always tell the truth and nothing but the truth. Majesty, may I point to a danger? A dan er? Assert not only Baron of the Pfordten, but also certain circles around Prince Luitpold, already inserted Wagner hut Majesty in his pocket. Yes. Yes, I know. My mother also shares this opinion. I am grateful for wages sent Their openness. Honest, tchtige men like you I need to realize my plne. I mchte that you take over position lhres superiors. Starting today you are, Mr. Lutz, my new Kabinettssekretr. - Majesty! - But do not be alarmed though, Mr. Lutz. You have already repeatedly demonstrated how faithful you can serve lhrem King . You will first dafr ensure that from now on only ... Positive messages about Wagner are to be read in the newspapers. Schner ound. Pour oi. Merci, M jesty. This education reform is a much better lnvestition in the future ... As the purchase of new rifles. You are the first of more than ten thousand orchestras , which may be established in the coming years in Bavaria into life. Soon you Sprenger her as the music brings us hchstes luck. If the art of the world determines, since it will replace the policy. And Majesty is the first Souvern our history, which has recognized that. None of you should ever dying on a battlefield. DAFR I will use all my power. And we should be attacked, we are the enemy troops ... With our thousands of orchestras draw against ... And take our game, and with the music of Richard Wagner ... Are the soldiers of their weapons to throw and run with joy to us! Yea ! (Hornig) stringing. Attitude. Lutz has calculated that you about two million guilders ... Fr'll bentigen musical instruments all pupils. Attit de! The Diet will certainly reject such a burden the Treasury. Then I'll take over the entire cost halt itself. Want to know the family go out of business? You are far but that our budget is not doped very rich! Mother has already underneath. You always only think of the material, Otto. Consider yet again the ldeal. Look at what I can auslsen! - Trust me, Otto. - Your Majesty? If you even closer! Mr. Wagner, it would be better for the image if you wrden rise. Yes. Selbstv rstndlich. Richard, come on. Effect is i portant. Will to ction. And now ... (Playful music) You're sitting on horseback almost better than I do! No, Louis, in the saddle I'm the best! For us, the political situation is catastrophic. You have to Franz-Josef open the eyes. He is Austria strzen into ruin, if he einlsst to a war with Preuen. Wait, Elisabeth, I open his eyes? Come on, your husband always thinks just like a soldier. Even Bismarck will not hesitate to make to take up arms. He wants to expel Austria from the German Confederation. If he succeeds, is your Bavaria also be affected. I do not understand that you these singers from Vienna ... In such a gefhrlichen time are so important. - Elisabeth, look at times. Our old lime. Just as this tree is the art ... Thrive in Bavaria and grow. Later, as the wind will carry the seeds into the Nachbarlnder ... Spread and the peaceful message of Art all over the world. If you want to make your people happy, give him freedom. - This is what it craves. - You talk me out of the soul, Elisabeth! In peace and happiness to my people live, and that is freedom. You Varies you. I see happiness in your eyes? I am the encounter love, dearest cousin. For the first time in my life. The Love? Erzhl me. Which princess has captured your heart? It's not a rincess. It is the Emperor of art. His power knows no bounds. And his people is the whole of humanity. We will collaborate on the world call of beauty to life, it has never been done before. And you, my dear cousin, you need to help us. If Richard Wagner you so beflgelt, why are you allowed all of his revolutionary comrades from back then ... Still vegetate in your prisons? (Music is ramatic) Elizabeth. Come on Elisabeth, look, will you? In the whole world! Elisab th! ("Tristan and lsolde") No, thank you, thank you, thank you. That will not at all. Ye shall not touch up at all. Touch her knnt you at home. LHR developed as a common vision. A utopia eternal togetherness. You are willing to die for this idea. This has auch'n abyss that is not only beautiful. The whole thing is A big breath. And it inspires you. Mutually. When thinking. You look only forward. Everyone in his parallel world. Meet up at nfinity. You sprst exactly who understands you. Again. Henry, p ease. (Wagner sings) Without fear ... (Sings) Like the eye, full of ... (Exciting music) Cross hail, thunder! Damn you guy! Let go of me! Thank God you were only slightly injured. I have ordered police director Pfeufer, find out instantly who's behind it. He certainly will not find the culprit. He can not arrest his own people. Majesty, do not ignore the Malicious strength of my opponents. Your art will disarm Their enemies. No, no, that's not just about me. This is a conspiracy to Majesty ... To prevent them from creating new Progressive peaceful world. And when I think about it further, then I come to the conclusion that there is only ever one way: Fire All Their Prime! - And above all of the Pfordten! - Mr. Wagner, I can understand Their panic. But wait only once from the premiere. You will see is the Urauffhrung only managed the situation will calm down. Majesty, I do not sleep. Since no more days. I know not at all, I like the samples should weiterfhren in this state . I have to give up. The premiere will take place. (Fanf re) Long live the king! (Enthusiastic honors) (Tristan and lsolde) Brav . Wagner has won my Bavaria. I was sure from the beginning. No other music says so much about from love. Is not it the most beautiful what you have ever heard? I know myself with opera not so good, but the music was impressive. - Yes! - Impressive, but also sad. But why sad? Since so much joy lies in the last words of lsolde, when it unites with Tristan. "Highest pleasure," she sings. It is free now. Free of ev rything. And they can finally experience love. The pure love. Stay close to derTr, so that you can lead me. Yes, Ma esty. If we have now received at last? -L untertnigst please pardon. Your Imperial Majesty can now occur. (Quiet, sphrische music) Ludw g? Ludwig, are you here? This is agic! Welcome to my paradise garden! This night sky, this is a dream. As a child I looked to the sky and firmly believed that at some point instead of rain and snow also diamonds wrden fall. Or at least a piece of chocolate. You are the first to see the drfen! You'll be the pioneer of an electricity in Bavaria. The premiere was wonderful, Ludwig. Thank you. But you httest your enchanted Mnchnern to show your happiness. You are fled too fast. How to find your people, who are you? You are far but, shouting and cheering as gives me a headache. Hm A lunar r inbow. As a mild summer night on Rose Island. How it would be if we tomorrow ... Wrden celebrate this success together on Rose Island? Without me. I gotta back to results to Vienna. Urgent. Franz-Josef has telegraphed to me. It smells of war. l am worried. Large worries. Depart ye, depart, her TBCs thoughts! Elisabeth, I correspond at regular Abstnden with the King of Preuen. He will not dare to escalate the conflict with Austria . But Bis arck! It really wre a grace of God, if he die dignity, the scoundrel! Since all the dignity a groes misfortune spared us. Elisab th. God's grace can win tonight Wagner's music. - God is also this ... - You, Louis, you can win his music! The good God will help me. And guide my steps on the path of peace. You need to have no fear, Elizabeth. You will not lose your kingdom. L working on it day and night ... No! Light! Instant light! Majesty, it's only a matter of seconds. Richard Wagner then you have found, and majesty is now for you be found? I respect only to the royal will. Majesty need nature to schpfen for strength. Do I understand well. On the hunt even I can personally think best. Not gengend, Mr. Kabinettssekretr. Not gengend, it seems to me. Do you mean in all seriousness, you bruchten in these troubled days ... No powerful king? Yes, because wages sent is not aware that in these "moving days", has nmlich since Friday extremely aggravated the crisis? Because no decisions could be taken. Due to the absence of majesty. This must just imagine it! I ask you a King is not blo Under a typewriter ... In the hands of his ministers. - Yes, yes, yes, you're right, Mr. Lutz. Still, he is a very fatal influence under . In short, if Majesty continue to stay away from Munich, then threatens our country in the gegenwrtigen unstable situation ... An absolute disaster. Majesty know his duties. Your tongue is pointed, Mr. Lutz. Take care take care not to violate it. If Majesttnchste week the state legislature not erffnen, then I'll make you personally DAFR responsible. And from today I will take over the search itself. (Liebestod "Tristan und lsolde") Oh, we see bullet Could the earth from above. As free as an eagle. If I hut a son, then it should be like you The blessing of nature! Majes y! Na, na, na, na! Majesty, has Preuen Austria issued an ultimatum. Minister of the Pfordten asks tell that will take place Most likely a war within the German Confederation. Ludwig, I beg you, returning to Munich back to results. You're at a crossroads verhngnisvollen. Your power you'll can only claim if you sttzen minister, which you can trust. But it's not yet too late. If you now hltst your speech from the throne, then you can post your ideas represent clear. And then you callest a new ministry, which you can use to prevent the war. I told you here a few names written by Mnnern, I think ideally suited fr, to replace your current ministers. It's just a uggestion. Rich rd new minister will not make the construction of our festival theater possible. It's not about music, it's about war. To downfall. (Ludwig) l will not accept that Austria is excluded from Preuen from the German Confederation. There will be no civil war in Germany. Not with me! I have been in contact with the peace party in Berlin. I'll untersttzen. If ntig, with money. The peace party to Bismarck under pressure. He must give up his impertinent war intentions. You, gentlemen ... Who want to tell me for the construction of this theater ... Is no money vailable. The state treasury was empty, you have complained. Fri these disgusting war you are willing to spend huge sums . I tell you, no! (Murm r) Under any circumstances I will grant the mobilization of our army. It's that simple! For your world! Peace! Majesty have worked again all night. Hm? - There is so much to Mayr. - Yes. There is so much to. Outside, at the Odeon Square students demonstrate for peace. You want the same as Majesty. "Peace not only for Bayern, also for the whole world," they cry. Majesty just has a lot of friends. Thank ou. Oh, the ooks. Let me t rough! Tell me how to proceed for that? The campaign of defamation of your gentlemen Minister against me, which is always unertrglicher. -L please. Wagner puts his money for the new weapons of our army in the bag. Unersttlicher His appetite ... - Can you perhaps let time alone? - Majesty? Its unersttlicherAppetit ... Can only be compared with biblical Heuschreckenschwrmen . This is malos berschtzende man once at the top of a band of incendiaries ... Wanted to blow the Knigspalast in Dresden in the air now intends to isolate the king and Bavaria to throw in Preuens claws. If the ek lhatt! For months, I suggest you alternative minister before. What are you waiting for? Now finally tell you what! How many times have we errtert? Now get out! It's that simple! Yes, only do so on. (Wagner) This is all heap and folly. Kartoffe scke. We do not want your music, but weapons for the war! You fly out of here aus'm theater! But very quickly! Get out of the theater! From your skin! This STAGE is my head! No access for brain amputees! (Man out of the crowd) Who wants to lead the music of Wagner? - I'm so sorry. - It is not about Wagner. You want to force me to mobilize the army . All the courtiers are DAFR. Ludw g. You are a Grail Knight. You'll have the power to prevent war and Wagner ... This world does not understand us. It assesses all wrong. Almost everything. But I thank you. Els . I have advised the police. - If the Aufsssigen will behave? - No, Mr Lutz. We do not want violence with violence bekmpfen. But Maj sty, how can Wagner are still protected? Maje ty my negotiations with Preuen have failed. In addition, the current protest against Richard Wagner threatens to degenerate ... And must be stopped unverzglich. In times of war danger can our country no unrest in the interior afford. At today's meeting of the Cabinet ... Have decided all ministers einmtig, they wrden zurcktreten , Majesty should not immediately disconnect of Wagner ... And ordering m bilization. Also I'm going to go, Majesty! A denial derTrennung knnte also ... Auslsen a r volution, dignity strzen the LHR Kingdom. (Mysterious music) Oh, Lord ... Oh Lord, what shall I do? What should I do? What should I do? Dr. Gietl, Dr. money, do something! Please, please! Yes. The heart beats very unregelmig. But the chest is clear. The severe headaches indicate inflammation in the body through a . I suspect the blood has already jammed. Majesty immediately receive an injection of us. I'm sure that has everything to do with this Wagner. Na? Now that the war is in front of our doors, because of course he wants to seize the time, around here everything to blow up in Bavaria in the air. He must get away from here. He will kill you otherwise, my boy. If you continue versprhst your poison against Richard, then you vergiftest at the end even me. You make me sick, Mother! You make me sick in the soul. Wide you at all, who is your son? And far you know what you are? You're nothing as the woman of my Vorgngers! Yes, go yet! Just go to your boring thoughts ... And leave me alone to be du Majesttwnschen now left in peace. Majesttdrfen not upset on, else can his heart stand still. This agent is calm majesty. However, it is strongly and it should not be taken too often. The preuischen troops ... Already marching on the Austrian border. The war is no longer be averted. Do you understand me? Majes y? Ludw g! Bayern shall be from the Austrias ... Struggling against the Preuen! This is the reality, whether they wages sent or not filled. Zndnadelgewehre thousands have preuischen troops, and we? Only rusty S hieprgel! Ludwig, you've seen yourself, why the new wonder weapon is fhig. We need them to defend us! - Leave me alone! Otherwise, it will be a gray Hattes bloodbath. Do you understand? Blood! Blood will splatter. Hrst you? Do some hing! Tell me, today ... In the middle of the night, woke me of Lutz, to me to read your arrangements to of the Pfordten. I want to show my expensive people, that his trust and love ... I go over everything. Why my mind is made up: Richard Wagner must leave Bavaria. Believe me, it had to be. Otherwise we risk that it comes to even more brutal Itten. What are you doing with me? You treat me like a lackey, which is you become repugnant. What have I done to deserve this? I am afraid for you. Your life is in danger. Do not doubt my loyalty. Please do not. Please. Plea e! I prefer dignity on the spot to abdicate ... As once my grandfather because of Lola Montez. Yes, my riend. My grter, best friend! My only riend! The separation is unbearable for both of us. Then I renounce the crown and the schnden shine! My brother is volljhrig, and he can be my successor. No way, my boy! I wrd me fhlen wie'n miserable dog, if you again would resign because of me. I'm not Lola Montez. But you're the king. And just as a king can you follow our mighty goals. Even today I'm going to leave Bavaria. If you are not yet write the mobilization command today, then go down our country. When I write, it's the death sentence frTausende of innocents. No No, Louis, no. On the contrary. We are already at the first battles lose our lives, if we do not our army make ready for battle can. We need your approval, otherwise we are dead - I, too, your brother. Do you want that? - Go, go! Leave me alone! Leave me alone! It's all good. All is well. Comm Come on Come on, faster! Lot. Lot. Faster, faster! Gentlemen! The King! Finally, he writes. High time. Thank you. Ludwig, thank you. A victory for common sense. Now we'll Bismarck finally can show! Now we just need to win the war. (Dramatic music) (knocking on the door and Rtteln) Majesttmssen what to eat. l Please so you will never be healthy. For three days you have taken nothing more to himself. No, no, no, no. Please. Please no despatches, no more bad news. It will kill him, this whole nonsense. Majesty need to be care! Majesty are a very special person! We need you as you are. Please, M jesty! Maybe we were both born to misfortune. (Dramatic music) Ott ? Hel . Hel ! My brother is wounded! Help. My Brderchen bled to death. Help. Why are you doing nothing? - Majesty. Majesty? - Yes. Your brother is not here. Come, Majesty. L accompany you to lhrem room. What about our soldiers? If still shot? Yesterday our troops have suffered a crushing defeat at Kniggrtz . Majes y! What do you want from me? Majesty, I have already fired up his room at the Villa . Any access to my island is strictly prohibited with immediate effect observed! Fr ever one. Please leave immediately come to the gendarmerie gegenberliegende shore ... And seal off the island read completely. - Yes, Majesty. - And we will ... From now on every night ... Send a star in the sky for every soul had to leave our earth. (Leaves ustle) (supported music) (music itself increases) Majes y? Majesty, wake up! You guards, Majesty! Majesty, please! Do not give up! Fri thee I will be Ludwig. You can from now on you say to me. No, no ... You No! o! Let me now go! As you can dare me to come closer, to be prompted been without majesty of this? I beg Majesty most sincerely for forgiveness. Com . Repeat my next words: l schwre and solemnly swear on ... L schwre and vow to the most solemn ... ... Never again ... ... Never again ... ... To iss. ... To iss. Saint, never breaking oath ... Saint, never breaking oath ... (Bell) Majes y! Majesty, I beg for forgiveness. The events have forced me to, to disregard the prohibition of majesty. Majesty have lost the war. What about my brother? Prince Otto is healing on the way back to results to Munich. Fast he ling. More than ten thousand of our soldiers perished. Maje ty LHR people mourn and believes also you are dead - Ten thousand ... If Majesty will not show soon ... Majesty should come with me. There is still a lot to save. The dead are beyond saving. Preuen has already incorporated several German states, and their princes have been driven into exile. Bismarck gewhrt us a truce three weeks , which starts today. Today! Majes y? I will never take again. That stuff is the devil. It is from Satan, you schmeien it away! Away, away, away! Never again will I look lhren Sprenger in my back! Step back to results immediately! We have committed a Todsnde. I have asked for forgiveness. In repentance and humility. This terrible war! Believe me, Hornig, , I have realized, what it means to be a king. I'm going to marry now. I will fulfill my royal duties. With all her strength. It's that simple! May I continue to serve in spite of all majesty? Yes, he can. But now he is forbidden, I have ever come closer than three steps back! In my heart, you reign as allmchtiger King. It will belong wages sent to his last strike. I am extremely satisfied, Majesty. Although we have lost the war against Preuen , we must cede nothing of our country. Only the protection and Trutzbndnis is required of Bismarck. You find it so unreasonable that my army should be to Verfgung , if Preuen leads a war? Yes. It is a good compromise. So I want my hated enemy today ... Explain to my best friend tomorrow? In addition, give up one of my main Knigsrechte? Majesty, better conditions we could not wait. Only the commander of the army inaugurated. So you want Trsten my faithful people with lies and deceit? No Neve ! Fr nothing in the world I would agree with such a solution. You can go, I bernehme now the management of the negotiations! Unfortunately, majesty, is it too late DAFR. What is this Helen? The negotiation deadline of three weeks has not yet expired. That is correct. But here, Majesty are very sick ... And wrden not leave Rose Island time. This is why The union has already been signed. No . . No one except me has the right in such a matter ... Make a de ision. Who has igned? I was there, Majesty. Your office as Minister President You are relieved immediately. How can Majesty believe Now huts everything in hand ... And no longer bruchten these people, about the political experience replete? Mr. Lutz, you accompany the Baron out! This will have consequences of grter scope! Oh nonsense, ministers are only there yet, to fall. Then come other again. I beg your pardon. We will make the protection and Trutzbndnis rckgngig again. If Preuen have command about my army, then it's over with me. And with Bayern also. Majesty, Their citizen now need a king, the shows them the way. Show p! Travel around LHR country. l am sure this will be the best for Strengthening Bavaria. (Lively usic) (supported music) Attention! His Majesty is coming. You work further please. Together we want the tears changed harsh verschlieen in our chest. I thank the honorable population of Bamberg ... For their loyal attitude. Click the links below. From now on we always want fr ... Unlearn the harsh war craft ... And continue to live in peace. (People) Long live the king! - Fri the citizen. - (People) Our King Long live! At three clock we are expected in Wurzburg. The plan is to review the garrison and visiting the wounded soldiers. Then pnktlich at eight clock festive entry into the city ... And reception with the tips of the authorities. After this large royal table and ball in the Concordia. No, no ball No dan ing. Look, gen lemen. In Heaven ... Is beauty and comfort. But on Earth, only death and devastation. But you have to get married but not equal. Take your time, Sophie. You are still young. I wrd understand it well, if you httest concerns. - It's urgent but net. L-wei, Dad. Protocol and etiquette, this is not for you. You ride better on a camel, alone in the desert in front of the pyramids. This is your happiness. That's right, Princess. You said it. The feeling to be free, which is much more important ... As a life at court, or any glorious future. Do you understand me? (Sings fra zsisch) Sophie! What 'doing? Heaven, for God's sake, Sophie! Attent on! Thank you, Majesty. (Bridal song, Lohengrin") l have for the festivities prepared everything. You'll be s tisfied. I let the "Lohengrin" new auffhren - for you and for me! Is not it too early, Richard to get to Munich? Our Wedding, my love, should be something very special, one of the auergewhnlichsten events of the century. Plea e. But I love you anyway, my Grail Knights. You have such worm eyes, Elsa. Since childhood connects you love of art. I am so happy that now the wonderful flower of love ... Is rooted in your hearts. My S n, this wedding is the most beautiful gift for me since you were born. And Otto's course. I told you only Ses! What else he does not like our Kini. That you will take my daughter to wife makes me incredibly proud. And gra eful. But I come to my already slow as a purveyor. The one to Vienna, the other to Munich. Get out of here! Gemma gemma. - Sophie, I wishes you ... - The desire of God is fulfilled. Sophie, I can see already, grow up as your two children here. It's too beautiful, that the House of Wittelsbach again ... Fulfilled with new life. Long live our King ... And the zuknftige Queen of Bavaria. And our golden small monarch-grandchildren. - On the newlyweds! - Yes. Cheers to the newlyweds! To a circus, a boost. (Ludwig) The beauty of this coach ... Will put at my wedding Bayern in amazement. You will demonstrate to all that the monarch is the real lifeblood of the state, as once in France Louis XIV, le Roi Soleil . Majesty, this love for France is understandable, but knnte at the Brgern on Unverstndnis STOEN. Since the time of the first Napoleon ... Are rooted resentment against France in the people. People frchten that France, even if it does us beautiful, or aggressive intentions against Germany cherishes. I know that Bismarck This can spread everywhere. He makes too happy to war the tool of his policy. Pride he is there still on it! But I'll him a line by this bill make. This magnificent dish needs to be prolongs up to the upper lip. This is a very schnes horse. Worm c lor. We will schlieen with France an agreement, that ensures a mutual renunciation of war between our countries. This will be the most beautiful wedding gift for my Sophie. (Ludwig) It abwrts the clouds hover, the clouds yearning love tend. Sch ! Sooner I could sometimes quote Goethe. J'ai tout malheureusement oubli. I think not, mon cher Napoleon. LHR German is vorzglich. I love Their gorgeous language. - Let's talk German on. - Please. With pleasure. I am pleased that it is a king in schnen Bayern, the loves France. I'll think about lhren proposal. A groartiger proposal! If Bismarck's dream a large German Empire ... Reali y, , it comes to stand for all of us at some point expensive. The man is a L derfresser. He can not get enough. That may be, but with lhrerTeilnahme at my wedding ... together we will put a peace sign , about all the unbegrndeten fears of my beloved people fr dispel forever. (Speaks Franzsisch on) Small country, Grer King! I am glad, mon ami, Their bride demnchst personally know. You will be entzckt. Sophie is a soul, so pleine de ompassion. If can ever make me a woman happy, then it is. You and no other. And mind it also. And she loves LHR France just like me. If it is to the plans with the mirror gallery also so well versed? Also, my enthusiasm she shares. But now you show it to me yet. L can not wait. (Lively usic) Mr. L tz! Congratulations to Progressive appointment as minister. Welcome, Mr. Wagner. Oh, I promise me a lot of wages sent. Your attitude towards art and politics 's spic and span. You can be sure, Mr. Wagner, that I will not use my new position to to expire in had a larger officials sleep. I what do I owe the king and the art further. (Sin s) For the first time alone since we saw each Thank ou. The Nearest please. (Frhlingsstimmen Waltz) What a wunderschnes pair. - Yes, Sophie looks quite charming. - Not only that - now it's my turn. - Please. But someone is happy. How much clock is it? Why Check for! Please! - Quarter-past ten. - I have to go. But why? But you can not let Sophie alone now! Join e! Thank ou. ("Lohen rin") Sooner playing with Sophie, so I was asked again and again: What happens wre, hut when Elsa respected their promises ... Lohengrin and not asked hut who he is? Probably become wren sie'n pair. Schnes pair. Pure of Heart. Huts probably more by the love had. Maybe hut Lohengrin ... This Nhe not at all want to have a man. Oh our Lohengrin is still terrific! For years it has done to me this voice of Tichatschek. I knew I dignity find you here. Sophie, I'm not done yet. Richard, I have to tell you. Tichatschek is no Lohengrin. He's too old for this role. His charisma, his looks ... Prevent that I can believe in the love between Elsa and Lohengrin . But I mchte but to believe this love! Without any doubt, you understand me? My boy has become late. Sophie is waiting for you. Tichatschek we talk about the next time. Farewell. Ma ch e, you've looked particularly Sect tonight. Yes Is wonderful! Quite wonderful! (Birds ng) Majes y? May I introduce myself? Plea e. I heie Heinrich Vogel, and it would be an incredible honor to me, wages sent to drfen sing Lohengrin. Plea e. Never shalt thou inquire of me Even knowing ensure Where did I come driving Still like my Nam 'and type My friend Tichatschek was informed that he Lohengrin non- longer allowed to sing. The is res uffled. Continue painting please. I desires that this gray-haired knight of sad shape ... Finally no longer allowed to look. Such a reshuffle, that you can decide not alone! Yes, I may very well be. I am blissful to frdern only one and that is, your works of genius. Additionally, heard "Lohengrin" me, about my property and I can freely replete. - Your property? - Yes. You have the rights also of the opera read completely transferred to me, for very many guilders. Did you forget? Ludwig, which Dmon trbt your view? Have you lost the peace of your soul altogether? For this staging has died from "Lohengrin". - I break everything. Today. - No. - This will not happen for sure! - The Lohengrin is my child! - And only I decide what happens to him! - And should your child not be like me? Obviously, only a dream. Continue painting please. Ludwig? lf everything ready? I am so excited, "Lohengrin" finally meet. A Auffhrung without Richard suddenly seems so pointless. Why are you so qulst? Richard is gekrnkt, he had reason to do so, but I'm sure he will be delighted of your choice ... And soon vershnen with you. I'll write to him, I wnsch me his presence at our wedding. - Since he can not say no. - No. Between Richard and me is all over. For. nd. Our stars will never find again. And my z diac? Where is the in your heart? Sophie ... The two of us, we live like an oasis in the middle of the sand sea of ??desert. Maybe you verrtst him as well, as our zuknftiges life together should look at this oasis, if I'm your wife and you the wonderful king by my side? Come on, the sample fngt alike. ("Lohen rin") No, o! If you try something Unverschmtes again, then we are for ever separated! But Louis ... Want to prohibit me every zrtlichen proof of love? I'm sorry. Forgive me, dear Sophie! Forgive come to me! Forgive me. Forgive. You have always been the dearest friend to me. And your ... My Lie ... My affection for you ... Has always sustained me. Your kiss has messed me. I know not why. This chaos ... But Lu wig, I demand nothing Unmgliches. Sophie ... Verd .. No You verkriechst you here, is allowed Sophie totally in the dark! All of my family desperately. What is this please? I need to find inner clarity. L do not want strzen in a misfortune, Sophie. Internal larity? You have it totally hurt and deeply disappointed me ! Elisabeth, Please Take this This is a miniature of the Blue Grotto of Capri, you yes so love. Hr on with this childish fuss! Sophie suffers, because you play with her and her Gefhlen! The love for which I long, it does not exist apparently. But you have to know the best yet! You often despairest enough to the falsehoods of this world. I forbid you to speak so about me! But you're right, if you so umgehst with your zuknftigen Woman on, can my sister knows God will never be happy. (Supported music) (Ludwig's voice) Dear Sophie. I now had time to check up me ... And see that still my faithful, intimate brotherly love to you deep rooted in my soul, but not the love, which is required for union in marriage. No marriage is better than a bad marriage, Love So hie. Qty let God find you the happiness, you deserve so richly Mae. Now, far well. Ludwig, your Lohengrin. (Supported music) LHR people need an explanation. A speech by in front of his Majesty Brgern to keep the resentment, has triggered the Auflsung the Progressive Engagement in Munich in check. I have advised the chief editors Bayerische newspapers. If we take the next train, bullet Could we already four ... L will not go to Munich. You do not give as much to the public opinion , Your Excellency. Majesty should ... An eternal riddle stay. We always want to but for his friends, Ludwig. The Berhrung that you wnschst you, it must not enter. I'll never break our vow. Yes Pure as the Swan Knight, I will stay. 's at Bismarck Brushed against France on so easy ... And asked for my support. Its ultimate goal is still only Bavaria and all unabhngigen Choose between German ... zwngen to force it into a single nation-state . A perfidious excuse! My citizen are very verngstigt. You fhlen from France threatened. This is the number of friends Preuens and the national idea ... Can of course betrchtlich grow. My brother, I beg you, override the Make Shadow of Bismarck. We were united, that France dignity never attack German Lnder again. - But I have discussed with you ... - I am sorry, Ludwig. Bismarck rejects all compromise. Should he provoke me further, he forces me Preuen to explain the war. Is not you well? Dir Does my unrestricted love to your country so little? Should Win Preuen, is the German Reich arise ... and my Knigreich loses its sovereignty! Corn mon cher Louis, my crown and France are in danger. Wre come into being your wedding, so we huts set a common peace sign in Munich. We might huts that today's hate stop can command. But times have gendert itself. You are still not ready for your dream Weltverbrderung. Does France have declared war? Yes. Go Let me lone. Go Why Why But Majestthren but, which Begeisterungsstrme the first defeat of the French army ... Causes in the population. My citizen do not know what they're doing. You silence! My poor, poor France. Now Bismarck is almost there and the unification of the German states ... is no longer to get around. Majesty be expected in Versailles, to get together with the other German princes ... To discuss the formation of the German Empire . It will be of great interest, learn more ... After all, what the schndlichen Preuen 've done in France, I'm not going to go to Versailles. Unless man offers me the German imperial crown. But I can not. I am sick, very sick. You will travel to Bismarck and participate in the negotiations. I expect you to reimburse me daily telegraph report. - Very well. - Majesty. (Lutz) But Mr. von Bismarck, I wait for days. When we can finally sign the contract , specifies the special conditions for Bayern? Once we have proclaimed the new German Reich . Up th re, in this unique gallery of mirrors, , the platform will be, where all the German princes King William of Preuen ... Will appoint to the German emperor. It would be extremely important that King Ludwig ll ... Offers him this imperial crown publicly. I understand that this is a political necessity for represents you, Your Excellency, but His Majesty cherish even hope this crown. If you want that he takes part in these celebrations, then you need to offer him at least, that the imperial crown ... Alternates between Preuen and Bavaria. - You should but ... L want no emperor from Preuen! And my brother either! I'm not going to represent him in the proclamation . And this miserable letter is Ludwig never sign! - If you have written this letter? - Yes. The special position of King Ludwig II ... Must gewrdigt gebhrend Opposite to all other German princes ... And main ained. It should be prsent in the proclamation at least with an announcement. Since I gave him this design to already prepared. Clear. Majesty needs only to write off ... And save you a trip demtigende. How generously! By intrigues and fraud you want to Ludwig but only kdern! As you can believe he makes such a scrap with? (Bar s) royal highness ... You want nothing more than schdigen Bavaria! He wants nothing more than schdigen Bavaria! Royal highness can be assured that we only the best ... L have old! Make room, you wretch! Royal hi hness! - Keep it up! - Get out! Mr. Schmittke, keep on it! Royal highness! Crucifix again. (singing) Heil Kaiser you Fhl in the throne shine The high ecstasy in full to be favorite of the people healing Kaiser you Our sovereignty we have lost. Destroys it is our Knigreich wonderful. DAFR you may continue About the Beer Tax decide and also the train and the post you still have in your majestic hand. Great, Ludwig, thank you. Bismarck says, "He lives in his dreaming." L think he's right. Ludw g soon it will no longer enter the name of Bayern . Do you do me now to the king? I've heard, you'll flchten from Bavaria! How wonderful is the misery! Beloved Brother, I thank you. Vive le roi Othon! Vive le roi! Ludwig! Help me, Louis! Do not leave me, Louis! You hurt me. Ludwig, lease! Huh, o! Otto has losgelst of everything. No one can rob him of his freedom. I can not take it anymore. All stt from me. I am going away from here. But your dream of a better world, do you want to give him up? You can not escape now. You say that to me? The you sailed around the world, looking for freedom and truth? Yes. l have fled ... And found in the abandonment of Corfu a piece of inner peace. But loneliness is a coffin. The further I today. I have to be the king. Then be the first and recognize the signs of the times ... And bergib your country your people to self-determination. No All Antrge and reports of the ministries ... You will mount up to wchentlich equerry Hornig, the wages sent my instructions and the ntigen signatures is zurckbringen. But Majesty, how do you accomplish a complete retreating? To proceed Bavarians, who worship their king, it will be a disaster, no longer see to can him. And for me? How should I continue to enforce politically, without the DAILY consultations with Majesty? My vision of a better world schneren and will finally become a reality, even if this world tentatively is still very small. But it my people will benefit more than this miserable parades ... Bloen and masquerades of Knigtums. In addition, ... I spend the time much preferred me alone, instead of schlieen compromises, remove me from my true nature more and more. An absentee king knnte soon be no more king! The state is not allowed to be from a distance rule. It is not ossible. Are you the new psychiatrist Bernard of Gudden? Yes, Ma esty. My cousin, the Empress of Austria, Their method has wrmstens recommended to me. Power my dear brother progress? Since I treat him after the English No-Restraint principle without mechanical constraint for the mentally ill ... My brother is not insane. The terrible experiences of war have hurt his soul. He just needs to rest. I fruits, Majesty, your brother is not wake from his derangement. I wishes to walk. He's quiet, but the knnte be dangerous. Richard, please let Shut off the park! Wnschen Majesty w lking. (Soft m sic) l will build a future empire all the way to my imagination. I already let looking for an island, which I can acquire kuflich. For example, one of the Canary islands. And I'll build a castle, Otto. So Yes, really. Far from Munich ... and all the grsslichen people who want to force us to be other than we are. Ott . Ott ? Ott ? Ludw g! Fri you self. Take that taste good. Thank you, dearest brother, but these blueberries are not yet ripe. And they are way too hard for my sick teeth. Ott ! Otto I, nevertheless, again such a pain! Ott ? Ott ? It's not bad. I keep them for later, when they are ripe. If Otto then your successor? (In the distant land, "Lohengrin") Caref l! As particularly careful Back on the corner . On the corner watching there! Thank you! Hau r ck! You filled my castle? I'll name it after you and the Swan Knight. Majes y? Please come up. Clears the way! From skin, disappears! Away, away, away! I hut never thought that it dignity succeed Majesty, to make reality our theater castle. Wonder ul! I'm so excited, after all this time, drfen to sing again after 14 years fr Majesty. Yes, it has, however, in the meantime Varies much. You will sleep mostly in the day, lived at night. Majesty endure no more daylight. In addition Majesty drfen never be looked at. It should not be coughing, , it is forbidden to sneeze or ruspern itself. And never under any circumstances drfen you ever ... With anyone, no matter who it is, talk about the , what you see now and experience are. Gell? l got's wages sent said Mr. Vogel. Alright. So you say now, the with the water line. Where will they go? This way. Yes. May I show wages sent the plan? So we had thought of us. - Richard! - Yes? Here, Richard. Majesty want your naked face no more. Why again? - Well, Sect you have never been. - (Hornig) In contrast to you. - (Lackey Mayr) Le Roi Soleil, h? Heinr ch. The sun is not yet set, but Majesty are already up. Hopp hopp! He is waiting for you already. Now it's nothing again with my foot bath. Hehehehe! The Rebhhner in the kitchen. - Immediately. Ls-right. H, gentlemen! Where are you going with the cattle, h? The kitchen is there! Thither bring! (Bridal song, Lohengrin") The blue is not intense enough. And this Fontne must almost berhren the sky. The only way is a bridge from between us and God in heaven. (Chor s) Richa d? Here. how. The gas-undWasserinstallationsgeschft "Wachter and Morstadt" ... Has filed today against Majesty action. If this debt is not repaid within one month , wants to apply the company's auction of Linderhof Palace the court. I do not understand, how can this company dare to sue our king? What you can customize, be paid must, Richard! This is for all the same. If even a Chinese castle be built? Yes, Majesty have an ideal plot of land located at the Plansee , which we will acquire in the next few days. And t at? What is it? This is the first draft of the candelabra for the of Mirrors in Herrenchiemsee Castle. I have heard, Majesty will never stay there but only give it to his friend Louis XIV, has been dead for 170 years. Is that true? John, it circulating so many rumors. Forget das. ("Lohengrin") talk I gotta unverzglich Majesty personally. What do you think, who you are, Monsieur? If you do not allow me the Glubiger demnchst are here to stand in line ... And move into the castles! This is why I have a plan for the reorganization created this catastrophic financial situation. Oh Majesttmsste only adjust their Bauttigkeit ... And zurckkehren back to Munich in the residence. That's it! Majesttknnten life easier mode t as her most blessed father lived. Had Otto and I never have enough to eat as children. I'm on a wooden board geschlaten to the death of my father. Now it wants to force me I zurckkehre in these Kfig, as my father wanted from the Beyond again rule my life. - Count Drckheim has arrived. - Come in! My dear lfred, please save my life! The dragons from Munich want kill me when I wr a fool! I need money so my world can continue to grow. Plea e. Travel immediately to England. Lord Stanhope has already offered me mean. Your goal has been lost wages sent, of Mr. Lutz! Yes. As with majesty. Since lngerer time I bemhe me to: modify his attitude, but it will not succeed. Why do you want: modify Ludwig? Let him continue building face and its buildings done. It can only be in the interest of Bayern, to frdern Exceptional his imagination. The Bavarian state parliament should ... One or two percent of the state budget Majesty admit wren then the financial problems solved. - No, certainly not. But if you, Your Excellency, as German Chancellor care about as wrden ... I have to disappoint you, Mr. Lutz. But this is a purely Bavarian affair. We will not let us involve in this matter . You're all fired! Way here! All of the planning is confiscated. What are you doing here? Without the consent of Majesty Never give anything Varies here! Now you fit exactly on time, Mr equerry Hornig! You will stop me from here on nothing. The Bavarian State Parliament and the Ministry unanimously decided to suspend work on smtlichen castles immediately and read completely. Neither the state legislature nor drfen prohibit our work! Yes, I can. And you might be superior to very good, what you want to do about it. For LHR happiness in life knnte very soon come to an end. These ba tards! Lore z? What are you hiding there? Count Drckheim wrote, that the government in the name of Majesty ... Has rejected the offer of credit from England. Write a eview This is the end. But do not despair Majesttmssen. If this small minds Majesty to rob the joy of life, then can Majesty conscientiously also they rob. What do you mean? There is still enough money in the banks. You have to pick only. We are looking for specialists, the in the banks ... Enter from Berlin, Stuttgart, Paris can. My friends this is an excellent idea! And finally ... I'm going all the ministers Pack addition STOEN! First, you Hesselschwerdt send to ltaly. He Verschatft me the whole sum, immediately give him 20,000 marks. Please write everything into the Pure. Thank you, awrence. Hard clinching the rights I am entitled, it is my will that Minister President of Lutz as well as all his Rte ... Lay down their mter until the end of the month. For fourteen years I now do the work, which is actually the of majesty. DAFR I will now elevated to the status of the mob. When the whims of the king endanger the common good ... And make the further course of the state machine impossible, then I can not stand lnger them. Show me the letter. Does it have written lackey Mayr? Maybe not only written, but also written. It is therefore not at all sure whether these statements of majesty come from? And the worst thing is that my contact to Majesty ... only takes place over this type of letter , Mayr allowed to come to me. Pragmatically this lackey is now the mchtigste man in our state. Can be more increase this absurdity? Ludwig has always verfgt about a lot of imagination. I have sworn Majesty loyalty and obedience. But you can maintain loyalty to a Unzurechnungsfhigen? Only radical steps ... can the Bavarian monarchy save it from total collapse. Ludwig is the king and this lifetime. (Ludwig) We will build a castle on an island, a new Ver ailles. Only for our Louis. Richard, you help me with this? You're a errter, a Abtrn iger. How could you allow you to use plaster where did you know it can only be marble? But it is no more available money the far you yet! You d re looking at me with a naked face and yelling? Our pact is smashed! You are dead! (Holiday music) Let's finish it. (Dramatic music) men, h rry! - Fire in the workshop? - Here, here! Fire! Our mo els! Richa d? Ludw g. You l ve. You're live. If I no longer king wr, but just still Ludwig ... Your friend, then again would you can live with me? And maybe ... Even love me? All my life I like to hut only ordained you, but you did even get you banned. In this riddle of love my heart is frozen. Now it's too late. Yes Farewell, ichard. (Dramatic music) Hel ! Help .. (Rain and hunder) Yes The Barber of Majesty should put together a new cabinet ... And even ministers, if he succeeds. Is even worse than I befrchtet. Now I've got it in black and white. Very g od. As I said, first-class information deserves a good wage. How much you can pay me DAFR? A new job in which successors of Majesty ... You will probably be the best pay for. From Ma esty? A succe sor? (Dramatic music) Majesty, flee mmediately! In Munich is a conspiracy against you underway. Majesty know of Palace of Versailles even the smallest details. And on the life of the Bourbons wei he had been as much as wr's his own. The same is true for many other topics. Why do not you write to what I tell you do? These properties of Majesty really interest me less. But you have me but asked for extremes , of the Auergewhnlichen Majestts personality. I'm doing more to the extremes of his soul, of his ind. I mchte know what effect ... had this to wages sent on his relationship? Did he tormented, humiliated ? I finally understand what are you getting. But without me! Majesty once said to me: "I want my and the world remain an eternal riddle", and can also be you never undermine! Your Excellency, Professor of Gudden. Ah Profes or! I have you frhestens expected to return on Thursday. Good day. Here are the evidence. Yes And here is the report. Have the minions of the king, even after ... Interviewed something special relationship with Mnnern? No, I attach no value. Morbid sexual behavior is a weakness, which also occurs among healthy people. Very good work. In just 24 hours, amazing! Abundance that are beyond all doubt, can be diagnosed easily. Then we can conference with lhren colleagues therefore convened immediately? Please do. I'm going to take over the carrying out of the therapy itself. - Please. - Thank you. (Heavy usic) Adieu, ye kings, you sa nts. How grateful I am to you. You have the will of God on earth represented. Off End Gone. It's that simple Lorenz? Sorry, Majesty. Sorry. Please look at me. Lorenz, we will from now on only be face to face. Say, Lorenz, could I be a good king? Majesty are for me the noblest man in this world. You'll get me immediately dynamite. - Dynamite? - You have to. Wofr? If it were possible these criminals, chase me out of my castles, so all should be blown up! No. No, no, I can not do. Please, do not do it! I'm begging you! Do not do it! Lore z! Forgi e. What you gonna do when I'm gone? - Majesty continue to serve. - Good. Then I close the door to the tower now on. Please. Please, lease! On behalf of His Highness Prince Regent Luitpold of Bavaria! Opens the gate! To Set ! Tension on the gun! Rckt before! On Open the door! Init! March! March! Hel ! Help! You have to come at once. Majesty want to hinunterstrzen from the tower. Let the doctors by! We need help! Let them through! Lackey Mayr, wait! Mayr, now wait yet! Do you have the Schlssel? Yes, Ma esty. Goo . Finally ... Fre . Thank ou. But .. Lore z. What have you done? What is this? - Majesty, I have to accompany the command, Majesty by Schlossberg and indeed today. You want to lock me up? Majesty bentigen our help. You think you can treat me like Otto? (Screams hys erically) Majesty are very far vorgeschrittenem Grade seelengestrt ... And suffer from one form of mental illness, which is called paranoia. In this form of the disease Majesty fr are incurable to explain. I forgive you, Lawrence. Good- ye. This disease is the free determination of Majesty ... Read completely excluded. Mon R i. I'll never zurckkehren here. (Dramatic music) Welco e. If alr ady. The smell is nbearable! The books there. Bring lilies and closing the curtains. Instructions I can only answer Dr. Gudden. But the light hurts me! It is strictly forbidden minutely to look at Majesty! Come right back out! Get away or I'll gouge out your eyes! (Stt inarticulate sounds off) Your Exce lency. You berreichen Majesty this gift from me. Call lackey Mayr and Barber Shoppe. I want to be dressed and coiffed. There is a clock at night and everyone is asleep. But not me. Awaken them. There is no Mayr and Hoppes more. From now on, I'm LHR Mayr and Hoppe. Then you dress me immediately. You have to make it myself. At the request of Dr. von Gudden fr is off today night to night ... And derTag day. As you can dare to command lhrem king something? But Majesty're no more real king. Only a poor madman. I am doing today much better than yesterday. I am very pleased to hear this. I did wages sent ... Thanks and lhrem wohlberlegten approach. Maybe it will be wages sent, surgically remove the misfortune of me. My brother Otto, you have indeed looked vorzglich , aberwir never had the opportunity to come closer to us. Pit . I Wre wages sent sooner met, then wre all different and much better run for me. Such Exceptional people like you, my dear doctor , one very rarely encounters in life. Majesty are for me an incredible example, what wonders can accomplish psychiatry . He's been aiting. If I'm not allowed to Mass on Pentecost Sunday , so I have yet earned me a walk. L need fresh air. Also, I dignity like to know more about Their no-Restraint therapy. Very well, Majesty. Let me just get my coat quickly. I'll be right back. Be so good as to bring the back to results. L do not need him anymore. No, it does not need a nurse to go along. L got everything under control. Does anyone like you in the immortality of the soul? Yes, Ma esty. I also believe in it. And God's righteousness. If your Majesty is everything material you choose to erschatfen, nothing more than an expression Progressive soul. And so is the soul of your Majesty, even after his death, still live among us for centuries. What you say? You whose reprehensible actions ... Has made the completion of my life's work naught. You have othing understood nothing of my soul. Majesty, it's late. We need to back to results in the lock. No. Maj sty! Majes y! Here to stay! Majes y! Majesty! Majesty! Do not! (In a distant land, "Lohengrin") Adieu, mon roi. Snooping
