 

                        1 LULU Director: Alexander von Antalffy Germany 1917 Persons: Robert van Waldheim - Adolf Klein Rudolf, his son - Harry Liedtke Henri, his friend - Rolf Brunner Alfredo, a clown - Emil Jannings Lulu, the "White Amazon" - Erna Morena Lulu, performing as the "White Amazon". "Henri, it seems you're going back to your darling." "So I propose to hold a big charity bazaar, where we will invite only the city's first." charity bazaar Ticket of admission for sir Henri van Reinhoven "Oh Henri, take me to the party!" The party. "My... sister!" "That's not Henri's sister... but Lulu from the circus. She performsas "The White Amazon"." The next evening at the club. Darling Henri, Come tonight, because I wish to introduce you to a few of my friends. You'll also see that things are a lot more merry with us than in your circles. Lulu. Darling Henri, Come tonight, because I wish to introduce you to a few of my friends. You'll also see that things are a lot more merry with us than in your circles. Lulu. "Under condition that a bona fide person acts as surety, I'm prepared to supply the amount." "Dear Rudolf, I need a large sum right away, and require a surety. Would you be so kind...?" "I will supply the 10,000 Crowns but... on one condition. You must give me your word of honour not to gamble anymore, and to break with the woman who is destroying you." "I did not bring enough money. I shall be back in half an hour." "Sir has gone our with miss Lulu and mister Alfredo." "I am not to blame. It is all his work!" Sir Van Waldheim visits his son. "I've just lost my only friend. A woman who was unworthy of him, has destroyed him!" "I won't perform any more!" "Lulu... is this the thanks for all I've done for you? Did you forget how I so to speak picked you up from the street?" "I... can... not" Lulu goes on a trip. The clerks check the luggage. "Duties have to be paid for all of these things, madam!" "I do not carry that much money at the moment." Dear sir, For your services rendered to me I wish to thank you once more. Hence it would be pleasant to me... ...to receive a visit from you in my hotel and settle my debt to you as well. Sincerely, Lulu Kowalsky "Mister Van Waldheim." "Where is Lulu?" "Since a few days she has disappeared without a trace." Dear son, Since the death of your mother our relation was more that of comrades than that of father and son, and that is why I can now speak to you as a friend. I have met a young, pretty woman, that I wish to make my life mate. I know that you shall understand me and approve my decision. Your father. "Lulu, if you wish to make an old man like myself happy, then become my wife." "You've told me that you have a son. Do you think he will be pleased with your plan?" Dear son, I have taken the decisive step, and I have no regrets of it. She has become my wife, and now I feel myself the happiest man in the world. Besides, I could not have lived without her anymore. I hope that I shall see you here soon to be witness of my happiness. Your father. "Why does your son not come... have you not written to him?" An evening at the Waldheim's. Mister Van Waldheim introduces his son to the guests. "Lulu!!" "The sooner my father will perceive he was cheated..." "Your son allows himself liberties with me!" "Tomorrow morning I will speak further with you!" The next morning. "You will see that our ways part from today!" "Father... I owe you a clarification, so that you..." "Father, now I am unable to reply to your accusation... but may you never regret this hour..." "Have you not been too hard on your son?" Lulu, I have just arrived and expect you at 12 o'clock. Address Bergstr. 22. Alfredo. Lulu, I have just arrived and expect you at 12 o'clock. Address Bergstr. 22. Alfredo. "I have done some shopping!" "Only by a trick can I find out Lulu's secret." "Is there anyone else you wish to invite to our ball?" "Everyone talks of the ball that you wish to give. You should provide me with an invitation too." Mr. and Mrs. Van Waldheim have the honour to invite ..... to the ball that will be held the 23 this month. Mr. and Mrs. Van Waldheim invite... ...mister baron Van Alfred... ...to the ball held on the 23rd. "My husband must have spied on us." "I've picked Lulu up from the street, made an artist of her, and for the sake of your money she has left me!" END
