 

                        To Patrick Dewaere and Xvier Saint Macary Let it be What's your name? What else can I do for you? Is it your dog? No, I would never keep such a dirty dog. At least it's a real dog, eh? Won't you invite us in for a drink? -Closed for the day, buddy...think about it? Get up! You've gotten yourself too tanned. So what can we do? Go back? Let's go back first. Alright? I wanna talk about something. Please listen up Give me a light first You saw it? That's the kind of boat I wanna buy, Real sharp with some storage down below. But you would never go down there. You don't believe me? Never Shit! Damn it! What do you have on your mind? Let's carry it along? Stop kidding. But I like it. You are too bothersome. Are you crazy? Stop it. Come Come up This is our friend. We have finally gotten together. Let the danger disappear far back. We are going to a place where mankind never set foot. What can you call this kind of dog with such messy hair? Nick Nick, good! Don't be too crazy! Cold Moon Come down, Nick. Hey, Peanut! Help me wash my car after you are done I left my key inside The Kuwaitian. What's his name? Arachide Arachide, Arachide. He's a Peanut Tune back to that channel, tune back. Shit, don't understand a word. This dude is talking What's his name? Mussolini The guy that likes to exaggerate. And acts like... It's really funny, look at him. What a performing genius -Aryans are destined to rule the world!- "That's it, very well!.." "Goal! Goal!" Simon! What's up? Jacuzzi is so damn good! What? It's so nice Stephen, don't go I beg you! I love you! I have to go!- Simon Hi Nadine You smoked in here? It smells. Joanna, please stop loving me! I love you! Wait Nadine, allow me. OK The air here is so much better. Where is Ted? He's in the bath tub. You are a nice guy, but don't put toys inside. Also, don't order that guy around. He's got a job. Trust me, he's worth this kind of money Your suit is so good looking. You like it? Yeah. When guests come to my house They don't always have to bring their dogs along, right? It's someone else's dog. Whose dog is it? I don't know, it's a bitch Maybe wandering around. There aren't that many good dogs around. What's this? I'll be leaving soon. New swim suit. Man, so big. You are too much This is my sister's house. Take it easy. I grew up in here. Right? Nadine? Yes. Not necessary. Simon is so sexy. Wait. I'm telling you. Stop wearing my stuff. Isn't it much cleaner now? What about the dog over there? What you gonna do with it? Don't know. We can eat it. Nick, right? I cut the head off, madam. Can't eat, too bad. Can you help me give it a chop? Whatever you say. Whatever I tell you? Don't say that, I didn't ask for anything. Don't hesitate to put them in the shopping cart Get up, get up Keep going. It's right there, trust me. What is it? You'll see. Close your eyes. Look. The white guitar. That's it. That's it, my god, take a look. Isn't the one next to it the same? Just a different color. That's not the same. It's a copy. Look at this. I think this thing is gonna cost a lot of money. So why think about it?! I'm gonna buy it. What? Don't you have a nearly brand new one? That's different. This is the only one in the country, terrific. My god! Strings, shape... Everything is original. This is so damn good. Holding it up. Touching it, feels like! I'll caress it, let it scream. Right? Pretty? That's how it's played. You are good. Guitarists always perform lying down. Don't know why. And then act like this! Genius. Go back a little bit. Genius. Look at this, cool. Flame exploded on the stage. I don't wanna answer. I said I didn't wanna answer. You must be hiding something. I've seen them all, this kind of expressions. You are always like this, always. I'm telling you, don't make me fight with you. Shit! Of course I understand you. A young man has to work. That's life. This is health. But that's all there is to it. We hope we can have a direct conversation next time. At least this is all clear. God damn it. That's it, I like very much. Stop the nonsense. What an education to your ears! This is what music is all about. This is not all about music. There is always opera when marriages go bad. I'm being executed by boredom. I never had a chance to communicate with others. I like to be surrounded by people. Me too, I love family the most, then friends. What do you want me to say. I wasn't even allowed to talk to a man, damn! You meant to say it's really good, right? You kept me home, it's against the law. But you have to start getting used to this kind of life style. Ted! Ted!! What! Be quiet!!! Dogs and fighting!- It's not too appropriate. Just like when you were a kid, haven't changed a bit. I'm not a dog. What are you yelling about. I'm gonna break your leg! You are working too hard. You can tighten up your big belly. You are skinny enough, don't know why you still try to lose weight. If someday you go the bank to get money. Stop the bullshit! Stupid! What? What are we? Did you hear, Simon! You want me to knock you to the ground? Don't sit there like a Buddha. I've had enough. I gotta work. He can speak French. Am I dreaming or what? My life is all dark. Let's watch this. I'm leaving. There isn't any French woman like you. Don't make me angry. The 7th round Eh Peanut, look. You'll be like this one day. Should never marry just like us. And life wouldn't be so bland. I'd run away if I met such a woman. A good thing about being single is when you meet a hot blonde. You can go after her. But there's a bitch waiting at home after you're married. To us, we have another way to get it out of our systems. Right, Simon? Should we tell him? Should we tell him? Stop! No, stop kidding me! I'll be upset, understand? You have the time? Pick me up at the factory by then. It's still early. Lend me your car. OK. Be careful. It's not braking too well. See you tomorrow. You want!-no no no.... I should tell you. I wanna fuck you. You wanna fuck me? I'm very strong. I've taken a shower. You can suck on it. I think we should put some lubricant. You really wanna fuck me? God, Johnny You know your thing is very small. Very small! Says who, mine isn't that small. I'll be very strong when I fuck you, you'll like it. Then I'll be willing to. Come on, put it in. OK, Johnny. Go deeper, right! Nice, Johnny, it feels so good! OK, I want you to suck it all in. What are you doing! What's this? You've decided not to let us sleep, right? So loud! No, l... Hurry up, turn off the TV, go to sleep. What?! The TV is muted. Shoudn't be any problem. Yeah, no sound, but it smells. Don't say that, I've already taken a shower. id take a shower, but you haven't washed your socks for years It smells like you guys have been camping. The smell of camping is rather normal Hurry up and go back to the tow truck. You don't have to be here! I rather call it a "truck"! I say If you wanna sleep in the tow truck Then go ahead, don't be shy. You are very good, but you're gonna wake up all the neighbors. You, get out of here! Let him go, I've had enough Shit, there's more to come. I never allow you to drink beer Go buy your own whenever you wanna drink. Shut up. I don't have the right to drink? I bought it myself. With the money you have in your pocket? You just wanna be like this for the next 50 years? What have you been doing? OK OK, stop lecturing me. It hurts even more when it's coming out of your mouth. Listen up, Nadine! You can get the hell out of here. Because I have another one of them. I have to work tomorrow. You don't care at all, do you? No no, I hate you! Go get a job. You have expectations about me? Look for a job, thanks for your concern. Why don't you look around in the job market, Bad mood at home. If so, Just go out then. Is he crazy? I have dignity! Dignity You'd better stop bothering me No, everyone has dignity. You can't... Enough, get out! Come on, Fuck! I watched an American cowboy movie. Let me tell you. What are you doing here? I'm not sleepy, I'm here to see my little Simon. Look how tired he is He's gonna be thirsty, come and see! No no, you can't drink here. Not even a can of beer? Actually, you're dealing with a corpse. Good evening, Simon. You don't wanna look at me? It's me. Mermaid. What's up with you? Stop talking, alright? What? Shut up! Understand? Stop talking! It's the second time Are you alright? How have you been doing? Good Do you know, he is getting better. Is that so? How about you? How are you doing? I'm always doing well. I've never seen you sick. So, Denis, you eat well? You know, you can't resist nice food when you have a chef at home. How is it, little boy? Denis, you look good. I -think -yesterday. Is it? You know... -know... you... Really -very good! Good! Right. Wipe it off. How many cans of beer you had? Three Three Three cans, good. Thirty? Yeah!- yeah!- Do you want an appetizer? Your mother will be happy when you are happy. Come on. What kind of meal do you think I should prepare today? Oh no... Simon, don't let him smoke. One or two puffs can't be too bad. Simon....I... Wait a minute, I didn't get it. What do you want? A Banana? No, he said he saw a donkey. What, you saw a donkey on TV? Yes. What, not own a cat? Why bother, I will probably die before it does. He saw a donkey. And the people buying candy. Don't move, let me go The roof is really nice here. It's best for sun-bathing. Stop talking right now. What are you doing? Being a father? This is good too It's good that you're all serious. And I wanna fuck a woman right now. I wanna take a piss, where is the bathroom? What's up? No...nothing Come on. Watch your mouth. Hello, Madam He's with me, Ted I've told you already. Yes, is it that conductor? Right. Who! -Who is conducting the philharmonic. Let me introduce you Denis Denis, he's my partner Ted And also my driver. He's got a really nice car. He didn't come with the nice car. Auntie, have you gotten the clothes ready yet? Yes. I almost forgot, help me send something to priest OK. Alright, Let's go. Bye bye, little boy. Nice to see you with such good appetite Go say hello Don't be silly Go, hurry up OK, we have to go Be careful, there is a dog in the yard Why do you bite? You said that I never said that I made it up, like everyone else Right right Listen up, I've had enough of your mouth - Right? Right I'm gonna take a deep breath now Ted, You're not trying hard at all Yes, you're selfish and bad. Let me finish. And I think it's all acceptable Finally, I think I have the right to lie to them. Of course, you are free We are not married yet What about music? You talk about music all the time. And you never actually learn to play any instrument OK, enough You don't have much patience Almost everything you say is nonsense We all know about that, we're all trying to stay away from you! No one has confidence in you Also women It's not worth talking about Because they're just holes to you Not even a little bit of respect And what about you You respect them? Shit, if I talk about that, then... Shut up!.... You understand now? Understand what? Let go! Let go! Let me go first Why me first? Let go I'll let you go But you have to let me go too You have to let go right away What are you looking at? Want to take a picture? Wait up, I'm coming right back Hey sir You're leaving like this I just want to face the light Don't touch the instruments. Ask me first Don't' touch it Are you interested? Yeah, I wanna buy it for my son What's the matter All of a sudden it's raining now How are you doing? How you doing? You OK What's going on with my brothers now? Don't be like this, stop bothering me Ah, in a bad mood. What happened? Your wife doesn't want you no more? If he has a wife Then that's called adultery I remember a tale about wives It's about an old woman You heard about it? Don't ask me if you already know about it It's about an old woman Listen up, concentrate A fat woman, really fat Like Babar's mother A fat woman She's so fat she couldn't even get into the elevator So she had her grandson come over She said, "Dear Granny needs your help" And then, and then!- And, where was l, right She had her grandson come over Grandson came over He said, "Granny, what do you want me to do for you?"' She said, "Granny needs your help" She wanted to get into the elevator But she couldn't get in on her own And the kid thought of a method He tried to push her in from the back After three minutes, she said to him!- Are you listening? "What are you doing? You're pushing me" He then said, "What should I do, Granny?"' "I've tried my best, but still couldn't push you in" Funny, right Look, it's frozen now Ted, you're such a sadist Just think of someone doing this to you No one is gonna act like that You're just trying to find a topic Washing glasses all day long Isn't it fun washing glasses? Here are the bills for water, electricity, and food, pay up None, I don't have any money You don't even have a penny I still owe them money here Me too, but I always pay them back Go check with the bank Give me the money, then we're through If I have any money I'll definitely give it you What else do you want me to say? Stop, you'll have to pay for it if you knock it over Don't talk to me like this I won't take your nonsense Shit! You don't care? Wanna fight? No no no, ain't gotta be like this I don't care, he messed with me first Then go ahead and wait for me outside I'll be right there You guys will have to take it outside Absolutely not in here Shit Hello What's up? Here, a cassette for you You can return it I've already gotten one What happened? Are you alright now? You OK Listen up, your friend seems to be a little too much He's in a bad mood Life is hard out there Hey, can you do me a favor? I'm in such a mess right now No problem, let's go Thanks, because obviously I can't go to him So long, young champion Don't make noises when you come back Let's play poker tonight Alright, I don't have any shifts for a couple of nights. I didn't see him today Who is that? Honking and making all that noise out there That's my car Wait, I'll go have a drink, five minutes -I'm coming -What?! Don't you think it's rude to have me wait all this time? I can't believe your attitude It's only five minutes Then we'll go cruising. You only have one life Aren't you thirsty? I'm telling you, if you don't move your car!- Can I make a call? Sure, in the corner Simon, some one is running off with your car Such a rascal Lady, lady, don't go I'm bad, but this blonde is such a knock out I can't stop thinking about it Is the cassette still here? Let me see I was just kidding, I don't have this one Are you feeling better? Fantastic Thank you (Combination sandwich) Finish up the sandwich I put a lot of effort into it Let's play with it a little bit Ted, you crazy? I can't play with it like this Oh, stop bothering me Where did you put the package? There, right there I have to show the picture Look Did you see this? Isn't this thick? Really And a small one, it's bent Such a fool This woman is pretty happy OK, OK, stop playing Really, stop fooling around, let's go OK, come on in Hello, priest, I'm bringing this to you for my Auntie I'm sorry This is normal? How come it's not warm in here? Just gotta get used to it You missed something. I thank your Auntie This is a sacred lady OK Yeah, what the name of that poor little kid!-? Danny? He is stupid It's not good now Thank you Bye Did you see? It looks as though it's portraying the ancestors Right? Right They have to go now, it's closing Wait, I have an idea It's so quiet here Simon! Simon! Simon!- Simon? Simon Please show up at my feet "l can't get no satisfaction!-" Ted, red or white? Good!!! You know I love to be in church At least people have religion It feels OK Is Mary a prostitute? No, she is a faithful Christian But her parents never believed in her She had to keep her mouth shut But she never gave up on her religion I don't quite understand Ted, this is the least you have to know as a Christian People started saying that the woman was crazy And she still believes in the existence of God as always She was then blessed and pregnant And then became Virgin Mary One day, she was praying to God The roof fell down. Many people got hurt But she was fine People started talking about her being protected by God People started believing in it The wound then healed itself Such sanctity God even gave green beans to people Green beans? Peas? Yeah You know how people call green beans? Little Angel (Arabic) Where is my little gift? Put the money there Do you know about those courageous people? Bullfighters My brother likes them a lot Is that so? Is he allowed to go out there? Even though he likes bull fighters, he... Have a taste Bye Do you like fucking? Yeah, sure Men? That's not my thing. You still don't know about my ability Wait, what are you doing? Come Be seated Sit down You don't believe that my brother likes bull fighters? I do Ole! Go Ole! Fantastic! I'm an astronaut! It's fun! What a shame It's spinning too much You're great though What? Look! Shit! Shut up! Did you get poked by that woman? No Gotta try that! Have to let me think it over Are you alright? I wanted to tell you not to constrain yourself, Gotta be brave That woman can bend her legs this way Mouth and vagina were that close So nice This is such a miracle Just couple of inches apart Do you understand what I'm talking about? Look, we're created by the guy up there Thanks for the advice, but I think... From my point of view, when man was being created God was fight with Devil at the time You got money? My brother I'm so hungry Won't you have money if you stop drinking? I'm not gonna give it to you Oh no We're going to give a little something You're too kind I appreciate everything Ted? What is it? We have to be back Give it! Isn't it strong? This is not good, you're really bad Listen to me. Ted. Don't you be like this You should think for them How does he want me to respond? Give him a bunch of money? I didn't do anything I didn't start this. He started it If he fought back, we'd give the respect he deserved You're so bad You're a bunch of assholes! Should be taken out and executed! Asshole! You're not giving him the respect he deserves! Listen up Start it! Asshole! I want to kill you all! Kill you all!! We have too much money! Act up when you see the boss! We want to do this Hey, are you looking for us? You're lying to us Stop playing tricks! Give me your hand I'm going to pull you up Fool! (Song) Look at that! It's a mannequin Look at him Look! I'm telling you to stop! Let's go He's so fun My girl friend Be gentle He's shut up now He can't talk any more Don't show the wine bottle No no Hurry up and open the window. Let out the smell. Shit, too bad They're blocking the road Stop acting stupid Shit It's the cops. Can you show me your driver's license? What happened? He is my father, Mr. Officer My father has passed away Mr. Officer, we work on night shifts And his father passed away We have to go to his house I'm sorry, Mr. Officer It's funny, but I'm desperate Be brave What about you, sir? Got a driver's license? Driver's license? Sure I do Then it would be a lot more appropriate to have you drive instead Ted, let's switch seats Let me drive He's right Good, be brave! Go ahead, but you better be careful, it's dark out here Thank you It's better to fasten your seat belt I work hard, but it doesn't seem to get me anywhere We can go back together That guy is in a coma Blow a whistle. Towards that blonde Hurry up, look at her Look at how coquettish she is. Those bombs on her chest Over there, hurry up Shit Did you see the way she danced? I'm telling you, it was hot It was so nice Stop it Let go, let go No, stop playing around How is it, fun? Let go! Stop sucking! Tastes so good! Listen up, you bastard Stop it! I can't take such humiliation! Move out of the way, look at me He started it! Calm down, he's in a bad mood Stop messing around Stop it! Move aside Listen, don't you!- You want more? Come on! Let me go! Bastard! Get out! I don't want to see y'all no more Take my words for it The dearest in my life Hey, are we still going together? Ted, we have another friend now Lady He shouldn't kick me out like this He's made a mistake Let's go, get the fuck out of here! There's a good thing about this No! You're the same as my daughter Simon Simon What the heck is this? What? What is it? Expensive? Expensive? It really is This is my work It's the only thing I ever made You're so strong That's not all You haven't seen anything yet You're not kidding I'm not kidding, I make a record of all the women I fucked, look Look Incredible Are you going to put me on there? Of course Your thingy is so big Isn't that good? Don't be lazy, I want it all! If it's still not enough I can have my friend come over This way you'll feel even better I'm not scared Simon! Come on Come and fuck this woman with me I guarantee you'll feel good Have him come over Simon! Come on, Simon, don't be shy! Come on in! Everyone has a chance Simon! Simon! Come on! I swear to you Let's see who comes first! Let's go once they leave Aren't they going to find out? You think dead men can call the police Hurry up They're gone We're ready Grab the head and the leg It's so exciting So fun It's fun, but it's also very heavy I can't hold on any more Wait a moment, wait Did you see? Come! Go Go Do you think they saw us? Don't scare me, I'm sure they didn't see us Do you think they'll investigate? You scare people like this all the time? You think this is funny? I'm sure they didn't find out We're very careful You're too scared You think people will care about a dead body? This guy is so sad Yeah How long do you think this guy's been dead for? Not too long, it was still soft when I grabbed it A corpse takes a long time to decompose, right? I think so Bacteria, temperature should affect the speed Nonsense I'm not kidding We are so bad... Listen to me, Ted! This might be stupid Too much stupidity What if we found an old man when it's opened? Isn't it tragic? It is tragic Lift the sheet up And then look, let's lift it up! You carried it here I can't!-No Simon No Simon Good I'm going Go ahead I'm going She is very young She was very young How old do you think she is? She!- Doesn't seem to be dead Look at her breast Pussy Leg, my God Looks like she's still alive Do you know? The pussy is the first to appear and the last to disappear. Look, so flexible Look, it's shaking Shaking, flexible It shakes, look Simon!- Are you looking, it's shaking Don't touch it, Simon She's so pretty Still pretty after death But if she was alive, she'd never want someone like you Right there What are you talking about? Simon Simon, you want!- Simon, what's wrong with you? Nothing wrong with me, I wanna fuck her This kind of thing doesn't come around very often. I have to fuck her Done Thank God So nice This is nothing, you just fucked a dead woman Even though I love women... But all the women I fucked were alive You shut up! There is a difference between "Newly Dead" and "Pure Dead" Oh no, sorry, Ted But it felt so good I'm not ashamed of myself Simon What's up? Was it really that nice? You can't imagine You're right So fucking nice Super nice I carried her here I want to know her name But we should wrap her up first Aren't you going to fall in love with a live person? But you love a dead person? So stupid I love her He's in love with her Love, love!- OK, you love her What are we doing now? Let's put her in a backpack. Backpack? But she's cold Your heart is even colder than her body She has you, but can she feel it? Wait, wait up Where are you going? Hold me tight I love you But you're dead You'll never know What are going to do? Stop, can't go on any more Let me help you, OK? No! No! You can't go! Are you crazy? Let me go with her! OK. OK. We hold her up Electric guitar.
