 

                        Dragon Tiger Gate was founded... By 2 kungfu masters Wong Jianglong and Wong Fuhu They protected self-strengthening To free people from oppressiod They even taught martial arts To street urchins The gate thus because the symbol of justice While every youth was eager to join the Gate Wong Fuhu's son Dragon Decided to leave He was to part with his baby brother... Tiger So you still remember me? Grade 5? Not grade 5!. grade 3!. Almost the same... Not at all, what a poor memory Remember the fatso in our class? Sure, the one who bawled all the time? No, the one who wetted his pants! Well, he bawled after he wetted his pants I remember he like pilling your plait It couldn't be! I had short hair then I remember your had long hair How can I forget I had short hair? Like, would you forget you're called Chan? Look who was has a poor memory? I'm not Chan, Xiaowei! I'm not Xiaowei! I'm sorry So what's your name? Tiger Wong I'm Ma Xiaoling Hey Tiger! Hey Tiger! Why so many people? Ma Kun has reserved... The whole upper floor Ma Kun? The biggest kingpin in Hong Kong Those dudes in the black are his dogs some dudes in white are barging in! They're the White Lions, As powerful ar Kun Black or White, they're still bad guys Kun, so you got the Plaque again You have monopoly over all smuggling gigs It takes juice to work with Luosha Gang You gotta work harder! Juice?I got much more than you! To hell with your gigs I want half of your cut You kiddin' or what? Whoever has the Plaque can get all the cut You want half? your cutta your mind? Nice food! It's pay-up time! Mom! How dare you welsh on our debits? Not that I don't wanna pay We're the victims We've paid a lot already! Let them be, They are Kun's dags Stay put! master won't like it! Shibumi gave me the Plaque Come get it if you dare Even if I let you go My boss fan won't Enjoying your food, huh? Tiger! Where's the Plaque? Who are you? Tiger Wong! Find the Plaque Or you can't leave! I'll take sole responsibility for what I've done! Go down! Iet him go! Why? Gosh! Fan has gone way out of hand! All crap! What you starin' at Dragon Wong? You wanna fight me one on one? Why you let that kid go just now Kun? None of them were able to beat him And the white Lions were watching If Kun hadn't let him go... What good would that do, you crazy? Who cares about the White Lions? You're just a bodyguard, I could have taken him out on my own! I'm good! Fan.... Come fight me one on one! Scram! You better watch out! Why didn't you go all the way When fighting the kid? I will get you the Plaque back The sushi today is so good! So delicious! Hurry up! Tiger is our boss today He'll start first Tiger, this's for you! And this is for me! Gimme the Plaque The plaque What Plaque? What Plaque? This one? The Plaque is your head! You want this? How much can you pay? You weren't all that bad last time! Dragon! You got lost or what I come here to give you a hand! I've put drugs in their wine! I already got the Plaque I hate dirty tricks! The Plaque is our They're having fun with it We got every night to beat them up What did you say before? Me dirty? You dumbhead Let me teach you a lesson! Beat him up! You dare to touch me? Beat him up too! You guy will need an ambulance real soon I said beat him up! Who you fightin' with? Dragon Wong! Didn't you say you're a good fighter? Go in! Beat the crap outta anymore you see! I hate to be disturbed at my meals Your nunchaku sucks Better practice more! Let's practice together sometime! Thanks for your help! You're welcome Just couldn't stand them! I'm Turbo Shek Tiger Wong Tiger? A fierce name! Gotta split now! You guys okay? We're fine No blood was shed Hey, is that yours? I just found it Tiger Where's Dragon Tiger Gate? Xing, you snatched the Plaque You better explain to the master yourself Stop staring, You can touch it I got this scar when I was a kid When I was at your age I already knew kungfu well Once I passed by someone wielding his sword And there went this scar It's suck a big golden Plaque I had to snatch it Then this long-haired guy asked me for it Of couse I wouldn't give it to he So he beat us up He punched me and I parried Like what you taught us And the rest is history We're really not to blame! Indeed, Master! We're not to blame! The Plaque you snatch is called Luosha Plaque It's the transation permit between Luosha Gang and Kun Luosha Gang is a crime organization You snatched their stuff... And claimed you're innocent? Get out and squat for 3 hour! Would someone gimme a hand? I can't see! Hold on! Uncle I saw my brother again He's Kun's man now So he's bed to Luosha Gang But I don't believe he's a bad guy Bring him back to the Gate Master I'm Turbo Shek from overseas I was invincible in Chinatown But I know You're well versed in martial arts I wanna aggregate the skills of all school To manifest the spirits of Chinese Kungfu I'd therefore like to be your disciple I'll bve you disciple no matter what! You still here? Wait! I ain't ganna give up! You're great in nunchaku Can you teach me? I won't teach you but we can prectice together Great! Where's your nunchaku? By the way I'm also called the Judo Kid! Come on! Wow! excellent footwork! By the way, how you got that scar? How you got that scar? I can't hear you I said your scar... I got the scar while practicing But the other guy's ia a limp now So be carefull! Dragon, Come over It's for Dad's safety Let's do it together Am I not good enough... To protect you? Come fight me! No way! I don't wanno kill you! Then I'll die sure Better rely on yourself than on gods I won't let anything happen to you... Or your dad If dad retired You wouldn't need to protect us We'd all be safe then Where would you go if you could retire? Take this one first I'll go get another one Mom, did Dragon's mom take Dad away from us? I hate them You shouldn't hate any member of Gate Dad and I separated not because of them It's my own decision Dragon...come out it's Tiger Go away Don't come see me anymore I don't wanna see anyone from the Gate ever! Get lost Why you crying? I'll beat you till you smile? Stop! stop! Stop him! Don't let him run away Stop! Still running, smart ass? Wanna fight back? What you guys want? What? Beat him up Take his slipper! Don't come back to this park again Let's go! Hurry up! Tiger Okay, I'm coming! Let me give you my slipper Or your mom will yell at you What about your mom? It won't be a problem Thanks You don't wanna know why I was in a fight? Cos I know Dragon os a man of Justice Unless they're in the wrong You wouldn't have picked a fight They were bullying Tiger So I fought with them Carry this jade pendant with you You're a member of the Gate wherever you go You'll make it big in the future Remember you're Wong Fuhu's son Don't ever commit a crime Your life Will be fraught with frustrations You will come back to the Gate with your head up Never give up however difficult life will become What you meant by make it big You'll know when you grow up Come When will I make it big? Dragon! your mom haven't come out yet! Mom never came out She was never seen again It's lucky I meet Kun Out of gratitude I've done reluctant things for him I know I can't leave here... I'm ashamed to go back to the Gate ever again Dragon I'm your baby brother! I know, so what? Am I supposed to hug you with tears in my eyes? And you hug me and call me Bro? Uncle and I want you back to the Gate Don't work for this bad guy Kun anymore So you're a good guy and I'm a bad guy Go back to the Gate and play your good guy Chan! I'm Tiger Wong You're no fun You and Dragon are tight? He works for for my dad, I treat him like a brother You're his baby brother? You don't look alike You guys are brothers why you act like that? That's why I wanna help him Good! Gimme your phone Listen, Hurry up! This is my number, Remenmber to call me! Aren't you gonna help me? Sure but I didin't say now I'll call your when I find him, Bye. Thanks for taking care of Fan and his dogs They've been nothing but trouble lately. You can always quit. Not so simple! What's so hard? I've been in this biz forever Xiaoling is my only worry. I've taken you for my dad. And xiaoling my sis I won't let anything bad happen to my folks I believe you Just sleep on it And you? Will you go back to the Gate? Yes But it's not the right time yet I'll wait till you've retired Wanna get rid of me? Yes, the Plaque back to Luosha Gang Nunchaku Stippers!Wacth out! You shiuld be pliching Playing will slippers? No more slippers for a month. Take them all of! Take them all off! You don't wan the teach me At least practice with me! You are best at nunchaku? Yes! Pelease pick a weapon.Master! You are clueless. Worse than the kids. You know nothing about nunchaku. Come back when you know... How to grasp a runchaku. I'm Turbo Shek. Invincible in Chainatown. You are clueless. You know nothing nunchaku. Come back when you know... How to graps a nunchuku. I was always buillied as i grew up abroad. I didn't like that. So i stashed a scar on my face. I wana scare people off. I learnt nunchaku Cos it's fierce and powerful. But today i was totolly beaten. I thought i had grasped it very hard But he took it from me so easily! After a long struggle. I finally realized... It's not a matter of strenght... But of the heart. I can't scare people... With a scar on my face. I wom't tell my scar story anymore. But i will say... Master Wong left a slipper mark on my face. I will keep it up. Thanks! Turbo! You know how to do household chores? I don't but i will learm! Kun wants to return the Plague and retire? That's good news for you I will arrange for you to join Luosha Gang. That way...we can be together. Why you staling at me? I want you to understand... I can make Shabumi let you take Kun's place. YOu can be your own boss finally! I should't have rescued you that day. Listen up.Drogon! Whether you join Gang or not. We ain't good guys. We cannot change our fate. Drogon,i... Xiaoling. You know Tiger? Yeah. Arrange a meeting for us. Please. Giving up the Plagus is an insuit me! Lousha Both Kun and Drogan must die! Wacth out! Xiaoling show us what you got! Do you best,Xiaoling! Dad,how did i do? Not too bad. I'm the best in the team. And you call that "not too bad"?! I was the best softball palayer once. Your game is just kiddy stuff for me! Cool If you are so good.Let's play a game! Okey you arreange it. But you better get changgrd now. We will go eat. Drogan is on his way. Cool! Hello Drogon i have to see you now. But i don't feel like it. You will regret if you don't show up. So fast!You must moss me! Have you ever done it in the water? I thought you had something urgent to tell me. Tattoo for me. Why? My brithday present. You have brithday? You saved me years ago. To me,that's my brithday. Forget it.I know you won't. Turn around. Go away! You will fall your cloth! None of your businese!Go way! Jump down and i will catch you. What is your name? Dragon. Yours? Rose. What you staring at? Can't i stare? I will be in love with you forever. What have you tattooed for me? I have always wanted to stare at you like that. I was suppossed to kill you. Double Devils are off kill Kun. It's to late. Go to hell! You bloody old man! I'm good but you treat me like shit! Bother to work for Lucsha Gang than for you Retire? Not so easy! Iet me retire you now! Don't hit the,Kun! I was just kiddin! You back-stubbing asshole! Let me retire with you. Help!Daemon! Help Stick! Dad! Watch over her! Remember you are Wong Fuhu"s son. You will make it big the future You will come back to the Gate with your head up Never give up however Difficult life will become My dad... Will he go to hearve? He will he loved you so much. Better ask whea the bad guys will go to hell! From now on,the Gate's is your home. Even it my limps are broken. I won't ;et anyone harm you Daemon and Stick were beaten by people from the Gate. The Gate is really that strong? Good! Master! We haven't found Tiger yet. Xing and others are seaching for him! Who's the best here? Wacth out for... The "Black Pagoda"! So Drogon Tiger Gate's kungfu sucks! You are not good enough to die under my hands! But you can! Find your brother Guard the Gate together.... Xiaoling, should anyting happen to anyone... Bring them to Mit Baiyun.. And look for a guy called Qi. Master! Master!Master! Pleasa save my friends! THeor wounds are too deep for me. All over Mt Baiyun. Only Qi can help them. Where can i find Qi? Inside the pagoda. I will find him once i get up there? No ane has ever entered the pagoda! Stay put! Pick up the prayer beads. Pick up all the prayer beads. Master Qi! Here are all the prayer beads. Pleasa save my friends. There is still ine bead below the pagoda. You are gone an arduous way. Your friends must mean a lot to you. If you can jump down the pagoda... To pick up the bead... Then I will save them I hope you'll keep your promise. Did I ever go up there? Everything is an illusion in the mundane world. Only your conviction is real. The moment your decided to sacrifice yo urself... The prayer bead was already in your hand Dont't worry,l will save your friends. No one at the Gate is good enough to beat Daemon and Stik I know your relationship with Dragon He's good I wanna fight with him. Take this to save him. He should die under my hands Your intermal power might even increase Don't move Don't say a word I was also adopted I did this for your today. So you'll care for me... Ever if you don't love me. I can make you hate me! This pill can only save one person. You can either save Dragon... Or yourself! Dragon Have you ever loved me? Tiger, I'll taech you "Electric Dragon Drill" Turbo, I'll teach you "Golden Mask" Tiger, Turbo. I'm giving you two gadgets They can help you fight Shibumi But whether you'll win in the end depends on yourselves Wait for me at the Gate I promise I'll be back Looking for your own death? Your kungfu has improved a lot! Let's have a good fight! That's it Anything more? Your "Golder Mask" is not bad! Anything else? "Election Dragon Drill" Embarrassing! On behalf of the Gate I'm returning the Plaque to you. Dragon I've been waiting for you! Eighteen Dragon Staying Palms? We can go back to the Gate now. Little Brot Tiger! Tiger is back! Tiger! Tiger! Uncle, were back mu brother and me THE END
