 

                        Are there ticks? No Are you sure? Yeah, I'm sure Beautiful Why all the junk food? I have a project I'm gonna try and do while I'm here, and maybe you guys could help Is that all of the boxes too? Can you help me with these? Yeah Could you get the front door? Yeah My keys Put it down here Here Thanks Found it Do you guys wanna take a look around the yard? Okay Sure Do you need help with anything? Oh no, just sit down Its nice Do you wanna see your rooms? Yeah Hum, by the way... The phone lines are down, I just... I haven't had a chance to get around to fixing 'em It's fine Linda... your room is down stairs Bye! It's a really nice room I mean, it's a trap We never leave What? Towels Do we clink, do we say a toast or? You do not say a toast You not supposed to clink? No clinking The weekend? Yeah! Thank you! Should I serve you? My uncle was really good with wines He always come over and start talking about 'em for hours And so we have to delay dinner's just so we could talk about this grand "wine that he had I hope he had some " tonight They have, I don't know, all kinds of food There's lots of fish and lots of meat So I was a vegetarian at the time, so I didn't eat anything But my friend has a " of meat In like this big" And this little boy ran up from behind and grab the meat right of the" And stuck it and his pocket and run off Oh God! That's kinda tragic It was" It's gorgeous there Who'd you go with? My old boyfriend Where'd you learn how to cook? Ah, cook books Did you have the joy of cooking? The joy of cooking! The old stand by My mom and dad are really into trying new foods from different countrys Once a week we have a meal... some different, exotic dishes It's nice! It's a nice tradition Where were you when you find out? In my dorm And you had no idea that they're gonna leave you so much money? Not at all So you guys just met at yoga? Yeah, we've been How are you? Megan says you guys interned with her this summer? Not with me" Well... you hired us Yeah I can't believe two months is gone by Why not? I don't know But it's been great, the experience You still in school? Yeah Excuse me I'll be right back Hella It seemed like the right time, it's not a big deal It's the first night! It was... the conversation... Whatever Look, obviously She... She doesn't seem upset Now I feel really bad Fine, it's over, whatever No, she hates me She hates me, doesn't she? Whatever, just think, it wasn't a big deal Look at that What do you have? What is that? Crystal gardens For all of you For the weekend We can watching grow No, no, no, no Sorry I can picture you as a blond Who? You Could you picture me as a blond? No Yeah, me neither I've only been blond about a year "died, I wanna to reflect more light around my head I want it to be brighter Like a" No Like... a light on the back of my head, like a flashlight Like the light hitting the back of my head and... Someone shouting "Stop! We've found you Freeze! Don't move! We've found you" Linda? It doesn't make a sound Isn't doesn't always have to be What is that, just, seriously? Chill out! You bastard! You gonna give me every diseases! What are you doing here? I was driving back from Vermont I'll swing by to Se if anyone was here Is anybody here? Yes This is my brother, Henri Hi! Hi! Hi, I'm Grace Hi Grace Linda Hi Linda Hella I tried calling but I couldnt get thru The lines are down Since when? Like a week now I'm gonna fix before I leave She didn't even tell us about you Yeah, she did No, she didn't " No, no, no, no, no We look alike We'll do a test Let me show you We are totally identical No, come here Maybe... Like me, do it like me I don't know, the eyebrows? - Maybe... - Sort of... Yeah Same size feet, maybe? Come with me They're fraternal You have to leave Why? Come on, please, you just... you have to go What? Just... I've been in the car for three hours! I don't wanna drive down to New York right now Hella's fiance just left her two days ago She's completely crushed She doesn't seem crushed It's because she tells that For me? I've parked my car on the road, like... Can someone maybe give me a ride? Come on, is cold I don't know, they had a lot to drink I'm sorry but it's supposed to be girls weekend Only girls I never knew you had so many friends Always keeping 'em from me Please OK! OK! Thank you! Jesus! What you've just said? Nothing Yeah, you did. You just said something I didn't say anything You just said something about pizza No, I didn't You said like really quick, like, is there pizza or I want pizza No, I didn't. I was just siting here Dude, you just said that. I swear! I don't think I said anything Yes, you did Really? I don't know I don't know, I just thought is something funny Did I? Do you? What? Pizza No, Henri Come in! Hey Just saying good night Good night Is she in the bath? I think so Goodnight Hella What? I hear nothing Sweet dreams Yes? Yes what? You're so weird But so am I Feels nice How long ago did her parents died? I think two or three years ago Can I turn this off? If you don't need it It's strange that he just left Yeah " I'm lost and thirsty Do you want some juice? "Juice"... Do I look like an infant? Soda, I want soda Soda is full of sugar It's to early Will make you hipper Hipper is good The army likes hipper Is that what you are? The army? Is what I wanna do My dad wants me to be a medic My mom wants me to joying the air force, like her dad And why the army? Because they are number than marines Then why go in there at all? Why not... do something else with your life? Defending your country is cool I know all the" " " " " How could you be lost? You're so smart I am. Since yesterday You're right Where do you live? I told you, I'm not from around here. I'm lost Just camping with my dad Do you want my help? Common My house is right down there Yeah, right I was just asking why the army... Why not be an inventor or something? Just killing people is more fun Do you know how many times I've been" Do you wanna kill me? No Why not? Because... Because why? Because your one of me You're up early You're up early I thought you're gonna sleeping for at least in an hour It's bright here Do you wanna take a walk with me? It's okay Do you have any coffee? Yeah, sure I can make it No, it's fine But your walk? Now that you're up I'll stay Cool I mean, don't... I'm just saying 'cause I'm up What would you doing if I leave? Have a sleep some more I might take a walk to, just not right away Okay The filters are here Okay " Okay Have a nice walk I'm gonna do the video over there I can do the help You can run the camera Sure Good morning Hi! Hi! I'm just gonna go wash up You found the tea I'd like to put a pool in here That would be great How can't you see with your glasses so dirty? They are dirty Why don't you have any help? Help? Yeah, someone to bring me things They don't need me that much Besides, even if I could afford I didn't wanna... Is that what you want? I might My turn She's a natural What's your brother do again? Writer He's in a middle of a " novel Really? I thought... he was in a band, I thought they're doing well He wishes He's so weird He went to see this unicorn... ...when he was ten... ...at the circus... ...is all I wanted to see But turn up the unicorn... is just a poor goat Who's horn have been bound together into one I think it screwed him up What's up with her? Please don't use the phone I told you, the lines are down But this one works, it just needed to be bugged in Who do you need to call? I was just checking my messages I know I know, I just " be nice if "no phone for a few days, okay? You got some great books in this library Did you see this? " Yeah So, it's on the agenda How long does it been in your family? Is not that old and my grandmother... We had a library that was five hundred years old I got too much sun today " " What's that? Something to play What is it? - It's like... - An sombrero! Boy soccer, 1999 Sorry! You murderer! How's the skirt on me? It's really unflattering I just wanted to say! Oh my God! Round one " Grace could you zip me up? " You fit perfectly, actually This dress looks nice My mother's Could you change the music, please? It's better with my hair up Change this music! Alright! Okay! Okay! - I'm sorry! - Pardon me! You totally in my way! Fuck! Aw, stupid aw! " What did you do? No, no, no " I'm sorry! It's not your fault No, leave me alone Shh! Shh! Shh! Shh! - Where is that? - Turn down the music, turn down the music! Okay! Do you hear that? What is that? - That's over here - Spy the doors, spy the doors, spy the doors! No! Don't! No, is definitely out here No I can hear! I can hear, is out here! - Uh, it's here - No! It's over here! Let's go, let's go! Listen, it's like they hide in a book shelf You better keep your glasses on No, it's here! It's out back! - It's here! - She's right! Look the doors! It's totally here! - Let's go see - I know " - Maybe we should go outside... - No Can't go outside, don't leave the house! Listen! Hella! Hella! - No, it's here - No... It's here! It's staying here! No, it's over here! Get out! Listen, listen, listen! Megan? Where is it?! It's here! No... Yeah, it's here, it's here, listen " Check that closet You going outside?! Come here It's upstairs! Shit! Common! It's upstairs! No, it's not! Where is it going? It's in the library! It's in the library! - It's in the library! - It's in the library! " No! Don't open the door! It's in the kitchen! Go, go! Shh! It stopped! It's here! You guys! Megan! Downside? I'm not sure Let's go It's out there! Come! I think it's over here! It's over here, it's over here!! Grace? Fuck you! It's upstairs It's upstairs! We should go Come on! Grace don't defy me! Where it go? It's in the fireplace What? It's in the fireplace Is? It's in the fireplace, everyone! Listen, Listen! Where this clothes come from? I've just been collecting them I think I can hear it " I can't hear No, it's gone It's not It is, that's just the rain - Where it come from? - Where did you go, where do you go, where do you go... I'm tired We should name him Timothy Megan, what was that? Timothy Timothy Timothy Megan - Megan - Yeah What was that? I don't know You should know I've never heard it before They're growing! "You can do it harder " You are so good at this I was in massage school for a second We rubbed each other all day long and then I go to anatomy And I realise from the pictures... All I was doing is tenderizing meat and fat I felt like a butcher and I quit Well done Anyone else? No, thanks How is this sound? "We'll be back tomorrow. Might be too tired to hang, we'll see" Sounds fine I know but should I say "I might be back" or "I will be back"? Just say what you want, it's sounds fine Maybe I don't want him to know I'll be back I mean, I want him to know. I wanna see him tomorrow, but... I want to think for just a second that maybe we won't see each other To so... he wanna see me even more That's ridiculous, Linda Just tell 'em What? Tell 'em the truth That you'll be back and you want to see 'em Tell 'em that you love 'em and you want to see him all the time Really? Yes Hm... No, this is fine Is time to work Hella? Grace? Can we do the video now? Yeah Yeah, I'll... I'll go get the starving babies The what? Grace" You'll be over there, Linda How's it looking? Good Yeah, you have a couple feet to the left And you're out of frame There! Okay! Good! More towards the center! Are we wearing the hats? No hats Done You're at the edge of the frame, right there! So this is the edge? Walk straight ahead! Stop! Okay! Were did all the clouds come from? You were sleeping It's one of those crazy summer storms It will pass Just start over here " " How do I know which is which? Just make it up They're all in the frame? Yeah, I already said that You have to act like you're doing something great Like you're really helping the starving babies out Okay You're proud... but, do it delicately Okay Are they crying? They're starving They can't cry But if they could... they would Are you ready? Hi Hi I don't think they're acting hot enough It's Africa and they're not acting hot enough You should tell them So it's suppose to be ironic? Hi Megan! Hi Sarah! How's it going? It's good! Good, how are you? I'm good I saw this out my window You're living" I'll be right back! Are we done? Sure Are your parents coming up? No We're living tomorrow " I'm thirsty Me too Who is that? I just came by to say hello I'll go get you guys some water I don't know I'm doing things And I love without pear Get a little bit lonely sometimes I know you do Todd is coming up in a few days Is that is? Looks so big Is for further things It's reminds me of all that stuff Have you seen the gardens here? No You should Okay Want some? My dad asked about you the other day Yeah Yeah He misses your parents They're close It's weird They're really close It's fucked How's the " coming along? " The mess will get fixed Maybe you should come over tomorrow morning For breakfast Okay Bring some vegetables Sounds nice Your pants You change them on your walk the other morning I saw you from the kitchen going and coming, they're all different color Maybe... see? You like them? I made them I can make some for you Bye! Bye Been there Are you afraid to dying? Don't ever say die You just seem like someone who isn't I'm not You say that like it's nothing It is nothing Would you return this to the chair? She has a horse and now she got's a new pony - Beautiful, and she has a " chicken... - So she lives all alone there? She had a fiance But he left her It's sad I wish I had a fiance In your twenties? I thought she was wearing a ring But she has to let go I think that she wanted to buy this lot too, but... I helped her So you actually build this house? Yeah, I had build I thought it was old No, it's new I really like how the doors have no door nobs Well, I guess it is new Is just strange, I thought it was old - Do you need any help? - Nope No but thanks Does anyone need tea? Please Thanks Haven't notice too many insects Lots of" Usually the first one to get bitten There's one Did you know that it used to be " clouds? The size of Rhode Island? That big? Yeah, they used to " from miles and miles Then one year they just didn't come They never came again Ever? Not like that They still exist But... Yeah... Not in forms that size What happened? They just found out Like last year I guess is part of their cycle They fly away north Closer to the arctic And in the" It's totally melting now They discovered this huge spread out thin layer of "and" Was like a layer of them Trapped Like a " of black Like a blanket of insects I never imagined where those things come from I hear about them I assumed that's just... sweep down from the sky I think about where they go when they're not here Don't they fly that far every year? It was early The storm That'll never been a storm like that, that early It sucks for them " Millions of them fools like that! Instant fools, instant freeze, instant fools! Don't Don't It's a scary thought " You'll be back in school soon Yeah Are you looking forward to getting back? I don't really feel like I left Of course you do No I'm sorry And what about? I'm glad you can make it up, though You have to do it again Yeah I want you to meet my parents when we get back I think you'll like them Sure I'm sleepy I'm going up Okay Tell Grace I said goodnight Okay Thanks for your help today It should be good Yeah, it was fun It wasn't supposed to be fun No, I know You do? I know, I got it Turn that crap off Where you smoking? Just one She's 26, not 25 Hey Rise and shine! We have to tell you something Yeah? Gas? Power? Water? Telephone? I have no idea what you're talking about, you guys - I'm sorry - Just look at it! Please, just look at it And the dates Well, maybe... I don't want to talk to her Oh God! I know it's early but if we don't do this now That was like taken what? Three months ago? And this is like Yeah... I mean... Why would she? Exactly Why would she Don't make a big deal out this, I don't... What you mean? How we not make a big deal? - " I don't understand what is this... - Okay, Grace is like... You told me you didn't were glasses I lied We know I knew you guys were on your way up here The crystals... Hella? One day will awake into discover, your life is all you wanted And hoped it will be You're not find everything just the way your head said you wanted it It might be not the way you planned But you'll awake into your dreams Your dreams of joy Love And peace Your dream of freedom You'll see beyond the illusions You'll transcend your old limiting beliefs You'll wake up and notice that your past is just as it needed to be You'll see where you are today is good You'll look at tomorrow with peace, faith and hope Knowing that while you can not control some of what life does You have possibilities, and powers in any circumstances life might bring The struggle you have lived with for so many years The struggle in your heart Has disappeared You're secure At peace with yourself And your place in this world One day, you'll awake into your heart's contentment Let that day be today Thank you I really loved what she said Would you like to come to my country house? With me and some of my friends this weekend? It sounds lovely! Where they go? They said they couldn't take the fresh air anymore And we never going back It's all I lived for Did you hear about that boy? Got lost around here for like, four days They just found them Is he okay? Yeah, they're saying he keeps saying He saw this woman and she refused to help They're saying he had a vision That she wasn't real Look
