 

                        1 How is it? Good now I'm going to click Come little more closer Now I'll stand Come Come daughter TmGHub.Org See, how is this one? Pappa, let me also see it Keep the hand to this side Daughter, smile Smile girl How is it? Akash, had enough of it no? Come, we'll go Ready, daughter look You wait and see Akash! Akash! Isn't it daughter? Come Sister attend her Will come now Doctor, Akash was everything to her Because of that sudden death daughter was very much affected To play with her and for everything She shouldn't think of anything else to be upset Especially with kids I can understand what doctor says That is why I extended the leave to this month also Afterthat... Actually what she wants is a change from this environment TmGHub.Org She never leaves out of her room much When I compel a lot for some time she'll sit at the sit out Over there also her attention is on bike of the Akash Can I tell one suggestion? There is one school known to Ekka 'Malgudi National Public School' It is at Idukki, it's a residential school where homely care is received Why don't we admit daughter there? So far, she has not stayed alone But in this mid term how to get an admission overthere? All that can be done, in the director board of the school There is a friend of Ekka, I had gone there once TmGHub.Org "In this dawn, bathes the golden sun" "On the tearfilled eyes, the snow is melting" TmGHub.Org "On the hill top brooks, which flows coquettishly was reddened" "When it was dawn at hill range time when new day arises" "Bathed in wet mist, gentle breeze came for a visit" TmGHub.Org Fellow, stop there Will show you Hey you! Flower! Joseph, this is the last warning for him In this year itself how many times? Only for this time, sir you can beat him or scold him Do whatever you want There is no use of beating him If at all I receive any complaint Don't hesitate just come here to pick him up, that's all Sir, can you give the phone to him? Go, boy No Pappa, yeah promise Boy, might have received really good Sorry Pappa Enough boy, don't over act You don't worry you will be thrown out from school There are lot of other schools here Since Pappa has told that, don't do anything naughty okay Give the phone to that bald Sir, he won't make any problems, I have really scolded him Regarding this matter, there shouldn't be a chance to call you Do you remember what Pappa has told? - Bald! I remember it sir Go Sir, come Daughter, did you like the school? Teacher, are the boys accommodated here? This floor is forthe girls, for boys it is down stairs This is reading room This is recreation That's good From now on daughter, read and play if you want Don't sit alone in the room okay How many good students are seen here? From now on they are yourfriends Should play with them You should be happy okay Daughter has come after a long journey, hasn't she? Go and take rest Mother will go and come, okay Daughter you may go This belongs to her Pappa When Akash died only this was left behind She has got an obsession towards this specs Without her notice, I kept it away But if she is compels a lot and when she is very much upset Mam, you may give this to her Fellow where is the biscuit? Fat fellow Wait there Take the biscuit Biscuit! I'll show you - Go man Kids, just move Who has locked him inside? Didn't anyone see this? Fellow, isn't there a big stadium in two acres to play? Then why did you get into this? How to take this elephant out? How did you get trapped in here? See uncle, easily puts head inside and very slowly, my god! Got jammed, someone help Why is Atheena standing alone? Uncle, do you want this? Go man TmGHub.Org Why no one is coming to play with you? Don't know everyone is scared of me Are you scared of me? - No Then come Come You may go first Careful Leave me - You come here Leave me man By today everything is over It's paining, leave me I was waiting for a chance to corner you, today I'll settle everything Shut the mouth, you come here In the history of this school, has not seen such a naughty kid Walk fellow Don't react, go I say Here sir You can't be tolerated here again I slipped and fell down myself That is... That is not what I came to know I fell down myself Sir, she is scared of him and she is not saying it On beating him he'll tell like a parrot What is that? Which means buttocks Shucks! All the bad words what students say here is received from you The buttocks can be called buttocks only, can I say Salman Khan? You have to be more careful, okay Now all of you go to classes Why sir wearing black, did anyone die? I think it is a very serious matter In fact if there is an emergency situation like that - - we'll close down the school Students safety is the main concern An information, that they have camped in this area, that's all Is the visitor's register updated? Sir, that is all perfect You should be alert 24 hours It is like that only isn't it sir? Then okay sir, if you get any information, call me Sir, are they very dangerous people? Will they do anything to us? Mr. Jayan no human being is dangerous The situation, that makes them dangerous If you look like that you and me are all dangerous Isn't it? My god, am I dangerous? No, there is no chance for that TmGHub.Org Don't know the conversion Give this to her Donkey! TmGHub.Org If that fat fellow is send out I would have got a company Here comes anotherfat fellow! Fellow, you are always outside Aren't you also always outside? What a pity! Go man Go man I could have decently walked off This fellow and all children snatchers - - even they don't want him! Earlierthey used to come in white car - - don't know where they are now I didn't understand anything TmGHub.Org "The rain pours down in small drops on this narrow lane" "Covered with an umbrella with a smile croons this peacock" "Near the clear sky, beautifully beside me-" "- when the peacock dances on the shores where waves flow" "Like a beautiful cloud, shall fly down the hill" TmGHub.Org "Gliding and rowing on snow" "You come to write smile in the eye" "When the towers of snow are built here" "Come to pick hail stone" "When the breeze plays the flute, colored tailed butterfly" "Playful deer and colored parrot" "Can you go this way with a mountain heap of playfulness?" Be careful TmGHub.Org Please don't make noise I won't hurt you Child, you may go Don't tell anyone that you saw me here You go Where is the ball? Come, I'll tell What happened Atheena? Then shall we go and check? Water! Water! I've arranged a discussion on science fest Where are you both going? One person wants to go there and another person wants to go here And you are going straight Won't mingle with others and always together By the way it's reading time for you, isn't it? From the students call Rahul and Athira What is the name? Atheena Milan Is police searching, uncle? Is there police here? No few days back, police was searching here Did you tell anyone that you saw uncle here? Do you often come here? No, for the first time In the places like this Where there are no people, kids shouldn't come You go to school won't they enquire? Go What is uncle's name? Zaffan! Don't tell anyone that you saw me here What is uncle's name? Zaffan! TmGHub.Org Why did you come again? Somehow I should go from here But... What is the mistake done by uncle? I don't know what to say to you kids I don't know if I say that whether you will understand it Somehow I should reach my home Only that is there in the mind Where is uncle's home? Look, beyond this hill Such a long distance with this ailing leg? We'll bring the food and water - - but you may go only after the wound is healed In which class are you? Fourth standard Is there everything? Sir What's up man? Any clues Sir, that is... This is his phone call details forthe last six months Only very few calls Many are, his calls to his wife Local calls There is nothing in this, that will help investigation, sir TmGHub.Org "On the tearfilled eyes, on the rose flower cheeks" "All of a sudden the love is filled" "Wishes to indulge in it" "On these plains where the white snow falls" "Shall melt into one soul, like an inseparable bond" "The time on this flowery meadows, like a blissful blessing" "Has created a beauty" "Flower, when yourfragrance is spreading like chill" "My lover mind is blossoming" "Milky streams caresses the valley" "Shall become the swans of music which flows in it" "During the time when night birds croons" "We shall become inseparable lovers" TmGHub.Org "Always in my dawn" "You are the smiling first sight, that comes near" "You are the divine flower" "In hundred births" "My soul has searched for you, a lot" "You are the valuable treasure my daughter" "While you sleep, the dreams flowers" "It was full of colors to rapture" "On the blue sky -" "- will the glittering stars come as her friend?" "On the tearfilled eyes, on the rose flower cheeks" "All of a sudden the love is filled" "Wishes to indulge in it" "On these plains where the white snow falls" "Shall melt into one soul, like an inseparable bond" "Will you give this birth, as a blessing?" "Will you come along as my lover?" Hello, aren't you here? Did you see this? Didn't understand? That cat is covering its shit with mud by the cat itself No one has to say that to the cat Is there any other creature like this? In the world cat is the neatest animal The chicken lays egg, cow gives milk The dog will at least bark With the cat which husband has told, is there any use? Then, is the rat caught by your father? - So what? Daily is it catching one rat? The creature which has got no use, can cover its shit The people with no job can watch that What, the greatness of cat? Pappa! Come running Daughter, you sit here We will tell our mother- - why can't we make our cat a national animal? Daughter, you take a bath and come Shall hear Pappa's madness later Hey girl, today night I'll make you hear Pappa's madness Go Why, don't want? TmGHub.Org So, that's it, now who is drawing? Didn't I say Pappa will draw for you? Indeed when Pappa draws and she will go to school! Pappa, Mummy is drawing very well Is it so? It's a scenery isn't it? I know what Mummy draws Shall I say it? Okay then you tell There are hills, no? Yeah! Now comes the sun with 'spike' Over here one coconut tree, over here one river! A small house Daughter, isn't this what Mummy drew? It is not that super One thing is missing Which is that thing? I'll correct it now Now its correct, isn't it? Hubby, what magic is this? Young sheep, there is no big magic on this The one who knows to draw well And one who doesn't know to draw Right from childhood, there is a picture we try to draw That is this picture Right from our grandfather's to daughter's generation Forthe first time, they try to draw this picture I'm not a Picasso and all My goodness! She is angry Daughter do you know - Which is the best picture drawn by Pappa, so far? - No! Look, this is the one "Will you give this birth, as a blessing?" "Will you come along as my lover?" "Will you give this birth, as a blessing?" "Will you come along as my lover?" I have called to say an urgent matter All the class teachers should contact today itself The guardians of resident students over the phone On Friday exactly at 4 O'clock the bus should start from here At 5 O'clock we should reach at the Day School at the valley Yes, the road block, when they all come to narrow high range paths More than that the mist which comes now and then Then... The last year's accident since that girl was lucky - - it didn't become a tragedy The condition of the road is poor than before Even for expert drivers this high range path is not so easy Call a staff meeting immediately and convey this message TmGHub.Org Is it still aching? No, boy It has reduced A slight problem to walk That's all When is your exam getting over? So today is? Wednesday So, only two more days After that I'll also go How can uncle go? You don't worry on all that Now for the remaining two days Without delay come and meet uncle It must be late, for me day time is when you come And the rest is night Kids, you may go Go and come Uncle, you keep this But let it be with you, son Now, uncle's time is decided by 'HIM' Okay, you may go You go and come Sir on this Zaffan, I still have a confusion Not even a single person has given a statement against him Relatives, neighbors, compatriots - - no one knows about such a background These people... That is all true sir Something is... Whatever it may be... Did you understand? TmGHub.Org Color got finished, isn't it husband? Now, what to do? By leaving me alone, you'll wake up David uncle And make him open the shop and after buying the color Will complete this whole painting at a stretch at night, won't you? Otherwise Janet, you also come we'll have an outing and come Who is this at this time? Is it Balettan? What is it? I'm Sudharshan Myself and my friends had come for a trekking In between went wrong with the route By that time, fell from the rock and his leg got wounded Needs a place to stay on this night This was the house which was seen at first Thought if its a inconvenience over here, will enquire other house We were about to go outside Then shall we leave? Come Please wait, his wound is bleeding very much Can go after putting some medicine Please come You make some coffee Here This is a big wound Sir, we'll wait outside My goodness, can't stand watching this What are you all doing? - We are working in an IT park at Cochin Monthly there is a weekend trip, which had ended up like this After our meeting, so far didn't mention the name I'm Zaffan Family? She is there and daughter is there right now daughter is not here She has gone with grandma, she'll come tomorrow You are an artist, aren't you? My goodness, managing a tea estate that is the main job This is only my passion This is not complete okay, the color got finished While we were going out to buy that, you came in Zaffan, I'm telling this painting of yours is complete Because tomorrow this red color will completely cover blue sea Bhai, nothing is covering anything What I'm trying here is to unite these two colors Then the sea will have a new color A new color which we haven't seen so far What a bullet? Actually, who are you people? Who are you people? Didn't you hear what I asked? Who are you? We have not come to hurt you Just ten minutes when that wound is stitched, we'll go No, nothing is possible! First of all tell who you are? Tell, who you are For people like you, you can call us revolutionist People who had not lost the powerto react or 'Maoist' Can call us whatever you like My goodness! What, 'Maoist? ' Must get out from here now Ours is a family living peacefully, sir If anyone sees, you are sheltered here -Zaffan, let me say Nothing more to say Who is it? What is it? TmGHub.Org Outside there is police They have come searching for us Please don't say we are here They will leave, after that we'll also go If at all if you betray us On the shoot out which is going to happen here On that anything can happen to anyone You stay here Akbar Khan, cobra commanding officer Have you seen anyone going through this way? No Why are you so perplexed? Nothing! Are you staying alone in this house? Wife is there, daughter is at the native What is this? Blood! The hand got cut Where? Show it Not mine, wife's Is that so? He has gone - Within 5 minutes they will surround this house From your behavior they had known everything Right here now anything can happen What? What is there to happen? Husband! I'm there, you come! Wait on opening this door Hardly two feet within that time, they will shoot you down Sometimes, we may not see again Just remember one thing After 50 years when 'Maoist history in Kerala' - - is made to a book The first chapter in that will be 'this night'! TmGHub.Org Janet! Janet! DearJanet! Did you try to fool me? 4 officers are dead TmGHub.Org Go! I'll kill! Husband! Husband, you may leave me! Go somewhere and escape If husband is dead for our daughter She will be left alone! For me... Not too long Janet! Daughter! Daughter! TmGHub.Org What happened uncle? Nothing Uncle, are you crying? Only today I can see the daughter So, doesn't uncle cry? Milan had come a little while ago When uncle goes, won't you come back? Why not I don't come? When daughter returns after the vacation I'll come along with daughter Jenny Simply saying True Come -Where to? That's all there, come Look at this Daughter did you like it? Fatty don't leave What are you searching? Pappa's specs It will be inside this one Did all get in? - Yes sir I'll be in the next block I've told Jayan to lock computer lab and dormitory Where did it go? Teacher you confirm that and come Make it fast, only our 3 vehicles are pending Atheena! Did you fall down? When we board the bus with this wouldn't teacher scold? Come, we'll wash and go It is over here Come Wash fast there is no time There is lot of dirt TmGHub.Org Enough come My goodness, the bus Open it, open it! Someone open it! Someone come fast Open it! Hello, is there anyone here? Who has locked this one? Open it Open it! Open it! Open it! Open it! Is there anyone? My goodness, open it! Help Hello help Open it, who has locked this one? Open it hello Is there anyone? Is there no one here? TmGHub.Org Anyway ran, if you had taken that bag, could have eaten the biscuit You don't worry on seeing we are missing - - someone will come for help Will anyone come? Can you understand any of this? What is there to understand? Do you know the meaning of the word 'security? ' A watch man - No, a person who simply sits like this 18 years back I came like a 'Jayan' now I float on water Why is that? Because of this job Then very often to get rid of our boredom We should listen to - - Kanada, Marathi, Telugu, Gujarathi languages on radio You should know all this I'll teach you Come, we'll go -Where? Then who is here? Hey fool, this one month is for us to enjoy There is no need to come to this area Till afternoon, can sleep at the quarters After that take the office jeep and go to toddy shop Go there have 4 pegs, barrage on his father! Return back to quarters at 7 O'clock and sleep nicely What if someone calls in the office phone? What if someone comes here? Who is going to come here? What is there to take? Fellow, once in a while principal will call on that land phone If not received, will call on my phone So? What so? Fellow, simply tell we are on the rounds -Isn't it? You do one thing go and bring the jeep Come, come "We are going to rock" Bad mirror What are you searching? - Let me see, there will be some way Uncle! Uncle! What, uncle? Uncle! Uncle! TmGHub.Org Here hold this Break the glass Break it fast uncle will go Did you check at the school? I called the security he is not picking up We are about to go there -At that time who was the staff in the bus? Sir, I was the one, it is me who boarded them on the bus I'm sure have marked the attendance Have you stopped anywhere on the way? - No sir Do you remember seeing them after the bus got started? All the kids were shouting in between that, these kids? Sir then I'll go and check Wait Sir, we'll go there and check We'll go Call at the station and arrange more force TmGHub.Org "Will the sorrow of the earth be removed?" "Will the cover of darkness be removed?" "Searching for a route" Stop, there is a person "Will the sorrow of the earth be removed?" "Will the cover of darkness be removed?" "Searching for a route" -Did you understand what is said? Elephant has come down on path for one kilometer road is block Only after one hour block can be cleared Park the vehicle to the side Okay sir Hold this My god, there is only one match stick What if it turns off? This won't turn off, this is how Pappa lights the cigarette Saved! I'll close the window You go and close the door of the bathroom and come Otherwise we'll die of cold, see that it doesn't turn off What happened? TmGHub.Org Come, no problem Even when the bars are closed, there is no crowd at toddy shop How is that? Everyone started brewing at home With half kilo yeast, half kilo sugar and one kilo jaggery Can brew alcohol with a cooker, at home If that's not strong Then put 2 battery Battery? Why don't you eat that? My god not getting high after drinking My goodness, 10 miss call of principal, Jayan is finished! Jayan is finished! Fellow, didn't your phone ring? My phone - Where is it? There is no range here Then what is the use of this? Will it be a problem? Do one thing, take the vehicle fast Seems like got busted! Shucks! Take the vehicle fast God, go straight God, where did these two kids go? You do one thing, turn on the outside light and check here I'll go and check at the hostel Take the key The key! - You go and turn on that main switch TmGHub.Org Hello? What is it man? From where did you get that? You call and tell that to principal I'll come there Here sir Where did you get this? Sir, got from here Did you check all the rooms? Yes sir Both of theirs, sir I have a doubt After this ground, it is forest there Very often these kids used to play there And did you check there? No sir As elephant squad and forest department came Sorry, the news received now On the kids missing case at- - Rajkumari, Malgudi National Public School A main deviation, the 4th standard students of the school Atheena and Milan are kidnapped by Maoist, as reported by police More details cannot be revealed now At the earliest the kids will be found out, SP told to the media Neither the kids or dogs or cats are in this area The sleep is also lost -Was drunk previous night, couldn't sleep What is wrong on that? Go to room and have 2 pegs Can get rid of hang over My dear brother, since you came, nothing more to say What did I do? What a sign? TmGHub.Org Atheena! What happened to you? What happened to you? Do you want water? You don't worry, there is nothing wrong with you Someone will come and save us Atheena That is for sure Someone will come No one there? Someone come, otherwise we'll starve and die here Fellow, no one there? Atheena, Atheena! I'm going to go out You don't worry I'll bring the people at the earliest TmGHub.Org Atheena, we can't escape! TmGHub.Org Defeat me Come! You stupid security Bald headed principal If my Pappa had come here, he will deal with you There is mist outside, can't you come and sit inside? My daughter, she, in this cold? Somewhere? Sir, any news? By the time when this night dawns, by the time will find them Sir, is there Maoist behind this? May be, one person in it which we are searching There are people who had seen him in the forest at this day time TmGHub.Org TmGHub.Org Don't we have to escape? TmGHub.Org Son! Uncle! Don't leave! Son, hold tight! I'll fall now Uncle! Is there anyone? Milan, don't leave! Is there anyone here? No, nothing TmGHub.Org Atheena! Dear! Get up! Milan Don't be scared Uncle, will go and call someone TmGHub.Org Hello, hello is there anyone? Anyone there? Atheena! Dear! Milan! Dear, Atheena! Uncle, uncle Zaffan, uncle had send me here I'm uncle's friend True How are you fellow? You may sleep Had called principal Kids are safe We'll reach at the station with in half an hour Sir, he has surrendered himself Then shall we go? Daughter is smart okay Other than me, for the first time giving him love Actually I should say thanks to Milan I regained my old child back Mom stop! What is it? - Stop! Why? Mom, uncle Which uncle? Mom, stop the vehicle Don't pull like this What is it? What are you doing? TmGHub.Org Sir, I know it is my fate Along with Janet I would have gone long back! My daughter Jenny, to see her once To hold her close Only for that I lived so far! But now it is not possible Isn't it sir? I've a request Otherthan sir, right now I don't have anyone to say My daughter Jenny should be admitted at Malgudi School Over there, she has got a brother and sister To see that her eyes doesn't get filled with tears Always they will be present If sir can do it For me
