 

                        Ikuo, come help us Oh, let him play Where on earth is the landlord? Dad'll be mad, let's go home! Let's go home I want to die at home... So I'm going back to Shikoku You can't die yet! Anyway, you can only get to Shikoku on the ferry, Grandma And you don't have any money Grandma wants to die at home I'm going back to Shikoku Time to come in, Takeshi Any luck? They just said, "Not again" No sign of her? So far, no calls reporting missing grandmas At least she can't freeze to death We'll wait one more night I hope she's OK... It's hardly the first time No big deal But what if she never comes back? Don't say that It's not your fault Someone'll bring her back, always do... right? Iku-chan Iku-chan - Honey... - Yeah? I had that dream again I keep on having it Wonder why I'm not your grandma's reincarnation Go back to sleep Keep dreaming Maybe she'll come back... Maybe... If only I could've kept her from going then... How far did you go? The baseball stadium Better to steal from the rich... You really stole this? I said I would Maybe whoever stole yours had been robbed, too Yup, when robbed, rob back Don't let this little taste make you a real thief You nut... The bathhouse was so crowded I bought you some paint Did Yuichi cry? Not one peep You sure? What were you up to? Listening to the neighbor's radio It's so loud Shall I ask him to turn it down? Don't bother The old man's hearing's gone We get to listen along You haven't changed What is? You haven't changed at all What's that mean? You're the same as when you were a kid How the same? I don't know, you're just the same You're impossible He's enjoying himself What's on your mind? Tired from your walk to the stadium? You're out of it What's that mean? The trucking company we use hired a sumo wrestler Really? A sumo wrestler? An ex-sumo wrestler Had to quit 'cause he was lousy Now he's learning to drive a truck Still hasn't cut off his topknot A guy in his 30s, taking orders from 18 year-olds I don't know why he keeps that topknot... Who knows... Something about that topknot kind of depresses me But Iku-chan... you don't have a topknot And your 30s are a long way off Got a point Hey, a cop... Just kidding... Tanaka from the stadium... Don't scare me I'm taking this Unusual to see you out together We must reek The minute you came in Let me guess - okonomiyaki... Got the neighbor to look after Yuichi You've got seaweed on your lip Just kidding Don't let the baby cramp your love life You absorbing this wisdom? He knows No, I had to drag him away from work Ambushed him? I was watching him for a long time and he didn't even notice How could I know? I would have Seems like you're getting along fine Honey... Is my face weird? What's that about? Did someone say so? Of course not I was looking in the mirror in the caf bathroom, and my freckles started to bother me Looking at my freckles made me think my whole face was weird So that's why you were in there so long Remember, a long time ago you said, "Bet you've got a lot more freckles waiting to sprout" I kept staring in the mirror, wondering if I'd get more freckles I really said that? You really did Getting tired? Trade places? I'm happy right here You're back early The weather's so unpredictable I got you some tangerines Thanks Just a minute Was he a good boy? A real good boy Maybe he likes the hum of the sewing machine He's never like that with me He takes after his father You really think so? Especially around the eyes He'll be a handsome one You think? Yes you will, right, Yuichi? Ono Tailoring - Gentleman's Clothing What are you doing here? Just parking the bike I was nearby They're predicting rain Stick around, stranger Maybe next time Just grabbing the umbrella I'll walk you down You're a nut... But I want to Comb your hair, it's a mess Is your husband home? He's not back yet We found a man who'd been hit by a train It may be your husband We found a torn envelope stuck to his pants It was from the Yamaoka Dye Factory Your husband is the only one of their employees we haven't accounted for I've brought his wife Was this his? Where is my husband? You'll never recognize him We haven't established definitively that it is your husband It happened in between stations on the Hanshin Line According to the engineer, he was walking along the tracks, going the same way as the train There's a gentle curve there, and by the time he noticed him, it was too late Never reacted to the whistle or the screeching brakes, just kept right on going... Yumiko Ono san's worried She says you stare off into space, while your baby howls She's worried you might try to kill yourself She keeps checking on you Leaving such a little baby... Why did Ikuo have to die? Well... That's no answer You sure there weren't any signs? Usually, having a new baby makes a man eager to work But killing himself for no reason... He left you a riddle to solve... But then, what's the point... You're all set Nice and clean Let's tuck you in while you're warm Thank you Pull yourself together Yuichi can't do anything for himself Right... That radio sure is loud Always like that? He's a lonely old man Ikuo always said it was his way of proving he was alive I'm going to come live with you for a while Takeshi thought I should, too We can't expect Ono san to look after you forever Besides, you've got to consider your future... Why, Ono san, thank you so much for everything you've done for us He lives far away, but he's a solid, decent man I'll be praying things work out Thank you for bringing them together Noto's far away, so you won't see them often, but Yuichi's ready for school and he's a good boy I'm sure he'll get along well with his new father and sister Thank you so much... Let's go, now Grandma, I got some candy Who gave you that? The old man next door Wasn't that nice Did you thank him? Thank you Thank you so much... You take care, now Good bye, Yuichi Off you go Yuichi, bye-bye I'll go with you to Osaka station We're fine It'll only make the goodbyes that much harder The North-bound Express will be arriving on platform... I'm so sorry I had a problem at work I just panicked and really messed up. I'm sorry Thank you for coming He's really got guts sleeping through this He couldn't sit still on the train... I'm really sorry, but I have to get right back to work Is that so? I'll come home as soon as I can Take it easy today You can meet our neighbors tomorrow You already said that That's the third time I'm going to be your mother, now OK? It's really loud, isn't it? It might take you a while to get used to it Good morning Good morning This is my wife, Yumiko It's nice to meet you She's a real beauty I'll make it formal later and we'll have a drink It's a tight community so we've got to make the rounds The old folks get uptight It's easy to offend them The neighbors are near enough, but my relatives are scattered so it's a real chore When we do get together it's such a sprawling clan... That's no fun, either A real backwater, huh? The sea's so powerful Too powerful It quiets down after the morning market My new wife I knew that I'm Yumiko It's very nice to meet you At her age, Tomeno san still takes her own boat out Why didn't you come introduce her to me first? I did, I did, but you were out Remember that filthy shack painted an awful color? Some excuse, you came too late You missed me We found you here Pure chance We stopped in at work, first He's so damned proud of that new wife, he's dragged her all the way out here I came all this way so you could see her... Show off! Gimme a light No use falling for me now I'm married with children You're so full of it On this special occasion, I'd like to celebrate with a song Please clap along with me These are ready? Getting warm It sure is There's so much land The ocean's even bigger Let's go see what's on the other side I'll go first Don't, it's dangerous Whose boat is it? Nobody's anymore Then I want it But where will you keep it? In the closet Guess which hand Wrong Thank you It's all sticky That's the last one What happened? I found them wandering around, all worn out so I gave them a lift back You're so kind Rhubarb You picked such a lot How many? Let's count When I'm in junior high, I'm going to grow my hair You'll be even prettier, then I think your dad's getting silly in the bath Here it comes Some salt No Salt? Time for breakfast I'm going Off you go Take care I'm beat And here I'd imagined relaxing on my day off... Guess we need that air conditioner I never thought it'd be so hot here in the summer Thought there'd be winter year-round? I was so shocked by the cold at first Bet you were sorry "I screwed up, coming to this god-forsaken place," no? You nut When I first came back from Osaka, it was really tough Couldn't believe I'd been born and raised here I'd sworn never to come back when I left after junior high Enough, move over Nope It's hot Besides, you're heavy When you're done, I'm heavy, huh? The kids'll be back I'll keep an eye out from here Don't worry Spare me Nope Spare me, please Nope Spare me... Please... Spare me... It's been six months already Tamio wanted to come, too, but he's afraid to leave his father alone Of course he can't But I'm so happy you brought Tomoko with you Takeshi must be doing well Renting this big apartment He married a piano teacher, who's got 30 students She makes more than he does A dependable wife imagine children playing lousy piano all day long You'd go out of your mind And this? This is family, it's different How are things? Thanks to your excellent match-making Oh, don't exaggerate, but I really was hoping it would work out Now and then my husband asks how you're getting along How's Yuichi doing? That's wonderful Hello What a shock Thought I'd come back? I'm here for my brother's wedding Mom's looking after the kids I'm just wandering Man, what a surprise You been well? That day... What time was it? He popped in for a cup of coffee and left What day? The day... he died He stopped in after work, on his way home He seemed his usual self, so I was shocked when I heard the next day He just sat there grinning at my usual jokes So he got this far home, then... Said he'd forgotten his wallet, that he'd hurry home and get it I said, "No rush, anytime" He said, "Thanks then, I'II owe you 'til tomorrow," and went out smiling Thinking about it, it seems like a dream You still haven't changed? Hurry up and take a bath, before the water cools Tired? Yuichi and Tomoko went right to sleep How was your Mom? I really should go see her again I'm going out for crabs You want any? Three? You sure three will do? What are you staring at? What's wrong? Close the window, will you? We'll get icicles in here A little homesick? You're not yourself these days Do you want to go back to Osaka? No, I don't I just had a dream... It woke me up Guess what I noticed the other day? What? You've got spots here No, I don't have spots there I'm serious Didn't you know? Not a clue They're not spots, they're freckles How are they different? They just are Nonsense... Tomeno san took her boat out? I'll check with the fishermen She'll be fine She's indestructible She'll swim back if she has to Nobody knows the sea better than she does She never gets it wrong I swear she'll be back Survived, did you? She's back! So you're OK? We were so worried Mind your own business She was on the verge of tears Just as I promised Sorry I worried you You made it back? That's right What happened? We were worried sick I swam all the way back Yumiko Don't trouble yourself She's indestructible Can I look at the bicycles? Sure, but don't go far Out shopping? Your first husband's boy... How old was he? When his father died? He was 3 months old Then he doesn't remember a thing Maybe that's for the best It probably is for the best What... Still up? What are you doing up? Waiting for you Did you drive home? What else? Too far to walk... You shouldn't drive so drunk Want some water? Nope Call me when you're going to be late I worry about you What's that? What did you just hide? I didn't hide anything It's just an old bicycle key I wanted to take off the bell... You're a liar You once told me, you had to come back here because of your father That's right Tomeno san had a different story You came back from Osaka to marry your old sweetheart You were crazy about her How could you marry me after losing someone that special? How could you? What the... You're a liar A liar... There, there Let's talk about it tomorrow It's a scary conversation Save it for tomorrow! What's wrong? Your silence spooks me Do you hate it here? What are you up to? Baseball Baseball's no fun alone It's not so bad Where's your mother? Dunno You came out here alone? I just... I just don't understand... Why he killed himself... Why he was walking along the tracks... Once I start thinking about it... I can't stop Why... do you think he did it? He said the sea calls you Dad used to go out to sea He says when he was out alone, he used to see a beautiful light, shimmering in the distance, calling him I think it can happen to anyone What fine weather we're having A wonderful season, indeed Linda Hoaglund with Judith Aley
