 

                        And stay out! Man, this girl is trying to fuck up my day. Talkin' about she want to watch a romantic comedy. Get the fuck outta here! I ain't watchin' no lovey-dovey, funny bunny ass shit with her. Anyway, sorry everyone. Let me properly introduce myself. My name is Slow Burn, and I am your movie guide. We will be watching "Mac and Devin Go To High School" starring Snoop Dogg and Wiz Khalifa. But before we get started with the picture, I would like to make sure everyone is comfortable and properly prepared. We all know the regular routine. Go the bathroom, turn off your annoying-ass cell phone, get a big ass popcorn, and a cup of ice-cold carbonated sugar water-- Baaah. Wrong. You missin' one key ingredient, nigga. How you gonna watch a motherfuckin' weed movie without no motherfuckin' weed? Get your papers, your bongs, your bowls, your blunts, some fat- ass nugs of that Good-Good and spark that shit up! Now, if you unfortunate right now, and don't have any weed, I'm sorry. But please, stop this movie right now. It just won't work, you can't watch this shit without no weed. Stop. You don't play baseball without no bat, do you? Exactly. For the same reason you don't watch a Three-D movie without Three-D glasses. So go figure that out, then put your goddam ganja goggles on, and get ready for lift-off. Thank you, kindly. And without further ado, I would like to present, "Mac... and Devin Go To High School." Hold on! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! For all of you that like to play those movie weed games, like smoke every time so and so character says this or does that, here's the official weed game for this movie. Take a hit every time you see a character on screen either walkin', talkin', or breathin'. Matter of fact, let's do one together right now. Yeah. That's what the fuck I'm talkin' about. W- what you waitin' on, man? Start the movie. Fuck. [ inhale ] No, a nigga don't wanna go to school today Let me call this bitch and get my shit together When I pull up people so fresh in my ride We smoke the best you can buy Them niggas talking it but they just don't go harder than us Keep stunting just cause I can Hey, Mac, man, what's up, man? Where the weed at, man? Hey, Mac, let me get some weed, bro. Can I get some weed, man? They just don't go harder than us. This one's for the g's all black chucks on the cuffs of my jeans King size papers stuffed full of trees, I be with the boss dawg y'all fuck niggas, please Now they say I'm hot, hundred something degrees, taking pictures with a young nigga, cheese Remember days, homey, I ain't had a thing Now I'm hopping off the plane, putting roaches on the wing And my hos like queens, but we smoke like kings Jewelry froze like bling, money come fast, you're slow like lean Rolling up grass... I need the Mac, man. Hook it up, man. What's up, Mac? I wanna get my higher learnin' on, bro. Gotta be like good, good, don't you know. Stress be make a nigga head hurt. For real. We smoke the best you can buy Them niggas talking it but they just don't go harder than us Keep stunting just cause I can These hos know just who I am Them niggas talking it but they just don't go harder than us We blow to the middle of the day Wiz say, Dogg, put a little in the J Hey, why not? Not why? We fly, we ride, she high, he high... Mr. Mac, I... Never mind. Thank you for your time. He just smoke all day, it's a mind game Like Kareem, I seem to keep migraines Richie Valenz and bitch, I'm Frankie Lymon I'm so lifted, like a parachuter My grass, stay off, day off, Ferris Bueller Slip away, dip away, almost had to throw a whole zip away But fuck that, this the Taylor Gang, what you want, dawg, shit I'm on everything You dig? Looky, player, you got what I need, I'm lookin' for the green. I'm looking for the weed, give it to the fiend. But they just don't go harder than us. Keep stunting just cause I can These hos know just who I am Them niggas talking... I need to get high, man. You know what I'm saying? Put some kush up in it. All I got is pesos. Is that cool? You niggas never have, never will, what? You niggas never have, never will, what? Big Snoop and Wiz smoking, kill, kill I said, you niggas never have, and you never will You niggas never have, and you never will You niggas never have, and you never will Big Snoop and Young Wiz smokin' kill, kill, kill... Yeah You niggas still in Junior High School Hey, good morning, how's my favorite MILF doing today? Stressed. Stressed? I got just what you need. I know you do. Take two of these. Here you go, sweetie. All right, baby. We smoke the best you can buy I need that homework done in Calculus tonight, you feel me? Yes, Mac. I'll do this. Hey. Hey, Big Mac, how you doin'? A la mnage a trois? What's up, bro? You comin' to the game tonight? You better score two touchdowns tonight, boy. Wes, Wes. Let's smoke something, Mac. I got you, brother, don't even trip. We smoke the best you can buy [ bell rings ] Yo! Watch where the fuck you're walking, stupid bitch! These hos know just who I am Ah! [ whistles ] I can't wait to taste it. Be patient, baby. All I need you to do, I need you to climb up there, come on. Dang, girl. Get it together. Come close to the wall. Oh, my god. See, I got like messed up, you kids. I'm old school! That means I don't play that shit. Whatever, man. Man, turn back, turn- turn around. That's the reason why I called the Assistant Principal, Mr. Skinnfloot, 'cause I know he'll give every one of you a pass. Man, we didn't do shit. Turn back arou- You wanna lose your strength? What's up, Mr. Skinnfloot? You see I done handled this. Look how- look how I got 'em lookin'. That fool, Skinnfloot, jacked me for that master kush, it's got to be in here somewhere. Damn. Sit back. Let me find it. Where did this fucker put my thing at? Wait a minute. That don't smell like no.... 'Kay. Come here. This is the last time you... [ intercom squeals ] Oh, yeah... Oh, yeah. Oh, wow. [ girl ] You know I'm ready Big Daddy. [ Mac ] Feast your eyes on my big, fat, long, succulent, mouth-watering woo-wa for the doo-da. [ girl ] I knew it'd be big, but I've never seen anything this big. [ Mac ] Just put it in your mouth, baby. [ girl ] It's so thick, I can barely hold it. [ Mac ] Yes, you can. Just go aaah... There you go. Stop listening to that filth! [ Mac ] Aaaah.... [ girl ] I can't fit it all in my mouth. Yo, that dude is crazy. [ Mac ] Just stuff it in there and get to suckin'. No, he ain't. Mac! Skinny Dick, you wanna hit? Mac, the word around this high school is that you have the finest kush in all the land. Hook me up, Mac, I know you got it. I am prepared to pay you in chain mail, a quiver of arrows, three broad swords, and two oxen. I got a couple fat bitches and one midget in the car. You could fuck any one you want. You know what I'm sayin'? Just let me just hold that ounce or two to you know, just Friday. Hey, Mac. Dr. Andrews, third period English. These crazy kids gave me a migraine. You think you could hook me up with a joint to relieve the pain? Salmon Sandbar? You gonna be there all day, man? Damn. Yeah, probably. High school. It's the best of times, it's the worst of times. It's the times that try men's soul. Ask not what high school- Wow, shit. Ask not what high school can do for you, but what you can do- It's the best of times, it's the worst of times. It's time for me to write a new speech. What the fuck, man. It's the times that try men's soul. It... And that was horrible. Yo, your speech sucks. Hey, how's the speech coming, Devin? Great. Um, I'm almost done with it, but it'll be good. Well, it better be. You want to stay together after graduation, right? Of course I do, Ashley. Then you need to go to Yale. And to go to Yale, you need a scholarship. And my dad made a call to the guy that he knows, but-- Well, I'm- I'm just really having a hard time figuring out the best part of my high school experience. Well, duh, that would be me. Yeah, well, I know that. Just think how amazing it'll be when we're engaged and we have matching diplomas on the wall. It'll be so fabulous, I won't be able to stand it. But no pressure though, babe. Just don't fuck up, or I'll dump you. Just kidding! Sort of. Kidding. Call me later? Ehhh. Do you know what that is? It's the controlling bitch alert. Attention, gentlemen, please ask the ladies to give us a brief moment. We will only be a second, bitches. Thank you. Come on, now. Come on, playa. That- that go for your girl, too. I- Look at your girl sittin' right there. Come on, man. Fuck, niggas, fuck. Okay, they gone? Cool. Now look, this is some serious shit, man. Devin is in some deep doo-doo. There's a huge population of controlling bitches on this earth and they keep expanding. And you know what? It's our motherfuckin' fault! If you a nigga like that, and you got a bitch like that, get the fuck out now! Either get 'em in line, or kick 'em to the motherfuckin' curb. Amen, hallelujah. Oh, yeah. All right, yeah. Ladies, y'all can come on back now. [ bell rings ] Know what this is I'm filling out? An order for some medium-sized condoms? No. These are your expulsion papers. Expulsion for what? Oh, well let's see. Breaking and entering, possession of a narcotic. Narcotic? Fool, last I checked, this shit was legal in California. You're done, Mister. Your fifteen-year tenure at this school is over. Assistant Principal Skinnfloot? Yes? Do we have a problem with this student? Not anymore. Because you do know that all expulsions are handled by me, personally. Yes, but this student always seems to get off with you. Does he? Uh, do you mind giving us a few minutes? But this is my office. Yeah, do you want it to remain your office? Yes, Principal Cummings. Oh, Mr. Johnson. What have you done this time? You are such the naughty, naughty little student. What am I gonna do with you? You always make me have to punish you so severely. Always getting me riled up! [ knock on door ] We need to see who that is. Well, you just meet me in my office after school today and we're gonna take care of that little bit of unfinished business, okay? Hello. I'm sorry, do you work here? Uh, actually, this is my place of business. Can I help you? I'm Miss Huck, the new substitute teacher for AP Chemistry. I know a thing or two about chemistry. Excuse me? What is it that you do here? I'm Mr. Johnson, the Athletic Director. Okay. Hopefully I'll see you around the campus later on today. It's past fourth period, Poindexter. I promise you I'm going to get it. Ow! Right there. Let's go. What are you doing? Huh? Hit that. Let me get that, let me get that. Yes, Sir. That's some- that's some powerful stuff right there. Yes, Sir. I like- I like that right there. Yes, Sir. Improper use of lab glassware is a hazard, you know? Did you know that motherfuckin' outfit you got on is a style hazard? What are you doing here, anyway? You're not smart enough to be in this class. And how you know? 'Cause you been in high school for like a half a century. Mr. Johnson. Class, I'm Ms. Huck, your new substitute teacher for the rest of the semester. Wait. What happened to Mr. Luznar? Mr. Luznar met with a rather tragic chemical accident. I've spoken with your teacher and he wants you all to present a research project for your final grade. Partners are as follows. Harding and Pell. Suzuki and Ofaso. Ofaso. Jones and Greenberg. And Overstreet and Johnson. What? W- with all due respect, this pairing could jeopardize my entire future! Well, Miss Huck, I've been looking forward to meeting you. I'm the Assistant Principal, Ralph Skinnfloot. Nice to meet you, Mr. Skinnfloot. Charmed. If you need anything at all, please, don't hesitate to ask. And if you have any problems with this one, just let me know. Thank you. By the way, I'd love to welcome you with my staff. I- I mean, to the staff. Over dinner. I don't think that's appropriate. So, a maybe? Very encouraging. Yo! Mac! Hey, Mac! Mac! Mac! Overstreet! It's down to two. Two geniuses banging brains. Only one can stand and come. What are you talking about, Mahatma? That's Mahatma Chang Greenberg to you. Learn it. 'Cause come graduation day when I, and not thee, assume the position of Valedictorian, that will suck for you. Oh, really? 'Cause last time I checked, I'm still number one in the class. Yeah, well I'm taking like seven AP classes. You get an A-minus and your ass is mine. You hear me? What do you want with my ass, Mahatma? My brain is gonna do all types of things to your ass come graduation day. Fuckin' nerd. I need you to uh, check me into that AP Chemistry class with Miss Huck. You know I got you, Mac. I always do. Fo sho. Mac. What's up? Man, we need to study tonight. Study. Yeah. Get at me at nine o'clock on the corner of "Why Dontcha" and "BlowMe"? Hey, hey, hey, hey. What do you say, you, me, and little buddy right here make three? I'm sorry, I don't date students. Well, I guess I'll just have to drop out. I don't date liars either, Mr. Athletic Director. Let me apologize for that. How can I make it up to you? Can I take you out on a date? You want a date with me? You need to graduate high school first. And I'll be confiscating this in the meantime. Mm. Good goobly goo. Let the learning begin. You can't smoke in here, young man. Hey, don't worry about it, baby, I got a medical condition. What condition is that? I got an addiction. I'm addicted to Granny Punany. Really? Yeah. What are you doing here? Man, you was right, D-Street. That graduation thing is important. Guess you finally came to your senses. Just hook me up the knowledge, College. Oh, yeah? Start here. Dang it. Gimme my candy, motherfucker. What's up, super freak? I'm sorry, man. I just get low on blood sugar and... Come on! Relax. Relax. Fuck. I got just want you need. You ain't gonna eat that? We can go half and half. A toast to expanding minds. Yo, thanks man. I needed that. More than you'll ever know. A quick lesson on weed edibles. Snacks made with cannabis, i.e. weed brownies, cookies, chocolates, lollipops, fruit rollups, breath strips, gummy candies, cakes, pies, and all the other hundred type of fucked up goodies that get you fucked up, this is not for beginners. This is extremely different than smoking weed. It's way more intense and can take over your mind and trip you the fuck out! You don't believe me? Ask your friends. Right now. Ask 'em. A) Have you ever eaten weed edibles? And B) Did those edibles make you feel like two cartoon mermaids was using their sexy little tail to play ping pong with your brain? That's what I thought. Shit 'bout to get wavy, baby. [ bells ringing ] I think it's snowing. Shit. You're feeling it, huh? Feeling what? The Green Goddess. Ganja Goodies. Cush Cakes. Herb Hors d'oeuvres. Kind Kookies. Marijuana! Yes, Sir. Does that mean I'm... I'm high? As a kite. Here we go. Watch where you're going. Yo, Mac. It's like I got this track playin' in my head. It's like perfectly synchronized to my moves and everything. My heartbeat. You hear it? D-Street. Whoa. You cool, new school? [ robot sounds ] I think so. Well, hook me up with that dope shit you got goin' on. Which one? The one in my head? Yeah nigga. You heard that? Man, that shit dope as a motherfucker. But what happened to the singing now? Wait, what singing? I ain't hear any singing. I can't sing. D, ain't nobody here but me. You gotta let that feeling feel good. Matter of fact, let that shit out. Man, let me hear it, man. Man, come on. Every time I go out I'm blowin' that smoke out A buyer don't even know the price I talk cause I live it Come pay me a visit And I'll be somewhere up in the sky My nigga, it's about to go down Oh, we fly, it's no lie that we high 'til we die We end up in this Roll one up, clean the ride, in case some hos want to jump inside Whoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! Nigga, that shit right there, go hard. Ladies and gentlemen Players and playerettes Teachers, staff, and students I am very honored to welcome you to the high school annual talent show Brought to you by the makers of Wiz Khalifa Premium Rolling Papers And the qualified growers of Snoop Dogg Master Kush So without further adieu Let's get this show on the road First contestant, bring your talent to the foreground, and let your smoke be your playground Every time I go out I'm blowin' that smoke out A buyer don't even know the price I talk as I live it Come pay me a visit And I'll be somewhere up in the sky My nigga, it's about to go down Oh, we fly, it's no lie that we high 'til we die I'll beat it up in this hotel Roll one up, clean the ride, in case some hos want to jump inside Got a drink filled with quality shit My bottom bitch smokin' with me Niggas talk shit All of 'em shrimp I'm a big fish Roll a joint, lick it once 'til you hit this Roofies on my dick, Several pushers on my hit list In and out these niggas bitches, smokin' tree and not to mention hustlin' tryin' to mind my business You probably went to class while I was in the hallway skippin' Yeah, I hear what they're sayin' I just be too high to listen About my money, trippin' If I even thought it wrong Smokin' is good If it's fat, tell you I sold it all I'll wait 'til one of my hos come 'round and roll it up Or say fuck it and cuff it till I go smoke with Dawg I show up, I show up, I show up Car, push the start, hit the button once, it go off Keep the money comin' in and the papers rolled up And I ain't worried about a hatin' nigga givin' no love Every time I go out I'm blowin' that smoke out A buyer don't even know the price I talk as I live it Come pay me a visit And I'll be somewhere up in the sky My nigga, it's about to go down Oh, we fly, it's no lie that we high 'til we die I'll beat it up in this hotel Roll one up, clean the ride, in case some hos want to jump inside I go green like I was Archbishop Don Juan And blow circles 'round you suckers like a marathon My gym teacher told me, but I didn't listen My bitch did my homework and now I'm in detention It sure beats suspension This is my audition, so play your position Get the picture I envision Did she mention? Snoop Dogg was made for kissin' A barracuda fish and she on a mission for me Pleasure, pain, and glory, and my inventory My SAT's, my little bitch, she did 'em for me And now we prancin' onstage at the talent show We flow, see my clothes, my chain, and knapsack full of that, hand me that, can you see my telescope Principal, say she wanna see me 'cause she smell my smoke About my money, trippin' Even if I thought it wrong Blowin' songs with Wiz 'cause this is the booty call Every time I go out I'm blowin' that smoke out A buyer don't even know the price I talk as I live it Come pay me a visit And I'll be somewhere up in the sky My nigga, it's about to go down Oh, we fly, it's no lie that we high 'til we die I'll beat it up in this hotel Roll one up, clean the ride, in case some hos want to jump inside Yeah. It's the archbishop, Don "Magic" Juan... Man, I am hungry. Let's get it. So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just having fun Hey, Big Mac. How you doin', sexy? Good, mamacita. Just showing my brother from another mother the way of the weed. All right. So what'll it be? It'll be the usual. Let me get uh, two Scooby Snacks with special sauce on it. Comin' right up. Oh, yeah, baby. Yo, I really needed this, man. Shit. Every motherfucker needs this. 'Cause I've been stressed over this stupid speech, man. The Valley Dictorian, right? Yeah. And everybody expects me to talk about the good times I had in high school-- But you ain't had no good times. Exactly. Here you go. Thank you, baby. Two Scooby Snacks. So you do this all the time? Every minute of the motherfuckin' day. So you don't worry about the future? No, D. I vast in the moment. Man, I wish I could do that. You can, homey. All you got to do, is do what I do. Say what I say. You know, like so what? So what we get drunk? So what we smoke weed? So what we get high? We don't care who see. You got to live young, you got to live wild, you got to live free. You got to do you like I do me. You dig? How the fuck did we get here? We flew, nigga. You ready to get some ink? Aw, I don't know, Mac. You said you wanted to experience some shit, right? Yeah. But what if it hurts? You might like that. [ buzzing ] Come on in, dawg. Man, this spot is crazy. Yes, Sir. Now this is where the shit goes down. You got your sativa, you got your indica, and you got your hybrids over there. You have know idea what the fuck I'm talking about, huh? No. Don't trip. I got exactly what you need. Hey, ladies and gentlemen. I am your friendly neighborhood weed plant, Captain Kush. That's right. And on today's Volume One of the Captain Kushhopedia, we will be discussing two different strains of marijuana. That's right. Cannabis Indica and Cannabis Sativa. Keep it locked. Press pause and I'm whoopin' your ass. Ah, shit, what time is it? Shit, I don't know. I forgot my books at school. Books? I usually start my late night study session right about now. I usually start my late night bong session right now. Pull that out, hit that shit. A very popular strain of the indica plant is known as kush, from the Hindu Kush Mountains of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Otherwise known as the shit that got Bin Laden caught. That's right. Him and his boys was in the mountains, and they was shootin' their guns, bustin' 'em off, came up on some of that sweet kush plant. Smoked it, didn't know where the fuck he was, had a Navy Seal bullet in his head two hours later. All right? You smoke it, but don't get shot. Light that end right there. Inhale. Now take the top off. Oh, damn, boy. Damn, boy. Now if you want less of a body high, Captain Kush recommends one of the sativa strains, like Green Crack, Skunk, Train Wreck. Yeah, that's right. It's more of a cerebral high. It's less sedating, but a good recommendation if you want to feel medicated throughout the day. That's right. Smoke all motherfuckin' day. It's safe. Four, three, two, one. Shoot it. Purple. Kush. Then you put 'em both together and you make purple kush. Purple kush, together. Yeah, there you go. As you can see, the Cannabis Indica is characterized by short, blocky leaves. Kinda like a Mike Tyson build. Whereas the Cannabis Sativa is more long and narrow like Tommy Hearns. Yeah, man. Yes, Sir. We must take one big pull from the check... together. Now I use boxing analogies... D-d-d-ding. because both of them will knock you the fuck out. D-d-d-ding. Rewind. One more time. In Volume Two of the Kushopedia, we will be discussing how to properly cultivate your green room by supplying your plants with all of the right nutrients. That's right. Mm, mm, mm. Get high, motherfucker. I can't go to sleep yet, I got this new James Bond shit right here, right? All you gotta do is just inhale. Hit that shit. Don't do nothin' but inhale. Hit it. Straight THC. Can you dig that? Weed vaporization is the alternative to smoking that involves the production of irritating, toxic, and carcinogenic byproducts by heating the ganja so its active compounds boil off into a vapor. Boil off into a vapor? Man, who the fuck wrote this shit? Fuck all that. Look, check it out. There's only two ways to smoke this shit. The right way, and the wrong way. And the right way is like they say it in the Bible. Roll that shit, light that shit, smoke that shit. They ain't say nothin' about plug it up in the Bible and all, vaporize, and make it disappear. Come on, man. Two more hits from the bong. Top this shit off. All right. [ snoring ] Pst. Hey, D-Street! You want some weed? There are niggas tryin' to stop me from smokin' this weed. I smoke it everywhere. Anywhere. All day, everyday. All herb.. I'm gonna go to Yale. Smokin' all the weed. Yeah. What's up, baby girl? I'm just lookin' over this homework I really need some help You want to study with me? That'd be nice. Yeah. I wanna go steady Baby, would you be my buddy? And help me with my project 'Cause you are who I roll with Honestly, I know where Take me, boo, you're the one I wanna go with Five days out the week My stay's off the street It pays to be discreet Your fragrance is sweet Honeydew, money due, but this ain't 'bout no money This is about me and you, makin' oh, take it from me First day of school I'm lookin'... Oh, Mr. Johnson. [ bell rings ] Hey, yo, Mac. I know you got that fire. Let me get some, though. Yeah, hook it up. I'll gladly pay you Tuesday for the weed you give me today. I know you got that loud, man. You know what I'm sayin'? Why don't you swing some over here, bro? Socrates said, "I think, therefore I am". Or some other famous philosopher said, "I am what I am, what I am" "what I am". Mind if I... Yeah. So, let me ask you something. You mind when people call you Knees Down? Hell no, man. You know how I got that name? Mm-mm. Jenny Billings. Thank God you're only paralyzed from the knees down! You're my white bitch. You're my little white bitch! I gotta get out of here, man. Thanks for the toke, though. Yeah, man. All good. Your speech still sucks. There's some dumb motherfuckers. Look at this thing here. Your mama shoulda aborted that motherfucker. What the fuck is this? Another dumbass nigga... Mac! What's happenin'? Not much. What's up wit you? Do you realize that you are a fifteen-year senior? Dumb as a box of rocks. Oh, really? Yeah. Do you realize that every morning when you come to school, teaching the class, your breath smells like cigarettes, booty, and donuts? Okay, come on, w-w-where my shit at? I don't want to sit and play all day, man, come on. Let me show you this shit. This is that thing that killed John Wayne. You see that thing right there? Yeah. Mm-hmm. Okay, come on with it. Quit playin'. You gonna get me fired and you busted. Look, don't let the wrong person get this in their hand, okay, Mac? I won't, I won't, I won't. Matter of fact, it's actually in the wrong hands right now. Hey, hey. Don't play with me, boy. Mac! Overgrown student! [ knock on door ] It's open. Yo, D-Street, what you got in the box, nigga? Our chemistry experiment. But bigger, I've been working on this alternative energy source, which if successful, could change everything about how we consume energy in this country. Shit, the world. Well, let's change the world. This is what we're making. The catalytic ingredient. I wake up early in the morning and it feels so good Damn. So if X equals the square root of CQ minus 2X, then the catalytic ingredient should yield a brand new energy source. And if I plug the lamp into there, guess what we'll get? Bam. Energy. You have no idea what I'm talking about, do you? Mm-mm. Let me show you. What the...? Fuck, man. That was very energetic. Yeah buddy! I'd like to welcome y'all to the third annual Hemptethalon, brought to you by yours truly. Golf clap. Golf clap. Yes, Sir. If you don't know, you won't know, you in the presence of the two-time defending champion, Knees Down. I smoke weed for a living. First event we gonna do is called The Style. Check this out. Oooh, that shit weak. [ unintelligible chatter ] What you gonna do? Eh. Let me show you how we do it on the Discovery Channel. Let me show you something. That's some motherfuckin' planet, look at- Did you see that? You like that? Hmm. It's your turn. Represent your side. You better come with it 'cause the homey just... represented real tough. Is that a gun from Modern Warfare? Final round. Let me go in and lock this shit down, 'cause I got some shit that I know y'all can't fuck with. Check this out. Oh, shit. Is that- is that Casper? Yes, Sir. We got this covered. Watch this. You guys about to lose right now. You ain't ready! She tooted and pooted. Shotgun! Shotgun! I ain't here to blow none of that shit. You can have that motherfucker. And that, all of that shit. Put that down here. Oh, wow. You did that, my nig. You did that. D-Street, man, I don't know why we spendin' all this time tryin' to find a- a renewal energy source when the greatest renewable energy source has already been created. Yeah, well what's that? Pussy. When you wake up in the morning, what you think about? Pussy. When you're makin' some money, what you go out and spend it on? Pussy. Well I know if we get this catalytic ingredient, you know what we gonna be getting a lot of? What? Pussy. Fuck! I think I know what you need. I like your friend, Big Mac. He's cute. Lay back, baby. Yo, Mac. I feel crazy. Hold this. Shoot it up a little bit more. Add a little more power to the woo-wa. So... so what mixture is this? This is that medicinal mixed with the medical. You know what I'm talking about? That space-age shit. Which one's the medicinal, and which one's the medical? Well, in a terminology that most doctors can understand, this right here is the medical. And this right here is the medicinal. And that's what gives it that superfragilistic, you know, next level high. You know, that other extreme uh, uh, uh, orbited, Saturn, you know, Pluto... Right. I think it's me allowing myself to become intergalactic and with the planetary pleasure principle of the dedication of the inauguration. Also, about the segregation of the cultivation of everything. Right. Like, I'm like, you know, I feel like I'm like Captain Kirk, right? And I feel like, like Doctor Spock. And this bitch right here is like Darth Vader. Fuckin' bitch. Is that the bitch paging you again? That's the bitch, again, man. This is what I want to do. I want us to go to another planet called Pimpatarium. And once we go there, hand me the telephone, and let me tell you how I would address the bitch. Oh, shit. Hello. Yeah, bitch. Where's my money, bitch. No, bitch. Hi, bitch. Bye, bitch. And in case you didn't get it, let me text it to you bitch. Why can't I just say stuff like that, man? Hi, bitch. Bye, bitch. No, bitch. Bitch, bitch, bitch. I just saved bitch in there as one button. One touch. Bitch. [ knock on door ] What the hell is going on in here? Oh my God, these aren't real, are they? How did you even find me, anyway? I tracked your phone using the "Find Me" app. Stalker. Is this man holding you against your will? Have you been drugged? Oh, you better believe it. He drugged like a motherfucker. I'm calling my daddy. Yo! Chill the fuck out. I am warning you, Devin Overstreet, your very future hangs in the balance! You come with me right now. I'll count to five. One... two, three, four, five. Now get your punk ass out of here before I break a bitch. I know, D-Street. Puppy love. That shit hurt. Man, let's go get some bitches. Man, Mac, where are you taking me? You said you wanted some, right? Yeah, but, not in no shady alley. Can I help you? Uh, can we speak with mamasan? Mamasan! What you want? I'm trying to get my boy hooked up with some of that good, good. Okay. How much you have? It depends on what he gets. Oh, you- you just talking about him? What about for you? Are you gay? Look, baby, I love women. I just don't pay for pussy. I don't pay for pussy either. What you mean you no pay for the pussy? Everybody pay for the pussy. Pussy make the world go round. I got three-fifty on it. Okay, what kind of girl you like? I'm not really sure. Come, I just give you white girl. USDA approved, no MSG, okay? Take care of him. Go, go, go. And you? You pay for your friend, the pussy? But you no get no pussy for you? I give you what you like. I break your ball into eight pieces. They let you smoke on the job? No. That's a damn shame. You know? Now that's what I'm talkin' about. You know what I'm sayin'? Yeah. Yeah. I got a confession though. What's up? That was my first time. With a masseuse? Nah, with a vagina. Ashley's like saving herself for marriage, so I only get to fuck her in the ass. Nigga, what? Yeah. Fuck that. Let's celebrate. Yeah. I am running a legitimate business. Tough break, rook. I guess that's what you get for going out for a little late night beef jerky. I got more than that. Ah, that's good. I'll keep that in mind when I write up my report. Hey, what's happening? What y'all up in here for? Weed. Weed. Weed? Nigga, weed ain't even a case four or five of them motherfuckers. They're gonna throw that shit right on out. Time to get straight. Yeah. So, which one of y'all I get to fuck in the ass first? Him. Y'all need to make up your mind, 'cause uh, I got plenty of time. Now D, man, now you need to chill out, man. Calm down. Man, I am down. Like rock bottom down. I gave my virginity to a stripper, got thrown in jail. Man, I ruined my life. Well, technically you gave your virginity to Ashley's a-piece. Yeah, I might not have been cool before, but at least I had a future. I ain't tryin' to end up like you. Fifteen years of high school? Fuck that. Overstreet? Yeah. You made bail. So that's how it is? I guess it's like that. Nigga, you ain't fuckin' shit. Ain't that some shit! Man, Mac just spent three hundred and fifty dollars gettin' this nigga a fine piece of pussy, and he gonna turn his back on him just like that? Man, this got me fucked up right now. Come on, fellas, tighten up, man. Damn. [ bell rings ] I know, you're sorry. And yes, I forgive you. Our future is still intact. My dad has an old fraternity brother who golfs with the mayor who called the D.A. who agreed to drop the charges. Membership in Club Ashley has its privileges. Yeah, but what about Mac? Well, that's the best part. He's gonna take the fall. He tried to ruin your life, right? It's not like he tried to force me to do anything. I did it-- By the way, somebody's gonna get some if he's lucky. We'll have the same guilt-free fun without all the mess. Yay! Hey, babies. Hola, papi. First of all, I want to thank y'all for rescuing my ass. No problem. Hey, you know I'm gonna pay you back. Why don't we go back to my place and you can pay me back right now? Baby, right now, I'm currently a one-ho-bro. Who am I supposed to do in the meantime? I don't know. What about her? [ mumbles ] Wait a minute. Oh shit! And next up to present their final project are Devin and Mac. Actually, I'm going to be doing this one solo. Well I- I've been trying to develop an alternative fuel from a mix of all natural substances, but the mix was highly volatile and we couldn't find a catalyst to help stabilize the compound and supercharge the fuel. Uh, I'm sorry. What was this magical catalyst? Delta-nine-tetrahydrocannabino. Isn't that the main chemical in... Marijuana, motherfucker. Also known as THC. Now what I did was I cross-pollinated genetically superior weed to create a master weed with properties never before enjoyed by mankind. Now check this out. Motherfucker. And you do know that. That was good. [ cheering ] This is only the beginning, people. Can we turn on a light bulb using cannabis? Yes we can. Where does the future lie? No more gas-powered cars? Let's make them cannabis-powered. Can we do that? Yes we can. If we start now, we can build the world's first weed-powered rocket ship that flies to the moon. Yes we can. Hemp-powered computer chips, a hemp-island that's free of pollution, a hoverboard made with a bunch of light and fluffy sativa nubs. Can we create a greener world using maryjane? Yes we can. Today, right now, Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Mac. Mac, wait. One more test. Well you better get ready, 'cause I'm taking you out. You pass that test, and we are definitely staying in. I can dig that. Some of you kids' breath smells like adult toys. You knew it was test time. Some of you females is dumb in here. And you my OG senior friend... I know you're gonna flunk the test. Excuse me, Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Skinnfloot. It's come to my attention that one of your students might have gotten his hands on a copy of your test. No. The student in question is Mr. Johnson. No, Mr. Johnson! Ah, no, that's bullshit. An elegant defense. But I'm afraid you'll have to prove your innocence by taking a test administered by yours truly. Mr. Skinnfloot, are you really qualified to do such a thing? My number one love in life, after the trimming of beautiful bonsai trees, is the art of mathematics. Simply solve this little equation and you graduate. Why? Why? For the past fifteen years you have made a mockery of the very educational system I've sworn to protect. And because you've made my life hell with your marijuana related hijinks. But most of all, the reason I'm doing this is so I can fill Miss Huck with my man seed. No. Y is the answer. Y. Y... is correct. Now give me my diploma, bitch. Can you believe it? Mac is finally gonna graduate after fifteen years of high school. And you know what that mean. Miss Huck can finally get it. Devin got his speech ready and he's still lettin' that same punk-ass girlfriend hang around. Well, I guess she was good for something. Because Yale is in the house. Go on and do your Ivy League thing, D-Street. Wish more brothers could. Shit, I wish more brothers would. Point is, we all gotta move on at some point. So, sit back and enjoy the celebration. The scholarship guy from Yale is here with my dad. They're excited for your speech. As is the tradition here at N. Hale High, we begin our commencement with a speech from our Valedictorian, Devin Overstreet. High school. It's the best of times, it's the worst of times. It's... I vast in the moment. I wish I could do that. You can, homey. Well actually, this is something a friend of mine taught me. And him, more than anybody I know, really loved high school. So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just havin' fun We don't care who sees So what we go out That's how it's supposed to be Living young and wild and free D-Street, you rock! Whoo, I want your cock! So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just havin' fun We don't care who sees So what we go out Hey, let me get a lighter. Please. 'Cause you know I'm high as fuck and I forgot one. Keep that in there. So what, I keep a rolled up sack in my pants Not carin' what I show, keep it real with my niggas Keep a player for these hos And look clean, I done washed it the other day, watch how you lean on it Give me some five-oh-one jeans, I'm gonna roll joints bigger than King Kong's, bangers and smokin' hos down to their stingers You a class clown And if I skip for that day with your bitch smokin' Grade A So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just havin' fun We don't care who sees So what we go out That's how it's supposed to be Livin' young and wild and free Now it's time for my valedictorian speech. Y'all ready? So many people in the world still look down on marijuana. What a shame. No matter what field you in, be it creative, blue or white collar, there are a lot of genius motherfuckers that puff herb on the regular. So does that make your dumber, slower? Hell fuckin' no. It opens up your mind to new ideas. Some cool song lyrics maybe, a new invention, a simple trick to solving a difficult math problem, or something simple as, hey, I bet it'd taste good if I put some crunched up bacon in that waffle batter. Call marijuana a drug all you want. Shun it all you want. Be closed-minded. Think I care? I pity ya. We have a safe way to relax, expand, grow our minds, and all from a beautiful wonderful smelling plant that grows on this earth. Look how it connected Mac and Devin. If it made two people as different as that become homeys, shit, nigga, we can do any motherfuckin' thing. And speakin' of Mac and Devin, ain't no tellin' what they gonna get into next. And I for one, sure can't wait to find out. So until next time, whenever you feel pressured in life, and when you're goin' through hard times and you need a common denominator to mellow everything out, don't forget these words of advice from your good buddy, Slow Burn. Break it down, roll it up, light it up, and smoke weed, motherfucker! Yeah! Fire! Livin' young and wild and free Yeah You know what It's like I'm seventeen again, peach fuzz on my face Lookin' on the case tryin' to find a hella taste Oh my god I'm on the chase Chevy, is getting' kinda heavy, Relevant, sellin' it, dippin' away, time keeps slippin' away, zippin' the safe, flippin' for pay Tippin' like I'm drippin' in paint Up front, four blunts, Khalifa put the weed in a J So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just havin' fun We don't care who sees So what we go out That's how it's supposed to be Living young and wild and free Yeah Roll one, smoke one, when you live like this, you're supposed to party Roll one, smoke one, and we all just havin' fun So we just roll one, smoke one, when you live like this you're supposed to party Roll one, smoke one, and we all just havin' fun So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just havin' fun We don't care who sees So what we go out That's how it's supposed to be Living young and wild and free So what we get drunk So what we smoke weed We're just havin' fun We don't care who sees So what we go out That's how it's supposed to be Living young and wild and free Yeah. High school, man. Hey, Wiz, I'm gonna get with you at third period tomorrow. [ cheering ] I own this pussy. You can't handle all this dick. You can't handle it. Knees Down! Have a little party at my crib And all the weed is rolled that's how it is When you fucking with some OG niggas Blowing OG smoke Don't even gotta ask, you already know We 'bout to go Have a little party at my crib And all the weed is rolled that's how it is When you fucking with some OG niggas Blowing OG smoke Don't even gotta ask, you already know We 'bout to go Young nigga that's more famous than these older niggas Young nigga got my game up from these older niggas Motherfuckas hear my name, I say I told you nigga I was taught to count my paper 'fore I told it nigga Now look at my chains, all them things frozen nigga Rolling up my Mary Jane before I smoke it wit ya Hit this J, I bet this be a day you don't remember Looking at the top and I don't see not one condenter Cooking out the pot, I like my weed for lunch and dinner Got some cookies in the jar, OG in the blender You paying for quantity, but quality is what you spend for If there's a marijuana-ology, I'll be your mentor And all about this chronic leaf is what you in for So give your parents my apology for me again or.. I just did my first motherfuckin' scene ever, ever acting in history. I just did it, so... That nigga, the way he's handlin' that shit, nigga. That nigga got Golden Globe. Nigga, watch. We gonna work with it, man. And if I start to suck, just let me know. Just be like, you suck. You're horrible. Get real, you're terrible. And the Golden Globe for best new actor... Wiz Khalifa... I knew it'd be big, but I've never seen anything this big. Oh, baby, just put it in your mouth. It's a new black blunt I got. I feel you, 'cause it's a white blunt. It's a long, fat, hot, steamy, juicy, succulent... I can't fit it all in my mouth. Yes you can, baby. Nice and... Go aaaah. Aaaah. You're a grown ass nigga still in school. That's how I really was, for real. I flunked twice. How old was you when you graduated? I didn't graduate. I just dropped the fuck out. When I seen my little brother in the classroom with me, I was like, I'm gone. Fuck that. How you work this? Just push the button-- Don't, it's already down. All you do is hit, hit it. Try it right now. And this go in here? Uh-huh. Oh, wow. You ain't got to do nothin' but just hit it, huh? That's- that's straight dope right there, though. That's cool, right? That aint' got no cut on it. That's straight uncut. You can taste the THC and everything. That's why it's a vaporizer. Oh, wow. It has everything. What's up, yo? Where the bitches at? They're in my pee pee hole. Let's go, let's do it! Knees Down is a kid in a wheelchair that fucks a lot of hot bitches. 'Cause he has a big dick. I got hydraulics. Hydraulics. Flippin' switches, flippin switches, flippin' switches. I'm having trouble with this word right here, I can't seem to pronounce, announciate it right. So, if it's T-E-T, that's tet. Uh-huh, tet. And then R-A-H is rah. Trah. No. Rah. So then, tet-rah. Trah. Tetra. Hydro. You know that. H-Y-D-R-O. Yeah. Tet- I know that word. Tetrahydro. Cannabino. Cannabino. C-A-N-N-A-B-I-N-O. So, tetrahydrocannabino. Yes, Mr. Johnson. He's so smart. He's gonna fuckin' graduate. I mean, freakin' graduate. Thank you. Remember that? What was that, the big bad wolf? Wow, what big eyes you have. Yeah. The better to see this thing I'm gonna put on you. Oh Pippen, you sure got long nails. Yeah. The better to backslap you with. Oh, Pippen, you sure got a lot of hair fallin' down. Yeah, bitch, 'cause this is really, really, really pimpin' on a bitch. All right, good! Cut! Is that what you wanted to do? God, damn. I'm pretty sure that's what he wanted. See? That's a real actor for you. Try-try to keep your head up so we can see your face. 'Cause the comedy's in your reactions to like, you know... No, the comedy was she did that, now we're good, and you got it, and you're tryin' to make her do it all over again. I just want to see you distressed, you know? You couldn't feel my distress? You want to see it, huh? Yeah. Okay, I got you. I'm a actor. Yes, you are. You didn't ask uh, Lawrence of Olivier this shit when he was shootin' his scene on the mountaintop and he had to stand up there for four hours and do this shit over and over. You didn't say, Lawrence, how you feel? You just said, action, and Lawrence delivered his lines. Yeah, we liked him. But get rid of this motherfucker. Let me tell you something, nigga. We dealin' with some real niggas, we don't deal with all that shit, script supervisor, or continuity. We may or we may not. What the fuck are you talking about? [ beat playing ] Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon Turkey bacon Turkey bacon Turkey bacon Raisin toast Raisin toast Turkey bacon Turkey bacon Turkey bacon, turkey bacon, turkey bacon, turkey bacon, turkey bacon, turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Turkey bacon, smellin' bitches Concentrate Every day I'm faded Trees prepared and properly cultivated I nurse, I spray em' down, no chemicals Just me and my buddy You hear me now? Never treat you wrong To each his own Snoop and Wiz The new Cheech and Chong We do, we do, we do. 'Cause we smoke And we blow And you know Here we go I'm smoking everywhere I go No stick, no seeds, just Al Green I always gotta keep one rolled I keep that, need that, got that I'm rolling every gram I own That purp, that bomb, that kush Don't gotta understand, they know I smoke that, fire that, good that good that Concentrated, everyday I'm faded Tree's prepared and properly cultivated I nursed 'em, sprayed down, no chemicals Just me and my buddy, ya hear me now Never treat ya wrong, to each his own Snoop and Wiz the new Cheech and Chong We up in smoke, making street schemes Wiz, do you remember the first time you heard a Snoop song? I remember I was in preschool, and my mom had one of them ghetto-ass homegirls. And uh... They love you. And it was when Doggy Style first came out. I was like, oh man, what is this? Like, it sounded so crazy to me. High school nigga what the fuck you think I'm passing all my classes with flying colors And everyday I'm high as a motherfucker When was the first time you heard Wiz? The song I love, but now I know I ain't livin' right, but it feels good. I'm like, oh, that's pimpin', you know what I'm sayin'? Like the way he was in pocket in there. My oldest son was playing it, so you know, he pulled me to the side and was like, Pops, you need to get with him. 'Cause he's the one, not the two. Sun roof open, smoking while I'm rolling My bitches only notice it if its potent Bottle of Perignon, we can go kick it by the ocean Get in between your legs Join roaches and ashes all in your bed You calling her babe, she calling me instead Cause I put that game all in her head She saw the crib, she know that I'm balling When he ain't have nothing he used to stall em Now I'm with the Boss Dogg, all the bad hos want him And my pockets on swole, I'm talking Rick Ross big And now when we shop we don't care what the cost is Rolling up good, smoking that bomb shit Blow a whole OZ, nigga that's boss shit Now she all fuck her man, rubber bands in my pocket Getting money, going hard for my profit Bad bitch keep the joint stuffed like stockings Come on, ya'll I'm smokin' everywhere I go Is that the level of excellence, the course that you guys are reaching for? Yeah, absolutely. Snoop's a legend, man, and uh, he's been doing it forever. And I also told him, one of greatest things I look up to him is for his longevity in the game. He's still right out here with all of us. You know what I'm saying? I smoke that, fire that good that, We welcome you to high school We do just what we like to We cordially invite you Now roll up and get high to it We welcome you to high school We do just like we like to We cordially invite you Now roll up and get high to it Get high to it I'm smoking everywhere I go No stick, no seeds, just Al Green You know, I feel like we, like Wiz is like my brother from another mother. You know what I'm saying? We- we equal, we eye to eye because we do everything the same way. It's like, if I could, you know, die and come back, I'd come back as Wiz Khalifa. Can you believe that? Wow. Wow. I smoke that, fire that, good that good that I always gotta keep one rolled. I always looked up to him. And when I found out he was a fan and embraced what I do, you know, it really just gave me that go hard and that motivation to keep doing what I'm doing. As well as, you know, he's the dopest there ever is and ever will be. And I'm kinda tight, too, so we might as well just give that to people, you know? No stick, no seeds, just Al Green I always gotta keep one rolled I keep that, need that, got that Between me and you, we got that bitch. That's a- a serious XM hit. Oh, man. I smoke that, fire that, good that good that [ cheering ]
