 

                        Fifty years ago Paris was a light-hearted city the goal of many a traveler but some came not for gaiety but to work to study at one of the world's most famous university the Sorban. To its lecture room and classes came students from all over the world and among them was a young girl. She was poor. She was beautiful. She had left her homeland and family and here in Paris, she was alone haunted by dreams and invincibly eager To go out alone into space. Go out alone. In one hundred years one hundred students but when it is time for you to think you, too, will be alone like the author of this equation like Newton let us say your Galileo. Probably will not be your good fortune to reach the sky to catch the stars in your fingertips. To catch a star in your fingertips. But this you can share with them. You can learn to be alone with nature with the ray of light piece of earth drop of rain you can become aware that the earth's swirling about the sun at the rate of Aware that the... What... what's that? You are feeling better? Sit. Sit still a moment. You fainted. I... Im sorry I interrupted the lecture so stupidly. You can get the notes from some other students. Your name is Marie Scholoscka? Yes. You are working in two master degrees. One in physics and one in mathematics. You passed first in the... mathematical examination last year. What did you have to eat today? Eat? Yes, eat. I don't remember. I have some lunch. What did you have? Salmon. All sort of things. You have a pleasant room? Yes, monsieur. Good. What time did you have that coat Come along. Come along, please. This is rather unusual to have no friends here in Paris. I have little time for friends. Usually, there's some young men. I'm interested in physics and mathematics. Yes, so am I. Yet, I have a wife and a home a daughter and two granddaughters I'm afraid I will not be up to that. Your desire is to go back to Poland and teach? Yes. Your parents are still in Warsaw My father is a physics professor He is old. When I have my degrees I shall go back and live with him. You love Poland. Oh, yes. I love Poland. Physics and mathematics and Poland. Yes. Eat your soup. Thank you very much. The Society of Natural Industry has asked me to recommend someone to make a study of the magnetic property of rare steel. I would be glad to recommend you if you wish. There would be some cumbersome costs I don't know exactly what. Oh, it wouldn't matter. Really it wouldn't. I would be so grateful. Of course, that our cumbersome equipment too cumbersome for our laboratories, I'm afraid. However, I know a scientist of great merit who works in the school of physics and chemistry. Perhaps he might have recommendation available. Come and have tea Sunday with my wife and me. I will ask him to come, too. You probably know his name. It is Pierre Curie. Oh, thank you so much. Thank you You have been very kind. Not at all. Not at all. Good bye then. Until Sunday. Sunday. Good night. Good night. To catch a star at your fingertips. Ah. Madame Poirot. You are Mdme. Scholoscka. I knew it. Yes. We've been waiting for you. My husband has told me all about you. Ah. Professor Curie. How nice? Madame. You two had met? Have not had the honor in the hallway. This is Mdme. Marie Scholoscka. professor Pierre Curie. My husband said you have no friends in Paris but that's impossible, child We must remedy that. Please Professor... Come in. Come in. I'm sure you know everyone here. In Paris you must have many friends. I want you to meet all these charming... May I introduce you to... This is Mdme. Scholoscka... What time? Always hard to meet, gentlemen. Dr. Curie Good afternoon. I had no idea that it was going to be a party. No... I believe you, monsieur. They're pulling up suddenly these parties out of the goodness of women's hearts. My wife wishes the young student of mine to make many friends. Well, I... I'm very bad at parties. It's impossible for me to focus. My mind won't follow the most simple thought. Oh, I beg your pardon. You are quite alright. Maybe I'll come back some other day. No... I want to talk to you about this student of mine. Perhaps we can find a quiet corner where we can talk. Of course. Of course. And as this student has very little money, and is I believe, extremely talented I thought you might have room available at physics and chemistry. Oh, I should be very glad. Unfortunately at the moment we are extremely crowded ourselves. In that case... However, my workroom is quite large. I would hesitate to ask you to share your own laboratory... I have shared it with students before. You have? Yes, and some of them were very quiet and pleasant. On the other hand one fellow was most troublesome. He used to whistle constantly. Well, I can assure you that this student is very serious. Then I should be very happy. I think you will find that she is very sincere. She? Oh, my God. These are my granddaughters. Excuse me. But... Mademoiselle. Mademoiselle. Bon Appetit. A coffee? Yes, thank you. Tea. That's coffee. That's coffee, too. Oh. Please sit down, everybody. Sit down. Wait a moment. Come along... children. It's time for your performance. Would you excuse them, Dr. Curie. They are going to play the piano. Come along... There they are. This is the student of whom we were speaking. Mme. Scholoscka. Dr. Pierre Curie. We have already met. Dr. Curie is gracious in consenting for you to work in his laboratory I am very grateful. Of course, I have no idea that is... Would you sit down, Madame? Oh, would you please excuse me. I feel my grandchildren are about to entertain. Would you care for tea? Thank you. I've just had some. It's coffee. I appreciate very deeply Dr. Curie the privilege of working in your laboratory. Playing incredibly badly don't you think? Very badly, Dr. Curie. Of course, I'm no judge. Professor Poirot is an excellent scientist. Oh, good morning, Dr. Curie. Good morning, David. The furnace is taken down and I'm beginning to set up for room temperature readings. I have the sulphates all ready for you. Thank you. No one has arrived yet? Here at the laboratory? Yes. No, sir. Are you expecting someone? Well, a pupil of Dr. Poirot who's going to do some work here for a short time. Yes, sir. Her name is Marie Sc... Funny, I was introduced to her twice. Scholoscka. She's a girl. I didn't find out in time. Always the continuous struggle against woman, David When we wish to give all our thoughts to some work which is strangest to humanity we always have to struggle against woman. Yes, sir. And women scientists are particularly unattractive I find, sir Women's love in life is the living of it. In the world of abstract research she's a danger, destruction. She's a natural enemy of science There's no doubt of it, sir. Woman and science are incompatible. Woman of genius are rare. No true scientist can have anything with women. No, sir. Anyway, David, put her over there in that far corner. Yes, sir. And if you can without being rude inform her how important silence is to laboratory work. I do hope she doesn't whistle. Oh, David. Would you mind going to the storeroom upstairs and see if there's a magnetometer. She'll need one for her experiments. Oh, yes. I... I'm very sorry, sir. I beg your pardon are you looking for something? Yes. I'm looking for Dr. Curie's laboratory. You're here. But you're not... I mean you can't be... Excuse me, please. No. You don't understand. You see I'm Dr. Curie's assistant. Oh... then you can direct me. Oh, I certainly can. Certainly can. Oh, just this way. Thank you. What do you think of that? I run into you the first thing. You know, Dr. Curie has asked me look out for you. Be sure to have everything you want so I'll just take everything into my own hands. Oh, here we are. Here she is, Dr. Curie. Run straight into her the first day. Oh. Good morning, Mademoiselle. Good morning, Dr. Curie. This time we met in rather a less rude atmosphere. Yes. Well that's just as it should be. People interested in work should be left alone. You have met my assistant? Yes. I don't think I quite caught his name. David. David Lagroue. I'm sure that David will see that you're properly installed. Thank you, Dr. Curie. I appreciate this chance more than I can say. Not at all Not at all, Mademoiselle and I do hope you'll be quite comfortable. Over this way. We picked out a specially nice place for you right over here. You're going to have this far corner all to yourself. Of course we would have it fixed up for you had we known sooner that you were coming but we'll take care of that right away. How do you think this is going to suit you? Oh. It is excellent. I understand you're a pupil of Professor Poirot's? Yes. I've studied with him, too. Wonderful isn't he? Yes, he is. Oh, I'll give you a little more light. Please don't bother. Oh, Dr. Curie wants you to be comfortable. I'm sorry, Dr. Curie. Here's a paper and pencil. You can make out a list for all the things you need, and I'll go and see if I can get a magnetometer for you. Oh, I can take my coat off? Oh. It's always the way you should. Your hat? I'll hide it up at the cupboard for you I'm sorry, Dr. Curie. Let me help you. Thank you. You know my office is just upstairs. I hope you won't hesitate to call on me if I can be of any assistance. You're very kind. You sure everything's alright? Quite. Thank you. Not at all. If there is anything you'd like to know about our equipment I'd be glad to explain it to you I want to give you some advice on where to eat around here. There's a very nice little restaurant down... Really, monsieur. I don't think we should talk. Why are you whispering? I just think you ought to know where to go. Yes, but I... I'll take you there later. That's the best way and It's too trouble. Oh, no trouble at all. I'll come back for you. Good evening, Mademoiselle. Good evening, Dr. Curie. Miserable evening, hasn't it? Yes, isn't it. Oh, by the way did David get you the telescope scale you asked for last week Oh, yes. Thank you very much. He finally look into it. Good... Well, good evening. But you have no umbrella Mademoiselle No, I haven't, Dr. Curie. I'm sorry. I didn't realize. Perhaps I can help you. Oh, I don't want to trouble you. Allow me. No trouble at all. No trouble at all. Thank you. You're very kind. Not at all, Mademoiselle. May I ask you another question Dr. Curie in the same connection? It's a simple matter, perhaps but it puzzles me. Yes, Mademoiselle? In the semetry L sub-Q and two L sub-Q you include only those rotations which are integral multiples of two Pi L Q. But two times K over Q exclude the identity transformation if K is not an integer. Yes. For final case, I guess. But in a limited L sub infinity a difficult seems to arise. I don't see why it's quite straightforward. Well, if you consider the matter rigorously... Hmm. I have to look into that. This is where I lived. Good bye and thank you. Of course... Oh, good bye, mademoiselle. And may I say your conversation is very simplely Thank you. It's an extremely dawning hypothesis. Good morning, Mademoiselle. Good morning, Dr. Curie. I'm a little late this morning. I have to stop in at my publishers. Oh. To Mme. Scholoscka my respect and friendship of honor... friendship of honor. My book. Oh, it's lovely. One of the first copy just off the press. On semitry and physical phenomena Semitry of Electric Field and of Magnetic Field by Pierre curie. That's something to be proud of. I thought perhaps you might like a copy. Oh, I would very much. Well, it's yours. It's yours Mademoiselle. Oh, thank you. Not at all. I've inscribed the book for you mademoiselle on the ply leaf. I believe that's the usual procedure. I'm very flattered. Not at all... Come in. Oh, Dr. Becquerel. I hope I'm not intruding Dr. Curie. But could you step over my laboratory with me? I think I've happened on something of great interest. Why? What is it? Are you too busy to...? Oh, no... Not at all. I'll come at once. Oh, aren't you coming Mademoiselle? Well, if I may? You don't mind... No. No. I'll be delighted. I came upon it quite by accident I think you'll agree that it is very extraordinary... What is this thing... Well, what did you see? You have taken the picture of a key apparently. Yes, the picture of a key. But that picture of a key was taken... in a very extraordinary manner. The picture of that key was taken in complete and total darkness without light of any kind. But, how was that possible? Some months ago I had the idea that perhaps certain rocks and minerals might store applied energy from the sun that if I left the rocks and minerals in the sun long enough they might absorbed some of its rays and then later, give them out. So I make some photographic experiments You see these rocks they're all different kinds of minerals I labeled them as you see and left them outside in the sun for several hours. Then I put them in this drawer on photographic plates like this and then I waited to see if they would give out any sunlight they might have absorbed. I see. And your experiment was a success. To the contrary, my experiment was a complete failure. Not one of the rocks I have exposed to the sun affected the plates in anyway. See, there they are. They're all black every one of them. Then how did you explain... Now, look at this one, please. That has been exposed am I right? Light has reached Oh, yes. That has been exposed. This plate was lying in this drawer quite by accident. I didn't even know it was there. It's the drawer that I keep some of my specimens in. And when I was putting my rocks back into the drawer one of them must have fallen on this plate without my knowing it. I discovered it yesterday. This is the rock that I have not yet exposed to the sun it's a piece of mineral called pitch blende. To be sure there could be no mistake last night I myself hide in this room in complete darkness. Took this rock, which had never been exposed to the sun and placed it on a photographic plate. I put this metal key between the stone and the plate like this so that it would be photographed if any light rays came from the stone. Half hour ago I developed the plate. This is the result. You mean, then, that... there is something about that rock that gives off rays of its own. Rays powerful enough to go through black paper and affect this photographic plate. That, Monsieur, must be so. Incredible. It is incredible. It's as if they were a piece of the sun locked up in here. Strange. Very strange. What could it be? What could be the nature of radiation? What could be the origin of it? Perhaps we shall never know. It was very kind of you to take me to Dr. Becquerel's laboratory. Not at all... Dr. Curie I want to thank you also for allowing me to do my experiments here in your laboratory. I couldn't have done this if it weren't for Natural Science Industry for allowing me of your kindness. You finished that already? Yes, I had to do it quickly because I should not have much time from now on to come to the laboratory. Why? What do you mean? From now on, I shall spend most of my time studying. My examination's coming up in less than two weeks, you know. So soon? I haven't realized. Yes. I have been here six months. It's the middle of June. The term is nearly over. How fast it goes. Yes. You know a short time ago that tree was a skeleton. I always used to look forward to my summer in my country but I'm only there at stray moments now when I go to visit my parents. They have this small place outside of Paris at Sol. I used to take long walks towards the woods there with my brother, Jacques. So nice to be walking in the country. My father loves to walk. Your father? Is he here in Paris? Oh, no. In Warsaw but we get out of the city now and then. Warsaw. But you're not thinking going to Warsaw. Of course. But when? As soon as I finished my examinations. But for how long? Why for... Why, Dr. Curie. You forget that if I passed my examinations I'm going back to Poland to teach. Well, I knew that... wish I knew when we first came, but everything is changed now. You are making experiments of your own I know it. I shall miss Paris, too. But this is absurd, fantastic. Why, it never occurred to me. Oh, I... I haven't planned on this at all. How could you dream of doing such a thing abandoning science when your making such progress. My father is getting old. He misses me. If you stay on in Poland you can't possibly go on with your studies. Anyone can teach but you can do more much more. You have a talent a definite talent and it's your duty to use it. We've so much to be done so much to that's still undreamed of. Oh, Mademoiselle. I beg you to reconsider. Why, that's very kind of you Dr. Curie I'm really flattered. I'm afraid I can't give up the entire plan that I have had for so long. I thought, of course, you knew. I do not understand how anyone with a scientific mind can entertain the thought of abandoning science. I know. But there are other things that are important, too. Dr. Curie? Yes, Mademoiselle. I've been meaning to ask you. I supposed you wouldn't care to attend my graduation? Well, I should enjoy very much seeing you get your degree but, well, I have, ah... there's such a crowd always. Of course... I understand perfectly. I feel exactly the same way myself. Well I should be coming in again of course to see to a few things Good bye, Dr. Curie. Good bye, Mademoiselle. We may well expect to hear again and again. It will always be interested for you to look back and try to recall the personality of... your classmate who have won faith. Above all it's the mother of learning And her children come through all the corners of the world. They come, they are nourished and then they returned to their homeland to impart what they have instilled to others. Pride is not deflated by what they take away. The whole world is in fact enriched by what they learned. And am proud in particular gained more than she gives to the very earnest students. Professor Constance, chairman of the committee on scholarship has gone over all the awards and will read the name of the successful candidates. It is my pleasure to introduce Professor Constance. The names of those who have been awarded degrees will be read in the order of merit. For the degree the master of physics. First... Marie Scholoscka. Hello, Dr. Curie. Oh, hello, David. Isn't she wonderful? First place in physics. Did you know we have that all that time in the laboratory? Yes. It's very gratifying. Here she was bright... You haven't seen any of Mmde. Scholoscka, have you, David? Yes, I saw her. Had a nice talk with her. Congratulated her and everything. She went straight home. Had some packing to do. Packing? Well, she's leaving for Poland on Tuesday. Oh. Good bye, Dr. Curie. Oh. Awfully glad I run into you. Good bye, David. Ah! Dr. Curie. How do you do, Professor? Lovely, wasn't it? Packing. Yes... Wasn't it lovely? Come in... Dr. Curie. How do you do? I missed you at the Graduation Exercises. I looked all over for you. You were there? Yes. Then you heard. Yes. My congratulation Mademoiselle. Thank you. You know, I was... never dreamed that I would... I was even afraid that I might may not... Oh, I'm glad you were able to go. Won't you sit down? Thank you I met David and he told me that you were leaving Poland on Tuesday Yes. I see. Then you haven't reconsider Mademoiselle. I'm afraid not. Of course. Of course. Perhaps you might have. You were packing? Yes. Oh, yes... naturally. Well, then... since you are leaving so soon on Tuesday I presume there'd be no time for something I had in mind, that is... my father... He is a doctor, you know. He is very short only, you know. but intelligent. And my mother is quite gay. I think you'd enjoy knowing both of them. But of course that would be impossible because you'd be busy packing and doing one thing or another. I had meant to ask you down before but it slipped my mind. Still, I thought it would be nice for you to take away with you some of Paris' countryside since we were speaking of the country the last time I saw you that perhaps you might like to come with me to spend the weekend there. It's not far but still it's impossible I see, because, I said before you'd be busy packing and preparing for your journey. Yes, the idea's preposterous on the face of it. The idea is not preposterous at all. I should like to come very much. You would? Yes. Thank you. Well, then. Well, then. I hate that girl. Eugene. I still hate that girl. What do you do in Poland, anyway? Spend all your time at this stupid game You must not mind my husband. He never shouts at anyone unless he likes them. That's what I thought. He had been shouting at me all my life. Well, what are looking so gloomy about, Pierre. It's your shot. Ah, yes. Excuse me. I heard you're going to Poland on Tuesday. Say, Monsieur. Excellent country, Poland. Thank you. Of course, he hasn't been there. You don't have to be there to know it's an excellent country. Well, what are you waiting for. Hit it. Hit it. Well, I dare say it's the best thing you can do. You can go on with your studies there. Of course, not with a degree that you could get here, but you will do well whatever it is. Thank you, Madame. I'm not paying you compliments. I'm only telling you what I see in your face. It's all there in people's faces. Look at my husband. A good man and a good doctor. Look at Pierre. A poet, but a poet with brains. A poet in the laboratory. Look at me, fat and foolish but quite a good old soul. It's true. Why should I mind. Look at Monsieur and me. Mitchell there and young Master Mitchell. We'll let them pass. But then, look at yours. Stubborn, determined, abstinent and of course, intelligent. And then, there's something else that I can't quite give a name to. Fiery, is it? No... Flame-like. That's a little nearer. Flame-like then. Something like a flame. Once I'm sure I won and what with that strike of yours supposed I get out of it. You're not paying attention. It's no credit beating anyone who does not pay attention. Why, I tried to, Father. Then you're just plain stupid. Oh. Leave him alone. No, sir. That boy has got to learn to concentrate. He'll never get anywhere if he doesn't concentrate. Did you ever hear the fundamental law of physics, known oddly enough as Curie's Law Sheer luck. I don't know how Pierre ever stumbled on to it. Oh, do be quiet, Eugene. Croquet always makes me thirsty. Want to drink? Thank you, Father. Yes, that croquet always makes me thirsty. Yes, it stirs up the thirst in a man. Nothing like a good drink of lemonade after a fast game of croquet don't you think so, Pierre. There. I think you'll be comfortable here. I'm sure I will. This is Jacques' room when he was home Pierre's brother, you know. Oh, there he is. Where. Oh, that. That's Pierre. Oh, no. Really? The other two are doctors of course. Crazy looking group. I think it's charming. Well. I hope you rest well. Thank you. And thank you for the lovely day. I'd been very happy and... You're very welcome, my dear. If you care to postpone your travel to Poland we'd love to have you stay with us for time. It is very kind of you. I like very much to stay but I've already written to my father and he'd be expecting me. It's no use, Mother, to talk Mdme. Scholoscka of staying on in Paris It seems that she's determined to return to Poland, and apparently as far as she is concerned science is to be forgotten. I did try to explain to you why I have to return to Poland. I thought you've understood. I do understand and I'm sorry. Well, good night, my dear. Good night, Madame Curie. Good night, Mademoiselle. Pierre, you shouldn't have spoken to her like that. She's a very obstinate girl Mother. After all, Poland is her home. What's that? I'm just saying to Mother she is a very obstinate girl. Hmm, stubborn. Exactly. That's what I mean. Stubborn as they come. Saw that the first minute I clap her eyes on her. Won't listen to reason. Closes her mind like a clam. Well, let's go to bed. Good night, Mother. Good night, son. Good night, Father. Good night, Pierre. She's so intelligent about other things Good night. Blind as a bat. Who? Your son. Mdme. Scholoscka... What is it? What's happened? Is anything wrong? Dr. Curie. I find it impossible for you to leave Paris. But what? Please. I must talk to you. I found myself in a very peculiar position. During these past two weeks when you haven't been to the laboratory I found everything very confusing It's impossible to do my work. In short, I find it impossible to go on without you. But now, suddenly... something has become very clear to me. I am helpful to you in the laboratory, am I not? Am I not? Didn't you say that? Yes, of course. A few times, I've been able to give you suggestions which you've found valuable Of course. Well, then, now. Where as I was inclined to be nervous and impatient you were quite the opposite. You have a clear mind you were tenacious you would never give up. It's an excellent combination. I might compare it with the chemical formula NACI Sodium Chloride. It's a stable necessary compound. So if we marry on this basis our marriage would always be the same. The temperature would be the same the composition would be the same There would be no destruction no fluctuation none of the uncertainties and emotions of love. But... I know how you feel about love about men I mean and I respect that feeling. It's also my own conviction. For the scientist there is no time for love. I always believe science and marriage to be incompatible but it's stupid to believe in generalization. In our case, it would be a wonderful collaboration. A wonderful collaboration. Don't you feel that? I feel that. And as for your father from what you've said I'm sure he would applaud such a collaboration. He might. And as for Poland what little good you could make there, you could make up here ten fold on your own ground science. What do you think I should do? It would be a very fine thing I believe to pass our lives together with our common scientific dream to work together constantly in our search and any discovery that we should make no matter how small would deepen the friendship that we already have for each other and increase the respect that we mutually feel. I can imagine no respect or friendship greater than I have for you now. I can imagine no future so full of promise than the one you offer. Then I suggest that you stay on in Paris with me. I think you are right. I should like to stay in Paris very much. Thank you. We are engaged. Engaged? I'm sorry. Oh, Pierre. I'm so happy. Oh. So very happy. And I'm, too, my boy. Very happy Thank you, Mother. Thank you, Father. Oh, Pierre. I am so glad. Good night, Mother. Good night, father. Good night, my boy. Good night. Good night. Good night. Quiet, please... Chaplain. Quiet, please. Now, look right here, please and hold absolutely still until I count to ten. Still. One and two and three and four and five and six and seven and eight and nine and ten. How I wish you happiness Mme. Curie. Oh, David. Thank you. You're the first one who's called me that. Good bye, Mme. Curie and bon voyage. Thank you, mademoiselle. Good bye, my dear Marie. Oh, Father dear. Good bye. Oh, congratulations, lad. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you, David. Bye. Bye. Excuse me. Now, where can I put this chicken? Mother we don't need anymore food. We're not going at the jungle. Good gracious what's this, Pierre? What do you want the science book on your honeymoon? We want to read them, Mother. Well, this is the last straw. Mother, we want those books. The chicken will do you fine I assure you. Science books on your honeymoon! My boy, good bye. Good bye. Ready, Marie? Here they go... You're very lovely, Marie. Thank you, Pierre. Music is lovely, isn't it? Yes. Thank you. Pierre. Yes. Would you hate to get back? In a way, although I have a lot of work that I must do. What should I work on, Pierre? What subject should I choose for my doctors degree? Is there anything that particularly interests you? Oh, yes. Yes, a number of things but... What is it? Why did you stop? Oh, nothing. It's just an idea that went through my mind. Well, what was it? Do you remember that Professor Becquerel showed us that rock The pitch blende and the plate he exposed to it? Yes. You know, Pierre. I can't get that out of my mind. Really? Why? I know it's true that the rays give... not by something in the pitch blende I can't get over the feeling that there's more to it than that that there's something else something beyond Becquerel's explanation. I don't quite understand. Well, what are these rays that given off and why are they being given off. It's an accepted principle in science that nothing can go on forever without running dull, isn't it? Yes. I mean, the clock will run dull if it isn't wound. Afire would burn out if it's not replenished. Life will die if it is inflate. Yet in these rocks which are embedded in the middle of the earth millions of years never seen the sun Rays are constantly given off more all by themselves. What is this energy? Where does it come from? I supposed I'm being very foolish. Some of the greatest achievements in science come to the same type of foolishness. When an explanation is given of something and every one believes it there may be one person somewhere who can't quite accept it, who instinctively says I'm not sure that this is sufficient explanation. Maybe something beyond this. It's that kind of foolishness, Marie. Well, I'm not that person I'm sure. How do you know? Perhaps you are Perhaps Dr. Becquerel has only set the gate a jar. Maybe a long and unexplored road ahead I wouldn't even know how to start Pierre. I wouldn't know what to do. I'm very glad we're married to each other, Pierre. Darling. Hello, Marie. My class kept me the day with the most stupid questions. Thought I would never get away. Just tonight when we're having guests. I have a terrible problem. I hope I got the things you wanted me to get. I lost the slip that I made the notes on and I couldn't remember whether there was turnips or carrots, so I got both. Mother likes carrots and Father likes turnips. And here's some flowers for the cook. Thank you, Pierre. What's the matter, Marie? Oh, Pierre. I'm so discouraged. Looks like this method of mine is all wrong. I wonder if I'm trying something beyond me. What is it exactly that's wrong? I don't know. My measurements. they don't mean anything. I know I must be making mistakes some where... but I don't know where it is. I checked them and I rechecked them two hundred times. Maybe the electrometer is not working right. That's what I'm afraid of. I wish you'd examine it for me Pierre I'll go over it tomorrow. Let's forget it tonight. Let's not talk, not even think the laboratory Promise? I promise. Well, Pierre. What is it? Marie, about those measurements. Do you think anything could have happened to change the capacity of the electrometer? Weren't we suppose to forget the laboratory tonight? Oh. I forgot. I'm sorry. No more... Im terribly sorry. Here they are. Where's my coat? Here we are. Hello, dear. Pierre. Mother. I smell turnips. We got carrots for you. Oh, how sweet of you. Oh, I brought you some of my new plum jelly. Thank you, Mother. She made it but I brought it. Ah, thank you, Father. Let me have your things. Your coat, Father? Yeah. You're not treating her right, Pierre. She looks pinkish. Oh, it's silly. Why you look lovely, dear. Just the same, she's too thin. And I say a woman without a child is a parasite. She feeds on life but is not willing to give life in return. What is being her excuse to have life. Why would she ever born? She's a blood sucker. Now, don't call names, George. Are you listening to me? Of course. A woman without a child is a blood sucker. We didn't mean you, my dear. Oh, yes. She's just the one I did mean. But I'm going to have a child. When? Soon, I hope. Oh, my dear. Marie. Yes, dear. Look who's going to say something at last. Are you sure the insulation is dry? Yes, Pierre. He's getting quite chatty lately isn't he? Don't bother them. They're thinking of something. I don't believe it. Did you check the ground connection? I don't know. I thought you gave it to me in good order. Well, sometimes it work loose and you don't notice it. Pierre, that could be possible couldn't it? Yes. Yes, of course. The thing we must do is to check that line completely from one end to the other. In that case my measurements may be correct. Yes. Then all these months of work couldn't have been wrong after all. That's right. Pierre, that's it. That must be it... Yes, that must be it. Alright. Alright. Go ahead and check it. Father, it's just that, well Marie has so many setbacks with her work. That's alright. Don't stop doing... Please. Go ahead. It's just that I've been waiting for so many months. It's alright, my dear. I hope you won't mind if I stay long enough to finish my coffee. Please do and we'll try to get back before you go. Thank you, my boy. Thank you. Good bye. You know, sometimes that son of yours is not quite all right. Nice having dinner with you. You know, I'll never come to this house but for the sake... It's Alright, George. It happens every time. Well? It's alright. Nothing wrong with it. I was wrong. I was sure we've found it. Well... I don't know. I'm sorry. You tested all of the elements. you're sure of that, Marie? Yes, I'm positive, Pierre. And you found that only two of them... uranium and thorium gave off rays. That's right. Then you measured the uranium and thorium in the pitch blende ore. And that's when I run into trouble. The pitch blende has more radioactivity than I can explained by the amount of uranium and thorium had in it. Would you like to show me how you make your measurements Marie? You wouldn't mind? Of course not. Alright. Here is what I've done so many times that I lost count. Here is crude pitch blende. Now we know that the rays came from the uranium and thorium that are in this pitch blende. Those two elements give off the rays. Correct. I put the pitch blende in this mortar. Has the mortar always been clean? Always and grinded up. Here is the ground pitch blende throw in the uranium and thorium in it I also fill a disk level full. Just like what I've done every time. Then I placed it in the electrometer. And I close the case so there is no draft. Good. I charged the electrometer. Now I will find out how much energy to raise in the pitch blende they have is it right? Right. Start. Ready. Read. Eight. Eight. Same reading as I always had. This pitch blende with the uranium and the thorium still in it comes to eight. Now, here is pure uranium I strike it in the same amount of pitch blende. This is exactly the same case close the case charged the electrometer Now, we will find out how much energy the rays in the uranium have. Right. Ready. Read. Two, same as always. Done nothing wrong so far. Not that I can see. We know then that... the pitch blende with the uranium and thorium in it comes to eight and that the uranium alone reads two. I am going to test the thorium. From the same amount of pitch blende? Of course, and put in exactly the same case close the case charged the electrometer. Now we find out how much energy the rays in thorium have? Right. Ready. Read. Two I don't understand. There must be a mistake. When the uranium and thoarum are in the pitch blende the reading is eight. But individually they only total four. Have you checked all the other elements in the pitch blende? I checked every elements. There is no the result. Every elements in existence. Uranium and thorium are the only elements that give off rays. Why do they give off twice as much when they are in the pitch blende as they do as they were tested separately? Where are those four missing points? That is what I don't understand. I don't understand. You make the chemical analysis of what is content in the pitch blende, didn't you? Of course. Could I see it? Yes. Uranium oxide - 75% Chlorium Oxide - 13% Lead sulfide - 3% Silicon dioxide - 2% Calcium oxide - 3% Barium oxide - 2% Iron oxide - 1% Magnesium oxide - 1/990% other extraneous elements Pierre Yes? Our universe is composed of definitely known substances isn't it? Elements are fixed forever in earth unchanging we know that, don't we? All of our scientist based on that All of our science is based on that. Go on In the beginning man used to think that the world have only of four elements, earth, air, fire and water. They thought that everything in their universe could be made out of those. Yes. Go on. But They were wrong, weren't they? They were wrong. Now we know that there are 78 elements The elements over there on the shelves and we believe that there are some elements still unknown but we assume that... these missing elements have the same character as those we know already. That is right Pierre What if there is a kind of matter in the world we never even dream of? What would that mean? Marie, that would mean that our whole conception of the nature of matter would have to be changed. It is cold in here. Tell me what you are thinking. I don't quite dare. Go on and say it now matter how crazy it sounds. What if we did not make a mistake in our measurement? What if the conception of science is wrong? What if there exists a matter that is not in earth but alive, dynamic? Do we dare think that our four missing points these strange power is of 1/1000%? Pierre. We have discovered a new element. An active element. The residue for pitch blende. What was left over After I extract the uranium and the thoarum it must be in there. Where it is? In the resin... Close the curtains. Ready? Marie, if your four missing points are here our notion of the universe will be changed. Ready? Read. Four. Oh, Pierre. Marie. This new concept. If we can prove the existence of this new element it may enable us to look into the secret of life itself deeper than ever before in the history of the world. Madame Curie, you must realize that the board has given you repetition every consideration. However... the university has not an extensive budget for the creation of new laboratories and for the new equipment you ask for. You state that... you and Dr. Curie had detected the presence of a new element an active element. But unfortunately you have given us no convincing proof of its existence. We have demonstrated of its existence experimentally. We have carried on our research intensely except for five weeks in the autumn. In September my daughter was born and a week later my husband has the misfortune to lose his mother. But the rest of the time, we have devoted entirely to research. And yet in this eight or nine months you have came no closer to any proof as to the existence of ah... what is the name of it? Ah, my wife has named it radium. Oh yes, radium I should like to ask Dr. Curie a question. Yes, Professor Roger This work. Will it require quite a little time will it not? Yes, of course. But you are already teaching at school of physics and chemistry. And Madam Curie is teaching at the normal school at Sebra. It would be a formidable undertaking under the best of circumstances. Under these conditions hardly seems promising. And Madam Curie, in spite of her acknowledged abilities is if you would permit me to say so young inexperienced, and a woman. Gentleman. If you please. This remark seems to me entirely irrelevant. It is perfectly true that Madame Curie is young that she has not had the experience that most of us have had and as you say she is a woman. But let me impress upon you gentlemen that she is of most unusual woman I might say her, ah a most unusual woman. You can't classify her with that term I have had the opportunity of observing Madam Curie very closely and I can assure you, gentlemen that she is remarkable scientist as scrupulous as she is brilliant and furthermore... Of course, gentlemen you understand that I am looking upon Madame Curie with complete coolness and complete detachment as I would in judging any other colleague. We understand that you are convinced as to the reliability of Madame curie's investigation. Entirely, I have even put aside my own research to devote my entire time to collaborating with her in the isolation of this new element. Dr. Curie much as we would like to help you and Madame Curie our budget does not provide the purposes of this kind. However, the suggestion was made by Professor Roger in which we have unanimously concurred to offer you the use of the shade across the courtyard from the school of physics. We are aware that this shade is not the most suitable place for your investigation. Gentlemen am I to understand that you are offering us the old shade across from the physics building? The one, that was used as a dissecting room by medical students? If this abominable shade is available, it's only because no one can be found who is willing to work in it. The roof leaks. It has no floor but the wet ground. It can't be heated. In summer, it is stifling as a hot house and in winter, it freezes. And do you imagine that I would permit my wife to work under these appalling conditions? If you do gentlemen, believe me... With my husband's permission we should be very glad to accept the shade. We shall be very grateful to have the shade. This was the shade across the courtyard from the school of physics. This was to be the laboratory of Marie and Pierre Curie The place was even worse than they had expected. There was no equipment. They were at the mercy of the worse extremes of the weather. How could they do anything worthwhile under such conditions? If they'd know at the start how long they will have to work here and what difficulties awaited them would they have dare to begin? Well, yes, they probably would. They were that kind of people. At first it was sheer physical labor beyond the strength of either of them. During those winter days they carried on between them the work of the entire chemical plant. The raw material was pitch blende from the mines of Bohemia tons of it from which they plan to extract all the known elements until only a few ounces remain. From this few ounces, radium their precious element was eventually to be isolated. In the beginning in spite of the bitter cold the work had to be done out of doors because of the fire and fumes. The first step was to melt the crude ore on a large oblong tank till it was boiling like lava. Then acid was poured in. This was to dissolve out the salts. When this was done the next stage was to melt down the residue in separate cordon another back breaking job for the fire must not go out. Night or day either Pierre or Marie had to be on hand all the time. Dogged determination kept them going through month after month of such arduous dangerous work but even so it began at last to tear on both Pierre and Marie. This was something they had to fight continually the gas fumes. Eventually, months run into years The kind of works changed but Pierre had to build or assemble their equipment and with any material that lay at hand. What was left of the original pitch blende had now to be filtered and re-filtered to remove other elements. And this work were not quite so physically strenuous was hard enough specially during the hot summer days. And so the work went on until presently everything had been removed from the tons of ore except two final elements one was barium and the other which they had began to think of it in their heart as their own element was the precious illusive radium. Pierre and Marie thought that the end of their task must surely be in sight. All that was now left was to separate these two survivors barium and radium. This was the problem to separate barium and radium somehow or other. No separation. No separation. No separation. September the 12th 1899. Reduction of pitch blende nearly finish. Only barium and radium remain. The next separation will give radium. November the 8th, 1899. First experiment. No separation. November the 10th, 1899. Second experiment. No separation. July the 16th, 1900. Four hundred and fifty eight experiments. Radium still refuses to separated from barium. Alright, then, radium wouldn't be separated from barium. We've done all we can and more more than most people would have done thanks to your tenacity but it's useless. We'll never find a way of separating. Barium and radium can not be separated. How much longer do you think we can stand this insufferable heat stifling in summer and freezing in winter. How much longer do you think you can drive yourself like this? And how much longer do you think I can stand by and watch you destroy yourself? The world has done without radium up to now. What does it matter if it is isolated for another 100 years. I can't give it up. If it takes a hundred years it would be a pity but I am going to see how far I could go, even my lifetime We have never seen burns quite like this before they are very strange. I can't ever remember seeing anything quite like them they obviously don't come from any normal substance. Madame Curie how long have been making your experiments with this unknown element? For the past three three and a half years. And have these burns given you much pain? No. They are irritating at times but I never pay attention to them until lately. I see. It is obvious that you are dealing with some remarkable powerful force. As to what these burns are exactly there is no means of telling. I don't wish to alarm you Madame Curie but it is possible that these burns might become serious might in fact develop malignantly if you continue to expose them excessively to your unknown element. It is not impossible they may be developed into a cancerous nature. It is my advice, Madame that you abandon your experiments. Cancer. No, Pierre. He only said the burns might develop malignantly Like develop into cancer. No. He said they might possibly develop into a cancerous nature but only if it excessively exposed to our radium. So if we're careful there is nothing to be frightened about. But the very word frightens me. You saw how it took my own mother. We'll have to give up our experiments If we are dealing with as powerful a forces there is no telling what... I wouldn't allow it. I wouldn't let you take such risk I won't permit you. No, Marie. Pierre, please. Listen to me, please. There is something I must tell you and then you should decide as you wish. Very well, Marie. As I left the doctor I have been thinking. This element of ours obviously has a terrific power. Power enough to affect healthy tissue like mine. Power enough to destroy tissue. Pierre, if it has this power why hasn't it also the power to destroy unhealthy tissue? You realize what that might mean? It could heal. By destroying unhealthy tissue it could heal all men of diseases Like cancer? You? Yes, Pierre. It might even do that. We don't know what things it might do for people. But, Marie... Oh, Pierre. Can't you see how unimportant little things like these are compared to what it might mean? It might prevent great sicknesses even deaths. Pierre. And so they went on with their work using every possible precaution. Marie's fingers healed. And though they did not find a way to separate radium and barium in a single process they did discover a method of removing barium little by little in infinite decimal amounts. Working on the theory that once the whole of the barium is removed nothing could be left but radium. Here we see the sort of things they had to do. This is called crystallization. When the liquid evaporates crystals are left. This was the thing they had to do over and over again. It proved to be the most exacting of all of the stages of their long test. For it continues for two years and require thousands of separate operations. By now the residue from all the various processes they had worked at lay in hundreds of this small evaporating bowls. Small, because larger quantities would not evaporate so quickly. Crystallizing and re-crystallizing. Each operation they hope bring them closer and closer to the heart of the great mystery. At last, they arrive at the final crystallization the one that contains the concentrated results of all the others. The last survivors out of those hundreds of evaporating bowls. I think I feel like crying Professor Poirot. Professor Poirot. Madam Curie, but I am afraid I have come at a crucial moment. No. No. We have finished. We have nothing to do now but wait. I am delighted to see you. There is nobody we'd rather have waited at this moment than you. Thank you. And I have brought with me an very illustrious visitor. No more illustrious than these young folks will be. The name of Curie will lead all the rest. Your taller, my boy, considerably than I have imagine. And you, Madame, so young, so beautiful and so brilliant I don't know which is the greater miracle you or radium. Why don't you introduce me Poirot? I think I know. Isn't it Lord Kelvin? I absolutely refuse to return to London without meeting you both. As long as the greatest living scientist believe in the existence of radium what the other thoughts didn't seem to matter. Here are the evaporating dishes. How many crystallization did you make hundreds I suppose? Tell him, Pierre. Look here, sir. Five thousands six hundred and seventy-seven. And the last crystallization is in there, I supposed. Five thousands six hundred and seventy-seven. And thus crystallization. What a historic moment. That little bowl represents eight tons of pitch blende and four years of work. In a few hour the water will be gone and only radium will remain. Pure radium. I am sort of tempted to stay and see it but it's New Year's Eve and my family is expected me in London. Mine is just as well. This great moment should belong to the two of you alone. You begin the year, my friends that will mark your fame. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye, Sir. C'mon along, Poirot. My train won't wait. Goodnight, dear, Goodbye. I shall come back to Paris next week and see your radium with my own eye. You can send me a telegram tonight and describing it to me. We have a coin over there. We wrote something out for this occasion Bring out the old bring in the new bring out the false bring in the true. Good bye. God blessed you. Good bye. Good bye. What a wonderful man. The really great men are always simple and good. Yes. We're both very tired. Yes. Shall we try to get some rest? Very well Sit here a while and I cover you with this robe. There. Put that chair over. I can't reach you Yeah. That's better. Let's try to doze off. Pierre. What time is it? I overslept. I must be tired. It is five. Must be crystallized by now. Must be there. Our radium must be there. C'mon. Do you mind? You look first. There's nothing there not a trace of anything not a grain. Only a stain. What had happened Pierre? Where is our radium? What have we done? Where is it? What's happened? Where is it, Pierre? I don't know. What did we do that was wrong? What could we have done? We've done nothing wrong. I can't stand it, Pierre Where is our radium? We worked for years and years and years It must be there. It must be there. Four long years in this shed. Four long years. Is that you? Yes, Father. Well, something's got to be don about that child of yours. I think you ought to take it back. I let her stand on my head to let her eat her supper and now she... now she, now she won't go to bed until her mother tells her story. I like to know what's the matter with my stories. They are the same stories. I'll go up to her. Then what happened, Mommy. I am sorry, Irene darling. Mother just can't tell you anymore tonight. Oh, Mommy, please. What is the matter, Mommy? But, I wanted to know what happen, Mommy If you close your eyes tight Daddy will tell you a story. What's it about? Well, ah, its about ah, it's about a strange and wonderful treasure that was locked up in an enchanted stone. Is there a princess in it? Yes, a princess. A beautiful princes with golden hair. Is there a prince too? No, not a prince but a man who live all alone until the princess found him. Did they love each other? Very much. Alright, Daddy my eyes are closed Well, now, one day the princes told the man about this wonderful treasure so they decided to go and search of it together. Now, no one had ever seen this treasure of course, but the princes knew that it was there. And she knew if they could get it out of the stone, it might let people see wonderful things that they had never been able to see before. So they worked very hard for a long long time to try and rescue the treasure from the stone. And they grew very tired And at last, they knew that... they would never be able to free the treasure from the enchant of the stone but they weren't sad about it because they knew that no matter how many disappointment they had they would always go on together. Having the courage to take many disappointments because they were together and they live happily ever after. She is asleep. You know, we promised David that... But I supposed you naturally don't feel like... Oh, I remember. The New Year's Party. But, of course you don't feel like going. Pierre, we promised. Let's go. I'd rather. Might help. Good. Good then. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year, Marie. Happy New Year, Pierre. Try to put it out of your mind Marie and go to sleep I can't. I can't accept it, Pierre. But, Marie, sometimes there are things you just must accept it If I only knew why we fail. I think that the failure itself I wouldn't mind so much about it but the reason for it. Months and months and months ago you did find the right process to use. At the very end why should it suddenly fail? I don't know. I don't know. Pierre, that stain on the saucer. Yes. We didn't even test it, did we? No, we didn't. What we are expecting to find was a definite amount of radium wasn't it? Something we could see and feel. Not as much as a pinch of salt you said Yes. Pierre, what if it's... a merely a question of amount? What does so little radium in proportion to the amount of material that we use that we now we couldn't see it. What if that stain? Even with the merest merest breath... Go on. Pierre, could it... be that that stain is radium? Pierre. It's there. Our radium. It's there. It's there. Pierre. Pierre. It's there. It's there. It's there. Oh, Pierre. Where are they? Are they in Paris or go wherever they are. I am not going to tell you where they are. But, Dr. Curie I am the representative of the London Times and there are representatives here from the presses of all the great nations in the world. Don't Dr. and Madame Curie realize they can't hide from the press? The whole world is on fire from their discovery. The publics want to know about them. We have heard that they had refused to take in money for their radium that they are giving it to the world. The Nobel Prize to a woman. These are important matters Dr. curie and the world must be told about them. Yes, the public must know. Did they give it for free? Where are they now? Gentlemen all that I know is Pierre and Marie are very tired. They have been interviewed so much that I can't see there is any more to tell that the public would be interested in. They're sick. They've gone away on a holiday to rest. Now, it's utterly impossible for any newspaperman in the world to try to interview Dr. or Madame Curie at the present time I'm sorry. Excuse me. I am from The Courier the newspaper in Grandovland. Do you think I could see Madame Curie? I'm afraid you can't see her. They've come here to rest. It's their first holiday in five years. You wouldn't want to disturb them. Perhaps you could tell me something about her. I can't go back without some sort of story. Would you like to have something for your paper that very people know yet? Oh, I certainly would. Well. Put in your newspaper that the University has granted Dr. and Mme. Curie a splendid new laboratory with many rooms the latest equipment many assistants. It will be presented to them in a formal ceremony next week. Next week? There. Fair enough. That's fine, Madame. That's wonderful. I don't know how to thank you. I can tell you I was scared of meeting Mme. Curie but it was rather important to me. You see this is my first assignment if I could have gotten the interview it would help a lot. Well, monsieur. You can tell your newspaper that you got your interview with Mme. Curie. Madame. Good bye. Are you... are you Mme. Curie? Yes. And this is my daughter Irene. It's a new bicycle so she has to show it off. And now... Mommy... Oh, yes. My baby. This is E. She's been a good baby? Very good, Madame. Been very good, darling? Yes. Wei, Madame. Did she drink her milk? Yes. Alright... Wei, Madame. Well, keep her out in the airy deck. Alright. Off you go. Now she made a grand tour of the garden And now you'll excuse me. Good bye. Good bye. Know what I'm doing? Pierre. I thought you were asleep. No. I'm walking through the new laboratory. Don't imagine it too grand. It might not come up to your expectations. And at the moment, I'm walking down the long white hall. And I'm with you? Yes, you are with me. Now I'm examining your work table. I don't believe it's large enough. How's yours? Oh, yes. I haven't got there yet. It will be exciting, won't it? When we walk in the first time. Yes. It will be wonderful to get back to work again. We lost so much time. Oh, Pierre. The time we spent here hasn't been lost We got our strength back. Yes, that's true. We were ill, both of us more than we knew. You know, when we first came here I used to have fantastically morbid thoughts sometimes. What do you mean? Well, everyday that passed seem so completely lost. I have a feeling that I didn't have much time to lose, that my days were... well, it... that I mustn't waste them that I have to drive ahead quickly in order to have time to finish everything I wanted to finish It's odd how one's mind would... Why, Marie. What a horrible thought to have. It's just because I was so ill. How could such a thought entered your mind. Oh, darling. Don't take it so seriously It frightens me. I'm sorry I mentioned it. It was nothing. It's because I was so worn out. You know, Marie, how tired I was. Pierre. If one of us should ever go the other couldn't go on alone. Couldn't be expected of us could it? Oh, Marie. I've upset you. Could it, Pierre? You were wrong, Marie. Whatever happens if one should go the other must stay on. One must work just the same. But I for one had no intention of going anywhere except to our wonderful new laboratory. Only one more week. Just think of it. After all this waiting only one more week. Pierre? Yes, dear. Come back here. Ha? Come back. What is it? I want to tell you something. Sit down. Well? What is it? So hard. I just can't find the words. Pierre, are you proud of me? Marie. Because I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud that sometimes I think I'll burst. You're a very great man, Pierre. Not the way the world means. Just you. Your kindness, your gentleness and your wisdom. I love you, Pierre, so deeply. I never dreamed... I'm so thankful, Pierre. That's what I wanted to tell you. That's what I thought you'll always know. France sees it fit to bestow the famous scientific couple a truly great honor in reward for their services to science and to mankind. Well, are you truly impressed? The president and faulty of the University of Paris will present Pierre and Mme. Curie with a fully equipped laboratory with which to carry on their many experiments they have opened the gateway to. At 6:30 on 19th, April that's today, you know. There will be a formal presentation of the laboratory at which the world famous couple will appear. Not bad, eh? Not bad. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Father. Good morning Good morning, children. What's the matter with this place today? After all it was no different than any other day, isn't it? This house is in a turmoil. Everything is upside down topsy turvy nothing in its place. Where is your mother? I haven't seen her for hours. I don't know how I'm going to remember everything. And, ah... Where's my coffee? I'm late. Oh. Thank you, Lucille. Don't know where your mother has gone. The house without a woman I don't understand. Marie? Mother's in there. What's she doing in there? Mother's in there. Mother's in there. Marie. I wouldn't go in there, Pierre if I were you. She's having the last fitting on her new dress she's going to wear tonight for the presentation. It's supposed to be a surprise. Oh, good. Good. That's a very sound idea. Yeah. Remember I didn't tell you. No. Pardon me, is Dr. Pierre here? That's him. Oh. Mme. Curie would like to see you. You like it, Pierre? It's for this evening for the ceremony You look very beautiful, Marie. You really like it? I do. Very much. What color is that? It's, ah, very deep red. You want to have some kind of a little ornament, haven't you? Oh, nonsense. Yes. Yes, you should. Something... something bright. I've seen them on women. They look nice Now you're making me self-conscious. Oh, I was thinking what a pity evening dress becomes you so. But there you are we just haven't had the time, have we? Oh, look at that. Our beautiful day ruined. Oh, I was going to spend the day in the park with the children. Well, I must be off. I have a hundred things to do today. I promise to go to the institute I have to look at the proofs of my paper from my publisher and endless thing. I want to clean everything up and start fresh from the laboratory in the morning. You mustn't be late. You must allowed yourself time to dress Madame. Madame, the pins. Oh. Oh. Perhaps one day I'll get a new dress suit. You know I have had mine since I got my Doctors degree. Looks bad on me, isn't it? No, Pierre. You look very handsome in anything Thank you, Marie. Good bye. Good bye, darling. They're always calling for us at six. I'll be here. Don't forget your rubbers. No. Or your umbrella. Good bye. Good bye, Pierre. Pierre... Is there something I can show you Monsieur? I would like to buy a pair of earrings for a lady. We're going to a party tonight. Yes, Monsieur. Did you have anything special in mind? Well, I've seen women wearing earrings that I thought were very pretty. Of course, I would like to get something that would match the lady's gown. May I ask the color of the gown monsieur? It's dark red. It's rather a special gown. Not blow, of course, but... What do you think of these Monsieur. They're amethysts They're very lovely. Oh, yes, aren't they. And what are these? Those are garnets. Really? They're both lovely. I hardly know... It would depend on the shape of the lady's face. Is it oval or round? I would say that her face was oval. Yes, oval. And is she blond or... Blond, definitely. But not too blond. I mean, she can't... well just blond. And her hair is sort of gold you know Gold? Yes. And her eyes are gray. Very calm gray. The coloring is very lovely. Sort of smooth skin and nice delicate, coloring and well I... I don't know if it will be of any help to you but the lady is quite beautiful. Lovely. You look very beautiful my dear. Thank you. It's rather unusual to be praised for the way I look. I'm sure you could have had that praise from men if you'd had wished it. Thank you, Father. I don't understand Pierre being late today of all days. Well, you know, Pierre. I brought in some wine. I thought we might all drink to that new laboratory before you go. Oh, that was thoughtful of you Father. That must be Professor Poirot and Pierre's not here. Let me. Pierre? Mme. Curie, it is my painful due to inform you that... your husband has been the victim of a street accident. He was instantly killed. It came at such no pain. Has she any better? Just the same. I can't get her to speak to me. I'm frightened. Is she in there? Yes. Forgive me, if I intrude. I do so as Pierre's old friend as your old friend and teacher. Please try to attend to what I say. Try to hear my words. Think what Pierre what he should do. How he would want you to live now. It is my believed that he would wish you to continue his and yours. My friend... I know how much the laboratory meant to Pierre. I know how much hurt if it wasn't to be yours. It was his dream that someday you and he would stand there together. I know it is very hard for you to think of going on by yourself when you have done everything together so many years. One must go on working just the same. You must find somewhere within yourself the strength to carry on Pierre's work and you own. Ha? Ten years ago you told me so often that you were impressed by something I said when you were a student in my class. I spoke of Newton and Galileo and I said that probably none of you would ever reach so high to get the star in your fingertips. I was wrong. I have, too, seen you reaching to the high place of knowledge and get your star under your fingertips. Marie, there are more stars. The Faculty of Science of University of Paris invites you to attend the ceremony honored by the presence of Mme. Curie to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the discovery of radium. Yes, she was famous now. This frail, stubborn, eager woman had carried on her great work for a quarter of a century. Mme. Curie. Even now, after twenty-five years of intensive research, we feel there is a great deal still to be done. We have made discoveries. Pierre Curie, in the suggestions we found in his notes and in thoughts he expressed to me has helped to guide us to him. But no one of us can do much if each of us perhaps can catch some glimpse knowledge which modestly insufficient itself may add to man's dream of truth. It is by these small candles in our darkness that we see before us little by little the dim outlines of that great plan that shapes the universe. And I am among those who think that for this reason, science has great beauty and with its great spiritual strength will in time cleanse this world of its evils it's ignorance, poverty, diseases wars and heartaches Look for the clear light of truth Look for unknown new roads even when men's sight is keener far from now. Divine wonder will never fail us. Every age has its own dream. Leave then the dreams of yesterday You take the torch of knowledge and build the palace of the future.
