 

                        1 A DAIEI PRODUCTION Produced by DAIEI STUDIOS, DENTSU and KUROSAWA PRODUCTIONS General Producers - YASUYOSHI TOKUMA and GOHEI KOGURE AN AKIRA KUROSAWA FILM MADADAYO He's coming! All rise. Bow. Be seated. Someone's been smoking. Smoking is forbidden in the classroom. However... that just makes you want to do it all the more. When I'm in the faculty room... and I hear the bell and begin heading to class, I suddenly feel the urge to smoke. I light a cigarette. Then, despite myself, I light another, and another. So I'm always 20 to 30 minutes late. But Professor, what happened today? It's been more than 30 years since people began calling me "professor." During that time, like water running from an open faucet onto a dirt floor and into a ditch, students have drifted away before my eyes, year after year. It's impossible to remember each and every face. However... there's one among them that I remember vividly. That face belongs to a boy who slept through class with his eyes open. Takayama... that master snoozer was your father. By the way, gentlemen... today's the last day for me to be called "professor." As of today... I am resigning my professorship. Somehow... my writings have found a market. I can make a living off them. That's not to say... that I dislike teaching. But as they say, "He who chases two hares catches neither," so I'm quitting teaching. Professor. Even if you quit, you'll still be our professor. My dad graduated from this school, and so did his friends. To this day they still call you Professor. They also say you're pure gold. Pure gold? A lump of gold with no impurities. I guess they mean you're a true professor. You're our German professor, but I feel you've taught us a lot of other very valuable lessons. TOKYO, 1943 From a distant island Whose name I don't know A lone coconut Drifts ashore You left the shore of your home... This is the house our professor moved into after he quit teaching. Ma'am, put the professor away somewhere. He's in the way. Dear. Put that in the front hallway. I plan to turn the hallway into my study. While I work I'll also be the gatekeeper, protecting the house from invasion by riffraff like you gentlemen. RECEIVING DAYS: 1ST AND 15TH OF THE MONTH VISITORS PROHIBITED ON OTHER DAYS I wonder if it'll be all right. What? The rent here is cheap for such a nice house. I knew something was fishy. When I went to buy these noodles, the shop lady told me that this house gets broken into a lot. Nobody lives here for long. It stood vacant for quite a while. Who cares about burglars? There's nothing worth stealing here. Still... I'm a bit frightened. Don't worry. Nobody will break in. I'm certain of it. I've been afraid of burglars ever since I was a child, so I've tried to find ways to keep them out. I've devised a sure-fire method. Really, sir? Yes, really. One o'clock. The dead of night, when burglars come out. I'll go over this wall and open the wicket. You go in through there. Wait a minute. Aren't we acting like burglars? I thought we were worried about what his wife said, so we're here to check his precautionary measures. How can we check them unless we really try to break in? Look at that. What a joke! "Don't worry," he said. "Just leave it to me," he said. It's unbelievable. BURGLAR'S ENTRANCE BURGLAR'S PASSAGE BURGLAR'S LOUNGE BURGLAR'S EXI Score one for him. I stole this to get even. Isn't that his hat? He wore this as an army instructor. He shouldn't need it anymore. I'll keep it as a memento. It'll make a fine family heirloom. What about the wicket? What about it? It's still unlocked. You have to climb over, lock it, then climb back. It's risky leaving it like that. Really? All right. Get down! - What is it? - Someone's coming. Oh no! It's a cop! Is it okay leaving it open like that? Sure. Any burglar who saw those signs would rush right out. He's really something. Yeah, pure gold. Professor! We got your invitation, and we all decided to come. Come right in. We can't with you sitting there. You look like a scribe or fortune-teller. What can I say? I'm a man of letters. He uses these to beat visitors away at the door. Not to mention that anybody who reads this will run away. A waka poem by Nampo Ota. "In this world of ours / A visitor at your door / Is really a pain Having said that, however / That does not apply to you." By our host: "In this world of ours / A visitor at your door / Is a true pleasure. Having said that, however / That does not apply to you." Hello. Come in. Hello. Welcome. Is it good like that? There are only five cushions, so only I will use one. I think that's rude to your guests, but oh well! What do you mean, "rude"? You barge into my house and pull out my sliding doors. What kind of guests are you? Professor, today isn't a visiting day. Why did you invite us? Today is a special day. A special day? The day I finally become a genuine old geezer. Today is my 60th birthday. I've turned 60. Is that true? If we'd known, we'd have thrown a huge party. No, none of that. We're at war. This is no time for birthday parties. I'd have forgotten about it myself if not for some venison my relatives back home sent me. I thought it would be a good idea to knock back a drink with you over some venison. We pitched in for some beer and sake. I appreciate that. By the way, how many of you are there here? Sixteen, sir. I wonder if we have enough pots and stoves. If not, we'll go buy some. Oh, sorry. Gentlemen. Happy birthday! Please make yourselves comfortable. I sit this way because it's most comfortable for me. Please start cooking your venison. Ma'am, please join us. Don't worry about her. Actually, she can't. She's never eaten horse meat. Horse meat, sir? Isn't this venison? We got a whole lot of venison, more than the two of us could eat, so I decided to invite you. But considering how big your stomachs are, I realized it was quite a meager amount. Venison stew is a rare delicacy, but adding horse to the stew adds a nice linguistic twist. The characters for "horse" and "deer" together mean "stupid." I get it, sir. You're calling us stupid. Don't get me wrong. Beef, pork, and chicken are hard to come by now. I happened to hear that horse meat was available. How "dear" I thought it would be to garnish the venison stew with some horse. I set out for a butcher's quite far from here and bought this horse meat. What a tale of heroism! For his beloved students, an aged man whipping his old bones to buy horse meat. Just picture it. Like the graduation song: "We stand in awe of our teacher's kind favor." Gentlemen... what's more, I found myself in an awkward situation at the butcher's. That horse was a charger I had known quite well at the military academy where I taught. It stared at me with narrowed eyes as if to say... "What in the world are you buying there, sir?" I was so ashamed. I wished the ground would open up and swallow me. By the way, gentlemen... horses have big eyes, don't they? Well, let's eat. The meat should be ready. Professor, your odd tale made me lose my appetite. Just imagine it's all venison. Besides, the two meats are all mixed up. You can't tell which is which. Bon appetit! It's good. It really is delicious! If the lights go out in an air raid, this "stupid stew" will turn into a "blind stew." I hate air raids. I don't like turning off the lights. I've been afraid of the dark since I was little. I even have to sleep with the lights on. - Even now, sir? - Yes. Aren't you afraid of the dark? - Of course not. We aren't kids anymore. What's so scary about the dark? You gentlemen are impossible. Why's that? Anyone not afraid of the dark is a deeply flawed human being. You lack imagination. Take a proper human being. He can't see anything in the dark, so he imagines that there's something there. He doesn't know what's lurking there. It might pose a threat. That's why he's afraid. It's quite obvious. In my case... if I hear there are raccoon dogs somewhere, everyone I meet there begins to look like a raccoon dog. Or rather, I suspect the raccoon dogs have disguised themselves as humans. It's only natural for a normal person with imagination. It may be natural for you because you're pure gold, but for us - To the pure gold professor! Cheers! We stand in awe Of our teacher's kind favor How quickly the years have passed In this garden of learning How quickly they've passed The months and years And now we say... Our professor's house was one of those burned down in the air raids. This was the professor's next house. It won't all fit in. Thanks for coming. My, my. The most important thing of all. Indeed, like rain in a drought. May I put this bag there? You coming inside? There are too many people. - Are you all right? - I can't budge. Now I know how canned sardines feel. - Anything to pass over here? - Yes, this. - Watch your head. - Don't worry about that head. Would you take this too? Ma'am, if you need anything, please let us know. Thank you very much, everyone. We're always such a bother. Not at all. I want an umbrella. Keep that one, sir. Our washroom is that new building over there. It has no roof. So on rainy days like today, we can't use it. Listen... this place is a little - We have to find them another place. No. It's a miracle this place didn't burn down. Finding it was an unexpected stroke of good luck. Besides, the owner's an acquaintance. A baron. - What's a "baron"? - A nobleman. - He lived here? - Don't be an idiot. This was... the shack for the baron's elderly groundskeeper. His mansion and our house burned down at the same time. That morning, when we fled our home, we found this shack and decided to rest here. The baron came to inspect the remains. I asked him if we could rent it. "Absolutely," he replied. We were very lucky. You're familiar with this, aren't you? HOJOKI Yes, sir. Books are so heavy. I fled with this one book, my favorite. The author, Kamo no Chomei... lived in the capital during the Heian Era. He experienced many calamities such as war, fire and famine. He grew weary of the impermanence of worldly things and secluded himself in a hut in the mountains. Recently, I must say, I've come to understand exactly how he felt. For the time being, I intend to settle down here and think of it as a hut like his. Well, gentlemen, I wish I could invite you in, but I'm afraid I can't. It's crowded enough with just my wife and me. Don't worry. Care for a cigarette, Professor? We had so many birds, but most burned to death. My wife said that if we couldn't take them along, we should at least set them free. But a bird freed from its cage at night would just fly right into the fire. If they're going to burn anyway, they might as well meet their fate in their familiar cages, so we left them behind. This white-eye was caught by a neighborhood child and given to us. It must have fallen from its nest. It was just a tiny fledgling at first. Since my wife had raised it from the very beginning, she refused to let it die and ran out clutching the cage. What you see here is all we could take with us. But you know, the only resemblance between this hut and the one in the Hojoki is that it's small. It lacks that elegance. There isn't the sound of clear mountain water running through bamboo pipes. The only sound of water here is that of people urinating against that clay wall. But really... why does everyone pee in the same place? They all do it right there. The "No Urinating" sign has no effect. Even a picture of a shrine isn't enough. Well, I came up with an idea. I devised a special good-luck charm. I think it just might work. Go take a look. It's on the other side of the wall. Oh no! URINATING FORBIDDEN It's brilliant! The one thing you don't want chopped off. - He's a genius at these things! The rainy season should be ending. That reminds me. You think the professor's all right? Where's the professor? You see how he is. He's hopeless once it begins to rumble. That's why I always keep this lucky incense on hand to ward off lightning. You brought so much stuff here, so I hesitate to say this, but people accumulate too many things in the course of living. Everything burned in the air raid. It actually lightened the burden. But even in this hut, things have begun to pile up. I sometimes wish the B-29s would pay us another visit. Still, it's a relief that the war's over. I wonder. I feel just the opposite. How has anything become easier? At least we had food rations during the war, however meager. Now they're gone... and we're reduced to living like beggars. Long ago, when I was a kid, we had a vacant lot behind our house. We built a hut there out of bamboo and straw. I just loved sitting in it. When my grandmother found me there, she couldn't stop crying. "What in the world is this boy doing? He'll surely grow up to be a beggar." She wept and wept. And now... it's exactly as she said. Professor! What are you saying? Didn't you want to be like Chomei? Have you forgotten his spirit? This isn't like you. "The flowing river never stops, and the water is never the same as before. Bubbles floating on stagnant pools form and disappear. They never linger for long. So it is with the people and dwellings of this world." I understand. It's just an old man's grumbling. I apologize. Actually, that's what we've come to talk about. We can't have you living here forever. We all plan to build a house for you somewhere. Nonsense. I won't let you. Of course, it won't be right away. We'll have a concrete plan by the first "Not Yet Fest" next year. What is this "Not Yet Fest"? It's a party celebrating your birthday. We decided to call it that since you're not likely to die soon. Like in hide-and-go-seek. "Ready?" "Not yet." Hence "not yet," or maada. Ma from the goddess Marishiten, and A and Da from the Amida Buddha. Isn't that a great name? I guess it is. Ready yet? Ready yet? Here I am. It's a genuine Johnny Walker bottle, but the contents are different. I got it from a pharmacist friend. It's medical alcohol with green tea and raw sugar mixed in. It doesn't taste that good, but it packs a punch. Yes, I must say I'm beginning to feel good. Professor... when we were students, we often got drunk with you, and you led us in a lot of mischief. We'd switch nameplates on houses. And when he sobered up, he'd make us put them back again. Thank you. By the way, Professor, what kind of house do you want? Japanese or Western style? As I already said, I won't allow it. Professor, don't act as if we're strangers. Now that the war is over, major publishers are reopening. One of them is offering to pay for the right to publish your works. Leave it to us. There's a piece of land we're considering now. We could make a small garden. What kind would you like? I'd like a pond. A pond? A garden pond? A large one wouldn't fit, but a small one should be possible. Not too small. I'd like to keep some fish, but fish all swim in the same direction. If the pond is too small, they'll constantly be curving in the same direction. It'd be a shame if their backs got bent. The fish's backs? How about this? Make the whole garden a pond. That'd be a lot of work. In that case, make the circumference as large as possible... and build an island in the middle. A doughnut-shaped pond. You come up with the strangest ideas. Ordinary fellows like us can't keep up. He's genuinely concerned about the fish's backs. He's extraordinary. He's a child and always will be. Now I see. That's why you fell in love with him. - Don't be silly. - Don't hide it. Now that I think about it, that's what we like about him too. That's why it's fun to be around him. Isn't that right, ma'am? The moon is out. The moon is out The moon is out Round, round Perfectly round I love old songs. Like Henri Rousseau's paintings, so innocent and unaffected. I love songs of the old days. Professor, during the war we forgot about the beautiful things in life like the moon. The moon is out The moon is out Round, round Perfectly round Round as a platter "How many houses have been lost in the constant fires? Only a makeshift hut remains tranquil and free of worry. Though small, there is place to sleep at night and sit by day, enough to shelter one person." THE FIRST "NOT YET" FES To celebrate our professor's 61st birthday, we hereby begin the first Not Yet Fest. Under the Allied occupation, food and alcohol are not easy to come by. Luckily, thanks to our members' tireless efforts, we are able to hold this banquet. As chairman, let me voice my appreciation to all of you who've worked so hard. Now for a word from our professor, after which we'll ask him to down that huge glass of beer in one go as we toast in his honor. Dear friends and students, thank you all for inviting me here tonight. Thank you for setting aside time - though some of you clearly aren't busy - in your busy schedules to attend this wonderful gathering. "Is the old goat dead yet?" Seems to be the driving question behind this Not Yet Fest. "Ready to die yet?" You seem to be asking. I have come to say, "Not yet." Though this party was perhaps in expectation of an affirmative, please ask me again next year and the year after, "Ready yet?" Of course, one day I will surely respond, "Yes, I am." I'm quite well-prepared for that eventuality. The person to my right has taken care of me for years. He is my physician, Dr. Kobayashi. He will sign my death certificate. This gentleman on my left, known to all of you as a classmate, continued in the family line of business and is now a priest at a temple. Reverend Kameyama will administer the last rites after I die. In any case, I'm about to empty this large glass of beer in one go. So even if I die on the spot, there's nothing to worry about. Not yet! Cheers! Happy birthday! Gentlemen, before you're too drunk to know what you're saying, let's have a speech from each of you. Keep them short and simple. Long live the professor! That was too short. Congratulations should be short. It's eulogies that are long. I am deeply grateful to the professor. When we staged the opera Faust in German under his guidance, I was given a wonderful role. I will never forget that grand occasion. Did you play Mephistopheles? No, sir. I played the eternal virgin with whom Faust fell in love - Marguerite. I'm bad at giving speeches, so I'll recite all the station names from Kushiro to Kagoshima. - Express stops? - No, local. This should be something! Kushiro, Shin-Fuji, Otanoshige, Shoro, Shiranuka, Onbetsu... We'll leave him to it. Next. I don't understand why today is an auspicious day. I guess it's because the professor is still alive. I'm still alive too, but I don't think that's too auspicious. Tell me, Your Holiness - I'm not the head of a sect. Then... Your Eminence. Still too much. Your Reverence. Just as bad. Then just... Priest. That's better. How's business these days? Are you busy? Quite busy. That's why I don't want you to come yet. Then I'll have to wait. Tell me, Dr. Quack, candidly speaking... how long would you say I can hold out? Let me see. If you follow my advice and don't do anything stupid, I'll guarantee another 15-16 years. If he lives that long, our responsibilities will never end. Drink up, Professor. You're an executive now, aren't you? Yes, sir. Have you ever thought about the word "executive"? Not particularly, sir. That's the trouble. "Ex" is a prefix shared in common with "exasperate," "execrable," and "excrement." Don't be proud just because you're an executive. Such excessive pride must be exorcised! Go easy on me, sir. Now that my turn has come, I'd like to say that I owe it all to the professor. Thank you, Professor. Professor, you taught us the pleasures of drinking, but some of us just got drunk and caused you trouble. Sugino over there would often swing beer bottles around. When Kitamura got drunk, he'd hug people and kiss them. Did you shave off your beard? Yes, I did. You mustn't do such a thing without telling us first. Why, sir? That beard was a part of your face for many years. We all recognized you because of that beard. Now it's gone. I didn't recognize you at first. That beard was yours, but it was ours too. You shouldn't have shaved it off without permission. Sorry. I'll grow it back. That won't do either. If you grow it back, we won't recognize you again. Thank you. As you all know, the professor is a man of great learning. On one occasion he told us not to assume that ears are always attached to the head, because Ampriobiris spirias has ears on its feet. What? What's Ampriopisisus spirias? No, it's Ampriobiris spirias! Please, Professor. Gentlemen, don't stampede me like this. I'm no match for all of you. Let's make another toast, and then you can all go back to enjoying yourselves. Gentlemen... thank you. Happy birthday! Thank you. Drinking parties are interesting, aren't they? Somehow everybody gets drunk at the same moment. It's like a pot of water coming to a boil. ...and she is now my wife. To this day I'm still embarrassed toward both the professor and my wife. Quiet, please! Tada, it's your turn. The professor is great. That's right! He isn't great because he's a professor. He's a professor because he's great. The professor is like the sun to us. Don't exaggerate! That would indeed be an exaggeration, so I'll say he's like the moon. Still an exaggeration. Wait. There are half moons, and crescent moons, and sometimes no moon at all. Just like the professor's classes! That's why I compare him to the moon. The moon is great Sister to the sun Now it's a circle Now it's a bow Spring Summer Autumn Winter Shining all over Japan The moon is out The moon is out Round, round Perfectly round Round as a platter The moon is hiding The moon is hiding Black, black Perfectly black Behind clouds black as ink The moon is out again Round, round Perfectly round Round as a platter Gentlemen, you remember "One-Two Medicine Peddler"? Let's sing that. One-Two Medicine is number one in Japan One, two Buy One-Two Medicine One, two, one, two Here's what it cures One, two Heartburn, stomach trouble, diarrhea Dizziness before and after childbirth Asthma, headaches And influenza Now I'm going to improvise! Keep in step! Medicine can cure many illnesses But only death can cure a fool Plenty of foolishness to go around Japan is blooming with fools now Defeated and occupied But fools call it the end of the war Right turn! "Democracy, democracy!" The crooks shout as they throw their weight about Bribery and corruption abound Flagrant and unconcealed Paradise for the corrupt Endless hell for the rest The fools never learn They chirp and twitter, all in unison Chirp, chirp, twitter, twitter The end. Ijuin, Manju-shi, Nishi-Kagoshima, Kagoshima. End of line! What's this? Where'd everybody go? I don't know. Have some more. Is that supposed to be me? So it seems. Ready yet? Ready yet? Not yet! Ready yet? Not yet! The professor's new house was completed. There's only one men's pair. All the rest are women's. My Japanese garden isn't very large. They'll manage without them. The house had to be small to make room for the pond. Compared to that matchbox we lived in before, this is truly a palace. Right? It is indeed. We're flattered. If I do say so myself, this doughnut-shaped pond was a brilliant idea. The Pacific may be vast, but if you swim in a straight line, you'll eventually hit America. But in this pond you can swim in a circle forever. I want to keep carp in this pond. The big ones you only see in dreams. I want carp as big as boats. That's impossible. Infinite as this pond may be, they'd curl up and stop moving. It would be bad for their backs. I meant it as a figure of speech. Like in the Chinese poem, "Gray hair 3,000 yards long." I mean, could you imagine a carp the size of a whale? By the way... the famous Temple of the Golden Pavilion sits next to a pond. Though my little pavilion doesn't have the same golden radiance, I think they're quite similar. That's why I put up that sign. "The Temple Where Guests are Forbidden." So in this temple, boisterous groups like ours are forbidden. It will serve as my study, so nobody else can go in. What do you think? Is the lot too small? That depends on the design of the house. It's 49.5. PLOT FOR SALE 53.5. Tea is ready. Please. Who's the man who bowed to you just now? The owner of that lot. He came by the other day to ask if I'd buy it. I don't have that much money, of course, so I had to decline, but he was very courteous. He brought it up so politely that I found it hard to decline right away. - It seems he found a buyer. - Yes, I'm glad. Is that your cat? I call him Alley, because he's an alley cat. My wife gives him dried mackerel, so he sticks around. Besides, he has good physiognomy. Cat physiognomy? Sounds odd. How else can I say it? But it does sound rather odd. In any event, he's very well-bred. He has better manners than you gentlemen. Well, I'll be! Excuse me. Good kitty. It's the man from next door. He'd like to pay his respects. Please. What? That's the only reason I came to see him! - But - - No buts! I bought the plot. It's my land now. I can build whatever I like. That's true... but please consider your neighbors. Building a three-story house next to their fence is unreasonable. Unreasonable? The lot's smaller than the survey implied. That's why I have to add another floor. If you do that, you'll block their sunlight. So what? That's not my concern. Let's go. Please wait. There's nothing to discuss. Please wait. The deal is off. What? I'm not selling the lot. Don't be ridiculous! The contract's drawn up. The land is mine. I haven't signed it yet. It's still my land. I refuse to sell it to you. Just a moment, please. I'm truly grateful to you for being so considerate. But doesn't this put you in a bind? Even if there's no sunlight for my house - - We have to do something. - Like what? - Let's buy it. - Shall we? We can talk to the owner. Professor, this is a good cat, just as you said. He raised his hackles at that blockhead. The owner of that lot seems to be a good man. Where does he live? In a shack at the end of the lot. Well, we must be going. Stay a while longer. I'm still quite rattled. Let's have a drink. And I cooked up a little something. Sorry, ma'am, but I have business to attend to. So do I. If you'll excuse us. NANZANJU Professor, what does this nanzanju mean? "The Longevity of Nanshan Mountain." It's an expression wishing someone long life. I prefer to have people read it as nanzansu. I put it up to discourage unwelcome visitors. Nanzansu is how courtesans used to ask, "Whaddya want?" That's how they spoke in the licensed quarters in the Edo period. It's short for nan zamasu. Perfect for that stubborn fool. "Whaddya want?" indeed! "I hate that bastard. He's such a lousy john." Good-bye, sir. Good-bye. Now that's fishy. Why did they rush off like that? Good boy, little Alley. Let me hold him. Come on. So it seems we have an agreement. Thank you. Now I can buy a small house and send for my family. They were evacuated during the war. I don't know how to thank you. You can thank our professor. He was very moved by what you did. We understand how he feels, so - It'll be pretty awkward if he finds out about this deal. You're right. Please keep this a secret from him. He'll figure it out eventually, but until then, please leave the lot as it is. You gentlemen are truly good people. You're a good person yourself. But our professor is the best of all. We just try to emulate him. Well, good-bye. That was lucky. - Well, anyway - - "Whaddya want?" - Let's get a drink. - Good idea. Where? Let's go back to the professor's. Brilliant! "Great idea, big boy!" TAKAYAMA & CO. The professor's in trouble! - What's wrong with him? - It's not him. His cat's disappeared. His wife called for us to come over. He hasn't stopped crying since the cat disappeared. Dear... Please go in. Your wife called me. Are you all right? Of course I am. It's just a cat. I'm fine. Besides, this isn't the first time. Alley has disappeared many times before. He'll come back. Thank you for coming by. I'd be grateful if you could spare some time to eat with us. You'd be doing me a great favor. He's hardly eaten a thing since Alley disappeared. You may think I'm being silly. Well... to be honest, I am. I'm completely hopeless. Ever since Alley disappeared, I've been so worried that I can't do a thing. He's all I think about. You see that willow tree? Alley... first came in through an opening in the fence there. Since then he's been like a member of our little family. Ever since he disappeared, all I can do is stare at that hole. All I want is to see him come through that fence again. The other day... I went to Kyushu to give a lecture. On the way back... Through a window in that dark station... I saw Alley. It may sound strange, but I really did see him, clear as day. I felt an odd sense of apprehension. When I reached the Tokyo station... I called home. It was just as I'd feared. That evening... after nightfall... Alley wanted to go out. I picked him up and said, "Stay in. It's late." But he wanted to go out... so I carried him out to the garden. He grew impatient and wiggled out of my arms. He ran out through that opening. After a while... it began to rain. Later it began to pour. There was no way Alley could find his way back in that rain. Alley sleeps... on top of the bathtub cover. My husband goes there sometimes... and just stares at the little cushion. He caresses it... and weeps. I really don't know what to do. Professor. I'm ashamed to show my miserable face. I may be... sentimental... or overreacting... or weak-willed, or whatever you like, but I just can't help it. I try to forget... but I keep remembering Alley. Then I feel such pain that I can't bear it. Professor, we'll find Alley. We'll form a search party. So please, Professor - That's a dog. We promised to find Alley. What do we do? We might have better luck in places that survived the fires. But why is the professor so - He isn't like you or me. His sensitivity and imagination are beyond us. When he thinks of Alley, he can imagine in detail all the cat's going through. That's what makes it so unbearable. We can't just stand by and watch. You're right. We mustn't give up. DEAR ALLEY This is the diary in which our professor wrote about Alley with great affection. Here you are. Hey, mister. There are tons of cats around. But it has to be this cat. How come? Do you have any brothers? Sure, but he's still a baby. Would you like it if he were replaced with some other baby? Of course not. This cat is my baby. I cared for him like my own child. That's why it has to be this cat. You see? Tell me if you find him. There's a description here, and my address is there too. Children... please help us find a cat named Alley. He's probably somewhere around here. It's a male cat, white with reddish stripes. His tail is thick and a bit bent. You'll know it if you feel it. If you call out "Alley," he'll prick up his ears and stare at you. Whoever finds him will receive a reward. Please help us. We received many kind phone calls from people who'd seen a cat resembling Alley, but alas... Professor, you aren't eating much. That's right. These days he hardly eats or drinks a thing. I can't sleep much either. You can't live like this. He hasn't taken a bath since Alley disappeared. It's because Alley's cushion is on the bathtub cover. I have to use the public bath far away. Is that rain? I used to love the sound of rain. Now I hate it. It makes me think of Alley, and the pain is too much to bear. Professor, what if we make inserts for the newspaper? I can take them to the newspaper distributors. That's a good idea. It never occurred to me. What a fool I am! I really am. I wrote this announcement in anticipation of Alley's return. "L"...meaning Alley... "I have been away for some time. I have worried my master terribly and caused all of you a lot of trouble. Now that I have returned unharmed, please set your minds at rest. Upon seeing my face, my master burst into tears, so I'm writing this letter in his place. To celebrate my return, my master wishes to invite you all to a modest dinner. See you tonight." In preparation for Alley's return, the professor bought a collar with their address engraved on it. Yet Alley had yet to return. I received a letter saying I should wait eight months for a stray cat to return. That person's cat returned safely after eight months. We've received some very thoughtful phone calls, but there are some strange ones too. The other day, one person asked me if Alley meows. I said yes. "You mean he doesn't bark?" He replied, laughing, and then hung up. Hello? Your cat still hasn't returned? That's right. He might have been stolen. Lots of cats are stolen, ma'am. Some people make a living from cat-snatching. They sell the cat skins. They fetch surprisingly good prices. Shamisens are made with cat skin. That may be what happened to yours. I'll look into it. Good-bye now. Hello. Honey! Honey, they found Alley. So that's where he was? It's Alley. Alley! It's the fishmonger's wife. She knows Alley well. It must be true. Thank you. My wife will be right there. Thanks so much. Hello? Takayama? They found Alley. This time it's for sure. Will you tell the others? I had a wonderful dream this morning. I dreamed I was feeding Alley baby mackerel. I knew he'd be back. I wanted to come tell you, and now this! I brought some baby mackerel. Professor, congratulations. This is from my boss. My thanks to all of you. Thank you. Congratulations. He needn't have taken it so seriously after all. Cats do come home. It turns out they were wrong. It wasn't Alley. I'll get it. That's right. Who the hell is this? I'll beat you to a pulp! What was that? Son of a bitch! "Alley became a shamisen a long time ago." Then the bastard played one. Here, kitty. Here, kitty. This was for Alley, but it's yours now. Go on, eat it. Have some more. Is it good? You like baby mackerel, just like Alley. That's a good cat. The professor seems to have recovered. His wife called about the cat. - They found Alley? Calm down. It isn't Alley. That black-and-white, or black-on-white, or white-on-black - Calm down yourself and spit it out. - Some water. - Right here. - So that's that. - What's what? Calm down. What's this black-and-white cat? Oh, right. Remember the cat his wife was feeding? It's there to stay. The professor plays with it now. Kurz. What's "Kurz"? How could you forget such a simple German word? "Kurz" - "short" in German. It has a short tail. - What tail? - The cat's tail! That black-and-white cat has a short tail, so the professor named it Kurz. Now that he's named it, it's there to stay. That's great! She wants us all to come by tonight. I'll pick up Kiriyama. You pick up Sawamura. - Phone them. - Ah, right. The phone's over here. Calm down. Kuru, Kuru... You're such a nice baby. Leave it to my wife to turn "Kurz" into "Kuru." Kuru - like "come" in Japanese. "Welcome to come, and free to go." It's pronounced "kitaru" in that saying. Well, never mind. In my case, you know, Alley wasn't "free to go" at all. I caused you all so much trouble on that account. - Don't be silly. - I'm really ashamed. Where's Kurz? - Sleeping in Alley's bed. I never know when to give up. I always wallow in regret. Just look at this. It isn't mosquito repellent. It's a charm to bring back missing cats. I'm still at it. It's truly pitiful. But I'm all right now. I've always been like the hare of Inaba saved by Daikokuten, the god of wealth. Don't you know that song? He sees the white hare of Inaba Skin peeled off As naked as can be Now I remember. A large bag slung over his shoulder Who might Daikokuten be? That's the fourth verse. It's quite a long song. It's about a hare who gets injured and is then saved by the god of wealth. I am that hare. Who might Daikokuten be? It's nobody. Rather, it's all of you. When it came to losing Alley, the people who sent kind letters, the people who called, the people who worried about Alley with me - they are all Daikokuten. A large bag slung over his shoulder Daikokuten's large bag... is filled with everybody's kindness. That kindness is what saved me. A large bag slung over his shoulder Daikokuten comes around the bend He sees the white hare of Inaba Skin peeled off As naked as can be Daikokuten sighs with pity And teaches the hare To bathe in pure water And wrap himself in woven cattail leaves The hare does as he's told He bathes in pure water And wraps himself in woven cattail leaves And once again becomes a white hare Gentlemen. Who might Daikokuten be? Memorial stones to Alley and Kurz were erected in the garden. Alley was never found. Kurz enjoyed a long life and now rests here in the garden. And the willow tree has grown to a great height. THE 17TH NOT YET FES I'm remembering now the time when I turned 60 years old. At the time... I thought I'd become a genuine old geezer. But now that I'm 77, an auspicious age, I realize that when I was 60, I was nothing but a young punk. Now, at last, I'm a genuine old geezer for real. At one time, when you asked me if I was "ready yet," I thought, just so I'd be able to say yes... that I might go out to the willow tree in my garden and hang myself from it. But the willow was still too small and slender. There was no way it could hold my weight. But now that willow's grown big and strong. It's definitely up to the job. Yet here I am, still standing, so I have no more excuses to offer. My good friends, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for this occasion. As is our custom, I will empty this large glass of beer in one go. What's this? The glass got smaller again. Dr. Quack, was that your idea? The glass gets smaller every year. It's not even especially large anymore. Even that's too big for you now. Stop complaining and drink up. Not yet! A toast to the professor! Happy birthday! With this we conclude our customary ritual. I would now like to proceed to the celebration of our professor's 77th birthday. First, the presentation of flowers. Your students' daughters. Happy birthday. Thank you. Next... from the Not Yet Association, a birthday cake. You can't be serious! Will it have 77 candles for me to blow out? I can't do it. You mustn't be so cruel to an old man. We couldn't fit all 77 candles on. There are only seven. I don't even know if I can blow out seven. Some of my teeth are missing. When I blow, the air goes in all directions. Who are these children? Your students' grandchildren. How adorable. I could gobble them all up. I'd like to give this cake to the children who brought it up. Children... come here. Along with this cake, there's something else I want to give you. Something I want to tell you. Please find something you really like. Find something you'll be able to treasure. When you find it, work for it as hard as you can. You're sure to find a treasure worth the effort. That will be your calling, the work you put your heart into. Did that just go over their heads? I'm sorry. Here, take it. Thank you. We'll have it later. Now, all you grandpas and grandmas, dads and moms, let's drink up and have a great time as always. Professor... we haven't done "One-Two" in a while. As you say, it's been one annoying thing after another these days. Graft and bribery are at large One, two Let's pour out into the streets singing that. Right, Professor? Professor! As the professor's family doctor, I assure you there's nothing to worry about. It's just one of his chronic bouts of arrhythmia. I suggest he go home and get some rest. It's all right. It's nothing. Not yet! The association officers will escort the professor home. Don't worry, and please continue the party for his sake. His cane. Why are you so unconcerned? You filthy priest. Don't worry. He isn't ready for me yet. It's all right. Thank you. We stand in awe Of our teacher's kind favor How quickly the years have passed In this garden of learning How quickly they've passed The months and years There's nothing to worry about. With a good night's rest, he'll be fine. My only concern is this bunch here. Their motives may not be pure. You want to wake him up and keep drinking, don't you? Are you kidding? We're all going beddy-bye. See that you don't wet the bed. What a quack. The futons are in here. Shall I pull them out? We'll do that, ma'am. There may not be enough. You may be cold. Not if there's enough sake. - It's fine cold. - But - We'll be like students again tonight. Remember his speech? We'll be genuine geezers too soon enough. I have so little to offer. Thank you, ma'am. I'll sleep in the Temple Where Guests are Forbidden. If you need anything - We're fine. Don't worry. Be sure not to wake the professor. Yes, ma'am. Good night. Feels good. What does? When we used to stay over in the old days, he made us do all our homework. That was a real pain. None of that tonight, and no school tomorrow. We've got it made. Not yet... He's sound asleep. He must be dreaming. I wonder what his dreams are like. I'm sure they're pure gold too. Ready yet? Not yet. Ready yet? Not yet. Starring TATSUO MATSUMURA HISASHI IGAWA JOJI TOKORO MASAYUKI YUI AKIRA TERAO TAKESHI KUSAKA ASEI KOBAYASHI KYOKO KAGAWA MITSURU HIRATA TAKAO ZUSHI NOBUTO OKAMOTO TETSU WATANABE EIJI BANDO HIDETAKA YOSHIOKA Based on the Books by HYAKKEN UCHIDA Written and Directed by AKIRA KUROSAWA General Producers - YASUYOSHI TOKUMA and GOHEI KOGURE Executive Producers HIROSHI YAMAMOTO and YUZO IRIE Produced by HISAO KUROSAWA Directors of Photography TAKAO SAITO and MASAHARU UEDA Production Design by YOSHIRO MURAKI Lighting by TAKEJI SANO Sound Recording by HIDEO NISHIZAKI Music by SHINICHIRO IKEBE Costume Design by KAZUKO KUROSAWA THE END SUBTEXT SUBTITLING
