 

                        CHO In-sung SIN Min-a PARK Jung-ah Kang Lea-yen KIM Soo-ro Director K.C. Park Good night, Miss Lee - Good day - Thank you - Are you closed? - Yes Is it raining? - Are you here for a cut? - Yes So sorry. Come back tomorrow? Wait. Wait a sec Give me a reason why you need your hair cut today and I'll do it A reason? Yes, Mr. Ji-suk Kang! Um, how do you know my name? Don't you know me? Well Shall we play a game? Remember who I am before I'm done and the haircut's on me But if you can't remember, then you pay me double Are you always like this? It's a game. What, no questions? - Okay, you're done - Thank you Don't you want a hint? A beautiful woman knows my name Aren't you even curious? No I think I've won Dong-beak Junior High, ninth grade, Hee-jin Park Wrong! Not Hee-jin Park. It's Hee-jin Lee! Madeleine Guess who I met today Quiet, I'll lose count Our class president in 9th grade He looks like a total goodie. But with some work here and there he'll be decent boyfriend material - Looking to get dumped again? - What! Joon-ho Kim Hee-jin Lee What do you mean, dumped? I dumped him Oh, yeah? It might start raining again so get out your raincoats Ji-suk, good work! Gyu-hee! You missed 36-13 yesterday! Don't forget it today! Man-ho! Good morning Hey, Mr. Writer - Good weekend? - Yeah Should we get our coffee? Hmm, sounds good What'd you make in class today? For our teatime pleasure today Sweet rolls! Looks good, Man-ho Thanks This is really good How many stars today? Out of five stars four and a half Ji-suk Kang! - Hee-jin! - That's right, dude - Where are you headed? - School Huh? You haven't re-enrolled yet I'm going to the library No girlfriend, huh? Why else would you go there on such a beautiful spring day? Still, there are a lot of single girls there Hey! Give me your cell phone Whoa, what an antique! Can you even send text messages? No numbers saved? I don't use it much Well, what an honor, I'm number one I'll show you how to do it - You press this - Miss Lee And then save Hey, she's calling you Yep, well, see you next time! Hello? - Hello? - Hello? Hee-jin, it's me. I got us a blind date off the internet Again? Did you get fired? You work at an internet cafe now, don't you? Hey, don't be mean. Get dressed up after work and wait for me - Oh! No! - Love you! Hey! Um, excuse me Uh Do you have something to say? No 'Please dine with me tonight. Woo-jin Choi' Damn, what a bust! Cheer up Did you think you'd meet Prince Charming on a blind date? I was crazy to go with you. Plain crazy! Treating me like that, they suck! Ugh! You know, they so weren't my type Shit! Hey, in your mood, you'd kill at Fortress Let's go play a game Do you know what time it is? Tomorrow's my day off Let's go, let's play Do you think I'm off, too? No, I'm going home to sleep Come on You lonely? Want me to set you up? Hey, set me up with someone You have your little honey Nah, she thinks keeping her virginity is God's will or something Know why her name's Yae-eun? 'Yae' is from 'yae-soo' 'Eun' is from 'eun-hae' Get it? Jesus' blessing. So what chance do I have? And I've invested too much to dump her now I think I need a sex partner Bastard Hey! Ji-suk! What are you doing here? As you can see You are weird Wow! This is for the coffee! This is the best coffee vending machine around here Wow, it's really good I'm so strange. I just can't pass up coffee from a vending machine Standing in the street, drinking coffee like this I feel so elegant, I love it Watcha doing later? I'll probably be at the library The library again! I'm off today Let's go somewhere and play Where? Where ever. You decide Hey, Ji-suk! Hey, you're here You love me, don't you? You must love me to wait 40 minutes Then you must hate me to be 40 minutes late No, I'm usually an hour late for the first date I'm actually 20 minutes early Let's go This is where you chose for our date? Why not? It's nice With lots of vending machines around Ooh, f-e-e-I that sun! I love the sky! It's never boring When I don't want to see it, I don't have to And when I want to, I can see it from anywhere You really do love me, don't you? You smile at whatever I say! Mr. Author! Did you read all these? I'm working on it You're so weird Why do you want to write books? No one reads books nowadays. None of my friends read books! That's an error from over-generalizing Over-general what? Just because your friends don't read doesn't mean the whole world doesn't Right, you're so smart I don't know much about over-whatever but I know too well how to scrimp to make ends meet You haven't tasted the bitterness of society yet but Give me one of your thickest books Very good! Me likes it I'll lend it to you. Give it a try See! It's the perfect pillow! That book is sort of a milestone for me After ending army duty I vowed not to cut my hair till I read 100 books Then when you came to the salon? That's the 100th book Wow, we have something in common My goal's to fill up my phone with 100 boy names - Let's go! - Where to? To commemorate our date! Another year, another birthday let's all congratulate Ji-suk All together now, happy birthday! Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday to you! Congratulations! Hey, is this a dinner show? Fun, huh? Yeah, lots So what if it's not your birthday Think of it as congrats on our date Do you know how many papers I need to deliver to pay for all this? Is this the bitterness of society? Ji-suk when you write, do you calculate how much each word costs? 10 cents, 20 cents, 30 cents Eat up So you got what you dreamed of Hair designer. Wasn't that your dream from 9th grade? Huh! You remember that? I don't think any of our classmates could forget Will you look at this? Are you wearing mousse to school? Hee-jin Lee! If you're like this now, how are you going to turn out later? Do you want to end up a bar hostess? I'm going to be a hair designer A hair designer? Ji-suk! Do you think her hair's pretty? Um it's pretty What did you say? Is that pretty to you? Ji-suk! You're the class president! No wonder this class is in the dumps! Did you start right after high school? Nope, since 11th grade Wow, you're quick at everything It's cause I'm simple. I do it cause I like it. Simple! Why did you get a job delivering papers of all jobs? I do it cause I like it, too Delivering papers at dawn it's like taking a walk in an empty city Hee-jin! I wanted to take a walk at dawn too 33-90, that's the house number, R- alley, R-swing is - Past the right alley - Oh, past the alley, swing right? Yep So L-swing, R-1 means swing left, first house on the right? Wow, you catch on fast It's easy Let's start! Let's go! Okay, here you go - Hey, Mr. Writer! - Good morning - Are you quitting your route? - Huh? Oh, no, she's my friend - Hello! - Hello. How do you do? She's pretty No wonder I wanted to pack some extra today What's today's menu? Today, it's um Let's have some milk - Thank you - Do you have strawberry milk? Strawberry? Um yes - Here you go - Thank you Ah madeleines! Today's madeleines Ah so these are madeleines? Have you had madeleines before? No In Remembrance of Things Past the book starts with the character recalling a childhood memory The thing sparking his memory is the madeleine Why? He eats a madeleine by chance and remembers the taste which triggers other forgotten childhood memories Here Mmm, it's good! Five stars So do you remember anything? This is my first time Maybe, in 10 years I'll eat a madeleine by chance and I'll remember today Ji-suk Kang! What? Shall I make today unforgettable for all time? How? Let's date! What? Let's have a romance! We don't know each other very well Did I say for us to get hitched? We date, to we get to know each other! Why? Don't you like me? - It's not that - Then what? Give me some time to think about it! Fine! I'll give you till we get home! Go on in How about it? What do you say? About our romance Um, well It's um It may be easy for you to decide - But this is very hard for me - Stop! If it's too much for you then let's just go out for a month What? An arranged romance for just a month Watcha think? Fun, huh? The conditions are we have to be 100% honest! We can't say let's break up until the month is up After a month, we part ways grandly! You do whatever you want, don't you? But poor you After a month, you'll be in love with me Then what happens? Then? Well, say that you love me I shall consider it then Hey, is it supposed to sting so much? My scalp feels like it's on fire Wussy you know what we call hair that's never been permed or colored? What? Virgin hair Ji-suk, the first time's always a little painful How come a guy like you, who can't make a decision said 'yes' to our month romance? Here are some moments I want to share with you Really? What kind of moments do you want to share with me? Well, you see, it's So what you want to share with me, it's to go biking in the rain? Isn't it romantic? Please don't write a love story I'm writing one right now Well, take this scene out Ji-suk, why do like getting wet in the rain? In the rain, I feel like I'm getting cleansed You do know that it's acid rain That's why we're wearing raincoats Ji-suk, you wanna go to my place? Hey! This is really good My mom likes tea more than sex I've inherited her talent with tea I think I'm going to like tea more than s-sex from now on Liar It's really good Not that Have you even had sex? No, right? Hey, at my age, of course I have Really? With who? Well, um Ji-suk Kang, you're so cute The moments we shared today, I was really happy! Even when I'm older, a grandma every time I drink this tea, I think I'll remember today This way, my memory will be more vivid - They'll break! - No, they won't! Don't talk when I'm doing the dishes I can't concentrate on, so I might break them You know, you're pretty good with dishes Yeah? Well, of course. I've lived alone for years. Dishes are a given Yeah? You can do laundry as well? - Laundry? - I have lots of laundry laundry? I can't do it well - Are you good with dishes? - Of course Hey! Don't you feel like this is a waste of time? Nope! Doesn't it just clear your head? Play another game! Any questions, just ask me, the master Hi! It's Sung-hae, remember me? We were in the same class, 9th grade Wanna catch up? Come to Blue Moon, Sat. At 7. You can catch me there What I wish for is your blue ocean The universe inside those pearls I cannot see anymore I lose sleep, I'm so tired The energy inside me Fading, fading As I wait quietly Finally, blue eyes I lose sleep, I'm so tired The energy inside me Fading, fading I lose sleep, I'm so tired. The energy inside me Fading, fading I lose sleep, I'm so tired The energy inside me Fading, fading Hee-jin Lee, what are you doing? Aren't you meeting Ji-suk today? Shhh, mommy's reading Be quiet, please - You major in film? - Uh-huh Bye. See you tomorrow - See ya! - Uh-huh A film major and lead vocals in a band Wow that's a busy life There were 3 things I always wanted to do in college Love, travel, and the leader of a rock-n-roll band! Then you've done all three? Of course! Oh, there's a class reunion this Sat Reunion? Just some classmates living in Seoul. You want to come? Do you have a girlfriend? Uh, uh, no Hello? It's me Oh, Hee-jin Yeah. Ji-suk, I read 100 pages of Moon Palace today Oh Really? At this rate, I'll finish it before our month is up, don't you think? Probably Probably? How come you're so wishy-washy, huh? One time, Jong-chul, man, he was at my house to watch porn Suddenly, my mom walked in Wow, we were screwed, you know! We tried to get the tape out but it was stuck So then what happened? We took the whole player out Told his mom, we had to copy an English tape or something Hey! You're really a hair designer? Not a washer? If I were still a washer, I'd die! That's impressive! You're the only one still doing what we dreamed of doing in school Oh, my! I must be the last one - Hey, Mi-hee! - It's so good to see you, girl! I'm so heavy it's hard to get around What's a mommy doing here? Min-chul, you be quiet! But what's this? Oh, it's Sung-hae's birthday today! Whoa, Sung-hae's birthday? Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday, dear Sung-hae! Happy birthday to you! I dedicate this song to my friends who remembered my birthday You're still in my heart When it rains, the rain covers, hides me The times we spent together pass You go one without remembering me Oh, time passes, without a word from you Even when forever comes, you still don't know me Yeah. So what if it's Pusan or that it's between other acts? We can't be too picky Anyway, Pusan's my hometown Alright, so we're taking the gig I'll call you later. Bye Uh-huh - Sung-hae! - Huh? - Happy birthday - Thanks Come by the salon sometime I'll cut your hair real nice for your present - Really? - Of course Come to our gatherings from now on Bring your boyfriend too. Okay? Okay Oh, yeah. You came with Ji-suk, right? He told you about tonight? Yeah - So is it true he doesn't have a girlfriend? - What? Hey, how would I know? Why? Did he say he didn't? Well, that's what he said. But I think he has one Hey, I really can't dance! Whatever, it's easy, just move Yeah, stop being such a goodie goodie Go on! Get up! Hey, sit, sit, here! Don't they look peachy together? Actually, Sung-hae liked Ji-suk back in junior high That girl, she's so cool now But she was too shy to tell him back then Sung-hae has really blossomed She used to be a real geek I always thought she was pretty Did you like her back then? Hey, everyone thought I was a goodie goodie, remember? A goodie goodie is also a guy We promised to be 100% honest Uh-huh I may not be able to forgive ugliness but I can forgive a past It's okay, tell me Um, when Sung-hae had her appendix taken out and missed school being the class president, I did lend her my notes Ji-suk, what are you reading? Wanna borrow it? When you're done I'd really appreciate your notes! That was my first kiss I wasn't sure Nope, I was even gonna let it go But honestly, I'm really bummed out Because Sung-hae was my first love? It just hit me I'm a woman who can't help myself And you have no clue about women Are you mad? You know, life's a bitch See you 100% honesty, right? 100% honesty, right? Shouldn't you at least tell me why you're mad? Why'd you tell Sung-hae you don't have a girlfriend? Meet 1000 guys and they're all the same One and the same - Do you have a boyfriend? - Excuse me? Boyfriend, do you have one? Yes, but we fought yesterday Really? Why? My love for him is like a watermelon but his love for me is like an apple So that's why we fought Still, I think apples taste better Hee-jin's sooo lucky - What's that? - Ji-suk sent it express Is it Ji-suk's? We didn't even do it Then Jun-ho? Did you tell Jun-ho? Are you crazy? He's so simple, I just know what he's gonna say Why am I always like this? Let's go to the hospital. And then forget about it It's really easy for you to say I'm not saying it lightly The more you think, the harder it is Think of it as stepping on poop What? Poop? Is getting pregnant stepping on poop? Why are you getting mad at me? It's what you said! Stepping on poop! So my baby's poop? Is that a thing to say to a pregnant friend? Hee-jin Lee! What is your problem? That's not what I meant Sure it wasn't Then again, you never had a boyfriend What would you know about being pregnant? Well, as I live and breathe! So you're pretty, you get all the guys! What am I? A dog? It's bad enough I don't have a guy! On days you bring a guy home I can't even go inside Do I have anywhere to go? So I end up at a game room Did you ever think of me sitting there killing time? Did you? Asters mean 'Don't be mad anymore' Ji-suk Have you heard from Hee-jin yet? Not yet What did I tell you? A cake's better than flowers If I only knew, I would have made a real pretty cake for you Too bad Shall we go to a movie tomorrow? Hee-jin It's Hee-jin She wants to go to a movie tomorrow Flowers are okay, too We're done for today I always came at this time You want me back, right? Yoo-jung called today Said to go see you If you want we can hook up again Jun-ho Kim, that's your problem! Just cause some silly girls dig you it doesn't mean all women want you You know what that's called? An error from over-generalizing Are you okay? If I had an ounce of love left for you I wouldn't have left you! How do you want it? Erase my name from your phone You're only 10 minutes late today Did you get the tickets? Let's go I'm going home tomorrow I took some time off To Pusan? You're still mad, aren't you? Okay when I read Sung-hae's mail, I got a little excited So when she asked me, I told her I didn't have a girlfriend I know we promised to be 100% honest but I felt so bad I couldn't tell you It's okay, dude Thanks I have something to tell you too What? Ji-suk, I'm pregnant What Ji-suk Kang likes Reading, taking walks, thinking for I- o-o-o-ng periods of time What Hee-jin Lee likes Computer games, shopping changing hairstyles We are so different Why are we going out? Let's just forget our deal We can't say 'Let's break up' before the month is up I've been wanting to see the ocean We'll go together Pusan What about your paper route? I told them to suspend the papers tomorrow Is that supposed to be a joke? Why, was it bad? Why are you so good to me? Why? Because you're my girlfriend Of course, I'm good to you How many days are left in our month? Ji-suk Kang! Hee-jin! What are you two doing? Are you guys going out? 8 across, 7 letters made by Orson Wells director of Citizen Kane B&W film based on one of Shakespeare's 4 great tragedies - Othello - Correct 9 down, 13 letters road movie with Susan Sarandon and Geena Davis - Thelma & Louise - Correct What exactly is a road movie? - Oh, that's when - The characters leave home on a trip and the movie is about what happens I'm a film major after all! Do you know the director Wim Wenders? I've heard of him but I haven't seen any of his films He's my favorite director. He makes a lot of road movies Ji-suk, see any of his films? I like Wenders' films too Yeah? Did you see Paris, Texas? I liked it so much I saw it twice Ry Cooder's music was really good too Yeah, nothing beats an acoustic guitar to show the desolate, lonely desert Ji-suk, you and I think alike Wenders really likes Polaroid cameras So I bought one too I'll take your picture so strike a pose you two One two three This is the one and only copy of this picture Who wants it? I get on the bus across the street. What about you two? - The subway - Oh, yeah? Well, it's good-bye then. Get home safe Remember, the concert's tomorrow at 7 You both gotta come! Okay? Saving 100 boy names on your phone Why do you want to do that? When I first started at the salon I worked from morning to night with hardly any days off I had no time to eat or poop That's how I got to where I am today One day, I looked around and no one was there I felt like crap I had no name to save on my phone After you fill it up, what are you going to do? I don't know. Maybe change phones? I used to come here a lot when I was in school Yo, goodie goodie, you ever hang out here? It seems like yesterday but now I'm already 25 I'm not ready to be an adult yet You can take your time By the time we die people will being living till 125 So we still have 100 years to go Ah, so that's why you're so relaxed I want to live like I'm taking a walk feeling every moment 100% I want to run like in a 100m dash We really have nothing in common I remember the day we biked in the rain Shall we go get wet? You're the one who said it's acid rain Let's go! You want something warm to drink? Oh no, that's okay Are you okay? Read to me Where'd you read up to? Just read from the beginning Okay, here I go It was the summer that men first walked on the moon I was very young back then but I did not believe there would ever be a future I wanted to live dangerously to push myself as far as I could go and when I got there You have gook in your eyes Hee-jin When are you gonna to go to the hospital? As soon as I get to Seoul Let's go together Meet you at 2 tomorrow at Pusan Station Mi-hee told me that in junior high, Sung-hae liked you too Inside never-ending memories All that I have left disappears I won't hide anymore What I have left is no more I'm sorry, Doctor No matter how much time goes by No matter how much time goes by When morning comes, everything's gone with the night No matter how much time goes by In another beginning in another beginning Like a dream, you come back to me Do you play 'Fortress? ' No, isn't it a waste to spend our youth on stuff like that? I started cause Hee-jin taught me It's actually fun! I haven't won yet but It's probably cause you're a pacifist You didn't go home yesterday, did you? Home? You're dressed in the same clothes That means you were with Hee-jin Why'd you come alone? Did you guys have a love spat? We didn't fight but we couldn't come together Hee-jin's going through a rough time I want to be there for her but it's kind of hard Hey! Then you have to go to her! What are you doing here? I knew it when you said you were solo 'I only know books I know nothing of love' You have that written on your forehead Sung-hae! I liked you back in school So I hesitated before coming tonight If we become more than friends then it'll be harder on Hee-jin I liked you back in school too That's why I e-mailed you I was crazy curious to see how you turned out When we met up again, you turned out better than I thought I thought of going out with you But seeing you here as my friend, I like this better Mom, aren't you done yet? Are you just looking at the pictures? My goodness, you're a fast reader How can tea taste so good? I put a little hiroppon in the tea So second hubby sleeps out a lot, huh? Don't even go there He's gambling away somewhere again Poor mom, no luck with men First hubby dies early, the second sleeps out every day It just seems, I should be looking for number 3 - Mom? - Yeah? - Mom - What? Mom, um Do you know what a road movie is? What are you talking about You don't, huh? It's when the characters go on a trip A road movie's about what happens during the trip - You mean like Whale Hunting? - Right That's a road movie The last movie your dad and I watched together at the theater was Whale Hunting Hello. I'm Hee-jin's friend, Ji-suk Kang Yes Um, Hee-jin's in Pusan She's not back yet? No. She's staying a few more days Oh, I see. Thank you Good-bye Ji-suk's gone I'll take a day off. Let's go to the hospital on Saturday I'm going to have it Are you crazy? What's crazy about a pregnant woman having her baby? Oh, no Don't look at me so pathetically I hate myself, too Why is life so hard? What's with you? What are you doing? It tastes better this way Ji-suk, man, stop being a sap Forget her and come to Australia with me! - Australia? - Yeah Why would I go there? I'm going for a year, on that working holiday thing What about the Public Servant Exam? That's right, I was gonna do that But a few days ago, I read a book, 50 Things You Must Do In Your 20s One of the things is to poop in as many countries as possible Wow! As soon as I read that I got shivers up and down my legs So you're going all the way to Australia to take a dump? Come with me? Nah, I'll just poop in my home Hey, what about Yae-eun? Yae-eun Didn't I tell you? - What? - We broke up a few days ago Why? She and I finally went to a motel We're just about to do it when she confesses She's not a virgin She already did it with a guy at her church Eun-chul, is that all you're made of? You broke up cause she's not a virgin? - It's not that - Then what, bastard! All that time, pretending to be a virgin 'If you love me, if you love me, you'll wait' All that was crap! It gives me the chills, man Really, it creeps me out You still have a book out Oh? You have Moon Palace, right? Oh, yes It's quite overdue Please have it back by tomorrow Yes, thank you Did I keep it too long? I feel like I learned a lot from you in a month No, I learned a lot more I'm at the second bullet level at 'Fortress' I didn't get anything for today White freesias mean 'I'm lucky to have such a good friend like you' So we're breaking up? The last condition After a month, we part ways grandly! Hee-jin, remember what you said? In a month, I'd be in love with you To then say I love you - Hee-jin - Ji-suk I'm gonna have it I'm gonna have the baby Hee-jin, is everything so easy for you? Why are you being so dumb? You know I'm pretty simple I like it, I do it The end As a quarter of my life was ending she came looking for me Maybe as the second quarter of her life was beginning I went looking for her It's hard to choose. I'll come back Whatever you choose, timing's most important I'll give you a good deal Come see me Thanks Hey! You and I need to talk - I have nothing to say to you - You sure about that? Let go! I said I have no feelings for you! Where are we going? Stop the car! Stop the car now! Are you crazy? Why do you keep messing my life? Those should be my words! What about the kid in your belly? Forget talk, let's just get rid of it I'll pay for it Just grab a date You seem to have the wrong idea It's not yours What? It's not your baby so stop messing with my life. Stay out my life But why doesn't it fit? Because my waist is 38 - What? You said 34 - Well, we were dating and - You lied to me? - Aw Wait! Try this one. And this - Hmm, it's good. Yummy - I'm a good cook, right? - Oh, I actually used that ladle - That's okay. Why not? - I'm embarrassed, that's all - Embarrassed - You get embarrassed? - Sure How's the rice? The rice? - Very, very good - Great Now, we just need the curry - It needs to boil down more - It does? Okay It's raining so let's hurry! Hee-jin! Hee-jin! What happened? Taxi! Ji-suk! Ji-suk! Hee-jin Can you hear me? Are you okay? Does it hurt? Still, he's a good kid He went away cause mommy's having a hard time When you're ready to be a mommy when you have someone who really loves you he'll be back Are you okay? You were here all night How's Hee-jin? Good I'm sorry but Hee-jin's not up to seeing anyone right now Please take good care of her Don't worry Um, are you Ji-suk? Yes. And you are? I'm taking over for Man-ho - Man-ho quit his job? - Yes Man-ho asked me to give you this I have to go now - Thanks - Good-bye Hey, Mr. Writer! I got a job at a hotel It's in the country so I had to leave right away Though we met on the route a proper good-bye is still in order No one enjoyed my cooking more than you You know about good cooking so I'm sure you're a good writer Take care Hee-jin, which color? This one's smart and this one's sexy The sexy one, please Okay But isn't too much? You said you might go all the way with him tonight, right? Right. Why hide my sexiness? No word from Ji-suk yet? You said his name so give me 10 bucks Here, here What do you think? Really sexy, huh? Why, don't you like the color? - The color's not the problem - It'll look prettier on me This color's a beauty! Have a good trip Yeah, I'll send a pretty postcard from Australia Ji-suk Yeah? I thought about it a lot Why did Yae-eun came clean about not being a virgin at that crucial moment? Probably cause she really loved me But what can I do? The boat's already sailed Well, see ya Bon voyage, buddy Ooh, f-e-e-I that sun! I love the sky! It's never boring When I don't want to see it, I don't have to And when I want to, I can see it from anywhere You really do love me, don't you? You smile at whatever I say! You want it cut short? Uh, no I want to color it It's not my first time so it'll sting less, right? We'll it might sting more and be more painful than the first time Yeah? Well Let's try again, you and me
