 

                        MADONNA Confessions Tour Madonna Louise Veronica Ciccone Born in Bay City, Michigan on August 16, 1958 at 7:05 AM Madonna is the third of six children. She moved to New York City in 1977, for a career in modern dance. She sang and played drums and guitar for the band. She released her self-titled debut album, Madonna, in 1983. Since 2001, Madonna is a citizen of the United Kingdom. I'm gonna tell you about love. Let's forget your life. Forget your problems. Administration, bills and loans. Come with me... Come with me... [ Future Lovers / I Feel Love... ] In the evidence of its brilliance In the evidence of its brilliance In the demonstration of this evidence. Some have called it religion. This is not a coincidence. Would you like to try? Connect to the sky Future lovers ride Their ambitions high Would you like to try? Let me be your guide Put aside your pride Future lovers hide love inside their eyes In the evidence of its brilliance. In the evidence of its brilliance. In the evidence of its brilliance. In the evidence of its brilliance. Love controlled by time Future lovers shine... for eternity in a world that's free Put away your past, Love will never last. If you're holding on to a dream that's gone I'm gonna tell you about love. Would you like to try? In the evidence of its brilliance. In the evidence of its brilliance. In the evidence of its brilliance. In the evidence of its brilliance. There's no love like the future love. Come with me. Ooh... I'm in love, I'm in love, I'm in love, I'm in love, I'm in love. Ooh, it's so good, it's so good, it's so good, it's so good, it's soooo good, Ooh, I feel love, I feel love, I feel love, I feel love, I feel love. I feel love. I feel love. Connect to the sky Future lovers ride... Their ambitions high Would you like to try? Love controlled by time Future lovers shine... for eternity In a world that's free I feel love... I feel love... [ Get Together ] It's all an illusion There's too much confusion Down, down, down in your heart Find, find, find the secret Turn, turn, turn your head around Baby we can do it we can do it all right Do you believe in love at first sight? It's an illusion, I don't care. Do you believe I can make you feel better? Too much confusion, come on over here. Can we get together? I really, I really wanna be with you. Come on, check it out with me! I hope you, I hope you feel the same way too. I searched, I searched, I searched my whole life To find, find, find the secret. But all I did was open up my eyes. Baby we can do it we can do it all right. Do you believe that we can change the future? Do you believe I can make you feel better? Can we get together? I really wanna be with you. Come on, check it out with me! I hope you feel the same way too Can we get together? I really, I really wanna be with you. Come on, check it out with me! I hope, I hope you feel the same way too. It's all an illusion. There's too much confusion I'll make you feel better If it's bitter at the start, Then it's sweeter in the end. Do you believe in love at first sight? It's an illusion, I don't care. Do you believe I can make you feel better? Too much confusion, come on over here. Can we get together? I really, I really wanna be with you. Come on, check it out with me! I hope you, I hope you feel the same way too. Get together, get together, get together, get together, get together, get together, get together... Get together, get together, get together, get together, get together, get together, get together... It's all an illusion. There's too much confusion I'll make you feel better If it's bitter at the start Then it's sweeter in the end. All right, London? Are you ready to ride with me? [ Like A Virgin ] I said, are you ready? Are you ready? I made it through the wilderness Somehow I made it through Didn't know how lost I was Until I found you I was beat incomplete I'd been had, I was sad and blue But you made me feel Yeah, you made me feel Shiny and new Like a virgin Touched for the very first time Like a virgin When your heart beats Next to mine Gonna give you all my love, boy My fear is fading fast Been saving it all for you 'Cause only love can last You're so fine and you're mine Make me strong, yeah you make me bold Oh, your love thawed out Yeah, your love thawed out What was scared and cold Like a virgin Touched for the very first time Like a virgin When your heart beats Next to mine Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh... Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh... Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh... Like a virgin Touched for the very first time Like a virgin When your heart beats Next to mine Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh... Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh... Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh... Feels so good inside When you kiss me And you touch me And you hold me Feels so good inside Ladies and Gentlemen! Thank you for comming to our show. The Night is young... And the Show... has just begun. [ Jump ] I haven't got much time to waste It's time to make my way I'm not afraid of what I'll face But I'm afraid to stay I'm going down my road and I can make it alone I'll work and I'll fight till I find a place of my own Are you ready to jump Get ready to jump Don't ever look back, oh, baby Yes, I'm ready to jump Just take my hand get ready to jump We learned out lesson from the start, my sisters and me The only thing you can depend on is your family Life's gonna drop you down like a limb from a tree It sways and it swings and it bends until it makes you see Are you ready to jump Get ready to jump Don't ever look back, oh, baby Yes, I'm ready to jump Just take my hand get ready to... Oh, you ready! I'll work and I'll fight till I find a place of my own It sways and it swings and it bends until you make it your own I can make it alone I can make it alone I can make it alone I can make it alone I can make it alone I can make it alone I can make it alone I can make it alone My sisters and me My sisters and me My sisters and me My sisters and me Are you ready to jump Get ready to jump Don't ever look back, oh, baby Yes, I'm ready to jump Just take my hand get ready to jump Are you ready to jump Get ready to jump Don't ever look back, oh, baby Yes, I'm ready to jump Just take my hand get ready to... Oh, you ready! Oh, you ready! Oh, you ready! Oh, you ready! Oh, you ready! Are you ready to jump Get ready to jump Get ready to jump, Get ready to jump, get ready to jump Don't ever look back, don't ever look... Get ready to jump [ Confessions ] I have a tale to tell I was three feet from the floor, gasping for air, trying to release my father's hands from my throat. I looked into his eyes and wondered if my feet would ever touch the floor again. Have you ever been hit so hard that it sends your body flying across the room? We all fall to the floor at some point. It's how you pick yourself up. That's the real challenge. Isn't it? I've always lived in my own world. And I dance to escape my troubles. I've learned that there's light even in the darkest places. I can't blame my father for anything. You can't rely on other people to make you happy. But I know deep down inside, he loved me. There was a time I suffered so much I wanted to get it out of me. I would cut my arms, not to kill myself. I don't want to die. I know I am lucky to be on this Earth. I did it so the physical pain would calm the pain that was eating me inside. Nothing was erased. I leave with my past tucked away deep inside of me. It comes out as an explosion and it invades me. I believe we are messengers on Earth. I believe in angels. I am blessed by God to tell myself I suffered that much to become who I am today. Now, you have to realize not only do I have a family, but now I have a whole hood. And that's power. But I ain't no grimey-ass nigga. I was never out to kill anybody. Especially when I made that decision to gang-bang. I just wanted to fit in. But one day, I was forced to do something that made me open my eyes. And I realized that this shit ain't no game. One of the homies got popped and I was pressured into doing my first drive-by. It was kinda fucked up, the way they tried to set me up. Me and my bro, we was headed back to the eight block. Some homies rolled up and they asked us to go somewhere. We pulled up to the corner. then he placed a chunky-ass gun in my ride. He said, You know what to do with it. It's time to get poppin' for the hood. But I wasn't out to kill anybody. [ Live to Tell ] I have a tale to tell Sometimes it gets so hard to hide it well I was not ready for the fall Too blind to see the writing on the wall A man can tell a thousand lies I've learned my lesson well Hope I live to tell the secret I have learned, 'till then It will burn inside of me I know where beauty lives I've seen it once, I know the warm she gives The light that you could never see It shines inside, you can't take that from me A man can tell a thousand lies I've learned my lesson well Hope I live to tell the secret I have learned, 'till then It will burn inside of me The truth is never far behind You kept it hidden well If I live to tell the secret I knew then Will I ever have the chance again In Africa 12.000.000 children are orphaned by AIDS If I ran away, I'd never have the strength To go very far How would they hear the beating of my heart Will it grow cold The secret that I hide, will I grow old How will they hear When will they learn How will they know For I was hungry and you gave me food I was naked and you gave me clothing I was sick and you took care for me And God replied, "Whatever you did for one of the least of my brothers... ...you did it to me." (Matthew 25:35) [ Forbidden Love ] Just one kiss on my lips Was all it took to seal the future Just one look from your eyes Was like a certain kind of torture Once upon a time There was a boy and there was a girl Just one touch from your hands Was all it took to make me falter Forbidden love Are we supposed to be together Forbidden love, forbidden love. Forbidden love, We sealed our destiny forever Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Just one smile on your face Was all it took to change my fortune Just one word from your mouth Was all I needed to be certain Once upon a time There was a boy and there was a girl Hearts that intertwine They lived in a different kind of world Forbidden love Are we supposed to be together Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Forbidden love, We sealed our destiny forever Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Just one kiss Just one touch Just one look Forbidden love Are we supposed to be together Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Forbidden love, We sealed our destiny forever Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Forbidden love Are we supposed to be together Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Forbidden love We sealed our destiny forever Forbidden love, Forbidden love. Just one kiss, just one touch, just one look. [ Isaac ] Im nin'alu Dal thae na di vim Dal thae na di vim Dal thae ma rom Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Im nin'alu Dal thae na di vim Dal thae ma rom Im nin'alu El hai ma rom El hai maromam El hai maromam El hai 'al karuvim Kolam baruchu ya'alu Staring up into the heavens In this hell that binds your hands Will you sacrifice your comfort? Make your way in a foreign land? Wrestle with your darkness Angels call your name Can you hear what they are saying? Will you ever be the same? Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Remember, remember, never forget All of your life has all been a test You will find a gate that's open Even though your spirit is broken Open up my heart And cause my lips to speak Bring the heaven and the stars Down to Earth for me Im nin'aaalu Dal thae na di vim Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'aaaluuuuuu El hai El hai maromam 'al karuvim Kolam baruchu ya'alu Wrestle with your darkness Angels call your name Can you hear what they are saying? Will you ever be the same? Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'alu Im nin'aaalu Mmmmmm Im nin'aaaluuuuuu El hai El hai maromam 'al karuvim Kolam baruchu ya'alu [ Sorry ] I'm Sorry So Sorry I'm Sorry Please Forgive Me I'm Sorry (Je suis desole) So sorry. (Lo siento) I'm Sorry (Perdname) I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, before, before, before, before, before, before, before, before... I don't wanna hear, I don't wanna know Please don't say you're sorry I've heard it all before And I can take care of myself I don't wanna hear, I don't wanna know Please don't say "forgive me" I've sing it all before And I can't take it anymore You're not half the man you think you are Save your words because you've gone too far I've listened to your lies and all your stories You're not half the man you'd like to be I don't wanna hear, I don't wanna know Please don't say you're sorry I've heard it all before And I can take care of myself I don't wanna hear, I don't wanna know Please don't say "forgive me" I've sing it all before And I can't take it anymore Don't explain yourself cause talk is cheap There's more important things than hearing you speak You stayed because I made it so convenient Don't explain yourself, you'll never see I'm sorry (Gomen nasais) So sorry (Mujhe maaf kardo) I'm sorry (Sli'kha) Please, forgive me. I'm sorry (Je suis desole) So sorry (Lo siento) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry... Forgive me. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry... I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, before, before, before, before, before, before, before, before... I don't wanna hear, I don't wanna know Please don't say you're sorry I've heard it all before And I can take care of myself I don't wanna hear, I don't wanna know Please don't say "forgive me" I've sing it all before And I can't take it anymore Don't explain yourself cause talk is cheap There's more important things than hearing you speak I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, I've heard it all before, The World is full of people, Who talk and talk, But how many others, walk to walk? [ Like It Or Not ] You can call me a sinner Or you can call me a saint Celebrate me for who I am Dislike me for what I ain't Put me up on a pedestal Or drag me down in the dirt Sticks and stones will break my bones But your names will never hurt I'll be the garden, you'll be the snake All of my fruit is yours to take Better the devil that you know Your love for me will grow Because this is who I am You can like it or not You can love me or leave me 'Cause I'm never gonna stop No, no... You know Cleopatra had her way Matahari too Whether they were good or bad Is strictly up to you Life is a paradox And it doesn't make much sense Can't have the femme without the fatale Please don't take offense Don't let the fruit rot under the vine Fill up your cup and let's drink the wine Better the devil that you know Your love for me will grow Because this is who I am You can like it or not You can love me or leave me 'Cause I'm never gonna stop No, no... You know This is who I am You can like it or not You can love me or leave me 'Cause I'm never gonna stop No, no... You know No, no... You know No, no... You know No, no... You know I'll be the garden, you'll be the snake All of my fruit is yours to take Better the devil that you know Your love for me will grow Because this is who I am You can like it or not You can love me or leave me 'Cause I'm never gonna stop No, no... You know This is who I am You can like it or not You can love me or leave me 'Cause I'm never gonna stop No, no... You know No, no... You know No, no... You know No, no... You know No, no... You know [ Sorry (Remix) ] Speak Don't say forgive me Don't say you're sorry I... can't take it anymore Can't take it Can't take it Can't take it Can't take it anymore I've listen to tour lies, then all your stories And I... And I... And I can't take it anymore Can't take it Can't take it Can't take it Can't take it anymore Don't say forgive me I've hear it all before Don't say you're sorry I've seen it all before And I... And I... I've heard it all before Don't talk Don't speak... Don't talk Don't speak... Don't talk Don't speak... Don't talk Don't speak... Don't talk Don't speak... Don't talk Don't speak... Don't talk Don't speak... Is Anyone Listening? [ I Love New York ] I don't like cities, but I like New York Other places make me feel like a dork Los Angeles is for people who sleep Paris and London, baby you can keep Baby you can keep, baby you can keep, Other cities always make me mad Other places always make me sad No other city ever made me glad Except New York I love New York I love New York I love New York If you don't like my attitude, then you can Fu... off Just go to Texas, and you can suck, Jeb Bush's dick New York is not for little pussies who scream If you can't stand the heat then get off my street Then get off my street, then get off my street, Other cities always make me mad Other places always make me sad No other city ever made me glad Except New York I love New York I love New York I love New York I love New York I love New York I love New York I love New York Thank you... Now, I know you people did not take this song personally. Because New York is a state of mind, it's not a place. It's the "fuck you" attitude. Okay? Now, I want you to show me your "fuck you" attitude on the next song. Okay? I wanna everybody's hands up in the air. I wanna you to wave like you just do care. Now I wanna see everybody jumping. Come on. Let the feet above the ground. Let's go. I wanna see this whole building jumping. I wanna see all of London jumping. I wanna see the whole world jumping. Come on, motherfuckers! [ Ray of Light ] Zephyr in the sky at night I wonder Do my tears of mourning sink beneath the sun Come on, keep on jumping. She's got herself a universe gone quickly For the call of thunder threatens everyone And I feel like I just got home And I feel And I feel like I just got home And I feel Faster than the speeding light she's flying Trying to remember where it all began I don't see you jumping. She's got herself a little piece of heaven Waiting for the time when Earth shall be as one And I feel like I just got home And I feel Come on, keep on jumping. And I feel like I just got home And I feel Quicker than a ray of light Quicker than a ray of light Quicker than a ray of light Here we go... Zephyr in the sky at night I wonder Do my tears of mourning sink beneath the sun She's got herself a universe gone quickly For the call of thunder threatens everyone And I feel And I feel... And I feel... And I feel... And I feel... Come on, London! Let me see you jump! Quicker than a ray of light then gone for Someone else shall be there through the endless years She's got herself a universe She's got herself a universe She's got herself a universe And I feel And I feel And I feel like I just got home And I feel Quicker than a ray of light she's flying Quicker than a ray of light I'm flying [ Let It Will Be ] Now I can tell you about success, about fame About the rise and the fall of all the stars in the sky Don't it make you smile? Now I can tell you about the place I belong You know it won't last long And all those lights they will turn down Let it will be Oh, let it be You got to let it be Won't you let it be Now I can see things for what they really are You know, I'm not that far I'm at the point of no return Just watch me burn Oh, let it be You got to let it be Won't you let it be Won't you let it be You got to let it be Anyone can see Let it will be Just watch me burn Now I can see things for what they really are You know, I'm not that far I'm at the point of no return no... no return, no... no return, no... no return, no... no return... Just watch me burn You got to let it be Won't you let it be You got to let it be Yeah! Won't you let it be You got to let it be Anyone can see Let it will... be. I think I just lay down for a minute... This is nice! Cheers! There seem to be an awful lot of cameras pointing at me right now. I swear I had no idea they were gonna be filming here tonight. I really sorry, you guys. No, seriously, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, If your vision is blocked Forgive me... I sure make it up to you, I promise Don't I always make it up to you Now early on... early on the show I sing a song And at the variant I say "I can make it alone" "I can make it alone, I can make it alone", right? You know that song, right? You love that song, right? But is a lie... Because I can't realy make it alone. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank The hundreds of people that help me make the show happen every night Please give them a big hand... Well... Hum... I don't ever really thank the people I work with, publicly. And I should. They're amazing. The Crew... The lighting people, the sound people. My amazing band. My dancers who defy gravity. Hair, make-up, wardrobe. I mean, it sounds realy tedious, but so many hardworking amazing people help me put the show together. - And I can't make it alone... - I love you! - So... Pay no attention to my nonsense. Hum... There is also my fans. Give yourself a big hand. Come on! Let shift some light on the subject Thank you! I can not make it alone! [ Drowned World / Substitute for Love ] We can do anything! I traded fame for love Without a second thought It all became a silly game Some things cannot be bought I got exactly what I asked for Wanted it so badly Running, rushing back for more I suffered fools so gladly And now I find I've changed my mind The face of you My substitute for love My substitute for love Should I wait for you My substitute for love My substitute for love I traveled round the world Looking for a home I found myself in crowded rooms Feeling so alone I had so many lovers Who settled for the thrill of basking in my spotlight I never felt so happy The face of you My substitute for love My substitute for love Should I wait for you My substitute for love My substitute for love Mmmm, mmmm, mmm, mmmmmmm... Oohhh oh-oh ooohhh... Mmmm, mmmm, mmm, Mmmm, mmm, mmmm... No famous faces, far off places, trinkets I can buy. No handsome stranger, heady danger, drug that I can try. No ferris wheel, no heart to steal, no laughter in the dark. No one-night stand, no far-off land No fire that I can spark. Mmmmmmmm... Mmmm, mmmm, mmm, mmmmmmm... Mmmm, mmmm, mmm, Mmmm, mmm, mmmm... The face of you My substitute for love My substitute for love Mmmm, mmmm, mmm, mmmmmmm... Should I wait for you My substitute for love My substitute for love Now I find I've changed my mind This is my religion This is my friend Yitzhak. We're so happy to have him with us. Is you a good boy? [ Paradise (Not for Me) ] I can't remember When I was young I can't explain If it was wrong My life goes on But not the same Into your eyes My face remains [I've been so high] I've been so down [Up to the skies] Down to the ground I was so blind I could not see [Your paradise] [Is not for me] I've been so high I've been so down Up to the skies Down to the ground I've been so high I've been so down Up to the skies Down to the ground I can't remember When I was young I can't explain If it was wrong I was so blind I could not see Your paradise Is not for me There is a light Above my head Into your eyes My face remains Alright boys and girls, it's time to get the dance shoes on. You're listening to K.U.N.T. It's all Madonna, all the time. [ Music Inferno / Disco Inferno ] Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like my acid rock? Where's the party? I want to free my soul. Where's the party? I want to lose control. Where's the party? I want to free my soul. Where's the party? I want to lose control. Where's the party? I want to free my soul. Where's the party? I want to lose control. Where's the party? I want to free my soul. Where's the party? I want to lose control. Control, control, control, control control, control, control, control Control, control, control, control, control Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like my acid rock? I wanna dance with my baby, dance with my baby, dance with my baby, dance with my baby, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance... Hey Mister D.J. put a record on I wanna dance with my baby And when the music starts I never wanna stop It's gonna drive me crazy Music makes the people come together, yeah! Music makes the bourgeoisie and the rebel Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like to boogie-woogie? Do you like my acid rock? Don't think of yesterday And I don't look at the clock I like to boogie-woogie It's like riding on the wind And it never goes away Touches everything I'm in Got to have it everyday Music makes the people come together, yeah! Music makes the bourgeoisie and the rebel Music makes the people come together, yeah! Music makes the bourgeoisie and the rebel Hey Mister D.J. Music Music Music Music I wanna dance with my baby, dance with my baby, dance with my baby, dance with my baby, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my, dance with my... dance, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance... Music makes the people come together, yeah! Music makes the bourgeoisie and the rebel Music makes the people come together, yeah! Music makes the bourgeoisie and the rebel Where's the party? I want to free my soul. Where's the party? I want to lose control. Where's the party? I want to free my soul. Where's the party? I want to lose control. Control, control, control, control control, control, control, control control, control, control, control control, control, control, control Control, control, control, control control, control, control, control All over me All over me All over me All over me All over me All over me [ Erotica / You Thrill Me ] Erotic, erotic, Put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, Put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, Put your hands all over my body Erotic You are who you are And I wouldn't want to change a thing In spite of all the pain that love can bring Tell me what can I do? I'm so in love with you You thrill me Surround me you feel me You send me You put me in a trance You feel me Inside me you take me You know me You put me in a trance All over me Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic Erotic All over me All over me All over me All over me You are who you are And I wouldn't want to change a thing In spite of all the pain that love can bring Tell me what can I do? I'm so in love with you You thrill me Surround me you feel me You send me You put me in a trance You feel me Inside me you take me You fill me You put me in a trance Erotic Erotic Erotic Erotic Erotic Erotic Erotic Erotic Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, Erotic, Erotica, romance I'd like to put you in a trance All over me All over me All over me Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, Erotic. Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic, erotic, put your hands all over my body Erotic. All right, it's time to put on your dancing shoes, London! [ La Isla Bonita ] Last night I dreamt of San Pedro Just like I'd never gone, I knew the song A young girl with eyes like the desert It all seems like yesterday, not far away Tropical the island breeze All of nature wild and free This is where I long to be La isla bonita Come on! I want see you shakening. I fell in love with San Pedro Warm wind carried on the sea, he called to me Te dijo te amo I prayed that the days would last They went so fast Tropical the island breeze All of nature wild and free This is where I long to be La isla bonita And when the samba played The sun would set so high Ring through my ears and sting my eyes Your Spanish lullaby I want to be where the sun warms the sky When it's time for siesta you can watch them go by Beautiful faces, no cares in this world Where a girl loves a boy, and a boy loves a girl La la la la la la la La la la la la la la Tropical the island breeze All of nature wild and free This is where I long to be La isla bonita Tropical the island breeze All of nature wild and free This is where I long to be La isla bonita - Come on, get on here. - Tropical the island breeze All of nature wild and free This is where I long to be La isla bonita And when the samba played The sun would set so high Ring through my ears and sting my eyes Your Spanish lullaby Andale, andale... Come on, Jason. And show the people how we do it! Tropical the island breeze All of nature wild and free This is where I long to be La isla bonita And when the samba played The sun would set so high Ring through my ears and sting my eyes Your Spanish lullaby All, right. Let's shake down. [ Lucky Star / Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! ] You must be my Lucky Star 'Cause you shine on me wherever you are I just think of you and I start to glow And I need your light And baby you know Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] make everything all right Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] Yeah... You must be my Lucky Star 'Cause you make the darkness seem so far And when I'm lost you'll be my guide I just turn around and you're by my side Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] make everything all right Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] Yeah... You may be my lucky star But I'm the luckiest by far You may be my lucky star But I'm the luckiest by far You may be my lucky star But I'm the luckiest by far You may be my lucky star But I'm the luckiest by far Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] make everything all right Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] Yeah... Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] make everything all right Starlight, starbright first star I see tonight Starlight, [starbright] Yeah... Do you wanna hear some more? Every little thing that you say or do I'm hung up I'm hung up on you Waiting for your call, baby, night and day, I'm fed up I'm tired of waiting on you [ Hung Up ] Time goes by so slowly... Time goes by so slowly... Time goes by so slowly... Time goes by so slowly for those who wait No time to hesitate Those who run seem to have all the fun I'm caught up I don't know what to do Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly I don't know what to do Every little thing that you say or do I'm hung up I'm hung up on you Waiting for your call, baby, night and day, I'm fed up I'm tired of waiting on you Every little thing, Every little thing, I'm hung up I'm hung up on you Waiting for your call, Waiting for your call, I'm fed up I'm tired of waiting on you Ring, ring, ring, goes the telephone The lights are on but there's no-one home Tick tick tock it's a quarter to two And I'm done I'm hanging up on you I can't keep on waiting for you I know that you're still hesitating Don't cry for me 'cause I'll find my way you'll wake up one day but it'll be too late Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly so slowly, so slowly, so slowly... I donna what to do Every little thing that you say or do I'm hung up I'm hung up on you Waiting for your call, baby, night and day, I'm fed up I'm tired of waiting on you Every little thing, Every little thing, I'm hung up I'm hung up on you Waiting for your call, Waiting for your call, I'm fed up I'm tired of waiting on you Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly All right, London! I want you to sing along with me. - Can you do that? - Yeah! Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly - Time goes by so slowly - Huh? Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly All right, let's make this a contest Let's check on the left side. Let me hear you sing. ... so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly I can't hear you ... so slowly Time goes by so slowly It's more like of the right side on this big arena. Let's check on the middle of the runway ... so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Oh, that was very good. Let's check on the left side Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Ok, I think the left side is welly. Let's check on the end of the runway. Let me hear you sing. ... so slowly. Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Now, how about you people in the back? Let me hear you sing. Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Come on, London! Now, you can do better then that. ... so slowly Time goes by so slowly All together now! I want everybody to sing. Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly Time goes by so slowly No time to wait on you... Have you confessed? Have you confessed?
