 

                        Welcome Everyone! In 1990, Madras... that is Chennai Vyasarpadi Krishnapa Naicker was a wealthy well wisher of that place His friend Karunakaran, both were strong personalities in a political party They ruled over this area Due to unforeseen issues their political party got dissolved The inseparables had to part ways and took their responsibilities accordingly Which lead to enmity between them The areas shared by them were divided using their power They divided everything amicably Except this wall which is an Integral part of the housing board There were issues on who will get it to promote their parties. Only if our poster is displayed on that wall, It'll be like our kingdom. We should not let go of that wall! Don't worry about that We should not let go of the wall, If we do, we can't face anyone Meanwhile Krishnapa begins work to paint a poster on the wall We are scared of everything Where were we and look where we are now It's like a dungeon, no place to even stretch our legs Hey why are we talking now? When we 3 are here, did they bother to ask us? Earlier we were together, now we have our own party It's not like that, if they get to do it, we will go powerless all because of arrogance, they do this. Why can't we? Are we cowards? Karunakaran provoked the housing board people, who chased Krishnapa people away! Everybody has become impudent now? You were lying homeless on the road Now that you have shelter, are you rising up against me? Whose wall do you think it is? It belongs to the Government Filing a petition would do.. ..Youve committed fraudulence to be here What nonsense is this, It has been allotted to us by the Government. No one can touch the walls without our knowledge You don't need us anymore? We need you, but not your party. Where will we paint our party's image? Is it fine, if we do the same on your walls? I know who has provoked you people Why? Don't we have brains? See, the wall is ours and we can't let that go.. Do what you can The people who didn't dare to speak against Krishnapa Spoke against him. Looking at that, Krishnapa's son Kannan.. Committed the first murder for the wall Sangan died, which lead to huge riots. But the police arrested people from housing board There was not a single man in the area to help Sangan's funeral Exactly a year after Sangan's death, Karunakaran who came there... ..provoked Maanga there They Shouldnt be.. Maanga slit Krishnapan's throat in middle of the house One week later Kannan avenged his father's murder by killing Maanga and his son Conspiring to kill Kannan, one of his peeps got caught The murders continued avenging each other The murders just kept piling up Meanwhile Kannan became the North Chennai District Secretary for his party He spoke to a few in the area and pacified them with money. For the first time without any opposition he painted his father's image on the wall He got control over the wall Karunakaran couldnt stop this Karunakaran passed away in the sorrow of defeat After which his son Maari became the leader of the housing board people Also took responsibility of the party At the same time few unfortunate incidents happen in front of that wall An old man came from no where collapsed and fell dead in front of the wall Two guys rammed their bike in to the wall and died A guy committed suicide jumping off the wall Fearing these incidents, when people consulted a holy man... It's waiting to take more people It's asking for blood, blood sacrifice! Post which, everyone feared it to be a soul sucking wall Due to which a temple was erected in front of the wall Kannan used this excuse to safeguard his father's image on the wall On the other hand, Maari is waiting for a chance to bring down that image This is how... Even in this generation the fight for the wall continues... Madras - Hey kiddo, what are you going to study? - Collector! Collector uh?...What are you going to do studying that? - Good deeds for the society - My son is great! Chennai! North Chennai! This land of black tamils Somebody making the tune, no tune can shake our roots. Our land is Madras and were its identity! Our land is Madras and were its identity! Getting rid of atrocity from politicians is freedom to our people I will definitely grab that right Police who never fears anyone, Is feared of us... Why?... Politics..Political power We enjoy every moment like a child in the midst of our run for life Were not a plant in solitude, We're the wilds of unity Monuments of Madras is built not with brick and stone, but with our blood and emotions If you try to silent us, well make noises that the world will hear Well be the tool to break sorrows Well fly through the sky Well be the tool to break sorrows Well fly through the sky I wish to be a huge terror Looking at me, everyone should tremble, I should be everything Our land is Madras Were its identity Our land is Madras Were its identity Took the dagger and stabbed right through him, intestines were out.lt was a blood bath Someone pierced me with a pin, searched everyone in surrounding Our Saroja sister is witness to it Saroja sister..Police! Saroja sister..Police! Took 500 bucks and bribed the policemen He wrote a report stating that it's cow's blood When the girl blushes away when proposed It's all for the celebration of love Football, Carom, Boxing, Kabadi are games that showcase our courage We stay amidst the sounds of Chennai that has become our music Paste posters, gather crowd and be left with nothing is our culture The night will see the light for the ones who are dedicated Be awake and aware, for that day is not too far The night will see the light for the ones who are dedicated Be awake and aware, for that day is not too far Life is short dude, Enjoy every day, every moment. Life is just about that. Our land is Madras Were its identity Chennai! North Chennai! This dominant Tamil land Somebody makes a tune. No tunes can shake our root! Why do you keep staring at the wall, Aren't there any other issues in our area? People have been struggling without water since 3 days, check that Dude that's been taken care of, will be done by evening That's like a secretary - We should be the one to grab this wall - We'll What are you staring at? Let it go Viji, don't get worked up Scuffle during games are common, and that too you were the one who bumped You've lost, so try winning for a change Who do you think you're talking to? - Hey why are you creating a ruckus - Keep Calm dude - What will you do? - I will hack you right here Hey Bommai, give that dagger to Viji, let him use that We will watch him with our hands folded Hey give that to him. Sit down Perumal - How's your father? - He's fine Maari Even for the petty matters, these days they slit throats If it's someone from a different area it's fine All of them are from our area and our guys What do you say? I'm trying to resolve this by talking No Maari, Viji is got a reputation in that area If we leave this because he's with Anbu, someone else will rise again just like him There are many who disappeared without any trace in our area Ask them to be little careful Bro why are you talking unnecessarily I know how to handle this, come on bro Stop right there. Do you think they are offering porridge from Maariamman temple? You keep walking like that What do you think of these people? Hey Johnny, can't you be quiet? Look here Maari, let's end this here. That too only for you. My guys won't create problems hereafter If you're guys create a problem, then no matter who supports them, I know how to handle it Hey, come let's go! Hey wait, why are you walking off in middle of the conversation? I'm done talking. All this is happening because you are there for them. One day, he will be a problem for you You won't know when and where you'll get in to trouble I'll take care of it Perumal, He's not Viji... He's Anbu He's like a son to me Hey Kaali, you heard what he said right? If you try to start any more problems... are you trying to become a rowdy? You're well educated and in a good job, why do you need all this? - That's it - No bro, it was him not me Keep calm, Bro is talking right Hey Kaali, enjoy your life Get married and settle in life Have kids, one is not enough Have more than one Though we are not financially strong, Why do you think they fear us? It's only because of our men behind us, - Anbu - Bro - Are you angry? - No bro, nothing like that Should've broken his bones With that anger would have bumped him right there, because of me he survived Hey, don't make them wise like this They live at Kannan's mercy - Sit down Viji - It's ok bro Sit down Viji, mom serve him food Why is the child crying? Everything will happen in this house while having food - Hey sit down - It's ok bro, I ate already What does Maari has to say? What will he say? I've warned him Only because of him Anbu is so gutsy Get a toothpick How many times do I have to tell you to keep it ready while having meat? Let him be, how long do you think a fish will last in a bowl Wait Viji, our time will come, We can then show them who we are What time does he have, I thought of finishing him, but you .. If you do something It should be talk of the town Only then we will be known If you finish him for this... No one will fear you, they will only spit on you Be with brother What is it dude, Viji is giving me a look? He's nothing to you, don't waste your time on this Why are you getting angry for petty stuff, control you anger What can I do... couldn't control it! All this will be in control when you have a wife As if it will be... It's all an act, mere act - Dude Shall I leave? - Wait, what's the hurry - She's smitten by all this act - As if I'm smitten Hey, don't provoke me Hey, don't talk too much, have you made food? Both of us are hungry, serve us! - It's ok, I will have at home -Hey, wait have and leave don't make a fuss Hey, I've been talking to you, can't you hear us get us food - Why are shouting at her? - Just like that You just watch now Hey, Don't! Hey, I'm gonna give you a strong one I didn't do it on purpose, it slipped from my hand Hey come on silly, did you get scared? - How is the girl? do you like her? - Yes She's well educated and will earn well if she goes to a job I am fine if she takes care of my mother I have a feeling that this time it'll work That's right, compared to previous ones, she's dark and beautiful Even though she's dark, she's charming! If she's charming, you get married to her, why are you pulling my son in to this? I conceived him with the blessings of Goddess Kaali My son, deserves better than her For my son's personality and the knowledge he has Not only in this town, will find a girl out of this world for him If not, I'm not born of my father! Even I want a girl like a princess, Just for that... Look at her eyes they are squint Look at her nose, it's disgusting - She's so damn fair - What? She's toothless! She'll create confusion! She's got a dry face You can find mistakes, last week we saw a girl... you know what she said? What kind of a smile is that?..Being a girl can't she smile with glee? You tell me Johnny, what's there in a smile? Love marriage is best for you - That day...!?!? - You're a waste I can't even talk to girls, How can I make them fall for me? I don't have a choice but to depend on my mother to choose a girl for me Waiting for that Hey, What the hell are you talking about? She is the girl I chose for my son... Who did you choose? What makes her so special? She doesn't have any siblings What if she has any sibling? When they have children and if they need anything their aunt and uncles are the ones who will take care I can't let my grand children being abandoned Mom, why do you always keep finding faults? Instead of finding whether the girl is suitable for your son If you keep doing like this, one day I'll become a saint. Go ahead, Do you think this earth will stop spinning if you become a saint? You can't even manage to buy me a car... and you're talking! Did you hear that? - So you're worried only about the car? - Hey, don't get me started For my son's qualification, the less fortunate people.. Are ready to offer car and bike as dowry He says that he will offer the same as he did for his other daughters We don't need her in our house I don't know who is gonna come to this house I promise, I'll never find a girl with you here That's right, It will take long for me to die Why don't you kill me then Won't a mother want her child to be prosperous? Your birth was a boon to me Is it wrong, to expect good for you? Am I going to use that car? You'll be the one using it.. Why are you creating a scene? One day he's going to elope with someone, only then you're gonna calm down Ah..as if he's going to elope If he does, only my broom will talk to him.. Grandson, give me some money! Granny, I'm going to kill you first My grandson is not giving me money for betel leaves because of you. I want to have tea, lend me 10 bucks Johnny bro, I have no money.. But I've got a dagger, double pointed like manali snake Is it? Show me - What's your colour? - It's black If only you have that in parrot green, the value will be higher You didnt get that, Shall I explain in Tamil?..the way parrot chirps.. And If you have a snake along with it, It's worth 2 crores! That's Johnny to you What do you think of me?...there's only one Johnny in the whole of India! You guys don't know his fame There was a time, when everybody was afraid of him Just a small dagger, will finish his work in a jiffy Police torture changed him No one here can speak English like him Watch what you say Brother leave that, look at him Why are you so upset?..will take care of it How long are you planning to bear this? Then your kids are going to call you grandfather! Hey you're going to get from me Stop it, our dude is upset. There are so many girls at your work, don't you even like one? They won't suit me, all are made up beauties. I don't even bother to look at Dude, then check her out. If she's fine. Hey, the one with the pink colour bag Look she's coming, as far as I know she has turned down 4 until now It didn't work out, she's hot! Dude, she's the daughter of that politician staying behind your house Hey she's that politician's daughter, she comes daily to get water. Che... check your eyesight Hey, She's good looking. What's wrong with her? She's not worth it, you guys are praising her too much That's right, you conveniently have a wife at home Others will be vague to you She's beautiful and you like her? Yup, are you going to get me married to her Dude, she's from Viji's block So what, I'm asking to get married Hello, Kalaiarasi..I'm talking to you! My bro Kaali is sincerely in love with you He is determined to get married to you, He says he'll die without you. Gives us a wise reply Idiot do you have any sense? Son wake up, get water to take bath. It's getting late Let me sleep, don't disturb me so early in the morning. It's for you to take bath, don't create a fuss as thought it is for me. It has become a habit, have you ever woken up early? The alarm keeps ringing, If only it had a mouth it will cry it's eyes out My wife would have done this if I was married Lets see if its you or her who is going to fetch water. I'm gonna bite you one day, wait and see Dude, It's my girlfriend! Take that! - Just one, I'll fill it It's getting late - You just came and you're barging in Isn't it getting late for us? you are barging in just ike your mom Wait for sometime It's getting late sister Why don't you fill it up, he's been pumping for long Hey, why are you leaving with half filled pot?...get it filled That's ok, It's getting late Can't they find a girl and get him married? - He's struggling a lot -What can we do, his mom is expecting a princess - When is that? - Only when he's lost it I saw your crush, she's cute, smart and beautiful But she went with a guy, who's that guy? Is he her boyfriend? Be careful, you just tell me, will take his tongue out Hey Kalai! - Hey Kalai, look here - Dude, the college is on the other side What dude you seem early for work today? My manager will bug me if am late. Hey, is it your manager or your girl friend who will bug you? You think I don't know? You go early morning to fetch water Then follow her on bike Keep it going! - What are you up to? - What do you mean? You think you can steal her away so easily? It seems like she likes me, don't spoil this by interfering Should have bumped you earlier. If I hear anything more. Let's leave! Nothing happened, you sit dear. Wonder if they are riding a bike or an aeroplane I heard you met with an accident near the wall - An auto came in between - That sinners wall won't back down Your mother was crying, why don't you get blessed by the priest? You don't know. If it's on to you, will not spare you! Wonder how many lives it's going to take? - It seems like mother of ghost - What is she doing here? Let's see! If the water tanker gets here, the problem is solved Did you get hurt badly? Did you get hurt badly? Did you go to the hospital? - Nothing much, just got a bruise on forehead -I saw you when you fell Can't you go carefully? I'm sorry! It's my friends, I swear. They are lying. That I love you So, that's not true then? Dear? Superstar's movie is a hit or a flop? - It's an utter flop - Don't lie, It's super hit - Who told you that? - I'm saying Our Superstar's movie is always a hit So what if it's a hit? Is your Superstar going to feed you? Why so? Then why are you here? Why should he feed me? Look at my Superstar, he's so super. Feel like giving a kiss. - Hey, What are you doing? - Kissing on Superstar's poster Don't you dare kiss him, when I'm sitting right here hale and healthy! If you're going to just sit, then will have to kiss Superstar What did you say? Hey, don't come near me, our son is watching Hey, who do you think you're talking to? Sounds like Kaali's bike, I'll pretend to sleep, don't wake me up What's up Ronaldo? didn't go to school? - Today holiday - Holiday? - What's the holiday for, Mary? -There's no holiday, haven't paid the fees yet He'll be the first one to print the party posters Will pay the fees tomorrow Why is our leader still sleeping? Didn't go anywhere? What work does he have? He just came in the morning and is sleeping since then He's got too much attitude Hey, you should have beaten up your dad asking why he hasn't paid the fees. Look he's sleeping. Dad's not sleeping, just now mom and dad were kissing! - Look how he got us caught - Started your romance early today? There is no specific time to romance You did beat me right? Won't you let me be happy for a while Hey dude, that girl spoke to me today Who is that brother? What did it say? - That politicians daughter, - Kalaiarasi? what did she say? I fell near the wall right? First she enquired about that I was stunned! I apologised to her for that day To which she replied "That's not true then" Did she say that? Which means she likes you brother - What do you think? She is in love with me? Keep asking all this to me! If not why would she talk like that? - I'm scared dude - Why are you scared? Brother don't be scared, understand her feelings and propose to her Look I liked his face at the first instance I kept waiting for him to make the first move Married him, the day he proposed You like her right, so go ahead. Girls won't propose Hey, don't make any hasty decisions Think whether you need this or not. Think well dude! I'm leaving dude - Why are you scaring him? - I'm not scaring him He has to like her, his decision is important Now why are you coming closer? Ronaldo needs a sister, it seems I have decided. I love Kalaiarasi I will get married only to her I am leaving Sky is usually filled with sun and moon There's nothing there today It's filled with my "Kalai" Now listen to another one.. Trees will have parrot and cuckoo.. But now, it's Kalaiarasi all over Dude, you are amazing! - On the ground, you'll find dog and hen - Dude please - Dude please spare me, don't torture me - I'm going to kick you Dude you keep going Dude, I was waiting near the water pump to catch a glimpse of Kalaiarasi At that time, she seemed like the angel they show in movies She was beautiful The way she looked at me for a second when she was leaving Felt so intense It was a great feeling Dude, Kalaiarasi is short tempered Guys have been trying to woo her well before she reached puberty But she never fell for anyone Will break your jaw! - What? - Nothing sister You were born without god's consent? For the International companies It's for those international companies Uninterrupted water service Her current one side lovers are... Tailor Ganesh, supervisor Mohan One last important thing, Nari Suresh who hangs out with Viji all the time Tight competition dude! They keep following, don't you get annoyed? They see what they like. They have freedom If I look, they won't even face me As far as they don't disturb me, it's fine If the girl is fine with it, we can take care of anyone First we have to get rid of the girls roaming behind her Brother, there are no issues anymore Now we have to change Kalaiarasi's liking towards you as love. Very Important thing in love is field work No matter how busy you are, your priority should always be Kalaiarasi Scoundrels of that sort should be pulled off by their roots He might be present in our gathering He might also be holding on to our party's blue flag - Hello... Hi... how are you? - Damn. he is a headache! Hey... Hey... I'm talking to you Poor thing, he's been waiting for you since morning Why can't just give him a glance Is it fine now? Now, get lost! I haven't done any business since morning, just now... Hey, do you love Kaali? If you say, they'll hit anyone they like? - Look how they have beaten them up - As if she's an angel Warn him, or else he'll be done! - Do you know how much it hurts? - Let it go dude They broke my nose dude Why are you getting worked up for all this? Calm down Why are you doing this? What do you think of me? Are you a big rowdy? Will you beat up all those who follow me? You've been telling everyone that I'm in love with you Don't do unnecessary things Did I ever say that I love you? You said you're not like that the other day It's embarrassing! Wherever I go on the street, they call me by your name And yesterday, Viji threatened me What do you think of yourself? You think, I'll fall in love if you keep following me I swear, I don't like you at all Get lost and do something useful What brother, looks like my idea has worked out. Come on, I deserve a treat You guys carry on, I'll be back Whats up dude? why are you upset? Nope, I'm not upset Are you drunk? Hey guys he's drunk! - Hey... come on blow..blow? - Get lost! - He's drunk way too much..it stinks - Dude, be careful! What's wrong with you?...You went to booze all alone without us. Why don't you shut up Hey Kaali!...Hey! - Hey dude what is it? - Dude he's crying! - What's it dude? - Dude you know Kalaiarasi right?... She doesn't like me it seems Checking her out, following her. She doesn't like any of it Dude, thats how it is in the beginning Later you'll see.. she'll come around and propose to you No dude, she was rude to me - Dude are you serious? - Yes I'm When she spoke to me, there were small kids around - It was so embarrassing! - Let it go! I don't want to be in this world anymore - I'll commit suicide - Really?...Go..Go die. Bloody fool! I'm going to die for sure Hey Kaali..stop dude... don't be crazy! - Hey get down - You're the one who asked me to die You've been acting like a fool, I'm gonna kill you myself Hit me dude..hit me, and kill me after that She's the one who came and spoke to me "That's not true then"..."That's not true then"...she stressed on that So it's not love then? But my sister Mary, said that it was love - It's ok dude -Now I'm a rowdy, scoundrel and she doesn't like me - I'm a scoundrel dude - Kaali, why are you acting like a kid - Kaali people are watching, let it go - Who's watching? Hey!..No one is looking, let's leave come on - Is there a scene going on here? - Hey... dude what are you doing? - What is it? - Why is he acting like this? I've been sulking on my failure and you have 3 girl friends Kaali don't be stupid What? Do you think of yourself as a hero? If anyone falls in love here, I'll break their bones I don't need her You are my love - Come lets leave My sister Mary Ronaldo is my son-in-law! I give you my word... - If I've a daughter, I'll get her married to your son -That's ok, let's leave He's way too high!..that's why She's said it's not going to happen Only if I get married, I'll have a child Won't I get married at all? Bring water quickly Hey dude, why are you getting so upset? I'm there for you... will try wooing another girl - Do you want eggs? - Don't ask, just serve it Am I not? Dad showed me that girl, she's good looking I'll talk to her, Won't I do at least this for you? Mom, she said there's nothin happening, let it go If it's nothing, why did you try to kill yourself Don't you care about your parents? Your birth was a boon to me. I couldn't sleep the entire night Dear, please leave this drinking habit - Why do you have to talk to him like that? - Because of you he's behaving like this - You're the one who's spoiling my son - Who me? Just shut the hell up! If you continue this, then you won't see your mom. Make sure you are back home once your job is done Don't worry about anything You'll get a girl like Angelina She is no angel let her be Paper boat that sunk in an ocean of love, That took him in to the deepest of sorrow. In an age where every moment counts, Stepping in to fragile emotions is ludicrous You could reach it, Yet you cannot enjoy it Paper boat that sunk in an ocean of love, That took him in to the deepest of sorrow. What the hell are you laughing at, stop you bloody dogs! Our life is like a river that takes random courses We never worry about the emotions that strike us Worry not for well not stumble you to ground Succeed or fail in life, well not leave this land Step over the obstacles with your head held high, Raise your voice for misdeeds Step over the obstacles with your head held high Raise your voice for misdeeds The paper boat will reach the shores You'll succeed in love one day The grass on the other side, is always greener! Take that garland. - Granny, get that right - Maari, you should prosper well Hey!..keep it granny..keep it! Wait..wait... I'll give Here take it Here hold this... hey Johnny dance! Brother, don't dance like this Anbu, keep this for festival expenses Come here Anbu, they have announced the date for the conference Understood it's on March 3rd! We've to show them who we are, we've to slog Everyone is ready to pull us down Look here Anbu, we should not be scared of anything Our place, our area..whatever we've lost, should be reclaimed by us Don't worry about that, everything is going as planned, this time it's going to be us That's not the issue Anbu, In case we have a meeting near the wall... won't they spit on us stating that we still don't have the wall On top of that, they are so laid back with an impression that nothing can be done Look here Anbu, Never have fear! From now on, It's them who should be scared of us They'll be scared, don't worry about that - What's it? - Dude, lets leave Don't worry, we'll take care Lets go What else? Just this wall right? Maari brother won't come for this also? Is he scared? Scared uh?...Won't the wall take him as sacrifice? Hey! It tried killing him once. It really has got some powers Che... The auto guy came in between! Remember the 2 guys who died on the bike? They were sloshed, but the blame was on the wall they could've died some other place Why does it have to be this wall? Dude, who ever has died there have their own reasons No one ever thinks about that It is the fear that we have that makes us think like this All these are cooked up stories If they bestow the fear of death on us, we won't touch it. Just some tricks They're scared that we'll grab that wall If we grab the wall, will they mellow down? If not this, then something else If you ask me, I feel it should be painted white making common Age old problem is still persisting and it sure will continue The problem lies with Kannan, why don't we deal with him directly? - But dude we will be the only ones in this world fighting for this silly wall -Hey! Is it so simple for you... Do you think the issue is only due to the wall? First Sengai use to work under Krishnapa He went against him in front of the people, that's when he died Loads of money, a big shot in politics, why does he have to hold on to this wall? Wall isn't the issue, It's the Authority No one should question him He'll ride on our back, do you want us to ignore? Many lives have been lost for this wall Still his father's image is on that wall If we touch that, we will die it seems. Let's see who is going to die Don't think that I'm doing this for Maari, This is for all those who died because of this If not us, who else will do it? - I'm leaving -This won't work out, I'm leaving too It's obvious there will be issues if we touch that wall I agree with you buddy, this is a persisting issue..can't solve it easily It became a big issue when a small kid scribbled on that wall, think about it Hey, are you scared? That's not the case dude Dude, you carry on. We don't need anyone, I'll stand by you You make your move without any worries, we will take care of it My Anbu is here, now no one... All Johnnies... all open your mouth - Anbu - Who's that? It's me, Perumal has come down. Wants to discuss about the wall, he's waiting near Raghu's place - Who else is there? - Viji, Suresh and 4 others - You leave. I'll be there - Ok, Anbu - Who's that? Where are they taking you? - No where, just be quiet Hey don't fight. Listen to me, Don't go. There's no fight, they have just come to talk, don't be scared - I'm asking you not to go - I'm going, Just shut up! Dude Perumal has come to speak with Anbu, come near Raghu's place Welcome Anbu! - Did you ask the guys to come? - I have Welcome Anbu, how are you? You've become wiser It's not like that, just been given a posting Bro, didn't I say. Anbu is our kid, he must have done this unintentionally Anbu, I was going to talk to you myself. Brother wanted to.. - Because it's our wall - Our wall?...Once again if you mention that All the walls in this area is yours... I agree to that Have I ever touched any of them, or at least put up a poster on them? All we have is one wall, and you don't get that. What do you say? Let it be Bro, all these years you had it This year we will write on that, may be next year... no no..The wall is our henceforth Anbu, you're talking like a kid Then go ahead and speak to the elder ones Don't speak unnecessarily, I'm handling this Everyone just shut up, who asked you to come here? Nothing, they've just come to talk Hey better be calm, Hey you be silent! - Who is this? - Your Dad... bloody sick b@@d! - Hey you dirty worm, will smash you - Who me? Get a cloth will go fishing then - Johnny I'm getting worked up - Can't you be calm, I'm gonna kill you Let there be no conflicts My father has died - Don't get angry, all these years... -It's the same for you as well, just shut up My grandfather is on that wall Where's your grandmother? On the neighbors wall - We're talking here, and you're joking - Hey Nari, will hack you Shut up! Can't shut up, times have changed now Hey just calm down! Let's not waste time, this is our area and it's our wall Hey Viji, you are silent. Is this why we got you here? What do I have to say, area leader has declared we can't have the wall. Let him paint a image on that wall, we'll just watch.. That's why I said, let's not speak to him rather finish him You'll are useless, hey move Anbu, It's a big issue Who's the big shot? Let him know that Anbu said that he won't give this wall to anyone Let him do as he wishes Why are you talking to them, let them lay their hands on that wall, then we'll see F@$g Bast... Hey..just calm down and leave from here Anbu, he's using his hands while we are talking - What do you have to say? No, I can't Let's go! Thought we'll speak and sort it out but you guys are fighting - He's talking too much - Should have broken his jaw - Let it go dude - He's come to our area and is creating a scene - We'll take care of it, where are they gonna go -It's all unnecessary Don't you have any brains? Why did you hit him? Are you mad at me? You want me to be quiet when he's yapping like that Enough, they came for a compromise and we have fought Hey Kaali wait... he's angry dude Be careful, don't go alone anywhere Why are you getting pissed at him? - Hey kaali take care - Let him know that it's not a simple issue Its another addition to the existing problems Hey stop there, are you nuts? Why did you hit that guy? They've been waiting for someone to bump Look here, don't get involved in that wall's issue I gave birth to you after years of penance? Shut up! Be quiet. He's swearing at Anbu and you want me to be quiet? I would have broken his bones You better don't get in to all this, come back home after work. Always getting involved in these issues Hello... Hello! Hello who's this? Come to me if you have guts Someone is messing with me, If I get hold of you... Hey let it go... just wait and watch the next morning - Hello who do you want? - I'm Kalaiarasi Have you forgotten me? You've been swearing all the time when I call Just because I scolded you in anger once, won't you meet me again? Were you behind me for fun? I've been waiting for you to come and meet me. But you won't even give me a glance. I've been worried ever since the day I scolded you But you've been sleeping peacefully I am waiting near the water pump to meet you. Come fast. I'm here! - What do you want? Why did you call? - Why are you screaming? I wanted to talk to you Whatever I said the other day was in anger But what you did was right? If you love me? I should be okay with it immediately? Do you know how girls scold their lovers? One of my friends got her lover caught by police He got beaten up black and blue She's now married to the same guy She's Happy! I just scolded you What else did I do? I swear, I love you since then Please understand! Why are you crying now? Will you marry me? - When? - Right here, right now! Then give me a kiss - Hey Kaali! - Go please go, your mom might come down - Dear, where did you go this late? - Where were you? I've been asking, you don't even bother to reply? What happened to him? Hello..bro it's Mary Please come home soon - Why what happened? I'm coming - Bro please come soon - Maari don't get angry - How can I not be angry? I told you guys not to, but you guys have beaten him up so badly Trying to be smart? Will dump you guys Let's see how long this goes on Greedy for money Until I was here nothing had happened, all of this, when I was away in the morning All this is because of you Do you want me to get arrested? Sir, I was the one who did this, arrest me Wait, Let's go in and talk Let's take care of this later Money is playing the main role, please listen to me Come on Maari, let's go inside - Don't cry - Don't worry I'll take care of this Anbu? Let it go, we'll take care of it Bro, this is nothing. Forget it They've to come here - Don't be scared - Dude, looks like they've beaten you badly Won't you guys tell us the problem, you've left him alone Let them be Why are you looking at Perumal? I know how to handle this issue, just shut up and leave If only you let me, I would have hacked them to death At least from now on let me know, I'll take care of it if there's a problem Where are you going? Why are you getting down? What are you doing? The wall is mine You can never touch it I dare you to touch me again - Dude, take him away. Make him sit inside. - First take him away from here Leave..leave..Leave Seems like that fellow is going to grow stronger? Is he that gutsy? If he hasn't changed in spite of getting beaten up He has to die He's not scared of us, that goes to his guys as well If it continues, he will take the wall Don't you ever say that and get slippered - It's all because of Maari - He'll be the same even otherwise - Sit down Viji - It's ok! Come on, Sit down Sit down! If we let him continue this, It will be a problem for us All these days Maari, didn't have the guts to stand in front of us Anbu... Anbu is everything out there If we finish the leader of the herd They'll be shattered Do this now, It's the right time you've been asking for Kill Anbu, until you're satisfied After which, you're everything Be with him and give him all that is required - Hey, who's it? - No one Why are you dodging? Tell me... - It's that girl - Is it Kalaiarasi? Mary did you listen to this? What is she saying? She loves me Dude, you didn't even tell me, when did this happen? Look how happy he is, do you need all this? Shut up, he is talking about his love Why are you biting your tongue? Have you decided to abandon us? You're eating because you earned it. Is that party gonna feed you? Look brother, how irresponsible he is Get some sense at least after looking at your child. Let them do whatever they want, Is that wall going to feed you? Why am I here then? For that wall to feed us? Are you nuts, after so much, you still haven't changed - You've been acting too much, I'm gonna break your jaw -Dude! If I get scared, then who will seek justice for the blood that's been shed I have fixed a date for that wall By next week, I'll conquer that wall and walk in front of them with pride Then there is no use of us being here all this while - You just be with me - You'll never listen - What is it? - Get home soon Morning when we conquer that wall, everyone should be here. No one should be missed I've spoken to him, he'll give you a paper, just take that Keep all the weapons ready No matter who comes, we'll stand. We'll show them who we are. Tomorrow should be our day It's ours, everything is ready. We'll show them our worth Don't go out of our area, even if there's a problem ignore it Be Alert! Okay. You guys leave First you leave dude What's going to happen in our area, my buddy has come... will talk to him and then leave Why are you so tensed? - What else it's that wall -Chill, everything is going according to the plan - If only we conquer that wall - If we do, will we get everything? What are you going to do with that? Are you gonna change this place like Annanagar? We've been surrounded with people who won't let us change They keep shouting Tamil..Tamil, when it comes to caste, they get violent Then why do you have to sweat it, go and take care of your kids What's there to laugh? If there's an issue in your area, won't you get down on to the streets? Dishing out dialogues. You are educated right? What have you done for our area? Once you save up, you'll move out somewhere else Get lost, it's my land and I'll stand for it Even I will stand for it! It's not wrong to stand up, we'll have to see if any good will happen Dude, your anger, wanting to good for public is all good but do it with political knowledge, don't react to this silly wall issues, understood? - Hey guys welcome - What are you guys up to? There's a dance competition - That's great - We are going to rock! Won't come back without winning the trophy Anbu Bro, will come back with the trophy to see you Dude, you have been delivering great dialogues I'll take care of all that Seems like you are working as full time security? You've become the talk of the area! How can you say that dude? ...only now life is chirpy! I'm getting angry thinking why I did not give this a chance earlier I'm not sure if I would have been this happy if my mom had chosen a girl for me I like her very much, It's all because of you You're hugging me now, hope you won't hit me after your marriage She's not like others, she is great Dude, usually people get a little intimate before marriage, do you think it's right? Why are you laughing? Better tell me what you did... Not me. I was asking in general.-Hey Kaali, don't get her pregnant before wedding Couldn't control dude, but it's not like what you think - Just kissed her - Dude, you're awesome Nothing man All that is wrong, just shut up She got impatient, I'm leaving No dude, she asked me to get home, She'll be pissed off if she know I'm here. You're already so scared, wait you can go later Wait you can leave later, what's the hurry? Hey, there's no one, why are you here? - Come let's go - Don't drag me, I'll come You're not even married and yet you're so scared - Then she'll say, I don't listen to her at all Dude, they are here, start the bike Dude leave! Run! They've surrounded us, come on..come on... I will hack you down, who's that johnny? - Hey Anbu - Keep running Get to the other side and surround him Don't run... catch him Hey... you're dead man Got him..Justin... kill him! Come on let's go! Come on dude..come on Hello... hello..Viji? How did you lose them He'll be in this area, keep looking If he doesn't die tonight, you will, kill him! I don't know what you'll do, he has to die tonight, Viji don't leave him What have you done Kaali? Leave that, let's go What have you done Kaali! Dude? Why have done like this?...He fell down breaking his skull open! What do you mean? I am scared Dude he didn't die He would have acted out of fear that I would hit him again No If he dies they would imprison me, right? Only now everything has settled down Now everything is gone My general is gone.. Gone away! What's the use of you filthy guys? - Whats it dude? - Where are you? - Perumal is dead - Dead! - It has become a big issue - Dude! Anbu, where are you? - Near Bhai's house - How did you execute such a big thing? You have to be very careful from now on What bro, won't they let us be in peace? They will be not at peace now, they'll be looking out to finish you guys overnight. We must not lose anyone from our side - What shall we do? - Don't worry I'll talk to the lawyer, that place is not safe, leave soon I'll come back after killing them all If Police gets them they'd be beaten to death. Let us surrender them directly in court Avoid the police somehow. Court.. Not the High court.. Criminal court is best bring them there Kill them before they surrender in court That is good for you Keep your guys in the search We'll try our best too Hey, where are you? Hey, what happened? - Why are you crying? - Perumal.. Will you abandon me? Now what, Nothing has happened Ok you be brave, take care of our child If anyone asks for me tell them you don't know. You go to your mothers house Maari bro, will take care of us You do what you want, But if something happens to you Mary dont talk like this Is he there - Look properly - Wait What's up Maari Brother! Anbu has risen to a great level! He is the talk of our area now Whatever you have done all these years, He has done it in a day's time He wanted to prove himself, and stand up against you - Anbu has won - Now what do you want? Stop this slander talk of yours Hey, where are you going? Fucking wall The reason for all this How many times have I told that this was unwanted.. Now everything is gone - I'll bring it down - Come, lets leave, someone might see us Phone! Anbu, there is a Black car near Seetha's shop.. Get on that I've informed Anil everything He'll take care Come on! Get in Awesome chief, you've stood your ground in our area They are looking around with weapons Not a problem, we'll get away - Shall we leave - Phaa.. It's stinking, wash your mouth first What you staring at? If I inform boss, he'll finish you What's with you bro? Start the car What a song! No one can beat Ilayaraja Super feel! It pulls out the soul and makes you admire Friend, don't you like the song Guys are getting ready The police are there, Don't stop, keep going Whatever happens you don't care Just act like you are sleeping If we cross this we are done Never get down from the vehicle Stop the Car! Don't stop keep going Just keep going, floor it! That was a great escape We can never have an ordinary life hereafter, right? They'll make us accused if we go to jail, right? We've to become accused Only then will they fear us Do you know how terrifying Perumal was? You are God for those who are affected Be proud you are an accused Won't you shut up.. He's already very disturbed Should he hit for that? I am also an accused. We've reached the court Yeah the party are safe We both didn't do it We are surrendering just because Police is suspecting us Don't tell unwanted details These are the two Anbu and Kaali These two, - yes sir - Under which police station is it? - Puliyanthoopu Police station - The SI is Devi, right? - Yes sir Wipe it! Your drooling. Lawyer Prabhu from Karlapakkam, madam Whats it sir? Suddenly you have come on line Can't get you in my line Just small details madam Can you please tell the suspects name in the Perumal murder case? Why? Are you gonna surrender anyone? The party has approached my friend Tell me if you want, I send the party to you We'll see how you'll send them? Don't fool around sir What to do madam? Please just check No sleep all night Note it down as I tell you. Anbu, Mahesh a.k.a Adhiyan, Franklin, Shiva, Moses, Dharnesh, Vetri and Chakra Sir, If Anbu is with you We can make a deal Madam, there is no one called Anbu here If he comes I'll come to your line Thanks Madam - Who is Anbu? - It's me He's on demand, If the Police had caught you They would have swallowed you - Your name - Kaali, sir Your name is not there in the FIR Why should he be surrendering voluntarily? If he surrenders without being in the case They'll make it look as if he was in the scene... He's not needed bring the other alone Your name is not there! You kidding! I did it! I should be the one imprisoned Dude, only I know about it Everybody thinks I did it Even if you hadn't, I would have killed him Why should you go instead of me? I should be arrested, Anil bro! Who did you do this for? For me, right Dude, nothing will happen to me because of this This case won't last I'll get bail soon You'll be branded as a criminal Then you'll be called on for any problem in the area Your life is different You don't need all this You kidding, I can't What will I tell Mary? It's getting late, Even lovers won't romance so much Don't worry, You can go to jail for the next incident for sure! I've a sure scene I'll tell you, come Keep quiet! I'm proud I'm going to jail for this The judge has ordered him to be in police custody for 15 days, take him Sir, can I make a call Hmm, here Why are you sad, buddy? Nothing bad has happened I hit him! I killed him! I'm the one to be arrested I knew from that blow of yours I swear, this won't happen to anyone else! You got to worship your friend I can never repay him for this debt -15-days.. He'll be bailed out, right? Don't worry, this is a high level case. No witness also. We'll get the bail. Maari bro is calling Yeah tell bro We went to buy lunch. Everything is over Kaali is with me Don't worry You don't have to come and see me in the prison I'll call you from there. I'll get everything inside. Whatever it is, tell it to Kaali. Be careful! Don't cry, idiot Take care of our son... Okay? I'll call you when I leave Is that Mary? She's just crying - Take care - Hey, don't cry dude I've never seen you like this I'll take care If we had taken over the wall It would have been spectacular, right? Now everyone will blame the wall, no one will get close to it! Hey, why are you still hung on that? - Like a fool - you won't understand By this time, conquering that wall walking head held high with pride in front of them Would have brought peace to all the souls who have lost their life If I hadn't hit him that day You would have dealt it, right? Even If it wasn't for you, it would have been the same You don't worry dude, as you wished before you come out, the wall will be ours. You dont have to do anything, fool Inform the girls parents and get married soon, save some for then Don't do everything before marriage I've told her strictly, So it's all only after marriage Anbu is fine Nothing happened to Anbu I've to see him Dont go by the wall Go the other way Go by the wall Anbu! Anbu get up! See who is here Your best friend is here You never wanted me to call you passionately without respect.. Now i'll call you dear. Anbu dear! Get up dear! Get up and talk to me dear You said you would make our son like the football player Ronaldo You said you would make him study well I'll make him study dear, I'll make him a very good person You were always talking about the Wall! Today the wall has taken you away Were you born just to taste death, my dearest Leaving your kith in an eternal sorrow Your memories never die in our heart Your authority never ceases in this land Your authority never ceases in this land Were you born just to taste death, my dearest Leaving your kith in an eternal sorrow Where have you left in solitude? We search for you everywhere Having revolutionized the land, have you taken up heaven now? Having revolutionized the land, have you taken up heaven now? Why have you parted from us in solitude? A day hasnt passed without tears of your memories Were you born just to taste death, my dearest Leaving your kith in an eternal sorrow I thought somehow we should retrieve the wall And take away all the authority they had over us. Now what are we going to give for our lion, Anbu? How many more are going to die for this wall? Kill me first! No one from are side should die, If anyone that should be me My dear hubby You always used to say you like my lip, Now come bite it dear! Bite! Your journey of revolution had just begun And you ended your life even before tasting the light of change Were you born just to taste death, my dearest Leaving your kith in an eternal sorrow There is a house near Perambur for rent Shall we move there for a while, without any trouble Dear, a change will make things better Let's move to some other place Why should we go? This is my place I will not go anywhere? You want me to run like a coward? Kaali is coming - Hey dude welcome - Good evening Pa! - Aunt. - Come in, why are you standing there? Bloody sinners, look how they've cut him If it had gone a bit deep what would have happened? I would have died Why do you talk like that, You being alive itself is just mere luck I asked you not to go there, Would any girl do such a thing? I feel ashamed Kaali, why do you have that? Keep that aside How are you? You fine? What brings you here? It's healed? Leave it Kaali, You don't know I feel like half of me is missing How could they do this? Kaali..I cant bear it I cant even sleep at night We have to kill Kannan, We shouldnt leave him He should die, I won't let him go I'll do it, Help me How many more have to die? We shouldnt let him go Right before my eyes I won't I'll be satisfied only after hacking him. Why do you need to do this? We are living a life without peace You are educated, go work. Look after your parents Don't get angry How can I keep calm? Anbu died for me I don't care if no one is with me, I don't even need you I know how to kill him What do you know? Look! He too has lost his son They'll have their eyes wide open like an owl Listen to me.. Keep calm It's a duty to be done for Anbu I'll do it I know when to kill him You think he is nobody to be killed just like that? Go! Listen to me Just keep quiet, even if he passes by The silence is not of fear That is to hit him back understand I'll take care Kaali Leave your thoughts behind and go home Tell him to come. Where is he? What is he doing? I'll come home and kick you Who do you think I am? Kill him Get in the car! Get in the car brother! Start the car! Brother, get in I'm gonna kill you What does he think of himself Hey who are you, move aside Kaali, the police are beating up dad - Who is that? - are you Kaali - What do you need? - What do you think of yourself? Raising your hand against an educated The police have hit my son If you dare hit him now Don't think I'm being calm I don't care even if you are the police They have seen him, trying to kill Is he dead? How much did he give? Shall I give you more? Kaali, take dad inside Granny first murder will be Shouting out loud always - Are you some whore or wolf - Jhonny keep quiet It's become an issue, there's a case booked on his name and you are letting him go! Maari said he'll give you the cash Is the case still there What have you done? Even after what I told Go! Go to the Police station They have filed an attempt to murder case. You all go bow to him now! What to do Maari? Why are you asking me? Ask your son, who thinks too much of himself We just lost one of us They don't mind killing anyone, and you are giving them a reason Do you want me to keep quiet? He would have died No one has raised hands against my husband Why were you born to me? Due to your short temper, have you realised what kind of problem we are in? Let it go! Don't raise your hand on a grown up Anbu is just your friend, He is like my son Do you think I'll let them go? Let me take care of this You know how difficult it was to take your name off Perumal case? Don't let your son get away, hold on to him I'll take care At this age they tend to be angry. Advice him What other work do you have? Can you get back the life once lost? - Take care - Ok Kaali, very soon you'll get good news I'll play You just watch He must die in my hands I'll call you Shut up, mom Anbu abandoned Mary only after a while I think he will abandon you right away He isn't happy seeing me He feels relieved seeing you Don't leave my son, dear Your son came back alive just for me aunty Why are you looking like this? What do you want? You! Hey.. What are you looking? - No! Mom would come - let her The tablets are finished I'll go buy some I'll be back She saw us, right? Dear, you smiled You smiled! - Idiot, Mom saw us - so what? You! Me! Us! My love! My life! You! Me! Us! Found life in us! I am a blossoming flower You are the thirst of the flower. I am the sky for the birds, Come and glaze through me. Im the courageous fire Youre the one to control me I am a blossoming flower You are the thirst of the flower. Even a thorn will be my nest Your path will be shed with roses Even a river fish will find its way to the ocean I long for your arrival, my dear I am a blossoming flower You are the thirst of the flower. The sound of burning rocks will become the melody of life Is there a heart without love in this world? Within your eyes of vengeance will blossom a beautiful love Wont you stay by my side How much do you like me? So... Little Shall I tell you one thing - Whats it? - At first, I never had any love for you - Hmm Anbu and my friends made it up that I loved you Then with what you told, I confirmed that you loved me What did I say? When I was hurt, you asked me by that pump... I too apologised "That's not true then?", that's when I realised you love me Only then I knew you loved me You took it that way? Truly you dont love me, is it just a lie I was just asking it like any another Did you ask so? So that was not true I was a fool to fall for that Truly, I still don't know why I like you Hmmm... I casted a spell on you! That's right you're a charmer! Only after I scolded you, I started liking you Your mom too spoke to me - What did she say? - While in an Auto, a fellow was troubling me She argued with him That day she gave me jasmine... My son loves you a lot Why did you reject him? My son is in distress You'll never get a guy better than him Please accept my son She showered her love on me. - Did my mom say so? - Really your mom is great, right? Truly there are many good people around you Mom, Dad, Mary, Anbu and your friends Yeah Kalai, everyone around me is good Anbu! Telling that name makes me shiver Looking at him I realised that friends could also be like him He took care of me like that If anyone talks bad about me, he would get angry He doesn't care who ever it is Even before his death You have to settle down soon dude he was talking about our marriage Che, why did I remind you of that again? Leave it! Lets talk something else That's not the case Kalai, You know how he is? He never cared about himself Do something for the people He always wanted to make things better for the guys in our area He'll be thinking of that all the time The money he earns, instead of paying his son's fees, he'd give to anyone who asks. I swear, just like he was killed, I'll kill them all without mercy You have such a thought in you? What after killing them? When I'm totally depending on you... At least, if you had thought about me, would you say such a thing What are you talking? Think from my side How can you think like that? You never thought about me? To somebody who means the life to you? How will I not think of you? I swear. The only reason I havent done anything wrong is because of you. How much do you like me? This much.. More... More than this world! - I'll ask you one thing, tell me the truth - Ask.. Do you like me or Anbu brother? - Are you insane? - yes.. I am mad about you I've come believing you are my life Yes I am a fool If you like me would you have such thoughts? Who do you like? Tell! He's dead and you are comparing him! I like you.. Enough? Don't lie for my sake dear Shall I die Then will you say that it's me? Why are you talking like this? Tell me, who it is? Anbu! Now what? Go..Go away Never come back Hey.. Why did you come here Why did you come back? He was more important to you right? You've decided to disgrace me What more your going to do? She went against her parents for you. forget her now She's gone! And she is more stubborn than you Kalai.. Kalai.. Sorry Kalai.. Your the most important. Stop Kalai! I'm telling you to stop The glittering moon doesnt rest when sky glazes! How can I rest when you stay farther from me The glittering moon doesnt rest when sky glazes! How can I rest when you stay farther from me The hay-man has no kindred souls for him My hands are without impressions when you take my love away Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. Is it your Job to follow me Don't you have a job No one in the world rents love, Why am I deprived of one.. Let the soul leave the body Not your memories.. All I remember and see is your dazzling beauty, And thats what I cherish Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. Don't take me wrong, It's all for the good Love is blind, not handicapped Why did you go far from my reach Migrant birds doesnt settle in a place But your nest is in my heart The one place where youll stay safe As the shooting stars in the sky Why are you honking? Yesterday, why didn't you come to see me? You've things more important than me Hereafter, if you follow me.. Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. - Kalai, one minute.. - What? - I like you only - Oh! I believe that!! Hey, I'm talking to you What the hell do you want? What? I want you.. Will you marry me? Then come sit in my bike Only then will I marry you The glittering moon doesnt rest when sky glazes How can I rest when you stay farther from me The glittering moon doesnt rest when sky glazes How can I rest when you stay farther from me The hay-man has no kindred souls for him My hands are without impressions when you take my love away Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. Until you and I unite. Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. Groom, do you like the bride? Hmm.. I like her a lot - Do you like the groom? - Hmm.. Then what, exchange the garlands Stop this! What's the dowry going to be? Please share that with everyone - That is not needed Uncle - You keep quiet I've been talking, ask them to reply - Dad, ask them -You mention your demands, they'll let you know if that's possible We'll ask for a aeroplane Will you be giving it? Is he the king of Egypt Ask what you need One car, and 50 sovereign gold Would you need a big truck to carry all your things Are you trying to mock me? If it's not possible let them say.. Ask your son to become a collector we'll do what you ask for After that will you give us a truck load of goods? You can't give us a reply here, and you're talking Thought you were wise people But seems like you'll stop this marriage by fighting Look, my daughter-in-law is like gold Why do we need more? Let them do what they like I'll do what it needs for my daughter-in-law What do we have to talk anymore? My wife has said it We are going to take her home without an ounce of gold, what do you say? What do you think? We'll just let her go like that? You'll be blown away from what we are going to do for our daughter Then what are we waiting for. Exchange the garlands I'm hungry, lets go eat Seems like oceans dry up in my eyes, Until you and I unite. The Peoples republic front has joined hand with the Peoples front... Just because they've joined hands, will we? This is not a recently formed rivalry We should never let his shadow fall upon us. We should astound them with our political campaign, looking at which... they should handover this constituency to us Tomorrow put up a Street corner conference We welcome Vyasar's silver star Maari to this conference We also welcome our well wishers and youthful supporters on behalf of Maari Whats this! Kannan is coming The decision of coalition, has brought happiness To respect that decision, our former MLA Kannan of this division... will be presenting Maari with the shawl Enough Maari! Enough with our fighting! Our party joining hands doesn't matter, we should join, our men should join hands We should be together and serve the people well I'll leave Jhonny Bloody sinners, have forgotten everything that has happened and now have joined hands with the same party What kind of justice is this? Did I go? He is the one who came High command decides something, can we defy it? Just because we are in alliance I'm not gonna be cooing with him He's always my enemy For Mari to win we have to unite, How long can we keep fighting? I'll hack you Jhonny Once upon in this area my father died ..Because of this Kannan Will hack you guys down if you enter the area with a party flag, I'm alone! Mari Vote for Maari, okay It's us hereafter We are gonna rock Ok we'll see later Go enjoy Wait, i'll be back He's inside No one is here Go in - Greetings bro - Sit down Here take this Mari This is the parties money from my side for the election Bro give me what's for me I'm not gonna hoard it - Wow your perfume smells good - stop that - Let's go in - This is reserved please choose another table Look at me, I'm all finished I can see, You are not what you were Have some drinks Have it! - If you say anything, I'll kiss you right here -don't ask for too much! Are you teasing me? Don't piss me off.. You've been acting too smart! Here, take this money No need brother Who are you? Who do I have? I'm gonna give it to the people I have to move away from all this party, position and power You've to grow Maari Than using this money for yourself Give yourself to everyone Bro.. Your Super I've to do something for you Ask whatever you want What do you want? Ask me Bro? It's all yours On that wall a new image of my dad should be painted Without any trouble It's all in your hands This time you are the MLA of RK.Puram You've won it I'm there for you Hey feed the children Let them eat Dear do you need anything Shall I order something Eat! Eat well dear Have some chicken... What happened? Hey Anil bro, how are you? Kaali, No! I'm with my family, I know nothing What's it bro? I did nothing It was all Maari's plan I was just part of it, I know nothing Leave me! Leave me! See who that is Some guy, that's nothing - What did you say? - Leave me! Why are you hitting me? Maari was the one who planned the murder of Anbu, why don't you go ask him? Take it! Take it! It's all yours Now If I have a position in politics? It's all because of you Take it bro, I'm there, no one will come, My son's head is shattered My only son, Maari! Don't have to do it for me? Kill him for your good Whatever you think will happen, I'm there Kaali is here with me - Stand up! Stand up! - Whats all this for? No one can win over you By the grace of God I'm blessing you wholeheartedly, No one can beat you Anything this granny says will happen, You've won this Bro, You are the next MLA It's us hereafter It's all your blessings It's gonna be good times ahead The dispute with Kannan is gonna end today Kannan said that there will be no more disagreements regarding the wall. How would it? Welcome Jhonny! You must be my activist - Ok Jhonny - Just rock with your english Jhonny, you don't worry Jhonny I'll let everyone know about you We must file our nomination in style Don't worry bro, The whole town will be by your side Looking at the crowd that comes they will select you unopposed - Just one thing, If Anbu was there... - It would have been different Welcome Kaali He has got a nomination We've to make him win the elections I saw Anil What? What did he say? No, Kaali Don't trust Anil? Anbu, is like my son What's your problem? Anbu was so loyal to you He celebrated you, We all thought you like our own brother What made you do that? You deceived us to surrender and slit his throat What have this sinner done? Just because Anbu will grow, you fell for the greed of Kannan's money He pretended to be a good man in front of us Hey, you have hit your brother know? Would I be disloyal to my people? They won't believe you They are my people From then to now these people have been believing you and your father For all these years you never listened to my words You were all his scapegoats What's your problem? He's is a respectable person He's not worthy, He's a traitor He has done a lot for us Please calm down Jhonny, he's next, Finish him when it's the right time In politics, there are slaves waiting For us what is important is only Politics He's next Have a Look! What? Are you guys kidding me? Don't think I'm being calm You guys are nothing but dogs wagging your tails salivating! Look at him, This is what he is... Who are you calling dogs? You were the one who came begging to us Look at the girl's face See What you have done to her, cant imagine what all youll do to us. He killed Anbu, don't let him go.. Hack him down You guys will talk like this now, but later you'll again go behind him We should show him that he is not the only one, We have to unite and let him know that Killing him is not enough We have to deprive him of the greed for politics for which he took Anbu's life They kept fooling us with this wall all these days First we have to destroy this and show them that they can't touch us Don't touch that wall, then it will kill you! See what's gonna happen to the wall Hey dude, don't Don't do it Kaali - Watch! Bro, sorry Your death is in my hand Do what you can Bro, Sorry Kaali has come! You can't do anything Looking at your face it's clear that you're a dog which hunts Rabbits Bro, clean yourself I would have finished him the day he hit me.. It's gone.. They have ruined my father's image - It's gone - Bro, keep quite Not now bro, It's election time F@k the election I'll kill you I'm there for you We have to spill their blood He's a phoenix nothing will happen to him Bro, I'll do this Who? You? Can you please just shut it? I've come. I'll finish it Don't worry The police will not be in town. You do it boldly, I'll take care - Are you scared? - Why should I be scared? Did you do anything wrong? I've looked around There is no one here I'm keeping an eye No one has come around 'G' block He's on the terrace of 'G' block Bloody cheater politician Look at his face What's it watchman? What are you doing here? If Kaali knows he'll finish you all, Run away! Run! What are you staring at! One Blow! thats it - Finish him! - Jhonny we were talking, whats all this? Have to get married soon then go on honeymoon and enjoy! Shut up and keep walking leave! Leave quickly! - Hello - Dude, they've killed Jhonny - How? - Don't know, we fond him near the wall What happened? Jhonny.. Why him - They have killed Jhonny - look what they have done to him Why did you leave him alone? He is still alive Call an Auto! - Hold him.. Lift him in - Don't let them Where are they? Ok cut the call Be with him Ask them.. - Have you all seen Kaali - No bro - Did you see him? - I said I didn't! - Lying to me? - Get lost Come on He's at the crossroads, I dare you to go there Come on Go search for him Bro he is here We'll catch him if he comes Shiva? What happened Shiva? - We are the ones who killed him - Go catch them Come! Come here! Catch him! Dont let him go! Come on dude! Get on! - Hello, Come near Benny mills - Super Bro, he is cornered This Viji is with you, let's take him out Where are you hiding? Come out Dude, you leave Viji, come! After all these problems This wall... was bearing an awareness message on education for the people Viji became the next power as he had wanted - Whats this? - Take it Before I die, I should see my fathers image on the wall - Don't worry - Only you can, you've to do it Viji I'll take care, dont worry I do it and let you know With just not education.. Political awareness and rationality is needed for the area children and taught them with his family.. Kaali! In order to gain respect for humanity and to understand Social issues Just education is not enough Along with it we also require knowledge of social politics... and social consciousness is needed, shall we get started?
