 

                        [Chorale music] [Cheerful instrumental music] [Kayley gasps] KAYLEY: Come on! [Kayley giggles] Father! - Father, do you really have to go? - I'm afraid I must, Kayley. You know the king's knights will be here soon. Tell me again why you became a knight. Kayley, you've heard it a thousand times. But it's fine, dear. Well, my daughter, before you were born... ...the land was dark and treacherous. The people stood divided... ...brother fighting brother. LIONEL: The only hope for peace... ...was in the legend of the sword Excalibur. For it was said that only the true king... ...could pull this magical sword from its stone... ...and unite the people. Many tried. All failed. Then... ...on the very day that you were born... ...an unexpected hero stepped forth. His name was Arthur... [All gasp] ...and he was the true king. [Dramatic instrumental music] LIONEL: With Excalibur at his side... ...he led us out of the darkness... ...and together... ...we built the greatest kingdom on earth. Everyone rejoiced. [Traditional folk music] Camelot! [Kayley giggles and gasps] LIONEL: And so these three rings represent the unity of our kingdom. As a knight, I took an oath... ...to protect Camelot, King Arthur... ...and Excalibur. The knights are here. LIONEL: I must go now, Kayley. The king has summoned his knights for a special day in Camelot. Goodbye. KAYLEY: I'm coming with you, Daddy! Yes, when you're old enough, Kayley... ...I will take you to Camelot. I promise. LIONEL: I love you! One day, I will be a knight... ...like Father. LIONEL: Let's go! [Dramatic percussion music] [lnstrumental folk music with rhythmic chanting] KNIGHTS: [Singing] "United we stand "Now and forever "In truth "Divided we fall "Hand upon hand "Brother to brother "No one shall be greater than all "United we stand "Now and forever "In truth "Divided we fall "Hand upon hand "Brother to brother "No one shall be greater than all ARTHUR: [Singing] "It's been ten years we celebrate "All that made our kingdom great "Liberty and justice "For all "Each of us will now divide "In equal shares, our countryside "Promising equality "For all who reside KNIGHTS: [Singing] "United we stand "Now and forever "In truth "Divided we fall "Hand upon hand "Brother to brother "No one shall be greater than all" KNIGHT 1: Liberty! Justice! Trust! KNIGHT 4: Freedom! KNIGHT 5: Peace! Honor! KNIGHT 7: Goodness! Strength! Valor! RUBER: [Shouts] Me! Charming sing-along. Now let's get down to business. I've waited a long time for this day. What about my new land? Sir Ruber... ...always thinking of yourself. As Knights of the Round Table, our obligation is to the people... ...not to ourselves. ARTHUR: The lands will be divided according to each person's needs. Then I need more than everyone. I wouldn't have supported you all these years... ...if I thought you were running a charity. The king has decided! Then it's time for the new king... ...and I vote for me. I will not serve a false king! Then serve... ...a dead one! [Ruber yells] One day that sword will be in my hand... RUBER: and all will be mine! [Knights all talk at once] KNIGHT 7: Is he all right? Sir Lionel? [Surprised gasp] [Horses neigh] Mother, listen. KAYLEY: Father! [Giggles] [Whispers] No! Your husband died saving my life... ...and saving Camelot. Lady Juliana... ...the gates of Camelot will always be open to you. Sir Lionel... ...was my most trusted knight... ...and also... ...my dear, dear friend. We will always remember how he bravely upheld the ideals of Camelot. KAYLEY: [Singing] "If you were with me now "I'd find myself in you "If you were with me now "You're the only one who knew "All the things we planned to do "I want to live my life "The way you said I would "With courage as my light "Fighting for what's right "Like you made me believe I could "And I will fly on my father's wings "To places I have never been "There is so much I've never seen "And I can feel his heartbeat still "And I will do great things "On my father's wings "This world I'll never see "My dreams that just won't be "This horse's stride with one-day's ride "Will have covered more distance than me "And I will fly "On my father's wings "To places I have never been "There is so much I've never seen "And I can feel his heartbeat still "And I will do great things "On my father's wings "Someday "With his spirit to guide me "And his memory beside me "I will be free "To fly on my father's wings "To places I have never been "There is so much I've never seen "And I can feel his heartbeat still "I will do great things "On my father's wings "On my father's wings" [Chickens clucking] [Light instrumental music] ARTHUR: In the ten years since Sir Lionel's death... ...equality... ...and freedom... ...have spread throughout the lands. ARTHUR: Excalibur... ...has given us the strength to stand together against all injustice. Camelot has prospered beyond our greatest dreams. [Thunderous crashing] KNIGHT 4: It's a griffin! [Griffin growls] KNIGHT 5: It's taken Excalibur! KNIGHT 6: Arthur is wounded! Never mind me! Find Merlin and go after the sword! [Chaotic yelling] GUARD 1: Send word across the land: Excalibur's been stolen! Silver Wings... ...protect the sword! [Dramatic instrumental music] [Griffin squawks] [Bugle call sounds in distance] [Bugle call intensifies] Excalibur! It's been stolen! No, absolutely not! KAYLEY: But, Mother, Excalibur is missing. I must go after it. That's a job for the knights, not for a young girl. But I want to be a knight. I'll go on grand adventures fighting evil, rescuing damsels in distress. What is a damsel anyway? Now, Kayley, stand still and try on your new dress. [Kayley moans] Mother, I don't want a new dress. I want to save Camelot! If you'd just let me, I know I could find Excalibur all on my own. The knights will find the sword and they'll do it by working together. While I'm working here... ...doing the chores, fetching the eggs, taking care of the house. Boring! Where's the glory in that? Kayley, one day you will learn what Camelot means. - Till then, you'll stay here with me. - All right! What would you do? [Chickens clucking] How am I ever going to do great things if I'm stuck here... ...with these silly chickens? [Chicken squawks] RUBER: Knock, knock. Who are you? Ruber! Juliana. I was in the neighborhood and I thought I'd invade. How about a little kiss? I hear you're still single. Impertinent pig! Is that a "no"? JULIANA: I demand you leave immediately! So rude! RUBER: And after I came all this way just to see you. What do you want? Camelot. [Sings] "Let's go back to "War and violence "I'm so bored "With peace [Yells] "And silence! "Nights of evil filled with fear "Your worst dream, that's my idea of fun" You're mad! I'm so glad you noticed. RUBER: I've been working at it for years. [Sings] "Let Darkness find its sad ways "Let's go back to good old bad days "No more foolish acts of kindness "Arthur and his kingdom [Cackles] "Will be mine" And pretty Juliana, you're going to help me. I would sooner die! I think you'll find you won't be able to resist! [Cackling] Mother! [Ruber giggles] Don't you dare harm her! RUBER: Follow my plan... ...and she won't be hurt. RUBER: "Years from now, no one will bother "To recall your good King Arthur "Because all of this "Will be mine "This "Will all be mine [Sings] "I have a plan, it includes you "You, Juliana, will lead me to "Camelot "Where I will claim all that is mine "In the back of your wagons "My men will all hide "You'll sit up front as the gates open wide "Now watch me create "My mechanical army with pride "With this potion "I bought from some witches "A drop on this chicken "All watch as he switches "Into a weapon that I can use at will "Now this chicken "Can kill" [Ruber chuckles] "Behold "'Bladebeak' "Step right up and enter quickly "I'll transform the meek "And sickly "Into iron men "With hands of steel" RUBER: Yes, yes, into the water. Quickly now. Go, you fools! Next! Stand up straight now! Move it along! No, no, that's no good! RUBER: Prepare for the dawning... ...of a new age! The Ruberian Age! Year One! [Whispers] Go to Camelot. Warn Arthur. I won't leave you here. Kayley, Ruber will be in Camelot in three days. Take the main road. Get there before us. - But, Mother... - Go... ...while you have the chance. Go, Kayley! You're our only hope. Be careful, dear. [Group chants and cackles] RUBER: [Sings] "Only one will be revered "Worshipped, hated, loved and feared" [Bladebeak squeals excitedly] RUBER: "I'd just like to say a few words: "'I, me, mine' "You were mistaken if you believed "Ruber was someone who'd crumble and leave "Now I'm back "And I will be staying "This time "I told you once "I told you twice "Everything you see before you "Every last bit of it "Will... "...be... [Whispers] "...mine... "...now" [Ruber cackles eerily] RUBER: To the wagons! Next stop... RUBER: Camelot! [Ruber sighs] RUBER: My faithful pet. How was the flight? - Panic sweeps across the land. - Precisely. - My plan is perfect. - Precisely. - Without the sword, Arthur is vulnerable. - Precisely. Now Excalibur... ...is mine. [Griffin grunts] Here's where we enter a gray area. Excuse me? You lost Excalibur? RUBER: How? GRIFFIN: I was attacked by a falcon. RUBER: What? My magnificent beast outmatched by a puny, little pigeon? It wasn't a pigeon. GRIFFIN: It was a falcon... ...with silver wings. Silver wings? Oh, scary. [Yells] You stupid animal! Where is the sword now? In a place of untold danger. RUBER: The Forbidden Forest. GRIFFIN: Precisely, Master. Have I told you today... ...how magnificently and totally... ...worthless you are? RUBER: Excalibur is the one thing... ...that can keep me from my conquest of Camelot! RUBER: [Yells] No, not the girl! You, you, and you... ...Fancy-Feet, get after her... ...and bring her back! And you! You are going to lead me... ...to Excalibur. JULIANA: [Singing] "I pray You will be my eyes "And watch her where she goes "And help her to be wise "Help me to let go "Every mother's prayer" "Every child knows "Lead her to a place "Guide her to a place "Give her faith so she'll be safe "Lead her to a place "Guide her with Your grace "To a place "Where she'll be "Safe" [Horse whinnies] [Dramatic instrumental music] KAYLEY: The Forbidden Forest. BLADEBEAK: We're not going in there, are we? - Chicken. - But I got a wife and two eggs at home! BLADEBEAK: Hey, don't leave me here! [Roars] [Gasps] GARRETT: Hey! That's my net. [Burps] [Gasps] [Splash] Wow! That was incredible... ...how you smashed those creatures, how you avoided that thing. You're amazing. You're... ...not even listening to me. Great. It took me six weeks to make this net. Net? You saved my life. Thank you. Well, anyone can make a mistake. I get it. This is where King Arthur sends his unfunny jesters, right? - And now I'll thank you. - For what? For reminding me why I'm a hermit. Good day. KAYLEY: No, wait. What's your name? It's Garrett. I'm Kayley. Why won't you look at me when I'm talking to you? I didn't realize you were... What? Tall? Rugged? Handsome? Blind. You know, I always forget that one. [Gasps] Moving bush. [Ayden chirps] Not now, Ayden. Look! Your falcon has silver wings. Really? I'll have to take your word for that. Oh, no. I'm sorry. KAYLEY: It means he knows where Excalibur is. Sure he does. In Camelot. You know... big castle, lots of flags. No, it's somewhere in the forest. Ruber has stolen it and he's taken my mother hostage. That's why I'm here! KAYLEY: I must find the sword and return it to Arthur... ...or Camelot and my mother are doomed. [Ayden chirps] Excalibur is here? Right. We're going after it. Great! Not you. Me and Ayden. We work alone. I see no reason why I can't come along. [Singing] "I know the sound of each rock and stone "And I embrace what others fear "You are not to roam "In this forgotten place "Just the likes of me are welcome here "Everything breathes "And I know each breath "For me it means life "For others it's death "It's perfectly balanced "Perfectly planned "More than enough "For this man "Like every tree "Stands on its own "Reaching for the sky "I stand alone "I share my world "With no one else "All by myself "I stand alone "I've seen your world "With these very eyes "Don't come any closer "Don't even try "I've felt all the pain "And heard all the lies "But in my world "There's no compromise "Like every tree "Stands on its own "Reaching for the sky I stand alone "I share my world "With no one else "All by myself "I stand alone "All by myself "I stand alone "All by myself "I stand alone" KAYLEY: I stand alone, too. Ayden. I just need your help this once. All right, all right! GARRETT: But don't give me any trouble. It's a fine mess you've gotten us into, Ayden. Hey, this isn't so bad! KAYLEY: I don't know why you made such a fuss. I've had a tougher time collecting eggs. Trouble, trouble, trouble... ...with a capital "T." RUBER: You wretched, mythological moron! Where did you drop the sword? It all looks so different from down here. [Bladebeak squeals] You! Report! The girl and the blind warrior... ...are following a silver-winged falcon... ...who knows where Excalibur is. [Whispers] They'll lead us right to it. We're going after them! You lookin' at me? You lookin' at me? [Dramatic instrumental music] GUARD: Come on, men! We must repair this tower. Merlin, is there any news? [Gasps] Have the knights found Excalibur? I'm afraid not. Then I'll go after it myself. No! You have to regain your strength. Is there anything your magic can do? You must rely on the courage of your people. [Light instrumental music] [Growling] [Sniffs] Have you got a cold? - What is it? - We're in dragon country. [Sniffs] Right. [Ground rumbles] KAYLEY: Are you sure this is dragon country? Shouldn't there be a sign or something? It could say: "Welcome to Dragon Country." [Voice echoes] You don't think we'll see any... ...do you? Is a group of dragons a pack or a flock? KAYLEY: Is it a gaggle or a pride? Is it a herd? - Quiet. - Do you hear something? No. I just want you to be quiet. [Growling] KAYLEY: [Yells] Garrett! Where are you? [Growling] [Gasps] KAYLEY: Dragons! DEVON: Where? I don't see any dragons! [All scream] But you're dragons. DEVON: Heavens! Someone's found our hiding place. CORNWALL: Shut up, Cricket Ball. Let me handle this. CORNWALL: We are dragons! Ferocious, hungry dragons! So go away before we eat you! [Cornwall roars] DEVON: Good show, Corny. That is clever. Let me have a go. [Devon hums] CORNWALL: Oh, great. Bunny is dead. [Devon makes choking sounds] CORNWALL: They're probably cringing in fear. [Grunts and groans] Please don't hurt us. GARRETT: And I thought you were ferocious dragons. Not exactly. The real ferocious ones are those fire-breathing bullies out there. They're always picking on us, calling us names, pushing us around. I hate them. Easy with the stick, buddy. What are you? Well, frankly, we're the reason cousins shouldn't marry. Enchante, Mademoiselle. I'm Devon... ...and this growth on my neck is Cornwall. But you can call me "Corny," for short. Yeah, short on wit, manners and charm. - Everything I hold dear. - How about holding your breath? GARRETT: Come on, Kayley, let's go. Hey, where are you going? To save Camelot! Camelot? The restaurants, the theaters... The waitresses, the actresses... The dragons... [Dragon roars] The dragons? [Fast-paced, dramatic instrumental music, background] Wait! KAYLEY: What is this? CORNWALL: Don't worry. It's perfectly safe. Safe? So long as you don't step in it. [Ayden chirps] Garrett, hurry! GARRETT: Do you think this is easy? It's another dragon! KAYLEY: That's not a dragon! It's a griffin! KAYLEY: And Ruber! They found us! Down here! [Growling] Are you sure we're safe down here? It's a lot safer down here than it is up there. DEVON: We know all the best escape routes. CORNWALL: We've been dodging those bullies since we were 200 years old. - Were we ever that young? - Of course we were, you moron! - I'm not a moron. - Yes, you are. No, I'm not! With all that bickering, I'm surprised you haven't fried each other. Fry? We can't even simmer. Yeah, you see, unlike most dragons, he can't breathe fire or fly. It's sad, really. Excusez-moi, Mr. Self-Denial, but we can't breathe fire... ...or fly. Only 'cause you're holding me back. If I didn't have you, I could do a lot of things. CORNWALL: [Singing] "I'd be rocking with the dinos "Swinging with the rhinos "I'd re-dragonize this cave in a minute "'Cornwall, ' they would sing "'Cause I would be the dragon king "I would love this world without you in it "If I didn't have you "If you didn't have me "If I didn't have you "Well, how about if I didn't have you? TOGETHER: "Oh, what I could be if there was only me "Oh, what I'd do if I didn't have you" KAYLEY: Stop bickering and get your act together. DEVON: "Act?" Did someone say "act"? I can act. [Singing] "If only "I had separate parts "My career "Would be the arts "I'd be the star "Of Camelot "You'd be the half that the whole world forgot "If I didn't have you "I should be so lucky "If I didn't have you "Oh, wait, you'd be dead TOGETHER: "Oh, what I could be if there was only me "Oh, what I'd do if I didn't have you "Oh, what I'd do if I didn't have you" Trapped, trapped. Stuck here with you for 500 years. Oh dear, it's learned to count. If you'd got me a good lawyer, I would've split 400 years ago. Now, listen here, pal, I didn't come here to be insulted. Where do you usually go? DEVON: "I'd be a fire-breathing lizard CORNWALL: I'd be one high-flying wizard DEVON: "You'd be nothing without me "You'd be extinct, you'd cease to be CORNWALL: "I'm so tired of your nagging "And I'm so tired of your bragging "Without me, you'd have no brain "With which to think CORNWALL: "I'd be rocking with the dinos "Swinging with the rhinos CORNWALL: "I'd re-dragonize this cave in a minute DEVON: "My career would be the arts CORNWALL: "'Cornwall, ' they would sing "'Cause I would be the dragon king TOGETHER: "I would love this world without you in it "If I didn't have you "If I didn't have you "If I didn't have you "If I didn't have you" This way. Let me lead. No, this way, Twinkle-Toes. TOGETHER: "Life could be so sweet "If these were both my feet "What I'd do if I didn't have you "I got you, babe "Oh, what I'd do if I didn't have you TOGETHER: "Oh, if I didn't "Oh, if I didn't "Have you" Thank you very much. - Devon just left the building. - You've never sung before, have you, man? KAYLEY: Come on, Garrett. CORNWALL: You don't need him, honey. CORNWALL: Now you've got Cornwall keeping an eye on you. Well, the good news is... we're out of dragon country. The better news is... this is where we say goodbye. But, you can't leave us here. If we try to go back we'll be banished, ostracized... ...exiled. Not to mention kicked out. KAYLEY: Why? We just broke the dragon's cardinal rule. What? "Never wear brown shoes with a blue suit"? No, you moron. "Never help a human." Come on, Kayley. We must make camp before dark. DEVON: Camp? KAYLEY: Garrett, let's take them with us. Please. Oh, I suppose so. But no more singing. How do you feel about interpretive dance? [Garrett groans] [Bladebeak hums] Dragon a la king. It's such a pleasant relief from... ...chicken. I can't believe I'm reduced to chasing a little girl... ...a blind man... ...and a pigeon. Find them all and report back to me. Did you hear me? Sorry, Master, my mouth was full. Typical. Of all the evil creatures in the world, I had to find one with table manners. And no mistakes... ...or I'll make space on the spit for you. Hey, Useless! RUBER: Rendezvous with the wagons and tell them to press on. As soon as I have Excalibur... ...we'll join them... ...and the kingdom will be mine. [Ruber cackles] CORNWALL: I'm starving. All these heroics worked up my appetite. Hey, something smells delicious. Yes, I could whip up a little something. Well, here's where we stop. Stop? But what about Excalibur? GARRETT: No one travels through the Forbidden Forest after dark. My father, Sir Lionel, would have. Come on, baby, light my fire. You know, there's nothing more pathetic than a flame-retarded dragon. Hey, Devon, you blew fire. No, no, my mistake. Just hot air. [Sticks twitter] Kayley, I must tell you, I knew your father. You did? I used to live in Camelot. GARRETT: I was a stable boy... ...but I dreamt of becoming a knight. One evening, there was a fire. I rushed to save the horses, but... ...I was hurt. At first, all I could see were shapes, then shadows. Finally... ...my world went black. After I lost my sight... ...your father was the only one who still believed in me. He taught me that a knight's strength comes from his heart... ...and his loyalty to the Oath of Camelot. "United we stand... "...now and forever." GARRETT: Any hope I had of becoming a knight... ...died with him. I felt that way too, but I knew he would never want me to give up. He wouldn't want you to give up either. You're as good as any knight in Camelot. You really think so? [Stick twitters] CORNWALL: Come here, Stick. Come back, Stick. I've got three words for you, Birdie: Dinner is served. [Gulps] And how did you find Ayden? I didn't. When I came to live here, Ayden found me. GARRETT: He just appeared one day... ...as if destiny were watching over me. GARRETT: He taught me all the secrets of the forest, what can hurt you... ...and what can heal you. With Ayden as my eyes, I can survive anything. Look, I'll show you. GARRETT: I take my position... ...face my fears... ...and hold my ground... ...until the last possible moment... ...waiting for Ayden's signal... [Ayden chirps] ...to evade. Simple. Now you try. All right. No problem. - Take position. - "Take position." - Face your fears. - "Face my fears." And hold your ground until the last possible moment. You moved too soon. [Kayley sighs] DEVON: Behind your backs. CORNWALL: Coming through. Nice try, buddy. I say, Kayley, do you have a light? RUBER: When I get my hands on that girl... [Grumbles] [Light instrumental music] Ayden's spotted Excalibur! It must be near. Come on, let's go. Look! This must be from Excalibur. But where's the sword? Someone must have taken it. GARRETT: Or something. Now I'll never find Excalibur in time. If we follow these tracks, we will. - This is all your fault. - My fault? - Yes. If we hadn't stopped... - Quiet! We should have kept going. Shush! I have to save my mother. [Whispers] I need to hear. Garrett! RUBER: Get them! [Ayden chirps] SPIKE SLINGER: We're trapped! [Dramatic instrumental music] My brave daughter... ...please be safe. [Growling] [Bladebeak gasps] Nobody can stop Ruber's plan to take over Camelot. You don't know my daughter. [Thunder roars] [Whispers] Please... ...don't die. I can't do this on my own. I'm sorry. KAYLEY: It's all my fault you were hurt. I mean, I was rattling on when I should have been quiet. KAYLEY: [Sobs] I'm no help to anyone. Shush. GARRETT: [Whispers] You're wrong. [Singing] "Look at the sky "Tell me, what do you see "Just close your eyes "And describe it to me "The heavens are sparkling "With starlight tonight "That's what I see through your eyes "I see the heavens "Each time that you smile "I hear your heartbeat "Just go on for miles "And suddenly I know "Why life is worthwhile "That's what I see "Through your eyes KAYLEY & GARRETT: "That's what I see "Through your eyes "Here in the night "I see the sun "Here in the dark "Our two hearts are one "It's out of our hands "We can't stop "What we have begun "And love just took me "By surprise "Looking through your eyes TOGETHER: "I see a night "I wish could last "Forever "I see a world "We're meant "To see together "And it is "So much "More than I "Remember GARRETT: "More than I remember KAYLEY: "More than I have known KAYLEY & GARRETT: "Here in the night "I see the sun "Here in the dark "Our two hearts are one "It's out of our hands "We can't stop "What we have begun "And love just took me "By surprise "Looking through your eyes "Looking through your eyes" Well, Master, we lost them again. [Griffin gasps] That's where they went. [Suspenseful instrumental music] [Kayley gasps] - What is it? - We've lost the tracks. [Rumbling] Tell me that was your stomach. Just the ogre. - Ogre? - See you. Good luck. Have a nice life. Whatever's left of it. What's so scary about ogres? Their appetite! CORNWALL: Oh, no, I think it's Uncle Yorick. "Alas, poor Yorick... "...I knew him well." [Ayden chirps] [Garrett gasps] GARRETT: Quick! Get out of the way! [Thunderous rumbling] KAYLEY: It's the scabbard from Excalibur! He does have the sword. [Dramatic instrumental music] GARRETT: [Whispers] Ogres sleep in the day. We'll wait for him to fall asleep, then we grab the sword. Define "we." Shh! Quiet! The slightest noise and we're finished. DEVON: Charming place. I must get the name of his decorator. [Whispers] What's he doing? KAYLEY: [Whispers] I don't see him. He's here. I can smell him. [Growling] KAYLEY: [Whispers] You were right. He is here. GARRETT: [Whispers] Where is Excalibur? KAYLEY: He's using it as a toothpick! Tell me when he falls asleep. [Ogre groans] Let me guess. He fell asleep. GARRETT: Describe the layout. KAYLEY: There's a ledge... ...which hangs just above the sword. But it must be a 20-foot drop. [Groaning] KAYLEY: [Whispers] Lower me down. More. - Hey, Boss, look! That's Excal... - Shh! I hate ogres. Walk this way. [Clanking] Oh, no. It's him! [Sneezes] [Gasps] KAYLEY: [Whispers] Naptime's over. Quick! Swing me back and forth. KAYLEY: You are getting very sleepy. Sleepy. GARRETT: Can you reach it? KAYLEY: I've got it. [Rumbling] [Dramatic instrumental music, background] RUBER: The ogre's butt. GRIFFIN: Well, Master... ...at least things can't get any worse. Want to bet? CORNWALL: Whoa! Watch it! RUBER: [Gasps] Seize them. GRIFFIN: [ln high-pitched voice] Yes, Master. [Devon screams] DEVON: There's no way out! There's one way out! You'll have to fly! We can't fly. We explained that before our song. DEVON: "Houston, we have a... "...problem! " [Fast-paced, dramatic instrumental music, background] RUBER: After you. DEVON: Ladies and Gentlemen: Please put your seats in the upright position. CORNWALL: Assume the crash position and hope you don't smell your socks. Tray tables up and put away your sandwiches. DEVON: Turbulence! Hold on, gang. I think we're going in. DEVON: Help! Mayday! Mayday! DEVON: We know you do have a choice, so thank you for flying Dragon Air. Tell you what, next time you try to fly, and we'll hold on. We did it. We did it! I can't believe it! We did it! Congratulations. So this is Excalibur. - Can I hold it? Give it to me! - Please, let me hold it. Me! No! Excalibur only belongs in the hands of Arthur. Come on, Kayley. [Melancholic instrumental music] Garrett, do you think my mother's safe? If she's anything like you, I'm sure she's fine. We must hurry. There isn't much time left. The first two-headed dragon in Camelot. We'll be famous. I can see us on the poster now: "Presenting the wonderful Devon... "...and his little head, Cornwall." Garrett, up ahead... ...the sky. The end of the Forbidden Forest. It's okay. GARRETT: You go ahead. I'll be... ...right behind you. CORNWALL: Why don't you shut up? How about: "Cornwall and his Obnoxious Talking Wart"? GARRETT: Knock it off. I don't know what's eating this guy. Envy, poor lad. KAYLEY: Camelot. [Dramatic instrumental music] It's so beautiful! I wish you could see it. I have seen it... ...and there was no place for me. Garrett, what's wrong? GARRETT: Take Excalibur to Arthur. You don't have much time. But we'll deliver the sword together. No. GARRETT: You deliver it. I don't belong in that world. GARRETT: Come on, Ayden. But you belong in mine. GARRETT: [Singing] "Like every tree "Stands on its own "Reaching for the sky "I stand alone" [Ayden chirps] GARRETT: You don't understand. In Camelot, she'd only see me through their eyes. Not a knight, not a man... ...not anything. GARRETT: [Singing] "I share my world "With no one else "All by myself "I stand "Alone" CORNWALL: Forget about him. You're better off alone. He walks funny. He even looks funny. People throw darts at him. How could you be so cold-blooded? I'm a reptile. Listen, you Jurassic twit... ...Kayley deserves someone who will love her. Someone who'll hold her in his arms... ...who'll run his fingers through her hair... ...look deeply in her eyes and... ...make her feel like a real woman. CORNWALL: I got your tongue on my gums! I'm going back for Garrett. [Growling] RUBER: I'll take that. [Sighs] Excalibur. Mine forever. You've been quite annoying, for a girl. Cheer up. In Camelot, we'll be kissed by the world's most beautiful women. Right. We're a giant lizard with two heads. We'll have to beat them off with a stick. Help! Help! RUBER: I've waited ten years... ...to hold this sword. [Chuckles] And now I'll make sure... ...I hold it forever. Prepare... ...for the dawning... ...of a new age! No! Chicken! It's hot. Don't worry, little girl. I'll make sure Arthur gets it back. Or gets it in the back. [Chuckles] As the case may be. Throw her in the wagon. JULIANA: Kayley! Mother? Thank heavens you're safe. I failed you, Mother. And now Camelot will be lost. No, dear, you were brave. RUBER: What a touching reunion. But all this love is making me nauseous. And you've got a job to do, Juliana. Remember, if you don't... I'll do my job on her. JULIANA: [Whispers] Don't lose hope. DEVON: Garrett, something awful has happened. CORNWALL: We've got to go. - Kayley's been captured. - And Ruber's got Excalibur. What? Take me to her. Come on, Ayden. They're halfway to Camelot by now. Cornwall's right. We'd have to fly there to get there in time. DEVON: Ruber drives me completely nuts! He makes me so mad and angry! He's definitely a jerk! A giant jerk! DEVON: That foul barbarian. Wait till we get our hands on him. I'll tear him limb from limb. CORNWALL: Yeah, we'll show him a thing or two. CORNWALL: Won't we? DEVON: Yes, we darn well will. You're flying! Gosh, he's right! We are flying. I did it! I'm great! I love me. I did it. Excuse me, Egomaniac. You mean... ...I did it. Don't you get it? GARRETT: The only reason you can't fly is because you can't agree on anything. There must be something you can agree on. You both love Kayley, don't you? [Rumbling] [Griffin screeches] GUARD 1: Wagons approaching! Not a word. Let's all keep our heads, shall we? [Cackling] GUARD 2: It's Lady Juliana! Lower the bridge at once! Pardon me, my king. GUARD 3: Lady Juliana has paid us a surprise visit. Oh, good. Tell her I'll receive her at the Round Table. RUBER: Steady. Steady. Bladebeak at your service. GUARD 4: Lady Juliana? KAYLEY: It's a trap! Attack! [Chaotic yelling] RUBER: Seal off the castle! GUARD 5: Ruber has breached the castle keep. GUARD 5: The king is still inside! Mother, I must help the king. Don't worry! We'll be fine! [Dramatic instrumental music, background] Garrett, you came back! Heads up! GARRETT: Sorry I'm late. I hate flying coach. You're flying! Yes, we're frequent fliers now. Juliana? [Hums] Ruber! Pleased to see me? RUBER: A spear? [Cackles] How Stone Age! A king would hold a more noble weapon. A king would hold... ...Excalibur. Where's Ruber? He has the king trapped inside. There's no way in. The king. Wait. GARRETT: I know a way. Through the stables. KAYLEY: Give me your hand. Jump! [Chaotic yelling] KAYLEY: What are you doing? - I'm driving! - Do you think that's a good idea? No problem! GARRETT: Hang on! Garrett, Garrett, on your left! Your other left. KAYLEY: No, Garrett, right! Right! KAYLEY: Look out! See? That wasn't so bad, was it? RUBER: So many memories in this room. Makes me want to puke. RUBER: You said everyone at this table was equal. Well... ...I have something sweeter: [Yells] Revenge! These tunnels lead to the Round Table. KAYLEY: I can't see. Don't worry. I'll be your eyes. Finally, Silver Wings, you're mine. DEVON: Well, excuse me. CORNWALL: Pick on somebody your own size. Let's barbecue this bully. I couldn't agree more. [Star Wars theme song] CORNWALL: Hang on, little birdie. You've got to ask yourself: "Do I feel clucky?" Well? Do you, punk? RUBER: I'm going to have more fun getting rid of you... ...than when I got rid of Sir Lionel. ARTHUR: I may not survive. GARRETT: Kayley, no! ARTHUR: But you'll never destroy... ...the ideals of Camelot. Well, I've got to start somewhere. Say hello to your new king. You're no king. You're right. Perhaps I'm... ...more of a god. Hey, Ruber! You! I will not serve a false king. [Gasps] RUBER: You. You're in the way, just like your father. Since you're dying... ...to be like him... ...let's see... ...if I can help you out! RUBER: Oopsy-daisy. You probably needed that. RUBER: Where is your pigeon now? Hold your ground until the last possible moment. GARRETT: Yes, and you give the signal. Two for the price of one. RUBER: This must be my lucky day. KAYLEY: Now! Oh, no! The stone! [Shrieks] [Dramatic instrumental music] [Chorale music] JULIANA: Kayley? You forgot this. JULIANA: [Whispers] Take it, it's yours. I dub thee... ...Sir Garrett. I dub thee... ...Lady Kayley. ARTHUR: Thank you for saving Camelot. [Cheering and applause] You have reminded us that a kingdom's strength... ...is not based on the strength of the king... ...but the strength of the people. From this day forward... ...you will both sit as Knights of the Round Table. [Cheering and applause] [lnstrumental folk music] Isn't this everything you've ever wanted? Not quite everything. Don't even think about it. Well done, Ayden.
