 

                        JULY, 1948, LONDON, ENGLAND MARCH, 1928, KYUNG-SUNG, KOREA Isn't the air nice, Tatsuo? You'll get used to it here soon I'm sure you'll make good friends here It's Jun-shik! I'm faster than a car! Grandpa! You show the signs of a great Imperial soldier already Welcome, my boy How've you been, Father? Greet them He's the new, young master Jun-shik Kim, sir I'm Eun-soo Kim, sir Great, Tatsuo. You have a new friend your age Tatsuo runs well. Like you. My brother's the best runner in Kyung-sung, sir I'm the best in Tokyo No match for a country boy Wanna race me? Ready Go! HASEGAWA TATSUO WINS NATIONAL MARATHONS AGAIN! KIM JUN-SHIK WINS! Congratulations Good job chasing behind me Must be your damn lucky day Let's applaud Hasegawa Tatsuo who won the national high school marathon and brought great honor to Imperial Japan Long live our Emperor! Long live Imperial Japan! This is my grandson, Tatsuo You must be very proud I expect a lot from you It's a gift from the Japanese Minister of Defense Open it Yes, sir Give me that! Get away! Grandfather! Grandfather! Father! Grandfather! Grandfather! Do something! Father, please! Do something! You're a doctor who saves lives! Why aren't you doing anything? You killed him! No. You killed him! No Bring my grandfather back! Let go! He didn't kill anyone! You bastards killed him! Jun-shik! Bring my grandfather back! No! No! I didn't do it! Daddy! Daddy! Jun-shik! Daddy! Father! Bring my grandfather back! Father! Jun-shik Let go! Father! Father. Daddy... Daddy Don't show your face around here again Or I might kill you Korea's hero, Ki-jung Sohn won an Olympic gold medal! Rejoice! MAY, 1938, KYUNG-SUNG, KOREA Why do you have sandbags strapped on? Are you a marathon runner? Korea's luck in the marathon stops with Ki-jung Sohn A Korean man will never be an Olympic victor again Koreans are banned from Olympics 'cause Sohn covered the Japanese flag? If you were a bomb, I'd run straight into the Athletics Association Marathon running is a science demanding concentration and fighting spirit I'll prove it once and for all at the Olympic tryouts Can you go any faster? You might regret it I'll pay double if you get there in 30 minutes Triple for 20 minutes Hold on tight Your victory in the tryouts is a given What is your goal in the Olympics? I'll win the gold and set a new record What a laugh in honor of our great empire! Look out! Look out! Let's go! Coming through! To a marathon gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics! Cheers! Cheers! You're quite the runner Here you are Double would've been fine Opportunities come to those who don't give up Jun-shik Kim Jun-shik! Are you okay? Isn't that... Are you all so happy over half of a race? I'm Ki-jung Sohn Ki-jung Soho's in Japan Wanna bet? If I win, I get to marry your sister Hurry You say Japan and Korea are one yet you ban Koreans from tryouts? Are you claiming the Athletics Association is unjust? Your comment, Mr. Chairman? The board has decided If a Japanese runner will win anyways, what's the problem? It'll be boring for Hasegawa without Jun-shik Kim I think Jun-shik Kim shouldn't be in the discussion See! Jun-shik Kim? Jun-shik Jun-shik Kim, what have you been up to? What are your thoughts on the ban on Korean runners? Are you still training? How much do you train each day? Your comments, please Mr. Hasegawa? Are you confident you'll win even if Jun-shik Kim enters? You think he stands a chance against me? But aren't Jun-shik Kim's records better than yours? That was in the past You think a mere rickshaw driver can beat a well-trained marathoner? If you could enter, are you confident you can beat Hasegawa? How good can a mere rickshaw driver be? I'd be grateful just to enter the race Here is your acceptance letter from Berlin Medical University Sign it The marathon is more important to me than my studies This is the most important period in your life Focus on your studies Our men are sacrificing their lives to build a Greater East Asia I don't want to be a coward who runs away from war War is futile You are insulting Grandfather Tatsuo, watch what you say Think of the people before your country That's the way of a doctor Then I must treat the Korean people who killed my grandfather? Even if it kills me, I'll never do that The picture is missing from the frame in my room Jong-dae! Why you Why would someone steal a picture of all things? It should be around somewhere Anyway, I hope you can enter the tryouts Father will be so happy Don't get your hopes up Can't trust the Japs Get more firewood. The fire's dying. Please? It's so pretty How do I look? Eun-soo I think you're the prettiest girl in all of Asia OLYMPIC TRYOUTS ENTRY FORM Please win and bring hope to Korea again I can really enter the race? Show them how scary a mere rickshaw driver can be! Jun-shik Listen carefully The man in front of Jun-shik is Ki-jung Sohn Then, you must be holding the Olympic tryouts entry form If I'm right, hold it up high! Yes! Let me see! Yes! Sir! Sir! Jun-shik! Min-woo! Everyone! Korea's best marathoner, Jun-shik Kim, will run the marathon again! Hurray for Jun-shik Kim! Hurray! Jun-shik Kim! Jun-shik Kim! Get the rice cake kings ate! Rice cakes here! Here you are Father picked it out himself The best pair there is Promise you'll win the race today? Tatsuo Your father will be here soon! Look Let's relieve all our Korean folks' heartaches today! Jun-shik Kim! Runners to the starting line Jun-shik Kim! You can do it! And they're off! Tatsuo! Go, Jun-shik Tatsuo, go get 'em! Hasegawa! Faster! Faster! Jun-shik, you're half way there! Don't mind Jun-shik Kim Hasegawa! Spurt ahead! Spurt ahead! Hasegawa! The runners will come into the stadium any minute! Why are you so late? A surgery took long What a tense moment! There! The runners can be finally seen! Who is the first runner coming in? Who will it be? As expected, it's Hasegawa with Kimura behind him! What? There's another runner! It's Jun-shik Kim! You can do it Jun-shik Jun-shik Kim! Go, Jun-shik! Kimura! Kimura! Hey! What's that bastard doing! Be careful Jun-shik! That bastard Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Tatsuo! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! The rickshaw won! Jun-shik Kim! Hurray! Jun-shik Kim! The last runner is coming in! It's a dream come true! The medals will be awarded soon I knew you could do it! Ladies and gentlemen, the results will now be announced The winner of All Japan Olympic Marathon Tryouts is Hasegawa Tatsuo! Second is number 13, Ando! Third is number 18, Kimura! Will the three runners come up to the victory stand? Hasegawa, Ando, and Kimura. Please come to the victory stand Jun-shik Kim was first! Jun-shik Kim! Spectators, please calm down and be seated Jun-shik Kim has been disqualified for blocking Kimura's way Disqualified? How! Jun-shik Jun-shik Is this why you let me enter? Go back. Didn't you hear you've been disqualified? You should've run fair and square Fair and square? Crazy bastards Try saying it again! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Damn bastards! Jong-dae! Hasegawa! Please come up to the victory stand, immediately! The winner of the Olympic tryouts is Jun-shik Kim! Hasegawa, Ando, and Kimura! Please come up, immediately! You bastards cheated first! Tatsuo! Tatsuo! This court has decided on the following sentence Based on section 4 of the legal code, all accomplices of the riot will become Imperial soldiers and swear allegiance to the Emperor Mother! Mother! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Eun-soo! Jun-shik! Father! Father! Jun-shik! Soldiers must behave with decorum Soldiers must behave with decorum Stop mumbling! Soldiers must always improve their battle skills I don't believe this Soldiers must always improve their battle skills Soldiers must serve with utmost loyalty Soldiers must serve with utmost loyalty Soldiers must always be frugal Soldiers must always be frugal Frugal JULY, 1939, NOMONHAN, MONGOLIAN BORDERLAND Retreat! Everyone retreat! Jun-shik! You okay? That Way! Concentrate! Get up there! Retreat! Min-woo! You okay? It's me, Jun-shik Wake up! Shit. I should've fought for independence instead Who would've guessed we'd end up fighting for the Japs here? Our damn fortunes I'm starving to death You're hungry 24 hours a day Grow up will you? Hey! Hurry up! Lazy Korean fools! Yes, sir Let's hurry Hope you get shot down dead He's really dead? Choon-bok! Your butt! What? Where's it coming from? I almost got my head blown off The broken wall at 1 o'clock I heard the 1st regiment got attacked, too. It's him Just our damn luck Jong-dae! Cover me No! Stay back, Jun-shik! Cover him! Choon-bok! Cover him! Don't move! Are you okay Jun-shik? It's great you shot down just Japs, but Neda's gonna kill us She killed so many Hey! Don't hog all the food! Give me some Don't slobber over it! Give me some! This is you? You keep eating I'll look at this Fine, I'll show you Let me see first Not that sexy She's crying Cuz you took her picture No, it's cuz you ate all her beef jerky Fools. Why'd you make her cry? The bullets happened to swerve and hit only Japanese soldiers? Did the bitch smell your Kimchi breath? Talk, you fools! Speak, you bastards! Who sent you here! Say it! I'm Shirai from Hailaer You raped my mother before my father, and raped me, too Listen! There are many like me in China China will never lose to you! I will never forgive! Never! What? What are you saying? Tell me! Why did the bullets fly past you Korean rubbish! Speak, you bastards! Damn it! Stop it! I said no speaking Korean! Enough Stop That won't bring back the dead! Go back to your work places What's all this? Who's coming? Colonel I'm Colonel Takakura Company, halt! Attention! What? Why's that bastard here? Colonel Hasegawa, what brings you here? Private Takakura Ever drive past honorable Imperial soldiers' corpses? Mukai! Yes, sir First! For shamefully ordering a retreat, you're demoted to private as of today Second Private Takakura will prove loyalty to our Emperor and commit hara-kiri! Be thankful our Emperor granted you an honorable death! Long live our Emperor! Handle the deceased with due respect Yes, sir Remember, after feeding off corpses, crows can come and gouge out your eyes I'm Hasegawa Tatsuo I came here to demolish Soviet tanks! I'll show them true power of the Imperial army! When out of bullets, Imperial soldiers must charge with bayonets! If bayonets are broken, we must fight with bare hands! Imperial soldiers do not leave the battlefield till death! Understood! Yes, sir We either win or die First! We'll build a pontoon bridge over Khalkhin River within 48 hours Second! We'll form a special suicide unit of 50 men to demolish tanks All officers will stand with me at the vanguard of the special unit! Mukai! Yes, sir! Write up the list and have it on my desk by tomorrow Dismissed! Dismissed! I'm sorry about your picture I glued it together Take it I have a sister like you back home My name is Jun-shik Kim Thank you 'Shei-shei ni'? The sun's going down! Hurry up, you bastards! Stop dawdling! Hurry up! Work harder! When the sun goes down, it's over! Squad 9! Damn slow Korean dogs! Build this in 2 days? He's insane! They worked us from dawn! Where's the food! Stop talking about food! You're making me hungry Choon-bok? What's 'Shei-shei ni'? Learning Chinese? Why do you keep asking? Just tell me It means thank you Stop working! Attention! At ease I heard Tatsuo was your marathon rival He didn't stand a chance Jun-shik's way better! Come out! Keep that in your mouth and come out! Choon-bok Hwang! Come out faster than a bullet, or you'll drink all the water here! Repeat after me I'm a barbarian I'm a barbarian I'm a Korean I'm a Korean I'm a Korean Repeat that, keep the fish in, and do squats till sundown! Begin! Catching fish on duty or running during bedtime! You think this is a playground? Make sure everything gets incinerated Yes, sir! No! How dare you! Not my running shoes! Oh, is that so? If you wanna run, do it barefoot Where are you going, fool! Damn bastards! How many more beatings you need! Korean dog! No! Gwang-choon? This side's sinking What? There's a screw lose Who unscrewed this? It was there before Squad 9! Step forward If we went on like this tomorrow, what would've happened? From now on, the engineering unit will fix up Squad 9's area Squad 9 will hold the faulty plank on their heads And return to the base before sundown The best marathoner will be leading you The plank must be leveled! Keep it leveled! Noda, the bastard! Save your breath Just walk, Jun-shik We'll hold up the plank Don't worry If you hurt your knee, it's over! Listen! Keep it leveled! One! Two! How is it? Cool enough for you Squad 9 sluggards! Jong-dae Lee! Yes, sir Jun-shik Kim! Yes, sir Why are they calling us this time? Attention! The 50 soldiers called will fight in tomorrow's attack On a special suicide mission with me What did he say? Suicide? Us? We will carry bombs and demolish enemy tanks at dawn Fight like Imperial soldiers and die with honor I'll kill anyone Who dares retreat Koreans should be honored to be included in this heroic mission I'm not taking part in this operation Oh, really? For what reason? The Korean soldiers and I didn't volunteer we cannot consent to a mission that demands death Your permission to shoot, sir! Dare disobey me? All Koreans here, including our squad, think the same I'll ask again. Are you disobeying me? This is insane Execute him with the other POWs! Before we march out tomorrow Have fun on your last night Stupid bastards! Are you okay? I'll be executed at dawn Like this The Japanese are evil Korea and China are foolish I'm not afraid to die I'm just mad I couldn't kill more Japanese fools If I could, I'd get more revenge I'd kill them all! Jun-shik? What are you doing? If we're gonna die like dogs, might as well save Jun-shik! Hurry up Hurry! Shirai Why her? Pull her out! Why? At a time like this It's coming! Run! Run! Get down! Jun-shik! Let's head to the bridge and go south on Khalkin River to cross the border Where's Min-woo? We're the only ones going? He's out on a job with Noda We can't take all 100 Koreans with us Let's hurry We don't have time Come on Jun-shik! Get on Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! What's that? It's an attack! We could've gotten killed, too Damn Japs! Good for them! Let's go! Come on, Jun-shik! Hurry up! What's going on? Soviet tanks are coming! Grab the oar! Tanks? Get on! Jun-shik! The tanks are coming! Get on! Go ahead without me What did you say? What the hell are you doing! Crazy? Get on, Jun-shik! Come on! Let's all survive and meet again! Come with us! Jun-shik! Are you crazy? Are you crazy? Just get on! If you go back, you're dead, too! Come back! Jun-shik! Jun-shik Kim! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Shirai! Watch out! Watch out! Shirai is an ace shooter Shirai! Shirai! Shirai! Shirai! Shirai! Hurry. Go save your friends Thank you Stop! Don't come! Stop! Don't come! It's an attack! Don't come! It's an attack, sir! Get ready for battle! Block off the front with trucks! Move the trucks up front! The rest to the first line of defense! To the first line of defense! Defend the first line of defense! To the first line of defense! Charge! Scatter! Scatter! Long live our Emperor! Long live our Emperor! Listen! Die bravely like a special suicide unit member! You son of a bitch! Min-woo! It's okay You go and die bravely! Min-woo! Help me Min-woo Min-woo Fools! Imperial soldier don't retreat! How dare you run away! Charge! Don't show your back to the enemy! Charge! Charge! Don't back down! Don't run! Fight! Charge! Tatsuo! Want to get everyone killed? If you want to die, do it alone! We're not dying like dogs! Order the retreat! Imperial soldiers must charge ahead even as ghosts! Enough with the Imperial soldiers! Order the retreat! Colonel! Here's your chance to die honorably as an Imperial soldier! Long live our Emperor! Long live Imperial Japan! Where are we going? Can we make it back home? Move it! You bastards! CHITA OMSK PERM FEBRUARY, 1940, KUNGURSK, SOVIE UNION PRISONER OF WAR CAMP We are not prisoners of war, but criminals who started war We are not prisoners of war, but criminals who started war We'll repay our debts to Soviet Union with dedicated labor and reform We'll repay our debts to Soviet Union with dedicated labor and reform As proof you'll carry out the oath The leader of you Japanese dogs, Hasegawa Tatsuo, must step on your national flag We're not labors or criminals, but proud Imperial soldiers! You have no right to force us to reform! Imperial Japan will not abandon you! Keep your dignity till the day you return and fight with honor! Long live our Emperor! Long live Imperial Japan! Hurry up! Move it! Colonel! Don't fall asleep, sir! Shut up, fool! Keep moving! Hurry up! You yellow bastards! You slow sluggards! Newcomers to the left! Old maggots to the right! Hurry! Line up, you bastards! Newcomers to the left! Old maggots to the right! Choon-bok! Gwang-choon! Jun-shik! I thought you were dead! What a relief you're all alive Where's Jong-dae? Jong-dae's here, but Attention! This is Anton, your supervisor I'm Anton If Area 3 doesn't shape up, it'll be hard to stay alive here Officers or soldiers, I won't tolerate anyone slacking on the job! Each group leader, take 20 new POWs and go to your work areas! Go! Jong-dae! Jun-shik! You're alive! I was so worried I'd never see you again Are you okay? I'm fine. When did you get here? About two months ago I rule here Nothing for you to worry about now Korean dog! Jong-dae Lee! I didn't like the way you were talking I'm sorry... Thought I'd say that? You damn Jap! Dare call me a Korean dog? Give me that Still think I'm a damn soldier under you? You stupid son of a bitch! This isn't Kyung-sung or Nomonhan! This is the great Union of Soviet Socialist Republics! I'm the colonel here! And I'm the king! Got that? You got that, fool? You got that, fool? Got that, you damn Japs! Colonel Wake up, sir! Noda If you wanna stay alive, stay out of my sight Hey! So damn cold If we don't warm him up, He'll die Please move Who cares? That bastard's not even worth stomping on I beg you. Make room for him, please Try saving him, then It probably won't work What are you doing! We have to save the Colonel! Mukai! If he's a goner, bring him to the incinerator No use watching him die Let's go Jun-shik, have a drink Look at that If you get frostbitten here, you end up being firewood like him This is the warmest place in the whole camp Your legs are your life Take good care of 'em I like it here No Japs calling me a Korean dog We should go back when the war's over I'm not There's nothing but pulling a rickshaw there Having a drink reminds me of home Eun-soo's probably fine, right? I miss her All stand! Starting the day without bowing towards our Emperor is contemptible There is no exception here! Get up! No need. Keep eating It's an order! Crazy bastard Everyone stand! Now! Private Jun-shik Kim! Get up! Private Kim! We're no longer your subordinates We were unjustly dragged and forced to become Imperial soldiers As the Soviets can't demand reform, you have no right to force us to bow Remember From now on, I'm not Private Jun-shik Kim but the Korean marathoner Jun-shik Kim! Crazy fool! You want to die! You're the crazy one who killed hundreds of soldiers! Commit hara-kiri like Colonel Takakura! Bastard! Since you have the energy to fight, guess you're not hungry enough Grudges between a Korean and a Japanese, huh? You got your wish Fight till one of you dies! Kill him, Jun-shik! Hurry! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Hurry! Jun-shik! One of us should've died Today's the day Colonel! Kill me, Korean dog! Kill him! LOGGING AREA 3 Hold it up right! Hurry up and do it! Stop slacking off! When did this happen? It's okay, Jun-shik Don't It's okay Hold still Germany invaded the Soviet Union The Soviets may speed up exchanging POWs to reinforce their army Number 1277! He's one of your men Anton! Go catch him! Yes, sir! It's time for frostbite examination Where's Choon-bok? Take him away Let me go! Gwang-choon! No! No! Drag him out! I'm fine! I can still work, sir! Tell 'em Jun-shik! I want to live, Jun-shik! Help! Gwang-choon! I want to live, Jun-shik! Gwang-choon! Jun-shik! Help! Let go! Gwang-choon! Choon-bok? Choon-bok? You're not hiding in here, are you? Choon-bok? Choon-bok? You son of a bitch! Shut up! Come out, pal! Come out! You wanna die? I was starving Put the bread down and come out now What do we do? Who's there? How dare you steal, you bastard! He's the one He's the thief! Tell 'em I didn't eat it! Please Jong-dae! Jong-dae! A rat sneaked into our food storage today Luckily we caught him, thanks to comrade Anton As you know, stealing is punishable by death Jong-dae! Tell 'em I didn't eat it! I'm scared! Tell 'em I didn't eat the bread! Jong-dae! Execute him! Jun-shik! Gwang-choon! Make it back home alive! Is it because of this? This is more important than a friend's life? This is who you really are? Call yourself human? Yeah, I'm not human I'm not the Jong-dae you know! I'm Anton! I'm Anton, you bastard! Call me Anton from now on! Got that! How long do you think this armband will protect you? How could you do that to Choon-bok? What do you know? You don't know anything! Shut up and stay out of my life Do you know that Gwang-choon died? He's probably nothing but ashes by now If you pull that again in front of them, I'll kill you Your emperor abandoned you How dare you speak of our Emperor! POW repatriation has been denied We showed mercy on you, but the Japanese refused They're battling Americans in the Pacific and have no interest in you You expect me to believe that? Imperial soldiers are sons of the Emperor A father does not abandon his son That's what you want to believe You naive, poor, abandoned son You will also face death in the incinerator here It's a Kokeshi Is your hometown Yamagata? You're good You know, sir? Have you been there? My grandfather took me there when I was young It's a beautiful place I grew up there my whole life My family ran a carpentry shop for generations When I go back, I want to be a great carpenter like my father Do you know why I chose to be your adjutant for Nomonhan, sir? Because I saw your firm conviction for our country in your eyes Conviction Son of a bitch! Tsukamoto! You okay? Wake up! I go easy on you, you cripple, and for what! Jong-dae! We're doing our best, too! Your best? I'll show you my best in beating! You son of a bitch! You call that your best! You bastards! This is the best! Jong-dae! It's Anton, fool! He's dead Lieutenant! What? Never seen a man die before? Get back to work, you bastards! Work, you fools! Get back to work now! You fools never listen! Damn Jap! How dare you! Stop it! I told you to stay out of my way! Dam Jap! I gotta beat it into your head? You bastards! Damn Jap! You son of bitch! Jong-dae Lee! Bastards! Back to your posts! There is no mercy for those who started the riot! Begin the executions! It's an urgent telegram, sir Grab a uniform! Change into now! Germany has declared war against us Comrade Stalin has given you too, your final calling The choice is yours Those who want to convert may wear Soviet army uniforms Go get the uniforms! Hurry! Yes, sir Hurry up and put it on! Anton This is a great opportunity for you I hope you come back victorious Long live the Soviet Union! Good luck! Comrade! Please give them a chance, too Let them go! Thank you, sir! Long live the Soviet Union! Hurry up and put it on! Hasegawa Tatsuo This is your last chance I'll say it one more time Put it on Let's give it a good shot It's better than freezing to death Right, Jun-shik? Long live the Soviet Union! Hurrah! Bastards The Soviet army uniform suits our colonel so well, doesn't it? DECEMBER, 1941 ZHEDOVSK, SOVIET UNION Get off! Get off, now! Long live the Soviet Union! Hurrah! Get off! Move it! This will be a grave for the Germans' today! Thank you, sir! Show the cowardly Germans the valor of the Soviet army! It's mine! Charge! Attack! Charge! Charge! Attack! Charge! Fire! Charge! Let go, you bastard! What? You wanna live, too? I do, too! I'm not dying here! You die! You die! Tatsuo! Move it! Move it! Charge! Charge! Jong-dae! Damn bastards! No bullets! Jong-dae! Let's run! This is dying like dogs! It may be for you, but not me! Charge! You don't have any more bullets! Charge! Charge! There is no retreat! Jong-dae! Come back! Don't run away! Come back! There is no retreat! Charge! Charge! Attack! There is no retreat! Charge! Jong-dae! Jong-dae! Jong-dae! What's with my goddamned life Shit, I wanted to live it up I'm so sorry, Jun-shik Jong-dae I want to see Eun-soo I miss Eun-soo Jun-shik No, Jun-shik Stay right here Don't go out there Charge! There is no retreat! I'll kill anyone who tries to run! Charge ahead! Attack! Fools! Attack! Don't show your back to the enemy! Charge! Attack! You'll need it to make it over the mountains Where do you plan to go? To German territory I hope we're going the right way I hope the snow stops Even if we make it to German territory it won't be easy to make it back home You don't have to come, if you don't want to Back then Why didn't you kill me? Tatsuo! Wake up! I'll go find some medicine Jun-shik Jun-shik I'll be right back Help! Help me! I'm a Japanese soldier My friend's in danger What's he saying? I'm a Japanese soldier We're on the same side! Take him away! I'm a Japanese soldier, not a POW! Let go! You bastard! Help me! A man is dying! Please! Take him away, now! Let go! Tatsuo! Tatsuo! Let go! Tatsuo! Tatsuo! Search every corner You go up that way I'll go this way There's word that the Allied Forces will invade Nord-Pas-de-Calais Then we hit the jackpot getting stationed in Normandy If Germany loses, aren't we all dead anyways? Think they'll take us back? We'd be lucky if they don't call us traitors and shoot us That's why we should run away You said you'll run for 2 years now I'm going for sure this time I heard from a man in another unit There's a secret merchant ship to Jamaica at Cherbourg Harbor How'll you get there? Swim? If you get caught trying to run, you'll be shot! Wanna make a bet? I bet 50 marks you can't run away Bet 100 marks, stupid Bet even your boots, you pig May, 1944, NORMANDY, FRANCE will build additional defense walls and defense lines in the Atlantic From tomorrow, you will build defense walls on the shore with unit 795 Our job is to build the defense encampment on Normandy hill March forward! Hurry up! Squad 3! Unit 2! Go to barracks 14! HEY Shouldn't you give up looking for your Korean friend? You're the only Asian here That guy's so lucky He gets to go in and out of base at will Tatsuo! Aren't you coming in? Let's go Go ahead I'll rest here for a sec See ya later, then I thought you might be dead But you're here in the Eastern battalion When did you come to Normandy? Jun-shik? Did you say something? Can you repeat it? Tatsuo! It's more comfortable this way I can't hear gunshots or screams It's over Let's play soccer Tatsuo! We're going to play against Squad 8! Man, they're fast I sometimes think of when we first ran together The day you moved in I lost cuz my rubber shoes fell off, But I was happy to have a new running mate We came much too far How long will it take to run home from here? More than a year, right? We know the Allied forces will attack Nord-Pas-de-Calais The Eastern battalion will all be sent to Nord-Pas-de-Calais! You will all be reborn as true German soldiers! Pack up your gear We move out at 09:00 hours tomorrow! Dismissed! We're all dead I thought we'd be safe in Normandy What's going on? We're being transferred It's nothing Sending us to battle but feeding us this rubbish I thought we'd get wine and steak when we came to France Damn Karim I'm going to Cherbourg at dawn Are you crazy? I got the contact info from Roman Is Roman going? That liar How will you get there? The food truck always leaves at dawn We gotta go when you're on watch Think it over If you get caught, you're dead Is it cuz of your friend? Fine I'll see you at dawn We're not going to Nord-Pas-de-Calais We're going to Cherbourg Cherbourg? A ship there will take us home Jun-shik Let's go home where your sister and father are Can we really make it home? We could get killed on the way Still, we can't die here Karim! Karim! Karim! Karim! Tatsuo! Those aren't planes, are they? Tatsuo! Tatsuo! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Tatsuo! Tatsuo! Tatsuo! Jun-shik! Stay there! I'll come to you! Wait for me! Hurry! It's an attack! Prepare for battle! The Allied Forces have attacked! To your battle positions! Hurry and grab the machine gun! Grab it! Everyone to your battle positions! Move it! Move it! Fire! Fire! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Tatsuo! Are you okay? Let's get out of here, now! Grab the machine gun! Now! Hurry up, you fools! Can't you see the enemy! Reload and fire, now! Allied forces attacked! Send re-enforcements! Let's run for it Don't lag behind You'll be watching my back as you run Are you okay? This won't kill me Let's go! Jun-shik Come on! We have to get home! Tatsuo Are you okay? Jun-shik Jun-shik You're Jun-shik Kim from now on If you say you're Japanese, they might kill you Say you were dragged here and forced into the Eastern battalion Jun-shik! Wake up! I have no regrets Though I couldn't achieve my dream You can't go like this! Let's go home and run together! Jun-shik I wanted to run again when I go back home Promise you'll make it back alive Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! Jun-shik! I sometimes think of when we first ran together The day you moved in I was happy to have a new running mate Ready, go!
