 

                        1 Hello, hello. Test. Okay, so here we go. All supplies are stocked. Water. Boxes of food. More boxes of food, food, and more food. I just have to cast off the moorings and then I'm ready to go. We'll see. My name is Laura Dekker. I am fourteen years old. I have a dream to be the youngest person ever to sail around the world alone. I was born on a boat in New Zealand. I lived my first five years at sea and ever since, all I've wanted is to return to that life. Okay now, this is just the table and where you live. This will be my bed. You can't imagine it now, but there I will be sleeping. If you see it now you think "Oh no, that will takes weeks." But it's not so worse as you see it. Every day since February we've been working on it. In Holland, they tried to stop her trip, but there isn't any law to stop this. It's really weird, yeah. They try to break Laura down. But Laura is actually too strong, so it's not enough. Okay. My father at first was like, "She is completely insane." "If you want to do this, go figure it out yourself." So I just started out by figuring out routes looking at charts and Google Earth to see what it would look like and what I'd need for the boat. I started to look for sponsors. I just started explaining to people who I was, what I wanted to do, what my dream was. And they all responded very positively. I got things for my boat, like charts and navigation systems. When I wanted to arrange my school, the attendance officer sent Child Protection after me and all that. They brought a court case against me and my parents. And then the media got all over it, and that was just ...not much fun. And now here's an interesting controversy. A thirteen-year-old Dutch girl wants to sail the world alone, but is facing pressure not to go from her own government. Council for Child Protection's so concerned about the dangers of the marathon voyage, it's asked a court to grant it custody of Laura. I just didn't know what was going on at all. The media came, and I was famous in the whole of Holland. But I never had wanted to be famous and it was also the worst kind of being famous that there can ever be. The worst part was definitely they wanted to pull me away from my dad and put me in some kind of home for crazy kids. It was really nasty. Of course there were people who say you're crazy, but it's a dream. A great, great dream. I want to sail, I want to go around the world. I want to see all the places and not always the stupid same thing. After one year of fighting we were able to win which was really nice. With this decision, the responsibility for Laura is back where it belongs. Namely, with the parents. Dutch teenager Laura Dekker set out this morning in a journey to become the youngest person to sail around the world alone. Dekker had to fight a 10 month court battle to be allowed to make that trip by herself. I don't know, it's just a mix of feelings because I'm happy for her... but also sad to see her leave. The last view of Gibraltar. See you in two years! Really beautiful. Okay. It's pretty hard to film and walk. I don't usually fall this often. It's going really nicely. If it stays like this, I'll have no complaints. Umm, yeah. What you see here is a... disaster. This is ravioli. And it came out of that. I don't know exactly what happened but... all of the sudden it fell on me, and now I am all ravioli-ed. So I think it's going to be something simple today like soup or something. I've spent three nights at sea so far. This will be the fourth night. And there goes the sun. Always extraordinary how fast that goes. The fourth day... that's when I truly realized that I was away, that I was really doing a world trip. That was because I saw the Canary Islands. Because at home, ever since I was very little the Canary Islands were something for me that was really far away, something unreachable, somewhere I would never get to. So when I got there I was really like, "Whoa, shit. I'm here." I met some really cool people, and we explored the whole island together. Jesus. I really feel like a mountain goat. I've thought about five times that we were almost there. And now... we can hardly get any higher... from the sea. And the sea is there. Others who have done it, the world trip for the record... like Jessica, from Australia and Abby, from America. They sail non-stop around the world. I don't want to do that because you'd see so little of the world. I think it's really great to learn about other countries, other cultures. That's one of the reasons why I'm taking two years to do my journey. Well, I've set off. First, I'm just going to let my dad know that I have indeed set off. So we're going to call him now. Hi. I'm sailing away now. The waves? They weren't so bad. I'm right by the beach that's kind of a bay, so it's not an issue. Everything is off in the kitchen, yes. Yeah, I'll do that. I will, bye. Okay, well that's taken care of... Parents, "Did you think of this? Did you think of that? Be careful!" But I will be careful. Saying goodbye was difficult. The Atlantic Ocean... The first of three big oceans to cross. All of my feelings were jumbled. I enjoyed it immensely, the sailing and everything around me but... on the other hand I missed my father, I missed home. I couldn't eat anything for two days, just couldn't get it down. I felt really very strange. Dolphins. Really so beautiful. So beautiful, wow. I hope they swim along for a while. A bit of company. It's still about... 1780 miles or so to St. Maarten, I think. And I've... sailed something like 400 or 500 or so. I'm hungry, but it's nowhere near dinner time. And to actually cook a nice meal won't work. I'm being tossed around... as my food would be. It's kind of difficult. If you had way more arms, then you could at least hold onto the food. I was pretty fed up with it yesterday. I could have just kicked the waves to the moon. If only that were possible. I'm looking forward to being on land again soon. It's just like... It would be nice to run and to walk a bit. So, here I am again, I just had to do an update. Now the wind is seriously going away. Damn. And then there's this fucking swell... Things are just really hard for me right now. Nobody said life was easy. But that's a pretty annoying fact. I don't give up. After everything I've done for it, all the years of dreaming of this journey. Okay, there's a fucking lot of rain coming at me now. Holy shit, shit. Woo-hoo. A big wave just came over the deck and that was so beautiful. And now the wind has picked up even more. Really super awesome! It's really cool to see how the boat fights its way through the waves. Awesome, right? I can really enjoy that. Okay, so that was rain... and wind. And I think there's a lot more rain coming, but it's pretty nice. Especially now that I have everything under control. Really beautiful, eh? Nobody said sailing was fun. Except for me. It's just amazing. I always dreamed of it, live this way of life. I was born on a boat in New Zealand when my parents were sailing around the world. It was a magical time. It was beautiful, but my mom totally didn't like sailing. She actually hated it. She got seasick every time. When I was four, we sold the boat and bought a house in Holland. And then my dad started building a boat right away and my mom just... I don't know... she found someone else and they broke up. So then they asked me where I wanted to live. I said my dad, because I really wanted to sail. So I grew up in a shipyard with my dad building boats. When I was about six, my dad got me an Optimist, a little dinghy boat where I always sailed in, mostly after school. When I was about eight, a really nice friend of my dad had a boat that he didn't want to sail in anymore, so he gave it to me. It was where I actually learned sailing with my dog, Spot, which was an excellent crew. When I was about 10 years, I got a Hurley 700, a nice seven-meter seaworthy boat. Of course, I needed to get a job to pay for it, so I brought newspapers around, I cleaned shops. I did practically anything that got me money. I sailed every day and always on the summer vacations I would cruise through whole Holland. Then when I was thirteen, I actually sailed to England alone. And when I had done that, I was sure that I wanted to sail around the world. I wanted to see the south horizon. Land. After 17 days, I'm seeing land. There. I'm starting to slowly get really hyper. It's going to be difficult to walk normally. I think I'll get seasick or something when I get back on land. Such a strange thought... to see people again. It's just... pretty cool. You can't shoot fish with a slingshot! So close, mom! It's clear you guys have a screw loose. My mom and my sister were finally able to visit me, which was awesome because they were on vacation when I left, so they didn't even wave me out when I was leaving on my big trip, which I was really sad about. So, it was really cool to see them again. Come on, you can try it now, Laura. No, I'm not doing it! Why not? You don't have to shoot fish. Okay, I have a weird family, I know. I thought I was weird but I believe I'm the most normal one here. I'm just having fun, not shooting any fish. You're wasting rocks. Doesn't matter, I have plenty of rocks. Do you think that the Indians shot arrows at trees? That they would just waste arrows? They didn't do that now, did they? Yes, but I am. Yeah, but you're nuts. Well yeah, if not I wouldn't have a daughter sailing around the world. That doesn't happen with normal parents. Yes indeed. So, I was 10 years old, I don't have too much memories of my mom. After my parents divorced, she lived somewhere else. I tried to visit her every weekend, but I had a feeling that there was too much things going on in my mom's life, and I was too much to handle for her. My mom, though, seems to care a lot about me now, and we write each other a lot more than before. So that's good. Since I'm really young, I've had a really good relationship with my sister. She grew up with my mom, so we're separated for most of our lives. But, we always got along pretty good. She's totally crazy and really funny and really cool. Yes, we're happily walking through the woods and acting a bit weird. And this is a tree! Open up the doors, Frankenstein What you see here is my second attempt at making popcorn in my life. Yay! I'm setting down the camera for the rest of my show. People keep asking me what I actually miss from home. It worked! In the beginning, I missed the refrigerator, internet, having a bath, having a shower, having a bed that's not salty and moving but, yeah, after a few weeks, I was used to it. It's really normal now, and, yeah, I don't miss a thing. About being lonely... sometimes, but you meet like a bunch of people which is the nicest thing. You're all in the same community. It's like skaters and surfers. If you see each other, you just connect right away. So, here we are with Laura Dekker trying to crash me! And Deana behind me, coming up fast in the rear. Okay, I'm coming! We're picking up speed. Look out, there's deer! Laura Dekker leads the way, but only briefly as Mike Rule takes the lead, oh there she goes, putting on the Dutch sprint! Yeah, these are cutter ants. And look at 'em carrying that. Look how strong they are. Carrying them all the way across... These are our heroes! Crossing the bridge. Listen to that monkey. You guys hear that? You hear that noise? Mike and Deana... I met them in the San Blas Islands, and we've been hanging out every day. Mike, he had cancer a few years ago which is when they realized they wanted to see the world in their boat. They were really cool and just, we like did a lot together. We got the kids up here on the bow, cleaning. Get to work, you slaves! I felt just like I had a family. Just like a normal family, and I was their daughter. It was really nice. We had been sailing with another Dutch couple. Didn't we get together for... Dutch night? No, we went... we went snorkeling. No, we went snorkeling. We went snorkeling first? Because we love sailing and outdoor water activities, it just worked out that we developed a friendship. But I think it's a... I think the sailing community is a unique place because normally people our age wouldn't become close friends with maybe a fifteen-year-old. It just wouldn't happen under normal circumstances. It was like before that, I had a turning point. In the Caribbean, I could always turn around and go back to Europe, but by passing the Panama Canal, I really had to go forward. The Pacific, yee-ha! It's just the point that I really say I'm gonna do it. From there, it just started to get serious. I am very close to the equator. I have my Neptune crown, and I'm giving him a pancake. Behind me are R Sea Kat and Double Diamond. The excitement is starting to build. So, we're here, just the three of us. And as soon as we hit the equator the party will start. It's a bit like New Year's when you're waiting for midnight... but you're waiting for the coordinates to read 0.0, 0.0. Sounds like the party is already going on on your boat. Woo-hoo! We're almost there. Yeah, we're almost there. I'll put some music on also. Ya-hoo It's a celebration Celebration We gon' celebrate and have a good time Ya-hoo It's a celebration So, this is how you can still have fun while at sea. Totally alone, on Guppy. It's a celebration And now... I gonna offer... my pancake to Neptune! The moment is here! Oh, it landed on the deck. One more time. Here it's going. Woo-hoo! All of the other kids in school thought that I was crazy. I had one or two really good friends but as they got older, they changed from how I changed and that just faded away. I definitely preferred sailing for school. I don't like when people tell me what to do. Yeah, I can't really imagine how my life would be if I would still be in Holland. Probably would be really boring. ...with me, behind the boat. Okay, everybody's ready? Take the tanks up in the pool. Check her tank, make sure it's open. Check your valve. Okay, okay, guys, ready! One, two, two and a half, three! Go! What do we need? Eggs and milk. Did you want something to mash it with? Yeah. Well, the hardest thing about building bonds like this is when you have to leave people you love. You know, it was a very sad day when we had to leave our daughter to go sailing. But, sad days can also, you know, bring, bring much joy when you get a chance to get back together, so I'm looking, I'll be looking forward to that. So, are we ready to eat? Yeah. Pfannkuchen? Are these your special? Yeah. You cooked them all? Yes, she did. She cooked the whole thing. There we go. I hope they're good. They look beautiful. This is the saddest part. Yeah. It's like leaving my own daughter. We're gonna miss you, sweetie. We had a great time with you. We had a fantastic time. It's been the best sailing I've ever done. Don't do anything reckless. Adventurous but not reckless. Okay. Be safe. Yeah. Have a good trip. When you meet other sailors, you already know that some time you will sail a different way. It's like normal, yeah. Because you're sailing around the world and like... it's like... It just... It's just like that. Everyone does it. I like looking around, talking to the waves and the sea and to Guppy. I have a really good friendship with my boat. It's my everything, and I hope that I have it for a long time. We got her when I was 14. She was totally wrecked. She had been standing there for seven years. There was one meter of water in it, and plants had been growing over it. Everything in it smelled horrible. It was like a ghost ship. But it was cheap, and we could afford it. So, we bought it and started working on it. And after a month of working on it, I really fell in love with the boat. Guppy is 40 foot, which sounds quite big to some people, but it's, like, really small. I really feel like a guppy when I'm on this big ocean. It's the seventh day on the Pacific. I'm on my way to Hiva Oa and I've had seven days of great wind. Last night was even windier, Guppy was practically flying. The sail across the Pacific was, I think, the most beautiful sail I've ever had. My parents sailed the same route 20 years ago, and I had my logbook from my parents, so every day I was looking at what their speed was. So I was racing against them. They took about 19 days, and I did 18, so yeah, pretty awesome. When I was younger, I saw all these pictures from my parents from all these beautiful islands in the Pacific that I couldn't even imagine really existing because they looked way too perfect. And now, I can't believe it, I'm here. Every country you come in, you have to find out where customs is and go over to them. When do you leave? Uh, Sunday? You go the islands? I don't know, I think so. But it's not sure. Mo'orea is sure. Not sure? Really. Most of the time it's pretty fun because they totally don't get what you're doing. They ask an exact date when you're leaving. Sometimes even hours and minutes, which is practically impossible, it's, like, not a plane. I want to know on what date you leave French Polynesia. You know? - I don't know, it's a sailboat. - I know it's a sailboat. Yeah, it's really hard to... it's like, you go with the wind when it's good, and you never know where you're going. I loved the Pacific from the beginning. All the islands are different, the people are different, the cultures are different. It just is, it's... it's paradise. In Europe and Holland, they're thinking only about money. Money is most important thing, raising a family, getting a car, getting a house, getting kids, and then die. But the Pacific, it's perfect. I only stayed for a couple of days in each island to still be in the good season to press to the Indian Ocean, which makes me really, really upset. I just couldn't handle leaving this beautiful place so soon. I was also sad because I was sailing past New Zealand and not stopping there. I was born there, and seems like such a beautiful place to go to. It was like, like my dreamland and it was there, it was close. But I had to go past it if I still wanted to be the youngest person to sail around the world. I don't know, maybe it doesn't really matter anymore. A friend told me about Moitessier, and I got really inspired by his story. He's originally a French sailor who wasn't rich, really poor actually, and he needed the money for his family, so he started doing races for prize money. So he was sailing this huge race around the world for the fame and the money, and he was almost about to win, and then he just said, "Fuck it, I'm gonna continue into the Pacific." He just walked away from it, didn't finish. What I love about the story is that he just did it for the sailing, he didn't do it for anything else. He just loved being out there, just like I love being out there. I love what I'm doing. I love sailing. I love the ocean. We're in the middle of the Torres Strait sailing straight into the wind. I had the genoa sail out, but the genoa is now ripped. There's now a megahole, and I've got the storm jib out. There are reefs all around me. It'll be like this for the next 200 miles. Now I am sitting here in my sail harness because I could be blown over at any moment. And it is just wet. It just got dark so it will be a while before the light comes back. Now the reefs are getting closer and closer. And the ships are coming closer. I really have to turn off the camera now because waves are splashing over the sides and ships are coming. Until tomorrow! I had been awake for almost three days by the time I came into Australia. And all of my sails were just ripped and broken down, and my steering wheel had fallen off. I felt like I was just on the bottom. Suzanne is this journalist from Holland. She has been following me, really, since the beginning. She's nice, and I know her for quite a while now, but I don't really like journalists most of the time. So many questions over and over again, and mostly bothering me at times that I really, really don't want it. There was a moment about three weeks ago when you considered quitting and taking off to New Zealand. No, I've already passed it. But it's been bothering me since I left Bora Bora. It's somewhere I always wanted to go. I could do it, I could just sail there. So you could. Then why don't you? I just couldn't. I truly can't imagine that the record attempt doesn't interest you a tiny little bit. Not for other people, but wouldn't it be a rush if you achieved it? Yeah, Sure. I wouldn't be surprised if you're in a history book a hundred years from now. Well I don't care. That... that doesn't interest me at all. I asked myself, "Can you do this?" And I answered, "I'm going to try." So I'm curious if I can, and if I make it, then I know I can. Then I've crossed a boundary. That is my only goal. I am cleaning because my father is coming tomorrow. How do you feel about it? Great. It sucks. Yeah, but why? In the beginning of the trip, you often miss your parents. Of course. Yeah, but now you don't miss them as much. Look, I haven't seen my dad in a really long time, so I don't miss him anymore. No, yeah that's... that's also, yeah. That's also a possibility, but isn't it also part of growing up that you are... Probably, but could you just shut up for a moment? No. Thank you. I was, because you didn't finally answer the question completely. Is it also because... Why can't people stop it if you ask them to? ...became more independent? Is your trip about becoming independent? ...will be closing in seven minutes. I always loved my dad. He has done everything for me to make my life better, but as a kid, it was kind of hard sometimes. After my parents divorced, we moved to Wijk Bij Duurstede and lived in a really, really small trailer. So my dad worked building kitchens in houses for people. He worked from six to nine most of the days, and then when he came home, he'd eat really fast and work on the boat. I had to do a lot alone... making breakfast, getting dinner ready, cycle to school, do my homework, everything. When I was nine, my dad got a breakdown because he just worked too much, so he had to stay home. In the beginning, I totally didn't understand it. He got angry really fast. And I was really scared of that. You really don't know when it's coming. He could be really nice, and then the next moment, it was just like, boom! But then he explained what was going on and what I should do, so I got used to it and I got really tough because of that. I still feel like he did a really good job. When I asked my mom to come watch something, she never did. My dad always did. So there are dead cockroaches here. That kind of surprised me. Oh, I found another cockroach too. Really, and there was also one in the engine room. But that one is so greasy that it's only like a... That was a technical one. Yeah. Yeah, that's my crew but they're all died. The crew died? One died because of grease, the other one died while he was trying to get my thing not to leak anymore, and one that was just really hungry tried to cook, because I found him like under here. My dad and I had to repair everything on the boat. I had been pushing Guppy so hard and didn't really have any time to fix her at all. We worked every day, there was no fun, and we had to fix up my boat in less than a month, and it tired us out a lot. So, it was kind of a hard time. It was nice to see my dad again, but of course, we had the usual fights. If something had to be done, you should have been ashore by 8:00, Laura. It's now 10:30. Now you're in a hurry after laying around and sleeping for ages. Now you're in a rush. Yeah, but that's because I have my own schedule... and if I keep to my schedule, everything I want to do will get done. I've been living on my own for about a year now, so I don't need him anymore like I did when I was younger. I still love him to visit me and to give me advice and things, but I feel like I'm a little bit more grown-up now, and I can do more things myself. Two days to go till my sixteenth birthday. I think I changed quite a lot. In the beginning of the trip, I really enjoyed being ashore and meeting other people and seeing the countries, and now, I really started to like long passages more, just because it gives you so much time to think and just have no one bothering you. Of course, now they don't want to go out! I love being alone, and I guess, yeah. I feel like freedom is when you're not attached to anything. What size do you have? I can go bigger, or how much smaller do you want me to go? - Well, the thing is... - About there? This thing is like, so long, yeah. But it's the correct protocol size. I know, I know, okay. The Australian flag's the same. Yeah, is there one smaller? Well, that's what I'll find out for you now. Good. I changed my flag from Dutch to New Zealand. I just decided not to sail for the country anymore, but for the country that I was born in. My name's Ron. I'm Laura. And you're Dutch? Yeah. No. I just realized that I don't have any real connection with Holland anymore. I don't want to go back there, I don't want to live there, and I don't have anything in common with Dutch people, except for the fact that I speak the language. So, I don't know, I don't really have a home. Home to me is Guppy. Thailand, what the fuck is Thailand doing in the Indian Ocean? Oh wait, it isn't. Okay, so these are all the charts. I mostly don't use them but if the computer with the cards crashes, I just want to be able to come somewhere. It's really cool if you work with the sextant, you make all those notes. And then you have this piece of paper with all those weird things on it and then you can find out where you are. Most people don't have them anymore. But I do. So this is really bad. Because, okay, the higher the numbers, the more you have a problem. So, South Africa... higher than 5, you have seriously a problem. Okay, starting with 3, 2, 4, then in Durban is already 8, then going around South Africa it's 10, and even 11, which is seriously not good. So for October, you will probably survive. But if you go in November, which I will be, you can get waves that are 60-foot high. Okay, yeah, the winds are just starting to get really annoying. I've decided to take the Southern route across the Indian Ocean to avoid any problems with pirates up in the North part. It's quite a bit harder and longer route, so I'm actually pretty nervous about it. Anything can happen out there... no winds for weeks, or storms that keep going over me. So, that's kind of scary, and at the same time it's like, an awesome challenge. Okay, no worries, we'll talk to you tomorrow. Fuck. Whoa Keep on turning 'Cause it won't be too long We've been on the Indian Ocean for 12 days now. Absolutely no wind. Still none. Of the 12 days I've been at sea, I've been able to sail about 24 hours. It's quite frustrating and my morale is sinking, but... You know... I'm still moving forward, No, I'm not. I'm going exactly 0.1 knots. So I am moving forward. I still have 4500 miles to go to Durban. Damn. Bobbing on the waves for days will make you insane. Guppy, Guppy. Guppy. I have wind! The wind came last night and now I'm sailing! A very good day today. Today is the... no idea. It is Saturday. The wind died down so I was rolling in the genoa sail... and that's when I stumbled over that thing over there Bird. He's totally not scared. Or she... no idea. It won't eat, it won't leave. I don't know what it wants. I don't know what it's doing. I'm only speaking English to him because he probably doesn't understand Dutch. He's really alive. It's not a stuffed bird or something. Look, you see? La la la The light shining over there is the moon slowly rising, I think. It's like it could crash right down on me, that's how big it is. Jesus. After 30 days, time just didn't exist anymore. It didn't really matter, which I'd never felt before, and it was the best feeling. I didn't really care if there was a lot of fronts coming over, or no wind. I made peace with it. I was just there, I was with nature. From the starting of being the worst trip, it actually was the nicest trip ever, just mentally. Hello, at the moment we're sailing towards Cape Town. I can still see the coast and I'm going to follow it. And Guppy and I are rounding the Cape. There's been a lot of wind, 20-25 knots and we had to sail against it. It's a little better now, so yeah, waves are crashing over and it's not very warm. South African Weather Service has issued a watch for severe thunderstorms. Potentially large hail and damaging winds. A warning exists as well, for the possibility of heavy swell. In the night, there were really high waves. The wind picked up more and more and more, and I was going way too fast. The whole cockpit was full of water, and like things that should be in the front of the boat were in the back of the boat. What was for me amazing was I didn't feel anything but focused. I was on the top of being alert, and being scared was totally gone. I didn't feel that I was tired, I didn't even feel that I was hungry. I was just doing it. There were all these people that just looked at me like it was impossible that I had come in with this weather. And as I finally started to warm up again, and to think straight, I realized that, "Wow, that's actually pretty badass." Before I left, like, a lot of people that said, "Well, you will sink anyway." And now they're like, "Oh no, I always believed in you." First I was like, "Yeah, right," and now I can just laugh about it. It was really cool. I crossed the three biggest oceans... the Atlantic, the Indian Ocean, and the Pacific... and only the South Atlantic was waiting for me. Now I look back on it, I wanted the storms, I wanted the calms, I wanted to feel loneliness, I wanted to feel what it felt like to be in the sea. And now I know all these things. I now knew what sailing around the world meant, and knew that I would keep doing it. It was an end of the dream that I had as a kid, and it's the beginning of my life as a sailor. Hey. We're in the Atlantic Ocean, the South Atlantic Ocean. It's been... a lot of days since we've left Cape Town. A few more days to the equator and the Northern Hemisphere and about 20 days to St. Maarten. I started officially in Europe but I definitely don't want to go back to Holland. So, instead of sailing to Europe, I'll sail to the Caribbean. As soon as I get there, I will have officially rounded the globe, alone. The South Atlantic was really nice for me. I finally had time to think about the past, about what's going to happen next, about stupid things, like wondering what kind of animals are all swimming under your boat, like, 3,000 miles deep. Yeah, it felt pretty awesome. I wasn't really looking forward to arrive. I just wanted to continue sailing, wanted to stay at that quiet spot. I could deal with everything, with high waves, with a lot of winds, with loneliness, but people and media, I almost just sailed straight to Trinidad or Barbados. But, I finished! The best part was definitely seeing my mom, my sister, and my dad all at the same time. It was a perfect welcome. I really love sailing alone, but I also really love sailing with someone too. I was looking for crew and I met Bruno. No, no! - What no? - No, stop filming. - I'm really not! - The red light is on. I'm not crazy. There's just some moments that are way more beautiful to just share it with someone. So we're sailing to New Zealand. I feel like New Zealand is gonna be a good place for me. And if it turns out not to be, I'll just travel farther. Sometimes I feel like an arrow Fighting something, somewhere long ago Whether it moved or I'm bound, I don't yet know But if you see me coming, oh, I'll probably pass you by On my way to something somewhere, sometime Sometimes I find myself reeling Twisting and rolling in a plastic sea The signs and signals biddin' for attention for me So turn on your sleigh, and I will turn on mine And we'll hum and glow Like something somewhere, sometime And if I wounded you, I'm sorry I had good intentions And if I wounded you, I'm sorry 'Cause it happens all the time Yeah You remind me of a reason had by someone so many years ago Send words through wires, build highways from coast to coast But those words fell short Your roads have worn with time On our way to something somewhere, sometime And if I've wounded you, I'm sorry I had good intentions, oh And if I wounded you, I'm sorry It happens all the time Sometimes I feel like an arrow Fighting something, somewhere long ago
