 

                        1 - Mike? Mike! Mike! Did you hear anything I just said? - Nah. - I told you you're fired. - Fired? Fired for what? - Great! Thank you so much! - You're very welcome. - I'm so starving, and you know what? You have a nice day. What the fuck? Oh this Hennessy right here man. 'cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick Get the fuck out! - Oh, come on! Don't do me like that. Going to my 10:00! - I told you, if we received another complaint, We're gonna have to let you go. - Man, fuck you! And fuck this job! When I blow up, Im'a have a hot 16 for your ass. Take this fucking shirt. - Okay. - Can I have my last check though? Give me my goddamn check. Fuck you! Fuck you. Hey what's-? - Like I was saying, You could come over later if you want to. - Daddy! - Oh my baby girl! Ooh! Simba! What's up? - Are you gonna let me on your mixtape? - What you gonna do? - I got bars. - Ooh, well let me hear them. I can rap, just like my dad I make you smile you won't be sad Ooh! I gotta put you in the studio asap! - Can I go today, daddy? - Not today, but if you keep working, You'll be the new Nicki Minaj. - can you make a rap about me? - Of course! Give me a beat! If you love her then you's a friend to me and if you don't then you's a hater I'll pull out my chopper then I - Don't nobody wanna hear them weak ass bars. - Them bars are weak as fuck! - Now what'd I tell y'all about cursing in front of her? - Fuck you nigga. You don't tell me shit. - You don't tell her shit, okay? She is an independent woman. I-n-d-e-p-e-e-e-e-n? E-I-n - damn girl. - It don't matter, she got her own. - All right, look baby. Go to your room and play and daddy'll say Bye to you before he leave, okay? - Okay. - Okay. Go head. - What are you doing over here anyway? - Man what are you doing over here anyway? Don't you got somewhere you live? I ain't gotta explain to you. I can be here whenever I want to. She is my best friend so fuck you. - Yeah and where is my raggedy $200? - I ain't got it. - haha you ain't got it. Of course you ain't got it 'cause you broke. Just another rapper, rapping about shit He don't have, like money. - And you better not been spending my Child support money on your weak ass rap career. - Nah I got fired. - Again, mike? For real? Your dumb ass was probably somewhere trying to perform Your weak ass bars to somebody in their they living room. Are you serious? You really did that? You really thought that was okay to do? - Man you ain't gonna say nothing when I blow up though. - But you not gon' blow up. You almost 30 now still trying to pop. - 2chainz was 34 when he finally popped. - But you ain't 2chainz. - But I... - But, but, but, but, but my ass! I'm about to put your ass on the state. - Boop! - Come on, don't do me like that. - I told you you shoulda have been Fucking with drug dealers or scammers. At least them niggas got real bread. I mean they may have to do a bid But before that you'll be stunting bitch! - Mike why don't you just take that Call center job I was telling you about? I could hook you up. - Yes ma'am, could you just give me your expiration date? I could finally close my first deal. Oh yes ma'am I... Hello? Hello? Hello? - Morning mike. - how you doing, sir? - Did you catch the big game? - Boy did I? That boy Thompson's a big galoot. You beat me by half a point on fantasy football. Oh shucks! - I just knew I'd get ya! - That you did, sir - Hey, listen. I'm gonna need you to come in this weekend. I need someone to file the lob reports Before the audit on Monday. - Oh sheesh. I was planning on going hiking this weekend sir. This is the seventh weekend in a row You've put me on the schedule. Gee Willikers, why me sir? - Because you're a bitch mike. - That I am sir! Oh, what the hay! Anything for the team. Nah, I'm good, I'm good, I'm good. - Um then how am I supposed to get my money? I'm not playing with you mike. You need to get a real job. - All right look If I don't sign a major deal by my 30th birthday I'll quit rapping and I'll get a regular job. - You'll be 30 in a couple of days. Don't nobody wanna hear no 30-year-old rapper boo-boo. - Wait, wait, wait, wait. You should take this bet 'cause he got just as much of a chance at getting signed As Tyga does winning album of the year. - Damn. - Okay. I like that. All right mike, if you don't get signed by your birthday, You have to give up all these ideas of Wanting to be a rapper And go work at the call center. - Wait, wait, wait, I ain't say the call center. - Okay that's fine. I'll just put you on the state then. - Bloop! - Fine. - You always been a dreaming ass nigga. - And you a fucking nightmare. - What? - Nothing, nothing. Why you so confrontational? - Mmm-hmm, I thought so. Go say bye to Kennedy And then get your sorry ass out my house 'cause I'm expecting company. - Hey, hey, hey, better not be no niggas Around my daughter, I know that! - Oh it's gon' be a real nigga around your daughter For the first time in her life ever. - Man where's your real nigga? Matter fact where's any nigga? Get the fuck out of my face you bald-headed ass bitch. Fucking peacock built ass bitch. That ain't no fucking Malaysian hair That's German Sheppard. Yeah I know. - Boy bye! - yeah I thought so. - Come on girl don't listen to him. - Get your ass on. Kennedy come say bye to daddy. Ooh ah. - You're leaving already? - Yeah daddy gotta go to the studio But look, if you see any strange men around, They ain't your uncle. So you tell daddy asap okay? - Okay. - All right give me some. Mm, mm, mm, pppsshh! All right go play okay? - Okay. - okay. - Man fuck! - Bruh you ready? - You got something for me? - Aye man this beat right here gon' get you all the hoes. - All the hoes? - Let's go I got something written up right now boy. You know boogie you a real nigga - Hah! Mike massacre I'm definitely a real nigga - Brrah! Real nigga we gotta have like a anthem somethin' that when we get in the club niggas be like this song is for us and mike massacre gon' give it to ya - Hey! I'm a real nigga I'm a I'm a real nigga I'm a real nigga I'm a, I'm a real nigga I'm a real nigga I'm a I'm a real nigga I'm a real nigga I'm a I'm a real nigga I'm a real nigga I'm a I'm a real nigga I'm a real nigga I'm a I'm a real nigga I'm a real nigga I'm a I'm a real nigga when you see me in the streets you know I'm real ain't nothing 'bout me plastic ain't nothing Mattel I'm a real nigga dog like a muhfuckin' g ain't no fake wrestling ain't no w-w-e I'm real boss like Vince McMahon aloe blacc lil bitch I'm the man I'm the I'm the man what's up - No nigga no. - Aye I'm killing it what's up? Why you turned the beat off? I mean you're rapping about toys and WWE And aloe blacc. The fuck are you talking about my nigga? - Man listen you don't understand The song said I'm a real nigga. - What real nigga raps about Mattel? - Mattel is the parent company for barbie and ken. Get it barbie, ken? That's fucked up boogie. That's real fucked up. - I bet in all the history of hip-hop There's been no rapper that has used the word Mattel. - Turn the beat back on And don't turn it off on me again. 'cause you sound more retarded than Gucci mane. - What? - The fact that you can sound more retarded than Gucci mane- - You don't call nobody Gucci mane retarded. See you call a man retarded you know I'd rather be radio retarded Forrest Gump retarded But you gonna call me Gucci mane retarded? But if I come up in here and knock your ass out Then I'll be wrong. You know what fuck you man. - Fuck me? - Fuck you. - No no no fuck you okay? Because this whole shit is fucked up, all right? It's gonna be fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, Through the whole record. We're just gon' call this record "fucked up" Because it's gon' be all fucked up. You gon' be fucked, I'm gon' be fucked. Let's just be fucked right? - No start the beat man. - Im'a switch it up for you And you gon' stop fucking up my shit. 'cause you fucking up my shit right now. - All right whatever man. - I was just barking to try to show them I'm a big dog. I'm a big dog. You acting like I said I was a puppy. I didn't say I was a puppy. I didn't puppy it. - Breathe nigga. - Man put another beat on. Ooh you know what? Im'a change it up since you don't like what I wrote. Im'a freestyle. - Ooh okay! - You ready? Let's go. Why you never see no black cops because I'm playing black ops why you never see no black cops yeah I'm playing black ops pierce two pierce three boy I'm playing black ops that black ops black ops yeah I'm playing black ops that black ops that black ops yeah - Poor little Tink Tink still at it huh - Fool got fired from his job, Then told his baby mama that he'll get signed Or she can put him on child support. - Ha! She might as well file them papers now. I'll shoot you lil boy I don't care if you thirteen knock your motherfucking ass out so clean Why do you even produce this shit? - That's my boy I can't just tell him he trash. - Uh yeah you can. And if he was really your boy You would tell him the truth. You wanna get shot in my hood - All right all right. - Hey hey hey man! You ain't gon' keep doing this When I'm up in pocket! I'm in pocket right now. Nigga you need to put those lyrics in your pocket 'cause that shit is trash. - Man fuck you and fuck... Ooh. - why you looking at my sister like that? - What's good baby girl? - Not your lyrics. - Now why you gotta be so salty? - I'm not being salty. I'm just letting you know what my Bucket-head ass brother won't. You're a terrible rapper. Like trash. - Listen, I don't know what the fuck you talking about. - Called you trash in English, Spanish, Italian, Russian, German, and Swahili. - Mm Swahili huh? So how you say "trash" in Swahili again? - Takataka. - Well look you call me trash You say takataka But if I get that chopper on your mans He'll go blocka-blocka. Blocka! - Okay, stop, stop, stop, stop. - What made you learn all them languages anyway? I decided to look them up to let you know That you were trash from all around the globe 'cause English just wasn't gon' cut it. - Mm. When you gon' let me fuck though? - Ay nigga this my sister! - Man I don't care. I'm trying to be your step-daddy Now take your ass to your room before I get my belt. - First of all you are never gonna fuck okay? - Mm. - And why is that? - Because I don't fuck with rappers But even if I did I wouldn't fuck with a trash ass rapper like you. - But I ain't trash though. - Man you went from talking about police brutality, To video games, and sex, in the same 16. - Man you know what? I call that range my brother. - Shit. - You know what? I got something for you candy. - Don't want it, I don't want it. - Bryce tiller mix. Where I can sing to you. - Ew. - You know what? The fuck? - This goes out to a special lady. Drop that boogie. Baby take care of that pussy so I can eat that pussy - I mean like on the low it kinda goes. - Shut up boogie! Baby I would never beat the pussy up pussy up I just want to show the pussy love pussy love give the pussy gold medal gold medal put that pussy right on a pedestal on a pedestal on a pedestal on a pedestal - Hey come on man! - that's disrespectful. Look you don't put your ashy fingers on my shit! - You're not gonna fuck. - Come on look I ain't gon' use no condom. Im'a shoot the club all up. - no the hell you ain't. - She doesn't want herpes so no thank you. You're gonna stop trying to smash my sister man. - Man, she know she want this. - But on the real though? That last one kind of went. - See I tried to tell you. - But it's not you so... - Hey man I'm trying to make a hit. As long as they spell my name right On the checks I'm good. - But if you don't care what you sound like What's the purpose of doing music? - For money! Look when pink first came out she was an r&b singer. There you go looking pitiful - Aye aye aye man I ain't ask you to audition. This ain't American idol. But yeah she was an r&b singer first And then once she made the money She start making music she wanted to make. - But you not pink. You could just be you right off the jump. - Man shut the fuck up! I don't give a goddamn. You know about goddamn child support? You don't know shit. - Okay all right, that's real talk, But I'm just saying. How the hell you gon' get signed? You ain't never met anybody in the industry ever. Not once. - I mean we could re-release "Henny dick." You know that was a banger. - Nigga ain't nobody listen to Henny dick The first time you released it. You know what? I got it. We re-release Henny dick right? - That's what I'm saying. - Get seven plays then get signed. - Man shut the fuck up. - Okay all right. How about this? Battle rap. - Man I don't know how to battle rap. - Come with me. Dream with me. - I'm trying. - This what we gon' do. Im'a show you the vision okay? So we gon' go to the battle rap right? - Okay. - Im'a record you on my boost mobile phone. - Oh shit. - And I got the upgrade you can see. You can record on this one. - Ooh. - Okay all right? Im'a upload it on Facebook. - Facebook. - It's gon' go viral. - Then nick cannon gon' see it. - Incredible. - Incredible, you gon' get signed to ncredible! - Yo um where the rap battle at? - It's inside yo. - All right you ain't gotta be all rude man. We might jump your ass someday. - Try me nigga. - All right come on let's go. - I ain't say today. Fuck this nigga and fuck his life before the battle started I fucked his wife - Come on guys. That's not true. That's not true. Why you even on stage nigga why you even try this you soft serve bitch you like vanilla ice is - Did he just say vanilla ice is? Oh you gon' cry now lil bitch I wouldn't act surprised but you better yell color money or you get slammed like plies look im'a take it easy now I ain't gon' finish you off 'cause I see your bae watching call me david Hasselhoff - yeah. - Oh my god! Mike done made him kill himself. Did you kill yourself nigga I find that kind of odd I guess me and my nigga boogie we the suicide squad - Nigga. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - You ready for this shit 'cause these niggas is going in. You wanna battle me homes knock that shit off 'fore I drive past the trump rally and drop your ass off who I look like cat y'all got me out here fighting kids kneecaps bigger than her titties is I go this way and come back I go this way and hear brrraaattt drop me off at the trump rally I seen that coming all along but you can't even drive you like you be barbecuing dog bet your drawers is hella shitty 'cause you smell like shit but on a serious note when was the last time you seen your dick looking like a broke ass snoop from the wire dreads is on some other shit they need to be set on fire you fuck bitches with a strap on and you think you a real man that's not real man - All right y'all. Y'all calm down. Calm the fuck down, shit. All right first off... - You ready? - Hell yeah, I'm ready. - All right man, you better bring it. - Im'a bring it. - All right. - And mike massacre! All right, all right, all right. So we coming through. Y'all get in y'all positions. Y'all look each other up in the eyes like men Real dogs, real lions, you know what I'm saying? Okay to my right we got my dude Coming all the way from the back of the room White privilege. Give it up for white privilege y'all. That's my dog! And you know we can't end this thing without going to the Black sheep, the black goat, the greatest of all time. - I want y'all to give it up for my dog mike massacre! - Thanks boogie. - We in here, we in here. So we did the coin flip in the back And my man mike he got it The ball is on his court. So what we doing my man? - Let this Justin Bieber ass nigga go first man. - Ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh! I like the name calling! White privilege what we doing? Come on. This my first battle oh what a day today I get to battle younger broker fake ass deray - Shit. - fake ass deray! You light skinned with tattoos - How the fuck he know that? You got a muscular figure you're trying to be my man crush you broke ass nigger - Come on man y'all tag-teaming and shit man. Y'all can't do two in one. - you lost. - Fuck you and fuck you. - you lost. - Fuck you looking at hoe ass nigga? - Hey man seriously thank you so much. - Anytime you need a nigga pass holla at me. I'm your nigga pass. - Yeah, for sure. Don't say that shit. I'm your boy all right. - Okay. - You ain't gotta say it you understand 'cause if you have to say it I would beat your ass. - That's cool. - Aye check it out Check it out. - What's up? - Get your white ass out of here. - Yeah, for sure. - All right? - Damn man. What the fuck was that? Man you see how they double teamed me in there? - Yeah white boy bagged your ass man But it's already blowing up on the 'gram though. - Man how it get there so fast? Boogie, it's 'cause you posted the shit. - Nigga, you're about to get so many followers from Baller alert nigga. - Nigga they tagged you. - You know what? I'll delete it. - Man it's too late boogie. Everybody gon' see that man. - All right im'a do you one better. Im'a shout you out when I get all the followers I'm just going to direct them right back to you. - ahh! Nigga! - Man that's some bullshit man. Y'all can't fucking tag... Fucking boogie man! Man up man down let me find out you just a fan now im'a whip that work like a Know boys want them mixtapes man. I got that OG mike massacre new mixtape. Yeah with the smash hit Henny dick. I know somebody want a mixtape. Oh hey Fam I need you to come listen To my mixtape right now. - Let me call you back, it's a nigga selling shit. - Come on, come on Bruh. - This you? - This the OG mike massacre. 'cause I'm gone off the Henny - okay. Gone off the Henny - Oh you walking me down. You walking me the fuck down. - I'm walking you down? - You walking me down aah! - Look, you should listen to my new mixtape. It's called Henny dick. - Oh yeah I love rap music. - Oh well you're in luck. It's only $5. - Oh well perfect. - Oh my god thank you. - Oh you're welcome, of course. I love supporting underground artist. - Really. - - thank you. - Hey, thank you. - my first sale, I love this. - Nigga this shit is trash! Nigga kill yourself please, suicide! Shotgun, pills, nigga whatever it is. You got to die today! - Still walking down! Still walking down. Come on up with that mother. Come up ah ah ah ah. Aye who did the beat? - Man my boy boogie on the beat. - Nigga boogie on the beat oh! - Yo my man, my man, Need you to listen to my mixtape Fam. Tell them what you think. It's that fire. - What the fuck? You fuckin' up my buzz man. - Yo what you talkin' about? - Take this $5 you gonna need it more than me man. - That's fucked up man. - Let me go back to sleep. - Fuck you. - Ah ah ah ah ah ah! Dab with the leg up. Dab with the leg. - Sick. Like I knew I had that sick flow. - No it's making me sick. - Huh? - Oh I'll buy your mixtape But you gon' have to hit this. Gone off the Henny gone off the Henny - And does that bean savor the flavor? 'cause im'a ride your face. - Ah ah ah slide. - Got to walk with it Got to walk with it - Man I see what you doin'. - Man Fam. - Boy I see you. I see you. I see you out here hustlin' boy. I see what you doin'. - Man listen. And I know you want one boy. - I see it. - They only $5. I'm about to get you one right now. - Five dollars? - Yeah they $5. - I really didn't even like it that much When I think about it. I ain't like it that much. - But Fam you was just dancing to it. If I ain't hear no music I'd still bet getting my shit in. Five dollars Foot longs cost $5, not that bullshit. Take it out the collection plate at church. Young mike massy I'm fast like the flashy watch me come assy Hey baby I need you to come listen to my mixtape. - I have a boyfriend. - Man ain't nobody tryna fuck. Maybe I am trying to. Hey mothafucka! - What? - Nigga you think I'm supposed to be scared of you nigga? Huh? Nigga I will Man I ain't mean to do that. Man I got a whole family at the crib. I got a little daughter man. They got me on child support. - Hold on hold on wait wait. Child support? - Yeah. - I'm two payments behind myself my dude. I understand man. - Oh man bro. - Aye you do your thing my dude. - Hey I appreciate that bro. - Good luck man. - I appreciate it. Thanks for not whoopin' my ass. - Yeah no problem brother no problem. - Bitch ass nigga! - Aye my man my man my man. - Sorry I don't give any money to the homeless You're probably gonna buy drugs with it. - No no no I'm not homeless. It's my mixtape. - Oh you're a rapper? - Yeah. - I'm sorry. I'd actually rather give money To a homeless guy for drugs Than an old rapper money for a mixtape. No thanks. - Man fuck you Zac Efron. Probably a believer anyway. - Straight out of Compton two: Eazy's revenge? Come on man that's what we doing out here? Madea gets shot in the hips? Come on man. Fast and furious 17 high octane? I thought they was like on eight. What the hell going on? Man they ain't never got no real movies up in here man. - Should check out bridge of spies Fam. - Oh word? - Yeah tom hanks pulls in a decent performance But Mark Rylance he really steals the show. - Okay then. All right hey all right all right. Yeah we'll get that. - Hey man good looking out man. - Oh no doubt boy. All right. Henny dick? - Aye that's my mixtape Fam. You should listen to that Instead of watching them old ass movies anyway. - How I'm supposed to turn this in? You ain't got no barcode Fam. This a $30 mixtape. - Long day of the hustle. Another person got to listen to Henny dick You know what I'm saying? Which makes the world a better place. - Man this woman done lost her damn mind. See she want me to go OJ. I can't go OJ. I don't got the OJ money. I can't get Shapiro and Cochran. They gon' lock me up. Fuck that! - You need to put some creatine in your booty Or something baby 'cause you ain't got no ass. Huh? Huh? Hold on, hold on. Hey could you turn that down dog? I'm on the phone. - Oh shit. You like this shit man? It's off my mixtape. Put a lot of work into man. I see you feelin' it. It's about time somebody understand man a artist. - Hey wait I can't hear you, hold on. Aye aye my nigga turn that down please. Aye Deelore let me call you back my nigga. Aye man turn that bullshit down man. What kind of goofy shit is this. Don't nobody want to hear this old poo poo ass shit. - Mami got a little hot fire in here cab man. - Never mind I'll walk. - Wait wait wait wait wait this say 47 miles To your destination. - I'll walk. - You know what? You should get you a copy right now man. Fuck it. - Oh I deaf. I don't hear nothing. - Oh man I thought you was jammin' my shit. - Aye my nigga if you don't turn this muthafuckin Matter fact man pull over. Man let me out this muthafucker. Nigga pull this muthafucker over and let me out nigga. - Okay. - Let me out nigga. All right man all right. - You old deaf ass bitch. What the fuck is wrong with you man? - I could still read lips though. - Nigga fuck you! - No fuck you. - Fuck you, fuck you. - No fuck you man. - You know who the fuck I am? Man I'll kill yo muthafuckin ass Out here playing with me. Nigga I'm a gangster. - Fuckin' deaf ass bitch nigga. - Aye aye. - What? - Yo mamma like this deaf dick though. - Man im'a, im'a! 'cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick - Oh shit that's hella yella. This my chance, this my chance. God. Hey hella yella man what's up boy? - What's goin' on? - Hey man I'm a big fan man. I love all your mixtapes man. I jam them back to front, front to back, all that man. Man you a... - lax Fam. - Lax okay. What time your flight leave? - Now, I gotta be up there right now. Could we go? - All right say no more, say no more. - Yeah yeah yeah. - I got you. - Thank you. - Let's ride out. Like your single. Remember your single ride out, ride out. That was jammer. You know yella I don't really do this man But you mind if I uh... - Let me guess, you want to show me your mixtape? - Yeah man, would you? You know what I'm saying? Just listen to the heat I got. - Yeah yeah yeah yeah why not? Let me get one. - All right cool you want one. Man aye man I appreciate that man. Man look... - Henny dick? - It can ride Any kind of where. You know it can ride in your car. - Okay. - You could play it at church. You know you could play it to some other record. Aye man what the fuck you doing man? - Nigga don't nobody give a fuck About yo dusty ass mixtape. I can't even help myself nigga. My label don't let me make the music I'm trying to make. My next album's called black titties. You think I wanted that? You think that's what the streets wanted? - Definitely not. - No it's not So fuck yo mixtape nigga. - Man that's fucked up yella. You could have just said no bro. - You could have just taken me to lax. Terminal five nigga. Oh I got something for yo ass. This Hennessy right here man Yeah this that hot shit I was trying to put you on. Cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick - Damn nigga this you? Gone off the Henny Aye this shit kind of go hard brotha. Oh shit. - Yeah you like this shit? - This shit is hard nigga. - You like this? Turn this bullshit off nigga. Got about as much talent as a damn sub sandwich. - You know what? Fuck the airport. - Aye this, aye that was, that was the exit Fam. All right all right I see what's happening. I see what's going on. You fittin' to rape me? - Aye man, man hell nah. Man what are you talking about? - Yeah right nigga. Yeah right. Yo trash ass mixtape don't work So you got to go with plan b, plan booty. I'm calling the police. - Man call the police fuck boy. I'm taking you to the airport like you asked. - Nigga my flight is at lax. - I'm taking you to long beach. That's what I thought you said. - What kind of fuckin' rapist set up is this? I don't understand how... - ain't nobody trying to rape you man. - yeah the fuck right. - stop fuckin' saying that. - man you full of yourself. - hey lil' homie what you in for? - You can't have none of my cornbread. - What you talkin' about? - You can't have none of my cornbread. I know how this works. First you try and take my cornbread Next thing you know I'm washing drawers And helping brush your teeth And wiping your ass. - Oh man ain't nobody talking about no drawers and shit. - Man look I know one thing if you touch me It's gon' be consequences and repercussions Around this bitch! - I know this nigga ain't quoting life. - Nigga I got life. Man what y'all didn't know? I'm in here for triple homicide niggas. Yeah triple homicide. I killed my plug 'cause he ain't Let me run off on him twice okay? Then I killed the lawyer 'cause he ain't help me Get up out of here. Then I killed my barber 'cause he fucked up my line in my mugshot. - Micah Jehosaphat Jones Mm hmm You made bail. - My baby. - Yo pastor Jones! - Hey what's up hector how you been? - I'm cool. So ya boy got a triple homicide And made bail huh? How did that happen? This boy wouldn't let hella yella out of his car. - And I would have killed his as too. - Yeah I bet. - The fuck you lookin' at lil' nigga. This blood over here nigga. What you want to do? - Don't you use that type of language in front of me. - Mama you crazy? - Don't you talk to your mother like that In my presence boy. You crazy. - All right hector you be good here? - Yes sir. - I'll see you in the chapel this week for bible study? - Bet. - All right. - All right. - Son what on earth has gotten into you? We have worked too hard to have you embarrassing us Getting arrested and carrying on. - Man he was trying to punk me. I was just trying to play him my mixtape. - Here we go. - You still trying to do that rap stuff? If you gon' be a rapper You need to be one of those christian rappers Like Lecrae, Andy Mineo, or Spazzy rocket. - Ma they don't even call themselves Christian rappers no more. - I got Lecrae's mixtape, church clothes. You telling me he ain't no christian rapper? - What are you doing listening to Lecrae anyway? - He go hard during zumba. - Why you want to be a rapper anyway? You were raised in ministry. You could help me build this kingdom. I can use your help.  - I used to be in the world like y'all. - Yes he did. - I used to be flippin' and dippin' Stickin' and lickin'. - Oh he slid up in my DM's. - I used to be gone Off the Henny. - Aye yeah. - Which is still available on Itunes. If y'all want to go get that y'all can. - yes thank you Jesus. - I used to turn up for the world But now I turn up for the lord. - ah yes, oh yeah. - Hallelujah. - Now I whip the devil. - whip that devil. - Preach preacher. - Now I dab on the devil's forehead. Boom boom boom. - Get him get him. - bang bang bang bang bang. I used to listen to future. - Well I still do. - You know I love to talk that stick talk, that stick talk. You know? But god gave me a future. Mmm Jesus child - God told me Jeremiah 29:11 "for I know the plans I have for you says the lord" - That's good that's good. - I don't need codeine. - say it! - I don't need lean 'cause I'm already on lean. Leaning not to my own understanding. I'm leaning onto god's everlasting arms. - Yes thank you. - Leaning into his word And leaning into his promises. - I want to be saved! - Put me in a flat brother Terell. Nah I'm good on that pop that ain't me. - Well what is you? Getting fired? Rapping? Being behind on child support? - Man I'm good don't worry about me. - All right suit yourself. If you really need a job You can work maintenance with deacon Pete around the church. Make an honest living. - And if you need to come home save up money That's just fine. - Don't be in no rush to come home. Me and your mother have been being fruitful And multiplying all over this house. - Well you know this rod and staff been comforting you. - Okay I'm gonna go and get up out of here. Thanks for bailing me out. - Don't mess around and miss that court date. That maintenance job won't be a suggestion then. - I got you pops I'll be there. - All right now. - what's up? - here this nigga go. - Are you ever happy? - Oh yeah I'm happy. I'm happy when you pay your child support on time. I'm happy when you're leaving. Oh and I am very happy when Wilson give me that good Good good good ow. - Yes she is always happy whenever Wilson dicks her down. - Let him know. - Mm hmm. - Man where is Kennedy? - She's in her room getting ready. Wait I need to talk to you before you take her. - What? - Okay so... - Does she always got to be here? - Oh I can be here. She needs my support. - Girl could you give us a second? - Really? You know im'a tell you everything anyway. - You right. You still a bitch mike. - Man I'll knock that weave off yo head You disrespect me again. - Okay mike. You know me and Wilson are getting real serious right? - Man Wilson's a fuck boy. You only fuck with him 'cause he the opposite of me. You ain't fuckin' with him like that, stop. - He asked us to move in with him. - And you told him no. - I told him I'd think about it. - Man that's crazy. We always said that we wouldn't Move in with people until we married. I don't want her around every nigga you date. You crazy. You know I don't be around mad niggas like that. - It doesn't matter you ain't movin' in with him. - Kennedy is my responsibility. - Our responsibility. - No for you she's a choice. For me she's an obligation. - That's crazy man. A dude miss a few payments And you act like I ain't never been there. Like I ain't here anytime Kennedy need me. Anytime she needs something im'a go get it man. - Mike I can't depend on you. I'm just trying to put our daughter in a position Where she's good no matter what. - Man she can always go to my parent's house. - You know I'm not gon' put my baby on them. - Man I don't care what you do honestly - And if we do what you gon do about it? - Take you to court. - And lose? You know the courts favor the mother Not some broke ass, dumb ass, Fake dream having ass nigga. - Man I don't got time for this man. Kennedy! Kennedy baby! - You gon' see. - Hey baby girl. - Come here, come here, come here, aw. Aw ooh oh my back. Ooh you gettin' so big and heavy. You ready to go on our play date? - Yeah do you want to hear some new bars? - Oh you got some fire for ya boy? I'm the youngest girl rapper y'all can't see me I'm invisible like the private parts of barbie - Oh I love it. As long as we clean up that last line a little bit. - But barbie doesn't have any private parts. - I know baby but why don't we say something Like unsolved mystery? I'm invisible unsolved mystery Much better and appropriate. Let's go. - Higher daddy! - You ain't scared you gon' fall? - You won't let me fall you're my daddy. - Get up off there, whoo. - Race to the trees. - Oh I'm tired. You so fast. - Let's play hide and seek now. - Okay. - You count. - All right I'll count. Okay. One, two, three, four. - You're peeking! - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. Ready or not here I come. I know that you can not understand it Where's my Kennedy? In the studio Is that her hair? Oh that is my Kennedy's hair. - You cheated! - No I didn't. I didn't cheat. I'm good. Oh! Oh hey. Whoo. Want to go for some ice cream? - Yeah. - What's your favorite? - Chocolate and vanilla. - Chocolate and vanilla. I'm a little strawberry guy myself So let's go get some. Got to put you down first. You getting heavy. - I'm 41 pounds! - 41 pounds is a lot of pounds. Well you know I'm 185. But don't tell nobody I'm eating ice cream okay? Oh boom. We gon' get some good ice cream okay? Fuck. Wow just couldn't wait? Damn. - Are you mike massacre? - Yeah who are you? - Oh my god you wrote Henny dick. I love that song. I'm like your number one fan. - Well how'd you get my address? - Oh you know how us fans are. - So what you doing here? Just to give you a birthday gift big zzzaddy. - Ooh hold on right there. - Mm hmm. - Oh what are these nudes? Aw girl you could have snapped these to me. - Oh no they're not nudes. - So what are they? - A subpoena. - A subpoena? - For a child support hearing. You just got served. - Man fuck you! - Top of the morning to you. Wilson. Oh. Okay, oh you're a hugger. Bring it in. - Aye aye man get off me man. Where Tina? - Tina cakes Micah's here. - Aye call me mike man. - Oh well good we're on nickname basis. I picked up this co-parenting book for us. It's called... - Fuck that book! - About two fathers. - What you doing here? It ain't your day. - Man I got the subpoena. You do this shit on my birthday for real? - Yeah. - 'scuse me. - 'cause you need to know ain't nobody playing with you. - Do you want me to leave cakes? - Yes. - - no! - Well I'll just be right here. - We agreed that if you didn't sign a deal Then I was gonna go through the state. - Man the day ain't over with. - Are you kidding me? I could give you a hundred years And you still wouldn't sign a deal mike 'cause you can't rap. - Man you don't believe in me. That's the problem here. - I got this please. I don't need to believe in you. I need to raise our daughter. That's what we do together. Your sorry raggedy ass dreams Ain't gon' feed our child mike. Neither are those little bitty hopes. Time will, money will. - But I spend time. - And I spend money. - Man where my daughter at man? - I need to talk to you before you see her. - Man get out my face man. - We're moving to Seattle. - You what?! - Actually it's bellevue, a small suburb. It's a 6000 square foot condo. Got an extra bedroom for you. - Can you get out my face? - I understand where you are and I'm here, okay? - See Tina I tried to deal with you 'cause you my baby mama and I love you 'cause you the mother of my child But you know you trip on me about being late with money But you late when it's time for me to see my daughter But I deal with that But if you think I'm gon' let you take My daughter away from me you out yo fuckin' mind! - Listen mike I understand your feelings. That's why in the summer We're gon' give you like, what like? What we say? Two days? - For two days? Man I'm trying to be in my daughter's life. This lame ass nigga daddy 'cause he got money. 'cause you think money fuckin' rules the world. - But see you're the dad And I would be papa sheeshaw. - My nigga get out my face! - Mike listen, once you calm down you'll see, - Fuck you! This the best thing for you! - Fuck me? Nah fuck you! - Man bitch fuck you! - Oh I'm a bitch now? - Do what you gon' do. - all right all right. - Im'a show you a bitch, im'a show you a bitch. - Get off me. - - you need to leave. - Calm down you guys. - Man im'a go see my daughter. - You need to leave. - I ain't leaving shit. - Really? - That was the angry encounter. It said that in the book. It's a wall we're pushing through. - Mm hmm. - Brick by brick And it's happening. - Shut the fuck up. - Why were you and mommy yelling? - Well baby girl sometimes when two people can't get along They can't hear each other so sometimes they got to yell. It's nothing. - So are we moving because you and mommy don't get along? - Man this has nothing to do with you But don't you worry im'a make sure we always together. - Daddy I don't want to move. Please don't make me move. - Nah baby girl don't worry about nothin'. - You know I don't fuck with rappers. - Man candy I ain't even in the mood For no consolation pussy right now boo. - First of all you weren't about To get no regular pussy okay? - Man can you just hurry up and tell him So he can stop trying to fuck you in my presence? - Okay so I don't fuck with rappers Because rappers can talk about real shit In they music but they just make shit music. - I listen to every song you've ever made But you never talk about anything real. - Man candy we already know you don't like my music. - see but it's not just because you can't rap. The other half is the fact that you only do shit That you think people want to here. You don't make real music. - Yeah but I put my heart in my music. You know I go hard in that shit. - Okay that's cute and all But so take Kendrick Lamar for example. Like I really fuck with me because after I heard Good kid mad city I learned something about him. Like I learned that he grew up in Compton Around a lot of gang violence But he wasn't involved in the gangs. You know he talked about peer pressure And losing people that he loved And that's real music. That's the nigga that I'll let hit. - What? - Yeah I would. I'll let that nigga hit it raw. - Whoa whoa whoa whoa candy ain't nobody Trying to here all that shit damn. - Look you need to delete all of your music. - You crazy now. You trippin'. - Delete everything. This could be the start of a brand new career for you If you ever get that far. - now wait a minute what um? - log in. - Nigga don't look at me. Shit I still can't believe That she'll let Kendrick Lamar fuck raw. - Ooh yeah I would. - he famous. - He probably get so much sex. Aye man you know how much sex famous rappers get? - and he'd get a lot from me. - Shit. - Okay now. - just gon' take it like that? - Yup and stop calling yourself mike massacre. Your name is Micah Jehosaphat Jones And both your parents are in ministry. No one believes that you're runnin' Around here killing people. - Yeah but Micah is a weak rap name man. - Shut up boogie! - Okay young Micah come and do it like the pied piper. It got a little ring and pizzazz to it okay But hold on how come you listen to candy When she talk about writing some real shit But I told you that like a thousand times. I just told you that like 30 minutes ago bro. - Well you know. - I mean it's simple boogie. - What? - I'm trying to fuck her. You know and I ain't trying to fuck you. - Okay. - You know what I'm sayin'? So I could listen to her. - We get it, we get it. - I want to fuck her good. - We can just stop talking about fuckin' please? - You mad? - To one of yo beats. - Or nah? - Go head write. - Your sorry raggedy ass dreams Ain't gon feed our child mike. Fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama - And if we do what you gon' do about it? - Take you to court. - And lose? You know the courts favor the mother. Fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck fuck fuck my baby mama hey - I could give you a hundred years And you still wouldn't sign a deal mike 'cause you can't rap. Yeah fuck my baby mama crazy muhfucka crazy always on my business she want me on low she do child support checks new hairdos the fuck is this when I see my daughter gotta buy her shoes oh what type of shit is that what what type of shit is that she got me by the nuts I think im'a get her back but I will not hit her back who she think she is Floyd Mayweather she want me to hit the mat she screamin' she screamin' she want me to hit her back but I will not hit her back my baby mama put yo middle fingers up to yo baby mama mama yeah - Dang Bruh you went in. I hate my baby mama and I ain't even got one yet. - Aye shut up fool. - I mean it was cool or whatever. - Man im'a knock yo ass smooth down one good time my nigga. - All right all right calm down calm down. Aye you think I should drop it? - I mean Tina gon' hate you And probably make your life a living hell but. - And it's more honest than the crap you was doing before. - Man Fuck it. Fuck man. Hello. - Nigga you are blowin' up. - Our song went viral overnight fool. - Our song, yeah I bet. - Yeah our song. I made the beat didn't I? Look I'm the metro booming to your future. The Timbaland to your Missy Elliot. The mike will made it Well mike will makes a lot of beats. You know what I'm talking about. Check out your sound cloud. Fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama - Oh shit. Damn that's crazy. - Yeah I told you we on fool. I already bought the new J's 'cause I know we about to be ballin'. Baller alert posted you. Shade room and all that shit. Man check out your followers. - That's crazy. Man celebs been re-tweeting your link all this morning. Where the hell you been at? - Man I was sleep. - Wake yo ass up because tonight We gon' get fucked up. Even my sister said she was gon' stop by And celebrate your success. - Shit that's a bet. - Hey nigga you ain't gon' fuck. - Shit. Fuck we just having fun we don't give a fuck we don't give a fuck - 'bout to shoot the club up. - I meant I was Im'a go raw you know? - Aw yeah! - Yeah. We having a good time. Post my pic on the gram we can have a fun day I'm a real nigga hoe and I got a big beard and ya mans is lame yeah he's hella weird - Yeah who would have ever thought I could go viral? - Well I told you do some real And let the rest happen right? - You did you did. Just come with me need a real boss I'm up in this bitch Hella yella said call him. - You better call him then. - Yeah I'll call that nigga see what he want. Probably a feature or something. We'll see. - Probably. - So yeah this nigga future trying to charge A hundred grand for a feature. - Pfft I told him I can get designer He just want his oil changed. Get away one second. I got to take this. - Hello? - yeah this yella. - What's up? - That fuck my baby mama track is lit Fam. I'm trying to jump on the remix. - Man I got a kidnapping charge 'cause of you. - Man I'll drop that shit If you let me jump on the remix bro. I fuckin' hate my baby mamas man. All 12 of them ungrateful bitches. - All right cool bet. - all right come by the studio In Hollywood tomorrow. Im'a shoot you the address right after this. - Cool cool cool let's do it. - oh and one more thing. - What's up? - I want you to open up for me On the adventures of hella yella tour That's how I want them - Man aye aye don't play with me Fam. Don't play with me. Don't play wit my emotions. I got child support to pay for. You serious? - Nigga I'm not playin'. You not gon' worry about child support for a minute bro. It's a 50 city tour. And we got the world tour coming up after that. You about to be swimmin' in Tubman's. You in? - Hell yeah. - all right bet. - All right my nigga. Racing to this paper - I ain't never getting married Put your hand on the nipple all right. - He said he want me to go on tour with him. - You better go then. - Hell yeah. Fuck my baby mama fuck my baby mama - But love you gon' let me fuck now or what? - I just might. - Oh cool. - When you get back. - Oh come on man don't be doing me like that. Come on man you know want the d. - When you get back. - Hey. - I need to talk to you. - Man what? - In private. Mama mama You can let her go. - And bitch what's yo name and where you know mike from? - Man what? I had to make that fuckin' song about you. I hate yo ass you fuckin' putting me through bullshit. Fuck you. - Wilson left me. - Fuck boy? He met some old singin' bitch. He proposed to her on the beach. Now they movin' to Seattle. - So Kennedy stayin' here. - We're both staying. - I don't give a fuck about about you, you can get... - I can hear you nigga. - Well look you ain't got to worry About all that child support shit And im'a have enough money to pay yo ass So you can take me off them little papers you got. - I mean I'll take you off child support right now If you do me a favor. - What? - Fuck me. - Man hell nah I ain't fuckin' yo crazy ass. Man my dick ain't going nowhere near you. I got four bitches in there trying to fuck me right now. What I look like? What im'a touch some old pussy for? You ain't got to worry about me touching you none. What, you thought I wasn't gon' fuck? Shit. - So mike your smash hit single Fuck my baby mama has been number one Tell me what inspired you to write such an awesome record? - Oh it's simple The inspiration came from my bobble head ass baby mama. I hate that hoe. You know and I had to dig deep and talk to myself. I was like self fuck my baby mama. You know what I'm saying? Fuck her! - Why do you got to keep talking about that? Look I told you I had no choice. Listen don't be telling my goddamn business. - Who would you credit most for your success? - That would have to be my daughter Kennedy. You know Kennedy's the light of my life man. She just helps me want to be better. And also my baby candy. Candy man she taught me to do music And do it from my heart. To just push out from my soul great music. You know so that's what I said I wanted to do. - But you re-released Henny dick Which is currently number two on the billboard top 100. - Well Henny dick's a hood classic sweetheart. - What can fans expect next from mike? - Oh I got a big year planned. You know I got my debut Lp coming out March 15th Called young Riley curry you know. And also me and hella yella got a joint mixtape coming We ain't doing nothing but slapping hoes and getting money But you know what since you bring up Henny dick I got something special for y'all. This is the debut music video For my smash hood classic Henny dick Henny Henny dick. Don't be mad at me when you see this. Oh this Hennessy right here man 'cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone of the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick tinted 'round the car but you still see a star when I pull up to the spot they know I'm looking for thots they know I'm speaking to freaks soon as I hop out the jeep and if she got a man no tlc but we creep Styrofoam cup with ice boy I pour up hold up watch out lil' bitch I want to know her I don't need a name I don't need a sign I ain't even trying to cause she look better from behind I just want to hit the floor and order up a couple rounds baby don't be throwin' up ass shot I tell you she getting thicker and thicker two things I don't chase that's my women and liquor cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick two things I don't chase is my women and liquor wanted Vanessa now I'm going home with Melissa but tonight I'm acting different I might need me a snicker say tonight I'm actin' different 'cause I think im'a kiss her hold on her neck smackin her ass gettin' her wet puttin' in work and I think she might give me a check turn her 'round lay her down im'a teach you some lessons come to me on your knees baby give me some lessons whoa I swear the Henny got me out of control fuck for hours baby give me her soul but this fuckin' Henny dick won't let me bust a nut 'cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick whoa I swear the Henny got me out of control with that big ole ass whoa fuck for hours and then give me your soul whoa I swear the Henny got me out of control what's yo name? Fuck for hours baby give me your soul 'cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny oh this Hennessy right here man gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I gave her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick 'cause I'm gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I gave her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny gone off the Henny take this Hennessy dick she want the Hennessy dick I give her Hennessy dick she need the Hennessy dick - Oh shit my bad. I meant oh crap Oh crap lord forgive me lord. Lord. - I'm coming through that spot. Shit! I'm coming through your town all, Shit fuck. All right boom. - Yeah. - man. Finally got my first, You been hit by the... - wait a minute it's mike the. - The the mike will who is this guy what do you? - Yo head look like burning incense When it gets down to the last piece. Got Monistat 7 all over yo pussy crease. - Yo my man I need you to listen to my mixtape. Tell me what you, oh shit. I... Oh my pants ripped. - did they? - Yes. - I will ride yo face all over this fur burger. - oh god. - The mike will I made it too... - no the mike will made it. - What, the mike will made it. - yeah his name is mike will made it. - Okay the mike will made it. The mike will I made it too well... The mike will I made it. - there we go.
