 

                        Good morning, guys. Good morning! Under these particular circumstances, we can easily discover many shortcomings. They complain about us every day. Watch the way you operate. Also, watch those knobs for controlling temperature and those for steam. Don't laugh. Don't talk. You, stand behind him. Four in a row. Stand straight. You, come to this row. Regarding the unqualified material, our group, 2B, did the worst. Every time we worked on 7562, if I didn't remind you, then nobody would label the bad items, so they got messed up. They were scattered everywhere. Besides this, the worst thing, there were no labels for them. So when the products were moved, the bad ones went out as well. I'm not a god. I'm a human being, just like you. I am only 1 person and you are 20. When those materials were rejected, the quality controller complained a lot. This is the bad habit that exists in our group, 2B. It should be good. No problem. He is shooting now. We haven't sorted these recycling materials in time. Now there's too much to do. You wouldn't start working until you were told to. You don't want to work? It's not useable anymore. So after you sort them out, will you smash all of them? Yes. All will be smashed. First, welcome to our company. This is the headquarter office. During the past 1 3 years, our company has been expanding steadily. Our product is sold in more than 60 countries and territories around the world. Our products cover from the origin to the terminal of low voltage electrical safeguards, which includes the TSM1 Smart Breaker, Smart and Multi-functional Breaker... and the TSM21 Breaker, TSM Small Breaker, and the TSY Power Supply Protector. My name is Tan Yanfang. How long have you been working here? Six years. I can assemble 400 units every day without overtime. The shell of the TSM Small Breaker is made of the best quality materials in the world, including specialized parts imported from Holland. The products are mainly for... Excuse me... I feel so nervous. That's okay. Can I use... Can I use my notes? You can read. That's fine. We will keep updating our marketing, focussing on technical research, to serve our customers best. Professional, high-quality, and large-scale work will make our company an industry leader. Our corporate goal is to be exceptional. Professionalism is our principle. Changes here are huge. My father told me when he came here in the early '90s, there were no ships being built. Now it's getting richer here. My mother is a welder, just like me. My father is an assembler. I failed to get into high school and my uncle worked here. That's why I came here to work. There are lots of coal mines here. Coal is mined on a large scale to meet the energy needs of our country, because our economy is developing very fast. But it brings some environmental problems. Did you just say that large-scale coal mining is to meet China's demands in her economic development? We came here for that. I have to let you know that he's going to publish a book about the development of Chinese industry... and we understand that China needs a lot of energy for development. No shooting. No shooting. He's just taking a picture. Don't shoot, guys. - Excuse me. -Yeah. As far as I understand, the problem right now... - I mean this is my personal idea... - Okay. is that the court itself has the very regulation that no media is allowed to come to this. No I understand that. But my understanding is, Tianjin Harbour Goods Distribution Centre from Mr. Chendling this morning - I think, maybe he... -You know? Yeah, no, no. That's okay. Maybe Mr. Chendling does not know that there is a certain regulation that... I understand it's quite windy today. It's very dirty, very dirty. I don't think it's a good day to make beautiful pictures. It's very gloomy here. But through his camera lens, through his eyes, it will appear beautiful. For example, even this industrial waste, it's kind of like garbage. Still it appears beautiful through his camera. Take a look at these pictures. This book is a retrospective of his past 20 years' work. Most of the pictures were taken in Canada. Here are some pictures of mines. The book we are making needs a picture... Actually, our concern is that it will cause some negative influence. Let's just go to the site and have a look. Workers, before you go to the site, please check that you are wearing safety equipment or proper clothing. Please check if there's any potential danger and if you are clear about today's work. Today's highest temperature: - Old Master? How are you? - Yes. - Are you working here? -Yes. How about the work? Is it hard? Of course it's hard. - 20 Yuan. - What? - 20, uh, 30 Yuan. So, 30 Yuan a day? Oh. What do you think of this project? Are you proud of your involvement on such a huge project? I'm just a general labourer here. We are just working for our boss, getting paid here. We have three shifts a day: day shift, mid shift and night shift. How long have you been working here? I've been working here nine years. Nine years? Wow. It's just work. It's all for our country. The project was officially launched on December 14, 1 994. It has been almost ten years. It will take 1 7 years to finish, ending in 2009. This is the biggest dam that has ever been made in the world and probably ever will be made. There are three main functions of the dam. The first is to avoid floods. That's the most crucial function. The second is to generate electricity. The third is to improve transportation. That's it. The full length of the dam is 2,309 metres. There will be as well as 6 underground generators, as back-up, which makes 32 total. Each one generates 700,000 kW, with a total capacity of 22,400,000 kW which supplies 84.7 billion kWh per year. How many people have to relocate due to the construction of the dam? According to the statistics we got in the 1 992 census, 830,000, but considering population growth, the actual amount is around 1,1 00,000. Are these people content with their new homes? Do not ask me this question. I'm not in charge of this. Yangtze RiverCities, China, 2002 It's a very broad view. It's hard to see the details. Because our country was poor in the past, people's life standards were low. Compared with the old city, the new city has been improved regarding the scale and construction quality. Generally speaking, life quality has been improved as well. Because people feel happy about the fresh environment. You have so much free time that you can wash your dog? These houses were basically old houses. We were old neighbours. We've been neighbours for decades. My father and mother grew up here... and I was born here. I'm more than 60 years old now. Go further. You will find an interesting place to shoot. They came door to door to persuade you to move, one by one; sometimes they deceived people into going. Sometimes they coaxed them. Often they beat people up. One guy here got broken bones.
