 

                        'In Tamil Nadu, Nelaiappar and Thiruvarur chariot festivals...' '...are famous for their chariots used in their processions' 'But this Veerapandi chariot is famous because it is stationary!' 'The 2 groups standing here are the main contributors' 'At least this year let's see if they pull this chariot!' Sir, no problem Just a tin sheet that fell in a strong gust of wind Just a tin sheet? If it had fallen on your head you would've known Thangavelu, have you arranged tight security? We've arrested 100 men including the chairman's nephew That means our chariot will finally move this year Sir, you're very optimistic! These arrests and warnings are only for our satisfaction They'll continue to do whatever they want to their satisfaction Are you never positive? I've told our higher-ups somehow we will do it this year Even delivered punch dialogs Ensure there's no problem Not possible, sir I can do something only if a problem arises Is this how a police officer talks? Talk according to your stature Sorry, sir Why is there such a huge crowd? Did you bribe them with 'biriyani' packets? Half of them are out-of-towners They've come to watch the fun if a problem arises It's like watching a circus for them He's the new Collector I believe the old Collector has been admitted in hospital for chest pain Today we'll admit the new Collector Usually after prayer sacred water is offered But here you're serving tea?! They are real barbarians! I can see that They will be quiet as mice during the initial preparations But when the chariot is being pulled they will raise hell Have both the groups assembled? Yes, sir The one on this side is Chairman Seva Pandian He has held the post for past 20 years Nothing happens here without his knowledge His men are the majority here The gentleman standing over there is Mahesh Babu His father's name is Kothandam He contested elections for 20 years and lost Dejected he died, sir He's in a frenzy to achieve what his father couldn't, sir Let's see Please come, sir All of you stop screaming Allow the officer to talk - Greetings, one and all - Welcome, sir Why are they greeting me in a chorus like school kids? And you malign them as barbaric This is how they'll begin Temple, festival and chariot are common for everyone You've been fighting for many years We don't even know if this chariot will move So this year stop your fights and pull the chariot with unity Today this temple maybe common to everyone But this temple was built by my ancestors We should be given the honors to pull the chariot And the welcome ritual has to be only for us! Maybe they built the temple but this property belongs to us Not only that We own the 18 villages surrounding this area At one point my family ruled this land Family that ruled the land should be given the honors That is our tradition I'm not willing to give up our tradition at any cost Did you rule at a stretch? We also ruled in between We ruled as much as you did You think you ruled brilliantly! Don't make me malign you! Stop it Given a chance you will go on flashback mode If your ancestors have built the temple in their ancestral land... ...what does it mean? It means they didn't even have land to build the temple! They co-existed peacefully You are the ones fighting like cats and dogs We can't give up our rights for anyone You're enjoying the rights we relinquished, I say Why are you wasting time talking to him, bro? Don't talk All of you dance to a folk song! Bro, just say the word and I'll chop him to pieces First chop your matted hair Jobless jerk! Don't shout Allow sir to speak Listen to me What nonsense is this! Just keep quiet They started this and you're yelling at us - Are you their stooge? - I'm not on anyone's side He's being disrespectful Tell him who I am He's the Collector Pull your dhoti down I knew when you wore a rose colored shirt... ...you are not one of us How do they identify the clan with the shirt? Sir, just an underwear will do for them to forecast They can't do that I don't wear one! I wear inner short pants They are not barbaric They are eccentric I now understand why the old Collector fell sick Either agree or disperse I'll draw the chariot with the help of cops! Thought he'll ensure the chariot is pulled But he's dragging us in Watch me now You better leave now Or else the Collector will head the function and we'll pull the chariot My head! Have they started? You guys, take over Let's leave this place Go carefully I'll talk to you later Usulai, uncle is coming Greetings! Stop crying and tell me From when has your daughter been missing? She went to school yesterday morning She hasn't come back since then It must be love related She has been seen with Narasimhan's son yesterday My daughter is very young She is very innocent That boy has brainwashed her and lured her away I never imagined my daughter will do anything like this Will any dad think his daughter will elope? Just consoling him, uncle If girls don't marry at the right age and they study, this is the outcome! Thought after her 12th grade this year I'll get her married We've sent our men They'll find her in another few hours for sure Okay, I'll inform him Head constable just called The girl and the boy are in the police station Then let's go bring her News has gone right up to the DSP's ears The new Deputy Superintendent of Police is a little weird Nothing can be done Nothing can be done? Take off your uniform and wear cotton dhoti from tomorrow! Don't laugh He's taking a dig at us You go to the police station What can we achieve single handed? I'll send Anbu If he accompanies you it's as good as me coming When the constable said he can't do anything... ...I called Anbu He said he'll go to the police station Even if I scold you, your father will reprimand me You brought him to the police station! Has that boy become more important to you than us? Listen, that boy has lured you just to disgrace our family Please go home without humiliating your parents Whatever it is we can talk it over at home I won't come I'll go only with him That girl is very stubborn She isn't paying heed to her parents at all This DSP is annoying us with his rules and regulations That boy is talking arrogantly too I'll handle him Please listen to me, Selvi Come back home with us Look what happened Okay, stop crying Who are they? Anbu, chairman's nephew He has come to mediate about that school girl issue She's young She did this without knowing You be quiet I'll take care Hello, sir Why are you making a school girl sit in the police station? Instead of settling this at home- Bro, I know all about you This isn't a councilor's office to do what you wish Everything happens according to law here Sir, I'm such a law abiding citizen of this town, sir Even now I don't want to make trouble I wanted to talk to both the families and settle the problem Looks like this will take a long time Bro, go buy tea for all of us Hello, I'm Selvi's boyfriend Shouldn't it be a perfect match even if you elope with your catch? Bro, you go and get tea Treat me with respect I'm the boy's lawyer! Retain the coat with you Or else you'll pass off as an accused! That girl isn't listening to her parents You think you can persuade her? If she doesn't heed your advice I can send her only after getting them married - Let me talk to her - Try your luck All of you wait outside Wait till you reach home I'll talk to her We've been looking for you from last night, worried sick Sit down - Did you eat? - Yes, I did Drink water Were they too harsh on you? Crying nonstop your face is swollen Even otherwise her face looks swollen! I'm not here on behalf of your parents I heard what happened and came here for your sake I don't weigh relationship with caste and status like your parents I'm prepared to get you married to this boy right away But you are still in school Tell me as soon as you pass out of school And you still feel the same way about him I'll perform your wedding in the grandest possible manner Education is very important In the blink of an eye 6 months will fly It's my responsibility to get you both together, okay? This is how you promised Viji akka when she was in love You fooled her and finally got her married to uncle Chandru Why do you think I split Viji akka and her lover? Think I brought Viji akka and uncle Chandru's together! Selvi, you know no one will go against my words Trust me and go home Selvi, don't believe him When you go home, they'll change your mind with black magic Is she a rat to faint swallowing some medicine? Did you attract her with such a potion? You wait here Let me talk to him I'm not here to poison her mind You're right if I had told her not to marry you I'll myself get you married once shes out of school What's your problem? Who are you to get us married? How are you connected to this problem? French connection! Dude, he looks like a China phone And you're letting him wag his tongue! You can't talk so loudly inside the police station Okay, I'll take care I agree I'm related to the girl But I'm also talking on your behalf This problem magnified only because you brought a school girl You waited all these days, right? Wait for 6 more months I can't do that I want to get married today Don't you trust your love? I don't believe you This boy is giving instant answers! This won't work, sir Both of them are adults Get them married today Even if she wants to study, she can continue after marriage He isn't letting her study now Catch him letting her study after they are married Listen Mr Lawyer Boy is jobless Girl is still in school How will they run a family? Will you feed them? It won't affect you in any which way You'll get your money if you split or unite them If we get you married now... ...after 6 months you'll be filing for divorce We have seen so many cases If you listen to me and get married after 6 months... ...you can live happily ever after It's your call All that's fine - But how can I trust you? - Fine, you don't trust me But don't you believe Selvi? You want a written statement from her? I trust Selvi Our love is very deep Only his love is deep it seems Then wait for 6 more months Selvi, are you wondering if your parents will accept? It's my responsibility to get their consent Don't decide immediately because I said so Think about it and then decide? Have you thought about it? Tell that boy and leave You must be the state topper! Girl has accepted to go back home The boy has given his consent - Are you okay? - How does it matter to me? If the girl is willing I'm fine with it - Thanks a lot - Don't worry Look, how he handled it Bring the girl along Listen, take her home without hitting her Don't scold her And buy her whatever she wants - What about the boy? - I'll take care of him - You go home - Buy her things to play Cook her favorite mutton recipe for her Bro, got a vehicle? No - Get dropped in our vehicle - No need, it's okay Moustachio! Drop him at his place and come Go and drop him, I say Let's go - Anbu - Sir? So many spoke ill of you to me That's why I was also biased To speak ill of good people is a fashion statement now You don't know him His policy is to protect law and establish justice somehow! He'll bend backwards to get what he wants Leave it Why blow our own trumpet? Who is this? He's our friend Photographer from London - He looks different - Yes, he's white Let's go, Bill We'll take leave, sir Said he'll come after 6 months But is back in 6 minutes Get up Think you're very smart if you go to the DSP's office? If we can convince a girl in 5 minutes... ...and take her away from the police station ...can't we make her forget you in 6 months? Think you're Cupid? With your beard, do you think you resemble... ...actor Sasi Kumar in the film Nadodi? If I see you going behind any girl... ...I'll pickle you to pieces in that very spot Not only did you elope with a school girl But you went to the DSP's office? You dared to step into our area and fall in love? If I see any chap here I'll skin you alive! Is it wrong to fall in love in India? Does it mean you'll hit me in this same way too? Are you in love? How are you and your girlfriend qualified? I'm a male and she's a female Look how he's taking a dig at us You have to ask him in a way he understands What caste do you and your girlfriend belong to? Then there's no hassle In our town, falling in love with different nations isn't wrong But it's a crime if people from different castes fall in love Like this one Scoot from here What is next? There's a sacrificial offering at the Aiyyanar temple Let's go there and make merry By hitting them only my hand hurts - Where to, dude? - For a song, dude! "Here comes our friend, in lion-king mold He's a gem of a man, 24 carat gold" "He's our lion-king, behold! Never tarnishing, 24 carat gold" "Loved by all, he's an achiever Like Kamaraj the king maker" "Without a flurry or fuss guards us, he's our boss" "A popular face Like Jyoti Basu" "A case slapped on this boy bright who fights for justice as his birthright" "Street smart and swell Smart cookie in a nutshell" "Here comes our friend, in lion-king mold He's a gem of a man, 24 carat gold" "Like Atlas with the world on his shoulder he lives life to the fullest forever" "Talking too much like world war 3 he'll add on enemies like an army" "Like mustard seeds he'll splutter when he sees lovers however" "Love is a disgrace, he'll exclaim All parts of your body he'll maim" "Caste conscious is not wrong He'll protect it for a mile and furlong" "No one to oppose him Even if so, he'll win" "He'll be silently seeing through posters smiling" "Mother, father and God to honor Pearls of wisdom he'll favor" "Here comes our friend, in lion-king mold He's a gem of a man, 24 carat gold" "He'll guard without stepping out his women folk no doubt" "His fame spread like wild fire throughout" "Without competing he'll work 24x7 He's a wave that doesn't waver even" "Your worries if you unburden to solve your problems he'll yearn" "If anyone stirs trouble he'll hit double and treble" "To the poor and needy he'll lend a hand steady" "Not counting every penny he'll appease the hunger of many" "He'll be silently seeing through posters smiling" "With tender loving care he'll bond and share" "Here comes our friend, in lion-king mold He's a gem of a man, 24 carat gold" "He's our lion-king, behold! Never tarnishing, 24 carat gold" Don't look at it superficially because they are our folks Enquire thoroughly about the girl's background I've enquired thoroughly They belong to our caste It's hard to find a bride for your son And she sifts and sieves Don't talk off your rockers Shouldn't that girl be familiar with our customs? Is she landing from Venus not to know about our customs? Broker, are there any defects in my son's horoscope? If any defect it must be in mine! I've shown 139 photos of prospective brides to your son He comes up with excuses saying... 'She ran away with him' or 'She's in love with some chap' He dodged 75% of the alliances The remaining 25% you've disqualified Finding fault with the girls' features Can we just say yes to all the random photos you show? Come here Come here, I say They have ganged up again Was your mission successful? As usual it got done in a bad way Sarcastic retorts wait at the tip of your tongue! Will you prosper if you go to the police station on an auspicious day? But without going there have you prospered, uncle? What? Why should it matter if some random boy and girl elope? What can I do? You brought me up saying I should question injustice Don't over react Only good people do such good deeds One who plays dirty shouldn't preach about fair play Will you keep quiet? Your brother is the one to blame On this auspicious day, if your brother hadn't called why would he go? It's many years since I spoke to him If he keeps going, won't he call him? He doesn't call me because I go Because I'll go even if he doesn't call me... ...he calls me Try to understand Dude, it's okay even if you don't answer him But don't make him mad! I'm bored yelling at you 24x7 Likewise Why do you gang up with him and be maligned by our society? What wrong did my son do? He advises girls who eloped and unites them with their parents That only adds to good karma - Do whatever? - Okay - You go that side - I'll only go this way You do whatever How do you manage him, ma? Keep quiet Bro, look at this girl's photo How long should I keep looking only at the girl's photo? For your sake, can we bring the girl home? Do you think he is a marriage broker? Or some other broker? She isn't an ordinary girl the way you assume I found her with great difficulty Was she lost? I was about to say she's as pure as gold Her character is like Goddess Sita You know what? Even her neighbors won't be aware she lives next door! At least does her family know? Will they ask me to look for a groom then? He and humor are poles apart! What? You know that girl? Not just us The whole town knows her Sister, please bring some water for the broker Please get me a good coffee Why coffee? We'll pour milk as in a funeral ritual! Dude, look at this Sita You'll like her very much - How did you find her? - Searched and found her You can only search and find a girl who has eloped Stop it Do you want him to marry a runaway girl? If you want a bride, a girl child has to be born! You don't want that girl to marry her boyfriend You don't want to marry that girl either So what's your logic, master? Dude, you won't understand all this Hey fair chap! You are too fair in your thoughts They won't let you live peacefully in this town Please run away to your country Get lost I won't step into your house again Hello anna Vino, what are you doing with your Bell computer? It's Dell! You rub it in every minute that you are educated Where is your father? Up You sent him to God, huh? Jinxed mouth! Your uncle was just now asking for you He had to attend the Panchayat meeting Is he ready or not? You can eat by the time he gets ready We've already eaten I've made 'dosa' and your favorite tomato 'chutney' My favorite 'chutney' That's a style statement Get up As if you'll forego the coconut 'chutney' Look, he's heading for the dining room I'll reserve a seat for you Why is your dining table as far away as Madurai?! Forever making fun! Help yourself? Have you eaten? I got through the 1st round of the campus interview They want me to go for the final round in Coimbatore Why go so far? In the evening you can walk on your terrace itself Final round interview It took me 3 years to get my first job after I graduated Like me Dude, brilliant means being a brain box Trying to be funny? Finish your 'dosa' with plenty of 'chutney' Bro, my father is not letting me go to Coimbatore for the interview Please convince him He's waiting for you to graduate to get you married How will he agree to let you work? Your father should be persuaded to let you go for the interview, right? I will handle it But you promise me you won't take up the job Tasty, who made it? She should take up a job once she graduates Why get her married? What kind of practice is this? First go back to your country You're corrupting our folks Our family hates the word 'job' Eat without pouring pearls of wisdom I'm better off than my friends My friends were forced to stop studying and get married Girls shouldn't act, study, play once they get married How many restrictions? This isn't too bad They say a man should marry only once In the name of tradition Aren't you the least bit ashamed? Our whole family has no shame Are you trying to create trouble in our family? Just eat to your stomach's content! Tackle my problem first Why are you insistent on a job when you're born in an affluent family? Have I ever insisted on working? One who has failed school finals can't get a job in any company Only because they will call me I decided to fail my final exam If he had passed, the school building would have collapsed in shock! I meant the 'sambar' has too many chicken pieces! Haven't you've allotted the contract to Uthaman? Let me go and talk to uncle You've stuffed enough Come fast They intend demolishing all the houses we built... ...because it's Govt land it seems Who is that scumbag who said so? Commissioner, uncle Ask our men not to vacate Okay, uncle I'll talk to the commissioner You seem to be having a round table conference? We were talking to Vino Eat 'done'? He doesn't understand English I guess I believe Vino wants to go to Coimbatore for a job interview How can you join hands with her? When I'm saying our girls shouldn't study... ...how can I send my daughter to work? My policy will be affected What policy do- Keep quiet, uncle It's a prestigious company She just wants to work for 6 months, having studied so far There lies the fault If I hadn't sent her to college she won't have such dreams Why should my daughter go work elsewhere? All that won't work out Ask her to stay put at home Come along Stop gawking What, bro? You heard him? What could I do? Useless! Let's go Good morning, sir Sit down Good morning Good morning, bro How are you? Please sit down They are not councilors How can you let them in? Do you know the man seated next to you gaping at all of us? Do you know him? Commissioner of ward 5 In your dreams! He's been our driver for 5 years You couldn't even identify him Sit down Let them explain the corruption in the road contract issue Tell us Whatever our sir speaks will only make sense What's wrong with it? Why do you talk utter nonsense to them? In a democratic country everyone has right to voice his or her opinion Speak up 4 members have requested tender for road My brother Mahesh Babu has quoted 7 lakhs But you've given the tender to one who bid 9 lakhs since he's your man Explain this move of yours Even then he gave it only to a gentleman Not goons like you Wait...wait If you'll prefer only your caste why pretend to be impartial? You know now our clan gets preference Then why ask for a tender? Just to make problems, huh? You dare do something wrong and then justify in a loud voice Don't wag your fingers at me You know who I am Have you come to see a prospective bride here? For us to feel shy? Don't try to shy away now and bring the roof down They speak without an iota of shyness Hey! You sit down now Silence! Not just 9 lakhs I'll select them even if my men ask for 1900000 (raised voices) Don't shout and ruin your health Clear out No use talking to them We'll walk out now Let's go This is atrocious How can you walk out? Let's go We thought they will make the walls tremble But they are walking out quietly We've seen men who don't get involved in a fight But even though we spoiled for a fight, they refuse to take the bait They won't pay heed to our words Fling eggs at them Opposition is playing unfair Don't aim at their heads Watch me in action Trying to hit me? Hit them Don't hesitate Don't you dare hit me You have 1 foot in the grave And who called you here to give your opinion? Give me that tomato You are behaving atrociously Someone will come to put you in place You deserve only tomato pickle! Off you go now Who pushed this old man? He's asking as if he doesn't know My savior! You are here Good people's blood shouldn't be wasted Take that egg out Bad enough you pushed him and now you're ridiculing him! What about you? You mistook betel leaf stain as blood! What's your 'ha ha ha' in aid of? He must have added too much 'chunam' Now I'll hit him Watch him bleed Look at him now You moron! He is one of us Hit one of your men and show blood spurting Knock him down flat What? Showing off? You think you're a big shot? Celebrity, huh? Let go of me Put me down Where are you taking me? Everybody is busy fighting Where are you taking me? Put me down (raised voices) Disperse Who is that? Clear off We are here to fight just for fun You're taking it too seriously? Some of them may die Shouldn't let them off easily Won't you listen to me? You're reveling in rowdyism here What do you want now? Clear out Don't act smart with me How dare you create a ruckus here? What? You call yourself a cop?! Go and ask them You have the gall to be rude to me? Didn't you hear me asking you to clear off? Let me see how you win this election? In just 6 months I'll bring you to your knees And show you what power means Bloody blockhead! Your father has been saying this for the past 20 years Listen to me Get lost Whatever the court says I know all about our law too Get lost! You'll grease the palms of the police, huh? Then you put them into your pocket! Clear out My sister's daughter's birthday Need God's special blessing for her Vinodhini's birthday? Taurus, right? I'll do so most gladly Please recite a 'sloka' for me too Otherwise we have to spend on 2 offerings - Sssssh! - Okay The decorations were beautiful on God, right? Sorry, my aim misfired M cousin's birthday So please distribute it Little one, come here Can you see that 'akka' over there? Hand this over to her And tell it is from me Is it a love letter? Leave letter Walking dictionary! Go and give What are you thinking of? Give it to her Taste God's offering Letter for you, akka What is this, child? Love letter Who gave it to you? That uncle sitting over there 'The little devil tattled' Sonny, did you give this? Yes, sir He agrees! Hold this Uncle...! Dumbass How dare you give a love letter to our girl? Is this the house? Yes, partner Who is at home? Who is in- - Let go of me - Who is it? Come out, madam Where is your son? Who are you? Why do you want to see him? Even if a husband gives a love letter to his wife my friend won't approve You think we will rejoice if the same happens to our girl? You should talk gently with ladies Your turn Madam, if this boy here gives a love letter to that girl... ...will you keep quiet? What are you saying? Immature fellow! Even the old lady doesn't like you If I pick up my kitchen knife... ...I will slice each one of you to bits and pieces Just about to croak and you still twirl a bun out of your hair... ...imagine how much energy we will be burning in our bodies Uncle, shut up 'With your silly smirking face find a girl of your own accord' Is this what you told your son and asked him to loiter around temples? You've got the wrong son Someone has misinformed you Who has barged in indecent- Were you the one to hand over a love letter? He looks like a white rat clad in pant and shirt Did you give any letter to a girl in their house? I didn't give any letter, ma I'll pickle you to pieces if you lie about this I gave only a greeting card! Look at his temerity Forgive him He did this in ignorance Yes, ma Is this something you can do in ignorance, grandma? If I did the same to your sister... ...will you keep quiet? I will keep quiet As if you will? Seems to be a shameless family But my sister won't keep quiet Will your sister return the favor? Just whistle That will do If their son has been raised in this indecent manner... ...you think their daughter will be well brought up? Don't let your tongue run If she hears you... ...you'll be in a royal mess - What will happen? - Problem it seems! We've taken God's permission to mess further The it's your bloody fate Good heavens! Where is she flinging it from? If we are shameless... ...you don't have an ounce of shame My brother gave a single greeting card You sister has given him an entire post office load of cards 'After you saw me I am not just 'me' - Vinodhini' Check with your girl first before you barge in here When the men are not at home Shailu, I am here Okay, when only 1 male is around We should have realized when Vino was not affronted If you come dressed like politicians can you talk whatever you like? Don't stop me I'll make you count bars on account of eve teasing We were only talking to this old lady How can you have no mercy and call her 'eve'! She might file a case that I misbehaved with the old lady We are better off with eve teasing! Let's go Aiyo! I held your hand by mistake Whackos of the worst order! You just flung these away Such memorable gifts I should have hit you instead The pitcher got dented Will you go in please? Break every damn utensil in our kitchen! You just throw whatever you lay your hands on If tomorrow it becomes a big problem who will deal with it? The way I dented them they won't step in here again They are back! If you intend making any more- No, we didn't come back to make any trouble In the chaos and confusion here my friend's car is missing I mean, his car key is missing If you tie your hands without hitting us... ...we will look for it and scoot Is that so? Then I will also help you search "One look at you, my dear My life melted to disappear" "Like the udder of the cow my mind too is sore now" "What did you do to me? My breath is hot, I feel dizzy" "Like the story of the mad elephant that got tamed in an instant" Hey! Listen I found it Let's go You found the key? We've all been looking Where did you find it? Right here Let's go home safe Maybe she hid it It's cold outside Go in and search Sir has gone out I'll inform him as soon as he comes Okay What happened? You found out who the boy is? We did We know about the son now We also found out more about your daughter Where is she? She is lying down in her room scared after the temple incident Naturally, she is incarnation of innocence We were praying when this boy chased her and gave her a letter Good heavens! Did you check who chased whom? Shut up Aunt, we have dealt with it It was a case of mistaken identity He fell at our feet and apologized The boy fell at his feet and your nephew hurt his head Keep quiet Don't tell uncle and blow it out of proportion I'll take care Okay I'll go and question her Ignore it, uncle She's still a child Is this what a child does? There's a limit to indulgence Tomorrow a passer-by will ask our chairman... '...are you raising a girl or something else...?!' Get lost Do something that's taboo and now watch TV happily If our family dignity should not fly in mid-air, what should a girl do? Switch off all the fans and TV inside the house So if your parents' minds should be cooled... ...you'll store them in the fridge? Punch dialogs after punching us in our hearts! Did Satish give you a love letter following you like a lost pup? Did I say so? Did I come and complain to you? His sister told us Then go and ask your sister Don't yell at me Not letting me watch TV in peace You can say what you want and deride me, I don't care You are to blame for giving him a love letter, right? Why did you? Tell me Grown physically Not mentally? If I am not gifted a phone we have to resort to love letters Wretched female! You know what will happen if your father gets to hear of this? He's right here Go and tell him He'll forever be parading from room to room in his house What happened? Rubbing your eyes? Nothing, bro-in-law I'm hearing people praise Vinodhini sky-high Really? So I'm shedding tears of joy I thought you were cutting onions for a feast! If you get to know, you'll shed blood instead of tears! Your mouth might just get stuck like that forever Ridicule How do I get out of this mess now? Stuck between the devil and the deep sea We've come till the district court Not adjourned it nor won the case either! Call the lawyer, uncle He himself is calling It's the lawyer - Hello, sir - Where are you? Inside, of course Inside? Has the verdict been given? If you keep arguing like this, verdict will be given very soon 'Inside' doesn't mean jail but inside the court Oh! Inside the court Okay...okay Stay there, I'm out of town on an urgent work Will send my junior Sir, are you sending your junior? - Are you kidding me? - Why should I? I've briefed him Case will definitely get adjourned All that will not...hello - He disconnected - What happened? I believe he won't come Sending his junior it seems He himself argues like a junior Junior's junior, huh?! Shailaja, they are involved in the assault case sir briefed us Collect the details from them I'll wait for you in the courtroom We don't have to come every week Straight inside to count bars! You chopped just his hand, right? Man is still alive, no? She's talking casually as if he cut a cake! She was in a good mood that day We escaped with just that pitcher! I'm in court now Call me later Okay, who assaulted the victim? Our team I just gave him the stick He was the one who cracked his head You didn't do anything? I asked if you didn't do anything I told them not to But you- He said not to... ...stop with just one blow! The 3 of you have hit a 60 year old officer We shared 20 each What's the big deal? In front of the judge say yes to any question I ask Is that clear? Should I say 'yes' even if my name is asked? Come now That way No adjournment for sure! What happened to him? Thank God! Come...come...come Didn't expect the case to get over so fast, right? She squashed it to pieces Anbu, I would like to talk to you alone Of course we can Why are you dragging me? She might hike her fees by 100 or 200 bucks Don't take the pitcher throwing to heart and do the needful Keep quiet I've already told him He'll take good care Don't feel shy to ask See you...go - Tell me - Who are they? Are they your relatives? Oh no! They are jobless, lazy louts They hang around to be of some help Oh! By the way what do you do? I do a lot of service for our town Actually the other day I was a little too rash It's our fault Without verifying we came to create problems I've been like this from my childhood If I get upset, I'll throw whatever I can get hold of That's okay Your advocate struggles to even get adjournment But you argued effortlessly and got us out Not just a pitcher, you can hit us even with a pot! Do you know something? This is my first case Please ask your advocate to become your junior! Oh no! Even though 2 offenders walked away scot-free... ...you argued firmly for an innocent not to be punished You'll become a famous lawyer Don't make fun! I also thought maybe I was generous with my lies Not bad, you seem to be quite a nice guy - See you - When? Won't you come again for another case? "My mind is blank totally Dude, what has hit me?" "I wish I could glance into her eyes just once" "In my mind casually she planted flowers calmly" "With her breath in the wind her claim on me she pinned" "Immersed in her beauty I no longer feel hungry" "My mouth forgot every single word Tongue tied, I'm in a new world" "Thought emptied completely What has happened to me?" "I wish I could see her eyes once directly" "Her usual route I don't favor Neither am I her neighbor" "Still memories of her around me hover" "I didn't hit on her either I'm not arrogant like her" "She ties me up like a plait My mind cannot combat" "Even if many goons by my side her scent kills me, I'm stupefied" "For the sacred thread and wedding sari red" "You order as if I'm your betrothed" "The way she glances generally Intoxicated I slipped into her reverie" "Submerged in her beauty I no longer feel hungry" "My mouth forgot every single word Tongue tied, I'm in a joyful world" "My mind is blank totally Dude, what has hit me?" "I wish I could glance into her eyes just once" "Thanks to her I didn't comb my hair" "I didn't get to know her family I didn't blame her unnecessarily" "I didn't get flustered undue I didn't sing her praise new" "She made both my feet stand rooted to the spot complete" "Seeing her gestures and signs young gray cells sizzle with designs" "Hearing her words honeyed I float with senses varied" "The way she speaks generally I merged in this love feeling gradually" "Drowned in her beauty I no longer feel hungry" "My mouth forgot every single word Tongue tied, I'm in a love-struck world" Why did he call for me urgently! When has he told you to come at leisure?! Come, my dear nephew Our minister Kalapandi's brother's family are here to see Vinodhini formally... ...as a bride-to-be Why all of a sudden? We've been talking about this They came suddenly, that's why I sent word for you, come We can have a feast today! My brother's son, Anbu Greetings I know him very well He's the epitome of affection Anyone in this town will only sing his praises Laying it thick! Come here for a second I'll be right back, uncle Your sister is refusing to come out If your uncle gets to know, he'll kill her Okay, you take care of the visitors I'll convince her and bring her Get ready soon, people are waiting for you there Why did they arrange this all of a sudden? I can't come Why are you refusing? Vino, are you not ready as yet? You carry on I'll bring her Your father is yelling at your mother Come out fast, Vino Brother, I love Satish- You know everything, right? Listen, Vino Will they get you married immediately? This is just an initial formality An engagement will follow and so many other rituals Just show your face If they ask whether you like the groom, say no You think my father will ask me? Definitely not! You know, right? Then why did you fall in love? Okay, stop crying I'll handle uncle You will marry the person you love I take full responsibility Be brave and come Bro, don't tell me the same dialog you tell all other girls Hey madcap! You're my sister I'm not like how I used to be Trust me and come - You are...? - I'm the bride's maternal uncle Oh! Okay And you? Groom's maternal uncle How long have you been her uncle? From the day she was born, naturally! Oh really? What about you? From the day my nephew was born We are both sailing in the same boat What unity! You both studied hard to get the 'uncle' degree! Keep quiet Welcome everyone Greetings What have you studied, my dear? M.C.E M.C.I? I was so proud thinking you would've passed 8th or 9th grade Forget it My dear nephew Take a good look at her - Do you like the bride? - Yes, we do All of us like the girl Is that right? You go inside Come, dear Let me say it once more We all like the bride Totally satisfied We are also satisfied Then let's make this alliance formal If you say so Uncle, come in for a minute - I'll be back - Please go If you want to discuss anything in this gap- Tell me Let's check with my sister if she likes the groom What is this new practice? Don't we know what's good and bad? Why ask her? But she's the one who will be living with him Did I marry your aunt with her acceptance? Aren't we happy? No- Whaaaat? It's not that Times have changed now My cousin sister is also educated That's why it's better to ask her if she- Shouldn't make a habit of this Tomorrow if I see a girl for you... ...and ask you to marry her, won't you? I will Then? When a boy is saying yes, why can't a girl agree? It is a good proposal We shouldn't let it go Let us finalize it Understood? Hey, explain it to him I already did We'll formalize it now But we'll perform the wedding after the election for the chairmans seat Restrictions even to exchanging plates, huh? Please take this Everything went smoothly Next? We would like all of you to stay and eat Serve generously Bone and meat together In your custom, don't you ask the girl her opinion? We don't If we do half the males in our town will remain bachelors! Even when you sacrifice a goat don't you get its permission? In your country they get married in the morning and divorce the same evening Have we ever asked you why? - No - Then zip your lips! What's the trick? I've been sucking for so long with no luck at all You won't get any juice I was the one who sucked it hollow! What is your next plan? Bro said he'll take care That's what your brother will say He'll then separate you both without your knowledge What do you want me to do? This is your life You should only take a decision Shailu, I want to share something important with you I'm busy now Tell me later You're just seeing Facebook, right? Listen to me Tell me They've found a groom for Vinodhini So what? I'm planning to kidnap her today Oh! And then...? Who's Satish here? Tell him I am not here - Are they back again? - Please come in Got a courier Please sign You're delivering a parcel, right? Why do you raise your voice like this? I always speak like this Good riddance...go It's so bloody hot outside You got petrified of an ordinary postman! You've made plans to kidnap I changed the plan What? We'll elope and get married in a registrar's office If others elope they will be caught only in the bus stand But if you elope you'll be nabbed right outside the house! - Is that so? - Claims he can kidnap! Shailu I'm scared to even think about her family You should only help me somehow I love her intently If she isn't in my life... ...I'll die That's the truth, Shailu Tea or coffee? No, thanks Horlicks or Boost? No, I'm fine Green tea I don't drink tea at all Then why come to a tea shop? - Serve me 'chutney' - That's all Just a little Have you been waiting for long? No, just now Only 2 hours This is my favorite shop Even when Im not working I come here to drink tea Very good habit Attend to your work You're okay with drinking tea? I love tea I do too You wanted to talk to me? Just like that What do you think of 'love'? When we fall in love or someone else falls in love? Tell me in general Generally speaking...? Love is like this tea In some shops it is very tasty In other places really yucky Then why do men like you want to shut down all the tea shops? School going girls get lured at such an impressionable age So if a groom is fixed by the family for the same school girl? That isn't wrong? That's wrong too I'm not referring to puppy love at all Will you accept if the girl falls in love after she's mature? You mean as in attaining puberty? No, I didn't mean that As in being grown up Grown up? How do I make him understand? Take Surya and Jyothika for example Will you split that kind of love? If I had been asked I would have tried No one can do that If a girl falls in love when she's grown up... ...no one can ruin that love That's right too So make sure my brother and your sister get united You are saying it in such an ordinary way? Do you know what a mess it will be A girl and boy falling in love is an ordinary matter only Only we blow it out of proportion Shouldn't the elders agree? Why drag them into this? You can do it if you set your mind You got me a glass of tea and muddling me up like this Let me tell you clearly If we are unable to decide our life partner... ...then what's the use of living? I'll be there immediately You give it serous thought See you Bro, don't let him pay for the tea He is my friend She's my friend too Okay See you? What is this song? Whenever I listen to it I get into a romantic mood You are truly blessed You get into love-mood by just listening to a song It took me 1 week to realize there's such a feeling called love! Do you have a girl friend? Oh! You got a girl? What's caste got to do with love? When you're in love only love takes center stage! You say you get romantic listening to this song I think what little love-mood I have, will vanish into thin air Play a song I can relate to "To our earth an angel of love landed" Gem of a song "A romantic epic to me she handed" Who stopped the song? I did Why did you switch it off? You don't believe in love Then why listen to a love song? Did I tell you I don't believe in love? You didn't say you do Bill, right from my childhood... ...he has been telling this to the whole world Now I have nothing to do with the female gender! Otherwise are all the top heroines queuing up at your door step? When I was 10 years old... ...one day I said I don't want to drink tea From that day onwards he told everyone I hate tea Oh! So you like tea? Who are you to decide if I like tea or not? They muddled me up so much now I'm myself in doubt if I like tea! My uncle is even worse Even if we think of flirting with a girl... ...he'll ask us to ensure she belongs to our caste How can you link flirting with caste? Then how can you link love and caste? Friend, how can you link us and love? True The 2 are connected My sister is in love with whom? My girl friend's brother! So the relationship works, right? He means that girl who threw the pitcher She can file a case for you She can't be your life partner File and life are just letters mixed up! Go ahead Are you being fair? Why not? She came up with some dialog If Surya and Jyothika fall in love it's hunky-dory If Ajith and Shalini fall in love it's fine But why is it bitter if we fall in love? Is Ajith going from station to station separating lovers? Not my fault I acted on your instigation If the lovers we separated come back and ask us why... ...how will we tackle the issue? No one can ruin a strong love No one can unite a weak love Repeat this dialog to them Writing on water that flows and taking a decision... ...in a drunken stupor won't work out well Whatever it is let's decide tomorrow I decide day after tomorrow for what I intend doing tomorrow What I intend doing tomorrow I will decide today I've decided I'm going to the court tomorrow Bill, if uncle gets to know this they will ring the bell for our funeral! He isn't deciding after getting drunk He decided even before he started drinking He never let me drink at all! I don't want Looks more like a shirt a watchman will wear Looks like a politician's outfit Will this look good? This looks like a school uniform Blue is my lucky color Choose the tea you want I don't want any tea Just water will do Hey! Wait You're complaining to a Brit whose clan made us suffer for 200 years... ...that we're harassing you In what way did we hassle you? It was just a figure of speech Then if you drink you'll talk as you please, huh? I didn't drink even a drop of alcohol last night It was all an act, huh? If I had spoken like this without drinking... ...won't you say I was blabbering? That's why I didn't drink Is he confusing us or are we getting confused? That's why I drank last night That's what I said He's the one confusing us Don't blabber - What disrespect! - Hey! Get lost Hey you! Come here Anbu? What a surprise to see him wearing a colored shirt? He doesn't like wearing colored shirts Did he say so to you? No, he didn't Whatever he didn't like so far he will start liking now Whatever he likes so far- He won't like? He will like all that too If you ask anything more you'll go mad and run in circles Ever since he was hit by the pitcher, he's like this! See you, sister Whatever he said went above my head! Where are you? Temple - Temple, huh? - What's up? Good news I'll tell you in person Wait for me Good news? Is it your birthday today? No, why do you ask? You're always in white and white as if it's your uniform Today your uniform has changed Am I in school still to wear color dress and distribute sweets to everyone? I just asked casually What's the good news? Are you in love with anyone? No, I'm not Why do you ask? You spoke in favor of love in the tea shop Daily in court I favor even murderers Does that mean I kill people? Even if I do, I swear I won't kill our people Don't swear in a temple Anything can happen tomorrow, right? True, take yourself for example I first thought you are a scumbag and a rowdy Now I don't think so How do you feel now? Nothing I'm blank - Black? - BlaNk! Whenever I see you a thought nags my mind What? Why didn't I see you all these years? 1 minute This chap has a terrible sense of timing From when I was a kid I've never thought of anything for myself I just led my life based on what others told me First time in my life, I thought for myself only yesterday Forget it What can you do if you get enlightened only in the interval I want to say something else What? We wake up in the morning and hum the 1st song we hear that whole day Like that? Like that from the day I set eyes on you... ...my heart is also murmuring a tune That is why- What? Shall we get married? Why are you glaring at me? Missed call, huh? Oh! I was wrong What, ma? Where are you, my dear? I'm at the temple, ma Everyone is saying, your brother has eloped with the chairman's daughter What are you saying? Come home safe and sound without being seen by those goons What, uncle? We've been deceived That boy Satish who gave a letter in the temple to your sister Your sister eloped with him What are you blabbering? I saw them in the railway station Not one member of his family should be spared Come immediately Pamper your girl to kingdom come What's the point of crying now? Okay, stop crying I think Anbu has come Where did you all go? Look at our predicament now Who told you my sister eloped? I saw our girl and that boy in the railway station You could've got them water and biscuits and bid them farewell? Moron! Why didn't you stop them? The train moved before I could Can I cut across and stop? I've sent our boys You have already warned him earlier What nerve he has, not to pay heed to your warning Couldn't have snitched better What did you say? Has he warned him before? Why didn't you tell me? Thought if you knew, it might be blown out of proportion... ...I suggested to keep it under wraps You have all made me bow my head in shame Had I known this earlier, would I have let it go this far? You've shown how immature you are! Start the car Blabbermouth! It wasn't intentional Dude, let's check at Vino's friend's place Who is inside? Come out Come out, I say - Where is your son? - Why do you want to know? If he elopes with our girl, will we zip our lips? First talk with respect Why respect a man who has a casanova for a son? Don't talk without enquiring I haven't raised my son that way Hey, listen Your son has lured my daughter in a systematic manner I'll give you time until tonight If your son does not bring my daughter back home... ...then I'm warning you I'll burn your entire family alive Son of a mongrel Let's go (reality show) Change the channel, ma Hey! Keep quiet Look how she's anchoring the show See when and which program they are glued to the TV! Clarity of mind! Someone is at the door Go and check You won't even let me eat in peace Is that girl coming- Shut your bloody mouth What brings all of you here? Vinodhini has left the house without informing us If she had, would you have let her go? What kind of a question is this! What else should I ask? So you were aware of Vinodhini's plans? Our entire college knows! News has spread even in her college? Is this how an educated girl behaves? We went to college only for this! Are you starting a revolution? Is this some new trend? Better cough up the truth Where is she? To spoil her career, huh? Don't be obtuse If my uncle gets to know, he'll kill her Will you kill for such a reason? He'll resort to murder for the sake of prestige How is prestige connected with murder? You won't understand, Bill If his daughter goes to work why should his prestige go for a toss? Has she gone for a job? She has gone to Coimbatore to attend the final interview in Tidel Park If it is work related why should she go to the park? Uncle, Tidel Park is an IT infrastructure and office She didn't elope with that Satish? With Satish? Didn't she go for the interview then? Why are you confusing us like this? You're the one confusing me Do you understand now? Shut up, you bungler Punch him on his mouth! Tell me, partner Oh my God! We are also going in search of the same boy It seems our men went and ransacked Satish's house What's worse, our uncle has hit his father Matter seems to have got out of hand Hey blabbermouth! Did you see properly? Was it our girl and that boy in the railway station? I saw them with both my eyes Did you see them together or next to each other? You blockhead! Both are the same Both are as far as Earth from Pluto! Think again I saw them together but they were standing next to each other Commotion starts hearing rumors Arundhathi, Rudramadevi, Chandramukhi...! Hope our girl has really eloped I know how your gray cells are churning! Why? If only we find out Vinodhini hasn't eloped... ...you'll be buried alive - What if she has eloped? - Even then you only die! So where are we going now? Check into a hotel Shut up and come along Get down I haven't seen such a huge hotel! Uncle, it isn't a hotel This is Tidel park They've built it entirely with glass In a riot won't the glass get smashed to pieces? In a riot? Look at those gearing up for a riot? Are you developing that girl's arms? Get your hands off Take it off I say Get lost! Looks glossy, right? Naturally, created by a foreigner I was talking about that girl Me too! Bill, I don't know anyone here Leave me Convey my regards to your father Let's go If you continue to talk like this, I'll go outside Then it will stink! Why are we not allowed? Are you provoking me to retort? Dhothi not allowed, sir Tell me, buddy! It seems you can't enter clad in a dhoti We can't wear a dhothi and go inside, right? Wish you had told me this earlier Let's see how you run the company Come, my boys What a set of silly rules! You come They've humiliated us What ruckus are you creating here? You went inside royally Did you look back? He didn't let us enter in a dhoti You're unusually wearing pants today They let you in What could we do? Don't you know how to carry yourself? First get dressed He insulted us and you are not taking him to task Did you check where your sister is? This building has offices all over the place Don't know which office she is in Let's split up and search What are you doing here? My sister is here for an interview We are trying to find out which office she is in Why are you here? My office is in this building, bro In which office is your sister's interview? Easy or difficult Some name like that ECS...! If you ask at the front office, they will guide you Your friend's office, huh? No, bro, front office That's why I'm asking is it your friend's office? Front office means reception Uncle, can't you keep quiet? Come and show us Dude, whose reception is this? His grandma's reception! Which floor is ECS? Whom do you want to meet? A candidate named Vinodhini is attending an interview No need to ask Look over there Why is she coming alone? Brother, how did you come here? Sukanya told you? What does it matter whether Sukanya or Khusboo informed us! I did very well in the interview 5 lakhs 'cost to company' I can join after 2 months Here's the job offer letter Are you upset with me? Uncle, bring her with you You are rattling all this without a care Without any festival your father is walking on fire Why? Plus thinking you eloped with him they've ransacked Satish's house All because of you Is it because of me or you? How can you blame- Are you a big shot? - Do you eat crap? - Why are you staring at me? Am I responsible if she didn't elope? Ask her What's the point in blaming anyone? Go...go Come, dear They've scattered the chillies to be ground And coconuts for sale all over the place I'll smash them- Uncle, already Anbu came and threatened us If you had told me then, would this have happened? I myself came to know about this only now! These 2 hid it from me Even Shailu? Forget your father Shouldn't you have at least informed me? Why did you hesitate? What would you have done? I would have- Not moved even a pin! Aunt, where is Satish? Please call him I am not able to reach him Very good Must have switched it off Why is he walking in like a groom back from his father-in-law's place! Why are you all here? Where did you go? What business is it of yours? - Arrogant ass - Old hag! Why have you strewn all our stuff outside? Are we moving to a new house? House-warming ritual for an old house again! What happened to your phone? It got switched off Did Vinodhini also go with you? Ma...dad is here I know everything Tell me what happened I went for my friend's wedding and got back straight home Didn't I tell you he isn't the kind to elope? Till now no one has dared to raise his hand at me But today Sevapandian insulted me in front of everyone All because of this fellow How is that fair, uncle? For Sevapandian's mistake how is our boy to blame? Satish, don't worry about anything I'm not worried But I'm worried, uncle With this election their game will be kaput I know very well where to hit and make them wince in pain I'll hit that weak spot Take her inside and tell them what happened I'll be back Won't you get down? She has already gone? Stop right there You stepped out without telling anyone and humiliated us Who embarrassed whom? If I don't tell you, does it mean I eloped? Why are you so rude? If a girl walks away like that what will people assume? If a man does the same you won't be flustered Don't you trust me at all, ma? Why? Heard you ransacked Satish's house Tomorrow I will really elope with him What can you do? Even then we'll smash only his house There is a fairness in all the injustice we do This is how people react when their girl is missing Is it a big crime if we inquired because of our doubts? Are you totally brainless? You don't even realize you're justifying your mistakes You aren't even showing any respect for his age and talking so rudely? Does he deserve any respect? His livelihood is to constantly wait for problems to happen And a moustache to top it all! Do you know what a struggle it is to get a job? Don't know If you had been educated you would've known 'Even then wouldn't have known' - Bro - What? What is your goal in life? Tell me What's your aim in life? Don't know what to say if you ask me suddenly As if he can answer 2 days later! At least she asked me She didn't ask you at all! Don't laugh Listen, my only aim is this job I am also born in the same house So I share the same arrogance, obstinacy, everything I'll definitely take up this job Go but they will bring you back Shut up, uncle Hasn't my sister come back, aunt? Why are you scolding her for no reason? - You go inside - Keep quiet, bro You also suspected me, right? I know you better than you know yourself You don't have to answer anyone here We can sort it out later Go inside first From now on inform and go What arrogance! Aunt, we are to blame Influenced by this madcap how can we doubt our own girl? Why are you also talking like this? This problem has blown up because of her immaturity Exposed to the outside world for a day has made her so arrogant! Should've stopped her in grade 5 and forced her to learn to cook If she had been pulled out of school... ...she would be in the kitchen Because she went to college, she kept the stove under you! Uncle, you're standing on top of red hot fire Anbu, call the groom's house Tell them our girl went only for an interview Also tell them to fix the wedding date Uncle- Uncle is always right Get lost! If we thrash him things will be alright Why are we waiting here? What else to do! Planning to confess to Shailaja and apologize Oh! Apology Don't think she'll forgive you Your uncle has maligned her parents face to face On top of it, he grabbed her father's shirt and disgraced him Don't do it now Let things cool down When have you ever left things to subside? Even if there are some signs of cooling, you stir it all over again We stir it all up and you are the good Samaritan! Shall we leave at 10:00 a.m? Wait She should be convinced you are not to blame and you're a nice chap That's all, right? I'll handle it Dude, you go and talk to her yourself Let him do the honors I'm telling you I'll handle it Foreign dude, I'll hit you flat Can't be patient forever Give me some respect, I say He will handle it slick as a whistle I thought it was my scooty! Look here I apologize for all the hassles How can he be blamed for uncle's mistake? If you want, stop talking to his uncle But talk to him without bearing a grudge If not- What? If not... ...it will become a huge problem Get lost Did I ask you while coming here? Don't I know how to get back? Did you see for yourself how arrogant she is I don't think she can fit into our family Better think about it Is this the way to apologize? Do you want me to fall at her feet and lament? How many families we have split? How many houses have you broken personally? Has anyone questioned you? You paid them peanuts and they left I gave up my pride and apologized She walks away caring a damn Daughter of a dictionary My God! Okay, time is 8:45 Time for dinner If we go late, we will miss the intestine soup 'Vaigai Rani Hotel' Bill advised me right then To talk directly And not send you A white man knew you inside out But I didn't know Why don't you eat? Hey, I'm talking to you but you're continuing to eat Aren't you ashamed? What should I do? What do you want me to do? That girl and you won't get along You can pour sauce on a 'parotta' But will 'sambar' taste good with it? - Of course - Moron! None of you understand my pain, right? Eat to your stomach's content! "Why fall in love, pain inflict? No need this silly conflict" "Don't flip for love, dear chap Love loves to crack-up as mishap" "Why this love, painful misfit? In this clash there's no benefit" "Don't flip for love, dear chap Love loves to stack-up as mishap" "I want this love-addict There isn't any conflict" "A friend for life, partner as well A girl is your guardian angel" "You're being stubborn, falling flat Grinning like a Cheshire cat" "Love-struck in your affair you want to vanish into thin air" "I don't like your advice I'm not acting, guys" "I haven't as yet built my fort of love to the hilt" "Why this love, painful misfit? In this clash there's no benefit" "Don't flip for love, dear chap Love loves to pile-up as mishap" "If you hit on a girl all day through people will start maligning you" "Don't walk into this trap, dude" "Your mind generally derides girls easily" "Zip your lips, buddy" "Even the best of kings fell to dust thanks to a woman, love and lust" "A girl isn't worthy of your trust" "If she gave up her mother nothing else will matter" "Don't go overboard, partner" "Don't crave and then fade So said sages, love they forbade" "Don't dump a girl and then regret So said Kannadasan the poet" "Because of your love-mode you'll be stranded in a road" "I want this love-addict There isn't any conflict" "A friend for life, partner as well A girl is your guardian angel" "First she will give a go-go Later she will say a no-no" "This is Love of the day Let it go away" "She'll lend her hand very willing She'll wipe your tears most loving" "Thanks to her, I'll become Superman so awesome" "Didn't Majnu suffer dear because of Laila's behavior?" "Don't blow the conch of love, here" "But for Laila's love this earth won't revolve" "Don't lie so glib And stand here to crib" "Don't grin stupidly or be insulted badly" "My 2p worth, listen to me" "Love is not bound by time Will never be a crime" "So I will say for my love sublime" "Because of a girl, trust me stranded on the road you'll be" Shailaja, please stop for a minute Think about what I'm saying leisurely I wasn't even in town I knew about it only much later Had I been there, I wouldn't have let this happen You would've resorted to murder, huh? Why are you also talking like them? You feel proud killing people, separating lovers or getting into a fight I don't feel proud Uncle was angry because of his love for his daughter How am I to blame? Is it love to gatecrash into his daughter's boyfriend's house? It's called frenzy Don't call it love and degrade love! I'm not like before Only now I realize what I did was wrong I've changed You don't have to change for anyone's sake Continue your social service just like before Forget me Listen to me for a minute How can I be blamed for an event in my absence? Maybe you weren't aware of this But you're responsible for bringing it this far Take your hands off my scooty The other day I came to talk to you only for my brother I had no other intention Don't come to see me again Anbu is here We'll come back later - We came only to kill him - Right, come on They are fated to end up as only dead bodies Considering the election is round the corner- 10 goons have hit him What if it had been fatal? Losers don't think of all that Having the upper hand we should be patient Say some nonsense and zip my lips! I want to talk to you, anna - What? - Let go of Anbu Don't drag him into politics To further your career don't make him a scapegoat How can you be so rude to our boss? He's my one and only son I just want him to be happy I don't know about your wants I think of Anbu as my son If he has a problem you will shed tears I will be boiling mad As if he won't be fond of his nephew Which room is he in? # 6, uncle - He was a changed man - Try this fruit Hello, uncle I was wondering why he hadn't shown his face What's all this? Just minor injuries Only the bandages are big! What did the doctor say? I'll be discharged tomorrow morning Leave right now I'll get you out of here Okay, uncle Chief doctor's verdict My shirt, ma Uncle must be right Give him the shirt Inform the doctor and go home I'll come home soon Come along, uncle Take care What's that big dot on your forehead? Did you carry out my orders? We slashed his limbs and his forehead, bro Only thing we didn't do is garnish him with spices He's floating in blood It will be a miracle if he survives You've cut him to pieces like you're a tailor! Must be a professional butcher How can we not comply to your orders, bro? So what? I asked you to tap him in a few places Not dissect him to pieces If I had paid you Rs 50,000 more... ...looks like you would've even chopped his uncle We'll do anything for you, bro Don't go overboard Then the election will come to a grinding halt Instead of announcing to the whole world... ...get your money for services rendered Bro...sister Sister? I meant sis-in-law! Why trouble yourself? I'd have come over if only you had called I didn't want to trouble you Are you aware Anbu is in hospital? Will I spare the fellow who steps into our house and creates trouble? I asked my boys to beat him up But they bruised him black and blue No one will cause any problems hereafter They barged into my house, right? How does it affect you? Why do you poke your nose unnecessarily? Shailu, why are you treating me like a stranger? Thank God only minor injuries Otherwise it would have blown out of proportion again You call this 'minor'? Anbu is floating in a stream of blood Hanging on to his life by a slim thread That tuft head is waiting to get his balance payment I don't want to be the cause of his death Last warning Stop with this Or else I'll myself complain against you Shailu, I did all this for you Even if you scold me I'll gladly accept it Sweetheart? She loves you a lot She's threatening to register a case against me It looks like love to you? Though grown up you're still a blockhead If a child does something wrong... ...don't we tell the teacher to reprimand the child? Same way, it's election time Who will face the brunt if you are in a soup? Who? You That's why she is warning her future husband Like a nutcase, you are oblivious to even this! Take that tuft-ie inside I must learn a lot from you! I get hit for being honest Told you to slash him with a knife, you nicked him with a blade He admitted himself in hospital for a few nicks! Why did you bring me here? Nomination for the election- Greetings Good morning, sir How are you? I'm fine, sir Uncle Sign here Why should I sign, uncle? I'm not standing for chairman's post this time You are Sign here How can I stand superseding you? Does he want his uncle to die? I've thought this over Go ahead and sign Trust your uncle and sign From now on you are our beacon of light Keep quiet 1st must show him the way to the cemetery 2 minutes, let me take your nephew aside to convince him Okay Listen to me What's this? Come aside please Listen to us You don't realize your own strength Come out and see for yourself You'll know why we want you to stand Come out Think you're our evergreen hero MGR! Even the 2 stray dogs there might get up and go away You bragged about my strength and I can't see a single soul here That's why, listen to me If we should have... ...a fan following and influence of our own ...you should stand in the election And win Most important, do you want to marry Shailaja or not? How the heck are the 2 connected? Come aside please Your uncle is the one preventing the 2 groups from merging into 1 When you become the chairman you will have complete authority You can do whatever you think If you merge the 2 groups not just Shailaja... ...marriage, kiss, kids All that's possible Look at me, partner I can't look Just speak up There will be a 1000 good reasons for a single bad deed by your uncle Knowing or unknowing he has done something good for you Think of the good in this - Confusion confounded! - What are you saying? Grab this golden chance That's all I can say Politician Anbu Selvam Long live! He's standing for chairman's post You don't even know what you're cheering for Dude, count him as 1 vote You say so? Chairman Anbu Selvam Long live! Enough Dude, you're contesting in the coming election? Yes, I am In your town anyone can contest, huh? - Told you to pack him off - What are you hinting at? Taking a dig at me? I'll tear your passport to pieces You won't be able to go back to your country Who is rejoicing so soon? Must be our boys Shailaja is only opposing you in this election, dude Are you joking? Candidate Shailaja I swear I didn't know about this The auspicious time will pass Think yourself to be hero Mohanlal from 'Iruvar'! Anbu is contesting this time Is that so? Then we are sure to win You promised to unite us and now we are lifelong rivals! If you're opposing Sevalapandian, then you can think twice The whole town knows Anbu's calibre! Sweeping victory for us Go ahead and sign Don't you agree? This is the same dialog you spoke to your father I spoke this same line even to my grandfather We belong to the 'Ghajini' family That's why you keep losing! Excellent! She has signed We've won Let's go "Youre a jewel in the crown Precious crown of our town" "We pull and push with devotion Our graceful chariot in slow motion" "You are a brick of gold Lions cub bold" "Youll from now on be Talk of the town celebrity" Take grandma's blessings Think of me as your son and vote for me, grandma Our votes are for you Bless you, my son What? Where are you going? I requested them to vote for us There's more to come I'll get porridge from one of these houses You'll drink it We'll click photos And print it in every newspaper possible Votes will pile in heaps Can't enter an unknown hous- I'll organize all that Let me get you the porridge Don't barge into an empty house I need to finish 2 more streets He's a real pain! Drink it up, bro Click a good snap We should get a blow-up tomorrow You goddamn thieves! Why did you barge into my house? Didn't you hear me? Answer me Wretched fellows! You drank up whatever porridge I had saved for myself You'll rot in hell Bloated like a buffalo Why can't you work hard than steal my food? Are you brainless? Why do you make us starve? Scumbags! Sesame oil, kerosene, castor oil, whatever If my opponent loses why should I bother? His symbol is a lamp it seems If the wind blows you'll be snuffed out If the wind blows we'll fly high in the sky We'll fly even with our tails snipped or our strings snapped With wind as our ally we'll fly and touch the sky If you vote for Anbu... ...show them that video Our land that's in a state of drought without water... ...will transform into a lush green environment You changed our green pastures into dry, hard, brown lands Bloody scoundrels! Send them out Because volunteers from the opposition camp barged in... ...I request our boys to send them out A gentleman, a big shot asked... '...Why have you ruined a good town?' They beat him up and sent him to a hospital Uncle and son are together looting our town Violence, bloodshed paid Panchayat, rowdyism Murder, suicide, should you get your hands dirty like this? All of you remember to vote What he said was, our Anbu will win with a maximum margin Obama has prophesied this They claim that foreign fellow is Obama's personal secretary Let me share the honest truth about that fair skinned boy He came here to see Suruli hills like- Tourist They grabbed his passport and making him run in circles They claim he is Obama's right hand But they don't know his parents are looking for him Into the enemy's den enters this lioness Stop the car What temerity! She has a genuine law degree under her hat, your sister She is Jhansi Rani of South India She will address you now Why are you standing behind a female? To protect her from scumbags like you Go ahead, talk Till now no one has come from our party soliciting votes We haven't let anyone in - We are here now - She might get angry! I believe you will vote according to one's capability and not caste Rub it in! Are there good schools here for your children to study in? Shouldn't your children study well and secure good jobs outside our town? - No need - Of course they should Without discriminating on caste basis, regard me as one of you and vote for me For sure For atrocity to be assaulted For peace to spread Vote for the lamp You're the only politician to support the opposing candidate Did you see how she kept waving her hand at me fondly? In your dreams! To get votes, she's waving at octogenarians to toddlers You're taking her calculated gesture so personally Won't you say a few nice words just to make me feel good? Having you with me is a bane than a boon! Didn't she wave to me? Yes, she did - Tell him - We'll win Will he spare you if you say no? Is this crowd enough? Do you want more? Is this army enough for you? Or you want more for us to prove? Cast your votes for our kite symbol Stop...stop We'll address them from here Why did you ask him to stop? We are the center of everyone's stares! If that girl could ask votes in our area... ...shouldn't we have the same guts she has? That's why I asked him to stop here I haven't come here to solicit votes That's common knowledge Whatever you think happened with my knowledge... ...all that happened without my knowledge Cast aside the anger you feel against me for a moment And think deeply You'll get enlightened I don't know what more to add I am hoping you'll understand I end my speech with this, thank you Vote...we came here to ask for votes Greetings to all Vote for the lamp symbol Our symbol is kite, dude I meant in Telugu! Very clear!! Lamp is our symbol Can I announce? Have you double checked? Go ahead and announce, sir At the end of the last round Anbu Selvan has got 24100 votes Shailaja, his opponent has got 24101 votes She has won with a margin of 1 vote Why are you still seated here? Leave now This land that made Kamaraj lose... ...hasn't spared you either - Go...go - Uncle wants me Come on Show your strength now Justice has won after 20 years Ask the police to shoo them Not one of them should be around (general uproar) What's your problem now? They cheated us You think we'll lose by 1 vote - True, I agree - Answer me Nowadays no one can do anything hanky-panky It's all electronic now Ask them to count once more Will you shut up? They are big time frauds Shut up! They will keep creating a ruckus You go in I'll handle this Congratulations Even if I have won, to make my dreams come true... ...I need your cooperation You don't even have to ask My cooperation is always guaranteed Aren't you feeling sad you lost? I never thought I should win I am very happy you won Only grievance is you never understood me till the very end What makes you say that? Of course I know Even though I was mad at you... ...you didn't hold that against me You came all the way to my area and said all that I've opened my heart out You're the one still tongue-tied I told you I understood you How else do I make it obvious? So...okay, huh? I won only in the election But you won my heart Shailaja...? "Your smooth waist like yam typified My eyes by your bosom mesmerized" "Your waist like yam symbolized My eyes on your bosom hypnotized" "Like a thread don't splice me Don't resist me daily, my sweetie" "Your smile like coconut grater alluring Sweet as honeyed toffee appetizing" "Don't get me wrong anyway" "Night and day don't shirk me away" "I'll pamper if you come, birdie-bride Sideline me for a lifetime to your side" "Fix a good date and willingly tie the sacred thread, marry me" "Your waist like yam symbolized My eyes on your bosom hypnotized" "Like a thread don't splice me Don't resist me daily, my sweetie" "I'm a bull from Kangeyam wild I turned into a cow thanks to you, child" "My sari covering my fevered chest thanks to you is at its blushing best" "Till the sun goes to bed, dear you'll be a treasure superior" "When the moon comes to play you'll open my treasure chest to inlay" "You'll tremble and quiver when I tease You'll steal me whole and enjoy the feast" "Your smile like coconut grater alluring Sweet as honeyed toffee appetizing" "Don't get me wrong anyway" "Night and day don't shirk me away" "I'll pamper if you come, birdie-bride Sideline me for a lifetime to your side" "Fix a good date and willingly tie the sacred thread, marry me" Hari, Sivakumar, Saravanan, Kar- Tell one name at a time How can I write if you rattle off names like this? I was in a hurry in case I forget Okay, write Hey! Where are you slinking out with the wedding in a week's time? I am going to see Sukanya, ma You don't have to go Ask her to come here Maaaaa! If she wants to go to the temple will you ask God to come here? How silly of you, akka! If some madcap talks ill of her the way you blabbered that day... ...what do we do then? We shouldn't suspect our own children If you don't trust me send uncle along with me That sounds like a plan Come along, uncle Lets go, dear What will I tell my husband if he asks where she is? Tell him I am chaperoning her Don't dash into the flower stall Why did you stop here? I need to buy a garland? For what? My friend's wedding I had promised to get the garlands Why can't they buy? I had volunteered to buy the garlands on behalf of the bride You take responsibility for everything What am I here for? Good afternoon, bro How much is a garland? Rs 100, bro 2 garlands? Rs 200 I'll come back and pay you Speed up, dear The auspicious time shouldn't pass They will be waiting for the garlands Don't go on blah blah blah Just get down Why are you here? Not going to the wedding hall? No, uncle Is your friend getting married without the folks being aware? Not really Her uncle knows Then it's fine I thought maybe the uncle is kept out of the picture Where is your friend? Here he is Good afternoon He is the groom? Then the bride? Me of course What are you saying? Vino, I hope no one saw you stepping out No one did My uncle brought me safe and sound I brought you here? Are you pulling a fast one? Who else? Who bought the garlands? Wretched female! If your father gets angry he'll beat me to a pulp You're taking revenge bottling it within you Thanks, brother-in-law Uncle, thanks in plenty You'll end up in the cemetery! You have a phone? You didn't get me a phone No one will even believe me My phone is in my pocket And I forgot in my agitated mind set I'll be right back He might call your- Get lost! What if he calls your father? Won't you listen to me? Yes, uncle Anbu, without my knowledge Vinodhini is marrying Satish Are you joking? I swear this is true Trust me Come immediately to the registrar's office If I don't tell my brother-in-law he will chop me to pieces We've been duped Fill in the register Are you the chap who gets all these runaway-lovers married? What do you think of yourself? Vino only! Don't shout and bring the whole town here Your father wants you to be married in front of the whole town Wait till Anbu comes Aiyo! Vino, come this side Your uncle- Not only did she get married behind our back She made me buy the garlands When she asked you to buy the garlands did the cat get your tongue? Why didn't you call us then? I told you she fooled us Ask her about it Her uncle- Give me the garland Hold it, dear You're encouraging them instead of ending it Even if she hadn't taken this decision... ...I would have got them both married If I should weigh my uncle's prestige... ...versus my sister's happiness ...her life wins hands down You exchange garlands That's it! Who will sign as witness? I will, sir He has signed! Another witness? Oh not me! Hope it doesn't get worse What trouble will she brew? He's the one who- No one is here to make trouble? Come with me Is this a sudden plan or premeditated plan? What's your hassle? You did this rashly Do you know the repercussions if your uncle finds out? I am ready to face any consequence But we don't want to be thrashed Have we ever done any good deed till now? Let our 1st good deed be for my sister's benefit If your uncle knows he will chop you to pieces You'll be the 1st to be pickled You chaperoned her Looks like you'll join hands and make me the scapegoat Why are you flustered? Keep quiet I'll tackle everything Save me from- He has come, huh? Famous for his non-stop chatter! Look at the groom He's like a great warrior Gawd! Father Give me your hand Congratulations I wanted to but you did it! Whole town knows you don't have the guts They just brag No action You tossed our enemy's dignity in mid air What's that snigger in aid of? Good lord! Your uncle is here Now this will blow out of proportion 'Father of the girl' 'Welcome' I'm leaving You bring Vino home safe and sound Before we stepped in they got married Why should we be scared? Nowadays even a bad man leads a good comfortable life You're by nature bad So only bad things will befall you Your sister has eloped! Shut up How dare you malign our girl? I'll thrash all of you Hey! All of you keep quiet No one eloped No one was forced They got married because they wanted to Don't create any problems unnecessarily Let them have that pleasure! You lost your position Then your daughter Now your dignity Why do you raise your tone at the drop of a hat? You'll pounce whenever anyone falls in love? You humiliated me when my son ran away with your daughter Barging into my house you brought the roof down Now you're standing silently here Are you ashamed? Why don't you get a rope and hang yourself? How dare you? Take whatever action you need to according to law Hold on! They only know to raise their voices Pin drop silence here like watching a horror film When lovers elope this man will wander in a murderous rage Now it is his own daughter who has got married Wonder what he'll do I'm also trembling in fear But am I not acting like I am confident? You do the same They have abducted our girl because his daughter is the chairman If we ignore their atrocious behavior we'll lose our respect Just say the word We will kill the entire family during the temple festival I meant it as figure of speech And he is agreeing Shut up Anbu, because of my daughter I've been made to bow my head Same way I want him to bow his head in disgrace Bring his girl here Marry her How can I marry a girl from that fami- I know you wouldn't be inclined But do what I say Get married to her Let us challenge him In the history of Indian cinema... ...your uncle is the 1st villain to unite the hero and heroine How majestic! Did your uncle rant and rave to chop all of us into pieces? I can't tell you all that now Meet me at the temple tomorrow at 6:00 a.m We'll talk in person I can't come Tell me right now To take revenge on your family... ...thinking he's very smart he is making huge plans Your uncle is being smart?! Will you meet me tomorrow or not? Yes, I will But why so early in the morning? Will it be decent if I call you at night? Whatever happens I'll see you tomorrow early morning, okay? Now hang up the phone See you tomorrow I'll tie the sacred thread around your neck tomorrow What the heck? Don't be scared He's our Bill His face flashes gleaming white at night That's why I blackened his face How do you like my idea? How do I kidnap that girl with these imbeciles around? Okay, fine Why were you late? I ironed my dhoti Are we here to look at a bride for you? We're here to kidnap a girl Some of us have even forgotten to wear our underwear You're bothered about creases in your dhoti? This can be an 'action' block Or an usual comedy Be prepared for either Are we doing the right thing? Who knows! Have you ever seen me bend my head in disgrace? I have I didn't ask you I'm asking you No So we can assume I bowed my head in disgrace at the registrar's office yesterday Our own friend has changed after splitting so many lovers Why shouldn't we change? We owe it to him to kidnap his girl and unite her with him What do you mean? No time now to explain Finally we've been pushed into kidnapping a girl, dude Don't feel bad At 6:00 a.m she will step out to draw the 'kolam' at her porch Right time to grab her and drive away in the car If she screams? Whisper 'silence' Stay right there Don't fall into the gutter Watch your step Hey! Pull your 'dhoti' together Especially when it has been well ironed! Don't ring the neighbor's bell You hide now, come out when I ask you to Tell me when she comes out I'll grab her We planned everything neatly She fainted in the blink of an eye! I know how tough it is to kidnap a girl only now So heavy! Careful, my skin might peel Why is he calling me at this unearthly hour? Tell me Seized successfully What did you seize? Instead of 'who' he is asking 'what'? Your girl, dude We kidnapped your girl Come and make her your wife This is my gift with all my love Why did you kidnap her? Can we kidnap her mother instead? Isn't Shailaja your girlfriend? Shailaja loves me She was about to meet me at the temple I am waiting for her Why did you butt in like this? Shailaja is in love with you? Why didn't you tell us this earlier? Why didn't you tell me you intended kidnapping her? Only if we tell you we plan to kidnap her... ...you'll tell us she loves you, huh? Where are you now? 'Tree shop' In our timber depot Be right there I'll land up now You bloody blockheads! You've tied her up too tight Give me some water Standing like a stupid statue Gawd! Throw that away You'll never reform, moron! Why did you kidnap me? You're educated, right? I wanted to meet you at the temple, you agreed Then why would I kidnap you? All thanks to this beefhead- You joined hands with him, partner Why did you kidnap me? When you were on your way to meet him, we gave you a lift At 6:00 a.m you left with your face layered in make up Kidnap it seems My uncle asked me to kidnap and marry you I asked you to meet me only to share this news with you These blockheads were too hasty- Anbu is here Let's come back later Shall we come back 2 days later? Wherever you go hurdles...hurdles?! Finished reading the paper? Get down Damn you! We have a purpose, remember Anbu, do you remember? Slashes on your limbs and forehead! I will first slice your tongue They have got themselves in the right spot to be smashed A lamp that's about to extinguish will glow brighter! The gate was open and you zip zap zoomed for effect My boss never breaks anything with permission Now he'll rip you apart piece to piece You're not even in my list, fatso Anbu, is this revenge time? Not like that Then what is this called? Wind will ask me permission before it touches Shailu! How dare you touch and kidnap her? How can you lift her without touching her? Listen to me for a moment I'm not one of your boys to listen to your orders I'm Shailu's fiance- I hope these rowdies didn't manhandle you, darling? He's acting like a joker And you're reacting to his nonsense I won't mess with any of them You are the only target of my anger Will you listen to me for a mo-? You don't have to say a word I'll give you 5 minutes, finish these boys and take them away Isn't this what you wanted to say? You've seen me stand, walk and run Even watched me sleep But... ...partner, have you seen me fight? Sit in a corner and watch What's happening here and why are you playing the fool? I am playing The game you began! I begin and win the game He is acting over smart Leave him Don't hit He isn't hitting you You haven't seen the old Mahesh Babu, right? Go and roll in the mud I'll see you as a grubby old man Thrash him Why are you pouncing on me? Come on All of them are busy fighting Why are you lifting me around? Put me down Go Shailu, only 4 minutes left I got cheated I say this dialog always You've stolen it from me! Anbu and Shailaja are already in love They are in love? He'll marry her after we kidnap her? That's enough for me My nephew is truly a lion Like uncle like nephew! Another 3 minutes left He breaks all barriers without permission, huh? Take this with pleasure Hey...hey! Respect! Or else this will come flying at you I won't spare you Uncle...! You might get hurt Move aside Hey! Nutcase uncle Listen to me I won't because there is only 2 minutes left Get lost! In 1 minute flat, your chapter will be closed Anbu, he's my brother Oh sorry, to-be-bro-in-law! Don't get in my way Will all your relatives be henchmen all their lives? Your family lacks even the slightest decency You're a fine one to talk of decency! Why waste time talking to her? Tie the sacred thread Hey! What's that? My uncle has helped us knowing or unknowing We won't get a better chance than this either So you'll marry me in this crooked way? If 2 people are willing you said it is a mature love I did Then what? Pray to God He has married Shailaja there They are hitting each other here He isn't giving me a chance to explain Don't hit your husband God will be annoyed Let us pray Wrap up your game Hey blue shirt! Hey dumbass!! I'll take care Uncle...? Why are you here? Sit in the car I will join you Can't you hear me? Only 1 minute late Why did you hit me? Are you mad or what? You think you're the Telugu Superstar just because you share his name? No Anbu and I loved each other Now we have even got married Hello uncle, come What's all this? I should be the one asking They were minding their own business You provoked him at the registrar's office And instigated them He married Shailaja After everything is over... ...you come and ask me 'what's all this?' Let's go When the groom's side has accepted... ...won't the bride's side agree? Let's get your father's blessings Bless the couple, uncle Get the blessings of your bro-in-law too Fatso, don't add fuel Bless us You made my fiance fall at my feet, to be blessed! I won't bless you In the end what a climax! This was how it was from the beginning We knew the climax rather late - Bro? - Tell me He pulled away your girl Will you at least pull the chariot tomorrow? Before I pull the chariot I'll pull a few punches on you You muddled me up by calling her... ...sis, sis-in-law...girl friend Get lost You sit in front like as if it's your due! Oh! No, it wasn't a dig at you, uncle - Where did you disappear? - Don't add fuel to the fire! I was shouting for help and all of you ignored me That blockhead lifted me and stripped me of my 'dhoti' All problem solved, right? The biggest problem is about to start Tomorrow is the chariot festival Even in ordinary times they will act pricey After this problem, both sides will be on a murderous rage mode - How will you sort this- - Don't obsess too much Come to the temple festival and see for yourself tomorrow Looks like it will result in undiluted violence this time I anticipated this In my present condition if I get hit on my head again... ...that's the end of me Give it to me Is he playing cricket? I'm prepared this year I'll definitely pull the chariot How, sir? The ones who were creating the problem are willing to support Welcome, sir Anbu, will everything go as per our plan? I've trusted you and taken this risk Can't be more risky than being here as Collector? Follow our plan I'll manage the rest Let me repeat my statement This temple was built by my ancestors We should be given the honors to pull the chariot And the welcome ritual has to be only for us! Right, uncle? Maybe they built the temple but this property belongs to us Can I speak instead of you this time? Not only that We own the 18 villages surrounding this area At one point my family ruled this land Family that ruled the land should be given the honors That is our tradition You are not willing to give up our tradition at any cost Collector must be right What's right in what he said? Did you rule at a stretch? We also ruled in between We ruled as much as you did Only those who ruled should pull the chariot? That's all? I'll ensure only those who ruled will pull the chariot this year What injustice! When we locals are here... ...you're asking foreigners to pull the chariot? Foreigner Quit our land A tourist cannot become a temple chariot puller This is so goddamn unfair You're talking of being unfair It's more than 60 years since the British left India Even he has stopped bragging about ruling us You are not capable of pulling a charity in unity What the hell will you achieve? In our democratic country every voter is a ruler I'll give you 5 minutes Join hands and pull the chariot Otherwise I'll ask all those foreigners to pull The whites will pull the chariot And we'll sell popsicles in the crowd, huh? If they want to pull, ask them to push the road roller at the back Will you shut up? We can solve our problem any time If the foreigners pull the chariot who will be humiliated? This Collector seems to be oblivious of this That's why I am asking you to pull This year, all of us will pull the chariot in unison Will we be okay with all this? How can we? Then let's join hands and be united Let's pull the chariot All of you pray and pull the temple chariot (Holy chant) May this chariot always be pulled every year Dude, not me Don't worry You pull I'll deal with it "With the grace of our Goddess no discrimination between us" "She is extremely generous" "Her auspicious face radiates confidence always" "The people join hands to embrace" "Thoughts to enhance Progress and advance" "Sky will shower profuse flowers of many hues" "Riches to grow River of joy to flow" "Love, happiness as a constant halo" "Light of bliss is here to glow Everything good will follow" subtitled by rekhs assisted by harini
