 

                        Venice, Italy. Domingo, January 8, 1324. Good morning, father. - Already made the count? - No To say God to him never is too much behind schedule. - Mr. Polo. - Father. God hates the man who they lie on all the things. It does not die with the weight of those lies destroying its inmortal soul. The man takes the world, as same he finds it Although the priest wants to maintain it in the ignorance. I went to China, to the cut of the great Khan. I served to him, I am proud of to have served to him. I fought to his side and I governed next to him. S0102rvase, would matter to him? Please. Ve this? This small piece of stone a day will comprise of its world. The truth This is what I as much I have said the truth, nonlies, nonfairy tales, the truth. But not all the truth, single I I said half to him of which I saw. Genoa, Italy. 1298. In last years, the Earth was destroyed by hambrunas, plagues and wars. And one of those wars was between Genoa and Venice. Two men had been in prison and was a hell its end. One of them is Rustigielo of Pizza, the other is veneciano. My name is Marco Polo. - Taking, whiskey. - Piensas that there will be peace, soon? Inasmuch as time they will retain to us? What you create, what opportunities we must to leave here? I believe that we will remain here until somebody pays a guarantee by us. How long will delay that? And how we can be safe that even so they will let to us go? We will never leave here, is that you do not understand it? - The prison is not the aim of the world. - Ja, truely? - I Already have been imprisoned once. - Here, in Genoa? In China. - You have been in China? - And other many places. Some places not even known in Europe. And all those places they are here, in your mind. And what there is if I say to you that there am state in center of the world? And I have seen the future. There is no patience in a mind for that. My trip began here, when I saw cross those masts in the port of Venice, when I was young. I wanted to know everything on boats and where there are been and what class of men and sailors they mount them, and everything on seas. My father and my uncle were venecianos retailers that they went to the aim of world to look for gains. What I wanted to know, was on the hands that were fact those beautiful strangers and things that they negotiated. I do not touch anything. There is much gain in exchanges where no veneciano - iMarco! - Or any other man of Europe, it had before been. It is massive gold. The great Khan of China, Kublai Khan us gave it, it happens safe. He is the grandson of Ghengis. - Ghengis Khan? - The best soldier than the world it has never seen. Yes. He was then that I knew that Chinese it was my destiny. As it were written, that I would go there. To where we know, we will make a fortune negotiating with them. - Yes. They have silks and spices and plates done of materials so fine that you can, to traverse of them, to see your hands. They have caravans of camels in order to negotiate by all Asia They have gold and silver and diamonds. The best craftsmen and artists of the world. And so vast cities that they could be the oceans. However, the empire of Khan the West is as rich as nothing. But we are organizing the form to return to go. We have listened that the Pope and the God Christian, now allows the subjects Chinese that says to nobody God that they want. But, Marco, if the true one religion will arrive at him, then While we removed good gains of our sales A that serious trip to another side of the world, We will pass first by Jerusalem in order to take oil of the sacred temple We would go accompanied by 2 priests, that they would even travel with us the cut of the great Kublai Khan. If the sands had state calm, our trip had been easier, so we were ourselves forced a to travel crossing earth. In spite of the dangers. I was young, did not feel the fatigue to me and it was arranged to change my life does not matter what cost. Very exhausted they were men when they began a to see first mountains. The top of the world, with both priests complaining strongly to each step. Noncontinuous, neither a step the more. We know that to the Khan he offered 100 priests we only have two to offer to him and you want to return to Venice with the tail between the legs. - All we are going to die here. The trip is too hard. - Who knows if to that Kublai Khan it exists. You have your merchandise in order to interchange, they gave us its word by that interest no Pope has had an opportunity like this, thousands of souls need its aid, the faith of the world is going to change. - We promised two you cure. - Maffeo. We almost are dying in these mountains - iPara! - Of insurance we will die. And if we did not die here, nobody knows Which is the end of this trip? We know. It is the opportunity to change the course of history where nobody has been able to arrive. Venecianos you single want the fame, is codiciosos men. - You only create in gold. - And this he takes to his son to his death. In name of those wealth. - Pope. - I came by my own will. - Your father is risking your life, by a fairy tale. It was there. It saw Khan with its own eyes And also it saw dragoons, ah. And unicornios and horses with wings, Who is he? , a mentiroso, a bad man or an idiot. Or the three things. - Marco. Jalos to go, jalos to go. Thus we will not have to do them more. The priest can be in the certain thing. Perhaps all we die in the attempt. Perhaps we would have to send to the return boy. All those histories that told me on the earth that knew, on which they saw in China, I want to see them by my same one. Eh, Marco. You come from there, of the top of the world? - Yes. - It is why it does not have forces in order to fight fever that has contracted. - You can help it? - There are a grass that diminishes the heat in its blood. He is everything what we can do, others are not in our hands. That it finds its way of return. We will not advance, we must hope by him. The Maffeo uncle wanted to leave me there and to continue with the trip, but my father refused to continue. For a complete month nobody viviria or moriria knew to I if. - Still you want to go to China with your father? It sees zale Wing and dale thanks that still you are alive Sabes at the most must advance? And what type of welcome is going to have? The papa blessed in trip, and we have figures blessed in Jerusalem The papa must be a great one man in its own earth its God is represented in all Earth Pero Kublai Khan has a so great empire that not even the Great one Alexander could dream. What has uncivilized ones that to offer to him to him? - What has father to offer to him? - When my father returned to Venice, nobody believed to him, they said that they were histories of travellers nothing else. Then your you want to prove that they are mistaken Or is something more? You want to see it with your own eyes. If he said the truth. The Tacla-ma-dog, means: You enter and never you return. They are 45 days of pure sand, there is villages, nor no shade. After this one desert, there is another desert, it is a part of the Gobi, there is no form to evade it. We must go straight in order to be able to cross it. - That is that? - A newspaper. A registry of the followed way and the things that we have seen. It leaves that. It would go to you better working in your Arithmetic. - IT0102o Maffeo! - And if somebody finds us more and it uses our routes stops to become rich at the cost of us. How you would feel then? The knowledge is the power, Marco. And the power takes to wealth. For that reason we are here. So that the family Pole turn the guardian of the route to the wealth of China. The books could be the things more dangerous of the world, Marco. And who you think that it will read your pothooks? Those that find your bones? IChina! The army of Kublai Khan came this way. This is what happens when the city defies the Khan. IPor here! Hope, hope. These men were to be the cavalry of Khan, envoys by him to provide a safe step to members of its cut If in Venice it had soldiers like these we had conquered Genoa many years back If in Venice we had soldiers like these we could conquer the world. IMarco! What were those things? , Creen has more powerful? How far thinks that they can send them? When they nail to you knife in your back for silenciarte, your you are going to ask: Of what the grip is done? Who design the leaf? , From where came? One feels like dust, but it shoots fire I have the intention to be your slave Desires of my owner they are my only happiness. We have sufficient provisions for three days. The daily life with the slave it turned partly of us, thus the good friendships begin and that became ours. - How can do that? - Chinese Magic. Ja, ja, ja. That stone would be first of the miracles that would see. The great caravans that they took the wealth of China until the aim of the world they were another one. But no would be so great like watched my first to the hugest city of China. Hugest of the world. ShanDu, is here capitol of Kublai Khan Come, by this way. - What means that? - Baboons, or Barbarians. We went to know Kublai, grandson of Ghengis Khan. The man who united to several nations and tribes of Valle Mongol. Marco. Quiet. Once inside they are crouched and touch the forehead with the floor, they do not watch direct its eyes, no leave its breaths touch it. When they go away walk backwards, and they maintain its glances towards the ground Of knees. - Where is the priests? - In the end they were scared to the trip their Majesty, for that reason returned. But we have oil, oil of the sagrada city I ordered to them to bring one thing and you bring another one. Naa, is an oil. Blessed by the own Pope. Is a this conversation on the submission of the Pope towards me? - Can also give that Me? - That is not in our hands excellence, we are salesmen, retailers She is as if I I had not spoken, and you they did not have here been. The Pope is listened to, all the nations of the West they are listened. And while they think that they can change it to its religion it does not have nothing that to fear of them. Shhhh. What age you have stops to have that wisdom? The valiant Ghengis was 13 years old when it began his conquests, - Are you a second Ghengis? - Hundreds of years back the Roman empire governed the world but I can see that this he is huger. So that so flattering youngster? , I know acute or in my opinion which I listen is full of trivialities Your you think that the Asian kingdoms they do not have anything to fear of the West. Not while they think that they can to turn it to you and his people. You are suggesting I had a mistaken strategy and for that reason pedi that came the priests? - I. - Sometimes the best answer it is not to respond anything. We must it have left in Persia. - That young person. - It does not like to listen. If but it watches his around. Who is going to say what you to him it does not want to listen? And is not perhaps that that we needed more? This way delays to avoid my anger, flattering to me? No, I did not say flatteries. I have seen miracles here. But I do not create to have seen hundreds of that they have here in China It would take all a life to see them. I can concederte that. What you think, Pounakuaks, even though you can count with a whole life, it would be possible to be civilized to this young Barbarian? - You would have more chance with that. We will go away now from return to Venice Majesty, if that is its desire. - He is It, but his son, who speaks with as much reverence, we go it to let answer by itself, they ten well-taken care of with your answer. - I did not come here to negotiate, I came here to see an empire that my father described to me, I love and it respect, but I am not wanted to go thus, to give the return and to return again to house. The young person says things idiots who soon will be sorry. - Specially this young person. - But and he has age to have his own criterion. Is not truth? You you will be here, for all your life. I leave it under its safekeeping Lord Chenchu. Take to this Barbarian to fix itself, to get dressed see that it is possible to be done with him. Who knows, perhaps a day is useful. It found support in empress, she spoke by you. That is good and lucky. But at the same time, the best form to survive in the cut is to happen unnoticed A first stone that knows where to now point and one that burns. Pole. You are going to live here, hazlo your home. We will give more you if you have luck to last one week. - Quieres to maintain he himself slave? - Yes. - We could darte the one best one. - I am customary to him. I have heard more enthusiastic answers. - Your you will return with me Marco. - No - I am your father. - Where you are going to find to other now? Your always you said to me that the life was an adventure, or he is not nothing. - What life you are going to have here? - What life I can have without you in Venice? - I must do this. - That means that I am not going to return to verte. - Niccolo, we must go to us now, or we will also be catched here. Delay, hopes. If you must quedarte, then everything writes what you see Marco the men need tests. They they despise to me because I do not have any. Ponlo everything there. I was only, still worse, it was catched in two worlds, in two bodies, A man of the West, learning of the men of the East. The East seems very strange for the foreigners. The Chabi empress, also she governs the Kingdom, - How can be that? - In your world the women govern? - No, they cook stops the children, but do not govern. The men do not reflx mng themselves to listen a woman? - So that they would do it? - Because she is a woman. The mother of the Khan took it to the throne, he listened to it more than anyone. Still Ghengis Khan, it consulted his spouses It shared its Kingdom to its children, so that it would have to be of another way? Because she is a woman Is not a man twice more wise person if he has to his side to its woman? - What you did? - I paid by the species. - But the money of Gold or Silver. - This is money also. - It is paper. - But it serves just as Gold or the Silver. - This sheet of paper is not worth anything. Vale just like the Gold or the Silver? Yes. IPero is single paper! Quiet Qu0108dese. Where hurts to him? - How is that that does not hurt? - If it believes in the Chinese magic the sufficient thing. IFunciona! It must have believed. - What are these lines? - The points by where the energy flows. Their doctors do not know this? - No - And how treats them? They do not do it. They say, and if that it does not work, bury to you. Yes, China is rich and powerful, and many things more than we are not but Europe is the center of the world. It must be. God put there to the Pope in its church. The true God? Empire has thousands of Gods. That is blasphemy. The men wage the war here, but he does not stop to save the soul of others reason why there are saying to me, are more terrible wars of all. Pr0102ebalo. It had never proven something thus. - All this is truth? - You could ask to him my father, before they called mentiroso. I create, I believe to you in everything what you have to me counted Still if it did not do it, are trips huger than never they are had counted. My writings have not been sights by anybody in Venice Nobody was hill there the life of Pole now. No, I am professional writer. Without modestia I can say to him that I am good. Has listened on me, Rustigielo de Pizza? - No - No. But, I was in favor far of many years. To my writings them they made many copies. - It never listens to speak on that. - Never? - No - That rare. I write Romance. You he has a wonderful history but a little cuts of You he was young in a strange earth, facing an uncertain future. You never paid attention to somebody, aside from its slave. Somebody with who to share its life. - Somebody Had, if. - Ah, of the cut. It was brought to the cut, but against its will - Kensai, p0106rtate well. - Ja, ja, ja. Kensai, is the men of the Khan. They iDetengan it! It discovers your head. IHazlo! D0108nle the return. She will be a good wife for the Khan. Sisters. We go. You you so do not take it to chest. We will find another fianc01e for you. Temulum, you are. - Shh, mu0108vete. If they are lucky, if, they will be chosen to be one night, in the alcove of the Khan, no more, only one night. It does not concern whatever imploren After that night, they will be given those that it chooses, a soldier, a general, a times to both or with somebody of the cut. - To where you go? - It is better than you do not know it. If it does not return to see me, at least I say to him that he was instructive to know a Barbarian. Not only you put in danger but that you put to me in danger to me also. Perhaps the Khan is very wise and all she sees it but it has its favourites. One of them is Achmath, it is rich and powerful and has all the cortesanas that wish but it is not sufficient stops he. It loved my sister, it rejected it, and he she executed his revenge. The Khan allows that. - I already said it, Khan has his favorites, nobody says a word to him of this - They did that to you? - I swore to kill it, I could not arrive at him. Somebody did it but it failed. Achmath volume revenge against all my clan Still it is doing it. The fianc01e of one of my men, Honchu, it has been brought and locked up in the house of the women, Honchu will not return to never see it. It is now as enslaved as I am it - Your you are not my slave. - I am enslaved of a Barbarian. That it eats with the hands and a God thinks that only it can govern a world as vast as this. Something very special stops tonight excellence Teacher, calls it stops to take care of the son of the Khan. Veto of here. Va to come? - To where was your head? - The prince asks for it. The prince does not have returned of the hunting. Treason. - Rebellion in the old city, gentleman. - When they arrive at the Palace you wake up to me. You do not worry, are just a few rebellious in the streets. Ponte this. It walks. The slaughter will continue. They will kill to all the involved ones and to all those that are state near them, and later to all those that knew them. Better you let to me go. Before they come by me. It was treason. It was treason. What is greater treason, Its Excellence: To rob, to kill and to violate under the shield of its name or to leave unpunished those men? Is that what him standards to this Barbarian? To challenge its Khan? Lord Achmath did that it did in his name, but its cut and his generals had too much fear to say the truth to him. Madness, Excellence, only that could be. Perhaps they spoke to him stops that he governed of that way. It is not sufficient with being the richest governor of the world, perhaps no he is better to be also wisest? ICalla! , your flatteries no they go to salvarte this time. I listened to you and now it watches this. It is involved in treason, a Barbarian, insulting to one of my better men. Accusing of not knowing to me what happens just ahead of my noses. Perhaps they are civilized, perhaps they are only monkeys. Even though they are intelligent monkeys. Take it to it. So it is truth, Lord Achmath did all those things in my name and nobody said nothing to me, using my protection for its crimes and not even my generals, they have the anger to say it to me. And who me it said it? A boy, a Barbarian. Can the Great Khan be a poor judge? - IR0103pido, that somebody responds to me! - No, Sir, is lies, all lies. - No, it is truth, everything is truth. It is truth, whichever others truths that I do not know still. The Chinese are the people more creative of the world, As you can see I have many to better within my employees. I would say most artistic, the best ones in the executions, to cut in 100 pieces, who obtain the death longer and lasting. If I feel that deserves mercy, then I order that him cut the eyes first so that it cannot see what it will happen to him later, perhaps it had to be more generous leaving the eyes him. What seems to you? What you are? A sensible man or one that says the truth? A man can be the two things Ah, I do not know any. You can levantarte. Your you defied to your father for quedarte here. I know something on living in shade of one of its ancestros. Your you finish doing your first dangerous enemy congratulations are signal of the ambition. I cannot have to Lord Cogatai in prison for a long time, its lineage is powerful and when it does it it is not going to you to be easy to find friends in China here Your you are an unusual young person, you seem to have talent, intelligence, but still is early, you do not have to anybody of your religion, I do I use of those men from time to time. A man whose loyalty towards me he is personal and indestructible. A man that I can trust, until a point by supposed. A man who it says only the truth to me and it says the truth from me to the others always and all the truth. Your you will become my man in the cut, or you will face the rage of Lord Cogatai only and you will not arrive at ponerte old that I create. One said to you that to survive he was better to remain invisible. Not only it is requesting to me that others have not been able it looks for a friendship. It has the Empress. in its bed every day. But this single one. This is the unique one friendship class that can to allow itself with somebody like I. If you become its friend, you will be enemy of all the others. They will be whispering that only you have approached him in order to betray it soon and when it dies or you lose the Empress please they will seat in the throne of Dragoon, that has to do with you? I saved the life to you. And I risked mine to do it. I must know the rebellion finished? It was finished when Acbath died. - You do not look for more revenge? - It is finished. And the woman who was cleared of your Clan. You do not look for revenge by her? He was not against the Khan all this, but against which one became in its name. Its faith is of her, knows it. You made Temulum well, the Khan is contented, very contented. It orders that be assigned to a person, for which it seems to have great plans. A gift from the Khan. I know that she never me he loved so much as I loved it from the first moment. In other circumstances, that know. Everything what did had grace, everything about her fascinated to me. It belonged to this new world that I discovered. Between all these strange things. It was wonderful. I could not be contained to write everything, since it had promised to my father. It was strange and difficult to understand, like its music. Not nothing about you and I want to know it everything. - To write it in those books. - No, never it would do that. I want conocerte because I want conocerte. - Then preg0102ntale to Pedro. - Pedro? It knows everything. Also it knows that you saved your life. Your eras one of the women of its clan? Guards, paper, red and pen, hurries. - What you are doing? - Explorer writer. - Writer explorer. Ja, ja, ja, Marco, Marco. All my life I have expressed my brain to create adventures, characters, love histories. In order to fill these empty pages. And here in this prison, where I thought that everything had finished for me, you it offers history me huger than never it had thought. - And above it says to me that she is true. - It is truth, everything is truth. Then the entire world must to know it, not only we. - Perm0102tame that does it? - Hacer what? Rustigielo de Pizza. The trips of Marco Polo. Ohh. The trips of Marco Polo by Rustigielo de Pizza The trips of Marco Polo counted by Rustigielo de Pizza Only, only, the trips of Marco Polo. Ja, ja, ja, soon we discussed that to put in the page of the title eh. But so far You and the girl, his slave, Kublai Khan, the cut, enemies throughout, yes. Yes, yes, yes. You have undergone too much. You want that your pain finishes. I have the power for darte that, but first I need to know what names obtained from you related to the rebellion. It has not given any name still. That means that still you are in danger. And because it finishes yet that he touches, I also run I am in danger. So that? The Khan knows that Acmath caused the rebellion If they were rebelled once, could not return it to do? - If they think that they are a right. - I will speak with the Khan. You do not understand with which you are fighting? You can lose the head. I said to you that you would have luck if you lasted one week here. You survived that time not for a long time more. Lord Coconaugh, you are going to be released. You will not arrive very far with that in your neck. I am going away to give. It does not have sense that executes us to the three. - I will not leave you do it. - Sometimes the slaves we made decisions. - And if I cause that they arrest with me to you? - It is a risk that I will take. ITE I need! Difficult and you are disobeyed but I cannot move here without you. - Lord Chenchu will protect to you. - It has been in the cut all the life. Crees that would have survived without to betray to anybody, since it would do with me? Esc0102chalo. I do not have anything, nor you. Nor Temelum. We are fragile without one of the other. We only can trust we ourself. We are going to survive, we can make it together. And now I am of its Clan. The Barbarian did its slave to you also to make its work dirty? It has the protection of the empress like I. Then one looks for clothes to take shelter it is not that the winter arrives before you of account. Lord Chenchu. That young his, the Barbarian, follows as hard as before? Let us say that to live in the cut more wise person is doing it. Surely, because still it has its pretty head on its shoulders a to weigh of its enemies. It is time to prove it to he and his loyalty. Commerce, commerce, commerce it means to assure the ways, the rivers of the pirates, this city it controls the commercial routes, of the alliances of the East. Spice alliances. They are worth more than gold. - Where is those spices? How many has that way? So that they only grow there? This is not a geographic map it is a diplomatic outline. The governor of this city has been speaking with people desafectas to its emperor. If we treated this man like a a direct enemy, it can think that it does not have anything that to lose and it will send a rebellion. Perhaps but it ignores its disloyalty have value to question my authority. Lord Chenchu and others think that this it is an entangled subject that you with your talent for the words and your flatteries you can to be able to negotiate. It means a long trip by the river, by it laughed so vast that could swallow, half of the West, you create that you can be far from me, and to execute this task in my name? Single to see, its excellence, if the rest the kingdom is contented under the government of the empress - What you think, Lord Chenchu? We can trust to him to this Barbarian is delicate mission? A long trip for you. While I take care of loose threats in this place. You wanted justice and that it is to end your pain. Here you have. I want that you know Marco Polo. Marco. It is is my Kensai sister. This he is Marco Polo, he wants to know everything about the world. He is fast, but it must learn to have patience to look for everything. It is different, if. You see its nose. It is good he loves to me. Now it vetoes. It is single here also. To only she has me me. If it gets to grow she goes to need a protector, that with its power it takes it with interest. I know what means. If nonreturn of this trip you know that you are free to find to that it occupies my place, somebody with the power to protect to Kensai. But I will return. Yes. Your destiny and your does not belong to us In your country are slaves? The majority lives like slaves, they already bought its souls to them. Regresars sometimes? So that? When there is as much that to see of the world. I think that perhaps you return. I want to see the rare thing of your world. And the wonders that contain. You cannot speak thus, you know it. I surprise It? One vanishes like dream when memory. Is pretty? He is one of the places prettier of the world. Even considering that what they think all is single in making money. It seems to me like of a last life. The life of another one. - You do not wish to see your father again? - By all means that I want. In order to make the peace with he by abandonarte here. Was not that what did? - The same one Never finishes to the trip person who begins. One it discovers things about one same one during the trip, I not it I judge reason why it found. And a day all will have this. And I will tell Venice that China is the center of the world. And that I, Marco Polo, son of Niccolo I was here, Serving the great Khan to him. Is this a suggestion or an insult? I must deal with a Barbarian and young person. I speak in name of Khan and of all its power. The gentleman who is in the sky and in the Earth you know that you love it, but he thinks that he wants less to them by the refugees in its city it seems that it has refugees of the rebellions I give him to shelter to all those that request it, my people do everything like same towards the great Ghengis. We mongoles come them of many races after all. When I return to the cut I hope to be able to say to him to the Khan that what said to him they were lies, and that its governor he has his neck where he goes. Reason why you say can to also cut to him to the language and mine. Even so, we have the power. Then it seems that we go to verify it, gentleman. It is a trick, you deceived Barbarian to me. The Khan does not want his head he wants the one of the rebels. - So that I must believe to him? - The right of perpetual ownership by my honor. The Khan knows that you he lodges the rebels here you never listened to it. You know that the anarchy it is the modern disease and you would make any thing to eradicate it. - You would say that to him. - Is not that the truth? Is not a trap? The only trap is to lodge to the enemies of the Khan. - Is not thus? - Deletion mark that message by me and my family. So that loyalty it would have to be punished? It sees it. She was one proves and you did it well. A thing is certain today we gained a victory. Tomorrow we will need another one and another one after that. And certain of everything it is not to trust anybody Your you rob my secrets, endoselos to my enemies. - You become my enemy. - No, no, no. I wrote everything what I saw in its empire it does not stop to rob, but to leave a test for all the life. Miracles, what miracles? To rob and to burn, to shoot and to kill the town that does not pay, paper that it is worth more than gold. - Miracles? - All those are miracles, all are wonderful, you see it every day, for that reason it forgets how extraordinary they are If and everything what Chenchu has taught to you. Today you proved same you. This city needs a governor that I can trust. Your first official work it is to order that they kill them. Ah, pardons its lives today and of insurance they will attack to you tomorrow. He will be safe that you return to the palace. - Those loose ends have been as the danger in which was? It saved to us to both of a greater danger. - How you could do it? - It comes to live in the Court all the life. We could not survive without our own treasons. It was its neck or mine. All these years it has been thus. You were right, not can to trust us that is something with which you always can count. You are not astonished, you do not need it. He was something strong that I felt in my own rights, to have the power to give the life or the death. Pero how long can a man to maintain a favor a those that they have to be able absolute? I never knew if he could see the dusk, nobody in the cut of Kublai Khan. He does not concern whichever favors you have of the Empress. What happened to Temulum, you returned to see it or you took another wife? So that it would do that? It can who not me I land on water but if she loved it. Still knowing that she it moved away by itself of me. Since I were disappear, she tried to return to her destiny what it indicated its faith to him, it escaped of its votes stops to return with the man that it really loved. Chonggu, Chonggu. No, No Kill it. You must have the dry throat. - And soon? - He is everything in my experiences. But they are in Venice. We will never return them to see. And what? This remembers If you do not obtain that they rescue to you, you will die here. Your only hope of immortality I am. - You? - The rich one with the pen, yes. - The books are not written single. - I know It, how you think that I wrote my newspapers. Who knows of them? In addition of you and few venecianos. What is? What is that you do not want to revivir? - Company/signature this. - Here. Temulum is here? What happens? She tried to escape of the palace, they stopped the guards. The guards of the palace she he did not survive which they did to him. This it is not my destiny, your you are not my destiny. Your you would wish to be it, I left back when they arrived the soldiers of the Khan. And it said that a protector needed for its sister. I gave permission to look for him another husband if I did not return. But it was blind with him, is not thus? Yes. She never forgot it. Chonggu was its destiny. It was the man of whom they robbed it. She never it deceit, Marco. No, never. But its sister, I want to fulfill my to have I am afraid that it is too much behind schedule. They took to Kensai to the House of the Women. - Then I failed to them to two. - You did not fail to him to anybody. They two had his destiny. And your you have yours. What a man can more do, who he is not to be faithful to his own destiny? You Can fight against the Gods that you have? The answer of the sent ambassadors from the Earth of the Rising Sun. Take them to it. Their heads, sent of return the heads of the ambassadors in sealed boxes. Mongoles can have taken Chinese by the sword but they are the sufficiently ready thing stops knowledge that must be governed by the pen. Already ramos a nation civilized when Ghengis came. The geniuses of the conquest they do not have to collapse that. They respect to Tao and lessons of Confucius. He himself Kublai has said that not it can to say if the Christians, Muslims, or Buddhist Jews or are better. Each man believes in which he wants. Who, you will ask yourself, it conquered to who? Everything is written in annals of history. So that all the man knows the traditions and serve to them as guide to present and future conducts. Like living in harmony with the world, the duties and rights of everyone. One of your duties like governor is ocuparte of this. The poor men, patients and who no they can be worth by themselves. Also you will take care of the education of these. These children here. You will make sure that the names of each one of the inhabitants of each house they are in the door. He is the best thing to maintain the order. You will construct towers for fires. Places where it is possible to be gone for to save the pocesiones in case of this. You will make sure that each man know like protecting its house of the fire. It is valid for streets and the whole city. When a man kills another one, what does of good to the family of the dead to also kill it to him. We put a price to him to the man assassinated and we make the assassin to work until death has been paid. It remembers, the Earth laws and the Sky they are applied to all including a same you. But it does not stop the Emperor, because he is the son of the Sky then how to apply them him. What is that? Messengers of the Khan. I must return immediately, I am not going to take no soldier, until surrender of the city. One had gone away like prince, and now orders itself to him to return like a thief. She had to die, is necessary to be obedient, she must follow the orders or there will be no order. When trusting you, not us we mistook, you you demonstrated your faith like governor and your words are worthy of a diplomat. You reconstructed the city, you fortified its walls you caused that the population grew. You caused that the inhabitants felt: Out of danger, prosperous insurances and. Your name, by all means, never it will be announced publicly How we could admit to one Barbarian in a so high position? As it is 50 He is dangerous to leave somebody governing in he himself place for a long time. The people forget that they direct only because we we allowed, soon they lose the head. And now it can that there is new subject for you, Pole. Gueme. It tell me, what you create, which could more be the weapon dangerous into the hands of my enemies? - Wealth. - No - I exercise. - Ja The knowledge. The knowledge. These maps reveal where they are my forts, the bridges that cross my rivers, my palaces with its wealth, the cities more difficult to defend for me. Without these knowledge my enemies are blind, blind as I with respect to them am blind. There are too many spaces in target in these maps. These are the Territories of Rising sun. Hundreds of years back, China established his colonies there. But in times when people became , hard proud, they refused to recognize that they belong to us. I sent ambassadors there, demanding that they obeyed, but they they cut to its heads and me they sent them in closed boxes. - They must be punished. Yes. To know, I need to know how And if we can make alliances with these islands against him. And here, here how forts are these soldiers. Is they of Ghengis or mongoles that they will devastate with us or we we can devastate with them? Since we did with Auer, the Young, the Sunk, And the sea, how far extends this sea and these islands and if these islands really exist or it is that they are creations of imagination of somebody. And Mongolia, Mongolia is the home of all tribes united by Ghengis Khan. Histories of the men say that it is the Kingdom at night, and what has of the Kingdom of the Snow? They exist, really exist? What exists? How trusted of they we can be here? Here it is the Earth of The Flying Dragoons, here, the Earth where to the men a single very great foot grows to them, which they are accustomed to to use to cover itself of the sun. Here, men with mouths in the stomachs. You have seen these things? Not personally, but man who drew them, saw them. The travellers have counted on them. And the stories of the travellers they are always true? This is in which they create people, in which they have believed from distant times. - The men would have to believe in which they have seen. What uses will give the maps if they are based on stories? The spaces in target are preferable. No, to fill the spaces in target it would be better even, with the truth. Friends or enemies, knowledge. The knowledge is always the best thing. Where we will find to somebody in who we pruned to trust and that it fills those spaces in target? Without stories, riddles or lies. Whose eyes are clear, whose judgment is healthy, whose loyalty is indisputable. And only because this way it can protect its Khan. Its Excellence has allowed that a Barbarian leaves the kingdom? With its wisdom, it has decided that it can trust him. How much it could leak to the West, like creating the powder how we organized our armies, until where the Great Wall arrives. Not even they have stone that aims at the North. Once they have it, will be safe our borders? Perhaps it has planned it everything to betray to us. To gain its favor, and to take what it has learned its king. - It does not have more king than I. - Can be safe of that? The Chinese call to the foreigners of a form and to the friends of another one. Will be Pole always a stranger? Or is a heart Barbarian? The great Ghengis, its wise grandfathers it never left friendship it it interfered in its security. Veto. I know it, I know it, hates to Pole. It does not want to say that it does not have sense which says. Certain, but also it is truth that while they are fought among them they do not have time to prepare nothing against us. You are the Khan, your decision is the one that matters. If you cannot trust him, that thus it is. Jalo in its abandoned mission. That it creates those maps that show the way while our enemies they plan our fall. And thus I began my trip for the Khan. - To where we go? - To wherever the Khan commands to us. - And when we are going to return? - When we find what we are looking for. And what we are looking for? If we knew it, what sense would have the trip? There they are those wonders with those that I have dreamed since it was a boy and watched the masts of the boats in Venice. Wonders after wonders, worlds after worlds. And the men went to the war, that it seemed intrinsic to the Earth. New earth, the new people, customs. And new Gods to which it says to them of different forms. What it made me question to me if the God that I knew I could be the only one to govern universe, as well as to us. While I see more, I learn more. Does not make want to see more you? Always there is another top, another valley. And another one behind that. - North, South, This, the West. - I wonder myself what makes want to see it everything you. - Do not wish you to it? - I do not have election, master. What turns a man in traveller and to other no. What does that a man this contentment with passing its life in a place or to another one to live dying. During 15 years I traveled towards where the Khan thought that they were the Earth borders. And as far as my force it took to me. - Standing up. - Jame to die here. Standing up. These here because your Emperor you ordered it. You defied to he himself Kublai Khan. To the Genghis grandfathers. You will declare the war to Him to your Khan? The Khan is to too much far. I do not need that this man guides me my death, although it dies at the hands of a slave. I was given to him like slave, but I have given my voluntary loyalty him. You are to him loyal when no he is not even mongol. He is mongol more than you yourself. Only because he is not a cowardly one. What you are writing? Your last words? There is no food, every day somebody dies. You do not have nor idea from where you are nor where we go. But the Earth Blanca exists, I believe that we will find it. - If we go this way to the North - We cannot do it, Marco. We cannot nor we will do it. This time no. You know more of the world than anyone, but you cannot know it everything. No man can know it everything. It returns. It saves your life. Vanos the life to all. To the south. You were right, already was hour. He had been wonderful to know if there is somebody more behind those mountains. To see the Earth Blanca he had been perfect. I know it. Good, good, good. Of return of another trip without sense, with more trinkets. I have not forgotten that me you put in the prison all those years, Barbarian. Soon I will be caz dote. - Uhh. - Ja, ja, ja. Ah, ja. Another trip, another safe return, What miracles you brought to me now? This is of the Reign of the Nights, it has interminable forests, and earth is congealed by all sides, sometimes the gifts are animals enormous as great as the elephants. I thought that you had sworn, that you would never bring to him more to the Khan those histories of travellers. Certain excellence. People fundamentally she takes them with traps, now it considers, whichever pairs do annually, ah, still you have something of son of the veneciano retailer. - What is this? - It is an extracted liquid of rocks but it gives to light and heat. Ah, ja, ja. New features, nothing else. Whenever the Khan you he sends to the Earth center, your you return to say to him no, I have still not reached it. Those words go a to be always the same ones. If the end exists I no I have still found it. The force is lowering, are prepared to move when of the order. The Khan fell today. I need to know how much it has left. But it is prohibited to prophesy the death of the Khan. Very badly! We must be prepared for which it happens. With all we. It has tremors in hands, try to hide it. I brought the doctors but no they say to me how weak or ill it is really. I gave my life stops that the cut was solid, through this. It says that one approaches time of the changes. There is a fire circle, a earth circle, and the circle of the water. And the aim of one of them approaches. The Khan is becoming weak but I must die before he. In itself, the Khan can take advice who come from badly, it is why they are needed honest advisers like you. It would not have to go to the war against of the Earth of the Rising Sun. It is easy to send itself to the war, to cross those islands justifying itself in the value that can have their kingdoms. It is going to fail, and that it goes to destroy its heart and also it is going to give to him breath to its enemies. One handcuffs? So that you want one? The end of the other remembers. After Temelum, always there were many trips that to make. It never knew that it would wait for to me if recibimiento or the edge of an axe. What can offer to him to one it handcuffs a man like I? Guarantee of which she will be widow. But since I saw that girl. You feel your heart to bark very hard and pain in the bones, lack of breath. Is you or I? Now when you see the dances in time of lujuria, you feel repentance. When you hear to a beautiful one woman to play you feel neglect, not to please. That you are again. I have been in the Court all my life. I know that I will pass the rest of my life here. If you stay in front of the twig This it is my home, this is my family. You are everything what he could hope of a father, I also have a brother. But I need something more. You feel single. You have been exiliado of your country it is too much to support to be exiliado of your own heart also. I will see what I can do. The only benefit that comes with the age is to feel frees of desire. Of the Khan like father of its people still it is hoped to have a new one youngster in its bed every night. I envied it during years. Now I think that it must be one of the heaviest loads of a reign. That is she. - Surely? - Yes. - Has been favored by the Khan? - This is special, as it sees. Kensai, sees here. It raises the head. Date the return. Again for here. - Perfection. Does not create? - Its beauty is a tribute to you. Congratulations. Thanks. I am keeping it for when the Khan has a great craving. Or for a special occasion. Like a military victory. By all means that seems that every time we have less of those. I have heard that the doctors say that it never will return more to the combat. - Its health. - Without doubts, it is only a rumor. But The princes are preparing themselves in order to fight by the succession. All we will need allies in the days that are approached. Marco Polo will be a good one man to have of your side. In the last 15 years I have been traveling to serve the Khan. I know it. For several years two girls were robbed of a Clan, one was given for the favors of the Khan, and the other was sent a The House of the Women. You are the sister of Temulum. - By all means. - My sister told me on you. Before Temulum died it requested to me that looked for to you, in order to assure that you had a protector. But I did not know what he referred at that time. I worried about buscarte but it was too much behind schedule. I was upset. So that she looked for an exit to escape? At another moment. It never loved to me, I I know it. But never you dealed with to force it. Your you let it be what was. It stayed to your side until you were yourself. - That is not always so easy. - No All these years in the house of the women, I dreamed that a day the doors would be opened. And now this. You. Your destiny and mine they seem to be very united. - You do not create it? - Yes. - She is the sister of Temulum. - I know It, I want to make it my wife. You request permission to Him stops to marry you to your slave? It is not as well as I see you, you know it. And by the form in which you speak to me, nobody would imagine that you call master to me. - And what we are then? - Friends. And when he marries to me with her, brothers. You were enamored with Kensai or of the memory of its Temulum sister? Not even you know you yourself to it? I am a writer of romances, you remember. It is a question that whatever it reads history is going away to ask. Then it leaves imagine it. This sister or the other, which of the two was? Temulum never gave me what I needed not everything what needed. And I knew, with first watched that Kensai if it could. - You are safe of that? - I know my feelings. I watched myself at my same one in the eyes, I watched in the eyes of the world. No, no, not no man he is so wise to know after which it happened. Yes, yes, I loved Kensai by the form in which she it remembered Temulum to me. It smiled of a way that it forced to say something to you. But it loved it reason why it was, loved it reason why it was, - You married with her? - It had done It. But for one death that took place very far. Its brother, the Khan of the Persians, send greetings to the Khan of the Khanes, and its loyalty swears again. With pain it reports that his adored wife to dead. A princess of its Clan. By far pain sends to me up to here to bring these words to him. And to request highest favors that can grant to him to him or any other man. - Marco. Marco Polo? He does 15 years you were ill in Persia. I was your doctor. Then your father said the truth about wealth of China. And your you survived the desert in order to see it with your own eyes. Now you are an important man here. A humble servant. And you he also walks by the world. I am one of the idiots that it accompanies the ambassador That is everything. It is here for choosing a new wife for our Khan. Her last wife died wishing that his replacement was mongolesa. And what you are now? Veneciano, mongol, Chinese? - A little each thing. - Ah, the best thing of each one. That I hope. And Kublai? The Khan de Khans? The envoy of the Sky. How is? Hard like stops to govern other twenty years? I suppose that you know that I am very ready as not to respond that question. I prefer to maintain my head in my shoulders instead of the end of a lance. A gift of the Persian. An opportunity to approach the Khan de Persia more. That is not what I create. I believe that our dear brother Khan is trying to lower to us the guard while he prepares something against us. Recuerdas how it was disputed my succession? How I had to fight by throne, being even the chosen one. The Khan is wise like stops to look for enemies everywhere. Even between that you they profess greater loyalty. Specially in those. Our borders are under threat and you had to take the field twice the last year stops to end internal rebellions. I did not learn the lesson of those that they said me that killed all. To devastate all China and to destroy its cities. To turn them grass stops our ponies mongoles. That is too much behind schedule for now. We say that when the map he unrolls himself, the dagger reveals itself. It means that the real danger is accustomed to to hide in a suit of good intentions such as this request. It seems so flattering in its surface. The great Khan will take its decision on this. But to get upset the Khan Persian rejecting it or to please it and to obtain that he is, the one that lowers the guard. Not we. That. - No - It chose it. NonKensai, no. - What means no? - INo! It is an honor. The plus great that can give you. - I do not want. - Aha, and you think that you have option? I will go with the Khan, I him I will explain what it means for my. - It is significant for whom the Khan wants to give it. - But she said: 01060004010409080001010904Not0106000401040908000101650009. How could? Ella she does not have voice in this. What you will do here with quedarte? To be wife of a man that it will not survive the fight by the throne. There you will be a princess. The princess that I have done of you. Now it is a state subject, the Ambassador already has chosen. To deny to him, would be to insult to his master, to whom we needed to maintain like ally with us. - Crees that concerns something to me of that? It must importarte, you must to your Khan. - I also must this to Him? - Now it is when you will prove your loyalty. - And to me it does not touch anything to me. - You wanted to be able, this is the price. I do not want the power, no he is why I came here. But you remained in the cut and you followed the rules of the Khan. - IYo never I requested it! - IPero you took it! If you did not want it, you had haberte put the tail between the legs, like your father, and marcharte. I will go with the Empress, I will go with the Empress, she it will speak by me. She will die soon. There are things that they worry it more than your loving subjects. - But she will understand. She understands that the empire no she will survive much more that she or Kublai. Ghengis is glorious because it conquered the kingdom by which it fought. The tragedy of Kublai is that empress ages very fast next to him. You are going away to render. Otherwise I will say to him to the Khan and to Empress that you conspire against them. And you know the punishment for that reason. Be truth or no. You will make another trip. The plus great that never you have done. Plenty of dangers and discoveries. You will survive it but - But - Your heart no. - What you mean? - Only I can decirte that this last trip he will be so dangerous that it will be like mounting to a dragoon. Preprate to climb until its back. What is doing? - IVenecia! - This is not of your incumbencia. Marco. This is not the route. That I decide. And what election you are going to give to me me? To have left I and to be punished in your place? Or you glide to take to me with you to be captured when they capture to you you? I know China more than nobody. I will find my I walk to Venice. It tell me that you do not glide to do it by the front door nobody has been able not even you. The Khan is dying, the Empress is dying. - You know the enemies who I have - Crees that I need to hear that? When they took to the Ghengis his it falls down, they made incline to all those that found throughout the way. Then and that we do? To have left and to hope we knife in the back? You are the master, I the slave, so that to ask to me me? And how it thinks to release it of the House of the Women? I sent to somebody so that him say that she is ready to go to us. And is going to fight to win, using only its hands, as a hero of operates it? - That is the woman who I love and it loves to me me. And that are sufficient stops to risk its life fleeing with you? - Yes. - She said it? I know it. I have my planes. Astrology? I thought that Marco Polo it only believed in things that could see. This went on a my last trip. Ah, the magic copied of histories that the Arabs count. It cannot be of that form, Marco, you cannot irte by the door llevndotela to her. But it is your destiny, no faith will be able to prevent that you you take it where your you wish. There are deserts, mountains, tribes violent, diseases, everything type of dangers between these earth and Persia. This young person almost dies in his way towards here, crossing the top of the world. I I treated it personally. Our embassy lost half of our men in way here, the Ambassador it almost dies coming for here. His Majesty, is a trip class that he will take month after month, is horrible route. And it does not matter how beautiful she is the woman, when start off brief Yes, it is right. Everything what is around China: Tibet, Afghanistan Before if it wants to arrive at Persia. Wars, diseases, bandits oh, she must go by the sea. Bordering the Islands of Spice, soon India, I will show to him my Persian brother my tender preoccupation by him. I need each ammunition that I have for the invasion to Japan. Which will happen. As soon as it floats naval is ready and the winds are the suitable ones I can ask? Who made east map? This? Pole. He is one of yours, is not thus? - That I create. - You accompanied the princess of return to Persia. - Thanks. - Your you follow You made your part. No he is safe that you know but. It takes everything what I have, escndelo carefully. All the jewels, express. A stone in each pocket. Ja-ja-ja. Pedro. He is perfect. Venice, eh. Perhaps you have given the gift me to see that there is behind the next mountain. Which is your plan? So that that slave yours so it is occupied in your name? Is confirmed that I will have to accompany to princess Kensai to Persia? No trip has been used in order to see those maps. A man must be ready for any thing that him depare the destiny in its way. Also I heard that you are enough interested in the astrology. Your intentions seem include something more. My bones can that are old but my ears and my eyes they are as acute as ever. I can be benevolent in first instance but I am not going to allow the treason. I assume that you will discover it, your you were the one who I teach myself to survive in the cut after all. You said to me once: 01060004010409080001010904You never, never you never trust me ". He is something that you cannot deny. - Perhaps I did not teach to you sufficiently well. Or perhaps you I teach too much, eh? How is that? Is everything very bitter? Esccheme, if he poisoned it, it was fulfilling my orders. It does not speak of treason, does not interfere. I love it, this is my opportunity to release it to her and me. - Sometimes it teaches those modales to you. No, no, I have had the best teacher it has been my ambition that has done it Quickly, quickly. Express, the Ambassador hopes. With care. Kensai. They see sentarte here. Ponte this. Now you are a princess. The princess of the red suit. It was enchanted, very enchanted. - I am going towards my death. - You do not say that. - These sending to Me to die. - No I know the customs the cuts. If he finds little to me attractive, it will lock up to me by always. If she favors to me, the other spouses will see in me a rival and will try to kill to me. Little attractive, you? Later of everything what I did by you. How you can say that? When childbirth of here? As soon as Pole has all ready one for the trip. The plans have changed. You will go to your destiny by sea. Now you are in serious danger because you are going to lose my protection. I have saved your life often. It tries to survive, it tries to maintain your head on your neck. Not by your good but by the one of him. The aim of this empire will be guidance by a single man. Perhaps perhaps no. But it is your to have to help it to try it. Your to have. It remembers, he does not have to go to the war against of the Earth of the Rising Sun again. Acons jalo when it is at the moment. It thinks that conquering them it will complete its Earth mission. But he very will be tired and weak. And betrayed. His Majesty can trust that Pole will return and will not flee to the West with the secrets of the empire, but it thinks about Khan de Persia, Majesty. - I have thought about that. You are the Khan of the Khanes and he can do what pleases to him, but thinks that it has sense a gift so appraised in hands of a Barbarian? - He is a Barbarian, that is so certain as it is certain that it has served a to him all China and not walking to hurtadillas by all the cut gathering rumors like a old one, somebody that I know. Your Excellence, you are right when showing its fury, as well as by to have it in its heart. But it demonstrates that his brother Khan will not take it like an insult, then we will know that the Barbarian is good really. IOh, gentleman, we brought the terrible news! The Empress. When Genghis, its grandfathers, died all the slaves who they constructed his tomb and all guards who protected it they were assassinated, in order to maintain the whereabouts privily of its site of final rest. Who knows what Kublai will do in its pain by its wife. It is a trap, a boat yours, to India, and of there to where? To Venice? My secrets with you, my people. When Ghengis lost to his grandson, to my brother, in the sea Jarbamia, it destroyed the city, but first, he killed all living being in her. To each man, woman and boy, each cat, dog and bird, each rat, all that it breathed, eliminated, ieliminado! Thus it is like us, mongoles we took care of what we have, thus is like we protect what is ours. - Is not thus, Chu? - Thus it is, Majesty. You hate to me, is not certain? Of that form you want to betray to me? - So that masters more to Venice? - Almost nonmemory nothing on Venice. That is an answer? I cannot trust my own brothers, my own children. How could trust you? I will not betray to you, I will return with my Khan. Words. You have always been very good with the words for that reason it was very valuable for me. The right of perpetual ownership by my honor. IHonor! What is the honor? A spy, an agent of The west, a veneciano thief. How I can know what is, who is? You cannot, Excellence. Perhaps it was an error to think that you could. An error that I also committed. Who knows that lies it has in the heart of a close friend of the King? And if he is a traitor with a different skin? Then that true loyalty, it is lie after all. But I know this man. I know what lies in its heart. If he betrays it, it can cut my head. Grass of the steppe of Mongolia, it remembers to me from where we came, and that we were the best ones soldiers who the world has seen. I would have to be ashamed to be dying in one bed and not in a battlefield. And now it seems that the destiny it is being encrudeciendo, but I continue being a soldier mongol. But I continue constructing boats, reuniting troops to fight against Japan. This time I will not surrender, this time I will make them surrender. Since Ghengis had done. But the Empress wanted I know what the Empress wanted, but I will do everything to my way now. It sees here, I say, sees to you there, it finds out if those places exist. The stories of the travellers are truth. You were my eyes and was my heart. But already it is done, I I will not change of opinion. The orders have been issued. For when you return of this mission, I also must be owner of those islands. Your it happens of security for your trip. And for your return. It is hour. You do not say anything, I do not need thanks. The character of revancha can to be expressed by facts, falling like the snow, the winter is very length and the rules snow and snow and they snow. I am an old man, nobody will think about stabbing to me and if they did it, already I I lived my better days. But you, you do not have to return here. You understand to me? - I gave my word him. - Marco. - I promised it. - But you will not be able to maintain your word with the two. To whom really you want to him to fulfill: To the Empress or? It is not here It chooses your time and your place. But you do your election before of which he does hers. My better desires. I hope that there are not disadvantages. I was sure that this he would be the best one of my trips. I was prepared stops the surprises of the ocean. After diseases, days of storms and calm, thus, day after day, week after week, I was prepared until for the dangers of inside. But when the true test it arrived, arrived from the most violent way. IPiratas! IY there! In order to take the only way surely it was necessary to take the boat by the Straits, from a side to another one. He was dangerous and I was the one that he had to make the decision. And there was only one decision correct that to take. - To save the life of the girl. - Yes. To avoid that they capture it, yes? Is thus, no? That is what a novel writer sales look for in a history. Forgetting to us the insults, that they will make me commit some lies but was by her or no? Yes. Every day of the trip, each step that we did, approached each to us time more to Persia. And you were betraying it a she or you were betraying your word to the Khan? That did not matter then, what mattered was to maintain to us all with life. This time there was no time in order to admire the wonders. I had to guide men, to protect them of the danger and the food was finishing. We could not watch back, no there was another option, therefore it guided them. This is all the food that I could bring of the boat. We must have fought with the pirates in the sea, but you want that all we die here. I explored these coasts in one of my first trips, we can go to the North to Siam. - And after that? We can arrive at India through Birma and of there to Persia. Hay some other reason by which you have taken to us near the pirates? IPiratas! It runs, runs. Marco. It would have matarte by this. We have a pending fight between us. We cannot return now to the coast. Gather everything, we are going to advance. Standing up, standing up. There was no fight that was carried out that it could control my wrath and my disease also. I come from the Great Khan, we are its defenders and no we want to cause you wrath. - What Khan is that? - The grandson of Ghengis, Kublai Khan. Kublai Khan is dead. You did not know this, and nevertheless they want to become to happen through its crew members. We have been traveling by more of a year. Are safe you of that? Yes. Kublai Khan does not exist already. Kublai Khan is dead. This cannot be possible, but it was truth. I never knew if they went to me to flatter gold currencies or they would punish to me with the leaf of an axe. During all these years never each morning knew if it would live in order to see the night. The era my jailer but it also was my friend. They said to me that he lost the head after his it floats was attacked and destroyed while it tried to arrive The Country of the Rising Sun. - So it returned it to try. - And it suffered a new defeat. One of the greater ones in history of the men, he lost all his fleet and thousands of its better soldiers. After that, nobody insignificant prince could to risk to fight with him. I have heard that is a new one Khan now, his son, I fear. But nobody knows with certainty, nobody is able to define when it is necessary to show loyalty and when there is to lie. These are days of insecurity, it is not good weather to be on the way. And to be foreign. We will be here only days until we recover forces, later we will go away to Persia. Persia? There are the news that by there the things are not either well. It does not matter. It is our task and later we will return to China. All we. Pedro, jalo to go. There are the news of Persia. The Persian Khan is dead. The man with whom you you were going to marry, is dead. - You are free. - Free? The promise that I made return was to Kublai personally, like my Khan. He is dead. I am free of that. - If you never come with me you return. - I know It. I will follow to you. Treason, Marco. You and I swore a to him Kublai, he is dead. Nobody will cry its death more than I, but I am free from now on. - I swore to take to the princess to Persia. - The Persian Khan is dead also. Then I will take it of return a China and to you also or your head. Crees that I will sell you to girl by a handful of jewels? She is not yours stops that you are selling it. Ildiotas! Marco, takes. We go. Princess Kensai, ila princess! His master is dead, now he will not need her. It will be taken to another one prince of the Real House. It is the order of the new Khan. It is being sent like sample of friendship to the Persian cut. My orders are to take it there. Then it must kill to me. If as much they wish it. Hold, Kensai. Kensai, Kensai. Stop it. Could she be happy with me in Venice, between so many Barbarians? Or its soul would become ill and our love would die? Only that that they take it to Persia and that all the doors they are closed after her. I never knew of its destiny. It began for the first time a trip that would not give anything me nor it wanted to do nothing. Venice, Italy. It is a city constructed on marshes. That intelligent. After as much traveling, I return to house. - Your curiosity is satisfied? - Never. It did not have to do nothing of this without your loyalty. It is a small price, loyalty, by a full life of things that I could know. The church is open to request. - Is this the house of Pole? - Yes. My father, still is alive? A man of the East, with a devil like crew member. What you want? - Marco. - Je, je. My son. My son. All these years in the cut, serving the richest man as the world. It would have darte pain that you did not find the form of to remove benefit. Also your father did. In its name. This bond more than any currency. Pothooks, that is everything. That is the end of my trips. - Sometimes you returned to China? - No - Volver01060401650003s sometimes? I am a rich man now. Merchandise about which never I dreamed. A rich man has its obligations such like being kidnapped - Not if we left here. - If it is that we left here. - No, I am not going to return, twice I found the woman whom she looked for And twice I lost it. I am not so rich, all that I have is pen and touches. You maintain the treatment if. Eme its annotations, jeme to see its maps, deme to write my book, our book, its book. You think that somebody wants to read it? Nobody knows, monsters and flying horses, men with so great feet that they can to do shade to him to the sun. - A history that never I listened. This needs this. - They are not histories, is the truth. They serve to prove that they were mistaken all those that called to my mentiroso father And to see the world like something wonderful. The book of Marco Polo never was printed in the last 800 years. In him their trips are described to traverse Russia, Iran, China, Korea, Syria, Turkey, Bulgaria, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Sumatra, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and many other countries. It inspired to generations of travellers so that they left Europe and they explored the world. A copy of him was used by Cristopher Columbus in its trip to the America Pedro became a very rich retailer. It died in the 1323.
