 

                        1 Good good good good good evening!! Listen to the top 1O songs on your FM And with you is your favourite RJ Sudheendra. .. Before we begin with today's countdown, I would like to talk about the new movie Mareyalare which is ready to hit the screens soon. Our magical composer Arjun Janya has composed fantastic songs for this movie... Before we listen to those tracks, let's take a small commercial break. Don't go anywhere. Stay tuned! Wonderful Ad. Good show. Hahaha, thank you! thank you! Sir, clients are in a good mood, ask them to make the payment in full Keep quiet I say, where will they run away Why are you so much bothered when I am not? You neither ask, nor they give And we don't get the bonus till they pay What's the matter? Where is the ad director Nothing.. nothing - Ad director? It is Mr. Santosh He is on a tour to Chickmagalur in search of a location for ou r next ad shoot He is enjoying life.. While, I am sweating my life handling this boss too tough But, he doesn't even pay the bonus.. - What do you mean? Nothing.. nothing.. nothing.. Hey if you don't go from here, let away bonus, I will break your bones I have a lot ofwork sir, I will leave... Yes yes, he is busy with work. .. Santosh here No no no no. Santosh there. Joseph here Hey Joseph , Is it you? Tell me, what's the matter Hey Santosh, our client is here They liked your advertisement film very much Our boss drove me away while I was trying to talk to them in detail By the way, did u find any deer in Chikmagalur... Deer? Do you think that I have come to a zoo? Hmm.. you are too innocent dude.. Deer means a beautiful girl man.. Joseph, I am driving now Go and complete your work Instead of blabbering.. bye.. Hmm.. why does he cut the call whenever I start talking about girls... Is he of a different type? Ooops.. you never know! guys of this generation are unpredictable... aunty... Welcome back.. as I was telling you before taking the break, Let's now listen to a song from the movie Mareyalare composed by Arjun Janya He is the most smartest. He is the stylist star... Sa ri ga ma pa dha ni From where are these dance beats coming from.7Takadhimi.. Takadhimi Sa ri ga ma pa dha ni From where are these dance beats coming from.7Takadhimi.. Takadhimi Hey see, a new hero has arrived.. see his style And the name of the movie entrying the sandalwood is Mareyalare Shake your body, just shake it now.. Move your body, just move it now.. Shake your body, just shake it now.. Move your body, just move it now.. Sa ri ga ma pa dha ni From where are these dance beats coming from.7Takadhimi.. With the mesmerizing sound of the anklet.. Who is that person who caught and brought him here? Style style ma.. Style style ma.. Style style ma.. Stylo.. The one who is potraying me on the screen is an artist.. Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Sa Ri Ga Ma.. One who explored a gem like me is the ruler of our hearts Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Sa Ri Ga Ma.. We are very simple to look at but we create a thunder when we go crazy.. I left my place, to become a hero Now I am ready with makeup to win your hearts Shake your body... Shake your body, just shake it now.. Move your body, just move it now.. With the mesmerizing sound of the anklet.. Who has given this lovely music.. Style style ma.. Style style ma.. Style style ma.. Stylo.. Style style ma.. Style style ma.. Style style ma.. Stylo.. The one who made kanandigas go high with his Khali quarter bottle tune.. Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Let's dance to these beautiful beats by Arjun Janya Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Happiness is the cure (medicine) for all diseases. Enjoy your life dude Watch our new movie. Watch Mareyalaare A beautiful love story, we are here because of your support Shake your body, just shake it now.. Move your body, just move it now.. Shake your body, just shake it now.. Move your body, just move it now.. Can you please drop us to Chikmagalur my dear son? Sure.. get in father.. Father, where do you want to go in Chikmagalur? Where else will a father go dear son? Common sense.. To the church.. You might be wondering why am I going to church at this hour, ...instead of going home? isn't it? Common sense... My house is next to the church.. We also run an orphanage near church... By the way, where are you going in Chikmagalur son? Common sense.. not to the church at least during this hour... Your googlies are too good... you are even better than kumble! I am going to a guest house Guest house? So, you are not from this place, isn't it.7? Again. Common sense Yes. I am from Bengaluru I work for an adverstising agency as an ad film director I came in search of a location. But.. I met a fantastic... Father... Again a googly? It's ok dear son You would have been a great cricketer. But destiny bowled a googly and turned you into a director... Common sense Stop son, I will get down here.. Your.. your name? Oh, my name? I forgot to tell you! Father D'souza.. Thank you father Hello - Hello brother! I don't have any brothers and sisters Sorry.. wrong number Hello, hello Santosh.. Did he cut the call even without seeing the number? Matter is very serious.. Only a lady doctor can cure this Hello Hello is it Mr. Santosh? - Yes.. may I know who is this? This is.. this is.. (oops, I am caught...) Actually, we met yesterday in Chikmagalur.. that deer.. oh! Jesus Jesus??? Aah.. I got you. church... The girl whom I dropped to church yesterday? Sorry madam.. you had left your dairy in my car yesterday. I read it a bit. It was very interesting. But I am very confused According to what I read, you are a modern carefree bubbly girl. But you don't seem to be so... You look very simple and a silent girl in a white saree.. What's the matter? Will you explain the matter first? You should clear our confusions first. Aren't you the same great person who asked me to mind my work ...when I asked if you found a beauty in Chikmagalur? And now? You not only flirted with a girl trapping her but also you read her dairy? Common, tell me, who that is... Hey Joseph, cool down man. Nothing as such.. Don't head in the clouds.. 0k, I am getting late.. Have to get ready. I will call your later and talk to you in detail.. Bye Santosh. Santosh. Oh, he cut the call again.. Boys become totally mad when they find girl Let me try '00.. Au nty.. It is a bigger sin to run away from the sin committed than to commit a sin... Accept your mistakes and correct yourselves Reading someone's personal diary is also a mistake isn't it? Hello Please go out if you want to talk on the phone I meant, you won't get the signal here You can connect only to Jesus, that too without a phone. What? I think this is the only word you have learnt in your school. Alright Which is that sin haunting you, which brought you till here? Yes, I dropped a person to this church yesterday while it was raining... Wait a minute, was it only one? No, there were 3 of them But ,among those 3 two were not worthy to be remembered... And one among them, gosh, kept on talking.. Anyways, that's not the matter.. A beautiful girl among them had left her diary in my car. I did not realize that it was her personal diary and read few pages Isn't it a sin to snoop into someones personal diary without their permission.. Oh, you are feeling guilty of snooping into her diary.. isn't it Hey no. I dozed off before reading it completely Sagan mean... The personality of the girl in the diary.. ...and the one I met in my car yesterday were highly contrasting. How is that possible? How can a heroine in the first scene transform completely by second scene.. I think Kannada film directors are better than god in this regard They at least maintain a flow.. So what are you planning to do? I don't know.. I am planning to read the whole diary. Why do you want to commit the same mistake again? Fine then, you were telling that you can connect to Jesus without phone, now you give me an idea.. Hey, one flea... Why don't you directly go to the girl and ask her what is written.. It satisfies your curiosity and you won't feel guilty... Super idea... My kisses to your Jesus Please convey it to him.. I shall leave.. - It's ok.. Hi Son, how come you are here? Oh father, good morning. - Good morning Nothing much.The girl who had come with you yesterday, ...had left her diary in my car, wanted to return it to her Oh is it? I think it belongs to Sparsha ranjini.. common sense.. Sparsha ranjini!!!! Yes, I read the same name written in this book. She must be here somewhere playing with the kids. And there she is.. Go son... Thank u father! I think our hero has fallen in love! common sense Hello! Hello! How come you are here? - Hi Sparsha.. You had left your personal diary in my car yesterday How did you get to know my name? - While reading your dairy What? Did you really read my diary? Don't you know that you are not supposed to read others'dairy? Don't you have common sense.. Oh god, I think.. Seems like you and the father, have done Ph.D on common sense... What? Hello - Hello What man, are you settled in Chickmagalur? When are you coming back? Few more days' sir. Have few things to wind up... My boss. you can scold me later. Let him complete first... 0k? What do you think ofyourself? I will definitely come to this place, to the same bench.. at 6:00 PM.. Do you know why god gifted us with two ears? One is to listen to by boss' scolding and another to listen to your Hello, hello Santosh.. Speak up.. Yes sir, I am here.. It is raining heavily herein chikamaglur... It was dark, couldn't see the location propery Happy birthday! How do you know that it's my birthday today? It was written in your diary Who asked you to read all those? If everything was done with consent, Population of our country wouldn't have been so much.. What?? - You don't understand those things.. It is a very big matter. Not as simple as reading your dairy.. Reading my diary is a simple matter to you? In fact you are rig ht If it had been that simple, I wouldn't have disturbed me so much.. What did you say? - Nothing I did a mistake and confessed it to god But this Godess is still angry. Why is that so? 0k, what all did you read in my diary? Atlast, the train is back on the track.. You are wrong, I did not read it completely Probably all my confusions would have got cleared if I had read it fully But, what to do, I dozed off after reading few pages. And that caused the problem... The problem is, you look like a social worker in this white saree But as per your dairy, you are a mod ren carefree girl who is fun loving What is this double acting? - Nothing as such. Both are myself.. As you read in the diary.. While I was in college I was a fun loving, care free girl. No one used to question me in the college Because my father was known figure to everybody as he is a business man And that too, my dad and my professor are childhood friends Dad never came in my way He gave me money whenever I asked him For me, life was just enjoying with friends And once, we had to do a project in ourjournalism course I studied. Professor had asked to do some research. ...and write an article on some real incident, prevalent issues Meanwhile In the news paper.. I had read about drought and the framers'suicide in the north Karnataka lfinally decided to do a project on the same Dear, your father and I are close buddies I know him better than you He won't allow you to go to north Karnataka for so many days Choose a nearby place and submit your Journalism project on some topic Please dad.. Have you brainwashed my daughter to go to far off places like Gulbarga, Raichur and Bagalkot? No.. no.. it's not possible Can't she choose a near by place close to Bengaluru? Hey, it is she who decided that She is moved by the plight our farmers who are suffering due to drought Your daughter has chosen an excellent topic I say... You and your student... neither of you seem to listen to what I say What else can I say? 0k, let her go and come... -Thanks dad.. my lovely father... There started a new phase in the journey of my life A new dimension... I can never forget that.. "Unforgettable journey" Farmers were committing suicide due to drought. Poverty was haunting them... Then, I started realizing the importance of every rupee You have done a very good project We feel as if the incident are actually happening in front of us.. Very good Sparsha.. you can go now -Thank you sir Tell me Your daughter has done a very good project report on north Karnataka.. Very neat review, which even experienced find difficult She has gathered a lot ofinformation. She has really worked hard! She has changed a lot since the time she returned.. She is much more matured now Now she realised the value of money And you know what she did on her birthday this time? She donated money to a NGO which she had saved from her pocket money I really feel that she has grown up After these incidents, I decided to pursue social service as my goal I came hereto do such works full time after my graduation I started working in this orphanage This is what I have written in my personal diary.. are you happy now? You were after me to know what is written there. All these days, I was after you ...now I feel like saluting you Hey, what are you doing? Get up Salutes madam! You have left all your wealth and come so far just to serve the society.. You are great. - I am not great! Then you must be crazy. -What??? Then what? People who choose do things which others usually don't do are either great or crazy You don't look like a retard.. So, you must be great. isn't it? Hey, why are you running away. Actually,I should run away from you Because I am crazy.. Hi Sparsha.. this is for you Oh why? - A gift for Holi festival... For these kids? Nothing I had brought these for kids Why are you silently standing here? Oh, are you sad that I didn't lift you... I don't have the habit of lifting goods at Yashwanthpur market I will teach you a lesson Naughty" Kids, enough of lessons, come on let's play hide and seek now Who is this? One who brings smile on the faces of children should be Santosh.. Isn't it Z Common sense.. What is this take it away Don't disturb while lam teaching kids.. Chuck it ya. Don't teach them too much What have we achieved after studying so much? You are doing social service and I am serving my company This country is being ruled by illiterates Have you ever checked the degree.. ...certificate of the candidate before casting your vote What do you mean? Didn't you understand even after explaining so much.. That's why I asked, what's the use of studying so much.. I mean, come let's play hide and seek.. Hey give it ya.. I will blind fold myself. You go and hide.. You don't know the fun seeing the world in closed eyes When blindfolded, you feel that those.. ...who really love you and who are close to your heart are in front of you.. Kids, are you ready? Go, go, go .. hide.. I will catch you now.. Shall we start? You don't know the fun seeing the world in closed eyes When blindfolded, you feel that those.. ...who really love you and who are close to your heart are in front of yo Leave ma. Sparsha! tomorrow evening.. I will be waiting for you near the lake on the hilltop, This gentle touch has touched my emotions has given a new rhythm to my heart With this gentle touch, this world is engulfed with the energetic musical waves A beautiful song is born which the rhythms of our hearts meet I shall fill this song with life till my last breath You are that touch of the dew drops on a tender leaf Every day is a new beginning with the blissful hope from the bottom of heart ...which has started a new era in me My heart is swinging in the realm of incredible joy.. ...which has filled the whole world You are that tickling touch of a bee to the blossomed flower This gentle touch has touched my emotions has given a new rhythm to my heart Sparsha! It's time for me to return to Bengaluru.. I carry with me the bundle of memories of gentle touch of the breeze, ...touch of those beautiful verses in the birdsongs, touch of the nature and.. My new friend Sparsha I can't forget all these memories Hello.What happened? Sowmya, Kavya, Prakruthi. They are all my ex girl friends.. Just recalled them and used their names in my dialogue. We should not forget the present while thinking about the past. you know So added your name too... I mean.. in the dialogue Can't you be serious? Always joking? I become a comedy character instead of a hero Any ways, comedy stars these days have become heroes '00.. What? Nothing, recalled our Komal and Sharan... No one else other than you can understand what you speak... 7 crores Kannadigas understood my words but you didn't? Anyways, let's come to a serious topic... I am going back to Bengaluru. One request before I leave.. What is that? Sparsha, I was captivated by your beauty when I met you for the first time But, my respect double folded when I learnt that ...you left behind all your wealth to do social service after seeing how ...people of north Karnataka are struggling due to drought. I became your fan If not in a bigger way like you, ...now even I feel like helping the needy and.. ...serve the society in whatever possible way Our country easily progresses, ...if every playful young mind starts feeling like this and thinks like me For this to happen, you should write a book based on your experience.. That is my request. I have no intentions of creating a fan club by blowing my own trumpet. Neither do I want to earn money by selling the book I just shared with you as you were forcing me to tell Hey, if not for fame or money, you should write to awaken the youth like me See, after getting to know about you, I realized that ...I am not a gym body, but a waste body! If everybody in this society realizes that. ...there are lot of people suffering with problems, people will start leading contented and a happy life Also, they will start serving the needy Yet, I am not convinced What? Are you not convinced with my words? We guys don't put so much of efforts even to impress a girl If not for my sake, do it for the sake of this society I will take care of publishing it . - Ok buddy.. I will write. Happy? Yes , I am Santosha (happy) - Hmm... you are smart But on one condition... I don't like publicizing my name Don't mention my name anywhere She doesn't want to display number plate on her vehicle We will do this.. instead of mentioning full name Sparsha ranjani, We will just use the initials SR.. But, the title of the book? As I will be sharing my unforgettable experiences, How about "Mareyalare" as the title... "Mareyalare" (Unforgettable) Waw! Super title... (Sings an old famous Kannada song) Naa ninna Mareyalaare.. Hey wait.. don't leave me alone.. I will join you... Good morning Bengaluru.. Isn't it a great experience to listen to our FM radio ...sipping a cup hot coffee in this beautiful whether? That's why our Bangalore is the best! If you wish to talk more about Bangalore, call us now.. And you know the numbers to reach us on Annavre.. (Dr.Rajkumar is fondly addressed as) Our Santosh is still not backfrom Chikmagalur He has not even informed me when he will be back Joseph and Santosh are close friends He would have definitely informed him I have asked Joseph to come to my cabin To know when will Santosh be back Sir, did u call me? Child , where is your Santosha (happiness)? Anna! How did you come to know that there is no happiness in my life? That's the reason why people worship you as god Are you so much concerned about my happiness? Idiot, I am asking you about our Santosh Even I am telling you the same Anna I have lost all my happiness since the time ljoined to thisjob under this boss Anna, he took all my original degree certificates while giving me the job And he is not giving me the Bonus. I asked him He says, he won't give the bonus or the certificate You can leave the job and go if you want Full hopeless fellow he is. It's not fair. You are mocking me by asking about happiness Is it fair? I asked you that when our Santosh is coming back from Chikmagalur? Hey come here. Come here Get out. Stand there.. Am I a hopeless fellow? Yesterday, I watched Rajku mar's movie That's why I am peaceful today as peaceful as he was in that movie. If I had watched tiger Prabhakafs movie... get out!!! Sorry Anna.. I become over emotional... Hari om!!!! Hey.. my raja is back.. I knew that you will definitely come back When outsiders don't moving back from here once they used to Bengaluru.. ...how will the natives leave this place? There is a glow on your face My predication is that a Heroine has entered the life of our hero You can't hide anything from me This Mangalamukhi not only knows the past and present, but also the future She is your girl... You will never forget her.. She is unforgettable !!!! Hi Santosh! - Hi Joseph How was your Chikmagalur trip? - It was fantastic.. Our boss is waiting for you.. Go and meet him soon Later we can sit together and chat What do you say - Oh sure.. By the way, our boss has watched Dr.Rajkumar's movie yesterday I was punctured when lwent to meet him in his cabin Handle him carefully brother. He is dangereous Who knows what is written in our future here Good morning sir.. Oh Santosh..finally you are back.. Sorry sir, it took some time to find good locations I have copied all the photos to this pen drive. Please have a look. If you take so much oftime to find the shooting locations, When will you shoot the ad? It won't take much time sir Once our Joseph completes the script, I will finish the shooting.. Don't even take his name in front of me He calls me a hopeless fellow What did you say sir? I said he is a hopeless fellow Poor fellow, why do you scold him sir? What? Is he a poor fellow.. I don't understand what sin of mine is haunting me in his form He keeps troubling for bonus Why should I pay bonus? Tell me why? Why pay more? Why Pay more? Why Pay more? Why Pay more? Ring ga ringa.. Sing a songa Every body say.. Why pay more aaa Ring ga ringa.. Sing a songa.. Every body say.. why pay more aaa.. Even if we work hard all the day.. They only question boss asks is Why Pay More? When we have eyeful of desires and banks are ready to give loans We don't need cars.. only city buses are enough.Why Pay More? Although you have fat offers, stars hotels are just expensive Street food is the best Why Pay More? How much ever you earn my pants are badly torn But still I am the don of my town Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Ring ga ringa.. - Ring ga ringa.- Sing a songa - Sing a songa Every body say.. why pay more aaa.. Fasting in the name of God has increased I have stopped eating for 2 days in aweek Because the prices of grains has increased Go and request god that this heart needs more. Dil maange more. (Heart needs more) Dil maange more Heart needs more Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] I have been waiting for the good times Tried wearing different watches to get that moment I'm searching for the good luck in all the four directions With whom shall I share my problems. Heart asks for more Heart asks for more Heart asks for more Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Why Pay More] Ring ga ringa.. Sir you have a courier. - Keep it here. Hi Santosh. I hope you reached Bangalore safely As I promised you, I wrote the book Mareyalaare and sending it you Like I had told you earlier, please don't mention my name You can just use the initialsS.R" I am excited and anxious as this is my first book which is getting published Please let me know the publisher's opinion about the book I will be eagerly waiting for your reply.. Lovingly your's - Sparsha Ranjani.. "Ma reyala re", nice title. Oh S.R. Hey Santosh Rag hav. Hey when did you started writing books dude? No, I didn't write this. It is written by one of my friend.. I brought to you to get this work published Whoever might have written this Santosh. I must like it first. Then only I can publish. I mean,I hope you understand Yeah su re.. only if you like it.. you take the call No obligations 0k, I will read and let you know.. By the way, how is your work going on? Hey, heard that you had been to Chikmagalur recently Yes dude.. Hey Santosh! - Hi Ravi. I read Mareyalara. it is superb. It's a master piece buddy It gives an unforgettable experience to the readers.. I want to talk to you regarding this, you come to my office right way.. I have huge plans for this book.. Thanks, hanks Raw But, I am busy right now. Shall I meet you in the evening? Oh not possible Santosh. lam going to Delhi in the evening We can complete all the formalities once I am back Now listen carefully Me and my team are very much impressed by this book Mareyalare We shall even translate this book to international languages ...and launch it in other countires too But, before that I need your consent as you are the author Hey no Ravi, I am not the author.. Oh come on Santosh. I may not be as intelligent as you But I too have a little common sense Seeing the initials SR, I got that it is Santosh raghav Guys of this generation like to publicize their name ...as they would be doing it along with their regular profession. I understand it. But Ravi, l.. Hey, lam not asking you to give it to me for free I will pay you the royalty for giving me the publishing rights. 25 lakh rupees.. I will also give you percentage share in the sales Look, I am going to Delhi now I will be back tomorrow. Think and get back to me lam sure we will make this a best seller 0k. Bye !! Hey Ravi, hello Ravi Hi Ravi Hi Santosh.. I am back to Bangalore Did you think about what I had discussed with you? Yes, I want to talk to you regarding that. But not on phone. I will come to your office Oh yeah, perfect. I will be waiting for you.. please coma. Okay Hey Santosh, where are you going? Let's go for lunch Boss is not in office anyways. We can come leisurely No Joseph. I have an important work. I am leaving If boss asks, tell him that lam out for lunch. Ok.. Bye Dear. What are you thinking about. It seems like Goddess of wealth Lakshmi has come and waiting for you Instead of calling her inside, what are you waiting for? No use ofthinking so much. She will definitely come. Hey Santosh! welcome Excuse me everyone. your attention please I would like to introduce the new age writer Mr. Santosh lam proud to say that he is my childhood friend We are going to publish his first bookMareyalaare" Our company will take care of all the marketing activities to.. ...make this book a best seller. Yeah, good news right. Ramya, agreements please Hey am, Raw This is a small formality for giving the marketing. ...and publishing rights of Mareyalare to our company But, Ravi.. - Sign it Santosh! We are there. Common. Sign it Santosh Sir cheque.. - Oh yeah, the most important thing! Santosh, this is your first cheque from my company Please take it.. But Santosh.. -Take it Santosh Earth is a toy with which I play People move 100 feet away to make the way for me lam the almighty & I write my own fate when the victory is under my feet lam so famous that lam known to all People dance to my rythm What more do I need when the heaven is in my hands I get everything at the wink of my eyes Earth is a toy with which I play People move 100 feet away to make the way for me lam the almighty & I write my own fate when the victory is under my feet Crush the people who confront you Burn the tongues of hypocrites with fire Why do u worry when luck is favouring you Just place a ladder to the sky lam the dude who is the dream of every beautiful girl You hardly find someone like me who has remained undefeated in life lam my own master Earth is a toy with which I play People move 100 feet away to make the way for me lam the almighty & I write my own fate when the victory is under my feet Mr.Santosh Raghav has become a famour writer.. ...through his first book "Mareyalare" I too wanted to have a chat with in our studio.. Learn to lead the life at your will Why to bother about the rights and wrongs There is a little time between the birth and death Make sometime for yourself and enjoy it to the fullest Only a sluggard says that you cannot gain the fame easily But a smart guy utilizes the opportunity and he wins And that is my style Earth is a toy with which I play People move 100 feet away to make the way for me lam the almighty & I write my own fate when the victory is under my feet King, great king. My king has become a big emperor now I had told you that you have the blessings of the goddess of wealth. I had told you that you have the blessings of the goddess of wealth. Listen, you will become richer, you will get fame. You will get a new throne. You have now become a maharaja Good morning - Good morning Hi Santosh , how are you. -Ya, I am fine, how are you? Hi Santosh, Mareyalare is a fabulous book. -Thank you Sir, congratulations, -Thank you very much.. None of you is disciplined in life Even though you work for 12 hours a day like donkeys.. ...you are not able to improve the company. You will also not improve.. But our Santosh, he has not only continued to persue his writing skills, but also has been working hard at office.. So, I am promoting him as the Public relations officer of this company. PRO Come on.. follow me.. Come on.. come on.. come on my boy.. come on This is your new cabin. Did u like it? Sir, but. so quick. You became a celebrity overnight It will unfair on my part I'll ask you to work as an Ad film director now So, I took this quick decision to promote you and shifted to this cabin 1 minute,1 minute 1 minute aa.My wife... Hello -Where are you Are you still sitting at office? Can't you understand I'm waiting here. Come fast. My wife is asking me to leave the office quickly and join her for shopping Tell me, how can I leave office suddenly.. Same way,just like you say quick, quick.. What man, are you trying to pull my legs? Be care full. I am very strict like S.P. Sangliyana Take care of the office strictly, till I am back I will watch KashinatHs movie before coming to office tomorrow Madam, is Joseph in office? No sir, he has not come to office since a week Even His phone is not reachable - Oh is it Please inform me once he is in.. -Sure sir, will let you know Now listen to me, you will gain more wealth and fame Because you are a king now Hello - Hello We are calling from the ministry of Kannada and culture, Could you please connect us to Mr.Santosh Yes, one minute.. There is a call for you from the department of Kannada and culture Shall I connect you? -Yes please Mr. Santosh.. minister wants to meet you now.. Can you come to Wdhana Soudha right away? What's the matter? It is bit difficu It to start now.. Is it 0k if I can come in the evening? It would have been better if you had come now Hold on, madam wants to talk to you Mr. Santosh.. -Yes madam.. This is Minister Malathishree here.. I read your book Liked it very much.. Did you really read my book madam? Why.. shouldn't I? Not that way.. Let us meet for a coffee in the evening and talk about your book Sure madam, I will definitely come, thanks Madam.. Yes Santosh, take you seat. Mareyalare is an excellent book Santosh.. It is really extra ordinary to be so much talented at a very young age.. I think your parents have been encouraging you since childhood Convey my regards to them.. - Oh sure madam By the way, there is one more reason for this meeting After reading this book, I felt like sending it to an International Book festival So, I had sent them the book along with a letter from the ministry Even they have liked it. But, as many writers like you participate, It becomes really difficult for them to verify the authenticity It is really important for them to check the genuineness Plagurism is a problem these days So, they require a back ground verification certificate.. ...and a confirmation from our department that you are the writer It is just a formality. Our officers will take care of remaining things. Your consent for the back ground check It's ok. please sign.. So what are you planning to write next? How are you aunty? Good morning sir.. - Good morning Sir, Joseph has come to office today Oh is it, can you please send him to my cabin a bit? I will send him in full sir.. Naughty" Oh wow.. you got a beautiful cabin.. Shifted to a new house. You are glowing But, why did n't you reveal about your talent? Why didn't you tell me about your writing skills.. Dude Joseph, you are a Kannada script writer. Why do you insult Britishers with your English? It is not my mistake brother. It is Britisher's fault. If they had taken my father along with them, ...by this time I would have become an English script writer.. ...for an ad agency in London..Just miss.. Yes.. were you down with the same feeling in these ten days while on leave? I was busy with paper and pen, Trying to write a book like you.. Did you complete it? No brother.. It is impossible to write a 300 pages book.. ...when you are used to the practice of writing a 3O sec ad script Hello You are coming toTV interview right? Please be on time. Yes sure I will come.. Please be on time. -Yeah..I will Hey Joseph, I am going now to attend a TV interview on 'Mareyalaare' I will take boss's permission. I will call you once I am done.. ok Hey wait man.. If they ask you who is the inspiration for Mareyalare, Don't hesitate to tell them that it is Joseph. Ok dude. I will tell them.. May I come in sir.. - Howla.. howla.. Sir.. is it really you? Yes, it is me, who is trying to transform the monkey gang of this ad agency.. To a activists forum.. Simha the lion.. Major Subbayya.. Tell me what's the matter.. -There is a TV interview of mine. So, please permit me to leave the office early today Tv interview! If they ask who inspired you to write this book, Without any hesitation,tell them that that it is Major Subbayya.. Definitely sir, I will tell them that you are my inspiration. All the best, all the best Thank god! I am saved - Howla howla... Hi Santosh.. congratulations. I read your book. It is fabulous. Thank you.. Hello sir.. -Hello sir. After a very long time, there is a book in Kannada.. ...which liked by the youth of this generation Auto graph please.. Sir, a snap with you - Wait wait wait. Please don't disturb Mr. Santosh.. There is a live program. I will bring him to you once the show is over. Santosh, it is getting late... Please come Studio is towards this side.. Today in the program, "Naanu Nanna Maatu" (My thoughts & My Words) with me I have Mr. Santosh Raghav, an eminent writer and youth icon. I welcome you to this program. -Thank you.. I should definitely ask you this question before I start. Did you really write this book? What..Why are you doubtful? I am sorry, I wasjustjoking. You have the looks like a Kannada film hero But how did you get into literature and writing.. We have now reached to the end of the program. Our heartfelt thanks to Mr.Santosh Raghav for coming to our show Interview was good Santosh -Thanks Sir auto graph please. - Okay Madam, who are they? They are the kids from Chikmagalur. There is a children's program recording in our studio today. Madam I have some important work. I will leave now Ok Santosh, take care, thank you so much.. Sorry sir.. lam in a hurry.. Today in the program, "Naanu Nanna Maatu" (My thoughts & My Words) with me I have Mr. Santosh Raghav, an eminent writer and youth icon. I welcome you to this program. -Thank you.. I should definitely ask you this question before I start. Did you really write this book? What..Why are you doubtful? I am sorry, I wasjustjoking. You have the looks like a Kannada film hero But how did you get into literature and writing.. Oh oh.. that s my hobby, I love to write.. Very nice You have written a lot of things about. The drought situation in the northern part of Karnataka It is depicted so well that the reader feels.. ...as though incidents are taking place right in front of us You must have really done a lot of research by going there and seeing the situation Yes, I had been there. Very nice But you are an ad film maker by profession staying in Bengaluru.. How could you find time to witness all these? I had been there.. I have seen their plight. My work demands lot of touring... So I go to various places I travel a lot for shooting Very nice, is it a real story? I mean, real incidents which have taken place in your life, or is it a story based on your experience Actually, this is a real story. But to make the real incidents look more exciting. ...I have written it a form of a story. So I think you had this habit of writing since childhood Your parents must have been every supportive I suppose... Parents were very encouraging for my studies But these are my personal interests cultivated on my own It's really fantastic.. Let's talk more with Mr.Santosh Raghav just after a small break.. Good evening everybody Today we are happy to announce that. ...today we have the youth celebrity and the famous book writer.. ...Santosh Raghav at our chai stall.. welcome sir! Sir autograph .. - Sir one selfie please.. Sir, sir,just an autograph - I am sorry Hi Santosh.. how are you I think you are busy with your work. But please don't forget to publish my work You might be wondering that how come a girl who was even hesitant. ...to write the book, is suddenly forcing you to get it published? That is the change.. And the reason for that is"Santosh Don't forget Mareyalaare. Publish it.. Don't forget Mareyalaare Don't forget Mareyalaara. Oh my dear King.. You have forgotten small people like me after becoming famous .. This wound... You are an artist. Artist should never loose his patience and perseverance Don't run away from the reality You are an artist. Why are you blabbering that I am an artist? I am not an artist. I always felt that whatever you say is divine and true.. But, all that was false. No, no this Mangalamukhi never lies.. No, whatever you were telling was untrue.. You were trying to please me with your words because I pay you. But, you never said about something which is bitter to me.. But why? You were afraid that I would stop giving you the money. You just do it for money - No.. I don't want. Take this. Never ever come in front of me, don't ever try to look into my eyes.. Don't come in front of me Beware... Hello brother Santosh, what happened] Joseph.. I did a mistake Joseph. I was lost in the sound of fame and wealth Joseph I didn't listen to the love in my heart Santosh, what are you saying, I don't understand Mareyalare is not written by me. All this name, fame, pleasure is not mine.. I am surrounded by dirt I can't hide it from any more Please pull me out Joseph But what can you do? It is all my mistake I opted to stay here. I will come out of it myself. I will come out of it and I will build a new world of my own What happened to you Santosh? I will call for a press conference immediately. I will announce that I have not written the book. I will let the world know the truth. My voice should reach everyone Santosh.. I am coming to your house right now. This is not a matter to be discussed over phone. Don't go anywhere I am coming Surprise!! Sllarshal! Don't you call me inside? Please come. I got the address from your letter. lfound it now.. You did the right thing? Please sit What do you like to have? Coffee, tea,juice? Coffee. 0k, two minutes It is not my mistake. My friend published it in my name.. Everything was done by the time I could inform Sparsha.. It was so fast that, I couldn't do anything Mistake has happened.. I admit it I will call for a press meet. I will tell everything I will announce that you are the one who wrote it and not me.. I will clarify everything But you don't be angry on me .. I can't bear that Please don't cry.. I can't see that You are more important to me than this name, fame and wealth I will forget this book Mareyalaare But, I can't forget you Sparsha.. Spa rsha.. Spa rsha.. Reason for today's press conference is... To inform all of you that Santosh is not the author of Mareyalaare But, now I am going to share something else What sir, once you say that Santosh is not the real author of Mareyalare.. But again, say that you called us to inform something else... Are you kidding? Will you please explain the matter in detail? Even I was confused in the same way when Santosh called me to inform this. I went to his house to talk to him about this sensitive matter.. Spa rsha.. Spa rsha.. Hey.. Santosh. Doctor, can you immediately come to Santosh's house now? Ok doctor Hello doctor - Hello Joseph Check his blood pressure Nothing to worry Joseph Everything is normal.. He is stressed out.. It does happen when you achieve a lot at a very young age.. As he works for an Ad agency and also is into writing book It's quite normal. He needs some rest. He will be alright.. Sparsha, don't leave me Sparsha. Don't leave me.. Santosh.. Nurse, get the tranquilizer.. I will give him an injection to sleep... Everything will be 0k... I don't think that it is a simple matter He was very tensed when I had called him in the evening Something is haunting him. He was in tears He was in this condition when I came here I had never seen Santosh in this condition before I think something is really wrong... We shall keep him under observation for a day So, shall I stay back here? - Not required. I have given him an injection; he will have a sound sleep tonight I want to know his mood and how he reacts when he wakes up in the morning So please fix a CCTV camera I will visit him again in the morning Santosh.. Sparsha.. Sparsha I'm glad that you are back Sparsha Did you forgive me? No. I can never forgive you.. Who am Ito forgive you? I am no body to you right? You have cheated me by publishing my book Mareyalare in your name You are enjoying that money and fame.. I had trusted you a lot Leave it. I don't want to talk about all those things I have come to you to erase all the memories about you I don't wish to have any type of contact with you Don't try to come back into my life... Spa rsha, Spa rsha.. Joseph, come to Santosh's house immediately. I am going to hypnotize him. I want to know everything about his personal life.. Sure Doctor. I was about to go there now.. I had to hypnotize you when I found you mentally disturbed... I know everything about you now.. But I want you to tell me about yourself Who wrote this book Mareyalaare? It's not me.. It is written by my friend Sparsha ranjani from Chikkamagalur No Santosh, it is written by you... What is this doctor, you say its him who wrote it.. But he says that he has not written Whatever I am saying is right. Santosh has written this book When I hypnotized you, I came to know that ...you had this habit of writing since your childhood But your parents were disinterested to encourage you They were more concerned about your studies Santosh, are you studying? I am slaving a maths problem, So along with your studies, you secretly cultivated this habit of writing.. But by nature, you are not a person who lies You disliked that So you were not ready to accept that ...you were lying to your mother that you were studying Though you had written it yourself, you were not ready to accept it But that's not true. But, I already told you that it is written bySparsha ranjani... That's the point I want to clarify Sparsha Ranjani is just your imagination It's just your imagination You wanted to bring out the talent which you had in you since 20 years But you imagined that it is written by your girl friend Sparsha Ranjani ...and bound to the circumstances, you had to publish it in your name This mental illness is termed as Schizoph renia.. What are you saying Doctor, ls Sparsha Ranjani just my imagination? Never! Every moment I have spent with her is real Do You mean that lam mentally sick? As I already told you, this is called Schizophrenia It can happen to anyone. Let me give you an example Great mathematician and noble prize winner John Nash had this problem He was extremely intelligent but was Schizophrenic He used to see people who didn't exist in real And he used to talk to them also.. But those people didn't exist in reality It was all his imagination And in your case, Sparsha Ranjani is an illusion Just an imagination I don't believe this. Sparsh Ranjini exists in reality I have the letter written by her Will you at least believe me after seeing that? 0k, then get them.. Do you have anything written in your handwriting? Letters, dairy etc.. Yes, I had written a letter to her, but couldn't post it.. See Doctor, this is the one Both are in the same handwriting... no change... Do you mean to say that Santosh wrote both of them? Absolutely... - No I don't believe this She wrote the book and sent it to me. I even have the courier pack with me Take this. Did she send it this way... -Yes.. There is no from and to address written on this How did the courier arrive? I have her photo with me.. one minute.. I'll bring Doctor, will Santosh come out of this mental state? Why not, he will be back to normal if Santosh co-operates.. How long will it take? Since this is related to psychiatry, there are no definite timelines.. Doctor, do you see this photo... Yes, I see.. So you might have imagined Sparsha Ranjini seeing some photo like this or it could be your own creation of a character called Saprsha Ranjani... So you are saying that, You called all of us to inform that Mareyalare was not written by Santosh But meanwhile you came to know that he is suffering from mental illness So he thinks that this book is written by a girl called Sparsha Ranjan But she is just an imagination Yea. But did you go and check to find if there is anyone called Sparsha Ranjini ...stays in the place where Santosh says that he met the girl Yes, I had been there with him.. Hello father.. Does any one else stays here apart from you? Any girl called Sparsha Ranjini stays here? No.. no one else stays here apart from me lam worried that there is no one to take care of the church after me Why is Santosh silent. Say something You share your feelings sir.. Yes. How are you feeling now, after knowing all this? "You are an artist don't run away from reality, you are an artist.. Mr. Santosh, we are asking you... I have an important work, I am Ieavng .. Ok.. please excuse me .. Santosh.. Santosh.. - Santosh.. wait a minute Mangala mukhi , mangala mukhi.. She is not more.. she is dead... Hey, speak up What happened to her? Yesterday she met with an accident and got injured badly She died of pain.. No, nothing has happened to you. Get up my friend, wake up Nothing happened to you Tell them that I'm not the reason for your death Open your eyes. See me. Did you leave me because I scolded you.. ...and asked you not to make eye contact with me Please forgive me for my words.. Please wake up My friend.. My friend.. Swamy, where were you these days.. I haven't seen you for a long time Sir, I had been to my home town for 10 days.. You please take your seat. Santosh will be here soon. He called me and asked me to keep his bag ready. I will get you a cup of coffee.. - Okay Sir.. sir.. Santosh left. Hey Santosh.. Where is lkkalike village here? If you move further in this way you will get that village Okay.. thank you But sir, you can't go by the car You have to go by walk only Thanks -Okay Sister.. I'm leaving to college Okay.. take care "Unforgettable Journey will starts now" lam so famous that lam known to all People dance to my rythm What more do I need when the heaven is in my hands I get everything at the wink of my eyes Earth is a toy with which I play People move 100 feet away to make the way for me lam the almighty & I write my own fate when the victory is under my feet
