 

                        1 Let me see your lighter. We should start a band called Twisted Erection. This is some good weed, man. Hell yeah, man and a good joint. Rolled by moi, oh! Caught the fox. Where you going you little shit ass? Fuck you, Hom. Fuck me? Eat some dirt. Fuckin' pig. We weren't even doing anything. Then why'd you run? I don't know. Must have been doin' something. I like your mother, I'm taking you home. You gotta stop this shit and never run from me again. I brought him home. Adam, you okay, sweetie? Yeah, mom, I'm fine. Alright, listen, go to bed, okay? Night, Adam. Was having Adam a hard birth? Did he not want to come out? Did he want to stay inside of you? Did you have to have an episiotomy? When you have an episiotomy the vaginal canal is about this close to the anus. And if they cut too much, you know, you can get all kinds of infections. No, man, he was a natural birth. There was really almost no labor. Well, my mother has to have an episiotomy. They had to rip her open because I didn't wanna come out. And my father, he'd get all drunk and he'd yell at my mother because that she had me her hole wasn't tight anymore. Oh, listen, thanks for bringing him home. Oh, yeah, no problem. Goodnight. Okay. Hey, Vossie. Good morning, step up, come on. Yeah. Good morning. Come on, BT, wake up the birthday boy. Come on, hey, sweetie, it's time to get up. Come on birthday boy. Hey. Hi-yi. Hi-yi. Good morning. Morning. So, um, what was going on last night? Um, me and Jessie was just walking and we saw them come up behind us with their lights on and we just started running. But we got to, like, the ditch and I turned and I guess Jessie went straight. And I just felt somebody behind me, tackled me, and it was him, he tackled me. What do you mean he tackled you? I was running and he just came up behind me and jumped at me. I know why he was stopping you. He's stopping you because he thinks you're a wetback. That's... Yeah. That sucks. I don't ever see the white kids getting pulled over by border patrol. Oh, Adam, I don't like it. You gotta be careful. I mean, I know you're not doing anything wrong, but just don't give them any kind of excuse to do that or to have any contact with you. Those guys just seem like they're outta control. They do whatever they want. Alright, sweetie, listen, you gotta get up. You gotta get up now, you've got some chores to do and then you gotta go to school. Hey. There you go. Good morning Marfa High School, please stand for our pledges to our flags. We will begin with our pledge to the United States flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag, of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And now we will honor the Texas flag. Honor the Texas flag, I pledge allegiance to thee, Texas, one state under God, one and indivisible. Thank you, you may be seated. This morning we just have a couple of announcements. First of all, teachers, you are reminded that you need to post attendance within the first 10 minutes of each class period today. And the second announcement of the day is a congratulations to our UIL Academic as we put the whippin' on Crane and Kermit yesterday in the first half of the competition. We lead the district by over 100 points, so way to go, let's finish tomorrow up with a championship and everybody have a great day, thank you. So, the people have taken Marie Antoinette and King Louie the XVI and the children, they've broken into their home and they take them to the guillotine and they kill them all. And this is the French Revolution, France will have a new government after this. At the same time the English fighting the American colonists and this is where we get America's. These revolutions have created a whole new world for us, the world we're living in today. So, this is a major... point in history. Adam, get over here. Seriously, we can't be having this anymore. I cut you all this slack and you're sleeping through class. You know what's gonna happen? I have to send you to the principal and this time he's gonna give you a paddling. Do you want a paddling on your 16th birthday? No. Then what am I gonna do with you? You're sleeping through class, you're smart, you're a bright boy. Ah, she's kicking. I can feel her. It's crazy, right? Yeah. When is she due? In about a month, when's school's out. Oh, that's cool. Maybe I won't send you to the principal, but you still deserve a paddling. Maybe I'll give you a spanking. A birthday spanking? 16, huh? One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Ow. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ah. Mmm! Ow. And one to grow on. Ow. How was that? It hurt. You gonna sleep in my class again? No, no. Are you gonna pass this grade? Yes. Alright, get out of here. He was out running around when he shouldn't have been, but he wasn't doing anything bad. And then Tom picked him up. You know, when he moved here he was married and he had a couple of kids, a son and a daughter I think. And rumor has it that he was a wife beater and his wife ended up getting sole custody of the kids and moving away because he knocked her around too much. When they were together they lived on the outskirts of town, Tom had Rottweilers. And, um, big scary dogs, big macho dogs like him. He'd cut their vocal chords. Jesus. So they would sneak up on people. You know, you're walking by the fence, you wouldn't know the dog is there and then suddenly this big mean thing would lunge at you. And supposedly anything that went over the fence was ripped to shreds. Neighbors' cats, neighbors' dogs, a fox. I think he was really proud of it. What ya reading, man? What? What are you reading? Paper, man. How are you today? My feet hurt. Yeah, if your tits weren't so big your feet wouldn't hurt. Whoa, hey. Sorry, amigo. What's wrong with you, man? You can't talk to her like that. Can't talk to girls like that, do you hear me? Just relax. Rela... I have a 16 year old daughter, same age as that girl, would you talk to my daughter that way? No. You wouldn't talk to her that way, would you? Why? She's your daughter. So, why is it okay to talk to her that way? You walk in here, 'cause you're here. Sorry. You should probably apologize to her, man. Are you really sorry? Hmm? I am, but... You are, you're really sorry. It was pretty idiotic. You act like a moron. What's up? Happy Birthday! Thanks. What up, dude? Yo. Yo, what up, Happy Birthday, man. Thanks, man. Hey, hey. What's up? What's up, how was school? It's pretty gay. Whatcha do now, man? What do you mean now? So I get bitched at, like, every day by a different teacher. Were you saying stupid shit? And I'm smarter than half the motherfuckers there. Yeah, but you do dumb shit. Like what? Like being dumb. You don't know what's up, man. Oh, I do know what's up. What's up? I know what's up, I'm not in school anymore. Yeah, I talked to Miguel today, he got transferred over to El Paso. Oh, really? Yeah it sucks, like, I have to drive four and a half hours just so Ty can see his dad now. That sucks, yeah. I mean, I can't afford the gas and I can't even freakin' get a job because nobody's gonna watch Ty. My mom... Yeah, so. I don't know, I was thinking maybe I'd start dancing professionally up there. I think you can do that, you're pretty hot. Yeah? Yeah. You think I'm alright? Yeah, show us your mad skills. I don't know, I might be too shy. Can I be your DJ? Yeah you can be my DJ, we're bringing the KAOSS pad. What can I be? You can be my bouncer. Bouncer? I'm too skinny to be a bouncer. Me and Jess, dude, that'd be like the worst bouncers ever. You could be my makeup artist and do my makeup. I don't know if I'd be good at that, but... How's Inez doing? Uh, she's doing good. Yeah? Yeah. Her parents are pretty cool, right? Her mom's pretty cool, her dad's a dick though. Yeah, you just don't like him 'cause he doesn't let you fuck her. Yeah, well, that's nothing he can stop me from doing. Oh yeah? Yeah. Are you guys gonna go all the way? Yeah, hopefully soon. Kill the roach, man. I need to give you a fuckin' Happy Birthday present, right? You do? It is my birthday. Yeah, it is. I'll think of something. I can't believe you're hanging out with me on your birthday. There's nothing else to do in this town. Well, I didn't even get you a birthday present. You don't have to. Maybe I should give you a birthday strip tease. I need help practicing for my new job. Being a stripper? Mm-hmm. So, you have to tell me what you think. Miguel's gonna kill me. Come on, you know, he's the one who's in jail. Hi. Hey, Tom. Uh, I'll have a number two, can I add some cheese and some jalapeos on that? Sure. Anything else? Yeah, I'll have a diet Coke. Okay. So, how you been? Good, working all the time. Working all the time? You're always so happy. I'm not happy, I'm a waitress. When's your next day off? Saturday. Saturday. Yeah. I was wondering, think I could take you out? Sure. How 'bout 7:30? Yeah. Sweet, I'll pick you up at 7:30 and make sure to bring that smile. So, um... What do I owe ya? $4.00. $4.00. That was hot. You've been a naughty boy. Can I spank you? If you want. How's it going? I haven't seen you in awhile. These past couple of months have been pretty hard. My cat got really sick and he died actually a few weeks ago. I'm so sorry. Yeah, it was pretty wild discovering exactly who he was to me and why he came into my life, you know. He knew all along, but I had no idea. I guess, I mean, he was already four years old when I met him, you know. I only had him for two and half years and those two and a half years, you know, discovered that, well, he was born and his mom had abandoned him and he needed a mom. So, he came to me, but discovered that we had several past lives together, really traumatic ones that we both needed to heal before he could move forward. Yeah. And it was probably one of the most intense things I've ever experienced, too, and... Oh. He died in my arms peacefully, it was really profound getting to - I'm sorry. - - see him take his last breath, it's okay, you know. He was suffering so much, he had cancer. And now he's everywhere, you know we attach so much to the physical, you know. I just realized that now he's everywhere, that he's always with me. There's something reassuring about that. Right. I think, as hard as it is to lose them in the physical world to know that they're still there. A friend of mine offered to let me bury him at his ranch and I had a really beautiful ceremony there and buried him in between two trees and... put him back in the earth, you know? - To let him grow. - - It's funny, I couldn't do that, remember Jasmine? Mm-hmm. The too? When she died, she died in my arms here, too. Uh-huh. And there's something about the harshness, I don't think she was meant for here. Right. I just, I couldn't deal with it. I couldn't put her in the ground here, I didn't want her here and her mate was with us when she died and we're really still and I wrapped her in this beautiful scarf. Mm-hmm. And I put her in a box in the freezer actually. Oh my goodness. Because I was taking her back to New York and I didn't know how to preserve her. I just, every core of my cellular being would not allow me to leave her here. Right. I didn't think it was good, I thought the place had a bad spirit, so I put her in this box, I froze her. Which sounds a little harsh, but one day I had her mate on my shoulder, Gucci, and I opened up the freezer to get something out and he saw the box. He had watched me do everything, he was very intently focused on me wrapping her in this scarf and placing her in the box and he flew in the freezer and he spread his wings over and kind of was crying. And it just killed me. Oh my gosh. So, it still does. Yeah, sure. But anyway, we got her to New York and I flew her there and, you know, she was almost thawed out when I got to the house and we put her in the ground. So, and she's there and I feel good about it. Yeah, it's beautiful. Good. Yeah, wow, they just have such an impact on your life. Well, I have several teachers. I mean, you come from a long line of healers. I mean, my dad's side, natural healers, um, come from Mexico, but um... Hey! Hey, guys. How's it goin'? Good, how are you? Good, good to see you. - Hi. - - Hi, Rodrigo. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Hi. Hi, I'm Tina. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. So, what kind of healer was your father? Oh, well, my dad's dad was what they call a huesero. Hueso in Spanish means bone, so. Hueso? Hueso, so people at the village would come to him with their ailing bones and he would, like, kind of like a chiropractor, pop them back in place and do massage and limpias, which is, you know, cleansing of the energy field. And so yeah, people would do that and I don't think he would charge anything. Mm-hmm. Often times healers in villages don't charge, they just, by donation, yeah. What's sound healing? Well, basically they say that the world is sound and everything in it is and responds to vibration. Whatever experience it is that you're remembering or that needs healing, sound I've discovered is the most profound way to help move that, to help clear that. Mm-hmm. Um... Would I make, would you teach me how to make noises, like sounds to help me heal myself or would it be like something you would do for me? Well, they say, like, humming, they say humming is like internal massage. So, say if you're anxious or nervous or something like that. So, if you just. So, what brings you into town? Are you a native or... I'm an artist, - Oh, cool. - - I'm here doing a residency at Chinati, so. Very nice. I just get to hang out. So, are you a painter? Is that... I've been doing a lot of drawing, a lot of painting. Okay, so what kind of portraits do you do? Um, well, actually I've been doing nudes. Oh, okay, cool. Yeah, since coming out here I guess the landscape kind of inspired me to strip things down and just get, you know, the bare essentials. I find it more beautiful, less distracting. No, that's awesome, I'd be actually really interested in checking out your stuff, that'd be cool. Well, I'm sure you'd make an excellent model. Oh, well, thanks, I don't know what makes a good nude model, but, yeah, I'd love to come and check out the studio sometime. - That's be great. - - Yeah. That would be amazing, it's actually just a short walk that way, we could go... Really? Yeah, we could just walk over there later. Okay. I still beat you. Hold still, I'll beat you soon. I mean, I don't see it, I dream it. I dream of that. Ladies and gentlemen, for their first show, The Marfabaters! Hey. Hey, there, Smiles. Hi. Thank you, buckle up, it's gonna be a fun ride. Did you date much in high school? No, not at all, I had three brothers. They didn't let me do anything. It was actually really awful, you know. To have someone, like, protect you that much and be so overprotective. Mm-hmm. I didn't have any experiences, any fun, dates, no boyfriends. You know how when you get to be a cheerleader football players get to come talk to you? Mm-mm, that did not happen at all. If someone came within an inch of me, it was ridiculous, they would, like, pounce. What would they do to me? They would interrogate you, ask you where you're from, who you know, about your family, what you want, why you asked me out. I actually missed my sophomore prom. Yeah, this guy was asking me to prom, super sweet, and one of my brothers, he just threatens to beat him up. And, of course, the guy freaks out and I stay at home on prom night. Yeah, it was bad, I can't even tell you how many times, how many times I missed out on a fun date or hanging out with a fun guy, you know. Poor little Angie, I never had a date. You do now. I do now, with someone who's really nice. Thank you. Mm-hmm. Oh, I forgot my wallet, think we can stop by my house for a sec? Um, sure, just to run in? Yeah. Okay. And to show you something, too. What's that? You'll see. Okay. So, where are your brothers now? They're around, I don't really talk to 'em much, you know, I'm an adult now. I like your style, well, this is my living room, a big TV. Hmm. Come here. Su casa mi Tom. Decorated myself. I can tell. Yeah? Yeah. It's my targets. Right. Yeah. Um, so, where we gonna go eat? I'm not gonna take you out to eat, I just wanna fuck ya. Mm. Um, holographic sound or toning, vocal toning. A high vibrational sound, I've always been a singer my entire life, but in my work just intuitively started using sound in order to help someone move blocked energy in their body, but using sound to move it through. Or to bring those things to the surface, those emotions to the surface. Calling forth for clearing all original thought patterns, belief systems, roots, any and all systems. Past or present life trauma or experience contributing to any imbalance, disharmony in your body. Setting the intention that any information that needs to come to consciousness for further clearing, transformation or transmutation of energy that does not serve your physical, emotional, mental, spiritual and energetic bodies. That is happening right now. Whoa. Why are you laughing? Remember that one time? Mm. Nothing. What? Nothing. One more time. Nothing. We're sleeping. I always enjoyed living on extremes, from one extreme to another. You know, this one time I was wasted at this hotel party in San Antonio and it was 4:00 in the morning and my buddies were hanging out in south Austin and I was like, "You know what, I'm just gonna go, "but if I don't get a move on I'm gonna "miss the party that's going on over there." So, I was like, "You know what, the best idea is "to do in this situation would be to get on the motorcycle "and get to Austin as soon as possible." So, that's what I did and I got to Austin in 25 minutes from downtown San Antonio. That's insane. It is, it is, and I thought it was the best idea ever, just hauling 200 miles an hour down 35. It got to the point where I was just passing cops on the freeway and I would see in the rear-view mirror they'd turn on their lights and, you know, maybe start to pursue and then after, I don't know, 10, 15 seconds they would just turn their lights off. It was like, well, there's a black bike just shooting down in the middle of the night. I mean, by the time they knew what the fuck, you know, I was in the next county. I like that actually, when you're going that fast, as far in front of you as you can see, that's immediately what's in front of you. Mm-hmm. You know and so, there's no processing anything, there's no looking from side to side. It's just you on this, like, really fast horse. I don't know, I mean it's just kinda more of the same, but I haven't written words to it yet, so. It was very pretty. Oh, thanks. It was kinda sad. I don't know, what kind of lines do you like? Long skinny ones, short fat ones, big ones, small ones... Um... Medium. Medium skinny, please. Medium skinny, alright. Okay, Rodrigo, enough with all of the philosophy. Listen, I'm not judging you, I like you, that's why you're here. Why are you here? Are we gonna fuck or not? Are we gonna fuck? No. Whoa, what are you doing here? Calm down, I just need to pee. How's it going? Good. How was your night last night? Uh, it was alright,. That's crazy. I got with Rodrigo. After the barbecue we just went back and had a nice time. What'd you do? Oh, I just hung out with Inez a little bit. Yeah, she your girlfriend now? Uh, yeah, you can say that. That's cool. I'm gonna go to the studio later. Will you walk with me? Uh, sure, I told Inez that I would go over today, her dad's mad at her, she didn't get home until three in the morning... Oh. Last night, even though my mom told her mom it'd be okay. Her dad doesn't like it. He's always bitching about it. Yeah, hey, gimme some soap. Thank you. When I was growing up my dad was a hippie. He came out of a generation that truly believed in free love. So, instead of telling my not to have sex he encouraged me to have sex, he encouraged me to fuck as many boys as I wanted to. And so I did and it was fun. But my other friends, their dads told them not to have sex, so then they ended up thinking that I was a slut. And so I guess I started hanging around guys a lot more often because they just seemed less judgmental. Well, a guy that fucks a lot of girls is a slut. I don't think so. Well, let's think about it, a guy, say he tells you that he fucked 20 girls, and you think he's a player, right? You think he's a total badass. Okay, so if a girl says that she fucked 10 guys then it's, like, you think she's a slut. A girl that fucks a lot of guys is a slut. Why can't I be the player? What's wrong with that? I'm not ready to settle down, why should I just have to have sex with one guy? And a guy who fucks a lot of girls is just a player, right? Right? Yeah. Wrong. So wrong. I always fall for young, sweet, strong Mexican boys. Ever since I was, like, 13 or so. When I was 16 I had this one boyfriend and I loved him, he was so beautiful. He had these big puffy lips that I loved to kiss. They were pillow lips just like yours. He had these beautiful eyes, I loved him so much, I loved cuddling with him just as much as I loved fucking him. He had this younger brother who was, like, I don't know, just a few years younger than him and they looked almost exactly the same. And one day we were all hanging out and we got so stoned and then you know what happened? We made love, all three of us. Two guys and one girl all loving each other equally. There wasn't any jealousy, there wasn't any shame, there wasn't any mother to tell us no. We were fucking just for the pure joy of being alive. It was the most beautiful thing. Anyways, thank God for young beautiful boys. Looks like you popped a boner. Yup. So, you know, sex is just another way of communication. If people fucked more there would be less war. Less killing, less rape, all that shit. You know what I mean? Yeah, I think so. I mean, it's just like if people did what they wanted to do and as long as it didn't hurt anyone, there shouldn't be a problem. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. Smell's important. Smell? Yeah, like the way a guy smells. I hate it when guys put on Axe, you know that deodorant spray, don't ever use it. Well, some expensive stuff actually helps. Oh, I guess so, but you know, it's important to be able to pick up on other people's pheromones. Like, that's how we know we're attracted to each other. You smell good. You know anything about the clit? Just what they say on South Park. Alright, so, like, nothing. Well it's called the clitoris and it's actually the only part of the human body that's designed and functions purely for pleasure. Did you know that? Didn't know that. It's just there to enable a girl to come over and over and over again. So that means that if you can master the clitoris then you'll be, like, set for life. I mean, you already look like fuckin' young Mick Jagger, so. Yeah, it's a good thing. You have one year until you're 17 and you know what that means, right? No. Age of fuckin' consent, dude. And you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna fuck you 'til your eyes fall out. But only if you've mastered the clit. Alright, well, I guess I'll spend the next year practicing. Yeah, do it. Inez is a nice girl. I know I can trust her. Oh, yeah, why? Well, 'cause she's nothing like anyone you can't trust. Like, I was at this party and I walked in on Ursa giving Robert a BJ and then she went into the living room and started making out with her boyfriend Carlos. I mean, that's just disgusting. Right, and your sweet angel Inez would never do that, right? I don't think so. Well, what's so gross about that anyways? I mean, really. I mean, she has Robert's splooge in her mouth and then she goes and makes out with Carlos. I mean, that'd be like if Carlos gave Robert a BJ, it's the same thing pretty much. So what, man, I mean, think about, like, say some dude goes and fucks some girl and then he goes home, goes home to his girlfriend and his angel and she's just there waiting. She's, like, so stoked to see him, she just, like, rips off his pants and immediately starts giving him a blow job. Well, guess what? His dick was in some other girl's vagina, like, two hours earlier. So now her mouth all over his dick with the vagina and it's just, they go have sex after that and it's like the same thing. And it happens all the time. Yeah, well, I don't know, I just don't see how a girl would be able to do something like that. If Inez ever did something like that to me I'd probably never have another girlfriend. Whatever, well, sucks for you then. If you don't want Inez to fool around on you, you know what you gotta do, right? No. You gotta eat some fuckin' pussy, man. You get good at eatin' pussy then she'll like never have a reason to fool around on you. I've never looked at it in that way. Yeah, you gotta put some effort in, you know? Yeah. It is only for pleasure, that's all I can remember right now. It's, like, when you're down there eating, you know, Inez or whatever girl out, don't be afraid to ask her, you know. Like, what she likes, 'cause if you don't ask and if she doesn't tell you, how the fuck are you gonna know what to do? This one time this guy was going down on me and he was like going crazy and it just, like, felt awful and I was like, "What the fuck?" And I, like, looked up and it looked like he was, like, chowing down like a dog. Like chowing down on a bowl of dog food. And I was like, "Dude!" I was like, "My pussy's not a bowl of dog food." And he, like, his head shot up and he was like, "Oh, shit, sorry." And I was like, "Yeah, dude." And I, like, talked him through it and we figured it out and it was, just like, funny and fun, so, not a big deal, you know? But it's important. Well, my uncle says that, like, for him it's like the best thing in the world, he loves it. He loves the smell, he loves the taste. Uh-huh. Like, I guess for some girls take a long to come, he said it's like pushing a bowling ball up a hill with his tongue. Hey, do a trick. You do a trick. What's your best trick? You're the skater. Skate towards me at least. Does it matter which way it goes? Not really. I'm scared. Oh, it's bumpy! What are you guys doing in here? I don't know, we're just hanging out. I'm an artist here, I'm doing a residency at, you know, Chinati and I'm just checking out this space, see if I could use it in some way, you know. Be like some large scale paintings, maybe even have a show or something. Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna go to Inez's. Alright. Bye, Adam. So, do you have permission to be in here? Yes, I have permission to be here. From who? From the Chinati Foundation. Hm. Who I guess you could say is my employer because I'm doing a residency there. So, if you're an artist, where's all your paint? At my studio. What are you doing here? What do you mean what are we doing here? What is that supposed to mean? This isn't the border. Yeah, right. I mean, y'all are Hispanic, right? Yeah, I'm Dominican. What, wait, what does that have to do with anything? How does it feel to work a job where you're job is to bust your own people essentially. How do you sleep at night? Who the hell are you to ask me a question like that? You don't know anything about me. You don't know one thing about me. I guess not. You wouldn't get it, not from where you're coming from. Some white privileged girl from the suburbs who's had everything handed to her. Who works for an art foundation drawing little pictures. No, you wouldn't get it. To you that's a job, gimme a second. To you that's a job. Yeah, that's my job, Yeah, wow, what responsibility. You got a family? You got any kids? Sick mom? Huh? Dad in jail? Anything like that? No. So you have no idea why I do it. Do you know how many of you artists come through here flipping your nose at us because we have to do a job to feed out children? You choose the job. I do? Look around you, there's nothing to choose here. What am I gonna do, work at Dairy Queen? Sorry, man, but this is really just a job. Border patrol is pretty much the only thing was gonna hire me. So, that's that. Do you have any illegals in your family? Most of my family are immigrants. Actually my grandfather was the first one to come over, like, 1965. He was a businessman over there and like, well respected. Mm-hmm. He even tried to help against Trujillo who was dictator at the time. Whoa. But, uh, when it got to be too rough he knew it was time to leave. Mm-hmm. And came to the States. Mm-hmm. And I know what you're getting it, it's just I have a lot of respect for him. Even though... For sure, yeah. You know, he's an immigrant and... What about you? I mean... What about me? Do you have any illegals in your family? What the hell is that in your hand? What? You know I can bust your ass right now. Why? Why would you do that? Do ya'll smoke weed? No, I don't want any, get that shit out of my face. Okay, okay, I'm sorry. I'll just, I'll smoke it over here, alright? Yeah, we can't smoke weed. Oh, really? Yeah, they drug test us. Oh, I see. Smells good. Well, like, what kind of stuff shows up in the drug test? Everything. Everything? Cocaine? Yep. Yeah. What about mushrooms? What are they like? Afternoon, Mary. Hey, Tom. How are you? Alright. Good. How's Adam? Adam's fine, you were a little rough with him the other night. I know, I apologize, he shouldn't have ran from me though. He could have been an illegal or there's Al Qaeda. He's a 16 year old kid from this town. You know, I realize your husband's not around, 16 is the prime age for sexual activity. This is what's out there. Why you showing her that shit? Hey, Chachi. You can go play with your toy. Hey, you can't fuck with me. - Chachi. - - I'm 19, I can stay out all night. Chachi, it's alright, man. It's okay, it's alright. I'll take off, I know when I'm not welcome, I'll go. Maybe you can skate with someone like, on the back of your board. Like two people? Just like this. Probably going downhill. Downhill? Yeah, probably be the only way that would work. So, how long is your dad gonna be pissed for? He'll get over it. I gotta go, love you. Love you, too. You got a hot little girlfriend. You eatin' that pussy? That's some table stuff, I'd lay her on the table, I'd spread her legs, I'd get my whole face down in there. Want me to teach you something? I don't know, what? The woman, she always comes first. I wanna move to San Diego. I wanna be a actor when I grow up. If I grow up, if Miguel doesn't fuckin' kill me. It's true, everybody's probably gonna find out about this. Yeah. But... we have this moment right now or nobody does. Yeah, I mean, you can't do anything in this town without everyone knowing about it. Like, when I first started smoking weed it was, like, two days later and everybody was asking me about it. Really? Yeah, it was, it was stupid. And I didn't even smoke with anyone. I was pretty much by myself and people still found out about it. Just I don't know how. No, can't have this, dude. Bye. You want a beer? Yeah, I'd love a beer. Cheers. Cheers. Tastes great. So, I mean, what's Oscar's deal? Well, Border Patrol, he's my roommate and a coconut and... What's a coconut? It's something the locals call BP's that are Latin, he's brown on the outside and white on the inside. Like, he has no love for his people, he has no problem with his job. I mean, he seems to love it. Really? Yeah, we have, you know, we have another roommate, too. His name's Tom, he's a white guy, he has a goatee, might see him around town. But we all live together. Well, I got, I don't know, I got a bunch of that hard charging out of me. I was in the Army for 8 years. My first tour, I went to Iraq twice, and my first tour, you know, I was like, I was kinda like Oscar and Tom, you know. But when you see what, like, people really go through and it's, you know, it's a lot different than in the media. At first I hated 'em, you know, I listened to all the propaganda and, you know, everybody's bad that's there. And then the more I was there I ended up being in charge of the detainees. Like, the people that we arrested that, you know, were insurgents or whatever. When I took a look at 'em, you know, they weren't dressed in uniforms, they didn't have any weapons, they were just people. I was just, I don't know, I just thought I was gonna die every day 'cause my platoon sergeant at the time she volunteered me to be the lead 50 cal gunner. We were all truck drivers and going on convoys and stuff so right when she told me that I was like, "Well, I'm gonna die." And I really believed that, so the whole time that we were home training I worked hard, partied hard, and that's why I have all these tattoos. I just, I don't know, like I really thought I was gonna die so I got like my mom and that's like the middle of the Dominican flag and has my family around it. Who's this? That's about my grandfather that I told you about. It has to do with him, he was, like, really sick and we thought we were gonna lose him. And I thought that while I was there that he was gonna die and so I was like, I'll get this to kind of commemorate him. It represents with death comes life. This arm is all, have you heard of the book Lord of the Flies? Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's what this one is, it's a... Oh, yeah, let me see. Yeah, look, has the conch, has the kids crashing, the plane crashing. The little kids, that's why I got survival of the fittest. I think that sick fuck's been breaking into people's houses and jerking off and shit. Uh-uh. That's fuckin' disgusting, man. Hey, I'll catch you later. Why don't you go jack off in some houses. You got. Adam, hi, so you passed. Yeah, I'm a Junior now. I just wanna graduate and get outta this town. How's she? Any day now, we'll see ya next year. - Alright. - Bye. Bye. Come here, come here. Hey, man, hey, hey, hey, man! You're fuckin' up my shit! He likes it. Fuck you, you spic. I'm gonna make him go DF. I gotta go to work, fuck. I got a fuckin' night shift. Inez said that she missed her period and she might be pregnant. I am pregnant. What? Ma, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma. Ma, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma, ma. Ma, ma, ma, ma, ma. I'm sorry you had to see that. You don't really, uh, know how I grew up. My dad beat the fuck outta me. It started with lighter burns and cigarette burns and then it graduated to closed fists. I don't even remember doing anything, I think he just liked to do it, he liked the pain. That equaled love to me, so I played football and I was the skinniest guy on the team and I could take the fuckin' hits. I owe that to my dad, he created a monster. That's why everyone loved me, I was all-state two years. I was trying to make him proud and it seemed like the more I got hit the more he cheered, the more he cheered. I remember the first time I dropped back for a pass and it was, and I sat back in the pocket and I coulda threw it, I coulda threw it, but I knew that this fuckin' cocksucker across here was gonna come and he was gonna hit me. And I waited just seconds, 'cause I wanted him to hit me. So I stopped, I dropped back and I got cracked so fuckin' hard. Well, first I saw everyone else, like, you know, concerned for me. Except my dad, he was the only one standing and he was cheering like, "Yeah, get up, get up!" And then I realized that I got an erection. And it was weird. It was the first time in my life I felt intimacy. I felt like I just made my dad proud of me. And so whenever I played from then on, it was like that's what I strived for. I strived for that attention, I wasn't even playing the sport to play the sport, I was playing it for the pain. And now I'm a father and I have a nine year old son and my fucking ex-wife took him away from me and I didn't do anything. I love my son, I would never discipline him the way my father disciplined me. I would never use my fists, these hands are for love. A strap is for discipline. I just miss him. Did you circumcise your son? Yeah. And when you cut it off, you lose like 50% of your feeling. It's like, it's like it's there for pleasure. It's like the clit or something and you fuckin' mutilate your kids. That's why I only fuck Latinos, 'cause they know what pleasure feels like. They know how to make love, it's like they can feel things. 'Cause they're not missing that sheath. It's like nature, all animals have sheaths. They can come over and over again and they don't have to just jackhammer the girl away into the night. And funny, I mean you fuckin'... Hey, Adam. Hey, man, you're past curfew again. I'll run you home. I know your mother likes me. It may not seem like it, she's just playing hard to get. I know she wants to fuck me. Oh, what we got here? We got here? That's a bust. Where are we going? You missed the turn. I suppose I did. What the fuck are you doing? Shut up. Get the fuck off me. Shut up. Fuck you! Just be quiet. Fuck you, why the fuck would I be quiet? Get the fuck off me! Shut up! Psycho motherfucker. Fuckin'. Come here. What the fuck's a matter with you! Fuckin' doing! You have a hot little girlfriend. What the fuck, crazy motherfucker. Get the fuck off me! What the fuck are you doing? Your peter tastes like pussy. Come on, get it up, I want your hate paste. Fuckin' crazy motherfucker! Fuckin'! You're lucky, palsy-walsy, last time I cortled a nigger he hung himself. Adam?
