 

                        1 Too many pretty boys were assaulted... There's been curfew, the government has ordered.. "Not to come out of your houses. I repeat. Be careful.. be careful - There's been curfew.. ...ordered from the government. Don't come out of your houses. Slowly, Ok - There's been curfew.. This pain had started three hours before and you're telling me now I thought I will be able to control the pain till the curfew is over Honey, this is delivery pain No woman can control this pain What do I know about this pain? Be careful First this curfew and on top of it this weather No one is going to help us today We will get some vehicle from the square.. Be careful I can't anymore.. I can't. Tidim square is right here Thank god the rain has stopped Honey.. Are you ok honey? Slowly.. slowly Sit down.. sit down.. sit here for 2 minutes while I figure something out No, no I will come with you. - Sit down.. Iam right here honey. - No I will come with you lam right here Thoi.. with you.. just 2 minutes" sit down please Oh Mother! Freeze.. freeze.. who is there? Hands up Sir.. sir.. sir Sir what are you doing? You bloody rebels.. you wreak havoc whenever you feel like lam not a rebel sir Please have a look there Don't raise your voice My wife is pregnant sir. We need to get to the hospital. Please Bizhou Go check. Go Go and see there. Don't move. - Please Sir. help us Honey Honey Honey Hey! Whose daughter is this? Take her away from here Sir, he is telling the truth A plane has crashed and there is fire everywhere and you let Chungneizang go there? And you? What are you hiding behind? Show it You picked this up from there? This is no girl's toy Tonpa, help is needed at the crash site Yes yes.. I will be right there Go to bed now and don't you dare to get out of the house Come on go to sleep Mad girl How did you hit her? You like to fight with boy Let her go Mangi Move back.. Leave my hair.. Why did you beat her? She is my girlfriend - Answer me. I can do whatever the hell I want with her. What is it to you? Leave me.. What is this ruckus here? Go away from here! - Coward! I'm leaving you for the last time - Where are you running, coward? Iam not running.. I'm having mercy on you. Let me go Don't Chungneizang, he'll get hurt I took a beating from him for you and you are more concerned about him Tell your boyfriend that I will break his face next time I see him What are you all doing here? Go home I don't know what to do with you anymore You are the eldest in the house but looking at your antics looks like your younger brother and sister will grow up before you Appa he was beating Tarisa. I won't get angry or what? Anger is your excuse all the time, isn't it? I thought allowing you to do athletics would help you control that temper of yours but.. I don't like athletics I have been borrowing from people for the last 2 years to pay for her and now she says she doesn't like athletics! Appa she wants to become a boxer Shut up! Who will marry you once your nose and face is broken I should have burnt the gloves instead of throwing them From the time you picked them up you have begun acting like a boy Call me anything you want but don't call me a boy Thats it! - Chungneizang.. I have had enough of this rowdy behaviour of yours - Thats it Don't even think of getting out of the house till your face is healed What happened? Show me. This girl is beyond any hope Show me what happened That Mangi has had it from me when I see him next Because of him I was locked up in the house for a week Let it go, why are you troubling yourself over him And that Tarisa, she's completely mad.. He keeps physically abusing her and she continues to be with him Hey Chungneizang let us take the other route Why? That will be longer Yeah so what? Come let us go from there Come Mangi.. - Hey Chungneizang, leave it. Chungneizang what are you doing? Wait.. hold this" hold my bag.. MANGI! Wait Mangi. - Forget it.. Let it be Leave it. What are you doing? Let it be Chungneizang, let us go What is wrong with this girl? ls she psycho? What are you going to do with this. - Today he is finished Chungneizang - Leave it Wait! What is your problem You were having mercy on me? - What is your problem, huh? You haven't had your fill from the beating last time? You want some more of it? What happened? Hey check this out! We have our female Mohammad Ali here! You are gonna beat me? Come on do it Beat me.. beat me. Get lost! Get lost How dare you hit a girl! This time I won't leave you Wait Wait.. Where will you run till.. You've gone mad. Move!!! Stop!! Till when will you run.. Where will you run You can't escape today. Get lost Wait.. Wont leave you.. Mangi - Move Where will you go - Move You going to have mercy on me huh? Mercy on me? This girl has gone mad. She is mad. Save me.. Save me.. I told you I will break your face Hey girl! Come here Wearing gloves and using it to fight? This is how fighting is done Don't insult the glove Boxing gloves are used for sport not for fighting. Understand? You are Coach Singh? Mingko Singh's coach the Asian Champion? Are you a boxer? Only a fighter till now but if you teach me I will become a boxer as well Hey, why have you guys stopped? Come on get back to practicing Give me 5 reasons why I should teach you boxing? I love boxing I love boxing I love boxing. I love boxing Do you need the 5th reason as well? You have to earn these gloves One Month- from tomorrow- come at 7.00 am Thank you Mangi Get it quick - Coming Here, wash with this Mother - Yes I have joined boxing Ok.. What did you just say? Boxing? Yes mother So you quit athletics? What about the money spent on it? Mother, coaching for girls in boxing is free of cost Your father is already unhappy with your affinity for getting into fights You think he is going to agree to this? Iam going to tell father Listen! What are you doing? - I don't care anymore Mother Who will bathe Chaobi? Father, there is something I want to tell you Yes, tell me What is it? Speak UP Chaobi has become so big, hasn't she? She has become big so? I should find a groom for her? "It listens only to itself." "It doesn't have any relationship with others." "It growls on the way." "It calls them as relationship." "It sees in the eyes of destiny." "It says the wind whose destiny it is." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." "Will go to the town of willingness." "It brings massiveness tying it on the head." "It pacifies teasing..." "...it comes stealthily." "It messes with everyone." "It listens to only itself." "It sees in the eyes of destiny." "It says the wind whose destiny it is." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." It was a good training session today But we need to work harder - Bye Bye You are still sitting here? Yes Sir. I still have 20 more days to go Come here You are one stubborn girl Follow me Tell me What is the shape of the world? Round Sir That is for the world Chungeizang, not for you Today onwards the shape of your world is this square And this world also have a few rules and conditions This bandage will always remind you of them 1st condition Commitment Without this no road finds its destination because the destination is as stubborn Only when you walk towards it, will it walk towards you Look in front. look in front Bembem, pay attention to footwork Very good Good, very good, faster-faster, even faster Always full surrender to boxing Give boxing your every1hing Your time, yourjoy even your identity Only then will you create a name for yourself Faster, faster, faster Good 10 seconds more Faster - Go! Fast, fast, fast Good, fast Always full focus You lose focus and you will lose your nose and I my reputation And I am very possessive about my reputation Elbow up, punch straight 1-0. Boxing is a game of points Not knockout. start with this 2-0 Chungneizang you are southpaw so your left is strong Learn to use your right Guard up. Where is your guard? Concentrate chungneizang or I will break your nose Game over No pain, no gain Only when you bear the pain of a 100 punches will you learn to land 10 good punches And most important No mercy in boxing You will never be shown any mercy in the ring nor will you ever show any Let the nurse show mercy and the doctor do the treatment You will only attack.. attack! Hey, hey! this is only practice Sorry - It's not a bout stupid Did it hun - Hey-Yes Where were you yesterday? Me. I was right here See this So much cash? How? Lalboi's magic I bet 200 and got 400 in return Double?! I will surely be there this Saturday In this world of 20x20 this is your first earning Spend it to your heart's content What happened to you? Huh? What happened to you? - Someone came to ask for money. Father gave him Chaobi instead Come here Don't worry Sister, Please get Chaobi back One more down Take him away Bravo! He will beat them.. win all.. defeat all ls there any other fighter? Where are all of them. Where are all the fighters of Manipur? To watch a film with your girlfriend Who said that? You said it? Who said that? Who said it? You said it? He is here, he is here Bravo! Now this is a man with guts Come on start betting. This one is for Lalboi And.. and.. - This one is for.. Hey hero, what's your name? Come on say it Chungneizang Girll! You think this is a kitchen? Someone make her understand. Lalboi doesn't fight with women Get lost Why? ls he scared? Move away Scared? In the next 15 seconds you will know what it means to be scared And if it takes you more than 15 seconds? Then for every 15 seconds I will give her 300 rupees from my end Place your bets Take mine - Put some more 40 second, very good - Has she gone crazy Stop!!! - Definitely Bets off! Action, start Aargh! Did you recognise the boxer? You are gutsy I know. It is more than 30 seconds Lalboi! Come on hit! 45 seconds! Did you see that? Yes I am seeing it Uncivilized people. don't even know how to park cycles I was talking about that girl and not the cycles Forget the girl and help me get the bike out - What is this? Only 300 rupees. Give me the whole amount you owe me Come on get out of here now. Fight is over I stood my ground for 45 seconds that means 900 rupees You want me to teach you mathematics? Be happy that you are atleast getting this much for getting beaten up I have broken my face for this money Give me the whole amount or I will break you Don't act too smart. Let go of me! Hey hey.. wait wait Who the hell are you? Asong You know Lalboi's promises are stronger than his punches If he gets to know that you are cheating this girl then you've had it Get out of here man. Don't try to scare me using Lalboi's name Give me my money - Ok you wait right here lam going to speak to Lalboi and arrange a wheelchair for you Hey.. stop" come here. come here - No.. you wait. Just wait I gave you 500 before I will get back at you later Stupid girl - Get lost Sometimes you should give peace a chance. Not for me Excuse me You dropped this Thank you Hi, I am Onler Chungneizang lam seeing a girl here for the first time. Weren't you scared? What's that? I mean you need courage to be here And a little madness It is not going to double by counting again and again This is my first earning How are you going home? Why? Can I drop you home, I have a bike Ok, lets go Wait here.. 45 seconds Don't use the brakes much! Football What? I am the football captain, Manipur Maniacs club I didn't ask That is true. But you should know a little about the person who is dropping you home Wrestler What? I thought you are a boxer My father You too should know a little about the person you are dropping home What happened? I don't know. One minute I didn't do it on purpose Did I say anyihing? No I thought since it is dark and quiet, you would assume.. Don't worry you are safe with me C'mon kick Thanks C'mon c'mon - Oh it started, Come on lets go! Chaobi has returned! - Come on Come Chaobi What will we tell father? Mother will handle father And if he asks you, tell him.. ...that Chaobi ran from her in-laws house and came back home Are you happy now? What happened sir - Nothing, a tree has fallen But they will remove it, go-go Go-go, remove it, take your gun along - Are you ok Honey We're almost there honey - Come on make it fast Hey you, come out Hey, I will shoot Come on move Take them out - We are going to the Hospital, please let us go Wait.. - Hey, stop! Shoot me or do whatever you want to, but do it fast Leave them.. Honey Come on, Leave them. Hey, lets go Hey, sit in the Jeep, leave fast Fast fast. Honey Go Why did you let them go Do you know, who she was? - Who? Boxing champion, 45 Second She is still gutsy Give me a blockbuster That one How much? 50 rupees Take it What do you want Hey Chungneizang. You are having ice-cream here Go to the gym the State-Level list is out Chungneizang my name is in the list Congratulations. Did you see my name? No, no. I didn't see it. You go check Has your name come? Iam just checking Suman.. Leela.. Sita.. Mira.. Shobha What happened? Coach Sir, my name is not in the list Check again ljust did. - Check it again Suman, Lila, Sita, Meera, Nerella, Shobha, Mane, laxmi Mane Chun Chun Kong? Yeah that's the one Sir my name is Mangte Chungneizang Kom It is yours only But it is too long We will have to do something about it Thank you God Welcome to Indian Women boxing, M C Mary Kom Thank you Coach sir M C Mary.. Kom.. Bembem! Yeahhh I won. Did you record everyihing? Mary! Sorry Coach sir Bembem fought very well. Now it is your turn Yes sir Hey go to the ground - Yes sir! Yes, the next match between Rashmi Pindulkar from Goa and Mary Kom from Manipur Yes me. - Get ready fast Mr. Sharma.. Mr. Sharma -Yes Speak UP Girls haven't eaten anything since morning. How will they fight? Now we have to arrange your meals too, is it? What all will the federation do? But Mr. Sharma What Sharmaji.. Don't trouble me. Take care of it yourselves You've been told to stop shooting, haven't you? You never listen Hey, come here Sir please let me have one match with that man. I will break his face Toiba, come here Go get something to eat for all of them Yes sir Mary - Yes sir Will you be able to fight empty stomach? Sir, this is my first match, my stomach is filled already with happiness Good. Let's go Yes sir - All the best Mary Shoot properly, it is my first match In this state level tournament Manipur squad looks the strongest - Come on Mary Because Asian champion Mingko Singh's coach.. - Very Good Mary Mr. Singh is their head coach - Manipur, Manipur, Manipur Yes.. Yes! Guard up Come on Hit Mary, good Come on MZTY Yes, yes Yeah! Come on Mary Hit, Hit - Come on Mary And there, Rashmi tries her last attempt to change the game but look at that! She did a foul in sheer frustration" And Mary's counter attack with this MC Mary Kom has become the State Champion How does the gold medal feel? You did it finally? Its my first. I know. That's big Yes. Here see this There is a new champion from our village and that too a girl What is wrong with parents these days? Allowing their daughters to indulge into such fights Who is this girl anyway? Hmm.. Mary Kom A girl named Mary Kom? Don't know who she is.. Hey Tonpa this is our Chungneizang And then we quietly went for shopping.. Yeah I thought so. Naughty girls.. What are you looking for? What do you want, Tonpa? Tell me father, I will look for it Where are your gloves? The gloves, where are they? I was actually going to tell you Both of you lied to me? You thought that by changing your name, I will not find out? MC Mary Kom? Chungneizang- that is your name. Chungneizang! Where are the gloves? Give it to me now Tonpa.. Dad, what did you just do...? I should have done this a long time ago You will have to choose Your father or boxing? Please don't do this to me Father, boxing is completely safe just like your wrestling Nothing will happen to my face Your father or boxing! Father, I am a really good boxer Coach Sir also said I am a natural boxer and I am winning as well Please don't do this to me. - Chungneizang, Your father or boxing? Boxing" "These shadows." "Who can hide from it?" "It fights with.." "..loneliness here." "It does what it pleases." "It lives on its conditions." "It is very stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." "This heart is stubborn." Looks like we aren't going to get any sleep tonight This madness will go on.. Let us search later. - One last time" Mary we've searched there already That is my bag. How many times will you check it? Did you girls hide my purse? Are you mad? Why will we hide your purse? This is not funny ok? My passport was in that purse Her passport has flown even before the flight Coach Sir has gone to the police station for your purse Why are you troubling everyone? You will get a new passport Won't happen that quickly Her Asian Championship has ended even before it began Don't listen to her.. It will be done Every1hing will be alright Enough.. I'm so tired.. Here she comes Got beaten up on the very 1st day of training You know, She would have also been beaten by Mary Passport flew away Yeah right, she would beat me I can never understand her anger Always destructive, but today" My head got heavy Now I cannot cut my neck, right?! India's performance at this years Asian Championships has been very disappointing In today's quarter-final encounter Manipur's MC Mary Kom lost her match thus ending India's challenge Now you should take her to meet your parents Officials are being questioned about the reason for the dismal performance but they as always are either pointing fingers at each other or at the players and now, the weather update" This is for you What If your hair doesn't ever grow back? Then I will make you bald as well What if it grows like noodles? Take this - What are you laughing about? What you did is very wrong You should be ashamed Someone robbed my bag so I got.. - Shut up! What is wrong is wrong Baldy! Baldy! Me baldy.. you wait lam going for my World championship and he hasn't even wished me How long is he going to stay angry with me? Everyone is stubborn at home or only your father and you compete with each other? Your father might have not wished but my best wishes are always with you Thank you And I also want to tell you that I am going to miss you a lot "You traded a smile with a smile." "While talking you filled all your colors in me." "You stay in front of me all the time." "The whole world looks beautiful." "There's no one beautiful like you here." "l'm where you are." Bye.. "The whole world looks beautiful." "There's no one beautiful like you here." "l'm where you are." Plug this first Where did he get this trash can from Tonpa, the match is going to begin So what should I do? Tune it Move - it's come Mother, see.. it's sister Welcome to Monnet 3rd women's amateur world boxing championship.. 45kg final In the blue corner we have India's Mary Kom And in the red corner we have Sri Lanka's Malini Jaisingh Mary Mary And these goes the opening bell In next 10 minutes we will find our new world champion Mary Kom is in the attacking mode since the bell went on And according to me it is a brilliant strategy She is not giving her opponent any chance to settle MC Mary Kom has scored her first few points And therefore she has already taken a lead.. Mary.. MEN-- Mary.. Mary.. - Mary will have to be smart about her game plan Otherwise in order to score her initial points she will get exhausted All eyes are on Mary And she has emerged as a very swift player Somehow the Sri Lankan player has already scored some points But now it seems that Mary is little tired and Malini is going to take full advantage of the situation And that was a really good right hook from Malini Jaisinghe and now Mary leads with.. Tap it hard Aah yes! - And in the second round, it seems that Sri Lanka's Malini Jaisingh is dominating And she has taken a lead in the points tally The second round is looking completely different from the first round Malini Jaisingh has done a brilliant comeback But whats wrong with M C Mary Kom's defence? I cannot understand She doesn't have any answer to Malini Jaisinghe's punches And now Mary is completely cornered on the ropes and Malini is taking full advantage of that Referee has stopped the game and is giving Mary Kom a count of eight Let me remind you that in last world championship held in USA Mary Kom had reached the finals but.. She couldn't win the gold medal.. - Attack Chungneizang! ...and had to settle for a Silver Attack her! Punch her. Punch! Attack! Come on.. Now Mary is on the offensive, she is showering Malini with her punches What a great turn-around story Come on Mary buckup!!! Wow Maryl! When she stamps her right foot, she is feinting Then you jab her with your right Malini, improve your focus Listen to me carefully Mary. This Gold is yours and yours alone Come on Mary!!! Bravo!!! And with that bell, India's M C Mary Kom has become the world champion - Yeah!! Well done Mary Good job.. Wow. . And the winner Mary Kom Father Keep your hands straight father Forgive me That is going to be a little difficult MZTY The dance is about to begin Yes Come, come How does it feel to be the first woman boxer to win the Arjuna Award? The government has accorded me this respect and that fact that I could bring glory to Manipur makes me feel very good Now another name has been added in the champions list of Manipur Isn't it sad that Manipur has produced so many champions for India and people still ask which country Manipur belongs to That angers me But now all the young girls look up to you as an inspiration First Mohammad Ali and now MC Mary Kom That is such a big statement Girls just have to get the chance and opportunity and they will top every field, not only sports Here taste this- lromba - my favorite Be careful it has chilly in it Wow you are such a good cook as well Have a taste of my hand once What? I mean the lromba Isn't it tasty? Yes, very Ok Mary, tell me why is it that in-spite of having such a huge population we have managed to produce such few champions ls it because of a lack of talent? No it is not the lack of talent but the lack of facilities to promote that talent Just like other countries you give us our own doctors nutritionists, physiotherapists and trainers then see Where have you guys come from. Come on out. So the federation doesn't provide you with all those things? Yes they provide us with a fixed diet of tea and bananas What do you mean? You ask the federation all these questions Come on tell me All of us players love our country and that is why we give it our best in every competition If the federation gives us just the basic facilities and a little respect for our work then there will be a champion coming out of every corner of the country I hope this interview brings about some change Wow what an interview So you have finally become a celebrity Now our federation has become too small to fit your big gloves What is this? You have a lot of complaints with the federation? They are not complaints sir, just an opinion No one cares for your damn opinion! Don't forget that wherever that is you have reached now is because of the poor facilities that this federation has provided you with You are a boxer and stay focused on that or else there are many waiting in a queue who we can make world champions, just like that Do you understand me? What are you staring at? Nothing We have so far been winning having the federations tea and banana diet and we shall continue to win even in the future If I had eaten one more meal at the mess I would have surely fallen sick And what is this? This is health food in it's comparison How's the training coming along? Just a minute What happened? First of all I am worried about tomorrow's final If I don't win the gold then Coach Sir will eat me alive for breakfast And to top that, Mother has been troubling by calling since morning Mother? Why? To get married She has shown me 15 boys in the last 25 days I won't be surprised if she gets one or two of them to Delhi What happened? Are you jealous? Should I tell mother to search some girls for you too? You marry me Are you ok? I mean will you marry me? You know I love you from the day I saw you And you also know how much I respect you and your boxing I will never tell you to leave boxing and will always keep you happy even after this I don't think that" Mother reject everyone India is leading in the medals tally and another one is going to be added to that because the next match is in the 46kg category final between Germany's Sasha Podolski and the defending champion India's Mary Kom While Mary is quick and fleet footed Sasha is brute power with strength who at times would even ignore opponents defence & rules The best you could find is a roadside stall to propose? I am really nervous, What if she says a no Jimmy? Relax. There is no need to be so stressed And here comes the crow favorite- India's Mary Kom The very purpose of your life is boxing and only boxing Do you hear the roar? This is our home-ground show them who the real champ is The athlete who will be remembered for generations India's pride Mary Kom! MZTY MZTY You know what they say the Germans are good at going out and conquering Mary as usual remembering her god Maybe today she'll need it the most Because Germany's Sasha Podolski is known as the bad girl in the boxing circuit who's sole motive is to win at any cost Box" And both players gauging each other strategy Let's see who dominates from the beginning. Attack Mary.. Come on, girl! Attack Mary.. Attack Move.. Move Mary! Yeah.. yes.. yes.. Come on Mary, Come on.. Attack" attack yes! And what is this? Sasha is already resorting to her underhand tactics attacking Mary with her elbow Don't know if the judges saw this Gary? Yeah and Sasha gets her first warning. Move! Mary move.. Attack! Stop! And the referee interferes Gary, both the boxers are giving it their all and leaving nothing to chance Very good. Don't let the lead slip - as this opportunity wont come again She is fast. But not as fast as you But no over confidence don't let your guard down Yes. Focus Mary focus! Where is your concentration? Box" And the 2nd round is underway. The 1st round wasn't as good for Sasha and it looks like she is in the mood to make up for it. And here is Sasha taking advantage of the situation and cornering Mary with a flurry of punches She has cornered Mary - Looks like she is in a street fight. Mary come on.. Get out of the ropes Attack Mary! ...breaking through Sasha's defense and another hit and Sasha faces the mat. Mary lends a helping hand but Sasha angrily brushes it off Referee warns Mary Both players ready to battle again - Box What are you doing.. Break.. Stop-- This round clearly dominated by Sasha After 14-13 lead and here she lands another punch and the score reads 15-13 Pin drop silence in the crowd as the bell signals the end of the 2nd round What is the hurry to finish the match? 1st mistake? Lost focus 2nd mistake I didn't get my right foot out And 3rd? Left my guard open Who will rectify them? This is the 3rd and final round I don't like silver color. Understood. Good Box" Mary left with only one option and that's to attack! 2 powerful hooks by Mary and she is doing exactly what she really needs to do Well done! Shasha completely shaken the crowd is excited as the referee gives Sasha a count of 8 5,6 Box Right. right foot! Mary landing flurry of punches on Sasha Looks like Mary had left her best for the last 20 seconds And Mary's powerful hit Crowd in full spirit End of the round I don't believe this.. she hit Mary after the bell.. this is ridiculous.. Bravo! Mary.. MEN-- Yey! Ladies & gentlemen World Champion for the 3rd time.. India's MC Mary Kom! Hey lets go Mary" Onler.. promise me you won't tell me to leave the ring I promise, promise honey Then get ready to be beaten by my father Why? Because you are going to talk to him What did you say? Lets go come on.. - Yes yes! She is accepting your proposal you fool Yes! You should have consulted me once at least I thought you would be happy for me If you people eventually want fall in love and marry why do you waste time in boxing? What do you think after winning 3 world championships and you can now rest on your laurels? Done with boxing? To play the sport you fought the world, even your father you are going to leave it all just like that? For love? You are getting me wrong Coach Sir I will continue to box even after marriage Onler and I have agreed on that This is what you feel today Mary Do you even know how much your life is going to change after marriage? Love, traditions, rituals you will be entangled in all of them Mary and your gloves will be gathering dust in some corner wall of your house This is how much you trust me? I am speaking out of experience I know what I am doing Coach Sir Then you don't need me at all It is not like that Coach Sir Wait. Coach Sir I thought you would rewrite boxing history But you have knocked out your own career Coach Sir.. Onler Hello.. Good I came to invite.. Onler.. Do you take Chungneizang as your wife? To be true to her in good times and in bad Yes, I do.. Chungneizang, do you take Onler to be your husband ldo.. And now you may kiss the bride.. "Now that I've met you." "l swear, my heart is at peace." "My heart is at peace." "Every moment is beautiful." "You've touched my breaths." "l came closer to you." "My heart is at peace." "My heart is at peace." "Now that I've met you." "l swear, my heart is at peace." "My heart is at peace." "Since I've fell in love with you.." "..my heart got peace." "When I'm with you.." "..l forget every sorrow and pain." "It is the intoxication of your love that's settled in my soul.." Onler.. Onler - "..when you touched from eyes." That was a foul - "My heart is at peace." Scored! - "My heart is at peace." My heart is at peace." Did you see that goal Yes I did, autograph please This special autograph for now and more special one in the night Shut up. Let's go Do you know honey 2 of my students have been selected for the state level Their parents came to thank me I said.. Thoi are you listening to me or not? What happened? You looking upset I am pregnant - You wanna go somewhere out You decide where you feel like going? Onler I am pregnant Really! Are you sure? When did you get to know? Just now Yes.. It's a goal honey it's a goal.. It's a goal honey This is the best goal of my life We are going to be parents Our family will be complete What's wrong? You don't look happy No no I am happy Of course you should be happy This is great news I love you honey.. Common! Attack her Her right is completely open What is this girl doing? Has she come to box or take a stroll in the ring? Iwould have played better than her even in this state You are missing boxing, aren't you honey? Right Honey? Yes I am missing boxing I miss it a lot I can understand What can you understand Onler? What can you understand? Your life isn't over Your career isn't over You can still play football. Can I box? No What did you say? Nothing What nothing? I have been noticing for the past few months that you haven't spoken to me properly.. So all this is cooking in your mind? Aint it.. I don't know why I said that in anger What sorry? Tell me honestly Did you want this child or not? Of course I did Onler Like every woman I too want to be a mother But the timing is all wrong I was at the top of my career We could have planned better What are you doing honey? You were right Onler I am making place for reality And anyway, our family picture will look better in this space Where is the camera? Camera? Why? Please get the camera, quick One last time Take a deep breath. Mary, push harder. Come on, Mary. You can do this. Push harder. Doctor, is every1hing alright? Mary has gone through a lot of stress already We'll have to go ahead with C-section Please do what you think is right doctor Doctor will I be able to box after this surgery? Mary don't worry about these things now Doctor.. Boxing You have knocked out your career yourself Thank you for coming Ok silence.. silence please! Father what do we call him? His name shall be Khupneivar Khupneivar! And in memory of Onler's father we shall name him Rechungvar Rechungvar! And we shall lovingly call him Rengpa Rengpa! If he is Rengpa what shall we call him? We shall call him Nainai Nainai! But Mary, the next time you go in for a delivery please do that before the curfew or after it Shut up! I just pray that these children get to grow up in a peacefully and loving Manipur Amen! See Nainai Seeing the camera Looking at everyone with his beautiful big eyes Onler.. Onler.. Please check on Rengpa My sweetheart. come! Why is he crying so much? Haven't you fed him? Ijust did and now lam feeding Nainai Honey this is Nainai, you're again feeding Rengpa Oh crap! Take him Come here sweetheart. Now he will cry as well, since you overfed him Please feed him now You think I am Chaobi? 24 hour dairy No baby.. I am really stressed now. How are we going to handle them? I have requested mother to keep coming every once in a while Oh yeah that is great. Tell her to get Chaobi with her too Nainai's fever keeps coming back every two days We even had to call the doctor home the other day Relax. Why are you worrying so much? It's normal I also have raised 3 children You were a sickly child too, every two days you use to fall sick He's also fallen asleep Lay him on the bed Your letter Thank you Onler.. Onler.. - Yes tell me I have received a reply for myjob application They have called me day after Honey, why are you doing this? I told you that I will manage things We have spoken about this a lot of times" Expenses have risen so much after the twins If I take up ajob it will be a big help for us Honey I am in talks about coaching another team as well Mom is here.. Go inside Honey you aren't understanding? If both of us will be out of the house, who will take care of the twins? First let me get the job at-least then we will talk about it Anyway mother has told me that she will help us Yeah right. I will stay here and your father will find another mother there Go inside.. By the way is the water very cold today? Honey.. Here madam, take this Thank you sir Sign here and then from that counter you can find out where to get your uniform from Ok What is this? Constable! Don't you feel ashamed offering a 3 time world champion ajob of such low designation? There is no need to be upset madam If you don't like the designation just get 2 lakh rupees and we can offer you a better designation I have come here for my right to ajob, not to buy it Hello madam, you won't be able to feed your family with a big ego And remember your boxing career is over anyway A good deed is never appreciated these days What did you say? A good deed? Till the time people like you are in position of power there will never be a good deed done Players have to sell their medals to feed themselves and their families and here you asking them for a bribe? First sacrifice your life to gain a medal and then sacrifice the medal to save your life Get lost, I don't want yourjob. - What are you doing madam? If you don't need a job why apply for it? I was thinking how you would look in a hawaldar's uniform Please don't talk about it with me I was just joking. You don't have to feel bad You think this is funny? Honey are you ok.. Constable! Promise you me you will perform well in your exams and lwill put you for boxing classes and get you a new pair of boxing gloves She wants to become like Mary Kom but she doesn't know that playing the sport is not as easy as wearing the gloves It sure is not easy but if you work hard you can be better than Mary Kom, right? Looks like this lady knows Mary Kom If you get good marks she will get you her autograph Give me your book Do you have a pen? Mary Kom! "Just water remained on my eyelids." "That dream floated from my eyes slowly." "Slowly, the memories are getting lost." "l have a broken moment in my hand." "l'm incvmiflete". No baby! - "These moments are incomplete." Come! "Questions and answers are incomplete." "Even that dream remained incomplete." "Just water remained on my eyelids." "That dream floated.." Come here sweetheart. - "..from my eyes slowly." No.. - "Slowly, the memories are getting lost." "l have a broken moment in my hand." The world has forgotten Mary Kom the boxer And every1hing is over now Says who? What do you mean? I mean, why can't you box again Onler, how can I box again? No one has ever managed that A rice farmer's daughter coming from a small village of Manipur, fighting all the odds and becomes a 3 time world champion No one had ever done that too But I wasn't a mother of two then Do you know how much a woman's body changes after pregnancy You are right honey It is difficult But if there is anyone in this world who can make this happen, it is you And what about the kids? Leave them to me And your football? I can adjust the timings Onler.. Honey! You stop thinking about all these things and think about what you want Wake up darling Let me sleep for a little while longer Wake up! Come on wake up. It is time to train - Please Onler.. Onler.. Don't be so sweet or else I might get diabetes Diabetes? I love you too Thank you Onler Oh, dear. Okay, okay. Come to me. Come on. Honey, please have something before you start training Thank you.. Here's your coffee And this" - No no no.. lam training now. Only sugar free Done! Onler.. Onler where are you? Coming" Coming Common you continue practicing, I will handle them Darling, they woke up with the noise Again? Wait.. wait Come here baby I think you will have to go train at SDI You will be able to train better there and not this way from home But Coach Sir? You will have to face them some or the other day. So be it now Hi Mary.. Hi.. Hey MaFY How are you? I Am fine. How are you? Iam good. And how are the kids? They are good too Welcome back Mary Hi! Hey, how are you? Where is Coach Sir? Hi - Hi Coach Sir - Guard up Coach Sir.. If you haven't learnt to take guard then there is no need to come from tomorrow See mother has come Hi-Hi How was your practice? Tired.. - From now only! You are doing every1hing wrong! Do it properly You know, Coach sir shouted a lot today At you? No. But it felt like he was Yeah he must have been. After all he is used to that Thank you applying the balm Feel relieved. I don't know howl used to train before My whole body aches these days What is this? Read it? All your pain will vanish right away When did you apply for this? When you began training National championship, get ready here comes Mary Kom Ok no need to get excited One minute. I'm coming. How many days off do you need? Two days. Here you go Thank you, sir - Go. Why is he falling sick so often Doctor? I will need to do some tests to give you a concrete answer. Onler.. How is Nainai doctor? I have given him an injection but if the temperature doesn't subside in a few days then you might have to admit him. Thank you. I will be back Come here sweetie My dear son.. "L will love you." "l will bless you." "l will give you the shadow of happiness." "May you fulfill your dreams." "May you fill it in your eyes." "l will give you every1hing you want." "These nights guard.." "..l will tell the moon and the stars." Let me take care of Nainai. You go train His fever hasn't subsided in the last couple of days You tell me how will be able to train like this? But you don't even have a week left for the national tournament You think that matters to me right now? look at his face And you are talking about the match "Hope you don't wake up.." What does it read? It is normal. Show me "Let you swing in my arms." "l will sit next to you all the time." My baby.. Mary looks very tired It doesn't look like she is in best physical shape The 3rd round is about to begin with and Mary leads 6-5 But if this Mary was fighting this bout 2 years ago.. Cool dude. Be cool - The scenario would have been completely different with Mary's lead being quite substantial Preeti seems oblivious to Mary's achievements and stature wonderful confidence And she lands a hook and the score is tied at 6 all Come on, Mary! Mary looks a bit rattled maybe because she is tired or due to lack of preparation And Mary has taken the lead once again with two point scoring punches and she leads And Preeti reduces the lead to 8-7 by landing another hook This match is very interesting with Preeti using her speed agility and brash confidence of a youngster while Mary is using all her experience and tenacity to stay in the match Preeti takes charge, Mary strong in her defence Mary is leading by a single point 9-8 with.. And now, only 10 second to go in the bout Preeti has to make the most of these last few seconds And the referee stops the bout The winner of this match will be decided by the officials on the basis of the points countback In my entire career of 20 years, this was the most interesting fight And now, All eyes are on the official's It was a close battle but I think it will go in Mary'a favour Let us see which way the decision goes According to calculation, Preeti Singh got 9 points. And MC Mary Kom 9 points And the winner of this match is Preeti Singh from Haryana What is this? You know I landed more punches than you Honey, What are you doing? Mary, Don't get Angry You played well. These things happen No they don't happen Didn't you see that I landed more scoring punches. Didn't I! Yes I did see it. Everyone saw it but for now you calm down How do I calm down? These people are being partial against me and you are telling me to calm down? You have played well for your first comeback tournament Don't spoil your image Honey, things will go out of hands Honey - You all are jealous of me You won't me to loose? Calm down. What are you doing? Everyone saw that I landed more punches You are being partial against mejust because I am from Manipur Look, our decision is final According to the countback rule Preeti is the winner of this bout lam a Indian India is in my heart What are you doing? 3 time world champion. lam a 3 time world champion you think I will lose to this kid? Iam a Manipuri that is why they are against me Let's talk about it at home Please. Just calm down You tell me, 3 times world champion.. And this kind of behavior? She has been creating problems in the past as well But using a chair as a weapon and throwing it towards the judges? That is unacceptable and the federation has decided to ban her from boxing People all over the country are giving different opinion about Mary Kom's behavior. Why is this woman hell-bent on ruining her own reputation? I want to see - She should now accept domestic life and take care of her husband and two kids and her Husband should also understand why is he ruining his reputation I actually would like to blame the husband sending his wife to get beaten in the ring while he himself sits and does nothing at home Look, Till she doesn't publicly apologize to the officials and the federation with a written public apology, this ban will not be revoked Don't make it sound as if there is some personal vendetta Sign this This is the Federations decision and that is that. Ok 0k, let us go.. Bye Sign this - Why should I apologize Onler? The world is laughing at me, I don't care but if they think of you as ajoke I will not bear it Sign this But I didn't do anything wrong I know that you haven't done anything wrong But that, only you and I know.. not them We will have to tell them what the real truth is and that will never happen by sitting at home Honey, You are a fighter and a fighter never gives up By apologizing you will not lose respect but by giving up the fight, you will lose every1hing ls Mr. Sharma free now? - Please wait, I'll tell him Hello Not yet Oh yes I did receive a call. No no. Yes Sir.. No.. actually what happened is.. yes.. Who will say a no to Sharma Yes I will send it to you tomorrow Sir.. - Any other service you required of me? The team selection" Sure sir, please keep our needs also in consideration You've been kind to everyone.. Didn't realize the time - Yes right But this time we have prepared such a good team that" - Sir.. It's.. - What is this? An invitation? No Sir, it's an apology Apology, that too in writing? How nice! Why don't you read it out to us? Sir we are getting late Shut up you fool Let us just give her 2 minutes of our time and listen what she has to say Madam please read it out to us while I sit and listen You have written it so it will be best if you read it Quickly! S. Sharma Federation Head Skip the formalities Sir would you like to have some tea? Yes sure Hey, come here Come quick man after all you are working for the sports department Not here, stand there and listen to madam And could you speak a little louder so that everyone can hear you? Dear Sir, I MC Mary Kom deeply regret and would like to apologize to the federation and its officials for my conduct and promise to not repeat the mistake That's it? It is nice but if you had elaborated a little more it would have been more fun Sir you wanted a written apology, I gave you one Thank you. This was the moment I was waiting for But sadly we have almost finalized the team so this written apology I will safely keep as your autograph Sir could I have a photocopy? Yes I will make a copy for you and send it across Come on sir.. My baby.. Boxer Mary Kom's ban has been lifted And in the World Championship to be held in Ningbo After Mr. Singh's retirement. Amit Kumar will be Mary's head coach I thought I could make a comeback without your help But I was wrong I can box without you but I cannot win Coach Sir I know you weren't happy with my decision to get married and now I am even a mother of two Coach, sir My parents gave birth to Chungneizang but you gave birth to Mary Kom and today that Mary needs your help Hold this A woman becomes even stronger after becoming a mother and now your strength has increased two-folds so we will work twice as hard "The head bows in front of you." "Your lap is my house." "lndia, we salute you." "We'll not lose hope in the difficult times." "Agree to walk along with me." "We get passionate when we kiss the mud." "l can sacrifice my life for you." Use your brains "We'll celebrate victory." "We'll hoist the tricolor flag on the sky." "We'll show everyone with pride." "We will win this world." "The head bows in front of you." "Your lap is my house." "lndia, we salute you." "lndia." "lndia." "lndia." "The hopes should be touching the sky. Never give up trying." "You will get the destination, even if the path is angry." "The hopes should be touching the sky. Never give up trying." "You will get the destination, even if the path is angry." "This country teaches you, it encourages you." "You don't stop unnecessarily after falling down." "This is your country. Do anything to save it." "You sacrifice your life on it." "Scare the fear and awaken the.. ...passion of victory in your veins." "We have to reach up the sky." "We have to change the direction of the wind." "We have to worship our country." "You have to show this to the world." "The head bows in front of you." "Your lap is my house." "lndia, we salute you." "The head bows in front of you." "Your lap is my house." "lndia, we salute you." "The head bows in front of you." "Your lap is my house." "lndia, we salute you." "The head bows in front of you." "Your lap is my house." "lndia, we salute you." My baby God is with you, and so are we - Father Remember every1hing that you have learned Thank you, coach - All the best I couldn't have done it without you Don't forget his medication - Take care of yourself Bye, bye - Good luck Oh my sweetheart. Come on it's time ,we will be late Come on Ok bye Say bye to your grandmother - Bye, bye Mother take care - Have a good journey Bye. Thank you, aunty Say bye to Mom And the winner, Mary Kom! Hello, where is your concentration? Painting my nails Nail polish, before a fight? I can never understand your logics Really Shut up! Painting nails anyfime is a woman's birthright ls it? By the way is it true that the women there are very beautiful And yeah their whole family knows karate as well So tell me, how are the kids? Rengpa is fine but I will have to take Nainai to the doctor What happened? He got fever again? Slight fever Don't stress too much. lam here for him All you have to do is focus on your match tomorrow Ok go to sleep now and call me after your match, ok? Ok All the best, love you I love you too What is the problem with Nainai, Doctor? You will have to take the child to Artemis Hospital Gurgaon for some advanced tests. They can't be done here I will inform the doctor there. But don't delay Show this there Don't you think we should inform Mary? In sports NEWS, India's Mary Kom has reached finals at the world championship by defeating Turkey's Salma Haq 15-12 in semi-finals But winning the gold won't be so easy this time as her opponent in the finals is world No.1 Germany's Sasha Podolski If you remember.. - No Mary Kom had defeated Sasha in a World Championship - Not right now that took place in Delhi two years ago She will be under a lot of pressure right now Only time will tell if Mary Kom will be able to repeat her success She's so quick Mary, come here Get up! Come sit here This is Sasha right This is not the same Sasha She is more aggressive in her movements See her body language Sir, her guard is completely down She is not scared of anyone's punches She is here to win at all costs Fair unfair, doesn't matter Sir are you trying to scare me? Yes Mary Your victory in today's semi-finals and your bout tomorrow will be poles apart from each other Coming up with a strategy Mr. Amit? But it is going to be of no use we are just going to come back with a silver Nigam last time we were on top of the medals tally, weren't we? Yes sir On the top. This time we have managed only two bronze and that is because even the 4th placed person gets a charity of a bronze medal Sir you cannot be so critical The girls have really worked hard and winning and losing is a pan of every sport Mr. Amit all these girls have basically come out on an all expenses paid trip After they lose, they will pretend to cry for a little while and then glam themselves up and go shopping Sir please do not demotivate the players just before their finals What kind of a motivating speech is this? - Mary let it be What did you just say? Looks like you haven't yet learned your lesson from the ban & apology I can still destroy your career Yes you are right Sir You can only destroy careers never ever make them Who will I make it for? All these nincompoops? Yes sir we are all nincompoops here After-all we are here for a holiday, right? See how her face has bloated eating all the food here And this girl her eyes are swollen pretending to cry The players and the coach live in dormitories while you and your family live lavishly in 5 stars that are actually meant for we players? In spite of the federation's dirty politics we perform to the best of our ability and still if you doubt our talent or dedication play a round with me and you will know MZTY Sir please, Let's go You have spoken enough I will remove the very word of boxing from your psyche I dare you to Who will stop me? I. lwill file a harassment case against you And I will send all the details of your late night sms to your wife Listen Mr. Sharma please don't instill so much fear in anyone that one day they are not fearful anymore Yes Onler Sir could I speak with Mary, please? But her final match is about to begin Sir it's a bit urgent. Ok I will give her the phone right away Thank you.. Mary, Onler on the line Oh thank god! Hello! Onler. Where are you guys? I have been trying to call you and Jimmy since yesterday both your cells were off, you know how worried I was? Onler? Is every1hing ok there? Jimmy and I have come to Gurgaon Fighting in the blue corner.. Nainai has been admitted in the hospital - What? Hospital! Why what is wrong with him? Nainai has.. Yes Onler! What is wrong with Nainai God Dammit Onler! Speak up! Darling, Nainai has a hole in his heart He is being operated upon right now Hello. Honey.. Honey.. I am here with him Honey.. Honey.. Last and final call for India's MC Mary Kom Mary" One thing I fail to understand is where's Mary's concentration... ...her stance, her guard is all wrong Come on Mary! She is being mercilessly hammered by the German's punches... ...and here's another one Mary's game looking very disappointed and has no answer to Sasha's flurry of punches Sasha has gone from strength to strength.. Mary Kom looks like a pale shadow of her former self And Sasha attacking And Mary is completely shaken by it Looks like Sasha is in a hurry to finish the match Indian fans would be disappointed seeing Mary in this situation The only hopeful thing for her fans & her would be the bell Yeah saved by the bell - I know what you are going through & I even know you're still the World Champion Just once show her that you are Mary Kom and sadly I think this match is over.. You can do it Mary You can do it.. Come on The second round hasjust begun And Sasha is continuing in the same way as she was in the 1st She is constantly attacking Mary around the rib-cage For Mary to stay in this match she will have to protect her ribs and play.. Focus Mary focus She's playing according to her reputation" 2..3 4 - Come on! Come on Mary - 6 7 Thomjilu.. Come on Mary.. Come on Oh and that's another hard blow by Sasha This is the end of the second round Mary is so dazed that she hasn't realized that she is walking towards the wrong corner Referee guiding Mary Kom to her corner Shasha has take a good lead over Mary and has the match under full control Looks like Mary is almost certain to loose this gold medal Box" Mary. - MaFY Go home momma! Come on Mary get up!!! Come on Mary Come on Come on Mary.. Yes Mary come on.. Mary get up Mary get up.. Mary get up.. Hello Mother" Mary get up Come on get up Get up Mary.. Mary get up Mary come on- Get up Mary Come on Mary.. Come on Get up Mary.. Get up! - Yes. MZTY 7 Box Yes Goodness me! Is Mary making a comeback? Bravo.. attack! Harder.. harder.. Sasha.. Hit her more! Keep attacking, Mary! Yes Full attack! Corner her! Corner her Right Mary.. Right Full attack Mary.. Yes.. Bravo.. Harder.. harder.. Come on.. Yes Mary... yes!!! Sasha.. Come on Sasha.. 4-4 - Sasha! - 7 India's Mary Kom has become 4th time World Champion This is really mind blowing stuff I'm proud to have been born in the same country where athletes like Mary Kom are born Yeahhh...Yes!!! Bravo.. It has been proven again.. history cannot be made without war.. MZTY This woman here truly symbolises the phrase "Strength of a woman" We were privileged to see this living legend in action here today She has displayed tremendous courage strength and determination Operation was successful - And this is our honour to accord this four time World Champion with the title of.. "Magnificent Mary" Thank you sir.. thank you Ladies and gentlemen would you all rise in respect of the Indian National Anthem "Oh bird, you fly." "Go to the sky and burn the sun." "Oh bird, you fly." "Everyone should ask you, why you have so much fire in you?" "Go and spread dust on your destination." "These winds support you." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "The world is in your fist." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn." "Whoever comes in your path.." "..like the clouds of difficulties." "You show them.." "..to stay away from the courageous people." "Your attitude is carefree, so have fun.." "..the world is in your fist." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn." "Oh bird, you fly." "Go to the sky and burn the sun." "Oh bird, you fly." "Everyone should ask you, why you have so much fire in you?" "Oh bird, you fly." "Everyone should ask you, why you have so much fire in you?" "Go and spread dust on your destination." "These winds support you." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "The world is in your fist." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn. - Fly." "Go, fly as it is your turn."
