 

                        Woman, why are you weeping? They've taken away my Lord, I don't know where they've laid him. Why do you search for the living among the dead? Mary. Rabbouni! Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them I am ascending to my Father, and to your Father, and to my God, and to your God. Mary! Mary. Hold on. Hold on right here. I'll be right back. Marie! Have you seen Marie? Jesus Christ. Come on, let's go, we're gonna miss the plane, let's go, come on. -Where are you going? -We're going back to New York, -what are you kiddin' me? -I'm not, I'm not going. What are you talking about you're not going. Come on. C'mon Marie, you are crazy like a fox. We're gonna miss the plane. We've got 15 minutes to get to the plane. -Which plane? -Look Marie, do you want me to get down on my hands and knees and beg you? Please, -just get into the car and let's go. -I'm not ready. I can't go. -I can't. I can't go. I'm not going. -Listen... Marie, it's over, it's over. It's over. Alright? It's over. We're going home. We're gonna go cut the film now. -I don't want to go. -Where are you going? I'm going to Jerusalem. C'mon! Get in the car! Marie! Alright. Fine. You fucking go to Jerusalem. Great. Crazy bitch. C'mon, let's go. Look, you have two answers: The point of view of Romans, He was a dangerous revolutionary, so they wrote on the cross -"Jews is the King of the Jews". -Yes. -Which means a rebellious, -Yes. -which means a revolutionary. -Ok. -Second, -Ok. the point of view of Jews, they acclaimed him -as something... -A teacher, as a Rabi. -Teacher, Rabi. -Even more. -More than a Rabi. -Even more. -Yeah. Messiah. -Perhaps... Perhaps a Messiah. One of the Messiahs of the time... So if he started, if... if... if... there was a disruption by Jesus coming in to town, starting these disruptions, then the Jewish community who had to protect the Jewish community, would have had to deal with that in some way. Thousands of people could have been killed because of this man, standing there and insighting, possibly a writer. Now, this is hard because I'm trying to... -I'm searching a side of your... -It's hard, it's difficult. At the time of Jesus, we are sure that a lot of persons suspected of rebellious actions, were crucified by Romans. It is nothing extraordinary. The problem is, who could have interest to kill him? That is the problem. And I don't see where and for what the Jews could have interest to kill Him while He was considered a chieftain of the people, a rebellious chieftain, and perhaps one who wanted to become the King of the Jews, perhaps. How can we imagine that Jews could have interest to kill a person just because He wanted to teach them something? Of course it became such a complicated issue, we're going to have to explore it completely. We'd like to thank our guest, Amos Luzzatto. Please join us again at the same time tomorrow evening for "Jesus, the real story". This is Theodore Younger saying... good-night. And we're cut. Thank you. Mr. Luzzatto, that was... that was fantastic, that was really... Gretchen called. The screening's at BAM tomorrow at two. -Yup. -I really want to get that guy. -He would do a lot for the show. -I'll tell you right now, -don't worry. That's a done deal. -Ok. -See you. -Bye. The father and son were reportedly returning from a trip to purchase a new car, when they found themselves caught in crossfire... Babe. Babe? Elizabeth? I'm sorry I'm late. -Hey, what did you... do in there? -Oh I painted that room. -Do you like it? -Is it ok for you to do that? Oh I mean I painted a room, I didn't swim the English Channel. Were they happy? Are they ever really happy? I thought it was really good. -It was good, right? -It was fantastic. You were really... amazing. I'm really proud of you. Thank you. Everything ok with little Raphael... or Luke? Or Samuel. -We're doing great. -Samuel Younger. Sammy. That's nice. What... what's... what's wrong, baby? What's wrong? I couldn't help it, if I could've got home earlier I would have. You know? I'm sorry. -You know I'm here for you, right? -Well, it doesn't seem like that. I mean, we used to always talk and now we don't talk anymore. Oh, it's just this f... It's just pressure all on me, you know, between Brenda and the Network, it's just like... I don't know if I'm coming or if I'm going. Yeah, but I'm here too. I know. You know what? The show is going to be over Friday, and then all this insanity is going to be over with, thank God, and it'll just be me, and it'll be you and little Samuel. How you doin'? I'm Tony Childress and this is my... my picture "This is my blood". I know I'm not supposed to, you know, come down and talk to you before a screening with the... with the press, but you know, that's me, hey, what can I say? At the drive-in theatre that my father managed, you know, people... people would come to see movies and there was two kinds of movies that people really loved, "tits and ass" movies and they liked to see horror movies. Where... I can understand as a young man why people would want to come and see "tits and ass" movies because, you know, tits and ass. But horror movies kinda baffled me. Well, why would people wanna come and see a horror movie, why would people wanna come and see a horror movie and be terrified? Why would they want go and see "The Exorcist" and... and... and live with those kind of horrible, frightening images that they kind of stay in your mind for weeks, months and years? That movie messed up a lot of people's lives. And I started thinking that... that maybe that's why people go to see the movies because they wanna be... They want to be terrified about something horrific, something horrible because it's an opportunity to believe that there's something else. That there... that there's some promise of... of... of a life after this life. That there... there's some promise, that... that... that when we're dead that if there's something that's evil, some kind of monsters, then there must be something good. So, I hope you enjoy this religious experience. But why did you play Jesus? Why did I play Jesus? Because I'm a good actor and I couldn't find anyone else better than me to play the part. Watch the movie and have... have a good time. Alright. Roll the movie. How are we to go among the unbelievers? To announce the Gospel of the Kingdom of the Son of Man. They didn't spare His life, eh, Peter? Why they should spare ours? Do not remain in sorrow and doubt. For His grace will guide you and comfort you. Instead let us praise His greatness for He has prepared us for this. He is calling upon us to become fully human. Sister. We all know that the Teacher loved you differently from other women. Tell us whatever you remember about words that He told you, that we did not hear. I will now speak to you about which you haven't heard. I had a vision of the Teacher and I said to Him, "Lord, I see you now in this vision" and then He said to me, "You are blessed, for the sight of Me does not disturb you. There where is the noose lies the treasure." And then I said to Him, "Lord, when someone meets You in a moment of vision, is it through the soul that they see You or is it through the spirit?" And He said to me, "It is neither through the soul nor the spirit, but the noose which sees the vision" Tell me, what do you think about these things? As for me, I do not believe that the Teacher, our Teacher speak like this. He wouldn't have speak like this. -That's what I think. -How is it possible that the Teacher talk in this manner, with a woman about secrets that we do not know? Must we change our customs and listen to this woman? Did he really choose her and prefer her to us? My brother Peter, what can you be thinking? Do you believe that I would...? This is my own imagination? That I invented this vision? Or do you believe that I would lie about our Teacher? Peter, you have always been hot tempered, and now we see you repudiating a woman just as our adversaries do. If the Teacher held her worthy, who are you to reject her? Don't stand there staring, I mean look at it, it's red on red, you can't read it, you're a smart lady, you get paid a lot of money. Call somebody, get it fixed. -Well done. -Thanks very much. I appreciate you coming. Thank you very much. -Very kind of you. -Excuse me, do you have a moment? -Don't worry. -Hi, you did a great job. A great job. Let me introduce you to my friend Ted. -Hi Ted. -Nice to meet you. Congratulations. -Think they really liked the movie. -Yeah, no. It's... it's fascinating. Marie Palesi, I mean. How did you get her to do all that? It was a lot of work, let me tell you, she's not an easy actress. -You must feel great, huh?! -I'll feel better once I'm outa here. I'm not worried about the picketing on Friday. -Do you want a lift to the city? -Yeah, yeah, can I meet you outside? Let me answer a few questions. -You must have heard of... -I'll meet you right out front. I'm not worried about a damn thing, and you know what? I think all the protestors ought to come in the theatre and watch the movie and make their minds up, instead of making judgements about something they don't know anything about. Thank you. -Yes, that's quite a film. -Yeah, thanks. -It's a good screening. -Yeah, before I forget, let me get you my... my card. Theodore, you know what that means, right? God's gift. God's gift. I could use one of those. Always good to have God on your side. I like your show, it's good. Get the opportunity to present both sides of an argument. And it's getting good ratings. Good for you. -You follow my ratings? Nice. -Yeah. I really appreciate it. I appreciate you... you liking it. -It means a lot to me. -You're the man. It's just television but... Don't knock television. Television is where it's at. My agent's pitching me for a couple of shows right now, as we speak. -Yeah? -Yeah. You know what? I would love to have you on the show. We are going to be doing "Jesus from the Hollywood perspective" showing art and some film clips. "Jesus from the Hollywood perspective", that's funny. C'mmon, c'mmon, what? Is it possible or what? Yeah? I mean obviously I would show your film in the best possible way. I would hope so. Tony, it would really... be great for me if you could be on the show. Alright, let's cut to the chase. I'll do an interview on your show, if you come to the premier on Friday and cover it, live. Wow. I'd love to do that. You know, if it were up to me I'd do it in a heart beat. Come on. You've got the ratings, that gives you the power. I want people to see what's happening to the First Amendment. I want people to see that in New York fucking city, people are imposing censorship on my right to freedom of speech. I want the fucking world to see this. It's a great idea. I'm gonna have to talk to the Network, but it's a great idea. There's always somebody. Everybody can be as independent like you. If you only knew... What about Marie? Do you think we could get Marie on the show? -Marie? -Yes. Marie is busy. We wanted to take a short cut to avoid traffic. It just... it just happened, alright? Does... does...? I need some aspirin, does anyone have any aspirin? You know, it's... it's... You know, it's fine, it's fine, ok? It's fine. This is... You know, you can't blame these kids anyway for reacting like that. Everybody's fighting over bullshit. I just wish they would just leave me the fuck out of it. You know what, why don't I just go on the air right now, you know, blood and all and just talk about this bullshit, 'cos this is bullshit. -We can't do that. It's not the news. -Yeah we can. -Just put some make-up on it. -You know what? Don't. Don't fix it. It's fine, it's fine, I don't need it to be fixed. Thank you, Dina. Thanks. But, the question is, can we live completely and holdly as a spiritual being inside of society? I'd like to ask you, how do you accomplish... that? Yeah, yeah. It's interesting that in the tradition monastic, for example tradition of Camaldoli, there is strong experience of solitude, but at the same time there is the opening to mission, so to meet other people, to be able to welcome people. Seekers, seekers of God, or of a meaning of life, and to be able to be in touch to welcome, no, with joy... The person who visits you is God incarnate, because God is inside of everyone, and you have to treat them as if -that experience is with God. -But in Jesus he reveals as an extraordinary incarnate, vulnerable, passionate and liberating people, -so that is very important, not this -The Figure of Christ. full immersion and contamination, I would say, you know? Contamination that is to say not God as pure, separated authentic by the human condition but in touch with. You know? And the experience to Jesus is to be open to the outcasts, to the marginalized people, to the sinners, no? The persons considered far from God. And Craving said, "I did not see you descend, but now I see you rising, and why do you lie to me since you belong to me?" And the Soul answered, "I saw you, though you did not see me nor recognize me. I was with you as with a garment, and you never felt me." I never realized how... how good she was, you know, she's... God, she like knocked me out. Yeah. She is really good. She coming back for the premier? I don't know. I don't think so. Kidding, right? I mean, she's been away for like a year now. A year? A year. Where is she? I don't know. You don't know? No. How do you not know where she is, I mean, your best friend, right? You must know where she is. We are, I just don't know where she is right now, that's all. Look, she went through some... This can't leave this room. No, this can't leave this room. -No. What? What? -Promise me. You promise me? I promise, I promise, ok so... Come on, Gretchen, tell me what's up. She went through some heavy stuff after the movie. She told me that she was living in two worlds that she could go into the past and see the truth. -Oh man! -Fucking Tony, he pushed her to a bad place. He always fucked with her head. He always knew just where to get her. Well, it seems like he got a great performance out of her, that's what I know. At what cost? When you're an actor, sometimes it's really hard to get back out. It's a director's job to help you. He just left her hanging. Do you think Marie's gonna come back soon? What are you, writing a book? Oh no, I'm just curious, I'm just curious. You're curious. -Marie? -Yes? It's Ted. Theodore Younger? I'm... I'm one of Gretchen's friends. -Is Gretchen ok? -Oh no, she's great, she's great. Now I went to the... to Tony's screening this afternoon and, wow, I mean congratulations, your were... you were great. -Your performance was great. -What is it you want? I was just wondering how you were doing, that's all. -That's all? -Well that, and the other thing is, I'm doing a national television show on the life of Jesus, and Tony, he's gonna do an interview with me, -and I'd love to have you too. -Why? Why what? Why are you doing a show, a programme on Jesus? I do... I don't understand... why. Do you believe in Jesus? Well I... I don't know, I guess he existed. Yeah, sure. No, what do you believe? I don't know. It takes courage to walk in the truth, and it takes courage to become fully humans. Jesus helped Mary Magdalene, she's helping me now. Hello? Hello? Go back to the city, to the city. I wanna go back to the city. I want to go to 54th and Park. Yeah, I wanna go back. Thanks. What do we actually know about Jesus and his followers, how do we know it, and what else didn't we know? And the answer is there's a lot we didn't know. The Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Philip, the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, these were apparently buried nearly two thousand years ago, when a bishop, who thought they were secret and heretical writings, told the monks to get rid of them, and somebody disobeyed the bishop and buried them out by a cliff where they were found in 1945. It's clear that when you look at these other secret gospels, including the Gospel of Mary and the Gospel of Philip and the Gospel of Thomas, that Mary Magdalene who appears in the gospels of the New Testament just as one of the women, she's not a disciple, she's just a very marginal character. In these other texts there's often a running battle between Mary and Peter. It could be a rivalry for the role of disciple closest to Jesus. What you find in... in sort of ancient legend history, she was a prostitute. Modern fiction turns her into a lover and wife of Jesus. But what you find in these early texts is that she is neither a prostitute nor a lover. She's... She's one of the disciples, and one of the most important. The Jesus of the New Testament is usually characterized as somebody utterly unique. Marc says, "This is the Gospel of Jesus the Messiah, the son of God." John says, "He's the only begotten son of God, there's nobody like Him." The Gospel of Thomas suggests that yes, Jesus comes forth from God, but the... the teaching of the Gospel of Thomas, the good news is... So do you, and so do I. That we also come from the divine light, we also come from that source, because we are created in the divine image. And so the Gospel of Thomas suggests that you too can become a child of God, just like Jesus, because you have within you the divine light, or created in the image of God. The fact that you may not need the Church, or the Priest, or even Jesus. You could go back to yourself and as the Gospel of Thomas has Jesus say, "If you bring forth what is within you, what you bring forth will save you. If you do not bring forth what is within you, what you do not bring forth will destroy you." And this of course, from the point of view of Orthodoxy is blasphemy. -Why was the phone off? -Why the hell was yours? I don't know, I... I must have turned it off by mistake. I'm sorry. Well, what if I went into labour last night, huh? -What's the matter with you? -Elisabeth, I was working, ok? Well, since when do you stay out working all night? Since when do I have a national fucking television programme? I got the entire responsibility of the show on my fucking shoulders or... or... or is that beyond your comprehension, Elisabeth? Oh, beyond my comprehension! Since when did you become such a fucking asshole? I've always supported you 100%, you're an ungrateful fucking asshole. Hey! I was doing research. I lost track of the time. Ok? Alright? That's all that happened. I fell asleep on the couch in my office. Why... What is this, some kind of interrogation or something? Hold... hold on a second, hold on a second. Brenda, could you please tell Elisabeth that I was doing research all night and I fell asleep on the sofa in my office? I'll be there in a minute. I can't get into this right now. My hole future is on the line here. I gotta prepare for my show. Your future. What about our future? -You know what I meant. -Well that's not what you said. Listen, I don't have time to play these little word games with you. I gotta go to work. I got things to do, ok? Go to hell! Hello? -Hey. -Hey. Yeah, I... You know... I mean, I should have called you last night. I don't even know what I was thinking. It's, you know... It's all the stress and stuff, you know... I get a... It's not... I'm not making any excuses. I shoulda... I shoulda called you, you know? Well, I'm sorry I hung up on you, but I hope you come home soon. Yeah... -Yeah, when can you come home? -Listen, I'm gonna finish this show and then I'm gonna come straight home, you know. I can't wait to see you too. I need to see you right now. -I need to see you, ok? -Ok. -Ok? -Ok. -Sorry. -Ok. -Ok, bye. -Ok. -Le Christe lui a donn la parole. -Christ gave her the word. Avant la rsurrection son language c'est celui decheveux, -celui du parfum. -Before the resurrection, the way she spoke was with the hair, with the perfume. Et le Christe I'a conduit son accomplissement. Christ led her to her self fulfilment. Non seulement elle peut tre une femme, Not only can she be a woman. mais elle peut parler et enseigner comme un homme. But she can speak and teach like a man. Et cela, un aspect important -And that is a significant aspect. -pour -marcher avec le Christe. -To go hand in hand with Christ. Les hommes doivent intgrer leur dimension fminine Man must include and integrate their female dimension. et les femmes doivent intgrer leur dimension masculine And woman must integrate, include, incorporate, their men's dimension. pour devenir non seulement des males et des femelles, -...not just males and females. -mais des tres humains. -But Human Beings. -A question, a question. Is... -Peter's problem with Mary -Le problme de Pierre avec Marie. -C'est quoi comme problme? -that she's a woman, -Le fait que'elle est une femme. -saying these words, Qui dit ces mots, qui prononce ces mots. that she is putting herself in the primary position as the -number one disciple, if you would. -...position, la plus importante, comme -Or both. -...qui a la primaut... Je crois que le problme ce sont les deux. -Mais surtout, peut-tre, -Both, both are the problems. -parce que c'est une femme. -But mostly because it's a woman. Babe? Elisabeth? Jesus. Elisabeth! Elisabeth! Elisabeth! -I tried to call you so many times. -What happened? -What happened? -She was screaming, -I come inside. She was bleeding. -Where is she? Where is she? Where is...? Let's go! Could you tell me which way is room 340, please? Thank you. Oh my God. -Is she ok? -Are you Mr. Younger? -Yeah. Is she alright? -Yes. She just need to rest now. What's wrong with her? You should speak to the doctor about that. I don't know. -Can you go get the doctor, please? -Yes, but just... You know... Hey, hey, don't touch me! What's wrong with you? -Hey listen. You gotta be quiet. -I don't go to do nothing. I'm going to call the doctor right now but you've go to be quiet. -Please. She needs to rest, alright? -Will you just go get the doctor? Is the baby ok? -You should talk to the doctor. -You can't tell me if the baby is ok? Can you wait for the doctor for just one minute and he will explain, ok? Can you just tell me if my baby is ok? Shit. This is crazy. This is crazy, baby. Little guy. It's ok. It's ok. Don't worry. Hi buddy. It's ok. It's alright. It's ok. Look, look. It's me. In Jerusalem, observing Jews will soon begin their preparations for the passover holiday. But this year the celebration of the Israelites will again take place against the backdrop... -Hello? -Marie? Yes? -It's Ted. -Ted? Hi. You there? My wife's had the... She had the baby, you know. I'm not really sure of that. I'm really, really, really bad. They don't know if they're gonna make it or not, you know. My baby is so sick, you know. So sick. Can't even breath and he's... -Do you love your baby? -Yeah. As his father would you do everything in your power for him? Everything. If your baby asked for something -would you give it to him? -Yes. Yeah. Do you think the father, your father, would do the same for you? You know what? My dad's dead, but yeah, I can s... No, I mean your Father, Ted, the Father's always there. He loves us more than we humans can comprehend. Oh well, if He loves me so much, why is He doing this to me then? Have you asked Him? Have you spoken to Him? How am I gonna ask Him if I don't even know if I believe in Him? How am I gonna go to Him? I don't know how to speak to Him. I don't know how to do that. Well, He sent us a messenger so we could understand, so go to Him, pray, try. I can't speak to God. Oh Ted. Ted. Ted, is that you? How are you feelin'? You o...? How are you feelin'? -Did you see him? -Yeah. How is he? He's ok, they're... they're taking care of him, you know. I didn't get to see him, they took him away so fast. I didn't even get to hold him. Did you hold him? No. He was sleeping so I... I... I... didn't want to wake him up, you know. How does he look? I didn't even get to hold him. Oh man, he is so hansom, I mean he looks just like you. He's so... beautiful. Really he... I can't wait til you see him. I'm sorry I didn't know what to do, I mean, your show was on and... Don't even think about that. I'm here, ok? I'm here. What if something happens to him? Just don't even think about that, ok? Don't even think about that, you need to just rest and you need to get well. I want to see my baby. I don't care what the doctors say. No, baby, baby, you got to rest, ok? I'm gonna take care of it. I'm gonna take care of it. Not right now, you can't, ok? -You just stay here, ok? -Go see him. Don't leave him alone. -You can't get in, you can't get in. -Is he ok? He's ok. You can't get in. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. I do not give us, the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled, do not let them be afraid. If you loved me, you would rejoice. The hour has come when you will be scattered. Each one to his own home, and I will be left alone. Because they will persecute you as they've persecuted me. They do this to fulfil the word that is written in their law. They hate it without cause. I've said these things to you to keep you from stumbling. The hour is come when you will be put out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour has come when those who kill you will think that by doing so, they are offering worship... to God. I've said these things to you before they occur, so that when they do occur, you may remember that I spoke of them and you may believe. Five, four, three, two... You have just watched the film clip from the feature film "This is my Blood", which opens Friday nationwide, and we are here with Tony Childress, writer, director and star of "This is my Blood." Tony, why did you want to make a movie about Jesus? Well, 'cuz that gives a movie maybe like a million dollars. No, I'm kiddin'. I mean, the... the story of Christ today is as relevant today as it was two thousand years ago. That when Christ gets nailed to the cross, it's you getting nailed to the cross, man. It's me getting nailed to the cross. It's the whole society getting nailed to the fucking cross. -Yeah. -You know what I'm saying? Have you been nailed to the cross, Tony? Do you know what it's like to be nailed to the cross? That's a... that's a... You know, you're going deep, baby. -That nailed to the cross... -Friday night there are going to be protests. They are organizing protests to picket your film at your premier. How do you feel about that? I think that the people that are protesting films should have an opinion and an idea about what it is that they are protesting. Religious films are always subject to criticism. Look what they did to Scorsese with "The Last Temptation of Christ." The thing is that it's a lack of intelligence, it's a lack of... Is it a lack of intelligence or a statement of faith? Is it a statement of desecrating a God, desecrating the... the image of what you're supposed to love? Well, it depends on how you interpret faith. The traditional approach to religion, but who decides what is the traditional approach to religion? Because something that you read in a book, because something that you... We are talking about love. We're talking about love and Jesus represents love, then why are you trying to destroy the image of Jesus Christ? -My movie's all about love, baby. -Ok. You saw it. I understand. -Well... -We need to get Marie on the line. I mean we all have opinions about who Christ is, who Christ was. But those opinions are based on... on things that we learned in church, based on things we've read in bibles, -religious stories that have been... -You know what, you know what, Tony? I talked to my mother the other night. I called her up and I said, "Ma, there are all these books, Gospel books I've never seen before, telling me all these different things about Christ and... Mary." And she said, "Oh well, I think if God hadn't want it, He would have gave it to us because I have everything I need to know here. There's nothing wrong with that." And I said, "Well, what do you mean, Ma?" And she said, "Well, it doesn't matter how many times you tell or retell the story, it doesn't matter if you change it all around, it doesn't matter because... because God is talking about love, God's saying, "You need to love your fellow man, you need to love your family, you need to love God..." -Right on. -So you don't really need to... to do the thing... You don't even need to retell the story. What you need to do is... I think your mum should come and watch my movie because it sounds... Sorry to interrupt you but Marie Palesi is on the phone, on line. -Are you still there? -Yeah. Ok. -Marie Palesi. -What's it...? -Hello? -Yes? -Marie? -Hello. -It's Ted. It's Ted. -Hi, hi Ted. -Thank you for coming on my show. -Oh, you're welcome. -Hello Tony. -Hello Marie. Yours is a fascinating story. A successful artist, promising career. Yet you decided to leave it all behind. What would make you leave behind being an actress, Marie? I had no other choice. I played the role of Mary Magdalene in Tony's movie and I -Yes. -became fascinated and inspired -by her. -Yes. When you decide to change your life you must give all yourself, so... You know, my heart was hardly able to contain anything else. -Right. -That's why I stayed and... What are you doing now? Healing lepers? I'd say that we are all capable of becoming better people. You know we see the results of people in inner turmoil every day and the one thing I'd like to say is that my wish is that all people in the world acquire peace within themselves. -That's all I wanted to say. -That's beautiful. Marie, thanks for -sharing your insights with us today. -You're welcome. Thank you. -"Shalom". Bye. -"Shalom". And we're cut. What the fuck was that? Why did you have her on during my interview? It's my idea. Sorry, I'm the producer of the show, Brenda Sax... I don't give a fuck who you are. You invited me to come on to my... -Come on to the show to talk about... -We... we did, Tony. -We talked about the film. -I thought it was a good idea to have two guests of the same movie. You invited me to come on to the show to talk about my movie, not to... not to do an interview with her. What was she doing on my show? -Honestly I... -What was she doing on your movie? -What d'you mean...? -This is bullshit, man. -We had an agreement. -We still have an agreement. -Yeah? -We do. I'll see you Friday. You better hold up your side of the deal! -The madness of God. -The madness. Madness of God. Because there is an extreme, an expressive gesture he does, that is his taking off his robe, and beginning to wash the disciple's feet. And for me that is a very important -Statemen. -expression because stripping himself, he puts himself outside every position and -social status. -I understand, yeah. Is that gesture how you reference when you reference madness? The last supper, -the last supper of Jesus, -Yes. in that one in the John's Gospel, -he does this gesture -Right. and he found the only hierarchy possible of his life, and which is a hierarchy of love. That is to say, he wants, just yearns, to live in the heart of his own friends there. So I... So that gesture was his expression of how much I care for you because it was breaking every social tabu. "And I am able to give myself in this way to you, and so I underline what is essential in my existence and that could be important -for your existence." -As a last gesture before he actually is crucified, he says, "Here I do this for you" This is a memory I leave with you, not necessarily -an image on the cross, -No, no. -my love. -This is gesture of love, yes. If it's because of something I did, then punish me. Punish me. I've sinned. Punish me. Punish me. Punish me. Don't punish them. I'm asking you, I'm begging you to please, take my life, not theirs. If you could just save my wife and save my kid, could you forgive me for all the things I've done, all the horrible... things I've done. I've done so many bad things. Because I wanna feel You, I do. There's a hole inside me. And I'm lost. I'm so lost, and I'm so empty inside. I don't know how to find myself anymore. I don't know who I am. I don't know. If you could just show me. If you could help me find myself again. Please. Please. Could you take this away from me? Could you take this away? Can you make my wife and my kid ok? Could you just take this away? Please, 'cuz if it's me, just take me, 'cuz I don't... I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I just don't know, you know? I just didn't know. I just didn't know. -Any news? -No news. -Keep trying. -We're waiting for you. Yeah. I'm coming. How can he just disappear like that? He better be dead. There's no answer. Everybody here? This lie inspired the murder of my people in the millions over the centuries and this lie inspires, inspired the Holocaust itself. ...where people have gathered in protest of the film director Tony Childress and his new film "This is my Blood." I didn't necessarily find it anti-Semitic. I'm Jewish, I did find it more anti-Roman than anti-Jewish, for sure. Tony Childress! -What are your thoughts about it? -I've got a question. Where's Ted? -I'm Brenda Sax, -He said he was going to cover this. -standing in for Ted. -Yeah? I've got nothing to say to you... What's this? Ladies and Gentlemen, we're going to have to ask you to exit right away from the theatre. Please remain calm and just walk straight out to the exit. Please, do not run. ...and all the people are evacuated... There's no bomb. It's just a bunch of religious fanatics. Everybody just calm down. The director's come in the theatre and there is no bomb... What's going on? Step out, step out. Come on now. Everybody just go on back to your seats, there is no problem. Just go back to your seats. What are you doing, man? This is my movie. Come on! Everybody go back to your seats. There's no bomb in here. It was a false alarm. There's no bomb in here. Get him out, get him out! Alright. Good. Didn't you hear the warning? There's a bomb in the building. That's right. You don't want to be the projectionist? What's going on here? Up here. Keep searching. C'mon. I'll show you a bomb. -Hey, what's going on? -Turn the lights on up there. Put the light! -Hey Tony. Come on out! -There ain't no bomb! Tony, you've got to leave the building. Come on, man! The only bomb is the one that's in your fucking heart, man! There ain't no bomb. Who are they to decide? How do they know what's right and what's wrong? The Pope in Rome? He knows the truth? What are they going to fucking hotline to Rome, to God? You don't let me play my movie, you might as well take the constitution and wipe your ass with it. Yeah. You hear that? We got lines around the block at Philly. You are blessed, for the sight of me does not disturb you. There where is the noose lies the treasure. Where do you come from, murderery?. And where are you going, wanderery?. -My craving has faded -It's not what you see -with your eyes. -and I am freed from my ignorance. -It's what you see with your heart. -I lived the world with the aid of another world. A design was erased by virtue of the Higher Design. Henceforth, I travel toward repose, where times rest in the eternity of time. I go now into silence. So why should I forgive you? Well, I'm going to prove to you that I'm different, every day over the... I'm going to show you how much I love you. Every day. Every moment you're going to know how much I... I fucked up, just fucked up. You know...
