 

                        I'll have the daily special when you get a chance... Gosh, sure is a nice night. It sure is... a nice night. I sure hope Mater isn't waiting around anywhere to scare me, 'cause I'll freak out... If only you moved that fast on the race track. Oh, buddy! You look like you just seen... the Ghostlight! Mater! Don't mock the Ghostlight! What is the Ghostlight? The Ghostlight is a glowing orb of blue translucent light that haunts these very parts. Nah, don't be too scared, buddy, it ain't real. It is real! It all started on a night like tonight. The song dogs were wailin' at the moon off Cadillac Range while the summer wind blew hot like the breath of Zozobra. A young couple was headed down this very stretch of the mother road when they spotted an unnatural blue glow... ...and all that was left were two out-of-state license plates. So remember, the one thing that angers the Ghostlight more than anything else is the sound of clanking metal. As you head home tonight, keep an eye out. The Ghostlight could be anywhere. Well, good night. - I'm bushed. Good night! - Good night. Good night. Behind the clouds The sun is shinin' Believe me even though You can't quite make it out... Oh, no, it's the Ghostlight! Ghostlight, I respect thee! Return from where ye came! Oh, it's just a lightnin' bug. The Ghostlight ain't yeller, anyhow. Sheriff said the Ghostlight is blue... The Ghostlight! The Ghostlight's right behind me! Now it's in front of me! It's right on my tail! The Ghostlight's gonna eat me! Let me know how it turns out. Ghostlight's gonna... ...strip my parts and sell 'em on the computer auction Web site. Hey, wait a minute. Gotcha. Shoot, I knowed this was a joke the whole time. You see, son, the only thing to be scared of out here - is your imagination. - Yup. That and, of course, the Screamin' Banshee. - Well, good night! - Good night! The Screamin' what? You better run. They say there's a Banshee out here somewhere tonight, but I ain't seen him yet. Good night.
