 

                        Today you're 5 and I want to tell you the truth. You're not my son and I didn't find you in the sea, it was all lies. You're not a liar, but I am. I enjoy telling lies. Are you sorry to find out you're not my son... ...that I'm neither your father or mother? It all started because of a ram's hide. There was a talking ram, it was divine. Hermes gave the ram to Nefele so she could save her sons. Ino wanted to kill them. Ino was the wife of Cadmo and second wife of Atamante. Atamante was the son of Eolo, the wind god... Ino had also been Eolo's wife. Anyway, it was all a matter of jealousy. The ram had a golden fleece... ...and managed to carry Frisso, one of Nefele's sons, across the sea. Frisso arrived in the city of Ea: ruled by Eta, the sun's son. Ea welcomed Frisso... ...and to give thanks to Zeus, sacrificed the golden ram. Eolo's descendants wanted to get the fleece back... ...because it brought the king luck. It guaranteed a long and peaceful reign. They tried everything to get it back, but they didn't succeed. They didn't succeed. Little boy, you are a descendant of Eolo... ...because you are a grandson of Atamanta... ...who was king of Olco, a city nearby. It was rich with sheep and grain, all the property of the king. Your Uncle Pelia imprisoned your father and usurped the throne. The kingdom awaits you and I've kept you safe here. Have you understood? It's a rather complicated story... ...because it made up of facts, not thoughts. Everything's sacred, everything's sacred. Remember, my boy: there's nothing natural in nature. When it seems natural to you, it'll be the end. Something else will start. Good-bye sky, good-bye sea. What a beautiful sky! Close... Happy... Don't you think that just a little piece is natural? That it could be possessed by a god? The sea too. On this day, when you're 13 and fish with your feet in the water. Look behind you, what do you see? Anything natural? What you see is an apparition. With clouds reflected in the still, heavy water... ...at three in the afternoon. Look at that black streak on the sea... ...shining and pink like oil. The shadows of the trees and the reeds. A god is hidden everywhere you look. If he isn't, he's left traces of his scared presence: ...the silence, the smell of grass, the chill of fresh water. Yes, everything's sacred. But sanctity is also a curse. Whilst the gods love, they also hate. Maybe you think that besides being a liar, I'm also too poetic. But for ancient man, myths and rituals are concrete experiences... ...which are even included in his daily existence. For him, reality is a totally perfect unit... ...and the emotion he feels at the sight of a summer sky, for example... ...equals the more internal, personal experiences of modern man. You'll go to your Uncle, who stole your throne, and reclaim your rights. To eliminate you, he'll have to come up with an excuse. He'll send you on a quest, maybe to retrieve the golden fleece. That way, you'll travel to a distant land across the sea. You'll experience things in a world we can only imagine. Life there is very realistic. Because only he who is mythical is realistic and vice versa. This is what our divine reason foresees. That which it can't foresee, sadly, are the errors it will lead you to. Who knows how many there'll be? That which man has witnessed in the cultivation of grains... ...that which he has understood from seeds as they are reborn... ...represents a definite lesson: ...the resurrection. But this lesson no longer useful. That which he has gleaned from seeds holds no more meaning for you. It's like a distant memory that no longer affects you. In fact, there are no gods. Give life to the seed and be reborn with the seed. Wait for me here. Dear uncle, I have come to reclaim my kingdom. I'll give it back, but you give me something for the communal good. - What do you mean? - There's a symbol of the perrenity... ...of power and order. This symbol is the golden fleece of the sacred ram. It is to be found in a distant land, across the sea... ...which no one has visited. If you bring the golden fleece back to our city... I'll give back the kingdom. - What fine horses! - Let's take them! Here, pray for us! Get me ready, I want to go to the temple. Come on, wake up! - Come with me. - Where? Come with me! Help me steal the fleece. What's happening? - What is it? - A woman's coming in a cart! With a golden ram's fleece! Don't be stupid! Get the horses ready. This place will cave in, it has no support! Don't pray to god because he blesses your tents! Don't repeat god's first act! You don't search for the centre! Don't mark the centre! No! Find a tree! A staff! A stone! Earth, talk to me! Let me hear your voice! I no longer recall your voice. Sun, talk to me! Where is the place in which I can hear your voice? Earth, talk to me! Sun, talk to me! Perhaps you're disappearing! I no longer hear what you say! You, grass, talk to me! You, rock, talk to me! Earth, where are you? Where can I find you again? Where is the bond that joined you to the sun? My feet touch the ground and I don't recognize it. My eyes look at the sun and I don't recognize it. Today you will experience something unexpected. You'll find out that kings are not always obliged to keep promises. I understand. Here it is. Keep the fleece, symbol of the perennity of power and order. My quest has shown me the world is bigger than your kingdom. If you want, I'll tell you what I think the truth is: ...away from that land, this fleece has no meaning. Good. It's time to separate. Good-bye. Good-bye. Good-bye. Jason! Jason! Why are you here? - Why are you here? "- You mean why are "we" here?" - It's a vision! - If so, you are causing it. - We are inside you. - I only knew one centaur. You knew two. A sacred one, when you were a boy... ...and a desecrated one when you became an adult. But the sacred part is kept alongside the desecrated form. Here we are, one beside the other. What's the purpose of the old centaur I knew as a child? The one that you, new centaur, replaced without banishing. He doesn't speak because we can't understand his logic. But I will speak for him. It's under his sign that you, despite your plans... ...love Medea. - I love Medea. - Yes. You pity her too... ...and understand her spiritual crisis... ...her disorientation as an ancient woman... ...in a world that ignores all she ever believed in. The poor thing's had a conversion in reverse. - She hasn't recovered. - How does knowing this help me? It doesn't. It's reality. Why are you telling me this? Because nothing can stop the old centaur from inspiring feelings... ...and nothing can stop the new one from expressing them. Wet nurse, come with me. - Hurry, wet nurse. Come with me. - Where? - To Corinth. - But you can't! Come with me. Why have you decided to resign yourself like this? What should I do? - They say. - What? That in your homeland, you could work miracles. Dominate air, fire. At least that's what the Corinthians say. - They're frightened of you. - Frightened? Like a magician. Sorry, but they say that... ...in the hope of helping you, pushing you. To work magic? I've been away from my homeland for 10 years. - You're still what you were. - No. I'm another creature now, I've forgotten everything. - What was reality is so no longer. - Perhaps... ...if you wanted, you could recall your god. Perhaps you're right, I've remained as I was. A vessel full of knowledge that is not mine. - Don't you recognize me? - Yes! You're my father's father. What are you waiting for? Be brave! Oh god! Oh justice dear to god! Oh sunlight! The victory I foresee over my enemies will be marvellous! Now I will go straight to the sign! I'll avenge myself as I must! Oh god! Oh justice dear to god! Oh sunlight! Listen to my plans. One of my women will tell Jason to come to me. I'll will be loving and tell him: "You must marry the king's daughter"." "I'll tell him: "This marriage" "will be useful to our sons"." Oh god! Oh justice dear to god! Oh sunlight! As you have revealed your plans, we want to be useful... ...and advise you to remember the most sacred human laws. I can no longer act differently. You can't sympathise because you've not suffered like me. Who'll give you the courage to do what you have in mind? Who'll give it to you? I'll find the courage in thinking about his destruction. But it won't help you, poor desperate woman. That's enough, wet nurse! It's time to act! This chatter is useless. Go and fetch Jason. But don't tell him of our plans. You love me! And you're a woman! In your old robes, Medea... ...in your old robes. Children, come here! You wanted me to come. Here I am. What is it? Take these robes and give them to Glauce... ...for her wedding. Tell her that I do not hate her and wish her well. Now take your father's hand, he'll take you to her. Forget all past bitterness towards him... ...as I have done. We have made peace. Come on, children. Take him by the hand. I have a dark presentiment of pain. Children... ...you will live long lives and grip your father's hand. Poor me. I do nothing but cry and suffer dreadful anguish. Just as I have decided to finish... ...my undignified disagreement with your father. Here I am, crying. Don't repent for what you've done, it's natural for you to be mad at me. But now it seems that wisdom prevails inside you. Children... ...now you know your father has been thinking of your future. Together with your brothers, you will occupy first place in this city. Why are you still crying? Don't concern yourself. Woman is weak and cries easily. Promise me you'll beg the bride... ...to convince the king not to banish our children. Don't worry, I'll do it. Quickly! Go now! If you're lucky, as I hope... ...you'll return with the happy news that we're expecting. Let's go. Mama sends you this gift for your wedding. She says she doesn't hate you, but wishes you well. You cannot accept this gift, listen to us! Thank your mother and tell her I am pleased with this gift. Dress me. What a beautiful wedding dress! Come with me. I was looking for you. Don't look at me like that... ...full of anger towards your husband. You must leave this city... ...together with your sons. Now! I am personally interested in your exile... ...and I won't go home until you are banished from my kingdom. Why my sons too? Because you frighten me. I'm afraid for my daughter, and I tell you openly. Everyone here knows... ...you are an expert in spells, because you came from a barbaric land. You are different from us, so we don't want you here. My knowledge of these things is very poor. And then, why should I be offended by your words? Only he is responsible, my husband! I am not hurt by your behaviour. In fact, it seems just. I am not even hurt by your happiness! Go ahead with the wedding! Be happy! I just ask a single favour. Don't banish me, leave me here. - I will bow my head. - Your words are sweet. But it is impossible to look into the depths of a soul. It is true. This is true. Give me at least a day to think about the exile... ...and to ask help for my children... ...now that their father has completely abandoned them. Unfortunately, my will is not ruthless like that of a tyrant. My indolence has often been my downfall. I know I'm making a mistake, but I want to grant your request. I want to tell you the truth. It is not for hatred, nor for suspicion of your diversity... ...that I am afraid. It's for fear of what you could do to my daughter. She feels guilty about you. And knowing you suffer, she cannot rest. For her, this marriage to Jason is cause for grief as well as joy. You are without blame, and so that your presence cannot oppress her... I want to banish you from my realm! Ma'am! Ma'am! Wet nurse, please go and call Jason. My right, gripped many times by your hands. My knees, embraced uselessly so many times! By this miserable man... ...who owes me everything and over whom I have lost all hope. It's time you understood... ...that I owe the results of my efforts to myself. You'll never admit it, but that which you did for me... ...you did for the love of my body. You say that I'm ungrateful... ...but I, maybe without effort or even realization... ...gave you much more than I received in return. Don't boast about this. You summoned me. Here I am, I'll listen to you willingly... ...even though you hate me. So, what news is there? No news. I only wanted you to pardon me. I know that I am destined for a friendless exile... ...and that all else is now useless. I was unjust and you were right to behave as you did. Pardon you? Yes, I pardon you. It's that I ask of you before I leave. Thank you. Good-bye. Good-bye. Good-bye. Children, come here. Take these robes and give to Glauce for her wedding. Tell her that mama does not hate her and wishes her well. Take your father by the hand, he will take you to her. Forget all past bitterness between us, as I have done. We have made peace. Come on, take him by the hand. I have a dark presentiment of pain. You will live long lives... ...and grip your father's hand. Poor me, I can do nothing but cry... ...and suffer dreadful anguish. Just as I have decided to finish this undignified disagreement... ...here I am crying. It's natural for you to be mad at me. You boys can be certain that your father has thought of your future. With your new brothers, you will occupy first place in this city. Why are you still crying? Don't worry, woman is a weak creature and cries easily. But promise me you'll beg the bride... ...to convince her father not to banish our children. Don't worry, I'll do it. Good-bye. Go. If you are fortunate, as I wish... ...you'll return with the happy news... ...that we're expecting. Mama sends you this gift for your wedding. She says she does not hate you, and wishes you well. Thank your mother and tell her that I am pleased with her gift. Your highness! Your highness! Come, it's time to sleep. - Just a while longer! - Behave yourself, come on! Get down! Be good. Down. There, all done. What a good boy you are. Now let's go to bye-byes. Let's go. Climb into my arms. Come on, let's go. Get down. Come on. Darling. Sleep, be good. Sleep. Sleep. Darling. Why do you try to pass through the fire? You can't do it! It's useless to try! You can talk to me if you want, but I don't want you near me. What have you done? - Aren't you suffering too now? - I want to suffer! Your own god will condemn you! - What do you want from me? - Let me bury my children. - Go and bury your bride. - I'll go! But without my two children! The tears you shed now are nothing! You'll realize when you're old! Please, in the name of your god! Let me caress those poor, innocent bodies! Don't keep insisting! It's useless! Nothing is possible any more!
