 

                        Five. Five. Metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis metamorphis. Ow. This be the Age of the Arcadian. Whoa. Whoa. It is Merlin here in this enchanted land. I must admit the tale of the wild man of the wood living in this region isn't much to go on, Father. And even harder to believe. Merlin is dead, just as the legend would have it. Have faith, Tristan. I should think the man long dead as well. And not in such a place as this. Merlin is not a mortal man, son. Normal rules of life and death do not apply, at least not to him. Trickery, Galahad. I sometimes forget, good warrior, you were born in a different age. In my day sorcery and swordplay went hand in hand. Whoa whoa. It was a different time before the walls went up and this certain darkness came. You really don't believe in magic, Tristan? I believe what my eyes can see. And what I see is a fool's folly. And we're riding right along with him. Who would dwell in a place like this? Someone not eager to get found. Stay alert, knights. When we encounter Merlin I guarantee you will believe in magic. On the ready. The forest is changing. This is unnatural. This is magic, boy. Galahad. I am Sir Galahad, the last Knight of the Order of the Round Table. Reveal yourself. You've been warned. Swords. What does the sign say? "Tread no further under promise of death. " It's empty. Like the threat of the sign. We move on then. Stop. It's a trap! Who dares enter this secret domain? Watch these eyes. Watch these eyes as they watch you. In my grasp, like the snake in my hand, see? Don't be shy. Let's get better acquainted, shall we? Gotcha! You evaded my spell and bested my hollow knight. I'm must be getting rusty myself. I am sorry to inform you, the only reward for such misplaced valor will be sudden death at my hands, see? It's what I promised the forest. Now... They sent a girl. Master Merlin. Get you gone before I forget how indulgent I've become. I've come with Sir Galahad and our knights to these enchanted woods seeking your counsel. What, you and those rogues back there? Impossible. We're hoping you might use your magic to guide us as you once did for King Arthur. Arthur is gone. Britain has fallen. And they send a choirgirl to fetch me. Tell me, can you sing a song, choirgirl? Can you? La la la la la la. Go on, do a little dance. Entertain an ancient man in the forest. I was expecting you to be older. I didn't expect you at all. That's how old I am. The less I want, the less I need. I'm getting younger by the day, I swear. It's power. It's magic. I'm aging backwards. Granting you the virtues of both youth and experience, sir. Is youth a virtue? One day I'm gonna become as young and stupid as you are, I should wonder. I'd like to say I don't have the time, but I do. So why are you here, "better"? We have chosen to restore the Knights of the Round Table. Restore? With what? With you? With knaves and scraps? Galahad's a relic, same as me, as wanted and useful as magic is to man. What do you think I'm doing living in the forest? The threat of magic brings us here. And magic we seek in order to find it. The land... it finds itself under the rule by a dark wizard who calls himself the Arcadian. He has resurrected a twisted Camelot... a dark and perverse version of the once glorious kingdom from which he has unleashed a reign of terror across the land. What does he seek? We know not. But he razes every town and hamlet into ash and smoke in search of it. Merlin: If what you say is true, there's little I can do for you now except rid you from my forest, which I promise to do to all intruders. This powder I'm preparing should make it as painless as possible. Master Merlin, I beg not for my life. I care only for the towns and citizens the Arcadian has laid to waste with his army of enchanted beasts. Beasts, you say? What sort of beasts? Creatures of legend and lore, long since forgotten but now brought back to life. Somehow he controls them like a weapon. Someone must make things right and restore freedom and order to the land. And that's gonna be you, is it? You? You and whose army? I am Avlynn Pendragon, daughter of King Arthur and Queen Guinevere. You're a liar! You carry the mark. Do with me what you will, but save the world from the Arcadian's beasts. This I cannot do. Am I wrong to believe in the great wizard Merlin who once used his powers to create a kingdom of harmony? You are wrong to believe that human nature allows such powers to endure, just as I was many moons ago. And I offer you a second chance. Help me to avoid the mistakes of my father. I need your guidance. It is time. It's too late for second chances. Be gone, child, and do not ever return here. I will inform the knights I found you dead to spare them the disappointment of knowing your cowardice. It's her sword and shield. - She wouldn't just leave us. - Tristan: It was a fierce battle. - We must find her. Avlynn! - Avlynn. - Princess Avlynn. - Avlynn. Look before you leap next time, Lysanor. Your haste almost cost us all. Good to see you survive this magical attack. It was an old trap long since forgotten. Galahad, the Merlin you once knew is dead. His is not the magic that will help us. In our time, when our need is the most? I knew this was a fool's folly. Never chase a magician and their shadow, Lysanor. They'll always disappoint you. I thought this was the next road for us and you. But with Merlin gone, what now? Avlynn: We are the Knights of the Round Table. We carry on the fight regardless. We ride to Camelot to reclaim the Round Table as ours. Sentries, draw out what I seek. Avlynn: The dark wizard must have a weakness. Tristan: The Arcadian has a flaw, but he just hasn't shown it yet. Galahad: It takes magic to fight magic, Tristan. Even you should believe that. Dismount and surround. What do you want of us? Do you serve the Arcadian? Let us pass, sentry, or else we'll assume you mean us ill will. We are only more than happy to return the sentiment. Where are you taking me? Accursed. He who is foolish enough to challenge me, prepare yourself for hell! Die, you dog, die! - Merlin. - Merlin. I am the one you seek. I knew you wouldn't miss the battle, old friend. Lysanor: It is you. You see, Tristan? You must believe now. Why the change of heart? There might be some things in this world still worth fighting for. Then I welcome you to our brotherhood. I can see the news of your demise was greatly exaggerated. Time will tell. I'd like you to meet my son Lysanor. A champion in waiting. My father often regales me with details of your adventures, leading the knights of old. Merlin: Leading? Your father's memory is not what it used to be. I could tell you stories... This is Tristan, the son of Tristan and Isolde, the bravest of our clan. Your father was a brave and skillful knight. You look like your mother. I hope only to honor them. It's over. And of course Avlynn Pendragon. I know. I almost killed her. The road is long and dark. You bring me the children of knights, Galahad. That's all that's left, Merlin. While you slept, the world was on fire. I've kept Avlynn safe, as a member of our family since Arthur left her to me, raising her as my own with Lysanor. And I rescued Tristan as he was... All right, talk amongst yourselves. - as he was a knight without a kingdom. We've lived as a family with Avlynn as our hope. Only now does the day grow dire enough that I dare bring her out to reclaim what is hers. She's not ready. That's what you're for. Hmm. Avlynn. Thank you, Avlynn, for bringing me back into the world. I hope the blood of the Pendragon flows deep within your veins for all our sakes. Avlynn. I'd like you to wear this for luck. It belonged to my father, given to him by your father. I don't believe in luck. I believe in destiny. What you seek from me, Lysanor, is destined never to be. What is it I seek? After all these years, can you even say the words? What are you so afraid of, Avlynn? Caring for anyone or caring for me? Afraid? You think to know me, you arrogant fool. Lay a hand on me again and you shall lose it. Understood. The princess appears to be warming to you. Unfortunately, I'm a man who enjoys a challenge. In this case the challenge is equivalent to you beating your head against a stone wall in hopes that it will go through. I have a very thick skull. On that point we can agree. Come on. Come on. It's the dragon soldier... part man, part beast. Long since we've stood on the field of battle, warlock, but this certain coming of darkness is something I've not seen in an age. How does the Arcadian command such a foe? Questions questions. He must have unleashed the secrets of the book. The book? The devil's work. We must ride. Where is she? If I know Avlynn... Shall we get going then? This forest is becoming stuffy. Where did you find this? Beyond Astolat Road, far enough, but closing in. But who could have felled my enchanted beast? Only a divine spirit or... Merlin. Double the patrols. Send more troops to the outlying lands. Close the noose before they reach what they must already seek. We need to travel farther than that. And I don't just mean distance. You know some faster way to conjure us to Camelot, magician? Tristan. Do not curse the wild man, not unless you intend to kill him. Avlynn: So what is this book you speak of, Master Merlin? It's an ancient text. It's called the Book of Beasts. It's a bestiary carved out of the skin of the world's last dragon, entrusted me by my master Blaze. He was one of the original wizards. Centuries ago an entire army of young warriors much like yourselves set out to do battle, capture the most ferocious creatures plaguing the land. The book was a way of containing the monsters. You speak as if you've experience with this wicked work. How is it the Arcadian has come to possess this Book of Beasts? It was stolen from me many moons ago by the hands of Morgan le Fay, that witch. At the battle of Camlann, helping Arthur recover to Avalon... Avalon? to recover from his wounds and never to return here... that was the last I saw of the book. Galahad: Then we must reclaim it. Merlin: Old Galahad always rushing in. Mere mortals cannot touch the book, lest it imprison your spirit. The Arcadian has found a way of releasing the beasts from their bindings. We must destroy this weapon. But how do we do that, Merlin? While it was in my possession, I tried everything in my power to destroy it. So we are to barrel headlong towards a weapon of dark magic so powerful we've no idea what to do with it, should we ever be able to get our hands on it. What doesn't kill you makes a good story. What does kill you makes you legend. What was that? Avlynn: What? Good night. How can he sleep at a time like this? We're at war, Lysanor. We sleep when we can. I'll take the first watch. What did you see, Merlin? The future. Thrice slain. Thrice slain. Is he all right? Knowing the future could be useful to us right now. The future is fragile. The slightest event in time could alter time for all time. If I tell you what we face is insurmountable, it only makes you fear. If I tell you what we face could be easily overcome, conceit may cause you to fail. I only wish there were still hope. Sometimes when you don't know what you're capable of, you find you're able to do the most remarkable things. You speak of faith? Yes. When a person believes, it's the most powerful weapon. Sometimes you only think you have to keep yourself together to keep the world from tearing itself apart. I've come to relieve your watch, Your Highness. I'm not a queen yet, Lysanor. Best you not be saying such things out in the open. Of course. Sleep soundly, knowing that I'll be vigilant... Lysanor? Lysanor. Lysanor. Don't touch. What did you do to him? I don't know what happened to him. - Galahad: Lysanor. - What is this? - What did you do to him? - I didn't do anything. Tristan: He's possessed. No, he's infected. With devil's nightshade, I shouldn't wonder. Galahad: Do something to save my boy. Stay back. You're killing him. My special herbs should take away the poison. They should? Thank you, Merlin. Can you hear me, son? Father, that was a unique experience. Looked like good fun up until the time you tried to kill us with your fangs. The Arcadian's magic is spreading. The book is unleashing its force on the world, transforming it into something more to its liking. Avlynn: The night itself is turning against us. Best we not rest. The sooner we arrive in Camelot and retrieve the Book of Beasts, the better. Avlynn, thank you. But think before you leap, Princess. You're much too important to get yourself killed coming to my rescue. Lysanor, you are absolutely right. Let's ride. Galahad: There might be hope for us yet. Merlin: I have my doubts. So does she. Galahad: Camelot. Merlin: That's not Camelot. That's an abomination. And we will take it back. The walls are high. The doors are drawn. And the Arcadian has enlisted the help of mercenary troops to garrison the keep. Not to mention the dark power of the book. How are we going to storm the castle when we're only five against hundreds? We won't. Galahad: I remember when you were at Camelot, Merlin, you had a fascination with... Tunnels, long and deep tunnels. Come on. I'm through. Galahad: Still here. Most things under the ground have a way of surviving. Looks cozy. All right, after you, Galahad. No, after you, Merlin. They were constructed in case of a siege, to get the women and children out if need be. They connect the castle to the water. Water? There's no water around here for leagues. Wrong way. Sorry. Sometimes you don't need to see water to have water, Lysanor. Nothing is as it seems. Tristan: A common trickster's practice. I'll retrieve the book. Lysanor: And what are we to do? Guard the tunnel. Wait for my return. We are knights, Merlin, not tunnel rats. - Speak for yourself. - We fight side by side. No, Avlynn. It's too dangerous. The book is too powerful. Promise me you won't do that. What shall we do if you don't return? Run for your lives. And watch the beasts at your back. Tristan, set up a watch from that direction. Lysanor, Avlynn, cover the passageway. It will take more than a beast to cancel our escape. We'll hold the tunnels for Merlin. Be careful, Princess. We need a queen once Camelot is ours. It's all lost. Arcadian: Is it as you remember it? Not altogether, no. Do I know you, necromancer? I know you, Merlin. Everybody knows me. Puts me at a disadvantage. Camelot was a sanctuary, a haven, and here it lies desecrated. My father said you were sentimental. In your despair, you blinded yourself to the Ambrosius's Circle. The Circle of Ambrosius? Which negates the power of the first spirit that crosses it. Yes, I know, I know. Only for a short time. And in that short time I have your precious book, Arcadian. Do you? You mean this? That's a funny little trick, Arcadian. Who taught you that? Actually, it was something you taught my father long ago. Nothing is as it seems. So you knew who your father was, did you? That's impressive in this day and age. You knew him well, Merlin. His name was Arthur Pendragon. - Mordred? - That's right, Mordred, son of Morgan le Fay and your beloved king. You were slain. I watched you perish at the battle of Camlann while Arthur was dying in my arms. I survived! The blood of Pendragon courses through my veins. My father never acknowledged it. He tossed me away at your suggestion. I killed him. Camelot is mine. You will suffer. You will not succeed. Then why are you my captive and your friends about to die? Oh, yes, you brought your friends. Well, I brought mine too. A wicked place. No sign of him. Then we wait. - Do you trust Merlin? - Of course I do. There's something about the nature of that book that troubles me. If its powers are so dark and corrupting, how can we be certain it will not turn Merlin against us? We all face our own true selves at some point. He will guide us through this. Of that I am certain. A man who abandoned the world, hid from it? What if he's not strong enough? You must believe, Lysanor. When Merlin learned that a Pendragon lived to ascend the throne, his faith was reborn. Sometimes faith is all we have to go on. And sometimes things must be believed before they can be realized. Something stirs. - Which way? - Both: This way. Ghosts. Tristan: What was that? Tristan, Lysanor, has someone passed? The way is clear, but something stirs. Are we surrounded? Avlynn! Things could have been different, Merlin, if only you embraced the powers of this book. Now you are a very part of it, allowing me to draw your will and spirit and imprison it on this page. The book doesn't belong to you. Put it down before you do more harm. As I understand it, the book chooses its master. No, Mordred, you are not the book's master. You are its slave. You will now twist your spirit to the darkness. The only end to this path is destruction and ruin. That is what I intend to do. You will not entomb my spirit. Actually, that's exactly what I'm doing. That is the prize you seek. You shall never have it. How does it make you feel to know that King Arthur didn't trust you with the secret of his daughter? I... I know not what you talk of. Avlynn Pendragon, my blood kin. Only you couldn't help yourself in watching over her. Why would you do that? Why was it to be her and not me? Oh, I think you've asked yourself that question, Mordred, and the answer has driven you mad. You are not fit to be king, if you look at it, really. But you will contradict the forces of nature to make it thus. You are sick, child. We should have put you out of your misery when we had the chance. Enough! Avlynn will bear me a child and usher in a new breed of Pendragon. You will never have Avlynn, never. I have her already. What was it, Galahad? A serpent, a shadow, the devil herself. A woman? The Gorgons. The Gorgons... Moira, Minerva, and their queen Medusa. - Avlynn. - I thought these beasts boasted serpents for hair and a wild look which turned one to stone. Only when they're angry. And besides, I thought you didn't believe in magic. I believe we're in for a fight. Let her go. Cover your eyes! Abomination. Lysanor, are you all right? Follow her! What are you laughing at? The beasts who collect Avlynn... the one thing you are to protect... were creatures you helped capture in this book. The Gorgons? Your legacy will be your downfall, Merlin. Where is the sword... the sword in the lake? You'll never find it. I hid it, see? You hid the sword? No, I hid the lake. - Merlin: Avlynn! - Merlin! Only two return. You are a true blood. Let me go. This is not the way I want to meet. Demons, no. The soul must be intact for the book to take control of it. - You never will, Arcadian. - Galahad! Medusa, Minerva, get back in the book from whence you came. Asudem, Avrenim. Asudem, Avrenim. Destiny manifests already, especially you. Arcadian, over here. Your plan will never come to pass, Mordred, never! If I can't have you, Merlin, neither shall the world. Get the book. Run for your bloody life, fools! - Merlin. - Knights. No! Merlin. Princess, the garrison is almost upon us. This can't be. He cannot die. If what Merlin said is true, then Mordred, the evil spawn of Morgan le Fay has the power to fell such a foe. We must go now! I can't stand to lose another. Merlin is dead, Avlynn, but we have the book and we must go. I am not leaving him. You don't have to. We leave no one behind. Thank you. To the tunnels. Tristan and I will take these rogues. Hurry. Lysanor, get out. Move. Move. Avlynn, it will be all right. What will be all right, Lysanor? Merlin is dead, removing the hand in it we all have. Without him there is no way to destroy the book. And we're in a tunnel leading back to a world we cannot save. Merlin knew of the danger before setting off with us. We all did. We mustn't stay in these tunnels, Princess. They're drawing closer. Lysanor will never make it with a dead weight around his back. Don't worry about me. I'll carry him to Avalon if I have to. Avalon sounds right just about now. Knights, the enemy is closing in. Wait. My father was taken to Avalon after he fell at Camlann, to be healed of his wounds. - Galahad: Yes. - It is said Avalon's healing waters have a spring in our land itself. - The Fountain of Brittany. - Yes. No no, that's a fable. What's the matter, boy? Don't you believe in a little magic? Merlin said these tunnels lead to an escape but also to water. Water. Let it be so. Come on. You're not divine, old man. In one thing you are correct... my reach on the book exceeds its grasp. We made it. The water rushes. This way. Lysanor: Why is this river not on any map? Galahad: Enchanted it is, hidden from the paths of man. Tristan: It is beautiful. Lysanor: Starting to believe in magic, Tristan? I believe what my eyes see. And I fear we'll see a lot more before this day is done. Well, I hope you can conjure up the fountain soon. Merlin certainly isn't getting any lighter, magic river or no. The Fountain of Brittany. Youthful expectations. Lysanor, let me help. The silent sentinel. The fountain god. Legend says the gods themselves put these behemoths beside wonders of the world to guard until the end of time. There is something familiar about this place. The fountain. It's dry. Tristan: What are we going to do without the healing waters? Galahad: It cannot be helped. We should perhaps press on. We still have the book. Go on without me. I shall stay as well. No, Avlynn, Merlin's death shall not split us apart. - We can't just leave him. - He's already gone. No, he's not. This place... I've been here before, as if it were in my blood. I can hear the fountain. I've heard it since we've been here. There must be a way. Your family's mark. Tristan, your knife. May the blood of a Pendragon serve us now. The blood oath. If you can hear me from where you are, we need you, Merlin. The land needs you. I need you. I'm not ready to do this without you. Please fight. Asudem, Avrenim! Asudem, Avrenim! Asudem, Avrenim! By Isolde's light... he lives. Welcome back, old friend. Nice to see you again. Nice to be seen. We thought you were dead. Well, I was, see? But now I'm back again. This is the second time you've done this to us, the first being the Day of Destiny. You know how that turned out. I've had visions of myself being thrice slain... thrice slain. I don't want to die a third time. Twice is enough. Just don't die on us again then. Where am I? The Fountain of Brittany. Whose idea was that? Lysanor: Avlynn's. That was a good idea. We've retrieved the Book of Beasts and your magic is needed to dispel it. My magic, is it? How quickly the worm turns. Our quest is now complete. Where is the book? Scratch that. I hate magic. They're probably not very happy over their sister's demise. Knights, we fight blind. We move as one. Avlynn: Thrust. Thrust. Thrust. My arm. My arm. Don't you ever listen? Close your eyes when you're fighting a Gorgon. What exactly is our strategy? Hold your sword high, boy. Anytime now. Nice score, lads. It would be easier to be dead. She seemed afraid of me. Medusa is afraid of no one. You led well. I was taught well. Merlin, you called the Arcadian Mordred back in the castle. 'Cause it's true, see? You've heard that name before, Avlynn? Avlynn: No. Galahad. All right, well, you'd best sit down then, Avlynn. Sit down. Truth is, the Arcadian's your brother, Avlynn, or half-brother at any rate. I have a brother? Sired by your father in a moment of weakness, such as all mortal men are prone to moments of weakness. Well, he was tricked by the witch Morgan le Fay. Must be the source of the Arcadian's power. I have a brother. A half-brother on the witch's side. Merlin: And he wants you to live. He sent out all these enchanted beasts to find you. To what end? He wants you to bear him a child, Avlynn, a pureblooded Pendragon child. - What? - Lysanor: Never. That shall never come to pass. We will raise a new army of knights, overtake the castle and destroy this unholy tomb once and for all. How can we? Haven't you been listening? There's no way to destroy the book. I've seen that grave look before, Merlin... right before our king fell. Perhaps there is a way. Lysanor: How? To battle a powerful weapon you need to be equally armed. Tristan: Is it possible? We've all see what the book can do. Surely there's nothing in this world to match it. There is a weapon. What is it? We must have it. - Merlin: Are you ready? - For anything. Are you steadfast? Yes. Might mean certain death, Princess... one of ours or yours. The choice is yours. We can retire now with the book, try and hide it through the ages. Galahad: Although fiendish artifacts such as this have a way of being found because they are sought. Or we can try to rise against it... a higher power to destroy it. Avlynn: The legend is true. Better, girl... it's a family heirloom. Galahad: Excalibur is real. Merlin was the last to use it. It was hidden in the Lake of Destiny, awaiting its rightful owner. Tristan: Excalibur brandished by a knight princess... there is no army, human or beast, that stands a chance. But the getting of it... the getting of it may prove to be a sorrow in itself. It's your choice. Hardship, ordeal, death... our land is at war and our people are dying. The choice you give is no choice at all. We journey to the Lake of Destiny where, good or otherwise, we shall embrace our future. There's no water. You have to ask yourself, has it been dry all the time? We are close. The river ends and the sand and rocks begin. Where are we going, Merlin? Why have we traveled far from any water this land sees? Tristan: And yet we can hear it nearby. What better place to have the Lake of Destiny? Lysanor: One cannot draw water from a stone. Merlin: Although you cannot draw water from a stone, a conjurer can hide what's wet within sand. The Lake of Destiny right where I left it. What am I to do? Retrieve Excalibur. Persevere. How? You said you were ready. You should know. Follow in the footsteps of your father, Avlynn. - I will go with her. - No, Lysanor. Whatever's in that lake is for Avlynn to find out. I will be all right. Will she, Merlin? Questions questions questions. From what I've seen, she's more than ready. Who wants beans? Excalibur. Are we to fight? Clever girl. Then again, so am I. You fight well. I am your every weakness, Your Highness. Quite. I don't mean to pry, but are we to fight to the death? Oh, yes, Princess, to our death. I am fighting myself. Come here. I said come here. I will not fight you. Fly fly fly! Fly fly! Your dreams stir you to awake, Merlin. What troubles your mind? Always watching me sleep, Galahad... that's a nasty trait. During sleep the dragon reveals our fate And tells me in the waking eye That one twice dead again will die And one that should sit on a wooden throne Will gaze at the world with eyes of stone. Well, none of us can live forever, except maybe you. I'm impressed we've made it thus far in life, the world being what it is. You've done well, Galahad. Lysanor has grown to be a strong, courageous knight. And Avlynn... can't have been easy raising a girl, keeping the mark secret. When the kingdom fell I took them north into the woods. A small farm, a few neighbors, and time... time was all I needed. When Tristan joined us, we raised Avlynn as a knight, teaching her sword skills and temperance. We tried to blend in, just be a normal family. But you had to kill a few people, right? A few. To keep the royal family a secret, isn't it? Once there was no king, nobility had very little use when people starved and castles burned. I fear the knights have been away from the battlefield too long. The world has gotten dark in your absence, Galahad. But while I was raising Avlynn, I had only the requests of Arthur to heed... "Protect my child... " Requests? What was the second? "Trust no one else. " Arthur was clever. But he had a weakness. And that weakness is now our terrible foe. My name is Avlynn Pendragon, daughter of King Arthur and Queen Guinevere. I seek my father's mighty sword Excalibur as I intend to use it to end the Arcadian's reign and restore the will of the people. May the spirits of my ancestors guide me now. Where are you, young knight in training? I was just thinking about your parents, actually. My parents? They have written great songs and poems of Tristan and Isolde. I imagine they'll write a few more before our days are done, Lysanor, perhaps even about you and our princess. - Don't jest with me. - I'm not. - She doesn't pay me any heed. - Because she likes you. - It drives me mad. - That's because you like her. Do you think they'll write songs about us when all this is through? We only need one of us to survive for our story to live on. I like our odds. - Princess. - Avlynn. Excalibur. Together: May the glory of Camelot live eternal. May the glory of Camelot live eternal in all of us. Give yourself a bit of a knock, did you? The skin will heal. The spirit is strong. With the Book of Beasts and Excalibur in our hands, the Arcadian stand no chance. Lysanor. Where are the others? What others? Were you having a dream again? Avlynn: A dream? Lysanor: Everything is all right. You are safe within the walls of Camelot. I... Shh shh. Your battle with the dark wizard still affects your memory. All is well. All is safe. I've not... Never mind. Devil. Demon. Brother. I only want to make this easy for you. - Where are we? - Back in Camelot. Where is Avlynn? The Arcadian has her. Can you get us out of here? No no no. Galahad: The Circle of Ambrosius... very powerful. You know I hate magic, but I hate it even more when we don't have it. Lysanor: This isn't looking good for us. Tristan: Was that? Merlin: Don't look now, knights. Here comes Medusa. Galahad: Do you have one last trick up your sleeve, Master Wizard? I wish we could drink her blood. - No, thank you. - We'll pass on that. No, it's certain if you drink of Gorgon's blood, you are immune to her charms and magic. Really? That's what they say. I haven't tried it myself. You're right. This isn't looking good for us. This castle is where you were born. I was born in a swamp. Camelot is mine, and it's where you'll remain for the rest of your days. Why not just kill me, brother? No. A spell of enslavement, then yes. I understand it won't hurt much. How may I now serve you, Master Arcadian? Now that's more like it, Avlynn my queen. Oh, hello. What's she doing? Oh, I think she likes you. Don't jest with me. I don't think she's the jesting kind, Tristan. Oh, make her stop. Can't stop love, my boy. You know, apart from the fact that she's a hideous mythical beast, she is stunningly attractive. Tristan, whatever is to happen, let it happen. Take a bite. Drink in life. All right, Tristan, don't overdo it. I said don't overdo it. Get Avlynn! Gorgon blood. Soon I will release all the creatures of their imprisonment, send them to every kingdom. A new dark dawn, my lord. Merlin: Not when there are still knights left in this world, Arcadian. You're late for your own demise, Merlin. I'm sure you've seen the future, your thrice-slain life. And yet you're still here. Visions and dreams are one thing. Actions are another. Your powers are subdued, wizard. You and your henchmen are no threat for me and my queen. - Henchmen? - Queen? I am Sir Galahad, the last Knight of the Round Table. What, this round table here? The Round Table is not stone. It is an ideal that cannot be destroyed. And your time on the throne of Camelot is over. Is that so? You will have to go through me first. Your dark magic doesn't fool us, Arcadian. We know this one is a fake devilry. No, that's her. Galahad: Conjurer, we will be fooled no more. No, Father, that's really Avlynn. It is as I have foreseen it. My vision is near complete. Lysanor: She's possessed. This doesn't get any easier then. Avlynn, please, you must remember. You know, I still have one page left for you, Merlin. Your confidence belies the truth of the situation. Excalibur, your challenges. Sir Galahad raised you to be queen. Thanks for the news, messenger. Here's mine to you... you shall be dead by the end of this day, knight. The truth? The truth is I have the book, the princess, the sword and you under the spell of Ambrosius. You're entirely powerless against me. That's true... the Circle of Ambrosius is a mighty powerful spell. It nullifies the magic of the first one who crosses it. And I was careful that was you. Avlynn, you must remember. Lysanor. Welcome back. But my staff never crossed the line, see? Oh, no. - Galahad, no! - Father! Don't look at her, you fools. This way. Will you leave me so unsatisfied? Gorgon blood flows through me, but I haven't spilt enough today. Arcadian: I will not let you take and hide the book from me again. Oh, I don't plan to. Hold here. You're too scared to use such power, little sorcerer. Mighty Medusa, Queen of the Gorgons, my name is Avlynn Pendragon and this is my sword. I am the destroyer. I am the darkness. I unleash the powers of hell and the power of the book! Merlin, is it over? Have we won? Not yet! Do not let the book take you, Merlin. I know you're stronger than that. Thrice slain. Thrice slain. Merlin is no more! I will not do it. You'll have to kill me, Avlynn. It's the only way. It's the only way! Merlin. Merlin, please. Merlin. Come back. Come back. Don't cry. You're gonna be a queen. Queens don't cry. You must have nine lives. Only three. But this last death is only the death of my magic. I'm so sorry. No, Avlynn, you've given me the most precious gift of all... life, a mortal life. Lysanor: My father has fallen. Can you revive him, Master Merlin? No, Lysanor, I cannot. My magic is gone. It cannot be reversed. Galahad knew the price we all had to pay. He was a once and future warrior, who would be king. Sure his presence here will guard these sacred halls. I will make you proud. You already have. You have done well, Avlynn Pendragon. Is the book destroyed? Not destroyed, but Avlynn has made it safe. Only one who is capable the sword and the book together in line with the forces of nature will be able to release it from its resting place here in Camelot. Do you know who that is? I believe that he's yet to be born. It's like a dream to be back here once again. Feels like I've finished something I started a long time ago. Will you stay, counsel me during my reign? These are your people, not mine. Britain is yours. Britain is yours. If you lead with the kind of faith you have shown, she will follow you. Tristan can guide your army. And you have a man of equal faith by your side. You fear your feelings for Lysanor, yet you know them to be true. - Do I? - Oh, yes. Yes. Love is the only thing in the world that has no illusion to it. It can't be fooled. He risked his life for you and you risked yours for his. And he'll do it again and again till the end of time if need be. If that's not love, I don't know what is. And when you find love, when you fight for love out of love, well, then, Avlynn, you will find a strength that you have not known before. For opening your heart is not a weakness. It takes great courage. I might be ready. You are ready. You, Tristan, Lysanor, are the sons and daughters of kings and knights. And your time has come. What will you do now? What will I do? What will I do? I will live my life as any mortal man might, go my ways in peace.
