 

                        In the name of God, the most gracious, the most Merciful From Muhammad, the Messenger of God to Heraclius, the emperor of Byzantium, greetings to him who is the follower of righteous guys I bid you to hear the divine call I am the messenger of God to the people, accept Islam for yourself He speaks of the new prophet in Arabia Was it like this when John, the Baptist came to king Hsrul out of the desert crying of salvation To Mephocus, Patriarch of Alexandria Kisra, emperor of Persia Muhammad calls you with the call of God accept Islam for your salvation Embrace Islam You come out of the desert, smelling of camel and goat You stand as Persia kneel? Muhammad, Messenger of God Who gave him this authority? God sent Muhammad as a message to mankind The Scholars and Historians of Islam - The University of Al-Azhar in Cairo, The High Islamic Congress of the Shiat in Lebanon Have approved the accuracy and fidelity of this film The makers of this film honour the Islamic Tradition which holds that the Impersonation of the Prophet offends againts the spirituality of his message Therefore, the person of Muhammad will not be shown when Europe was sunk in the dark ages and everywhere the old civilizations were falling, Muhammad was born in Mecca in Arabia Mecca was then a rich trading city ruled by its merchants whose wealth was multiplied by a unique privilege They housed the gods Every year, at the time of the great fair, the desert priests brought their idols and the images of their gods into the custody of Kabbaah Months, the most holyish reign of Abraham, the Kabbaah has now become a house of idology hosting no fewer than 360 different gods Mecca in 610 AD Bilal! Have the other days counted Umaya? Not yet But this year the Gods are gold When you put the Gods and Prophet together, its a pretty bit deal Oh, more Gods in the place of Kabbaah Caravans from Syria mm They must be in running Very thirsty Put 5 more men in North Wells How many sheeps will I have to kill for them? 70? Give them a 100 Macca should keep her name for hospitality And 10 lambs for the leaders Bread and water, do the poets have in the Hakim's house Where verse and prose are nightly put to slaughter And and the bread, I swear in there, is thinner than the water Oh, open the space Open the space, you lovers of poetry to Abu Sufian, willing and which patron of the art When Abu Sufian invites the poet in, there joy is kids and love is kin where wines and cakes abound the skills of Abu Sufian All revels and all songs begin when Abu Sufian invites the poet in Roman silk, worms of China, my lady, a pleasure to the lin, and as my lady can see, ravish to the eyes Yes 7 lengths Abu Sufian's wife? 15! Oh, gold! the gods of the Kabbaah have their needs They are Acives Who is that man who stood there, who looked into my soul? Cut me away from here Why did Muhammad come down here? Why don't you stop him? He is your nephew Maybe he will change! Change? He is 40 years old Its unnatural, with a rich wife he could afford the best of Mecca If he chooses to sit shivering in a cave, it is unnatural For a man who dares to risk the anger of Lath-Uzza, who keeps our health, Mannat, the god of our prosperity, Allot, the god of our family and tribes and Hubar, Hubar, who starts our caravans and predicts our fate To challenge the gods within a year sort of the gods is dangerous Unreasonable Rebellious, blasphemous Yes, I'm afraid Muhammad will harm himself I am always sad when the great fair is over I might not see the next one Abu Talib! Abu Talib! Catch your breath, Zaid! Has Muhammad come down from the mountain yet? He's been there for 3 days No No, I haven't seen him Khadija hoped he might have come to you on his way home Maybe he's still up there I'm afraid for him on the mountain because I don't know what it means Men see the world too well from a mountain Muhammad! Read! In the name of the Lord who created man from his sensitive drop of blood teaches man what he knows not Read! He's still trembling under the blanket, but he has spoken Zaid! What happened to my nephew on the mountain? He was alone in the cave Suddenly an angel came on to him, The angel said: Read! Muhammad replied: I can not read The angle commanded again: Read! In the name of our Lord who created man from his sensitive drop of blood who teaches man what he knows not: Read! Who knows if it was Gabriel! It could have been a dream When Muhammad was coming from the mountain He saw Gabriel cleanly in the shape of a man standing on the horizon Wherever he looked, upon every turn of his head he saw him Gabriel said to him again: I am Gabriel and you Muhammad are the Messenger of God Who has he told about this? His Wife and Ali And his friend Abu Bakr And you? I am his adopted son Be careful to whom you talk Tell him his uncle who protected him when he was a child will protect him still After all, they say the God of Moses spoke to him under the burning bush If you do not restrain your nephew, then we will He's dividing the city, heart against hopes He's dividing the generations, child against parent The young are listening to him, he attract the yound We are Arabs We obey our fathers Our children cannot be our teachers How can we accept that the man we met in the street yesterday can be some God's Prophet today? Dead ones can live again, he says because he who created man can also make man return from the dead, he says The Gods might leave us and give their benefits to another city Tell him we will give him authority, position, and key to the Kabbaah, and money what money he wants Tell him we will give him anything he wants Muhammad, spare yourself and me Do not put a great burden on an old man who can't bear In your childhood, you were in my arms, I cannot see you hurt If you refuse them, they will hurt you He said this to me: Were they to put sun in my right hand and the moon in my left I would not renounce my message which is from God When I am dead, you may do as you please but last time in your life, you will believe your father Why did you hurt your father? If I'd be drunk every day and played dice every night, you'd call it high spirits You'll be more my brother than you are now You are all my children I give you everything I could, but it seems not to be enough Muhammad gives me more, he give all the world more Get him out of here father! Its not worth it He's our father You torture him Wait Hudaifa, wait How can they say its an invention, Musab when it isn't new? In Mecca it's new If God has said it all before, to Noah, Moses, Jesus, to all of Prophets, but people changed it, turned it, forgot it Now God said it to Muhammad again, and it is new again What is it? It Jafar What have you brought with you? The very word of God When the sun is overthrown when the stars fall when the mountains vanish when the camels bid with yound abandoned When the wild beasts are herded together when the seas rise When the souls are sorted when the female infant who is buried alive asks for what crime she was killed when the books are opened when the sky is torn away, then every soul will know what it has done You were there Jafar when God gave him these words? Dawn is coming up Ammar you first, then you Jafar Ammar, you keep your mother awake all night with worry I am sorry father Where were you? Have you been with Muhammad again? What will happen now? Forgive him It was my fault, I did it That God has helped us all our lives If it fell, it could not help itself What talks have you been listening to? The real god is unseen, he's not made of clay Ammar, we see the Gods in the Kabbaah every day I am afraid for you You are listening to people who will hurt you I'm listening to Muhammad, mother Muhammad is generous, yes He gives, he shares, he pass no man without a smile, but he is spreading dangerous ideas Dangerous ideas that no man should start that the rich should not afload the poor, the strong should not oppress the weak Are these dangerous ideas? Girls should not be forced into marriage, but be able to choose or refuse But only tonight, he said to stop the burial of new-born girls I was fortunate, always fortunate with your mother Yes, but you know that you and I nearly never met Yassar and you were nearly never born I was to be buried like my 2 sisters but my father couldnt' do it He couldn't do it at that time When the second girl was buried, when my father was putting sand over her, finger raised him as do babies, told her mother afterwards she took hold of his finger the way baby does He told my mother afterwards, that it was a minute before the tender little grip eased and he had taken away his hand When I was born, my father ran out of the house screaming that he couldn't do it again, that he could never do it again Sumaya, it is the custom But it is wrong The Gods that let such things be are no Gods I promised to go to Muhammad's house mama and pray there Yes! He is a good man Yes, yes, you go Two men are following him Read? Muhammad can neither write nor read Muhammad can speak What did you say? He can speak? Well, so can you So now, you speak up yound man What does Muhammad say umm? They are God's words, not his Which god's? What words? A speaking god? Your Muhammad speaks only to himself When god reveals his message to Muhammad, he remembers every word and then he tells it to those who can write It is the Qur'an Muhammad has starved himself into dreams, he hides under a blanket with his eyes shut His eyes are shut but his heart is open You! kick him for his cleverness There, is no need for hasts Doesn't Muhammad realize that we live by housing to the Gods? We own the Kabbaah Every year, the tribes of Arabia come here to Mecca to pray and to buy from us Now, were we to replace 300 gods with just one? whom we cannot even see, was supposed to be in Taif and Medina, here in my house, in Jerusalem, on the moon? Where would Mecca be then? The gods are both our vision and our revenue You cannot buy and sell God Young man, you are close to be whipped Ammar, be sensible boy I have a question Muhammad teaches you, a slave is equal to his master This black Bilal, I paid money for is equal to me? Yes Muhammad says before God all men are equal as the teeth of a gum This is a very pleasant idea to slaves and beggars It gives them pretensions Bilal! Teach this man the difference between the Lord of Mecca and a slave Take that whip Lash his face to teach an enormous lesson Whip him! Whip him! Cut him! Whip him! Do it Bilal! Obey them! They will kill you! So you want anarchy to bring They even infected our slaves If you're human enough to have gods, remember that there are gods for your owner I bought humanity Bilal when I bought you You will be corrected One, one god There is only one God Who is stronger now, your master or this one god of yours? One god There is only one God Bring the stones One god, One god! One god! Crush him! Are you finished with him? There is only one God! You could swear the slave was preaching! Lord Umaya! Abu Bakr will pay 100 dinars for this slave Wait now! It's against our social order to sell a slave during his punishment The offer is to Lord Umaya! If the price of slaves is raised, we shall have to pay ourselves next year Take him He is no use to me anymore Kill him or take him more I'm finished with him We are declaring ourselves God has told his messenger to declare Islam to all men Open the windows! Let the world hear We are coming out of the darkness Hear well the word of God Hear well the messenger of Lord There are no other Gods, but God and Muhammad is his messenger We have come into light, join us on the way to the Kabbah God is most great, God is most great! God has no partner, we have come into light Join us on the way to Kabbah Muhammad and his rebellion called Islam are coming out to fall our gods and de-throw our religion Don't let them reach the Kabbaah Throw them back! Defend your gods There is no gods but God and Muhammad is the messenger of God Protect the prophet! There is no gods but God and Muhammad is the messenger of God Guards! God is great! Blasphemy! ldiot! God is great! There is no gods but God and Muhammad is the messenger of God Now's the time to break them, there are only 30 of them No! we've done enough More will only create sympathy for them God is great! In the name of God, most gracious, most merciful say: O you who reject faith I worship not other Get out of Kabbaah! Silence, you'r a false prophet! Stop! Back to the corner! Hamza! Hamza! You are brave He is the bravest man in the desert and he meets men unarmed Muhammad is a liar Liar? If you don't let him speak! Where's the lie and where's the truth when it hasn't been spoken yet? Muhammad is a fraud Stand up! Hit me back if you dare! I affirm my nephew's religion and I say what he says Who ever has the courage to fight, to fight with me! Muhammed, when I hunt the desert at night, I know that God is not kept in a house Who'd have thought that Hamza, Hamza above all, with his wine drinking, lion hunting will come to join Muhammad? More we attack, more seem to join him Where does he find his words? I don't know How can an illiterate man go up on a mountain and come back 3 days later blazing with poetry? It wasn't just only poetry, he says it's God's How do we fight someone whose strength we do not understand? Muhammad promises heaven, trees in the skies It's natural he found audience Then we must make that audience less eager to listen to him We will begin with the weaker ones Have mercy! Left hand! Who is your God? Answer me! Say it! Say who is your God? Say it! There is only one God and Muhammad is the messenger of God Ammar! Your father and mother are the first martyrs of Islam You are promised Paradise How much are you men prepared to suffer? The Prophet has said we must leave Mecca If we stay, they will kill you One by one Mohamed says in Abinisia, there is a Christian King No man is wronged in his country We must leave now, today Usman! Lord is great Let us go We found their tracks and followed them But they just disappeared They were there, in the desert, under the vultures And you let them escape you Escape? They vanished! If Muhammed has stayed, then only the weakest are gone Weak or strong, they blacken our name We are honest merchants, we buy and sell in good faith We cannot afford scandal Amr! You are a friend of Najjasi, the king? Yes can you use that friendship? I think I can bring them back Yes Abisinia... Rise up Amr Please, nothing you may ask for that we will not give Lion of Judah, I.. I don't know where to begin you have our friendship, begin there certain run-away slaves have escaped from us into your kingdom Slaves go back or you agree to return your slaves back to us there are however some free men among them Rebels Rebels? If there are disagreements in Arabia, why am I not informed? They are rebels in religion at one time are another all religions were rebellions The bodies of slaves of the world if bidden are in-disposed But as Jesus Christ as a shepherd, the souls of men are his sheep These are Arabs who have betrayed the religion of their fathers they follow a lunatic they call.. Prophet But I cannot put souls into chains without hearing them good, they'r stiff. Next they will hang them Do you not now yourself before your prophet? Muhammad is a man, We kneel only to God Where are Muhammad's miracles, Jafar? If he were a prophet, he'd lit the sky with miracles indeed, this is true. God has given his prophets signs of miracles that we may recognize them The miracle of Muhammad is the Holy Qur'an A book! A book! Written by an illiterate attributed to God I think the emperor's heard enough A mind full of pedicast When God set down tons of fire upon the heads of christ of puzzles so that they can speak the many languages of the world that they knew not before But do such miracles happen in our time.. I've heard enough. You've made a poor case When we suffered persecution in Mecca, Muhammad told us go to Abyssinia the land of the righteous king, where no man is wronged What they call persecution was fair punishment, that is order... Why did your prophet send you to me? Because you believe in the book of the one God as we do. He sent us because in your heart God will protect us Talking with him is like drawing water from a mirage But now, they'd let the judy on me listen to them, my friend. Go on! For years, we worshiped wood and stone, images of our own manufacture we lived in ignorance of God we had some earthly laws and no heavenly laws. The rich neglect the poor. And the natural pity of man thereby lifts up when his brother has fallen This is described by them as upsetting social order To this inhumanity has come a man whom god chose and in that we believe You've overcome. I beg you to collect yourself. I speak of the messenger of god. Muhammad teaches us to worship one god, to speak truth to love our neighbors as ourselves, to give charity, even a smile can be charity to protect women from misuse, to shelter orphans and to turn away from gods of Wood and stone I cannot be still and hear this blasphemy We are an ancient civilization, to call our gods wood and stone is to speak ignorantly of them The idol we home is not what we worship, but the spirit that resides within the form I agree that idolatry is not always fully understood Thank you Now, let me bring him back to the women God made woman to be the proper companion of man she is different but equal Equal? We buy them, feed them, perl them, use them, distorb them, women equal to us? God created man from one male and one female Amr, you must respect the woman's womb that bore you Why are you 300 guards so tongue-tied? what is only god is rependent. God has spoken to us before through Abraham, Noah, Moses and through Jesus Christ. Why should we so surprised when god speaks to us now through Muhammad? Who taught you those names? they are named in the Qur'an I knew Muhammad when he was an orphan minding sheep And you knew Christ as a carpenter What Christ says and what your Muhammad says is like two raised from the same land They'r lieing to you They deny Christ You worship 3 gods they say, father son and holy ghost they'r saying What do you say of Christ? They say God can not have a son, Christ is not the Son of God speak to me of Christ we say of Christ what our prophet has told us, that god cast his holy spirit into the womb of a virgin named Mary and that she conceived Christ the Apostle of God Apostol he says, not a son, not a son! What does your miracle, your Qur'an, say of the breadth, by the Lord Jesus Christ? may I relate the words? Come closer to me In the name of God, most gracious, most merciful relate in the book, the story of Mary. how she was grew away from her family to a place in the east. How we sent her an angel called Gabriel who said: ''I am a messenger from your God to announce the birth of a holy son to you" she said: How shall I Mary have a son when no man has touched me?'' And Gabriel replied: For your Lord says, it will happen" "We appoint him as a sign on to man" and a mercy from us! It is a thing or didn't" The difference between us and you is not bigger than this line Not for a mountain of gold will I give them up to you you may live in Abyssinia in peace as long as you wish May God's blessings be upon you when you return lntolerable! Mohamed disturbs even our foreign alliences Very well! we will make him give up on him Abu Talib has his arms around him Very well! we will throw uncle and nephew out In one bundle, his whole family out we will expel them from ourselves No merchant make trade with them, no land remain to them no roof shelter them, no beggar pay for them no woman marry them until they renounce their trend. These were the worst years of Muhammad's life For 3 years they suffered the hunger, thirst, cruelty of the open desert, but the year of grief was still to come, when Khatija, Muhammad's wife for 24 years died, when Abu Talib his old Protector died With his last breath Abu Talib tried again to reconsile Mecca and Muhammad He never asked more from you, when one word, one.. one God If it was only a question of one word I'd have given him 10 words, but the word he wants would dethrown all the gods You were afraid even to hear him with the death of his uncle, Muhammad has now lost all protection He was no longer safe in Mecca Alone with Zaid, his adopted son, he went to the hillside town of Taif He asked to be taken in, to be allowed to preach But the children of Taif were turned loose to stone him back into the desert What are you doing? Stop! Stop! Leave him alone! Wait! Muhammad called this, the bitterest day of his life Then miraculously, when Muhammad's mission seemed to have failed, his entire situation changed A deputation from the rich, but self-destroying city of Medina met him by night at the Rock of Agaba asking him to come to them to stand between their factions to mediate their continual quarrels and civil wars Muhammad agreed, provided they gave him a pledge that they worship the one God only Wait! When we take this pledge we expel ourselves from the rest of Arabia. So, wait! War is in this pledge. We'll make enemies of brothers we'll make firewood of our gods That is the meaning of the pledge If we take it, there can be no turning back for Muhammad is indeed the messenger of God foretold to Jews in our city So if anyone has doubt in this pledge, go now and if you have no doubts then you do as I do I pledge myself to the one and only God and to you Muhammad, the messenger of God He is of us and we are of him Leave him bring his followers, our brothers, to use, to Medina It was a journey that changed the world The Hijrah of flight to Medina Only 70 people split up into small groups walking 250 miles of desert yet, so profound with the consequences so lasting with the effects of this walk that from it the muslims take their calendar In this moment, Islam found its future Muhammad himself stayed in Mecca in the greatest danger until all his followers had left safely Muhammad has become a nation, he has received a city, entering into pledges and treaties and you Salool who claim to be king of Medina lost the kingdom last night while you were in bed you should worry about yourself Abu Sufian Every time you trade a whif of perfume of the city, you must creep past that man in Medina he is across your merchantile throats as we speak And what do you intend to do? l intend to wait And how long will you wait? Till you and the rest of Arabia remove him to save your way of life and while you wait? I should accept his call of course To think I will give him my birth-rite... I will not.. Medina is worth the conversion Hypocrisy Of course, its the healthy hypocrisy King Salool, why put your head on the floor He may not have to. Well, we do know we should have done it before kill Muhammad Come! Come and see They say that practice leads to perfection my own son Ikrima is with them they will stab him together If the responsibility for his death is shared, where lies the guilty? My idea I'm not sure I'm part of it Muhammad's body contains too much his mind, his words But it is an ingenious solution And a final one No Ali, his cousin, laid there to die for him? Who are we fighting? They cannot go far, all the tracks are watched We must take to the desert Bakka will give 100 camels to the man who brings back Muhammad or his head Look for 3 of them Muhammad, Abu Bakr and Uriqat, the Bidune guide What is it? These are drains of camel Maybe two days, that from the city Why are you here? Medina is to the north They made the tracks, not I Know much? Traveling West? I know my art They say that you can track a bird by smelling the air we go with him he may be in that cave over there Muhammad, if you come out, we will take you to Mecca alive Muhammad, come out they cannot be in there This web is unbroken And these pigeons they would not build we were wrong to follow them we should have gone north Let's move then we still have time to head them off A few threads of a spider's web was all that was then between Muhammad and murder But he was a man not to be killed The Bidune guide led him and his companion Abu Bakr in their escape through untracked spaces of the desert and the heat of the June days At Medina, his followers waited with their welcome ready but in great fear for his journey anything? No nothing this shows that he is only a man no man can survive that heat There! I see them! Look! Run and hide! I might be obliged to free you as a gesture Welcome to the city of Medina, the blessed, your city, the messenger of god You will stay with me, messenger of god, I have the best house in Medina you'll give me the honor of keeping you Stay with me! Please! Please! Please! How can the Prophet choose between so many welcomes? Where God guides his camel to stop, there he will build his house All agreed We turn Quaswa, his camel loose and where Quaswa sits, the Prophet stays Clever man! A choice made by camel can offend no one Here we will build the house of the Prophet And our first meeting place, a prayer house the first mosque of Islam, here! What's got the prophet to start doing it? carrying bricks? Give me that Look, you are doing too much, please go and sit down we will do it Look! He went for more "Work is a worship" he says he's 53 years old How old are you? There is something missing. Maybe a bell to call people in the Christians use a bell what about a horn, like the Jews? A drum? There's too much blood in a drum Why not the human voice as in Omar bin Kattab's vision? The Prophet agrees? he means you, Bilal me? You have a good voice, use it! climb up there! Brothers, today a man of Medina will embrace a man of Mecca Each will share half and half, reach out, embrace your neighbor and brother I'm tired of the politics of kissing slaves Read this The prophet should concern himself with the after-world What is my son? Praying like a horse does it burn your hands? It's not upon us to burn down the house he's making laws like a king. He's declared that loyalty to Islam is more than loyalty to tribal family What? All muslims are next of kin to one-another? Don't be mislead by that... They must change the nature of the tribes before that The danger is here, the quality: a man's neighbour is as good as himself The Lunatic means it Jews and Christians have equal rights with Muslims, the Jews who attach themselves to a common wealth will be protected Women have rights of inheritance... Rights Next, he will be giving the camel rights He has! the lunatic has! You can't overload them he's remaking a city, my city... damn him.. He's taken our sons from us, he took the children, our future from us. His rights are wrongs no more... This time there will not be any regret it will take everything of value they left in Mecca their rugs, their houses, their silver and with it, large of caravans to Damascus My friends, listen to me! I have news from Mecca everything you have left behind is gone the Thieves! Abu Bakr's shops, the prophet's house... sold Every cup or piece of cloth, every rag or bone you ever owned is thrown on the market You are a people of nothing. Don't you even fight for what you own? Who talks of the fight? What other way is there, Hamza? When the Prophet says Fight!, we fight, now he says Peace! Exactly you are a peace loving people up to your necks and fore bearers go back to work! We have to defend ourselves. You are the Messenger of god. Yet, they mock, abuse and plunder us and we do nothing In the pathage of war, we are pathetic But they are led by greed, we are led by god and you I know how you hate the sword, but we have to fight they've stolen our property, they are taking it to Damascus right past our own door our door. I say, by God turn back I'm sorry I got carried away Its pounding in my head Please, fight them! But look at the sun! It's not the time of prayer It is newly revealed by god to his messenger Fight, but fight in the way of god against those who fight against you Drive them out of the places from where they drove you out, for persecution is worse than slaughter Fight them until persecution is no more and religion is God, but if they stop, let there be no more war for god never loves the slaughters of wars so, fight in the way of god against those who fight against you God is great! God is great! God is great! These are the disciplines that the Prophet puts upon you you may not harm a woman, a child or any old person! you may not harm cripples you may not harm the man that works in the field You may not cut down trees Strike only at those who have expelled you who have stolen your rights and riched themselves with your possession! now, to the wells of Badr News from Medina! Arms... Arm yourself... Arm yourself... defend your wealth Muhammad has come out of Medina to attack the great caravan - How many men? -300 Two horses - We have more than 100 horses How many camels? - 17 - We will bring 117 - And wine, That is a war I'd like to fight a war we can not lose! ride to Abu Sufian's caravan. tell him to turn towards Badr We will join forces tomorrow near sources of Beder Wells of Badr... here Muhammad's march... here my charge of the caravan.... here One day's march... meet them at the wells I don't like it There is too much of Mecca on my caravan to be risked put out the fires... hold the camels... We are turning west, away from the wells away? you can't... You must meet them at Badr we can bring them down like raw eggs - If I run all night, I'll be out of Muhammad's reach by morning Where is your honor, Abu Sufian? Honor? - My honor's on the backs of my camels Yes, I run... Muhammad has occupied the wells - he has moved directly into our line of march - Abu Sufian has broken camp He's moving west, away from Badr - The Caravan is safe So, there is no need to fight not fight? - If we fight, we will start blood feuds between brothers between father and son, you mean Hudaifa, your own son is with them. He should have been with.... Mecca is greater than your family Walid, your second son. he is your true blood I say: Fight! We stand in the present and the future will look after itself Utbah is not a coward we will finish them tomorrow. We fight! we fight! are you finished? All right! Take your positions! Each man to his own place Go back to your columns move it. move back So Muhammad's filled the wells Now everyone will have to fight for this we fight Brothers! we hold the wells we stand in the name of god and his messenger. we wait BATTLE OF BADR...... Send us your champions Who are you? we expect our peers and our equals Come back! my brother, Shaiba my son Walid and myself Not you! Ubaida and I and Ali Are we your equals? There is only one God and Muhammad is His messenger Archers! Advance! Archers! Still! stretch! stretch stretch Archers! Archers back... they are regrouping forward! ready Lancers! God is great! Attack! God is great! Umaya! Umaya! Bilal! God is great! God is great! The Prophet is seeing you! You are not to rob or try to perish this And if a rogue does, cut him loose. I said, cut them loose and give them water and share your food, equal mouth-fulls. And if they walk, walk beside them Any prisoner who can teach 10 Muslims to read will go free Why don't they go away? Because, they blame me Hind, whatever it is, good or bad I should have joined them and drown in the wells of bitter with them But, I saved the caravan and our future with it The sing at me? Why sing my father and my brother is not with me? Do you think I need you to remind me? Muhammad, Ali, Hamza! With my nails, Hamza, I will give you mesher and mesher, with my nails... killer, cut throater, butcher murdering beast, you slaughtered my father Hamza! I will hunt, like a lion I will make Hamza, my lion, my prey. And when you are dead Hamza, I will cut your heart out, taste the blood, cut in pieces I forbit this weiling. this cannot go on What we should do, we will do we will call in our allies, lead the new one against them This time, we will prepare it. We'll plan it Hamza! come to prayer... come to prayer... come to victory... come to victory... God is great There is no god only God Is it a plague? what kind of an upside down town have we come in to? You could fill your pockets very nicely here No merchant is minding his shop God is minding the shop where do you come from? Yemen did you stop in Mecca? It is on the road you didn't answer my question did you stop in Mecca? long enough to rest my camels Camels rest better in Mecca than anywhere in the world Yes What is the word on the desert? Oh... It is bad for you they are gathering.. Each young man with a sword is on his way to Mecca Our strength is here Do not underestimate them. they are summoning up their courage. In Mecca there is music in every house Abbisinian slave, watch him, he is good, vicious, watch him I'll free you. give you your weight in silver, and your height in silk for one throw like this So they've come at last We'll know how many soon enough It's a big army I bet them at Badr That was a year ago They've come to revenge Badr Go and get your swords! Soldiers of Mecca! Blood master blood avenge the dead of Badr BATTLE OF UHUD.... There is Hamza can you see him? He is your fortune Ubada! Those horse-men on the flank out there they are replaced they are under Khalid. Khalid... I often thought of that yound man Hamza! Yes! Prophet asks if you have noticed those horse-men Yes I have. I don't like them he's sending our 50 archers to watch them no matter what happens, the archers must hold off those horse-men Zaid, tell the Prophet that we are ready What do you think Hamza? Besides their numbers, I'd say its a fair fight we see them and they see us what faces me has never frightened me All praise be Hubar! When Muhammed gives the word, we'll go to them Hamza! Weapons ready we march now! attack they've killed Hamza! tackle them Fight! Fight! This is a moment of victory Running away from us. Let's get the loot Stand where you are told to stand come back to your positions all of you, come back! Its a road Their centry is gone We've lost the battle, Khalid Not yet hold on Where is the prophet? Muhammad is dead I saw him fall No No! He's alive! Find him! back. back to the mountains halt I thought we were beaten! Now, victory is yours, Khalid! We have no victory until we've finished Muhammad he's up in those rocks We've finished our business. we've avenged Badr But we can end Islam and him forever! Some of his fenatics are still with him! They have the advantage of the mountains The risk is too high Muhammad, listen A day for a day! the day of Uhub for the day of Badr Our dead have answered to your dead Our dead are in Paradise, your dead are in hell fire Hamza! Hamza! do you hear me Hamza? ok You know that I am with you, I, Hind! do you remember anything Hamza? How you killed my father and my brother? now you too are dead! now, my heart is light do you hear Hamza? Light! But I haven't finished with you! Death is too small Wahshi, Cut him open, cut him! They lost a battle and what do they do? They came home and dig the ground harder They are mad I agree with you! They defy reason, they are even happy they lost god send the defeat they say to trial in their faith Oh yes! they are fighting with the sky! They'll get what they want! They want Mecca! They'll get Mecca when we see the stars at noon.... immm... don't underestimate him, I learned that on my cost my friend, Mecca is more than their home It's where God spoke to man Mecca is like a home-sickness to the soul This year they are going as pilgrims What? Unarmed! Unarmed? Abu Sufian will slaughter them in the dessert If you believe in God as they do, it might be possible not to get slaughtered But I agree with you, they probably will be Be still, do not let them provoke you. That is what they want. stand firm Peace be upon you! Prophet says: All who love God must renew their Oaths to him under the tree.... They've sent someone else! Its Salool. That means we might come to an agreement Muhammad, you have been given conditions of truce between yourself and Mecca Have you agreed to them yet? What is this? In the name of God, the most gracious Who is this new God they call gracious? I do not know him. strike him out And I cannot agree with this... "Muhammad, the messenger of God?" If I have thought you were the messenger of God I would not have fought you Make it "Muhammad, the son of Abdullah agrees with Suheil, the son of Amr" That is the more fact well, so I understand good, that is better Now, it is agreed that you do not continue your pilgrimage, you must turn around and go home Mecca is home However, you may continue your pilgrimage next year and for 3 days only in and out. we also agree to the truce for 10 years... During that time you will not attack any tribe or ambush any caravan or any individual associated with us and vice versa If you injure any one of us, the truce ends and vice versa. Is that clear? We need that time We will use that time These letters, from Muhammad, the messenger of God to rulers of the world Call the world to Islam. to Heraclius, emperor of Byzantium Kisra, Emperor of Persia, Mephocus, patriarch of Alexandria God is great There are no different races in Islam and Arab is not superior to foreign not a white man superior to a black. All return equally to god Unless you desire for your neighbour, what you desire for yourself. You don't have faith A man goes to bed with his belly full, while his neighbor is hungry. He isn't a Muslim The Ink of a scholar is holier than the blood of a martyr A man reading is handsome in the side of god So, learn to read and when you have learned teach The people of the book, Jews with their Bible, the Christians with their testament must be respected by you for their books likewise came from god you must all think of Muhammad as more than a man He was collecting firewood one day. Let me do it, I said Why? He said, You're the prophet of god, you can't go round scratching for firewood But he looked at me mumbling God does not like the man who considers himself above other men, he said. So, I laid back and watched him Suddenly he stopped. he stood to his full height and came to me Yes! I am the Prophet of god, he said, but even I do not know what will become of me Arm. have you come to take me again? No I've come to ask you to take me I witness that there is only one god and that Muhammad is His messenger May god forgive me the times I have fought against you lslam does the way with all that went before it I'm sorry, I came here wearing... Here are my jewels, what they are worth I give to the poor And may I offer you my ? Yes But you were the bitterest sword against Islam Now by the will of god, I will be the raised sword of god Ah, its all easy to god Just as he might gain in losing be may lose in winning when we had to sign that truce Look at us now! charging from victory to victory in the hearts of men What's that? Abu Sufian is coming Why am I insulted like this? Abu Sufian I expect some courtesy we are not at war we have a truce I've come to speak to Muhammad Where is he? he is in the mosque Muhammad we did not break the truce I have come to re-affirm the truce I speak for Mecca Muhammad, why do you turn from me? Don't go Muhammad, don't go Biduns broke the truce, not us. The night was dark I am here to testify that the night was dark Baara! This is your city Hudaifa, you are my kin and descendant why must you be hard? I am Mecca, I am the leader of Mecca Why am I insulted like this? Because you keep no promise and respect no pledge I've heard what I thought I'd never hear Abu Sufian asking for pity To be out-fought, out-fought who we knew to be a one time shepherd you saw that shepherd's religion grow from a speck (dust) speck was in my eye I could see nothing Tell Mecca that the gods are dead. It is useless to resist god Travel fast or every man here will curse behind you Its you who have broken the truce For tonight will be 10,000 men from every tribe Now we can fight them. you are back we will close the streets, and defend from the houses Its no use There are thousands of them and they are joined by more You coward! Hind, go home! You coward! Are you the leader of Mecca? Look at yourself! You are broke, they swallowed you and sput you out When my father and brother die, my husband ran away? You go home! You! We can not resist! Mecca is taken No, no! We are to camp here for the night We can see Mecca even through the mountains! So many fires, I can not count them It is very beautiful When we drove them out of Mecca, I did not know that he carried Mecca with him we can smell the bread they are baking Yes It means they don't intend to plonder, though I do hope at least thats what it means They don't want blood on our walls and doorsteps I can bargain with that Take me to him! So you are giving us your city you offer me no bread I understand You may decide to kill me Say what you have come to say I saw your fires, the men around them and I know what power you put into them We can no longer resist Muhammad Now if you agree you dare to come here and ask for conditions Isn't it yet time enough for you to recognize who Muhammad is? Muhammad, there is still doubt in my heart If I were to cut off your head, it would remove all your doubts Khalid, there is no composion in religion A man may take many years or only need minutes its god who decides the time! So respect his doubts You're a black slave, you have the best school I am only what God has given me Yes The Gods that I worshipped, have never been in use It would have helped me I require no composion. There is one God, and you are the messenger of god. Now, let me go. get inside No doors may be broken down, nothing plondered, nothing seized no one abused, all behind closed doors are safe All in hAbu Sufian's house are safe All by the side of Kabbalah are safe At least, he kept his word, they haven't forced any door He's stolen hearts, not walls. Its a permanent victory I dread going out we must... we must in the end were we so wrong? The way we lived, yes. that was wrong we were trapped in our own faults our gods were less than us Now there he is, making his entrance to the Kabbaah In the name of god, most gracious, most merciful God gave this house to Abraham to be a sacred place, worship no other God but Him and cleanse his house so it was Muhammad took no revenge and allowed all. He declared Mecca a holy place Noone may shed blood or cut down a tree, or kill a living thing in Mecca Soon, all Arabia was converted not only to the new worship but to the new laws, manners, attitudes contained in Islam The Prophet had lived to see his work done, and now he began to feel the nearness of death One great act of his Prophet would remain the setting of its seal He called the people to him and he spoke for the last time His message was to surrender to god and humanity to man ''Oh, mankind! Listen well! I may not be with you much longer the weak among you feed them and watch what you eat Dress them as you are dressed, you will meet your god and he will call you to count your actions Let those who are present warn those who are absent You are all are descendant from Adam and the best among you is he who most regards god Think deeply about what I say. Let all your feuds be abolished you must know that every Muslim is the brother of every other Muslim and all Muslims are brothers of one-another Between Muslims, there are no races and no tribes Not must you take anything from your brother except what is given freely Do not oppress and do not be oppressed O my people! I'm but a man, It may be that the angel of death will visit me soon and death will overtake me But I have left you a book, revealed by god, The Qur'an, which is light and guidance Now he repeated to the people the final repetition of the Qur'an, the sea of determination not Muhammad's words, but god's word ''This day I have perfected your religion for you and completed my favour to you and I have chosen for you Islam as your religion'' ON June the 8th 632 in his 63rd year Muhammad died Many of his followers could not believe the fact How can such a man die? But Abu Bakr, the Prophet's friend stood up in the mosque: "If anyone worships Muhammad, Let him know that Muhammad is dead but who worships god Let him know that god is alive and can not die'' They buried Muhammad beside his mosque in Medina But the religion he preached found its place in the heart of man It endured. It multiplied. Still to Mecca, they come, the mankind The people of Islam dressed in their pilgrim white all equal before god, all united in this place of prayer Each individual soul joined in a community of worship ... "ONE GOD"
