 

                        Michael Jackson's LA Residence June 25, 2009 (FIRE PARAMEDIC SPEAKING) (ALBERTO ALVAREZ SPEAKING) I arrived at the hospital. Frank Dileo JACKSON'S MANAGER 1984-89, 2009 and the lady came out maybe 20 minutes later, a nurse. I stood up. She said, Who are you? "I'm Frank Dileo, I manage Michael. "Is he okay?" She hesitated, and I knew. She looked me in the eye and said, "No, he didn't make it." I had them put him in a special room and clean him up. And that was the one nice thing, is I got to be alone with him. And I got to kiss him on the forehead and, you know, tell him what I felt. (BALLAD PLAYING) When I started seeing the news clips. David G-est MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND the day he died, my heart sank. Michael was the most exciting performer I had ever seen in my life. He was the ultimate pop superstar. He wanted, more than anything, for his legacy to be he is the greatest performer of all time. And that's what he became. (SMOKEY ROBINSON SPEAKING) (TITO JACKSON SPEAKING) (FRANK CASCIO SPEAKING) (KATHERINE JACKSON SPEAKING) (MARTHA REEVES SPEAKING) (BOBBY TAYLOR SPEAKING) (J. RANDY TARABORRELLI SPEAKING) (THOMAS A. MESEREAU, JR SPEAKING) (WHITNEY HOUSTON SPEAKING) (MICKEY ROONEY SPEAKING) I grew up in East Chicago, Indiana. Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. My mother and father divorced when I was at a young age, about six years old. My mother was Baptist. And my sister and I sang in the Baptist choir. It made us have a love for music. My father used to listen to the country music all the time, and out of Chicago came a show, on the radio, called Suppertime Frolic. And then on Saturdays, he would listen to the Grand Ole Opry that came out of Nashville. Some of the people were Ernest Tubb, that's ancient. Let me... Let the people know how old I am. (LAUGHS) (COUNTRY SONG PLAYING) We had a club called the Sub-Debs. We used to give teenage parties for all the kids around there, and that's where I met Joe. I think I was around 17 years old. He would always ask me for a dance when the music was slow. (LAUGHS) He seemed very kind, very sweet. Joseph was in a group. Besides me leaving singing with my sister, I started singing with him. And we would sing and harmonise together a lot. Then the children came along, and I kept singing. Rebbie Jackson MICHAEL'S SISTER 2300 Jackson St, in that little house. I was the only one born in that house. We had two bedrooms in our home. And I and my sisters, Janet and La Toya, slept in the living room. Living Room Gary, Indiana 2010. We had a couch that let out into a bed. My brothers slept in one room. Boy's Bedroom Gary, Indiana 2010. And that room had triple bunk beds. And they slept on the bunk beds. And then my parents slept in the other room. Parents' Bedroom GARY, INDIANA 2010. KATHERINE: I don 't know how I squeezed all of us in that little house. Jackson Family Kitchen Gary, Indiana 1960's. Having all my children when I was young and having them so close together; Every time I would get pregnant, I was afraid to tell Joe. (CHUCKLES) We didn't believe in abortion, so that's why we got so many children. The children around our neighbourhood, especially the boys, they were kind of bad, some of them. They would break in people's cars and do things. And our children were never allowed to go out at night or play with those kids. J. Randy Taraborrelli JACKSON'S FRIEND AND BIOGRAPHER. They weren't really social with the rest of the neighbourhood. They clung to each other, and that's how the Jacksons were raised. Poor? I mean, that was a way of life. We had plenty of food to eat. We were like all the other kids in the area. DAVID GEST: Michael never thought he was poor when he was young, because he did not know what poor was. David G-est MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND. He thought everyone lived the way his family did. KATHERINE: We had a rickety washing machine. We weren't able to buy a new one. Whenever it washed, it would creek. You Know, make noises... (IMITATES CREAKING NOISES) Something like that. And Michael, I guess, was about 11 or 12 months old. He was just dancing to the rhythm of the washing machine. And I knew then that he had a lot of rhythm. Michael would always do funny things, anything for a laugh. Anything for a laugh. La Toya was always very persnickety about the way she kept her room. And she had this beautiful... I think it was a white satin bedspread that she had just gotten. Michael took some invisible ink and he spread it all over the bedspread, squirted it all over. And then he had her come in and look at it. She was livid. Michael used to love telling me stories about Gary, Indiana, especially how he would have a candy store, and he would sell candy to all the neighbours, and to his brothers. And he never made any money doing it, but he showed signs of being an entrepreneur at a very young age. As kids, we had a lot of fun. Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER. You know, just playing around in the neighbourhood. Playing practical jokes, throwing balloons out the oar windows at bus stops, singing and dancing to every song that came on the radio. Michael would use some of the money from his candy store to go and buy 45s, because in those days, that's what kids bought, 45s. And if you were lucky, you'd buy an LP. But he started listening strongly to James Brown from the time he was about five years old. He had a great taste for real R&B, gritty R&B, like Wilson Pickett, the Dells, great singers like Levi Stubbs. We sang country songs and we sang folk songs. And then they started singing the Temptations when we got a television. My father had a guitar that he Kept locked in the closet. One day, he didn't lock the closet and I started playing that thing. I learnt every song on the radio and made my brothers sing with me. KATHERINE: Joseph had warned them, "Don't play my guitar; now. . And so, Tito took it out and played it, and a string broke. There was no way of hiding that he hadn't had his guitar. He punished him for it. Then he said, "Let me hear you play." And Tito played for him. Joe just said nothing else to him, "You can play it if you want to." Tito had been watching his father play guitar; But he would come to my house and he and I would play. Reynaud Jones NEIGHBOUR - GARY, INDIANA. And I would play a little something on my guitar, and then show him, and then give my guitar to him. And then he'd try to play it. And so we went back and forth like that. There was a guy across the street who had one snare drum, and his name was Milford Hite. Milford Hite NEIGHBOUR - GARY, INDIANA. Reynaud said, "Milford, come over with your drum "and let's see if we can, you know, start a little group together." We played for a while and then Jackie Jackson came oven. Okay. Then after Jackie came in, Jermaine came. TITO: Michael and Marlon were just little kids. And we used to tell them to be quiet, "Get out of here.. We used to kick them out the room. And they used to beg to be in the group. And we just said, "Your little brother wants to be in the..." You know, you just said, "No, get out of here. This is big boy stuff." The school was giving a programme and all the parents were invited. And Michael was singing solo, Climb Every Mountain. And so Joe's father wanted to go also, so he could hear him. And Michael starts singing. I looked around, Joe's father was crying. I guess he couldn't imagine that a 5-year-old kid can keep harmony and sing that well. But that's what happened. TITO: We heard him sing and we were so taken by that. We couldn't believe it so we rushed him home, immediately took him to the room. And he was in the group, that fast. The big thing back then was winning the Roosevelt High School talent show. G-EST: In the '50s and the '60s, talent shows were the key to getting a career and a record deal. And that's what they dreamed of. Initially, Michael was not our lead singer. It was Jermaine was our lead singer when we made it to the talent snow. They came to me and asked me if I would come over. Robert Hite NEIGHBOUR - GARY, INDIANA and give them some pointers on tightening up the group. I actually decided that we were going to present the song My Girl, because it was a song that I had become very fond of. Each person would get a chance to step forward in the song, and showcase what they could do. Milford actually sang My Girl along with them. Reynaud was singing My Girl. And all of a sudden we said, "Michael, sing My Girl." (CHUCKLING) And he hit it, perfect pitch. And that was it. That was our secret weapon, quite honestly. (UP-TEMPO SONG PLAYING) When Michael came in, the crowd just stood up. (CHUCKLING) They actually broke a couple of chairs and seats in the auditorium. It was such a surprise. And that's when everybody recognised the kind of talent that was there. MILFORD: We wanted to win and we won. It was a really happy moment. It was just... 'Cause that was the thing to win, Roosevelt's talent show. We win a Roosevelt's talent show, it's like signing a contract with Motown. (CHUCKLES) ROBERT: After the talent show ended, Joe decided that Reynaud and Milford weren't going to be rehearsing with them. And that's what kind of split everything off. TARABORRELLI: Joseph was, in many ways, a frustrated musician. He had a band called the Falcons. And I think to some extent he wanted to live vicariously through the success, the possible success, of his children as musicians. But Joseph is a very complicated person, and it's not easy to paint Joseph with a wide brushstroke. Bobby Taylor ARTIST, GORDY / MOTOWN RECORDS. Joe was a tyrant to them. He was mean to them. He was evil to them. Michael was very afraid of Joe, and a lot of times, he would stay over at my house, just to get away from Joe, because he felt Joe had punished him too much when he was younger. He had taken a strap and spanked him a lot of times. And he felt it was too harsh. He was a very strong, and often, as they would tell it, violent disciplinarian. Michael, Janet and Randy, and a little bit of Marlon, I think they got easy street, 'cause they were the babies. The ones who really got the spankings in my family, if I remember correctly, and I'm pretty sure I do, was myself Jermaine and Jackie, the older guys. I'm sort of like five years older than Michael. So he was more of one of the little guys that didn't get it the way the big guys did. I think in later life, he began to respect Joe more, because he saw that he wanted his kids to be somebody. RONALD JACKSON: My uncle worked in the steel mill. He never wanted his kids to do what he did. He wanted them to be better. Ronald & Keith Jackson JACKSON'S FIRST COUSINS I seen the steel mill, and I'm gonna tell you... - It's like working for Satan... - Do not work there... because it's 2,000 degrees out there, and it's very dangerous. So, his vision, I respect. He wanted them to have a better opportunity, and to do something they love doing. TAYLOR: I think Joe did the right thing because none of his kids went to prison. None of his kids were out on the street using dope. TITO: I think I was raised right. I think my father did a brilliant job to take us from Gary, Indiana, which is a very poverty-stricken town, and not too many people get out of there and make something of themselves, and he had a dream, and he stuck with it. And he knew how to get there and he got us there. It's okay to have fun sometimes but you have to prepare yourself, because your adulthood is gonna be a lot longer than your childhood. And if you didn't prepare for it, you're gonna be on The Late Show. So I think my father prepared his sons for the future, to be men. We were men at a very young age. TARABORRELLI: I remember asking Michael, Why do you call him Joseph?. And it was really clear, the way Michael explained it, that they thought of him as Joseph. They didn't really think of him as their father; They thought of him as Joseph. And I thought that was very sad. That had to hurt even Joseph, to know that his children felt that way about him, but that was the way he designed it. Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. The world now talks about how mean and evil he is. He's not that way. He's just a firm person. Michael's very close to my mother, and she was like a comfort to him, I think. KATHERINE: Michael and I had a very special bond. Michael used to always tell me that he was so much like me. And then I used to tell him, I said, "I can see myself in you, but I don't want you to be like me," because I thought I was too easy-going, trust people too much, and that's exactly how Michael is. There was a mystical connection that made them almost, at times, one. Michael and Katherine, two peas in a pod. He was closer to no one else except for her. TARABORRELLI: Katherine Jackson was golden where Michael was concerned, throughout his entire lifetime. She always cared. When he went through stages of acne, she knew how to handle him. TARABORRELLI: It was almost as if they were aligned with each other against the world. And he could always go to Katherine for anything. And she would be there for him, 100%. They had been working on the music for a long time, and they wanted to be signed to a label. TITO: We would go to school in the morning. Then after school, we'd get home about 3:00, 3:30. And my father'd have all the mics set up and amps on standby. And we had enough time to just drop our books, and we would practise, like, four hours, until about 7:00 or 8:00. And after that, we would get ready to go to Chicago or somewhere, and go do an engagement. We would play for 45 minutes, and take 15 minutes off and do our homework. By the time we was through with our day, it was about 2:30 in the morning. And we'd drive back from Chicago to Gary, get home about 3:00, 4:00 in the morning, then go to school the next day. And that's what life was for us for many years, a lot of work. MICHAEL: We would perform all night, tell you the truth, every day. Voice of Michael Jackson Interview courtesy of J. Randy Taraborrelli. We would be dancing, doing James Brown, and a lot of people throwing money on stage, and standing ovations. And then, soon as we drove home, we'd get up and go to school. And we couldn't keep our pants up 'cause we had so much money in 'em. I mean, change just broke 'em. And there was this man's house, who used to sell candy we used to stop there and just load up, eat candy for days. They had a studio at home and they had these big mirrors and stuff. And they would say, "Do it again, do it again, do it again, do it again." And next thing you know, seven, eight, nine hours go by, but they were looking for perfection. Ronnie Rancifer KEYBOARDIST, 'JACKSON 5' 1967-77. They were focused, that's what I liked about them. They were serious about doing it, and it was about perfection. Johnny Jackson and Ronnie Rancifer were part of the early Jackson 5. They were not named members but they were a part of the group, and an integral part of the group. Beck then, we didn't have the greatest instruments in the world. Other big name groups, they would have big PAS and all that. Jacksons didn't have that, but what they had was soul. See... And soul goes a long way. You can have $10 jillion worth of equipment, baby, but if you ain't got no soul, you might as well stay home. (CHUCKLES) In 1967 the Jackson 5 signed for local record label, Steeltown Records. They released two songs on the label; 'Big Boy' and 'We Don't Have To Be Over 21 (To Fall In Love). Neither appeared on any Billboard Chart. One day, I was setting up a VIP section for Bobby Taylor, all of a sudden, I hear the people clapping and hollering... Weldon Arthur McDougal III - A & R EXECUTIVE, MOTOWN RECORDS 1969-80. And so I come out of the office and I look and there was the Jackson 5. Well, they are pretty good. Joe Jackson said, "Listen, man, we wanna be on Motown." And I said, "Man, I can't get nobody on the label." And he said, "Well, do you know anybody you could introduce me to at Motown?" I was so excited about them, I told Bobby Taylor that Thursday about them. He said, "Okay, I'll look at 'em." I met them in 1968, at the Regal Theater. I was headlining the show. They were the opening act, and I was introduced to them by the promoter. Berry Gordy, President of Motown, gave him permission to produce any act that he wanted and they would listen to it. He, at that time, had a group called Bobby Taylor and the Vancouvers. They had records on the radio that were going really well and stuff. (R&B SONG PLAYING) I liked the way he sang, 'cause he was a star vocalist in his own right. He knew how to do it, when to do it, why to do it, and why not to do it. I saw this little kid spinning and stuff, I said, "Dang. "Send him upstairs when they finish, I want to talk to this kid." Never thought about recording him at that time. I said, "This little guy, I wanna see what's happening." He was a kid that would worry you, bug you, until you had to do something with him. Instead of him going back to Gary, Indiana, from Chicago every night, he'd go and ask Joseph if he could stay with me, and spend a night at the hotel with me. So he stayed in my face for 10 straight days, from the time that we woke up in the morning, and I 'd take and feed this kid. It was pure. This kid wanted what he got. He was a workaholic. Bobby Taylor worked hard. I mean, I can't say it enough. I want people to know. He worked harder on them than he did with the Vancouvers. My motivation was Michael. I just figured this kid here, he's an adult in kid's clothing. That was my only motivation. Everybody around here knew that Michael Jackson was "it." The world just didn't know it. Bobby was pushing. When I say he was pushing, the next time I seen Bobby or I seen the group, he had called me and said he's working at the Apollo. And come over to the Apollo, he got a surprise for me. And when I went to the Apollo, the Jackson 5 was on the bill. Apollo Theater Harlem, New York City. The Apollo was known as the greatest R&B showroom in the world, because many albums had been made from there, James Brown, Live at the Apollo. Jackie Wilson played the Apollo. Gladys Knight and the Pips played the Apollo. Smokey Robinson and the Miracles. Everybody who played the Apollo was a star. And everybody who was underneath them on a bill was trying to gain that national fame. And if you make it there, you're assured of stardom because people knew that you've got something very special. It was a very tough audience. And if they did not like you, and you were not a good live act, even though you may have a hit record, they'd boo you off the stage. The Jackson 5 tore that place up. I mean, I've never seen an act that nobody never heard of, didn't have a record, and, I mean, the people kept hollering, "Jackson 5!" On the same show was the 5 Stairsteps, and they were young kids, too, or they were about the same age as the Jackson 5. And they were complaining, they wanted to get the Jackson 5 off of the show because every time they went on, people just hollered, "Jackson 5! Jackson 5! Jackson 5!. And I said, "Wow! I ain't never seen nothing like this." Martha Reeves ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS. My very first time that I saw Michael Jackson was at the Apollo Theater in New York. He and his family were a self-contained act, which was very unusual. And yet there was a guitarist in the group and a bassist in the group, and keyboard and drums. They'd won a contest. They'd won at the Apollo Theater Amateur Night, and their prize was to open the show for the great James Brown. Well, he broke out into this James Brown, I Got the Feelin', and doing his little toes and dancing and looking like James, if James were a wind-up toy. And it was amazing. Rebbie Jackson MICHAEL'S SISTER. He would perform and do the moves and routine that everyone else was doing. He used to do Fred Astaire and James Cagney. Then all of a sudden, he would add a little bit of something in there, different. And that was him feeling what he was doing. He excited me. I saw all of this in him. I saw things that he could do that I couldn't. He had the makings of a great singer. Michael had universal appeal back when he was real young. I mean, we weren't really into marketing or anything like that, but it was already there. I think the word for it, the phraseology, would be, "A diamond in the rough," without very many edges to buff off. With the rest of the brothers, now, Jermaine stuttered. And he always thought that if he stuttered when he talked, that he would do it when he sang. So I had to push Jermaine more than I had to push anyone else. And that's all I used, Jermaine, Michael and Jackie. I did not use Marlon, did not use Tito. They couldn't sing, right? And I told them. "Learn. Listen and learn." The complete group was not just those five boys. The complete group had two other ones with them, one was Johnny Jackson, the drummer, one was Ronnie Rancifer; the pianist, which made the music for the group. Without them, there wouldn't have been this Jackson 5. Every producer has their own method to the madness, and Bobby's was pretty cool. He had the old-school roughness on that, you know. You have to have a certain kind of roughness, a certain kind of discipline. He felt Michael had something so special, and he told that to him. But he said, "Do not think just me telling you makes it happen. "It does not. "You've gotta work and continue to work for what you achieve. "It will never be easy." He wasn't always patient. He wasn't always saying things that you wanna hear, or saying it right. But what he said and what he was doing was just trying to make them stars. Our last day at the Regal Theater is when I went to Joe, I said, "Say now, why don't you let me put these kids at Motown?" And Joe said those words to me, "Man, I thought you'd never ask." We were in New York City. Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER. And we had just finished performing with James Brown. We were opening up for him. Bobby Taylor had been begging Berry to check us out. Berry Gordy - FOUNDER, MOTOWN RECORD CORPORATION. And he wouldn't do it because he had another kid on his label. And he was catching a lot of flak from the state about working this kid who's underage. Berry would say, "l never wanna have anything to do with kids in this business. "It's too much problems. "I can't even handle one. What am I gonna do with five?" And the one kid was little Stevie Wonder. I drove Michael, Marlon, Tommy Chong, who was in my band, from Cheech and Chong, from Chicago to Detroit. I take Michael directly to Motown. So I said, "Berry, I've got these kids here "and they're number one coming out of the block." I said, "The lead singer's eight. He can out-dance anybody you ever saw. "Jackie Wilson, James Brown. "If you close your eyes and listen to him after I finish teaching him, "the best singer you ever heard in your life." It was not easy to get a children's group signed to Motown. And Bobby Taylor knew that when he called Berry and said, "I've got something so special, you gotta see it," that Berry would jump once he did. Because he would not have taken them to Berry to waste his time. TAYLOR: The next morning, Berry Gordy called me from Los Angeles, and he says, l want you to bring them out here.. That's how they got to Motown. Going to California, the happiest day of my life. Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. Joseph had promised me that one day we would go to California. I'd tell him, "No," I said, "Your promise came true, "but you didn't bring me there, the children did." (CHUCKLES) Berry Gordy was having a party for Diana Ross. It was her birthday. So he asked us to perform at this party for Diana, and of course we did. And at that party was, like, the Temptations, Smokey the Vandellas, the Supremes, Four Tops. And here we are performing their songs to them. So we was quite nervous. Dionne Warwick SINGER I first met Michael, he was, I think he was 10 years old. He was flown out with his brothers to sing for Berry Gordy, Jr. Berry had invited a bunch of people up to his home. This little bitty thing came in and he sat down next to me and he looked at me and he says, "And who are you?" I said, I'm Dionne Warwick. Who are you? I'm Michael Jackson.  I said, "Nice to know you, Michael Jackson. And what do you do, Michael Jackson?" He says, "Oh, I sing." I said, "You sing? Can you sing?" He said, "Yes, I can sing." I mean, little feisty, beautiful young boy. I said, "Well, that's what We're here for. We're gonna see if you can sing." (UP-TEMPO SONG PLAYING) Watching them perform was excitement. Brenda Holloway ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS. Everyone in the group was an individual. And I feel that every one of them could have gone on their own. But Michael was the star. SMOKEY ROBINSON: They came in (CHUCKLES) and they sang a few songs. They sang a couple songs by James Brown, you know, Smokey Robinson ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS and Michael did the James Brown dances, and he really did them. He's 10 years old and he was dancing like he was about 30. How in the world could this little boy, and he was a kid, be so talented? That's what everybody went away talking about. I think all of us Motown artists were astonished. Kim Weston ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS because here's a kid that, you know, seemed to have no fear. You know, when the music nit, he was ready, you know, or ready before the music nit. He said, "I want you to Know something, too." I Said, "What's that?" "You sang a song about my name, Michael." I said, "Yeah You think that song was for you'?" He said, "Wasn't it?" (LAUGHS) He was an adorable child. It was a wonderful meeting. They loved it. They enjoyed it. That was our audition. So I'm very proud of that moment in our life. There was another world about to open. David G-est MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND and he was ready to delve into it. Marvin Gaye. Junior Walker. When you went to Motown, it was... Everyone was there. The Isley Brothers. Kim Weston. Edwin Starr. Jimmy Ruffin. It was like Disneyland. You saw Smokey, you saw Mary, you saw Diana Ross. But everybody was trying to perfect their artistry. The feeling at Motown was it was a family, a musical family. Valerie Simpson & Nickolas Ashford. SINGERS / SONGWRITERS, 'ASHFORD & SIMPSON' And we all were a part of excellence and greatness, musical greatness. And we so were fans of each other's work, so that when we saw each other; It was just instant love. We got, "We knew what you were doing. I heard what you're working on." And it just... We kept pushing each other. When you start working with the best in the business. Russell Thompkins, Jr. LEAD SINGER, 'THE STYLISTICS' that are teaching you how to dance, how to play this and teaching you now to sing this, putting you at the piano, vocal coaches, dancing coaches, people who teach you how to talk. When you work with that from the time that you're a young man, you grow up with so much influence. So it wasn't just the fact that Michael Jackson was born with so much great talent. He always had it around him. Michael Jackson studied all the artists, all the great artists. Jimmy Ruffin ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS. He studied me, he studied Marvin Gaye, he studied Stevie Wonder. He studied everybody. We were the best in the country at the time. The first time I saw them perform was in San Francisco and I was like, "Wow." It was like, "There's nobody that good." Berry Gordy was like, "Keep your cards close to your chest. "Don't let people know what you're thinking. "Don't let the artists Know how much people like 'em." He was a shrewd guy. Berry looked after every aspect of an artist's career. Now, some may complain today that they didn't get paid enough royalties and they never received a lot of their publishing. But I 'll tell you something. Berry Gordy made these artists. Everybody, I think, had different relationships with Berry. Abdul 'Duke' Fakir ARTIST, 'THE FOUR TOPS'. We had a great relationship with Berry and we still do. He gave us... He promised us things that he made come true, that he couldn't put in the contract. But he promised them and kept his word. What he saw in the Jackson 5 was a children's group that could transcend every age group. And he nurtured their talents. He knew he had something special. I made him sit in while I was doing the music. Bobby Taylor ARTIST, GORDY / MOTOWN RECORDS that they had to work with. They were with me 20 hours a day. Being attentive, if I sew somebody sleeping, then I would send them back to the house and tell them, "l don't wanna see you for a week." They worked hard, they really worked hard. Michael now would stay over at Diana Ross's house and rehearse. He really liked Diana Ross and she liked him. HOLLOWAY: Diana Ross was showing him off. She just like... She was the one that discovered him and later on I found out that Bobby Taylor actually discovered him. TITO: I think we were just kids. We didn't realise all the great accomplishments that we had achieved. Seeing Hollywood and playing with Diana Ross. I mean, we were in heaven. Just those things alone was priceless to us. Michael told me when he came to LA, it was like his whole world had changed. He could buy as much candy as he wanted because nobody would say no to him. (R&B SONG PLAYING) Michael and I went to see the Four Tops, it was around 1 971 or '72. Michael and David just came to the dressing room and in the dressing room was also Stevie Wonder. GEST: I said to Levi Stubbs, You're brilliant. I love your voice.. And Michael looked at him and said, "l learned everything from you." And he was out off. Stevie said, "What?" And he grabbed Michael and flung him up against the wall... And said, "You learned everything from who?" And he goes, "You, Stevie, you." (LAUGHS) It was so funny. It was so funny. Levi and I, we never forgot that. Bobby Taylor and I would take Michael to the golf course with us. He had never even picked up a golf club in his life. Yet, he was our greatest golf critic. "Well, Smokey, you know, you hit your ball over in the woods "because you didn't have your foot standing right here..." "Bobby, see, your club was not, you Know..." He's gonna tell us why we had a bad shot. But it was fun. He was a great, fun kid. RANCIFER: The first time I heard I Want You Back in the studio, I noticed a different kind of brightness to the movement, Ronnie Rancifer KEYBOARDIST, 'JACKSON 5' 1967-77 other than normal Motown brightness. It was going in a different direction, which was good because Motown's sound was diversified. GEST: When you listened to I Want You Back, you knew Berry had a knack to get the best commercial record out of these kids and make them a worldwide success. (SINGING) When my sister and my mom first heard our first hit record, I Want You Back, my father had sent it over, they didn't care for it. I didn't like it at all. Because the songs that the children sang was more like the, I should say, soul music. And to me, I Want You Back didn't sound that way. All the songs that was out then sound so different, so I guess Berry wanted to bring out a different style. Little did they know it was a very big song, number one. (SINGING) It was just an unbelievable track. It just came out of the radio like lightning. Oh, them Jackson 5, that is a kickin' group. "Wow, that's them?" And I had to get used to the song because even though it was a very big hit, your brothers singing on a record, on vinyl, and you hearing it is something totally different. MICHAEL: We just don't have songs that come and go, Voice of Michael Jackson Interview courtesy of J. Randy Taraborrelli we have songs that'll be around all the time. Like, you'll hear 'em on the FM classical stations, by the Philharmonic Orchestra, things like that. So it's just not what people call it, kiddie rock. It's not that. And a million sellers, a million selling. J. Randy Taraborrelli JACKSON'S FRIEND AND BIOGRAPHER. It was difficult to believe that they were Motown artists, because they were just kids. It was as if they had some kind of stardust rub off on them because, you know, they were becoming close to Berry Gordy, Diana Ross, and to all of my idols. When I wrote Who's Lovin' You, I was, you Know, in my early 20s. Smokey Robinson ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS. But at least, at that point, I had had a chance to experience some life and some love. I was married. I got married when I was 19. The subject matter of the song is like a person who has somebody who really loves them. And yet they don't appreciate it. They do the person wrong. The first time I heard Smokey's Who's Lovin' You, my assistant was playing it and it's one of those, oh, party, red-light, basement-type, you know, up on it. But when Michael got ahold to it, and Bobby Taylor infused him up with that funk, men, Michael put that soul in that song so deep, it was soulful. (SOULFUL SONG PLAYING) How could he possibly know what that song meant? He sang it like he had written it. I sing Who's Lovin' You, or part of it, in my live concerts and many times, young people have come up to me after the concert and said, "Oh, I didn't know you sang Michael Jackson's song." A kid, 11 years old, singing that song with that muon emotion? It was incredible. Unbelievable. He seemed as if he was an old soul, that he could take a song like Who's Lovin' You and he could actually interpret those lyrics in a way that made you believe that he had those experiences, when actually he was 10 years old. If you didn't know he was a kid, you'd have thought he was an old man. (LAUGHS) But he was singing it from his heart. You know, Michael's life was kind of paradoxical to me, because when he was a child, he was a man. So when he was a man, he got the chance to be a child and he took it. He had a way of interpreting a lyric, even as a very young boy, that made you believe the song. He knew how to perform. This was, I think, something that Berry Gordy really liked about Michael because, not only was he a great vocal talent, but he was a great performer. Watching him, as a kid, be so comfortable performing. Peabo Bryson SINGER probably helped me become a better performer, actually. His voice was nearly as high as Stevie Wonder's. Martha Reeves ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS I met Stevie when he was eight years old and I said, "Here's another little youngster who's far beyond his age, talent-wise, "but able to sing adult songs in perfect-pitched voices, "real high voices that hadn't changed yet." His voice and his expressions and his... Weldon Arthur McDougal III. A & R EXECUTIVE, MOTOWN RECORDS 1969-80 charisma start taking these songs over. Like, if Smokey felt like he did his song and more people like the way Michael did it than him, that's because he did that with all of his songs at that time. No matter who it was, the O'Jays, the Dells, the Whispers or the Beatles, we wanted to be the best. And that's what we were striving for. Berry Gordy did not like the stuff that Bobby Taylor was recording on them. I wanted to do the boys a certain way, but he wanted me to do 'em his way. And I says, "I can't do 'em the way you want me to do 'em. "l must have my own head." So he says, "Okay we 're going back to Detroit. . Then he took oven. RANCIFER: Berry Gordy in turn, put his crew together. The Corporation was established to bring fresh new material to the Jackson 5. Youthful material. I think he probably felt that Bobby Taylor would give them more adult material and forget that they were children. He saw gazillions, right? Then he took over. Bobby Taylor did never get the recognition he should have gotten for working with them, from the group or the public. Bobby Taylor produced 10 songs on the album: 'Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5'. During 1969-70 the Jackson 5 released 4 number one singles in a row. The Corporation, is what they called themselves, they topped themselves with those early songs by the Jackson 5, they were absolutely incredible. Absolutely incredible. KATHERINE: When my boys had five gold records in a row, I was very proud of them because I know it was something that they wanted and it was their dream. And they were happy and I was happy. The whole family was happy about that. We did a show once for Jesse Jackson. Dennis Edwards LEAD SINGER, 'THE TEMPTATIONS'. You know, Jesse Jackson, he's the activist. He's got an organisation called PUSH Expo. He booked the Temptations and the Jackson 5. They were just up and coming. We were superstars at that time and, oh, man, it was so many people. (PEOPLE CHEERING) MCDOUGAL: When they did that Show, the Temptations got a great response. When the Jackson 5 came on, it was phenomenal. I mean, almost blew the roof off the place. EDWARDS: They couldn't get us to our limos. They had to back up an armoured car, a Brink's car. It's like a moment in history. That's when they finally made it with the black R&B public. They were just ripe for stardom. On the stage, he was a different guy. He was really as much of an actor in so many ways as he was a singer. MICHAEL: A lot of people always come up to a lot of us and say. Voice of Michael Jackson Interview courtesy of J. Randy Taraborrelli it's like two different people. On stage and off stage. When we was talking, he's shy and, you know, very soft spoken. But just when he jumped on that stage, he's like... (SCATTING) (SINGING) Well, l mean, he was a different person and I've never seen that in another artist's life. He was like two guys. Anything he felt that he wanted to do, he would do it on stage. The moment he came off of the stage, he was back to the little boy he was before he went on stage. MICHAEL: When I get on stage, I really, totally do. That's with a lot of performers. Voice of Michael Jackson Interview courtesy of J. Randy Taraborrelli. I've learned that about comedians, too. It's like when I worked with Richard Pryor in The Wiz. A lot of people think he's the funniest guy to be around 24 hours. That's not true. He 's really shy and quiet. We were all like that, too. Singing or dancing in front of like, one person, can't do it. But, like, it's 30, 000, you feel so free, so much easier. It's hard to explain. What motivates Michael Jackson? That was an audience. Think about it. He's shy, he won't look at you, right? On stage, what is he? He owns it. So if I had people looking at him, I used to bring five, six girls every time, right? And I'd say, "Michael, look at that girl, man. They think you're cute." Michael'd say, "Dang, Bobby, they said that?" I said, "You better go out there and sing now, son." I said, "You go out there and you mess up now," I said, "They're gonna tell all the rest of the girls out there. "You're gonna be one ugly little boy everywhere you go." He used to go out and do one take. When we were on the road, Michael would worry you to death. I hear somebody knocking on my door and say, "Hey, man, what's wrong?" "Oh, man, what you doing? I wanna come in." So I'd let him in. I'd say, "Man, why don't you hang out with Jackie and them guys?" "Hey man, they got somebody in their room. " (LAUGHS) I said, "Well, how do you know?" He said, 'Cause I was listening to the door for about an hour  (LAUGHING) He was like a little boy, I mean, he... I said, "What were they doing?" He said, "They were talking, but they won't let me in." They were like little kids and they were very, very happy and very carefree. TARABORRELLI: Michael loved being Michael Jackson at that age. He loved touring, he loved recording at Motown. He loved his fans, he loved performing. MCDOUGAL: They had dirt bikes and they used to go on Saturday mornings. They'd go to a place where they could ride them, and Michael used to tear that thing up. Man, he was flying up and down over the hills. I thought it was, you know, he was like any other little boy. But he was a little boy with a dirt bike. I mean, they had two or three of 'em. So, when people say that he didn't have a childhood, far as I'd seen he had a childhood. When he was a kid, things were a lot simpler. And I think that, as they got older, the family became more divided and other stuff happened in Michael Jackson 's life to make him wish that he was 12 years old again. So, when he says he missed out on his childhood, I've always felt that what he really meant was that he just missed it very much. (SLOW SONG PLAYING) The first time I met him was when he was 14, Don Black SONGWRITER, 'BEN' full of life, full of ambition. It was at the peak of his powers. Fire in his belly and just everything about him was fabulous. I wrote it about friendship. The story is about this boy who's very seriously ill and nothing's going right for him. But a little rat comes along one day, he sees it in his bedroom. But it was a lovely little mousey kind of rat. And he befriends him. And it makes the boy so much better, it lifts his spirits up. And that's how I wrote the song, about friendship. It can be about a rat. The two of us need look no more. You're always running here and there. . But it could be about a best friend. When Michael recorded Ben, I remember going to the studio and it was just magical. I just loved it. I always remember Michael getting very emotional about that song. His eyes welled up a bit, particularly at the middle bit. I'll never forget that image. The middle bit was, "I used to say 'I' and 'me, ' "now it's 'us, ' now it's 'we."'. Michael just loved those lines. In fact, that's why, I think, we repeat them in the song. We do it again. (CHUCKLES) There was a longing, I think, for love and acceptance, going all the way back to when he was a little kid. And you were able to hear that longing in his voice. Singing is passion. Bobby Taylor ARTIST, GORDY / MOTOWN RECORDS. You have to do it from inside of you. It has to come from your soul, your heart. And Michael Jackson had that. It wasn't done for the posture of "I did this." Dionne Warwick SINGER. It was done because his heart said, "This is what I need to do," and he did it. Michael sings like an angel. He has the voice of an angel and he does... Kenny Gamble & Leon Huff. PRODUCERS/ SONGWRITERS, PHILADELPHIA INT. RECORDS Every note is right on it and he was doing that at nine years old. MICHAEL: I recorded Ben I don't know how long ego. I mean, I hear it all the time still, you know, go on and on and on. Voice of Michael Jackson Interview courtesy of J. Randy Taraborrelli. Yeah, it's selling more now. So, it's what you leave behind, I think. BLACK: There are people who come along once in a lifetime. Michael Jackson, he only happens once. (SLOW SONG CONTINUES PLAYING) When you think about Michael Jackson, you think about him as a kid. Freda Payne SINGER. Like when he did some of those earlier songs, like Ben. And then as he grew and evolved and became a young man, I saw the metamorphosis of a beautiful, beautiful flower, just blooming and unfolding. Michael enjoyed what he was doing. Mickey & Jan Rooney JACKSON'S FRIENDS. That's why, transition from very young to getting older, it's just one year after another, but doing what the good Lord let us do. GEST: When Michael became e teenager; His voice changed. He realised that he would be singing different types of music, David G-est MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND not kiddie pop songs like he had been most of his career. EDDIE HOLLAND: The first time we worked with the Jackson 5 was very exciting. Because the one thing I noticed about the group, Brian & Eddie Holland. SONGWRITERS, HOLLAND-DOZIER-HOLLAND that they were extremely down to earth, very mannerable, very, very polite. Michael recorded several songs of mine and the Hollands'. Lamont Dozier SONGWRITER, HOLLAND-DOZIER-HOLLAND and Forever Came Today was one of my favourites. (SINGING) He had such pipes and drama in his voice to be so young. He was just one of a kind in that respect. He really did the songs justice. I think Michael knew now important lyric was to the song. Valerie Simpson & Nickolas Ashford. SINGERS / SONGWRITERS, 'ASHFORD & SIMPSON' And it had to reach, touch something, I think, for him to really wanna sing it. And, you know, he'd dance and sing at the same time so it had to correspond with his body, too. So it all had to be one piece for him. He didn't want fluff. He wanted something with legs on it, something that was gonna last through time and that's actually what he ended up creating. The bigger he became as an artist, the more enamoured he seemed to be over songwriters. A lot of people have done those songs and couldn't get a handle on 'em like the Levi Stubbs or Diana Ross, but he just had a knack, a gift. He already had a cake but then he put icing all on top of it. TARABORRELLI: Around 1974, they started doing product at Motown that perhaps wasn't the best. J. Randy Taraborrelli JACKSON FRIEND AND BIOGRAPHER. As a fan, I loved songs like The Boogie Man is gonna get you, and Lookin' through the Windows, and Skywriter, but these songs weren't hits. MCDOUGAL: Joe mentioned to me several times that he felt like Motown was taking the group over, taking them away from his direction. What happened was that. Marvin Gaye and Stevie Wonder and Smokey Robinson were writing and producing and doing a lot of things at Motown that the Jacksons had begun to want to do for themselves. And to see how Motown treated other artists and how the other artists was making it, it was kind of disillusion. TARABORRELLI: The company was being run at that time by Ewart Abner, Berry Gordy was making movies with Diana Ross. And Abner felt pretty strongly that they should not be writing and producing their own music, that they should just accept the material that came their way and just do a good job with it in the studio. GEST: Michael was very disillusioned. He wanted to not only write his own material but produce it as well. He realised if he was to reach these goals, he would have to go somewhere else. KENNY GAMBLE: Joe Jackson called me and told me that they were looking for a place to go. Kenny Gamble & Leon Huff. PRODUCERS/ SONGWRITERS, PHILADELPHIA INT. RECORDS And of course, Huff and myself, we tried to get them for Philly International Records. But at the same time, CBS was negotiating with them also. I wanted to know if there was a shot, a chance, Ron Alexenburg SNR. VICE PRESIDENT CBS / EPIC RECORDS of being able to get involved. And I was told there was. The next is, we sat down and we started to negotiate. They wanted a million dollars. And I figured, "Okay, that's all I could approve up to." That was my approval level. I had to go through the ranks and I said, We have a chance of signing the Jackson 5 and they said, They're done.  I said, "No, I'm sorry. "l believe in them, I believe that there's a big future, "l believe that Michael Jackson "could be one of the biggest stars even ." That took care of that. I was handed the letter and they said, "There's your deal memo, go sign 'em." In order to move on and progress, Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. Joseph said he had to do it because he wanted the children to get credit for their writings and all of that, and they couldn't do that at Motown. CBS offered them movies, they offered 'em a TV show, cartoons and everything. And of course Gamble and Huff you know, we couldn't offer them all those things. So they decided to go with CBS. Probably the most important signing of my career. TARABORRELLI: The Jackson 5 left Motown Records and went to CBS. Jermaine stayed behind because he was married to Hazel and Hazel was Berry Gordy's daughter. KATHERINE: When my boys left Jermaine back at Motown, it hurt, because Jermaine wouldn't come. I don't know if it was upset or angry or whatever or disappointment or whatever, Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER it just was a sad time, that's all. That's the word. It was sad. Jermaine felt that he owed his allegiance to Berry 'cause Berry was the one that gave us our start. And I felt the same way. TARABORRELLI: Berry Gordy maintained the name Jackson 5 and they really thought that maybe it wasn't fair that Berry got to keep the name "Jackson 5," so they went to CBS as the Jacksons. ALEXENBURG: I was not prepared for the rubbish that would come my way. It was this fear, I guess, that what the supposed "lily white" company was gonna do to this black family. I received phone calls, I received threats. There was a lot of prejudice in the business. Black records usually had to cross over from being R&B to pop stations. Very rarely did a pop station just go on a black record. It's the most ridiculous thing in the world when you think of it now because it's not like that any more. But it sure was in the '60s and '70s. Music business was segregated and even though the Jackson 5 had crossed over, there was just always this thing that was going on that there was a difference between R&B and pop. Forget the colour, listen to the music. Does the music excite your audience? Yes. Play it. Ron Alexenburg called us and asked us if we would produce them. ALEXENBURG: I wanted to go to proven winners and that's why I picked up the phone and called Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff and it was only at that time that I found out that they were also trying to sign the Jacksons and I said, "Well, pretend that you signed them but they're gonna be on Epic Records "and please produce them for me." GAMBLE: That transition was a trying time, because they had a lot of emotional things going on with them because this was the first time that Jermaine was not recording with them. GEST: When Jermaine left, Randy came into the group and Joe had been preparing Randy, for a long time, to become a member. And he fit in like a glove. This here gentleman is Randy Jackson, The Jacksons PHILADELPHIA INT. STUDIO 1977 and he happens to be the youngest and the ugliest member of the Jackson 5. Now what's the excuse for you, so ugly? (PEOPLE LAUGH) 'Cause I take after my big brother; Tito. As soon as we found a recording date for an artist, we would start writing for them and not only would Gamble and Huff write for them, but we had McFadden and Whitehead who wrote for them. - All of our writers, all of our staff... - Dexter, Cynthia Biggs... They would know that the Jacksons were coming in. DEXTER WANSEL: Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff instructed me to write a number one for them to see if I could come up with any material that they liked, Dexter Wansel PRODUCER/ SONGWRITER meaning the Jacksons, and that Gamble and Huff could approve. And so, we would have prepared for them maybe 20 songs when they walked in the door. And then we'd take those 20 songs and we'd cut 'em down to maybe, like, 12. The Jacksons themselves were interested in moving on with their career. They wanted to write, they wanted to produce. So Huff and I, we helped them produce. Tito was excellent, 'cause he's a great guitar player. Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff was very warm, nice people. They had a lot of soul, we had a lot in common with the music. WANSEL: When I cut their tracks, I always included Tito in the rhythm section. And he told me Motown would not let him play on their tracks, but he played on every one of mine. (LAUGHS) GAMBLE: Our studio was running 24 hours a day so it was like a machine. H U F F: Sometimes, we might wanna work until the wee hours of the morning. Depends on how strong your creative juices is flowing at that moment. And the Jacksons were used to curfews. But that changed in Philly. GAMBLE: Well, they were olden they were teenagers then. But they were still trying to induce that old system, and Michael rebelled against it. Because Michael wanted to hang out into the wee hours of the morning, so... And that's what he did. Michael loved his time with Gamble and Huff. He really appreciated working with two geniuses who wrote so many classic songs. Can you tell us, what made you want to sing in the first place? - I don't know. - You don't know? Well, you know how that goes with children. They just don't know, do they? Michael, at that time, was always shy and really reserved. We would say l wanna go get something to eat, or Let's do this.. And he would go, "Okay" And he was very humble. And I think he was pretty humble through his life. - What's your name? - Christopher Wansel. (PEOPLE LAUGH) I was young when that video was made, I was, like, one or two years old. Christopher Wansel JACKSON FRIEND. The relationship with the Jacksons started there and it continued throughout life. Can you sing? He can't dance? I wanna see his dance. - JACKIE: Come on, man! - You don't have to. CHRISTOPHER: I remember a lot of just, I guess, excitement and just joy with those guys at that point, you Know, 'cause a lot of people that would record would be serious, you wouldn't get a smile or anything, but these guys were constantly joking left and right. JACKIE: What do you do, booger? (LAUGHING) Well, other than being "the Bishop of Soul" I'm also "the Monk of Funk" and "the High Priest of Rock" and "the Bishop of Soul." MAN 1: All right! MAN 2: Who said that? I met Michael Jackson when he first came to Philly. Billy Paul ARTIST, PHILADELPHIA INT. RECORDS back in, I think, it was 1974. He was a very shy young kid, you know. And he was very excited to meet me, you know, 'cause he... Mrs Jones... It was at the height of Mrs Jones. I welcomed him to the studio and told him he was gonna enjoy it and I'd do a good job, you Know, and he just laughed. WANSEL: Michael's voice had changed, obviously from the little boy that could hit all those high, piercing, I'll Be There notes to a rawer sound. But he was a great singer because he studied the great singers, he wanted to sing like them. He knew what he wanted to do with his voice, like over-dubbing his voice and doubling his voice and speeding up one voice and this one... These are things that he was telling me, you know. We're the producers. He would say, "Gamble, can I try this? Can I try that?" I said, "Yeah, try anything you want." - We let him express himself. - H U F F: Yeah. GAMBLE: You know, he was in there through the mixes, he was around me and Huff all the time. I remember when they were working with Gamble and Huff in Philadelphia, and I liked their sound and I liked what they did and they helped them out a lot. And that's when the boys first start writing, too. GEST: Their first record produced by Gamble and Huff even though it went gold, wasn't a really huge album for them. It mid-charted in around the 50s and he wanted something that was number one. When they did their second album, Goin' Places, the album was really a flop. He was used to selling a million or so albums on Motown. And he really in no disrespect to them, wanted to produce and write all his own material. He wanted to be in charge. Released in 1978 'Destiny' was the first album produced by the Jacksons. When I first heard Destiny, I liked it very much. I was very proud of them. I thought they did a real good job. The album re-established The Jacksons as a top selling group. EDWARDS: He kept reaching for higher plateaus and he felt, maybe, that if the group... Dennis Edwards LEAD SINGER, 'THE TEMPTATIONS'. Where he wanted to go, they probably couldn't go with him. Michael was beginning to think of himself as a solo artist and I always wondered what would happen to the brothers if Michael left the group. Without Michael Jackson, that was gonna be a tough road for the Jacksons. And I also believed that that's one of the reasons why Michael put it off for as long as he could. Yeah, I figured he'd go solo. Jimmy Ruffin ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS. He was too good. He couldn't carry his brothers forever. KATHERINE: One of the lawyers called me in and he told me to tell the boys to save their money because Michael is gonna go solo. I said, He can't do that. . And he said, "Well, he don't need his brothers.  I said, "They need one another." TARABORRELLI: Joseph just felt that what was really important wasn't the individual success of the group but it was the group itself and it was the family itself. And that's easy to say when you're not the lead singer of the group. ALEXENBURG: I saw Michael leaving his father as a positive, no longer persecuting him, abusing him or saying things to him that were ugly. He seemed to only be getting it from one source, his father. Michael never felt comfortable with Joe as his manager, 'cause he was afraid of him. And when you're afraid of somebody, you don't wanna be around them. That was his destiny, to be by himself. His confidence level was really high and when he made the transition from us to Quincy, he was ready. Michael really admired Quincy Jones. Because. Quincy had produced Frank Sinatra, icon. Ella Fitzgerald, icon. Dinah Washington, icon. And so many other acts during his very illustrious career. When he was about to do Off The Wall, he went to him, asking for suggestions of people that might be interested in working with him. And the story goes that Quincy Jones said, "I'm available," and he said, l would love to work with you.. TARABORRELLI: I was in the studio for the Off The Wall sessions, and so, I was able to actually watch Michael and Quincy work together. And Michael really thought of Quincy as sort of the father that he hoped. Joseph could have been for him. One of the things that Michael told me he loved about working with Quincy was that Quincy thought Michael's ideas were good ideas. And if you listen to some of the demos, those songs were complete when Michael brought them to Quincy. I mean, you could have just put them out. And Quincy appreciated the fact that Michael had this amazing ability. There was a lot of respect there. BRYSON: Quincy Jones has always been smart about merging what he has to offer with what the artist has to offer and I think that's probably one of Quincy's greatest gifts. Peabo Bryson SINGER. And he certainly did that with Michael in abundance. GEST: I will never forget when he brought Off The Wall over to my house to play it for me. It just jumped right out of the record player. It was the most unbelievable album. I'd ever heard to that date. To me, that's one of the greatest albums I've ever heard in my life. Russell Thompkins, Jr. LEAD SINGER, 'THE STYLISTICS'. When the musicians that I know, and we all sit around and we listen to the arrangements, and the production that was done on that album, the things that Quincy Jones did, was fantastic. Quincy Jones had horn players playing such fantastic licks. Martha Reeves ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS and had drummers and percussions that Michael had to dance to, and that only made him even the more exciting. Quincy was a great arranger, Michael was a great singer, and also had a great foresight and it just was a marriage made in heaven. EDDIE FLOYD: I had the pleasure of coming up in the same era and watching him. Eddie Floyd SINGER/ SONGWRITER, STAX RECORDS and once he got with Michael... Wow... (CHUCKLES) History speaks for itself. TARABORRELLI: There was just no way that these songs weren't going to be big hits. KATHERINE: An album would have two very good songs on it that they know is gonna be hits, and then they throw anything on an album, to fill if out. And he said, "Mother, I don't believe in that. I think every song should be a hit. . And so, he just put good songs out there and gave the people good product. Actually, it made me start dancing again when I went out, 'cause I was one of those "l don't wanna sweat" guys. (LAUGHS) When Off The Wall was on, you had to hit the dance floor. It was just absolutely astounding and then he just Kept getting better and better. Abdul 'Duke' Fakir ARTIST, 'THE FOUR TOPS'. Such a God-given talent, so precious. TARABORRELLI: When he recorded Thriller, Michael was very excited and he said that he thought this was going to sell hundreds and hundreds of millions of copies. Quincy kept telling Michael, You know what? Maybe live million. "l mean, if we do 10 million, it's gonna be huge, "but, you know, don't get your hopes up." He was never pleased with what he accomplished. He always wanted to accomplish the impossible. TARABORRELLI: Michael felt that Quincy should have been on his team with 100 million. And he told his attorney, "Thriller's not coming out. Quincy doesn't believe in it. "Cancel. The thing's not coming out," right? So, Michael had a conversation with Walter Yetnikoff, who was running CBS at that time. And Walter Yetnikoff told Michael, "Look, who cares what these guys think. "It's not about what their impression is of this music, "it's what you believe to be the case. "And if you believe this is going to sell 100 million copies, "guess what, Michael?" I'm with you. "Let this thing come out. Don't mess with this. Just let it come out. ." And then Michael did. But it could have gone either way. We were averaging a million units a week, which no other record had done. Frank Dileo JACKSON'S MANAGER 1984-89, 2009. Michael Jackson, that year with Thriller, saved the record business. Tower Records was going out of business, CBS itself had had two black Fridays where they laid off, like, a thousand people, other companies were laying off people. Everybody was losing their job. But Thriller was so big, it brought millions of people into the stores and they not only bought Thriller; They bought other product. It was the music that will probably influence contemporary artists for a long, long time to come. It gave us a... A goal, a bull's-eye or a dream to get to, something to aspire to. KATHERINE: After Michael made Off The Wall, and then Thriller, I knew then that it was like shooting a rocket up to the moon. Were you aware of the sales? I pretty much did the album and just sat back and watched. He saw where he wanted to go. Freda Payne SINGER and he went there. And nobody could stop him. He went to a level that only the very great have obtained. He wanted to be the best and he was the best. (PEOPLE CHEERING) TAYLOR: God took that little man and he says, "Okay now, you take over the music world." Bobby Taylor ARTIST, GORDY / MOTOWN RECORDS. "It now belongs to you." ALEXENBURG: What made him so special is that he was held back for so long that when he was finally released, all of it came out. TITO: He just lit the stage on fire. He stole the show from everybody, including the Jackson 5. Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER. RANCIFER: Michael was into his fans. To make all these people that happy, it charged him up, it really did. Ronnie Rancifer KEYBOARDIST, 'JACKSON 5' 1967-77. SIMPSON: My fondest memory is the Motown 25. ASHFORD: Yeah. SIMPSON: We were on that show, - and he premiered the moonwalk. Wow. - That was something. Valerie Simpson & Nickolas Ashford, SINGERS/ SONGWRITERS, 'ASHFORD & SIMPSON' GEST: Michael called me when he got home from doing Motown 25, and said, "I've just given the greatest performance of my life." David G-est MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND. WARWICK: How excited we all were for him, it was like, "I guess I've arrived," (LAUGHS) you know? Dionne Warwick SINGER. With an armful of Grammys. It was wonderful. In 1984 Michael won an unprecedented 8 Grammys for 'Thriller'. 'Thriller' became the best selling album of all time with sales exceeding 11 C) million. ALL: (CHANTING) Michael! During the eighties Michael had more number 1 hits than any other artist. GEST: Michael Jackson is one of the greatest artists of all time, who transcended being labelled black, white, red, yellow, it didn't matter, he appealed to everybody, everywhere. I think he came here ready 'cause he always wanted to be a superstar. He was wearing little rings on his fingers when he was a little man, you know. TARABORRELLI: He was very conscious of the iconoclastic nature of "Michael Jackson," J. Randy Taraborrelli JACKSON FRIEND AND BIOGRAPHER and what it would mean historically. ALEXENBURG: Michael's image was very important to him because Fred Astaire and the people that he studied, Jackie Wilson, James Brown... How are they being revered? Why are they so terrific and what did they do? And he was a great student. Ron Alexenburg SNR. VICE PRESIDENT CBS I EPIC RECORDS. It just didn't come upon him, he studied his craft, he worked at it. GEST: He was directing his careen he was so street smart and he knew how to make a campaign work, and more importantly, how to make it last. He believed that the biggest stars left the biggest impression and it was bigger than just their art, you know. What you thought of instantly when you thought of these celebrities and with Michael, what you began to think of instantly was the fedora hat, it was the one glove. On the show that we did together at Madison Square Garden, he came out with a suitcase and inside was the glove, and he had the hat, and he had everything he needed to show them, "Nobody does it better than I and these are my trademarks." TARABORRELLI: The total package of Michael Jackson became very important, especially with the advent of video culture, which happened at the exact same time that Billie Jean and Beat It were becoming hit records. 'Billie Jean' was the 1st video by a black artist to receive heavy rotation on MTV. Michael never officially left The Jacksons. 'Victory' (1984) was their last album together. GEST: It was an immense pressure to be in the public eye and he kept wanting to look better and better. He was very, very self-conscious. Michael felt under pressure where his image was concerned because of who he is. He was a black guy he was an inner-city guy. How could he be the darling of white society? He had to change. I think all that was what led to the first plastic surgery, in 1978. I went to interview Michael at his home in Encino and he showed up at the door with bandages on his face and his eyes were black and blue, and I thought that he had been in some kind of a fight. He explained to me that he had fallen on stage and broke his nose. This was why he had that first surgery. His next major one was in 1981 and he stayed with me for four weeks. I took care of him. I always felt that he looked so good after that second one, he never needed to do more. TARABORRELLI: And then after that, there were all kinds of other things that were going on that it was really hard to determine, you know, what he was doing and when he was doing it. REBBIE: I think he should have stopped before he did, yes. Being vulnerable and listening to others, he just kept going. Rebbie Jackson MICHAEL'S SISTER. DILEO: Steve Hoefflin, I believe, and I said to Michael, did too many operations and made Michael not secure, but insecure. GEST: One of the ways Steve stayed close to Michael was constantly telling him what he needed. Steve would probably disagree with that, but I felt you just went a bit too fan. The disease that Michael had, vitiligo, Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. Michael suffered from it and he... He didn't wanna be spotted up and he... He went to a skin doctor and had him to get his whole face one colour but below, his legs and things were still spotted up but he didn't show that part of his body. Vitiligo Sufferer only parts of his body like his hands and his face and his neck and chest. That's the part that he had bleached out so it wouldn't look so bad. Some people have their own ideas of what they think it is, but I know what it is. TARABORRELLI: If always felt unfair to me and I think that Michael always felt victimised by it. I loved it when Michael said, "Plastic surgery was not invented for Michael Jackson. "People have been having plastic surgery for years. "I'm not the first one to do it. "Why am I always the one being picked on about it?" And I thought that was a really good point. TITO: We were doing a Pepsi commercial, the year was 1984. And we were just getting ready to go out on the Victory Tour. I went to the set the day they were shooting it and they had a lot of performances that were great. So it was the end of the day, they called for a wrap, I said goodbye to him. And I was walking out the door when I heard the producer say, "We have to do one more take." There was some pyro, and Michael was coming down the steps and I think somebody missed their cue. One of the flames came and landed on Michael's head, which he had hairspray, something like that, and it just... After the accident, Michael had to go through a horrific experience to repair his scalp. It was a form of tissue expansion known as ballooning. This procedure is often used on the scalp. Dr. Michael May FRCS - HAIR TRANSPLAN SPECIALIST, THE WIMPOLE CLINIC to treat burns, scarring. This is done by the surgeon inserting a plastic balloon underneath the skin and, over a period of time, increasing the volume of the balloon, and therefore, stretching the skin above. The surgeons, almost like drawing a curtain, bring the normal tissue over that area of scalp and fill in the scarred area. I actually spoke to Dr Steven Hoefflin, who did the first ballooning procedure on Michael after the Pepsi incident. And he explained to me. Michael continued to do the ballooning procedure with different doctors, throughout his career. It was quite painful, you can imagine. If a large balloon of saline is placed beneath the skin, is blown up to perhaps 1000 cc of fluid, it causes quite a large amount of discomfort. KATHERINE: I think after he got burnt, that was the first time he was exposed to strong pain medicine, because he did have a lot of pain in that spot for a long time. People don't realise that his dependency on pills was due to that one accident that changed his life forever. I used to give a lot of private parties for Michael because he'd wanna meet somebody. My neighbour, when I was living in New York, was Liam Neeson, and he loved Liam Neeson's work in Schindler's List. And I invited Liam over and some friends of mine. DOZIER: You gave him a party and I remember. Michael McDonald sang, Gloria Gaynor sang. Lamont Dozier SONGWRITER, HOLLAND-DOZIER-HOLLAND. You and Michael were clowning, he had three bottles of wine, I think, and he was having a food fight. In the middle of Gloria Gaynor singing, Michael threw some jellybeans at me, and then he started throwing them in the piano. (CHUCKLES) And I remember Gloria Gaynor looking up, like, "What's going on?" I said, "He's just a kid at heart." BRYSON: We ended up sitting at a table together I got up and I went to talk to some other people away from the table. Peabo Bryson SINGER. When I got back, Michael was in my seat, in my date's ear; in her face. I tried to wait a while, maybe he was gonna go away soon. No, he was so engrossed in the conversation with my date, he didn't even notice me coming back. "Michael, get your own." The first time Michael ever drank in his life was at a dinner that I had with Burt Bacharach and he drank about a bottle and a half of a vintage wine and he loved the taste. And I remember we went back to my flat, and when we got out of the car, he threw up in the parking lot. He threw up in my house, everywhere. And I was picking up all this mess, and he said, "You know, if I told Joseph, you would be in real hot water. "He would be really mad at you." I said, "Don't tell him." Not only did we have fun, I got to set up a number of collaborations with Michael and other artists. Where I actually met him was at a big do for him, Petula Clark SINGER I ACTRESS and he had asked for me to come along and sing. I sang Downtown, of course, inevitably. But it seems that he was a great fan. Bless his heart, he financed a recording session for me. He was a very giving person, Michael. And very funny and of course deeply, deeply talented. David called me on one given day and said that, "I think there's a possibility "that you and Michael should sit down and write together." Paul Anka SINGER / SONGWRITER (BALLAD PLAYING) Michael and Paul were in the Jacuzzi and came up with This ls It. Not many people know that I was responsible for putting them together. Unfortunately it evolved, and I don't know if you remember, but Michael took the tapes out of the studio in Los Angeles, because he didn't want to finish the project. He kept them, illegally. We had the same lawyer, unfortunately. I fired the lawyer because he couldn't find the contract, all of a sudden. So, what really happened was, after Michael, under pressure, returned the tapes, he obviously copied them. Thus, years later, they went into his home, and they found a copy, on a cassette or whatever, of my multi-tracks, from my studio, which they thought was new, they thought it was a new song. What threw them off was when they heard "This is it" as the first line, it correlated with the tour that he was gonna do. After gathering all of the evidence, I realised that there was an honest mistake made and I don't wanna cause any problems. So we sat down very quickly, within a few hours, and we hammered out a deal, which I think is fair to all of us. And that's the story about This Is It. G-EST: In 1990, I was producing the American Cinema Awards, which honoured legendary stars of the cinema, as well as great musical entertainers. And over the years, we'd honoured many great legends. There was nobody more qualified to win the award for musical Entertainer of the Decade than Michael Jackson. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my gratitude to those responsible for the American Cinema Awards. I thank David Gest. You're just fantastic. Thank you so much. And final, I thank little Christina and Michael. I love you all, goodbye. In 1993, Michael Jackson was accused of molestation by this kid, whose name was Jordy Chandler, and by Jordy's father, whose name was Evan Chandler. These people were people that Michael allowed into his life, and he befriended them. And the next thing we knew, this kid was claiming that Michael had molested him. Back in 1993, this was unbelievable to all of us who knew Michael Jackson. Because we just really didn't think of Michael in any kind of sexual way. He was sort of asexual in our minds at that time. If you know Michael, you know his heart. Billy Davis, Jr. SINGER, '5th DIMENSION'. Michael was probably one of the most gentle people that one would ever want to meet. Michael always told me he loved children because they were innocent. They never wanted anything from him. Michael was always so protective of children. Marilyn McCoo SINGER, '5th DIMENSION'. The side that I saw of him, he was such a family-oriented person. All of us, growing up, you may know about, I mean, we always had a baby in our arms, on our laps, and we always gravitate to kids. I mean, it's just an innocent thing and that's as far as it would ever go. KATHERINE: I was sick to my stomach, because I knew that Michael wouldn't do a thing like that. And I was wondering, why are they lying on him like that? And I can imagine how Michael must've felt. GEST: Michael called me and said, "You do something nice and people try to fuck you." And that's what he said to me. And he was just so hurt. And I rarely heard him cuss. Michael was on tour and they took great care to wait until he go on tour to put this stuff out. It did appear to me, and to everybody in the circle, and also to Michael, that the district attorney, Tom Sneddon, was really after Michael Jackson. And he said, "Why would people believe this?" And I said, "You know, I'm having a hard time understanding it, too, Michael, "but what I think is that for so many years, people have wondered about your sexuality "and they've wondered, 'Is this guy gay, is this guy straight?'" No one really could understand it. And now that this has happened, people feel that they have the answer; and it's something that they've decided to latch on to. . And he said, "Yes, but it's not true. . And I said, "Yeah, I know that, but this is what's going on. "You know, this is what you are up against." And he was devastated by the '93 allegations, there's no doubt about it. Freda Payne SINGER I felt that somebody was trying to get something out of this or they were manipulating a situation. Michael was a target. Michael had made a lot of money, and unfortunately, in our world, we have people out there who would like to get some of your money. And they will do almost anything to get it. Michael is my brother I love him a great deal. La Toya Jackson Press conference, Israel 1993. But I cannot, and I will not be a silent collaborator of his crimes against small, innocent children. It was hard for me to believe that she believed that this was true. Just because, if you knew La Toya and you knew Michael, they were so close that it just seemed unfathomable that La Toya would speak out against her brother. I have seen cheques payable to the parents of these children, and I don't know if these children were apparently bought, the parents, by Michael, or not, but I have seen these cheques. And I've seen these cheques through my mother. Jack Gordon was the guy's name who basically put her out there to do things that was well out of her character I can't really say on television the words for Jack Gordon. But he was a man who had no morals and very little class. REBBIE: You can come in contact with the wrong people without knowing it or people that surround you, they can have a strong influence on you. And these kids are gonna be scarred for the rest of their lives, and I don't wanna see any more innocent, smell children being affected this way. I love Michael very dearly but I feel even more sorry for these children because they don't have a life any more. They don't. I had spoken to him on the phone the day after she had said all those things. And I have never heard him feel so much hate for a person than he did for La Toya. I just know that it was something that was very ugly and disheartening, and the family didn't like it at all. There 's certain things you're not gonna get me to do for no price, whatsoever, when it comes to people I love and care for. He was hurt. He was really hurt. La Toya Jackson and her husband, boyfriend, I guess, at that time, Jack Gordon, and I went to Spain to do a TV show together. And it was a crazy TV show, where she was going to be rigged to a lie detector and then I was going to ask her questions. I can't imagine why she wanted to do this because I totally thought she was lying. When Michael gave his speech from Neverland, we watched it in the green room backstage at this TV show. I ask all of you to wait and hear the truth. And I remember seeing it with La Toya thinking, "This is your brother "and you're getting ready to go on television "and I'm gonna ask you these questions "and the lie detector's gonna be swinging like crazy." And suddenly La Toya's price for that interview had gone up to, like, $100,000 from $10,000. Jack said, "You know, this is now the biggest story in the world, "and La Toya is going to be paid appropriately." And the show would not pay her that money, and so, I ended up getting a free trip to Madrid. They served a search warrant on me, which allowed them to view and photograph my body including my penis, my buttocks, my lower torso, thighs and any other area that they wanted. Michael did talk to me about the strip search. Basically, he said it was the most humiliating experience of his life. He couldn't believe that it could happen. He couldn't imagine that the law provided for such a thing. Who would stoop as low as trying to take pictures of a person's genitals, and just trying to humiliate him like that? That was terrible. If that can happen, anything can happen. This man could end up going to jail. Because this guy, Tom Sneddon, he is definitely after Michael Jackson. And he's got power. He's got the law behind him. It was a real wake-up call. I remember Michael calling me at 2:00 a.m. in the morning and we spoke till 5:00 am. And he told me he would never, ever settle that case. He would never give the guy a dime. I said, "You're right. "If you pay him off, people are gonna think you are guilty." He said he would never do that. Michael was getting some really horrible advice at the time from lawyers, Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER saying, "Let's just get rid of it, you Know. "Settle it out and people will forget it and it'll go away." The time has come for Michael Jackson to move on to new business, to get on with his life, to start the healing process and to move his career forward to even greater heights. When they settled the case by paying off, right away the next day, I called Michael, "Why did you do that?" And Michael said, "Mother, I didn't do that. I wanted to fight it till the end. "But they told me, the lawyers and things told me, "'Just go on and pay it off and settle it."'. He just heard a lot of people making a lot of promises. Frank Dileo JACKSON MANAGER 1984-89, 2009 and telling him, "It's no big deal." Like, "Pay them the money, it's like a quarter to you." The reason they did it was because Michael was out on tour, they had accused him of this terrible thing, and they didn't want to stop the tour, so they just paid it off. It was too late. He got some of the worst advice, probably, in the music business. I interviewed Michael right after he made the settlement, and I asked him, "Why did you do it? "Don't you realise that from this moment on, people are going to believe you were guilty?" And Michael said he didn't care. He said, It's my life, it's my careen it's my choice. I discussed it with him many years later and he did regret the settlement. It was one thing in the moment, you know, when you're in pain and you're making a decision based on the pain of the moment, it's another thing when years go by and you look back on it and you think, "Why did I do that?" And it wasn't about the $17 million, that meant nothing to him. It was paid out in an instalment plan, like he was buying a refrigerator. It really meant nothing to him. It was just the fact that people believed he settled because he was guilty that really pissed him off. DILEO: A lot of people are very confused on this. But I can sit here under oath or any other way you want it, and I'm a staunch Catholic, I 'll swear on the Bible, Michael was not gay. Nor has he ever been gay. He's confided in me that certain women that he had relationships with, he wasn't public about any of it, because you don't want the fans to think you're tied down, they don't have that shot of getting to you. I went to his home, Neverland, Whitney Houston SINGER and he pulled out all of the stops. He picked me up in a helicopter, and I got to the house, and he had a coach and buggy pick me up from the gate, to his home. We were in the kitchen, and this is when he had Bubbles, the monkey. I had taken off my shoes, and I felt this little nibble at my toe, and I thought Michael was playing with my toes. I was like, "Oh, Michael, aren't you special." But it was Bubbles sucking on my big toe. (LAUGHING) I thought to myself. "You better watch out, I'll take Bubbles home." Michael told me about being on the set of a movie, and one of the leading ladies invited him to her room to watch a movie and I guess the saying would be she "jumped his bones." I know some of the stars that Michael had been with. I'll take that to my grave. When he married Lisa Marie Presley, it came out of nowhere and everybody thought it was a big joke, including me. I went on television and I cracked a joke that if anybody's interested in buying Michael and Lisa Marie a wedding present, they're registered at Toys R Us. On my way home, the phone rang and it was Michael, and he said, Of all the people in my world, "l would think that you would not belittle my relationship." And I said, "Well, you know, I feel really terrible right now about this, Michael, "but you have to understand that this thing with Lisa Marie "has come out of the clear blue sky. "Nobody understands what's going on here. "She's from Graceland, you're from Neverland. "What is going on here?" We did a very long interview, in which he explained to me that he really felt very strongly about Lisa Marie Presley, that the marriage was a real marriage for him. And he said, "And if you don't believe me, ask Lisa Marie." And so I did. I interviewed Lisa Marie several times. And I can tell you one thing about Lisa Marie Presley, she's tough. She tells the truth. She is in-your-face honest. I believed her when she told me that that was a real marriage. KATHERINE: It was a surprise to me. (CHUCKLES) I had heard it on television, but he never told me. He called me, and I said, "I've been hearing about you being married to Lisa Marie Presley." He said, "Yes, that's why I called you. I wanted to tell you about it. "And she's right here. You wanna speak to her?" And I spoke to her. Being raised in the South, she had that accent. She had a very deep voice, also. And I told Michael, I said, Michael, that's not hen. That's a black girl that I spoke to. . GEST: He was married to his career. And I don't think any woman could live with somebody and find that they place second, and not first. TARABORRELLI: Michael and Debbie were always very different. Debbie Rowe and Michael Jackson were not in love. Debbie Rowe was somebody that would have been a surrogate mother to Michael's children, had he had his way. Had he had his way we would never even know her name. The problem was that Michael's own mom was so determined that Michael not have children out of wedlock, that she really wanted Michael to marry Debbie. And Michael felt pressured also, by the record industry and by his fans, to sort of make an honest woman out of Debbie Rowe. And she would have done anything for Michael. She was a big fan of his. She had posters of him all over her apartment. She would have done anything for him. She never lived at Neverland. She never moved in to Neverland, like Lisa Marie did. Their marriage was a marriage in name only so that she could have his children and then they divorced. Michael told me the reason he married Debbie Rowe. David Gest MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND was because he wanted to have a child and that she was just a really nice person to be around. It wasn't that he was so physically in love with her, it's that he liked that she was a great nurse, and she understood him. Michael had two children with Debbie Rowe: Prince (1997) and Paris (1998). He had a third child 'Blanket' in 2002 with an unknown mother. I got up one day and heard on the radio The Love You Save by the Jackson 5. It was my all-time favourite record by the group. And I called Michael and said, "We're gonna do a concert, "and I'm gonna reunite you and your brothers." Michael said no. Straight out, no. And I called him again and I said, "We've got to do this. "You're gonna make a lot of money "and we'll put together a deal and you and I will own it." We'll be partners in this. . And Michael said, "Okay let's do it. . We set the wheels in motion for the Michael Jackson 30th Anniversary Celebration: The Solo Years in New York City at Madison Square Garden. It was about six weeks before the show. Frank Cascio JACKSON'S FRIEND, ASSISTANT. And all of a sudden, as Michael expected, Jermaine had all these random requests and demands. GEST: Michael was very disappointed with Jermaine. He never thought he was very shrewd or sharp. He loved his brother dearly. But there was a competition between them. Michael said, "Well, if he's a problem, get him off the show." TARABORRELLI: I think it was really difficult for Jermaine to live in the shadow of somebody who was as huge as Michael. J. Randy Taraborrelli JACKSON FRIEND AND BIOGRAPHER. And they were very, very competitive in that family. Two weeks before the show, Katherine Jackson called me and said, "l want all my sons together." Jermaine has to go back. I said, l can't deal with him.. And she said, He will be no problem. . And he came and was a perfect angel. Michael really wanted Elizabeth Taylor at the show, as his date. But Elizabeth wasn't gonna do anything for nothing. "Oh, Michael, I don't know. "I don't know, Michael. "I'm not feeling so well and I don't know if it's a good idea." That day he picked out the most beautiful necklace for Elizabeth Taylor. "Oh, Michael, I love it. "Of course I will come to the show with you. Of course." So, Elizabeth Taylor, for a fee of a $250,000 necklace, was Michael Jackson's date at the show. Well, he is one of my closest friends. Madison Square Garden SEPTEMBER 7TH, 2001. And we know more about each other, probably, than any two people. And I love him and he loves me. GEST: He was supposed to be in the audience from 8:00 to 9:00, watching all the acts do a tribute to him. No Michael at 8:00, no Michael at 8:15, no Michael at 8:30. The CBS people were saying, "What's going on?" I said, "He's on his way." Frank Cascio went over to the hotel. So I walk into his room, he's sleeping. "What do you mean he's asleep?" I could tell he was out of it and he wasn't completely there. "I started shouting at him. I said, What did you take?" So, he told me, he took a shot of Demerol. He said, "Frank, my back was killing me.  I said, "You're just looking for an excuse to get out of the show. "Just tell me, isn't that right?" He wouldn't answer me. But I knew that was what it was. I said, "I don't care what you've taken, you get on there and entertain." REPORTER: What makes this a great night for you? It's a reunion and I'm honoured that the world appreciates my art. I'm very honoured. TARABORRELLI: I remember talking to Michael at that time, and he fell asleep on the phone when I was talking to him. And I called his lawyer and I said, "Is it possible that Michael is on drugs?" Because I couldn't imagine it. Michael never did anything like that. Michael never admitted to anybody that he had a problem with drugs. He was totally aloof. Those of us that did know, and tried to help, he just eliminated. He's an amazing man, that he could, on the pills that he took, put on a performance. He looked like his eyes were closed most of the time, because I've got the tapes. But no one knew. It was a brilliant show. A lot of energy with the brothers being on stage once more, again. And the whole thing, just playing those hit songs once more, brought back a lot of great memories. I don't know anybody who could do all those dances and get up there. And he got away with it. (UP-TEMPO SONG PLAYING) The TV broadcast of the concert went on to become one of the highest rated 'Music Specials' in American history. Around 2003, Michael became involved with a family by the name of Arvizo. And Martin Bashir was doing a documentary about Michael. And it was Michael's idea to feature this kid in the documentary. Michael has a deep affection for helping children in need. And this child happened to have a severe case of cancer. Michael immediately wanted to do something to help, to give this child hope, and give him a reason to live. A lot of the people working for Michael Jackson didn't want Michael to do this because they felt that after what happened with Jordy Chandler, people shouldn't be reminded of any association that Michael had with any kids. But Michael had no consciousness of guilt, at all. I saw the original documentary that Mr Bashir produced. Thomas A. Mesereau, Jr. JACKSON'S ATTORNEY, 2005 TRIAL I didn't know Michael Jackson at the time. But something seemed very very manipulative, very sinister, about the way he approached Michael Jackson. And what was proof of that was the navet Michael displayed in continuing to talk to this man, who clearly, in my opinion, was bent on destroying his reputation. FEMALE REPORTER: Tonight, 12-year-old Gavin reveals he spends nights at Neverland, sometimes in Jackson 's bed, the star on the floor. Next thing you know, children protective services became involved, and different lawyers began asking questions, Tom Sneddon is back in the picture again. And the Arvizo family, suddenly, have decided that Michael had molested Gavin. Gavin came to Michael, and said, "Michael, can we sleep in your room tonight?" Frank Cascio - UNINDICTED CO-CONSPIRATOR, JACKSON TRIAL 2005. And Michael looked at me and says, "l don't know. "You know, I think you better ask your mother." "Oh, we already asked our mother. She says, 'Sure, no problem."'. I'm like, "No. This is... Something's odd. This is not right. . And then, as I was about to go tell Gavin that he cannot sleep in Michael's room, Michael says, "Okay, I have a solution for this. "You have to sleep in the room with me." The two children slept on the bed and Michael and I slept on the floor. An arrest warrant for Mr Jackson has been issued on multiple counts of child molestation. At this point in time, Mr Jackson 's been given an opportunity to surrender himself to the custody of the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department within a specified period of time. They were claiming that Michael organised a conspiracy to abduct children, to falsely imprison a family and to commit criminal extortion. And the other counts had to do with allegations of child molestation. These were serious allegations, the most ridiculous allegations. Anyone who knows Michael, Michael is not a paedophile. Mr Jackson has been booked into the county jail. He has since been released. He has posted the bail and he has been given an arraignment date. Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. It bothered me because I was wondering how he was feeling and how he was dealing with it. Michael used to always tell me, I'd rather slit my own wrist than to hurt a child. "And here they are trying to accuse me "of the thing that I love best, and that's children, "accuse me of molesting them." The more I looked at the facts, the more I conversed with him, the more ridiculous these charges appeared. He just did not seem like the kind of person that could ever engage in this kind of behaviour. Mr Sneddon was obsessed with taking down Michael Jackson. My understanding is that in the mid-'90s, Mr Sneddon personally travelled to Australia and Canada, and perhaps other countries I'm not aware of, to find witnesses against Michael Jackson. He also arranged to have a website at the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department where they were looking for any witnesses or evidence against Michael. Finally, in 2004, he got his wish, a criminal trial with Michael Jackson as the defendant. To see this DA, with this wicked smile and grin, like, he's gonna become a national hero for catching Michael Jackson doing something that he never did made me wanna just throw up on the television. Jackson himself I believe, has said that this was all done to try to ruin his new CD that was coming out or whatever it is he's doing, like the sheriff and I really are into that kind of music. But... (PEOPLE LAUGH) There was a real, sort of, leaning in the press corps that, "Look, if this is happening again, then he must be guilty." We really didn't know what they had. We just... Because it was all sealed and nobody knew what it was. I personally believe this Janet Arvizo was provoked by someone. Janet Arvizo is a sick woman. She has a track history of shaking people down. The more I looked at the history of welfare fraud, the more I looked at their hustling celebrities to try and get money, the more I put this package together; I have to say, I was quite surprised that the prosecutors pinned their hopes on these people. We've been ready to do this for some period of time. I wanna clarify that so that you understand that. MESEREAU: Prosecution was like a train that left the station. It was not gonna slow down. Once they decided to charge Michael Jackson, it almost appeared as if they were gonna do whatever it took to make sure this thing got to trial and that they got a conviction. Seventy sheriffs from Santa Barbara County raided Michael Jackson's home. Now, I've seen murder cases, I've seen serial killers have investigations done in their premises, with five people, with six people, with 10 people. Never have I seen this many sheriffs descend on anybody's home in any case. It was all done because of who he was, and they knew this was gonna be a worldwide event, and, frankly, it was very despicable as far as I'm concerned. There was a lynch mob mentality in Santa Maria that extended not only to the police and to the district attorney but, maybe, to the media as well. And I remember when we were standing in line to get our press credentials, one of the reporters, a woman, who was a very popular reporter in America, pulled herself out of the line and she said, "Is there anybody standing in this line, besides J. Randy Taraborrelli, "who does not believe that Michael Jackson is guilty?" MESEREAU: And there was the issue of race. When he got in big trouble, he reached out to black leaders to try and defend him. He reached out to Reverend Jesse Jackson, to Reverend Al Sharpton and others. I wanted to avoid any racial division. There was a phone call one night. It was Michael Jackson and his publicist. She wanted to bring black celebrities into the courtroom. She felt this would be better for his legacy. And my comment about this request was that, you know, if he's convicted, his legacy is gonna be dying in California State Prison. (CROWD CHEERING) DILEO: And I flew out, at the request of Katherine, to go to the arraignment. When we all drove up together, you know, and went through that. Frank Dileo JACKSON MANAGER 1984-89, 2009. Of course, then he got on the roof. (CROWD CHEERING) When he got in the can I said, "Will you stop that already? This is serious stuff here." He went in there, he was strong, he was not gonna let anything get to him, he was jumping on the bus, really proud, you know what, showing his fans, We 're gonna get through this, we 're gonna fight. "Everything's gonna be fine. ." When we first started, Michael came in and he looked really robust and healthy. He was sharp and focused, and determined to prove his innocence. Case 1133603: The People v Jackson begins on February 28, 2005. GEST: Even after the first day, you knew that these people were only after money, and this was the biggest hoax in the world that they were trying to pull. They put witnesses on the stand to testify under oath to things that never happened, to things that were completely exaggerated and untrue. They were willing to almost throw anything at the jury, hoping something would stick. FEMALE REPORTER: Time for a diminutive mother of four; Janet Arvizo, to take centre stage. Her evidence could end the career of a pop legend. What had upset me is they were reporting. Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER everything that was said about Michael, but they wasn't reporting anything in his defence. It looked like a feeding frenzy to me. The media were just out to see the world's greatest known celebrity fall to destruction. That's where they thought their ratings in the future would come from. And, for me, it was really a disgrace. During the trial, Diane Dimond was the worst person in the world. Nice to meet you. Your hands are very cold. I didn't say what you thought I 'd say. Did you get my message? I got your message. I don't understand how these people can run out and lie. They don't even get a chance to find out the truth. Tom Mesereau would get there and show... And clean it up, and show that this is not true, this is really how it went, but they wouldn't report that. And that went on for months. When we finally got to see what was being alleged, it just seemed so ridiculous and so far-fetched that I remember one reporter from CNN came over to me after the day that the mother testified, Janet Arvizo, and he said, "I feel so used." Mrs Arvizo claimed that she feared Michael Jackson so much that she thought he and his henchmen were gonna put she and her family on a hot air balloon and let them sail away to their demise. That was one of, probably, 500 crazy things that came out of this trial that the Arvizo family were alleging. Sitting in court, listening to all these people lie, people he'd been good to and all of that, he said he couldn't believe that they were telling all these lies on him. These people must have been paid off to do a lot of this stuff. CASCIO: I warned him about this family. I warned him about that mother. That mother, I read from a mile away. She had an agenda from day one. There was a so-called rebuttal video that was played, the video that the Arvizo family made after the allegations had surfaced, in which they claim that Michael had been a father figure to this family. And they were really adamant about it on this video. And this video existed. And you would've thought that just the fact that this video existed would've been enough for the district attorney to not wanna prosecute this case, because, eventually, we would have to see this video. And all of us would then have to look at this and think, "What the heck is going on here?" Which is exactly what happened. MALE REPORTER: The focus, instead, was on the defence 's first celebrity witness, the actor Macaulay Culkin. The prosecution had suggested that in the early 1990s, he was one of a number of young boys who'd been sexually abused by Jackson. MESEREAU: I have to say, Chris Tucker and Macaulay Culkin will always go down in my book as loyal, good friends. They had managers and agents and lawyers who didn't want them to get involved, and they both told me that, When Michael needs us, we're gonna be there. . There were other witnesses, people he knew at Neverland, who came in to tell the truth. We had a lot of people that rose to his defence. GEST: I stood by him because he was a decent, good man, with a warm heart, a loving heart. The family were extremely supportive of Michael Jackson throughout this trial. His mother never missed one day. The trial lasted almost five months. She never missed a day. I knew what Michael was going through and my heart just bled for him all the time. TARABORRELLI: The family was there and there was this, sort of sense that it was gonna be okay. I remember they showed the Martin Bashir documentary and Michael's music was playing throughout it, and I remember looking around the courtroom and seeing all these heads bobbing up and down to Michael's music. And I thought to myself, "Wow, this is gonna be some crazy molestation trial, "because everybody here is, sort of, rocking out to Billie Jean. ." It just seemed very surreal to me. MESEREAU: The prosecution, in my opinion, didn't know what to do with the fact that they found 10 years' worth of magazines, Playboy, Penthouse, Hustler; at Neverland, which would suggest that Michael Jackson was heterosexual, and interested in seeing pictures of beautiful women who were naked. They weren't quite sure how to fit that into their theory that he was a paedophile. So they came up with the notion that a paedophile will take magazines like this to somehow groom the alleged victim. The district attorney showed so much pornography that your head was spinning by the time this was over. It was the only day that Katherine excused herself from the courtroom for the afternoon. I thought, they're constantly flashing this material at the jury, which was a majority of females, by the way, I thought just was stupid, but that's what they did. They couldn't find any pornography on his computers. They had the FBI test every computer at Neverland, they couldn't find any kiddie pornography. So they just tried to fit everything into their theory and it just became an absurdity. You just knew that there was really something devious going on. This guy, Tom Sneddon, was really out to get him. It had to be totally torture. I couldn't imagine what was going on in his mind and in his head. He's not strong in that way, though. MESEREAU: The stress and strain of this five-month trial took a toll on him. You saw him losing weight, he was having trouble sleeping. I would talk to him at 3:00, 4:00, 5:00 in the morning, and he would be terrified, particularly about what might happen to his children. He did need some things to help him fall asleep at night, because there was no way he was sleeping with all this stuff going on in his head. I don't know how anyone could sleep. GEST: The thought that you might be found guilty and spend the rest of your life in a jail cell and all your accomplishments washed down the drain, I don't know how he coped. Most people would've taken a gun to their head. His frame of mind was very, very fragile, and I was concerned for him. He was very worried about his children and his mother and what people would think. TARABORRELLI: The first day of Gavin 's testimony, Michael shows up and he's in pyjamas, and he looked like he was in really bad shape. And they actually, they had to, like, help him into the courtroom. From that moment on, everything started to get really awful. You started seeing Michael coming in every day looking like death. It was as if the testimony was just destroying him. To sit there in court and watch the legal system hurl absurd and vindictive and nasty, mean-spirited allegations at him like this, absolutely traumatized him. For me, and for other people who actually knew Michael, this was a real human being, whose life was being destroyed, and every day it just seemed to get worse. 5 months after the trial began the attorneys presented their closing arguments. On June 1 3th, 2005 after 9 days of deliberation the jury reached a verdict. If found guilty of all 10 charges Michael faced spending the rest of his life in prison. (CROWD CHEERING) One of the sheriffs came to me and said, "You've got the best seat in the house." And I said, Why?And he said, Because you're sitting right behind Michael. And when we find him guilty, we 're going to get him out of there so fast that your head's gonna spin.. These people had already decided that Michael was guilty. And they were sure of it, so sure that they had an exit plan to get him out of there. Michael came into the courtroom and he looked like he was on serious drugs. He really, truly looked like a dead man walking. MESEREAU: It was a tense moment, you know, the entire world stopped to watch what was gonna happen to the best known celebrity, a musical genius, Michael Jackson. That was such an awfully emotional day, you just didn't know what to expect. WOMAN: We, the jury in the above entitled case, find the defendant not guilty of conspiracy as charged in count one of the indictment. (ALL CHEERING) The verdict was read and it was, "Not guilty. Not guilty. Not guilty. Not guilty." All the way down the line, all counts, "Not guilty." And I remember, very specifically, Michael seeming to not understand. And I remember Tom Sneddon looking at Michael for a reaction and not really getting one. And I also remember Tom Mesereau, his lawyer, leaning in and mouthing to Michael Jackson, "You're a free man." I could read his lips, 'cause I was so close. And Michael Still didn't get it. You felt like it was a triumphant moment but then when you looked at him, you realised that he wasn't there for it. There was nothing you could do. He was so devastated that it had happened that you couldn't even find a place to be happy that it ended the way it did because it was so devastating that it had occurred at all. It's sad because I really feel that trial is what really depressed my brother out to the point where he just wasn't happy. He never went back to Neverland. For Michael not to go to Neverland, he must've been pretty sad. Didn't wanna have nothing to do with that place ever again. He would always tell me, "It's over. I don't trust anyone. "l don't know why they're doing this to me. They want me dead." He said, "They're gonna Kill me for what I got." (CROWD CHEERING) I'm pretty sure there was times when he felt that, you know, "l wish I was someone else," or, other than an entertainer. There's a certain point that you can get to with success. Smokey Robinson ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS where you have no life whatsoever. You lose the ability to be a person. To be a person that cannot be a part of the everyday life of this world, Russell Thompkins, Jr. LEAD SINGER, 'THE STYLISTICS' it could really be devastating on the mind. PAYNE: You can't get it all for free. And that's what happened with Michael, Freda Payne SINGER he had to give up so much that he lost his ability to just walk amongst everyday people. This was the first artist that I'd been associated with, Kenny Gamble & Leon Huff. PRODUCERS/ SONGWRITERS, PHILADELPHIA INT. RECORDS and the only artist that I'd been associated with, that you could not walk down the street with. Look at my life. It's somewhat normal. It's not normal, but it's a little normal. But judging my life to his, his was nowhere close. He just couldn't be anonymous. Impossible. (CROWD CHEERING) (FANS SCREAMING) Michael Jackson is proclaimed the King of Pop. Martha Reeves ARTIST, MOTOWN RECORDS. It's kind of hard being a king. You can get out of sorts. I think he, kind of, like, isolated himself from everyone who would say no. BILLY DAVIS JR.: Everything he wants is, Yes. Okay Michael.. It's hard to have someone there. Billy Davis, Jr. SINGER, '5th DIMENSION' to give you an honest answer, an honest opinion. KATHERINE: Joseph would always tell him, "Michael, watch your people. "Michael, watch your people. . He said, "I trust my people. My people are good people." But that's not the case. Katherine Jackson MICHAEL'S MOTHER. People smile in your face, pat you on the back and stab you at the same time. These people saw money, Bobby Taylor ARTIST, GORDY / MOTOWN RECORDS and they saw somebody who they could get to. It was hard for Michael to say no, as a kid and as an adult. Because he generated so much wealth and so much profit, Thomas A. Mesereau, Jr. JACKSON'S ATTORNEY, 2005 TRIAL he became the repeated target of unsavoury characters, many of them mediocre, who tried to get near him, promise him the moon and then profit themselves by being around him. And I think he received some tremendously bad advice throughout his career when it came to finances. Michael was an easy touch, and anybody could take advantage of him just because he trusted everybody's word. Michael would bring random people into his life for business deals. They would offer him the world and Michael would believe them. Michael told me he only committed to 10 shows at the O2 dome for his comeback concerts. When he found out that he was committed to 50 shows and there was no way of getting out of it, he snapped. He felt like they'd tricked him, he was put up against the wall and let down by people, or misled, I should say. It was thrown on him by his manager and, in his state of mind, he could've said yes to anything. After I heard that he was doing those many shows, I started calling him, telling him... Then I heard how they were gonna do 'em every other day, and I told him he couldn't do it that way. He had to rest. And I kept after them. DILEO: The wear and tear of all the managers, all the promises that they didn't live up to, took its toll. Probably, a more stronger person would be able to fight through a lot of that, and a lot of them have. Frank Sinatra, he was pursued the same way but he seemed to be a person who could put people at bay. But it seemed like Michael has a certain type of frailty to his self and it wouldn't allow him to be very strong-minded or to be forceful with a lot of people. KATHERINE: Everybody he met, he trusted them, for some reason. And I think that's why Michael was taken advantage of so much. Doctors are human beings, too, and they get star-struck, and they want a little touch of that fame, and they wanna be able to say, "I'm Michael Jackson's doctor." Michael would doctor shop, like a lot of celebrities do, and he'd find the doctor, just the right one, who would do the thing that Michael wanted him to do. Michael felt that he needed to escape, and he had always been suffering from insomnia, from as far back as I can remember. CASCIO: Michael Jackson did have a problem. Do I believe he was an addict? No, I don't believe Michael Jackson was a drug addict. He went through cycles. It really depended on what was happening in his life and in his world. KATHERINE: I had no reason to think or believe that he was on drugs until my children came to me one time and they said it, and I said, "Well, I've never seen him in that shape." Then I went to him and I talked to him about it, and he kept denying it. DILEO: I asked him, I said, "Now, Michael, is there any problems I should know about?" "What do you mean?" I said, "Well, you know, once in a while you seem a little dizzy. You wanna go to rehab? "No. No! There you go. See? Now, why would you assume that? "I'm not taking anything, Frank. I'm not doing one thing." TARABORRELLI: One of the people working for him said, You won't ever guess what this man is doing to get to sleep. . And I Said, "What?" And I was told he's using an anaesthetic. And I Said, "What? "How do you do that?" I had never heard of such a thing. He said, "Dude, I don't know what to tell you, but that's what's going on." Unfortunately, he did find doctors who were willing to do this crazy thing that ultimately led to his death. Fire Paramedic 33. What is the nature of your emergency? ALVAREZ: We have a gentleman here that needs help, he's not breathing. NEWSCASTER: We have breaking news for you tonight, the singer Michael Jackson is reported to have died from a heart attack. I heard that my brother had passed away through my sister Janet, Tito Jackson MICHAEL'S BROTHER who asked me to pull over 'cause I was rushing over to my mom's. I just couldn't believe it. So, I had to just sit in my car and pull myself together, you know, and I went over to my mom's home. The entire family had met that evening, and was there condoling each other, you Know. It was rough. Just the whole time was a rough time in my life. Rebbie Jackson MICHAEL'S SISTER. It's so very difficult even to talk about it. It really is. PAYNE: I was heartbroken. I was just totally heartbroken. It was probably one of the most surreal. Peabo Bryson SINGER and solemn days of life as we know it, I would think. I was devastated. I started to cry. David Gest MICHAEL'S CLOSE FRIEND. We had spent 40 years of our lives as the closest of friends. And I couldn't believe it. I remember the feeling I got, you know. Lamont Dozier SONGWRITER, HOLLAND-DOZIER-HOLLAND. It was like somebody punching you in the stomach. God, it was just so... EDDIE FLOYD: I didn't follow the news a lot. I'll tell you why I didn't follow the news. Eddie Floyd SINGER / SONGWRITER, STAX RECORDS. It's because of the people exploiting the man. That makes me sad. EDWARDS: The night that Michael died, the next show I did, I mentioned Michael, too. Dennis Edwards LEAD SINGER, 'THE TEMPTATIONS'. It just was... People just stood up, you know. They stood up. And a lot of people took their cigarette lighters out and just lit it. You know, it's just sad, man. It's sad. TITO: It's just a sad moment, to have to carry one of your brothers to his grave. MICHAEL: We would perform all night, tell you the truth, every day. It's not a good feeling. It's a major part of you died with that. MICHAEL: And there was this man's house, who used to sell candy we used to stop there and just load up, eat candy for days. KATHERINE: I never lost a child. Children are supposed to bury their parents, not parents bury their children. And that's what hurt me the most. Many days, I go back to his first cry, from the doctor slapping him on his butt, up till his death. But all the memories of Michael are fond to me. I can't pick out any particular. I'm happy with the children here, and at the same time, I'm sad because their father's gone. They always say Daddy did it this way. "Daddy used to do this. Daddy used to do that." Those kids are so proud of their father. I can't find words. To me, it's just such a loss, too soon. Eddie Holland SONGWRITER, HOLLAND-DOZIER-HOLLAND. It left such a gap and made us see what was missing. Valerie Simpson & Nickolas Ashford. SINGERS/ SONGWRITERS, 'ASHFORD & SIMPSON' Why hadn't we embraced him? Why hadn't we loved him? PAYNE: He gave us so much love and so much wonderful music. And I think that this is what we'll always remember him for. I love the fact that everything he sang, he sang from his heart. And I love listening to him singing, every record he's ever recorded. Michael's legacy is that he will be known as the greatest entertainer ever. ROBINSON: Michael was a great talent. He was the best overall talent that I've ever seen in my life, and I've been following talent since I was three years old. He was the best I ever saw. I'll remember that little boy that I met when he was 10 years old, Dionne Warwick SINGER that little feisty, cute, incredibly talented youngster, that went on to become one of the greatest entertainers that ever lived. There's only one Michael Jackson. To me and my children, Percy Sledge SINGER he meant so much to our lives. He was, to me, the greatest entertainer I had ever seen in my life. Whitney Houston SINGER. He was a gentleman and he was very kind. And I'll always love him, always. REBBIE: He was one of the warmest and most loveable persons you could ever meet. I think Michael's greatest achievement, throughout his life, was making people happy, helping people. If somebody needed an operation, or a family starving that needed food, he would send over groceries for a year and things like that. I think that's where he really got his enjoyment, seeing somebody sad become happy. Those are the things he really wanted to achieve that was beyond the music. We will remember him as this great showman and humanitarian. When people say to me, "Do you think of Michael as being a tragedy?" I just don't think of that at all. I think that Michael's story is one of triumph. This is a man who was the total embodiment of the American dream. This is a guy who came out of Gary, Indiana, and set the world on fire. He did amazing things with his life. Did he make mistakes? Yes. But that's the humanity of Michael Jackson, I think, that's most appealing. DOZIER: He wanted to make the world a better place. That spirit of his is still around now. The part that I loved the most about him was that gentle friend side. All the other things, everybody knows about. But that part of Michael, that's the part I love. God bless Michael Jackson, you know, 'cause he was one of the greatest. Kenny Gamble & Leon Huff. PRODUCERS/ SONGWRITERS, PHILADELPHIA INT. RECORDS Michael Jackson became the biggest pop star of all time but that's not how I'm gonna remember him, because he was just one great human being. Rest well, my friend. I love you, M. Katherine, how do you feel Michael Jackson will be remembered? Well, David, Michael practised one thing, and it was from his heart, L-O-V-E, love. And I think he will be remembered for the love that he had for the world, and especially for his fans, and his family. - Thank you so much. - Okay. - I love you. Can I have a big hug? - Of course.
