 

                        Michael, we love you! The one time, king of pop may have lost his cry in recent years, but when the Michael jackson circus comes into town, they're still as Whacko as ever. Sarar Bryton, MTV news. So much has been said about the life and career of Michael Jackson that it has become almost impossible to disentangle the man from the myth. He's been performing since the age of five, breaking records since he was 11 and a star without equal since the age of 21. Recent revelations are only the latest instalments of a saga that began decades ago. From his drilling as a child star with the The Jackson five. to his rise as the king of pop followed by his public humiliation and spectacular fall from grace. We'll be examining the real story and fame phenomena of a black American icon who was destined to become the most controversial figure in the world. Born in Garry in Indiana in 1958. Michael Joseph Jackson was seventh of nine brothers and sisters. His father, joseph Jackson, who had a reputation as a strict disciplinarian organised a family band made up of his children. Jackie, Germain, Tito and Marlin. In 1963, at the tender age of five, Michel Joined the group. Joseph scheduled a strict regime for Michael and his brothers, relentless hours of practice, left very little time for normal childhood activities. In 1966the brothers won a talent contest at the renowned Apollo theatre in New York's Harlem district and within a year had supported Gladys Night and the pips, Gladys recommended the group to Motown Records. (voice of Gladys Knight) I felt something from his group of young kids. Joe [unclear] were very into these children and they were struggling trying to get these young men introduced to the entertainment world. And Jo had come by, he would bring them by the theatre every single day. and the pips were, were, were really more familiar with the guys than i was and they had been talking about them for the longest time. So i said, well hey, let me see what i can do, so i went and we were with Motown at the time and i went, and i called the company and i asked them if they could send a representative out to see these young kids, because they were performing on the talent show that wednesday night. And i didn't carry a whole lot of weight at the company at that time and they said,well,we'll do the best we can. Motown sent a young executive, Suzanne De Passe to meet the boys and the Jackson five were born. (Voice of suzanne De Passe) I was with Motown for about, I'd been with them for about in an apartment building where another artist with the company, Bobby Taylor lived and he called me, because he knew i worked in Barry Gordie's office and he said, you've got to come down. And i went down to his apartment and there, Sort of stretched out across the living room floor were Michael and his brothers and Jo and a couple of other people who were with them at the time and i was like curious and he clapped, Bobby clapped his hands and said, okay boys, get up, let's sing and Michael and his brothers got up and they sang A Capella and it really blew me away. Michael Jackson first entered a recording studio in 1967, just three months after his ninth birthday, by the age of 10 he became lead vocalist. A year later he and his older brothers released their first single, I Want You Back. It became more than just a hit. It was an oral steamroller. It shot to number one in America selling 2 Million copies. Michael was just 11 years old. Jackson mania had arrived. Over a ten month period, the quintet from Garry Indiana created pop history, with an incredible four consecutive number one hits, I Want You Back, ABC, The Love You Save and I'll Be There With the release of the horror movie, Willard in 1971, Michahael Jakson's career took on a whole new dimension, the title song, Ben became a world wide smash, giving Michael his first of solo success. By 1975, after 13 albums and countless top ten hits, Motown and the Jackson five were to part company. With a fresh start and Epic records and renamed simply, The Jacksons, the Journey was far from over. The hits just kept on coming. In 1977 Michael Jackson started in the feature film, The Wizz, a remake of the Wizzard of Ozz, featuring an all black cast. Michael Played the scarecrow and his leading lady, Diana Ross played Dorothy. The Movie flopped. Michael was introduced to Quincy Jones on the set, which led to Jackson's first electrifying solo album, Off The Wall. The album went platinum, selling over 7 million copies and catapulted Michael Jackson's solo career into orbit around the globe. Quincy Jones worked with Michael to produce hi second solo album, the 1982 masterpiece, Thriller. It became a his of colossal proportions, reaching number one in the United States and the United Kingdom simultaneously. It remained in the top ten in the US billboard chart for an entire year. Thriller put black music on US radio for the first time in years With an astonishing 65 Million Copies sold world wide, the Album cemented Michael Jackson's career as an American Icon and universal superstar. An incredible seven of the nine songs on the album went on to be top ten singles. Today, Thriller retains its title as the biggest selling album of all time. During the 1980s Michael Jackson's fame had surpassed many of the worlds leading political and religious figures and by the age of only 25, the New York Times summed him up as a musical phenomena, stating that, in the world of pop music there is Michael jackson and then there is everyone else. Four song on the album were penned by Michael, Want To Be Starting Something, The Girl Is Mine with Paul McCartney, Beat It and Billy Jean. Unlike many artists, Michael did not write his songs on paper, instead he chose to dictate the words into a tape machine and when recording he would sing from memory. rather than read the words. Aside from his music, Michael Jackson was to revolutionise music videos, the unique video for Thriller was unprecedented for its time, with duration of over 14 minutes, a huge cast and massive budge. Director John Landis of Blues Brothers in American wealth and london fame, teamed up with Rick Baker, whose created prosthetics that rivalled those of the cinema. This combined with choreography as dazzling as Broadway, resulted in a music video, which became so popular, that a documentary the making of Michael Jackson's Thriller, became the worlds largest selling home video. Songs from Thriller, along with Michael's narrative for the ET storybook, earned him a phenomenal eight Grammy Awards in a single night. Another pop music industry record. It was during the televised 25th anniversary of Mowtown in 1982 that Michael Jackson, wearing his signature white sequined glove unveiled the now famous moonwalk for the first time. It sent the crowd wild and received phenomenal worldwide media coverage. The popular music channel, MTV who in the past had been reluctant to give airtime to black artists were now broadcasting Michael's videos on heavy rotation. By 1983 Michael jackson was the most celebrated and influential pop star on the planet. He is one of the few artists who have been inducted into the Rock 'n Roll hall of fame twice. His awards include eight Guinness world records. including one for thriller as the worlds best selling album, and the sale of over 750 million albums world wide. Michael received further accolade when he was presented with the greatest artist of the decade award by President Bush at the Whitehouse. On January 27, 1984, Michael jackson and his four brothers were performing Billy Jean for a pepsi cola commercial when a bizarre firework accident during filming resulted in Michael suffering second-degree burns to the head. Plastic surgery was required to restore his appearance. By 1988 Michael was taking a hiatus between albums and living at his legendary vast estate, a 2,600 acre ranch in Santa Barbra California. He called it Neverland, after the magical kingdom featured in the JM Barry Novel, Peter pan. Neverland continued a private amusement park, plus a small zoo stocked with exotic animals such as elephants, snakes, giraffes and lions. Michael's favourite pet was the famous Bubbles. his chimpanzee who travelled everywhere with him. The ranch was maintained by 54 full time staff. Michael was never short of visitors to his fairytale theme park. Children, especially sick children would be invited to there. In 1987 the album, Bad was released and along with it came a significantly different looking Michael jackson. The 1988, Bad tour was attended by Prince charles and Princess Diana. Prior to taking the stage, Michael presented the prince and the princess with a 300,000 cheque from the proceeds of his Wembley concert for the princes Trust, a charity that supports disadvantaged children. Michael presented princess Diana with two custom made Bad World tour jackets, one each for her young sons, Prince william and Prince Harry. During the 1980s at the peak of his career, Michael Jackson was the most famous man on the planet, a sex symbol known for wearing fetish outfits and grabbing his crotch on stage and By the End of the 80s, Michael was found, artist of the decade. Post Millennium, he became the object of ridicule and scorn. Hounded by the press and the courts he became the victim of as many as 50 new lawsuits every year. The bizarre tabloid rumours became rampant as Michaels fame grew. It was alleged that he had paid a vast sum for the bones of John Merrick, the elephant man, that to maintain his high-pitched voice, he was taking hormone treatment. Increasingly outlandish headlines claimed that to keep his youthful appearance, he slept in a hyperbolic chamber. When it was reported that Michael bleached his skin to make him appear whiter, some felt that he was denying his ancestral past. Michael later revealed that he suffered from a skin disorder, Vitiligo which affects the skins pigmentation, resulting in the appearance of large, white blotches. With the release of the album. Dangerous in 1991 and its estimated global sales of 30 million copies, rumours became rife that Sony were dissatisfied with record sales, and Michael was not living up to the record company's high expectations. By 1995, Michael had finished his latest album, History, Which controversially contained new material mixed with old and featured a duet with his sister, Janet (Voice of Janet Jackson) It was real fun working with his in the studio when we wrote this song. It was very interesting to see his work, at work, because i hadn't seen him in a very long time. I think the last time i saw him at work was the Thriller album, really. Just being there in the studio with him and just watching, most definitely i did it for that little sister thing. It'll always be that way, because that's what i am and he's my big brother. Although singles from History received great acclaim, the album was never really welcomed with enthusiasm. Michael was criticised for being unable to come up with any thing new. Though completely denied by either of therm. the media suggested that Michael was romantically involved with childhood friend, Brooke shields. (Voice of Brooke Shields) I think because we both grew up in the, in the same business and we had similar upbringings in the sense that we were... We had to being in this business at a very young age, we learned a sense of... we had defence mechanisms that we'd built up and i think once we met each other, we realised that we didn't really have to be weary of one another. And that just, that enabled us to build a friendship on a very different level. I think we both had a crush and still do have a crush on each other. I mean i think part of having a crush on someone is admiring them, almost, I mean we have a lot of fun together and it's almost unfortunate, because we know each other so well. Um, well actually i think right now, let me Just say that i believe that we're closer now than we ever were. I think we love each other more now than we even knew we did when we were younger. I feel closer to him than, some of the boyfriends that i've had. I mean i feel more relaxed around him, I'm more comfortable with him. So it's sort of, I mean i've never really had a brother so it's sort of, that is part of that, but its like a love on a very different level and it's hard to really explain and whenever i've tried to explain it to people it's been misinterpreted and its a shame, because it hurts him too when he feels that people misinterpret the way we feel about each other. And he did, he gave me the most incredibly beautiful ring that you can ever imagine and of course then people built that out of proportion and they said he, we were engaged and it really, it wasn't about that, it was a friendship ring and when he gave it to me it was the most adorable thing, he... We hadn't really ever exchanged gifts before. Rumours about Micheal Jackson and his unusual relationships with children began to surface and the world held its breath as the king of pop denied accusations of child abuse at his Neverland ranch in Santa Barbara. Micheal went public with his denial of inappropriate relationships with any child and settled out of court with the family for a reputed $20 Million. This was a start of a chain of events that would ultimately damage Michael's career in a profound way. It was during this time that a highly scrutinised marriage took place to Lisa Marie Presley, whose father was one of the few men who could rival Michael's worldwide fame. Despite media speculation about the credibility of their relationship, Lisa Marie and Michael were only too happy to publicly denounce rumours and declare that their love for each other was genuine. The marriage was short lived and ended on amicable terms in 1996. Within a year of separation, Michael's association with his dermatologist's assistant, Deborah Rowe led to an announcement that she was pregnant with his first child. Soon after this, the couple were married in Australia. Deborah gave birth to a son, Prince Michael Jackson junior followed by a daughter, Paris Michael Catherine. Despite having two children together, the relationship was not to last and by Autumn 1999 the couple announced their intention to divorce with full custody of the children going to Michael. In 2002, Michael announced the birth of another son. Prince Michael the second. To this day, the mother's name remains a mystery. In 2002 Michael Jackson released the album, Invincible. It was a financial disaster, selling only 2 Million Copies in the US and after an association that spanned over 20 years, Sony failed to renew its contract with Michael. The king of pop was loosing popularity. We were already off the wall and we're coming off our seats to stand up for justice in the music industry. This is very important, because throughout the years, black artists have been taken advantage of completely and it's time now that we have to put a stop to this incredible, incredible injustice and like Mr. Joplin was saying, people from James Brown to Sammy Davis Junior, some of the real pioneers that inspired me to be the entertainer that i am. These artists are always on tour because if they stop touring they would totally go broken and uh, it's been... The record companies really, really do conspire against the artists. They steal, they cheat, they do whatever they can especially the black artists. Yeah. Now let me say this Sony Tommy Mottola, Tommy Mottola is the president of the record division. He's a mean, he's a racist and he's very, very, very devilish. Pass it on this way, and whoever else who are artists that are on their label that are being fucked. Sony sucks! Sony sucks! Sony sucks! I want to hear the guys at the back. There has been much criticism and speculation regarding Michael's treatment of his children. An incident in 2002 which was circulated around the world, showed Michael holding his baby over a Berlin Hotel balcony for his chanting fans to see. It created uproar. Hey Michael! Those close to Michael have always insisted that he is a responsible parent and highly protective of his children. Michael Jackson had become an easy target. The harder he tried to protect his privacy, the more absurd the stories became. Claims of Michael sharing his bed with his pet chimp, Bubbles fulled hysteria. More outrageous tales began to surface when Michael's sister Latoya Launched her own Musical career. Claims circulated that Michael and Latoya were one and the same person. Michael's dramatic change in appearance over the years prompted speculation that he was attempting to look like his friend, Diana Ross, or even Peter Pan. Throughout all of this, Michael continued to be adored by his legions of fans. Don't you think the last performance was very good? Thank you, thank you. what so special about the last performance for you? What makes this a great night for you? It's the reunion and I'm honoured that the world appreciates my art, I'm very honoured. How great is Michael as a man. I mean not as a person. how great is Michael as a man? well, he is like, one of my closest friends and we know more about each other probably than, um, any two people and love him and he loves me. (Voice of Brooke Shields) I'm constantly upset by what people say. I mean, first of all, granted, you take everything with a grain of salt and there are many things said about me that are unkind that i don't find pleasurable, but people, so many people don't really know him and they don't give him a chance and they're so ready to criticize. And i think what happens is when you see genius and when you see a talent that is just unstoppable and untouchable, the first reaction people have is to criticize it. because it scares them, it threatens them and it. it in order to augment their own self worth, they feel that they have to belittle him and you know, he's a sensitive human being, who, you know, this, this, all of the negativity, it does affect him and it hurts him. ( voice of Michael Jackson) By doing that. This is their time for this and this you should not do. You should not say he's an animal, he's a, you should not say he's a Jacko, I'm not a Jacko, I'm jackson. Whacko Jacko, where does that come from, huh? Some English tabloid. I have a heart and i have feelings. I feel that, when you do that to me, it's not nice. Don't do it. I'm not a whacko. There's a time when i give a concert and as many people that want to come can come and enjoy the show. And there's a time when you want to, you like to be in private when you put on your pyjamas and go to sleep, cut of the light, ding, and you lay down. That's your private space. You go in the park. I can't go in the park, so I creat my own park at Neverland, my own water space, my movie theatre, my theme park, that's all for me to enjoy. i don't want paparazzi really. but if they come, be kind, write the right kind thing to write. When film director, Stephan Spielberg publicly criticised Michael for using anti-semetic lyrics, the king of pop was forced to make a public apology, denying prejudice towards anyone, but by this point the media had begun a feeding frenzy Which was to culminate in what remains one of the major scandals of pop history. In 2003 came headlines that shook the world and stun his fans. Nine separate charges of child molestation were brought against Michael and his time he was to appear in court under the scrutiny of the world press. A furious flurry of claims and denials and counter allegations followed. Everyone had opinions about the testimony and the witnesses. as the drama was played out in California. Please keep an open mind and let me have my day in court. I deserve a fair trial like every other American citizen. I will be acquitted and vindicated when the truth is told. I would like to let the world know that I'm behind my son. I don't believe any of this stuff that's been written about him. because i raised him and i know that's just a statement people are making. we support our brother whole-heartedly and um, um, we stand by his side and, there is, we're in the process of planning a trip for the whole family to be with him. The case was dubbed the trial of the century and gained global notoriety, not only because of Jackson's fame, but also because of the antics outside of the courtroom. When trial began, hoards of Michael supporters held vigil for their hero, outside of the courthouse. When Michael arrived at court he jumped on top of his SUV and began dancing. After two months, the prosecution rested its case against Michael Jackson. On June 13, 2005 Michael was found not guilty and completely cleared of all charges. His fame wildly celebrated his acquittal. I would like to thank the fans around the world. Can you speak up please? I would like to thank the fans around the world for your love and your support from every corner of the earth. My family who've been very supportive, my brother Randy who's been incredible. I want to thank the community of Santa Maria. I want you to know that I love the community of Santa Maria very much, it's my community. I love the people. I will always love the people. My children were born in this community, my home is in this community. I will always love this community from the bottom of my heart, that's why i moved here. Thank you very much. Long after the headlines died, thousands of celebrity watchers and pop music fans continue their obsession with this charismatic star, but after restless, but reclusive wanderings in the deserts of Bahrain, Ireland, England and France, where will Michael go next? It is my pleasure; it is my honour to be here in south Africa. I love you people very much. I've had the time of my life here; I've had so much fun. I hate to leave and I'm definitely looking for a, a home here to buy and i would love to spend the rest of my life here. And we're definitely coming in January and this is a wonderful, lovely man and i love Nelson Mandela very much. thank you for all your hospitality and all your love. Thank you very much. Welcome Michael Jackson and Urie Geller to the pitch of exodus city football club. Michael why did you want to come and visit us? why did you want to come and visit us? Because i can. Now there's a good answer, he's a politician as well. Do i need to educate you as well about this whole incredible team? He knows more about Guy Fawks than rugby. he was the guy that blew up the house of the prom wasn't he? He certainly did. But why is that a celebration? Well we celebrate the fact that he didn't succeed? Okay, thank you, bye everybody. What are you hoping to see here? Pardon? What are you hoping to see here? Gee i don't know, i haven't been in yet. Throughout his career, Michael Jackson has always found time to dedicate himself to a vast array of charitable organisations Are we blind to the fact that our children are raging against the indifference, crying out against the abandonment of thundering against the neglect. Heal The Kids is about doing something about making a difference to help in trying to help adults and parents realise that it is our power to change the world that our children live in. (Voice of Iman Bowie) What inpires me about Michael is that his humanitarian efforts. I mean, somebody like me, whose my work in Somalia just brought me to the fringe of what's happened in that country. I mean, as a humanitarian, we don't have a better spokesperson for Heal the World, Like Michael Jackson. I'm shocked and inspired by him as a humanitarian. I cannot say more about that. Heal the World became one of the best selling singles of all time. In 1995 Heal the World would become the title of Michaels charity, raising millions for worthy causes and Michael continues to strive to improve the lives of children everywhere. One of these was a young boy named Ryan. who was diagnosed with the AIDs virus. (voice of Jean White) I saw a very sincere Michael and somebody that... it, it's strange, after Ryan died i asked Michael, I said, well what is it that connected you to Ryan and he said, well most People can't get over the awe of who i am, So nobody can ever act normal around me. He said, Ryan knew how i wanted to be treated, because that's how he wanted to be treated. Ryan spend five days with Michael in 1990, right his death Ryan was so worried about being a burden to Michael, because he could hardly walk, he was very ill and they did a lot of fun things. And the first night i said well what did you do? And he said, well we spent three hours watching three stooges movies. I mean this was something that... Ryan loved comedy, so does Michael. They went shopping and i said, you know, who drove and he said, well Michael drove the Bentley. And i said, Michael drove himself? And he said, yeah, me and Michael went shopping. With Ryan's death, it's, it's very, very hard. I have formed the Ryan White Foundation dealing with adolescents, dealing with all kinds of adolescents whether you have AIDs, whether you don't have AIDs, whether your parents had AIDs, whether your siblings have AIDs. So i keep active doing the things that Ryan was doing and educating young people about AIDs. Perhaps more than any other icon in the history of popular music. Michael Jackson remains a charismatic but elusive figure of heated debate, but one fact will forever remain undisputed, his extraordinary talent for creating truly original music, Loved by millions. And despite set backs that would have ended careers of lesser men. Michael Jackson's legion of fans remain as loyal today as they've ever been. His accomplishments as the king of pop during the 1980s will always remain some of the most impressive in music history.
