 

                        1 MIDNIGHT INVITATION Asami Kobayashi Kaoru Kobayashi Etsushi Takahashi Masakane Yonekura Junko Miyashita Mitsuko Yorichika Atomu Shimoj Yutaka Nakajima Tomoe Hiiro Yasukiyo Umeno Eri Kanuma Akiko Hoshino Tetsur Tanba Makoto Fujita Tanie Kitabayashi Tsunehiko Watase Shinsuke Ashida Based on a novel by Shsaku End Music: Mitsuaki Kanno Director: Yoshitar Nomura - Um... - Yes? Which way is neurology? Through there, at the far end - Thanks - Not at all Inagawa, to see Doctor Aizawa Please wait there Thank you! How about this? I wonder what these people are doing? Doctor, will these childish games... make my leg better? It's a real puzzle There's nothing wrong with your leg That's been proved conclusively by the X-rays and blood tests There's no physical reason why you can't move your leg It's due to your mind Buried within your mind... is a disinclination to walk Absurd... Give it another go I'll join in too Is this person asleep? Or crying? I've had enough Mr Yamazaki... Take care Ms Inagawa Please go to Room 2 Please excuse me Ah... please Doctor Aizawa? Yes, that's right I have a referral from Doctor Nakamura of the surgery department My name's Inagawa Yes, I was informed Please take a seat Pre-exam card Oh, Doctor The person to be examined... isn't me Who then? Well, it's about my fianc Is that OK? Yes, certainly Well, it happened about a month ago At a friend's birthday party... Mr Tamura, the phone I wonder who? - I'll take a dip too - Swimming? - Not with you! - Rejected! Work related? What is it? My brother in Mito called to say he's coming to Tokyo What for? My brother in Numazu has disappeared This was the second disappearance Second? Yes My fianc Tatsuo is the youngest of four brothers The eldest brother living in Kumamoto, also went missing 7 years ago We were waiting for his brother to return from Numazu, the day after the party He's arrived Just the same as our brother in Kumamoto! So he left in the dead of night? And his wife laying beside him said she didn't notice. He literally vanished My younger brother from Numazu is somewhat timid He's not the type to make enemies And he's just got married, so it's hard to believe it involves a woman I hope you're safe From what? We're disappearing one by one Silly Don't worry about it Ah, shall I make it? I'll do it Ah, here If I vanish by some chance, I'll let you know the circumstances To set your mind at ease Keiko, I have just one request Yes, what is it? I'm genuinely delighted about your engagement to this fellow So I simply want to say, that with two family members having disappeared, it may be thought our blood is... Come on, she doesn't think that way Be quiet I'm asking her family Keiko, there's no doubt this is just a coincidence For this fellow too, please explain it as such Alright The brother in Mito researches atomic energy at Tokaimura When he comes to Tokyo, he invariably dines with Tatsuo He's a very considerate brother However... What is it? - Today I went to Mito - Mito? Kazuo has disappeared! Last night he sneaked out the house while sister in law was asleep It's the same It's just the same as the others! Does this sort of thing really happen? Hey, the other day, your brother was in fine spirits I'm sure he's back by now Try calling him It's my turn next That's silly Why? You've no reason to disappear Neither did my brothers It isn't just chance There's no guarantee I won't disappear - It's Mr Tamura? - Yes Your fianc's family has no history of neurological illness? As far as I know My mother checked when I got engaged But I don't quite understand A search for missing persons is a matter for the police Yet doctor, Tatsuo has now had a nervous breakdown He's locked himself in his flat So he's obsessed with the idea he's next... I could try seeing him Ah... thank you However, please make it clear that I'll be examining him - There must be no secrecy - Yes Also, please have faith in my methods Otherwise, Mr Tamura will lose confidence in me too It will be the biggest hurdle OK? Yes Somehow, I feel at very much at ease Thank you for helping me Tatsuo Tatsuo... Yes May I? Feel free Mr Tamura is having to see a psychiatrist? Who told you, papa? Doctor Nakamura got in touch with me Listen, Keiko How about we shelve this talk of marriage for a while? Why? Even you were praising him Not really I meant that he was a capable employee As a family member it's another matter But we don't need you getting a neurosis too Just think it over What? Mr Noda's here Ah, I'm coming Well then Keiko, I'm also against it Even you, mama? Why, Keiko! You were all for this match with Tatsuo I'm not your plaything! I... will marry Tatsuo Keiko! Weren't you doing the night shift? Yeah, I got out of it by doing an outside exam You're having dinner? I've eaten You go to bed Oh, did you get the medicine for Haruo's blister? Forgot You're always doing that... Disappearance You found it OK? Yes I'll introduce you, this is Ms Akashi She runs this bar I'm Akashi - Please have a seat - Thanks She has my interests at heart Will you have something? The vongole's very good No, greasy food is a bit... No, really I've quit alcohol due to my stomach - Do you have milk? - Yes I'll have that Ah, please warm it up to 20.5 degrees Celsius And Mr Tamura... what shape is he in? Well, he's still... He's agreed to the exam. I expect that was hard He even said himself it's for the best By the way, did you bring it? Ah, yes It's Junkichi, Shohei and Kazuo who disappeared, in that order? Yes Tatsuo has a different surname? The Tamura family had no children and they adopted Tatsuo when he was small Welcome home Mother, this is Doctor Aizawa - Glad to meet you - I'm Aizawa Thank you for helping Keiko Please come in - Is Tatsuo here? - Not yet At the bar earlier... it was Ms Akashi? You're old friends? Yes We study Japanese dance under the same teacher A really pretty lady You're curious about her? Yes Is she married? Five years ago she lost her husband in a traffic accident She said it had left her a shell of her former self Just as I thought... Huh? Ms Akashi just now, all the while, had her hands clasped That is, her right thumb was placed on the left-hand thumb It's not a good sign It's a theory proposed by the Spanish academic Jose Bons He suggested that people who clasp their hands in this way... can be regarded as very fatigued or aged Dynamic people do the reverse. In other words, like this Even though Ms Akashi is still young... Well, it's a bit of a concern OK, please feel free to speak I'll sit behind but don't worry When I was 8 years old, I moved from my parents in Kumamoto... to the Tamuras in Tokyo Shortly after, my father in Kumamoto died Before that my mother had passed away So I didn't return to Kumamoto How were relations with your brothers? I hardly saw my brothers from Kumamoto and Numazu But with my brother in Mito it was different We often met, as I was at a Tokyo university It felt like... Kazuo was my only true kin It must have been a shock when he went missing Not just that... What is it? The phone The phone? Yes, during the night When I wake up, the ringing has already stopped It's happened numerous times Maybe I'm imagining it However, I'm certain it has rung That indicates neurotic anxiety I think it's down to your brother's disappearance Alright, please relax and make yourself comfortable Mr Tamura, I will examine what caused your brothers to disappear... and eradicate your psychological trauma Your cooperation is essential Your brothers aren't here, so we have to examine the psychological side When you go to bed, leave a notepad by your bed Please write down your night dreams and anything else that springs to mind Freud? No! It's a test based on a theory of Daan According to this, human beings have an instinct... that foretells the future in the form of a dream Then you believe my dreams can occur in reality? It's not 100%, but it's something that's possible You know there are cases of rats and ants migrating prior to an earthquake? Civilised people have been losing that instinct for self-preservation, but it's still there Sometimes it's awoken when danger approaches... and alerts us in the form of a dream My dreams... Mr Tamura, in order for me to remove your anxiety, I have to take a scalpel to the depths of your mind However, the mind of a human being is just like a deep sea The bottom is pitch black It silently harbours secrets and enigmas that are beyond imagining I have to stir up the profoundest depths of that sea of yours If it goes well we'll find out why your brothers disappeared And then your neurosis will be cured Come in You said it would take an hour... It's good timing Doctor, this is a note given to me before my brother in Tokaimura vanished It's about a dream Would you try reading it for me? "I'm often having the same dream" "Coming out of a long tunnel, a deep valley to the right" "I pass through many tunnels" "Then a ruined castle comes into view" "Three times this dream has occurred" Doctor I wonder if this is a forewarning too? In the future, my brother may... I can't say at the moment I'd like to take a trip to Tokaimura near Mito We may discover something It was a shock when you suddenly called out to me at Ueno station I apologise You're very much in love with Mr Tamura, then? Yes! Sorry I asked Doctor, I thought you said you'd quit drinking A doctor's indulgence Don't tell anyone Doctor Are dreams really to be relied on? Yes According to Jung, a dream symbol can be regarded as a significant message... that stems from the unconscious Then how would you explain the dream described in that note? A really desolate landscape You think it'll be found in Tokaimura? Well, who knows? Tunnel, mountain, valley, ruined castle It seems it could be anywhere But it also seems like a scene from another world Excuse me, would you be Doctor Aizawa? Yes I'm Fujimura of Ibaraki News Actually, I''m the brother in law of the vanished Mr Harada - Thanks for your help - Not at all The fiance of the younger brother in Tokyo I'm Keiko Inagawa Thanks for taking the trouble I brought a car - Please - Thanks The Atomic Energy Research Institute Ah, so Kazuo Harada worked here Yes It's quieter than I expected What kind of job did your brother in law have? Head of engineering Giving technical guidance on fast critical equipment Don't ask for details... Ah, it's that building This is staff housing Please wait a moment Hiroko Hiroko! What's the matter? I know! They've come because of Kazuo Yo-chan, come along Ah, hello I'm Harada's wife I'm Aizawa Yo-chan, you might say "hello" Hello - Hello - Come along It's messy, but go ahead She's tired And in front of the child... Yoshiko's been told that papa is on a trip abroad It seems she has an inkling Ah, please It's this room. Come in It seems Mr Harada got home about 9 on the day he vanished He said he'd eaten and came straight into this room Is the room as it was? No, the police rummaged about for a diary or note of some kind, which annoyed Hiroko That evening, my sister went to bed first in this room And when she awoke at dawn Ah, that lamp was left switched on And the figure of Mr Harada was nowhere to be seen The police say that he may have been abducted or taken away by someone Even his relations with women were thoroughly investigated But at present they are completely clueless There's no sign of that dream landscape around here Ah, please Had Mr Harada changed in any way recently? He was very worried about his brother in Numazu Otherwise... No matter how trivial it seems Ah, come to think of it After the Numazu disappearance, he'd often go to the beach Beach? Yes, the mouth of the River Kuji nearby And that's where I last saw him Over there When I showed up, Mr Harada was sitting there, absently looking out to sea Did he say anything on that occasion? Yes. He spoke about nuclear accidents He said even if the science is faultless, you can't do anything about human error Things like that Just like that Mr Harada was sitting there in exactly the same posture... Mountain, valley, railway, castle remains... Sengoku era castles are usually mountain fortresses, so a mountain and valley landscape isn't exactly rare However, concerning a railway... I expect it exists, but I can't give you an instant answer I see... The book I wrote For future reference Anyway, let's investigate I'll be in contact if I find anything Thank you for your help But what is this? A referral from Mr Aizawa. Is it dream interpretation? Yes, that's right Numazu Shohei was working here They preserve fish to be deep fried at the harbour Kazuo came a second time? Yes What for? He kept asking about the evening my husband vanished And? Yet it was while I was sleeping, so I don't know what happened He was generally a man of few words Neglecting his wife when she wanted to know his mind Mother... Excuse me please Coming! Then you've been here since it happened? Sometimes I go and clean up at least On your own... It was creepy... The phone calls Phone? Around then the phone frequently rang, in the dead of night Even if I picked up the call, there was just a steady silence Come in We lived here six months exactly One of his sandals had fallen off here It's just weird And those phone calls too Nobody believed me, but... my husband was summoned What do you mean? My husband often returned to Kumamoto On one occasion he'd brought back a photo It showed him and his sister in law Behind them, the face of an old man with long hair was faintly apparent Can you show me that photo? It's not here, my brother in law took it The spirit in that photo... summoned my husband - Mrs Sugeno said so too - Mrs Sugeno? A psychic researcher Sugeno Psychic Research Centre Certainly, I saw that photo That aged person is likely of... the spirit world Well, for some reason, when that soul still roamed in the land of the living, it happened to respond to the photographic film I already have a few examples Shohei Harada... was of the belief that his missing brother in Kumamoto had died And he was eager to make contact... with the ghost of that brother Well, this time Shohei has disappeared, before I could complete my preparations You're able to make contact with his ghost? Yes I am The reciprocal psychic influence is at its strongest among blood relations Ah, if you're doubtful, how about you try observing? Right now, there's an experiment... in which a lady will make contact with her dead mother's spirit You're welcome to attend, it's no trouble Thank you Go ahead Thanks for your patience Chairman, please start Mother has come Mama... - Say something - Mama...! - Please speak - It's... It's me, you understand? Mama! You know your daughter's here? You understand? Sorry... it's my fault! I'm... sorry Um... I'm sorry, today I came on my own Mama, papa couldn't come You understand? She said father couldn't come Who do you want to see? (Sugeno) It seems to be an animal of some kind Was there an animal she was affectionate about? It's Taro? There was a dog she liked Tatsuo! Kazuo! Tatsuo! Wait for me! - Thanks for waiting - Sorry to bother you So there's been progress It appears that Mr Harada was abducted by someone Abducted? Yes It seems that when he was investigating the disappearances of his two brothers, Mr Harada discovered something However, there was someone who didn't want that fact to be known That guy abducted Mr Harada No doubt about it But how did you learn this? A diary was discovered in a locker in Mr Harada's office It's now with the police But I extracted the parts relating to the case "Thursday, 6th. Investigation in Numazu" "Hypothesis 1: Disappearance of Kumamoto brother related to X" "Hypothesis 2: Shohei, knowing about X, was abducted" "Saturday, 8th"... "A call from Gogatsu but not present. Having the dream again" "Long tunnel, train line, castle ruins" "Sunday, 9th. Business in Tokyo. Eat with Gogatsu" "Tuesday, 11th. On the dune, thinking" "Assuming X killed Kumamoto brother and abducted younger brother," "who'll be next?" That's on the 11th, when Mr Harada reached some sort of conclusion That evening he dis... well, he was abducted This Gogatsu... ah, I guess it's read as Satsuki, who is it exactly? Uh, well... I'm not really sure It seems to be a friend in Tokyo who also appears earlier on But when I asked around, nobody knew anything I believe it's possible that this person is X And this? Ah, it was placed in the diary We only met at a wedding, but... it's the brother from Numazu with his sister in law Um, take a look here It appears as though someone is peeping through the window This is it It's the photo the brother in Numazu brought back from Kumamoto Shortly after that he disappeared Then Keiko and Mr Tamura went to investigate in Numazu Thereafter Mr Tamura's neurosis grew worse I wish I'd stopped her Keiko left for Kumamoto this morning, saying it all originated there And it's the source of this photo, so she thinks she'll learn something That's a worry. What if she's targeted by this X? Excuse me, how long does it take to reach the city? - 40 minutes by car - Thanks Satsuki? Satsuki! Satsuki! Harada Medicines No one's here? There's not a soul And the wife? I think she moved to her brother's Where? It's pretty far Kyomachi 2-Chome Excuse me Alright I came because I heard Junkichi Harada's wife lives here And who may you be? My name's Inagawa I'm the fiance of Junkichi's younger brother Tatsuo Well, my sister's under the weather... Mrs Harada... You're Junkichi's wife then? I'd like to ask you about the time your husband vanished Tatsuo has now had a complete nervous breakdown due to these disappearances His breakdown has nothing to do with the Junkichi matter But he got on so well with his brother in Tokaimura Kazuo? Really? Kazuo has disappeared? You didn't know? Well, no... You really have no idea what caused your husband to disappear? Anything would help For instance, someone who may have resented him Nothing comes to mind It's a curse Well, somehow it feels like... the house of Harada has a curse upon it Curse? If it's not a curse, how else do you account for a situation of this sort? Three brothers vanishing one by one But I'm sure there must be some cause Look, it's best not to stir things up I say that for your own benefit Well, if you get in too deep, no good will come of it Ah, Mrs Harada I'd like to see a photo Photo? I learnt of it in Numazu In it you can discern an old man's creepy face or something You know it? I don't know the photo, but I have pictures of an old man Junkichi made them He was always good at drawing Go and get them But, I'm not sure where... Look for them Tell me your hotel later - OK - I'll send them over Once you see those drawings, it'll be obvious why I say there's a curse They're horrible to look at Junkichi disappeared, leaving those pictures behind Mr Tamura, special delivery Mr Tamura? Kazuo Harada Here You're in room 830 - OK - Please Follow me Satsuki? I noticed you earlier I see This hotel? Yes Oh, going out? No I'm just going to change Tea in around 30 minutes? Yes Then I'll see you later I'd like to see Junkichi's pictures as quickly as possible You'll return to Tokyo soon? I should get the pictures tonight, so tomorrow Oh, and doctor I just saw Satsuki in the hotel Satsuki Satsuki? You know, from that bar in Roppongi How do you spell Satsuki? Gogatsu... So you think Satsuki grasped something about the brother from Tokaimura... and then came to Kumamoto? Well, I'm not certain, but it won't hurt to check Please Excuse me In which room is Satsuki Akashi? - Ms Akashi? - Yes Ms Akashi departed a little while ago Her room was cancelled No way Hey, what's with you? Hey, Mitsu Why hand them over? Why hand over the pictures? Please get rid of them Please just tear them up! Tear up those pictures!? Shit! No... stop Please stop it... Get rid of those pictures!? Doctor Oh, welcome back And the Satsuki matter... - Actually, we didn't meet - What? I got stood up, for the first time Sit Doctor I think your conjecture about Satsuki and the brother from Tokaimura is right Even cancelling her room I have a suspicion that missing brother showed up in Kumamoto Why? That was my feeling when I visited the sister in law And the pictures by Junkichi? Here Doctor, what's this!? The photo you heard about in Numazu Keiko Actually, I was perusing Mr Tamura's dream diary Tatsuo's? It came yesterday "A lift comes to a halt midway" "Above I hear my brother Kazuo calling" "Suddenly the lift plunges" "Relentlessly it falls" "I'm on a train" "There's a long tunnel" "Passing through into a deep valley" "A tunnel again" "Then a ruined castle" Just like his brother's Keiko, I feel as though I've started to figure out something What? The cause of the disappearances May I ask you to come to Tokyo University's medical faculty... tomorrow evening, together with Mr Tamura? Perhaps there... Fascinating research is carried out here Here He's carrying out hypnotherapy. Please observe The subject believes she's being supported The power of the mind is amazing However, what I want you to observe isn't her posture It's the facial expressions of the hypnotised girl and the therapist Please look carefully Take a deep breath One Two Now you'll wake up, OK? I'll clap three times You'll begin to regain awareness Once more and you'll be fully aware Now for the last one You'll open your eyes Well? It feels pleasant? Here are the pictures They share three features Firstly, an abnormal head Next, a half-open mouth And thirdly, eyes that seem to suggest dark caverns They're all the same According to Machover, drawing a head this way indicates social inadequacy... and a desire to seek refuge from a guilty conscience Someone who draws like this has a sadistic nature It speaks of a hatred for the outside world Well? Isn't there a resemblance to the expressions of the pair we just saw? Ah, hello Doctor Sugibayashi, a noted researcher in the field of unconscious suggestion - Where are you up to? - Machover I see When I saw these pictures, I realised immediately The face is that of a hypnotiseur or a hypnotis - Hypnoti... - Yeah It means hypnotist and hypnotised I would say this shows a hypnotiseur So I guess it's a hypnotist's face? You saw the girl? A suggestion under hypnosis can remain in effect after the subject has awoken Making someone vanish wouldn't be difficult Then the three brothers were hypnotised into disappearing... by the man in that picture? I can't confirm that, but at least we can be sure that... the face in this picture is performing a suggestion, or receiving one I'd like you to view a short film How was it? Nothing special... You wanted a cigarette? Meaning? Please show it again Ready That's it, here's the frame The film has an image inserted at certain points That single frame isn't noticeable So you began to desire a cigarette That is, you took a suggestion I think it may be apt to call the current situation... a curse rather than a suggestion A curse!? Yes, since a curse is the most powerful of suggestions This can be shown scientifically For instance, I let the breath of a woman who hates someone... into a glass bottle and put a fly inside Within a minute it's dead So spirit photography... is a perfectly plausible phenomenon, when bearing that sort of thing in mind Mr Tamura, what is it? Doctor, I noticed something strange The dates my brothers vanished My Kyushu brother on 11th September My Numazu brother on 11th July My brother Kazuo on 11th August All on the 11th Today is the 7th, so if it goes on like this, - in four days, I too... - Tatsuo! Mr Tamura, the human mind is fragile A curse or suggestion hidden there will begin to exploit that But the curse is recognised There's nothing to fear It's alright Trust in yourself and fight that invisible adversary Come Doctor You too, please give him your support Mr Tamura has nobody but you Yes It seems he's been taken in Yes Thanks. Sorry to trouble you Not at all Now the battle begins Tatsuo, be strong The doctor said you must fight it Fight what? Where's my opponent!? I don't understand! Please be strong Keiko What? - You should go home - Why? I'm fine on my own The 11th of the month stuff is just coincidence Your family will be worried You should leave I'm alright here I want to stay and give you support Isn't that OK? What is it? I'm ashamed of myself It's a bunch of nonsense now I think about it Isn't it? You're right, it's nonsense So enough of this But... I wasn't thinking straight I'm not leaving Look, go home Curses and spirits don't exist. It's crazy to believe that stuff! Hello Ah... doctor Doctor Aizawa Yes Yes, he was fine This morning Tatsuo is much calmer Yes, I understand Thank you very much OK The doctor phoned as he was concerned And he wants you to continue recording your dreams Tatsuo, there are three days before the 11th You'll let me stay then? Three days... What is it? Work I'm going back It's alright, it's no big deal But tomorrow's the 11th I can't stay secluded in this flat That's hardly the way to fight against it Am I right? I'm OK, allow me to go He's gone to work? Actually that's good news It's an encouraging sign. Credit to you But doctor, tomorrow's the 11th I not sure what to do That's no good, you'll get a neurosis Listen, let him have his own way It'll turn out fine Don't worry Contact me if anything happens Yes, speaking Doctor Aizawa, hello. Um, I don't really have any news What about you? Yes Ah! I see, he's recovered Yes And how is Keiko? Yes I was concerned too No, I haven't met Tatsuo Yes So we're unacquainted Yes Yes, yes Did you draw something? Anything's fine A person's face or an imaginary landscape Give it a try Let me see, what do I like... This is pretty, I'll take it OK, how many? - Five - OK Swimming in the sea From my junior high days Kazuo is swimming ahead of me I'm struggling, my body is sluggish It feels like I'll be dragged into the sea I call my brother But Kazuo... steadily swims away from me No matter how much I call out, he carries on swimming away What is it? I'm riding on a train by myself The train... enters a tunnel It's a long, dark tunnel I exit the tunnel A deep valley... that seems to draw you in Another tunnel! To the left... ...castle remains... There are castle remains! Be strong! You OK? Please be strong You OK? I see, that dream again... No, you shouldn't worry too much So long as he's gone to work Keiko, one day at a time Stay calm I understand I'm relying on you I appreciate your helping me Yes Yes Hello, this is Tamura Oh, it's you How are you feeling? Because I'm worried I can't have you disappearing Don't be silly, I'm fine I finish at 5 o'clock Today, let's eat out or something Really? You're right, today's worth celebrating I'll come meet you Yeah, at 5 o'clock? At 5 then Right, see you later Bye bye Hello Yes, I've just finished Perfect, I'll come straight down Yes, right now See you downstairs See you tomorrow Um, Mr Tamura of sales? He's already left Eh? Oh no... 20 minutes ago Excuse me, do you have some sort of memo from Mr Tamura in sales? - Mr Tamura? - Yes - Isn't he still in the office? - No Aizawa Ah, doctor, it's Keiko Just now Tatsuo disappeared Doctor, what should I do? Is that right? I see Anyway, please remain calm No need to worry What do you mean, I needn't worry? Mr Fujimura? Keiko, I owe you an apology I've deceived you Deceived me? How do you mean? The experiment at Tokyo University The talk of such things as curses and suggestions was a gambit of mine When I saw Mr Tamura's dream record, I had doubts Ah, be seated Alright? Long tunnel, castle remains, valley It's just the same as his brother's dream Dreams may hint at the future, but two people seeing the same dream landscape is overly contrived And yet this dream unexpectedly started to appear for the first time Clearly it was intentional So assuming Tatsuo had tried to con me with this, I thought I would turn it against him The experiment at Tokyo University... Yes You could say I set a trap Sure enough, Tatsuo was taken in A doctor thinks the incidents are due to hypnotic suggestion Then he himself pretends along the same lines So he came up with that thing about the 11th and vanished I can't believe it But why... why did Tatsuo do that? Presumably he didn't want either one of us... to know the truth Tatsuo's dream record became phony before you returned from Kumamoto I believe around then, he somehow learnt the truth about his brothers Do you know Tatsuo's current whereabouts? No, I dont know I expect you're worried But I'm waiting for a report from Mr Fujimura - You're waiting... - Keiko If it comes tomorrow... we'll learn everything about where he's gone and what his purpose is Doctor... It's fine You should go home and get some rest I bet you haven't slept much lately Er, Doctor Aizawa... Ah, doctor It's Fujimura Sorry doctor, I was given the slip Oh... Yes, he kept changing taxis I thought it was strange I got caught at a red light... Where are you now? I'm in Kumamoto Ah, it's a place called Sunroad Shinshigai Yes, the amusement zone Yes, um... what should I do now? Keiko Yes It's the phone Phone? Yes, from a Mr Toba Hello, this is Keiko It's regarding your enquiry Mountain, valley, railway and castle ruins I think all these may exist in the vicinity of Kumamoto From Takamori, the Takachiho line Takachiho Pass, Ama-no-Iwato The clans in that area were vying for supremacy... in the second half of the 16th century So they are more like mountain fortresses than castles - Doctor! - Why are you here? To Kumamoto? Well, actually I got a call from Mr Fujimura He says he was given the slip by Tatsuo Anyway, I've decided to go Tatsuo's in Kumamoto after all... It seems from Takamori to Takachiho... there are valleys and castle ruins along the railway I got a call last night from that Mr Toba you introduced me to I see Keiko Daan's theory that dreams predict the near future That's just one theory Very few scholars take it at face value Doctor I want to believe it Tatsuo went so far as to deceive me What's he trying to hide? Something tells me the key is contained within that dream I want to take this risk It's something I have to do Doctor, Keiko... please take a look at this Double Suicide at Tatsuda Park It's Kazuo He was killed It's definitely murder He wouldn't kill himself The double suicide thing is a fabrication His female companion? The body's unidentified Doctor Could it be... Satsuki... You know her? She's "Gogatsu", from the diary Why...? It's Junkichi's wife Kazuo... Why did you...? The man had been laid carefully at the root of a cedar tree... from which a woman hanged herself But it will be noted that this man... also has a cord scar to the neck... and a haemorrhage to the eyelid conjunctiva Based on the degree to which rigor mortis had set in, it will be noted that at least 12 hours separated the pair's time of death 12 hours... Well, anyway, it will be confirmed by the final autopsy result The following is speculation based on the aforementioned preliminary findings To start with, the woman, discovering the hanged body of the man, brought it to the ground And after laying down the body, she too decided to hang herself In other words, a copycat double suicide Kazuo... was here in Kumamoto around the time the young lady came He probably wanted to resolve the situation before anyone found out I suppose that's why he pretended to disappear That much is clear Why exactly did Kazuo Harada go so far in trying to resolve things? Naturally, there's a connection to the disappearances of Junkichi and Shohei? Mrs Harada, given what has happened, may I ask that you tell us everything you know? It could be that Junkichi and Shohei... were killed by Kuze... By your brother? He isn't my brother What do you mean? I'm committing a sin I'm living with a man who killed my husband and his younger brother... I'm committing a sin... Mrs Harada Keiko brought these home with her last time To whom does this old man's face belong? It's not the face of an old man It's Kuze's child Child!? He's barely 20 years old He can't speak or move his limbs What he thinks is a mystery I've been made to look after that child for 7 years I've been made to atone Atone? My husband was the one who caused the child's body to become like that Please explain The medicine Medicine? The child suffered from rheumatism Since Kuze and my husband went back a long way, he offered to take responsibility for the treatment It was a new drug Certainly, it had an instant effect and all the pain suddenly stopped Kuze was delighted But... as the treatment continued, things took a turn for the worse His head started to swell up... and he lost the use of his arms and legs I expect it was ACTH Administering large doses of steroids is highly effective for a while, but very risky Naturally, he was taken to hospital? He was hospitalised for nearly 6 months, but even at the hospital they threw up their hands Kuze ended up going crazy He struggled to raise the child on his own, after he lost his wife Kuze became someone else... became like a devil It was around then that Junkichi disappeared And for the 7 years since then? Yes... Believing I must atone for the sins of my husband Believing so... Taking care of the child Being in Kuze's embrace... It's like hell... For 7 years, a living hell Mrs Harada, where is Tatsuo at the moment? Tatsuo, now... is with Kuze, where the child is kept Kuze is raising the child under cover at his family home He's hiding his son from prying eyes And where is it? A place called Hinokage on the Takachiho line Takachiho... Doctor! It's there, doctor From the dream... Please come in, Kuze is waiting inside Please step inside It seems Mitsu has told you just about everything then Fine I couldn't keep it concealed forever But please believe this at least Neither Junkichi nor Shohei... were killed directly by my own hand They both did it themselves You're saying it's suicide? That's right What rubbish... Shohei at least had no reason to die! Mr Fujimura That's the way you look at me? If I could, I'd strangle those two with my bare hands! But... if I ended up in prison, my son would be all alone He wouldn't be able to survive Even so, I can't forgive Junkichi! It makes my blood boil! When that rascal was alive, I wanted to imprint my son's image in his breast... so he wouldn't forget it That was all I kept thinking about As he was now alone with my son, I told Junkichi to draw 1000 pictures of him Until then, he couldn't leave When that was done, I'd forget about what he did That's what I told him The guy gladly complied He drew 6 or 7 each day But that was at the beginning... and before long the rate dropped In the end he couldn't draw any more He kept saying, "Let me die, let me die" But I wouldn't let him die I was determined he'd live long enough to complete 1000 pictures Stop it! You can't die yet! Get drawing! Shit Wait! Wait! It's likely he died on that occasion Even if he survived somehow, it's fine by me Until the end of his days, he won't be able to forget about my son What happened to Shohei from Numazu? Shohei was the one who tempted my husband to use that medicine Yet when it went wrong, he sneaked off But this year he suddenly started coming to my place and making threats What do you mean? He knew of my relationship with her He wanted to dispose of Junkichi's place and pocket the money Apparently he needed the money to get married. Moron! I was aware that he was absorbed in spiritualism, so before he went home, I put a photo in his pocket... with my son's face superimposed on it I didn't lay a finger on Shohei I just let him hear my voice Your voice... Phone calls, at midnight? Shohei... Shohei Please help me, it's Junkichi Shohei, please help me Brother, where are you? This way, Shohei Kazuo from Tokaimura was different though He was a decent guy He cried when he learned about his brothers' deeds... and apologising, begged for forgiveness on hands and knees I was glad It was some relief... after 7 years of suffering Why did Kazuo... Why did he end up... I'm now exhausted There's never going to be any fairness in this Because no matter what, my son's body won't recover You said you were Tatsuo's fiance, didn't you? Yes... Come this way I'll take you to him Kuze! Let me out! Open it! Kuze! Tatsuo! Let me go! He locked me in this storeroom with a beast! Tatsuo! Keiko Beast? A beast you say... You call my son a beast! Son of a bitch! ...Stop Kuze... Kuze! I couldn't forgive you... for trying to use money to settle this thing... Money...? Yoshikazu What is it, Yoshikazu? Your dad's here Keiko, don't go inside! There, there... does it hurt? There, there... let's move, Yoshikazu Don't be afraid. Yoshikazu, your dad's here now There, there... let's lie down When did you find out about Kuze? Answer me I got a letter from Kazuo Why didn't you tell me? I wanted to keep it from you I didn't want my future with you ruined by past events in Kumamoto So I came to do a deal A deal? Because I wasn't the one who made his son like that It's nothing to do with me! 10 million yen That's a lot for me What more can I do? There was no other way I can't do any more Tatsuo When you suddenly vanished before my very eyes, I was genuinely worried And that stuff about the 11th I was really worried about you... You understand that? I was in love with you I didn't want you to know about this Other than money, I wonder if there wasn't perhaps some other way? Tunnel Mountain, valley Castle ruins It makes you wonder I mean the dream Prior to his coming here, the Tokaimura brother... dreamt of this place Do you think Kuze's grudge summoned him? Who knows? Some things we don't understand Yamazaki Ah, please Mr Yamazaki, it's been quite a while How are you? Same as ever Here Oh, you drew something! You said I could draw anything I felt like Junkichi... So he'll be the head accountant in LA Remarkable at such a young age Among us brothers, I hope this guy at least will be happy Junkichi Why don't you speak to Tatsuo? I guess you're no longer in hiding Doctor Junkichi Harada died 7 years ago Someone else is standing before you now Excuse me Doctor An acquaintance? Yes, a patient Sadly, I don't think he'll get any better Here Thank you Doctor A wrongly-addressed letter came, that Satsuki sent from Kumamoto At that time... she'd been waiting at the hotel for Kazuo Harada Keiko I feel as though I understand... Kazuo's feelings You see, men are exhausted... and fed up with life I suspect that deep down, Satsuki was looking for a place to die Confronting that incident became the trigger... When will you go to LA? I won't be going The engagement has been called off Somehow, there are too many issues I'm no longer clear about my own feelings Keiko, Tatsuo's behaviour on that occasion As a concerned party, I suppose he had no choice Kuze, whose wrath was implacable Tatsuo, who tried to resolve it with money In today's society, everyone's warped in some way In that vein, perhaps I'll follow him to Los Angeles before the year is out Or maybe... I'll fall in love with you, doctor As I don't understand my own feelings, it seems I should get examined too Yes You're always welcome I'll be counting on you Please excuse me Thanks to londonsatoshi THE END
