 

                        We have # Say what? # A whole lot of superstars # # On this stage here tonight # # But I want y'all to know one thing # # This is my house # And when I say, "Whose house?" # # Y'all know what time it is # # Whose house? # Run's house # Once again, my friend, not a trend for then # # They said rap was crap, but never had this band # # Till the ruler came with a cooler name # # Made you dance and prance and drove the fans insane # # Name is Run, my son, number one for fun # # Not a gun that's done and get done by none # # The other act, in fact, is just whack I kill # - # Why? - # It's fun, my son, and Run heads the bill # # Whose house? # Run's house. ( people cheering ) ( music playing ) ( applause ) Nat King Cole: # There was a boy # A very strange, enchanted boy # # They say he wandered very far # # Very far # Over land and sea # A little shy # And sad of eye # But very wise # Was he # And then one day # A magic day he passed my way # # And while we spoke of many things # # Fools and kings # This he said to me # The greatest thing # You'll ever learn # Is just to love # And be loved # In return. ( strobes popping ) Thank you for coming out tonight and welcome to my living room. ( applause ) This is gonna be interesting. This is gonna be a fun night, I can see. I know many of you are probably wondering, "What the hell is Mike Tyson gonna do up here onstage tonight," right? And, frankly, I'm wondering the same thing, too. As you know, the name of my show is "The Undisputed Truth. " I personally wanted to name it "Boxing, Bitches, and Lawsuits... Plus a Baby. " You know? But my wife and attorney, they absolutely freaked and I couldn't go that way. But, you know, life is great. You know, I really can't complain these days. I'm just very grateful that life has come full circle for me. Many of you may remember I'm the guy that used to knock motherfuckers out in less than 30 seconds. ( cheering ) Thank you. And I'll knock a motherfucker out tonight, too, if shit get out of... I'm kidding. No, I'm domesticated now with kids. Lawsuits. But now I'm here in New York City. My hometown. At the Imperial Theatre to entertain you all. I actually did my show here on Broadway last summer for the first time. Many people thought this was my first time on Broadway, but it wasn't. I actually got arrested on this same block right here. Many years ago, though. Many years ago. I like to say that arrest was one of those defining moments for me. If I hadn't gotten arrested on that particular night, I wouldn't have went to that Spofford Juvenile Detention Center. And if I never went to that detention center, I would never have met my mentor. If I never met my mentor, of course, I would never have been the youngest heavyweight champion - in the history of boxing. - ( cheering ) That's true. So I really have to thank that really nice New York City police officer that was kind enough to arrest that badass black kid from Brooklyn, of course. But New York has changed a lot, huh? Especially this whole Broadway-Times Square area. Like Disney World up in this motherfucker. I remember when it looked like a war zone for drug addicts, pimps, and prostitutes. You know, Koch was the mayor then, of course. And I couldn't walk down the street without a pervert flashing his dick at me or somebody trying to sell me something. Wanted that shit and didn't even buy. And this neighborhood became a prime robbing location for me and my Brownsville crew. Brownsville's in this house. I know they have to be. ( cheering ) That'd be fucking real, huh? I did this show so you'd better understand me, of course. In my own words. You may have seen that documentary I did with my good friend Jim Toback, "Tyson. " We won a few awards and we kicked ass at the Cannes Film Festival. But to be honest, that was some real dark shit, right? I was filming it straight out of rehab, so what did you expect? I still had that stuff in my system and I'm coming at you full speed ahead. But tonight, I'm promising to be a lot lighter, like my personality these days. And, listen, all jokes aside, I don't know what you're gonna take away from this experience tonight, but to simply put it, this is my story. My mistakes, my heartaches, my joy, my sorrow, my gift, my life, my undisputed truth. Let's get this popping. - ( music playing ) - ( cheering ) This is fun. We got Red Hook up there. Brooklyn Heights. Carroll Gardens. But this is where it all started right here, June 30, 1966, the day I was born in Cumberland Hospital in the republic of Brooklyn, New York. It's the same hospital where ballers Bernard and Albert King were born, and the legendary Michael Jordan. Right here. In Fort Greene. Oh, fuck. This is fucked up. This is supposed to be me and my mother up here. Listen, come on, there's no baby pictures of Mike Tyson floating around, but God damn, Spike. You couldn't find a picture of a nice black mother holding a child? That's really fucked. I'm taking it on the chin, guys, okay? Wow. This is much better. This is where it really begun. Right here with this woman, my mother, Lorna May Tyson. ( cheering ) A simple Southern woman from the Charlottesville, Virginia, area that moved up north and tried to live out her dreams that never came to form. I was the youngest of three children. My brother Rodney and my sister Denise, they were more like my mother. I always felt like the odd guy, the black sheep. Ooh, ooh, ooh. And this guy right here, this is my father Curly Lee Kirkpatrick. Wait a minute. Now, if Curly Kirkpatrick is supposed to be my father, then who the fuck is this dude on my birth certificate? This is where the shit gets really tricky, right? So... listen to this. My mom said Curly's my dad, but Percel fucking Tyson is on the birth certificate. How did this happen? No wonder I'm so fucked up. Here's the early proof. I'm still not sure who the hell my father really is. Curly was the pimp. You know, Percel was the humble Jamaican cab driver. A sucker. I so desperately wanted to be the son of the pimp because in my neighborhood of Brownsville, that carries weight. So if Curly really wasn't my father, him and my mother must have made some deal that once a year you come around and show your manhood, show fatherhood. And this is what he'd do. He'd come around. He always had a nice Cadillac, of course. And he'd come around, beep the horn. Boop, boop. "Oh, God, Daddy's downstairs. Look at his car, Daddy. " "Get down here, you little motherfuckers!" And so, of course, we'd get in the car happy, excited, thinking we're gonna go to some exotic place like Coney Island. Or Bear Mountain. But, you know, that was some good shit when you're broke back in the day. That was some real good shit, right? Especially from Brownsville. Don't be talking like y'all are some fly niggas all your life. You know, it's like going to Paris. But anyway, right... to our sad surprise, five minutes later, he'd go around the block, he drops us back off. Five dollars richer, of course. I don't know why we thought each year would be different. You know, I really don't know much about my mother. I remember her drinking a lot and always angry and fighting. I knew she had dreams of becoming a schoolteacher. But then she met my father... well, the man I was told was my father. The fast-talking, cool-dressing pimp who I always credited with changing the path of my mother's life. And before long, she was caught up in the street life. But she paid the heavy toll because at heart she really wasn't that girl at all. So she drank to cover up the pain. And I suppose my addictions started here with her. See, I was born with the addictive gene and it still haunts me to this day. Ready to creep up on me in my darkest night. Ready to rob me of my brightest day. You know, this is the only picture I have of my mother, Lorna May. But it's a good one. She seemed like she must have been happy that day. I wish I knew more about her. I know when she took this picture, she never imagined her boy would make it out of Brownsville unless I did it in some handcuffs or a wooden box. You know, I didn't come from a place where memories are cherished and displayed proudly in a photo album. I came from the gutter. A place where dreams are broken and memories are best forgotten. Welcome to Brownsville. Our motto is "never run and never will. " As a matter of fact, right here is my block. 178 Amboy Street. - Anybody know where that's at? - ( cheering ) My memories are of this place right, well... well, not this place. I don't remember it looking like this. I remember broken windows, graffiti, dog shit on the sidewalk. "A tree grows in Brooklyn," my ass. Spike... Spike shot this shit a few weeks before our Broadway run. But now there's white people in the neighborhood, as you know, the Whole Foods. And you know, once those white people move in, there goes the neighborhood. They will lock your ass up. At that time leaving Bed-Stuy, "do or die," moving to Brownsville, "never ran, never will," it was equivalent to being born in hell and then the devil took you and moved you into his toilet where he could shit on you real good. And that's what he did to me and my family. I can still see myself and my friends roaming the streets at all hours of the day and night. And I hung out with a tough crew of kids. But my street friends were my family, of course. And we all knew no one was gonna give us anything. We knew if we wanted anything, we had to take it. And that's what we did a lot. I'm 10 years old right here. I remember I scored a couple of hundred bucks on a robbing spree. I used to be a good pickpocket back then. I bought that new jacket, this bomber jacket, and I took this photo at Woolworth's in a photo booth. You remember Woolworth's? Pitkin Avenue? Woolworth's? After taking this picture, I caught the 14 bus off Pitkin Avenue. I went to Utica Roller Skating Rink to meet up with some friends of mine. Since we didn't have nothing, we took pride in looking good. Our clothes played a great role in our identity and our self-esteem. You weren't shit unless you had some shell-toe Adidas or straight-legged jeans from Lee, a Kangol hat and those big stupid Star Wars ski goggles even though we couldn't ski. Day of robbing spree would also include keeping our eyes on the other little kids in the neighborhood that were robbing and stealing, too. They were always easy scores and they could never go back to the cops. The worst thing that can happen there is you'd have to fight their big brother or one of their friends. But it's still easier than getting locked up. Man, we were like a pack of wild wolves. God forbid if you came to our neighborhood and we didn't know you. We might have killed you. And we could always be found on a corner unless we was hiding from the cops. We'd be there talking shit, smoking weed, gambling, drinking. Night Train, Brass Monkey, Olde English 800. You name it, we drank it. The cheaper the better. That's real talk. We'd sit around laughing about our robbing spree, splitting money and laughing about almost getting caught. It was always funny until you were the one that got caught. Shit, by the time I was 12 years old, I was arrested over 38 times. You know how it is. The juvenile detention center was like "Cheers. " There, everybody knew my name. No, really. No shit. The whole of Brownsville was locked up with me. It was like one big family reunion. No, like a summer camp. No, even better than that. 'Cause we got three hots and a cot. For most of us, that was royal treatment. But, you know, when I wasn't locked up, which wasn't too often, only thing I enjoyed more than stealing was my pigeons. My first fight started with one of my pigeons. You know, Gary the bully stole one of my pigeons that I stole, you know. And I'm like 10 at the time. "Give me my bird back. Please, please, give me my bird back. " "Shut the fuck up, nigga. You dumb fat fuck. You want this motherfucking bird? Fuck you. " And he snapped my bird... the fucker, he snapped my bird's neck and threw the blood on me and hit me with the bird. Then my rage let loose and I beat Gary the bully's motherfucking ass. - ( laughs ) - ( cheering ) It was love at first fight. It wouldn't be long before I got a reputation for being the good street fighter in the neighborhood. Older kids would bring other kids from other neighborhoods who were supposed to be good street fighters to come to my block to fight me. Well, actually, they had to come to my block 'cause I was only 10. My mother wouldn't let me leave the block. Anyway, we would go into alleyways or abandoned buildings and the older guys would bet money on us, of course. And they couldn't believe I was a fat kid with glasses and I was kicking these kids' asses, punching 'em, slamming 'em, biting 'em, too, back then. ( cheering ) Oh, yeah, you know you got to... you know you got to bite the motherfuckers to get them off your ass. They might have you in the headlock too tight, right, and you got that leg... arr-rr! I was already a legend in the making, at least in my mind. I used my newfound talent as an asset to my new crime enterprise, of course, right? But I guess it wasn't a good venture because I got caught and finally sent away. Although I had a reputation for being a good street fighter, I still never thought about being a boxer or prizefighter. I just wanted to be remembered for being something great. I didn't know what. Like a gangster or stickup man or something. Muhammad Ali: I'm a bad man. I am the king of the world. ( cheering ) I remember like it was yesterday when Muhammad Ali came to Spofford Juvenile Detention Center to visit the kids there. Man, he lit the place up. And I was saying to myself, "Wow. " I didn't know how I was gonna do it, but I knew I wanted what Ali had. I wanted people to be around me and look up to me because I was special. And at the time there was this trainer that worked at the Tryon School for Boys, a place that I would eventually get transferred to from Spofford 'cause I stabbed a motherfucker, right? I was a beautiful child. ( laughs ) I was a beautiful child. Listen, right. So this trainer, he taught boys how to box. And I remember seeing the guys when I was in the hold. They were coming back from the other side of the dorm with cracked ribs, bloody noses, knocked-out teeth. But they were happy. And I wanted to be happy, too. So I said, "Yo, yo, what's going on?" 'Cause that's how I talked back then. "Yo, yo, what's going on back there, man? What's up?" I wanted to be in that program so bad, but he ignored me. The trainer, Bobby Stewart, who we're watching now, he ignored me because he thought I was a troublemaker, and I was 'cause I stabbed a guy to get there. It was a bad place... So he comes to my room in the middle of the night 'cause I told people I wanted to meet him and this is his white ass. ( laughter ) "Let me tell you something, you little dickhead. I hear you want to be in my program. " ( laughter ) "You got to show me you're ready to work without being an asshole, asshole. And then you do that with me, maybe I could work with your dumb ass. " And this is how he talked to me. Just met me that evening. It was hard, but I did it. I got on honor roll. You know the honor roll. The slow kids' honor roll. Special ed honor roll. I made the fucking special ed honor roll. Like, "what block will fit into this hole" type shit. I did it. I did it. Who needs boxing? I got on honor roll. So he introduced me to this old Italian man that would change the path of my life. This guy would become my mentor and his name was Cus D'Amato. ( applause ) The names Mike Tyson and Cus D'Amato would forever be synonymous with one another. You can't mention my name and not ever reference the legacy of Cus nor can you mention Cus without reference to my legacy. Cus told me from the moment he met me what would happen after he watched me box and follow his map to success. He said... just like this, he said, "Now, Mike, I'll tell you, Mike, if you listen to me, you really want to do this, I'm gonna put you in the locals, then the regionals, then the nationals. You're gonna win that, and then after that, you're gonna become the youngest heavyweight champ of all time. As of now, I hold the record with Floyd Patterson at 21. You could break that record at 20 and be the youngest and the greatest of all time. Only if you listen to me, of course. " And so, of course, I'm a young black kid from the inner city. Cus says this to me, this white man said this to me with no hesitation. I thought he was a pervert at first. No, 'cause where I come from, they was trying to fuck you. There's always somebody trying to fuck you, right? But really, believe it or not, his confidence in delivery made me believe this was gonna be an easy task, right? At the time, I had no idea what I was getting myself into. I just knew it sounded good. When I got discouraged, as I often did, he would massage my mind with these great thoughts of exotic worlds and masterful treasures. Man, everything he said sounded so foreign to me, but I loved the way it sound. There we were, venturing off on this magnificent adventure like two pirates ready to claim our riches and to decimate anyone that stands in our way. This old man made me hunger for glory like a mad dog. So one of the first things Cus ever told me was this invention called the Willie. The Willie, right? It's named after light heavyweight champion Willie Pastrano. Let me explain this. Cus would call out a number. Cus would call out these numbers. Cus would call these numbers out and I'm gonna do it slow 'cause I'm an old motherfucker now, all right? But Cus would call out numbers in rapid succession. It would go something like this. One... left hook to the jaw. Boom. Two... right hook to the jaw. Boom. Three... left uppercut. Four... right uppercut. Five... left hook to the liver. Six... right hand to the spleen. Seven... jab to the head. Eight... jab to the body. Fuck. I'm glad I don't have to do that for a living no more. God damn. But anyway, our early adventures started traveling all over the country fighting in these small clubs called "smokers. " And the reason why they were called smokers is because the cigarette and cigar smoke was so thick, you could hardly see the guy you're fighting let alone the guy you're talking to. And Cus was a big man in this world. And the fights was pretty much unsanctioned, which meant lawless. There was never no paramedics outside. If you got a concussion and you died, it's on you. You know? No, this is real talk. And plus, if the crowd didn't like your performance, they didn't boo. They fought each other to show you how it was really done. This is some serious Puerto Rican shit, man. I'm serious, all right? I'm serious. You think I'm bullshitting? No offense, Puerto Ricans, but listen... ( laughter, applause ) y'all some fighting motherfuckers. You're either fighting, fucking, or cutting. Y'all are doing some shit. But anyway, so I'm like 14 years old, right? But Cus had me chiseled in this great Michelangelo statue right here. Back... not now. Back then, all right? I was really cut up like I got in a fight with the Latin Kings and lost. No, listen, really. I won the national championship just like Cus said I would at 14. I broke the record for the fastest knockout. Never been broken. Eight seconds. ( applause ) I was well on my way. So one day Cus looks at me dead in my eye and he goes, "Hey, Michael, you scared of white people?" What? "You, are you scared of white people?" Fuck. I'm scared of this white motherfucker right here. Shit, I'm not worried. He didn't get reelected. I'm cool. Elected. I got fucked up with the words. Elected. Shit, I can't believe Spike's racist ass didn't have George Zimmerman up here instead of him. Shit. Oh, shit. Fuck. Love to Trayvon Martin and family. But, anyway, I'm talking shit. ( laughter ) But really, no, as I'm saying this to you, and I'm speaking very eloquent at the moment, Spike isn't worth a damn because Spike knew me over 20 years, but he never told me that, "Mike, you need a fucking interpreter. I don't know what the fuck you're talking about. " ( laughter, applause ) This was not even on the show. This is some real shit. So anyway... Cus was born in like 1905. So he sees a big... what's that word? Transition. He sees the big transition in the black community. So he goes like, "You ain't afraid of white men. You're not afraid of mustaches and beards. I've been around a lot of black fighters that are afraid to hit white people. You better not be one of those kind. Wasting my goddamn time. I'm an old man. I don't got time to waste. " I'm like, "Whoa, Cus. It's the '80s. I'm okay with hitting a white person. Just tell me. As a matter of fact, Cus, I'm cool. Just tell me. I'll hit anybody you tell me to, Cus. " Because I love Cus. You know, even though he's an old man and small, he was very intimidating. Here I am, a boy of 14 years old, and I have this old man in my face intimidating me. Just like this. "Mike, you got to punch with both hands. And don't let him hold you. " He's a mean-ass old Italian man. It's just intimidating with his words telling me not to be intimidated. But yet I'm intimidated with the way he's trying to tell me not to be... you kind of getting me? I was intimidated across the board. I was just fucked up, man. But Cus was beautiful. I love Cus because I'm a street kid. I never had a mother or a father really that close. But he taught me how to read, write. He was very patient with me. He encouraged me to read anything I could get my hands on. So one day I'm in Cus's living room and I'm reading the boxing encyclopedia. "Encyclopedia. " That's a word I learned. I had to work on that with a speech coach. Encyclopedia. A record of great fighters like Sam Langford, Harry Greb, Jack Britton, Ted "Kid" Lewis, Willie Pep and the great legendary Sugar Ray Robinson. And these are six funny-looking guys, right? But when you add up all their fights, that's like 1,500 fights. I gave up right there. I said, "Cus, I can't do this shit. " I didn't say shit. But I said, "Cus, I could never be like them. I can't do this. " Then he looked at me in the eye with angry passion. "Mike, you got to read the whole records, Mike. Look at 'em. What you doing trying to accomplish what these guys tried to accomplish if you're not willing to endure the misery and pain these guys endured? We never hear any more about the guys that knocked them out early in their career. Know why, Mike? Know why? 'Cause at one point somebody knocked them out, Mike. But they quit. But these men you're reading about, these champions, they never quit. They never got discouraged. You know? And that's why the other guys, their demons are following them forever, Mike. 'Cause they had a chance to face their demons and they didn't. No, they didn't. You have to face your demons. You hear me, Mike? 'Cause if you don't, they will follow you to eternity. And you remember, Mike, be careful how you fight your fights 'cause the way you fight your fights be the way you live your life. " And I never quit again. A little later in my amateur career when I had this big head... ( audience laughs ) What the fuck? This looks like the 1910... don't I look... no, really, I was psyched. Don't I look like these guys? Look at this guy. It was all about the bulge back then. It was all about the bulge. In my early career, I had this big head. I was national champ. And my talents were pretty awesome back then, right? I was a 14-year-old kid knocking out grown men. Cus was so happy. Guys in the middle of the night, my sparring partners, in the middle of the night, they would leave. Pack their bags in the middle of the night when there's no lights and just walk... and leave without getting paid. But, you know, after getting a bad beating by me, of course. But who doesn't want to get paid? It was the house joke. Cus would say, "Another one bites the dust. Another bites the dust. " So Cus would be around me telling me, "If you listen to me, you'll be a god beyond means. People will carry your mother's bag. " Cus thought I would be a god of war. This is what this old Italian man kept saying to me. He fucked me up. You know what I mean? That's why I got in all this trouble. I thought I was a fucking god. 'Cause I was kicking niggas' ass like I was a god. Cus said I was the baddest man on the planet one day. I was just a kid and I thought I was. I'm a local celebrity. Catskills stuff. I'm always in the papers. The professional boxing world had their eye on me. And so every now and then, I'd go back to Brownsville to hang out with my old friends I used to hustle with and talk about my crazy life with these white people, right? I go down there carrying a photo album. Nigga, I blew my friends away with pictures of me and my little happy white... no, not white friends. I got happy white friends. I got well-fed, nourished, a happy white school, hugging, kissing. I'm holding white babies. I looked like I was running for mayor up there. You know? I looked like a fly in buttermilk. Look at my black ass up there. I just don't belong in that picture. Look like I'm about to rob them after their last supper. I just don't fit there, but these motherfuckers loved me, right? You know, they loved me. I was one of those guys that lived upstate. I came from upstate, lived with a good white family. Liberal kind that take in badass blacks and Puerto Ricans and shit. Like the Fresh Air Fund. "Come up and get some fresh air. They're okay, they just need fresh air. " You know that shit, people that have been in group homes. You know about that, right? "They just need some fresh air. They're good kids. " Then I'd go back to Brooklyn and I'm still robbing people. Give me the... give me the fucking chain, you stupid... Then I'd go back upstate with my white family. "Hi, guys. " I'd go, "What's for dinner? Lamb chops? Oh, God! Oh, shit. Oh, God. Camille, I love your lamb chops so much. " I say Camille, I'm talking about Camille Ewald. That's Cus's life partner. She's a Ukrainian lady. Right here. Not the first, that's the sister. But right here. And she was a beautiful woman 'cause she had great food that I never ate before and I loved the food and she loved me because I loved to eat all her food. And... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Back to the robbing spree. Okay, as we were passing the joint around, of course, looking in the photo album, Panamanian Ernie said, "Hey, papi, what the fuck, papi? You fucking with these crackers, boy. Papi, you kissing these babies, bro. You fucking... don't fall for the okey doke, boy. I'm telling you, bro. Don't go for it, dawg. " So my man Black goes, Black goes like this, Black said, "Let's get this money, nigga. You up there with them motherfuckers, big-ass white motherfuckers, let's see what they brought you. " And I'm saying, "Let's do this," right? But it's different this time. It's a lot different this time. My friend, Barkim, he's older. He's around 18 at the time. And he goes... he's a Five Percenter. So I'm sure I see Five Percenters, people that were Five Percenters here. It's supposed to be a real... a real righteous brother. Very righteous. Supposedly. Supposed... You never heard of a Five Percenter in your life, have you? Have you? This righteous brother, he's smoking with us. "Yo, yo, Mike, man, what the fuck you doing, nigga? These white people love you, man. They love you, man. This ain't... Go back up there with them white people, man. Don't be fucking with us, man. Fuck that shit. I wish I had some white people that loved me. " And Barkim died shortly after that. Somebody murdered him, you know, 'cause he was in the game. I always wonder if I didn't listen to him, I wonder would I be here telling this story. But not everybody was happy with my success. No, no, no. Uh-uh. There were some haters. You need haters to motivate you, though. Got to have 'em. They resented my fast rise and close ties to Cus. In particular, a trainer named Teddy Atlas. Yeah. He didn't like Cus telling him to drop other fighters and focus on me. He thought I was arrogant and spoiled, which I was. But what he said don't matter 'cause Cus had my back and my talent was un-fucking-deniable. ( cheering ) So Teddy had this sister-in-law who was 12 at the time. And I was 15. I knew her for a couple of years 'cause we went to the same Catskill upstate New York school. And we knew each other every day 'cause Teddy was married to her sister. You know, everybody's close like a little family, everyday stuff, right? And I was an awkward dude. Never been with a girl. Put that one in. Never kissed a girl. Well, I kissed her, but never with the tongue. I kissed pigeons. I like pigeons, so I kissed pigeons. But we joked around a lot and I felt really comfortable around there. Around the ladies, of course. I'm talking about the young girls. So one day in a moment of immaturity, with raging hormones taking the lead, I grabbed her ass. I don't know what hand. I know I grabbed her ass, though, right? You're an older gentleman, so I'm sure you may know, sir. And you look like you've made a lot of mistakes in your life. You ever do something when the fantasy... the fantasy in the head is going on in your head and your head tells you if you make this move, the fantasy will become a reality? People are familiar with that? All right, so I made the move. I didn't get the response that I anticipated, and the response I got back was like, "Fuck. " And it wasn't like she said, "Fuck you, Mike! Why did you do that?" It was like, "Fuck. " And you just like, "Fuck! Why did I do this? Fuck!" And she didn't say anything, but you know it wasn't right when you touch it and they, "Whoo," and looked at you. And you said, "Oh, shit. " And this nigga, I know he know. Oh, you know that's some shit. The cops are coming, or somebody is going to come with a gun. Bad idea, right? So now it's 6:00 p. m. I'm going to the gym as I always do and she told Teddy. And I see Teddy and he looks as mad as a motherfucker. Teddy had a bad back from a car accident, so he was always cracking his fucking back. And it always reminded me of somebody suffering from Tourette's. Because he'd be talking... even training he's like, "Move your head. " Crack. "Move your head. " Crack. Crack. "Move your head. " And he's moving and shit, and like, crack. And I'm looking at him over there and he's mad. And I see him and he starts coming towards me. "Mike, come here. " Crack, crack, crack. And he grabs me... crack, crack. But he pulls his big motherfucking gun out. Not that fucking funny now, Miss Red Dress, is it? All right? So... This is my head. So he goes, "Motherfucker, you ever touch anybody in my motherfucking... I'll blow your motherfucking head off, you motherfucker. " - My head's here now and he goes... - ( gunshot ) He don't shoot me, but he shoots the gun close to my ear. You, sir, you look like you've been shot at before, right? ( laughs ) You know that proverbial "bong" that goes off when the gun goes and, bong! That happened to me. After Teddy shot the gun, he was the one that ran. And I'm not saying I was a bad motherfucker. I wasn't, like, going, "Fuck you, nigga. Shoot me. I'm ready to die. " I was like, "Whoa! Fuck! Stop! Wait! Hey, motherfucker, why? Shit!" You know? "Cus!" God damn. Who's from Staten Island? ( audience shouting ) Raise your hand. I see you. All right, so Teddy was from Staten Island, okay? So on Staten Island, you know everybody on Staten Island think they're a motherfucking gangster. Out there on Todt Hill. What's that hill? Toot Hill? Todt Hill? So... I wish I had my ring. But this is the proverbial Staten Island gangster. "You looking at me up there? Hey, it's Staten Island. " So he went like this. This is a Staten Island thing. "Hey, my friend. If you knew who I knew, you wouldn't be popping at the fucking gums, you know? Oh, yeah? You want... my fucking uncle... yeah, my uncle. My fucking uncle. My motherfucking... my mother's brother, he fucking cleans Paulie Castellano's colostomy bag, you fucking moolie motherfucker! You fucking moolie fuck!" What the fuck's a moolie? There was a lot of rumors that went on about this. Everybody thought I was a 20-year-old pervert and she was 12 years old, but I was only 15. And I'd never been with a girl before. But Cus was outraged and he fired Teddy. Teddy went to New York and trained some fighters and we never spoke again. You know, it was very easy for me to block out the fact that my mother was sick when I was being praised and worshipped upstate. Actually, I didn't know how sick she was until it was too late. She died of cancer, but I think she died of a broken heart, a shattered dream that she never accomplished. See, my mother was always talking about her death. For some crazy reason, she had a fear of dying and her body going to this place called... what's it called, potter's field? A year before her death, she started saving money and she bought a few burial plots at Rose Hill Cemetery in Linden, New Jersey. And it was important that we made sure she was buried there. She had a small funeral and only a handful of people attended. And it was a damn shame, because she should have had a better send-off to heaven. But we were so poor when my mother died, we had to bury her in this thin wooden cardboard-looking box without a headstone. So years later when I started making money, I had her body exhumed and I had her buried in the most lavish coffin that money could buy. Well, her gravestone to this day, it sits high in the whole cemetery. And it was important for me to do that for her because I wanted to give her a resting place that was respectful. So that in case her grandkids ever decide to come visit, they would believe in life she was a remarkable woman. ( applause ) ( music playing ) # Oh, sinner man, where you gonna run to? # # Sinner man, where you gonna run to? # # Where you gonna run to # All along them days? # Well, I run to the rock # Please hide me, I run to the rock # # Please hide me, I run to the rock # # Please hide me, Lord, all along them days # # But the rock cracked... ( bell rings ) ( applause ) In the ring, I was invincible. I think all my tragic moments prepared me for my rise to the top. I had a focus and drive like no other. Never a moment went by that I didn't think about having the heavyweight championship belt strapped around my waist. It was all I was ever permitted to think about. I was gonna be a god of war like Cus said. There was never anyone who was gonna beat me. They would know my name from now until the eons of oblivion. Cus always thought he was preparing me for his death by shoving all this information in my ear even if I was in the mood to hear it or not. Countless nights he'd wake me up in the middle of the night. And I'm dead asleep. "Hey, Mike. Hey, Mike. " "What?" "Don't you what me. Don't you... You remember what I told you? You remember, move your head, then come back and punch with bad intentions? Do you remember that, Mike? Huh? Huh? I'm not gonna be here long. I'm an old man, Mike. But if you listen, you'll be ready. You'll be best ever. " I knew Cus would eventually die. He was this old stubborn man with a hacking cough who refused to see any doctors and believed he could heal himself with his mind. "I can heal myself with my mind. Nothing them damn doctors can do. " I'm like, "Damn, Cus. Let's go to the hospital. " "What do you know about some doctors? Do you know doctors kill more people than all the sports combined in the history of sports? Did you know that? You didn't know that, did you, huh? They'll never kill me. " Man: We love you, Cus! Tyson: But Cus's death left me directionless. But I had a machine of managers, lawyers, and accountants there to rob me every single step of the way. However, things were so plentiful at the time, it was hard to notice their masterful deception. I was now the youngest heavyweight champion of the world at age 20 after defeating Trevor Berbick in just two rounds. Announcer: He goes down. He should be able to get up from this. His legs may be shot. They are! As Trevor Berbick falls back, I don't know if he's gonna be able to continue. He's got the heart, but his body won't let him do what his mind wants to. It's all over. We've got a brand-new heavyweight champion of the world, Mike Tyson. I was like the poster boy for success. See? I really was the poster boy. I know the NYPD wished they could have kept this locked up in their archive somewhere. I just had to show you, you know, the irony is just too twisted. Good picture, bad day. You know, really, you take away those numbers, it could be a yearbook picture, football. I never had a yearbook picture. This is it. But, anyway... Of course, you know, I had a few million bucks in the bank. But still, there's something wrong. There's just something missing. I just don't know. And then I found true love. Check this out. # Everything I do... Oh... Sing with me, suckers. # La la la la la, la la la la la # # La la la la la la-la la-la la # # Do do do do do do # Ooh-hh. - Whoo! - ( gunshot ) It's been torture. It's been pure hell. It's been worse than anything - I could possibly imagine. - Pure hell? I'm not talking about once a week. - I'm talking about every day has been... - Every day? - ... some kind of battle, some kind of fight. - Shit. Better mention this 'cause after Robin hears about this show... on HBO... she's gonna use it as a way to relaunch her career the same way she's been trying to do unsuccessfully for the last 25 years. - ( cheering ) - Predict. I know you guys didn't know anything about this, but during our separation, me and Robin were still fucking. ( men shouting ) No, no, any kids in here? My kids in this motherfucker? Okay. This one particular day before I go to my lawyer's office and tell him that these are golddiggers and these are horrible people, I decide to go by Robin's house and have sex. She's still my wife. Have sex with my wife. She's soon to be an ex-wife, but I'm trying to get all I can before it's over, okay? So I go to my house... well, it's actually not really my house. It's her house, but you know when you give the girl so many gifts and the gifts supersede the price of the house, you think the house is yours? But it's not. It is not. So I go to the house and I'm ringing the doorbell. Ding-dong. And, of course, no one answers. So I do it again. Ding-dong. As soon as she don't answer the door, I head back to my Lamborghini Countach. Before I get there, I see a car coming up the winding road. Blair Summit in LA. I see her coming up the winding road. And the reason why I know it's her car is why? - Audience: You bought it. - I bought it. So as I see the car coming, I'm saying, "Whoa. I can get this quick stroke session in before I go to my lawyer's. " As she comes closer, I see in the passenger seat, I see this grayish-whitish silhouette. And so I'm thinking it's one of her white girlfriends from that whack-ass show "Head of the Class. " Oh, fuck. But when the car comes and it's more in view, I notice it's not one of her girlfriends from that show "Head of the Class. " It's a white dude that she's probably giving head to. All right? You'll never believe who this motherfucker was. - Man: Brad Pitt. - Why you come here if you know, motherfucker? Yes, yes, okay. Yeah, Brad "the shit" Pitt. This pretty motherfucker, all right? He was high. He was on something. He had to be on some weed. You know I would know. Like a "doobie," dude. It's like the doobie dudes are smoking. So he didn't know it was me. But when he gets out of the car and he sees my black ass, you should have saw his face. He went pre-Matrix on my ass. 'Cause "The Matrix" wasn't out then, but he did that same shit. "Fuck, dude. Whoa, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit, Mike Tyson. Fuck, Mike. Don't hit my face. Please, don't fucking do that. I got an audition. We were just going over some lines. We were talking about you the whole time. You're a good man. I just put in my two cents. You guys could be like the Cosbys, man. Really. " I'm just standing there looking at this pretty motherfucker, right? I don't know if I'm gonna fuck him up or fuck him. I don't know what I'm gonna do. I don't know if I'm gonna boom, boom! Fuck you! Boom! Boom! No, I wasn't gonna do that. ( panting ) ( laughs ) Oh, look at that. So cool. They're so cool. It's funny when you think about it, 'cause, really, Brad wasn't shit back then. And Robin kind of was. But now she's a cold fart and he's hot shit. Give me a job, Brad, all right? Shit, even better, adopt me, know what I mean? Plus, you never paid that pussy bill, motherfucker. Shit. Oh, man. Look at me. I'm the dumbest nigga in the history of dumb niggas. Ain't that some shit? Ain't this... "I got a girl! I got a girl!" Fucking stupid. And she's like, "Yeah, I got you. " She's like, "Yeah, I got you. I got you. I got your wallet, Mike. You're a dumb nigger, Michael. I got your wallet. " Look at that ridiculous weave. Can you believe that shit? - That's some big Staten Island hair shit, right? - Man: Long Island, Mike. No, Long Island got the big hair. Long Island got the big hair. So me and Robin was only married eight months, but by Hollywood standards, that's like 20 years. So I was 20, she was 21. We were young. I didn't know what I was doing. I didn't have no money, never had no pussy. So we ain't have a clue what we were getting ourselves into, but her mama Ruth sure did. Yeah. Who I so endearingly liked to refer to as "Ruth the Ruthless. " They tag-teamed me worse than Hulk Hogan and Mr. at WrestleMania, man. I tell ya, man, Rotten Robin and Ruth the Ruthless, they jumped on my wallet like a pack of wild dogs from Africa, man. You ever watch "National Geographic" and "Animal Channel"? Of course, it's this animal that everybody's trying to get in Africa. He's a very slick, slender, sophisticated... "didactyl" animal. He has a black last name. Thomson gazelle. Thomson. The Thomson gazelle, the Thomson gazelle. The Thomson gazelle, you know that animal, right? So he's familiar... the Thomson gazelle... so the Thomson gazelle, he's very didactyl, he's very sophisticated. When he moves, he's very... "foomf, foomf, foomf. " And then we have the wild dogs of Africa. There's normally about nine or 14 in a pack and they're on your ass like this. And then, of course, their thing is wearing you down. Endurance. So eventually the Thomson dudes dropped from exhaustion and then they go to eating his ass. They go right into his ass... they rip his stool out then they rip through the rest of him then they eat his balls... and that's what them ladies did to me. They ate my ass alive, right? I know when I said, "I do," I didn't know that meant your mama, too, right? ( mimicking Robin Givens ) "Michael, we're a package deal. You know you like my mother, Michael. Michael. " And this experience really taught me that the apple doesn't fall too far from the tree. It is what it is. How do I get... ( Beethoven's Fifth Symphony plays ) I want me some "Michelle 'Cicely' Tyson. " He's a homo. Uh, baby, subject to assimilation. Don King ugly. Tyson's ugly. He a homo. Read my lips, I'll say it nice and slow... Michelle Cicely Tyson is a ho-mo. Hear me! "Mean" Mitch Green, y'all. Unfortunately, this wouldn't be the last time I would run into Mitch. I would see him again. This time it will be at 4:00 a. m. in the morning. At Harlem at the most famous and luxurious Dapper Dan boutique. We up there getting fitted for a beautiful, tailored... no, it wasn't really a tailored suit. It was this bullshit-ass, ridiculous white leather jacket with "Don't Believe the Hype" glued on the back. And I got these white, tight leather Daisy Duke shorts. Don't judge me, motherfucker. I had good legs back then, motherfucker. I liked to whip it and whip it. So this is New York and most of you are black, so you know about Dapper Dan. And for those who don't, Dapper Dan was the man back then. Every hip-hop artist/ drug dealer/killer/kidnapper/... whatever you slash with, you're up there. So it's not really weird to see people up there at the wee hours of the night, of course, right? So I'm there feeling good, all of a sudden, my cool is interrupted when this uncouth motherfucker walks in the... looking just like this. He didn't have the shorts and the gloves, of course, but he had the sweatpants and he had no shirt and he had the hairdo. I go here and I'm trying on clothes and Mitch comes in... and then when Mitch comes in... Mitch comes in like this. ( laughter ) "Bitch-ass nigga, what the fuck you doing in my neighborhood, you bitch-ass nigga?! You "Cicely Tyson" homo-ass-bitch nigga. What... you wanna jump? Don't jump, nigga. Don't jump... don't do this, nigga. " And, um... I'm trying to stay cool, right, because I'm in this white world. I got endorsements. I got Pepsi-Cola. Not now, back then. I got Kodak. Not now, back then. I got Bank of America before it was Bank of America. Not now, back then. 'Cause white people love me. Not now, back then. So I don't got time to fuck around with a $2 nigga, right? If you have any kind of success anywhere in the world, you got some fuckin' Jewish influence. You got these Jewish managers, lawyers, and accountants and shit. And they ain't no big motherfuckers, but every time I see them in verbal altercations, and they says some slick shit from the side of their mouth, they never got their ass whipped or hurt or anything, right? So I thought I'd try this shit on Mitch mixed with my little Brooklyn shit, right? So I say, um, "Now, Mitch, what are you doing? Now trust me, Mitch, by all means, I don't really believe this is advantageous to your health. I already kicked your ass now. You need to proceed to the nearest exit immediately. " And it didn't work for me. Why did I say that shit? Why did I say that shit? He said, "What, bitch?! Nigga, you ain't beat me, nigga! That Don King... he ain't give me no per diem, man. I ain't have no food, man. How am I gonna fight with no food, you bitch-ass, dick-sucking fool, you Tyson-ass-bitch-ass-ho nigga. Huh?" I have this speech coach, right... and this is one of the words that we worked on and stuff... so suddenly I had an epiphany. I had an epiphany, right? I had an epiphany. So I say, "I am Mike Tyson, right, the baddest motherfucker on the planet, right, I do not have to take this shit. " All that white world that I wanted to be a part of just went out the window. I just get mad and Mitch said, "Fuck you, faggot!" And it just slipped and I... ( yells ) Right? But it didn't turn out cool. I broke my hand on this gorilla's face. And listen, right, you know, after all that stuff, I really don't even like to use the word "gorilla" concerning a black man, but come on, guys, just look at him. I'm gonna leave it up to you. Gorilla, orangutan, baboon, spider monkey, you pick. It ain't on me, all right? So this is what you never knew about the fight. You all knew about the altercation, but this is what you didn't know... Mitch was high on some powerful shit they gave him, like, alien-like strength, all right? Angel dust. Yeah, he was high as a kite on angel dust. I'm laying some beautiful combinations on this brother, right. I'm laying these beautiful combin... But, um, he doesn't go down. "Weebles wobble, but they don't fall down. " Remember that? That's Mitch. So I'm opening up on Mitch and it's like the karate movie. I'm moving... and Mitch is not going... but he's not going down. And he's just going like this and he's not going down. Shit's not looking good for me, so I have to resort to my Bruce Lee "Enter the Dragon," Regent Theatre on Nostrand Avenue, across the street from the bank, roundhouse kick on this motherfucker, right? You know that... all right, but listen, right, I see the people are very excited, the expectation is all in the air. Keep in mind, though, the kick that you're about to witness now is not gonna resemble the kick from 1988, okay? So Mitch comes, right... so Mitch comes... "Fuck you, nigga!" Boom! Mitch is down again. He's fucking down. He fucking down and he's not moving. He's not getting up. I got this driver/bodyguard that's with me at the time, but he's never with me when the fight's going down. "Yo, Mike, man, I think you killed this motherfucker, man. " And then... of course I have to go back to this Jewish etiquette shit. I go, "Fuck that shit, Tom. It was inevitable this shit was going down, man. " And Tom goes, "Fuck that, Ike. Man, this nigga gonna hit you with that lawsuit, man. " And then this is back to my Jewish etiquette shit. "Fucking Tom, do you believe there's a court in the fucking land that will believe this fucking baboon, man? Are you fucking crazy?" But I'm really scared. I'm talking that tough shit, but I'm really scared. I'm really scared. And my mind says, "Please, I hope this nigga moves. " And then this "Night of the Living Dead," Jason, Michael Myers... he pops up and he says, "Fuck you, faggot!" and hits me in the balls. I went "Ugh!" And then I said, "Fuck that Bruce Lee shit, it's time for WWE, Bruno Sammartino... and it's... ( yelling ) And I was gonna bite this motherfucker, right, but, um, not this dirty motherfucker. 'Cause I'll bite a motherfucker before God gets the news, right, but he had that green shit and grey shit coming with his blood. I didn't wanna catch the "West Nine"... I mean, West Nile virus. - Shit. - West nine? I'm walking to my yellow canary convertible Rolls-Royce. 350, 350,000... Puffy didn't have 350 back then. He does now. He didn't have it back then. I get in the car and Tom's in the car and I say... I've still got my Jewish etiquette with me, though... I got Jew etiquette, so I go, "Tom, um... will you please be... will you please, um, pursue the road to the emergency room because I believe I have a hairline fracture. " And Tom goes, "Fuck, man! You crazy motherfucker! Mitch is on the back of the car! Mitch is on the wheel!" And this is not a lie, he woke up again. He... I don't know how... he woke up, he's on the back of my car and he's on the wheel and he's, "Fuck you, faggot! You faggot! I'm going to kill you, homo!" So he's back there... he does an alien-like leap and he disappears. He goes up and disappears. Me and Tom are like, "Oh, shit! Fuck!" And comes down and we're scared to get out of the car. And he comes down on my side view mirror and rips it off. I said, "That's 30 Gs. " It has to be 30 Gs if the car's 350. 350,000, it has to be 30 Gs. And I'm saying to myself, "Fuck," but I'm still in Jewish etiquette mode, but I'm mad as a motherfucker. And I say... I say, "Tom, will you be kind enough to wait here patiently as I go outside and confront Mitch about this motherfucking side view mirror?" And I come out the car like this. And I jump and I grab this motherfucker and I just reel in that Jheri... I'm reeling in... excuse me, I'm from Brownsville. You know we got the lisp. "Jheri curl. " I'm reeling in the Jheri curl... I'm reeling in the Jheri curl and then the proverbial Ralph Kramden... boom, zoom, to the motherfucking moon. Boom! ( sound effect whistles ) I'm waiting. Boom! Mitch is down again, right? Sometimes you hit your head once... boom! On the concrete... on the floor 'cause you had a fight... boom... sometimes... boom, you're dead. Motherfucker ain't breathing, but this is something that is really uncanny. Sometimes you hear the... boom! And then it bounce up and hit again. Boom! And then he wakes up and he starts throwing punches. I don't know why, but it always happens that way. You hit it twice, you get up. But when Mitch came down, he just did one... boom! And the breath from his air came up and he shit on himself a little, right? And my mother always told me that... ah... that's your soul going to Jesus. I had to do my Jewish/Brooklyn... "See, Mitch, I told you. This was going to be fucking detrimental to your health. Now you forced me to put a sign in your eye that says, 'Closed for the fucking season. '" This again, this wouldn't be the last time I see this motherfucker. I'm in Harlem now with this Afrocentric sister. You know, who always... Sister Egypt is her name... with the turban on the head. The flowing dress. Likes to be very conservative. Don't want to show the curves and stuff. But when she moves, her body would, too. She just couldn't help it. Excuse me. Thank you, Gwen. You remember... it was like '88... the way Harlem is now, they got, you know, linen cloths outside on tables. You eat outside now. But they tried... this is like the prototype before... to see if the shit was gonna work. I'm sitting at the table and from the side of my eye, I see this big guy with some big hair on a bike. Not a Harley-Davidson or a Ducati, but a bike, and no shirt. This shit just don't look right. So I turn, it's fucking Mitch Green. Mitch Green's around 6'5"/6'6", but with his hair... the hair's like 6'12"/7-foot, you pick. Anyway, he's on a bike going, "One, two, woomp. " And I'm saying to myself, "Mitch is here. " And I'm saying, "If he goes here... " just like if the cops are looking for you and you can't move right quick 'cause they'll spot you if you get up... I said, "If Mitch go here, he'll go by that block, and I know he'll be gone. " But he doesn't, he gets here and he looks and his eye catches my eye. And he's not sure if it's me, but he went like this. And Mitch goes, "Foom, foom, foom, foom, whoa. " I knew Mitch for years. The most rational thing I ever saw Mitch do... he stopped, he got off the bike, and he put the kickstand down real easy. That's the only transportation he had. So he was very careful. He comes to the matre d' and Mitch goes... ( groans ) And the girl go... ( groans ) See, Mitch is a Neanderthal and I am half-Neanderthal, so I knew what he said. The girl didn't understand him. What he said was, "Is that Mike Tyson over there?" The girl stepped back and she pointed to me and said, "Hey, Champ. Mr. Green wants to see you. " And once she said that, he said, "You see, you motherfucking faggot, homo-bitch-ass nigga. Fuck you, faggot. Why you snuff me and run? Why you snuff me, nigga? You bitch-ass nigga. You snuffed me. Motherfucking Tyson, homo nigga. I tell you, you ain't fucked with me. You ain't beat me, I ain't have no food. Fucking you and that bitch-ass Don King. You're sucking his dick, nigga. How am I gonna fight with no food? How am I gonna fight with no motherfucking food, nigga? I ain't got no per diem, nigga. I'll fuck you, nigga. " So I'm eating this steak... I'm not a vegan... I'm eating a steak. I'm saying to myself... I'm saying, "I'm about to gut Mitch like a fish right now. " I had Sister Egypt, she said, "No! No! Be cool. Don't play yourself, brother. That's that white man's trap to get you in that white man's prison, brother. You worth too much there, brother. I'll fight him. You're worth too much there, brother. That's that white man's plantation nigga, right there. " So my life is unraveling. That's the right word, right? Unraveling. Mitch Green and the street fight happens, then Robin filed for divorce later that year. Yeah, yeah. And then I make a deal with the devil... I sign my life away to Don King. ( mimics Don King ) "Nyuk, nyuk, nyuk. Only in America. " Fuck you, nigga, fuck you. All right, there's nothing American about you. You pull his pants down, you'll see a stamp on his ass says, "Made in China. " So my divorce is finalized on Valentine's Day. More like St. Valentine's Day Massacre, right? Then there were all these emotional issues, my pussy supply's cut off, and Don has me set to fight Frank Bruno two weeks after that. In spite of it all, all the turmoil and adversity in my life, I still maintained my Heavyweight Championship with a knockout. A few weeks later, I go to Atlantic City, I fight Carl "The Truth" Williams, find out he's a lie. I knock him out in 93 seconds. Then I fly to Japan to fight James "Buster" Douglas. Check this one out. Commentator: ...by Buster Douglas! Look at this! He's knocked Mike Tyson down! For the first time in his career Mike Tyson hits the canvas! He's in big trouble! He may not be able to recover! It's up to seven and eight! He's not gonna make it! Unbelievable! Bad day at the office. You know, I didn't think I was gonna lose, but I didn't know how I thought I could've won. I wasn't training properly. I was beating everybody even though I wasn't training. I was supposed to be practicing... and this is another word I learned, too... abstinence. You know, I couldn't even say abstinence, how was I gonna practice it, right? That's some folklore tale that you're not supposed to be with any girl before a fight. Nobody believes in that stuff. Cus didn't believe in that and I didn't either. Cus would go, "That's just a form of control. If they can get you to stop having sex, they can get you to stop breathing. " And of course I didn't wanna stop breathing, right? But to be honest, I actually knocked Buster Douglas out in the eighth round. It was a 13-second count. You see for yourself. Check it out. Oh, one, two, three... see the guy in the white gloves? Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13. Un-fucking-lucky number. I had that coming to me because I was a spoiled little schmuck. I just left Japan, it was an all-time low. I took a vicious... my first professional defeat... and a bad one at that. And then a week later, my sister Denise, she just suddenly dies. And I remember talking to her the night before and she was telling me I need to see a doctor because my eye was really damaged and Buster gave me a really bad beating. And then the next morning, she was just gone. My sister Denise... but known to everyone in the neighborhood as "Niecey"... took on a maternal role in my life after my mother died. She was the only person not afraid to put me in deep check. She was loved by everybody in the neighborhood. She just had that fun, gregarious personality that everybody just wanted to have around them. Niecey was buried with the honors of a dignitary. I couldn't believe hundreds of people... thousands of people... they just kept coming and they just came to the funeral. I was overwhelmed. And I made sure she was buried close to my mother. You know, I may not always been a good son or brother for that matter, but I made sure Denise was buried with dignity. It was the very least I could do. ( music playing ) # She's faced the hardest times # # You could imagine # And many times # Her eyes fought back the tears # # Lord, Lord # And when her youthful world # # Was about to fall in # Each time her slender shoulders # # Bore the weight of all her fears # # And a sorrow no one hears # # Still rings in midnight silence # # In her ears # Let her cry # For she's a lady # Let her dream # For she is a child # Let the rain fall down upon her... # Mm-mm-mm. Mm-mm-mm mm mm mm-mm mm. Mm-mm-mm. I should have known it was gonna be trouble. One ballroom represented by 50 states of beautiful black women. And I was really bored. So when I was invited as a guest to the Indiana Black Expo, I jumped at the opportunity. I had no idea this one decision, once again, changed the course of my life. Now, there was a lot of things I could have gone to prison for at this time, but this wasn't one of them. Although I understood the seriousness of the case, I really believed that justice would prevail and that the evidence would exonerate me. However, I was convicted before the trial even started. I really wanna go back and read the transcripts about my case and find out what really happened. 'Cause I don't understand how I was facing 63 years... check this out... and only did three years of a 10-year sentence that Judge Patricia Gifford, known as the "hanging judge"... who I had as a judge, of course... dropped four years off my sentence. Now what black man you know got convicted of rape in the state of Indiana and only got three years, okay? It wasn't like I had a hell of a lawyer. I could've did better with Joe Pesci in "My Fucking Cousin Vinny," okay? My brother Don King... ( mimics Don King ) "Nyuk, nyuk, nyuk, only in America, motherfucker. " Fuck you. He hired Vincent Fuller, a tax attorney, for my defense. No, you're not listening to me. Balcony, a tax... a goddamn tax attorney. I didn't have tax problems back then, I need his ass now. You know, and I was just saying, I'm tired of living as a sex offender. I have to register wherever I go. My kids are at an age where they ask questions and I want to have better answers for them. Well, really, I need better answers for myself. And I also want to make this point that wasn't argued in court that could have exonerated me. Now I know rape's a serious thing, and I know things happen in life, but this wasn't the first time Desiree Washington claimed that somebody raped her. There was another incident right before my case. And I don't know the odds of this happening twice to the same person in a short period of time. I did not rape Desiree Washington and that's all I have to say about this. ( applause ) So I went to prison for something I didn't do, but it turned out to be a blessing. It was the first time in my life I was able to be still and there was a freedom that came with that. Now hold up, I'm not recommending anybody go into prison to get any kind of freedom or anything, okay? Just go in the bathroom, do what you have to do, and just call it a wrap. I didn't go in there singing "Kumbaya" and "Don't Fucking Worry, Be Happy," right? I was pissed the fuck off. And, you know, I'm from Brownsville, Brooklyn, and I couldn't wait to get in there and prove to those psychopaths I was just as homicidal as they were if not more. Right? So as soon as I got in my cell, you know... of course, you know, they give you your stuff... you know what they give you, right? Your sheets... you know what they give you. The sheets... you know... I'm going to my cell, I packed my stuff in my cell, and I come back out. "Dig, man, Rod, don't go near my motherfucking house. " That's my jail voice. "Don't go near my motherfucking house, Rod. Dig, Rod, don't go near that mother... I need a phone, nigga. I don't know which one, but I need one. " "No, fuck you!" "No, fuck you, motherfucker! And fuck you, too, you nappyhead-Aryan-Nazi motherfucker!" And then, of course, there's always some really humble, black, Muslim brother with a thick Arab accent that never even met an Arab motherfucker, right? But he comes... he comes to me and he goes, "Assalamu alaikum, Brother Mike. " ( speaking Arabic ) "Brother Mike, we're here... Brother Mike, we're here under the umbrella of Allah doing time, not allowing time to do us. " ( speaking mock Arabic ) And so I say, "Fuck you, motherfucker! Get the fuck out of here! " But then, eventually of course, you're in prison. You chill out. Some people are nice. They got good personalities and maybe it's not that bad. When I was in prison... you guys didn't know... I had a visitor every day. My most famous visitor was my man Spike Lee. He came to visit us. He did a preview of "Malcolm X" before it went to the movies. It was pretty awesome, but there was actually only like nine black people in Indiana prison and like 42,000 white people. It was all Nazis and Aryans and shit and Spike almost got us killed. Shit. Oh, Whitney Houston came to visit me. Tupac Shakur, James Brown, of course, John Kennedy, Jr., and matter of fact, they're not here no more, so may they all rest in peace. Wow, that's a trip. Maya Angelou came to visit me. LL Cool J, Reverend Al Sharpton... the fat guy, not the small guy. Okay, so, um, Larry King came up there. The O'Jays came to visit me, too. Not O.J. Simpson, know your R&B, the band. # Backstabbers. Even Florence Henderson from "The Brady Bunch. " She was in town for the Indianapolis 500, which is the big... she was singing "God Bless America," yeah, sitting next to the mayor and the governor, and she said, "I'd like to go see Mike Tyson. " And the mayor said, "Then you should. " At that day, I'm in the hole. I spent a lot of my time in the hole when I'm locked up. The guard comes and he says, "Oh, God, hey, Mr. Tyson, sir. " Real good guy, Christian guy. "Mr. Tyson, sir, oh, sir, you don't know who's here. Ooh, they came. You'll never believe who's here to see you now, sir. " I'm saying, like, "Who, Michael Jackson?" He said, "No, not him. Even better. " He said, "Miss Florence Henderson from 'The Brady Bunch. '" I said, "Get the fuck outta here," right? And then he got insulted and he said, "Excuse me, Mr. Tyson, sir, I've always treated you like a man, sir, since you've been here. I've never disrespected you, and, sir, and I'm a man, and I'm not gonna lie because I'm a Christian, sir. Yes, I am. I'm a Christian. Yeah, I know, I know. I know everybody say they're a Christian. Everybody's a Christian, but they ain't saved. I'm saved. " And I said, "Okay, cool. " As I go on up, I say, "Cool, I'm gonna go meet Miss Henderson, beautiful person. " And then, of course, there's always the asshole going, "Where you going, boy? Heh-heh-heh-heh. Huh, 'Champ'?" "Well, I'm going to see... Miss Henderson's outside. She came to visit me and I'd like to visit with her. " "Not without these. " He's holding the shackles. And for people who don't know the shackles, it's like the Kunta Kinte thing, young man, okay? You're right here, and many times I've been in the hole, as I was explaining earlier, and sometimes my lawyer came to visit me, and if you're in the hole and you come and you visit your lawyer, it's... and you're shackled up, you can't shake his hand. You gotta shake his hand like this. And I'm not gonna shake Miss Henderson's hand, "How you doing, ma'am?" "Hi, Miss Henderson, ma'am. Well, I got caught. I gots caught tryin' to run for freedom, ma'am. Hey, ma'am, do you know Mayor Goldsmith? Can you get me some help? I need liberation. I need isolation. I need some freedom. " But I just couldn't do it. I just decided I'd rather not let Miss Henderson see me like this. But I was grateful for her visit, and all my visitors. These people gave me hope in a hopeless place. They knew I wasn't the guy the DAs wanted them to believe I was. Never did I think I'd go to prison with all my fucking mental issues and come out finding peace. Temporarily, but some kind of peace. And one of those major stepping-stones was when I learned about Islam. You know, before this, I wasn't very religious. Pretty much a Neanderthal. There were a few Muslims, just a few, and I noticed some of them possessed a calm demeanor, something that I'd never mastered, and it intrigued me. And I wanted and needed something to enforce some kind of feeling and structure in my life, at the time, of course, and for me it was Islam. So I began reading the Qur'an, attending class, and it's just who I am. And after I left prison, I have to admit, I was really scared 'cause I... ( cash register dings ) I had $400 million in my bank account coming to me and not a clue how I was going to survive for the next 400 seconds. And I wanted to stay focused on my deen and practice Islam, but my quest for righteousness quickly halted once those prison cells opened and all the snakes, leeches, and trolls started sucking on me. And I loved snakes, leeches, and trolls because back then... because they make you feel great, right? So, on top of the list of those parasites was my man, ( mimics Don King ) "Nyuk, nyuk, nyuk, nyuk. Only in America" Don King. Fuck you. So, the real beef between me and Don was fueled after I lost my boxing license. And Mr. Vince McMahon, he approached me and he wanted me to become a part of WrestleMania. So Vince McMahon goes, "Mike, come with us, man. You're gonna be bigger than boxing. You're gonna get in wrestling. You're gonna be in our family now. Wrestling's fake, but the checks are real. " And I'm like, "Cool. " And so they needed clearance for some photos and Don was giving them a hard time, trying to charge them $300,000 for pictures of me. I started questioning my rights. We did an investigation. We found that Don owned my rights. And I really suppose it was easy to rob me at the time 'cause Don so kindly recommended his best lawyers and his best accountants that my money could buy. So I made this multimillion-dollar deal with this big network and Don was fucking both of us. He would demand money from them saying it's for me, and if they didn't give it to me, "Mike would leave. He's a crazy nigga. " And I would never get the money, but he would bill me for it. So once we started doing this investigation... oh, this is another word we worked on with the... with the... with the voice... vocal chords... the speech coach... when we did that investigating and this "auditing shit," right? The "auditing shit," right? One of the line items billed to Don was he charged me $8,000 a week... for towels. I ain't fucking with y'all. Balcony, balcony... 8,000 fucking dollars a week for towels. I wasn't getting high on cocaine then. I wasn't sweating like a pimp on a ho back then. Hell fucking no. Just imagine all the other stuff he was billing me for. So, we finally settled, and I won, but the damage was already done. I was forced to file bankruptcy, and of course you know, once the money goes, so does the hos. I was homeless and ho-less. I've been trying to work at this thing from a forgiving place, but it's fucking hard, you know? Oh, speaking of forgiveness, I'm really very grateful that Evander forgave me for this. Oh, I know that fucking hurt so much. What was I thinking about, man? He lost a piece of his ear, I lost a piece of money... a lot of money, and I lost my license. And all I can say is that I snapped. And the days following were pure hell. I went from the 10th hated man on the planet, which I could handle, but to numero uno after I bit the motherfucker, right? So, you know, that was some hard shit. I mean, I was angry. I was just really pissed off. Then I was forced to read this contrived apology letter at the press conference for the Nevada State Athletic Commission. And to make matters worse, I had to read it on my birthday... June 3rd, 1997. Happy birthday, dickhead. But now I really am sorry and me and Holyfield have become friends. And look at him. He's real debonair. See, right? Real class act. Debonair. And me, I look like I could be... Holyfield's fat grandmother, you know? You take... throw a wig, a dress on me, and I'm Madea, right? But irregardless... That's that cocaine, man. But, no, Holyfield's just a beautiful guy, man. A beautiful man. And I just want the best for him. Guys, please go buy his barbecue sauce, okay? I really like to address everything I just said and consider it about my life as PT... pre-tattoo. Everyone wants to know, "What the fuck are you doing, man? What you put that on your face for? What, are you crazy, nigga? You being like those white boys. Why the fuck you do that? What does that mean, Mike?" You get the gay guys come up to me, "Man, you're very... you're very... ooh, you're very... ooh. You're a very exotic-looking man, Mr. Tyson. " I just wanted everybody to know, I put this tramp stamp on my face because I wanted to. Leave me alone. You don't like it, don't fucking look at it. Fuck you, okay? It's my face. God damn. Just don't worry about it. After the tattoo, it could be argued that I went even crazier, you know? I retired from boxing, and... I started using cocaine. I had nothing to hold me back, and for a dude like me, that's pretty dangerous. My low self-esteem takes over the wheel, fueled by my megalomania ego and, man, that's an explosion ready to happen. A lot of people were asking me all the time, "What was your rock bottom? When did you know you had a problem with cocaine, Mike?" As Oprah Winfrey would say, "What was your 'aha moment,' Mike?" # When was your aha, aha? # I knew things were bad when I got arrested in 2006 before I almost hit a cop car. I mean, who does that? So, the officer says to me, "Well, Mike, man, we knew you had a problem, but we were hoping if you made that left turn, you'd have kept going, but you kept straight at us, man. You just kept coming. " And I'm like, "Oh, God. " But he's like, "We know you've got a problem. " So I'm in a holding cell right now in Phoenix, Arizona. I'm in a holding cell. And, no offense, but there's always some smart, creepy white guy... small guy... that knows the system. Even though he's always in the system, he knows the system better than anybody in the system. So he asks me, he goes this way, he says, "Mike, hey, Champ. What are you in for?" And I'm depressed, I'm really down. The cocaine's wearing off and I'm just really getting down. And I say, "It's blow, man. Cocaine. " And he says, "Have you ever been arrested for drugs before?" I go, "Yeah, yeah, I got a couple felonies. Yeah, I already got a felony. " He said, "No, but have you ever been arrested for drugs?" I said, "No, no. Never before, no. " He said, "Well, they can't put you away. They can't lock you up, Champ. Naw, they gotta help you first. According to law 4902, 'Take a puff or two,' they gotta help you before they throw you away... before they lock you up, some shit. " So I went from being down to being very up, you know? So I'm talking shit, and I'm... and so the intake guy comes in and he says, "Aw, Champ, this is really a bad day in my life. You're a hero of mine and I'm really feeling bad, but all right, Champ, let's go through it. Now, Champ, how often do you use cocaine, Champ?" I said, "Every time I get a chance to. Any time I get... you know? When I get a chance. Whenever I get... any time I get a chance. I'm like, I need cocaine now. I wish I had some now. " I was just... I needed cocaine. Um, I didn't want no help, I just didn't want to go to jail. I was facing nine years. Oh, I can't... oh, fuck. So, following that 2006 arrest, I went to rehab, the best forced decision I ever made, all right? I just got tired. I got tired of disappointing my family. My family wouldn't even talk to me. You know, when you're on drugs, nobody talks to you no more. You could cheat on your family, cheat on your girlfriend, but once you do drugs, they don't talk to you no more. And so eventually I married my girlfriend, Kiki Spicer, in 2009. And she was looking out for me and taking care of me through all my relapses and stuff. It's my third marriage and her first. Hopefully both our last, right? But anyway, we have two beautiful children... beautiful, beautiful, beautiful... Milan and Morocco. And when I first got married, when we first hooked up, I was morbidly obese. I was 380 pounds, right? - Oh, wow. - And there's nothing worse than a fat cokehead. You ain't think a motherfucker on coke gonna be fat. You don't think nobody on coke's gonna be fat, but, you know, I became a vegan. I started exercising. And I lost over 160 pounds. - ( applause ) - Yeah. And, listen, I suddenly went from wanting to die every day to all of a sudden wanting to live. Now I'm four years clean and sober, a better man, striving to be a better father. ( applause ) ( piano glissando plays ) You know, as a parent, I have many regrets. I regret only caring about fame, money, women, sex, drugs. I thought the definition of a good parent was being a financial provider. I totally missed out on the emotional part. And for that, I will always regret. You know, I'm just blessed that God has given me another opportunity to be a father for the children that I have and that respect me now. My older kids need more time to forgive my absence and my relapse, but I just want them to know that I love them and I will always be there for them whenever they need me. # And I'm singing this song to you... # You know, nothing in life can ever prepare you for the loss of a child. It just seemed to defy the laws of natural order. We, as parents, we're prepared to leave this Earth before our children. Before we leave, we plan to guide them and make them stronger people in life. It was a long Labor Day weekend, and I received the call from the paramedics at the house where Exodus lived with her mother and her older brother, my son Miguel. They lived in Phoenix, Arizona, and I lived in Las Vegas. I still don't understand what happened. I don't understand why it happened. I don't know how a cord from a treadmill can get wrapped around a four-year-old girl's neck. I jumped on a plane immediately and I went straight to the hospital. Exodus was already brain-dead when I arrived. It was the hardest thing I ever had to do. When I first went to the hospital, I was really angry and I wanted somebody to pay and feel how I felt. But when I saw other parents there that had children that were dying or just died right there, at that moment, and they came over to me and comforted me. We are all members of a club that we didn't want to be a part of... the bereaved parents club. Before we left, Exodus made her final ascent to heaven. You know, I can't bring back my baby Exodus, but the only thing I can do is honor her life by making a better example of myself for my children who are still with me now. There isn't a day that goes by that I don't think about Exodus Sierra Tyson. She will forever always be my eternal angel. These are my children right here. You know, I have, like, a 9th grade education from a really, really fucked up, bad school, right? And all my kids go to private schools and Ivy League schools, right? And every now and then I text them and I see how they're doing, and they call me back... text me back and say, "Daddy, this is not how you spell my name, Daddy. And you don't spell 'birthday' like this, Dad. I can't believe you can't spell 'birthday. '" But this is what my life is about now, being with my family and cherishing this. It took me a long time to get it, but, by God, you know, I got this shit. And... man. ( audience applauding ) Thank you, thank you. I hope you leave here with a better understanding of me, Michael Gerard Tyson, and my undisputed truth. Thank you for allowing me to share this roller coaster ride of emotions with you. It's been a long one, with many highs and many lows, guys, but it's molded me into the man that stands before you baring his triumphs and his failures in front of you, emotionally naked as I came into this world. God bless you all and thank you for coming out and supporting me. - I really appreciate it. - ( applauding ) Good job, buddy. Good to see you. Yeah, man, great. # For a new day # Celebrate and say ay-ay-ay... # - # Ay-ay-ay... - Thank you very much. # Ay-ay-ay... # Ay, ay-ay-ay, ay-ay-ay... # # I woke up this morning thinking 'bout the old me # # When I was feeling like Miller Lite and Ol' E # # But now I ride on some conscious shit # # I'm getting bread while I toast to my accomplishments # # Only one I could have a problem with is myself # # That's probably why my only competition is myself # # From today to tomorrow, the Doc is just rocking the same drum # # Fuck the past, though I ain't forgot where I came from # # Uh, I got the club rocking, rocking, uh # # I got your girl jocking, uh # # Me and Fif' still in this bitch, bitch # # We going the distance with you party people, come on # # Party people say, party people say, ay # # It's a new day # It's a new day # World is getting ready... Mike Tyson: Thank you for coming out, everybody. Thank you. Brooklyn's in the house. Brownsville. Never run, never will. Thank you, DJ Clark Kent. I love you. Thank you. Thanks to everyone. Thanks, Spike. Thank you, Mr. Nederlander. Thank you, Kiki Tyson, I love you. Brooklyn rocks! # Ay ay-ay-ay, ay-ay, ay ay-ay-ay, ay-ay # # Now you can get your knees on the church floor, pray it get better # # Or push the dough on the liquor store and see where it get you # # But me, I got to be on top # # I said, me, I got to be on top # # I got the street on lock # I'm on automatic pilot, ain't nobody starting me # # Growing up in poverty ain't fill my heart with larceny # # Niggas ride, I don't hide, I jump to get 'em off on me # # I'm a leader, look and see the natural-born boss of me # # They from Bel Air, I'm from the bottom # # Soon as I spot 'em, I get the drop and I got 'em # # I cock my piece and red-dot 'em # # It's dinnertime when the nine come out # # It's off with the chain, off with the ring # # Move, bang, off wit' ya brain now # # Party people say, party people say, ay # # It's a new day # It's a new day # World is getting ready, everybody ready, yeah # # For a new day # For a new day # Celebrate and say ay ay ay-ay-ay... # # Ay ay ay ay-ay-ay... # # Ay, ay ay ay ay ay-ay-ay # # Ay, ay ay-ay-ay, ay ay ay-ay-ay # # Marks on the wall # It's now or never at all # I'm gonna give it my all # Oh, oh # Whether I rise or fall # Oh, oh.
