 

                        Here give it to me! No, don't! Don't! Wow, Hyeon-jeong you're so pretty! Like a celebrity Hyeong-Jeong, let's take one together Ok, ok sure With the drinks? Yeah Here, give it to me My big sis is the best! Say it again! Do that thing I like! Alright, so pretty for the camera! I love You! Me too! Missing A little bit more...more...more Hey you son of a bitch! Why don't you just jerk off! You bitch! Where are you going? Eat this you bastard You fucking bitch! Keep coming...just little more more What the hell is is? Blocking the road and everything. What are you staring at? Is this the first time you've seen a coffee delivery girl? Unbelievable... Hurry up, let's go The place is weird and so are the people What was that? Nothing, let's go Hello How come you don't pick up your phone? Where are you? Who are you with? What? I don't need to know? You leave without telling me and now I don't need to know? Hyeon-jeong, I'm an adult now too. I'll do what I what so leave me alone Is that your sister? Director Hong, I hate to ask you again, but you really have to help me ok? Alright, don't worry about it She won't pick up her phone again Just wait until you get home... Are you done yet? This is the last one Jin-soo, while I'm gone you have to make everything perfect ok? Yes, don't worry. Have a great trip. I'll see you tomorrow Ok, see you Let's see how you look You are damn ugly Stop complaining, I don't have a choice. What the hell? You don't even get phone service here. How could you take me here? Just go way down the hill and it will work. Or you could just use the house phone. No chance of that happening Why? Because of the owner The Owner? What are you talking about Didn't you see? That old man kept checking me out. It's disgusting. Regardless of age, a man is still a man. With sexy legs like these, he would be crazy not to notice You're full of it Where are you going Don't know I guess it's not like you know know this place anyway. Director Hong Yes? What do you need? I need a favor Favor? What favor? I just need to get some stuff moved I injured my back yesterday. I guess I'll do it myself. No, it's alright. I need to kill some time anyway. You have me give me something for my labor though. Alright, I won't charge you for the food. Really? Follow me... Sis, it's me. I'm sorry I hung up on you earlier I'm at the outskirts of Seoul with a friend. We came here to visit a restaurant he likes. I'll come home soon. I understand how you feel, so please don't worry. And sis, I love you How many should I take? Five at a time. That many? Might as well get it all done now, with you here. Feels like you're just using me. You're right, I'm using you. Well, alright then I suppose. Director Hong? Where did he go? Director Hong? Director Hong? Director Hong, are you over there? Director Hong? Good job Do I look weak to you? Over here boy Am I scary? Come here You won't listen huh? Over here boy Should I put him in there with you? Then come here Be a good girl Good girl... Give me your hand Your hand I saved it for you Let's go How long do I have to stay here? How long? !Please let me go! Let me go! Let me go! Good morning Oh, you're here? Three cases Oh they look great! They are always that way What is your secret to getting such great eggs? Should I teach you? Teach me Than how would I possibly make a living? He looks to be in a great mood today Is that the new girl? Yes, that's her Damn, she's hot Forget about her, it ain't going to happen You're right, I don't even have any money It's such a problem. If it wasn't for our cocks, we wouldn't even think about girls like her Hey dumbass, it's been a long time You're drinking again? Nothing else to do in this place. Sit down and drink with us. I haven't seen you lately but you look happy. Did something good happen? Something good? Yes Did the property value increase? What do you mean? The place Deok-goo lives, didn't you say that land belongs to you So? I heard they want to build a road on it. Doesn't that mean you'll be rich? That's all bullshit. Stuff like that doesn't happen so easily I have to go buy something They're really building a road there? It's true, he just doesn't want people to know Dammit, how could something so fortunate happen to such a bastard? I know what you mean Idiots... Hyeong-jeong, I'm so scared No! No! Are you happy to see me? Should I turn off the lights and leave then? No, please don't You pissed here huh? You're just like a dog Take off your clothes Take them all off and throw them outside of the cage Do you want to keep living in there? Then listen to me Feels nice, doesn't it? A dirty girl needs to be washed Come out and change into those clothes over there Come on, blow out the candles......come on do it! Clap! Come on, clap! I'm in such a good mood You see how there is three candles? You're my third one so far Don't be scared. Listen to me and you'll be ok Here, eat some Eat some, it's good Aren't you hungry? Eat it, it's good Isn't it good? Say it Yes Aren't you thankful? I saved you and I gave you food Of course you are! Now I'm going to sing you one of my favorite songs I might look ugly now but I used to dream of being a singer Look into my dark eyes, you'll see that I still love you My feelings are returning to what they once were Teach me how to live without you My heart continues to beat for your love You don't like my singing? No, it's not that It's alright. I'm pretty bad aren't I? No, it's really not that. The cola got stuck in my throat Laugh for me What? I said laugh for me! Is that it? You fucking whore! That's the best laugh you can do? Die! I do all this for you and that's your best laugh? Bend over Bend over like a dog! Now! Turn your head! What, you don't think I can get it up anymore? You feel better than the last one Sis, I'm in so much pain Why aren't you investigating? Isn't that your job? How many times do I have to tell you? It's out of this jurisdiction That's not true; the last time she called me was from here. She also had dinner around this area That doesn't matter, she's not a child. If we investigated every time an adult left home for a few days... ...there would be no cops left on the street! You really can't do anything? If you want us to help you, bring us some solid evidence next time Can I help you? I'm sorry about that. I know you came a long way and we weren't able to help. It's alright, I'll find her on my own Wait a minute If you need some help, give me a call If it's serious, I'll be there right away Ok, thank you Shit, I didn't even get her phone number Get up I said get up! Bend over Please, can we not do it today? What? I'm in a lot of pain You're fine, stop arguing I'm really in a lot of pain I don't look nice either Please, I'm begging you Fine, give me a blowjob then Come on Hurry up! Hurry Welcome Hello By anychance, have you been working here for a long time? Yes, I have Can I ask you a question? What is it? Have you seen this woman? A dog bites her owner? If a dog bites her owner once, she will keep doing it So what needs to be done? You either kill her... ...or you make it so she can never bite again Open your mouth, bitch Open your mouth Please let me go Let you go? Ok, I will, as soon I'm done with this Hello, is anybody there? Anybody? One moment please! yes? Can I ask you something? What is it? Do you know of anybody here that owns a dog? Around here, it would be better to ask who doesn't own a dog No, I mean like a dog pound You should have said that from the start. There is one person like that Where would that be? Do you see that path? Go down that path and you'll come onto a road. The first house you see on that road is the one you're looking for Thank you One second! I don't know why you're going there... ...but you need to be careful. The owner is more dangerous than his dogs. Fuck! Damn, she's pretty Have you seen her? I've never seen her A few days ago I think she went by here People always come by here and don't give me a second look How do you expect me to remember them all? Excuse me, sir Do you know of any restaurant around here? Yeah, there's a place up there It's been a while since it's operated though Really? Thank You Boy, I'd love to have a piece of her Come on, eat it Do you want to starve to death? You didn't complain when I saved you, so why do you do this now? Does it bother you that your son is happy? No, you can't ever die You need to live to see your son lead a happy life Excuse me Is anybody there? Anybody there? Hello, who are you? Who are you? I'm the owner here Oh I'm sorry, it looks like I trespassed here It's alright, that happens sometimes But why are you here? I'm looking for somebody Have you by anychance seen this girl? You've seen her before? I've never seen her before Who is she? She's my younger sister Why are you looking for her here? A few days ago she told me she was going to have dinner around here... ...I haven't heard from her since You came to the wrong place. It's been a while since we've even been open. One moment sir! I saw a sign for the restaurant out front. Aren't there any people that come here because of the sign? In the past people used to come, but nobody has been here these days It's her again Did you come looking for me? I have to ask you something It's seems you're around here often so... ...have you seen this girl? She's so pretty! Have you seen her? No, I don't think so Who is it? My sister Why are you looking for her here? I had a hunch Wait a second! Was she together with a guy? I think so Like a week ago, no 10 days ago? That's right Nice car, killer body, I remember her now! Where did you see her? I saw her in front of that guy's house Are you sure? I'm sure. They say I'm stupid but my memory is actually pretty good. Thank you so much I wonder what's going on? Did that old bastard do something again? Kidnapping? What are you talking about? Do you want to go to jail? Send me to jail if you want, but please just listen to me Listen, do you have any idea who Pan-gon is? He lives only with his mother and he's kind to everybody. Sheriff, haven't you seen the news lately? Lots of kind people have been doing bad things... ..So please That's enough! Stop talking and please leave. Sheriff! Stop, let's do it like this... I will go to Pan-gon's house together with her... ...If something bad happens, I will take responsibility for it We're going because of you so you better take full responsibility Don't worry! Dumbass... Who knows what we're getting ourselves into But Sheriff What? Mr. Pan-gon seems like a normal guy. Why does he live by himself? He hasn't always been that way. It's probably because of women troubles. What do you mean? A few years ago, his wife ran off Really? Why? How the hell am I supposed to know? It was a pretty big deal at the time. So did they find her? If they found her, would he still live alone? Sir, if there's nothing in the basement, why can't we search it? I understand you must not like this, but stop making a fuss out of something so small Wait, Mr. Pan-gon! You do it Pan-gon! Hey! Where the hell did he go? Hmm, is there something in here? Over Here! Over here! Look at this What the hell is that? It smells terrible. So that's why? I caught it myself... ...but it's illegal isn't it? So that's why you wouldn't give us the key? I was going to use it to catch kitchens. I'm sorry That's alright. This little punk always thinks the worst of people... Officer Kim, get out of there now! Aren't you leaving? Is there something else you want to see? No, let's go It's a little old... ...But maybe it will still work Hyeon-ah, today I bought you a scarf and I did your hair for you. What do you have to say? My sister is the best! I'm sorry, I'll get it done by the end of the week It's just 200 1-piece suits. I can get that done easily. I'm coming to Seoul right now so let's speak when I arrive Are you alright? What the fuck!? Mr. Pan-gon! You're the one from yesterday Are you ok? You're not hurt are you? I'm fine...but my eggs are ruined I'm so sorry It was partially my fault Mr. Pan-gon, please let me take you to the hospital No, it costs too much money Still, you should get checked out Hey, did your sister wear a necklace? You mean a heart-shaped necklace? That's right, one that looks like that What about that necklace? A few days ago, I found that necklace outside of the dog keeper's house Really? I was going to tell you but I forgot about it Do you have that necklace with you right now? No, it's at my house Would it be ok if I go to your house to get it? I guess you could stop by Thank You You remember where I live right? Yes What can I do for you at this late hour? Where is the sheriff? He went home already. I'm on the late shift. What's this? I came out to buy some medicine for my mother, but then I thought of you guys You don't need to do this for us; it's such a hassle It's no problem, don't worry about I'll see you OK, take care Oh, that woman from yesterday. Did she find her sister? I don't know. We haven't had any contact from her since then. She must have gone back to Seoul Oh I see If she stayed a little longer, I probably could have helped more You must have a crush on her What? No way! Alright, I'll see ya Work hard She was pretty hot... ...The perfect style for me Save your strength; you'll only hurt yourself I can't have my baby getting hurt... Is this it? I didn't think it would be so easy Aren't you smarter than this? Do you have something to say? My sister, where is my sister? Is she still alive? This place...isn't it too small to hold two people? So then... I killed her What? You son of a bitch! I'm going to kill you! I'm going to kill you! You son of a bitch! I'll kill you! why are you so loud? Just shut up already I've liked you since I first saw you So much softer and nicer than your sister's You're sister is young so she's not that skilled Don't worry, I'm a nice guy! What, you don't like older men? Stop worrying about it, you'll enjoy it Eventually you're going to like me Sheriff's office, this is Officer Kim A silver vehicle? Are you sure about that? My card? Ok, I'll be there immediately Hello there, sir Oh, who's this? What a body! Sir, I need to go to Choonchun Choonchun? Why? That woman from Seoul from yesterday...I guess her car was found there So why are you going there? My card was found in the car so I guess they contacted me That's strange... ...She wasn't on her way to Choonchun What do you mean? Yesterday morning I saw her car... She wasn't on her way to Choonchun but the opposite way into our town Are you sure? I'm sure She must have been in a hurry. I waved to her but she went right by without noticing. Really? Anyway, thanks Ok, I'll be going now Alright, take care Hi there, you came again! Yes...my daughter really loves this place What will it be this time? Something similar to last time please One piece with one seam right? Wow, you remember that Of course. Besides you, nobody in this small town ever wants something so specific. She says it's nice but... ...could you give me a different color? What color would you like? Do you have purple? Purple? Of course Could I get it one size smaller too? Did the last one not fit properly? It's just that she lost some weight Here it is, right here Wow, this has really been damaged It's just fortunate that the people driving it weren't killed If we can't find the owner fast, there will be a big issue with the insurance Are you sure that the driver was a male? Is it possible that the people who stole this car were mistaken? No, if you look at it you can clearly see it was a man The three kids who stole it were drunk and bragging about what they did last night Did those kids remember anything about the man they stole it from? I don't know if it was because it was dark, but they can't remember anything Interesting... Hello? Is anybody home? Nobody's here Oh, hello there How can I help you? We came here to dine About that... ...We've been closed for a long time Oh really? Why is that? There's nobody left to work... ..Since my mother passed away Oh no... When we came three years ago, business seemed to have been good Yes, I know... I'm sorry that you had to come all this way No it's alright, it's our fault. Goodbye At least they have good taste... How are you feeling? Wow, you haven't even gone to the bathroom yet You're tough That makes me even hornier Have something to say? Don't be loud like yesterday... ...Or I'm going to be angry Speak your mind I promise I'll kill you Crazy bitch You're nothing but a dog. How can a dog kill a human? Dogs should live as dogs are supposed to So stop being so stubborn and let's live together You're starting to stink Tomorrow, you can take a shower and change into some new clothes By tomorrow...you will be begging for me never to leave you I told you, I'm a nice guy Anyway, I'll see you tomorrow Tough bitch... I bought you one size smaller than your sister... ...It should fit right? It's a pretty purple color. Die you son of a bitch! You can't kill me with weak stuff like this I'll show you what an owner does! I beat you until you die! These girls just don't understand my feelings Hello? Is anybody there? These bitches are never grateful... I killed him Are you surprised? I saw what you are doing in the basement You must be having a lot of fun I always thought you were retarded but I guess I was wrong You didn't report me to the police? Report you? Why would I possibly do that? How did you know about me? I saw that girl drive her car here in the morning and then I saw you drive it out at night. Wouldn't that seem weird? What do you want? You have valuable land Land? I want just a little... I brought all the papers necessary. All you need to do is sign it. What are you doing? Give it to me! This is very valuable I can't just give it to you for free What is this? Don't worry, I'll give it you But in exchange for it, you need to help me with my work Work? The bitch in the basement... ...I have to kill her You motherfucker. What kind of a person do you think I am? That's the deal Or you could just keep living like shit I'll do it myself Wait! So how do you want me to help you? I'll bring out the tools... You bring out the girl Hey, Deok-goo! What's that? Don't worry, I'll get you out Ok, let's get out of here No, you have to kill that bastard For now, let's just get out of here He killed my sister! Look! Idiot...why did you have to get involved? I'm disappointed I don't think it's going to work out between us You can die too There's no escape Nobody has ever escaped this place before Where are you? Trying to get away... Crazy bitch Hey! Hey! Little girl! Where are you? Come on out now I'm here, you son of a bitch So there you are What are you going to do with that? Get on your knees Or I'll kill you Kill me? Have you ever killed somebody? Shut up and get on your knees! I killed my father when I was 16 I threw his body into the pig pen... and the pigs ate his body The last thing they ate was his head You missed Die! Is there a reason why you deserve to live? Bitch! You got me good You son of a bitch Tell me... My sister... Did you really kill her? Crazy bitch... I told you I killed her. Then... Where is her body? Where did you put Hyeon-Ah's body!? What does it matter if she's dead? Tell me or you're dead! Sounds good I wish somebody would kill me kill me... Kill me Tell me now... My sister... Where is her body? That meat grinder over there... I killed your sister with that Don't lie to me! I cut up her whole body You crazy bastard... you're lying! I'll tell you another thing... Your sister... Was alive... She was alive until you came here I really liked her... Maybe I shouldn't have killed her. It's such a shame. You killed her... Your sister... She died because you came here... Stupid bitch I hope you're doing well In a few days you'll be going to court... ok, let's get this over with quickly Hyeon-jeong, you're killing of Pan-gon will can be passed off as self defense... But the problem is... The extra activity afterwards... It cannot be passed off as self defense... In order to avoid jail time, I believe you must plead insanity Do you understand? What are you talking about? I'm talking about when you put Pan-gon's body into the grinder Sir, when I killed him I wasn't thinking clearly... but when I put his body into the grinder, I was thinking very clearly What? If I ever meet another person like him, I would gladly do the same Hyeon-jeong... Hyeon Jeong! Can I ask you something? Yes, go ahead Do you have a daughter? Yes, I do Excuse me, old man! Could you give us a ride on your boat? What, you can't? Get on... Crazy bitch
