 

                        Doctor... Here's your coffee Thank you, Barbara We're fine. Don't worry... Bye Who's that? Bresson What's up? A man escaped A man escaped? Yes. From Death Row Hans Bergen The Woodside Strangler The sadistic Killer Four murders in six months Unrepentant Will be hung at dawn Might be the police Go and see Irma! Hans Bergen Who is it? Bergen. He's unconscious From Death Row. As good as dead Here... Barbara, bring him in Now's your chance THE DIABOLICAL DR Z Which will help us determine their effects... in the treatment of neurovascular diseases Tomorrow, Dr Moroni will address you But that's all from me I hope you found it of interest Thank you for your time Vicas! Vicas... We're already late Your attention, please An addition to the program Our friend Professor Zimmer would like to say a few words Gentlemen... I thank you It was not easy for me to get here today As you know, I've been working on problems of the nervous system ...for more than 30 years Some of you may consider him a charlatan But all of you have heard of Dr Orloff According to him... there are certain precise areas of the brain and the spinal column That inspire us to act either for good or evil His research convinced him that good and bad were merely a matter of physiology That morality was located entirely in our motor centers Now I have gone even beyond that With the help of my daughter, Irma I have managed to define precisely the physical centers... of both good and evil To control them is now easy I have perfected a Z-ray capable of eliminating or stimulating these centers And I have proof of my theories You've experimented on humans? No, Dr Kallman. No Only on animals How exactly? Did you perhaps find some killer sheep, maybe? Dr Moroni, this is no joke I calmed a wild hyena and now she eats out of my hand I reversed the process and she became enraged She tried to attack herself What do you want from us? Permission to experiment on humans What! Are you mad? You Nazi bastard! Let me speak! By my method all the killers, the psychotics, the sadistic maniacs can be turned into normal people Inoffensive Maybe even lead useful lives Professor, have you no shame? But what harm would it do if I used a criminal from death row? It's you who's the criminal I think our feeling is you should leave at once We formally forbid the continuance of this work No, Vicas! No! Father Irma... promise you'll carry on Father... Yes. I promise Irma... Hello, Philippe Just like the old days, huh? Thanks for all your help Why not go home? I can't right now The house will seem so empty The way they treated your father was terrible - I thought... - Thank you But it's over now Come on. Let's go I couldn't do anything I'm just a junior doctor. They don't listen to me But I hate fools like Vicas, Moroni, Kallman I'll never forget Ladies - and above all gentlemen... We present for your pleasure The strange and mysterious Miss Death! Want to go? I'll take you Goodbye Philippe! Going to Hartog? Yes. Just you? Yes I was expecting your boyfriend to appear No. I always travel alone It's dangerous But not with you Come far? From Rotterdam My name's Juliann van Drokken I love travelling I have to hitch. I don't have the money for a train But there's always some sucker... - Oh! I'm sorry - Don't be Don't your parents worry? They're both dead Killed in the war. I was two I live alone But I do all right I make money somehow Model... hostess... secretary Oh! What a beautiful lake Can we stop for a swim? Why not I don't have a suit Borrow this one - Thanks - It's nothing The water's cold I don't mind I'm used to it I can stay in the water for hours Had enough? Yes. It's too cold for me It's great Beats a swimming pool What's wrong, Irma? What do you want? I was waiting for you To say good bye You're leaving? Yes I stayed for your father's sake It may sound silly But I admired him So now you're going? Yes. I can't stay here now That business with Bergen You pushed your father into it He never would have done it Bergen! Who are you? I am... Barbara Huberts You still want to leave? No You promise to obey me? I do Get up. There's work to do Fetch the big mirror Sorry Bergen. Get the car ready Load all the equipment We're moving Where to? The old house I don't like that place It's been empty so long An excellent place to hide Dr Zimmer's daughter is dead Who'd look for her in a place like that? We have work to do, Barbara Vicas... Moroni... Kallman Now I need a woman A woman of blood and fire To seduce and destroy them Philippe! I can't stay I've got 3 days off. I can come to Paris with you I got the tickets I hope you won't be too busy on our first holiday together Nadia! Nadia, you're on Go on I can't wait And neither can I. Don't be late Tomorrow - the airport at three Ladies - and above all gentlemen... we would now like to present... ...the strange, the macabre, the mysterious... Miss Death! A message for Miss Death Do you like America? Who are you? My card's there I want to sign you up New York, Los Angeles, Las Vegas. You're kidding! You heard me But I can't go now. I... I just want an option Your signature I only came in here by chance tonight I loved your act In America you could try for films Hollywood... Yes I leave early tomorrow. So we don't have much time Come to my agency Well... It's not far But... Don't bother to change It's next door. Just put your coat on Are they real? Yes - You off? - See you I really want to do films I've been trying this for a while. It's going well Miss Death was my creation But I want to move on. I think I can do better This way It's dark here Just down the stairs on the right Who's that? The caretaker - It's...? - A theatre What's that? What do you want? Who are you? Let me go! Passengers for Paris proceed at once to gate number 2 ...we are now boarding I can't hear you She left yesterday? You're sure? Right... OK. Thanks Philippe, come on! Last call for Paris She's coming to Careful She's dangerous You only kill when I say so. Understand? Do you belong to me - body and soul? Yes Never forget it Your magnificent nails are deadly weapons You promise to obey me? Now help me with Barbara She's beautiful Yes. Very beautiful Who else lives here? Just a man Where is he? Abroad I love you Nadia. Philippe I have to go away for two months A job came up ...Unexpectedly ...in Paris I'll write when I can. Love, Nadia May I sit here? Please How rude of me You're going to Hartog, too? Yes All through the night You're alone? I prefer it. And you? Most of the time. For business I travel for pleasure I prefer trains Or boats... Slow boats I hate flying No intimacy Don't you agree? You're amazing - Am I...? - What? ...Dreaming? This train... This journey... You... Touch my hand Is that a dream? I don't know What incredible nails A present from Dr Zimmer There's blood on your dress. Strip off and burn it Done. We have no time to lose I hope I can be as successful with her as my father was with you I see him in the flames Why did I kill him? Why? Shut up! No. I must know why Let me go! Let me go! Let me go! Let me go She's starting to remember Open this door! Open it...! You're scaring the fish It's your face that scares them Let's try further down I had to go away for two months an unexpected job in Paris Don't people usually knock? Sorry, I'm in a hurry If you want Nadia, you're too late Where is she? She went off with some English woman Did you recognise her? I'm not sure. Maybe I've seen her before... What was she like? Brown hair... Strange glasses Anything else? No. Just those glasses Didn't suit her Another bad night? Very bad Not much you can do, I guess, when they're crying all night Never stopped. All night long Terrible Well, I hope this case will be interesting As overseas observer, I was expecting more I'm not wishing a disaster on you But things are a bit quiet I think we're here Why's he so tetchy? His wife's just had triplets They keep him awake all night Hello Inspector Grinder from Scotland Yard So...? It's a young woman Dead several days Burnt. No sign of drink or drugs No sign of a struggle. The car seems to have caught fire Might be an accident Whose car is it? Professor Zimmer's Zimmer's been dead two weeks Might be his daughter. We need to get her ID'd Philippe Whitehouse? Yes Could you identify Irma Zimmer? I think so You knew her well? Fairly well I'm a doctor. I knew her father A doctor? Yes. A neurologist Did you know Dr... Vicas? Yes. Indeed I do He was found dead last night Near the railway line Accident? Yes. It's Vicas He still had his papers and money Who's cat's that? It's Malou's - Malou? - Yes, Malou! I find the death of Dr Vicas more interesting than the girl in the car However, I still think he might have just fallen off the train And the scratches on his throat? Probably a wolf Take a look What...? Curare Found in the scratches in Vicas's throat He was attacked by an animal with nails that were long, sharp and filled with poison Know any wolves like that? Hard to be sure The body was badly burned We found... ...this ring Yes, I think it's hers Our first clue Funny it's so hard to identify her Was she blond or brunette? Irma? Blonde A natural blonde? That, I don't know Dr Zimmer, his daughter and Dr Vicas are all dead They were all at the conference Weren't you there too? Yes Then I'd watch your back What's up love? A nightmare. Vicas attacked by a panther Don't fret It's normal to be upset by death True. But this was so strange Yes He was seen at dinner with a beautiful blonde She's disappeared A beautiful blonde. Really? You think it was murder? I don't know Anyway, I'm going out for a coffee I have to work late tonight Don't be too long I don't like to be alone here I won't stay. Bye Evening, Christian Evening doctor - A coffee? - Please Whisky please Leaving, doctor? I need some fresh air. Goodnight Fancy it, big boy? Sandra? Police station Dr Moroni, you're finished Remember Dr Zimmer You know Dr Moroni? Why? Is he dead? They just found his body He was killed last night The same scratches on him? No. None at all Was Moroni at that conference? Indeed. He was Zimmer's fiercest critic Come to dinner Is that an order? No. An invitation Seems connected with that conference As though Zimmer is being avenged The police don't believe in ghosts Even if policemen do Another strong coffee please Still crying? All night... Didn't get a wink of sleep His daughter... Whose? Zimmer Well? Maybe it wasn't her body in that car All evidence in the murders of Vicas and Moroni points in the direction of a young woman But nothing like Irma Zimmer But just like Miss Death Miss Death? It's the nails Nadia had those long, sharp nails Weren't you lovers? Yes, but it's over Inspector, what if someone took over her mind Brainwashed her somehow... Turned Nadia into a killer Hey! No-one's there, they all died Right now, the house is closed The case is still under investigation His daughter's death is not yet established Of course, but tell me... didn't Zimmer have another house? You're right. There was another place His family home. Near Hartog Reduce the levels Be careful! Bye, guys The wife's waiting See you Sunday Hey, Kallman! Drive carefully Josef, quickly! Help me carry her upstairs Of course, doctor Where am I? Dr Kallman's surgery My surgery Just as you wanted The first part of your plan has worked perfectly What plan? I was ready for you The deaths of Moroni and Vicas put me on guard That's not all I know Zimmer's theories I examined you closely I found the operation scars Your nails I know who you are Stay right there! Call the police Although I know you are being used by somebody I doubt the police will see it that way I'm sorry That's them It's over She's no more use She could be dangerous Get rid of her quickly Yes. She's mine I control her She can't get away But... who are you? You don't know? Take a good look Irma Yes Irma Zimmer. Remember now? I'm sorry you got involved, Philippe I meant you no harm But you came between me and Nadia And I needed her No! Don't bother She only hears me I had to avenge my father She was the instrument You've killed Bergen That saves us the trouble His only purpose was to serve me Now I must get rid of Nadia She's no use to me now. You too Philippe! You won't leave here alive I'm leaving - and so is Nadia Too late! Nadia. It's me - Philippe Philippe Nadia... wake up! Irma Zimmer Get me out of here Hello, Dr Whitehouse Inspector - It's incredible How did you guess? I stayed at my mother's and had a good night's sleep Help her You're right This was a crime after all My darling, it's all over Don't worry Let's go I'll look after you. I'll cure you It's going to be all right, Nadia THE END
