 

                        When i was your ambassador in russia, i little expected to write "mission to moscow," much less to see it projected on screen. But when germany attacked russia, the soviet union became one of the nations fighting hitler. And it was a desperate hour. If hitler were to destroy the red armies and to smash the soviet union, the 3 aggressor nations would dominate europe, asia, and africa. The riches of these 3 continents and the enslaved labor of 3/4 of the population of the world would be harnessed to conquer the rest of the earth. The americas would be next. Us. Unity among the forces fighting hitler was vital. Nothing, as i saw it, was more important than that the fighting nations should understand and trust each other. There was so much prejudice and misunderstanding of the soviet union, in which i partly shared, that i felt it was my duty to tell the truth about the soviet union, as i saw it, for such value as it might have. If i were down there in the audience with you, there are certain things that i would want to know about the man who's telling the story so that i could assess the reliability of his judgment and his bias or his lack of bias. Those things about me, you are entitled to know. I would want to know them if i were you. Well, they're very simple. My people were pioneers. They came to new orleans on a sailing ship. I was born in wisconsin, educated in the public schools, graduated from the university of wisconsin, and went to washington as one of woodrow wilson's young men. My religious convictions are basic. My sainted mother was an ordained minister of the gospel. I think that i am peculiarly the product of our great country and its free institutions and its opportunities in a competitive society of free enterprise. I came up the hard way, and i am glad of it. I have a deep conviction and a firm faith that that system and our form of government is the best that the world has yet produced for the common man. But while in russia, i came to have a very high respect for the integrity and the honesty of the soviet leaders. I respected the honesty of their convictions, and they respected mine. I also came back with a firm conviction that these people were sincerely devoted to world peace, and that they and their leaders only wanted to live in a decent world as good neighbors in a world at peace. That peace has not yet been won. If unity, mutual understanding, confidence in each other was necessary to win the war, it is still more necessary to win the peace, for there can be no durable peace without an agreement among those nations that have won the war that they will project that peace and maintain that peace and protect that peace. That is why i wrote "mission to moscow." That is why i am deeply grateful to those fine patriotic citizens the warner brothers and to their great organization of dramatists, artists, and technicians who have projected this book upon the screen for you, my fellow citizens of the americas, and for you, my fellow free men of the world. I thank you. Without prejudice or partisanship, i offer to my fellow americans the facts as i saw them while united states ambassador to the soviet union. No leaders of a nation have been so misrepresented and misunderstood as those in the soviet government during those critical years between the two world wars. I hope that my book will help to correct that misunderstanding in presenting russia and its people and their gallant struggle to preserve the peace until ruthless aggression made war inevitable. The events of which i speak may be said to have begun on a historic day in june 1936. In the palace of the league of nations at geneva, a little man of great dignity is making a plea to the delegates of 52 nations that are members of the league. It is his majesty haile selassie, emperor of ethiopia. Ethiopia is but the first to fall before fascist barbarism. Who knows which country will be next? In violation of the covenant, a certain government considered that the european situation made it imperative at any price to obtain the friendship of their axis neighbors germany and italy. The price paid was the abandonment of ethiopia to the greed of the italian government. If a strong government finds that it can with impunity destroy a weak people, then the hour has struck for that weak people to appeal to the league of nations to give judgment in our freedom. God and history will remember your judgment. Mr. Litvinov, first delegate of the soviet union, wishes to address the assembly. Gentlemen, need i remind you the league was formed for one great ideal: To protect the rights of all its member nations, both large and small. Mine is perhaps the largest, and we fear no aggressor. But we are here to uphold the principle of collective security for even the smallest nation. This ideal of maintaining a peaceful world through united strength is now being threatened seriously for the first time. The eyes of the world are upon us. Our decision and our actions now may decide the course of history for the next thousand years. Can you not understand that peace is indivisible? There is no security for any of us unless there is security for all. The league must live. It must be strong. The carrying into practice of these ideas will preserve us from new disappointments similar to those which we are now undergoing, will infuse new life into the league, and will bring it abreast of the great task it has to perform. That was the faith and lifelong work of the great man who created this assembly. The voice of the league founder was still, and the voice of his followers went unheeded. Soon a disillusioned world began to listen to another voice that proclaimed a new order to take the place of collective security... collective slavery under the domination of what he termed "a master race." At first people laughed at this caricature of a man, with his wild threats and his grandiose plans. But words became deeds, and the laughter ceased. Like other americans, i was only vaguely aware of those ominous events. During that summer, my family and i were spending our vacation at our camp on the st. Regis lake in the adirondack mountains. On this particular day, my wife, my daughter, and i were getting ready for a camping trip over the lakes and deep into the mountains. Joe, are you sure we have enough food to last 4 days? There will be fish, my dear- nice, fat, lake trout fried over a campfire with bacon. Mr. Davies! Oh, daddy, here comes freddie. Don't you dare let anything come up to ruin our trip now. I suppose i forgot the screwdriver. No, sir, there's a telephone call from washington. It's the same thing. No, sir, it's mr. Beeby in your office. He says there's a case coming up in the supreme court, and they want you to try it. Well, very interesting. All right, you go back and tell them i'm so deep in the adirondacks that it'd take even edgar hoover and henry morgenthau to find me. Push us off, will you? Everything in, marjorie? Everything's in but you, dear. Watch out for the tackle, daddy. Don't step on it. Have a nice time! Good-bye, freddie! If anybody calls for me, freddie, tell them i'm opening sardine cans for daddy! Mr. Davies! Mr. Davies! Mr. Davies! Don't you think raymond announces a bit loudly for a butler? 5 years i've been trying to take this vacation, and now, by godfrey, i'm gonna take it! I've got to tell him, freddie. It can't wait. Who wants him? Come on. Help me with the canoe. Sure, i'll help you, if you think it'll do you any good. Oh, joe, he's getting in the canoe. And freddie's coming with him. They'll have to catch us first. Get your oars, my lads. Daddy, row harder. Here they come! Oh! Mr. Davies, you've got to come back. Freddie, didn't i tell you that i wouldn't give up this trip for anything or anybody? Yes, sir, but this fellow sounded kind of important. Nobody's that important. I don't care if it's the president of the united states. Go back and tell him i'm busy! But, mr. Davies, it is the president. I don't care if it's the-huh? Well, that's different. You know, among her other virtues, joe, your mother had a remarkable gift of prophecy. Yes, that was in her welsh blood, but what reminded you of it? Well, a way back in the good old days, when you and i were just a couple of young lawyers without clients, she once said to me, "franklin, if you ever really stir yourself, "you will be president of the united states, and joe's going to help you." Yes, i remember. But she wasn't the only one that read your future. The man who gave us our start, joe. Someday the world will catch up with him. Well, boss, i know you didn't pull me away from a fishing trip just to talk about old times. You've got something else on your mind. That's right. I've been plotting against you. Joe, i want you to go to russia as our ambassador. Ambassador? But i'm not a diplomat. This isn't a job for a diplomat. I want a sound american businessman who will get me the hard-boiled facts behind the most complicated and dangerous situation the world has ever faced. It's quite an order. It is, joe. You handled some pretty big questions in your law practice, but this is the biggest question there is. Are we going to be able to keep the peace, or is europe going to force us into another war? You think it's as close as that, eh? We're on the verge of the worst disaster in history, and i want to do everything in my power to stop it. Whether anything can be done depends on just one man. Hitler? He seems bent on conquest- not only europe, but the whole world. He tells us that all he wants is freedom of the seas and access to raw materials. If he means it, i'll move heaven and earth to see that his people get their share. But i think he's bluffing, joe, and i'm going to call his hand. How? I want you to go first to berlin and ask hitler one question. If he does get what he says he wants, will he disarm along with the rest of us? That ought to smoke him out. But what's all this got to do with russia? She is the big unknown factor in this whole problem. If trouble comes, whish side is she going to be on- ours or hitler's and japan's? We've got to know the truth, joe. How strong is stalin's regime, and how strong is his army? Well, we've had enough experts' opinions about it. The question is, which to believe? It's your job to get me the right answers. No, "job" is too small a word, joe. This is a mission. But how would the russians accept me? I represent some of the richest men and largest corporations in the world. Politically, i'm a liberal, but i'm also a capitalist. I'm much more interested in your opinion of them than in their opinion of you. You don't have to give me an answer tonight. Think it over. No, you've done that for me. If you think i'm the man, that's good enough for me. Thanks, joe. The mission is in good hands. Good night, boss. Good night, mr. Ambassador. This is going to be an awful shock to my family. They were going to spend the winter in florida. Ha ha ha! Hold it. Smile! Smile for the gentleman. Thank you very much. One other question, mr. Davies. What is your opinion of the russian army? I haven't seen it yet. Ask me when i come back. Is there any special reason going by way of berlin? That's all i can tell you now, boys. Give me a chance to say good-bye to my friends. Good-bye, mr. Davies! Good-bye and good luck, sir! Gee, emlyn, we're gonna miss you like the devil. Thanks, johnny. I'll send you a picture of me riding in a... or whatever they call it. Why don't you get me a job in your father's embassy? I'll bet i'd make a darn good diplomat. A darn good diplomat would have arranged it with father. Now, don't let those russians fool you, joe. Keep an open mind, but don't be influenced. You think i should look around but not see too much? Well, i don't care how much you see, but don't buy anything-i mean political ideas. Bill means, don't forget you're an american, joe. Well, i've handled a good many tough cases in my life, and i never judged a man unless i studied all the evidence both for and against him. That's exactly how i feel about russia. How they keep their house is really none of our business. Only one thing matters. What kind of a neighbor will they be in case of a fire? Well... good-bye, joe. Good-bye. Bon voyage. Well, marjorie, we're all going to be worried to death about you in russia. Oh, i'm as excited as a schoolgirl visiting paris. Paris is different. I doubt if there'll even be a decent hairdresser in moscow. Bye, now. Bye. Good-bye, emlen. I sure hate to see you go. Good-bye, emlen. Think over my offer. I will. Good-bye. Take care of yourself. Good-bye! Good-bye! Too late. Please open the door. This is our train. But my son has had an accident in leipzig. We must get to him. It is forbidden. The trains in the new germany wait for no one. We are so disappointed, your excellency, that you can't- we are disappointed, your excellency, that you cannot stay in hamburg for a few days. There have been great changes here in the last few years. Yes, we've heard of quite a few of them. Ah, but you should see for yourself. The new germany is a revelation. The people have so many more cultural advantages, and such spirit. Yes. How very interesting. Achtung! Enter. I understand that you expect to have an appointment with minister schacht, your excellency. I hope to, yes. And also with the fuhrer himself. You seem very well informed as to my schedule, major. Thank you. We feel gratified, mr. Ambassador, that you chose to visit us first before going to your appointment in russia. Well, i'm interested in conditions in both countries. I understand that the stalin regime is firmly entrenched with the russian people. On the surface, yes, but before very long, you may possibly have cause to change your opinion. Of course, i have nothing definite to base that on, you understand. It's merely my personal opinion. I see. Here's your compartment. Thank you. Your luggage is already inside. Thank you. You gentlemen have been extremely kind and thoughtful, and i wish to thank you both for ourselves and for our government. You shouldn't have said that about russia. He may remember later. I said nothing. Anyway, later it will make no difference. Oh, joe, look at those little wooden soldiers. It's as if they'd all been stamped out of the same machine. Not out of one, into one. Oh, i'm so sorry. Ah, english? American. Would you care for a cigarette? Oh, thank you, yes. You americans have a very good tobacco. Ours is terrible at the moment. We intend to improve it very shortly. Really? What do you intend to buy? I'm not so sure we'll have to buy from anyone. Our fuhrer is a very clever man. He has many ideas. And what do you smoke in the meantime? I'd rather not know for sure. We germans don't mind a few discomforts now, because we know what's in store for us is a great future life. Do you mean on earth or somewhere else? Shall we say somewhere else on earth? Your excellency. Madam. The president of the german state railways has commanded me to do all i can for your comfort on the train. Please do not hesitate to ask anything you want. Thank you. Everything is fine. Ahem. Today the fuhrer is reviewing the army. You are very fortunate, your excellency. It's a great privilege, colonel. Can you see everything clearly? Oh, yes, perfectly. Of course, we are greatly honored by your visit, mr. Ambassador, but, well, frankly, we wondered why you wanted first to see me. I'm only a banker, not a diplomat. You're more than a banker, dr. Schacht. You're the financial brains of germany. Well, i thought i might get a clearer picture of conditions here from you than i could from the gentlemen in the foreign office. What conditions? Why is the greater part of germany's entire production devoted to armaments? We do not want another war. But unfortunately, in europe, the dove of peace must have wings of steel or be destroyed. No, i can't agree with you, dr. Schacht. If a nation wants to live in peace with its neighbors, it doesn't keep rattling a saber at them. Oh, yes. I believe you americans call it the "good neighbor policy." But you can be a good neighbor only if you have good neighbors. France and great britain are not. We have tried to appeal at them, but words have become useless. Now we have begun to rearm purely as a basis for argument. No, no. That kind of an argument only leads to a fight, dr. Schacht. We are convinced that a peaceful solution can be found. President roosevelt is ready to support any further german claims based on her legitimate needs or her legal rights on one condition: That the leaders of the german reich agree to a plan of immediate disarmament. What plan, mr. Ambassador? A very simple one. Mr. Roosevelt proposes that every nation in the world limit its armaments to the weapons a man can carry on his shoulder. Hmm. I see. Has the president communicated his proposal to england and france? No, not yet, but we have reason to believe that they will not hold back if germany gives her consent. Dr. Schacht, you cannot build to destroy and escape destruction yourself. Before it is too late, prevail upon your leaders to consider this proposal. You and i both know this is the last good chance on earth of peace. If that chance is lost, your government must take the responsibility for the most terrible disaster in history. Mr. Ambassador, i like your president's proposal. It has the simplicity of genius, and i believe it is sincere. I shall take it up with my government. However, i must warn you. I am not the government. If they ask it, i shall give them my favorable opinion. That's all i can promise. I quite understand. If there is anything i can do for you during your stay here, mr. Davies, please let me know. I shall consider it a favor. Thank you. There is one favor i'd like to ask. Ambassador dodd has had some difficulty in arranging an appointment for me to see herr hitler. I thought perhaps your office- my dear mr. Ambassador, i'm sure our fuhrer would be delighted to see you, but just now, he's a very busy man. So is president roosevelt, but he felt that this was a matter of extreme importance. Of course, i'm quite willing to postpone my leaving for moscow. Oh, yes, yes. Of course. I'll see what i can do. Thank you. Sir. Get me herr minister von ribbentrop. Herr ribbentrop, herr schacht speaking. The american ambassador davies has just left my office. He brings a remarkable offer of disarmament from president roosevelt- nothing larger than a man can carry on his shoulder. How simple. The americans are very naive. And to come with such a plan to you of all persons. To you, herr schacht. Disarmament. Ha ha ha! Yes. Yes, very amusing. I waited two full weeks in berlin to tell hitler my president's offer, but he would not see me. I left for moscow knowing that the first part of my mission was a failure; that germany had already turned her back to peace and her face to war. Shall we cross the border, sir? Well, henderson, you're the charge d'affaires. Lead on. Right here, sir. That's it. Hold it. Thank you. Colonel faymonville! How do you do? Welcome to your new post, mr. Ambassador. Thank you, colonel. Mr. Barkov. Mr. Ambassador. From the russian embassy. Mrs. Davies. Miss davies. Is that everyone? Major kamenev, your excellency. May i welcome you to the soviet union in the name of my government. Thank you, major. My wife. How do you do? My daughter. How do you do? Your train will be ready in a few minutes. This way, please. My, what fine-looking soldiers. Yes, sir. Good fighting men, too. Would you care for a little refreshment, perhaps? Would we care? All we had this morning is some ersatz eggs. Marjorie, real food! Over here, please. This is very kind of you, indeed. This way, mrs. Davies. Thank you. Mmm! This is delicious. What are these? The little fish? This is [russian word]. And this is [russian word], sort of smoked ham. It looks delicious. A great favorite of ours. Oh, thank you. Very much. Now, marjorie, i wouldn't admit this to anyone else in the world, but this business of being a diplomat kind of frightens me a little. Oh, nonsense, joe. You're behaving as though you'd been one for years. You really think so? Well, i like meeting people and exchanging ideas, but the part that bothers me is this protocol of formality- the diplomatic language i'm supposed to use. Then you just stick to plain joe davies language. I have an idea they'll understand that better, anyway. I'm kind of glad i brought you along. So this is russia, eh? Da. Da. Well, where's the caviar? You're eating some now. It's in your bread. Oh. Say, do you let girls ride with the engineer? She is the engineer. Hi. No wonder napoleon got lost trying to find the russian army. Yes. Could've hidden for years right here in the kremlin. The soviet leaders have the same genius for being hard to reach. I dread this formality, henderson. I feel like a fish out of water. Mr. Ambassador, may i present our staff. The representative of the united states of america, mr. Davies. How do you do, sir? How do you do, sir? How do you do? The representative of the united states of america, mr. Davies. The president of the soviet union, mr. Kalinin. I am happy to meet you, mr. Davies. Thank you, mr. President. May i present mr. Krestinsky, first assistant to the commissar for foreign affairs. Mr. Krestinsky. Mr. Davies. And the public prosecutor of the ussr, mr. Vyshinsky. Ah, yes. We've heard of your great legal work even in america, sir. Thank you, mr. Davies. May i return the compliment. Thank you. My chief mr. Litvinov asks me to express his regrets that he is not here personally to greet you. He's still at geneva. I have great admiration for mr. Litvinov and will look forward to meeting him. Mr. Davies, it is customary to make a formal speech upon occasions like this, but with your permission, we shall talk what is on our minds instead of what is down on paper. That would suit me perfectly. In fact, i think i've forgotten mine, anyway. Oh. Ha ha! Please. May i present my credentials, mr. President? Oh, yes. That you must do. I've almost forgotten. My favorite vice, american cigarettes. Spasibo. Oh, you speak russian? That one word is my entire vocabulary. Ha ha ha! You and your people have made me feel very much at home, mr. President. So, i'm glad. I'm not a professional diplomat. The only language that i know is to say what i think. Excellent. Then you and my people will speak the same language. In that sense, yes, but there's one thing i must make clear. I'm the product of a different system from yours. I believe in individualism as we practice it in america. We know your record, mr. Ambassador, and we believe you are an honest man. Thank you. I assure you that my purpose in coming here is to see all things with an open mind and report them faithfully to washington. All we want is that you see as much as you can of what we're trying to do before you arrive at your conclusion. That's what my president wants. That's why he sent me. A very great man, your president... with a deep sympathy for mankind. That is true. His greatest concern is to keep the world at peace. Oh, yes. Peace. Peace. There is room enough for all of us to live in peace. If only the other nations will see, and see in time. If they shouldn't, if war should come, what would russia do? We are prepared to defend ourselves. We'll be ready. Nice shot, lord chilston. Thank you. Why shouldn't he be good? He's here practicing all the while. Who else but the english would think of converting part of the embassy to a billiard room? Apparently the french have only room for a wine cellar, hmm? Touche! What do you feature at the polish embassy, mr. Ambassador? Our house is very small, mr. Davies. We are stalin's stepchildren. Now, my dear chilston, you will how this shot should be made. Oh, yes? Too bad. I want you men to try some english ale i've had shipped in. Good. Yes. I need something to cool me off. Well, if you'll drop in one afternoon... what a pity you weren't assigned to warsaw, mr. Davies. You would enjoy the social life there much more than here. We have a saying: A russian is merely an unfinished pole. I looked forward to this visit, lord chilston, not only to get acquainted, but to become better informed about russia. I understand- excuse me. One can't be too careful, you know. You'll be doing the same thing before long. There are some very large ears in moscow, perhaps because those in power feel none too secure. I was under the impression that the people are firmly behind the present government. Don't be deceived by their propaganda, mr. Davies. These russians are experts at dressing their windows for foreign diplomats. You mean the 5-year plan hasn't worked out? Well, 5 years, 10, 15 years, they will always be the same russians- full of great plans, but small fulfillment. Most of our colleagues feel that way, davies, but i don't entirely agree with it. I don't think we should belittle the many fine works that the soviets have accomplished, but, well, there are more things going on in russia than meet the eye, my friend. Very interesting. I guess i should keep my eyes open, huh? To the honorable secretary of state. Finding so many divergent views in moscow relative to the internal strength of the soviet union, i decided to take a trip and see for myself. When i explained my purpose to premier molotov, he was most helpful in arranging for me to go where i pleased and to find out the facts without any official guidance. My first stop was at kharkov, an important industrial city as large as pittsburgh, where we inspected a modern tractor plant employing 12,000 people and producing 37,000 tractors a year. When was this factory built? It was constructed under the first 5 years plan with the help of engineers from united states, france, and england. Most of the machinery is american. The facts and figures of their output are astonishing for a nation which almost overnight sprang from the middle ages into modern methods. But despite their great progress, it was my impression that the efficiency of their skilled labor was not yet up to our standard. These are the production records, mr. Davies. We keep experimenting to find ways to increase our efficiency. Well, what kind of a tractor is this? It looks different from the rest. Yes, mr. Davies. The reason is this. It can easily be converted... so. On my way through the ukraine, i passed many divisions of the red army on maneuvers. Even to a civilian observer, this force looks impressive. It's an army on wheels and on wings. In my opinion, it is greatly underestimated by the rest of the world powers. Near the great dneiper dam, at present the largest source of hydroelectric power in the world, we examined a huge steel plant which employs 9,000 men. Its open-house steel capacity was 440,000 tons, which compares favorably with our own mills in gary. That's really quite amazing. How long were you in america? I spent a year in detroit and pittsburgh studying your metals and equipment, mr. Ambassador. We believe our plant here combines the best features of both. You're pretty young to run a plant like this. How'd you get the job? Like anyone else, i worked for it. Watch it, mr. Davies. Then south to the caspian sea, where we inspected the oil fields at baku producing 7% of the country's supply. The equipment's pretty well worn out. We are trying to replace it as fast as we can, but our country needs so much oil. The supply cannot keep up with demand. Beside, our government is storing up oil reserves in case comes war. Every plant, every industry is prepared for quick conversion to a wartime basis, and some we saw are not waiting too long. I certainly didn't expect to find an american engineer here. They hired me two years ago, sir, to give them advice on installations, and am i anxious to get back to texas. Homesick, huh? I'd give a carload of caviar for just one good hot dog. Do you mind stepping up here to my office for a moment, sir? It isn't that i particularly want to get back to the states, mr. Ambassador. In many ways, i like it here. These are fine people, and they're good at their jobs, too... most of them. Yeah? Sit down, mr. Davies. Is it all right to smoke in here? Sure. Something is happening in this country that i don't fully understand. There's always a few who seem to be working against the rest. How do you mean? Thank you, sir. Oh, they forget to fill a crankcase or turn the wrong valve. It takes us a good couple of months to repair the damage. Production goes to pot. From what i hear, this happens in more places than the airplane industry. Sabotage, huh? In the great don basin, i saw for myself the wealth of russia's coal resources. I went down into the mine and talked with the workers. Much to my amazement, i discovered that 30% of them are women. Excuse me, mr. Davies, is it true that in america the women are not allowed to do work like this? Well, there's no law against it, but we don't like to put them underground until we have to. Ha ha! In odessa, one of the largest black sea ports, i visited some of their machine shops. Again, i felt a sense of haste; of pushing production to the limit. My friend, you seem to enjoy hard work. Of course you work hard. You make more money. I thought all your profits went to the state. Only a fixed amount. Anything we can produce above that belongs to all of us who works in a factory in addition to our wages. I hope i'm not speaking out of turn, but isn't that way of encouraging initiative a slight departure from your original theory? Ah, perhaps, mr. Davies, but what is a theory except a means to the end? The greatest good for the greatest number of people. Not a bad principle. We believe in it, too. The valley of the dneiper river is one of the most fertile districts in the world. Most of these farms are cooperative with over 600 men and women working together on a unit of 5,000 acres. Again, as an industry, the workers are entitled to divide the profits over and above the government's share. My conclusion based on all i have seen and heard in the course of this trip is this: In spite of many mistakes, some inefficiency, and even division among themselves, probably inevitable in any great change, i am convinced this nation is aware of its destiny and is making itself ready for whatever lies ahead. The premier is expecting you, mr. Ambassador. Premier molotov, the american ambassador mr. Davies is here. At once, sir. No, don't go. It's ambassador davies. Oh, yes. Welcome back, mr. Davies. Thank you, sir. Mr. Litvinov is here with me. He just came back from geneva. He's anxious to meet you. Mr. Litvinov, ambassador davies. Mr. Davies, i've looked forward to this meeting. It's a great pleasure, mr. Litvinov. Please sit down, gentlemen. Tell us about your trip, mr. Davies. First, i want to thank you for making it possible. We only wish that more of our foreign guests were that interested in what we are doing. What were your impressions, mr. Davies? First of all, i was amazed at the boldness and imagination behind such a vast industrial development. I can think of no other period in history where so much has been done in so short a time. This is very gratifying to us. Of course, naturally, i saw things on the other side, too- things that weren't working well, things i didn't like. Oh, yes, we make mistakes. Our method is experimental: Trial and error. We hope you will let us study your criticisms. Of course. But there was one thing that made me very curious. I noticed that in some of your plants, the installations were not fixed in cement. They were movable. Yes, mr. Davies. If our army is ever forced to retreat, our source of supplies will move, also. Perhaps the russian bear will set a trap of its own. I see. Hmm. Excellent. Don't you gpuers ever get any sleep? Good morning. Hello. That's pretty nice. Da, da. Marjorie, you look like the pictures of catherine the great in that outfit. Oh, good heavens, and here am i about to call on the wife of a commissar. Don't be late. Remember, we got a date tonight. As if i could forget my first diplomatic ball. Joe, will there be all sorts of mysterious intrigues going on? Oh, yes. Yes. Some mysterious brunette will probably try to sell you the plans to yokohama. Ha ha ha! Good morning, freddie. Good morning. How did you rest? With one eye open. Freddie, will you take me to the embassy and take mrs. Davies to this address- i can't even pronounce it. Yes, sir. And i can't read it, sir. Ask the gpu boys. I cannot get used to being followed everywhere i go. What i can't figure out, ma'am, is whether they're protecting us or watching us. Well, maybe it's a little of both. Come on, boys. Follow the leader. More applications for american passports, sir. The pile is getting bigger every day. It reminds me of animals scurrying for shelter before a storm. Spendler? Please forgive me for interrupting, mr. Ambassador, but something has happened i thought you should know about at once. Yesterday, workmen who were repairing the italian embassy discovered dictagraph wiring in the rafters. I think we should make an immediate examination. The kremlin may be recording every word we say. Well, perhaps they had a reason. Moscow is a hotbed for foreign agents. But eavesdropping, sir? Why, that is an open affront of international rights. I never say anything outside the kremlin about russia that i wouldn't say to stalin's face. Do you? Well, that's putting it rather stiffly, sir. Then stop gossiping and stop listening to it. We're here, in a sense, as guests of the soviet government, and i'm going to believe that they trust the united states as a friend until they prove otherwise. Yes, sir. But if there were microphones... well, let them listen. We'd be friends that much faster. And if they haven't got microphones, i'm not going to insult them by ripping out the walls to find out. Anyway, it's much too expensive. Besides, sir, we examined these rooms two years ago. Let's give them the benefit of the doubt, eh, spendler? Yes, sir. Come on, kids, beat it. Sked-skedaddle, please! Come on. They certainly have a healthy curiosity, haven't they? Come on. Come on. Come on. What an attractive display, madam molotov. Why, this might be in a fifth avenue window in new york. Oh, thank you. When i first became commissar of the cosmetic industry, i went to paris to study their methods. But i didn't realize that luxury trades were encouraged in the soviet union. We discovered that feminine beauty was not a luxury. Won't you sit down? Well, i imagine women are much the same the world over. They all want to please their men. Before i show you around the factory, we'll have some tea. Oh, how nice. I'm very curious to know how the wife of the premier has the time to run a large industry. Oh, the wives of many of our commissars have some work of their own. We prefer that to merely social duties. So do i. In my early 20s, i had to assume the responsibility of running my father's business. An american woman running a business. We had the impression that american women were ornamental and not useful, and you thought that our women were useful, but not ornamental. Ha! I guess we were both wrong. I think we have much in common, mrs. Davies. That's a very nice compliment. I'll see you at the ball tonight, but sometime i should like to arrange a luncheon at our dacha. It might interest you to meet some of the women little known to the world who have contributed so much to engineering, medicine, and industrial progress. I should feel honored. I know you'll like them, and i feel sure they'll like you. Thank you. Here. Maria, i'd like you to meet mrs. Davies, wife of the american ambassador. How do you do, maria. How do you do. Oh, thank you. Where did you learn to speak english? To night school. At night school, maria. At night school. It is so easy to forget, no, mrs. Davies? But you do wonderfully. Oh, how proud i'd be if i could do that well with russian. Perhaps someday we shall all speak the same language. Look. Look at them. They are a crack regiment of ski troops. They're on maneuvers. Miss davies, mr. Grosjean. How do you do? This is your command? Yes, major. The finest regiment in the army. I could never go back to the cavalry now. It's much too slow after this. Ha ha! Aah! What'd she say? She says you'd better have some hot tea before you catch cold. Oh, thank you. Um... spasibo. Spasibo. Are you both americans? Uh-huh. Yes. Are you married, yes? Oh, no. Ha ha ha! No, i'm a mining engineer on a little vacation from stalingrad. Her father just blackmailed me into being a nursemaid. Don't you believe it. He's been camping on my doorstep for two solid weeks. But i meant that about the tea. May i get it for you? Oh, yes. Thank you. Can you do that? Me? No! Well, then, we'd better start learning. Major kamenev? Yes? How long would it take you to teach me to dance like that? You really want to learn our russian dances? Of course! For the diplomatic ball tonight. We don't dance like that at a ball. Tonight there will be mostly waltzes. Oh, i was afraid of that. Daddy and i get so bored at anything formal, but we have to go. Your father is in the diplomatic court? Yes. American. The new ambassador? Yes. Of course. The ball is being given for him at spiridonovka. How did you know? I live there. I am tanya litvinov. Oh, how do you do, miss litvinov. How do you do? Do you commissars have any time left for your private lives? Why, yes. Every now and then we all take time off and go fishing. Fishing? But where? Oh, at parties like this. This is the first formal reception the soviet union has ever given to a foreign diplomat. So i understand, sir. It is a great honor to my country. Don't worry over miss davies. Marshal tukhachevsky has a lady love of his own. Why didn't he bring her here? And you have read karl marx? Yes, we had to study it in our sociology class at vassar. I can't say i enjoyed it very much, though. Perhaps if you look into it again now that you are in russia. Marshal tukhachevsky, you wouldn't be trying to convert me, by any chance now, would you? I suppose we in america still think of european diplomacy as it used to be- intrigue being whispered behind a fan. Well, we no longer have the fans. Ah. Ha ha! Well, mrs. Davies, shall we go? Oh, mrs. Davies, may i introduce mr. Bukharin, mr. Vesya, mr. Radik, our most distinguished journalist, and mr. Yagoda, commissar of internal affairs. How do you do, gentlemen? How do you do, mrs. Davies? We are envying commissar litvinov his most agreeable duty. Oh! And i thought chivalry was discouraged in russia. My dear mrs. Davies, you can't discourage human nature. A philosopher. Shall we, mrs. Davies? Who's the distinguished-looking man with the stars on his uniform there talking to mr. Davies? Oh, a marshal of the red army - timoshenko. Ambassador. Timoshenko. I heard in geneva about your promotion. Congratulations. Thank you. I've been meaning to ask you about your trip. How are things in geneva? You will excuse me, gentlemen. I'm only a soldier. Come. Let us have a cigar together. I hear that you have done some parachute jumping, miss litvinov. Yes. I am a student in the reserve corps. We practice every week. So, are there a great many of you? I'm afraid i don't know, mr. Shigematsu. How many parachutists do you have in japan? Our young people prefer other forms of sports. Yes. I have seen some recent pictures of them from china. Miss litvinov, i wonder if i might- excuse me. Oh, i beg your pardon. Do i interrupt diplomatic affairs? Not at all, colonel. Do you know ambassador shigematsu? Oh, yes. Of course. We met years ago in tokyo. Colonel faymonville is a great student of japan. He has worked very hard to understand us. Well, thank you very much. It's quite a difficult subject. Would you care to dance, miss litvinov? Yes, thank you. You'll excuse us? There was a time when the future of the soviet government appeared to be very dark, but that has passed now. We're entering a new era. Don't you think so, tovarich krestinsky? I think we have done remarkably well. I was very surprised to see you here, herr von ribbentrop. I had no idea you were in moscow. A matter of business, lady chilston, but i miss london very much. Herr von ribbentrop is very partial to the english. Indeed. Well, now, let's not argue about it. But america builds the best transport planes in the world. That's true. I've converted many of your douglas transports into bombers. I know. My friend, you'd better forget about commercial aviation and concentrate on warplanes. You russians are always hearing the drums of war. Italian olives, mr. Molotov? Spanish. In russia, i've learned to judge our neighbors by what they do, and not by what their representatives say... and what is happening in the world today. Not a very pleasant prospect, mr. Davies. One nation has already invaded another without provocation or excuse and contrary to its league obligations. Still another aggressor is attempting to overthrow the meager government of its neighbor by sending men and equipment to support the revolt. The little nations tremble trying to walk the tightrope between the great powers. Their only defense is their utter helplessness. But whom can they trust? On whom can they depend? It's the devil's gamble, so they smile on everyone and hope for the best. The bigger the country, the stronger the smile, but what about the great powers who could oppose aggression? Instead of standing together, they make deals with the enemy. They even found a lovely new word for it. They call it appeasement. That is what i've had to contend with, my friend. And that is not the whole story, mr. Davies. Not all our enemies are outside russia. They also have their agents in our midst trying to create havoc, distress. Traitors, your own people? Mr. Davies, you will recall the proud statement made recently by a fascist general: "We have 4 columns in front of madrid and a fifth inside the city." Fifth column. It's hard for most americans to realize these things with two great oceans between us and our possible enemies. I wouldn't rely too much on isolation, my friend. Oceans are not as wide as they used to be. Yes, krestinsky? I beg your pardon. May i speak to you a moment? Excuse me, mr. Ambassador. Whenever krestinsky wants to see me, it's business. Of course. Yes. Yes, i understand. What is it? Kommodov, manager of the magnesium plant in kharkov. There has been an explosion. The plant is completely wrecked. Several hundred workers on the night shift have been killed. It's impossible to determine right away what caused the explosion, but i'm sure it was an act of sabotage. This will be investigated immediately, kommodov. Do not talk with anyone until you hear from me. I'll expect a report later tonight and again in the morning. Give me complete details when you call. Sabotage. The plant destroyed. The fifth since march? Yes. How do you know it was sabotage? Krestinsky, these accidents happen too regularly and always in defense industries. Was anyone caught? We will know tomorrow, sokalnikov. Mr. Davies. Mr. Shigematsu. My government has asked me to give you a personal message for your president. Yes? Please tell your president the japanese plans for a new order in asia contemplate no interference in the philippines, hawaii, or any american possession. The present war was forced upon us by the hostility of china. As ambassador, i will convey your message to my president, but between ourselves, mr. Shigematsu, the suggestion that japan had to defend herself against china is pure bunk. I'm leaving at midnight, bukharin. I'll stop at your apartment on my way to the airport. Very well. I'll expect you. Au revoir. What is "bunk"? Bunk? I don't know. State prosecutor has some questions to ask you, citizen bukharin. You will go with us. Very well. Tovarich radik? Miss van nuys. Yes, citizen yagoda. Thank you. Your change, mr. Krestinsky. Thank you, i was looking for some papers. Oh, it's a brilliant performance. Really dazzling. Who's the ballerina? Ulanava. They compare her to pavlova. I like it even better than the ballet russe in new york. This is the real ballet russe, miss davies. Is stalin purging the army? ...not to be trusted- the public insists it has a right to know on what charges these men are being tried, and intend to put a question before the house. Is jealous of their power! We should break off relations with russia. Those people still must be bloodthirsty! Communism is unmasked before the world! No, this is not germany. It is a bund meeting in new york city, where americans were brutally beaten for daring to interrupt the fuehrer's friend. You see this? "The kremlin butcher." Well, what do you expect of cossacks? Is the red army marching on moscow? Mr. Speaker! The american people demand to know the facts behind this moscow purge. Have you gentlemen anything to say concerning the russian purge? Japan abhors the brutality of the russian administration. Thank you very much. Well, here we are in moscow, and we know less about the purge than they do in washington. My paper won't even believe i'm in moscow. If the ambassador doesn't see us today- all right, gentlemen, mr. Davies will see you now. Say, boys, wait for me, will you? Is it a party feud, mr. Ambassador, or are these men really guilty of conspiracy against the soviet government? I'm not a mind reader, charlie. You have just as much information as i have. Well, my guess is they're guilty. I don't know what of- men like bukharin and tukhachevsky? Don't be foolish, warner. Those two guys are as solid soviets as the kremlin walls. Sure, they're both old friends of uncle joe's. And so is yagoda. Why, it's just as if back home the fbi locked up most of the cabinet, the supreme court justices, and part of congress. Well, you want my advice, boys, i wouldn't jump at any wild conclusions till you know the facts. Wait for the trials. Yes, sir, but in the meantime, our newspapers are going crazy. We can't send them a line. At the rate they're inventing it, you don't need to worry. Maybe when the truth comes out you'll find it stranger than fiction. Thank you, mr. Ambassador. All right, boys. And your chief aim was the dismemberment of the ussr in favor of certain foreign states. Yes. Accused yagoda, do you admit to conversation with pyatakov about putting the kemerova chemical works out of action? Yes, citizen prosecutor. It was one of the many plans to cripple defense industries. Did you consider the fact in carrying out your purpose that workers in the factory were bound to be killed? Loss of life was inevitable. Once we determined on our course of action, we couldn't afford to be particular about sacrificing a few lives. Yerekov, were you equally agreeable to sacrificing the lives of innocent men for the sake of your, shall we say, ambitious plans? Uh, more or less. Don't answer me more or less. Did you, in effect, agree with yagoda? That if workers were to perish as a result of your acts of terrorism, well, let them perish. Yes or no. Yes. That at least is a frank answer. Now, citizen, yagoda, you have admitted that these numerous acts of terrorism and sabotage were part of a general plan to weaken the soviet union. Did you help to formulate this program? We all helped. But in the main, the program was trotsky's. You make this statement from personal knowledge? I didn't see trotsky, if that's what you mean. He was out of the country. Yes, i am aware of that. And how did you know it was trotsky's orders you were following? Because he sent us letters of instruction. Beside that, two of us were in direct contact with him. Who were they? Pyatakov and krestinsky. Krestinsky, did you hear the statement yagoda just made? Most of it. Most of it? You are sitting right next to him. Are you hard of hearing? No, i'm not. Yagoda, do you recognize this man as the one you referred to in connection with trotsky? He is the same man, although he seemed quite different at the time. Were you able to hear that, citizen krestinsky? Yes, i heard it. And is it the truth? No, i'm not a trotskyite. I had nothing to do with him. Accused rosengoltz, you have heard these conflicting statements. Which one is true? Krestinsky is not telling the truth. Accused grinko, is krestinsky telling the truth? No, he is not. How do you know? I was among those present when he told us of trotsky's program. We discussed ways of carrying it out. Where did these meetings take place? Sometimes in his office, sometimes in my office. The people's commissariat of finance. You heard all of this, i trust. I do not feel very well. I can well understand. No further questions, mr. President. We shall proceed with the examination of citizen radik. Citizen radik, take the stand. In the preliminary examination, you also admitted participating in this plot that was to prepare the way for trotsky's program. Please, tell us what that program was as you understood it. Our eventual aim was to take over the government of the soviet union. Quite an ambitious one, citizen radik. And just how was this to be accomplished? We realized that the present government was strongly entrenched with the people, so that our only chance at success would come in the defeat of russia by some foreign power. Very interesting. And so it was trotsky's plan to do everything possible to weaken this country's defense in the event of war. Yes. A war that you were determined russia should lose. Yes. What'd i tell you? Meaning that your actions show that you desire to bring about our defeat. Exactly. And these actions of yours were deliberate? Apart from sleeping, i never in my life committed an undeliberate action. And this was not a dream. Unfortunately, no. How did trotsky approach you about helping to carry out his defeatist program? Never directly- always by letter or through intermediaries. When did these contacts begin? In the autumn of 1934. I was at the diplomatic reception, talking with behein, when we were approached by count von- the accused will refrain from mentioning the name of any foreign official. Citizen radik, you are sufficiently versed in politics to know what testimony is forbidden in open court. I deeply apologize, mr. President. It slipped out before i thought. Then be careful in the future. Continue your testimony. Well, this unnamed gentleman approached us at the party and began talking very casually. Yes? "Mr. Trotsky," he said, "seems to be more interested than the stalin regime "in bettering the relations between our two countries." Of course, we understood he was sounding us out to find out whether trotsky had been speaking for himself or whether he had any substantial backing in this country. What did you tell him? That there were certain realistic politicians here, among whom i included myself and bukharin, who were out of sympathy with the policy of the present government and were anxious to cooperate with trotsky in bettering the relations between this other country and ours. In short, you admit going behind the back of your government to join hands with a traitor who was making overtures to a foreign power. Yes, if you wish to put it that way. What way would you put it, citizen radik? At the time our bloc didn't consider trotsky as a traitor. I notice you say "at the time," but we'll come to that later. Now, i have just one more question. What was the country whose representative approached you in connection with trotsky? The country is germany. No further questions. As if germany had any interest in russia's political quarrels. Obviously, the stalin government is shaky, and they're trying to cover it up by inventing this fantastic foreign plot. But these men are on trial for their lives. Why should they give testimony that's bound to convict them? Houston, haven't you an english expression? You might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. Or for a wolf in sheep's clothing. What's your opinion, mr. Davies? Based on 20 years of trial practice, i'd be inclined to believe these confessions. As an american lawyer, mr. Davies can't be expected to understand all the intricacies of european politics. The american ambassador, general, may not be familiar with intricacies of european politics, but he is fast learning that "mein kampf" is being put into practice by germany. Court will resume with the questioning of citizen bukharin. Do you recall the conversation mentioned by radik at the diplomatic reception? There were so many conversations. I don't recall this particular one. But if radik says it occurred, i have no grounds for not believing him. Would you mind giving a more direct answer? Did the conversation take place? Yes or no. Couldn't say no nor can i deny it that it did take place. So, the answer is neither yes nor no. Nothing of the kind. Because facts exist, regardless of whether they are in anybody's mind. This is a problem of the reality of the outer world. Citizen bukharin, would you please answer my questions without giving us a lecture in philosophy? The lecture wasn't intentional. At any rate, you admit similar conversations. Yes. With representatives of germany? Of germany and japan. What was the general purpose of these conversations? To make arrangements by which our bloc would receive help from these two countries in our effort to rise to power. So, you were working out a deal. Naturally- germany and japan were not going to back us for the sake of trotsky's beautiful blue eyes. Hmm, what were their conditions? The partition of our country. Japan was to get our maritime province and our guarantee of siberian oil in the event of war with the united states. And germany? We agreed to open the border for german expansion to the ukraine. The main gates for when germany is preparing its blow against ussr. Citizen sokalnikov, do you corroborate this statement? I do. And you took an active part in the conspiracy? Periodically, i supplied various secret information to general seeckt, who was commander in chief of the reichswehr. Information of what kind? Mostly of a military character. Such as secret data on the strength of our air force. How was that information conveyed? At that time i was assistant to the commissar of foreign affairs. I used my office as a contact for transmitting information to the enemy. And this was done in accordance with an agreement with general seeckt. With general seeckt and rudolf hess. In return for our espionage activities on behalf of the reichswehr, they undertook to pay us 250,000 marks annually as a subsidy. Accused bukharin, before you could successfully partition your country to its enemies, you and your bloc, as you call it, had to come into power. How was this to be accomplished? Our plan was to seize the kremlin and set up a military dictatorship financed by the fascist government. You had your fascist dictator picked out? I am not sure we were all in agreement on that point. Who were your candidates? Naturally, trotsky was one. But our military leader was tukhachevsky, who, i suspect, had ambitions of his own. Tukhachevsky. There's your wolf in sheep's clothing. Citizen tukhachevsky, you've heard bukharin's statement to the effect that you were the military leader of the trotskyite plot. As a witness, do you wish to deny or affirm the statement? The statement is true. You were prepared to seize the kremlin by force. Yes. And what was to happen to comrade stalin and the other official administrators of the soviet government? They were to be removed. Removed? What does that mean? Removed means killed. Do you have anything you wish to say in defense of your actions? Nothing, citizen prosecutor. I refuse to speak for my defense, because i'm used to defending myself with good weapons and attacking with good weapons. Now i have no good weapons with which to defend myself. Accused bukharin, you are aware, of course, that you have confessed to the most serious crimes a citizen can commit against the state. Yes, citizen prosecutor. And you make these damaging admissions of your free will. I mean by that, no pressure of any kind has been exerted to make you confess. None whatsoever. The only pressure came from my own conscience. For 3 months i refused to testify. Then i decided to tell everything. Why? Because while in prison, i made an entire reevaluation of my past. For when you ask yourself if you must die, what are you dying for? An absolutely black vacuity rises before you with startling vividness. There was nothing to die for if one wanted to die unrepentant. And on the contrary, everything positive that glistens in the soviet union, acquires new dimensions in a man's mind. One has only to weigh the wise leadership of the present government against the sordid personal ambitions of those who would overthrow it to realize the monstrousness of our crimes. I am about to finish. I, perhaps speaking for the last time in my life... my hope is that this trial may be the last severe lesson in proving to the world the growing menace of fascist aggression and the awareness and united strength in russia. It is in the consciousness of this that i await the verdict: What matters is not the personal feelings of a repentant enemy, but the welfare and progress of our country. Attention! Court convenes. In the name of the supreme court of the ussr, we find the accused guilty of organizing a conspiratorial group know as the trotskyite bloc, whose aim was to overthrow the soviet state by means of wrecking, terrorist, espionage, and treasonable activities, and to assist foreign aggressors in defeating and dismembering russia. On the basis of the aforesaid and guided by the articles 319 and 320 of the code of criminal procedure, we sentence the defendants to the supreme penalty. To be shot- with the confiscation of their personal property. Well, your father must be very proud of you today, comrade litvinov. Yes, general. But not so much as i. Oh, it was wonderful, tanya, but i held my breath. She held mine, too. By the time you hit the ground, she nearly had me strangled. Congratulations. Congratulations, dear. We were thrilled. Thank you. You were magnificent. Tanya, tell me, what were you thinking when you jumped? Well, first, whether my chute would open and then my nose was shiny. How about a little celebration? Let's go to the gorky palace. Wonderful. Come along then, honey. Let's be off dancing. This is much better. Ivy, how can you be so calm with your daughter dropping out of the sky in a parachute? She is not as calm as she pretends, marjorie. It is her english training. How about you, maxim? Hiding your emotions behind that smokescreen. Well, anyway, the midrinos are good jumpers. They fall many times, yes, but they land always on their feet. Somehow, i can't quite imagine our daughter doing it. It is not what we choose, but it is better for them to be prepared for what's coming. Someday you and your children may be faced with the same alternatives. Do you think we're that close to war? My friend, you heard the testimony at the trials. We are at war. Our enemy is not yet quite ready to declare it. Do you believe that your government has the support and loyalty of the red army? The army's unquestionably loyal. The soviet government is actually strengthened by the purge of its traitors. Now that their plot's uncovered, my guess is that germany will move in a new direction and move quickly. Probably against austria and czechoslovakia. Can nothing be done to stop this insanity when every normal, decent-thinking person hates the very thought of war? There is one way. If the democracies stop feeding hitler's vanity and making him one concession after another. They should take a firm stand together and let him stew in his own juice. Collective security is still the one hope left. At geneva i say it over and over again. But i think only the statue of your former president listens. There's another president who's deeply concerned about what's happening, though he's not in geneva. Pursuant to a recent conversation with mr. Litvinov, in which he expressed grave fear that war was imminent, i decided to visit various european centers to sound out representative opinions on the same subject. My first visit was to the capital of poland. Any information you would care to give me, mr. Pitsuski, would be sent confidentially to my president. Even confidential cables are tapped these days, mr. Davies. Thank you- yes, i'm aware of that. This will leave by diplomatic courier. Then you can tell your president that i have positive information that hitler and mussolini are meeting to work on an agreement for the partition of europe. First on their list will be austria. Upon this information i hastened to austria, where i asked to see chancellor schuschnigg, but i was told he was out of town. In his place, the foreign minister, herr schmidt, received me. Now, there's just one more thing. What about this partitioning of europe? Partitioning of europe. Ha ha ha, that's a joke, mr. Davies. Surely, you are not serious? There's no significance to mussolini's recent visit with herr hitler? None at all. Other than diplomatic amenities. And you feel that your country is in no danger of being absorbed by germany? Herr hitler has given us definite assurance. He has no such intentions. And herr hitler's word is good enough for me. But the foreign minister of yugoslavia, the next statesman i interviewed, was of a different opinion. Hitler's word, mr. Ambassador? It is good for nothing. But please don't quote me. No, no, this will be a confidential report. What effect does this axis threat have upon your country? Already we are punished by germany and italy because we supported ethiopia at the league. Germany is forcing us to barter our goods for anything they wish to unload upon us. And the non-aggressor countries, they give us no protection at all. I see, and what kind of goods does germany force you to buy? Mostly aspirin. We have enough aspirin for the next 20 years. I see, they give you the remedy along with the headache, huh? The french capital was my next stop. What about italian interests in austria, monsieur delveaux? Mussolini wrote that off, mr. Ambassador, on his visit to berlin last week. In exchange, he is to get a free hand in the mediterranean. And are you certain this division of europe is an accomplished fact? I regret to say we have conclusive documentary proof. On my way back to russia, i made a brief visit to the capital of holland. Here i decided to call on a banking house instead of government officials, in order to sound out business opinion. I see what you mean, mr. Davies. But hitler has spent millions in gold value preparing for war. In my opinion, he could not return to peace economy without a financial crash. Well, what about schacht? He's pulled them out of some tight places. Schacht is a financial wizard. But he cannot do the impossible. Thank you. And what chance is left of stopping hitler? By giving him everything he wants. And how much is that? I'm afraid, mr. Davies, what he wants is to rule the world. I have the honor to be, sir, respectfully yours. When an epidemic of physical disease starts to spread, the community approves and joins in a quarantine of the patients in order to protect the health of the community against the spread of the disease. War is a contagion, whether it be declared or undeclared. It can engulf states and peoples remote from the original scene of hostilities. America hates war. America hopes for peace. Therefore, america actively engages in the search for peace. Bob, wasn't the marshal magnificent on that black horse? Anyone in a marshal's uniform looks magnificent to you. Marshal tukhachevsky led the parade last year. Uneasy lies the head that craves the crown. Wish i had 3 heads and 6 pair of eyes. Never mind, joe, you see too much as it is. Look over there, my friends. This is as close as any of us ever get to stalin. What i've seen today convinces me of soviet power, both in the air and on the ground. You've seen only part of their strength, mr. Davies. The rest of the parade will show you what's behind the military forces. But in the long run, the strongest power's the one that holds the balance. Perhaps, lord chilston. But even the best jugglers sometimes miss. Watch this, mr. Ambassador. I hear a new bomber model's being shown for the first time today. What do you think of today's demonstration? Tell you how i feel- that at least one european nation with no aggressive intentions is ready for anything that comes. And i say thank god for it. Hear, hear. Joe, i wouldn't miss this for anything in the world. Well, marjorie, when we go home we'll take with us a great deal more than we brought. Evening, mr. Ambassador. Mr. Davies, please forgive me for calling at this late hour. Of course, it's always a pleasure to see you. I got your message. The american people have been greatly shocked by the recent atrocities at shanghai and the panay incident. I want you to see some of those atrocities with your own eyes. Of course i'll go with you. Where are they? At the general hospital. And how many others are there like these? 16 million more in china, all destitute, homeless and starving. And their only crime was that they lived in a town which the japanese wanted. It's terrible, but why were these people brought to russia? Because russia is our friend, mr. Davies. Mr. Davies, this way. Dr. Botkin, this is american ambassador mr. Davies. Dr. Botkin. Mr. Davies. I took the liberty of bringing him with me. I'm glad you came, mr. Davies. I've heard that you are an unusual diplomat. In what way, doctor? That you see what is really happening instead of what you want to see. I need hardly say that i am appalled by what i have seen here tonight. Yes, many of them will die. But all of them are very brave. Even the children never cry. Day after day we try to help these poor people. We only stop for a few hours to sleep. But those who work to save life cannot keep up with those who have the power to destroy it. Mr. Davies, i'm only a doctor, and it is hard for me to understand the indifference of so many people in the world to these brutalities. But what can anyone do? I suppose they feel as powerless as i do this very minute. If our 3 countries would be united, we could stop all this. Yes, the 3 of us must face this common enemy together. I agree with both of you. If only more people in authority would open their eyes before it is too late. And meanwhile, too many other eyes are being closed forever. When you return to america, mr. Davies, please tell them what you have seen. The pleasure of having you here tonight is marred only by the fact that this is a farewell dinner. You, mr. Ambassador, have done what no other foreign diplomat has been known to do in this country. You have done your best to understand our country. What is going on here, the motives behind our doings, and the aims in front of them. If you will, as i'm sure you will, pass on the results of your observation and unbiased judgment to your government and to your country, you will contribute more to the friendly relations between our two countries than any other diplomat in the history of the soviet union. I am deeply moved by your very generous remarks, mr. Litvinov. You have commented on the sympathy and understanding which exists between your country and mine. I believe that is preeminently true. It is my belief that both peoples are seeking to improve the lot of the common man. That is the end to which we are striving. Our methods are different. We believe that ours are the best, but we concede that you have the right to maintain that yours are the best. Whether or not your government succeeds in its ultimate aims, the ideas and the human forces that you have released will have a profound effect upon the future of the world. I came here with an objective mind. I'm leaving with an objective mind, possibly less objective and more friendly because of the kindnesses that you and your government have extended to me as a representative of my country. In conclusion, i would like to say to everyone here that i am going to miss you very much. And i hope to see you many times again wherever our paths may cross. I'm sure that my american staff will want to join me in raising our glasses to you, mr. Litvinov, to your associates, and to the traditional friendship of the peoples of our two countries. Mr. Litvinov. Now, i suggest a final game of poker, so we can win back some of our money from the boss before he leaves us. I second the motion. I don't have a chance with you sharks. Gentlemen, i'm sorry to interrupt you, but i have some bad news. I have just received a telephone message from the czech minister. Hitler has invaded austria, and german troops are already in vienna. Looks like the beginning. It had to come. On your first visit here, mr. Davies, i felt i was welcoming a capable and honest ambassador. But now, more than that, i feel i'm saying good-bye to a friend. Thank you, mr. President. I feel exactly the same way. I'm only sorry that you're not staying with us longer. You see, i've done what my president asked me to do. My end of the job is finished. No one could have been more conscientious in respect to both our countries. Thank you, sir. Oh, mr. Stalin. Mr. Davies, i'm happy to know you. It's great pleasure, sir. Also considerable of a surprise. Won't you please sit down? Besides your work here in moscow, i understand you have visited many other sections of the soviet union. I've been greatly impressed by what i've seen. Your industrial plants, the development of natural resources, and the work being done to improve living conditions everywhere in russia. I believe, sir, that history will record you as a great builder for the benefit of mankind. It is not my achievement, mr. Davies. Our 5-year plans were conceived by lenin and carried out by the people themselves. The results have been a revelation to me. I confess i wasn't prepared for what i found here. You see, mr. Stalin, i'm a capitalist, as you probably know. Yes, we know you're a capitalist. There can be no doubt about that. We also know this, mr. Davies. The worst things you've had to say about us, you've said to our faces. The best things you've said to our enemies. We want you to realize that we feel more friendly toward the government of the united states than any other nation. If there are some matters which are not settled between us, please take them up with premier molotov. Thank you. But i know how busy you are. I mustn't take up any more of your time. Mr. Davies, you have another appointment? No. Then please do not hurry away. There are some matters on my mind i would like you to know. And your great president to know. Sir. Mr. Davies. Mr. Davies, please. The outlook for a european peace is bad, very bad. England and france have allowed hitler to take austria without a struggle. They will probably allow him to do the same with czechoslovakia. They've repudiated all their pledges to the league and are throwing defenseless countries on the mercies of bandits. It's clear what they're doing, but i don't understand why they're doing it. I will tell you why, mr. Davies, and i will tell you frankly, because this is the time for plain words. The reactionary elements in england have determined upon a deliberate policy of making germany strong. At the same time, they shout lies in the press about the weakness of the russian army and disorder in the soviet union. You mean these elements are actually encouraging german aggression? There is no doubt that their plan is to force hitler into a war with this country. Then, when the combatants have exhausted themselves, the will step in and make peace. Yes, the kind of peace that will serve their own interests. But i'm sure the english people don't approve of such a policy. In my opinion, the present governments of england and france do not represent the people. Finally, the fascist dictators will drive too hard a bargain, and the people will bring their governments to account. But then it may be too late. Mr. Stalin, may i ask you a very direct question? Of course. If hitler does attack czechoslovakia and france and england go to her aid, is russia ready and willing to join them in war against germany? We have a commitment with france to fight in the event they go to the aid of czechoslovakia. The soviet union has never repudiated a treaty obligation. She would not repudiate this one. Your past record speaks well for the future. But we're not going to be put in the position of pulling other people's chestnuts out of the fire. Either we must rely on our mutual guarantees with the other democracies, or- well, we may be forced to protect ourselves in another way. On my way home i'm stopping off in england. May i quote what you have just told me? If you could convince them and your own government that peace or war is in the balance, you would do us all a great service. I feel as keenly as you and mr. Litvinov that collective security is the last bulwark against war. Litvinov has done all he can to make the world realize it. A very great foreign minister. I appreciate your frankness, sir. A little while ago i said that my job was finished. After having talked with you, i wonder if it hasn't only begun. Good-bye, sir. Good-bye, mr. Davies. Then came the tragic mistake of munich, when hitler was handed the sudetenland in return for his pledge of peace. But only 5 months later his army invaded prague and all czechoslovakia was swallowed by the german reich. In london i tried to impress the british leaders with the great danger of appeasing germany while ignoring russia's offer of a military alliance. But my warnings failed to bring any real response. Finally, in desperation, i went to a man who was then living in kent but who was later to move to number 10 downing street. Winston is working in the garden, but i know he's expecting you. He's building one of his pet brick walls. I don't like to interrupt his weekend, mrs. Churchill, but i'm very anxious to see him. We're delighted to have you both. So, please sit down, and i'll call him. No, please don't. Let me go. I'm familiar with some of his other accomplishments, but i'd like to see how good a bricklayer he is. Then follow that path, and please remind him that hitler's speech is on the wireless at 3:00. Do sit down. I doubt if either one of them will remember it once they get started on their politics. Do you ever stop to think that men are always trying to make the world better or worse, while most women are content just to live in it? Very good, sir. The professional touch of a bricklayer. I am a professional. I'm only an amateur in politics. If i thought that, i wouldn't be here. Very glad to see you, davies. Good to see you, sir. Do sit down. Thank you. It's always nice to be here. Tell me all about russia. Do you want it in 5 minutes, or do you want me to stay a week? First, about that russian army. We get so many reports. French general gamlin just made a statement it's only strong on paper. That's the kind of reckless statement that one ally shouldn't make of another if he wants to keep him as an ally. Well, most of the monetary observers make the same report. There's so much antl-soviet prejudice in the diplomatic corps, that they won't see the truth. Or if they do see the truth, they won't admit it. Well, what is the truth? Well, i'm not a soldier, but i think it's one of the finest armies in the world in training and morale and equipment. And i've never yet seen a soviet general whose belly wasn't smaller than his chest. But an army's no stronger than its second line of defense. What about their industry? I've inspected their plants, and i know plants. In a short span of years they've accomplished miracles in their industrial development. And in my opinion, if war comes, these people will give a magnificent account of themselves. It's foolish to underestimate either their strength or their good faith. Well, what do you want me to do about it? Tell you what i'd like to see done, and i'd like to see done quickly. I'd like to see you building another wall, a solid wall of military alliance with russian and every other country threatened by germany. That would pin hitler in, and short-circuit his plan of chewing up europe a piece at a time. But as you well know, davies, i'm not a member of the government. But you have great influence with the english people. You could bring home to them the terrible danger we're all in. No, i'm an alarmist. I say things people don't like to hear. It would take a major catastrophe to make my voice heard. If you don't make it heard, it will be a major catastrophe. If the democracies continue to look down their noses at russia, you know what's going to happen? Just as sure as you're sitting there, they'll drive stalin into hitler's arms. You think that's possible? Stalin implied that to me in his talk. Moscow is getting fed up with the delays of england and france concluding a military alliance. All they ask is the same guarantee of assistance against hitler that they're willing to give. That sound reasonable and seems fair. As a matter of fact, for a long time i've been an advocate of a realistic triple alliance including russia, directed against aggression. In my opinion, we should stop all this bungling and set negotiations with moscow. If you don't, they'll certainly take hitler's alternative. These people are realists. They're not going to fight someone else's war. Sooner or later they realize they'll have to fight germany, but a temporary non-aggression pact would give them more time to prepare. Could be a disaster for us. If hitler can close his eastern door, he'll only have to fight on one front. Exactly, and that front would be against your country and france. It's that damnable blackmail threat from the air. It ties our government's hands. That's been the trouble all along. But i've been tremendously impressed by what you've said, davies. I cannot promise much, but i'll do what i can. Well, i'm very glad i came. What about america? Your government could give powerful support to the democracies. Except for that neutrality act. I'm going back to tell the president and congress just exactly what i've told you, that unless something is done to stop hitler, we may have to fight him alone. Speaking of the devil, we may as well go in and listen. We may get an idea of what he intends to do. Which will be the direct opposite of what he promises. Churchill kept his word. He made speeches urging an immediate alliance with the soviet union. The english people began to listen. But again the reactionary government hesitated, even at the eleventh hour. Oh, there you are. I've been looking all over for you. Hello, dear. What's the matter? This radiogram came a few minutes ago. "Dear mr. Ambassador, our worst fears are realized. "This afternoon a non-aggression pact was signed "between germany and the soviet union. Then it's happened. Hitler's closed his eastern door. God help the rest of us. I feel as though everything the boss has sent me over to do has gone out the window, that i've accomplished nothing. Oh, don't talk like that, joe. You did everything you could possibly do. And, anyway, there's still a chance our government can do something. That's right. Anyway, i'm glad we're going back home. What my wife said was true. At this point, only one country could possibly swerve hitler from his course: The united states of america. After making my report to the president, he asked me to attend a meeting of a congressional committee. But congressional sentiment hasn't changed, mr. Secretary. Personally, i don't advise reopening the question of amending the neutrality bill in this session. In my judgment, it wouldn't have a chance of passing unless some emergency made it imperative. But we feel this is an emergency, mr. Senator. That's why the president asked me to call this meeting. And as a matter of fact, the european situation looks better than it has in some time. Anyway, hitler has czechoslovakia. That may keep him quiet. Gentlemen, do you really believe hitler will be satisfied with crumbs when he thinks he can grab the whole loaf? According to his own statements, danzig and the polish corridor are next on his list. We believe he's bluffing, mr. Secretary. And this time, england and france won't let him get away with it. My god, mr. Senator, we can't afford to take a chance on whether he's bluffing or not. We've got to try to stop him before he gets started. And we have a man here who's just back from europe and observed conditions at firsthand. The president has asked ambassador davies to give us his views. We'll be glad to hear whatever mr. Davies has to tell us. Well, i hope you'll let me speak frankly. As i sat here listening to you, i felt like someone returning to another planet, not to another continent. In europe, they don't ask if there's gonna be war anymore. They only ask, "when is war coming?" And what answer do you hear to that question? That unless something is done quickly to change the present course, it will come either before hindenberg's birthday in august or before the nuremberg rally in september. But that would be within two months. That's why i feel so much depends on the action of congress. By amending the neutrality bill, we can serve notice on hitler that this country will give material aid to any nation resisting aggression. There were diplomats from little countries in europe who begged me to urge this amendment because they thought it was the last desperate chance to prevent the outbreak of war. On what do you base your conviction that war is so close, mr. Ambassador? I visited 17 european countries, and i've talked to a lot of people. Heads of government, businessmen, taxicab drivers. Almost every one of them is convinced that it will come this year. Besides that, what i saw with my own eyes convinces me that hitler is getting ready to take the plunge. He can't afford to wait until the other countries catch up in armament. Time is working against him and for his enemies. In my opinion, hitler hasn't the economic strength to take on england and france. Mr. Senator, may i give you a few facts to test that opinion? Here's the territory that germany would control. All of this vast area of central europe. He would have access to all resources from berlin to baghdad. England and france, with a combined population of 82 million people, desperately unprepared, would be confronted with 76 million germans, 44 million italians, having a working agreement with 70 million in japan. A grand total of 190 million people armed to the teeth. But the british navy could blockade germany and italy by sea. Hitler has enough submarine and air power to break any blockade. In fact, the shoe may be on the other foot. If he can succeed in smashing england and france, he'd be well on his way to keeping his promise in "mein kampf." His promise to rule the world. Not a very pleasant picture, gentlemen, but it's safer to see an enemy reaching for his gun than to find yourself looking down the barrel. Thank you, mr. Ambassador. I can't add anything to what mr. Davies has said. I can only plead with you for us all to put party considerations aside and not to delude ourselves with any isolationist feelings. Give our president the one last chance to stave off what may be a catastrophe for the whole world. Mr. Secretary, if we could agree with your premise, it would be our duty to join in amending the neutrality act at once. We have no doubt that mr. Davies is as sincere in his convictions as you are in yours, but we must act in accordance with our own. Then, mr. Senator, it will be your responsibility for whatever happens. We've done all we can. We've gone to considerable trouble and expense to get our own information, which assures us there will be no war in europe this year. On september 1, 1939, the german blitzkrieg burst into poland, and the rape of europe had begun. In quick succession, denmark, norway, holland, and belgium were beaten to their knees. Beneath the tread of a thousand tanks, the mighty maginot line of france fell like a house of cards, and hitler fulfilled his promise of parading into paris. Then, the conqueror paused on the blood-soaked beach at dunkirk separated only by a narrow channel from the next victim on his schedule. But with magnificent courage, great britain took the full frenzy of his hatred: Out-fought him in the skies above london and shattered his dream of invasion. Baffled and enraged, hitler then made the great mistake of another little corporal. In june of 1941, he attacked russia, and a breathless world awaited the result. But losing one city or losing 10 cities isn't losing the war. The russians will take their losses and go on fighting. But what about moscow? The military experts say it will fall within 6 weeks. I can only say again that i think they're wrong. I believe the red army will amaze the world. I'm glad to hear you say that, joe, because i'm going to ask congress to extend lend-lease aid to russia. Good. Of course, if we're wrong, the stuff will fall into german hands. But it's well worth taking the risk. There's no doubt in my mind that the red army has a good chance of beating hitler. If only more of our people realized that. There's been so much prejudice stirred up about the soviet union that the public hasn't been given a chance to know the truth. Mr. President, a few years ago you called me into this room and gave me a job. It was a bigger job than i thought at the time. I don't think it's finished yet. I'd like to lay those ghosts that our fascist propagandists are brewing up about russia and tell the people of this country a few facts. May i have your permission to use my report to the state department? You've more than my permission, joe. You have my blessing. Thank you, mr. President. Good night. Good night, sir. And in the meantime, informed quarters believe the president will assure stalin of lend-lease aid just as soon as the act can be... do you mind? Oh, hello, dear. No, it's all right. How are you feeling? Oh, i feel all right. A little tired, but nothing that a good night's rest won't cure. So, then what are these for? Oh, that. Holden dropped in. The doctor always feels better if he leaves a little medicine in the bottle. So, the doctor was here? So, the doctor was here. As if you didn't know. You sent for him. All right, i did... and you've got to call a halt, joe. If you never do another thing in your life, you've already done more than your share. I can't quit now. There's too much at stake. Why, the whole world- i know all about that, but you've got to take care of yourself. Please, this time do as i say. I talked to the president a little while ago and i told him i'd take a trip around the country: Chicago, new york, toronto, even as far as the coast. You can't be serious. There's many things that have to be cleared up about russia. But the doctor told me that if you don't stop now- doctors are overcautious. They're worse than lawyers. Marjorie, we're all going to be in this war before long: You, the children, all of us. I'm just getting a little head start. If you go along with me, i'll be all right. When do we start? My gloves, dear. Here they are. Excuse me, mr. Davies, what's your opinion? Is there any chance of russia making a separate peace with germany? Well, the plain answer is that premier stalin and the soviet government have solemnly pledged to fight to the end- to make no separate peace with hitler. The soviet union keeps its word. Russia's as good as licked. She'll never last out the summer. The government throwing away our tax money sending them war supplies. You should be thankful it's only taxes you're spending. I say, gentlemen, not only can we do business with hitler, but we can make a nice profit doing so. And we can do the same thing with japan. Let's keep her happy, and we'll keep a good customer. He's absolutely right. I'm entirely in agreement. Naturally, we're sorry for china, but asia's none of our affair. We send our sympathy to china and our oil and scrap iron to japan. The russian people didn't want to fight a war. They made every possible effort to avoid it, but it came to them as it might come to us or to any other peaceful nation. They need our help, our guns, our planes. And if hitler wins this war, how will he feel about the united states when he knows we have aided his enemies? It's wrong, it is unwise, unchristian for us to refuse help to the courageous people of the soviet union. Tonight, before moscow, leningrad, and sevastopol, they're holding the very ramparts of our civilization. We've seen france fall, england smashed and helpless, and now there can be no doubt that russia's reeling towards defeat. It's going to be hitler's europe, and i say, "what of it?" The supreme objective of axis propaganda in this country is to set us against england, france, and russia. And there are those among us, some sincere, honest, but foolish- some paid by the axis who unconsciously or with criminal intent are doing just that. This conscription bill is unconstitutional and unnecessary. The war situation does not justify any such disturbance of our private or economic life. Let's not delude ourselves! No one is safe as long as the power-crazed rulers of germany and japan are loose in the world! If the russians had any sense, they'd negotiate a peace. You can't negotiate with evil. Russia will never stop fighting its fascist foe. They will defend their cities. They will fight in their streets, in their forests behind the german lines, and over them in the air. They will yield nothing to the invader but death. What's he in such a sweat about? We got a couple of oceans, ain't we? As i read of the millions of russians dead, their countless towns which lie in ruins, then i say to myself and i say to you there, but for the grace of god, goes america. There would go america if we listened to the isolationists and defeatists who still believe that america can be safe as an island of christian individualism in a sea of totalitarian dictatorship! How do we know that we can trust russia? Sit down. Yeah, how about poor little finland? This gentleman has asked the question: How about finland. My friend, you have only heard one side of the story. I'll tell you the other. I suppose you're gonna tell us she attacked russia. Russia knew she was going to be attacked by hitler, so the soviet leaders asked finland's permission to occupy strategic positions to defend herself against german aggression. She offered to give finland twice as much territory in exchange, but hitler's friend mannerheim refused, and the red army moved in. That's why, my friend. I wonder why these things have been kept from us? What about russia's air force? One of our aviation experts says their planes are all obsolete. The gentleman you mentioned saw only what russia wanted him to see. Russia has a powerful air force and ready to defend herself against any aggressor. Why didn't stalin make a deal with hitler? For self-protection. He was left standing alone against hitler, and he stalled because his army wasn't ready. What did russia ever do for us? Russia has given us time. Time? Time for what? No nation is threatening us. We're at peace. Welcome to your new post, mr. Ambassador. Oh, yes. The tables are turned. It is good to see you. Hold it right there, please. Thank you. My friend, it has come. You, too, are at war. Yes. It's a terrible thing, but since it's had to come, thank god we're on the same side: The right side. And now, united among ourselves and together with great britain, russia, china, and all free nations, we face a new mission, a much greater mission. First and foremost is the task of winning this war, of defeating that ruthless group of evil powers who have conspired to enslave the world. With full faith in the outcome, we shall not fail or forget those gallant people who first met the blazing fury of the nazi hordes. Never in history have there been such masses of men and mechanized power as those which hitler hurled over the borders of the soviet union in violation of the pledged honor of his government and his people. In brutal waves of blood, the juggernaut of germany rolled in high speed, scorching the earth on the road to moscow. The jubilant fuehrer proclaimed his greatest victory- the red army- as annihilated, but the wind of his boasts reaped a whirlwind of disaster. At the gates of moscow and leningrad, on the frozen fields of the ukraine, and within the shambles of stalingrad, the russian people stood firm in the crisis of our darkest hour. With millions of lives, they paid for precious time... time for america to rearm the united nations, time for great britain to reform her lines, time for the fascist tide to shatter its strength against the iron wall of human freedom. Slowly but surely the wave of evil forces recedes across the earth, leaving in its wake the wreckage of fascist barbarism and its long reign of terror. With victory, our next great task of rebuilding a free world must begin on a solemn pledge to the heroes of the united nations who have given their lives in this, the peoples' war. Wherever you may hallow the ground in which you lie, whether beneath the snows of russia, the warm desert sands of north africa, the ancient soil of ravaged china, or in the deep green jungles of guadalcanal, know you all that we, for whose freedom you died, shall now with the help of god and men of good will make an end of wars forever. And to you, the unborn generations yet to come, we pledge to work for a new world with justice and equality for all, to restore the dignity of man as an individual and not as a slave to any state or master so that you, to whom the great future belongs, shall be able to reply as we have not to the old angry cry of cain, "am i my brother's keeper?" With the answer, yes, you are. you are, yes, you are you are your brother's keeper now and forever.
