 

                        Stop! Stop! Stop right there! Get in, hurry up Hold it right there! Don't move! I tell you to stand still! Ma'am, walk towards me. Watch your steps. Don't do anything stupid! Don't come any closer! Watch the hostage! You better surrender! Don't come near! Don't make the wrong move! There's nowhere to run! Let the hostage go! Drop the guns Don't come any closer! Let her go! If you get any closer, I'll blow her head off! Andy, you go first Okay Back off! I swear I'll kill her Still coming? Holster your guns Go! Run! It's lucky to get the life back We can run away like this Stop messing around, let's go Really lucky Still playing? Where's brother Zen? Brother Zen He's here Brother Zen Where's Andy? He has not return yet? What's the matter? The cops ruin the deal Besides, Andy still has that merchandise That's no good. What should we do? Funky, where's Andy? The cops caught him No way! What about that copperplate? The cops took it You just let the cops took the copperplate? What's wrong with you? What's wrong? If you've the guts... go back and kill all the cops and snatch it back Enough... No more quarrel. What should we do now? Let's think it over when we return to Hong Kong Let's go back to Hong Kong, move the stuff into the car Okay Hurry up... hurry up... Our princess is back Screw her royal highness' mother Her mom is your big mother. You screw her? I only have one mother Don't you screw me as well? I indeed love to screw you Obscenity Let's go They may put you inside a cage for adultery Alright, is everyone here? Ms. Audrey Lok and I visit... Mr. Andy Lok before he dies Before Mr. Andy Lok died... he entrusted his will with me Mr. Andy Lok clearly told me that... we've to wait for Jason Lok's return from States before we can read it What that means? What about the money? Because Andy's money is legitimate We've to follow the proper legal procedure before we can take it out What legal procedure? In fact, Andy's money belongs to the Company Don't mix it up, thinking it's his money What do you want? Audrey, your brother insists doing his way To buy the copperplate for counterfeit RMB. It costs the Company 300 millions I think the will should return Not yet read out the will yet So what? You should give the money back It belongs to the Company indeed It's not whether I'm willing to give the money back or not The will clearly states that we can only read it until Jason is back Crap When will Jason come back? At 7 on Tuesday night We might as well wait for a few days more Are you the boss? Is it your turn to talk? I'm not allowed to talk? Sure you're not allowed We should discuss business now I ain't say anything. All yours! No matter what, you have to pay back the money That's right, the sooner the better Wait Audrey, did your brother say who'd be Tung Luen Shun's boss? No way of not having a leader. Who's in charge? He didn't say so That's bad Sure he didn't say anything? Nope So what should we do? I'm not a family member of the Lok's Let me say some reasonable words Tung Luen Shun was established by your grandfather He fought his way up If the chairman isn't from the Lok's family... I'm afraid that no one feels things are fair So...who's in charge? If Andy didn't say so... Let's vote Is it necessary to vote so soon? How could it be too soon? All the leaders of Tung Luen Shun are here. Why can't we vote? If they feel comfortable with the new leader they will today If not, they won't even with more time I nominate Funky to be our new chairman So? Where's Calf? How come he stays inside the bathroom for so long? Mister Funky, let me call him out Calf, what're you doing in the bathroom? Hurry up, Mister Funky says we're gonna vote Come out quickly Let's vote Hurry up Why are you staying inside for so long? Diarrhea Now all brothers are sitting here I recommend Funky to be the chairman of Tung Luen Shun Raise your hand if you agree Now it's formal Peter... Yes You're liable if there's a penny less from the will Why does Jason not getting on the plane today? He applies his leave and able to get it on the night after tomorrow He has to leave tonight even if he needs to quit his job, understand? Don't you understand? Yeah, where's Andy's unhindered ring? I have it Take it out! Calf Going out? Yup. You? Go to dancing What kind? Jazz I'd like to learn belly dance later Okay Dumby, where're you? Worthless How's that? Hurt? Because of you? Don't act tough! Still pretending You sickly person You're a sickly person indeed Stupid Let me prove it to you Take a look! What are you looking at? Wanna get hurt? We'll kick your ass! No matter you admit it or not, you're liable to this debt What? Pay the debt! You stole her boyfriend I didn't! No money? Take off your clothes instead! No, let's run Wanna run away? Pay up! Sorry Sorry for what? Pay the debt! Never be encircled by others, always keep the opponents in front of you You get her boyfriend. What should we do? Let go! I don't What not? You get her boyfriend, better pay it off! Pay it off? Don't get away. Pay it off No matter you admit it or not, you're liable to this debt What? Pay the debt! Stripe, if you don't have the money Why do I need to take off the clothes? Take the cellular out and take pictures... What're you doing? Take it off! Take the cellular out... Filming it Who's this? Where does she come from? Damn you Get up! Hurry up! Useless shit! You... wait for me here if you've the guts. Don't go away I'll come back with more people. Don't you go away Call the police after 15 minutes Okay... thank you It's her... kill her! Bitch, don't run away... Bitch, stop... Stand still! Go! What're you waiting for, wanna get caught? Let's go! Audrey Jason You lose weight Not really, about the same Is your asthma better now? Okay, recurring occasionally Do you have the medication with you? Yes Be careful, the air quality in Hong Kong is no good I will How's Andy's remains? Already cremated but not yet transported to H.K. How come it takes so long? The family business isn't that simple Anyway, you be careful Let's go Jason Audrey Drink alone? Nothing, may be the jet lag. Can't sleep You take it straight? I want some Have you not come back for 10 years? Almost The last time when I returned... It was dad's funeral That's right. It seems like you won't come back unless someone died You're rushing back. Is it ok for your work? Okay Yet I apply for such a long leave so soon at my new job That doesn't look so good No choice, your return is necessary to activate Andy's inheritance You know they're all thieves; all have criminal records With such a big money! How could we just give those bastards the money? I've to get the will from Andy in China all by myself Cheers Cheers Bobo is in Hong Kong. Have you called her? Nope. Too busy lately. Maybe in a few days Remember to bring me along. I haven't seen her for such a long time Sure You better remember it Okay Loosen up. Why are you so nervous? Well, I haven't hung out for quite sometime now. Then let me be the good person to bring you out Thank you When everyone is here, we can read your brother's will Let's wait inside the conference room Okay Please take a seat Thank you Peter Funky Finally came back? They're not here yet? Yes, they're coming Women are always late Jason Mama Lucy Mama Ling Jason, you came back? Is San Francisco cold? Audrey, why is Mama Ling in a wheelchair? Your Mama Ling is completely paralyzed She won't answer to whatever you say Jason, how's everything lately? Okay It keeps raining in Hong Kong lately Same as San Francisco, it has been raining for a few days Really? Yes it does Yet raining is better, the air is pure and fresh Better for my asthma Alright... your asthma is well now Okay, let's begin Okay, Funky I'm here to read out Mr. Andy Lok's will Andy Lok's will is comparatively simple I, Peter Wong... and Ms. Audrey Lok witness it together Now I'm reading out I, Andy Lok, establish this will Attorney Peter Wong and Audrey Lok witness it All Andy Lok's asset goes to... Jason Lok and Audrey Lok Each of Jason Lok and Audrey Lok receives half of my asset The will owner, Andy Lok May 14, 2009 Is everyone clear? That's it, nothing else? Excuse me, I've an important meeting I've to leave Okay, everyone understands it Audrey, still remember what I've told you? Jason, remember to listen to your sister Ask me if there's anything that you don't understand, okay? To put someone to death when fighting The key is to practice more Straight fist to the throat When you've practiced for you'll hit the mark naturally The more you poke the eyes no matter how your opponent dodges You will make it Dumby, do you understand? What're you laughing? I'm not Screw the girl I am Why not go to bed? Funky is inside the room. How can we make out without a bed? Get on the deck if there's no room, bashful? Not bashful, but afraid of burning up my butt You can let the girl get on top That's right Not a bad idea... the Goddess of Mercy positions Screw your mama You both look more like beggars No fun joking with you, you turn hostile so easily Answer your phone Hello? I'm not Funky, I'm Hung Say it No way? That serious? Hold on... Funky, your call Funky Funky What's up? Tell him to leave me a message He says it's very important Come on... Chiu, he is coming out... He is coming! Is the TV inside that much better? Of course it's better, otherwise, I won't watch it that long Hello? Go down Why going down? Do what I said Go down... close the door That serious? Jumping off a building? That's it. Hang up Who jumps off from a building? Peter Wong How come? A mysterious death... No posthumous paper left Will it be a murder? His death is so mysterious, may be related to Andy's money Gotta be someone is behind it We've to get the money back quickly We'll be in trouble if someone gets it first Who would that be? Audrey and Jason are the beneficiaries Will they... Jason? I think it should be someone else Someone must be thinking of something weird We gotta get the money soon And find out who the fuck is behind this, and kill him Get it Can you be faster? When will we meet Bobo? Still early Early? We've to cross the harbor Don't worry. We won't be late Take a look at your dress. It shows your panties Really? You go get the car first, I'll come down quickly Not much time left, hurry up Jason Jason Jason Brother Zen Brother Zen, Funky is waiting for you at the bar Brother Zen Brother Zen Brother Zen Funky Brother Zen Drinking at such an early hour? Did she talk with you? Nope Not sure what she is thinking of Wanna say something? Nope Do you really think I killed Jason? Nope I don't think you're that crazy But the subordinates... may not think the same way I know, hard to clean up my name I'm their only inheritor Not only the subordinates, but also the cops are following me all the time What about that money? Collect as planned That money belongs to Tung Luen Shun. Audrey should return it What if she doesn't? No way I will change the will, personally It's not funny if you leave me no choice Ms. Audrey Who are those people talking to Audrey? If not the charity organization, then it should be the public welfare public welfare? All people are here? These 2 are attorney Liu and attorney Law These 2 are Mr. Chan and Mrs. Lee from the Red Cross of China I just made a new will If I die, all my inheritance will be donated to the Red Cross of China That's all Let me escort you out Move aside... take a look of my slashing form Use your upper arm to slash hard Just like serving in tennis Don't you understand? Master Don't you understand? Master Is it the way to slash on others? Try me. Consider you're good if you're able to slash me Slash me Slash me Again Your slashing fit for cutting firewood only Master, we're leaving Good-bye Why are we here? Getting close to the nature. Isn't it good? The things that I'm going to tell you For you, it's not dangerous at all But for me, it's a matter of life and death They wanna kill Jason and me If I hand it over... I don't need to die But I don't just wanna survive, I want to live I wanna collaborate with you Collaborate? Do you mix up something? I have no manpower, no authority, no influence in the Company If you want collaboration... you should find them But you're good in martial art We're very alike I'm the useless daughter who should be dead already And you're a hooker's son with a rotten face We're disposable rubbish from their point of view If we don't eliminate them first they'll kill us eventually They never treat you as their brother They won't give you people, give you authority... Are you willing to live like this? They bully me as a woman, unable to fight back... Unable to vie with them To be honest, Funky is only an adopted son We're the true blood We should collaborate You take care of the men power and I'll be in charge of the money A win-win Situation. Is it good? You don't need to answer me now Go back and think it over Calf! I'm not the person who accepts fate It's not for the world to tell me if I'm good or not It's for me to prove to this world that I'm good enough Think it over Crazy You're bad Brother Zen, let's play together. You've sat here for the whole night I'm out Let's play the dice game The big-small-game, you're always good in this I said no more playing! Play it yourself So... let's play it Okay, what should we play? Drinking game? Good Come on, come on... Brother Zen, sorry... What's happening? Shitting all over Sorry brother Zen, let me help you No more! Let's go! Sorry... Let's go... Let me do it... Brother Zen, please excuse me for the mess Sorry brother Zen, please don't get mad Forget about it... That's alright. You girls can go now. Let's go Sorry Bye-bye You punk, thought I'm an idiot? Take a good look, I'm prepared! Dudes, come out! Brother Zen You moron, thought I'm an old man with no plan? Go to hell! This way Kill him! Mommy... Mommy... Does daddy dislike me? Doesn't want me? Daddy... don't leave me... Daddy... don't go away Don't go away, Mommy... Mom? The doctor just left. He told you not to move Better lie down How come you're here? This young lady informed me, told me to come over Calf, why did you do that? Why... Calf, it's very dangerous to do so If they know about it, they will kill you Don't do this anymore Calf, don't... They'll kill you in a horrible way Everything is solved if Funky is killed Are you crazy? Speak irresponsibly... You'll lose your life! Haven't you said enough? You've said it for tons of times They are all dead. Don't you know? Say no more. How could you become like this? Become what? Why did you ask her to come over? What's wrong with you? Crying for what? What do you want from me? This is my chance. I've to do some big business Jason died in a tragic way No one protects Audrey; she needs me If we could eliminate them, I can be the boss No... You ruin my life, that's not enough? I'm humiliated and looked down upon by others all my life I've fought for so many times because of this scar Kido syphilis, kido brothel... Do you understand how I feel? I beg you... Don't stop me Calf... You're also an orphan You should understand it Please adopt this poor dumb girl Will be very grateful for giving her room and board Please accept this useless mother's immense gratitude Don't cry Right... Thanks for saving me Calf Manchester United has already got into the final I wanna know when she'll be the champion Chelsea will lose in a few days That's great We can split the pool Be careful Calf, I rely on you Dancing again? Yes, belly dance Bye-bye Here's a hundred thousands. You 6 come together Whoever beats me, take the money Hold on. Do you mean the 6 of us fight each other and the winner takes all No! You idiot, big-boobs-airhead The 6 of you fight me together Whoever beats me take the money What if I'm not interested? Then I'll kill you Every strike is lethal. In fact, it's murder! Calf, come over We played this when we were young Don't you remember this? Catching butterflies Fry eggs I didn't play with you No? Really? Then, we've to play for the first time Come on Come on Don't blame me, rotten face Blame yourself and your mama Be smarter in your next life Eating so many peanuts, not thirsty at all? I didn't bring water There are coffee, wine and soda over there Help yourself Your water? I'm afraid that I'll be able to drink but no life to pee How could you say that? Calf helped you and you killed him Who else you won't? I killed Calf? That's false accusation! Aren't you the one who killed him? It's tasteless to talk with you What do you want? Nothing What? You even killed Calf. Are you acting too hasty? Whom will you hire to kill me? I'm still alive You wanna kill me? Surely not. I've no evidence, killing you... is going to bring me a lot of trouble It's good that you understand it Now in Tung Luen Shun, I've the money; you've the manpower If we really engage in an all-out war, Tung Luen Shun is over That's not good for the winning side That's why I would like to gamble with you Who? I'm not good at all We bet our life The one who conquers is crowned king. A life and death battle Funky, I didn't want to come at all You're brother and sister, how could you end up in a duel? I've never heard of such thing in my entire life Ask your sister to come over You both belong to the same family Why can't you settle it in a diplomatic manner? What's good to say? She insists of a duel Why so stubborn? Because he has killed my brother Don't make slanderous accusations I did not Let's settle it in a duel Give you one more chance. You can retreat your words Audrey Remember, the money is not yours When you get the money... you've to give it back to the family promptly Then you can go live with Jason in the States I've already given him some money, You better remind Jason not to hasten come home for my funeral Tell him to stay in the States and live as a normal person No more connection with the this family Give this watch to Jason This bracelet... You can keep it as a souvenir Remember to give this jade to Funky Remember... You have to give it to Funky Looking for me? You worship Buddha? Believing in Jesus no more? How can you be such a slut with gods? Yeah, you used to be a hooker? No wonder you don't understand monotheism Did you kill Calf? Don't know In fact, you don't have to kill him He won't vie with you, he won't compete with you You didn't even let him live? Whoever is a threat to me has to die How did he threaten you? Just like this pair of scissors. I've to protect myself before anyone can harm me... I'll kill them first! Now you understand Awake? Audrey, why did you tie me up? Where're you rushing to? Audrey, loosen me! Loosen me! Why did you tie me up? Audrey, loosen me! Weren't you paralyzed? Now you can even drive? That's excellent! Take the jewelry. It worth a lot Thank you How much longer can I live? I never vie with you people I've acted dumb for more than 10 years Why don't you spare this old woman's life? Audrey, say a word Audrey... If you didn't snitch to dad that... my mom fornicated with men Would my childhood be so miserable? Now you expect me to let you go? Those were the business in old days... I never hurt you now Right? Why did you just step on the accelerator? Mama Ling, the one who fails is called vagabond chief I should have killed you when you were small! That's right It's pity that it's too late now You devil woman, cut you into thousand pieces! I won't let you off even when I die! You'll die in a miserable way! Help! Help! Help... Hey, what're you doing? Stop! Go get her! Stand still! Don't run! At the top... Hurry up, catch her Ms. Lok What's the matter? An assassin is breaking in An assassin? Ms. Lok Just a witless little girl I wanna enjoy killing her with my own hands Stand down Who are you? Who sent you here? Speak up Okay, you don't tell me... I'll beat you up until you tell me Who is so unscrupulous? Dispatch you here to death! If you tell me who your boss is I'll let you live Tell me! Tell me! Say something! Are you fucking mute?
