 

                        TOWARDS THE LIGH Screenplay & Direction: HOLGER-MADSEN Countess Ysabel... Asta Nielsen The frivolous contess, who toys with men and their feelings the same way she played with dolls as a child. Ysabel and her mother. countess Prosca, host a charity bazaar. The old vicar Cordes is at the party... The young baron Sandro Grec - an adventurer with a heart of lead - who has managed to make himself ruler of the countess2 heart... Professor Manini's daughter, Inga, loves and adores her cousin Felix, but he only has eyes for Ysabel... Professor Manini " $ 50 to kiss your beatiful hand!" "The left hand, the hand of the heart, I give to your youing nephew!" Count Sandro Grec is not the only adventurer present. "Professor Manini has promised to join us for a game of cards at the club later tonight! And he can afford to lose!" "Dear countess, with your talents, you could be of much use to the church!" "I never insult religion or its practitioners, however, I will not adorn myself with a belief. I do not hold in my heart!" In the shelter led by the poverty preacher Elias Renato and his helper Brother Matthias, another party is being held... under different circumstances. One of the regulars, the old rag collector Peters. "Countess! In the hand you gave me to kiss lies my future and destiny!" Wenka, a young girl, who considers death a liberation... "Dear child, tell me what has led you to such a desperate decision"! "My only relative is my drunk and brutal step-father and my only friend is an alley cat. " "Get me whiskey, or... " "Life was Hell to me, and I decided... " "Child... God has gives you life, and only HE has the right to extinguish it again!" At the club. "The cue man" "With us you will find a new and better home!" "Dear Lord, I thank you for the blessing you have given my work today. " The desire for Ysabel leads Felix to pay her a visit already the next day... "It is the young countess Ysabel!" "I hope you were not bothered!" "Please don't let us disturb you... I'm happy to have the opportunity to experience one of your meetings!" God's word is a rock in happiness and misery Firmly it stands where mountains sway. As far as you think you'll ever see. God will never lead you astray. "May it some day be possible for me to lead you to his kingdom!" "He was so beautiful when he spoke! ... It's the first time a preacher's words have reached my heart!" Like a fly caught in the golden web of the spider... "He who has patience has hope!" "Who did you get those flowers from?" "You are mine Ysabel! ... You have five me your word! ... Don't forget that!" The countess is concerned by her daughter's sympathy for Sandro Grec... "I have allowed myself to bring Ysabel these flowers!" "Because Ysabel has promised to become my wife!" The power that Sandro Grec holds over Ysabel makes her believe that she has truly found happiness... "For your own sake I ask you to forget countess Ysabel! She is reckless and loves to play with young men's hearts!" "Tell me honestly, Uncle! ... Don't you think that countess Ysabel is worthy of even the best man's love?" ENGAGEMENT Is declared between the deceased Prime Minister Proscaa's only daughter, Countess Ysabel, and the yyouung I talian noblemaan Baron Sandro Grec. H onorable Couun tess Ysabel Prosca Paalaace Evening came and Felix had not returned... "Let us go to Prosca Palace to hear if he has been there!" "We had hoped to find my nephew here!" H onorable Couun tess Ysabel Prosca Paalaace My love for you meant life to me. Now I take death from youur beauutifuul haand. Felix "I do nor judge you Countess, but in my heart is written: What a man sows shall he also reap!" Generous donations have made it possible for Elias Renato to create a home for the orphans of society on an island not far from the city... Generous donations have made it possible for Elias Renato to create a home for the orphans of society on an island not far from the city... A month later Countess Ysabel prepares for her wedding. "I have feeling that somethig terrible will happen!" The same evening "The cue man" falls into the hands of the police. "Only a word from me - and one of the finest families is compromised!" "The well known Baron Sandro Grec - or Leon Spontazzi, as he is really called, is no less guilty than I!" ... Ask Professor Manini! ... He is one of his victims!" "Should we not arrest the imposter tonight, despite the scandal it'll cause?" "Professor, maybe you will come with us to Prosca Palace and prepare the Countess for the disaster!" Three matadors caught. Beware. The second. "It was merely a poor joke!" The plot thickens for Sandro Grec. "I must inform you of bad news... " "Your fear and anxiety is absolutely ridiculous and unfounded!" "No need to lood for your card! ... We know you: Leon Spontazzi!" "I felt obliged to speed up the arrest, so your daughter did not start a life with an imposter!" "Save your words... I don't want your compassion!" "That was the punishment for your recklessness... The punishment that had to come. " "What a man sows shall he also reap!" Half a year later. Since the tragic wedding the countess has been physically and emotionally broken. Half a year later. Since the tragic wedding the countess has been physically and emotionally broken. ...and can inform you that your application for divorce has been accepted. You need have no fear of meeting your former husband. After his release he will be ex-patriatedd. Sincerely, P.G. Wells. "Sister Wenka - Today you must hear what I have to say. " "Seek comfort with He, who is the best friend of the unhappy and mourning!" I did not acknowledge religion, when life was fair, and I am too proud to do it now that my happiness has been cast aside!" Old Peter's hardest work. "You know I love you - love you so awfully much!" "Only one owns my heart - and I have no right to cast my eyes on him. " Inga has found comfort in the great call of nursing, and destiny will that she is sent to care for the countess. "Let the hardship between us be forgotten. - I have found peace in my heart, and some day you will also find relief from your frief. " Despite the extensive mission on "The Island of the Homeless" Elias Renato never neglects his congregation on the mainland. The power of music. The seeking shall find, the praying shall gain. More than words can say. No one shall seek salvation in vain. God will never lead you astray. "You once promised to show me the way to God's kingdom - now I wish you could. " "Come with me to "The Island of the Homeless" - we can talk better there.! Wenka's step-father seeks admission to the island. "If you will work you are welcome with us. " Ysabel's infatuation with Elias Renato awakens with renewed strenght. On "The Island of the Homeless" "The preacher has got fine company ... Countess Ysabel. " Wenka learns the torment of jealousy. "I thought my powers were inextinguishable and acted rashly, but punishment caught up with me and broke my pride. - Help me, Elias Renato, that I can find peace in my soul. " "Seek God in nature. That is where peace is to be found. " "Only he who is lazy and numb hears not he voice of eternity. " "Follow me, Elias Renato, - let my world be yours, and you will save a soul from despair!" "I should leave my island and leave all the people, who put their destinies in my hand. " While Ysabel fights to pull in the one she desires, her mother's strenght fades... "Everything! I'll give you everything, if you follow me!" "You tempt me Ysabel, more than a person may tempt another... because I love you... " The devil took him to a very high mountain... ...and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendour. "All this I will give you," he said, "if you will bow down and worship me. " Jesus said to him, "Away from me, Satan! For it is written: 'Worship the Lord your God, and serve him only. ' He won the victory - the greatest of all victories. "You have humiliated me so deeply that a prolongation of this meeting will be an embarrassment for both us!" "Finally I have found you again, and we shall never be parted. " "I thank you, Lord, for helping me overcome myself. " The fire. "Your mother has died. " "What was that? I... the atheist... did I pray?" "Almighty God! I command myself in your strong hand. " The fire is observed from the mainland. Ysabel sails to the island. At dawn the island was a smouldering ruin. "Last night I faced death... I have grown to know myself, and have seen how foolishly I have worked to lay my life barren and fallow. " "I come to you repenting my sins, only filled with a wish to serve Him that you serve. " Some time later. After her marriage to Elias Renato, Ysabel also serves humanity, and their congregation has grown so much that man and wife must divide the blessed work between them... And though I sometimes hold tears in my eyes. When the seed to God's kingdom I lay My Lord has promised sunlit skies God will never lead you astray. And to young and old Ysabel is an angel of light.
