 

                        This is the first film product of the Superior School of Cinema of Buenos Aires. It's objective is essentially pedagogic. The young students. More than looking for a job hope, they go thru the main door to arrive to the magical and wonderful movie making world. The subway is without a doubt, a symbol of these times. A labyrinth where in silence we cross each other, without knowing who nor where they're going. Hundreds of routes, on which we take advantage to establish a balance, to re-look a situation, and try to ride more than a train, a change of life... It's a strange game, on which we submerge ourselves in infinite tunnels without realizing that in each transfer we're definitively changing our destiny With the subway I found the most powerful machine to look, but I've never imagined what will happen to me in the near future. "BUENOS AIRES' SUBWAYS, GENERAL NETWORK" "INFRASTRUCTURE MASTER PLAN, 1st STEP" "Buenos Aires' SUBWAYS" "TECHNICAL MANAGMENT" "SPECIAL CROSSING DETAIL" "DOUBLE SKEW COMPLEX" MOEBIUS Attention garage! This is Bolivar! Copy me, garage! Can someone answer me?! This is garage, Bolivar, I copy you. I received a call from "Plaza Italia", we're late and with overflow. Send another "comboy"! You copied that? I've sent everything, Bolivar. What do you mean everything? I sent the last car a while ago, I have nothing here... huh. What?! That can't be. You should have more trains! You should have at least one more. - I have nothing! - Well, okay. I'll see where I can find another one. But you check your list. You may be having one more in your sector, and you haven't noticed. Understood? Listen Bolivar, I repeat, I have nothing to check in here. Why are you telling me that? Do you know you're talking to your boss, dammit!? Understood! "Route 2" Yes, this is Juan Vega. I don't understand. What did you lost? - Now what? - And we keep on going straight? Straight to the right, or straight to the left If you don't pay attention, we'll stay here all night. - Which way should I take, boss? - Well... can't you see we can't move? Well, if it's because of the lights, we ain't going no where Besides, there are a lot out of order What you talking about? Hello? Please put me through the CEO Sir? Vega, I hope you have a good reason to made me come down here. I was expecting you. You can't imagine how well I feel here, Pratt. Taking some fresh air. I can't stand the closed feeling of the office I feel like taking one of these routes and never coming back to this city, that why I make them If I ask to any of the architects this, they'll think I just gave up. And I... I don't want to go back top the subway thing just because some nut got the idea. This work for me is done. Yes but I, I don't know how can I help you. I didn't participate in this project, and I'm not even an architect. I don't need an architect. Besides, no one wants to go back down there, it's very hot. I called you 'cause I know you like problems. In fact, you dedicated yourself to math, isn't it? - Topology - Ah! The fascination for the analysis of surfaces, one formula, one calculation and you keep it in a book. It seems to weird to me... Like those expositions that CEO of the subway does... that Blazi. Go and see what is happening to him. That way I can be more calmed. Maybe you'll find that crazy nut interesting. Although I doubt it, Anyways, I don't want to tire you more. When we finished the perimetral construction, everything was okay and we were done. Now they have flaws. One more thing, just in case... The original planes are in the public works archive. Ours are an identical copy from those approved a year ago. But that's just a detail, actually I don't know what they want. But if it's Blazi, it can be just about anything. Anyways, please don't look for me for nothing - What's that for? - I don't know They told me it potentials the perception. Resolve it. Oh! And tell Blazi I went far, far away, by the highway. I assure you we're doing what we can. But you can imagine that I cannot look thru all the network for just a supposition. Well, you know how the kids are, they just love the subway. Ma'am, 5 million people pass by here everyday. I'm sorry, it's your responsibility. If you don't know where he is, it's your problem. - Mr. Blazi, someone of the construction arrived - Let him in... Yes ma'am, I understand, huh... excuse me ma'am... You know... I have things to do, ma'am. Come in! - Sir... - Daniel Brat. Excuse my amazement, but I was expecting my old friend Beker. He might arrive later, 'cause I told him I needed him No, you see, Mr. Beker had to leave town in a hurry, and asked me to replace him. He might be nuts, as if this is just bullshit... I asked him not lo leave me alone in this He gave me all the instructions, so I can resolve anything you might need. How would you help me if you don't have the slightest idea of what's this all about? He should have called Beker, thinks these are beginners stuff I'm topologist, a mathematician. What is that good for? It's a branch of mathematics which studies surfaces and converts them into formulas. So useful for my nerves. This is it! ...look go to the office and tell... Mr. Blazi What's going on today that nobody asks permission?! It's happening again... Come. I need you to pay attention. I want you to look everything that's going on, so you can tell Beker this isn't bullshit. If I called him is not because I'm hysteric, but I have a reason to call him. Of course, I'm going to ask you have caution and discretion with everything you hear or see. Don't go around telling anyone, you know how this is... Then, anything can be published at the newspaper and find myself implicated in nothing. Imagine that, a man like me cannot neglect those details. What? That one doesn't work either? Fix it at once. Millions of people are being transported in these tunnels daily, you cannot control everyone. Look, if someone plants a bomb. What face do you want us to put, huh? Everything that happens here inside is my responsibility. Imagine that being the CEO of this place isn't easy. This is a very difficult situation. Sir, we have train 101 coming from Ezeiza, stopped at the access tunnel. I already gave it the passing order. It's blocking two levels and they refuse to go on. Communication open to 101. Intern 101, this is the CEO. What's going on that you refuse to advance? From red it went to green and from green it went to red, I cannot take that risk, How do I know there's no other train coming from the other side? The pass is blocked. That's a negative, Yes, no sir, but you know it's forbidden. If we crash... Advance 101, I repeat, the pass is free - But listen to me, I don't... - Keep on going, I order you! - I can't... - Move! If this keeps on like that, we will be forced to stop that line and cross all the sector... I don't think that would be convenient. Since the perimetral system was opened, it became too complex to close. Driver Rodriguez, Driver Rodriguez, you are required at the signals cabin Subway informs you: the temperature outside in our city is 38.7 C, humidity at 90% What's going on with you? I tell you to move and you refuse to? But the light changed constantly, what did you want me to do? if the 86 is coming at the cross, we might crash Lower your voice tone, I'm the CEO If I say you to move, you must move. But there's a regulation we must follow Sir, if the light is red we cannot mo.. Forget about the Regulation! The only one that knows what has to be done here is me. And you must obey me! But that can't be sir, those are directives of the company life of the people is in danger, it's impossible. I repeat, the only one that knows what has to be done here is me. Oh really? You drive then, Sir. Come. You still think I'm lying, I guess you already noticed how bad this problem is. Lights detect the pass of the trains, where there are any, in other words, they're failing There are routes changes when we don't make one. And there's a complete train we can't find. There are so many tunnels, that we don't have enough personnel to search for it. At midnight, some authorities will come to the Park Station. To do the same movements in the place that train was last seen. And I'm supposed to give them an explanation of what happened. Funny thing is that I have no explanation 'cause I don't know what's going on. ...and I'm the CEO. Listen, I need all the planes approved by the ministry. Just in case they ask something, you see? How do I explain the disappearing of a complete train? I trust you'll come with the planes. What was your name? - Daniel Prat. - Okay, Mr. Prat, I'll be expecting you this evening. And if you come out with an idea, please tell me. Driver Figueroa, Driver Figueroa, please go to the mantainment office. - Constructor - Yes, I'd like to speak with Mr. Deker. I'm sorry, he's not available. - Who is it? - Daniel Prad Would you like to leave a message? Tell him to call the ministry And authorize me to make copies of the perimetral planes. No one told me you'd be here. 27, 28, 29, 30... I've been ordering these archives for 40 years. Are you sure they are over here? Of course, the question is where! Just about now, they think of changing of building. They may have done it on purpose. Excuse me, which requirement did you told me? The last one, the one about the perimetral Let's see, let me think. I think we're doing fine. There have been other movements, but inside the building. Other floors, years ago there was a flood that made all these archives to float for days. It's in the upper shelf. Let me do it. There's nothing in here. - It can't be! - There's nothing in here. - It might be some other place - Take a good look - It's empty - I'll be back I think you're out of luck Those took'em But they can't - Original planes - It depends who asks for them. As always, the person who took'em... was a project adviser So, I couldn't say no to him You understood? I think I remember the fella. He was a very quite man, that sometime before He used to come and stayed hours checking those planes Here he is, Hugo Mistein Do you have anything to do with him? We must take on account that they're analyzing The aspects of pure theory Not applicable until the moment Which means... - Is this Topology 3 class? - Yes The conclusion is that Or that they're not formally identical Are the same that apply For all the ministries In other sciences branches. If for example an astronomer presents An acceptable theory about the universe For the normal street man Surely is wrong But if someone said, for example That in some regions, time paralyzes He could have, at least, listened it You might be right Sciences and philosophies still are a bit weir, gentleman. Thank you for your attention Class dismissed. Can I ask you a question? Are you a student? No, not anymore. I graduated quite a while ago How may I help you? Well, I'm looking for a professor that was in charge of this class At least he was for many years Doctor Mistein You don't lose your time How much time since you last saw hi? About 5 years... You must be from the latest generations he had. Sometime later, he left - the university - Why? He was distracted, lost interest During classes, he had his mind in something else. Do you know how to find him? Hum... Yes, possibly I have a phone number and an old address Where we used to call him He refused to talk to us and we never knew why I don't know what happened to him The few ones we are on this... here it is Appreciate him very much Well, please excuse me, it's getting late... Goodbye Thanks Downstairs Do you know where can I find a telephone? - Downstairs - Thanks Underground Hello Hello, may I speak to professor Mistein? - No - But, is he there? - No, he's not Can you tell me at what time he'll be back? - I don't know - Do you know where he is? How should I know. If you want to leave him a message, I can do that for you. Yes... Do you have something to write to? Yes, who are you? - I'm Daniel Prad - Prad? From the studio of del Plata It's about a job he did for the subway Slowly We need some planes... You live here? I wanted to know if professor Mistein is here. He lives here, doesn't he? I called many times before coming, but It's not easy to reach communication with this place. I thought that maybe the line was damaged And since I need to talk with the professor - I decided to come. - You called just once. And I said he wasn't here He came back I came 'cause I need some papers from the job He has them and I need them Look in the apartment if he's there and if he's OK. And if your not lying. Since when you don't see him? If you steal anything... I scream Wait April, April? Are you there? Open the door... Who are you with? - Over here - Stairs are dirty This is disgusting, you didn't do anything I asked you to, open open the door, you'll see You should be alone Damn girl, I told you I don't want - Come on! - April! April, open up April Come, come! Wait You know how to go back to your house from here? 'Cause I have a meeting right now And people is waiting They won't like to see you. My mother wouldn't like to see you either. But I let you in anyways. Come Excuse me, the CEO? - Down there, underground 2 - Thanks - Why are we here? - We're looking for a ghost train Sit there You keep this, stay here and don't move. Yes? Is here? Excuse me, I'm looking for the CEO Is he over here? He's out of duty, Who gave you authorization to be down here? What are you doing here? - Mr. Blassi - What took you so long, Prad? This girl is with you? I'm sorry I couldn't come before. It was impossible for me But I think what's this all about Are these the ministry's plan? What happened? I hope you know what you'll say The train is still gone And I don't want to have more problems than I already do. Now come with me. Here, I leave you this so you play whilst I speak to these people. Okay. Exactly, we checked everything and... - Gentlemen Mr. Daniel Prad. Representing studio Del Plata. They built the perimetral connection Mr. Kent, our Engineer Chief Mr. Aguirre, representing intendancy Dr. Canotti from the central military hospital. Dr. Nazar from del Sur insurance co. And our driver... Edmundo Please try to specify. You saw it, or not? Well yes, I mean... we practically saw it When we found that red light Just at the entrance of the General Paz joint Couldn't that be another train? All trains have been retired from the tracks. Except this one... We are the only ones we've traveling thru the system during the last four hours When Edmundo stopped in front of the red light I thought it was out of order. That's why I told him to keep on going That's when we heard the noise the other train was doing whilst crossing the joint. - You saw it? - No, no, we couldn't see it. The light is just before the curve But... we all heard it. Why didn't you followed it? Well... we were not sure about where it went to. It was there, we cannot be wrong about it. That was at 1:38, wasn't it? - Yes, the first time. - The first. Gentlemen, this chat is going nowhere. So, later it happened again Yes, but not in the same place We found another red signal near the joint Yesterday at 2:15 Then, again at 3:30 You saw the train at 2:15? No, we didn't but we felt the vibration So, I tried to reach it, but... It must have turn somewhere else at the General Paz joint 'Cause there's a declivity beyond the light It's impossible that that train was circulating during all these days Without no one noticing What's impossible is that you are surprised being the main responsible - Now in the moment that... - Wait a second, young man. We aren't here to hear questions, but to make'em This time we've got it. It's passing by the inferior level where Maloni is You saw it? It's passed near by. - It passed by the lower level - Not, the higher one - No! It passed by the lower level - What is going on, Blassi? You saw it by yourself, it passed down here, am I right? - Yes, yes, yes. You really saw it? We heard it, it passed by the upper level And I think in that direction. Maloni, go back downstairs. Excuse me Tell the authorities I'll be right there. Engineer, Is there any way to communicate - to the Main office? - Yes, yes, come with me. Mr. Blassi says he's coming in a moment. Main office, this is Kent, it's urgent. Please inform what is sector fours reading. The consumption is equal to standard lighting. In tunnels and stations, plus an intern rolling Please specify consumption. Everything's normal boss, we only have you rolling. Cut the main electricity provision. until I tell you. Done, boss. Now, what do we do? Watch the monitors and warn me if you see any change. This is nuts, we've been transiting only in one wagon - That's too much consumption. - What's going on, Blassi? We have indications of a train transiting by the system. When will we know the circuit has been interrupted? I don't know, maybe it's just a flight Yes of course, the flight of a train inside the system. Now we're going to check it Restore the electricity Now there's consumption at various sectors. Did you authorized this maneuver? Different zones at the network are registering that Probably those are unhooked wagons around. Can you please explain us what's going on? Gentlemen, I think the young man has something to tell us. We have a disappeared train with people. But the system is closed Trains cannot go out. What are you saying? All the system was checked and It's not here, what do you think... that we're playing to 'hide the train'? Shut up Dr. Nazar. Let him finish his explanation. We know the train was going to the Plaza de Mayo station. The morning of the 4th... but we also know it never arrived. Such a novelty, Prad. And when it entered the tunnel that crosses Maldonado river... it transformed into a boat and now's sailing to Africa. Excuse me, Dr. How can you explain a train can.. be running wild around the tracks since March 4th until today without being seen for almost 5 days? That's exactly like that engineer. Is that this train cannot be seen. This train... Intern 86 Without showing any kind of mechanical failure With the whole network working With other 300 trains around Somewhere during its route just vanished Somehow it found a node... A node! What is 'a node'? The system that keeps the track clean In those, nothing else but trains circulate I still don't understand. A node is not an obstruction In topology... a node is a particularity A pole of superior order I don't understand anything. And I think nobody else does. Dr. Nazar, please don't complicate things even more I think this was caused by a new branch And what does the perimetral has to do with all this? The system is a network with an amazing topological complexity, you'll see from the latest extension. But the perimetral must have done something absolutely singular. I still don't understand very well. But I believe that the new branch has taken the connectivity of the whole system to an order so high that I don't know how to calculate it. I think it has made it to infinity. If it's like that gentlemen, we can deduce that the system behaves as a Moebius belt. May I? If you look this paper, you'll find out that This is a simple two faced belt, but if we join both extremes... like this, we obtain a very particular belt. It's a one faced belt. on which we could circulate endlessly But this... Translated to a subway network, must have an infinite number of particularities. Could you imagine what can the properties of a network like this could be? I can't either. To tell you the truth... The structure of the whole perimetral system, is way beyond my reach. I can't do anything but suppositions. This is outrageous. We have 200 kilometers of tunnels How can it be that a finite surface Can convert into an infinite one? That's a good question But anyways it happened. It happened. Do you have any idea about the passengers? None. Hold on a minute, Prad. If what's making this whole confusion is the perimetral, first we close it. and then, if things are like you say We can keep on with our normal operations. Without collision danger. If you close the perimetral, the train will never reappear What is not certain is that when it appears... it will be translating itself to the right direction. And in that case... An accident may be possible. Mr. Blassi, how many people do you think are in that train? Well, I think between 30 or 40 people. Hey Prad, you want us to believe that the train has jumped to another dimension, that it's actually not inside the system that it's gone, isn't that true? It's a way to say it. And this peculiar behavior has been produced by certain mathematical properties associated to the new perimetral joint? Exactly And is there anything we could do to bring the train back to this dimension? I don't know. Is this the possible explanation? You're a lame. Is this the result of your study? Do you have any other idea? It's a disgrace you've got no one that can give us a coherent explanation. Prad, one question. To avoid the possibility of collision... Can't we leave the perimetral joint open? But without the train to pass by it. So that if the train from above appears Couldn't crash with another train That wouldn't be an useful protection 'Cause now with the new joint The whole network has an infinite connectivity Hey Mr. Mathematician! Do you think you made me a favor in this subject? I don't want to see you here, do you understand!? Mr. Blassi, Mr. Blassi I found this girl at the first level walking by the tracks Where are we heading to now? Nowhere, besides you must go back home. Someone may be looking for you What! Now to my home? Just now? Come, we may ride it! No, you go if you want. I need to stay here for a while. Your attention please We would like to let the people know That there are only 3 more train boardings. Thank you. To all passengers. We'd like to inform you that we have suspended The service due to line flaws. We're sorry for any inconvenience this might have to you. Thank you. You had trouble arriving, didn't you? Dr. Mistein Calm down. I know you've got a lot of questions to ask. We're traveling at an impossible speed A simple track change. The train crossed a joint after a curve The just combination At the right moment To apply the properties of a Moebius belt Invented the perfect machine That's blasphemy, son. Man has invented numerous machines But he forgets he is himself a machine Much more complicated than any machine no one has ever built. There will be no limits now. There never were. Man doesn't know neither his limits nor his possibilities. He doesn't even know 'till what point he knows himself. But of course, we are so busy trying to find external values that we don't care what really matters But this is important I should say it and everything would just change But you said it! You explained it perfectly Today I passed by the Park Station And was able to look at you while you were trying to explain Moebius theory But, has someone believed you? No... But they'll believe you No, I would have used the same words you used. I would have said the truth What happens is that we live in a word where no one listens, my dear Prad. What do you plan to do with it? - Nothing. - What do you mean "nothing"? Don't worry Prad. The moment will arrive. Don't they understand what's going on? They... they will never awake Before finding out that they are asleep What are you afraid of Prad? Vertigo. That's normal No one can face the infinite without feeling vertigo No one can experiment it without feeling a deep disagreement If we're moving at the speed of thought How can someone be charmed of this life without attractiveness, ingenuity or spontaneity Why shouldn't I prefer to stay here in the shadows If out there is a sea of deafness That is taking us to be irremediably ungrateful. It can't be possible that all this gets lost Stay here in our souls Sir, sir, sir. The train was here already when we arrived. How much time since it's here? I don't know, we asked to the guarding personnel, and they know nothing about it either. Sir... what do we do? Wait, wait here. And Blassi, so much trouble and the train was here? Moebius Take it to the garage and let's forget about this matter. Understood? Nothing has happened here. I never imagined what will happen to me As soon as I reached the Tired of repeating the same story Tired of fighting and speaking 'till death just to be ignored And in that precise moment, I felt he was putting his time in my hands. It's not difficult to understand why I decided to follow his steps In this no return trip Before trying to lose my time trying to explain to a group of fools Something they don't wish to understand Anyhow, the old man was right We live in a word where nobody listens anymore Hello? Yes? What? I don't understand, are you sure about what you're telling me? Lost... what was lost? Mr. CEO, Mr. CEO... In spanish by: Snoop852 and Guskraft English translation done by: BlueDemon. For more LatinAmerican and Hispanic
