 

                        My name is Karan... Karan Choudhry. Samir... Samir Sharma. Hey guys ! Gurukul ? This was their first meeting. Even they did not know then that this... little acquaintance at the station, would lead to a lifetime of friendship. Quite a big room. First come first served, guys! This bed is mine. Oh God! Is this a bed or a rock...? Can't do anything about it, can we ? Now that we are in Gurukul, We have to study. Even if the bed feels like a rock, We have to sleep. Hey guys! That was a cool poem, wasn't it? No one is listening. No reaction. lf you guys snore at night, just let me know... so I can hustle up some cotton for my ears. That's because I really cherish my eight hours of sleep,... dreaming of pretty girls! So let me know, thanks .... What's that ? Who's voice is that ? Who is that ? That is the principal of Gurukul. The one and only, Mr. Narayan Shankar. Tradition, Honor and Discipline. These are the three pillars of Gurukul,... the values with which we shape your future. Those who have been here... have set very high standards for you. Today, all of them are successful men in their own respective fields some are great writers, great businessmen and some great politicians. But all of them have one thing in common. All their lives... they have followed the principles taught to them, by this Gurukul. Today you have the opportunity to be a part of this great lineage. You have been selected from all over the country, and brought here... because we believe that you have what it takes to be great men. But success does not come so easily. Behind every great success lies a great sacrifice. By entering this institution today,... you have shut yourself from the outside world. We expect that you will work with full concentration,... and follow the rules and regulations of this institution with strict discipline. lf any one is found guilty of misconduct,... he will be expelled immediately. And remember one thing. Once you are expelled from here the doors of all other... educational institutions would also be shut for you, forever. So if there is anyone here who is not willing to make this sacrifice,... then he is free to walk out of that gate right now. But if you have decided to stay here,... then that gate and the world outside does not exist for you anymore. Now I want all of you to close your eyes, bow your heads... and think of every word I have said to you,... and make your own decision. Vicky! That's my photograph! -I can see that, my friend,... but who is this lady in red with you? -Nobody, give it back to me. Stop it, Vicky... what are you doing? Oh God! its you. You scared us. Come here quickly. I've got something to show you. Who is this? This? Romeo and Juliet, Heer Ranjha,... Samir and ...Samir and ...? Sanjana! And it's nothing like what you think. She's just a good friend of mine... actually, she was a friend. She was a friend? Sanju was my childhood friend. We were best friends. We were neighbors and literally grew up together. We had this photograph taken at a funfair. It was her birthday,... and the next day, she was supposed to leave. Forever. Her father had been transferred and that was the last time that I saw her. That was six years ago. I was just fourteen years old But do you know where she is now? I heard a few months ago that she could be in this very town. That's great! Which means that you know where she lives? No, I don't. And I don't want to find out. Why not? Because it's been a long time and I do not know if she will recognize me... or whether she would like to meet me or not. So, we'll meet if we are destined to. Otherwise we won't. Hey Samir! You really love this girl. Oh no, nothing of the sort. she's just an old friend. Shut up! Just an old friend! Tell me something. How many other old friends' photographs... have you been carrying with you for the last six years? That's the bell for your love! Come on, it's time to sleep. Old friend, my foot! I wish I had that photograph in my pocket. By now,... I'd have been in her house, relishing the savories she'd make for me. And look at you! ''We'll meet if we're destined to; otherwise, we won't'' Know what, Karan! There's a girls' hostel behind our college? So what do I do? -Oh no. You don't do anything. You just think. And I'll do it. Oh shit! I'm late. Why do we have to begin so early? Where is my sleeve...? Who's that...? Stop there! Stop it! You thief. Ishika! Miss Monica is coming! Hurry up! Ishika! . Ishk.... We're through at last! Let's return... Im terribly hungry. We've still got to buy mineral water. -It was there in the shop back there You guys take the stuff to the jeep. I'll go and get it. You're always thinking about food. You know nothing else, do you. How much is this for? -''dedh'' rupees How can it be ''Dedh''? The real price is ''dhai'' rupees. No madam, it's for ''dedh'' rupees. I know everything. The price is ''dhai'' rupees ... and I will pay you accordingly . not a penny more, not a penny less. Please try to understand what I say... -I will listen to nothing! Do you want to give it or don't you? Tell me clearly. But ma'am... it costs ''dedh'' rupees, Not ''dhai'' rupees! Only last week my friend bought the same thing from your shop... at ''dhai'' rupees. -Maybe,... but the price now is ''dedh'' rupees. -But Ill pay ''dhai'' Rupees. Quickly pack it for me. -Somebody, please make her see reason ''We'll meet, if we are destined to.'' Are you giving it or not? -How can I charge... ''dhai'' rupees when it costs ''dedh'' rupees? I don't know! Ill pay ''dhai''... here's the money, if you want it. By the way, ''dedh'' is lesser than ''dhai'' Rupees. Is it really...? -That's just what I was... trying to explain. -How much is ''Dedh'' rupees? Well... one and a half rupees. Ok, so give it to me for one and a half rupees. As you wish. Your bangles and change. Show me these bangles, please. For you? -Yes What? - No, for a friend of mine... that red one,... yes, the green one... Samir.....Samir Sharma ! -Sanju.... What are you doing here? -Me ... I am a student at Gurukul. Not bad, Mr. Sharma. -Cool huh ! Which means you've been here for so long,... and did not even bother to call me! -I didn't have your telephone number. Stop making excuses! The truth is that you didn't even think of me,... so it did not bother you whether I was in this town or not. What is my phone number ! Excuse me ma'am. -This is mine. Thank you. What is it? Nothing... just the list of things I had to buy. Have you found everything? -Yes... Ive found everything. So come with me! Im going to set you straight! Who do you think you are...? Just because you're a student at Gurukul... you think you can act tough! We're going home straight away. Papa will be so happy to see you. -Sanju, I cannot come now,... Ive got to return to Gurukul. -Then promise you'll come on Sunday. A true promise? -True promise. Khan Baba, when is the train from Aligarh scheduled to arrive? The train should be here any moment. Whom have you come to receive? The professor of my college. -I see... the train should be here any moment. Khan Baba, who's that girl? That's Kiran. She comes here quite often. Kiran! Hey! Gurukul. Are you from Gurukul? ...No, No, its OK. Shall we leave? -Yes sir... Ok guys, this is it! I have decided! The first thing tomorrow morning... Im going to cross that gate, enter that girls' hostel,... and wherever that girl is, I am going to find her,... and look deep into her eyes and tell her . You're beautiful. I am going to do it! Now you guys tell me what you'll have decided. What say, Samir? Is she going to be just a friend all your life. For years, I have been just a friend of hers. But now it's time to move ahead. Hey Karan! What have you thought ? I am going to think of her as the most beautiful dream Ive ever had,... and forget about her. -What? Don't be such a sissy! You guys must've have forgotten, but I still remember every word ... Narayan Shankar uttered: ''if you break the rules of Gurukul...'' ''you will be expelled immediately.'' Oh c'mon, Karan! Don't be so scared! People usually go overboard during a speech... that doesn't mean that one has to take it so seriously. Narayan Shankar means every word he says. He has done it earlier, and he can do it again. What has he done earlier? its a famous story. There used to be this student here a few years ago, He was brilliant. Everyone thought he would do something in life. But he made the mistake of breaking a rule of Gurukul . he fell in love. Narayan Shankar expelled him without even seeing him or meeting him. And, as everyone knows,... once you're expelled from here, you cannot get admission elsewhere. Today, no one knows where he is or what has happened to him. As for the girl he loved, she committed suicide. She was Narayan Shankar's one and only child! Everyone thought that this incident would soften Narayan Shankar. Instead, it only made him harder. So Im neither a sissy nor a coward... but I am not strong enough to fight Mr. Narayan Shankar. I am not that strong. I guess she is destined to be just a friend of mine. You will have to wait a little, Ishk... till someone comes and saves us from Narayan Shankar. What do you want? You can't get inside. Go away... Go! I can't do this on my own. Where have you been? I was at the market to get all the stuff,... and you are having problems with the bulb. Mr. Seera, I had asked you for some paperwork. Is it ready? Yes, sir, it's ready. -Please leave it on my table., What's happening here? Good morning sir! My name is Raj Aryan. I have an appointment with you, sir. -Don't you know... that there are students here who are trying to concentrate on their work? Don't you understand that you mustn't make noise in a place like this? Im sorry sir. its just that the little girl saw the violin in my hand.. and insisted on hearing it. I just couldn't break her heart. It is more important not to break rules here. Follow me. So you teach music. -Yes sir. And you want to be given the opportunity to teach music in this university. Yes sir. Being fully aware of the traditions of the Gurukul? Yes. Knowing for a fact that no form of music has ever been taught here,... nor probably will it ever be? -Yes sir I read here that you have already been offered jobs in 3 other universities.. and yet you have come here all the way to seek a job . Why? I was told that you would not allow me to teach music here. They said that it was impossible. It seemed like a challenge to me and I like challenges. And what makes you think that you can make me change my mind. From what I have heard about you, sir... I think even you like challenges. Right sir? How can your music help my students? Students remain buried in their books the whole day, sir. Music will rejuvenate them and make their learning process less stressful. Besides, they will end up learning music, which is a joy in itself. Music is a wonderful thing sir! its... What happens if you do not find enough students, who want to learn music? That's no problem, sir. Ill pack this small bag, and leave. Ill be gone. I like your self-confidence Mr. Aryan. -Thank you sir. I will give you one opportunity. If you do find enough students wishing to learn music in their spare time,... you've got yourself a job. Otherwise, you will leave. Yes, set it here.... thank you. That's quite a classroom you've made for yourself, Mr. Aryan. Im sorry sir! I just thought, that at the end of the day... the students would feel much better being outside. That's all. You already have ten more students registered since yesterday. That's quite an achievement in one day. -Thank you sir! As I said... music is such a wonderful thing....sir You have the job, Mr. Aryan. This is the contract. Please read it carefully and sign it. Mr. Aryan, you're about to become a part of Gurukul. I would like to explain something. -Please do. For the last 25 years,... I have run this place with tradition, honor, and discipline. Nothing has changed since then. Which is why Gurkul has retained its pristine glory. Yesterday, you changed the order of a few chairs. Tomorrow, you might want to change something else. I do not like change of any kind, Mr. Aryan. I just don't like changes. I understand sir. Good. Welcome to Gurukul Mr. Aryan . Love... the greatest inspiration for music. Love and music are very closely connected to each other. Both originate from the heart... and the destinies of both depend on whether the heart expresses it or not. lf you love somebody... just go and tell her. Don't worry about whether she accepts or refuses. Similarly, if you feel like playing the instrument in front of you,... just pick it up and play it; do not worry about being good or bad, Just listen to your heart and do what it says. Now carefully look at that gate. its the gate you look at every day. its the gate you guys can never cross. Look at that gate again and imagine. That the girl you truly love, is standing behind that gate... waiting for you... calling out to you! Yes, yes! She's calling out to you! She's asking you to come and break down that gate,... so that it never closes again. She's not going to wait forever! Listen to your heart.! Go on! Get up and break open that gate! C'mon! Just listen to your heart Get up! And get going! Go on...! There is so much of hatred in this world. Even then, the hearts are full of love. Go forth and tell this universe,... Nothing can stop these love stories. ''I stop in mid-walk'' ''Left to myself I am lost'' ''And midway, I lose my words'' ''Is this love?'' ''Yes, this is love'' ''Why do I die to see you?'' ''l don't know'' ''Why do I do what I do?'' ''l don't know'' ''l try sometimes, to make my way through blind alleys'' ''Everything in the world seems to startle me'' ''Oh, what is this doing to me?'' ''Is this love?'' ''Yes, this is love'' ''In the way you are...'' ''there's something very naughty'' ''In the way you are...'' ''there's something very naughty'' ''On my lips...'' ''lingers something of a grievance'' ''l am kissing your eyes with mine...'' ''l hold you, I go into raptures'' ''Oh, what is this doing to me?'' ''Is this love?'' ''Yes, this is love'' Mr. Aryan do you know what you are asking for? Have you forgotten the rules of Gurukul? Please sir. Think about it he has no other choice. Mr. Aryan, you are asking me to allow a student of Gurukul... to do a part time job. It's impossible! Sir, Samir's father has passed away. His mother works day and night to support him. Thats why, he thinks by getting a job he can share his mother's burden. And I think...we should help him out. You must be back before 10 every night. Yes sir! How can one live without love? How can one die unloved? Sweeter than sugar! Love, Love. More sour than tamarind. Love, Love. This is love. Yes love, love. Oh, Kakeji, what happened why did you stop? Preeto's come. You came close and smiled at me You filled my life with sweet dreams... Now my heart doesnt listen to me What do I do, something happens to me, Oh Jaggi, Preeto's coming here. Yes.. but today she is coming... with a smile on her face and not with her shoes in her hand. What are you saying! Excuse me . Kakeji -One minute. Go away. Kakeji -Yes ma'am? Something happens to you? -Yes ma'am. Where? -Here. To tell you the truth Kakeji something happens to me too. Oh really. -Oh yes Where? -Here Kakeji, did you remember something? -Yes ma'am, I remembered. So, now something happens to you? -No ma'am, nothing happens. Jolly good! -Very good ma'am. Eat sugar and die! Stupid... How many times have I told you not to mess with me. Oh, this is love, love. Love... love. Ishika, Ishika! Miss Monica is calling you! Did you call me Ma'am? Yes, Ishika come in Your cousin Viren has come to see you. I told him that I do not like visitors who do not take prior permission... but I believe there is some sort of urgency... so I have given him permission.... Excuse me... You! How have you been, quickly put your arm around me otherwise.. I will tell Miss Monica about your morning visits to Gurukul. I am seeing you after so many years and just look at how you've really grown. Keep smiling, keep smiling, that's lovely. Now you must be wondering what the hell I am doing here, right.... The thing is that Ishika, ever since Ive seen you I see flashes of you all the time and you've even started coming in my dreams now... and I am sure I must be in your dreams too Right? I knew it... I feel we shouldnt waste any time now... There is no point just looking at each other... and not saying anything to one another...its so stupid? I feel we should take our love story further. So I will wait for you on Sunday... at the Mall Road Coffee House at 4 p.m. Just be there. Okay. -Never. Excuse me My name is Karan, and yours? Hi! I'm Karan! What did you say your name was? How do you end up hurting yourself in the same place, all the time? Sorry, what? I asked how do you end up... hurting yourself in the same place all the time? I do not know, may be my mind is elsewhere, these days. Did you always want to be a doctor? -I am not a doctor. Oh, so you are a nurse in this hospital. -I do not work here. My father had built this hospital... and he had left the decoration of this room to me. Since then I just come here to spend some time with these kids. So, what do you do? -Nothing. Wow! I wish I could do nothing. Excuse me? I have been wanting to ask you something.... the other night I saw you at the station you were standing all alone... the train came, and I turned to look at you and you had walked away... I couldnt understand anything were you waiting for someone? lf you do not want to talk about it it's ok, no problem. You saw the girl standing at the station... but you did not see her red bridal dress.... the henna on her hands the sindoor on her forehead... It was Karva Chauth... I was waiting for my husband. Hey Samir, come here. What is happening.... why are girls and boys giving.... red and yellow flowers to one another? Kakeji, today is rose day. -Rose day? You mean, ''flower'' Rose day. Yes sir. I have heard about Republic day independence day, Happy Birthday... what is this Rose day all about? -It is a very special day sir. Today, you can give any girl a rose and tell her what you feel for her... and she cannot refuse it. -This is a very nice day. Definitely sir . see... yellow rose is for friendship... and red roses for love. Hey, keep the yellow in your pocket... I need only the red rose. Why do you leave all the cleaning up to me... Navneet these days you are... Preetoji, preetoji. Never mind Kakeji, never mind. Happy ''loose'' day ma'am. -What? I mean . happy Rose day ma'am. Happy rose day! Rose day? Yes ma'am .today is a very special day. Today you will have to accept Kake's rose today you cannot refuse me. Is that so? -Yes ma'am . you can ask anyone. Oh no, Kakeji, why ask anyone since you are saying today, is Rose day... why don't you put it with your own hands. What? -Yes Preetoji? -Yes sir. You are really looking like my Juliet. Oh my Romeo, on this occasion I want to give you something special. So give it ma'am. -Should l? So take this Eat sugar and die... to hell with your rose day do not mess with Preeto. Forget friendship, today, just say it. I have been waiting for you for the past half an hour. What sorry Deepak. You just do not care for anyone else's time. You see, I got late trying to find you these beautiful flowers. Come on, I will introduce you to Samir. .Who's that? Hi! Sanju, this is my girlfriend whom I wanted you to meet... shocked you, didnt l? -Definitely, shocked me. Deepak, this is Samir... my oldest and dearest friend... and Samir, this is Deepak the love of my life. Nice to see you man. Is this cafe yours? No, I work here. You mean to say you're a waiter here. -Yes. Ok c'mon, come with us we have come to take you .... we are going for a movie with some friends. I cannot come Sanju, I have got lots of work. C'mon Samir, you can take leave for one day. No, I cannot . I have just joined here. So, what are you going to do now? Nothing . Ill just never see her again... never go in front of her Ill just forget her. You're on the right track. lf Im not mistaken this is the same girl for whom... you crossed the gate, the other night, right. And today you want to forget her, just because she loves someone else... very good .thats really great. Excuse me sir, there are some people who fall in love but their love... is not reciprocated everyone does not have your kind of luck! I pray to God everyday Karan that no one has my kind of luck... especially none of you. At least Samir loves someone who he can see, whose laughter he can hear... I can't even do that. Why not Sir? Because the girl I love is no more. She's dead! I did not fall in love with her on the condition... that she would live longer than me... there are no conditions in love so there shouldnt be any regrets. So what if today she is not with me I still love her the same way... not because I can't find someone else to love, but loving her makes me happy. Whenever I miss her, I close my eyes and she is with me. You didn't fall in love with her on the condition that she will love you too... so just because she loves someone else you want to forget her, don't let go so easily. Love is just like life, its not always easy, and it does not always bring happiness... but when we do not stop living why should we stop loving! Sorry for the long lecture anyway if Mr. Narayan Shankar sees you'll here... then all the love stories will come to an end today itself. Love is just like life its not always easy... and it does not always bring happiness. But when we do not stop living why should we stop loving. Made you wait for a long time? This is for hugging me that day I know what guys like you are all about... but this time you have messed with the wrong girl. My name is ISHlKA DHANRAJGlR... and I can employ hundred boys like you as servants in my house. So next time, before fooling around with any girl remember this slap and me. By slapping me you have taught me a lesson. But ma'am this really was my first time and I was unaware of the rules of this game. I did not know one had to exchange one's bank accounts before asking a girl out. lf I knew this, I would have introduced myself much earlier to you... my name is Vikram Oberoi, and my father is one of the leading industrialists of this nation... and if he wants he can employ your father but I am so stupid... I was not aware of the importance of all this. I just knew that I had seen a beautiful girl... whom I wanted to get to know, and become friends with. I thought this was enough to ask someone out for a date. How stupid I was... but now I have understood. Next time I won't get slapped. You shut her up man, and I was not aware that my friend is the son of a rich man. What do you think if I was the son of such a rich man... would I be a waiter's friend? -What? What do you mean? My dad works in a bank. -What? Then .what was all this? I had to shut the rich girl up... so I just made myself richer than her, and she shut up. Ok, forget this .tell me are all beautiful girls this snooty? Well since they're beautiful they are bound to be a little proud. Not at all, she is very sweet. -Then she must be very ugly. I had seen Kiran for the first time on this very platform. She had just got married and come... and it was also the last time I saw her happy... because her husband had to leave that very night... due to some tension at the border, and he was an Air force pilot. Since then she often comes here... hoping to see her husband get down from the train... but everybody knows that is impossible because two years back we got to hear.. that two planes were found missing at the border. I feel even she knows that her husband is no more... but she still comes here to please one man her husbands father . Major General Khanna... a retired army officer and one of the richest men in this town who believes... that till he does not see the dead body of his son, he is not dead ... he insists that Kiran dutifully fulfills all the traditions of a married girl. Kiran's sister-in-law, Nandini, is her only friend. She is the wife of Major Khanna's elder son... who is a computer engineer in the military and is away most of the time. Nandini loves Kiran like a sister and wants to see her happy. She has a naughty son named Ayush. He is the bright light in Kiran's dark life... they laugh, cry, play and fight together. Kiran forgets all her pains and sorrows and she becomes a child with him. She is after all just 19 years old. This is Kiran .who had had come here to laugh and love... hope she gets her share of happiness. I promise you Khan Baba she will definitely get her share of happiness. What exactly are you doing? -The same thing that you are doing sir. I am doing Suryanamaskar. So am l. Its just that you do it your way and I do it my way. I wanted to ask you, why do you do it. It makes we feel good to stare directly at the sun... without having to blink my eyes. I feel I am not weaker than the sun. I like it .why do you do it? Just like that sir, unlike you, I do not have a battle going on with the sun.. I just enjoy basking in the sunshine I call this suryanamaskar. Excuse me sir I wanted to ask you for something. Yes. Sir, I do not know if you are aware that today is the festival of Holi... and I wanted the students to celebrate it. But I have been told that Holi has never been celebrated here in Gurukul. Holi has never been celebrated here for the simple reason that.... no one has ever wanted to at least no one has asked me before. Sir, no one has asked you because everybody is scared of you. And you are not scared of me Mr. Aryan? No sir, I have never been scared of doing the right thing, so as long as... I know that I am not asking for anything wrong, I am not scared. Holi has never been and never will be celebrated inside Gurukul, however... I have nothing against this festival, if some of the students wish to celebrate.... they can go outside Gurukul and do so. From where I come there is a tradition of starting this day... with putting a teeka on the eldest of the family... if you do not mind, on behalf of.... me and my students I would like to put this on you. Ill just put a little sir, ''O' golden-eyed one...'' ''whether you give me your heart, or whether you chide me'' ''We're crazy about you'' ''We're your playful paramours'' ''You liars'' ''Behind that innocent face, there's hidden a black heart'' ''They will break every heart'' ''Go on lass'' ''Do what you will'' ''Ive tainted you all over'' ''Hey you...'' ''l swear...'' ''Im going to have you spiked'' ''Ill climb the spike for you. Just tell me, Ill die right now'' ''Shock me if you can'' ''And Im all yours'' ''Remember my words'' ''Someday, two hearts will meet'' ''We're crazy about you'' ''We're playful paramours'' ''These Romeos are ruinous'' ''They will break every heart'' ''Why are you standing off?'' ''Are you on a high?'' ''Why are you standing off? You're so close to my heart'' ''Embrace me. Just find an excuse'' ''Is it the standoff which sends you on a high?'' ''lf you're calling me, here I come'' ''You should've thought before taking the leap'' ''Now that you've come, don't go away'' ''We're crazy about you'' ''We're playful paramours'' ''These Romeos are ruinous'' ''They will break every heart'' ''Be there sorrow, or come joy'' ''The easterly still blows'' ''One comes, one goes...'' ''why are you holding your heart back?'' ''Im not holding my heart back; my heart holds me back'' ''Will someone tell me, what's the truth, what a mirage is...?'' ''Everything in the world...'' ''is so lovely'' ''That's the only truth'' ''Aren't the colors lively?'' ''We're crazy about you'' ''We're playful paramours'' ''These Romeos are ruinous'' ''They will break every heart'' ''O' golden-eyed one...'' ''either give me your heart, or chide me'' ''You liars'' ''Behind that innocent face, there's hidden a black heart'' ''We're crazy about you'' ''We're playful paramours'' ''These Romeos are ruinous'' ''They will break every heart'' ''Im crazy about you'' ''Im your playful paramour'' ''These Romeos are ruinous'' ''They will break every heart'' My friends think that I was very rude to you at the cafe... the other day and I must apologize. Oh! And what do you think? I think they are right. I am sorry. My friends think that you were in the wrong too, and you should also apologize. Oh! And what do you think? I think they are right. Good. Now we are quits. Oh no, we are not. -Why not? Because that day you slapped me and I have still not hit you. So, you want to slap me? You want to hit a girl? Well if the girl insists on quitting things, what can I do. Alright, I want to finish this, once and for all. Hit me. Come on hit me. Actually, let it be, my hands will get dirty. my friends were totally wrong about you and I was right. You . how come you are here? I have come to tell you something Tell me? Yes, but before that you will have to promise me that you won't get angry. Ok, I won't. I found out everything about your life about why you go to the station... about your husband, Major Khanna, everything. I was brought up with the belief that boys are the tough ones... ...and girls are weak, but you made me realize how untrue it is. You are very different from other girls and it would make me proud if we... could be friends, you promised me that you will not get angry. I am not angry . its just that... I am not used to hearing nice things about myself. I am a married girl, living in a small town here a boy and a girl can never be friends... it is considered wrong, and I do not have the strength to prove it right. You overestimated me, Im not that strong. Who are you and me to decide what is wrong and right? Thats his job, lets leave it to him. We can only follow our hearts thats exactly what I am doing... now its your turn . if your heart says that... ...this is right then put your hand forward... otherwise walk away, and I promise I'll never come in your way. Hi! My name is Karan. And yours ma'am? Friends are not addressed as ma'am. I am Kiran. Great, lets go. .Hey! At least do your prayers. No need, my prayers are done. Lets leave. I don't believe this Samir can't you find yourself a decent job? Sanju, who is going to give a student a part time job here? And in any case, my mother says that no work is big or small... as long as you do it with all your heart. Okay, okay, stop giving me a lecture. -I can't see Tom uncle, where is he? Don't ask. -Why? For the past three hours he has locked himself in the room... opening all the old trunks and whenever... I ask him for a reason, he does not answer. Papa, what are you doing? I can see that, but why are you wearing this prehistoric costume. Because I am going for a date with Jenny. Jenny aunty is going out with you. Yes sir, after six months of wooing her she has finally agreed. But you never wear a suit so why today? You see, Jenny likes classy gentlemen... thats why I thought Ill impress her with the suit. How am I looking. You are not looking good at all Remove this. What are you saying? This was your mothers favorite suit, wasn't it, tell me? Papa, that was twenty years ago. So what, does a suit change in twenty years. What say Samir. I think you are looking terrific Uncle. Smashing, superb He does not know anything you are not looking nice... and you are not going out like this, understood. I am going my love . bye bye Samir Relax uncle, Sanju just talks rubbish. Would you like some chips? Lift your arms up. One should love you, the way you are, Not the way she wants you to be... lf someone tries to change you then its not love but a compromise... And darling, one doesn't compromise in love, right. Me and you locked in a room. Samir, have you gone mad Samir behave yourself. And the key gets lost. Ill be back from the conference by tomorrow morning, make sure that... everything is alright in Gurukul. -Yes sir. Morning Mr. Aryan, what changes would you like to make in Gurukul today. Just a small change sir I would like you to begin the day... with some sweets . Today is my birthday. Congratulations Mr. Aryan. I'm sorry I am not allowed to have sweets... Actually sir, there was something I wanted to ask you for. I knew you would ask me for something tell me what can I do for you. Sir, I was thinking of throwing a small party for the students... they have given me so much respect in such a small span of time. I will be very happy to do something for them sir . only if you permit. Alright Mr. Aryan. You can have the party. But make sure that you do not do anything... ...that will spoil the reputation of Gurukul. One more small request sir. Now what Mr. Aryan! Sir, most of the students are learning music... ...so I thought it would be really nice to have a dance party. I was wondering if I could invite our neighbors, Miss Monica's girls to join us... that is only if you permit sir. Till today girls have never entered Gurukul Mr. Aryan... and I would like to maintain that tradition. You are right sir, but we really cannot have a dance party without girls sir... and actually sir I have sort of promised the boys. Before making the promise you should have asked me Mr. Aryan! You know I don't like changes. Come on Ram Singh. ''There was this infatuated girl...'' ''who loved a boy to death'' ''Her eyes downcast...'' ''she blushed...'' ''as she traipsed down the alley'' ''On the sly, she'd pen her love letters'' ''Was it something she wished to say? Oh, but whom was she afraid of?'' ''And whenever we met, she'd ask me...'' ''How does love happen?'' ''How does this love happen?'' ''All I could tell her was...'' ''Whether your eyes are open or shut...'' ''you will always dream of your loved one'' ''Oh how do I tell you, my love...?'' ''How love happens'' ''Today, let's see what dying for someone is like'' ''Let's see how love happens'' ''l was lost thinking of someone when I wove my dreams'' ''l was lost in someone's arms when I fell in love with him'' ''When you're in love, you're never awake, nor asleep'' ''Oh how do I tell you, my love, how love happens?'' ''Or is this some spell that binds you?'' ''A thousand hurdles the heart will overcome'' ''Far up, somewhere in the Heavens, all this is decided'' ''Who knows when, how, one will meet the fellow traveller'' ''The name that's writ on the heart is the one you will fall for'' ''Oh how do I tell you, my love, how love happens?'' ''Whether your eyes are open or shut...'' ''you will always dream of your loved one'' ''Oh how do I tell you, my love, how love happens?'' You will have to leave Mr. Aryan! I am sorry that this had to happen, because I had started liking you. I thought that in spite of your different ideas... and nontraditional methods you could... become an important part of Gurukul but I was wrong. My first instinct about you was correct... you are a very arrogant and undisciplined man... and we do not need people like you here. I want your resignation on my table first thing in the morning. Why the sniggering Mr. Aryan? Im sorry sir! Till today, I had a lot of respect for you -I thought you were a very intelligent... and sharp man . a man who would never miss ... anything but I am afraid I am disappointed. What are you trying to say Mr. Aryan? Do you remember sir, when I first came here for a job, I told you my name . Raj Aryan... today I am going to tell you my full name... Mr. Shankar, my full name is Raj A Malhotra. Yes, I am the same Raj Malhotra... who had dared to fall in love with your daughter... the same Raj Malhotra whom your daughter loved very much... the same Raj Malhotra whom you hated so much that you threw him out of Gurukul. without even seeing his face without even giving him a chance to meet you... without even hearing what he had to say. The same Raj Malhotra who could not get ...admission in any other educational institution... who could not get a decent job anywhere but he worked on his own... and today the country's most prestigious... ...educational institution has employed him. Yes sir, the same man who promised... to destroy me has welcomed me with open arms. And as far as my resignation goes I am sorry, I cannot. I have a contract in my hand which clearly states that... I cannot leave or be expelled... till the end of the term . signed Narayan Shankar. And Mr. Narayan Shankar . by the time this term is over... I promise you that Gurukul will not be the same. I loved only one woman all my life and I will love her forever. She gave up her life for you, believing that it would make you kinder... and bring love into this place and that everything would change. You denied me of my only love and... this is a truth that I will have to live with all my life. But there is one more truth that I cannot live with... and that is the fact that the girl I loved died in vain. The fact that nothing has changed here that I cannot bear to live with. I promise you Mr. Shankar, by the time I leave... I will fill this place with so much love that ... it will take you ten lifetimes to remove it. I will fill this place with so much sunshine.... that a man who has been staring at the sun for 50 years, will have to blink. What happened to us will not happen to anyone else. This I promise. ''Even after the lovers have died...'' ''after their beloveds have perished...'' ''their loves live on, forever ''Their loves live on, forever'' Todays newspaper and your tea both are kept next to your chair. I had made the tea ten minutes back so its already cold, just the way you like. I am leaving early for college today but... I have told Bahadur for your breakfast... and I have also given your clothes for ironing . and by the way... today is my birthday you can wish me if you want. I forgot once again. Come here. I must be the worlds worst father. No, not at all you are the best father in the world. Happy birthday my child. I pray that you get everything you ever want, and all your dreams come true. Pretty, but still not as beautiful as mom. Let me see. Oh its you, papa when did you come I was just... Wait a minute, lets see I think my daughter is more beautiful than your mother. What do you think? Do you know ever since you were a kid you have been wearing your.... mother's mangalsutra and duppatta and dressing up as a bride. I think now the time has come to get you married. Stop it papa! -Why? Hello, Hi. I am busy now I 'll phone you later . ok ...bye! Who was that? That was Priya. She keeps calling and boring me. Now you go change your clothes and I will make you some hot coffee. Papa, papa I have come to apologize to you. Apologize! For what? Papa, you always taught me never to lie but I lied to you. That day when you were in my room and the phone rang.... I told you it was Priya but it was not Priya papa . -it was someone else. Who was it? It was a boy. A boy whom I have known for a very long time . someone who has... become much more than a friend a boy who loves me very much... someone who I love very much. I know I should have told you earlier... but I was scared that you would get angry. You have always told me that love leads to pain but I do not know what it was about him... that I just could not stop myself. When you meet him you will realize that how different he is, how sweet he is, how true he is. You had hoped that all my dreams come true... he is my one and only dream and... after this I do not want anything else. -Whats his name? Raj...Raj Malhotra. -What does he do? He is a student in Gurukul. You are not angry no papa! Papa, please don't be angry. I have come to tell you that... Raj Malhotra has been expelled from Gurukul. I did not meet him, I do not know what he looks like, and I hope I never see him. I have sent him somewhere far away from here, and I would like you to forget him. I know you must be thinking that my decision is cruel, and wrong... but I know that this is the best thing for your future. Your tea is kept there but the newspaper guy has still not come.... Its Sunday, so I think he is running a little late by the way... Bahadur is unwell. So let me know what you will have for breakfast, I will make it myself. Are you alright? I am absolutely fine papa I am absolutely fine. Thats enough, its quite late... and you have to get up early in the morning . open your mouth. Do you know that you are the world's best daughter. Are you happy? Are you happy, papa? -Very much. Then I am also very happy. Good night, papa. Im sorry papa I tried to forget him... I tried very hard not to think about him... to stop loving him but I just could not. I love you very much, papa and I can never hurt you, but I love him too... and I cannot live without him. I hope someday you realize that love is very beautiful... even if it comes with a little pain. Ever since the day she told me about you, I have hated you. I hated you so much that I never wanted to see your face. I never ever wanted to hear your voice... and today you are standing in front of me on my doorstep. lf I want I can drag you out of that gate... and throw you out of this place... and no piece of paper can stop me but I am not going to do that... because now I want you to stay. You have given a 55 year old man a reason to fight again . he has to prove all over again, that for25 years whatever... he has stood for and believed in, still holds true. You were right about me Mr. Aryan like you even I love challenges. So, now you do what you have to and Ill do ... what I have been doing for the last 25 years. The foundation of this structure is so strong that no Raj Aryan, with a violin in his hand and a smile on his face... will ever dare to walk in here to change things around. Never, Mr. Raj Aryan, never. Megha, you were right. Its not easy to win from your father. He is one tough man . but we are no less. Vicky, Vicky, give it back. Samir I am warning you. Do any of you know how to play the piano? its okay, it's okay. I needed somebody to teach... Major Khanna's grandson, but never mind maybe someone else would know. Vicky havent we heard this name before, Major Khanna So, you would like to learn the piano, Right. . Yes sir! Come down in ten minutes we have a lot of work to do... and do come with some clothes on. Now Ayush, I want you to learn to play the piano before your papa comes back. Do not worry sir, in one month he will be playing even better than me. Ok Karan, I am leaving you carry on! Right Ayush. Karan, just a minute, this is our younger daughter in . law Kiran and... this is Karan Chaudhry, Ayush's piano teacher. Karan, if you do not mind, can you teach her too, along with Ayush. Sister . in . law! Hold on, she loves music in fact she has learnt classical dance. Sister . in . law! Ok, ok, she does not do it anymore. Thank god she doesnt, otherwise she use to disturb me every morning. Ok ok, time out, time out! Ayush get me a glass of water. Sister, get water. Ayush, this is wrong, your sister is older than you, you go and get me water. Ok! In this house I have to do all the work. Ramu kaka water! You never told me that you used to dance? Why? You ask too many questions. -Thats because you never answer. Have you come here to teach Ayush piano lessons or to chat with me? What do you think? Ishika my child, meet your new dance partner Vikram, not Viren! . right. Vikram I want you know that this dance competition... ...is a matter of prestige for our college and... that is why on my request Mr. Raj Aryan has sent you to help us out. Ishika, I want you'll to become friends and in one month, show me something... really spectacular and special. Wipe that stupid grin off your face it makes you look even more stupid. I have been winning this dance competition for the past three years... and I am not going to end up loosing this year because of an idiot like you -so if you do not wish to make a fool of yourself just leave quietly. No please, don't do that. I have been waiting for this all my life, all I have ever wanted is to be able to dance with you. After this even if I die I will have no regrets. Please dance with me. Your sense of humor is just like you sick and disgusting! My name is Ishika! My friends feel that I was rude ... to you the other day when you had come to apologize. And what do you feel? I think they are right. I am sorry. Now, can you leave me? I do not feel like. -Do you feel like a slap you. lf the girl smiles then she's yours. -What? Nothing. Ok, leave me. -Leave you? You didnt join us. -I am just. I would like to remind you that till you are a part of Gurukul.... it is your duty to follow the traditions of this place. Next time I do not want to see you outside the temple Im sorry sir but I will not come into the temple. I have an old score to settle with him... he took the one person who believed in him the most. Challenging us mortals was not enough for you, that you have decided to take on God. No sir, My God is my conscience. I do not believe in any other God. Take this . for all your battles. Im sorry sir, but I cannot. Because to take this I would have to touch your feet, like the others... and that is something that my heart will not allow me to do. I do not force anyone to touch my feet Mr. Aryan .they do it out of respect. They touch your feet out of fear and you mistake their fear for respect -but Im... But you are not scared of me Mr. Aryan. I know that... the other day you had put at tika on my forehead .. ...that day I had nothing to give you. Today, accept this as a blessing... and it would remove a burden from my head... and make us quits and yes you do not have to touch my feet. lf this is about removing your burden then I accept. You too sir. Encoded by CharmeLeon Samir! What are you doing here? Working, what else? For 500 rupees on a Sunday and the chance to see a Singhania party... ...only a fool can refuse such an offer. I don't believe you, anyway its great that ... ...i found you, now just stay with me. Sanjana, leave my hand it does not look good I am supposed to be working here and besides this is... your boyfriends party so I am sure you know everyone here. No, I do not .these are all Deepak's friends. I do not know them that well. Im sorry Sanjana . but I do not want to get fired because of you . Ok. Come let me introduce you to everyone. Where have you been, come on, come on. What rubbish. I was just kidding . Come on give me your hand, c'mon Listen Sanjana Im sorry, ok. I should not have done that . please. Enough Deepak, enough. All guys are alike. You said something? You know, you boys are so stupid. Its so easy for any girl to draw your attention. All she needs to do is dress suggestively like our dear friend... Sonia and she's got you'll all wrapped around her little finger. Thats all you boys ever think of, right. You'll never think of what kind of person she is what is in her heart... ...how she talks, do you'll? You're right, we never think of such things, never! Do you know what your problem is you are jealous of Sonia. I am jealous of Sonia? Yes. Because basically you want to be just like Sonia, but you know that is impossible lets face it,... ...you do not have what it takes and that makes you hate her even more. I think you have a big complex and you should deal with it. Listen Mr. Vikram Oberoi, Neither am l jealous nor do I hate anyone. I am very happy the way I am . as for your Sonia I can be like her anytime, if I want to. But she can never be like me, ever . understand. Believe me Ishika You can never look like Sonia Vicky, I am not getting this dance step do help me please. Why are you not ready yet we have to go to Mr. Sharma's house. I do not feel like going. Every time the same excuse, sometimes its good to go out... meet people, make friends. You cannot shut yourself from the world, forever . can you? Ok, take your time... we will be late make sure that Ayush sleeps on time... and no MTV or ZTV for him. A small gift, for a girl, who is incomplete without this. What happened? You did not like the gift. You, what are you doing here? Have you gone mad? lf somebody sees you, do you know what will happen. Relax, no one has seen me. I don't know anything, just go from here. Ok, Ok, I will go on one condition. What? I want to see you dance wearing these ghungroos, just once. I cannot do it. Hey, you can't say no, its the first rule of friendship... you can never say no to anything that a friend asks for. Karan stop it . I am getting very scared. Nandini, Nandini . hurry up, we are getting late. Yes father, I am downstairs. Karan, you please go from here. First promise me. I do not know how to dance . I used to do it before, but now I have forgotten. Listen, I wanted to make my friend happy so I got her a gift. Now if you feel like making your friend happy then come to ... ...the terrace wearing those ghungroos it's as simple as that. Why are you doing all this, Karan? Because there is this friend of mine who is scared to be happy... ...I want to show her how easy it is, to be happy. Why did this happen Samir how could I make such a big mistake. Do you really want to know? This was your mistake this is not Sanjana, this is someone else. This is my Sanju clumsy, messy, cute. You had forgotten yourself, when you were with Deepak... you had become the way he wanted to see you .this was your mistake. He should love you for what you are and not for what he wants you to be... lf someone tries to change you, then it is not love, but a compromise And darling, one doesnt compromise in love. You forgot your own rule. Lets go. Samir, can you hold me in your arms please. You won. Their love stories have begun, you won. We won! ''Come, steal me from my self'' ''Hide me somewhere in your heart'' ''Don't let me get lost in loneliness'' ''Don't let me lose you'' ''Come to me. Take me in your arms'' ''Come, steal me from my self'' ''Hide me somewhere in your heart'' ''Don't let me get lost in loneliness'' ''Don't let me lose you'' ''Come to me. Take me in your arms'' ''Come, steal me from my self'' ''Hide me somewhere in your heart'' ''Make my heart beat faster'' ''Let your hair spread out'' ''Give me a shy smile'' ''Let the wind catch your veil'' ''l could let my hair spread, but it could turn day into night'' ''l could let my veil wave with the wind but there could be a cloudburst of desire'' ''Let it pour'' ''We have something to talk about'' ''Come to me. Take me in your arms'' ''Come, steal me from my self'' ''Hide me somewhere in your heart'' ''Don't let me get lost in loneliness'' ''Don't let me lose you'' ''Come to me. Take me in your arms'' ''l could die for you'' ''Im going to die'' ''They all say that'' ''Ill do it'' ''A little vermilion...'' ''fill in my hair'' ''Who has seen tomorrow?'' ''Do it all, today, now'' ''Whether or not, everyone agrees'' ''When hearts avow'' ''God acquiesces'' ''Come to me .Take me in your arms'' ''Come, steal me from my self'' ''Hide me somewhere in your heart'' ''Come, steal me from my self'' ''Hide me somewhere in your heart'' ''Don't let me get lost in loneliness'' ''Don't let me lose you'' ''Come to me. Take me in your arms'' What is your name? Sir, Vi ..Vi...Vic...Vikram , Sir. Are you aware of the rules of Gurukul? Yes sir! So you know that you have broken one of the rules... ...and that you can be expelled for it. Yes sir! So tell me Vikram what is the reason for your carelessness? Sir, I was, I was.... Vicky... Did you reach the station on time. Station sir? The parcel that I gave you did the station master accept it? Parcel, yes sir. The station master accepted your parcel sir. Great . its very late, you go to bed and Vicky thank you very much. Its very late sir . you should also go to sleep, otherwise for the first time... the sun will rise before you do. Good night. I have called all of you here because I have found out that a few students are... trying to break the discipline of Gurukul a few students have been... ...leaving the campus regularly and not returning on time. I would like to remind them that breaking the rules of Gurukul... ... will not be tolerated. I think my silence has been misunderstood to be my weakness. So from today, the Gurukul gate will be shut at all times. From now on no one will leave the gates of this campus, under any circumstance. Anyone caught will be expelled immediately I repeat... ...anyone caught will be expelled immediately. You'll can go now. Mr. Aryan I know everything that goes on in Gurukul... ...nothing escapes my eyes. Those three boys will have to stop going out. There will be no part time working no piano playing, and no dancing. I would like you to be the one to break this news to them. Yes sir. Its nice to see you smiling Mr. Shankar. It must be a very special morning. Definitely Mr. Aryan. Do you see these blowing winds these winds... have been blowing from the east for years. Some time back they had changed their direction to the west, but now... they are back to normal. Today, everything is back to normal Mr. Aryan. It is a very special morning. Congratulations Mr. Shankar, even the winds are scared of you... even they know that you do not like changes. It just shows the power of your fear. You were the one who made me aware of the power of my fear Mr. Aryan. You were the one who told me that everyone is scared of me . that they love you, and fear me . right. But I want you to know something Mr. Aryan... ...that in the battle of love and fear, fear will always win. Till now you have only seen the power of fear. You have still not seen the power of love. I would like to see such power, Mr. Aryan. I would really like to see that happen. Now you'll definitely see the power of love you definitely will. Today is 14th February Valentines Day ,the day of love. Today I am going to begin by telling you a love story. A story of a boy, a girl and a leaf a story of one of you'll, a boy ... from Gurukul, but there was one difference he was in love, and he had decided that on this day, he would tell her everything, not worrying about the consequences. She was standing at the bus stop with her friends... waiting to leave for the college picnic. The boy had sneaked out of Gurukul and had come running to see her. He saw her getting into the bus, he immediately took out a pen from his pocket... and tried to find something to write on. Then he picked up a leaf from the ground and wrote on it. Dear Megha, I love you. He gave it to a kid on the street... and pointed towards the girl. The kid ran with the leaf towards the girl... who was just about to enter the bus. Just then there was a convoy of army trucks which blocked his view, and he could not see the girl. When the last truck crossed him... he saw that all the girls had already got into the bus. As he turned, he saw the same kid standing in front of him... holding the leaf. There was something written on the other side of the leaf... I have waited so long to hearths . Megha. But, by that time the bus had already left. He ran behind the bus and stopped in the middle of the road. He turned, he saw her standing in front of him. So this was a true love story that happened on Valentines Day. Sir, what happened next? Then, they got married and they lived happily ever after, right sir? Wrong! What happened next, you all know. Because this is the story of the one... and only student who was thrown out of Gurukul. The one who some of you'll call the crazy lover. Was he crazy or was he just mad, or was he a boy just like you'll... I do not know. But I know one thing that he listened to his heart all his life. I know that he gave up everything for the woman he loved... and I know that he stills loves her... and each day the love deepens more and more. How do you know so much about him? How do I know so much about him how do I know so much! My name is not Vikram Oberoi, but Vikram kapoor. My father is not a rich industrialist but is a bank accountant. And the friendship that I had started with a lie... I want to end it with the truth... and the truth is that I am madly in love with you. I know it is not easy to love a stubborn, and spoilt girl like you, but I know that... behind this stubborn girl, is a cute little girl... who reads love stories at night and dreams about love, even in the day. Behind this spoilt girl, there is a girl with a clear conscience... who sweetly accepts her mistakes and says ''sorry.'' Behind this Ishika Dhanrajgir is my cute, stupid little Ishq whom I love and cannot live without. You talk a lot. lf you quieting me like this, I will never shut up. I want you to leave Karan . forever. But why, what have I done? You've not done anything Karan in fact, you have only given me happiness. You brought back music and gave me your friendship... for which I will always be grateful . but you also brought back those dreams, desires, and hopes... that I had shut out, and kept in a little corner of my heart . those dreams that belonged to a seventeen year old Kiran... those dreams that have no place in this Kiran's life. I cannot be your friend anymore please forgive me and forget me. There is a rule of friendship Kiran that once you put your hand forward... it can never be taken back. Please Karan, go from here. Today I had come here to tell you something Kiran... and I am not going back till I say it. What did you want to tell her even I would like to hear it. Sir, I came here to tell her that I love her... ...that I love her very much and I know that even she I think you have got your answer now leave and never come back. Wait, Karan! Do you love this boy? Tell me the truth, do you love him. Nandini, do you realize what you are saying? For once in your life Kiran, listen to your heart and... tell me if you love Karan. Nandini, you are talking to a married girl. No, Major General Khanna I am talking to a girl whose husband is dead I am talking to a widow Major General Khanna I am talking to a widow Look at this girl closely, and for once do not look at her as the youngest daughter-in-law ... of your family, but instead, look at her as the young girl, whom you had brought into this... house with promises and dreams of a happy life. Look at her as the girl, who has, for two years... quietly played the role of a married girl just for you. So that by seeing her, you can keep believing that your son is alive. Look at her, and ask yourself, what is wrong if someone falls in love with her... what is wrong if she falls in love with someone, what is so wrong? Your son is dead, at least let her live. My son is not dead. My son is not dead. Ever since we used to laugh and cry about small things, I have loved you. Ever since we used to dance in the rains I have loved you. When we used to sneak out to the terrace and count the stars... I have loved you. Now, I myself, have forgotten since when, I have loved you. I can only say, that I have loved you and only you. You love me so much? Since when? Always. And till today, you never said a thing. Idiot . Stupid . Now what are you standing and staring at my face. Come on, take me in your arms. Kakeji, you used to give me roses etc. today am I not getting a leaf? No Preetoji, from now on Kake will never trouble you. Seeing these kids, I have figured out what a perfect pair looks like. You are very pretty, and smart and Im a stupid looking and uneducated. This pair is all wrong. You need not worry, from today, you'll never have to take your shoes in... your hand, from today Kake will never trouble you. This is my final goodbye to you. And what if after today Preeto starts troubling Kake. What? Then what. Eat sugar and die. What do you think of yourself? you have been giving me weird stuff, and saying rubbish... and now you are saying, that from today you will never trouble me. Why will you not trouble me you'll have to trouble me. Because Preeto, has gotten used to Kake nonsense. And besides, Preeto likes Kake. Likes ma'am? Yes. And who said you are stupid looking. You are very cute. Yes, and what do they say in English I love you. What? I can hear the bricks crumbling Mr. Shankar, can you hear it? The winds have changed their direction once again... the power of love Mr. Shankar... you better lock your windows and doors properly sir because love is in the... air and no one can stop it now. ''On chained feet...'' ''chiming anklets scream...'' ''shut all doors...'' ''but the thief will steal in'' ''Break your shackles'' ''Let your anklets chime'' ''Open the doors of your heart'' ''Let the thief in'' ''Oh what do I say, what do I do? I feel so shy'' ''Don't make me pine. This is killing me'' ''First let me get to believe that you truly love me'' ''lf there's any doubt in your heart, let's forget it'' ''l won't give myself up so easily'' ''Ill think it over first'' ''Then Ill tell you tomorrow or the day after'' ''lf you won't say yes today, someone else can marry you'' ''Those who are made for each other, shall meet, come what may'' ''Hearts blossom, even in autumn'' ''My friends, the whole world says the heart is crazy'' ''Loving hearts say that the world is crazy'' ''l have come, my love, I have left the world behind'' ''l have broken all ties, I come to bind myself to you'' ''Let's bind ourselves to each other'' ''In bondage let us fly together, like kite and string'' ''On chained feet...'' ''chiming anklets scream...'' ''shut all doors...'' ''but the thief will steal in'' ''Break your shackles'' ''Let your anklets chime'' ''Open the doors of your heart'' ''Let the thief in'' ''Shut all doors...'' ''but the thief will steal in'' ''The thief will steal in'' ''The thief will steal in'' ''For all the hatred in the world...'' ''hearts are still full of love'' ''Even after lovers have died...'' ''after their beloveds have perished...'' ''their loves live on, forever'' ''Even after lovers have died...'' ''after their beloveds have perished...'' ''their loves live on, forever'' ''Their loves live on, forever'' I know that this is not the first time that the three of... you'll have broken the rules of Gurukul. I also know that you'll are responsible for... the others behaving in a similar fashion. You'll have left me with no choice, but before I take a decision, I would like to ask you'll one question, and I would like you'll to think very carefully before answering it... ...because whatever you will say, will decide your fate. Did you do this out of your own free will or is someone else responsible for this... someone who encouraged and forced you'll to do this, think carefully and answer. We take full responsibility for our actions... nobody else is responsible for what we did. We did what our hearts told us to do. And we do not regret anything because... we do not think we did anything wrong. This is your last day in Gurukul start packing your bags. You'll will be expelled in the morning in front of everyone. You won, I lost! But do not punish them for my mistakes... do not do this to them, please. I did not come here to make another Raj Aryan. I came here to make sure that no one else becomes a Raj Aryan. Forgive them, your battle is with me and I am in front of you... Defeated and lost. I will do whatever you want just forgive them. You won, I lost. I want you to come tomorrow morning... and tell the students, that whatever you... have taught them, and believed in, was wrong. I want you to tell them, that you do not believe in love and... ...that you are sorry for misleading them... ...and then quietly leave Gurukul... ...and never come back. Yes. Good, you can go now. I had told you Mr. Aryan, in the battle of love and fear... fear will always win. I am sorry sir, but from where I see you lost. Because from where I see, I see a 55 year old father standing below... a garlanded photograph of his 19 year old daughter. You lost then, and you lost now. You ever wondered Mr.Shankarthat why did I ever come back to Gurukul? For whom? The girl I loved is no more... who are Vicky, Samir, and Karan to me. I did not even know them, I did not know anyone here. I came back for you, Mr. Shankar. I came back for the father of the girl, I loved. I came back because she always told me that you were a very loving man... that you were just hard from the outside but very soft from the inside. I came to break that hardness. Do you know, Mr. Shankar, I do not have any photograph of Megha... I never felt the need for it, because I see Megha wherever I see love. I thought if I could make just one love story bloom in front of your eyes, you too would see her... and you would see how happy she is and that will take your pain away. I had come to share your pain Mr. Shankar I had come to show you love. I came here because l realized one thing... that Megha was incomplete without you... but you failed to realize that she was incomplete without me too... we together made her complete. I came to complete what we couldnt do in her lifetime. I came to complete her I came to complete Megha. You won every battle of life... but you lost everything that was worth living for. You lost a daughter then and now you have lost a son. I am sorry sir, but from where I see you lost everything. Because I see a stubborn man standing with his back turned... to the two people who truly loved him. I am sorry sir, I am sorry. For25 years, I have been very proud of the fact, that Ive run this institution with... tradition, honor, and discipline, believing that I have made my students.... stronger, fuller, and better men... men who will always come out as winners in the battle of life. I have been very proud of the fact that somewhere there is a... Narayan Shankar in each and every student of Gurukul. But, today, as I stand before you I am not feeling so proud. Because, today, I do not like the Narayan Shankar... who is standing in front of you. Because today Narayan Shankar is a man who did not come out as a winner... in the battle of life... ...he has lost. He is a sad, stubborn, and lonely man... who just did not understand the meaning of life. And today, when he looks back, he cannot help but feel that somewhere... all his students, must be sad and lonely, just like him... because he knows, he never smiled at them when they were scared... he never patted their backs when they did well... he never held them in his arms, when they were sad. Because he always believed that showing any kind of love and affection leads to pain... and pain leads to weakness. And in this process he became so hard, that he forgot how to love. And today he wants to go back to each of his students... hold them in his arms and apologize to them. And tell them one simple thing, that life is about giving and... receiving love, and nothing else, nothing else But he knows he cannot do that he cannot go back. But there is something he can do. Something that he has not done for25 years... something that he should have done a long... time back, and that is change. He will have to change. The old generation will have to change their old traditions, so that.. a new generation can create a new tradition. Now its time for me to step down and give you someone who has shown me that... ...respect is not earned by fear, but by love. Mr. Aryan, please come up. I request you to please take over... and teach my students the essence of love and life. So that from now on I can proudly say that there is a Raj Aryan in each and every student of Gurukul. And probably then my daughter would forgive me.
