 

                        In a few minutes... Mondomanila will be covered in darkness. What you're going to observe... Is horrible... Creepy... Nauseating... Frightening... Without exaggerating. Don't try this at home. This has never been shown before. It's almost night. In Mondomanila. Prepare yourself. Keep your eyes wide open... Until the midst of night. Let the darkness devour you. I always laugh myself to death, when those wise guys claim... That they have a solution for our problems. They don't know hunger like we do. They've never felt how their great intestines ate their little instestines. The pain of the acidformation in our stomachs. Tony D. Mother Mariiya's eldest son Leader of the Paranoid Squad. Tough guy, street punk, junkie. Our fucking government, these fucking institutions... Those fucking politicians and those filthy rich assholes... And the worst of all... That goddamned, fucking church... Apart from doing nothing for us, they also forbid us from having fun. They forbid us to smoke dope. And they tell us how to fuck. Fuck off. It's our only way out. It stills our hunger, softens our pain, and calms our tormented minds. It makes our problems vanish. And gives us inner peace. It lets us forget the reality, we wake up in every day. You're already drunk. Hey Patotok, give me that glass. Are you gonna drink, or not? - Here You're such a dipsomaniac.. - And you have a tiny dick. I saw him jerk off with a pincet. You're about to get smacked by my dick. Are you gonna use that pincet again? Light that thing, man. Can't you do it yourself? Duck eggs for sale. Mutya. The Paranoid Squad's toastmaster. Tony D.'s best friend and partner in crime. Duck eggs salesman. Goddamnit, nobody wants to buy anything. They're not expensive. Why not? Sir, krupuk? Duck eggs? I don't have any money. - Absolutely nothing? Maybe next time, pal. Duck eggs, baby? Dirt cheap. - How much? For you, seven pesos. Thanks. What about you, krupuk? Krupuk's the only thing I've left. Guys, shall I get baby? - Shit, no, she's disgusting. You're just fussy, asshole. Do you have any idea of how many cunts I've fucked around here? How many? - Ten. You mean ten hairs left on your balls. Patotok. Squatterpunk. Hates putting on clothes. Hates filthy pussies. Don't call us... Paranoid paranoid, paranoid, paranoid... No paranoid guy... No paranoid guy... Thinks that he's paranoid... Paranoid paranoid, paranoid, paranoid... You're jerking off all day. Fuck you! - Everyone knows it, man. You're known as the biggest wanker of the neighbourhood. Stupid pinhead, you're still a virgin. Just admit it, you've never fucked. Stupid junkie. What an asshole. Dugyot. Patotok's partner. Always horny Loves pussy. Awesome! Keep still. I want to fuck! Poor bitch, you're my baby. I want more. One more time.. Hey, Ungay are you gonna drink, or not? A tit you can suck completely dry, but that glass's a different story. How come? Just suck a cunt. Look, he's jerking off. Ungay sells cabbage. Jerks off, wherever and whenever he wants. What are you doing, man? He's still standing. Are you jerking off again? Bunch of assholes, just let me jerk myself off! Mutya's father. Pauper on the corner of Edsa & Kamias. Blinded by diabetes. Loves porn. That's disgusting, man. You even fuck Lovely Loanshark. In exchange for a month's rent. And her cunt smells, man. Perverted maniac! Don't pretend like you don't know what that means. Lovely Loanshark. Owns the appartment building where Tony d's family lives. Gambler Make sure you don't owe her any debts. If you need money, loan it from Lovely.. Loanshark Money to buy food. Money to pay rent. Money for medicines. If you need money, loan it from Lovely.. Loanshark Luckily there's someone like Lovely. She'll take care of everyone. Even that faggot son of Sgt Pepper. - Fuck you! You jerk off to Naty How do you do it? Or do you fuck him in the ass? Hey, I'm Naty. What's your name? Donato a.k.a. Naty Only son of Sgt. Pepper. Would've rather been a daughter. Father can't beat the faggot out of him. Give me a kiss. I bought something to eat. There's enough for everyone, so you don't have to eat that stuff. What the hell is that? Tony take a duck egg. That'll give you strong knees. Guys, the boss isn't telling us something. Tony becomes Sgt. Peppers son in law. You two make a fine couple. That's enough, guys. Asshole. Just drink it, man. Cut it out, ok? Here, drink it. Good joke, man. Mother Mariiya. Two sons of different fathers. Dreams of becoming a singer. Washes clothes and is a fraud. I've done it again. I think you shat yourself out of fear. Dino Jr. Tony D.'s little brother. Likes underpants with pictures. Was abused by Ugly White Boy There's a hot chick here! I'll just sit over here. Here Naty, drink. Is that pot? Can I have some? Give some to Naty. - Idiot. The Gay Transformer. Couldn't you wait till your father was in his grave. Before you told the entire world you're a faggot? Well, I'm gay. Can I help it? Stop fucking playing with dolls, kid. They aren't meant for boys. Why don't you just play with those toy rifles? Father of Naty, No abs. Discharged from military service, because of a failed hostage crisis. When I die, I want my son to be useful for society. A son that does something for others. A son that fights for the people of MondoManila. A son that serves his country. And respects the rules of his country. Someone who throws the criminals in jail. Godfearing. With compassion. Donato! You're screwed. I have to go. One more drink? - No, thanks. Donato with a dick. Bye faggot. Hey, look out, boozer. I'm not drunk No, just sick in the head. Throw him out. He's done for. Enough, we have to stop the hate from the inside. Change the pain and sorrow into light. Ogo X The Paranoid Squad's rapper. Sells chickenintestines, paws and blood. Notorious voyeur. I wrote this rap for the lost ones, like me I'll continue the fight that my predecessors started. Words shoot out of my mouth like bullets. Don't challenge us or you'll pay the price. Guys, listen. I have good news. The Magdalena Sisters are performing. Are you sure, Ogo? - I'm sure, come on. Do you want something from that aristorat? Smells delicious. Take a bite. - It's still on fire, man. Let's drink to that. Shoeshine Pablong. Arsonist, made money with insurance fraud. Got busted and lost everything. Ended up in the slums after his release. Now and then we need a fire, to clean the slums. Fire cleans better than water, and purifies everything around you. Even cockroaches and rats. Cleaning with fire is different. It doesn't leave behind any traces. Freshly baked. Want a bite? Fuck off with that crap. Here, take it. Compared to the rest of Asia, you Pinoys are the fucking lowest in class. Barely Asian, as the Japs say. Hell, you're barely human. Steve Banners a.k.a. Whiteboy. Knight of the Ku Klux Klan. Ugly yank, pedophile. Did Dino jr fuck you. You people fuck each other like there's no tomorrow. What's wrong with this country? They're low class in the human evolution. No use for the human race except maybe for sexual slavery. But that's not what really happened. Hurry up, guys. The wet pussy twins are at it again. Two horny girls of the same father are fucking each other. Isko the Pimp. B- Boy master of Mondomanila. As baby left behind in a trash can. Provides pedophiles with little children. Nice going, man. Nice. It's not cooked yet. Hey, I said the show started already. Fuck, twins. They're on right now. The rat's getting horny already. Why would you choose this madness it'll only fuck you up you get high and look like a demon's child you run around like a mad man, a haze blurring your sight. is the dope really good enough to make you throw your life away is there really no way out of this misery nowhere to go, nowhere to hide nobody will shed a tear for you even if you manage to escape the demons will know where to find you. The madness in your mind can no longer be forgotten without knowing it, you're digging a grave for the one who stares at you when you look into the mirror. Droga what does this madness mean can you still escape when you're trapped in misery Droga what does this madness mean can you still escape when you're trapped in misery I wrote this track cause I live a hard life I've seen it all and i'm stuck in the middle I'm a man who has nothing left to lose Death's lurking around the corner every day every day I hope the pain will end never knowing when death will take me away I don't want my life to end this way look to the right, look to the left i'll be there I'm sitting in every corner with the world staring at me how did it get this far and how can I get out Droga what does this madness mean can you still escape when you're trapped in misery Droga what does this madness mean can you still escape when you're trapped in misery Droga what does this madness mean Take a sip. Fountain of youth. Elixir of life magic potion... That cures all. From cholera to heartbreak, From pimples to cancer, From bad breath to leprose. Made only from the purest, finest minerals. Straight from the sewers of Mondomanila. Alkaline, shit, piss, cum, puke, tears, sweat, blood... Mondomanila's holy drinkwater. all cure, anti-pure. No proven scientific function. Drink moderately. That's how it is in the slums. We fight and fuck each other like raving dogs. They think we're ambitionless. That we don't have any plans. Irresponsible, junkies. Scrougers, losers... Freaks, perverts, assholes, scumbags... Evil gossipers, Shameless thieves. Worthless. Devils. But we're happy. Even if we're starving. Even if we're poor. Even if they don't know we exist, in this congested, filthy, stinking piece of earth. We have many problems. But we ignore them. You don't make any plans when your first priority is to get a meal. We can't count on anyone. Only ourselves! We don't have to expect anything from anyone. Our fucking government doesn't give a shit if we slaughter each other. Everyone's just looking for a way to get rich. Politicians love us. They give us rice and sardines, as if we can't buy them ourselves. Old worn out clothes, for our slender bodies. Broken toys for the little brats. And canned food that's passed it's date, for our empty stomachs. And also an enormous pile of promises, that never get realised. Promises. Asshole. You're always drunk or high. Some day I'll be fed up, and personally drag you to prison. Wash your feet, goddamnit. I just washed that blanket. Here man, for you and your brother. Why're you so late, boy? You look tired. Where were you? - I gave a massage, I'm tired. I'm going to bed, mom. - That's good, son, get some rest. Look. The only thing he can eat. You oughta be ashamed. Your brother's been running around all day so you can eat. Hanging around all day with those losers. Instead of looking for a job. You know how little money I make. Do you even know what Dino does? He gives massages. What do you do? Goddamnit. My god, what happened to you? What did you let do to you? Mom, don't. That's a new shirt. What're you doing to yourself? Stop it. Don't you see he's bleeding? We'll bring him to the hospital. Be careful. How do you still the growling of your stomach How do you still the screaming hunger Think back To the last time you had rice in your mouth. To the last time you had the luck that you could scrape the pan empty and away is the hunger What's going on here? Calm down, I only wanted to help your brother. What's your problem, man? Is that all you have? Do you taste just as good as your brother? I could arrange a customer for you. Can't you hit any harder? Shall I fuck you? Or should I blow you? Is your dad a faggot, too? And your mom? Your entire family consists of fags. Even your dogs are fags. And the cats. You were born as a freak. And then you do things like this? Maybe your other hand should also be removed! ISKO THE PIMP'S HOUSE FRIED CHICKEN CRYSTAL METH CHEAP RHUM We're off again, Batman. Friend. Let's pay that asshole a visit tomorrow. Not a good idea, man. Are you scared? Scared? That's not the point, man. But think first. This is about a white dude. And with import you just have to be careful. Import? I don't give a shit about import. Take it easy, man. Think. Whiteboy fucked your brother. If we get him, we'll get the Americans on our back. There's nowhere to hide. They'll find us anyway. Those guys will fuck us up, man. These lazy ass bastards perfectly deserve what they have right now. Their leaders, every single one of them, shit to the very core. Filippinos have been freed from colonialism 400 years ago. How long do they need to get their shit together? This country's having on thieves, that's what I say. Thieving officials, Thieving workers... Thieving streetpunks, even professors. Fucking thieves disguising as intellectuals. Intellectual, my ass. You dumb Asian nigger. Oh yeah, these perverts love to take it up the ass. Assfucking motherfuckers. This whole dog island is tearing itself apart. That's where I come in. Oh yeah, you like it, bitch? Bury your ugly face on the floor. And take all of me. Sing hallelujah. Worship me. Motherfucker. We're sticking to our plan. Just watch. Check the place. You never know, Whiteboy might aswell be fucking someone. Friend. Luckily we didn't go inside. A cop. Wait. Are you out of your mind? We've talked about it. We don't do anything. Or they'd bust us. But don't worry, we'll get our revenge. Just not right now. Sgt.pepper has nine daughters No Junior. He's so lonely. Sgt.pepper perfect father No Junior. He's so lonely. He's been waiting so long for a son. A son who can become a police officer. Prayed time and time again in the delivery room. But he's being thwarted by fate. sgt.pepper has nine daughters. No Junior. He's so lonely. Pablo Shoeshine Make my live shine. Pablo Shoeshine Please fix your own shoes. Water! Water! Water! Maria, come outside! Are you gonna pay me or what? Or do I have to rent my appartment to someone else? Do you call this shithole an appartment? You're pretending it's a 5 star hotel. When will you pay me? I've told you, next month. My son needs medicines. That's what you tell me every month. It's been going on for 7 months already. Your debt's as big as your gut. Do you have shit in your ears? I told you I'm paying next month. I've just told you my son needs medicines. Are you gonna get bigmouthed with me? Don't even dare raising your voice against me, filthy slut. What did you say? Aren't your children bastards? Where are their fathers? I see you're pregnant again. Who's the lucky guy this time? Fuck off. That's none of your business. Naty. Come here. Want some coffee? Thank you. How's your little brother? It's his own fault. That's what you get. Why did you call me? I thought about what you said yesterday. You need money for your trip to Japan, right? Yes, that's right. And you can help me, baby? Fuck off. It's time someone taught you a lesson. Yeah, I know someone who likes you. Really? Who? - Just, someone. That sounds quite exciting. You're leaving my house immediately! If you're still here tomorrow I'll tear the roof off! I'll help you burn it down. Fuck off, cunt! I fixed my hair after a rather long journey. I fixed my hair after a rather long journey. Life is meaningless. Until meaning reveals itself. The story has no story. Since my forefathers, we've been a nation of warriors. We fight for ourselves and for those who can't fight. That's why I joined the police force. That's why my father joined the police force. And my grandfather. And my brothers and uncles. They were soldiers or cops. If it was up to me, we'd drag all those faggots to an island. An island surrounded by sharks We wouldn't feed them. And they could suck each other as much as they like. They could fuck each other to death. Escape would mean being eaten alive. The world would really benefit from that. Goddamnit. Daddy, what are you doing here? - I'm going to come. What are you doing with my Junior? Fuck's sake. Arson really isn't complicated. The trick is to let the fire start a little further. Make a path with gasoline. From a distance to your house. That's how you win the insurance jackpot. I'm right, right? Twenty houses further. A little gasoline, a match. And the fire is unstoppable. If you use enough gasoline, it'll be ablaze in no time. But be careful. Everyone wants to take advantage of your money. Fuck, man. Heavy. Right? You know what I mean. You're so hot, Mother Mariya. Go on! Why did you hit me? You're so horny, filthy slut. Oh, you're so good, go on. Oh Mariya, you're so beautiful. You're old but not worn out. Come on, faster. Wait, wait. I'm almost coming. Friend. Who's the dumbest fuck in the entire world? That's Bush. No, idiot... Obama then? No, man, the dumbest fuck in the entire world is a Filippino. You mean Willie Revillame! Are you uncircumcised? Did you go to school? Is it Marcos? Still not good, man. Well, just say it then. Giving up? Just say it. Ninoy Aquino, man. Why Ninoy? Cause he said... "Filipponos are worth dying for." What the hell are we talking about, man? And where've you been? You're not interested in us at all, huh? You're always off somewhere. You only think about yourself, huh? Did you steal this? Don't think I can bail you out when you get busted. I'm warning you. If you get caught, I'm letting you rot in jail. Hello Goodbye, Hello Goodbye. Goodbye poverty, pretentious five peso coin Goodbye bitterness, goodbye stomp in your gut Goodbye sorrow, goodbye ceased pubes Goodbye corruption, goodbye kite of the earthquake Goodbye anger, goodbye broken branches Goodbye sickness, goodbye pain Goodbye hunger, run away at dawn Goodbye alcohol, goodbe drunkness Hello goodbye Goodbye darkness, goodbye hunger Goodbye greed, goodbye flies Goodbye stench, goodbye nightmares Goodbye blood, goodbye green shadow Goodbye trash in the streets Goodbye strayed drugs Goodbye noise, goodbye silence Goodbye horn, erased Hello goodbye Goodbye loveless love, tragedy of the ring Goodbye fake smile Goodbye rough tongue devoured by smoke Goodbye satisfaction, signature of a murderer Goodbye chaos in your heart Goodbye piece of broken skull Goodbye pain in your joints Goodbye torched roof Hello goodbye Hello goodbye Hello goodbye Hello goodbye Hello goodbye Hello goodbye
