 

                        # My bills are all due and my baby needs shoes # # And I'm busted # # Cotton is down to a quarter a pound # # But I'm busted # # Gotta a cow that went dry and a hen that won't lay # # A big stack ofbills that gets bigger each day # # The county's gonna haul all my things away # #'Cause I'm busted # # They got the change of a nickel,y'all # - # Busted # - # Hey # #I've been to my brother just to ask for a loan # # 'Cause I was busted # # Said I hate to beg like a dog without a bone # - # But I'm busted # - # Oh, well, well, well # - # My brother said # -# Hey, there ain't a thing I can do # - # Well # - # My wife and my kids are all down with the flu # - # Said it's true # -# And I was just thinkin'about calling on you # # 'Cause I'm busted # # 'Cause # # Well, I am no thief but a man can go wrong # # When he's busted # # Well, you know the food that we canned last summer is gone # # And I'm busted # # See the fields are all bare and the cotton won't grow # # Me and my family gotta pack up and go # # I'll make a living Just where I don't know # # 'Cause I'm busted, oh # # Oh, I'm busted # Tired of being busted all the time. # I need some money Yeah # # Oh, money # # My bills are all due My baby needs shoes d # And I'm busted d # Sent out of town like a dog without a bone # # 'Cause I'm busted # # I try and I try but still nothing gets paid # # That big stack of bills gets bigger each day # # They're trying to take everything I own away # # Yeah # # 'Cause I'm I'm busted # # Without a dime # Yeah, 42 We're en route to Atlantic City Check, 42. You're running behind schedule. # don't have a dime # # No money # # So broke # Shipside orders, three plus one. - Jimmy O'Connor and Timmy O'Connor. - Here - Wilhelm. - Right Chilled cargo, containers. Camden Marine terminal. - Rivera. - Yeah - Hoffman. O'Hara and Wolkin. Hanratty. - Yeah - Eddie - Uh-huh. - Rudolph. Jackson - Yeah. Final call. Concentrated O.J., six plus one. - Benvenutti. McClaghan. - Yo. - Jefferson. - Yeah. Dunleavy - Whoa, there you go See what clean livin' can do? - Shut up You,Joey NotJoey Coyle Joey Sullivan Come on - Let's go, Sully. All right, that's it today. - That's two weeks almost we ain't workin' I can do twice the work of that old geezer Sullivan, so he must got somethin' on you, right? Yeah, he's got four kids he's gotta feed That's what he's got on me Come on, find me a slot Pad a gang if you have to Half a day You ain't gonna put me to work, you know, front me some cigarette money Hey, a man who can't buy his own cigarettes, shouldn't be smokin', should he? You-You always get philosophical on me when you don't gimme work Come on, William I got so many holes in my shirt, when I walk down the street, I hum Hey, little brother! Tuna fish? What do you want from me? Tell it to Eleanor I'll see you later How's it goin'? What? Are we lost or what? - Jesus, man - Shortcut to the new highway - Joe, what do you want to do now? - Same thing we always do: Drive around all day with our dicks in our hands This is gettin' boring, you know - dd - Joey, my father don't want nobody smokin' in this car I'm glad we're clearin' this up Damn lighter don't work no how - Yeah - Got my half of that sandwich? Take the big piece dd Joe, there's more celery in this than tuna You know what I don't understand. Your own brother can't even give us a Job That's Billy Always got to prove to everybody that he's fair all the time It's like- It's like a-acute integrity, you know what I'm sayin'? Fuckin' wearin' me out It's not my fault if the city don't fix the roads dd Things'll get better,Joe You know? Things always get better Before you know it, we'll be eligible for retirement Down at Atlantic City sippin' on margaritas or something Yeah Forty years'll go by in no time Hey, pull over That thing there It might make a good toolbox - It's a piece of crap - Pull over Stop the car Come on, stop the car! Joey, hurry up and get your little box, all right? Move it! Go! Go! - I thought you wanted that stinkin' box - The hell with the box Joey, what the fuck are you doin'? - Joey, what the hell you got? - Somethin' on its way to Trump TaJ Mahal in Atlantic City - What is it? - 12 million 12 million what? Hey,Joey,Joey, that's my mom's crucifix - She'd be- - Aaah Joey, is that real? That looks like it's real,.Joey.! Wow! Wow! Wow! Don't-Don't touch it,.Joey. You don't wanna get your fingerprints on it. Okay? Don't touch the money. It's all- It's all hundred dollar bills I think these are unmarked! - You don't find that kind of money Just lying on the street - I Just did - It don't belong to us - Finders, keepers, Kenny Joey, look at the bag It says "Property of the Federal Reserve" - That makes this a federal offense. - Kenny, think about it - Did we hurt anybody? - No Did we steal it from anybody? No Are we giving it back? Hell, no! Possessin is nine-tenths of the law You know what I'm sayin'? It's-It's their negligence It's their- Oh, ah, 11:00, 11:00.! - Shit,.Joey. - Drive straight. Drive straight. We're busted,.Joey. - If we're caught, we're busted. - Don't drive slow. - Don't drive slow - I'm not,Joe Joey, I ain't gonna be nobody's cell bitch for a sack of dough What the hell are you doin'? Are you insane? There are cops back there Joey, listen to me We walk over to the cops We say, "Cops, look what we found" We give 'em the money. You know there's gonna be a big reward. Then we'll be big heroes and we'll be big shots. All right? We'll be the guys who found the money Kenny, who wants to be famous for being stupid? - Kenny, Kenny, we're keepin'the money. - You're keepin' the money,Joe Kenny, you're gonna regret this for the rest of your life - Half of it's yours Drive the car - Shut up! All right This is what's gonna happen I never gave you a ride home I never saw that money, all right? I want you to swear on your father's grave that whatever happens, I'm not involved I swear to you, Kenny - Please drive the car! Fuck it - Joey, get out of my car. I'll see you later - Hi,Joey - How ya doin', Mrs Breen? Anybody home? Is that you,.Joey? - Yeah, Ma - I thought I heard you come in. I could do with a hand to carry in the laundry upstairs. Be right down, Ma - You look worried - No work Well, it'll pick up Your father always used to say "Theresa, someday our ship is gonna come in. And when it does, wejust have to be careful we're not at the airport. " You worried about money,Joey? - No - You sure? Yeah I'm all right Really - Sure you're all right - Ma. Ma. Ma. - Take Monica to the movies - Mom Ma Yeah, yeah, yeah Me and Monica, we're all done Well, then you're gonna need it when you get back together again Yes, yes Joey, what happened to the bedspread? I put it outside in the thing when I was doin' the other thing Let me help you with the laundry - Somethin' fell What fell? - My key Lick your fingers,Joey! This is your lucky day Ninety-one, clear. I watched them secure the doors No way those bags could've Just dropped off So do you mind telling me where they are now? Do you have any clue where they went? Did theyjust fly away? Pat Laurenzi, South Detectives It's been 48 minutes - since I placed the call. - How much money's missing? $12 million Are these the two drivers in question? He's the driver I'm the hopper Hopper What is that? Do you hop around? - I hop out and get the money while he wait in the truck - Detective Laurenzi I don't want tojump to any conclusions before... you complete your investigation But our equipment is inspected on a weekly basis This obviously involves human error or criminal conspiracy Did the alarm malfunction? The door's locked. The men carry guns. An alarm system would be an unnecessary redundancy See, this never would've happened if you hadn't cut us back We used to have a third man ride in the back - Lock me in Yeah - Lock you in? I ask for a detective They send Houdini Okay The trucks they give us ain't fit to carry clothes to the Salvation Army You're terminated Both of you I'm on the Job 14 years when you still in school It was Just me, your father and two Puerto Ricans and a converted milk truck Look, I got a family to support I'm 52 years old I can't go and start knockin' on doors now You should've thought of that before you fucked up. In our top local story tonight, Liberty Bell Courier announced $12 million fell out of the storage compartment from one of their armored trucks during a delivery run. Did I hear that right? A million bucks fell off a truck? Our reporter Lois Bowden filed an earlier report from South Philadelphia where police are concentrating their efforts to recover the lost loot - Losing $ 1.2 million isn't as easy- - Anybody want more fish? - But it can happen - Joey, shhh, I wanna hear this Standing beside me is Steve Hrbek, vice president of Liberty Bell Courier Mr Hrbek, how could this happen? I can't give any reason for this unfortunate mishap. I can only say that something went seriously wrong. - I'll say - Even though they are rare, you find that incidents... like these do occur in our business. Usually the money is recovered before the story hits the evening news but obviously in this case, that didn't happen. Is there anything you'd like to say to the person who found the money? It's not yours Give it back Reporting from South Philly, this is Lois Bowden, Channel Five news. In other news, 60% of Philadelphians we polled... said they would leave the City of Brotherly Love, if given a chance. Who conducts all these polls, hmm? Nobody ever asks my opinion That dumb S.O.B. who found that money... - he don't even know what he's in for - What's an SOB? - Never mind - Well, lucky stiff He did no more than the politicians He picked up his. They got theirs handed to 'em. It ain't against the law to find money. - It is to keep it - What are you talkin' about? Happens all the time down at the docks, right? Guys tryin'to take home unclaimed merchandise. - They're always doin'it when no one's lookin'. - Burn 'em at the stake - You don't understand anything, you know that? - No You don't take something if it's not yours You Just don't A lot of people got money problems, they don't steal This guy, he finds this money Pennsylvania law says if you find somethin'worth over $200 and you don't try to return it... you're committing a crime, same as stealin' And you get up to five years in prison You get five years? Yeah, for findin' some money What are you, the attorney general? If I found that loot... all them garbage cans up there, I wouldn't have to be pickin' out of'em no more I'd order me up limousines two feet longer than anybody else's I'd build me a house way up on top of the hill And they'd say, "Man, you live up there?" I'd say, "Yeah, I live up there" They'd say, "How you live way up there?" I'd say, "Man, it could happen to any of us" - You know what I mean? Heck, yeah - That's a hundred dollar bill Whoa! If I found a million dollars, I'd buy more shoes than Imelda Marcos - The rest I'd probably waste - Not me I got a condo I can't sell The bank's gonna repossess it I got a Porsche I can't drive The insurance is too high I got a girlfriend who likes to drive through the south of France and drink ten dollar cappuccinos If I found a million dollars, I'd put it up as collateral to get out of debt - then borrow more money. - dd There's a gentlemen staring at you - Oh, yeah? - I think so Do you know what you could buy for $12 million? - I'm gonna come back and have a drink later - Okay Could I have a vodka and cranberry? Stoli, with three limes I was sitting here a minute ago - Can I get a Rolling Rock? - We only carry imported - All right, run a tab. - Okay I need a credit card I'm applyin' for one It's okay dd How's everythin' goin' at the bank? Joe, get it right We're not a bank We're an investment firm - I thought we decided not to see each other anymore - Yeah, we did Come on, Monica, I know you think I'm here- I don't need a glass I know you think I'm gonna try to talk you into sleeping with me And that we're gonna get back together and then we're gonna break up It's gonna be a mess I just need your help... in an area of your expertise. Expertise in what,Joe? Money Money? Here's a question, seriously Is there a way for a guy like me, a guy who's stuck to walk into your firm and invest a big chunk of change? A million cash,you know. Whatever. What kind of questions are they gonna ask? What kind of questions? They'll need to see picture ID, your social security number - That's all I need? - If it's less than $10,000 Anything in excess, we're required to notify the Treasury Department Is there a way for me, you know, and you maybe, to move around the commas and the zeroes so that the IRS doesn't find out about it? Joe, a guy like you is never gonna walk into my office with a million cash All right I mean, who you kidding? Look at you, you're still wearin' the same clothes as the last time I saw you Check, please - I got it - No, no, it's on me That'll be $975 Hey, you know, some money fell off an armored truck There's a police alert now for suspicious characters spending hundred dollar bills If Joey Coyle has a hundred dollar bill, you can rest assured it's his last one He's a good lookin' guy, that guy You know that guy? dd Can I get a pack ofTareytons? Can you make it two? So, what do you think? Do you think this guy's gonna make it? - I hope so, but half the town is looking for him. - Yeah - Well, he better go to the other half - Yeah. $5.20. - Keep the change - Thanks Hey, here go that guy who gave us that money. - Hey, man Come on, man - No, I'm all right dd dI heard my father say I'd never come to much dd I think if I found that money, I'd give it back. You know what my horoscope said today, Bobby? It said, "Beware of strangers bearing gifts because what is free is too expensive" Ain't no missin' money Government's so deep in debt, they arrange an accident money fallin' out of the back of an armored truck so they can bail out the S & L's - Hey,Joey - Hey, Lindey Did Dino make his run tonight? You lost too, huh? Everybody took the Sixers with the points - I need a Rolling Rock - If I found that million, I'd go to the dentist. Then, I'd get rid of that horrible rug in the den But, first, I'd go to the dentist Joey, treatin'yourself royally on my money? - Your money? - My money. You owe me at least a full tank of gas for all them rides home from the dock,.Joe.! You hit me up for a ten-spot the last time you took out your bitch - Whoa Her name's Monica - All right Thank you Really Dino - Hello, Lindey - Yo Bud Light Hey, Dino, I got that ten-spot I lost on the game. Hey, Lindey! So, what would it cost to buy the house a drink? What are you gonna use for money, deutsche marks? Like I was saying, how much is it gonna cost... to get everybody in this bar so drunk they're pissin'out their ears? - Four hundred bucks. - Four hundred bucks? Everybody? Everybody, including me! All right, then, there's gonna be no more bitchin' about this man Dino Palladino How he comes in here every night and he books your bets and... - he doesn't pay off because I'm livin' proof - C-notes. Not even Atlantic City can provide what Dino Palladino provides to the South Philly gamblin' community - All right,.Joey. - Put your money away. All right, comin' up Who's next? No loyalty You bet against our Sixers? Ah, it wasn't B-ball Picked a pony - It's a pony - A pony? Yeah - You and me - Let's not panic Lorraine, take care of those guys - What do you got? Two Bud's - Talk to me, baby I need a fresh beer. - Lock the door - Go - Let's see it - Go, go! - Let me see it - Go Joe, listen I know mooks that have spent their whole lives trying to figure out a way to pop an armored car In my book, I look up to you All right, so we're just gonna walk in we're gonna launder it, and we're gonna walk out That's right You'll get it tonight,Joe Tonight And now, you gotta do me a favor When we walk in there, let me handle it... 'cause I've done it before I've done all this shit before so let me handle it Don't bullshit me, all right? You ain't never even seen $12 million before tonight Why you come to me? Huh? I mean, go to Monica Go to your girl. She works in a bank You walk in that place with that kind of money, they'll handcuff you to a desk I came to you Okay? No one saw you picking it up? Right? You and me are the only ones that know about this Piece of cake So, when I swap the hundreds, I'm gonna get back tens, fifties, anything I want? - I-It's gonna be okay with this guy? - The guy's loaded He collects every bet in South Phil What else do you want,Joe? - Is that his car? - Yeah, one of them He's a real connoisseur - Yeah, he knows his shit, huh? - Yeah - Joey,Joey, gimme a minute - In here or out there? - You want me to walk around? Stay put - No, no S-Stay put So, are we gonna go out tonight? - Yeah, we'll go to Angelo's - Mr Goldoni? - I brought the guy that found the Liberty Bell money. - Where is he? He's right over there Yeah, maybe Nevada is but we're not Nevada here. - That's himJoseph - Bring him in the office - Five and a half to five on the play-offs? - Move to even - He's close to clean - Cover. Yeah, this is Corky The thing is what it is - You keep four,.Joe. - Slow down Slow down You're gonna break the sound barrier Now, for every 400,000 I give you, what are you prepared to give me? For every four you give us, we give you back three Joe, he's giving you $300,000 - I'm giving him four Joe, it's not a matter of... what you want us to give you, it's how much you wanna give us Now, I'll tell you what. For the 1.2, I'll give you back a million. That way you save 100,000 Yeah, but if 12 costs two, how come four costs one? You keep four,.Joe.! I take eight, give you back seven out of the eight, same as I would three out of four It's the same thing I- I-I don't get it Really, I don't You get it? He's taking one from four He's not taking anything from the eight except his vig of his first four - It's pretty clear - I don't get it. I'm sorry. Is that how much I'm gonna give you or how much you're gonna give me? In terms of empathy, in the sense of putting oneself inside the skin of another person, I admire that man He was an inventor. He had imagination. He was a bit of a fatso, but he was sexually active And of... all of the Founding Fathers whose faces appear on hard currency he's the only one cracking a smile; Ben Franklin Why's Ben smilin'? He was smart enough not to be president He lived in a tree house for a period of time,.Joe. What are you tal- What are you talking about? What has this got to do with launderin' my money? He was a playful man He flew a kite - What was on the end of Ben Franklin's kite, historically? - A piece of string String What was on the end of the string? - Dino? - A kite? A key A key A key! Exactly He caught lightning in a bottle! The same way you did,Joe The same way you did. That doesn't happen to too many people in their lifetimes, but it happened to you Think about it. What are you gonna do? You can give us the money and spend it while you're young, enJoy it Or you can dig a hole, stick it in... and hope that it's still there when you dig it up. It's up to you. We do this tonight It's the weekend It'll take maybe two, three-three days at the most Three days? - Three days It's not like a week - He said we could do it in one night - That's a lot of money to count - Joe, there's only six here - Where's the rest? - You said we could do this in one night - You said you were bringing 12 - So what, that's my business - So what? It's my business - It's my business - Shut up! - Shut up - You shut up Okay, the man has a right to be cautiousJoe you give us the six tonight, we'll give you back the five, then we repeat the process So I get my first five before I get you your second six? That's the deal That's it - Okay,Joe Okay - Done Now, is there anything you want,Joe? Anything you need? Tuna, anything? No, no, I'm not hungry Uh, I Just gotta get home - Gotta get home? - Yeah Dino, give him your shit box It's a Cadillac Take care of my money. - Let's check this area - I already checked it Well, check it again If I found that kind of money, you'd never hear from me again Twenty-four hours - and not a single clue. - That's because $10,000 isn't enough reward You might not catch the guy who stole the money... but you'll probably get his neighbor This is South Philly, Mr Hrbek If you weren't familiar with the neighborhood, you wouldn't even know that street existed If somebody in one of those row houses got $12 million believe me, they're gonna talk to somebody Is that how you solve crimes in South Philly, Detective? Waiting around for the crook to tell the wrong person? You know somethin'? You guys are in business because people can't be trusted And if we don't find that money to everyone's satisfaction you might not be in business for too much longer Now, both your drivers passed their polygraph test with flying colors And the insurance company knows that the accident happened due to equipment malfunction so you can forget about a settlement Raise the reward It costs money to find money Mr Hrbek I'll double the reward $20,000 is still below the going rate of a row house Well, I'm not familiar with the price of real estate in South Philly Well, maybe you should read up on it You come up with 50 grand, somebody's gonna talk No, no, the reward stays at 20 - You guys are still issued rotary phones? Yeah, you Just put your finger in the little hole around the number and drag it around It takes a little longer but it still works Thank you Ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen Monica Hey,Joe Get in El D Real leather seats You're doin' good,Joe Comin' up in life, huh? It's a nice car I've been doin' some thinkin' I want you to be straight with me on somethin' - Will you do that for me? - I think that's always best Now, nobody died in your family, so I know you didn't inherit any money - No, everybody's healthy - I'm glad to hear it And I checked the paper You didn't win the lottery No, I wouldn't waste my money on a government racket Uh-huh And you're not a big gambler Here and there, a little bit, you know Joe, I want you to do me a favor Yeah? Can you show me what $12 million looks like? I could arrange that It's like you dream of somethin'like this happenin' and then it happens... - and-and you feel numb, you know what I mean? - Mm-hmm. Think about it, whatever you need, like medical, take care of your family. I mean, even after that, you know, anything. Anything that needs to be done... can now be done I mean, that'll really work on your brain, you know what I mean? I mean, what'd you want? Anything in the worid Where do you wanna go? - To Paris for breakfast? Anything, it doesn't matter - I would love to go on vacation with you Now we can go to the Caribbean, you know Take one of those cruise ships - Yeah - Take some mambo classes Two hundred extra for mambo And we could use some new clothes to go on the trip with, you know Yeah You need some clothes - Not the five and dime, come on - Oh, she wants the top of the line Yes, I do And, you know, I've always wanted to continue my education - College? - Mm-hmm - That's gonna take money - Yes, it will That's for college And this is for uh, for uh, your-your breeding and your grades Excuse me? Look who's talking God, you know, I thought I had a decent Job taking home $350 a week Yeah I'd be, I'd be a grandmother by the time I earned $12 million You'd think a life's worth of toil would amount to more than this, you know - And all this is only half the money - Half? - Yeah - Where's the other half? It's bein' washed Washed? Yeah Washed - As in laundered? - Yes, as in hand-washed, laundered So we can spend it while we're young That's the idea Who did you give the rest to? A friend Someone I know? You might Who,Joe? - I went to Catholic school with him - You went to Catholic school with 400 people. Don't tell me Dino Not Dino Palladino The one and only So, he's the only one who knows besides you and me? - Except for Kenny - You told Kozlowski? Kenny was there when I found it Dino doesn't know because Kenny says he wasn't there You know what I'm sayin'? That's Just great,Joe So, it's Just, you know, basically, Dino, Kenny, me and you - This is great - Where you goin'? Look, I'm not stickin' around when Dino and his boys come for the rest of it Those guys will slit your throat for five bucks Those guys are businessmen like everybody else - Yeah, right - All right,you're so smart... I come to you for advice the other day and you wouldn't even give me the time of day What are you gonna do if a million-two drops in your lap and you gotta change it? I'll tell ya what I wouldn't do I wouldn't give $600,000 to some small-time hustler,Joe And I wouldn't go spend a fortune to show off to some girl who already gave up on you. You're saying you're only here with me 'cause of the money? Good-bye,.Joe. - Hey, you kids Hey, wait a minute! - Cops! Come on, let's go! Hey, come here! Hey, come on back.! - Oh, hey, hey, hey, come here - No Relax You wanna wear these? Gimme that You got a hunting license, son? You don't need a license to hunt rats Well, I guess you've never heard of the Endangered Species Act? - It was only a rat - Well, I Just seen another dead rat right over there - Were you around here on Friday? - No, I was in school studyin' - Oh, yeah, I bet you were - I was I don't think so You saw a yellow metal tub fall off the back of an armored truck? - I didn't see squat - Put it this way You tell me what you saw, I'll give your bow back If you don't, I'm gonna break it I might've seen someone pick up somethin' that don't belong to him Was he tall? Short? Thin? Fat? Blue? Green? - He was a regular-lookin' white dude - Like somebody from the neighborhood? - Yeah, I might've seen him before - What kind of car was he drivin'? Shitty Gray fender needed paint Chevy Chevelle - A shitty Chevy Chevelle? - Yeah You sure about that or you Just guessin'? Of course I'm sure I spent all winter sleepin' in back of one Get outta here - Loose in front.! Score.! - Yes.! Brind' Amour.! - You weren't there, remember? - Joey, this has turned into a big deal - You saw the papers? - Yeah, but it's okay - The priest is talkin' about it in his sermon - It's a moral issue Murray the cakeman keeps talkin' about they're gonna catch you this weekend - He said they're gonna catch "the guy" this weekend - Forget about the cakeman You Just need a drink You need to relax Drink up Lindey! - This thing is makin' my stomach hurt - Coyle.! - Buy me a drink - Yeah,Joey, buy us a drink - Two more - With all your winnings? - What is he talkin' about, "winnings"? - Uhhh - He's Just bustin' my balls - So why you buy him a drink? - 'Cause he's an asshole - So you buy him a drink? - What is that? - Tequila - What do I care? - Ohhh, tequila - Happy days - Salud. - Ahhh You're beautiful,Joe - Yeah Joe? I'm curious What race was it that you won your money? - Why you curious? - Relax - What race was it? - Uh, it was the seventh at Philly Park What was the name of the horse? - Nice - Dumb Luck - Lindey, you got Friday's race results? - Yo. - I can fish it out of the garbage. - Why you bustin' my balls? I want to pin it up Look at this, 20,000 Twenty-thousand reward. I find a million-two, I'm gonna give it up for 20 grand? - I don't think so - What was that? The seventh race at Philly Park? - Yeah - Dumb Luck? That's the horse Joe, there ain't no horse named Dumb Luck You can't believe everything you read in the newspapers Joe, I usually believe it when they're payin' me off You know, I think it's some sort of strange typo or somethin' They don't have any typos in the racing section How could 22 guys take a leak at the same time? - Prostate, maybe - Guess it must be goin' around - A hundred dollar bill I'm looking for 12,000 of these - You know, it's funny but I seen Ben Franklin standing out by the Liberty Bell and he was handin'out hundred dollar bills to every tourist in town. Dunleavy, let's not make a hero out of a jerk. What makes you think the guy who found the money's a Jerk? 'Cause he's got the cops lookin' for him You wouldn't happen to know where he is? - We should tell 'em He's gonna find out anyway - You wanna know who found it? It's Kozlowski - That him? - That's him right there. Is it true what they say? - You know about the money? - If I found the money, I'd give it back Yeah, yeah I believe maybe you would - Yes, I would - You must be the only one around here that would I would I got an idea that whoever found that money is from this neighborhood. Maybe it's someone that everyone knows. Well, here's my card Anybody wants to talk - Anybody? - Yeah, I'll take one You never know. - Why- Why'd you take his card? - Shut up Joe. Somethin' I can do for you? - Joe, you owe me - What do you call that? - Call it what you want. - You gonna keep your mouth shut? Yeah - Hold on, hold on Wait 'til he leaves - Why'd you give him the money? - He Just left - Why did you give him the money? Just sit down - Kenny, Kenny - I wasn't gonna be involved Now, you're draggin' me down Nobody is goin' down, all right Nobody's goin' down! - No- - Way to go,JC You neglected to mention the Chevelle Joey, he knows about my father's car? - You got this idiot involved with me? - I'm not- - I had nothin' to do with it - Shut up! Shut up! Will you fuckin' relax? We're in the street and there was a cop in there - It's all over the radio - What? - The Chevelle Shut up! - You got my father's car on the radio? - The keys. - You got my father's car on the radio,.Joe? - My father's car is on the radio? - Gimme the keys - Gimme the keys. - The radio's broken in the house - They don't listen to the radio. - Joe, gimme the keys. All right We're gonna get the car painted Yeah, we're gonna make it look brand new Joe, gimme the keys Joey, gimme the keys! What the hell are you- No I don't believe this You said that I wasn't gonna be involved with this - Joey, there ain't no paint shop around here - Go and pull over - Joey, where's the paint shop? - Kill the engine Joey, what are we doin'? Please, kill the engine I'm gonna make it up to you Joey, this is my father's car I'll buy him ten new ones - Open the door! - No.! - Kenny, get out of the car. - I'm not gettin' out of the car You wanna go tojail? You wanna see your father go tojail? Get out of the car. - No! - You're gonna suffocate in there How am I gonna get a paramedic out here during a football game? Get out of the car - No. - You get out of the car, you big dumb Polack! - I'm not gettin'out.! - Get out, Kenny.! Kenny, I'm not playing with you. Get out of the car right now.! It's not a game.! He's locked in, huh? I'll show you how to get him out of the car - I'll show you. - It's my problem. I'm takin'care of it. - He can't go nowheres I got the keys - I got no time to breast-feed this motherfucker - Hey, come on, whoa What-What are you gonna do? - I'll give him a haircut - That's about it - It's my problem I'm gonna take care of it Take care of it I'll give you five seconds One Mississippi two Mississippi three Mississippi four- Go on Take care of it No,.Joe. Aaah.! Joe.! Don't.! Aaah.! Joe.! I'm gettin'out. - Don't hit me Don't hit me - Get out.! Hey, Dino, you got any idea when my money's gonna be ready? Fuck You were in the room What did he say? - That's tomorrow night - That's right. Now remember, to get the five for six... you need to change the whole 12 Say that again To get the five for six, you need to change the whole 12 That's the deal you made That's exactly not the deal I made - That's the deal- - You tell me to my face that that's the deal I made - Say it right to my face, "That's the deal you made" - That's the deal you made Joe, you lied to me You lied to me about the car You lied to me about douche bag there I mean, what the fuck do you think I do for a living, sell shoes? Come on This is serious shit These people are not to be fucked with Now, I don't wanna see you at Dempsey's or anywhere else You're gonna go home, lock the door, draw the curtains and stay home,Joe And then tomorrow, bring the other six,Joe You got it? It's all clear - Is somebody there? - Yeah, Ma Joey What time is it? What are you lookin' for? - I was Just rustlin' through some of Dad's stuff - Come here. Sit down You know,Joe, your father, he misses you very much Look at you You don't take care of yourself I'm all right, Ma Just a little worn out - Mmm - So, how do you know he misses me? We communicate You do? We still talk All the time Has he said anything about me lately? He knows exactly what's goin' on with you,Joey He didn't tell you how it was gonna turn out did he? Do you think Dad would be happier if we moved him out that that scummy cemetery out there under that freeway? And we move him out in the country, you know? Someplace nice With some birds and some trees, you know A river Somethin' Joey whatever you're gonna give your father, you already gave him while he was still alive. Do you need anything, Ma? No, thanks, son - I gotta go out. - Mmm - Boo! Got you! - Jesus Christ! - What are you doing in there? How'd you get in there? - I picked the lock - Why'd you go in there? What are you lookin' for? - I was Just playing a trick Get outta here Don't do that sort of thing! Stay outta my room! - What's the matter? What did you do? - I didn't do anything Tell her to stay outta my room.! All right? - Get out, you hog You been in there for an hour - I'll be out in a minute. - Come on, Kate Cut it out I'm comin' out right now Hurry up - You gonna forgive me? - No - You sure? - Stop it All right, all right Just quit bugging me Geez! Damn it! - Whoa! - My god! Joey!Joey, what happened? Are you hurt? Joey Joey, did you find the Liberty Bell money? - Mom, look It's a real hundred dollar bill Did you find that money,Joey? What does it look like? - You been lying to us? - I did not lie I Just didn't tell the whole truth So what are you all lookin' at? Here, Billy Here That'll fix the ceiling Billy, redo the entire house And pay off the mortgage Here, let's buy Ma- Ma, we'll buy you a summer house on theJersey shore With your own private fishing boat. With your own private dock Katie.! Katie, Katie needs, uh... braces, right? And, uh, she wants, uh, a new bike And she wants to go to college I don't want to be rich if I have to go to school! Eleanor wants a new wardrobe and a new TV Go to Iowa and visit relatives you never even knew that you had Whoa W- W-W-Wait a minute We don't need no money that don't belong to us Let them talk! - I'll take the bike and a few hundred - No, you won't - Get in your room right now - She wants the bike! Joey, if the old man taught us anything he taught us you don't get somethin' for nothin', right? No such thing as a free lunch Then what's that in my hand, Billy? Billy, the old man is dead. Remember what it was like when he was alive? Remember that? Workin' 18 hour days, his hands all busted up He couldn't even make a fist Three, four glycerin tablets at a time to keep his heart pumpin'? - You remember that? Yeah? - Yeah, I remember And if you know what's good for you, you Just leave the old man out of this What good did it do him? What good did it do him? His son is drinkin' in the same bar stool that he was Joey, you're gonna clean this mess up and we're gonna go down there tomorrow morning and give that money back Give it back? What are you, nuts? What do you think I got to look forward to in my life? What? I measure my life in unemployment checks, Billy I'm 26 years old and I live in the same room right down the hall from my mom! What do I got to look forward to? What about my family? What about my future? I got nothin'! I can't even get my own goddamn brother to give me work! Shut up! Shut up! I do my best for you! - Yeah! - The best I can! - You son-of-a-bitch! - Hey, hey! Break it up! Break it up! - I'm keepin' the goddamn money! - You're givin' it back! - You are givin' it back! You hear me? - Eleanor! Stop it! - I ain't givin' shit back! - You son-of-a-bitch! Eleanor, take your husband to bed - You're givin' it back! - Shut up, Billy! Go to bed! You're givin'that money back.! I want you outta this house if you keep that money. Stop it! JoeyJoey, everybody needs money to live but not this kind of money No, Ma It's found money The answer to our prayers Your father used to say to me, "Be careful what you pray for You might get it" You gotta give this money back,Joey I ain't givin' it back I'll say a prayer for you,Joe And that's when I seen these guys push the car in the river How many? Two, three, four? Two, three, could have been more But it was definitely couple of few What did they look like? Bent noses Mobsters Guys that look like they're up to no good - Then what happened? - Then they left in a fancy Caddy That's the wrong car What? Oh, oh, oh! What do you- What do you- Excuse me! What do you mean "wrong car"? That's a Dodge We only pay for Chevelles What are you talkin' about? Where's my cash? - What? - My cash. My money. My reward. Take it up with Hrbek Liberty Bell You know, I took off from work to be here That's what I get for gettin' involved with cops? - Hey, frogman! - Yo. Right here - Monica! - Oh, god Discount from book on an IPO with great cash flow Sully and Sons wants to lay off half a million shares - Monica, are you listening to me? - I-IPO Great cash flow - Right Check and see if Sully settled on that last trade - Yeah Joe, if you're not here on business, I don't have time for this Miss Russo, I'd like to invest $600,000 'til later tonight Now, any interest you might make on that investment... is yours to keep Joe, it's taken me three years to go from receptionist to new accounts Get my own desk It's all clear now So in three more years you're gonna get a new desk that's gonna be five feet away And if you really kiss ass you're gonna get your very own key to the toilet Listen,Joe, I don't kiss ass I busted my ass to get where I am So don't be disrespectful Buy two first class tickets I don't care where Anywhere As long as it's out of the country What do you expect me to do? Risk my life for you? W- Where do you get off coming in here to my place of work? You're crazy Meet me at Dempsey's Bar at 11:00 Don't be late What if I don't show? Well, you'll be that much richer I love you, baby Monica, yes or no I'm still waitin' to hear on that Did Sully settle on that trade? - Maybe, maybe not - This kind of opportunity doesn't happen every day Busted windshield It's anybody's guess if it's a Chevelle You want me to bring it up? No, let's come back tomorrow Yeah, bring it up - How're doin',Joe? - Hi Hi,Joe How you doin'? You guys got my half mil broken down as agreed? Well, to get five for six, you gotta you gotta show me the second six first You're changin' the deal on me - No, we're not - Joe, let him see it Let him see it. What the fuck is this shit? JoeJoeJoe I want my money All I want is my money Just give me my money It's my money We're doin' you a favor What the hell are you doin'? Put that down - It's my money - All right Bring him his money Dino, bring him his money Every penny You know, the only real question with money is... do you posses it or does it posses you? Shut up And I don't wanna hear about Ben Franklin havin' sex in a tree house I think that, uh, the ink from the bills is seeping into your bloodstream,Joe And it's, it's... affecting your equilibrium. - Got your money,Joe - Put it on the ground Against the wall Get against the wall Put your hands against the wall Lie down Put your legs up in the air Nickels? Nickels? Quarters? You gave me quarters? Well, the deal was to break down the money,Joe You did not specify what denominations You evil son-of-a-bitch You give me my money or I'm gonna shoot you You're gamblin' with your life - Joe, don't be a punk, huh? - Legs up! They're up You're not gonna shoot me - How do you know? - Because if you shoot me... you got nothing, nothing You got 600,000 bucks squirreled away somewhere,.Joe. Go home Put the gun down,.Joe. You'll be able to carry more money. - Philadelphia police.! Open the door.! I was wonderin' when you were gonna get here - Don't Don't - You didn't do nothin'! What did you do to my car? - That's enough Leave him alone - Get outta here! - What did you do to my car? - It wasn't me! It was Joey! - Joey, who? - Answer his question - Answer it.! - Joey Coyle! It was Joey Coyle, Dad! - It was Joey Coyle! - Joey Coyle did it, huh? - Get in the house! - He made me do it Don't hurt me, Dad, please - I'm sorry, Dad! I'm sorry! - Go be sorry in the house! - I'm sorry.! - Get in the house.! Yeah,you'll be sorry. Joey Coyle found the money Hey! Joey Coyle found the money! Yo! Yo.!.Joey.! Monica show up? She don't come around much anymore We guarantee every day good rates, interest- - What time is it? Well I see All right Where you goin'? Come on, sit down. Have an eye-opener. Why not? Sure See if my brother wants a drink What are you gonna do, make phone calls here? Your brother wants to buy you a drink - What time did you say it was again? - Now? - Yeah - Now it's 11:32. There are developments tonight in the case of the missing armored car money Authorities are saying they're a step closer to recovering... $ 1.2 million that fell out of the armored truck... a few days ago near the Port of Philadelphia. - Now here's Lois Bowden with the latest details. - Standing next to me... is Steve Hrbek of Liberty Bell Courier. Steve, what can you tell us? I'd like to take this moment to officially increase the reward from $20,000 to $50,000 for any information leading to the capture and conviction of.Joseph.John Coyle. Again, the new reward tonight is $50,000. - Yeah, that's right $50,000 - Thank you, Mr Hrbek Right now, police aren't saying much about this man,.Joey Coyle... who they believe found the money. But they have released a police sketch of what he looks like. They're describing him as a white male... age 26, about six feet tall and weighing 190 pounds. Dark hair and a tattoo on his right bicep. If you have any information on the whereabouts of this man... you are asked to contact police. - Now back to you, Don - Thank you, Lois The police hot line number to call if you have any information... is 555-6023. In other news tonight, a massive relief effort is underway to help the victims of new flooding in Bangladesh. - Nearly 10,000- - Come on, everybody Belly up I'm buying Where is he goin'? I'm Ned Cochran. C- o... You can't do this You can't sell him out for money - c-h-r-a- - Gimme the phone Gimme the phone, man - You can't do this - $50,000 - buys us each our own row house - No! No! Where's your loyalty, Ned? Say it is so,Joey You are the greatest in the worid! Don't worry about it,Joe We'll keep you out of Jail You need a place to hide, you come stay with me anytime, huh? Unless you wanna come home with me,Joey Here's toJoey Coyle South Philly's favorite son Hey,.Joey, how 'bout a little? My wife's pregnant. All right, guys, get outta here. What time do you open- Aaah! Joey? Joey, are you hit? Get up Are you all right? - Are you all right? Answer me! - Yeah, yeah, yeah! - Hey, hey, he's down Forget it He's down Goddammit,Joey, goddammit! All right, go, you gotta go Go! Thanks Go I'll take care of this Be smart,Joey! That's him. Stop.! Here Keep the change - Joe! - You are late I'm sorry I'm so glad you're still here Where's the car? - There - You don't know what I had to go through to get the tickets - Yeah, blah, blah Where's the money? - You see, I got the money - We're going to Nassau first thing tomorrow morning - But where is the money? - It's in the suitcase - I can't go to Long Island I gotta get out of the country Nassau's in the Bahamas It is out of the country - It's got friendly banks too We need passports to get in - Friendly banks? I had to bribe my cousin Frankie to give me his - I need coffee - Look, give me the keys and I'll get you coffee - You need rest, baby - I don't need rest I need coffee Whatever you say Let's get out of here Come on I haven't slept in four days I need coffee - I'll buy you a double espresso - I don't need a double espresso, I need coffee The preferred weapon in South Philadelphia - Who's firin' off guns in the bathroom? - All I remember was a wham wham, wham That's about it - And then somebody smacked you in the head - Yeah - Who was it? - How the hell would I know? This kid Kozlowski, he says you know somethin' about it I don't know no K-Kowalski, Kozlowski I don't know no one He knows you And he said you pushed his car in the river What about it? Ow You know, I could nail you right now for car theft You got nothin' Me, Dino Palladino, says to you, you got nothin' Lindey, pour me a drink Gimme a C.C. Palladino Palladino - Is that with one "L" or two? - Two L's Your parent's used to have a grocery store on South Street, didn't they? My old man used to sell wholesale to that store. - You know me now? - Laurenzi? Yeah Yeah, he had the best ravioli in the city The very best, man - He sure did - That's funny - Drink up - Hmm Look, Laurenzi I didn't need this aggravation The putz came to me I swear on my mum Can we do a dance here? As long as I get all the money back there's no reason for me to bother you or any of your friends - No names - That's right No names - You Laurenzi? - Yeah You got a photo ID? I got somethin' for ya - Where is the coffee? - Come on, put your head up - Come on,Joe What's your name? - The fat man - What's your name? - Francis Santos - That's not your name - Francis Joseph Santos - Date of birth? - Uh, 5I9I68 - What's my cousin's date of birth? - 9I5I68 - Occupation? - I'm a money smuggler - Come on,Joe! Occupation! - Ow! I'm guy goin' on vacation! Look,Joe, come on Get it right, all right? I don't wanna get caught We got one shot here Where you goin'? You're not counting, are you? Monica, do not touch that money with your hands until we get the coffee I ordered Joe,Just shut up, all right? I gotta concentrate We got plans to make I gotta make the plans Monica? Don't count it again Don't do it Don't count it again Monica, Monica, Monica Five, eight, three, four, nine, three six, eight, two,you know what I'm sayin', I've been there. Joe, please You're makin' me lose my count, all right? Just order the coffee Hello, room service? What do you suppose it's going to take to get the coffee that I ordered? You know what I'm saying? Because, uh, we have to catch a plane and I can't go to sleep. What do I want with my coffee? Uh, a slice of hope Okay? - Just bring the coffee - Joe. You Just told 'em we're gettin' on a plane That was stupid We're in an airport hotel All right? Everybody here is getting on a plane If I didn't tell them I was getting on a plane they're gonna call cops and we're gonna have a cage in the lobby You know what I'm saying? So Just let me handle it Now Just,Just let me rest Joe Come on - We gotta rinse this stuff - In the morning - Come on, you gotta get up - Huh-uh Joe, come on - Is your scalp burning yet? - No. No, it feels natural. I don't want you to go bald Come on, stay up Come on, get up Keep me up Come on, get up Come on Get up Come on Get up Up Now Come on,Joe Where's my money? It's over there in the fridge You mind puttin' that shade back down? Money in the fridge In the fridge Here's money Feels light, though This is all of my money? In a plastic Hefty bag. The serial numbers are sequential This isn't the money that fell off my truck! You get money from the Mob, it's money that needs to be laundered Nobody ever said "wise guys" were dumb, Hrbek You can't allow them to get away with this What do you suggest we do, give it back? Go ahead Take it back It's f- $440,000- $440,000? I had $ 1.2 million. Where's the rest of my money? You know something, Hrbek? You're a real Jerk Laurenzi here Yeah, I'll be right there What's up? What, what? Who was that? Where you goin'? Laurenzi! Laurenzi, where you goin'? See Ben Franklin discover electricity at the Colonial Wax Museum See Ben Franklin discover electricity at the Colonial Wax Museum Uh, see Ben Franklin discover electricity at the Colonial Wax Museum See Ben Franklin discover electricity at the Colonial- Don't do this Don't do it, all right? You don't belong here, do you? That's all I'm saying That's all I'm saying, okay? Don't, don't do it It's not fair, all right? Get out of here Really - Joe, he's Just a guy in a costume - It's not fair This is Palladino's car They gotta be in there We got five international flights departing in the next hour We gotta move USAir to Nassau Yucatan Air to Cancun Air Luxembourg to Brussels USAir to Toronto And Air Roma to Frankfurt Thanks, Miss Russo May I see your passport, Mr Santos? - Date of birth, please? - 9I5I68 It's our custom in the Bahamas to put the day ahead of the month In the US, it's done the other way around - What month were you born? - Ninth month - Joe, tell him your birthday - Excuse me Who's Joe? Me I-I'm Francis Joseph Santos and she calls meJoe so I don't get her confused with her brother Frankie - What month were you born? - I was born in the ninth month of September on the fifth day of the year of our Lord, 1968 Okay Would you put your luggage on the scale, please? - It's a carryon - That's too big to take on board I'm gonna- I'm-I'm gonna go to the gift shop Mr. Dan Logan. Your party is waiting for you- Miss Russo Don't forget your tickets Thank you Carmine, you take Roma Vicki, Lux Air's down there I'm gonna be at Yucatan - Along with these candy items, could I get these hose, please? Out of $100 And, uh, these ten papers, please Okay, that's $488 Thank you very much Please do not leave... - personal belongings unattended. - Would you like your receipt? Unclaimed luggage will be removed by security. Philadelphia police Suspect not on Yucatan Still boarding Air Luxembourg, over. Air Roma's delayed. Engine trouble. Over. I'm goin' over to USAir right now - Where's the suitcase? - In just a moment... we will begin boarding USAir Flight 1727... service to Nassau, Bahamas. At this time, we would like to board families traveling with small children. Please step back Do you got any keys, jewelry, a watch maybe? It must be my earrings This happens all the time Okay - Can I give this to you? - I'm not sure. Why don't I let- - Thanks - There you go Now you Yeah,yeah, I have it. Take off the belt The plane is leaving soon You don't have to take that out of your pants right now Let me tell you somethin' One size does not fit all What are you talking about? I wear them all the timeJust deal with it I understand that you wear them and what I'm dealing with - You understand what I'm saying? - Joe, please Come on - Yo, yo, yo! Whoa, whoa, whoa! - Philadelphia police We are now ready to begin boarding USAir Flight 1727... service to Nassau, Bahamas. - Joe - USAir first class and Priority Gold members- - Can we go now? Is it all right to get on the plane - Yeah ...passengers with seat assignments in rows 15 through 30... you may now board through gate B-8. Here we go Ladies and gentlemen. This is the final boarding call for USAir Flight 74... service to Toronto, Canada. All passengers should be on board at this time. - Take the money - Why? - They're lookin' for me, ain't they? - Okay Ticket Okay. You're confirmed in 6-A. Thanks And 6-B, sir Everybody freeze Joseph John Coyle Turn around You're under arrest I'm Frankie Santos I'm a guy who's goin' on vacation - Joey! - Coyle! It's all over, babe Don't move Drop the bag, honey Put the bag down right now Drop the bag.! Right now.! Free money! Run,Joey! Run.! Joey, run.! Go.! I can't believe you Just did that Run,Joey! Where? Walk this way, Coyle. - How you feelin',Joe? - Feel pretty good A little tired, really Out of the way here, please Get airport security down here to clean all this up Yeah, airport security? Close off USAir concourse The entire concourse - .Joey.! They act like they all know you Yeah, it's a real freak show, huh? Joey, would you do anything differently next time? Yeah, I think I'd go red instead of yellow and definitely do the eyebrows .Joey, what advice would you give to somebody who found that much money? Eat a good breakfast It's gonna be a long day Hey, lady Were you with him when he found the money? Hey,Joe I hope I still have a Job Mr Coyle, if you found the money again, would you still keep it? Uh I don't know, you know? What do you think? Maybe I'd get lucky Come on,Joey, people want to know Would you really do the same thing again? I think I definitely would And next time I find a million bucks, I'm gonna know what to do with it - Free.Joey Coyle.! - Yeah, free.Joey Coyle.! Free Joey Coyle! FreeJoey Coyle! - # That's life # - # That's life # # That's what all the people say # # You're ridin'high in April # # Shot down in May # # But I know I'm gonna change that tune, oh yeah # # When I'm back on top Back on top in.June # - # I said, oh That's life # - # That's life # # And as funny as it seems # # Some people get their kicks # # Stompin'on a dream # # But I don't let it I don't let it get me down # # 'Cause this fine old worid # # It keeps spinnin'around # # I been a puppet, a pauper, a pirate, a poet # # A pawn and a king # # I been up and down and over and out # # I know one thing # # Each time I find myself # # Flat on my face # # I pick myself up and get back in the race # - # That's life # - # That's life # # I tell you that I can't deny it # # I thought I'd say it later on # # But my heart ain't gonna buy it # # And if I didn't think it was worth one single try # # I'd hop right on a big bird # - # And then I'd fly # - # That's life # # That's life That's life # # You know I can't buy it, no # # I been a puppet, a pauper, a pirate, a poet # dApawn and a king d # I been up and down and over and out # # I know one thing # # Each time I find myself # # Flat on my face # dI just pick myself up d # Yes, I pick myself up # # Don't you know I pick myself up # # And get back in the race # - # That's life That's life # - # That's life # # And I can't deny it # # Many times I've thought of cuttin'out # # But my heart just ain't gonna buy it # - # But if there's nothing shaking come this July# - # Come this July # # I'm gonna roll myself up # #Roll it up Roll yourself up now # #I say I'm gonna roll myself up # #I'm gonna roll myself up # # In a big ball # # And die, oh # # I tell ya that's life # # And if ya win ya gotta play ##
