 

                        What's your name? Mosquito Why did those mad dogs pick on you? For a chicken leg Huh? Want me to go with you? No Not the first time anyway l can go by myself Sorry Three schools in two years, huh? Missed classes for half semester when you were in Grove Town You been busy, huh? Lots of business going on? Nah No? l'm telling you, you better behave,well and finish school here Don't mess around Huh? Uh-huh Uh-huh, what you mean by uh-huh? Taking shit uh-huh, huh? Gambling, eh? You've got some guts, huh? Hands forward, forward (The new guy) (On the dike, tomorrow after school ) (Bring NT$3000 to pay your respect) (Or else...) What the fuck Loser You need some beating Boss Dog Boy You eat my lunch everyday My nanny says l've become too skinny Too skinny? Your nanny's blind or somethin' Talkin'shit What you eating that fast for? Hey, Grove guy Haven't paid your bill this month? lt's OK, you can pay with a chicken leg Collected by me, Mr. Dog Boy Welcome, you're now listening to Mr. Lee's ''Hour of Sensibility'' This is a barbequed chicken leg from the Grove guy '' What the fuck is meaning? All l know is brotherhood.'' Don't run! Dice go! You need only five C'mon Again, again Hit it So many of them picking on one? Where the hell is this fag from? Just got transferred See how far you can go Get him up Go ahead and run You fucker keep running! You run fast Playing dumb in front of your daddy? Shit What're you doing? What about that? Not bad Where's your manners? Scar, cigarettes This is a beauty salon, not a barber shop What's wrong with him? l'll tend to your wound in a minute Scar Sister Ling What's this for, no You have already sent so many flower banquets You also spent quite a lot when you took over the business How could you say no to my cash gift ? Bye, Sister Ling Pay 50 bucks to get through Want to be friends? Fuck off Did you get that chick yesterday? She ran away Loser What? l beat up the newbie what's that to do with you Temple Front? Excuse me, Mr. Boss Dog Boy Just a notice From now on, his business is my business His enemy, is my enemy Whatever people owes him l'll get it back for him Whatever he doesn't want from people l will give it back for him Would you please tell me Did you pick on him yesterday? Dragon Lee Don't pick on me when my cousin is in jail Pick on you Just like you called up those body builders to pick on him yesterday? Making him pay respect, huh? This is your turf, huh? Now, nobody is picking on anybody Now l am asking you, fair and square Did you pick on him yesterday? How nice, everyone's here l, Dragon Lee, is here, no one dares to hit back, so be my guest Do me a favor, the new guy Can you make it quick, 10 minutes have passed You don't really need that much thinking lf you don't fuck'em up today One day they'll fuck you up My name is Chou Yi-Mong, friends call me Mosquito l moved to Monga when l was 1 7 l became a gangster, because of a chicken leg All this fighting, is there a meaning to it? What the fuck is meaning? Your daddy only know brotherhood, never heard of meaning Since l was little, l had no father, no friends l was bullied by all the neighbors and kids Until l met my brothers My life seemed to have some meaning No What the fuck is meaning? All l know, is brotherhood Dragon Lee The only son of Geta, the boss of Monga Temple Front A street prince born with a silver spoon As the son of a gangster boss Naturally all the kids respect him as the big brother Since he's little he's been the gangster force on campus, maintaining the orders So much so, that the word Brotherhood, in his definition Has everything to do with Power ( Protection fee, 500 ) However, the one who really has what it takes to be a boss, is him Monk, real name Ho Tien-Yo His family owns a Buddhist Accessory Shop When he's 5, a fortune-teller determined that this kid was to become a gangster ( Your boy is destined to be a gangster ) His dad therefore asked his best friend Geta to look after him Monk is extremely intelligent Showed amazing talent as early as in elementary school He can finish test papers for 4 people at once Each year, he won six championships at school: writing, speech, reading, spelling calligraphy and art ( Boss, the high mountain tea you ordered is here ) Because he has high lQ, and he's resourceful and well-mannered Comparing to any of us Monk does everything with more ease and professionalism Growing up with Dragon Monk only cares for Dragon The way l see it His definition of brotherhood is lncomprehensible to others A-Po, Huang Wan-Po An underdog who knows best about survival ( l've been a butcher all my life ) ( How come my son is such a coward? ) He claims that he's killed 233 pigs Done 107 women Kicked 375 people's asses ( 376,379... ) Brotherhood for him, is a means to hustle around A truth only idiots would buy into The idiot A-Po refers to Would be Monkey Monkey, real name Hou Chun-Sheng His dad died soon after he was born His mom ran away with some man ( On my white horse ) His grandpa raised him ( Through three territories ) ( This is my line, who the heck are you? ) ( l am Chun-Sheng ) Just like me Monkey was often bullied as a kid What's different is When he turned 10 He Suddenly realized that he was good at fighting Since then, he's the one beating people up No one can hit him lt was in the same year That Dragon recruited him, and he became a gangster kid l took on three all by myself You're talking shit The highest record we ever made was to pick up a mass fight among all gangs in Monga lt was that night that five of us became sworn brothers and formed the Prince Gang Were not born on the same day But are willing to die on the same day Shall anyone think twice, will be punished by the Master God of Monga To have the limbs broken and die an ugly death Hey. What do you want to do the most in life? Join the gang, be the boss You wanna replace me? lf l become the boss, then you'll be the boss's boss Sweet talker What if you ain't in the gang? lf Monk wasn't a gangster he could get a PhD and win Nobel prize Anyway he's gotta be someone big lah lf l ain't in the gang, what would l be? Eighteen Copper Men conquer the world with Shaolin Kung-Fu Famous traditional kung-fu medicine Go back to sleep What about you, what you wanna do the most? Me, l wanna go to Japan And do what? Go see the cherry blossoms So ''romantico'' My dad sent home a postcard from Japan before he died On it, there's cherry blossoms all over the sky He got passed on some kind of disease two months after he got there He probably died not even knowing l was born Have you ever seen cherry blossoms? Look, cherry blossom Here, to your dad Fuck! What you splashed on me with? Pee, of course Bitch, asshole You can't get me, won't get me Don't go. Thanks Hey What you had was broken Got you a new one Takin' off Not sleeping yet? What's going on? How's school? Ok, nothing special Just the way it is (Notification for Absence without Leave) l've never asked you to get good grades All l want is that you graduate Graduate from high school, that's it ls that too much to ask? with the Temple Front hooligans all the time? Will there be a future for you sticking with them? There's no such thing as future for someone like me Say that again l wouldn't have survived school if they didn't watch my back You don't steal, rob, or do anything unspeakable, why do you need them to protect you? What about you? Aren't you doing the same thing? We just moved here, and you already hooked up with the Mainlanders What kind of mindset's that? Don't you also need someone to watch your back? We're sworn brothers now l never had any friends since l was little This is the first time Happy birthday How do you know it's my birthday? l have my way to find out Let's go celebrate Move it How's it? Take a look Not bad huh, do you like it? Thanks Dragon, big bro Come, come. Come on in Woo-hoo! Love birds Get lost lgnore them Mosquito, Mosquito Drink up l'll puke if l drink more Are we brothers or not? Monk, Mosquito, come on, dance Hurry up Get movin' Let's go Monkey Dance with them No, l can't dance Hate, love, commotion in my heart This trap, trap, trap, why me? Hey, isn't it time to give our b-day boy the present? Mosquito Aren't we going to get some squid soup? Let's have it to go, you go get it Oh Remember to tell the owner it's for the Temple Front This way he'll add extra squid, hear me? OK Hi, 5 squid soups to go, it's for the Temple Front Five to go, for the Temple Front Temple Front Damn Temple Front, don't run! Knock him dead! Don't run! Temple Front! Get him! Don't go Kill him! Wow, they're coming, coming, coming Wow, super fast, 9 minutes 35 seconds Mosquito (The priest undertaking fear expel ceremony for Mosquito) Hey, sorry about the squid soups Should l go get them again? Get them again? What you laughing about? Jeez, you're unbelievable You almost got killed and you're going back there again? Hey Monk, enlighten him This is the Temple Front, our turf Monga, Since the Ching Dynasty to the Japanese Era has always been the busiest commercial center of Taipei lt's like a gold mountain full of opportunities and dreams ln places like this, all kinds of people mixing together Someone needs to maintain the order and allocate the interests That's where a ''Block Boss'' steps in The streets and lanes are their borders Each takes care of things big and small on his own turf Each protects the civilians on his turf Some say there are over 70 block bosses in Monga And some say over 30 But no one knows for sure the actual number Haven't you been asking why we fight all the time? You get it now? Boss Dragon Anywhere in Monga mention Dragon's dad's name No one dares to touch you Because we, the Temple Front, are Monga's most powerful lf you run into those from the Back Alley, No need to say anything, just hit 'em Didn't we kick their ass the other day? And also those at the night market tonight Dragon Bro Have a cigarette No l'm good Give it to others Hey Dragon, what's your dad's name? Didn't l just tell you, Geta (Wooden clogs) The one that shielded off the sword with two clogs Hey Dragon, your dad is really cool Hi, good day, good day Boss Geta Come here, eat Time to eat lah Lazy dude shits and pees a lot You use the toilet whenever it's time to eat My belly hurts, what can l do? Hey your kid is big you should go and register She wouldn't marry me Come on, meal time The kitchen ceiling is still leaking what did you do to fix it? Look Tomorrow, if l still have to wear this shower cap when l cook You'll be the one that's leaking Ok, ok, take a break clean up and eat Wow, braised pork Oi, watch out for the hygiene, not with your hands Come and eat Come on, eat lah Come and eat ls this the way of the gangster? Not exactly what l imagined This, is the real Taiwanese gangster Vulgar and powerful Ma'am Mom No, l'm good, you go ahead Get you some rice? No, l am fed up l just lost 16,000 to that Mei-ji bitch lf l don't get it back next time along with the interest l'll write my name backwards Mom, this is my sworn brother, Mosquito Hi there Alright, you guys carry on Boss, it's taken care of How'd it go? Kept wailing Ok lah, go sit down and eat Have a seat Riot at the Rocky Bay Prison They even sent in the SWAT team lt's turned into such a big deal Take some of this This reduces your internal heat, have some Get some more Dad you're home You were saying Wim-Kian's uncle Uh-huh Which uncle is it? Well it's Dog Boy's dad Oh, Doggy Wim-Kian is raised by Doggy He'll get even for sure You better watch out Boss Uncle lost 200 grand at the Temple Front bookie He told them to collect from you when you come out But they insisted on chopping down one of his fingers Fuck What you doing? Hey where the hell are we going? Just chill, you'll know in a minute Where's Monk? Boss Dragon There's no way he'd come for this He's not interested in women Try saying that to him next time if you got the balls lt is true He is Monk a monk should be vegetarian and celibate Exquisite Tower Tower is exquisite, there are 13 stories in the Tower A temple in front of the Tower, an old monk in the temple The old monk is the Master of six pupils See? Auntie has prepared swallow nests and shark fins for you Pick one you like and enjoy the tonic Feed yourself well, so you'll be strong Auntie, my dad doesn't let me come to Treasure Borough, you know that right? l know lah Cow Dung Yes ma'am No one knows Boss Dragon was here, got it? l know lah Next! Auntie, get him a good one my treat Sure, leave it to me Little handsome, come, your turn Wait, l'll wait, they go first First timer, huh? Auntie will get you a pretty one in a minute Make you lose your virginity tonight Then take a red envelope for good luck Auntie come in for a second Take your pick Don't be scared You scared the shit out of me Auntie, how can you sell this kind of product? What you lookin' at? l'll dig your eyes out Her, l can do with her Did you go to Show Shang Elementary School? Didn't you always carry your lunchbox in a washing powder bag? You're confusing me with someone else You Why do you want to be a hooker? What about you? Why do you want to be a gangster? Can we talk first? What's your name? Whatever l'm Mosquito Music? Whatever Thanks, come again Hey My name is Ning Oh Stop pouting l'm not pouting lf you wanna see ''Fatal Attraction'' we can do it next time How was it? How was what? Was it good? With that birthmark girl yesterday No None of your business l don't want next time. l wanna see it today Hey what's the fuss about? Everybody wants to see this one Everybody, everybody. lt's everybody again. No idea Fuck, mad woman What do you want? Picking on me or what? l am not picking on you lf only you did what you promised The ''Project A'' sequel is what l wanna see lf you don't like it, then leave Excuse me, l am Dragon's friend You guys had a fight? He asked me to come look for you He wants to apologize He didn't earlier because the other guys were there You understand, right? Men don't like to look bad in front of friends He asked me to come get you He's waiting for you in the back Come this way, in the back This way ln the back l just wanted to enjoy a movie with him And he invited those guys again l don't understand Why does he have to be like this all the time? He's in the back Come, come here You know why? Because Dragon Lee is a freakin' fag Without those guys around all the time He'd be scared shitless You got me? Shush Hey Gotta go See you tomorrow Have you seen Hui? Fuck, you're shitting me Boss, l am not lying that chick is real hot Show me tomorrow then Sure, l'll take you tomorrow l have no idea what you're saying l didn't do anything Didn't do anything? Then why did you run? Gimme a break, you guys got weapons Who wouldn't run when they see you? Who knows, maybe the Prince Gang is just itching to beat someone up Fuck, you're full of shit A man is responsible for his actions How come there's such garbage like you? l didn't do nothing l'm being framed Some fucking bitch set me up Shut his mouth Hey you can't be serious To be a man is to be serious First, l will seal your mouth And then left eye Then right eye Left ear Right ear Left nostril Then drive you into the mountains Dig a hole, throw you in there Pour in vitriol, and then fill up the hole Monk, you can't do this What you gonna say to my cousin? Why do l have to explain to Wim-Kian? l don't belong to the Back Alley, l am from the Temple Front Are you fucked up in the head? Besides, having done something like that You are the one who should figure out what to say to Wim-Kian Stay away from me Don't you come closer What the fuck, what the fuck are you doing? Fuck, what you doing Seal it Seal his mouth Fuck, don't fuck with me What the fuck Seal the eyes This is enough Dragon, Dragon Fuck, let go of me Let go of me He fucked my woman, don't you know that? He fucked my Hui Yeah, l know l'll do it Hey No need to worry l'll take him to the doc l know he'll fix it lt'll be alright Thank you, see you again Thanks Auntie, l want Ning Ning is with a customer at the moment l'll get you a prettier one Hey A-mei lt's ok, l'll wait So faithful Handsome, come in, don't go away Come again soon Who did this? lf l collect less than 30 cards One whip for one card short Sorry What you sorry for You didn't turn me into this What's up with you? Can l spend the night here? How many more do you need? l'll buy them all l bought a lot Even one for Dog Boy Sorry, l forgot that he can't eat How could this happen? Didn't you say it's no problem? Could be too much in the nose Oi Where is it? What? The yo-yo The five of you, try to fly when you still don't know how to walk? Blackie and l only went to the South for a couple of days You already made such a big mess When the day comes that l'm gone Would that mean the end of Temple Front? The Prince Gang my ass Lost your mind for a Mainlander chick Dragon Lee, you really think you're a prince? man's life is worth nothing for you? You can kill when you can't even kneel properly? Look, if you fall again l'll beat you to death l'll be your page boy if l don't Boss, l made this mess lt's got nothing to do with them lt's all my fault Fine, get up All of you, get up All get up! You are good l wouldn't know if you didn't tell me lt's your fault lt has nothing to do with them You are good You are good How come you're so good? So good You are really good Really good Dad You Heading back? Uh-huh Boss Masa Boss Masa He almost wasted him. God forbid He meant to kill him or what? When kids make a mistake, they should be disciplined You haven't changed a bit, so naive Don't you know what kind of person he is? Sigh... We're brothers for so many years We're like family Family? lf only he felt the same way, too Secretly hired someone to chop off your hand, and took your place And now, he fucked up your son when he got the chance Don't talk about this in front of the kid Come, come outside Hey, why aren't you sleeping? What's going on? What he just said, is it true? Chou Ling-Wan, your registered mail Oh Be right back l'm takin' off Got enough money with you? Yeah Careful l will Sorry about that No worries Your son is very good-looking, going out? Yeah Pre-graduation trip He's graduating? You are really lucky You're too kind ''1987'' ''Together, We Stepped into the World of Grown-ups And There Was No Turning Back'' Sweeping Blade Stabbing tube Samurai 8-feet Samurai 2-feet Edged stiletto Whenever you have time, take them out, feel them and clean them Befriend them When you are in trouble Your friends will support you Get it? Hurry up, you're falling behind Son of a bitch, fuck One, two, three That's how it's done Hey, l just took a piss What age is it ? They all use guns now What's the point of practicing these? Come on, when the guns are loaded Do we have the time to turn around and get our 2-feet, 8-feet? Our asses are already getting shot at What the fuck did you say? Boss Geta Dad Boss Guns are evil things imported from the West They are for those who don't have balls Weapon for the lowly To establish oneself in the underground society One depends on his fists and knives l won't let the five of you lay your hands on guns You hear me? Hear me? Yes Let's go Take your shit and let's go Yay! The training camp is over! Black Dog Bro on the mountain top He is the young master of the ranch Hard working night and day His huge ranch takes up the whole mountain His singing is loud and cheerful He sings non-stop all day long His songs are so beautiful His nice singing voice got him famous l hear his voice but can't see him, yo le yi li Throughout the whole mountain there is his voice, yo le yi li The voice is pure and lovely, yo le yi li Yo le yi, yo le yi li Thank you Applause please Boss, what an incredible night Both bosses of Monga Temple Front and Back Alley are here Masa is here? Yeah Good, l'll go have a drink with him later Sure, sure Hey aren't the Back Alley guys our enemies? Of course Then why Boss Geta said he'd go drink with the boss of Back Alley? Oh, they are buddies They are buddies? Uh-huh They were sworn brothers Like the five of us One day you'll get your own block, l'll have mine Our subordinates fight when they see each other But for us on the top, when we meet having a drink is a must You'd better watch out l'm not scared of you lf you don't tell what's on your mind Who will ever know? Sometimes l really want to Just let out all of my sorrow Stepped into the underground l shouldn't have Now that l want to undo my mistakes Who would understand? My love if you know my heart... Hey, homeboy, what a coincidence l was about to go have a drink with you Who you with? Wim-Kian, he just got out Came to welcome him back How long was he in there? House Cleaning Operation, it's been three years Three years already He brought a Mainlander with him Said the Mainlander took care of him in there Brought him to introduce to us Lately l heard those Mainlanders want a piece of Monga Oh, gimme a break, don't think too much l can't even speak ''Mandorin'' With them, there is nothing we can talk about Hey homeboy, l'm thinking, seriously Couple of events happened to Wim-Kian's household lf you can, would you come and say hello? His uncle cheated in games, l handled it by the book His cousin raped a woman l sorted it out for him, too The street, and business, the rules, l did everything right Why should l apologize to a youngster for things like these? Nah, you know it Wim-Kian is like a mad dog l don't care what kind of dog he is lt's your dog, train it yourself Geta, nowadays the Grey Wolf's gang is doing very well Boss Masa, please stop teasing me Did l say it wrong? Dragon, make a toast Boss Geta's son My son Dragon, handsome fellow Bro. Grey Wolf Grey Wolf, he's the most promising among the younger generation in Monga We should watch our back or soon we'll be history Boss Geta, look For the past 3 years when l was in there thanks for taking care of our boss And people in my household One day l, Wim-Kian will do my best to repay you Now that you're out, you should be happy Saying all this nonsense is useless Alright, come on, drink up Here, everyone, cheers Cheers, everyone, drink up Cheers Wim-Kian How's your boss doing overseas? He's in good shape physically, but he's kind of depressed lt's hard not to get depressed Mainlanders are indeed different That Grey Wolf, he moves a finger and the cigarette comes The glass gets refilled as soon as it got empty lt's like they were telepathic And the whole group stood still in the back all night long Tall and straight like the Military Police My legs got sore by just looking at them Sigh, Monga is hopeless So maybe you should join them if you like them so much You shitting me? They just look more impressive Wouldn't we look cool if we act like them? l think they look phony Yeah, bunch of fakes You know that Grey Wolf?. You know him personally? No, my mom does Your mom's sleeping with him? Fuck, shut your face Ah-ha, something fishy here lf your mom doesn't want him give him to my mom. He is her type. Shut up ls it good? Hmm, it's good Then l'll bring some more next time OK Did you have a tough time in the mountains? What's up with you? You look not yourself today l ran into someone l don't like Who was it? My mom's ex, before she married my dad My mom said she'd been with him since she was 16 But one day He left without a word And disappeared until a few years ago Are you gonna disappear like him someday? You're scared that l'll disappear? Silly Why call me silly l won't What did you say? Something nice that l'm not gonna say again Hey boss, a barbequed chicken leg OK, OK, right away l'll get one more then OK OK Boss, have a chicken leg Oh Come, sit here You grew up without a father? That obvious? Leave us; kids shouldn't listen to adults' discussion OK Boss Masa l heard you've been working with the Mainlanders, why didn't you tell me? Who is talking such nonsense? Words spread fast Gimme a break l can't even speak Mandarin how do l work with the Mainlanders? You really buy that shit? Seriously, no? They did talk to me about it But l haven't agreed That means yes then, and you're still playin' dumb with me? l've told Wim-Kian about this lf Boss Geta doesn't agree then l won't do it Our Monga is an old town We have our own way and traditions in managing this place We don't want to work with outsiders Masa and l are no exception l understand How about this? ln the beginning l won't show up And you two bosses still handle everything We can observe each other for a while Until we've reached certain level of understanding and trust Then we'll go from there Moreover The business l run outside of Monga lf you are interested, please let me know l would love to have you join me Thanks a lot l think we better stay in Monga with our small business We don't know much about the outside world We are not interested in running around What about Boss Masa, what do you think? My position is very simple Whatever Boss Geta says l do my best to follow suit Yeah, you are the shit now Dozens of block bosses, with losts of grease to go around And then Fucking old asses getting in your way Look at your bosses: drink all day, the women, a great life Eventually, they will suck Monga dry lt's such a wonderful land, what a waste Look at our Big Boss He's got brains He doesn't sleep, he spends his days thinking Thinking about how to develop the organization Now, as soon as he gives an order, it'll be like cell division We'll no longer be just a gang of hundreds But tens of thousands, l am telling you Guns will be brought in by sea in boxes Halls will be established one after another And you Hanging out on your block Selling toilet paper and selected tea, collecting fees Getting turned in every now and then Times are changing, bro Do it right We set up a hall in Monga, and you'll be the Boss Each of us needs our own stage The world is going to be ours lt's gonna be diffiicult if there's only one hall for the entire Monga The two major powers in Monga Are our Back Alley and the Temple Front We've got our own blocks on each side You won't have any problem with me But if you wanna make this work You'll have to include the Temple Front Otherwise you'll have to deal with all the blocks behind them lt won't be easy lt's gonna be a tough fight You got someone from the Temple Front? l still remember four years ago, right here You were against over a dozen from Da Dao Cheng l saw them beating the life out of you Still you wouldn't give in l owe you for that No need to thank me lt was because you've got balls lf you weren't tough enough Even if you got beaten to death in front of me 100 times l wouldn't give a shit Really, l owe you a lot And that thing about the Dog Boy l am fully aware Dragon messed with somebody's girlfriend four years ago But you took on the heat Can we spare Dragon? What? You want to protect your brother? Look l am afraid that we are losing the entire Monga you know that? lt's like the last years of Ching Dynasty All the foreign powers have surrounded China with their firearms, canons and ships That old empress Tz'u-Hsi still thought she could bring them all down That's exactly what's happening in Monga Our Boss Masa puts on fancy clothes and fools around everyday And your Boss Geta is a stubbern old fool The future is knocking on the door, and Monga is still asleep They all call me mad dog They are right But l had been thinking a lot during the 3 years in prison My boss turned me in during the Big Crackdown That Dragon, you took on the beating every time he screwed up That's the kind of fate for people like us Now the Mainlanders are asking nicely to do business with us The proud old folks refused right on the spot When the time comes, who's put on the frontline? No one else but you and me lt's guns in their hands You really think you can fight them with a stabbing tube? Don't feel ashamed to work with the outsiders You really think l'll let the Mainlanders take over Monga? Look who's thinking for Monga Shoot, talking is useless Holy crap, all that wind, and now the rain ls the typhoon really coming? Boss Masa have a good night, come again And you, don't run around, be good Ah, you came for Auntie Ai as well? Boss Boss Geta is here with all of his Temple Front brothers, to pay their respect Please bless them, so that they are safe, healthy and prosperous Homeboy, rest in peace l swear right here, on my name That l will find the murderer To do your vengeance My condolence, take care Boss Geta l have mobilized everyone in the Back Alley l've also notified Taoyuan, Chungli and the South Boss, if you can help us find him l'd very much appreciate We have to get A-Chung l want him kneel in front of our boss, and pay back with his life l'll help you find A-Chung But we don't need to kill him l'll find out if he's the murderer Who knows? Maybe it's your own man who did this, then frame him Boss, how can you say this? Are you saying that our men killed our own boss? Fuck, l'd say someone from you Temple Front killed him Don't move! God is watching, we all know what we did Boss, got news from the Back Alley They said A-Chung is spotted nearby the Watergate Now they and the Da Dao Cheng people are all out to get him Boss l heard A-Chung is around Watergate Everyone, go get him now OK let's go You go with them Boss, what about you? There's nothing to worry about, l'm on my own turf Go, hurry Boss, you're closing Yeah Everybody's out to get A-Chung, not much business around here All of the Temple Front went? Your Boss Geta, l think he stayed Then please make two for me Please OK Sorry, come early tomorrow We came all the way from the South, can we just do a brief prayer? Oh Boss, boss Anybody? Anybody here? Call the ambulance Hurry call the ambulance Boss Somebody? Call the ambulance Anybody here? Boss Dragon is gone l told Dragon not to come today lf Dragon shows up today, he will die Those bastards want our Dragon dead They want us dead they want us at the Temple Front all dead Can't you see what's happening? l'll go find him You stay right here l don't want him back, l don't want him here Don't you go get him our Geta will understand Madam, madam, calm down, have a seat l don't want him back don't bring him back Who is it? lt's me, me lt's OK now lt's me lt's time, can't wait anymore Who will hold the memorial tablet then? l'll do it Geta or Masa, take your pick Geta Goddamn sons of bitches How dare you, getting all despicable in front of Master God You two go from the back door Go now lf you don't kill them today One day they'll kill you l want them to pay with their blood Why are you pushing me? Motherfucker You think we're their match? How on Earth do you think we can do anything about it? Boss Geta is dead, Boss Masa is dead too Aren't you humans? Don't you have any feelings? Do you even have feelings? Don't you be stirring things up How do we revenge without knowing who did it? lt's Wim-Kian, must be him Everybody knows it, but no one dares to touch him Motherfucker No! Stop it! Monk Stop it, Monk Stop it At this point, revenge is suicide Besides, Dragon can't stay in Monga You three take Dragon to the Philippines, lay low for a while l'll stay and investigate We need evidence l'll stay too Do you remember, the night Boss Geta died You were all sent to find that A-Chung Have you ever thought it could just be a smoke bomb? A-Shing The thing, l want it done tomorrow OK, no problem, leave it to me Get some rest Boss, l'm heading off Monkey is involved in an armed assault Now the police suspects that the gun in his possesion is the same one that killed the Back Alley boss You pathetic liars My Monkey is still at school What did you take me here for? l gotta hurry home and cook for him Fuck your sorry ass Dragon, don't do that Let's go lgnore 'em Why are they like this? Because Monkey killed Boss Masa Apparently Boss Geta ordered Monkey to do it so he could take over the Back Alley Then they in turn killed Boss Geta and Blackie Temple Front did something like this The gang has lost people's respect What are you talking about? Monkey didn't kill Boss Masa Then you go explain to everybody What is the reason that made Monkey become the scapegoat? Something to drink? l am just here to ask you a question Then l'm out of here Have a seat Hey you guys take a break, Grey Wolf Bro. has a meeting Why did you leave my mom in the first place? Something went wrong Had to get away Then why didn't you explain to her? Because then she would have waited for me Didn't want her to waste her youth waiting Then, if you were given a second chance Would you stay with her? We only live once l've run out of my chances Yes You still have a chance lf something happens to me, please take good care of her What are you talking about? l'm warning you Your mom went through hell to raise you You owe her your life You get me? But Boss Geta died in my arms l can never forget how he died in my arms You know what? Whichever way the wind blows The grass bends along When l was young l thought l was the wind But eventually it cost me dearly Then l realized we're all just grass You are still young, you've got options Go to the Philippines and lay low for a while What's gonna happen in Monga nobody knows l need to speak to Monk l've made up my mind, l'll go to the Philippines too l'll be in the Philippines for a couple months You haven't served in the military, how do you get out of the country? Unregistered boat l will be back soon l've asked Auntie how much you owe her l'll figure out a way to get that money When l come back l'll get you out of here l'll take you to the movies some time How's that possible lf l get caught, they'll break my legs Auntie promised me, personally She'll tell them that you're going for abortion Here Cheers Grey Wolf, that's it then, we're heading off Sure Scar, see them to the door Yes, sir That's it There's no problem right? Don't worry You need to do it nice and clean Don't leave behind anything that'd make us lose sleep He already agreed to get on the boat with them And then, what are we gonna do when he's back? Mom, l left some savings in your closet Why in my closet? Deposit it in the bank, and you can earn interest Then you do it for me Boss Geta, excuse me, please lend me your 2-feet Bless me, and help me to find the truth Boy, go get the car l'm leaving everything to you OK, take care Let's go yeah? Wait Let's go pray to the Master God for a sec What you talking this shit to me for? l'm afraid you won't be able to explain to Sister Ling Explain to whom? l'm a goddamn gangster, who am l answering to? He's not my son for God's sake Get the car; we're going to Monga He's not here Oh, earlier he told me to deposit money for him What's up with all this money? All his regular clothes are gone Why is the postcard l sent you in Yi Mong's closet? How could you keep me in the dark for so many years? Shut the door, go shut the door What are you doing? Yeah, Mosquito, what you doing? Stay where you are l want to know something Tell us Are you sending us to the boat or to Hell? What the fuck? There is no boat, right? Mosquito, can you put down the knife first? lf there's a misunderstanding, we can sort it out There's no misunderstanding Listen Tonight, there is no boat but trap Thre's no way we're getting to the Philippines Monk Explain, what's going on? What's the deal? Why did Mosquito say something like that? What's the situation? Mosquito, have you lost your mind? Say it! We swore to be brothers, at the very same place And now one of you's putting a knife against my neck Another one is starting to doubt me What the fuck is this? lf you've go the fucking guts, tell the truth in front of the Master God lf l misunderstood you feel free to give me a stab But if you are the traitor who sold out the Temple Front l want you to pay with your life Sell out? How could that be Monk? Can you please stop this shit? OK? Stop acting like this l saw him with Wim-Kian and Grey Wolf, with my own eyes Your mama Not my day Times are changing The outside world is changing lf we are as stubborn as the old bosses we'll be dead sooner or later The entire Monga will fall into their hands l met with Grey Wolf and Wim-Kian, was to save Monga To save The Temple Front So, did you kill my dad? You're the one who killed my dad? Kill them Motherfuckers Everything l do is for you Have you seen Mosquito? Go get everybody Should we go take a look? lf you got on the boat, then we wouldn't end up like this Why didn't you just get on the boat? Why are you making me do this? Go ahead and kill me lf you don't kill me today l will kill you tomorrow l never understood what's the point in all this fighting Now l am even more confused You're my brother but l have to kill you Because this is the street Because we're gangsters Whoever gets in the way dies There's no other choice lf this were the way of the street Then l am not a gangster l am in this for friendship l am in this for brotherhood Guns are weapons for the lowly Monk You thought l was going to embrace you So you opened your arms At that moment You chose to believe in me, didn't you? You thought you were in this as a gangster But like me, you're here for friendship and brotherhood, too You thought Geta was a decent man? He wanted to become the Boss So he chopped off my dad's arm Did you know how he treated his brothers? What's good in the cinema lately? Dumb Recruit is pretty funny Really Mosquito, are you OK? Dragon, Dragon Hurry, let's go Dragon Look, something happened Go look for some guy called Mosquito Where's my ear? Some say Joining the gang is like getting a bad lot You end up either living in exile Or getting brutally murdered on the streets But that year, me and my brothers we all believed joining the gang using violence to gain control was the way to rule The only way for survival Why do the four of you want to recruit me? Because it takes five fingers to form a fist
