 

                        Today we have entering the ring, we have number 33, Nicole Carlile on Obie. We have number 40, Katie Wydeman on Faithful Strider, and number 32, Sarah Good on lnga, I just got an advisory, and the advisory says: Please be advised, there might be a pick pocket on the loose, So please watch your wallet Better watch your purse hon. Yeah, very funny. Have you seen Eric? Hi look, there's Sarah! Hi Sarah! Hi. I hope she does well. She's been looking forward to this for weeks, She's going to do great. Look at her, You r dad is a looser Don't cal I my dad a loser, you jerk! Oh, no. Eric. I call your dad whatever I want to, I dare you! Just wait, my dad is a lawyer. Hey you guys, cut it out! Sarah, we need to go over the show, OK, Hey, Sarah! Sorry about that fight. Keep yourself in one piece, Eric, OK? Yeah, you too. Good luck! Thanks. We should have paid our respects to the old woman. She deserved that, She deserved nothing. That old witch took her secret to the grave. I feel sorry for Tor, Tor brought this upon himself, But he won't be able to stop me anymore, Doesn't matter anyway. I'll just buy the estate, Then Fjordheim and the mine will make us rich! I heard that she has an heir. And number 32, Sarah Good on lnga, Gudrun Schillingmeyer, You came from the earth, You're going back to the earth. And from the earth you shall raise again. Alright, one more, one more, keep going. Sarah? Sarah? Mom? Oh, Sarah, thank Goodness! Hi honey, how are you feeling? My head really hurts. Don't worry about that. You're going to be just fine. OK Sarah Good, how are you feeling? Like I've been run over by a Mack truck. That's not so strange, you got a concussion. But according to the x-rays, everything else is fine, I'd like to keep you for one more night - just for observation. And if everything checks out, you can go home tomorrow. And when can I ride again? As soon as you feel better, But take it easy. Just push that button if you need anything, Thanks doctor. I was afraid he would tell me l wouldn't be able to ride anymore, You really scared us today honey, It might not be a bad idea to take it easy for a while? OK? Hi, Sarah! Hi, Susan. Are you ready to ride again? Oh yeah! She's going to take it a little easy at first though. Right? Yeah. How's Inga doing? Oh, she's doing great, why don't you come and see for yourself, How is she doing? She is doing OK. Inga is in excellent shape. She's been missing you Sarah, She looks great! What's wrong Sarah? I have to go! Sarah! Sarah! What's going on with me? Maybe you just need some time, You don't have to get right up back on the horse, It's OK. Mom, I won't just give up. I'm going back tomorrow and I'm going to get back up on lnga, This is something that is just going to pass. Yeah. Dad's going to start the windmill again. Come on, Sarah, let's go see! I better go help dad, That's not a bad idea. That windmill. This looks really scary, dad, Not if you know what you're doing. When this baby works, it will cut our electricity bills in half, Do you need any help? Yeah, why don't you guys run out to the yard. When I give the signal - pull the clutch for the dynamo, I'm on it. Dad, mom says I shouldn't ride anymore, Of course you'll ride. I just need to check one last connection here. Is it windy enough for the windmill? Dad said it was. Hey Eric, are you ready!? I'm ready dad! Release the handle on my countdown. Feeling good about this. Don't you remember what happened last time? We fixed that now, Guaranteed Now! Ok, here it goes. I knew it. I'm so tired of this! Are we going to do this all summer? Dad, are you OK? I just got myself a little fried, That's all, Dad! That is the end of the windmill. But this thing is going to cut our electricity bills in half, Yeah, lower the bill - blow up the house. Why don't you get a real job instead? Here watch. Easy, Settle down. Steady girl,.. You're good with horses, It's not about being good Sarah, It's not about horses at all. It's about you. How do you know my name and who are you? Sarah, I need to talk to you. Can you come here please? You haven't been back on the horse since the accident, No. What's going on? Are you afraid of the horses? I will ride again! I know you will Sarah, But listen, I spoke to your mother and we both agreed you need to take a break from riding, You've agreed? What about me? It is for your own good, ok? No, it is not! Yes! What do you think old girl? Mom! Yeah, in here You've been making agreements behind my back? Hi Sarah, how are you? Mom! Yes Sarah, I had a talk with your trainer, How nice for you, mom, that you agreed on destroying my life for me. We can't afford this right now, Especially if you're not going to ride the horse, honey! Dinner is served! I can't stand your dried pizza, Mom! It's Eric. With the police. Mrs. Good? Yes! I'm sorry to have to tell you that Eric was brought in today in connection with a theft. I didn't do it mom, really! What kind of theft? A wallet was stolen from a spectator at the horse fair this last Friday. And we have reason to believe that Eric was involved, A wallet? Belonging to Barry Lebrowsky, Eric, could you please come here, I hope we don't have to come back again. Oh no, Thank You very much, I believe you, Eric. I'm going to ring that jerk's neck, And when you do, I'll squash him and sell him as cat food, But the cats don't deserve anything that gross, It's time for bedtime guys. All right, Oooh, Eric, I didn't do it mom. Yeah, I know you didn't. Don't worry about that now, OK? Are you alright mom? Yeah, I'm a little tired, I think we're all tired, hah? We could use a long vacation, But we can't afford that, can we? I can get a summer job, Me too. No, that's not what I want you guys to do this summer, Well, it'll be OK, mom. Yeah, it'll be all right, Who is that? I have no idea. I bet that is Barry Lebrowsky's dad, Oh, no What are you doing? Shhhh, Barry Lebrowsky's dad is here. Let's pretend we're not home. Good idea! Let's climb out the kitchen window. You morons, I'll get it! You can hide here, OK? Hello? Sarah Good? That's me, How would you like to receive $300,,000 Sarah? An older woman in Norway, Gudrun Schillingmeyer, died a little over a week ago. She left a will naming Sarah as the heiress of her house and estate. Did I inherit a house in Norway? Norway? I was adopted from Norway? Wait a minute! When was the funeral? That would be.., last Friday, But that's when I fell off the horse! So, this house could be from my biological family, I have an offer for you and your family, Sarah, My client, Lars Storhaug, wants to buy the property for $300,000, $300,000? It must be said that this is a very old house, Not exactly the sort of place where you want to live if I may say so, The offer from my client is very generous. It's all here in these documents, Let me know when you are ready to sign and we'll take care of it quickly and efficiently, Hi, what's going on? Ahm, this is.... Hi man, Mr, Vogelman, I just presented your husband and daughter with an offer, I 'm staying at the Inn at Chester Springs, you can meet me there when you're ready to sign. It was very nice to meet You all. Good day! Sarah has inherited a house in Norway. I'm thinking it is connected to my family. Yeah, but why was it left to me? I don't know. Mom and dad they never told me much about my real parents. We can sell the house for $300,000 mom, isn't that great? Yeah, that's great. $300,000 is that true? Yes We could really use that money. Yeah but, this could be my childhood home. Shouldn't we go look at it before we sell it? We can't even afford a vacation on the Jersey Shore, how are we going to afford a trip to Norway? This is my roots, Jen, "If we sell it, then you can go on a "root expedition'"'" next year to Norway," You're probably right, but it's Sarah's house, All I'm saying is we should let her be part of the final decision, Well, at least we could afford my riding if we sell it. Hi Sarah. Hi. Mom and dad just left to sign the contract, So many strange things are happening, I dream all these weird dreams, Then the house. Are you still afraid of the horses? Well, mom won't pay for the horse anymore, I guess it doesn't matter, Don't worry, I have your horse lessons fixed for you, Here you go. Now you can ride again. Eric! Where did you get all this money? It's a secret. I believed you when you said you didn't steal from Barry! I didn't steal this money! Eric, what am I supposed to believe? I didn't steal it, I just wanted to help! I thought you would be happy. Alright I'm sorry OK, but Eric! Eric! I'm too old for this! Sarah Good, I have something for you. I can't take anything from strangers. Th is is not from a stranger. This is from your great-grandmother. So this is your final offer? Like I said before, my client's offer is very generous. There is no room for negotiation. Is this from Norway? Yes it is, It's so beautiful. Eric, look at this. So, who are you and how did you get this box? My name is Tor Stormberg, I used to work for your great grandmother, Gudrun Schillingmeyer, She's the one that passed away last Friday, right? How did you know? A lawyer came to our house today. He told us we had to sell my dad's childhood home, It was left to me in a will, Lars is fast. Do you know the buyer? Yes, I know him, This is from my dream! Who is she? Svanhild. She was your father's mother. My grandmother... is she still alive? No, She died when your dad was a baby. Look at the beautiful horse, Her name was Monocerus. Actually, my horse is descendent from Monocerus. His name is Betelgeuze, I wish I could get over my fear and ride a horse like that. I've known people afraid of horses before, Look what I found in this book. I think Gudrun wanted you to go to Norway. So, what do you think? I think it's a fair price for an old house. I think we should sign. Ok, Hello, welcome to the Inn at Chester Springs. We need to find Mr. Vogelman, the lawyer! Just one moment, Mr. Vogelman is in conference room 3 1 4, It's on the third floor! Use the stairs, Don't sign the contract! Here is your ticket Miss Good. Thank you, And why are you traveling to Norway today? To ride again. And to solve a mystery, And to solve a mystery, isn't that interesting? Wel l, I hope you solve it, You enjoy your flight, Than k you, You know what I'm happy about? What? The fact that your family is paying for a vacation for once, I wonder what it's going to be like to see that house. You mean, before we sell it? Yeah. I hope you remembered your tooth brushes! Because in Norway they brush their teeth with walrus whiskers! And everyone there eats raw meat, And then it's freezing cold all year long and everyone gets around on skis, And you may be eaten by polar bears because they roam the streets there. Sebastian! Unless you get killed by the Vikings that escaped from the Viking reservations first, Oh hhh. I win! He's beaten me again! This is going to be a long flight... Let's go take a walk, come on honey, You guys watch the bags? Sure, The unicorn is a noble creature. He keeps himself safe, Upon a narrow path, high and steep. Climbing to the sky, I wonder if Gudrun wrote this? Maybe... Why don't you get out your video games out? I don't have my video games anymore, What happened to them? I sold them. Why? So that you could get money to ride again. This does not look Good Lars. What? We don't have enough money to keep up with the loan... What are you rattling on about Edith? Look at the statement, You can not buy Fjordheim, we don't have enough money. Edith, do you know what this is? Do you? That is your stupid dream of a found treasure, No. It's not numbers on a spreadsheet or on a computer screen. It is real, it is tangible and it is out there and I'm going to find it. That little green piece of olivine is not real, it is your dream, What we need is cold hard cash. Hard cash is not a problem! Should we really be doing this dad? What if we get caught? So what? This place is going to be mine anyway soon enough. This is the last chance to search Fjordheim before the Americans arrive, Let's just go home. Would you quit being such a cry baby and help me out for once! Please! You're in this too now you know. What are you looking for anyway? I thought it was the mine you wanted? I've been here a dozen times and nothing. Nobody knows where that woman found the olivine. There's got to be a clue in this house somewhere. There's got to be. Look at that, snow in July! Upon a narrow path, high and steep, climbing to the sky,,. What did you say? I just remembered something. Hey, look! Look at it! Look at that! It's beautiful, Hi Tor! This is Tor who gave me the box. This is the key to Fjordheim. May it give you comfort. Thanks. Is that Betelgeuze? Yes it is, Do you think I can ride on him? Wow, wow! Steady boy. One step at a time, Sarah, Tor, look what I found in the lid of the box! I don't want to see that! I can't... You should go, I shouldn't have brought you here, Tor? I don't get it? Nice to see you, We're here, What a house! This is incredible, Let's have a look. The key doesn't work, That's odd, Come on, Sarah, let's find a way in to the house, I've been here before, I can sense it. That's nice honey. I'm sorry, I'm tired. Oh no! Sarah, are you alright? We can get in now, You broke yourself in? It's my house, isn't it? Come on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey, look at this, Something is broken. What is it? It looks like some kind of a lamp. Hey, let's look upstairs! Jen... Look... Svanhild, my mother, That must be you! Must be. She sang lullaby's to me in this house, I didn't even know her, Maybe now is your chance. I want to sleep here! Can I sleep here too? Oh, not bad, Wow, where are you guys staying? Sarah? Sarah? Are you O K? Yeah, I just had this really strange dream, It was nothing. Look how clear the sky is Sarah, The moon looks so big. You know what we need? An observatory with a telescope on it. There is an old silo near the house, we could put it on top of that. What do you think? I think it's great, dad. There's fire in the kitchen guys! That's nice honey. I need coffee. Have you seen Eric? No I have not seen him yet. Could you look for him? Sure, I need coffee. Eric? Mom wants you! Eric? Eric? Mom, dad, Sarah! I caught breakfast! I didn't realize how easy it was to catch fish from the lake. It's a Fjord, It's not a lake. It's saltwater, from the glaciers. Can you say it? Fjord! Fjord, That's it, you got it. Eric, this is Good. My fish is always the best fish, We don't even need electricity to get it cozy in here, You don't think so? Then maybe you can do the cooking from now on. What's the matter Sarah? You don't like fish for breakfast? No, I'm just really tired. Whoooow! Cool! Do you think it still I works? Come on! If an old woman in her Look at this crank. Let's see if it works! In to the driver's seat, Sir. Are you sure? Mom probably won't like this. She's going to love it. You'll see, Alright, put your left foot on the clutch right here. And put your right foot on the gas, lightly. Turn on the ignition right there. I'll crank her up. Are you ready? Yeah. I'll try it again. Whoa! It works! Move over. Hang on. Idiot! Where did you learn to drive? Oh, Mr. Good! I'm so sorry, I didn't realize it was you. Lars Storhaug, it's nice to meet you, Sebastian Good. I guess we already met your lawyer? Oh yes, exactly! I see you have Gudrun's old truck running, Not bad! But you must have had a tough time getting in to the house? We did actually, Well, I had a security lock put on, I can let you in right now if you'd like, You wouldn't believe the people who would break in to a house like this, Oh, Mrs. Good, I presume? Jennifer Good, my pleasure, Lars Storhaug, the pleasure is all mine. And, what does an American housewife think of a typical Norwegian kitchen? I think it's a little old-fashioned, but it's nice enough. Well, don't you miss your television and your microwave and your toasters? No, I miss electricity though. You don't have electricity? No. I think I might be able to solve your problem. Gudrun was obsessed about hiding things, but that would have been ridiculous, I caught some fish this morning! Oh, a typical American sportsman. Loves to catch his own food, N ice! Let me show you some other things about the house, I don't know how much you folks know about old houses, Oh, a fair amount. Sebastian.,, No we don't know that much, Do you see that spot over there? Yeah. I can't see any spot, Eric! That's fungus. Not easy to spot with an untrained eye. But that one little speck of mold can grow and grow and multiply. ...from the basement all the way on up to the chimney! Eventually enveloping the entire house in a giant, dark, sliming mushroom. And you know how to get rid of that? There is only one way to get rid of that. No You burn the house down, Hi. This is oven polish. Is that what you wanted? Oh, I thought it was some Norwegian spread for bread. No, it's not easy to know everything in a new country, You belong to the family that's staying up at Gudrun's old house? Yeah, I'm Sarah, Sarah Good, How long are you and your family planning on staying in Norway? I'm not really sure. Well it's Good to see some new faces around lnnvik. Christian! Yeah. Grab me two ice cream cones, Have you tasted Norwegian ice cream yet? No, not yet, It's very, very Good, Here, Why don't you show Sarah around lnnvik? Ok, but dad told me to restock... Don't worry about it, If he asks you about it, just tell him I gave you the afternoon off. You don't have to do this for me, Don't worry about it, I'll just finish ringing this up and I'll have it sent up to your house, Thank you, Thanks mom, Let's go over there, So... You first, How did you get that scrape? OH, Tor's horse almost ran me over, That horse is wild and Tor doesn't look after it, Do you know Tor? Not really, He gave me this box from Gudrun after she died, He brought it al l the way to the states, Tor was in the U,S,? So, you know Tor? Nobody really knows Tor, everybody knows of him. He used to be the superintendent of the mine before it got shut down. What mine? Don't you know about the mine? I thought it belonged to Fjordheim? I don't know anything about it, What kind of mine is it? I think it used to be an old iron mine or something, It's pretty cool. I used to play there when I was little, but Tor kept chasing me off, He said a girl died there and I'd be next if I didn't stop. Oh. People blamed Tor for her death, because he didn't keep it secure, So now it's locked up all the time. Sarah! Can you get me something to put this broken glass in? Here you go. Look at this mess. Here. Wait, don't throw that away, Why not? Because I want to try to glue it back together. No, we're throwing it away honey. No mom, please, It's really pretty. Please come on. OK, but don't cut yourself. I don't know where the hospital is yet. Ok? Dad, is that a cow coming? I think so, Do you think she's dangerous? Go away! Shooe! Go away! Go back to that barn! Go away! We don't want you here! Go away! Yes! Not here! Just go back! Don't mind them. They're a little crazy, Mrs, Good, a little something for the house. Thank you, that's a very nice plant, Oh, you're so welcome. That's excellent coffee Mrs. Good. It's instant, Oh, well, it must be the atmosphere in this wonderful kitchen. Really? I think it's a little bit gloomy in here. So Lars tell me, why do you want this big old house? Oh, it's purely sentimental, I love old houses and I own half the rest of the town anyway so I figured Excuse me but it is a big house, and it's on a lot of land. Don't you think it's worth more than $300,000? From the outside it might look that way. But I looked at the foundation, it's completely shot, It will cost you $300,,000 just to fix that alone. Really? What about the mine? Now, that must be worth something? What mine? It's an old mine, it hasn't been used in forty years, It's abandoned, it's completely worthless. Where did you get that? I found it. What is that? Get out of here! Yeehaw, come on! Hi Sarah! Hold up a second! We're going the same way, let me give you a lift! No! What's the matter, my car is not good enough for you? Or I'm not good enough for little miss America? Upon a narrow path, steep climbing to the sky, So, Betelgeuze brought you? You're not so frightened anymore? I'm not so sure, Why did you get so mad when you saw this? Why did Gudrun have to give this to you? I don't know, but, can you help me ride? Alright, just give me a minute, Don't be frightened, Betelgeuze. Don't be frightened, I want to ride you. I'm a friend, You understand? Calm down. Yeah... You understand. He trusts me. The saddle is just to prepare Betelgeuze, I don't want you to mount the saddle yet. But he trusts me! We're going to take this slowly, I want to try! No Sarah, no! How boy,.. Easy boy.,, I told you, one step at a time, You'll never learn to ride again this way! Why don't you listen? You're too much like Svanhild! Come on Betelgeuze, Good job, you got it. Hi dad, Eric. Look what I found in the house! Wow! Bring it up Sarah, Where d id you find that? Upstairs, under the bed, Old brass telescope. How far can we see with that thing, dad? Maybe the rings around Mars, Hey, it works! Hey guys, Wow it's looking great. Oh my gosh. Hi, look what Sarah found. Wow, can somebody help me out here, It works! Does it really! Cool. That will fit you r observatory, hah. What is this supposed to be? Hi Lars. It's an observatory, An observatory? What are you going to use it for? Keep his home-planet under surveillance, I n the fall the stars are going to be beautiful. Wait a minute, the fall? You're planning to stay here to the fall? Maybe. Is that a problem? No, not necessarily, But you did get permission to build this, didn't you? Permission? Oh yes, Fjordheim and the estate are historic landmarks. You can't just build an observatory here if you want to, You got to start take things down right now, But a good stiff breeze in the fall will bring this pile of junk right. Lars, what is it that you want? What I want is this house, And you better accept the money and the offer that I made you. Because I have ways of getting what I want, Without you getting a single thing, Steady boy. Good afternoon, Tor, Good afternoon. I'd like to talk to you, Tor. About what? About Lars, He wants to buy Fjordheim, Fjordheim? And the mine, He thin ks it is full of gemstones. That's what he thinks, huh? He won't listen to me Tor. Maybe you could talk to him? What does this have to do with me? You worked in the mine, You know that there is nothing in there. Tor Stormberg? Well, You are a rare sight to see around these parts I guess it depends on where you look, Edith, have you rung him up yet? Yes, Just cancel that bill. Today it's on the house, I can pay for myself, Well, I just want to make it up to you, that's all, Make up for what? Well, the way I've treated you in the past, And nobody knows more about Fjordheim and the mine than you do, And...? Well, you might have some valuable piece of information, Information that I'd be willing to pay a lot of money for. I found a broken lamp just like that at Fjordheim. Gudrun gave that to me right before she died. You're just like Svanhild. What happened to her? I killed her. No, not that way. She died in the mine, but it was my fault. She was obsessed with finding olivine and I couldn't keep her away. Olivine? What's that? That is olivine. It's a valuable green crystal that Gudrun found in the mine, She never told anyone where she found it. She wouldn't even tell her own daughter, Did this belong to Svanhild? Yes, Gudrun made it for her. Is it the mine that leads up here to Stormberg? That mine is a grave. You're never to go there, I have to ride again, Will you help me? OK, Sarah, come here, You really want this? I'm not scared, You're sure? You won't rush it like before, right? No, I remember what you told me in the States, Tor, I'm not afraid of the horse, I'm afraid of myself, And you're not afraid of yourself anymore? No, not afraid. Alright, let's give it a try. Lars, where are you going? If nobody wants to help me find the olivine, I'll find it myself! Lars! That's where she's buried. You followed me! I asked you not to come here, You disturb the peace of the dead. Is this the rockslide that killed Svanhild? Yes, Is this where Gudrun found the olivine for this? Listen Sarah, don't you start searching for it too. Stay away from this mine from now on, But it must be worth a fortune! Gudrun wasn't obsessed with money, She only took a small portion of the olivine for her artwork, She was obsessed with the beauty of the stone. That same obsession is what killed Svanhild. What was that? There are many small rock slides. I told you this is not a safe place. Come, I have something to show you. This was made by a renowned Russian Artist. Was Gudrun rich? Oh yes, she was rich with friends, from all over Europe, Did they all come here to Fjordheim? Yes, she opened up Fjordheim for the artists during the summer, But the people in town didn't like all those strange people around, They thought Gudrun could do more to make the mine a profitable industry, Gudrun was stubborn, She didn't care what they thought. Svanhild's bunad. Bunad? It's a national costume. Made to wear for special occasions, The last time Svanhild wore this was when Gudrun gave her the unicorn, That was the last time she was truly happy, What was Svanhild like? Lonely. So I gave her the foal, I hoped it would bring her more friends. Legend has it that Gudrun found a large vein of crystal in the mine, Svanhild was obsessed with finding more, The mine became a dangerous playground for her. When your father was born, l closed off the mine. Padlocked it, One night I forgot to lock it, and that was when it happened. There, you see, That's what Svanhild was missing. A family. This is the last load Eric, with it we finish the job, Let's go pick up mom and Sarah OK, Hey Eric, how many days before we finish the job? I bet one! One day? OK, then that is the goal! Oh, no. Why would somebody do this? Could it have been the cow? A cow didn't do this. Oh, jeez, Christian? What are you doing? It was my dad that did it. And you didn't stop him? I tried to, but I could only save the telescope. Well, you can just stay away! I don't want to see you or your family here anymore! Sarah, calm down. He's just trying to help, Don't worry about it Christian. Maybe you should go home though. I'm really sorry. I know. Forget it. It's hopeless. Tor! Tor! Tor! Lars destroyed dad's observatory! Sorry, I can't help you when it comes to Lars, Please, Tor! This isn't anything I can help with. Is it true then, what they say about you? That you are a grumpy old hermit? If the people want me to be a hermit, let them have it. Listen, Do You remember how eager I was to sell? Well, not anymore. We're going to stay. And you are going to rebuild this platform, piece by piece. And I'm going to help you. Ok? I'll help you too, dad, Lars! Why did you destroy the observatory? Because you people have interfered with me for the last time. What? I've seen you talking to Tor, He must have told you were the olivine is? Didn't he? I don't know anything about that! You better tell me where it's hidden! Or else the observatory isn't the only thing that's going to be destroyed. Do you understand? Do you? Just take it! Wait! Wait! Sarah, stop, No. Where's that olivine? Tell me what I want to know! Stop! Sarah, come back here! I'm sorry to ask Tor, but do you recognize this? Svan hild. What do you know about this, Tor? How would I know about this? The last I saw of her was when she flew out of Fjordheim on Monocerus. Later I found the horse in front of the mine. I thought she was taken by the rock slide. I wonder why she wasn't found before? Well, we all thought she died in the mine. We never conducted a thorough search. See, Tor, it wasn't your fault, Come Sarah, I'll follow you home, I can take her home. I think I'm ready to face Svanhild's son now, Come, Sarah, ... well that makes sense, What I don't understand though is, why was I adopted? Why couldn't I stay here with Gudrun? Gudrun wasn't able to take care of you after Svanhild died, But how did he end up in America? A friend of Gudrun knew his American parents. That summer they came to Fjordheim, they fell in love with him, Gudrun wanted you to have a strong, supportive family. That's why she never contacted you again. She felt it was better that you started a new life there, in America, She wanted me to have a normal family. Thank you Tor, for caring so much for my mother,,.. and thank you for looking after Sarah, I feel like I've wasted And there's still quite a few things to sort out. I need to have a talk with Lars, I'll help you with that observatory one of these days, Oh, Tor. If you see Christian, could you tell him I'm sorry? Sure will. Lars isn't here. Where is he? The mine, Tor, I'm so afraid that something terrible is going to happen to him, Edith, I won't let him destroy anything for you or Christian. I'll go talk to Lars, Well, here! Hoow, hoow Boy. Easy, Lars? Lars! I'm not afraid of you, Lars Storhaug, and I know what you are looking for. You know, mines can be very hazardous places for people, Especially for stupid old fools, like you! The olivine won't help you and it's sad what you're doing to your family, What I'm doing to my family? I'm doing this for my family! I don't want them to be bankrupt and have to be ashamed of me. You brought yourself up from nothing once Lars, You can do it again! The olivine is just and obsession, It's dangerous, It will consume you, I know. Because the same thing happened to Svanhild. All I hear is Svanhild! I am sick to death of hearing that name. Now, You're going to tell me where Gudrun hid the olivine. And now! Betelgeuze! Is that You? Tor! Tor! Tor, are you OK? We are trapped in here, Sarah! Ride for help! Hurry! Are you sure? Yes, Go. Easy Betelgeuze. We have to help Tor, OK? Easy Ok, let's go. Betelgeuze... Please... I'm going to go get help, OK? Just hold on, I'll be right back. Hold on OK? I'll be back real soon. Help me, please. Take him away guys. What's your involvement in this Tor? Do you think I hurt Lars? Just asking. It was a rock slide, Tor saved my life, Dad! I'm alright son. What happened? I was a fool. I'll be all right, Ok, let's go. That was one big rock slide, wasn't it? Buried everything. Well, I won't be digging there anymore, will l? Dig for what? Come on, you know what I'm talking about, We'll forget the stuff in the mine forever. Ok, Is he dead? Alright, how is that? Not bad Tor, not bad. Hi Sarah. Hi, is it finished? Oh, just about. We were thinking you could have the honor trying it first. There's a star here you've got to see, Sarah, Wow. It's like a jewel. What's its name? Betelgeuze, in the constellation of Orion. Orion, the hunter, Killed accidentally by the Goddess Artemisia. I killed Betelgeuze, Sarah, I spent my life accusing myself constantly, Don't do that, You've got a long, beautiful life to live, Okay, I want Betelgeuze to look down at me and to be proud of me. I know he is. Betelgeuze was unique. One of a kind. He had a magical spirit that touched everyone around him. Just like you, Just like the unicorn. There's a constellation for the unicorn, too, Beta Monocerus. So, where's that? Here, I'll show you. There it is, Here, have a look. You're looking at the strongest star in the unicorn, Beta Monocerus is a triple star. It's beautiful, Like you, Sarah. Wait... Did you say triple star? Yeah? I think maybe Gudrun is trying to tell us something, Two close, one further away. What is it supposed to mean? The lamps! This lamp and your lamp are like the stars in my necklace. If those two lamps are the starting point... ...the stars that are closest together... ...then we just have to find the third star! Here's Fjordheim and Stormberg... Could the third be the mine? No that's a little too close. It should be here, higher up on the mountain, It should be here, higher up on the mountain, It should be around here someplace, I don't see anything... Look! What's that? Wow! So this is where Gudrun found it.., Sarah! Christian! I have something to show you. Come! You can see who the father is, right? Do you like him? I love him! That's Good, because he's yours, Sarah. I'm going to name him Monocerus, after Svanhild's horse.
