 

                        Now listen here, fat-head We're back home again and that's because we did a little fighting And I know what you're thinking You're thinking: Well, here comes us The Foreign Legion Each man a hero all the booze in the world made for us and the women thrown in But you're wrong. this time, you're gonna behave yourselves like gentlemen even if it'll kill you Yes, I'm talking to you you heard what I said! Why don't you get back in line? What are doing with your fingers? - Nothing... yet - get in there - all packed up, Sir. ready to land - Thank you. There you are. I hope I haven't forgotten anything. Merci, Monsieur. you're very kind Your first voyage to Morocco? Yes. I make the trip quite often. perhaps I can be of some service? I'd be happy to help you I won't need any help You can always reach me at this address, Mademoiselle. Merci, Monsieur. - Good evening, Officer - evening Do you know who that woman is? A vaudeville actress probably just how do you figure that? we can't even remember a day We call them suicide passengers. One-way ticket. they never return. well the wanderer returns. how are you? - When did you get back? - last night. Alexander, I'd like you to meet an old friend of mine, M. La Bessire. - a citizen of the world - very happy - You're a Frenchman, aren't you? - Yes. - Mrs. Marten. - Aren't you the painter La Bessire? - I paint when I find the time. - He has all the time that he needs. He would be a great painter if he were not so rich. Colonel Buchard. - Colonel. - Charmed - Won't you join us? I'd love to, but isn't that Csar and his wife? - yes. - see you later Habib efendi be self being the house day It's awfully nice to see you in Morocco again. - I'm very happy to meet you, even in this heat. - yes it is hot. - and you Mme Csar? how have you been? - I've been bored. We've missed you. I feel greatly flattered. your rich friend is very democratic He can afford to be. he's always chosen his own friends as a young vicar with the captain in the German air-force before joining the legion - And perhaps you can give me the history of his wife? - The less said about that, the better. The house is packed the house is packed! This is a great night for you. If you make a hit, you can stay here as long as you like. now, you may have heard of me in Europe or not. my house is patronized by the finest society in Morocco. What was I going to say? Oh yes. pick yourself a protector It will give us prestige. An officer in the legion. They will tell you that the officers in the legion are not important. that the common legionnaire is the thing They will tell you that Private so-and-so is a Russian Prince or an ex-General who joined the legion to forget his past. Don't believe it! The private in the Legion is a no bargain with 75 centimes per day. Thank you. Pick the officers! They have the money. Ladies and Gentlemen. it is no small task, as you know... to supply my establishment with new talent. For some reason, the artists I engage don't last very long. It may be the heat. I do my best. I pay the highest wages in Africa. Mille grazie, signore e signori. Anyway, I'll open the program tonight with Mlle Amy Jolly, a newcomer whom I hope you will receive with your usual discriminating kindness If I remember correctly, this audience shows its usual discriminating kindness by receiving its newcomers rather unpleasantly. sit down, go ahead. on fait sermon dans sa folie de s'aimer l'enfant l'enfant on est charmant, elle est jolie s'est par un soir de gai printemps mais un beau jour on vient s'oppose l'amour prend fin avec les fleurs et on rest seul un beau jour et le coeur se ride, les yeux remplis de pleurs lorsque tout est fini quand se meurt votre beau rve pourqoui pleurer les jours en pluie, regretter les chances parties? les belles et sont les filles la savant vise s'achve et l'on reste laver vers prix quand tout est fini may I offer you this glass of Champagne? votre sant - May I have this? - Of course. sing your number once and then sell the apples That's the most important thing Sell the apples! 10 % is yours, 90 % is mine. you'll make a fortune Yeah. damme los flores! Over my dead body damme los flores or go a casa well, what's keeping you, baby? what can I bid for my apple? the fruit that made Adam so wise on the historic night when he took a bite he discovered a new paradise? and apple, they say, keeps the doctor away while his pretty young wife has the time of her life with the butcher, the baker the candle-stick maker oh what can I bid for my apple? We meet once more, monsieur I didn't anticipate this pleasure so soon. can I also have an apple? - but I have no change for that. - I hardly expected you to have. You are again very kind. Mademoiselle, may I have the honour of your company after the performance? I'm sorry. I have disposed for the rest of the evening. - some other time perhaps? - of course An apple, Monsieur? Madame? Don't waste your time down there. There's no money in the pit! isn't there? Thanks for the flower, Mademoiselle. can I offer you an apple, too? Lend me 20 francs That makes 60 Two weeks pay is a lot of money for an apple. You can have it for nothing if you like. nothing doing. I always pay for what I get. I'd sit down if I were you. You're pretty brave with women What's the matter? Don't you like brave men? perhaps. Your change soldier Tom? well, if it isn't Mme Csar Tom, I must see you tonight? what do you mean tonight? what if your husband sees you tonight? He isn't going to see me isn't he? what if he does? Csar's wife is above suspicion. You may know something about ancient history, but I know something about husbands. Tom! Oh! It's you? What's the matter? Were you expecting someone else? Can I offer you something? Cognac? too hot. got any gin? Yes. - Cigarette? - Thanks. You made this place look very nice It looks different now. how do you know? have you been here before? Well, I have been stationed in this town for a long time. aren't you drinking? No. Well, to you You can smell the desert tonight. Hot, isn't it? faded You can go now, soldier. Alright lady. you won't have any trouble getting rid of me nothing like independence, isn't there? well maybe I am independent. With women You evidently don't think much of women I tell you lady, it's their fault, not mine been in the legion very long? almost three years Three years seems like 300 you sound tired of life I don't know whether I am or not I was when I joined this outfit how about you, Mademoiselle? Been on the stage very long? Long enough. - tired of it? - no You've a lot of pictures of that man. Is he your husband? husband? I never found a man good enough for that. that's just how I fell about women. how long ago was that picture taken? why? that looks like a Russian sable. that coat's worth a load of shades. Do you still have it? don't be absurd. if I still had that coat I wouldn't be here What in the name of ten thousand purples did you come to a country like this for, anyway? I understand that men are never asked why they enter the Foreign Legion. That's right. They never asked me and if they had I wouldn't have told. When I crashed the legion I ditched the past. There's a Foreign Legion of women, too. but we have no uniforms no flags and no medals, when we are brave No wound stripes when we are hurt Look here, is there anything I can do to help you? No. I've heard that before. Or do you think you can restore my faith in men? not me you've got the wrong man for that anybody who has faith in me is a sucker You'd better go now I'm beginning like you. I've said to women about everything a man can say. I'm gonna to tell you something I've never told a woman before. I wish I'd met you 10 years ago. - Good night. - Good night. And thanks well, the night's still young There's your key, lady. If I were you I wouldn't hand it around. Tom! I hear something taking a walk? To get some fresh air? No, I was looking for you It's good that you found me. This quarter isn't safe at night. I'd better take you home - 120? - No, I wish I were I only feel so light to you because your arms are so powerful. well, we'll get along a bit better this time Look out! you'd better come here, there's gonna be trouble I give you one more chance: Who were those two women? get your knee out of my hip! Do you think the two women you are trying to protect are worth it? well I think one of them is. mon Adjudant, M. La Bessire is here to take you to his club. ask him to wait. I'll be through in a minute. no, let him come in. entrez, Monsieur - I didn't know that the military was quite so busy. - Oh yes, we are busy Sit down! perhaps you can learn something about this country which you think is so marvellous got a match? This little matter also involves someone you're interested in. I'm properly curious bring in that woman Mademoiselle, I think you know M. La Bessire - very happy to meet you again, Mademoiselle. - sit down I'm happy to meet you again. It's so nice of you to have come, Mademoiselle. You were present at this affair at which the prisoner with his customary bravery severely wounded two helpless natives Those natives were not helpless. They attacked us. Who was the other woman? I don't know. I'd like to know, too do sit down The curious part of this is I'm the only one that really seems to know who this other woman is If you do know, you'd better keep it to yourself Captain Csar, don't lose your temper Return the prisoner to the guard-house I appreciate your attempt to keep the name of my wife out of this that's alright, sir You may go now, Mademoiselle I'll join you in a minute You look charming this morning What will they do to him? I don't know. personally I shouldn't care to have Adjudant Csar as an enemy. I seem to have the unhappy faculty of bringing trouble wherever I go Nonsense you know, I carry some weight with Csar. possibly I can help you. Every time a man has helped me there's been a price. What's yours? My price? A smile? I haven't got much more shall we go? Here, take your pass. You're a free man. door's right open and you can do what you like. 'til 7 o'clock in the morning. - What's the idea of all this? - you're leaving for Amalfa-Pass tomorrow - not me, I'm beginning to like this town. Tell Csar, I'm not going you tell him yourself, he's going along this time. - Who's going along? - you heard what I said Csar is going along this time So that's what it is. that's why he didn't recommend a court martial. He's gonna get me out on the road and face me in the proper direction. well you got a gun with you, haven't you. you can't get away with murder all your life that's right, Sergeant. your argument is perfectly sound, but nobody is gonna use me for target practice. I'm through with the army anyway. I've been looking for the right kind of woman all my life and I think I've found her. so I quit, take this thing and spend a few weeks somewhere along the blue Mediterranean so you're quitting, eh? well nobody's stopping you By the way, you happen to remember what the penalty is for desertion? There's a 100 ways to dying, brother, and I'm picking my own way. Go on, get out of here He's in there I've never known such a fortune in my life He's a rich man to buy Morocco. Don't forget me! you've met him in my theatre. Good evening Your flowers are wonderful any news of him? I did what I could. they will not court-martial him. they're going to transfer him which means of course that he will have to leave town. do you love him? I don't know. I hope not. I can't accept this. It's worth a fortune. anything of less value would be unworthy. I've got to change I'd like to take you away from here. Would you? exactly what do you offer now? the conventional thing My offer is highly respectable: marriage You're a strange man Do you find it so strange that I shall be fond of you? must I answer you now? I'd sleep better tonight if you did. I don't think I care to take advantage of your tempting offer. - then you're in love? - No, I don't think I am. supposing you had never met a certain private in the foreign legion what would your answer have been? might have been the same. I don't know. I'm sorry to intrude, but I'm leaving for the Sahara in the morning and I just came to say good-bye I think you two want to be alone. I understand you are leaving on a rather strenuous journey. - May I wish you good luck? - Thanks - bientot, Mademoiselle - bientot Will you be gone long? When will I see you again? Maybe never. Something tells me I'm not coming back this time. don't go. that's just what I was thinking. I could desert and board a freighter for Europe tonight Why don't you? I would in a minute if you'd go with me. Will you? Yes. I'll be back. Wait for me. If you can spare one of your hands, I would like to say goodbye, too. Goodbye, Mademoiselle. Why didn't you stay last night? I had a few other calls to make. Who are those women? Those women? I would call them the rear-guard. How can they keep feet with the men? They catch up with them, and sometimes they don't. And very often when they do, they find their men dead. Those women must be mad. I don't know. you see, they love their men I don't see why we have to keep getting down all day? We only have to get up again. anyhow, those walking bed sheets can't shoot straight. If you go on like this, why don't you quit? anyhow, I thought you were going to desert? I've turned decent, Sergeant. decent. What did you say? decent. I'm in love. you'd better not go in. - What's wrong, Lo Tinto? - What's wrong? She's been drinking, like a fish And don't send her anymore flowers in pots She threw just one at me an hour ago - Hello there - Bonsoir, Mademoiselle. How do you like me now? you seem gay tonight. Have you had good news? Have you heard from Private Brown? Not badly written for a soldier perhaps it was for the best Give me a drink Call my chauffeur, Lo Tinto. You're losing your headlines tonight. good. I'm not losing anything. She's been no use to me for three weeks. Legionnaire Brown Legionnaire Brown! - Legionnaire Brown! well, I had the right hunch, didn't I? that's too bad, Brown wait a minute. give me those 20 Francs you owe me. you know, that lady-killer was no bad soldier at that destroy that machine-gun May I go too, sir? You're not at all excited. read on the night of our engagement dinner, while we're all waiting for you? everybody's here. I never believed they would come. On the contrary. They're delighted to witness the unconditional surrender of the most exacting bachelor in the world. I know. You want to thank me for making you happy. You want to thank me for giving you those pearls this morning You want to thank me for this and you want to thank me for that... Shall we go down now? - Anything wrong? - Csar was killed. I received the news this morning. Legionnaire Tom Brown will probably come back tonight. - Is his company returning? - What's left of it. you don't need to be concerned about him. dead or alive there's still time to tell me. do come, they are waiting notre ami nous a rserv la surprise la plus inattendue M. La Bessire, notre ami que nous avons tous, le grand peintre que nous admirons et surtout le plus endurci des vieux garons a dcid de joindre nos rangs il va connaitre comme nous les difficults de la vie conjugale que nous supportons d'ailleurs trs allgrement et il a eu le bonheur, la chance, l'excellence Mohammed Pick up those pearls and take them my room please Where is Tom Brown? Was he killed? Not so rough, Mademoiselle I'm liable to fall apart We left him in at Amalfa. You can't kill that long drink of water. Is he badly hurt? well, we didn't' go down there for any entertainment I gotta get some sleep Alexander, don't you think it unusually hot this month? No, I don't think so You always disagree with me When I came to Morocco as a boy, it snowing in the summer have you heard that before, M. La Bessire? I wasn't listening, Colonel. what did you say? When I came to Morocco as a boy... What did I say? When you came to Morocco as a boy, it rained or something. That's it I have to go to him. They left him in Amalfa. - Is he badly wounded? - I hope not. please don't disturb yourselves and sit down I don't mind your hearing this why not let me send a telegram and learn the details. if his condition is serious we can drive down tomorrow. I'm going now. order the car and pack my bag you see, I love her I do anything to make her happy. Is Legionnaire Brown here? There is no Legionnaire Brown here. - Are you sure? - well it might be under some other name. have a look Hello, Mademoiselle What are you doing down here? I'm looking for Legionnaire Tom Brown You won't find him down here, diese verdammte Schweinehund He make believe that he'd been wounded, but they find out and put him in another company Is he still in town? He is round the corner, at the Christine. And don't forget to tell him to pay me the 60 Francs that owes me Who is this girl? It wouldn't be any good if I told you. you love her very much? Yep. Poor boy What are you doing in this part of the world? I heard you were wounded. Not me. I never felt better in my life. - Are you married? - No! Why didn't you return with your company? aren't you gonna marry that rich friend of yours? of course! Are you sure? I don't change my mind well then I wish you all the luck in the world, Mademoiselle Rassemblement Back to the barracks Antreten, Ihr Schweinehunde, raus! it's gonna be a thirsty march Have you lost something? Can I help you? go on. beat it. I forgot my knife. You forgot to say goodbye, too. We leave at dawn. Come and see us off. will you? maybe. - Goodbye, Mademoiselle - Goodbye Goodbye, Sir - Good luck, Legionnaire Brown
