 

                        Avici Hell. Also known as Continuous Hell Uninterrupted time Unlimited space. Boundless suffering for the fallen souls Uninterrupted time Time I still remember my first arrest Year: 1991 It was December 12, 1980 My partner and I were patrolling Hano Road Shit was going down at New World Centre We rushed over A gang fight was taking place About fifteen or so were already down Lots of blood on the ground Plus a severed hand, still holding a knife My partner told me to draw my piece I was a rookie so I did what he told But before I could open the holster My partner already dropped This kid stabbed a pipe into his belly Blood gushed out of the sawed off opening I didn't know what to think I simply put all six of my bullets straight into that kid! I don't remember how many years he got But when I saw him again two years ago he was boozing in a club, looking sharp His buddies were all Kwun's goons! Evil prevails. Only the good die young I can barely recall my partner's face now I regret The six bullets weren't put into that kid's skull The world shouldn't be like this It's not the way to be, Sam How long have you been around Tsim Sha Tsui? Almost two years now Do you know why I haven't messed with you? 'Cause I am handsome! Maybe so 'Cause I think you're a decent guy I'd rather you be in charge Forget about it You couldn't waste the kid even with six bullets That makes you a decent guy, too. Right? I don't want to be one Kwun gave me everything, even my life If I turned against him I'd be despicable even in your eyes. Right? I knew you'd say that Chivalry means little to the Ngai Family The Master often says Retribution knows its time Who knows how you and I will end up? Time to work! This early? I've got to eat! So do my boys! Take the whole box That's okay. Keep it Don't worry about it! Just go! Want to use the back door? Ain't no rules against schmoozing with cops The front door's fine. Got used to it Prat Avenue! Prat Avenue Is Uncle Kwun in? Uncle Kwun! Someone's looking for you! Bye, Mary They say this American antique's got... ...sweet high, crisp middle and strong bass Bullshit! Who can afford it in Hong Kong? Sit Only around ten thousand people can afford it Sam asked you to be a mole in the force If you don't like it, I can talk to him You're my boy after all It's fine with me Sure? Positive Hand me that bag Mary I thought you'd been dreading it Hide in Tuen Mun till things quiet down Stay fit for the Academy's new term The money I gave you, spend wisely You like the song? Yeah It's yours It won't sound as good on another player Someday I'll pick out a good one for you What? Don't like it? Not at all Sam gave you this watch, didn't he? None of your business Only you and I... ...know about tonight I don't want Sam to know Why's that? Women are simple A man treats me well, I'd do anything Now go home. I'm very busy tonight It's either you or me The boss said I would see blood today The Mainlander kept asking... Got a Mercedes today, Keung? I said, "Of course." And here I am! Otherwise, I wouldn't be here with you Mainland girls in arms That's for sure! Hey, got a cigarette? I don't smoke Let's forget about it. My car's fine See! She says it's all good Dressed all dandy Don't want any trouble, do you? Look at me. All beaten up by you Who do you think the judge would believe? I bet you guys never go to Tsim Sha Tsui East, huh? Know who I am? I'm Keung! Sam's top dog. Del Piero's boy I'll kick your ass every time I see you And you can count on that How about calling an ambulance, sir? Look at all the blood! Have them bring 500 cc Type O. It's rare! Shut up! Wait till we're back to the station Why do I have to go to the station? I only stole a piece of junk, sir! What've I done to deserve the OCTB? Just shut up! Does that deserve an OCTB beating? Don't you know you're just a cadet? And you are expected to get a medal this year Don't ever let Yip know about this! Happy birthday! What's there to be happy about? Ten years in the Academy. A rustic hell You even managed to get me out Your case's now ancient history Get yourself out So what if the Commissioner's Chinese now? Still six more years till the hand over I'll be 48 by then! Might as well train a few good cops here! The world is yours after 1997! Yan Been beeping the whole day How come you don't call back? Girlfriend? Cheers, sir! Cheers! Just leave me alone! It's none of my business I don't want to know a thing Go! Leave me alone! Law What do you want? My father just passed way It was his wish to inform his children... when something bad happened to him! Sorry to have bothered you! Stop watching TV! Eat first, Negro! I wonder what they have on Kwun's death Did you do it, Ching? I've got a big mouth. Had I done it... ...you would've heard about it! Ask Wah and Gandhi When Kwun died, I was in Macau Everybody knows! But I bet his kids think I did it I ain't scared of nothing The eldest son's a doctor The youngest a brat The daughter's married for ages Only the middle son's running the show If they go too far, I'll show them! We failed to protect Kwun. It's our fault! That's enough, Uncle John Dad used to say What goes around comes around It came later than expected already Wah, Ching, Negro and Gandhi Guess what those four are thinking? Thank you. Thank you all! How's mom doing, sis? She's fine. Been sleeping Bring some cigs to the morgue for dad I'll go get them B Team, watch Tak Shing Street C Team, watch the Austin Road exit... ...of that financial building It has two exits One on Tak Shing Street. One on Austin... Sorry Hello? Something this big, why didn't you call? I called everybody the minute it happened! Kwun's boys can't sit still for sure Shit will hit the fan tonight! It's the 14th already. You know that? The 14th. Time to pay the Ngai Family I'm the youngest here So let me be the jackass I'm not paying the Ngai's any more What do you three think? Inspector Wong What's up? What're your men doing outside Wah's building? Not a good day for chit chat Are you into something? Fine, fine. Next time What's the occasion? Come on. Where's my seat? Only if you're here for the food All other businesses have to wait The food. It's all about the food Tonight's gonna be the shit! Let the Big Four do their things We'll deal with the aftermath Don't let them start fighting Or you'll see bodies What? Not satisfied? You know the rule. Pick a card Okay. Higher points win Come on! There's nothing left to talk about What's up, Hau? Wah Nothing much Heard you're planning a casino in Macau I've got the government in my pocket How about a joint venture? Uncle Kwun's dead I'm not in the mood I see The Macau trip wasn't all business I know you had fun with Gandhi's wife Sorry, but I can't let go of my casino in Macau Gotta go What are Sam's people doing? I know Wah paid up Don't change the subject Tell me something I don't know! Call me when you get your shit straight! Hau took care of Wah in ten minutes The Big Four are having a tough time Hau took out a million's worth of coke What? Mafia road block or what? I don't know why Wah paid up, Hau But I ain't gonna negotiate I don't plan to negotiate, either Pass the phone to Negro Hey, Negro Don't know why he calls you from my hood What's up, Hau? I'm with Gandhi all the way He's not paying, neither will I! Heard you and Gandhi have been tight The heroin you two smuggled got robbed Lost several millions each, right? Luckily I found the stuff in your warehouse Want me to hand it back to Gandhi now? What's he talking about? Among the Tsim Sha Tsui Big Fives... Wah and Negro paid up Counting Sam, that's 3 to 2 I'm the youngest here. Gotta pay! See ya! Don't think too much. Cheers! Pay my share for me! Mr. Ngai went to eat, Inspector Wong A bit late for chowing, don't you think? My dad always came here after work I have to keep up the ritual Want to join us? It's your seat from now on. Must be tough Not at all You guys worked all night for nothing Now that's tough Well done, Hau Hope you can keep it up Don't let it turn into a tragedy. Let's go What did you say? We want to celebrate Kwun's dead Time to pop the champagne Want me to pop one for you? What? Want to mess with cops? Officers! The Ngai's are in mourning What more do you want? Let's go Sam Dad used to operate street gambling here Started out as... a dime and nickel business Now who doesn't know his name? He often said What goes around comes around And now he's... I'll always remember this day It's all good, honey. Want some snacks? Good to hear that. Just come home An officer has to have a clean background Though you cut your ties with the Ngai's... ...you still share the same father with Hau That means you lied on your application I have but to let you go But before you leave... ...go see "Mr. Wrong Socks" first Still want to be a cop? Can I still? Only if you can give me a good reason I want to be a righteous person If you want to be a cop... ...then lend me a hand. Simple as that You pick me 'cause I'm Hau's brother, right? When the time comes, will you arrest him yourself? How do I start? Brace You okay? Hanging in there? What's wrong? Does it still hurt? My dad passed away today He was so good to me I asked the officer... ...if I could go to his funeral The officer said... Know what it means to be a prisoner? It means you're not allowed even to attend your father's funeral Don't you know that? Get out of here! Come on. Stop that Time Year: 1995 Are you nuts? You sent Yan to be a mole? Don't you know Hau's his half brother? So what? Bring me his file! So you're playing the boss now, huh? You damn well know you the files are classified I treat you like a bro. Is this what I get? If you're a real bro, stop asking! It's okay Calm down! Speak slowly! She had an abortion! It's no big deal. Just a baby You can always have another one I've been with you for four years And I've bailed you out tons of times One minute we're dining with my folks... ...the next you'll be in a gang fight I don't want our baby to grow up like you Do you understand? Why so uptight? No, nothing Uncle John says you're doing well Ever thought about helping the family out? I know you want to keep a distance from the Ngai's But we're blood brothers. It's a fact It's my daughter's birthday this Sunday You're invited You really hate talking to me, huh? No Promoted already? Soon you'll be a superintendent Might as well become a full time cop Sam's kidding. Go ahead, give me a smile Thanks for your intel these couple years When you were still a rookie... I helped you catch some small potatoes It's about time you caught some big shots How about catching me? Why so dirty? Or you can catch this hot chicks What're you doing?! What a hot hootchie mama! Your man must be one good looking bastard It's you! Who else? Gotta go Gotta go meet Mr. Ngai Sam's so good to you! But he's not good to himself It's been four years He could be in charge now But he gave everything to the Ngai's Already? Now the Ngai Family's all big and bad Hau must've figured it out For the past four years I haven't been sleeping well I'm Inspector Wong Chi Shing Don't worry, Mary I won't let anything happen to you Words, words, words I promise Toss it up! Two days ago, a real estate agent came Guess how much he offered? One hundred sixty million! What's wrong with Hong Kong? Tell me! When my dad bought it it was 9 million...280 thousand What a world! Moving, Mr. Ngai? No big deal Communication's easy these days We're just a phone call away I'm just worried about the phone bill The phone company's greedy, you know I've discussed it with mom Our businesses are on the right track You guys helped out so much in the past I don't want to be ungrateful I want to split the business up... ...among you guys Treat it as a gift or a retirement fund Let's eat! Take whatever you want! We should hang out like this more often Mr. Ngai Are you leaving for real? After you're gone, hell will break loose! You're a Buddhist, aren't you, Sam? Easy to start. Hard to let go I'm letting go. Be happy for me I've thought about it Cocaine will be the future Those four ship it in small bags from S. America Small timers! I've closed a deal with the Thais You'll have the monopoly You'll be the top dog. Leader of the pack Go to Thailand and wrap up the logistics You plan to get rid of those four? Move closer to the right, please Yan Come join the family portrait Stand next to me! I haven't been around much these two years It's rare to spend time... ...with the whole family like this Your siblings are in legit businesses It's time you helped out the family Everything dad did was for the family I did the same Hope you will, too A deal's coming up next week Come with me I'll call you I think he's taking the deal seriously He'll go in person next Wednesday The 14th... Kwun's memorial Hau wants to whack the Big Four Why does he send Sam away? Don't know. Sam should be of help to him! Unless he wants to kill Sam also! I've been following you around for days! I'm your superior after all I want to know what your plan is The Ngai's are your family Do you really know what you're doing? Sir! I'm a cop! Good Give me a salute I've booked a table. Care for dinner? Do I look good in my cap? Looking good? What'll you do in Thailand in that outfit? Have some shark fin A massage. Get two whores for a threesome That's for sure Honey! What? Why didn't you tell me about your trip? It's a business trip! Not for fun! Don't worry. I'll behave Hau plans to whack Wah and those guys I know But do you know you're his target too? Nonsense! How can that be? Just wait for me at the airport! Time to board, Sam! That's all I can do for now Call Sam again when the plane lands I'm going to kill Hau tonight Don't do anything rash! I'm not being rash! Four years ago... ...you told me to kill Kwun So what? Want to blackmail me now? I'm not blackmailing you We simply passed the point of no return! I'll send everybody away Tonight's operation's top secret We're divided into three teams Team A watches here Team B here Wait for my order before doing anything Team C follows the target until... Nobody told me about the date change! You know Hau changes his mind all the time You think Yan's the only mole? My man's been undercover for seven years! Where's the deck of cards? We'll run the show together tonight Let's go! Sir How are you? Don't move--- Hau Zipping it till your lawyer gets here? Come on, cooperate with us! In fact, I appreciate your cooperation Are you speaking Zen, Mr. Ngai? I don't get it Dad used to say... ...the way things work in the streets... ...what goes around always comes around He died four years ago. It's about time The stove's hot enough now She's here, boss You're here now What can you swing? Wait and see Got it! Sir The two foreigners are private eyes Honey! Where are you? Thailand, of course Come back right away! Are you nuts? Why should I come back? Don't ask questions! Just come back! Hau wants you dead! Nonsense! I'm working for him as we speak! Listen to me! I killed Kwun! You've got a VCR? Isn't it good? What an awesome show! Take care. Run if you have to What did Hau say? Sam. Sunny! Mr. Ngai told me to take good care of you! Four years ago... ...you told me to kill Kwun So what? Want to blackmail me now? I'm not blackmailing you We simply passed the point of no return! I'll send everybody away I hired Alan and Johnson... ...to investigate my father's murder Who would've known? The police conspired... to murder my father A law abiding citizen SP Luk Isn't that an officer in the video? Whether to nail him or not... ...that's up to you What a good show! You're so friggin' photogenic Four years ago... How much did Sam's woman pay you? Give me another chance, Mr. Ngai I gave them a chance four years ago They didn't take it If I give you a chance Are you going to take it today? You've been with us for seven years now You're a cop We're the bad guys Time to accept our fates You can't blame me Your Inspector Wong killed my dad knip Any words from Sam? Sam called me He said he was fine He asked you to wait for him here Where're your folks? All emigrated You didn't go with them? Let's go, Sam! We got rid of the Thais Let's go! You know you're not going to make it I know My girl's in danger in Hong Kong Please help me Why should I? 'Cause I'll help you whack your boss I know you want to be in charge Moreover I've been treating you as a pal Don't believe him, Sam! Don't! Get lost! Don't believe him! Get lost! Sorry, Sam Are you here to arrest me? If you're going to kill Hau I will Then there's nothing to talk about I spoke with my superiors They're with you all the way this time How? I conspired in murder! Even the Brits agree that... ...we can't let the triads break us The whole department's behind you Good enough? Where's your deck of cards? The higher points win Come back with me to the department The key! Forget it. I screwed up No need to drag everyone down with me We found this deck in our first outing together You've been keeping it all this time I knew that all along I've let you get your way in the past It's your turn to listen for once We're like brothers Think I'm just gonna be a spectator? Law's my snitch in the Ngai Family He hasn't contacted me for days Neither has Yan! The key! Help! Help! Get some help! Why did you lie to me? I didn't! Something happened to Sam! I told you I was a simple woman I have to do something for my husband I'm going to Thailand Please don't go! Forget it! You don't have to follow us anymore I mean, I don't want you to go You've been with Sam for years Has it occurred to you... Maybe Sam's dead! What did you say? I can take care of you What're you doing? I don't want you to go! You're out of line! Listen up! I'm your boss's woman! Don't let me see your face again! She will go to the airport tonight... Hello? Hello? I killed Kwun! A man treats me well I'd do anything Time Year: 1997 File number IO3142 About Inspector Wong conspiring in murder This is the 11th internal hearing Inspector Wong do you have any question? No... No An inspector should possess leadership skills Mr. Lau you joined as a police constable Could you tell the promotion board why you deserve to be promoted? Of course On April 11, 1995... The department received this tape Accusing you of conspiring in a murder I confess, sir It's already 1997 Before the 1st of July If we don't receive your PO assessment report Do you still think you can be promoted? In Chinese, there is a saying With a new king come new followers So, I guess we will have to start all over again What happened to you? If I told you... ...that the evidence couldn't stand would you like to start over? I'm sorry. I broke the law What do you think of the police force's morale after 1997? Chinese people are sentimental I hope the law will continue to back me up But, I strongly believe in myself, sir! I'm grateful to all of you But I've got no confidence left. I lost! What about Luk then? Can you face him if you give up now? The war's not over We all want a closure to this incident Hong Kong is not run by the Ngai Family Here's a file from the Interpol Read it before your make up your mind Ever been to a funeral in Thailand? A few months ago... I had one for my wife The monks chanted for three full days I didn't shed a single tear On the day of the burial... ...they left the casket in the living room I was mad I wanted to beat them up The monk told me it's a tradition in Thailand The deceased... As long as we keep her company... for a little while longer she can attain eternal peace But I asked the monk what if my wife was not in the coffin? Could she still attain eternal peace? Sorry about your wife The monk placed his hand here He said, "No problem Your wife's here." And here's exactly... ...where the Thais shot me! So I told myself I've passed the point of no return Testifying against Hau could be dangerous I believe in you. You're so handsome Haven't heard that for ages. Thanks What's your plan? Just trying to do my best No big deal. It's my job I'll leave Hong Kong when it's all over You've changed Baby You diluted the coke, didn't you? Got anything to say? Take it all then! Don't go too far, Yan It'd break the boys' morale Mr. Ngai asked me to be in charge here Don't like it? Drive him to the hospital! No matter what they're elders after all You've got lots to learn from them Uncle John will retire in a few years You know what I mean? I don't need any hiccups now The Labor Athletic Association has a formal... ...for us Political Consultative candidates If everything works out our family will no longer live in shadows Mr. Cheung Mr. Ngai How are you? Good. Good When Solicitor Hung mentioned you I didn't believe him You're amazingly young, Mr. Ngai What's your Zodiac? Ox The Year of the Ox Ox's good Director Chan likes young people I'll introduce you later. Thanks Really? Director Chan said he hated the triads That's right, SP Leung Mr. Ngai's been invited to consult the police Really? Congratulations! Where do you golf these days, Chan? Zhong Shan Onsen What's your handicap these days? How are you? My name's Ngai... Mr. Ngai Wing Hau I'm Mr. Ngai's solicitor Tonight's a celebration for HK's hand over All other businesses can wait What if I say no? Got any problem with that? Mr. Ngai You're a suspect in several murder cases in 1995 You're under arrest This is your arrest warrant Everything you say will be recorded... and could be used as evidence against you Do you have any question? No I looked through their files The murder charges won't stand But your being a triad boss... That one will stick The unions and the political parties called They want to withdraw their invitations Words from the HK and Macau Affairs Office They have revoked your candidacy Call Beijing. Get some friends to help Let me try Forget it They even found a dead man to testify against you Everyone knows how loyal Sam was to you Now he's the prosecution's witness It's over Sorry. Can't help you You said there'd be no problem! Everyone's watching how we will react What're you going to do? What can I do? Threaten the government? Don't take it the wrong way We're all in the same boat Time for me to get off then I'm just a lawyer. Not one of you I don't intend to sink with you. Sorry Yes Sam has a wife and a daughter are in Thailand! It's your call Sis You and the brothers should take mom... ...and go to Hawaii for a while Okay. Haven't been there for a while Are you going to be all right? I'll be fine Sorry I can't help the family The key thing now is you turn out okay Don't be silly. We're a family! Take care of mom! Don't worry. Leave it to us three Even with my testimony Hau will only get a couple years It's true He'll have to whack you to get life I have to thank you Without you I could never have come back Save it! I'm busy these days Anything you need, ask them They'll protect you Sam! Thanks So, how's it going? Good. Been transferred to the CIB Will be Inspector in Training next month Did Mary call you... ...before she left...? Don't be too hard on yourself, Sam Inspector Wong said to find you if I needed anything Will you really help me? I thought you wouldn't come Why's that? So here we are It's been two years Because of my father's case you didn't dare to call me for two years? You couldn't face me? Right All you need to nail Hau is in the safe I've organized the files according to dates Why do you still help me? I'm not helping you I'm a cop I want to keep my promises to SP Luk! And I don't want to be a mole any more Two more years and I'll become the top dog What for? To end up in prison? Let's bury the past Just bring me back into the department Give me a desk Make sure it has a sea view And don't let me see your face again Don't worry You won't see me any more One more thing I couldn't spell some of the words Come find me if you don't understand But don't mess up the order I'll kill you if you mess that up! That's great. Put me out of misery! You wish! Thank you, officer The trial will start in three days Mr. Hon OCTB! Inspector Wong! Sam's gone! He escaped through the kitchen Who was guarding the kitchen? Sorry, sir Sam'd made a call to Thailand... ...before he escaped Mr. Ngai What do you want from me? You called me So tell me how you can help me Am I right? Sit down Whack me! Kill me and it's all over! Why should I? Haven't done that kind of stuff for ages Everything can be negotiated Hong Kong's big enough for us both, Sam We can even be partners Let's forget about the past You will kill me You'll kill me tonight But who's gonna take care of your family? Just in! Hau has Sam's wife and daughter as hostages That's his Thai maid! I managed to stay alive all these years It's all because... ...I have some good buddies in Thailand You want to take this call It's from Hawaii Your whole family's there My Thai buddies, too Hello! Mr Ngai My boss asked me to take good care of your family Daddy! Where are you? Mr. Ngai! Shut up! You'll whack me tonight. I told you so Put it down, Ngai Wing Hau! Let him He tried to kill me once before Let him do it again! Officers After he shoots me... ...it'll be your call to shoot him or not What goes around comes around! Two questions Did you kill his whole family? Of course not! My buddies and I were just scaring him! Did you expect me to kill him for you? Would you believe me if I said no? I expected to die here It was my only way Sorry Did you know how hard I worked... ...to collect tons of evidence... ...to put him away for life? How are you? The Thai guy, Sam Paul! Thank you It's all good We're now partners Cocaine straight to HK from now on Should I wrap up the Ngai episode? Paul... Maybe we shouldn't go too far It was pure luck that you bumped into me Otherwise you would've been killed We were destined to be partners... ...when my gun failed to kill you You can never go too far. Get it? The hand over ceremony of Hong Kong... ...commenced earlier at 11:20 Both countries' anthems were played A British flag rose up in the hall The ceremony was dignified Yet it'd had its share of relaxed moments... before its commencement When both countries' marching bands played some Chinese representatives took pictures Prince Charles and Governor Patten were smiling As the ceremony officially commenced Three British soldiers and three Chinese ones--- ...marched slowly onto the podium The Chinese soldiers--- displayed the PRC flag Following their lead... Three HK Royal Police officers... ...emerged with three HK SAR Police officers The three SAR officers displayed... ...the HKSAR flag to the honorable guests And now all the guests have risen It was exactly midnight The arrival of July 1st, 1997 The PRC flag rose up... with the HKSAR flag marking the end of the colonial era It also signified the beginning... ...of the One Country Two Systems policy The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region... ...of the People's Republic of China has been established Okay. It's a deal Come join me You know what kind of boss is the worst? The ugly boss Look's everything! Look how I shine! What's your name, miss? What's your name, miss? I'm Ma... Mary M A--- M A Y--- M A R Y M A R Y Continuous Hell embodies 3 components: Uninterrupted Time, Unlimited Space, Boundless Suffering Transgressers of the Five Deadly Sins fall into this hell forever condemned to the ultimate incessant suffering
