 

                        1 Ramachari, stand up! Sorry; sir. I did like this because I couldn't study. Had you paid attention in the class, you wouldn't do so. Sir, if you teach only the students sitting in the first bench... ...what should the students sitting in the last bench do? Hey, how dare you back answer to me? Remove your pant. Sorry, sir. Forgive me. Don't put me to shame before everyone. Do what I say! Remove your pant. The rest of you, continue Out! Get out, I say! Oh, he is back Ramachari, are you going to fail in the exams again? I knew it. Why can't you study well? Learn from your brother Why do you give us so much pain? If we scold you, you argue with us. It is wrong that your father asks you to study? I'm so unfortunate. I wonder when he will reform Only God knows.. It is true that I'm good for nothing. It is true that I copied in exams. But I don't misbehave with girls in the college, sir. Shut up, I say! First, obey my order. Remove your pant. - Darn it. Do it. Dear student, Shreyas is the topper in the class He has scored 90 in maths. Clap for Shreyas! Why are you upset? -I scored only 20. And you? - 40. In maths, he scored 20 and he scored 40 and I scored 35. So we are the toppers in the class - How is that? Shreyas has scored 90. Our marks put together; it is 95. You three together scored 95, but Shreyas alone has scored 90. In politics, those who got just 60 seats, 40 seats 20 seats.. ...when they can form government proving majority coming together... ...why can't we three together come first? If politicians do it, it's right, but if we do it, it is wrong. We are first. Clap for us Glory to Vishnu Vardhan! Glory to Vishnu Vardhan! Glory to Vishnu Vardhan! Glory to Vishnu Vardhan! One ticket! -Just one? Okay. Just one? - Yes. Are you from Kamakshipalya? Yes - Here Uncle! - Wham is it? Our owner and Baddi Seena had a fight. He has taken second half reel of the film Naraga Havu If Dada's fans find out.. So why do you worfll? You start the film and Ramachari will end it. Play the drums Hey! Ramachari! Where are you? Why? What happened? Who hit you? Who is it? Who is it? Who are you? "He's a rocking star. Pumping action hero." "Want be little higher. He's like afire" Who are you? - A fan. What? A fan? If you are a fan, cheer for your favourite hero and whistle for him.. ...what are you doing here? Only those who come with passion hear the sound of whistle... ...but you, you will only hear the sound of death. You are just a fan, why are you behaving like a hero? Every hero will be a fan of someone before becoming a hero. If you mess the fans... ...you will be dead. Do you know whose fan I am? "Do you want to feel the pain? Go." "Do you want to feel the bad? Go." "Who is making noise?" "Be quiet else Chari will scold you" "You better be quiet." "No one is allowed to even cough." "Do you know who you are messing with?" "Don't lock him with him." "You better don't intervene" "Else you will be finished." "Ramachari." "Ramachari." Cheri? "Lord Ram" "Lord Ram" "He is humble" "He is a rocking star." "He is talk of the town." "He is like pistol." "He is as speed as a missile" "He never stops" "He knows no fear. Tit of tat." "I never let down my fans I'm care of Kannada" "The line begins from where I stand." "I never bow down before anyone." "People follow my style" "Ramachari." "Ramachari." "He is a lone warrior." "He is a rebel." "lf you mess with him, you're in trouble." "He walks on the right path." "His character is real." "He is a symbol of friendship" "As long as Ramachari is concerned, the battle is one-sided." "He walks like a Lion. People are crazy about him." "Nobody can understand me." "I don't follow any rules." "I'm my own fan" "I'm the latest don." "Bang:- "Ramachari." "Ramachari." "Who is making noise?" Stop. Stop right here. Don't take me home. Stop it. - Don't be afraid. Nothing will happen. What did you learn watching the film? Please go away. If my mother finds out I was with you, she will scold me Please go away. All right. - Bye. Watch out. I told you several times not to befriend him Your friend circle will say what kind of a person you are. Ramachari, your father has gone, wake up. Father scooter's sound is like alarm for you You wake up after he leaves You come home after he goes to bed. You are not talking to each other since years. I have seen people hating others, but you hate your own father. I don't hate him It is he who hates me. He opposes anything I do. Had he loved me even 10 percent". Hari obeys your father. He doesn't go against him. He studied what his father wanted him to study... ...and also living the way he wants him to live life But you. -I can't live like him. Don't expect me too. He used to be an intelligent student and I used to a dull student. He knew how to pass in exams... ...but I knew how to make a living despite of failing. He is a software engineer and I'm a Vagabond. He is reading, writing, boring and I'm daring, dashing and rocking. Mother, bye Bye, son. Do well. Make your father proud. Mother, I feel like going to college today. Shall I go? Ramachari is coming to college for the first time in this month? The management of the college takes lot of donation He is the right person to mend them. What? He is coming to college? I won't come to college hereafter'. Good morning! Hello, buddy! - Hello, buddy! There is a spark in his eyes. The girl who marries him is very lucky. Greetings, boss - Greeting; boss. Hey, how is your principal Shrinivas Munhy? He was fine until you were not here. I wonder what will happen now. Ever since 1972, those with the name Ramachari have a problem. The old Ramachari used to trouble you and now, this Ramachari is troubling me There should be no donation. - Sorry, boss I'm so sorry, boss Go away. - Sorry, boss Guys got spoilt ever since mobile phone was invested. Boss, boys are like mobile phone and girls are like water. Whether the phone falls in the water or the water falls on the phone... ...it is the mobile that gets spoilt. Typical Karnataka girl. Look at the beauty on her face" ...l don't want to smoke cigarette before her. Sorry. Don't get upset. When I failed in 10th grade, you were with me... ...you were with me even when I got debarred in college... ...but you shouldn't be with me before this girl. Lei me go, he'?- Everybody 53V?' "Just say the group. Everybody say." "Cutie girl, hey! Sweetie girl, hey!" "Just say the group. Everybody say." This is bad era -Yes boss. Earlier, parents used to pray for a good son-in-law... ...but now, parents pray for a good daughter-in-law. God save the boys Sorry. Please help me. They are troubling me You have the courage to smoke cigarette... ...but you don't have courage to confront them? You are mistaken Today's freshers' day. They raged me, they threatened me to smoke cigarette. I got scared since it is my first day. He also asked me to kiss him You are a courageous girl. When it comes to honour, even girls lose their temper. Hey Ramachari! This has nothing to do with you, stay away. It is we who rule the college You hardly come to the college, stay away. You silently.. Tsunami, tornado comes very occasionally. People panic as it comes and leaves its terror as it goes. But you still don't know what our terror is. There's else's terror only before I come... ...but after I come... ...it will be my terror. Come to the police station! Come to the police station! I said come - Sir, it is their fault. Oh no. He is a good guy. He got arrested because of you. He should be punished. He deserves it. Sir, it is injustice. Being students, is this the way you behave? You create nuisance in the public. You should be thrashed by the police only then you will see sense. Sir, you are mistaken. - What? I'm innocent. I just helped that girl. Ask the girl herself. This girl? Excuse me, sir, he is innocent. Those boys were raging me in the college.. ...and he stopped them. At least now you know I'm innocent, sir? Thank you. You took a big risk for me Had it been any girl in your place, I would've taken the same amount of risk. Can I have your phone number? - Note it. If you give missed call, I won't call you back... ...and if you lock horns with anyone, I won't come for your rescue. The police will help you Call 100. They will come after everything is over. A woman shouldn't be in the police station for long time, please leave. Bye. Ramayya - Yes, sir. She gave statement that he is innocent. -Yes, sir. Then why complaint has been registered against him? Who lodged complaint against me? A person named Shankar. Who is Shankar? Call him to the police station - Okay, sir. I see It's Mr. Shankar. Sir, it will take half-an-hour for him to come, please order for pilaf. The girl was raged and he opposed. He is a good guy, withdraw the complaint. Well, do you know him? He is my father, sir. He trusts people, he doesn't trust his son. Wham is my fault ifl couldn't study? If son makes mistake, he should be reformed, not punished. Greetings - Are you taking good care of your boss? Yes Bother, when did you come? - It's been a while. We'll talk later. The match is interesting Girija! Girija! Yes? - Give me a cup of strong coffee There's tension. Add sugar. - You have not reformed Sugar, 240, blood pressure, 160. You suffered heart attack twice Don't add sugar. Ramachari, sit down. Sit down. VWII India win? Of course - Okay. F our'. Sit down. If you sit here, India will surely win. Sit. Just two balls left... ...they need six runs. - They will win, uncle I told you! Yes! How is Geeta, brother? She is fine She is taking care of me as well as studying. She is doing both the things nicely. Hi uncle, how are you? - I am good. Congrats, heard you got promotion. - Yes, uncle. Just because you educated Hari nicely, he got a nice job. Brother; Hari takes care of everything in the house You've done a big favor on us There's no place for favor when it comes to friendship God has given everything to you. He has given you two sons Brother, God doesn't give everything. He even gives you pain to endure it. Hey! Divya, don't record it, please. Please! Delete it. It will cost you Rs 500. Rs 500? - Yes. Police are better than you. They stay quiet if we give them Rs. 100. I lost Rs. 500. Brother, are you happy that I returned? I am getting angry. Learn from Sai Prakash's movie" ...how a sister should be What? Had you stayed in the boarding for one more year... ...you would've finished your education. Your father didn't listen to me. I miss you all very much. Even I didn't want to stay there. Mother, this college is too good. - Take this Whether near college or home... you stay carefully. Don't entertain anyone. Ashok, don't take any decision regarding Divya without consulting me. Okay, madam You don't worry at all. Either in this area or the college... ...no one should trouble you, I'll take care of you like than. I have my friends with me So, be courageous. Time being, I don't need all that. There are no problems retarding my safety. Tell me if you have any problem. I'll solve it. Sir, sir... sir. Has Ramachari come to the college today? Why? ls there attendance shortage or donation problem? Are guys from Kamakshipalya or Srirampura are following you? Tell me - Sir, nothing like than. Ijust had to tell him 'hi'. Hi? - Yes. He doesn't come to the college regularly. If he come; he will be near the tea stall. Go and find him there Excuse me. Did Ramachari come to your stall today? No madam. - He smokes cigarette, right? Yes Does he smoke a good cigarette or a bad one? Madam there's nothing good or bad one in a cigarette It is smoke. Come... come! Boss. - I hard you trouble the girl daily Oh. -You stare at her daily Leave me, boss -You idiot. Don't you have a sister? Boss, leave me. My are you hitting me? She looks at me and smiles secretly. Doesn't she have brothers? Love at first sight, boss I'm sure. Moreover, when the girl passes by, she turns back and looks. It is killer, boss. You come to know incoming and outgoing from her eyes. Boss, it is love! Love! Hey, if I see you here again, I will kill you. He is insane, but making me insane too. 'He is acting weird since yesterday.' 'Must be it is that girl's effect.' If you befriend him, it will affect you. He is very haughty. He will not listen to anyone. He even smokes cigarette Cigarette smoking is not good, but he is a good guy. The guts that he has, no one in our college has it That smile... her talks - Then? Boss, it is time for college... shall I go? Hey! Shut up and stay here. You.. You want to say it again? - Yes. I feel like seeing her again and again. I think of her and her talks again and again. Correct. Definitely Chikappa - Yes. What is wrong with him? - I think" Ramachari is in love. Love? - Yes. Ramachari? - Yes. That girl's life is guarantee ruined. Tell me something" is it one way or two way? Time being, I think it is one way from boss's side Chikappa, who is that unfortunate girl? Hey Ramachari, love is very dangerous Have you thought about it correctly? One thinks only to have children... love comes by itself. Look Ramachari, you are single and are living comfortably If you fall in love, you have to talk on phone every night. You have to meet her daily You have to smoke stealthily. You have to keep an account of the pegs you drink. All this won't suit you What will you do if her brother comes in between? I will chase him in the entire area like a dog and thrash him. Oh.. the one who becomes his brother-in-law... ...is very unfortunate than the girl. 'The customer you are trying to call is not answering any calls' 'The customer you are trying to call is not answering any calls' Oh no! 'The customer you are trying to call is not answering any calls' I don't know what is more important to him than answering my call. "There's no fear in this brave heart." "I am courageous I won't live bowing my head." "The man who can compete with Ramachari is still not born." "That man is not born yet." "I have the power of Bheem and intelligence of Chankya" "I am the lion of this jungle." "The revenge of a snake is for twelve years." "The revenge of a snake is for twelve years." "My anger is for hundred years" "My anger is for hundred years" "The revenge of a snake is for twelve years." Glory to the great actor, Vishnu Vardhan! Glory to the great actor, Vishnu Vardhan! Glory to the great actor, Vishnu Vardhan! Glory to the great actor.. - We will do it Forget it. Wonderful Ramachari. You set the stage on fire. You've recruited all new people in the orchestra Let they come.. new people should come and they should bring a change. We have to create a new sensation in Kannada. Hi. - Hi. \Mll you give me your mobile? Why? Don't you have currency in your mobile? I tried calling you 10 times since yesterday Why didn't you answer the phone? Guys follow girls to take their number. If we give one missed call, they talk until the roof comes down Then why are you showing build-up? If you want the SIM, you have to come to the college correctly. Now, the next song. "Hey girl of Karnamaka!" "Why are you doing like this?" 'This is the place where Ramachari and Chikappa meet some times.' 'Chikappa's terrace' 'They grew up together as friends' 'And became close friends as they drank liquor together.' 'Are you wondering why there's blackboard here?' 'This is Ramachari's concept.' 'One has to reason why he is drinking.' 'After knowing the reason, Ramachari will decide how much that person will drink' 'He made this rule so that friends don't get spoilt.' Hey. Wham are you thinking? Let's get started. - Okay. Dattu. - Yes. Tell me your reason. I'm very haPPY- My sister was studying in hostel, she's back home Sister sentiment. 60ml. Chikappa, you tell me. My girlfriend ditched me. Cold drink again? Give me at least 30ml. If you drink because your girlfriend ditched you... ...you will then continue to drink for life. Either forget her or liquor. I won't forget her. I will have cold drink Okay. 120ml? Why 120ml for you? Love. 30ml because she came looking for me... ...another 30ml for breaking my phone" ...30ml again for taking away my SIM card... ...the last 30ml for asking me to come to college everyday. Cheers. Buddy, that's a good development. She came looking for you? - Yes. I think she has more interest than you. Look at fame. Girls don't even look at guys who are highly educated... ...but they are crazy about such vagabonds. Shut up. Girls fall for guys who give them more time. He isjobless and that's why he gives time. I have been watching you, you have been talking against me. Whether or not you support me, Ramachari has fallen in love. I will start meeting my girl from tomorrow. Wham problem will I have when the girl herself has fallen for you? I grant you full support for your love from today. Not just her family, no matter who opposes, I will stand by you. Buddy... what should I do next? What? Propose to her. That's a bad idea. Try to impress her family too... mothenuise she will ditch you saying her family didn't give consent for marriage. That's a bad idea. It is not your family. Don't get upset. Be quiet. Ramachari, you will start wooing her from tomorrow. Boss, shall I send everyone out? Have I come here to molest her? Just shut up. Okay, boss I need to talk to you, please come. Master, you start. 5! 4! 3! 2! Ever since you took away my SM card... ...l'm not getting any call. Only after 10 minutes after you took away the SIM card... ...l realized it wasn't just the SIM card, but you also took away my heart. Not just unknown numbers... ...hereafter I will also answer calls from the customer care. Not just from mobile phone" ...if you give missed even from public booth I will call you back. And if you know a lawyer, get me an anticipatory bail... ...because I will kill all those who even look at you or gaze at you... ...and ifl go tojail who will look after you? 7! 8! I don't know what I am saying. If the formation of the sentence is wrong, please ignore There's turmeric, vermillion, bangle; sari, everything... ...people give all these things after the marriage alliance is fixed. It is a biggest occasion for me. I'm not the guy who gives greeting card and rose on Valentines Day... ...l thought this would be the right way to propose to a girl of Karnataka You are the first and the last girl I have ever liked. Hereafter, you are mine and I am yours. I know your name is Ramachari. My name is.. - Margret. Margret. Your parents might have given you any name. They must have even added a letter according to the astrology. But hereafter, you are Margret for Ramachari. What a wonderful way to propose to you. Reject his proposal. He is a bad guy. Wham is your name? Kasturi. Is your name Suvarna? - Yes. You must've inquired about me. A girl takes her friends' opinion too. If you have any doubt about me, you can ask me directly... ...don't ask them I will leave. Hereafter, you will get calls frequently. The phone will be on for 24 hours. Ramachari. You come to college, why don't you come to the class? I don't come to the class, but I come to mass. "He proposed to you" "He proposed to you and stood in style." "Let's start love game." "Joe is gonna get the fame" "Beat the drums" "He is following her." "He forgot the route to his house" "Bond." "Latest bonding." "I proposed to her and got her love in return." "The wedding date has been fixed, please bless us." "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "The boy." "Has fallen in love." "Love is divine" "He is stronger than love" "I feel like I'm honoured with garland after following in love with you." "I'm intoxicated after falling in love with you" "My heart calls out your name all the time." "There is smile on this vagabond's face now." "Bond." "Sweetest bonding." "I'm a lover who will love just one girl." "We are made for each other, even our horoscopes match." "There's nothing to say now." "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "Ramachari." "Ramachari." "Where there's Lifebuoy soap, there's hygiene, I'm lucky to find you." "Family is planning is very important." "Shall we have baby every year?" "I won't ask dowry, I won't cheat on you" "ln the future..." "...let's not get our children admitted in English medium school." "Bond." "Longest bonding." "Even if we get BP and diabetes, let's live sweetly." "The wedding music is being playing, shower your blessings on us" "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "Ramachari." "Ramachari." Where are we going? There's a surprise. Surprise? - Yes. For whom? -You will find out very soon Dear, he is like a bridge It is because of him we are together today. Wait a minute, I'll be back Just one minute Why are you lame? - Talk softly. Buddy, I have a surprise for you. You said you want to see my girl, I have brought her. Really? Let's go. You! You know my level, don't you? I know, but I'm excited to see her. Introduce me to her. - Come. Margi! He is my best friend I told you. She is my sister. Brother, l.. He fell in love with his friend's sister without friend's knowledge" ...and he gave him ideas without knowing that the girl was his sister. Oh god. That why you should invite your friends home... ...and introduce them to your siblings Had his mother allowed Ramachari inside the house.. ...the confusion wouldn't have raised. It's going to be full bottle. Before I could introduce my sister... ...and tell him that she is studying in his college... ...he wooed her. It is so unfortunate to become his brother-in-law. And moreover, l.. Dattu, I'm going to meet my girl. I don't understand which color shin to wear. Which color do girls like? Which color do girls like? I don't know about other girls, but I like orange Wear orange Orange. Thank you, buddy. Baku. Let bygones be bygones. You stay away. This is my personal matter. Hey Baku. What's the matter with him? You didn't do it intentionally. l.. Where it is intentionally or unintentionally... ...mistake is mistake Being a brother, he is bound to react like that. You would understand if you were in his place. Don't worry. Go to the office and fill the application" ...and I will go to the bank and bring DD. Go fast. - Thanks Ramachari. That day.. Ram. Ramachari, you are attending lecture? Sit, boss. - Greeting; boss. "Intangible assets. Hey. Ramachari. Why are you behaving as if we are strangers? If you want to avoid me, why did you come to college? Only after we fell in love, we learnt that... ...l'm Dattu's sister and you are Dattu's friend. What's our fault? Friendship brings even a stranger close to heart... ...but love separates friends Dattu has been friend even before I met you. It is wrong to hurt a friend. I will convince Dattu. Wham? You are in love with Ramachari? Are you mad? I hate even Damtu meeting him.. ...and you are in love with him? Mother, don't talk rubbish without knowing anything about Ramachari. I know what he is. Dattu, she says she is in love with Ramachari. Ask her if she is mad. I will never allow that. Warn her. I'm not asking for your permission. Being a daughter I'm informing you since it is my duty. I have the ability and common sense to choose my life partner. Even father was irresponsible before marriage, but you reformed him He never used to come to college but I have made him come regularly. Iwill reform Ramachari. You can reform a human being not an animal. Mother, I'm confident that I will live happily with Ramachari. I don't need to give you confidence Dattu, mother doesn't know what Ramachari is... ...being his friend since year; even you haven't understood him You will know the character of a boy just seeing his behaviour with a girl. He is a well behaved guy. After he learnt that I'm your sister... ...he has stopped talking to me. He said he doesn't want to hurt you. He said friendship is more important than love. He has great respect for you, so keep up the respect Ramachari, I'm so sorry. 'NW? I thought only in a brother's point of view... ...l never thought in a friend's point of view. Oh. - I became selfish Sorry, buddy. Hey... not buddy... ...call me brother-in-law. - Brother-in-law. Brother-in-law. - Brother-in-I aw. Brother-in-law. - Brother-in-I aw. Come Both of you... offer me some liquor on this occasion. Give me just 30ml. We won't give you liquor. We offer liquor only for those who have succeeded in love... ...and not for those who have failed in love. Aml right, brother-in-law? - My brother-in-law is always right. I love you, brother-in-law. - I love your sister. I love you, brother-in-law. - I love your sister. "L love you." "I love you." "Who is in love?" "Please advise them." "Look, they have forgotten the world." "Has anyone cast a magic on them?" "Love is a magic." "Anyone can fall in love" "Love knows no day or night." "You are my bonfire, baby." "You are my desire, baby." "You are my bonfire, baby." "You are my desire, baby." "Who is in love?" "Please advise them." -I don't want it. "Look, they have forgotten the world." "Has anyone cast a magic on them?" "They don't need anyone now." "Nothing is important than love." "They don't need anyone now." "Nothing is important than love." "When he starts gazing at her, he doesn't even close his eyes." "Life has now changed so much now." "Stone and mirror." "They have..." - What is this? "...become one now." - How long should I wait? "Who is in love?" - Read... What happened? "Please advise them." - 25? "He is sun and she is moon." "They both are well known" "He is sun and she is moon." "They both are well known" "As of now, they are Laila and Majnu." "They are talk of the town now." "Even if they quarrel, they love each other." "They have a great bonding" - Happy birthday. "You are my cutie, naughty, sweetie, baby." "You are my dolly, dulie, beauty, baby." "You are my cutie, naughty, sweetie, baby." "You are my dolly, dulie, beauty, baby." "You are my dolly, dulie, beauty, baby." Good morning. I'm going to Goa. Do you really have to go? I told you my close friend Loran is getting married. I have to go. Just three days and I'll be back. It is just three days for you, but for me, it is 4320 minutes My friends are around, I will message you later. Had you been here, it would've been great. Miss you, Ramachari. I love you. Divya, today's my marriage" ...but you are dressed up better than me. But... there's something missing in you. I'm not in mood. It's boring Breakfast without Semolina, cricket without Sachin.. ...Margate without Ramachari is boring. This is girls' dressing room What are you doing here? Who is it? - Who is it? There's nobody. She fooled us. Ramachari? Oh no. Ramachari, father. Throw the cigarette. Father, cigarette. Smoking is injurious to health, my child. No.. God bless you, my child. I'm going mad. I see him everywhere I feel like I'm talking to him. It is like monkey is drunk I was happy... ...l wonder why I fell in love with him. This song? Is this reel or real? Don't react else people will think you are mad. Don't disturb me Go away. I see. I shouldn't disturb you? No problem. Many girls will fall for me. Hello, excuse me, girl. - Wait a minute Are you really here? 0h my God. You are really here. Really? I can't believe it. If you have a doubt, you should pinch yourself, not the other person. I can't believe it. Only yesterday I learnt that I cannot stay without you even for one day. That's why I'm here the very next day. Divya! What are you doing? Hi. Who is he? They are boarding school friends. - Hi. He is my friend Ramachari. - Oh, friend. Yes, we are just friends Please assume things and spread rumours okay? Just friends. - Oh, just friends Let's go. -Yes, let's go. Come fast. Why did you repeatedly say just friends? I said because you said that. What if the think we are lovers? So aren't we lovers? I just said it. Look, everyone knows we are lovers" ...but they shouldn't ask us and even we shouldn't say it. Come Hey, come fast. Come fast. - Come fast. There's no chance. - It's mine. I will catch it. Hey, it's mine. I will catch it. Cheating! - Cheating! Cheating! - Cheating! Lorna is very happy, you know. Every girl's big dream is her marriage. We decorate that dream since we grow up. Okay, you tell me, how our wedding should be? Margi, let's not get married in a boring way like everyone does. Let's marry differently. - Okay. First let's go to our honeymoon... then we'll get sweet news. Then baby shower ceremony, then naming ceremony... ...then our child's first birthday. Then we'll get married and hoist a reception. No... you know, why I am telling this is Margi, many children regret than... ...they couldn't see their parents getting married. Let's not let our children regret about it. No Margi! No! Either about our relationship or our wedding... ...you shouldn't talk like this again. Our wedding should be special. It may sound crazy to you ifl tell it. Peacocks should welcome us on our wedding day. I have to come walking on the rainbow. I will keep my right leg and step inside amidst the lamps Margaret weds Ramachari. Had I knew that you have such a big plan.. ...l swear by my mother, I wouldn't have come to Goa Ramachari... I'll have to kill someone for this What is this? Hey wow! Dose chasing has started. Hurry up. Wham does that mean? Happy married life, Lorna You'll always be my best friend Hey! I thank everyone for attending my daughter's wedding. I think this is the most difficult time for every father. I mean, either he should be happy for his daughter's wedding... ...or he should feel sad about sending his daughter away. I don't know what to do. Peter, no daughter is a burden to father. I am sending the happiness of my house to your house. If she commits any mistake, please don't scold her... ...tell her with love, she will listen to you Peter, I request you only one thing. Please take good care of my daughter: - Yes, uncle. Hey! Sorry, I thought it was a different program. Oh. Sir, you made me emotional. Wham you said was right. Even I've experienced it. Since she has come into my life, she's only been dreaming. I realized that life was strange She brought all her happiness into my life. My heart beats every moment, it gets scared... ...thinking I may lose her... her eyes, her smile... ...when I see them, I forget the world and become a child. After our wedding, she may stay without calling her parents daily... ...or she may not meet them for months. But I will see that she doesn't miss them I will be her father and her lovable mother to her. I will take care of her until my last breath. I love you, Margi. "My eyes go barren if I don't see you for a minute." "My life is exile if I stay away from you even for a minute." "Forget that falling in love is trouble" "I am feeling the same, what do I do?" "No matter where I go, I think of you all the time." "My heart doesn't rest, who do I tell about this?" "My eyes go barren if I don't see you for a minute." "Come and settle into me like the wind." "Your shadow has overshadowed my shadow." "I have to put a ring on your finger at the earliest." "This is the new beginning of my life It starts from you." "I lose my senses when you are not around me." "Your presence is enough to soothe my heart." "How did this crazy love take birth into me?" "I am not myself. Where do I find myself?" "Your talks make me go crazy." "It is very difficult to stay away from you." "0 God, darling, you are my life." "0 God, darling, you are my life." "You are my path. You are my world." "I will not stay alone in my life now." "Love me as much as you can. This life belongs to you." "I am flying with the breeze of love." "This is the relationship of births." "Love me the same way in every birth." "Write so much of love in my destiny like a river." "lf you are not with me, for what happiness should I live?" "Love me the same way, forgetting the world." "No matter what happens, this heart belongs to you." "Don't have any doubts, I belong to you." "My eyes go barren if I don't see you for a minute." "My life is exile if I stay away from you even for a minute." Shankar, open your mouth. Open it. It is good news. You want Hari get married to my daughter Geeta There's no happiness other than this First class. Hey brother, why are you eating sweets? Give it to me Wham is this? You are already showing attitude of being groom's father. My daughter will get mother-in-law and father-in-law who will take care... ...of her like their own parents" a husband like Hari... ...when she gets all this, why shouldn't I be happy? Mum do you say? Uncle, why are you asking me? I will do as my father tells me. Yeah! I am so happy that it looks like India won the match between India and Pakistan Give it to me. - Brother, I am telling you not to eat. World cup is round the corner. Do you want to see it or not? Read the statement and sign the Exchequer Sudha, Goa photos are here See them. Mother, Lorna has mailed them to me Take this. The wedding was very nice. Sudha! - Mother! Sorry... I messaged him that I was missing him very much. He came to Goa His world revolves around me. He is not like what you think. He loves me very much, mother. Everyone loves you in the beginning... ...later you come to know their true color. We won't know anything when we are in the college. We depend on our parents. Later you come to know what life is. I am talking to you. Sir, what is.. Yes I am ready, where are you? Margi, my friend has a problem It is not his fault... ...it is a small case, I will solve it and get him released We'll go for shopping tomorrow. Its okay, you carry on. Bye. Sixer! - Superb! Why did you.. -Tell me, Margi. Lorna is waiting. We have to go for lunch Where are you? Margi, I am not well since morning. I have fever. You go, I will stay at home. Is it? Okay, be careful. Take care Okay, Margi. Thank god, I got saved Yeah! ' e84 quiet. Your house is in fifth cross, right? Where are you now? Didn't you go for lunch? I can go for lunch some other day. Your health is important to me. Do you still have fever? Did you take a tablet? Did you go to the doctor or not? Wham happened? What are you thinking? Margi, I thought you would feel bad ifl told you that I forgot... ...so I lied to you that I was unwell. Margi, it was an interesting match. You know I'm fond of.. How many times have you lied to please me? I don't lie.. Margi, listen to me.. What will you go and do in Bombay? I have been promoted. I'm going for project work. - I see. So let's celebrate Be quiet. I'm getting late for the flight. Why are you sitting like this? She was angry at home Try to pacify her. Give me cigarette I will write your names and you write my name, okay? Okay. Come with me - Okay. Chikappa, I won't be here. Keep a watch on them. HQ, What happened? My friend wanted blood urgently that's why I called you. Let's go. - Okay. Nothing will happen to her. Don't worry. -Yeah, okay. Sir, there are variations in the heartbeat. Did you smoke cigarette? Yes Then I can't take your blood for the next three hours. Why.. Currently not reachable Please try again later. Margi, the blood has been arranged There's no problem. But I have a problem. If your life only about smoking cigarette and wandering with friends? How would I know that I would have to donate blood for your friend? How would I know? You don't know anything, that's the problem What's the matter with you? Do you have a future plan? Do you have savings? You must have at least spent 1 to 2 lakes on cigarettes and liquor... ...had you saved it, you would've owned a car today. That's planning. You have no money and time sense. Do you smoke cigarette or drink liquor? Then why don't you have a car? Don't worry. Things like this happen in love I haven't spoken to her for one week. I scolded her in anger. Today's her birthday Nobody remembers my birthday, but she celebrated it with grand pomp. I have to make her happy at least tomorrow. Ramachari. Look what happened to your father. - What happened? He has collapsed. Hari has left the house - Father. Look what he has done. Divya. Divya, wake UP- Happy birthday Thank you, mother. Get ready fast, we will go to the temple. Are you having a party in the evening? Where has Ramachari planned to take you? Sudha - Yes. Dear. Bye. Let's go. Ramachari. I'm sorry. I know you are very upset. There was a problem. Forget it. Happy birthday to you. Today's your birthday, you should be happy My happiness is ruined. It's all over. Margi, I didn't do it intentionally. Listen to.. You have reasons for everything. You must have thought of a reason. The other day, your friend was in the police station... ...you were ill the day before yesterday... ...what reason will you give me today? ls your mother ill today? Is your father ill? M? are you quiet? Everyone was right about you. I was wrong. Today's my birthday and it didn't mean a thing to you. If I marry you, will you even care for me? Initially, you were always with me I used to be your world. Now that I have accepted you, you have taken me for granted, isn't it? I was quiet because it's your birthday, but you are talking too much. Not I, it was you who proposed to me. People have their own world, doesn't mean we must forget our parents and friends. Is it wrong to help our friends? We must not take friends for granted. Then have you taken me for granted? You message and call me whenever you want... ...and when I ask you why you didn't call me, you say you forgot... ...othenuise you lie to me You have forced me to lie. I can't keep proving for every minute that I love you. If I don't answer your call or reply to your messages... ...doesn't mean I don't love you anymore If I don't come on time to meet you, doesn't mean I have become irresponsible. It means that there's more important work than that. Yes, that's right. You have time for your parents and friends... ...you have no time for me. No girl would say stay with me the entire day. Is it a fault to expect her boyfriend to wish her first on birthday? You mean if friends or parents are ill, I should leave them and come to you? It is not love, it is selfishness. Yes, it is selfishness We forget our parents, friends, desires and get married to men.. ...it is not selfishness but love according to you men. You were right. I proposed to you... ...but you don't love me I shouldn't have trusted you. Trust? You girls come with a plan You are more concerned about your security than our character Every girl think a thousand times, inquire about the guy and then propose to him... ...whereas boys, we propose to girls even without seeing background... ...and her character: That's true love. That's the first mistake we make. Why should I justify myself to you? I know what I am I don't need your character certificate. Divya I told you several times that he is not a good guy. His parents themselves don't respect him. You want to marry him? He is insulting you in the middle of the street. No lover would behave like this with his girl. Disgusting. Come home. Father, you love me more than you love Ramachari because I used to study well. You gave importance to me because I obeyed you all the time" ...thinking I will be your support in the future. I took up engineering not because you asked me to... ...it is because I wanted to. I studied well so that I live a lavish life and not live like you. Why should I marry your friend's daughter since he helped you? I will pay back for your favour. I will repay the money that you spent on my education I don't like to stay with you. Don't even try to look for me Divya, open the door. Despite of knowing he is a lowly guy, you have not eaten because of him... ...it is not love" it is madness. Yes aunt. Yes, Hari ran away. I won't. I won't put mother or father on line. Talk to me Whether I will pass or fail in the exams, what is it to you? I know how to look after my parents, hang up the phone. Ramachari, mind your tongue. Only relatives help during difficult times. Only friends help during difficult times. Relatives will value only money... ...and friends value relationship. After breakfast, give him pills I need to talk to you I'm sorry, Margi. I yelled at you on your birthday. I didn't forget. My father was very ill. His blood pressure.. - Really? I'm so sorry. How is he feeling now? No problem In anger l.. - Let bygones be bygones We can't be like before. College is getting over, our priorities have to change. Mother doesn't have a good opinion on you and you know it very well. She was not willing to accept you. I convinced her saying I will reform you She had never raised her hand on me. I faced insult because of you. There's fight in our house everyday because of you. You can't be like this You must change. For me, for mother, for our future Look Ramachari, I have spoken to my cousin. He will get you a job in his company:. Who is he to get me ajob? You are talking as if only I'm at fault. If you are facing insult because of me, forget me. I can't live for people. If we are single, they will ask if we have lover... ...if we have a lover, they will ask when are you getting married. They will ask even if we break up or get divorced... ...they will talk even if we are a good state or in a bad state We cannot live for people We should live life the way we want to. If you ask me to quit smoking or drinking, I can think about it... ...but if I have to change my character for your mother or someone else... ...you will see a different Ramachari. I will have to pretend to be reformed fearing whether I will lose you... ...and believing it to be true, you will have to be happy. I don't want such a life. Well, what's your mother's expectation? Should I be a puppet like your father? You don't have the status to talk about my father. First see if you are prefect. You couldn't be a good student or a good son. You are good for nothing. You are so cheap. I am a fool to still talk to you. You will never reform What wrong have I done to reform myself? When it comes to self-respect, I don't spare my father himself. Get this clear. This is how I am I will live the way I want. Accept me the way I am otherwise get going. I will go. I will never show my face again. After I am gone, you will know the value of me. You think I will die without you? I was happy even before you came and I will be happy even after you are gone. Get going from here. You will not come even ifl die. - I won't, get away. Oh, sorry. I touched you Did you break up with him? He doesn't have the ability to handle a girl like you Come with me, I will show you heaven. Why do you fear him? He just said he won't come even if she dies She is mine now. I'm the perfect guy for you. Take her. Let's take her to Sooty and.. Darling, won't you come? Run. Hey you! What is this? What's going on? It is only me who will love her and tease her. I'm Ramachari... and Jalilatoo. He doesn't study properly. He doesn't have a future Exam may not be important for him... ...but what about the other students who have worked hard? One cannot be called as good parents... ...if they beget children and leave them on road. Sending your son to college is not important. Wham is he doing there? Who are he friends with? How well he is studying? Do you know anything about it? I know, sir. My son smokes cigarette, drinks doesn't study, and very haughty... ...but he has never done anything that has put me to shame, and never will. He doesn't study, he back answers me.. I didn't talk to him for years No matter who erred, I always punished him You differentiate between students by making them.. ...sit in first bench and last bench We differentiate between children as good and bad. We have to support them, if we differentiate" ...who will they tell their problems to, sir? It is a big mistake that we think that children who study are good... ...and who don't are bad. I have got cheated by believing this. You don't get cheated too. He fought, people writing exam faced problems... ...there must have been some mistake, so he would've fought. I apologize to you all on his behalf. "After dawn and after the sun rises..." don't see the spark in your eyes like before" "Even during happiness, sadness and difficult times..." "meverything has become a drama You are broken in life." "Tears rolled down my cheeks even before I could cry." "The hands that wipe the tears is no more with me" "When the sun is scorching, comes the auspicious period of rain." "I found love and affection." "Unique sacrifice and unique token.." "...how can I forget you, it is very difficult." "My heart is filled with sadness" "One for happiness and one for sadness" "Even during silence, commotion is a suspense." "Everything has become a drama You are broken in life." "After dawn and after the sun rises..." don't see the spark in your eyes like before" "Happiness and sadness is being tested." "Destiny is not favourable, it is so sad." "It is a unique bonding, it is a unique hatredness." "There is bound to be ups and downs. They are pan of life." "You became like a season for me..." "mtham comes and goesjust like that." "Even during sadness, one experiences different feelings..." "...that bounds to happen, I found and lost him." "After dawn and after the sun rises..." don't see the spark in your eyes like before" Hey Ramachari... Ramachari. - Yes? Am I a father? In childhood... I didn't take you for a haircut. I didn't play with you. I didn't even come for parents and teachers meeting. I didn't come to School day, college day, or anything. Your mother used to say, you dance very well. She used to get the medals and keep it in front of me Hey, hey... stop it... stop the scooter: Stop it. Father. - Stop it. Father, we are getting late Father... let's go. - Ramachari. I haven't seen you dancing. I feel like seeing it. Please, dance a little for me Father, at such late hour... it is late - Please... please. Father, come, let's go home - Ramachari, please dance I didn't see till now. I don't know whether I'll be alive to see it in future. Please, please... dance - Father, why are you.. Hey, just once Do it. Do it... come on, do it. Do it for me Do it for your father... yes, come on... just one step Do it... come on, do it. Do it. You dance so well. I had not seen.. Listen, brother Venkatesh has called. You are out of town and you've left your mobile... ...l've lied to him so many times Now, I can't lie to him more I don't know. Answer him the way you want. Listen. Oh. No... don't answer. Hey! Hello? - ls it Shankar? Uncle, Ramachari speaking. How are you? - I am good, uncle. How are you? I am good. I had been to the village. When did you return? - Yesterday. Is your father at home? Yes, my father is at home - Hey! Tell him that I am coming home. - No. I will get him there. Okay, son - Okay. Hey Ramachari, I don't have guts to face brother: If he learns about Hari, he will die He has helped us so much. How do I betray him? No... if something happens to me, I won't stay alive. So, how many days will you avoid him? You drink daily thinking something may happen to him Wham about your health? If you delay, problems won't resolve, but increase. If someone else tells this to him, you'll lose your face You've never bowed down your head to anyone You shouldn't. Nothing will happen Come, let's go and talk. 'Happy birthday to you, Margi.' 'The customer you are trying to call is switched off.' I am surprised. You came to my house with Ramachari. What is it? Have you compromised with your father? You didn't understand his nature He is haughty, but he is very soft at heart. Geeta! Get coffee for them - Yes, dad? Brother, I will get coffee. - Okay. What is it with you? You don't answer my calls or talk to me. Are you so busy? I had been to Durga.. I met our gang. I told everyone. They all have promised that they'll surely come for the wedding But you.. are sitting quietly. You're not making any arrangements Listen, the wedding date is approaching. Brother, Geeta is like my daughter'. She should be happy. I knew that my daughter will be happy that's the reason... ...l agreed to send her to your house as your daughter-in-law. She should be happy. She will be happy. Brother, you don't take any tension. Tension? What are you saying? My son Hari is not good. I made a big mistake by trusting him. What? Wham are you saying? Hari left the house saying he doesn't want to marry. Brother, you don't take tension He left the house without thinking what will happen to us" ...is he a son? He shouldn't be my son and a son-in-law to you. You should be happy. Geeta should be happy. Even if Geeta marries my son Ramachari, she will daughter-in-law of my house. I am proud to say that Ramachari is my son. Brother; you were right. Ramachari is a very nice guy. I now understand what he is. Brother; I was dying within thinking I couldn't keep up my promise I was scared to even answer your calls Brother, I am not scared now. I have my son Ramachari with me I will be happy, you'll be happy, your daughter will be happy... ...we all will be happy under his shade. Brother; please agree Don't refuse Brother, please agree Instead of getting my daughter married to an educated, wealthy guy... ...l am very happy that I am getting her married to a well-cultured guy. Hello? Divya, good news for you. Ramachari is getting married to the girl his parents chose for him. Good that you got saved. Had he loved you, he wouldn't have done this. Do you now know how big loafer he is? Divya... hello, Divya? Hello? Mother... mother. Wham is it, Divya? - Mother, I want to live Wham happened to you? -I have consumed poison, mother. Please, save me somehow. - What? You consumed poison? What are you saying? - Mother, please save me Oh god... Ashok. - Divya? What do we do now? Hurry up" they are here How is she? - She is not dead yet. Did you come here to see if she is dead? What do you think of yourself? You played with my daughter's life Are you happy now? Why did you come here? Go away! Go! Mother, stay quiet. This is a hospital. Dattu, I have to see her. -You go. Hey, being with this loafer... ...your brought your sister to this stage. Mother, stay quiet. Why are you telling me to stay quiet? If something happens to her, you'll be the reason for it. Mother, calm down, please - Hey, leave me. You won't understand the pain that parents go through No mother would wish to see her child in this state. Go away! Margaret. - My name is Divya Didn't you think of me before taking this step? Didn't you think about me? Are you here to see ifl am alive or dead? Are you here to give the invitation card? Margi, I was.. Even when we didn't talk for so many days" love towards you was the same. I've been restless without you every minute I made a mistake by thinking even you would be in the same situation I had not imagined my life without you. I decided to die thinking I can't live without you. But later I thought, when you are ready to live without me... ...there's no meaning to my death. No... I won't die I will live I will live happily. Margi, just try to understand my problem. Yuck, don't touch me. I feel awkward. You have an explanation for getting married too? Thanks. I came to know what you think of me as You were right that day. You'll live happily without me. You were happy and you will be in future too. Go... stay hGPPHY- Margi, please.. - Go! Margi, please listen to me. - Go away! Margi, just listen to what I have to say.. VWII you go or not! Divya! What have you done? - Tell him to go away from here. Hey, let's go. - Go away! Please. - I love you, Margi! Come on. Call the nurse! Don't take tension - Please, come. Divya why did you do this? How many times I called you Why didn't you answer the phone? Hey, how do I look? I had worn this in my wedding" I'm wearing it again today. Come in... come on.. come in, what happened? Father, actually. Today is an auspicious day... ...so brother Venkamesh wanted to finish off with the rituals. So, we've arranged everything all of a sudden. Come Look, brother Venkamesh looks so happy. You saved my friend Come... hey, come. Where have you been since morning without informing us? Come on. - Come. Sit here. Shankar. - Sit. Ramachari is blushing like a groom. Ramachari, we will get you and Geeta married... ...on the same date that we had fixed. We've decided it. Match fixed. Sit. - Sit, sit here Sit. Shankar and Girija's son, Ramachari... ...Venkamesh and Diwangada Sushma's daughter, Geeta.. ...wedding has been fixed on 18th of September, 2014... ...in Chitradurga by the elders. I don't want to get married. I am in love with a guy. I thought I would tell this to your brother: Hey; are you out of your mind? You should've told this to your father. I tried many times to tell it to him.. ...you very well know that my father has suffered heart attack twice. Moreover, the guy is a Muslim. His name is Farhan. My father wouldn't agree to this at any cost. Farhan is a documentary film maker. He has gone to Ladakh for a project. His phone is not reachable. He doesn't know about our wedding being fixed. I don't know what to do. Please... do something and cancel this wedding, please You told this to me very soon. This marriage should take place Excuse me. You don't understand what I am saying? Hi. - Greetings. Greetings - Greetings. Greetings - Greetings. Please come. Yes aunt, I have been promoted as a manager'. Congratulations - Thank you. His posting is in America Really? - Congrats, Akash. Thanks. Aunt, will you show me Divya or shall I tie nuptial chain to her photograph? Just a minute. I will call her. - All right. Divya! Thank you. Thank you. I thought you look good only in photograph.. ...but really, you are very beautiful. I didn't have faith in God, but now, I'm developing faith" ...after seeing you. For the first time in my life, I think I'm losing Divya, will you marry me? Yes I don't understand what's going on in life. Mother has already fixed Divya's marriage with a guy... ...and even she has agreed. To challenge you... ...she is getting married on the same date... ...and in the same place you are getting married. I argued with my family, but they are not agreeing. Ramachari, what will you do now? I don't know. Buddy, here, don't suppress your pain. By drinking I might forget the problem but it won't get solved. She asked me to quit smoking and drinking... ...it was for my good health... ...she said I have no planning and that I'm careless" ...it was for our good future... ...she asked me to reform.. ...it was for my betterment... ...she taught me everything in life... ...but she didn't teach me how to live without her. No one understands him. He will be happy. God is with him. God is with him Slop! Slop! There is a wedding in the evening. Send the owner directly Greetings, sir. Please come. Welcome -Greetings. He is coming in two-wheeler, will things work out? Wham did you say? - Nothing, sir. Please sit. He is seated Look, my daughter's marriage has been fixed. It's on the 18th. I'm not in the state to do the arrangements I see that. - The wedding is nearing. You must please do all the arrangements. - Sure The groom's details and advance are in the file. Thank you. - Do the arrangements properly. It wasn't so urgent. Never mind. I will leave. - Greetings. Greetings What? Even your daughter's wedding is in Chitradurga? Yes Date, madam? - 18th 18th? Here, the details of the wedding - Okay. Look, the wedding should be in grand pomp. Sure, madam. There should be no dearth for anything - Sure Please do everything fast. There is very less time Yes - Here, advance Exchequer. I will do the needful, madam I will leave Thank you. - Greetings. Wham a coincidence. Both the weddings are in Chitradurga Both the weddings are scheduled on 18th. Is it a coincidence or is there a twist in the story? Whatever it may be, what is it to us? File it. Oh no, it fell down. Sir, they are not matching. Don't get confused - Not confused. Give it to me. Sir... This is a perfect couple Even a blind man would say this is the perfect couple. Okay? File them correctly. - Okay. Mache Gowda, your game starts from tomorrow. It is a big deal. Please come. - Greetings. I was waiting for you. - Chikappa. Why is he here? - I don't know. Sir, since his wedding is on the same day too... ...to handle it personally, I summoned you both to the same place to shop Don't worry. Why should we shop with them? I will cancel the contract. Let's go. Mother. Why should we fear and go? He is at fault. No matter what he does, he cannot enter into my life again. The groom, congrats The bride, congrats Even this couple is here. Greetings. Greetings. Please come. We have no time, please come. Show new design and new patterns to everyone Okay? Very good. Show me Sir, sit here, I will get up. No. Ask her. -Ask her? He is confused. He is feeling shy. Excuse me. \Mll you please sit here? 'NW? Your.. - Shut up. What's this? He is not crossing the line and she is not crossing the line too... ...but they are in love with each other. Wonderful couple You carry on. Sorry. I will bring all my clients to your store But you should pay me commission at once, okay? - Okay, sir. - Thank you. Mr. Manche Gowda, I will be in the trial room.. ...send my girl.. Naughty- Margi. Margi, please try to understand. Okay, Shankar. Look, I'm not at fault. I'm glad I have been forced to.. He must be there. Ramachari, there are people around. You need to watch out. Uncle, the restroom. We will be in the sari section, come fast. Brother; how about...? - The door got stuck. - How is it? - Yes it's nice. Okay. Leave my hand. In 10 minutes" - Aren't you ashamed? Oh, my God. Darn it. I'm unable to get the line. Wait a minute Why are you in a hurry? Your bride is beautiful. Why are you after this girl? Shall I order for tender coconut to calm you down? I have less time in hand, I have to work things out soon. Work out. He is planning to woo another girl before marriage. Show me that sari. Choosing saris is a difficult task. Feel comfortable. - Okay. Hello. Why are you sitting with a wrong person? Okay. I must say, he is a cunning guy. Wow. Mother, look at this. Show me - Wow. It's superb. - That's right. Look, pack this sari. Sorry, madam he has chosen this sari. Never mind. Let them take it. - Here, madam Don't show us cheap saris Show us some expensive saris. Here, madam. It's Rs. 25,000. Give more expensive sari for our daughter-in-law. Okay, sir. Here, sir. This is Dharmawaram sari. It's Rs. 50,000. Show us more expensive saris Here, madam. It's Kanchiwaran sari with gold thread border. It's Rs. 75,000. Not just the border, show me a sari made of gold. Look sir, it has gold border. Why are they confronting each other? - Give it. Hi. Do you like any of it? - Just looking Dear, this one? - Yes. How about this? - Okay. We have to somehow.. Well.. It is a wonderful sari. Very nice. - Isn't it? What's the price? - Madam. Don't ask him. Our boss will say. What do you think is the price ofthis sari? All right. Sari worth Rs. 1 lake for my daughter-in-law, pack it. Okay, sir. Show me the most expensive sari in your store The most expensive sari? Madam, this is the most expensive sari in our store, Rs 1 lake. This is the last sari, no stock. I will pay Rs. 2 lakes for it. Pack them. We are finally done Fine? - Yes, sir. Thank you. - Thank you. Brother; just a minute Shall I give you a free advice? - Sure. After marriage, don't send your wife to her house even on the inauspicious month 'NW? Your mother-in-law will separate both of you. Take my advice. Okay? Okay. Boss, I have never seen such shopping in my life. We can never understand the logic of women. What? - No matter how expensive the sari is" ...the groom will rip it on the nuptial night. You are so right. Here, sir. Try this ring. It is not looking good at all. It doesn't suit you It is beautiful. Pack it. Akash Yes How is it looking? It's beautiful. Superb - Let me take a picture of yours - Okay. It is so nice Let's take it together: Okay. Excuse me. \Mll you please click our snap? Thanks. Smile please. Excuse me, sir. Please try this ring. Sorry, one second. - Okay. The necklace was looking good on you. You think the opposite. Please think in my point of view too, you will understand Made for each other. Hey, how is it looking? It wasn't looking good. I deleted it. Come, we will take a selfie. Smile I knew it. Sir. - Sir? \Mll you please bring our son-in-law? - Yes. He needs to select bracelet pattern. - Okay. I will bring him Well, show me than. Come here - No. You do everything. You are so naughty. Sir, here's your son-in-law. Let him select the pattern fast... ...he has other things to do. Akash - Be quiet. I will manage. Show it to him. 0h my God. Are you crazy? Are you playing the fool? My daughter is getting married to Akash. She has nothing to do with him. If it happens again, I will cancel the contract. Be careful. Hey. I didn't confuse you You got confused yourself. Don't do it again. The situation is very critical... ...othenlvise everyone will slap you Everyone will slap me? Wham do they think of themselves? Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! You can stand? Oh, my God! The design. I hope you are not getting bored. - Not at all. Give it to me. - Scoundrels! Get going. - Let it be, Divya It is unnecessary. Just let it be. Please, don't. Akash, what do you mean? Wham if it happened with us? I know but it happened lfyou snatch her veil, it will be seven and you win What do you say? No, let's look for another girl. She's in anger. I want her veil. Come on. - Come. Move back. - Hey you Hey! Relax, please. Hello. - How dare you? Listen to me, please. - You call me scoundrel? I apologize on her behalf. Please - Akash, why are you apologizing? Divya, please try to understand. -Akash... Relax. Why do you get angry if we snatched else's veil? I will call the police. - What will you do? I will call the police. Stop it. Not 100, call 108. English medicine won't cure your wounds Look for home remedy. Do you understand? Do you understand? The nerve got twisted, don't turn... ...it will hurt. He doesn't hit singles or doubles. He has hit a boundary. It is a sixer! Listen, he. - Hey, don't get scared. We've always got complaints since his childhood that he thrashed him... ...but not got thrashed by anyone. L4-L5 damage. Go to hermitage Arogyadham and take a month's rest. Cheap and best! "Oh yeah!" "Hit!" "Oh yeah." Respect women... you'll prosper in life. You will have to take permission even to touch your wife. You. Hey, thanks. He taught him a good lesson. - You helped us so much. No problem, it is our duty. Sir, this is my nature I had asked someone to get me an anticipatory bail. But they haven't done it yet. Sir, I have to keep up my words, isn't it? Hey, lam the same I don't let anyone without giving them a treat after taking their help You and your fiance should join us for dinner tonight. Please... it is my humble request. Don't do this, sir. - Please, don't refuse. He will surely come He is forcing you so much.. go with them. You too go with Ramachari. - Yes. You both haven't gone out anywhere since your wedding is fixed. Okay, I will see you then. He is doing lunch since morning He is inviting him for dinner now. Hundred percent, this car guy's car will get punctured. So nice" it is awesome. We both are getting married on the same day... in the same city. Wham a coincidence. - Yeah. To hell with coincidence. My bad luck. He is an idiot. So, what will you have? Some drinks? Akash, I don't drink You too don't drink. Why? ls today a dry day? If you have to drink, call all your friends and take confirmation... ...that no one is going to meet with an accident today. What? No Akash, if somebody calls you at midnight", ...and ask you to donate blood... they won't accept your blood... ...as there will be alcohol content in it. So, don't drink or smoke Come on, Ramachari. \Mll we have a dream that somebody would call us at night... ...and ask us to donate blood? I mean, how silly this is You think it as silly, but it gave me a red chili effect, sir. If it so serious matter, I didn't drink or smoke" ...l will lie to them. Problem will get solved. Akash, the problem will start from there... by lying. A small lie will become a thorn and pierce in our heart. Akash, it is a mistake to lie to girls Even if you tell them agreeing that you lied to them is a grave sin They tell you to be sincere... if you are sincere... they call you loafers Akash, there's no validity for good guys. Okay, okay. Drinks canceled. Cool? Shall we order food? - Go ahead OkaY- . Okay- So, what are you future plans? Nothing much. - Why Akash, didn't you tell him than... ...we are settling down in US after marriage. Pretty excited, right? - Yes Very much. Akash, whether you go to America or Antarctica... ...girls remain the same If you wish to live happily in life, I would like to give you some tips" ...about my personal experience Follow them - You'll be happy- - Okay. First, no matter what problem you have, but don't forget her birthday. Second, if she calls you for her family get together or shopping... ...don't tell them that you are with friends. Third.. - Divya, what happened? Have some water. - Yeah. Sir, her hiccups won't stop by drinking water. Hey, what happened? - Sorry, boss is calling. You go and answer it. I am here. - No problem. You drink some water. - I'll take care of her, sir. I'll be back - Sir, you go ahead. Go. Hello? Yes, sir? Do you need something? Oh no... the rest room is there. Oh no. There. Margi! I didn't talk like that to hurt you. I just tried to make you understand that I didn't do any big mistake. You should understand my situation. I tried a lot to tell you what happened. But whenever I came to you, you pretended like a stranger. Margi, I felt like dying. Margi, I am not getting married to her. I didn't have the guts to tell this to my father that day. Margi, give me sometime I have to keep up my father's promise that he did by trusting me Margi, I can't live without you You know that very well. Margi, don't be stubborn. Don't give me lifelong punishment for one day's mistake. Please, Margi. I love you, Margi. Yes sir, yes DiWa, are you okay now? I'm sorry, important call so.. - Yeah. Sir, your change, sir. - Change? Who paidthe bill? - Sir, he paid Ramachari, this is not fair. This is my treat. No Akash, actually. I am used to paying for my girlfriend all the time. Thank you... nice meeting you Thank you once again. Thank you. - Same here. Bye. Divya - Yeah. Shall we go? - Bye. Mister, tell me Ramachari, since you've fallen in love... ...you don't meet me often. Are you so busy? Hello Margi? Everyone told me that you were a snake No... you are a snake with two heads. I thought you cheated me, no! You cheated your mother, father, the girl you are marrying... ...and everyone Wholesale cheating There are no IPC sections in the law to put a case on you. You say, your father trusts you, but you say, you don't want to marry. You are snake with two heads right? You made a mistake, that's why you are apologizing. No matter what you do, I won't forgive you. You are not worth of my love Are you drunk? - Yes. When girls cheat guys, they drink because of love failure. They can scold girls. If the guy cheats, girls shouldn't drink? Shouldn't they scold the guys? All the guys are the same. - Pal, what happened? They won't know a girl's value when she is with them. When she goes far away, you say, you want them Are we 'end of season sale' to return whenever you call us? Hereafter, you can drink whiskey, brandy, rum.. ...and if you don't have money, drink local brew. You get a yearly pass in a bar. You will lie on the footpath by drinking daily. All the auto drivers are your friends, they'll drop you home safely. If you have some shame left in you... ...don't come to me again. I will be happy with Akash. Good night, Ramachari... no, no... goodbye! Hey, Ramachari! - Sorry Pal... ...l couldn't know I am telling you Hey! You drunkard, are you here to die? - Hey, are you blind? You drunkard, are you here to die? - Hey, are you blind? "Who? Who? Who is he?" "Who is he?" "Who? Who? Who is he?" "Who is he?" "I was living happily somehow." "Look brother, I became like this" "Brother." "She broke my heart and walked away." "Look brother: Brother." "I remember that she is not with me when I wake up in the morning." "When I wake up at night, my one is white and the other is red." "My heart is not beaming Am I dead?" "I was living happily somehow." "Look brother, I became like this" "Brother." "I cry daily seeing her photo." "Brother." "How do we live when the girl leaves us by kissing us?" "Brother." "When we love them seriously, girls leave us." "My ears can still hear her laughter." "We wake up at night and sit." "I laugh when I am crying" "Have I become insane?" "I was living happily somehow." "Look brother, I became like this" "Brother." "Wherever you find a sound box, you listen to a pathos song." "Brother." "lt is time for me to understand the wordings written behind an auto." "Brother." "My love story went into smoke." "Ramachari became single again." "Friends scold me by sitting beside me" "I gained pain, but people won't understand." "There's more peace in pain" "Shall I live like this?" "I was living happily somehow." "Look brother, I became like this" "Brother." Give this to the priest, I'll come there in some time. Okay? ' 0kay Why are you sitting like this? Get ready soon It is getting lame. Chikappa? Can I come inside? - Oh, he doesn't have patience. Hi. - Hi. Are you here to see ifl am alive or dead? Actually. - I told you I didn't like you... ...why are you torturing me? Hello, hold it. Hold it. You are playing games as you got an innocent girl? Hey, call him! - Boss My curse won't spare you No matter what you do, you can't get me... Farhan is my life. He is my life. - Hey, look here Farhan? Farhan! Farhan, where have you been? I couldn't get in touch with you on phone. I couldn't tell this to my father. I have gone through hell. Moreover, he tortured me Geeta, he brought me here The place I was, it was difficult to get food or water... ...how could I get a mobile network there? Ramachari collected our project details" ...he traced me out, sent his friend and brought me here Thank you so much Farhan, father won't agree for this at any cost. Before father learns about this, let's go far away from here Come. Wont your father suffer heart attack if you elope? Not that, my father.. - Okay; let your father die.. Father... father, actually... sorry. Why did you endure so much? Father, I didn't live life according to your norm; even one day. I didn't make you happy. After knowing that you are happy because of me.. ...l didn't feel like snatching that happiness from you. Sorry, father... father, they" father". Uncle, I am very scared. I don't understand what to do... what if something happens to my father.. You don't worry at all. My Ramachari is here. Yes Divya, there's still time. Think about it. Ramachari is the correct guy to you. Please, think about it. Divya, Ramachari is the correct guy for you. Please, don't be stubborn - You have changed. I didn't change, but you have. He will get an attack ifl say or you tell it to him He is a Muslim guy. \Mll he accept him? Ramachari, have you brought liquor with you? Father. No, if I drink two pegs, I may get some ideas. Stay quiet, father. Come here \Mll you go inside? Be careful. Come inside Ramachari, you are still not ready. It is time for the auspicious time. Uncle, have you taken your tablets related to heart attack? No, I am taking it now. - Please, have it, uncle. Uncle.. - You stay quiet. Why do you look tensed? What happened? Nothing happened to me, uncle. Nothing should happen to you too after hearing what I say. Did India lose the match yesterday? No uncle, India won Zahir Khan took five wickets - Yes! Yes! . Superb! Greeting; sir. -Welcome How are you? I am good. - Please, go inside Okay. Your son.. - Hey, go! He is too much. Uncle, did you feel bad that Zahir Khan made this match won? Why should I feel bad? Am I a fool? Our India won, no matter who made it win It may be Sachin or Ganguly. If you consider that... when Mohammed Azharuddin was captain... ...our India won many matches. When it comes to country... ...doesn't matter it is Hindu, Muslim, or any other religion. Country is important. Uncle, will you have water? - Water? Why? - For safety, uncle. Drink it. Hello sir, how are you? - Hello. Correct, uncle. You are right. When it comes to our country... religion shouldn't be important. Yes, it shouldn't. The same way, when it comes to the life of children... ...religion shouldn't be important. Uncle, you shouldn't get heart attack for any reason. Wham happened? Geem - Geek'? Geem - Geek'? Geeta - Wham happened, tell me? Uncle... your daughter's happiness is very important. It is not that she will get married to a Hindu or a Muslim Uncle, your daughter is in love with a Muslim guy named Farhan. She was scared that if you know, something may happen to you.. Uncle, lam telling you for the last time You shouldn't get heart attack. Uncle, Geeta will be happy with Farhan You want her to be happy, right? Uncle, don't think about what people will say. They will talk for two days and the third day... ...they'll get busy with their lives and stay quiet. Geeta will be happy, uncle. Please, believe me. Please believe me, uncle. The rest is up to you Oh. Hey, what happened? Ramachari. Tell me what happened? Father! Thanks, father. Thank you so much, father. Farhan! Hey, Ramachari... oh. Come Hey. - God bless you. Where is Ramachari? - Rama. He was here with me.. the auspicious time is passing by. You go, I will get him. Hey Chikappa! Where's Ramachari? He solved everyone's problems He ruined his life. Hey, why? What happened? What happened? Tell me Dattu, I won't trouble you anymore now. I am getting married and leaving You can live happily now. \Mll you be happy? Do you really don't love Ramachari? No. -You are lying. Don't dig old graves now. Why are you cheating yourself like this? It is not good to be so stubborn. I know what is good or bad for me. You don't have to tell me. You still have Ramachari in your heart and you are acting! You paid lakes of rupees for the wedding sari... ...but which sari are you wearing today? Though he didn't want to marry, he agreed to make his father happy You misunderstood him. He didn't marry Geeta He united Geeta and her lover. Whoever trusted him, he has stood by them. He didn't cheat you.. but you are cheating him. Tell me one thing, mother doesn't know about Ramachari. Don't you know him? He thinks superior about you... try to stay there. Come - You can't live without him. Shut up Divya, he can't live without you. He became big by understanding small things... ...and I became inferior as I didn't understand He is enduring so much pain. Where did Ramachari go? 'It may sound crazy to you ifl tell it.' 'Peacocks should welcome us on our wedding day.' 'I have to come walking on the rainbow.' 'Every step I take" '...memories of our cherished moments will witness our wedding.' 'You kept me safely in your heart, but that day...' '...l will belong to you completely' 'My heart will beat loudly as I'll be happy that we both are uniting.' 'When I look up with shy, you'll be watching me.' Divya, come on. Come on! I want Ramachari. You are making a mistake No mother... what I did all this days was wrong. Don't stop me now. Divya! - Sudha! Ashok. Divya Sir... you got your Margaret. But you didn't live I didn't get my Margaret... will I live? Ramachari! Ramachari! Ramachari! Ramachari! Margaret? Margaret! If I tell you to leave me, will you leave me? If I tell you forget me, will you forget me? You knew that you were not marrying her... ...then why didn't you stop my wedding? Don't I know about my girlfriend? Had I come there, you would've got married to him getting angry on me Forget than, who told you I was here? Won't Margaret know where Ramachari would be in Durga? Wham about our future? I thought I would miss you, but you became my Mrs Oh, there's no water here These hiccups won't subside by drinking water. That. Hey! "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "The boy." "Has fallen in love." "Love is divine" "He is stronger than love" "I feel like I'm honoured with garland after following in love with you." "I'm intoxicated after falling in love with you" "My heart calls out your name all the time." "There is smile on this vagabond's face now." "Bond." "Sweetest bonding." "I'm a lover who will love just one girl." "We are made for each other, even our horoscopes match." "There's nothing to say now." "Mr. and Mrs Ramachari." "Ramachari is now engaged." "Ramachari." "Ramachari."
