 

                        This isn't any cheap X-rated movie or any fifth-rate porno play This is the show you want: Lady Divine's Cavalcade of Perversion. The sleaziest show on Earth. Not actors, not paid imposters, but real actual filth who have been carefully screened in order to present to you the most flagrant violations of natural law known to man. Hey, where the fuck are we anyway? Timonium, I think. Are we gonna do that pyramid shot like we did yesterday? I hope not. I can't take that crap again. Hey, where's my blouse? These assorted sluts, fags, dykes and pimps know no bounds! They have committed acts against God and nature that would make any decent person recoil in disgust. You want to see them, and we've got them. Every possible thing you can think of. Come on ladies! Come see Lady Divine's Cavalcade! Come see the show. - Does it cost? - It's absolutely free. - Do we have time? - Yes, but I don't know. Oh, come on. It's free. Step right up. This is Lady Divine's Cavalcade of Perversion. Do we have time before lunch? This isn't one of those sex shows, is it? You'll see, sir. Go right on in. Come on, folks. It's about to begin. Lady Divine's Cavalcade of Perversion. You can still see the complete show. What you'll see inside this tent will make you literally sick! We got it all, and we show it all. Hurry on in, folks. There's not much time left to see the complete show. We've got it all, and it's all about to be seen. You will witness the smut session of a pornographer and his slut of a girlfriend as she, in her naked depravity, exposes her sacred reproductive organs to the ever probing eye of the flash camera. She must be an addict! She's a dyke! Look at those tattoos! - What's this obsession with pornography? - Look at her cunt! She's probably got the crabs. I can smell her all the way over here. - God, she guzzled that wine. - What a repulsive body. No wonder they didn't charge any money to get in here! Cheeseburgers! Only a dollar! No decent people would be in this show. Decent! She doesn't know what that means. Cigarettes! Cheeseburgers! Come on in, you've got about three minutes left to catch "The Puke Eater". He'll lap it right up for you, he loves it! Sounds weird. You're weird! It's sickening. I'm not going to jail just to see someone puke. Yeah, but they got puke eaters, lesbians, mental patients and stuff. You'll see two actual queers kissing each others like lovers on the lips. These are actual queers! Are they repulsive??? Filthy! But that one looks masculine! Yeah, but look at George Hamilton. I've known a couple of queers. In fact, I think my hairdresser's queer. They hang in bus stations, you know. It's just sick. See an addicted heroin addict going through the mental and physical agony known as cold turkey! This particular addict has been hooked for over eight years and must constantly lie, rape, mug, and steal from hard-working wage earners in order to satisfy his neverending crave for hard narcotics! Watch, as this drug-crazed animal loses all sense of human dignity and decency! He will literally become a maniac before your very eyes. God, a needle! That poor soul! Got any fives? Got any aces? Go fish. You got any jacks? Ricky! Ricky! Yes, madame? Bring me something strong. Something I can get off on. You're not ready yet? Jesus, you come on in a few minutes. Suppose the cops get here? You can't keep this set up very long. Will you stop badgering me? My nerves are already a wreck without your nagging! I'm ready. All I have to do is to slip into my outfit. We've done this enough times so we don't have to worry about anything happening. But the cops! All we need is one porkchop patrolman who starts nosing around. It's gonna be quick... Oh, fuck the cops! They never bust anybody until the show's over and by then... Ricky! My medicine! - Which ones are these? - Your diet medication, madame. Thank you Ricky, darling. Gilbert! Gilbert! Yes, madame? Roll me a few joints. Just relax. I have to see Mr. David! I have an audition! Who is that? I came like you told me, to audition... And you must be Lady Divine. I've heard so much about you. Oh, boys. Please remove this slut from my presence immediately! How dare you contaminate my dressing room with this little piece of filth? She is not. She's an autoerotic, a coprophasiac, and a gerontophiliac and I just thought you might be interested in her for the show. Yes, I can start immediately. I have this great act worked out with this great old man in his late seventies. Well, actually he's my uncle but we used to have kind of a thing together and I heard about this show and I thought "What an ideal setup!" Get her out of here! Just get her out! How can you flaunt your cheap one-night-stands in my face, especially at a time like this? I thought you might be interested in her for the show. Well, I'm not! Get her out before I pull those hairs out of her head. You're a fool! Get out there! It's time for my act! Hand me my hose! - What else do you have to do? - To slip into my outfit. You misunderstand everything I do. I misunderstand nothing. - We'll talk about it later. - Yes. MUCH later. Just a minute! And now, ladies and gentlemen. You are going to see something that will make your eyes pop out! Because of so-called guardians of public decency we are not permitted to describe to you in any way the hardcore, live, in-person monstrosity we have with us tonight. All I can say is that this sight won't be easily forgotten. This sight will be branded in your mind for ever and ever. Anything you may have seen earlier will be a mere warm-up. You are kindly asked to follow me into our special display room... Right this way! There's no extra charge! And now, ladies and gentlemen, I can't say no more. I give you Lady Divine! Drop' em boys! Quiet! Quiet when I'm speaking! You will not be injured as long as everyone cooperates. Kindly hand over all wallets, jewelry, handbags, any fur items, all loose change and any narcotics you might be carrying. The first person to give anybody any shit will be immediately eliminated. - She's sick! We'll never get out of here! - What did you say? I said you're sick and repulsive! And you, my dear, are dead! I said no shit! And I meant it! - Any dope? - They don't deserve to live! - More cheap costume shit. - A box of Norforms! - Here's some diet pills. - Two-fifty? Jesus. - Here's some fake ID for you. - What ugly children they have! Wait 'til we get back in the car. Psst. Mr. David. Mr. David! What are you doing here? Trying to get us both killed? You must be freezing, Ricky darling. Put some clothes on. Yes, ma'am. It's chilly. Hurry up. I'm beginning to get upset again. My nerves are cracking. I'm getting too old to play this circuit. I'm sick. I'm tired of this show. We just ought to pick them up and shoot them. Fuck all this Cavalcade of Perversion shit. Just pick 'em off the street, tie 'em up and kill 'em. We could move a lot faster that way, three or four loads a day. I could get rid of all these tent rentals and all the other people in the show and it could all be mine to do as I please. I told you to get out of here, I told you! Mr. David. I have to see you again. - I want to perform acts with you, now! - You know that's impossible. Oh, please, please. God, goddammit. Listen, we'll meet later at Pete's bar on Broadway. You know where it is. Around two o'clock. Yes, I'm going right there right now and wait. If I have to wait for a hundred hours, I won't budge until I see your face. - Just get the fuck out of here! - Mr. David! I'm only trying to protect you. She's getting worse. Every minute she's alive she gets worse and worse. I would risk anything to be with you again. Leave. Go to Pete's. I'll be there as soon as I can get away. Hurry, Mr. David. 'Cos I want to perform acts with you more than anything else in this whole wide world and it makes me sad you are so upset because of that Lady Divine. She's not a very friendly person. But I've got to admit she sure is beautiful and glamourous. But I bet she couldn't do some of the little things we can do. You'll feel better when we get back to the house. Where's David? - Where have you been? - Takin' a piss. Do you mind? Yes I mind because I know you're part of it. - Part of what? - Trying to purposely get on my nerves. I know that! Purposely trying to annoy me. But I'm not going to put up with it. Do you think just because I've known you for 6 years that I won't suspect that you're tryin' to get on my nerves? It's you that's getting on my nerves. The whole show is. We can't do this anymore. What, are you chicken? Is that it? Lost your nerve? I got better sense. You're not man enough to stay around with me, baby. - I'm not fool enough. - Ah, well, then. Get lost! I just can't stand it. If you don't control yourself better, you're not going to make it. It's bad enough doing these things week after week but you're just making it worse for yourself and making everybody else nervous. I wish somebody'd stop and think about me once in a while. If it wasn't for me, you'd still be back in Boston doing poodle-nappings from those old bitches and if it wasn't for me, all the other people in this show would be out on the streets snatching purses and committing sex crimes. And if it wasn't for me, you'd be in jail. - Do you want a tranquilizer? - I don't need any tranquilizers. As far as the police are concerned, you're the one who's going to end up in jail because killing people isn't too bright when we're doing this kind of thing. I should have killed them all. I wish I could go back there and... Do you think that makes me afraid of you? Do you think that makes me listen to your ranting and raving? Let me make one thing clear. If you can't control yourself better, the jig's up and the show's over. - The police aren't stupid. - Shit! Aren't stupid? They know we're not stopping. They know the last 3 shows something happened. You're wanted for murder now, and they usually catch murderers. Oh, and how about you, Mr. Angel? How about your being an accomplice? And how about Sharon Tate? How about that? I told you never to mention that again! I don't remember anything about that. I won't have you mentioning it. I just wanted you to know I haven't forgotten. - Had a real ball that night, didn't you? - Stop it! - Yessiree, a regular little orgy. - You were there. - I didn't do what you did. - SHUT UP! - P-I-G. - STOP IT! You're the one who's going to jail. If I go to jail, it'll be for other things and I might start remembering. That's why I'm holding you responsible for what happens to me. If I start remembering, I might have to crack that Tate case for them. - What have I got to lose? - That isn't even funny. - Didn't mean to be funny. - Who's Sharon Tate? It doesn't matter, darling. Go fix yourself a sandwich. Is there any bologna in there? Yes, and some cheese. Just go ahead and fix yourself a sandwich. Cookie? Is that my little Cookie darling? - Why isn't she in school? - 'Cos I told her to quit and she did. Is that your idea of a good time, destroying your own daughter? Oh, yes, officer, yes. I have a confession to make. It's about my boyfriend, Mr. David. He's sick, very, very sick. And he's done something very, very bad. Please, help him. He did something to the most beautiful girl in Hollywood. Cookie! Cookie! Hey, ma. I was so worried about you. You've been gone so long. I'm glad you got back safely. Ma, this is Steve, he's a Weatherman. I met him in D.C., during the riots. Steve, this is my mother, Miss Divine. She's gonna be stayin' here while she's in town. - Hi. - Hello, Steve. How'd it go today? Did you get me anything? - Yes. Some jewelry and a couple bucks. - I love jewelry. Had I known you were entertaining, I would have brought something for Steve. A Weatherman? You must be a very brave young man. It takes a lot of courage and nerve to do the wonderful things you do. My little Cookie has excellent taste. Cookie filled me in on your show. Sounds great. - Did you get any pigs today? - Yeah, honey. A few. - Wish I'd gotten some. Don't be silly. You don't have time for show business. It's more important that you're out there, protecting me and my people. It's comforting to know the Weatherman is out there doing his job. I wish I could be that political but I'm so involved with the show but I guess that's doing my part. Where are Mr. David and Ricky? Cookie, I've been wanting to talk to you about Mr. David. He's downstairs. He's been getting on my nerves lately. Purposely trying to rile me. And encouraging insubordination among the other actors. - Kick him out then. - Kill his ass. But then I won't have a boyfriend. You can find another one, it's easy. I mean, like Steve here. We just kind of ran into each other. It was weird. This tear gas had gone off and this other guy was after this pork we were chasing and Cookie came over with some vaseline for our faces. Then we ran down to this clump of bushes next to the Justice Department. The smell of gasoline was all over the place. We wore handkerchiefs over our mouths. -Then we just lay there and made love. -And fucked. It was really strange. We were blinded from the tear gas. All the pigs were running, people were yelling. We were fucked up from inhaling all this Freon shit. I didn't even know we were in Washington. Then we went down to this big bank and busted all these windows and lit some fires and then we hitch-hiked home. I've got some good dope. Want some? No, not in front of Ricky. You'd only upset him. Here, have one of these for your nerves. Oh, thank you. Pete's... Yes, there's a blonde in here. Hey, blondie! Telephone call. For me? Oh, thank you! Hello, this is Mr. David. Listen, I'll be there as soon as I can. It's very difficult to get away from here now. Just wait there. I've got to talk to you. It's important. Oh yes, I'll wait til you get here. Oh, yes, yes. This is a nice club. Everyone in here is treating me so nice... But I miss you. Please hurry. Don't talk to anybody. I'll be there soon. You know, Cookie. Mr. David doesn't really like you. Oh, I don't like him much either. Ever since we've been going together he uses you to throw up in my face. He says I'm fuckin' you up. Well, I'm glad you did! That fart! I couldn't be happier! I have a wonderful apartment, a beautiful mother, and a great boyfriend. Dealing's been good lately too. -You still dealing grass, honey? Here, hook Mom up. Yeah, grass and speed when I got it. I almost made two hundred dollars last week, and it was a down week. And that beats working, that's for damn sure. Ain't it? Would you care for anything else, honey? No... No, thank you. You can't just sit here with nothing to drink. -A Coke then. A Coke will be fine. -A Coke it is. -Mr. David! -Let's go to this back table. This is a lovely club. -It all depends on your mood. -Aren't you in a good mood? A shaky one. You have no idea what it's been like with her lately. She's gone completely out of control. Why was Lady Divine so mean to me today? You don't amuse her, that's all. Why did you tell me to come, then? I thought she might fall for it. But I don't have an act for the show. We could have fixed it up. I think I'm going to leave Lady Divine. Oh, Mr. David. How wonderful. She'd kill me on the spot if she knew, or have me arrested. What could she have you arrested for? There's hardly a law I haven't violated. Why can't we just go to California or Mexico? She'd never find us there and then we could have each other. We wouldn't even get one hundred miles out of town before she'd have the police out. I don't care where we go! Let's just get a room upstairs so we can perform acts! I feel lonely without you and miss you and you just talk about Lady Divine. I hate her! Let's kill her! Quiet! Keep your voice down. These place is crawling with spies. Miss Cookie Divine's number, please. No, I don't have her address. Yes, Yes... 235-2354. Thank you very much. I'll get it! Hello... Speaking... This is Edith from down Pete's. I don't want to cause you no trouble but I thought you would like to know that your old man is down here with another broad. A blond? Thank you very much! That bastard! I'll get him this time if it's the last thing I do! What's wrong, Mom? -Mother's going out for a while! -Tell me, Mom. What's the matter? -That bastard! -Mr. David? -Yes! Don't worry about a thing, Mom. Just change the locks. I'm afraid it's not that simple, Cookie. I'll come back later. I was in agony. I've been raped before, but never in such an unnatural and brutal way. Only because of David's arrogance could those two guttersnipes think they could get away with something like this. And then to my horror and amazement the Infant of Prague appeared before me! His angelic gaze hypnotized me. I was dumbstruck! How had he gotten to Bond Street? How did he know I need him at this very moment? Had God sent him to me as some sort of sign? This could only prove that my suspicions of Mr. David betrayal were not unfounded, and that my decision to murder him had been approved in the heavens above. I took his outstretched hand and let him lead me. I literally put my future into this little saint's hands. He kept mumbling: "The more you honor me, the more I bless you". I didn't know what to do! It was the first time in my life that providence had helped me to carry out my plans. He led me for, it seemed, blocks. I could not speak; my head was spinning. I could not believe this had actually happened to me. It was almost as if my guardian angel had revealed himself to me after so many years of uncertainty... He led me to a church. St. Cecilia, I later found out, as if he meant me to go in. "For what?" I wondered. To pray? To mumble a few words of thanks for his help? To examine my conscience? Only now do I realize this great saint had led me to a church that was to change my life from the moment I stepped into its hallowed halls. I went in, not knowing what to expect, and paused to light a candle. Oh, Jesus! Oh, Mary! Oh, St Joseph! Oh, Moses! Thank you for sending a divine messenger in my time of physical and spiritual trouble. Before the Infant appeared to me I felt what you could even call remorse for the fact that Mr. David's time was obviously up. But now, thanks to your guidance, I realize that one should always follow their own conscience regarding utmost personal matters such as these... I took a seat in the back of the church and tried for the first time to make some sort of spiritual contact with my maker. This great story moved me to such lengths That I tried to reflect on my own life and its religious connotations. Oh, St Matthew! Oh St Jude! Oh St Cecilia! I honor you with all my heart and soul, but at the same time I find it hard to bow down my head to you in prayer. My conscience is so immaculately clean that I fear I nitpick in trying to search my soul for any immoral acts I may have committed. I can only feel a sort of comradeship to all of you. I mean, yes, I realize you have lived entirely chaste lives But I myself have done practically the same thing since the days of my First Holy Communion. I realize that some more uneducated members of the clergy would be quick to point out that I have murdered, robbed and whored myself daily but they fail to realize the clear conscience I have done it all with. Even as I leave this church, I plan to murder the man who has been closest to me. It was about this time I realized my thoughts were not entirely on my own. Even as the picture of Christ's great miracle dawned on me, I felt it being sucked out by some unknown presence in this church. I dared not turn around to confront this personality that was robbing me of my pious thoughts and forcing me back into my everyday search for self-gratification at whatever cost possible. I tried to bury my mind in prayer. She coughed, as if to attract my attention, and gave me a lewdy religious glare. I realized that I had not discouraged her one bit but continued to pray. It was then that I realized that my thoughts were being picked up by the lady behind me. Her presence was everywhere! Again, I tried to rid my mind with prayer... Jesus tried to wake the apostles, but they continued to sleep, and Jesus continued to pray. Oh, St. Joseph! Oh, St. Peter! Oh, St. Bernadette! Help my mind not to wander! As Jesus prayed, Judas led a couple of Roman soldiers into the garden. According to his agreement, he identified Jesus with a kiss. The soldiers began to beat him. Judas ran away cowardly, realising what he had done. When the apostles saw Jesus was making no use of supernatural tendencies, they ran for their lives! Jesus was taken by the guards, stripped off his garments by these cruel soldiers. No torture is too hideous to them. They beat him with chains and whips for hours until his flesh was covered in blood. Jesus couldn't use his powers to get free from his torture, as this torture was a sacrifice for all men, a sacrifice that would always be remembered, as long as mankind survived. By this time I had picked up a strong sexual vibration from the lady behind me. Felt it only proper to move away. Not personally enjoying sexual encounters with members of the same sex, I made every possible move to discourage her. She seemed so sure of herself, something I naturally admire on people since I possess this same strong characteristic myself. Although lesbianism has never really appealed to me, there still was an aura about her that attracted me to her, even in all my distaste for such perversion. After carefully considering it, I decided since the Infant of Prague had brought me to this church, I should more or less let fate have its way. I felt if I cooperated with this mysterious woman, I could somehow benefit spiritually from the experience. Little did I know what she had in mind. I felt her hand reach down and touch my leg, not at all casually. I realized it was too late for social introduction! This lady had a grip on me that even now I find it hard to describe. She kissed me as if Christ himself had ordered every move of her experienced tongue. I was suddenly uncontrollable! Although she had only said seven words to me, these words proved to be the key to the most satisfying sexual experience of my entire life! Think about the Stations of the Cross! It was then that I realized she was using her rosary as a tool of erotic pleasure... My head was spinning, and at all once she inserted her rosary into one of my most private parts! Second Station: Jesus is made to carry his cross. Consider how Jesus, in making this journey with the cross on his shoulders, thought of us, and offered for us to His Father the death that He was about to undergo. Third Station: Jesus falls the first time. Consider this first fall of Jesus under His Cross. His flesh was torn by the scourges, his head crowned with thorns, and He has lost a great quantity of blood. He was so weakened that He could scarcely walk, and yet He had to carry... Four Station: Jesus meets his afflicted mother. Consider the meeting of the son and the Mother, which took place on this journey. Jesus and Mary looked at each other... Fifth Station: Simon helps Jesus to carry his cross. Consider how the Jews seeing that at each step Jesus, from weakness, was on the point of expiring, and fearing that He would die on the way, when they wished Him to die the ignominious death of the cross, constrained Simon the Cyrenian to carry the cross behind our Lord. Sixth Station: Veronica wipes the face of Jesus. Consider how the holy woman named Veronica, seeing Jesus so afflicted, and His face bathed in sweat and blood, presented Him with a towel, with which He wiped His adorable face. Seventh Station: Jesus falls the second time. Consider the second fall of Jesus under the cross, a fall which renews the pain of all the wounds of the head and members of our afflicted Lord. Eight Station: Jesus speaks to the women of Jerusalem. Consider how those women wept with compassion at seeing Jesus in so pitiable a state, streaming with blood, as He walked along. But Jesus said to them: "Weep not for Me, but for your children." Ninth Station: Jesus falls the third time. Tenth Station: Jesus is stripped of His Garments. Consider the violence with which the executioners stripped Jesus. Eleventh station: Jesus is nailed to the Cross. Consider how Jesus, after being thrown on the cross, extended His hands. Twelfth Station: Jesus dies on the cross. Consider how thy Jesus, after three hours' agony on the cross... - God, it's snowing or something! - Want to get a drink somewhere? Well, no... I would, but... - Have you got any money? - Not a cent. Can I kind of hang out with you for a while today? I'm supposed to meet somebody at St. Ursula's later, but not till tonight. I don't want to get there early 'cos I'm heaty up St. Ursula's. I'd never done anything like that before. It was wonderful. Everybody says that once they get into it. I don't even know your name. It's Mink. But lots of people just call me "the religious whore". Oh, Mink. It was a wonderful experience. I'm pretty good at it. As a matter of fact, it's the only thing I ever do so I guess I should be pretty skilled by now, huh? Do you live around here? Sometimes. I don't have my own place or anything. I usually sleep in churches... in the confessionals. They lock the churches up now because of thieves and they never check the confessionals. Saturday nights are the only problem and nights before Holy Days because of the early masses the next day. And Lent. Shit, forget it! I gotta sleep in synagogues then and it's just not the same thing, if you know what I mean. -Yeah. -What's your name? It's Lady Divine, but you can just call me Divine. I wish I wasn't so heaty. Up Immaculate Conception I got caught once and over St. Theresa's they heard about me so whenever I come in they send a nun in to snoop around. But I got a nun once and let me tell you it was just what she needed! - Please Mink! People will stare! - I thought we had a thing going! - We do, Mink. But first I've got to find my husband. What? You've got a husband? Well, actually, he's my boyfriend. But we're through now. - Well, I'm going to walk up to... - No, Mink! You've got to help me! Oh, Mr. David! This is even better than amyl nitrate! This is better than Carbona! It's even better than heroin! Go slow... Turn over! Oh, Jesus! This is even better than last time! If only we could perform acts 24 hours a day! Oh, that would be supreme happiness. You've been fucking somebody else. No, no. I haven't, Mr. David. Not since last time with you at the movie theater. - Somebody's been there. - Not since we saw Inga together, I swear. - You're lying! - How could I? I'd never had an experience like that before. - Well, somebody has! - No, I swear. Well, no MAN has. No one has been near my private parts except for this old lady I met on the bus. You've been lying all along. Oh, no, Mr. David! It was just that she was so old that I felt bad for her. I only let her... Well, you know. It was no big production or anything. It was on the bus and all. It's almost better than what we did at Inga. No, Mr. David. Nothing could be better than that. - Do you remember that usher? - Do you think he saw us? Well, he saw the dildo! You do it better than anybody! Performing acts is my specialty. Turn over! He's going to regret having ever met me once I get ahold of him. C'mon, Mink! That slimy little pigfucker! The Cavalcade? Are you from the Cavalcade of Perversion? I read about that in the morning paper. I run it, baby. It's my show. Oh, Jesus. You're my first celebrity I ever gave a rosary job to. And at St. Cecilia's! Wow, imagine! I can tell you, the master of ceremonies is soon to be eliminated. - How? Are you going to do it? - Yes, I am! Are you going to do it? Oh, please let me come! Please! I've wanted to perform Extreme Unction on someone all my life! I'll do anything you ask but please let me come. I don't give a shit who comes. All I know is once I find him I'm going to make sure he won't walk out of that room alive. He's got on my nerves one time too many. I don't care if you throw a party for it. I wish I had a chance to call on all my friends and invite them over to watch. I wish I had a movie camera so that I could record every second of it so afterwards I just could sit and gaze at all my lovely work. Oh, and that cheesy little streetwalker! Neither one of them deserve an ounce more oxygen running their putrid little lungs. I hope they've had their fun because it'll be the last fun they ever experience. Oh, another girl! A double ceremony! Oh, Lady Divine! This will be my supreme day on Earth! I've wanted to perform Extreme Unction on someone since I was seven. And now, not only one body to bless but two! Oh, Lady Divine. You're going to make me a very, very happy girl. Mr. David, am I better than Lady Divine? Different. Just completely different. Yeah, I guess Lady Divine is what you men call a real piece. She's lost all the sex appeal I thought she might have had. Does she love you? Well, she used to. But now she's incapable of even liking anybody. I don't even want to think about her. She's keeping us apart. She didn't used to be such a monster. When I met her... in 1963, she was just an ordinary shoplifter with lots of fun inside. What were you, though? Oh, I was unemployed. I always was 'til I met her. She taught me all the ropes: dog-napping, phony credit cards, blackmail, swindling, drug dealing. But then she got really shaky. She became so hostile. You couldn't depend on her just to pull off a job. No, she always had to stick around and rough them up. She never picked the places we did because of the amount of money. It was always because of the person that ran it. She didn't like something about them. Their looks, their voice... That would be the place we'd have to rough. Then she got really bad: she killed a cop, it was really stupid. He was just standing there, directing traffic. And she was in a particularly shitty mood. She had a new Eldorado then, she was making good money. He was standing there, and she just headed right for him, floored him and ran him right down. Why we didn't get nailed for that one, I'll never know. It was awful. She flattened him like a pancake. School children were around, screaming... She just laughed and went on. We heard the ambulance sirens but she just reached over and turned up the radio. It made her happy. She loved it. From that day on, if she gets to kill a cop it's one of her most satisfying days. Didn't anyone get your plates? I don't know. She abandoned the car the next day. She always used to dress up real straight. Like a schoolteacher or something. Oh, Mr. David. I can't think of anything but to kill her! We're together now, aren't we? But I mean living together, day in and day out. I'm afraid of her. I tried not to let you know, but I am. I've seen her in action for too many years. If she found us, she'd kill us both. We'd be through. Then it'd be self-defense. We'd have to. Bonnie... Have you ever killed anyone before? No, I haven't. But it would be something new. Something to prove how much I love you. A gift from me to you. - How would we do it? - Haven't you ever killed anyone? I've been with Lady Divine many times when she has. It used to upset me but I have to let her do it now. She claims I did once but I can't remember anything about it. It's just a blank, you know. We were in Hollywood and... Oh, Bonnie. I don't want to talk about it. Mr. David. If you'd killed someone you'd remember it. I can't, though. I honestly can't. Then I'll do it all by myself. It's the only way I have to prove to you how much I cherish our relationship. If you did that for me, I could never ask another thing from you. Then it's settled. Get dressed. We'll have to do it now or I'll lose my nerve. Okay. But how? She'll be home... We can go there. You'll wait outside the door. I'll leave it unlocked. I'll try to talk to her. I'll try to calm her down. We've got to catch her off-guard. There's a gun in the car. I'll give it to you. I'll go in and try to make love to her. Then, I'll cough loudly. That will be your signal. You come in quietly, I'll jump up and you shoot her. Then it will be over. We'll just leave her there. She's wanted for so many murders the police won't even care who killed her. But, Bonnie... You'll have to do it. I realize I am as guilty as you are but I just can't do it. Mr, David, it sounds fantastic. Let's go there right now! Will anyone else be there? Cookie, her daughter. But she goes out eventually. She goes out every day. She's a whore, just like her mother. Mr. David, after this is all over, I'm going to show you what happiness is all about! Where would you like to go? California? Mexico? We'll lead a life of constant acts performed to perfection! I love you so fucking much that I could shit! This is the place! Pete's? I was there once. A lot of hippies go here. Yeah? Well, I know of two who are going to be leaving real soon! - Suppose no one answers? - I'll kick the door in. Hold on, hold on... Oh, it's you, Lady Divine. - Where are they? - They left 15 minutes ago. - Are you lying to me? - I ain't lying. I called you, didn't I? They took a room upstairs. I thought you'd be here sooner. I had some complications. Uh, oh. We've got company. OK, girls. Let's have some ID papers. Got something for me today, Edith? Oh, yes, yes. That's all I've got today. A twenty. I'll have the rest at the end of the week. - What'd we do? - Let's see the ID. I don't recognize you girls from around this neighborhood. We don't like your kind around here much. If you know what's good for you, you won't be walking the streets. Suppose you let me make up my mind for myself. OK, copper? Get smart with me lady I'll run your ass in. I don't have any ID papers, officer. But we didn't do anything. Yet, you mean. I know your type. You're lezbeen hookers. We don't like no lezzies in this neighbourhood so get on a bus and go uptown or wherever you came from. Hey, you're talking to a lady! You better watch your language, pig, before I turn you into a piece of bacon! Why aren't you out catching criminals? - I'm worried about mother. - For what? That shithead Mr. David is giving her trouble. I told her to get rid of him. He's an asshole! She doesn't need the aggravation. She's not herself lately. I mean, she's always jumpy. But not this bad. All I can say is I wish somebody'd give me my pay. - She'll pay ya. - But when? She made plenty in D.C. last week and she didn't give me a penny. Maybe this is Mom? Mom? - Where's your mother? - She's out and what do you care? Don't be smart. Remember who you're talking to. -And who's that? - Your mother's boyfriend, don't forget it. - I think Mother's forgotten it! - What's that supposed to mean? And Ricky, what do you think you're doing? Lying here on the couch, relaxing and taking dope. Don't you ever wear clothes anymore or are you some kind of nudist? You had one trick earlier, wasn't that enough? - Really, your mother's employees! - Get out of my face, will you? Remember, this is my apartment and I'm being gracious enough to let you stay here. If you ever came to my door alone, I wouldn't ever answer it. I wonder how you mother would appreciate this kind of behaviour! Lying around all day, screwing anything that's handy, taking dope constantly, and stealing and whoring in the streets at night! Well I haven't heard any complaints from her. And I think she's quite happy with the way I'm conducting myself. She told me she thought I was a very brave and charming young lady and she also told me that she had it with you. You get on her nerves. Excess baggage! She's outright this minute looking for you to tell you and I'll laugh my ass off when I see your face after she's through. All I can say I wish somebody'd give me my pay. Nobody's going to so why don't you just get your clothes on and get out? - Keep your fucking mouth shut. - Don't say "fuck" to me! Look Mr. Fag Man, you didn't hire me and you're not going to fire me! Calm down! Calm down! Sit down! You'll get your pay, don't worry about that! I oughta let him rip your ass apart. We'll see who gets fired! Mother doesn't make many mistakes in her life, but when she does she sure picks a lemon. God, you make me puke! This is my house! I'm trying to respect my mother's wishes! I hope she changes her mind about a few people. I suspect she will! What's "Mr. Fag Man"'s supposed to mean? Just keep your fucking mouth shut, alright? Even if I was a fag, which I'm sure you realize it's not the case, you would be my very last choice as a mate. Even Liberace would be more appealing to anyone with the particular neurosis you so rudely attribute to me. Oh, you're both horrible and disgusting! I hope you're not here when I get back. I don't ever want to see your faces again. I hate you! You've driven me from my own home! Mr. David! She saw me, I had to! Aim at him! Aim at him! I thought she was her! She looked me right in the eye! - Just aim the gun at him! - Should I kill him too? - If he tries anything, shoot him. - What are you doing? Being awfully polite now, aren't you? Get your head down! Tie him up and gag him good. Don't move an inch or she'll shoot your brains out! I'm sorry. I know it was dumb but I saw her and she scared me. - Who is she? - Divine's daughter. I feel kind of bad about it but everything'll be all right, won't it? Hurry up! She'll be home any minute. We've got to hide them. - He called us lesbians, that pig! - Cops are always hassling me. Just 'cos I'm pretty they think I'm a whore. As far as being gay, how long have you been a lesbian? Gay!? I'm no lesbian. At least not until a little while ago. You're the first female I ever did anything with. I'm glad I was the one. Will your boyfriend be mad? Who knows what that moron will think? I can't even think straight after that copper. I tell ya, Mink. I got one once. It was a real kick! I ran him down in my new Eldorado. And there was another one, one time back in California. He gave me a warning ticket but I wouldn't take it. Last goddam warning ticket he ever gave. But I never had one with my bare hands. I'm sure I'd like to. I just tried to be polite so that we could get away from him. I think they have my description in one of their files. It's getting so I can't even step in a First Friday service without somebody getting uptight. And now my whole day is ruined. You had me all worked up thinking I was going to perform Extreme Unction on your boyfriend and his date. I knew it was too good to be true. Don't you worry about that, honey! We'll get them! We'll go back to my daughter's place. They'll be there alright. You'll love my little Cookie! I'm so proud of her. A real little lady! - And who'll you say I am? - My new girlfriend, Mink. Here comes that copper again. I thought I told you two to beat it. Officer, we're trying to leave but we can't find the bus stop. - We're lost. Will you help us? - It's up Broadway. - I thought it was about that way. - Up where? Up there! - Get him, Divine! Get him! - Help me! Just like roping hogs, ain't it hon? C'mon, we've got 2 more dead creeps waiting up at my place. Let's put her back there. God, we have to go through with it now. If Lady Divine sees this, she'll die. She'll be foaming at the mouth. This excites me, Mr. David. Does it excite you? - In what way? - You know. - Don't you ever think of anything else? - Yes, but it's all boring. - Make sure there is no blood around. - Get me a rag! We've got to hurry. "Arrest Weirdo in Tate Murder". God, she was lying the whole time! That cruel bitch! "Charles Watson, Patricia Krenwinkle, Charles Manson". I never heard of these people! That lying bastard! - Lying about what? - Sharon Tate. - You knew her? - Oh, God! Sharon Tate! God, she's home! - What should I do, Mr. David? - I'll cough. That'll be your signal. I'm nervous, Mr. David. But it's all for you. - Where's Cookie? - She went out. - Out where? - Just out, that's all. That's a lie! Why are you bringing this slut to my daughter's apartment? That's not very polite. - I notice you're not alone. - Yeah. Anything to say? Nothing. I'm just rather surprised at your taste. - What's that supposed to mean? - Take it for what it's worth. Not much, coming from a shit like you. This is Mink Stole. She's going to be travelling with me for a while. So you finally turned dyke? I'm not surprised. Dyke? Look who's talking, all peroxided up! And what's with her? Is she some kind of mute? - I can talk. - Then say something real cute, hon. Lady Divine, there's no reason for us to be mean to each other. Mr. David and I are in love, and you have someone else too. So there's no reason for any hard feelings. Oh, God. She can talk. How unfortunate. Sit down, Mink. Make yourself comfortable. I've got something to tend to in the kitchen. I hope you two will be very happy together. Yeah? Well, I don't like people calling me a dyke when it's obvious that you have extremely perverted tastes yourself. Mr. David, I can only take so much of this kind of talk, specially from a common lesbian. Well, my dear, at least I'm not a bleach-blond hussy that goes around screwing unhired gigolos. Remember you're speaking to someone miles above your element. Where did she pick you? On the streets? Or were you her gym instructor? Lady Divine, this asshole is getting awful disrespectul to me and his scummy little girlfriend too! I can only sit around here and be insulted by turds for so long! Everyone has a limit! - Where's Ricky? - He quit. That's a lie too! He quit because you still had not paid him. Was I talking to you, miss? He demanded money from me, I wouldn't give it to him and he left. You fired him and you know it! Maybe you can pull this shit over on this little trick, but I'm Lady Divine, just remember that! At least I'm not a fat hog like you! - Oh, God! - Shoot her! Shoot her! You're next! Take this and cover me! - Can I do it now? - Do anything you like! She's all yours. But hurry. Pretty soon you'll have a backlog of work to do. - Divine, think what you're doing! - You knew she had that gun. You were going to let her kill me! Couldn't do it yourself, coward! You can't scare me anymore. I know about Sharon Tate. They arrested 3 people for killing her. I don't even know them! - Maybe they got the wrong people! - It's the right people! It's headlines! Yeah? Well, I don't see where that makes much difference now! So what? In a minute, I'm going to dismember you in front of your very eyes. I wonder how it'll feel to be hacked to pieces with a butcher knife? Think it'll hurt? Be human! Six years! You can't wipe it out that easy! - I'm having no trouble. - Please... Oh, God. - I'm finished. Is he really yet? - NOW HE IS! Oh, Divine! What a wonderful afternoon! You can't imagine what it's like for me! It's like fucking Jesus! Performing Extreme Unction is practically the most erotic and stimulating act I can imagine. Look, Mink. He's just meat now. Common ground beef! And he deserves it! I love that feeling when the knife goes in and resists a little. After that, it's almost a letdown. Isn't there anybody else we could do this on? I'm all worked up! There's nobody left, nobody! - We could find someone. - Who, though, who? God, there are hundreds of people I have in my fantasies. Ann Margret, Tricia Nixon, Shirley Temple, THE POPE! Oh, Mink! We could go on for days. Ronald Reagan and his family, the entire Baltimore Police Force, and BARBRA STREISAND! This will be a day I can never forget! I've experienced raw happiness! You fool! You fool! You've killed Ricky! I didn't know! He scared me! I thought he was one of them! You killed him! The only person that didn't betray me! - Don't make me shoot you, please! - You killed him! Oh, Divine! You're still beautiful! Nothing can change that! I love you! I love your sickness! I love your crimes! I love your murders! Oh, Divine! I love your twisted mind! I love you so much! You're still the most beautiful woman in the world! Nothing can change that! And now you're a maniac! But what a state of mind that can be! How exciting! How stimulating! And now you're alone. The way it should be, the way it will be! Cookie! Oh, God! COOKIE! You're finally there, Divine. And you don't ever want to go back. I have to go out now. I better change. Oh, Divine. You have to go out in the world in your own way now. You know it's all right. You know no one can hurt you. You have x-ray eyes now and you can breathe fire. You can stomp out shopping centers with one step of your foot. You can wipe out entire cities with one blast of your fiery breath. You're a monster now and only a monster can realize the fulfillment I'm capable of feeling. Oh, Divine. It's wonderful to feel this far gone. This far into one's own depravity! I am a maniac. A maniac that cannot be cured! Oh, Divine! I AM DIVINE! LOBSTORA! AAAAH!
