 

                        1 'At the end of the British rule in 1947...' '...I was in India for astronomical research' 'I went to a small village in South India which was tilled with superstition' 'The people in the village thought, I was a British officer' Everyone greet the officer 'I was the first person to capture them in a camera...' '...the people possessed a lot of fear' 'They saw the camera as a strange object' 'During that time, there had been an outbreak of disease' 'Which had taken the lives of many people' 'Due to the lack of awareness...' '...they couldn't understand why so many people are dying' 'Being superstitious, they blamed the photograph' 'During that time...' Oh My God! There is an epidemic outbreak in our village Please do protect us 'A bandit group had come to rob the statue in there temple' This idol is the only hope for our village Guys, just move away and give us space to pick up the idol without any damages Please don't take it away, we will give you everything we have got I will kneel down and request Why do you have to kneel and request? Please tell them not to hurt Please do tell Please tell them not to take away our hope I will give you anything you ask for, Please don't take the idol Until I am alive, You can never take it away Oh God, please save us You saved us all, My Lord "You rose for us from the sun You're our sole companion" 'Just as I how calculated, Meteorite from space hit the village' 'Immediately after this happened, the people were cured' 'They began to worship the meteorite' "You rose for us from the sun You're our sole companion" "You're our saviour You're our utmost wealth" "You're the healer, worries are farther when you are with us" "You're the healer, worries are farther when you are with us" "Bless the village, to enthral the folk" "And shower us Your grace" "You brought us rain You brought us wealth and peace" "You'll be an eternal soul You're the light of our lives" "You rose for us from the sun You're our sole companion" "You're the healer, worries are farther when you are with us" 'The villagers forced me out of the village' 'But I was able to take some samples of the meteorite for my research' 'Of my research, I found that meteorite contains many priceless materials' 'But I didn't want to break up people's belief' 'So I didn't tell anything about this to the government' The village name - 'Mundasupatti' 'Mundasupatti' Sathyamangalam, 1982 'Sri Hollywood Studio' Owner: Mr Gopi Experience: 10 years 4-2-6-5-2 - Is it Gopi? - Yes speaking - Immediately have to take a photograph - Sorry, our office won't work today Please don't say that, I can even pay you more No way, our hero's movie is releasing today Without even brushing the teeth, Guys have gone to buy tickets I heard you're the best photographer in this district Since morning, I've been waiting in front of your shop Okay, you'll find the keys above the studio door Open the door and wait inside - Do order for a tea in the nearby shop - Sure! Thanks for coming Senseless idiot, want me to wait in this dark Where will I find the switch? I will switch it on, You just come in Brother, what are you doing here? You spoke to me on the shop number, So where do you expect me to be? - Just come - Okay, brother Would you like to have a tea? Yes Good! You go and have it I'll bath and come Okay, sir It's a family photo Stay there You guys ready? Move to your right Still move Bit to your left Yeah now come front Dad, I wanna pee Spread your legs and stand, you won't pee Fix your position - I am the King of the world - Super dude Look there, most of them went inside If we had waited for the bike to start, movie would have been over Just because its our stars movie we shouldn't have gone for all the shows Tomorrow we are repeating the same Your cousins, bro? But their physique doesn't relate to you You said it's a minute break and went Is this a studio or a bathroom? Urinated here Master, your cousin- Sir, we have reached the studio As said by the fortune teller, lam stepping into Hollywood today Owner: Mr Gopi lam coming Take your tips Hey, first give me the rickshaw fare Excuse Mr Rickshaw driver, why don't you get my autographed cheque leaf? Hey useless, your wallet doesn't have 50 paise But you sign autographs What will you do for today's lunch? I am going in for that Don't be silly Mr Gopi How are you? Welcome Eshwaran, How are you? - Please sit down - I am seated already I saw the board outside It's very nice Only if we can think big, we can achieve our goal Even I have thought about changing my name Then how about your search for movie roles? Brother, switch on that tan Don't look at me, switch it on Gopi, I only get double hero subject scripts Else I get a mini budget script If not the story is very poor So have decided to act only in a heavy budget script Thought you had a quarrel outside for 50 paise 0h you heard that I gave him the money Let this be within us Hey, switch off the fan Please don't switch off the fan, Gopi I'll tell the truth I have to live in front of the AVM gates, if I wish to be a hero If I go for auditions, they bully me It's been really difficult How to become a hero within 30 days? That too the trouble from assistants Too much nowadays - Okay, what's the name of your village? - Gopi, don't talk about my village They are the ones who buried my interest in movies At least there you can do farming and live with respect Me? Until my movie runs successfully for 100 days Will never step back That's why I have come to you Please do shoot a few good photographs of me That's alright! Have you got money to pay for the photos? - Definitely, how much? - 5 copies cost you 5 rupees What will you give for one rupee? Will give you the film negative Is that, okay? That's okay! They can see me in that negative right Even a handsome guy would look like a devil in his negative You look like a devil already, think about your negative Go and get 5 rupees Have come without money to the studio Gopi, just for 5 rupees your assistant has insulted me I'll come back within a week with 50 rupees Let me see what you will do at that time All the best Switch off your fan Take the camera Hey Alagumani, it's a girls school Just come and do you work alone Don't doubt my character master Girls, we won't get back our school life It's good to have a photo to cherish our memories So we are gonna have a photo session today They are the photographers - it will take at least 2 weeks - It's okay, let me inform HM Okay, I'll do my best When you are gonna open your studio? What will be your studio name? - What's your name? - Subbulakshmi Let's keep it as Subbulakshmi studio Do add her mom's name as well Hey Subbulakshmi, your mom's... Still you don't know how to put your underwear You wanna start a studio? Go and carry the bench Never allow us to grow I forgot the stand Are you not coming to take a photo? I am asking you - What did you say? - I am not feeling well Nothing will happen if you take a photo, do come No, I don't want You've got a photogenic face I don't want it Please leave me lam having headache Very funny It's me, right? You didn't have a headache when you drew this Why it's a protruded nose? Let's show this to your professor and see what he comments about this - Come, let's go to the HM - No...please no Then do come for the photo shoot "With expectations mounting All I face is disappointment" "I am uncomfortable I burn within...l fall...l cry" "You've taken my heart away" Be ready, don't move and don't close your eyes All should look at the camera Ready Why don't you sell this bike and let's go by walk? All vehicles will drain petrol when they move But this one drains petrol even when it's parked This bike is drunkard master - Hey Alagu - What? Hey Ezhumalai, do come and get your photograph It doesn't matter if the photo is with you or me Just keep it safe, will get it later Senseless idiot, will stick your photo in the men's restroom - Hey Alagu - What? I have to tell you something, don't mistake me Tell me We took a photo in the school Yes In that one girl didn't turn up for the photo shoot IS it? Why? She said she was not feeling good But the moment I saw her, I was completely blank Her eyes were speaking something Won't she speak with her mouth? When I looked at her, I felt a butterfly effect down my stomach Where you hearing a rumbling noise? Then what, you asked me to do work and you did the rest Hey not like that We can even give away our Hollywood Studio for her eyes Look at the consequences Don't think yourselves to be the MD of AVM studio Let me tell you something Don't get into trouble in the name of love Photo has come out well Girls, do give a big hand of applause for the photographers Master, are we showing some circus stunts here? Sir, distribute the photos to everyone Let me show this to our HM Hey Alagumani, that girl is absent today Could you please wait? Haven't you brought an another photo - For whom? - For Kalaivani 0h for her, but she wasn't in the photo shoot So what? Won't you give? She was waiting for the photo She will have it to cherish our memories Don't worry, I will hand it over to her tomorrow No, she quit the school Quit? Coming Friday is her wedding - Wedding? - Yes She wants to study but her parents forced her She was eager to see the photo If you've brought it yesterday, you can give it to her Teacher has come Master, let's go "Like the sweetness of water that springs through the well" "The ecstatic feel of love for you passes through me" "Every sip of it takes my breath away" 'A few days later...' Sir, lord has come to meet you Ask him to wait Hey...hey, do your work guys Your look makes half the bottle empty They are looking at the bottle - Sir, photographer has come - Ask them to be seated, I 'll come - Okay - Go Master, look there Yet to find one, He has got four 1...2...3- Is that four? Yes I don't see any woman here All of them eloped with somebody - Welcome - Greetings to you Hey bring it Why do you walk slow? Have it How is it? Soup is very good, Is it chicken? - No, it's kittens - Kitten? Our Chinese guests told, drinking kitten's soup increase your potent From that day it's only kitten's soup That's what you drink now Initially it'll have a vomiting sensation, But you'll get used to it He will also vomit It's carrot soup Looks like he'll ask for an another cup I just had only 2 sips... Hey Alagumani, get me a cup of tea Only 2 spoons soup irritates my stomach much I wonder what will happen if I have a cup full Is this a photo studio? Come, sir Do come inside Go inside Sit down - Greetings! - Tell me Need to take a photo Stamp, passport, group, family single, double, master, full...which photo? Don't want those Just need to take a photo Go inside and comb your hair O Kay Where are you going? - Come inside - Why photograph me? - Then whom should I? - Our village leader Village Leader? - Where is the village leader? - He is in the village Won't he come? He passed away What are you speaking? You want me to take a dead body photo Which village are you from? Camera has its own respect This week alone, we have 4 marriages, 3 shop openings Have got lot of work to do But, it's alright! - Which village are you from? - Mundasupatti It's the next stop from our Landlord's place A little far away, But I'll come for your sake O Kay What is he saying master? Village leader has passed away So we need to take a photo of him Do you know his experience and reputation? I took the advance amount Have some tea, sir Good, in your village you take photos even after death We only take photos after death Why is it so? If we take photo when we are alive, We'll die because of some disease Englishmen satellites are taking photographs of the entire earth Ohh! That's why we are not getting adequate rain in our village If you want rain, Grow some trees What is the connection between rain and tree? - 'French Connection' - What is he saying? He says connection in such an accent They won't listen even if MGR comes and advice - Are we going very slow? - We are going really slow Photographers have come Why the village looks deserted? Has everyone gone to the funeral? Keep that photo box inside Otherwise it's a trouble No need to fear, the photo box is inside only Welcome - Why there was a delay? - Bike was bit slow For that you could have come by walk Being sarcastic Bend and come He is the leader of Mundasupatti village - Greetings - Greetings to you There is a small issue Sir, is not dead yet Can die anytime from now - Then why did you call us - We thought he would be dead by now What's wrong with you? Don't get angry his time is over, he should die in a few minutes from now Is he an Indian Airways flight to take off in a few minutes? Let's take a photo now, At least we'll save time You are trying to take a photo and kill him Hey don't frustrate me He is half dead already, why should we kill him? - You...? - Calm down Are you threatening us? Master give back the advance and let's leave Don't irritate us Do you think we don't have any other work to do? "Like the sweetness of water that springs through the well" "The ecstatic feel of love for you passes through me" "Every sip of it takes my breath away" Even if it takes a decade, we'll take the photo and leave "With expectations mounting All I face is disappointment" "I wonder why a good sleep Has become a far friend" "I am uncomfortable I burn within...l fall...l cry" "You've taken my heart away" Look here boys, this is my great great grandfather Great grandfather Grandmother My mother At last grandfather This is the last photo captured in our village All of them in the photo died because of a disease From then we never take a photo when we are alive All because of Englishman During my father's days, Englishman had come and took photographs All who posed for the photo died because of some diseases It doesn't stop there During my great grandfather days, thieves have come to snatch our idol Because of spirit of the sky only our villagers lead a peaceful and contented lite In fact India got independence because of spirit of the sky Hey Sudamani, come here He is my son Sudamani Should have seen him in the path Yeah we saw him, producing manures This is my daughter Kalaivani She is the only girl from Mundasupatti, who went to school Looking at her horoscope... ...fortune teller said she needs to go to school For that reason I sent her to school Now it's her marriage, so she quit the school - When is the marriage? - We have postponed it for a while Postponed it! Postponed it? Don't ask about it Last week a thunder struck our spirit of the sky temple and did few damages Without rectifying that, we wouldn't do any functions in our village That's why we have postponed the marriage We should do the amends that's why the temple being locked Sudamani, stop this, they are scared Crazy brother-in-law you've got - Greetings uncle - Welcome groom He is my to be Son-in-law He is Shanmugam Greet you Have bought a saree for Kalaivani IS it? Kalaivani, come get the saree Go, collect the saree Don't you hear them calling you? Go Uncle, workers have come Wait for a minute I'll come O Kay Still angry with groom? You stopped my education, just because he asked you to By this time my friends would have wrote the exams At last I didn't get to meet them too Just for rituals, we sent you to the school Groom said it's not required, Then what's your problem Guruji is coming, Guruji is coming Live a long-life Just stop whining, give this milk to grandpa Master, just go and propose your love for her Her grandpa is in death bed, Now you want me to propose - Then he'll get up and slap me - Just go, master Hey don't push me, lam nervous Just go If your grandpa dies... ...hope he'll be seated here for a photo, right? Propose her Hope he doesn't like milk Because it just comes out of his mouth You don't know how to give it Give it, I'll teach you Just give it - No - Give it Just look now Have to hold tight, open the mouth... ...and pour it down Like this How is it? Grandpa wants to say something Speak out grandpa Seeing the way you proposed her even the grandpa spat on you face Do you want to have a soda? Hey move and sit down Is this an age to eat this snack? Everyone in this village looks like a fool Why is that in every door it's written 'Go back'? Is that to notify the relatives to leave Don't mean that In the midnight vampires come and stand in front of our homes Reading this, they won't enter our homes Even vampires know to read but these buggers didn't go to school What happened? At last the thief is caught red handed - Come all of you - Is the thief get caught? Wait guys, I'll come back Sir, early morning he was roaming near the temple He started running the moment he saw me He is not opening his mouth how much ever we beat him These guys need a good beating Just Beating? Wait and see what is gonna happen Guruji is coming He has come Why is he staring at us? Uncle, let's punish him as per our village rules Only then others will fear to do anything like this Punishments for theft? Lord, shall we seek permission from Spirit of the sky? Oh God! Hey, bring the temple bell The guru has hung the bell When the lord is there to feed us... ...why suffer by doing wrong? The lord punishes the wrong with a nose break... ...the infidel by stopping the breath For those who refuse to listen to the lord, change the very nature of the being ...for that infidel creature, give us your orders Oh lord Spirit of the sky All women and children leave immediately Leave...leave soon Are they gonna undress? Break his bones like that, will he do any wrong again? They broke the hand because a bell tolled due to the wind Master, we are rushing back home We will finalise the horoscope we got from Udumalaipet You scared? Once you fall in love... ...you shouldn't fear even if your hand breaks or your leg breaks Don't worry, I shall save you at all cost Hey photographer Master, no Please tell me Tell me - Master - Wait That is... I want to take a photo Surprising, you have changed suddenly She has gone to school right, she would have become open minded Close up shot or full size? - Not me - Then? - This one - This? In your town, anything that is photographed will die right? Even this will die tomorrow because, tomorrow this will be served as a feast Biriyani, is it? This is my favourite goat That's why I want it photographed You know it's name? - Subramani - Subramani? Okay, tie it to the tree Hey, where is that girl? Subramani, don't move Smile once for the last time - Have you taken the photo? - Yes, please come Okay, please put the camera inside Please don't tell this to anyone If my father knows, he'll kill me I'll try Then I don't have money for the photo That's alright! Don't worry Okay, I'll take leave Master, in the name of 'Hollywood Studio', is it fair to take photos of goats? I saw such a passion in your eyes That's why I asked You, come here - Is he calling us? - It seems like a graveyard Are you the people who came to photograph the old man? Yes The localities don't come this side or they never speak to me Since I saw new faces, I felt like talking to you, hence I called Sir, will anybody come to the graveyard to talk? It's not just because of graveyard You see the old building there Yes 20 years ago, that was the village school School? In this village? Yes, hearing the foolishness of this village people... ...Kamarajar built a school for them But, not even a soul came once to this school Why so? 2 guys from the village drank spurious liquor from somewhere and went to sleep in the school Next morning, they were lying dead coughing a lot of blood Isn't this sufficient for the village elders? They spread rumors saying it was act of satan From that day, fearing the satan no one comes this side at all Wonder when they'll come good - Hey Ganesa - Yes, sir Somehow you got the stone You are very smart Yes sir, this is child's play Which this for your child's play? What is that Ganesa, you have kept your hand in the cradle? That I had to fight 4 people when getting the stone You...4 people you beat them? That's why your hand is like that? Why is the color fading? Sir forgive me In my fear I lied Hey Ganesa, you are just a stone villain, I'm a strong and long villain tell me Sir, you are asking and he is just blabbering Shoot him in his mouth, sir When there is a gun in the mouth, you speak let's see Go get me a hot soup! Sir, we can't take the stone that easily as you think The lock of temple is like that I've never seen such a lock in my service Very old look looks like Very strong lock, sir Let my hand heal sir, I'll take the stone definitely The stone should not be lifted Ganesa, you should be lifted Idiot Come this side - What did you do? - I placed the soup Will you keep like that? Idiots Ask them to get stone, they get some nonsense They've got something Cardboard, is it? You cunny fellow! They don't know it's a meteor and they pray it as God Meteor or washing stone, they are going to pray at something as God Long live Will they research it otherwise? Shut up and come - What kids? Have you prayed? - Yes, yes What sir, everyone is sitting? Are they serving food? Food? No, for long life, they are waiting to put flowers If you want, I'll get a seat for you - Are you not putting flowers? - I did it last year itself In our village, fire walk is called flower walk, similarly here too No son, we never do such, the legs will hurt right It will affect our work Your village people are very good - Please sit! Okay sit there - This side, is it? Photographer is coming with a flower - Keep quiet - Please give me pongal This is only for people who put flowers Else we won't give anyone - You put the flowers and give me pongal - No, please put the flowers and come Why are you not answering anything? Are they going to cut my hair? Pray well! The coconut hit not only my skull, my brain too That's okay come - Master, then okay - They are serving pongal there Now give please For me? Please see the head, The damage is huge Can't you give one more pongal free? No, it will become a blasphemy, put flowers and come, I'll give These flowers are sufficient, we can make a garland - I've put flowers 6 times you? - I've put 10 times Seems like kid has a soft skull, that's why he's bleeding Please don't tell anyone about photographing the goat Sir, since your daughter asked, I got it Kalaivani, come here Is it true what he's saying? No,dad How many times to say If anything happens it is not good for God That since it was my favourite When I say don't grace near the well, won't you listen Since he was there, he saved the goat from jumping into the well If we feast on a hurt goat, it is not good for God Don't you know this? Okay, go Is this our Subramani? Can't recognize him? Son, need a small help Need to take a photo, don't tell our chief I'll show a woman, please take a photo of her I'm not able to bear her torture If she opens her mouth, it'll be unbearable to listen to her Only you should help to close this But in your village, if you take photo they will die, right? That's why I am asking you to help If she dies of any disease, nobody will doubt me, right? - Why should anybody doubt you? - She is my wife, son Please keep this as an advance, I'll give you the balance after the photo Son, need a help What? Do you need a photo? Of whom? My husband only, he is always beating me He'll be here somewhere, please take a photo of him Keep this The guy who is standing there It's him That rose shirt, is it? That is Palanisamy, don't do anything to him please The big moustache guy next to him is my husband Please ensure he dies in a week You will be blessed Hey these guys are making me a mercenary This is a good business master You'll get from me - Thanks - Why? I was afraid you'll tell my father That was for fun Just a minute Please take this You still have this? She too...such an idiot I love you - Sir! Sir! - Oh my god Good omen, man "You are our king of kings" "Where has your kingdom vanished?" "You lived through our eyes Where have you left us" "Oh king of kings!" "You are our Queen of queens" "The one who took the breath away" "I've whispered our desires through your ears" 'I love you' "You are the queen of nectars" "The words that you uttered" "The struggle you went through" "You're my life Rise up" "My king of kings" "Come for me" "Give me a space in your heart" "A word with you A life with you" "You and I are a destiny" Take his photo, sir Our chief should look like a lion in the photo For a lion, you should go to the forest Chief, here is your weapon Our chief will always be with the weapon You take the photo Give me the camera man Hey, where have all of them gone? You take son, we'll keep talking outside Our village people are very clever, right? You saw how they managed it? "Time flies when I wait for you" "I fly in happiness when I wait for you To be with you always!" "History will speak of us, Our relationship is beyond conditions and reasons" "Worries farther from me when I am with you" "Our Love is contagious" "Never will it leave us" "it will bind our bodies It will rock our world" "Love is not an easy-go-feel" "I came to sing love duet ever" Master, photo ready They have brought the photo! Great! You have done a good job - Hey, ask everyone to come and see - Okay sir "You have to come for me" "Let me into your heart" "I am living this life Just for your love" "So we can live this life happily" Please ask someone to bring water What son, was the food okay? It seems he ate too much vada(snacks) Very happy son, I can give whatever you ask That is... I want to marry your daughter Why are you feeling shy about it? I thought it was something very big To give my daughter to an educated, photographer like you will I refuse? Kalaivani, do you like the groom? Then what you wondering I agreed so easily I know everything, son Come, let's ask permission from spirit of the sky and come back - Master, all the best - Go man Kalaivani, come here Sit down - Brother, everything is spoilt - Brother? Brother, photo did not expose correctly Photo? "My sib is sleeping like a bud" Boss, come here soon What? Everything's spoilt, film didn't expose well, the old man's face is not clear Just now we took consent from Kalaivani's father, right? Hey! See what happened Just now I washed the film, he took consent it seems Hey, my love is dependent on this Our hands and legs are dependent on this they'll break our bones if we don't give the photo We'll dig out the body and take the photo again What son? Did you forget anything? What did you do to the chief? - As per our tradition, we usually bury him - Then we can take the photo - But this time, we burned the body - You burned him, is it? Yes son, only then we can throw his ashes all over the village As per his wish see, we are throwing the ashes everywhere Only little is left, I'll throw these ashes and come back As if these guys are the Nehru family If their ashes are spread across India, as if there'll be so much harvest Son, the village is waiting for the chief's photo Has it come well? Yes, it has come out very well Shall we give 'Missing' notice for both of us in the local newspaper Looks like we got to burn the roof and go back to our native Master! An idea Shall we burn the studio and say even the photograph got burned Don't give stupid ideas! Can we burn the studio fearing them? If the studio burns, we can say the photos got burned and get their sympathy Saying this, we can meet Kalaivani also All that is going to burn is few papers and films Leave it to me! I'll handle this See in the morning, now just sleep As the candle burns and comes near this string it will fall on the paper below and will burn entirely Hey, when did you learn all this? When I'm alone in the studio, I've thought a lot like this I have written in a notebook, I'll share if need be We'll switch off the main board, only then fire won't spread Hey tea shop, saloon, we are going for a movie If anyone comes, ask them to come tomorrow Hey Saravana, Ravi, did you hear? Why do you resort to violence? Brother, the shop has burnt, come fast Success Alagu Come We should drink tea on the way Master, keep your face sad as if there is a big loss Get down Oh my shop, my studio is burning We set fire to our shop, right? What this guy is coming from inside? I came to get my photo A fire started from the tea shop I broke the lock and extinguished the fire Good thing, the main was switched off Else my photo too would have burnt down in the fire He is the root cause for this He is not Ezhumalai He is Yeman Sir, where is your notebook? I have another idea also Your idea is not required, shut up Brother, my photo? Thank God! What Gopi? Are you fine? 1...2...3 - Say one - Tea? Here's the money you asked for You insulted me for this, right? Come and take my photo - You have not changed is it? - Never I've earned this money cleaning cow dung Not only that, there's another important thing After the month of Thai, there'll be 3 guys on top in Tamil cinema One is Rajinikanth, other is Kamal Hassan... ...and the third is Munishkanth - Who is that Munishkanth? - It's me! The astrologer has told me What is the use banging on the radio now? Please come and take photo fast How many hurdles before one comes to top? Take his snap and send him out You insulted me for five rupees- You will take photos of school girls, I should take photos of this joker, is it? - Master, - What? Come here soon Hey, what man? Watch him closely As if he is a glamour queen, to watch him close Can't you see the face cut of the dead body? Yes Alagumani, he looks just like the dead body we took a photo of Do you want tea or juice? What Gopi, suddenly so much care? - Munishkanth - Yes Acting is a penance That penance is seen on your face clearly What man, you are calling my face a frog? Is it look like that? See and say again, Gopi Just a minute Hello Master, Alagumani speaking Please tell me The dead body has come to us, don't leave it IS it? Hope you remember what we spoke in dark room - For that role? - You got it - Just talk about Bharathiraja - For his movie? That's a great opportunity He would look at you agape - I'll hang the phone - Will let you know soon Do come home when you come here My friend works as an assistant for Bharathiraja Oh Bharathiraja! - Sir, tea - Did you have? Yes Hey Alagumani, Bharathiraja is gonna shoot a movie in our place They need someone to act as a dead body Do we someone who can act? - Brother - Wait Our meat shop brother He has got a crooked face, he won't fit this role - Guys? - Wait How about soda shop Saravanan? - He can never cover his teeth - Sir, one minute How about petty shop Murugaesan? Why do you bother when I'm here? You didn't even consider me I thought you wanna be a hero I don't mind to be a dead body in Bharathiraja's film - Sure? - Yes, I am He should be fine then Is he okay? It's okay Now we have to take a photo shoot like a dead body If Bharathiraja sees this, You are the one to act Sure So Munishkanth is gonna rock in the film Don't praise me You have given light in my life Gopi That's alright But you turned out to be the character during the photo shoot That's the big stuff - Enough praising - Excellent Photo looks extremely good He poses like Mundasupatti lion Exactly Why don't you call everyone to see this? Kalaivani, come and see your grandpa's photo Hmmm, call her Photographer has done a wonderful job Go and show it to everyone Kalaivani still mourns for her grandpa I know They only killed him by giving milk Hereafter he is the photographer for any death in Mundasupatti Give it to me This photo doesn't resemble as our Sir After death face becomes bleak He is correct Even if you die tomorrow, you won't look the same Can you both come inside? Go inside Sir, please leave us I didn't take that photo, only he does Keep quiet Were you scared? Eat well guys Can you ask someone to bring water? Before you leave, please do take a photo of Mr Moustache Don't forget it Guys, one who got water for you is my wife Do photograph her silently Don't be shy Eat well - Have we seen him somewhere? - You should have seen him around here Oh God, uncle...? Just because I had interest in cinema, You kept me away from the village For that won't you inform me about his death, you sinister? You were like a Lion in the forest Now you look like a chicken in the photo You closed your eyes without seeing my role in Bharathiraja's film I exactly resembles his face Why are you here, guys? 'You have given light in my life Gopi' Catch them now They took my photo and made me a dead person Let's run away from here Start the bike, master Hell with this bike Don't leave me, master They have cheated me Master, go fast Come fast Catch him Don't leave Wait! Wait! They are chasing us for taking your wife's photo Is it? Go by this way They took my photo and made me a dead person What happened? They cheated Munish They tricked us all and escaped Got so many of us but still couldn't catch them I can run and catch them Watch me Check, are they chasing us? Idiots, they thought we are moving fast and stood there But I know about this bike Hey, they fell down Come fast let's catch them My dear boy!! Uncle, still I am not wash my butt It doesn't matter Move away, guys INTERMISSION I'm not worried about their hitting But can't imagine what they'll do to us tomorrow Today Kalaivani was wearing a red saree, right? Silent! Please run away from here The Villagers are furious They will do anything tomorrow Leave before anyone sees Here, your bike keys Didn't I say it was red color saree? Master, let's leave We have no other option to escape Where are you going? The bike is on the other side Whatever it is, we will deal with it later Don't shake it Don't push it towards the wall Push it from the back Can someone fool us here in Mundasupatti Whom do you think you are dealing with? We should break both their hands Not just Munis, You have deceived everyone And ridiculed our sir too These are unpardonable mistakes Bring the temple bell When the lord is there to feed us... ...why suffer by doing wrong? The lord punishes the wrong For those who refuse to listen to the lord, change the very nature of the being ...for that infidel creature, give us your orders Oh lord Spirit of the sky Save them, God Spirit of the sky isn't giving us permission Saying something, don't let them free Let's wait for sometime I think the Spirit of the sky, doesn't like us punishing them So let the Panchayat decide on this I think today is your lucky day We have always got an approval for our punishment, this is the first time Let's take this as the order oi the Spirit of the sky and forgive them - Let them clean the cow sheds - Yeah, or else people will go fearless Let them dig a well as a punishment Only after that you'll get back your bike and the camera Munis! You've to supervise their work If you give us permission, we'll pack our dress for our stay here With that ii you bring some money you could go on a trip around the village I don't care if I am naked You can use my dresses Come Do you remember what was said in the Panchayat, right? Kalaivani, give the shovel to them From today you are my slaves What's with the stare? You can't do anything Wait here I'll take care After me advising, Why do you keep coming back? Please leave If I thought so, I would have left then The villagers didn't catch me I fell on purpose When I leave from here, I'll have you by my side - Have you given it? - Given it, dad This is where you got to dig It should be finished by the end of the month "I am the smart one in eternal search" "I am the side-kick that faces the brunt" "I stood in front for all the blow that the world gave me" "I wonder where this will end" "Oh the Lord of the world" "Show us the light at the end of the tunnel" "Show us your surprises Give us without hurdles" The pose is not good "Like the 300 spartans He is ready for the kill" Now, it's okay "He'll fall He'll rise" God bless you, my dear "it's not an easy world" We got water already "You cannot scale heights without learning" - Get lost - If you come, will bury you "The love his making him blind" "He went crazy He became fragile" "The responsibility is mounting" "There is no time to relax" "To be aware, to be happy, I became the puppet," They have witch-crafted the Post box He dug it for 5 years water didn't come but he died He buried him in the same place You don't worry Go and check your moustache Won't Kalaivani, ever come down to me? Is she on a roof top to come down? It's not that, you got to do something so that she has a compassion for you We living here itself is pitiful That's right Nice song! Only after wearing my dress you look like humans He has started You don't need to go dig well today, Come clean the cow shed If we dig a little we might finish Just finished to the size of a pit and you say you are finished Come and pick the cow's dung Look, how I make her feel compassionate to me - Did you call me? - Yes, you fool Here I come What do you think of yourself? You slaves I will... Did you hurt? Advise him or you'll get beaten too She isn't looking Hit him How dare you beat me? Save my master! Save him ls there no one here? They are hitting my master, Save him! I will rip your back off She isn't looking lam gonna bury you both in the pit you dug Hitting me, wearing my cloths He is hitting again, Please save my master! Stop hitting Kalaivani, how long will it take to finish the Rangoli? I'm coming, mom Trying to blow off my light ls there no one to question this injustice? - Uncle! Don't hit - He's still hitting my master Leave them uncle, Why are you hitting them? You don't know about him He did it all and now has an innocent look Leave him Mom called you for Tea? With cow's milk? After tea I am gonna kill you both Go man Why do you have to get these beatings? Please go away Whatever problem we face Even if we die, I will never leave from here Why should I die? Won't your parents search for you? I have no one for me I only have you in my life Sister! Who is that in the photo? That's Munis uncle, But for us it's Sire How is that? That's it Here it's your turn I've won! You have lost the game "The seeds of love sown one day" "I see the leaves of growth today" "She grows within my heart and stays forever" Are they celebrating for catching those slave? What is this? - Munis uncle? - What's it sweety? They said that's you in the photo - Yes - Will you die? Is it your work? It's my mistake, Give me that hand, now keep it in your mouth All aims to kill me Do you want a pair at this age? Malar stop! Don't come here again Ganesa, waiting for the food to be served? I didn't get a rose garland could only get a Marigold one Why are you praying with my photo? Munis this isn't you It's our Sir What sir? This is the only photo resembling him So? Today's is the 16th day prayer, We needed a photo Why, you could have prayed with me there The village people should accept this They only took a photo of me But you guys are doing the funeral rites for my photo It's just for today, From tomorrow we will only light the lamps How many will light a lamp for me? Get off my sight 0k finish your prayers, You are always playful Playful? Why do I have to play with you? You all should've decorated my Cut-outs but I've ended up with this I too have feeling - What's that in black? - That's tried meat They'll never believe me This is our Sir! This is our Sir! I'll take some fried meat That's for our Sir That's me in the Photo, but the fried meat is for Sir Where is the lunch happening? At least tell that Slaves, have a candy Take it You take one Is it your birthday? The day a star is born - I don't get it - That's why you are in the pit Today, my debut film is releasing That film is releasing? What's the name of that film? The Movies name is "Breaking Dawn" "Breaking Dawn"? Who is the director? Director Steven Spiel Kumar Steven Spiel Kumar? He is both the hero, the heroine and as well directed the movie I just come for a scene, But a powerful performance What's that scene? Here, I go In a Panchayat, one fellow pinches the hip of the heroine You mean the hip of Steven Spiel Kumar You are right After pinching, the fellow escapes from there And you are the one who catches that culprit That's where you are wrong I'm the one who pinches the hip Feeling jealous? Never dream that I will take you both for this film Because you both are my slaves Going to your film itself is a punishment I will meet you after the film Till then look at this piece of art List is too long! Which is the hip here? Where would he have pinched? He would have pinched some place Get to work! Don't miss the first ten minutes I would be a Cameraman by now, if I had gone with Balu Mahendra then Greetings sir! - Sir tell has some regards for us - Those guys are waiting for dinner He made us beggars - When we fall in love... - Also don't forget the Dog Hey! Muniskanth - Dinner? - Yes Come join us Am I, slaves like you I'll have my dinner inside I'll kill you Did you watch my movie, brother? How dare you didn't follow the village rules and now showing me this paper No dinner for you get out of here If you bring that paper here I will burn your head down Is it a paper? It's an art You have missed dinner for a Star You could've come and joined us How many times will you see it? Eat well I am leaving - Going out to beg? - Yeah, want to join Show your plate She is looking Believe me She did see We could have just earned with our photography You falling in love has got us into this pit Kalaivani is thinking of me Only you are saying so, But she shows no sign We are here digging pits She is going to marry that Shanmugam and we are going to be guest at her marriage What I said might me wrong, For that should you bring me to this roof top Have we dressed up at night to be an audience to see her sleep She looks like a calf But snores like a bear See carefully He's snoring like a rhinoceros In this sound she will never wake even if a thunder strikes And how will she think of you I know from my heart that she is thinking of me Few slaps will bring you out of this dream Wait a minute At midnight only you will get such Ideas Oh God! Master - This girl is in love with Rajinikanth - It's me!! The end of the Photo Studio Look, there is someone on that roof top - That's Mr Moustache's house - Let that go He too should have got an hiccup He looks like a robber Come, let's go and see What were you doing in Mr Moustache's house? Aren't you a thief? Alagu, go call the villagers Let's deal it ourselves, master You're dumb Get up He looks pitiful If he gets into the hands of the villagers they will break his bones I should never see you Go You thief! Have a long-life Have a long-life I will...beat him Don't hurt my mouth I'll never lie again How did you become a Guruji? Nothing big 15 years ago when I escaped from prison I took a cloth from the beggar by the street You even robbed a beggar Okay, continue I fell asleep on the hill near the village The next morning, The whole village was around me Everyone was requesting me to exorcist this village I was being chased then I was surprised why they were asking me so Then I noticed the cloth I robbed was a Guru's dress Then I decided this was the right place to settle down That's it What's with you and Mrs. Moustache It's nothing wrong We've a rightful friendship between us We know about your friendship Mrs. Moustache's pointed to Palanisamy that day, then how did you come in? Nothing like that She is not of that kind Palanisamy! Stop there! What work do you have at my house? He is chasing someone Won't you ever listen to what I say? Palanisamy, you'll be caught red-handed Move aside Ganesa, Rathinasamy When did you all come in? - Only this evening - Stop! Stop! Tea shop guy too She has cheated me too Watch now The village is at my feet But these fellows Long live, my dear Give me the papad - Take it - Eat it Greetings, sir! Mr Moustache seemed like you had many guests yesterday night Are you not ashamed to eat what was served for the guru? They asked out of desire I gave it myself to them Learn to live disciplined life from Guruji Will Guru have time to teach us? Why not? He is the reason my wife is a disciplined woman Mr Moustache is talking as none listens to him I ask forgiveness for them Please forgive them - Why should you ask for their forgiveness? - I have no other option Be generous like Guruji Have a long-life I've seen this guy somewhere But can't remember rightly Alagu, what would you do when you sleep? I'll sleep - What about you Guruji? - Does he have time for that? He goes around the village at night But few draw their loved ones and sleep cuddling it "Like the sweetness of water that springs through the well" "The ecstatic feel of love for you passes through me" "Every sip of it takes my breath away" Did you hear the news? Guruji has left the village What do you mean? He has gone on a pilgrim to the Himalayas Himalayas? He should be at some roof top Mr Moustache, what's with all these loads? I am expanding my petty shop So went out for a purchase There is no one to buy but he keeps expanding Where is my Petty shop? Hey. Karpagam... Where is my wife? My wife is missing! Chief... Mr Moustache, what happened? Stop crying and tell My wife is missing! It's not just my wife My petty shop too is missing So Guruji has hit the Jackpot in one toss Let's go in and talk about it Secret...? Give the shovel to those boys Even after that night he has eloped with her, means he is such a loser I know you love me Why don't you express it? I've got to go Dad is waiting outside Please tell me and go Dad! Have you given it? Gave it, dad Sudamani, where are you? I can't run anymore Give my dress back If I catch you... Give back my dress Or I'll not teach you dance Where are you? You are here Now, I'll catch you Uncle, I fooled you "Never distant your dream of love" 'Never hide and run away from your desires" 'Never distant your dream of love" "Never hide and run away from your desires" "I am longing to meet you" "I am eyeing the way you arrive" "My heart feels like the nectar of the honey kingdom" "And the pleasant smell of a meadow" "Never distant your dream of love" Give way What are you doing? Click the photo quickly No, listen to me Wait, I'll finish the job for sake of you "Your words are unspoken" You didn't tell there was a lamb inside "it made a lovable reading" "Like the thread woven of silk That slithers off from the cloth" "My heart melts for you" "I've become the catamaran that brushes over the night sea" "I've become your Stallone for the race" "Let this heart not change Let this feeling not dwindle" The dog died watching your dance "Stayed humble in your teenage Crossing no limits any moment" "I got a new energy to go forward" This job is only left for me to do "I've begun to be your shadow I've begun to read my dreams" "I've begun to love you till death" "Never distant your dream of love" "Never hide and run away from your desires" "Never distant your dream of love" "Never hide and run away from your desires" "I am longing to meet you" "I am eyeing the way you arrive" "My heart feels like the nectar of the honey kingdom" "And the pleasant smell of a meadow" Let's have the marriage on Friday That's our decision What you say is right, But it's sounds too early The marriage has been postponed once already, that's why Why should we delay it? Let's finish it early Give it a thought and say Take this Call this marriage off - What do you mean? - I don't like this groom I thought you were saying it in anger that day, will you keep repeating it now If your father knows this he'll kill you Go serve them coffee Everyone are here And you make a scene now - Go serve it - I won't go Kalaivani, where is the coffee? Go, give it I'll go and tell I don't like the groom What happened? I don't like the groom I am not interested in this marriage Is this a game, at the day of engagement saying you are not interested? Shouldn't have pampered you Don't spoil the pride of our family If you plan anything, I'll kill both you and your mother Bring us coffee Sister...! Let's have the marriage on Friday Make all the arrangements Very happy Let's go back, if the villagers know why we are here they will break our bones All these days work have gone in vain Give it to the groom Marriage is tomorrow, You got any plans? Tie 3 knots on that branch Let's leave Let's leave it to the spirit of the sky Cut it in one go Why shouldn't we take Spirit of the sky away? They will stop the marriage if the Idol goes missing They Will kill us Do you mean it? I've decided, I love her I should do something for her How will we open that lock? Breaking it is impossible You don't have to break it I'll get the keys for you Will you take good care of my sister? Let's break the temple's lock Hey Sudamani! Come here Why are you not sleeping? Going for a wee Don't know what got into you Always going out for bathroom O Kay This is disturbing my sleep Go keep this in the shelve Get up! We have lot of work today What brings you here at this time? Why did you rob Spirit of the Sky? No one saw you, right? Kalaivani, time is up Wear silk saree and come Watch your step Bring the bride No one will find it The vampire is the guard for the Idol now Shall I go tell them? Never before has such thing happened Don't know what is going to happen? Spirit of the sky is missing Oh God, what has happened? The Spirit of the sky is missing We've all been stranded without the Spirit Should this happen at the time of Kalaivani's marriage Uncle, don't worry Somehow we will find out We have to search to find it? What's the use just talking about it? Shanmugham, take your men and search in the east Return only when you find it or after you get the info that we have found it Mr. Moustache, you go west Palanisamy, you go south Velliyangiri, you go search the North This is not fair sending your son-in-law to a safe zone Sending me to the north, Knowing it's haunted If the vampire kills me who'll care for my family - Don't raise your voice - I didn't say anything wrong Stop your fight Listen to me Thought the fight for their wives only but even for a stone Hey. keep quiet One night I wasn't here, There is no security for the Idol How much responsibilities shall I have? Spirit of the sky is missing! Come with me Look how he found out lam talking something serious and you all keep staring at me - Come here - What's it? - Go and sit there - Is he called for this? No other way, I'll go north I don't care if I die serving this Village So they already knew about this You don't have to go We'll go north Do you plan to escape from there? If we thought so we would have escaped long back That would never happen when I am here We went for a cinema day before - Breaking dawn, right? - Never ending Yawn... Look at his arrogance Let them go They tried to fool the village let them go He always give us trouble Let's not send them alone Who's going with them? Send Ganesan He has nothing to do other than eat Let him at least do this Why are you looking at me? What have I got for everyone to look at me? What...what is your problem? This isn't fair They've cornered him They'll sacrifice me to the vampire I've got a film shoot I have commitments Don't you know what it is? Come, let's go This village is losing a star It's enough if you can feed me porridge No one from the village has come here No Let's check that school first School! I won't come I have seen it in my small age I won't come with you Why are you still alive? If we take this back to the village, just see the respect they give us Where is the stone! We left it here - Who would've taken it? - 0k, let's search - Master - What? He has taken the stone and let off the cloth Are you haunted, that's why I said not to go inside Spirit of the Sky is lost! That is why we are here Are you playing with me? Really, Spirit of the Sky is lost! Did they see the Vampire? Lets keep it cool with them Only if the Idol is found his health will recover There is no information about the idol Don't worry, in-law Shanmugam will surely find the Idol Before Shanmugam the Photographer will find it If I laugh a bit you'll come inside Stand out you slaves I've searched all over the village But I couldn't find the God's statue Sudamani, the Idol is missing at the place we left it My father is dying We searched around couldn't find it any place I gave you the keys believing you Everyone is seeing We'll find it No one from the village would've taken it Why master? They would have never entered the school It should be someone from outside Apart from us there is no outsider The coolie in our house is from another village He came here looking for work Dad gave him work as he was dumb Mokkaiyan! Mokkaiyan? 'I've seen him somewhere' 'Where else would have you seen a worker of this house?' We searched the whole village But couldn't find him Can't you remember where you saw him This cat! Next time I'll have you as my soup - What did you say? - I'll have that cat for my soup 'If you drink cat soup...' Sudamani, bring my bike keys We are going to Komalapatti That's where he should've taken the stone Mokka, you have done a fine job Master, careful Master, the stone Have you come to catch him or the bottle Looks like you'll drink it from there itself Come and take it I told you to take the stone not the bottle Lift the stone, go Careful, man Many are searching for this stone Shoot them! Shoot them! Don't miss your aim Shoot them! Don't lose the chance Munis, you got caught before us? How caring you are? It's been 2 hours, I am in here They would've sold me by now Do you know him? He is a film star No He is the Star from the film Breaking Dawn Seeing that movie my dog bled to death Your dog too died You are the reason for my dog's death? It's not me - Then who? - My Guru, Steven spiel Kumar Steel Kumar? - Don't believe them - Whoever it its... We drank Cat soup Please forgive us for that What...cat soup? I would have served it today too But I never give it to my enemy You should serve that to your enemy first Alagu, why does he take Cat soup? It would increase your potent Why would a broken gun need a bullet? Won't you shut your mouth? I meant the gun in your hand Not you - Shoot there - I'll come to you after these 2 Don't Shoot! Don't Shoot! - Gopi... - Who is he? Come fast All those cat soups have gone in vain Wait If India cricket team wins let's ask our sir for foreign liquor Come Master, is this the time to watch the cats - Gopi! - What? - I forgot the poster - Come Only if he gets shot he will keep quiet You take this from here If I touch this they will make a big issue of me being a schedule caste It's Idol only if we take it to our village If it stays here it's just a stone Come I've misunderstood you Shut up and come Don't leave the rope You've come back faster than you went That's because of the gun culture up there Is this a bus for both of us to travel at once Don't pull my Leg! Don't pull my Leg! Don't leave me and go You've come back faster than you went As you said, that's because of the gun culture up there You too He's shooting everything other than the target Come my dear guests...come - What happened to this? - Start it now Give me, a Soda 'Have a long-life' Are you the guru that went to Himalayas? You took away his petty shop Did you think about Mr. Moustache? What will we do for our life? Eat "You rose for us from the sun You're our sole companion" "You're our saviour You're our utmost wealth" The photographers have bought the idol "You're the healer, worries are farther when you are with us" "Bless the village, to enthral the folk" "And shower us Your grace" I have no words to thank you You have saved this Mundasupatti We are all grateful to you Everyone come to the temple! I am Spirit of the Sky here You didn't do the Pooja properly He is acting as scripted We did everything right You never did anything I can see it in my palm The one who saved me He is my Son! My Son! I told you to forgive him that day You punished him even after that You have to satisfy him Only if you satisfy him I'll cool down We'll do as you say Whatever he asks for give it to him immediately Don't make a mistake again Before the Idol punishes us Take a decision The Idol has ordered us, ask for what you want, it's our duty to fulfill it That is... Ask for what you want? Tell me Tell him, master I want to marry your girl How dare him, uncle! Take Shanmugam out of here He just wanted to help your village by marrying that girl But he is talking over his limits My master isn't satisfied Let's leave Son, don't be in a hurry We'll talk about it and take a decision Help! Help! You acted as a dumb in the village but your sound tears my ear drums I knew it when I saw you overacting at work Give me the match box Locking me in a box! Did you see me how I came from it? How did you break that lock and rob the Idol? When did we break the lock! Those photographers in your village - They only opened the locks - What do you mean? That photographer to marry the village chief hid the idol in the school I robbed it from there You fooled me then the villagers and at last even the Idol So the Photographer is the mastermind behind all this I'll see their end You Photographers! We have a set of rules for our village We never speak against Spirit of the Skies decision So you can marry Kalaivani This doesn't seem right Don't decide in a haste This is Idol's decision We have to go with it This doesn't seem fair Whatever it is come to a conclusion soon Can't you all see why the marriage was stopped twice it's all Idols play - Gopi, is my son-in-law - Don't make me furious This is Idol's decision don't go against it Mind your words Get out Go,son Move So the leader has said it Get on with the marriage works Go off before he slaps you Nothing would be possible without Guruji Have a long-life Distribute to everyone Guruji, please find my petty shop Have a happy married life I have to hand over one thing to you Bring that camera Oh camera? I won't leave you Good, they didn't bury this They'll never come good Come inside, Only if they take it outside it's dangerous Nothing like that, we are here to get some fresh air You villagers are very funny My only girl Please don't photograph her Hey-groom! - Ganesa, what's the crowd about? - The Photographers wedding just got over ls the marriage over? - I am going for the feast? - Where? They serve milk pudding also You were the one spoiling me The Photographer has deceived us all Did he marry our girl? Hey man...! What do you mean? Can't understand What happened to you? The Photographer is the one who hid the Idol You made him your son-in-law? - Idol - Yes! - Spirit of the Sky - Spirit of the Sky! Why are you talking to the wall? They are escaping here The photographer is eloping with my girl It's our girl who's eloping Our girl Come everybody You keep fainting like a pregnant women Catch them I can confront anyone lam not going to let you escape this time Run fast, they're nearing us Go fast This way Follow them Uncle, come fast Get on This Photographer has come to make us run Are you riding triples? I won't leave you Look how fast this bike is going now Agnate, help me out Come fast! Come fast! He's driving it in his legs - Go fast they are coming - What happened? You know about this bike Get down Push it! push it! Push it man Can't push anymore Drop the bike Come quickly! They've come close to us Let's run away, master What happened to you, master? You idiot, it is the climax for you now What's with the style? They have neared us Tell me Take out the Camera Stop! Stop! Lets go back before they photograph us You aren't photogenic Come, we'll go catch them Why are you catching me? He is taking photographs of all of us He has lit up Mundasupatti Direction Ram Kumar They can't escape We'll catch them I'll slap you, idiot Put that sickle down You glutton! Stop Where are you going? I won't leave alive that photographer You can't They've already escaped Don't put the sickle on my legs Oh God! He did it Bring him along with you "You are our king of kings" "Where has your kingdom vanished?" "You lived through our eyes Where have you left us" "Oh king of kings!" "You are our Queen of queens" "The one who took the breath away" "I've whispered our desires through your ears" "You are the queen of nectars" Before 1 hour... Stop there - Where are you going? - I'll catch that photographer What are you saying? They are running violently You might get run over I'll definitely catch him Go We must catch them Go ahead
