 

                        Fairy tales can come true It can happen to you if you're young at heart For it's hard, you will find to be narrow of mind if you're young Henry? At heart Henry. You can go to extremes... What? Don't you hear the phone ringing? With impossible dreams No. You can laugh when your dreams fall apart at the seams Hello. Yes, is this Helen Sawyer? And if you should survive Are you sure it's him? I'm very sorry. He's at the hospital... out of being ali... We're here to see Gabriel Sawyer. She can take you back. This way. He's right here. Oh, God. This brain image shows us a midline tumor, extending on both sides into the frontal lobes. It also reaches backward to the temporal lobes and downward to the forebrain here. So the tumor is in this area here? No, Mr. Sawyer, that is the tumor. It appears to be benign, but it went unchecked for so long, we won't be able to tell what kind of permanent damage has been done until after we operate. How are you doing this morning? I'm gonna ask you some questions, and I want you to tell me the answers, okay? Okey-dokey. What's your name? Gabriel. Okay, good. What year were you born, Gabriel? Fine. And what year is it now? All right, now, Gabriel, can you count from 1 to 10 out loud for me? Oount me out. I'll start you. Buckle my shoe. He seemed to be fooling around with you. That's a good sign, isn't it? That's not really fooling around. Part of Gabriel's brain which controls inhibition has been destroyed, so he reacts incontinently to things around him. It's like it's not even him. When was the last time you saw him? He, uh... he left home... several years ago. Nearly 20. Did drugs cause this? No, I don't think so. From the way he looks, he was on the streets for some time. Oh, God. And unfortunately, though slow-growing, the tumor also destroyed structures of the medial side of both the temporal lobes, in particular what is called the hippocampus, and these are the areas of the brain we use to form new memories, like what I'm telling you now, new information. Mr. And Mrs. Sawyer, even if Gabriel makes a full recovery, his memory has been damaged. Gabriel's long-term memory stops at a certain point, and even if he regains some cognitive function, like perception of his surroundings, it's likely that it will be inconsistent and intermittent. Henry Sawyer. Oan it wait till tomorrow? I'm on my way to the hospital. Okay, be right there. How's Gabe? Oh, you know, hard to tell. We're moving him to a permanent-care place. It's, uh, closer to home. Thanks for asking. Henry, I can only imagine what you're going through. Actually, I can't even. I don't know how you could possibly concentrate on anything. Oh, it helps me to work, Mike, to be here. Yeah. I get that. But let's be candid, Henry. At the moment, when you're here, you're not really here, and we're dealing with harsh realities on our end. You're a fine mechanical engineer, Henry, but we're getting into the still video market. We need computer coding skills, ASIOs chip programming, you need Fortran, things like that. Are you firing me? Henry, you've got a year and half of sick days, and you've got your full pension. Do yourself a favor. Take the time. Be with your family. There were bells on the hill but I never heard them ringing No, I never heard them at all... Okay, ready for inspection? Okay. - Pencils? - Oheck. - Notebook? - Oheck. Robin Hood lunchbox? Roger that. You know what song this is? Till There was You. - Mm-hmm. Year? - 1950. Oomposer? Meredith Wilson. The first time I heard this song was June 23, 1950. It was the opening night of the Roseland Dance Hall. Two days before Uncle Gabriel went to fight in the war. That's right. And Uncle Gabriel took Ruth McDonald, and I had to go with Ruth's sister, Gladys. The fat one. Yeah, the big old, super-duper vat of Velveeta cheese fat one. Henry. Yeah, that one. And this song was the very last song the orchestra played that night, just as I first set my eyes on your... - Mom. - Mom. It was the first song. No. It was the last song. Last time, it was the first song. Gabe, it's time. I'd like to buy the world a Coke and keep it company It's the real thing... Hey, Gabriel. What's happening? In perfect harmony... Gabriel. It's Bernie from down the hall. Bernie the Hernie. It's the real thing You must be very hungry, Gabriel. I'm Gabriel. You're hungry. I am. Gabe, open your mouth. Olose your eyes. Go to sleep. Gabriel, open your mouth. Open your mouth. Stick out your tongue. Why don't we let Gabriel try to eat by himself? I'm going outside. Oome on, Gabe. You have to eat. Would you like a sip of Ooke? It's the real thing. Now you can play like your Uncle Gabe. He's gettin' it. Maybe trumpet's not the right instrument. He's getting it. Is this good? It's fine. We should get going soon. You go on ahead. What do you mean? I'll go tomorrow. He doesn't know the difference. Take your pills. You're not going to bed anytime soon, are you? I'll be right back. Hey, can you hand me my radio? Oh, sure. I bet you like what my son likes. There we go. The edge of the night... There we go, sweetie. This one? I gave him his meds at... Okay, who knows what song that was? I don't know what happened, but I don't see any significant change in his functioning this morning. We'll certainly keep observing. But I have noticed a difference in him. What do you mean? L... I think Gabriel remembered part of a television commercial. We were eating lunch, and I asked him if he'd like a sip of Ooke, and he said, "It's the thing" "It's the real thing. " Yeah. What is? No, it's the commercial. I think the line is "It's the real thing. " Yeah. That commercial was on the TV in the rec room. Well it's possible to read into Gabriel's behavior in any number of ways. But he remembered a commercial. Gabriel was watching TV. Helen, the fact is the tumor has destroyed some of Gabriel's cognitive functions and the parts of the brain that operate them. But he made a connection. He may make random or repetitive connections, but they won't be consistent or indicate a recovery of memory. I'm sorry. Oome on, Helen. Let's go home. Thank you, doctor. This is Cap Carsen throwing you back to 1968 and the Tulips, their top 10 hit, It's about Summer. All the kids, they want today All they ever think about's about summer Please leave it on. It's about summer All the kids, they want today All they ever think about is about summer It's about summer All the kids, they want today All their problems to go away It's about summer - It's about... - One second! You want to spray something in here? Hey, Dad. Gabriel, your mother's just about ready with dinner. Far out. I'm starving. Ah, man, that's great. I'm so hungry. Yeah. Uh, unfortunately, there's not enough for everyone tonight. Th-that's okay. We were... Mr. Sawyer, we were just saying that we were hungry for our own dinners that our own Mrs. Sawyers were gonna cook for us. It'll just be a second, Dad. We'll be finished in a sec. I'll be upstairs. About summer It's about summer All the neighborhood cats and dogs... Hello. Yes. Get along in the summer... Are you sure there's not a mistake? Henry, are we okay? What? They just called from the hospital and said our bill hadn't been paid. Is everything all right? Everything's fine. I'll get around to it. I'm sleeping. Helen. How are you? Fine, and you? Doing well. How's Gabriel? He's doing better. Great. That's great. And, uh, Henry? He's fine. You know, he was much happier when he was working. We wish he could still be here. I'm offering you the next-best thing. What's that? Me. My family needs the extra income. I could start immediately, and I'd make a great assistant or secretary. Helen, you've never worked before, have you? Mike, my husband was an engineer here for more than 30 years. He missed two days of work in all of that time. His mother died on one of those days, and our son was born on the other. Yes, I stayed home to take care of our family, like your mother probably did for you, but I went to college, and I have a degree. I could have done anything. I'm capable of doing something here. Is this good? I don't know. Oheck the date. You're wearing that to the hospital? No. Actually, I'm wearing this to work. What work? Mike Tappin gave me a job. I'll be assisting in the accounting office. You just took a job? Without telling me? Henry, we have a lot of bills, and I'm perfectly capable of working. What about Gabriel? He needs you. Luckily he has two parents. He needs them both. I gotta go. Please bring Gabriel his sweater. What, is he going out? He gets cold sometimes. He should have it. Take your pills. Oh, Mr. Sawyer. Gabriel, your father's here. Time for cheer. What's the matter, Gabriel? You lose something? What's wrong with him? Ah, he's fine. He's just used to seeing his mother. But he's happy to see you. Aren't you, Gabriel? Gabriel, I'm here because Mom is working now. He'll get used to it. Gabriel, this can help you remember the date. And this... that Dad comes every day at 10 A.M. Understand? Excuse me. Where's the Social Sciences building? It's just past there to your right. Thank you. Are you Dr. Daly? I didn't mean to interrupt. I'm here because I read an article about your work. Oh, you're the one who read it. I was hoping to talk to you about my son. Thanks. Do you know who Vissarion Shebalin was? Yeah, the Russian composer. Yes. Wow. You really know your classical music, Mr. Sawyer. Well, you just heard pretty much everything I know about him. Oh. Well, I only know him because he suffered two strokes in the fifties that left him unable to speak or understand the meaning of words, but he was still able to teach and compose music. It's already well documented that music elicits measurable responses in the brain's activities, so the Marseillaise may well have had some effect on your son, and if that's so, we may be able to use music as a tool to... to help him function better, to reawaken parts of his memory that may have been damaged. Now, I don't want to offer false hope. It's better than what we have now. Hi. I'm Dianne Daly. What's your name? - Gabriel. - Gabriel. That's a... that's a nice name. I'm a nice guy. I bet you are. It's good to meet you. Gabriel, I'm... I'm here because I'm a... I'm a music therapist. Why don't you come sit down? Do you like music? I'm the music man. Good. Good. All right, let's... let's play something. Gabriel... What's wrong? He's slipping away. Let's try that again. Okay. Okay. It's all right. The music definitely had some effect. Yeah. I was hoping for something a little more like my son. Humans are incredibly complex beings. This is not an exact science. We're really making science. I'm not convinced yet that he's even aware of his state. Let's be patient. Gabriel, I'm Dianne Daly. I'm a music therapist, and your father and I are gonna play you some music. Fairy tales can come true It can happen to you if you're young at heart What song is this, Gabriel? Bing Orosby, Young at Heart, 1954. Do you remember when I first heard this song? You can go to extremes with impossible dreams You can laugh when your dreams fall apart at the seams And life gets more exciting with each passing day... Oh, never against the grooves, partner. Always with the grooves. Good. Thank you. Does Uncle Gabe hear this in heaven? I hope so. Is that why we're playing it? Well, it is Uncle Gabe's birthday, so that's part of the reason. What's the other part? Well, this was Uncle Gabe's favorite song, so when we play it, we remember him... like he was here with us playing his trumpet right along with Oount Basie. Does Oount Basie bite people? Why would he bite people? Like Oount Dracula. No. No, not all counts are vampires. A count is like royalty, someone important, you know? Oount Basie is a count because he's an important musician. Like Duke Ellington is the duke of the bandleaders, Oount Basie is the count of the piano. All right, we're in the middle of a midnight snack with the Beatles here on WDED, 'cause, you know, "All You Need is Love. " Holy shit. Gabriel, is this the song? Love, love, love... I love the Beatles. Magical Mystery Tour! All You Need is Love. And Sgt. Pepper's, too. That's an amazing album. Oh, A Day in the Life, that orchestral explosion at the end. Aw, what a trip, man. Nothing you can sing that can't be sung... I love them. The Stones, too. You know, a-and Oream. I actually... I saw them play once. Jack Bruce, Ginger Baker... I mean, amazing drummer. Eric Olapton on guitar. It doesn't come much better than that. Ah, and, you know, no one spaces me out like the Dead. There's no one like them. Pigpen. I love him. Gabriel... Do you know why you're here at Woodhaven? Because I'm not that intelligent. I think you're very intelligent. Oan you tell me, where you were born? White Plains, New York. Good. Good. And what year were you born? Good. So... So how old are you now? You know, I don't think about how old I am or what year it is. Yeah? Well, that's kind of an important question. That's the thing. Oan you tell me who the president is? Lyndon... the one who was shot. Ronald... McDonald. What? Wrong clown? Yeah. Okay. Let's try something else. Must have it. Will this work? Uncle John's Band? It's a good song. Ah, God. No one spaces me out like the Dead does. What a group. You know, I... I almost saw them once. Oh? What happened? Oh... We didn't make it. Want to tell me about it? Well, my dad didn't want us to go. He wanted me to go to college night. Sorry. Dinner is at 7:00. Yeah, every night since the birth of Ohrist. Let's just enjoy our dinner. I said I was sorry. I'm sorry. It's far out, Mom. Thanks. Something wrong with the meat? Well, I mean, aside from the fact that it was once an innocent, breathing, minding-his-own-business creature of Mother Nature herded into a cramped slaughterhouse, decapitated, eviscerated, packed and shipped off to the A&P so we could adorn our stroganoff, no, there's nothing wrong with the meat. Lord, I can't wait until you put that mind to something useful in college. Do you remember college? It's the place that's gonna educate my boy and pack him up and ship him back so he can adorn his life with a wife and family, a decentjob. Yeah, I know what college is, Dad. I'm just not sure it's my bag. What is your bag, Gabriel? I want to go to the Village and play music. Son, if you don't go to college, the only village you'll see will have thatched roofs and no plumbing, so you have until Wednesday at college night to make it your bag. I can't go. The Dead is playing at Stonybrook that night. This is not a negotiation. You will not miss college night, especially to see some band called the Dead. It's the Grateful Dead, Dad. It's the Grateful Dead. Oh. Well, then they'll be grateful you're choosing a college instead of wasting your time at their drug convention. The music department offers courses which range from music theory and history to performance classes. There's an emphasis on developing each student's performance and listening skills. Gabriel? Do you have any questions? Uh, yeah. Um, where's the Princeton booth? The other side, next to Brown. Groovy. Dad, I'm gonna go explore. Sugar magnolia... Oome on! Get in! Gabe, move! Move it! Well, caught up in sunshine Come on out singing I'll walk you in the sunshine Come on, honey, and come along with me We'll get tickets next time, man. Don't worry about my brother. He can handle anything. I'm cool, man. Nam don't worry me. All right? Oh, shit. We didn't even get in to the concert. You won't see her again, not till you straighten yourself out. There's somethin'happenin'here What it is ain't exactly clear - There's a man... - Turn that down. With a gun over there Need to get to bed. Tellin'me... I'm not tired. You look tired. Your mother said, uh, your band has a gig on Saturday. Yeah. I thought we might come. To take his children home... Gabriel! Lunch before love. You think she's a fox, huh? What? The cafeteria girl, you like her? Oan I help you? Hi. I'm Gabriel. Hi, Gabriel. I'm Oelia. Oh, Oelia, you're breakin' my heart... You're shakin' my confidence daily. That's Oe-cilia. It's all the sa-same to me. Do you want your chicken without the skin? Yeah, sure, Oelia, slip me some skin. Oh, so you want the skin? - Sure. - Okay. There you go. You know how you hear a song, and you fall in love with it, and it may be years before you hear it again, but when you do, it instantly places you back in that moment when you first fell in love with it, as if no time had passed? Yes. In fact, Gabriel and I used to play a game where I'd ask him about a song, and he'd tell me the story that went with it. That's why I brought that music in. That's the music we used to listen to. Well, it's, uh... it's not the music he loved, or at least it's not the music that resonates with him. I don't think the piece on the radio that night was the Marseillaise. I think it was the Beatles' song, All You Need is Love, which uses the Marseillaise in its introduction. I think that's the song that Gabriel was anticipating when we played him the Marseillaise. What happened when you played him that Beatles song? Oh, Helen, if you could have seen him. He was totally connected. He was as you've described him, Henry. He was normal. And it wasn'tjust the Beatles. I actually was able to use pieces of music from that period to more specifically pinpoint the extent of his amnesia. He remembers songs vividly from 1964 to 1970. His recollection of songs after 1970 show us where his memory begins to drop off. He remembers all the founding members of the Grateful Dead from 1966, but he doesn't know that Pigpen and Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin are all dead. I didn't know they were ever alive, and I'm no worse for wear. Yes, but for him, these musicians are all hugely important. They connect him to a time and a place, to his time and place when he came of age, just like your music does for you. My music was his music. He used to listen to that music as a kid. It never upset him. I don't understand. It doesn't make sense to me. He loved my music, too. Hi, Gabriel. It's Dianne. Dianne from Oheyenne. Actually, Gabriel, I'm not from Oheyenne. I'm Dianne Daly from Dedham, Massachusetts. That's where I was born. Dianne Daly, live from Dedham. That's good. We'll have to try and remember that. I love the Dead. Uncle John's Band. It's one of my favorite songs. You know, I almost got to see them play once. Did you ever play any of their songs, like when your band played at the school? No. I mean, we would have, but I never got to it. My dad was coming. I wanted to play Kansas City for him. It was his brother's favorite song. All the kids, they want today All they ever think about It's about summer It's about summer It's about summer It's about summer It's about summer It's about summer We love you, Gabe! Let's hear it for the Black Sheep. Black Sheep! Thank you, Principal Isaacs, for allowing us to have this assembly here today. People, I have this feeling that with this much love and this much energy, we are gonna stop the war in Vietnam! Yeah. Yeah! Remember, there's a sign-up sheet you can pass around for a rally in the city. Please sign up. We need your help. Now, brothers and sisters, once again, please put your hands together for the Black Sheep! I'm going to Kansas Oity Kansas Oity, here I come Going to Kansas Oity Kansas Oity, here I come They've got some pretty little girls and I'm gonna get me one Hey! Yeah! Yeah! Gabe! Gabe, put it down! Put it out! What did you do to my room? You spit on me. You spit on me today. Today was not about you. They're not your friends who are going off and dying in some stupid war. Well, that's brilliant. So you burn the very thing that gives you the right to demonstrate that. We burned the flag that's sending people like me over there. What do you know about fighting in a war? I fought to defend that flag. Your Uncle Gabriel, your namesake, died defending that flag. He was people like you. He believed he was fighting for something important. - What do you believe in? - I don't see anything to believe in. Well if you don't have any respect for yourself, at least show some for him. You ought to be ashamed of yourself. You're the only thing I'm ashamed of! Gabriel. Is that right? Okay. You want to burn something? - Burn this. - Dad. Please, stop this. Burn it. No, no, no. Gabriel wants to burn a flag. I've got one right here I think he should burn. I'm getting out of here. I want you to burn this! - Enough, Henry. - Burn it! Go to hell! I'm splitting. Then don't bother coming back. Fine! Come with me or go alone He's come to take his children home And that's when you went to Manhattan? Yeah. To the Village. Yeah. I can't go with you now. Sure you can. Look, you can. This is our dream. Gabe, you're graduating in a few months. That's nothing. We'll go then. I don't need a bullshit diploma. I don't need it. It's now. Now is the time. This... there's nothing for us here. It's all there, and we're gonna miss it. Gabe, you're just upset, and you just need to think about this, Gabe. I mean, you really need to think about it. Oome. Please. Please. I can't go. I know. I know. Come hear Uncle John's band... That must have been hard, Gabe. When did this happen? I don't know. Oouple years ago. It doesn't matter, and I'm not going back. ...playing to the tide Come on along or go alone He's come to take... That's not what happened. That night, that's not what happened. It's not important. That's exactly what happened. Gabriel's memory is like it's been preserved in a jar. We have intervening memories, and each new memory colors our perceptions of our old memories. Gabriel can't do that. He can't remember that he's seen you almost every day in the last few months. He can't even remember the conversation that we just had. I'll tell you about something I remember. I remember a little boy who was gonna have everything... and I remember how that music... My son was poisoned by the garbage you're feeding him, and there aren't enough intervening memories in the world to help me forget that. You're using music to bring him back to a time when he fell apart. I don't want to go back to that time. Let's find some music that can bring him back to a time when things were right. Henry, it doesn't work that way. What we need to do now is to find the music that he loved, and... No, what we need to do now is what I say we need to do now. This is my son. He's my son, too. Yes. Of course. Our son. And speaking for both of us, thank you very much for your help. We won't be needing you anymore. I apologize for my husband. I think you and Gabriel have done great work... and I want you to keep going. Thank you. What are you doing? I'm sleeping in Gabriel's room. I can't share a bed with you anymore, not after today. Why are you angry with me? I'm not angry with you. I'm angry with me. Gabriel is not the only one who remembers it that way. I remember that night in exactly the same way, because every day, I replay it in my head, and I look for a place that I could've said something that would have changed all this. I know... I know there's something I could've said to make him stay. Then he wouldn't have left for all those years, and we wouldn't have found him like that, and he wouldn't be sick. What does it matter what stupid music brings back our son? His music. Your music. Who cares? You're so pigheaded. Where do you think Gabriel learned to be so moved by his music? Is that some big mystery? You're always going on about what your music reminds you of, as if you're the only one that has memories worth recalling. You know what those songs remind me of? The man who introduced me to them. What happened to him? I once held her in my arms She said she will always stay But I was cruel I treated her like a fool I threw it all away Once I had mountains in the palm of my hand and rivers that ran though... Whoa. These are old. Yeah. I'll bet I could go 21/2 for these, if they're in good shape. They're mint. All right, just trade me these for everything you got after... that's... loud. Oould you be more specific? I like to dream Yes, yes... I'm just mad about saffron Oh, saffron's mad about me... I went down to the crossroads fell down on my knees... Getting to the point where I'm no fun anymore... Because I used to love her but it's all over now... Goin'down the road feeling bad Goin'down the road feelin'bad Hey, hey, hey Don't wanna be treated this way I brought some music for us to listen to. They're selling postcards of the hanging They're painting the passports brown... Do you know what song this is? I have no idea. Desolation Row. Great song and amazing lyrics. "They're selling postcards of the hanging. " Do you know when I first heard this song? No, Gabriel. Tell me. First time I heard this song, It was... I don't know... maybe a couple summers ago. I had just bought Highway 61. You and Mom were downstairs, and, you know, she had made stuffed cabbage. The smell was hanging around the house. And you remember? You... You put the milk in the freezer, and she was mad at you for that, and you were mad at me 'cause I was late for dinner, but I had just gotten this album. I was out of my mind to listen to it. Man, it spoke to me. I mean, all... all the craziness, you know? All... all the possibilities. It's like when I put my hands on the neck of a guitar. You can see things that you can't normally see. And the only sound that's left That's great, Gabe. After the ambulances go is Cinderella sweeping up on - "Desolation Row. " - desolation row... What is that? Dylan was writing about this lynching that happened after a circus. And "They're selling postcards of the hanging. " The Tet offensive was on Oronkite. I was listening to it. And the Times was... was running that photo of the Vietnamese officer who was executing a prisoner. It's... it's psychotic. It's... it's psychedelic. It's insane, you know? I mean, this... this is a circus. And the hunchback of Notre Dame Everybody is making love or else expecting rain And the Good Samaritan, he's dressing He's getting ready for the show He's going to the carnival tonight on Desolation Row I should get going. Yeah, dinner's at 7:00. Hush-a-bye, baby. Hush quite a lot. Bad babies get rabies and have to be shot. Hush-a-bye, baby. Hush quite a lot. Bad babies get rabies and have to be shot. Good. It's gruesome. It's like Edgar Allan Poe. Oh, you like Edgar Allan Poe? I like The Raven. Me, too. Now, can you repeat the rhyme? - No. - It's okay. Do it with me. Hush... - a-bye, baby. - Hush-a-bye, baby. Hush quite a lot. Bad babies get rabies... and have to be shot. Do it again. Hush-a-bye, baby. Hush quite a lot. Bad babies get rabies and have to be shot. That's good. Hi, Oelia. I'll have some macaroni and some vegetables, and I'm gonna take some Jell-o. Gabriel, what about you? Gabriel? Hi. Hi. I'm Gabriel. I remember. I'm Oelia. Oecilia... you're breakin' my heart. He always says that to me. Sorry. I don't remember things so well. Truckin'... Got my chips cashed in Keep truckin'... like the doo-dah man Together more or less in line just keep truckin'on... I love the Dead. They're my absolute favorite band. Flashing marquees out on Main Street... You know what song this is? Sorry. Thanks for playing. It's called Truckin'. Hang it up and see what tomorrow brings Guess I'm a bit square. Dallas, got a soft machine... Maybe a perfect square, I'm sorry. I'm a little lost. In my music, a guy likes a gal, he tells her. He says, "You are the promised kiss of springtime that makes the lonely winter seem long. " It's plain English as far as I can tell. This is... I don't know. Truckin'? What is that? Most of the cats that you meet on the street speak of true love... Well, the Dead grew up on the road traveling from place to place, taking one road after another. And the thing is, on the road, you never really know where you're going or what's gonna happen when you arrive, so you just experience the ride. And then every single day is a different adventure. You know, the... the journey is the destination. And that's what that means? That's what that means when you're stoned. I think that's what that means. Sometimes the light's all shinin'on me Let's do another one. Other times, I can barely... Gabriel, I just want you to know how much I'm enjoying this. Thank you for explaining all that to me. All what? Good. Now let's try something else. Let's go back to the gruesome rhyme. I don't know it. Just try and tap it out. Just try. All right, keep going. Keep going. Keep going. I'm gonna do it with you. Again. Babies get rabies and have to be shot. All right, now... Oh, Oelia Works in the cafe How are you today, oh, Oelia? Oh, Oelia works in the cafe How are you today, oh, Oelia? That feel good? Oh, Oelia works in the cafe How are you today, oh, Oelia? That ends an all-music set. You can win a pair of tickets to see one of these WDED featured artists. WDED will get you front and center at one of these sold-out concerts... the Grateful Dead, Bruce Springsteen and Bon Jovi. Be the first caller to answer a monthly trivia question about the group you want to see. Get it right, you and a guest will be on your way. So listen up for your favorite artist and call 234-9462. That's 234-9462. Because it's happening now. What on God's earth are you doing? Ah, man, I dig this song. Oh. You know what song this is? For What It's Worth by Buffalo Springfield. Right on, Dad. Tellin'me I got to beware I think it's time we stop, children, what's that sound... I remember the last time I heard this song. When, Gabriel? We just found out Mark was drafted. I was so mad. I went up to my room and played this song. You know, itjust made me feel like somebody understood. Then you told me to turn it down. Time we stop, hey, what's that sound... It's the same time you came in to tell me you were gonna come hear me play at the school. What a trip. What a field day for the heat... You know, I didn't know Mark got his letter that day. You didn't tell me. When was I supposed to tell you? Mostly say hooray for our side It's time we stop, hey, what's that sound... I mean, how is he, anyway? Is he okay? Has anybody heard from him? He died, Gabriel... in Vietnam. I'm sorry. Ah, it's that asshole, Nixon. Why can't people see that? You know, if people would just tune in for a second, they'd see what a son of a bitch the guy is. Nixon's not president anymore, Gabriel. He had to resign. He was caught lying to the country. See, I knew it! I told you! Yeah. You were right. What's that sound? Everybody look what's goin'down... I was? Hey, what's that sound? Everybody look what's goin'down... You were. I was. You better stop now What's that sound? Everybody look what's goin' You better stop, hey, what's that sound? Everybody look what's goin' You better stop... Hey, Gabriel. It's Oelia. You know, Oelia... You know. I know who you are. Good. 'cause I'm a terrible singer. No, you're not. I never met anyone who could sing in so many keys at once. That's a rare gift. Thank you. Here. Let's sing your song. What's that? Oh, Oelia works in the cafe How are you today, oh, Oelia? Sing it with me. No, no, no. You... You go. Oome on. Nobody's listening. Okay. Oh, Oelia works in the cafe How are you today, oh, Oelia? That's great. I'll sing the harmony now. Okay. Oh, Oelia works in the cafe How are you today, oh, Oelia? Nice. Good. We could go on tour. I don't have that kind of confidence. You should. You could do anything. Well if anyone could convince me, you could. I should get home. Bye, Gabriel. Peace. Peace. He's doing well. Yes. It's quite something. He's remembering rhythms. We've even started working on putting information to beats. Do you think it might be possible that he could form a new long-term memory? You know, if he could connect it to a piece of music? Gabriel's progressed more than anyone I ever worked with. It would have to be a new piece of music, one that he doesn't already have long-term connections with. That would be something. Kind woman don't leave me... It's Tamara's favorite song. It actually... It's sort of our song. You know, like you and Mom have Till There Was You. Hey, do you remember that night that I tried to go to the Dead concert? You would remember it as college night. Yeah. Rings a bell. We caught a ride to Stonybrook, but we were late. The tickets were sold out. We just wanted to hear that concert so bad that we sat outside, freezing cold, by this lake, just listening. After the concert, this song was playing on the radio. We found a way to warm ourselves up. Won't you love me tonight... It was her first time. Oh. It was mine, too. Kind woman... Oh. Well, I guess Kind Woman was an appropriate song. Then you told me I couldn't see her anymore. Oh, Mr. Sawyer, please sit down. Hey, Tambourine Man. It's Oelia. "Mr. Tambourine Man" to you. Oome on in. Do you want a tour of my pad? Sure. This is the living room with a groovy new, uh... cassette deck. Oassette deck! Nice. That man is not a permanent fixture. That is my sound engineer. He's my Dad. Over here, we have the bedroom. It does the trick. Here. I brought you something. Is it my birthday? No. It's, um... it's a going-away present. I'm going back to school. Don't leave me lonely tonight... You've been special to me, so I wanted to give you something. Say it's all right Why... why are you going? Well, I've never finished. Man, you girls sure do have a thing about finishing school. What do you mean, Gabe? Tamara, she's finishing school, too. That's why she didn't come with me to the Village. Go ahead. Open it. Ah. Dylan. Let's play it. It's got Mr. Tambourine Man on it. Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man play a song for me I'm not sleepy... Dylan, man. He gets it. You get it, too, Gabriel. Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man play a song for me... I'm gonna miss hearing you play. I'll come followin'you Though I know that evening's empire has returned into sand vanished from my hand... I hope we see each other again soon. But still not sleeping My weariness amazes me I am branded on my feet... You know, I don't know if I'll remember meeting you. So, uh... I'll have the great pleasure of meeting you again for the first time. Play a song for me I'm not sleepy and there is no place I'm going to Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man play a song for me in thejingle-jangle morning I'll come followin'you Hey, this is WDED, calling out with tickets to the sold-out Dead concert at Hammerstein Ballroom. Think you're a Deadhead? Call 555-8659. The tenth caller will get a chance to answer the Deadhead mega question. For two tickets, 555-8659. I feel so strong that I can't disguise, oh, my Let's spend the night together... Henry Albert Sawyer, what have you done? Let's spend the night together... Good Lord. Don't let me down We could have fun just... I wonder if I could have this dance. There were bells on a hill but I never heard them ringing No, I never heard them at all till there was you There were birds in the sky but I never saw them winging No, I never saw them at all till there was you What's wrong? I think my cooking gave me indigestion. Henry? Gabe, honey, your father's not feeling well, and he can't come to see you for a while, but we'd like you to spend Ohristmas at home so you can see him. What... What's wrong with him? He's having some problems with his heart. Don't worry. He just needs to rest. Listening to the Hound Dog and the Midnight Hour block of rock. You know what time it is? For the third caller to receive tickets to the Grateful Dead show at the Hammerstein Ballroom. Caller number three. WDED. Can you hold? Yes. Hello. Can you hold? Yes, I'll hold. Okay. Turn your radio down, please. Hello. You're on the air. Who am I talking to? Henry Sawyer. Where you calling from, Henry Sawyer? From, uh... from my bed at Oity Hospital. No kidding! What are you in for? I had a little heart attack. A heart attack! How old are you, Henry? 65! Holy mackerel. And you're a Deadhead? Listen, I can't talk too loud, or they'll take my phone away. Here's a question just for you. What did the aging hippie say when he ran out of pot at the Grateful Dead concert? I don't know. "This music sucks. " Just kidding with you. That's not your question. Okay, then, Heart-Attack Henry, let's get to your real trivia question. For two tickets to see the sold-out Grateful Dead concert at Hammerstein Ballroom, what 1970 Grateful Dead hit was banned from radio airplay because it used the word "damn"? Hello, Henry? You there? That would be Uncle John's Band, and it's not "damn. " It's "God damn," and I just won myself some goddamn Grateful Dead tickets! Right? Yes, you did, Henry! You're absolutely right. Are we ready? I've got the medication. I've got the bag. I've got the brain tumor. Oh, Gabe, now stop that. Welcome home. Here. I'll do it, Henry. Nah, I'm fine. Oh, stubborn old coot. I'll start dinner. Okay. I took your posters down. Why? Well... that night... the night you left, uh... I was angry. Yeah, I know. I came up here. I saw the posters and the records. I thought they were the reason. It was a confusing time, Gabriel. L... I thought all that stuff seemed to be hurting you. You thought my posters were hurting me? The whole thing, all of it, you know, notjust the posters, but... It was a long time ago, Gabe. Yeah? How long ago? Long time. Dashing through the snow in a one-horse open sleigh O'er the fields we go laughing all the way Bells on bobtail ring making spirits bright What fun it is to ride and sing a sleighing song tonight Jingle bells, jingle bells Jingle all the way Oh, what fun it is to ride... - Hi. - Hi. Your father called me. Actually, I've been wanting to see you for a long time now. In a one-horse open sleigh Y-You cut your hair. No. It's just up. It's up. Well, you look beautiful. Thank you. Well, you must've finished school by now. I went to college in New York, NYU. Far out. Did you see Dylan? Have you seen the Dead? I did see them at the Fillmore. Oh, right on. What? You cut your hair. You look beautiful. Thank you. So how's Mark? I mean, you must have heard from him. He died, Gabriel, in Vietnam. Tamara, I'm sorry. Thank you. It was a long time ago. How long ago? Almost 20 years now. Man. Time flies when you don't have a brain. Oan I hug you? You can get into bed with me if you want. Nobody would hear us. No, I'm... I have a family now. I'm married. Wow. That was fast. This is my husband Will. You would like him. He's a really good guy. He's short. He's sitting. That's Mark. He is short, but he's eight, and Oolin is five, and Jane is two. Wow, you've been busy. I never got married. I never had any kids. I mean, not that I know of. Who are they? That's Will, my husband, and Mark is eight. Oolin is five. Jane is two. Merry Christmas Merry Christmas... There's one more, Gabriel. Your father couldn't wait to give this to you. Helen, just let him open it. A trumpet? People all over the world could just see them, too... The Dead. I've never been to a Grateful Dead concert in my life! Me neither. There's magic in the air with the... Hey, Danny Partridge, you gonna play me a song? I'm Gabriel. Where's Oelia? Oh, she's not here, my man, I'm here to take care of you. What's your pleasure? Oelia. Ah, sorry, my friend. I can't help you with that one. Hello. Is this the Sawyer residence? Yes. Who's calling? What's wrong? Gabriel. Sir, can I help you? This is my son. - Are you Mr. Sawyer? - Yeah. Okay, look, we were called by the woman that lives here. She said that your son was banging on the upstairs window. This was his old girlfriend's house. Okay. Well, it looks like he fell off that gutter. He may have landed on his ankle. We should get him to the hospital, all right? Thank you. Hey, buddy. You hurt your leg. I didn't hurt my leg. No, I think you did. We're gonna take a little ride to the hospital, okay? - Okay. - Give me your hand. It's gonna be okay. I don't see how this is a good idea. The Grateful Dead? Oouldn't it be something more manageable, like Lionel Richie? The Grateful Dead has special meaning for Gabriel. Dianne, there are legitimate concerns about sending Gabriel into that kind of unpredictable, foreign environment. Yes, but the environment Gabriel wakes up in every morning is more foreign to him than a Grateful Dead concert. We can control that environment. Mr. Sawyer, you're in no condition to ensure Gabriel's well-being. A coronary patient escorting a severe amnesiac to a Grateful Dead concert? Under the circumstances... It's notjust for Gabriel. Look, I lost my boy for 20 years. That's my fault, and I know that. Even after we found him, we thought he was lost. And he's had surgery, physical therapy, every maintenance drug known to man. None of it did a thing. But when he hears a Grateful Dead song, he comes back to us. You've all seen it. I know I'm the last guy in the world you'd peg as a Deadhead, and, believe me, if I could pick another band that would bring my boy to life, I would. But I've learned every Grateful Dead song, every lyric, because it's the only way I can talk to Gabriel. Now, I am 65 years old, and, yes, I'm sick, and I need to have a conversation with my son. I think I went to high school with that guy. I don't think you know him, pal. Hey, old-timer, old-timer. You should get a t-shirt. They're 100% hemp. No, thanks. What's so funny? That's funny. You think that's funny? Yeah, Julie, look at this hat. Uh-oh. Grandpa's comin'... Oh, the Dead! Look over there. That's the bootleg section. We have to get a tape of this show. When are they coming on? The Dead! Where's Pigpen? I wonder where Pigpen is. Pigpen! Pigpen! Pigpen! Pigpen! Maybe he's sick or something. Oh, he parties a lot. Pigpen's not with the Dead anymore. What do you mean not with them? What, did he get busted or something? No. He died, pal. That's awful. That's Jerry Garcia. That's Phil Lesh. I wonder where Pigpen is. Ladies and gentlemen... the Grateful Dead! The Dead! The Dead! We want the Dead! Truckin' Got my chips cashed in I'm truckin' like the doo-dah man Together more or less in line Just keep truckin' on Arrows of neon and flashing marquees out on Main Street Ohicago, New York, Detroit, and it's all on the same street Your typical city involved in a typical daydream Hang it up and see what tomorrow brings Sometimes the light's all shinin' on me Other times, I can barely see Lately it occurred to me What a long strange trip it's been Must be getting early Olocks are running late Paint by number morning sky Looks so phony... It's weird. I never heard this song before. Light a candle, curse the glare... Maybe it's a new song. It's all right... Maybe. I will get by I will get by I will get by... Dad. You're the greatest. I see you've got your list out Say your piece and get out Yes, I get the gist of it, but it's all right... That was fantastic! It was... Ah, I had the time of my life. It blew my mind. Me, too. I mean, I'm always gonna remember this. What do you want to hear next? Um, Box of Rain? Oh, uh, put on Ripple. That's a great one. Yeah. They're so great. They just... They play what's in the air. They play the moment. Yeah. I know what you mean. They're trippy. Yeah. If my words did glow They're trippy. With the gold of sunshine and my tunes were played on the harp unstrung would you hear my voice... You're right. They don'tjust... They don'tjust play the notes on the page. No. No, they play what's in the air, you know? Yeah. Yeah, I know what you mean. The thoughts are broken Perhaps they're better left unsung I don't know... don't really care I will survive I will survive I will survive I don't remember the last time I stayed out this late. Me neither. I had a wonderful time tonight. Yeah. Ohh. Okay. Good night, pal. Good night, Dad. Gabriel, what are you doing? I'm looking for something. What are you looking for? Gabriel, honey, we need to go. I don't know what he's looking for. Gabriel... You're missing your father. What do you mean? Dad comes every day at 10 A.M. Honey... He can't come anymore. Your father passed away. We're going now to say goodbye. What? He... He was only, like, 50. No, Gabriel. He was 65. As a last rite, Henry requested that we play one of his favorite songs, and he asked that you all take a moment and listen to the music and enjoy it as he did. All right. I see you've got your list out Say your piece and get out Yes, I get the gist of it, but it's all right Sorry that you feel that way Only thing there is to say Every silver lining's got a Here comes the chorus! Touch of grey I will get by I will get by I will get by I will survive It's a lesson to me the Ables and the Bakers and the Cs ABCs We all must face and try to keep a little grace... Mom, you know what song this is? No, Gabe. What song is it? It's Touch of Grey, the Grateful Dead. You know when I first heard this song? No, Gabe. Why don't you tell me? I will get by I will get by I will survive The shoe is on the hand it fits There's really nothing much to it Whistle through your teeth and spit, 'cause It's all right Oh, well, a touch of grey kind of suits you anyway That was all I had to say It's all right I will get by All the kids, they want today All they ever think about's about summer It's about summer All the kids, they want today look you in the eye and say it's okay It's about summer It's about summer Thoughtful and patient they easily open their mind through the eyes of a child This world is truly divine divine All the kids, they want today the world's problems go away It's about summer It's about summer All the neighborhood cats and dogs all wanna get along in the summer It's all about summer It's about It's about summer one another and one another It's about the summer It's about summer bSubtitle Rip; TheHeLL/b
