 

                        This programme contains strong language and full frontal nudity from the start and throughout. 'Everybody looks beautiful together because everybody's different. 'Such an amazing feeling, you feel so liberated,' you're just like free, open, naked in the middle of London. Up and down Britain, more young people are embracing public nudity than ever before... .. much to their mums' and dads' dismay. Love you, Mum! It must have been gutting to hear "I've seen your daughter naked. "I saw your daughter with her tits out on Facebook," was the comment. We follow this Facebook generation over a summer... Naked art project. Awesome, please have a look. .. getting online and getting involved in mass naked public events. It's decency, not nudity, isn't it? It's decency, not nudity, isn't it? It is decency, you're right. These young nudists would never dream of joining a naturist club. I kind of got this idea of naturists kind of playing volleyball and, like, doing all sorts of weird sports that I'm not really into. We're desperate for younger people to come on and replace us older people. But the older British naturists have plans, and they're relying on one man to recruit the under 30s to their movement. We'll make naturism a normal thing to do in this country. What would your mum say now, Clare? Who gives a shit?! I don't know why I Googled it, but I Googled naked bike ride for some reason. I was like, "We have to go to this. "It looks like the most amazing thing in the world. " The fact that you're naked and it's a protest and you're all as one. It's just a great feeling, I can't explain how good it is. Having just finished her A levels, 18-year-old Mollie is savouring her last summer at home before heading off to university. I could not stand living in Hinckley forever. What's the point of holding yourself back? You only live once! Mollie has just uploaded photos of her and her friend Luke at the London naked bike ride, and is treating mum Vanessa to an eyeful. I mean, do I really need to see that part of Luke in my life? I really have empathy for your dad that because that is a... Yeah. Yeah. That is a very, er... private man as well, strong man, i'nt he, and er... I bet it must have been gutting for his mates to say. "I've seen your daughter naked. " gutting for his mates to say. "I've seen your daughter naked. " Was it even said like that? Yeah, I think it was like, "I saw your daughter with her tits out "on Facebook," I think was the comment. I do agree with that in a way, but when it's said like that, "I've seen your daughter naked," without going for the issue of what we did it for or about the fact that it's a protest and stuff, it does come across the wrong way. There's lots of people taking pictures. Yeah. Yeah. It does go through your mind. Yeah. It does go through your mind. But you always think of the worst things. They probably said, "Look what I've seen today, how hilarious?" There's bound to be men that went, "Cor, look at her. " Yeah, but what's the problem? The dirty old man in a room looking at picture of my daughter naked and not doing nice things about it. That's my worry. After the naked bike ride and the feeling and buzz I got from that, it's like, "Maybe I should be naked more!" I don't know I like the feeling of being free when you're naked. But I don't want to be like a full-on naturist. I can quite happy just doing it by myself or with my fiends, really. Mollie's best friend, 18-year-old Clare, was hoping to join her on the naked bike ride, but she wasn't allowed. Going round London on a bike naked, I thought that was really funny, but I couldn't go cos my mum, but hey. She said, "I'm going to London to get... I need to book tickets. " "Oh, yeah, what's that for?" You know, museums, you know, naive. No - naked bike ride. "No, you're not going, no way, no, you can't go, you know!" I was like, "No. " I was furious, no. And what was the bike ride meant to be for? What does it aim to do? Against CO2 emissions. A protest sort of thing. Cos it's shocking to see a naked person on a bike. Yes, it is shocking, yeah. Anyone seeing you naked basically, I didn't want you to do it! I thought, "What the hell is she doing now?" I love my mum so I don't want to... I don't want to upset her, so that's why I didn't do it, or my dad, I don't wanna upset them. And I think they were like, I don't know... I knew they were worried about me, so I didn't want them to worry even more. So that's why I didn't go. It's early summer in England. Word has spread online that the next naked bike ride is happening in Brighton. Nudity is about us being vulnerable on the roads as cyclists. Daryl, the youth leader from the national British Naturism Organisation, is here to try and persuade some of these under 30s to sign up. I love the naked bike ride! No, I wouldn't like all my spare parts showing! Freedom! It's just naked, it's not right, when teenage girls and boys seeing that, like, especially perverts looking at it as well. I don't agree with it myself. My fantasy, my dream of how things should be is that people don't see naked people as a problem, don't see it as something that's abnormal. You know, nakedness and nakidity - a word that I'm gonna start putting in the dictionary soon - should be accepted everywhere. You got any friends that might be interested in this? Er, a couple, not sure. Right. Right. Not as up for it as I am. Yeah, I find that a lot - a lot of people don't wanna get involved. I don't know, I'm not a prude or anything, but I think that sort of thing needs to be kept indoors. Daryl only managed to sign up one new young member at the naked bike ride, but his enthusiasm is by no means quashed. It's another miserable rainy day in England, but we don't care - we're in a nice warm dry boat. I can't open the back door, er, not while I'm naked, cos obviously everyone can look in and poor old Bob, my neighbour, he'll get an eyeful. I won't force it upon anyone. When it comes to considering others, naturists abide by one golden rule. It's more a common courtesy to put a towel down wherever you go, just like you take your shoes off when you walk into someone's house. Erm, it's just part of what you do. It's hygienic, it's comfortable. I think naturism is suffering from a major image problem. A lot of people have dim views upon it and think it's an old-fashioned weird thing to do and it's just not. With the majority of traditional naturists well beyond the first flush of youth, the national organisation has brought in Daryl to try and bring the younger set into the fold. Even here in the naturist clubs we find a lack of young people wanting to play, it's not the in thing, is it? It is an elderly population and it's getting older. We're desperate for the younger people. We need younger people to come on and replace us older people. This is Ian - Ian's our regional rep for the Midlands. In the past decade, membership of British naturism has dropped from 18,000 to 11,000. What does it just say, three-year plan? Does it say we're doing? To reverse this decline, the elected council are in the midst of a drastic image overhaul. This organisation has been built on the foundation of people who say, "I am a naturist, I'm gonna join British naturism. " That's great. Not everybody feels like that now. People are doing nude things and not necessarily thinking of it as naturism - skinny dipping, people going on world naked bike rides. These people need a nudge in our direction. I do think, though, we ought to move a little bit quicker on this. It's a three-year plan - we've got 18 months left. Unfortunately, the council won't be moving as quickly as they hoped, as their youth officer Daryl is nowhere to be seen. as their youth officer Daryl is nowhere to be seen. Anybody know where Daryl is? That's really strange, isn't it, yeah? They should have been here at ten o'clock anyway. They should have been here at ten o'clock anyway. I got here a little bit late. Why were you late? Why were you late? It was a bit of late night last night. 'These older ones couldn't tend to keep up with us in the pub. 'They're all like three times my age. ' I've only just come into this role and I am going to complete change the ways things have been done for the last ten years. 'There's ten million people in this country within our age range. ' If we could even hit 1% of them that would... put me over the moon. Keen to try out more naked events, Mollie has brought her mates to a clothes optional day she found online at Abbey House gardens in Wiltshire. Best friend Clare has also come along, despite her mum's reservations. Zoe! Zoe! We don't have that many young people, but we had a nice lot today. I dunno, I'll take off my shirts and you take off your bra. (LAUGHS) Only a few of Mollie's friends have ever been publicly naked before. Come on, guys, take your tops off. My mum knows. She's a bit apprehensive, but... I'd be scared of what people thought of my body. You can hide under your clothes. You can hide under your clothes. Yeah, you wouldn't be able to see their rolls of fat or anything, and when you're naked people are like, "Urgh!" I've never done this before and then I've just seen loads of naked people I was like, "Oh. " I think it's kind of nice really how people come to these places and do what they want. They can be themselves here. Is it OK to look at that here, do you know what I mean? Could you sit there and just be staring at it? I don't know! I don't know! You can hear giggles and stuff. I see people who are new to naturism and I think they've never been naked before, but they're seeing other people round them who are naked, and I think they're tempted to try it. It's obvious by their body language. They feel a bit nervous about taking their clothes off, but I'm sure they would enjoy it if they did try it. One thing they're game for is a skinny dip. And Clare is one of the first in. Despite an inquisitive audience, Mollie's friends are gaining in confidence. What would your mum say now, Clare? Who gives a shit?! 25-year-old maths student Alex recently took part in the Manchester naked bike ride. Even if someone wasn't taking part in an event like the naked bike ride, if they were on the street and 200 naked people fly by of really all different shapes and sizes, I think that could be quite inspiring and something that really has a positive effect on the way they see nudity and see being comfortable within your body. Alex is one of a growing number of young people getting naked to challenge the domination of perfect body images in the media. I think it's really positive to be comfortable with your own body, really positive to be comfortable naked, and I think it's really positive to see other people's bodies and in a totally non-sexual context. I think it really helps you with self-confidence. Every week, Alex and her friends get together and cook naked. Today, her mate Luke, an engineering student, is the last one to arrive and slip into his birthday suit. Shall we start weighing out the wet ingredients? I'm probably naked kind of like every day almost, like, you know, I probably sleep naked, get up naked, answer the door. I've had a couple of amused-looking takeaway people. Along with housemate Jess, Luke has set up a naked food blog. They cook in the buff, post the recipes and photos online, and aim to celebrate normal bodies. Got thrown out the Arndale the other day, for not having any shoes on. Got thrown out the Arndale the other day, for not having any shoes on. LAUGHTER The blog has created a stir online, with 60,000 hits so far and rising. That's me and Luke. See, these are all the people that have mentioned us on Twitter, so we've got this person here saying they think they've got a new favourite food blog. It's growing, isn't it, as well? It's growing, isn't it, as well? Yeah. Since we started we haven't had a day where we haven't had 100 people looking at it. I've told my dad. For a fundamentalist Christian, my dad is relatively all right with the project, actually. My mum is a bit more of a worrier, she's like, "Are you sure that if you're "naked on the internet, will you get a job?" and this sort of stuff. You do loads of naked stuff. Surely your parents know... about your propensity... Surely your parents know... about your propensity... No. Surely your parents know... about your propensity... No... your keenness. Would your parents be shocked if they knew? I don't think they'd approve that... They already think I'm pretty weird. I guess as a teenager having almost cripplingly low self-esteem for many, many years, and really hating my body. Maybe two years ago I started to really feel like I was finding my place in the world and discovering my friends and part of marking that passage was kind of like, not just liking myself, but liking my body as well and wanting to kind of be naked in a totally de-sexualised context, so it definitely felt like I am liberated and celebrating my body. I like myself. "It's unacceptable because they are all unattractive. " The blog is generating a stream of mixed responses. "Tell her we need more pics of "fresh ripe melons and less pictures of cucumbers. " "I don't know what made me puke more, "the food or the naked fat people. " "They aren't very attractive "because chicks with armpit hair make most guys "throw up. " Oh, God. I know, right? It's a bit infectious, it's like you're really happy about being naked, has kind of made me want to do it, and it's made me confront a lot of my body issues. Erm... With cupcakes. We should probably take them out now. I've previously had quite a lot of issues with my weight and with my weight being quite low. I've always thought that I looked massively fat, so I used to not eat much at all. And now... I've had, I had some realisations last year that I, actually, I was way too thin. It's still an ongoing process. I'm not finished by all means. Ready, and... say "vegan cream cheese". Vegan cream cheese. There are different naked fashions, and Daryl's preference is for the look created by the sack, crack and back wax. A look more appealing to the young people he hopes to recruit. I think they call it "metrosexual". You know, we do our hair, we make sure our nails are clean. I very much doubt, especially there being no male older naturists getting this done. If times don't change and, and ethoses don't move on with the times, then, you know, we don't go anywhere. Shall I put my legs like that? You've got it. I haven't found many aspects that I'm uncomfortable with, being naked or in naturism. I think that's hence why, you know people like myself are involved in Young British Naturists. It restricts you doing things in life if you get embarrassed about your body. Cos we are all just human beings, at the end of the day, and all human beings in the same boat, on the same world, on the same planet, and naturism, you know, helps you understand that a lot more. Daryl, do you want me to do the whole buttock area? Yeah if you see hair, take it off, please. Yeah if you see hair, take it off, please. Yeah, OK. DANCE MUSIC PLAYS Go, fuzzy cuzzy! Daryl's determination to convert anyone under the age of 30 to British Naturism knows no bounds. Today, he has plans for his 19-year-old cousin Luke, who's never taken his clothes off in public before. It'll be fine, I'm sure. it's going to be fine. I think it's actually weirder being naked in front of people I know than in front of total strangers. I don't know why. A lot of people find it easier to go naked in front of people that they've never seen before, they're never gonna see again. Hence why a lot of people try naturism out on holidays. So do you think you're going to plunge in the deep end and get naked at the spa today? Erm, I'll see how I go. No expectations. No expectations. I'm sure it will be fine. I'm sure it will be fine. Expectation is the route to disappointment. Daryl's taking Luke to a naturist spa, nestled deep in the heart of suburban Birmingham. Right. Are we sitting at the bar, perhaps? Daryl's agreed to feature in the stills for British Naturism's new publicity campaign, which aims to appeal to a younger market. But for cousin Luke who's getting naked for the first time, this is way more than he bargained for. So, today, we're going to... Erm, it's kind of a little bundle of everything at the minute, this is like my first big event or anything. I don't know if it'll ever completely go. It's something that might stay in my head as a little niggly thought - are you actually pretty enough to be here? Yes, it's OK, you're fine, you just have to keep, I just have to keep telling that, yep, you're absolutely fine, nothing wrong with me. Right, OK, cool. I never knew you felt like that, Luke. I never knew you felt like that, Luke. Yeah. It's OK. Awww, cousin Lukey. Yep, you know what? It is fine to be naked, everyone is different shapes and sizes and everyone's things are different shapes and sizes, and that was one of the things I was quite worried about. Erm, you know, am I, am I big enough? But you know, they're all different, I'll just, you just don't look after a while, so you can't compare yourself to them, so I think, yep, my penis is out, and do not judge me. The perfect body is to be happy with it, you know? In my eyes, it's... if everyone was exactly the same, it would be a hell of a boring world. But it'd be nice to have my version of the perfect body, you know. 6ft 2, six pack, nine inches. Big pecs, broad chin, broad shoulders. "Evening. Hello. I am Luke, the man. " But I'll take what I've got and, you know, try and keep it as pretty as possible. This sounds so, so, so horrible. Right. But when I was in there, I thought, OK. There are people here who are less attractive than me. I don't even see them, other people, as being like really unattractive, I would just say that I was more attractive than they are in the least arrogant way possible. But you know, just think, "OK, I'm moderately attractive, "I'm slightly better looking than you are. " And that made me feel a bit better. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's so, so horrible. I would imagine at least 95% of people in this country or this world would probably feel a similar way, my fuzzy cuzzy. Tomorrow, Mollie and her friends are heading off for two weeks to the Greek island of Kos. There's nineteen of us. My closest friends are going, so it's always a great laugh, and you always look back and you remember how funny it was. I wanna definitely do that in Kos, hire out a private boat, maybe do some skinny dipping and stuff like that. I'm sure more of them will do it than they originally planned to. I think when I met Mollie at work, I think that's, that's when, er, I became more adventurous, really. Somebody got waxed? I would say Clare is sometimes a little bit easily influenced, so I always worry that she's been doing something she didn't really want to do, but she's going along with it, but she's got to experience the growing. You got to let them roam about, you got to let them go, you know, so that's it, they're adults. This holiday is their final fling before finding out their A-level results, flying the nest, and heading off to uni. It's like the last time we'll all be together. Before we go our own separate ways. It's kind of loads of fun, fun, fun, and then serious. Are we allowed? Mollie, shall I do it naked? SHOUTS DROWN SPEECH Don't be a wimp! (ALL) 5, 4, 3, 2, 1! When I met Mollie, she asked one question. It was like, "when can you ever say you have lived?" Come on, who wants to jump in naked? Dad, I'm sorry, I love you. .. 2, 3. Love you, Mum! Whilst everyone else seems to have left their inhibitions at home, Clare appears to have re-gained hers. Why aren't you going topless? Today on the boat, well there was a little kid on the boat, and I don't think he really wants to see it. He saw you and looked a bit shocked, so I thought... You know, he's probably fine with it. I don't want to be naked in front of kids, I think it's wrong. I don't want to be naked in front of kids, I think it's wrong. OK. I've made friends with him. I just think it's weird. I would feel uncomfortable, unlike you. (LAUGHS) Clare! I don't see what the problem is if children see adults naked. It should be just normal. If young children aren't ever exposed to, like, the natural human body, you're not going to be confident with yourself when you're older. That's it, take a... yes. I feel so sorry for people who aren't happy with the way they are and, like, have eating disorders, etcetera, or you know, problems or issues with confidence. 3, 2, 1...! Would you ever become a full-time naturist? Erm, I'd never say never, but right now, no. I do think it's still weird. I don't want to see... genitalia 24/7. Sometimes it's nice just to hide it. Yeah, I agree with you. That's why I go to different events. Do you think in the future you will go to events by yourself? Possibly, yeah, if it looked interesting, something I wanted to do. Of course I'd go along. Yeah, this will piss Sarah off so much. In Manchester, Alex, Luke and Jess are planning their own event - a mass naked tea party. They're stepping up their campaign to promote what normal bodies look like, to a generation accustomed to Photoshopped ideals. If we, like, create some art, just get people thinking about body image. Who maybe haven't thought about it before. The first job is to make a flyer to promote the event. Yeah, very good idea. I look very happy, so that'll promote it. Shouldn't it be naked art show, new naturist art show? Not naturist. Not naturist. No. That's going to put people off. That's going to put people off. Right. That's going to put people off. Right. Nude, maybe. I think naked. We've got body-positive naked art show, two pictures, star and cake. I can see this turning into some kind of club night, you know? I can see this turning into some kind of club night, you know? Yeah, definitely. A naked club night! A "clothing optional" club night. With the blog now getting more than 80,000 hits, it hasn't taken long for Daryl to get wind of the naked vegans' success, and offer to help Alex promote their event. Daryl's the YBN guy. He's the guy we knew, so... And for Daryl, it's an ideal chance to attract some more young people to British naturism. Would you like to come to a naked tea party? Naked tea party tonight. Do you want to see this guy naked? Can we interest anyone? Naked art project. You look like a man of the world. Do you erm, do you... (LAUGHS) Naked art project, naked tea party. It's like, it's like a non-sexual thing. (LAUGHS) Yeah, we're into like body positivity and feminism. There are already about 100 club nights with naked women on posters and things. We're trying to do something a bit different and challenge all the body issues caused by that kind of thing. It's free though, it's free tea and cake. Nakedness, enjoy your body, feel good about it, you know. Free tea and cake, yeah? It's not illegal to be naked on the streets of Britain, and Alex is keen to see what happens if she and Daryl take their tops off. Do you think they'd first ask me, just tell me put my top back on? Er, yeah. Before arresting me. You know what I mean?Yeah. There shouldn't be any difference between you having your shirt off and us. But if I got mine off, I wonder how long it'd take them to arrest me. Shall I go for it? Free tea and cakes. Naked tea party, big art project, art project tonight naked. Food, tea, coffee, cake. It's free tea and cake. Naked tea party. Is anyone interested? I don't think it's right that you've put him, that man there and that woman, cos they're how media portrays... not young people... Beautiful people, innit? You talk about people feeling better naked, but you've put two more or less beautiful people out there naked. Like, me personally, I would think you should have done it. Why's that? Naked tea party, guys. It seems a little unfair, don't you think? It seems a little unfair, don't you think? Excuse me, I just want to take a picture, is that OK? No, it's not OK. Really? Why not? I'm just curious to know why it's OK for my friend, but it's not OK for me. I think we're quite familiar with the law, and it's decency, not nudity, isn't it? and it's decency, not nudity, isn't it? Yeah, it is decency, you're right. So is that open to interpretation, is that your take on decency? Well... Should I...?Well you could, you know, exercise your privilege and freedom as a man. you know, exercise your privilege and freedom as a man. My rights. Yeah, go topless, why not? It's disgraceful, really. Make the most of it. I would if I was you. Make the most of it. I would if I was you. Yeah. Yeah, it's frustrating. I mean, it's you know, it's a freedom you're denied as a woman and just the difference of treatment is frustrating, to be seen as offensive just for your body, is, you know, it's not a great feeling. 5am in Hinckley, and Mollie has just returned from Greece to discover whether or not she's got into the university of her choice. Oh, my God! What? Yay! What? I'm going to Westminster! Clever you. Keen to celebrate with her friends Luke and Clare, Mollie has returned to Abbey House Gardens in Wiltshire for the final clothes optional event of the season. The British naturists are out in force, and it's not long before they are targeting the young ones in their recruitment drive. You're not naturists, then? No. Tried it? Yeah. So you don't belong to YBN, then? No. Half-price membership today. Alex is also here. She has been invited by Daryl to come along and see if she'd like to join British Naturism. 'I'm definitely only a part-time nudist, maybe an aspiring nudist. 'I like the idea of, weather permitting, a bit of naturism. ' Is it OK to walk around barefoot? Yes, yeah. If I was you... You will find it... You will need to... Obviously when you go down on the gravel path. Oh, yeah, right. It is a bit hard on the feet. If there was a place like this, and if the weather was like this in Manchester, I'd be there at every opportunity. I'd be getting my friends to go, I'd be getting my boyfriend to go. I mean, it is just amazing having a place like this. Have you seen the massive cock? Have you seen the massive cock? I've seen him! It's like an elephant's trunk. It's like an elephant's trunk. I've not... Have you seen that? I've not had a good look. Oh, it's ridiculous. You can't even look at his face. It's like, down to his knees. You look at it straight away and it's just like flopping. Do you know what I mean? There he is pruning his bushes, do you know what I mean? This dong just flapping around. Do you know what I mean? And he's got a massive bolt through the end of it as well. Send my love to the others. It's so sunny, George, I can't tell you how sunny it is. My dream coming true. My dream of the all-over tan. Daryl seizes his last opportunity to recruit the young ones before they disappear at the end of the summer. What does YBN stand for? YBN?Guess. Young British Naturists. Oh, yeah. If you're under 30, we just all get together and say, "Right, we'll go and visit all these different clubs. " We put organised events on all year, and they... They organise stuff like parties in the evening, so cheap as well. 30 quid for your whole weekend, that's all your accommodation, all your food, everything paid for, swimming, the Jacuzzi, the sauna. It's... When's the next one? Are people just walking around naked 24/7 or...? Well, no, it's 50/50, you know. If it's cold, you put clothes on. That's what naturism's about, doing what makes you feel comfortable. doing what makes you feel comfortable. Yeah, I agree. Not feeling you have to wear clothes to do things. That's what I like about you saying that, because that's not what the woman said in there. Really? There's two breeds of what we call naturists... Daryl isn't the only one giving the sales pitch. Andrew Welch, from British Naturism, spots Alex and cuts to the chase. One of our problems is this perception that to be a naturist requires changing your lifestyle, changing your political party, changing your religion, but actually it's about taking your pants off. Yeah, you caught me out earlier because I was saying, "I'm not a naturist, but... " But you are. That's exactly what people say all the time about feminism, isn't it? "I'm not a feminist, but... " There's something about the label which is off-putting. Daryl Jones. Daryl, like that? Daryl, yeah, Jones. That was the naked bike ride in London. That's hilarious, look at that photo. You've actually changed my mind. Yeah, you've really changed... You really have, yeah. Oh, good, I'm glad about that. I would definitely want to go try it. He's invited us to a boat party, as well. A boat party? On his barge. Oh, I dunno. You've not... You don't want to do it now, do you? I've become more attached to my clothes, I've missed my clothes. It is nice being here but I could do this in my own garden. I just, I feel more comfortable with my clothes on. Yeah, fair enough. Yeah, so having said that I wasn't really interested in clubs or wasn't particularly bothered about the British naturist, I was persuaded to join up and I just thought, "Yeah, why not?" In Alex's absence, Luke and Jess are making tea and serving ginger nuts in the buff. But whiletheymight feel free to let it all hang out, their friends are a little more reticent. I used to come here, so I'd knock on the door early and the only person up would be Luke and he'd answer the door naked, and be like, "Hi". And then it would get to the point where I'd feel a little uncomfortable when he'd hug me. But, like, for the first month or so I'd be like, "Keep your penis away from me. " But, then, I'd just embrace him and it'd be lovely, be a nice morning. When I saw yours, I was like, "Oh, Jess's is much less intimidating, "it's much less intimidating. " That's not a size thing or anything! Now I like them both equally. And I'm not scared of either of them, so... yeah. I think this is what we want our life to be like all the time, just like naked people drinking tea. Right now, like this, I feel like this is how I feel comfortable being which is why I'm not any more naked than this. But people just in their underwear can be, like, more sexy cos it's like there's an element of mystery to it. Titillating. I think of tights as being extremely sexual, yeah. I'm sorry, Annette! I feel like I can take them off now! Probably for me, more sexual than just full nudity. I think, as a female, it's a bit more, like, challenging to actually just like strip off in front of people, because there's always like that fear of, erm, them seeing you in a sexualised way. Yeah, definitely. Women's magazines - they get celebrities where they're just kind of like on the beach or whatever, and then big arrows and magnifying their cellulite. It's just, like, what a fucked-up view of bodies. It's so terrible, and obviously... I don't think I've ever met anybody who said, "I think my body's perfect, basically perfect. "I wouldn't change a single thing. " And... So many people have said, like, "Oh, it's great that you're "confident about your body. " And actually, I'm really not. I find it really weird that people are kind of looking up to us as being people who don't have body issues. At the University of Western England, it's the freshers' fair and it's Daryl's last chance to recruit younger members to British Naturism before the summer ends. He's been asked by naturist student Jessie to help her recruit for the university's first ever naturist society. I feel like my task is to let people know you're joining one of the best social communities in the world. I want you in that. You want me wearing that? Oh, my word. Am I not allowed to be naked, then? No, I wasn't even going to bother trying, to be honest. Daryl's delighted. By joining the university group, students will automatically become British Naturism members too. He needs to seize this final opportunity to push up his youth numbers. It doesn't quite fit. A man's gotta do what a man's gotta do. Guys, join a naked society. Have you ever thought about that? A naked society? Guys, get naked with a group of people. It's awesome, it's not about seeing you naked, it's not about looking at your body. I might get arrested, and especially if there's any fit boys there. No, I couldn't control myself, I'd be like, "Oh, boy, naked!" Naturism? No, you don't go to a naked beach when on holiday? No? Publicly naked? No. It's illegal, isn't it? Is it allowed? It's allowed. Is it? It sounds amazing. I'm well on it, actually. I'd have to wean myself into it. I'd have to wean myself into it. Yeah, couldn't just dive straight into that. Maybe the first couple of times I'd go out in the dark before I could go out in daytime. You don't have pockets. Yeah. That's the only problem, but we could wear a bum bag or something, do you know what I mean? Without beating around the bush, you do randomly get an erection. What would happen if that happened? Do you know what I mean? You'd feel very embarrassed about that. Does that happen?Yeah, it does. Does that happen?Yeah, it does. Apparently he says not. He's a liar. Right now, you're having a conversation with me. The last thing you're thinking of is, "I'm getting a boner. " I hope so anyway, unless you find me attractive but we won't talk about that now. When your mind's conscious and you're thinking of other things, you generally don't... Your body doesn't react like that, you know. Guys, there's three minutes left of this university freshers' fair, come and join in with our naked society. Naturism truly is one of the best things you'll ever try. Doctors will recommend being naked from time to time. I recommend it, psychologists recommend it. How you doing? Oh, wow! How well have you done? How well havewedone? 22? Oh, my God, that's brilliant. All we needed was 15. Yeah! It's Daryl's biggest success, 22 new young people are now signed up for a bit of social nudity. We've done an amazing thing here. I am tired, I'm aching, it's been a hell of a day, and I think it's the start of an amazing thing. If we keep doing this and replicating this around the country, the whole country will be converted in a couple of years. The time has come for Mollie to fly the nest. In two days' time, she's heading off to start university in London. I'm going on Saturday. That'll be my first night. I'll move all this stuff here and then go to the first freshers' Students' Union party thing, get drinking, get knowing people, have lots of fun hopefully, not be too nervous. I'm not gonna walk up to them, "Hi, I'm Mollie, I also like to be naked occasionally," no! I should be nervous, but I'm just full of excitement. I just can't wait to get out of Hinckley. Some kind of, er... Buddha tea-light holder. My mum brought me this, it's quite cute, I like it. 'I'm so pleased and I'm so proud 'she's aimed to get what she wanted and she's got it. 'But I will miss her. ' Have I told you about I met Daryl at, erm...? Oh, at Abbey House, yeah. Yeah. And his, er... naked boat party and stuff like that. Naked what? Naked what? Boat party! You never mentioned anything about a naked boat party! I don't even know if he's definitely having this naked boat party, but I mean, I'm just saying, saying ideas. Perhaps you shouldn't have mentioned the word naked party on a boat. Yeah, that's concerning, like. Why is it concerning? Why is it concerning? Well, it is! Party indicates alcohol, nakedness indicates big mass orgies. Party indicates alcohol, nakedness indicates big mass orgies. That's anywhere! Just because I've got clothes on, meet several people, and then take my clothes off and have an orgy. Yeah, well, I don't like to think about that. Yeah, well, I don't like to think about that. I don't want an orgy! # MUFFLED DUB MUSIC # That's your willy, willy... # In Manchester, Alex, Jess and Luke's mass naked art exhibition and tea party has opened, and it's in full swing. 'It is quite sort of popular to have art with naked people, 'like classic portraits and stuff, 'but usually you're not allowed to get naked yourself 'whilst looking at the art. ' We were fund-raising on the street, and some guy gave me a flyer with his top off! And he was like, "Yeah, you need to come!" It just feels quite... liberating. But why don't you try just sort of taking a sock off? You know, as a warm-up. You know, as a warm-up. No! I'd rather just take my top off. Hi. Hi. I'm Jenny. Hi. I'm Jenny. Jenny? How are you? How are you? My name's Deacon. You've got your clothes on. I have. I have. It's great that I can say that here! The night is turning out to be everything they'd hoped for. I'm thrilled more of the people we spoke to on the street have come. There are more girls - almost all the people... maybe all the people who have come off the street, that we flyered are actually women, so that's really positive, and... yeah, I'm really, really pleased to see that tonight. Yeah, it's cool, innit? I'd like more armpit hair, I think. Yeah, it's cool, innit? I'd like more armpit hair, I think. Yeah. 'Doing normal things naked and not being judged about that 'has been really kind of freeing. ' 'Hanging around with Luke 'and seeing how Luke's really quite comfortable with his body, 'and that kind of rubs off on you. ' I mean, since starting this project, I haven't, erm... experienced any of the sort of, erm... bigger sort of... eating problems that I've had in the past. I feel a lot more confident, which is nice. Hello... No, OK. Being in front of people and talking to people en masse naked was something that I would never have dreamed of doing. Hello, everyone! Hello, everyone! Hello! As the night comes to an end, their infectious message shows no signs of waning. Dominic Berry! Even the star attraction has decided to strip for the first time. Hello! Erm, yeah, it begins here. You should be naked, tugged, stripped to your radiance, your raw, stark, pure, electrifying skin. Rip out of your clothes and shine! Your natural beauty's eclipsed by eternal night of denim, and body hair prickles upright in the dark fibre space in between us. Thank you! 'It is the best thing I've ever done, I think. 'It's opened my life up, it's opened my eyes 'to see people for what they are, the human body for what it is 'and to see how a clothed society restricts so much in everyday life. ' My biggest challenge is going to be... converting the rest of the country to just accept, you know, nakedity and naturism. Daryl has signed up a grand total of 24 young naturists over the summer. He calculates that leaves just 99,976 under-30s to go. 'Trying nudity is something a bit different, 'which is probably why I tried it out in the first place. 'It's a whole like experience of making the most of life, really. 'It's definitely something that will be in my life forever, I think, 'because it's just the person I am. '
