 

                        What is even more sudden than lightning? Revenge What is the greatest injustice? Having things you don't deserve Who really understands this world? Those who understand themselves What is the secret to 'eternity'? Love Where can you find it? Momose! Momose, look at me (My Pretend Girlfriend) Sorry Excuse me [Blue Flowers] [A novel by German poet Novalis] Hello Yes, I'm on my way I'll be staying at my parents' place A meeting? Oh What should we do.. Then, I'll drop by the school when I arrive Oh... I saw it Well, the letter is fine You'd normally confirm that before sending it out, though Nothing, nevermind Uh, about the location A gym.. That's far too large It's not like more than 3 people will show up That's.. do you know how big the first print was? It was only.. Yes.. yes Sorry Then, later Alright, thanks Bye Why this picture? Menswear by Miyazaki Aihara-kun? It's been a long time How many years? Since graduation, I think? So.. 15 years? I'm sorry I haven't kept in touch I haven't been back here at all Then you haven't seen any friends, either? You're drooling How old is she? She's 4 Her name's Sakura Since she was born in April (when Sakura bloom in Japan) Your lecture is tomorrow, right? You know about it? The letter was sent to all the alumni Really?! Give me a break.. I don't really want to do it but Yoshioka-sensei is so pushy I read your book It's pretty good You really are an author Oh, please The contract was only for one book it's not much different from being unemployed No, you're impressive I've just become an old lady Not at all You're still very pretty, Kanbayashi-senpai The town hasn't changed at all Feels like I've just got off a time machine Hey, it's Kanbayashi-senpai from third year Tetsuko-san is as pretty as ever I should confess to her Idiot, there's no way she'd go out with you Why? You don't know There's no way she would She's way too pretty Where are you aiming? Again Level 32 What? It's nothing Level? A person's level A combination of their looks, intelligence, and youth They have things like that in RPGs Oh Then what about Yamamoto-kun? Level 21 His face is fine, but his personality is terrible And Onishi-kun? Completely average, so 50? Then.. yourself? Me? I guess I'm level 2 Oh, good, not 1 Your own level should be like that Being self-aware is enough I see Then I've just leveled up to 2, as well! Tetsuko-san! She looked at me! No, me! It was totally me She's too cute She has a great smile Level 99 What kind of person does a person like her go out with? It's hopeless unless you can beat the last boss Aihara-kun, are you married? There's nobody who would marry me I wonder.. think you'd be popular Not at all Let me know if you ever need a white kimono [worn by women at weddings] Oh yeah, your family does tailoring Sakura-chan will probably be popular at kindergarten I also have a boy in grade 3 He looks just like his dad I'd like to meet him I can't believe you're a mom Really? Everyone feels that way Like who? Uh.. everyone Your husband must be happy I see, it's Miyazaki Shun Huh? Noboru! Long time no see! We're in the same high school I didn't realize! Ah, yes How's your mom? She still putting pineapple in the curry? It's as bad as ever Miyazaki-senpai, in the summer does your mom still Call me Shun-niichan, like in elementary school Earlier, I saw your girlfriend at school Kanbayashi-senpai has a lot of admirers in my class You should look out for her shoes [they are taken by male students in schools sometimes] I can give her all the shoes she needs I saw you with a short haired girl by the station Hey, Noboru Yeah? Are you seeing anyone right now? Can't you tell? No way I'd be seeing anyone I see You don't have someone in Tokyo? There's no way there'd be one A girl you like? Sakura is a nice name Thank you I decided to name my kids after flowers Do you know the meaning behind "Sakura"? Refined, a beautiful heart, things like that You've said something like that before, haven't you? The day the four of us all went out together Isn't that Miyazaki-senpai? It is! Senpai is here! He's calling you Who? The last boss This is Aihara Noboru Hello, I'm Momose You Nice to meet you Hey, you looked like you are close with Miyazaki-senpai Yeah, we've been friends since we were kids Then you live close together? Yeah - Then you use the same train station? - And went to the same middle school? - Yeah Wow! What's going on? Aihara-kun and Miyazaki-senpai were friends as kids! Sorry, I'm going to go get some lunch You don't look well, you alright? Something happen? I forgot my wallet.. In the classroom? Should we go get it? I can help if it's 200 yen Tanabe-kun.. There's something bugging me Aihara-kun Let's have lunch together I'm going out with her I'm Momose You, class 1-3 Aihara-kun's girlfriend Oh, really Hello Uh, I want to have lunch with Tanabe-kun Sorry Then let's go home together I'll wait for you on the roof after class Sorry Why are you sorry? For some reason She's cute Who was that? A classmate But we've never spoken You haven't spoken even though you're classmates? Strange Be careful not to trip! Bye, Yoshioka-sensei! They were holding hands Hold on Gross Your hands are so sweaty You're the one who grabbed my hand Can you not talk to me outside of school? But we might right into Kanbayashi-senpai I might be late, so I'm gonna go Late? I should get going I need to make food Sa-chan, stand up I've got it, senpai It's fine, I'm the one who invited you No, I'll get it Could we talk a bit more? Well, it's been a long time Also.. there's.. there's something I've always wanted to ask you Always? Yes, always Got it? This is a secret between us It seems like we've been seen together Rumors are flying, distrust is growing Doesn't this mean you'd be playing both hands? It's all a misunderstanding But if we deny it, the rumors won't stop For example, lets say my childhood friend is going out with her Then there'd be no problem She and I happened to meet at the station And waited for the train together It seems we looked close But that wouldn't be strange She's my friend's girlfriend To stop the rumor, we need a bigger one Anything strange about that? That would mean.. we would.. It means.. we would act like a couple And get rid of Kanbayashi-senpai's doubts Simple, right? Let's go this way Why? This way's a shortcut Excuse us, passing through! Who's this slithering guy? Your boyfriend? Yup! Sorry If you do that, we don't look like a couple, do we? Do you actually want to do this? Sorry Come closer We're supposed to be dating Weather's nice Talk about something I can't talk while I eat At least talk sometimes It's hard when you're always grumpy Who's grumpy?! Time to go home You're so slow Here Hey, do it properly Use soup! Here I know how Hurry it up, idiot This is the only place I can live with how little you talk I didn't ask for all this I know That's why I'm trying my best Trying, huh It's been two weeks No rumors are spreading Maybe we should stop this Maybe you were the wrong guy the role We don't seem like we'd ever be dating Why do you look down? Huh? Normally you'd look to the sky when you come to the roof There's nothing to see up there, not even clouds You'll get dirty It's fine I can see your panties So relaxing Where do you talk with Miyazaki-senpai? We text.. and call? That's all? Sometimes I go see him before he has to work You're fine with that? With what? Well, Miyazaki-senpai is.. You've never fallen for someone, have you? Hey How was Miyazaki-senpai as a kid? Not much different from now He's the reason I'm alive She fell asleep There really is nothing to see Good morning Good morning! Morning You've in a bad mood first thing, aren't you? And you're pretty happy, aren't you? Did something good happen? Have you read this? No Miyazaki-senpai gave it to me I was up all night reading it Was it good? I figured something out Miyazaki-senpai is Nil admirari [A Latin expression: "to be surprised/moved by nothing"] Even he isn't sure If he likes me, or Kanbayashi Nil.. ad..? You'll never be popular without any culture I got this from Miyazaki-senpai In elementary school Cool I'm gonna take it, okay? Hey, wait! Another time, okay? Noboru! This is Aihara Noboru Nice to meet you I'm Kanbayashi Tetsuko Shun-kun's told me about you And you're Momose-san? How do you know my name? It's good you're close Aihara-kun, thanks for being a good friend to Shun-kun Let's be friends too, okay? Momose-san, too She seemed nice Yeah I'm glad our plan went well Are you okay with this? With what? Our hands. We've left school Hey, is there a reason to keep doing this? There isn't We'll do it anyway Did you know? 45% of couples break up in the first 2 years So I'll be patient For when they do Is there any credibility to that statistic? I heard it on TV But that means 55% don't break up, right? I have to go I'll be late to see him She's seeing him today, too? Keep coming, keep coming Okay Thank you Was that your girlfriend? No, she's not She's cute Must be nice being a high schooler That's youth for you It's not like that You must be kidding, I'd love to have a relationship like that It's really not like that Sorry for coming so suddenly It's fine, I wanted to talk about today anyway Did I Did I do well? It was so sudden, I was surprised Yeah, it was fine I see Good Tetsuko said you seemed nice I should thank Noboru, too Maybe she wasn't worried about the rumor Senpai But, I Momose I get it ["Maihime", the book Momose had] Hello Sorry for calling so late Thanks for today It seems to have cleared up Tetsuko's misunderstanding Kanbayashi-senpai seemed like a good person She trusts people a bit too much A bit like a child How's Momose-san? She's fine I just saw her [Notes about "Maihime", "Nil admirari" and its meaning] Momose You I read Maihime You're an idiot My stomach hurts You alright? Infirmary It's the middle of class I know Did you eat something bad? She says its stress If that beats you, you can't get by in our society It's fine, I'm only level 2 Things you say.. Sometimes I don't get it Hey, what do you think about a double date? What? Kanbayashi-san wants the four of us to go out together All four of us? The whole day? Yeah You don't want to? You never should have taken part in this, then I'll do it Wow You changed your mind I'll do anything If it's for Miyazaki-senpai I wonder if Miyazaki-senpai is there Hey Is there a girl you like? What? If there is.. we're doing something terrible We? Miyazaki-senpai and I, of course There isn't, really I see If you find one, let me know I'll say you dumped me That aside, what kind of clothes do you normally wear? Are you realling coming to my place? Yeah Isn't just anything fine? I'll be embarrassed if you come to a date in lame clothes Train's here Hurry! How about You found my notebook at the train station And I came to you to get it I wouldn't hand it to you I'd probably give it to the station master Okay, then, I found your notebook You're a little too persistent about the notebook We have to come up with something or she'll figure it out So, you found my notebook How about this? One Sunday, In my third year of elementary school I was with my cute little sister at a park I accidentally fell asleep And when I woke up my sister was gone "What's wrong?" Asked the boy in front of me I explained that I lost my sister He told me to wait right here And ran off somewhere Did you know? When people get too anxious, they can't think of what to do Miyazaki-senpai has always been good at finding people I think he'll eventually do something great Something great? I'm not sure What will you be when you grow up? I won't be anything special What do you mean? There's nothing I can be Next station, right? Sorry for intruding Mom, slippers Sorry! It's the first time Noboru has brought a girl home Here Mom, you're in the way, move You always call me mother Acting different for her Mom! Don't worry about it, I'll be leaving soon I've only come to pick clothes for a date Nice, a bed! We only have futons at home You're reading it? Oh, yes [Maihime] I wonder why Senpai gave me this book Who knows I think Ellis was happy [character in the book] Was she? If there is even one moment Where one can open their heart Then it's a fulfilled love You're a romantic, huh Where are your casual clothes? In there? There's nothing decent Well, I guess it'll be fine Just a shirt and some chino pants We should cut your hair, too You have a suit? Ah, Miyazaki-senpai's dad made that Senpai's dad did? He was a really good tailor He made fencing gear in the past You don't know Miyazaki Tailors? It was pretty famous Cool I got it from his will His will? He's dead You didn't know? Senpai doesn't talk about his family It's so baggy! Here you go Why curry in the afternoon? Normally it would be cakes or something I don't care what's normal You bringing home a girl is itself not normal Momose-san, go ahead Yes, thank you You gotta stop putting pineapple in curry It's delicious! Really? You don't have to force it I'm not, it's really good Your sense of taste is just weird But she made it for my sake So of course it would be good So happy it has to be good Thank you for the food My pleasure I'll take care of cleaning up I'm good at cleaning dishes Thanks for helping The curry was good Really? You liked it? Yeah, it's the first time I've had it with pineapple It's unusual, isn't it? Yeah, but it was good Your mom's a good person She seemed really happy about us Yeah My dad is a really big liar "This Sunday, I'll take you to the zoo" He says that every week For more than ten years But he hasn't done it even once So I hate lies Hey Let's stop this There's no value in your feelings getting across for only a moment If every other moment belongs to someone else I know that Should I tell Senpai? He wasn't interested from the start But I made him So it's fine Because I fell for him You often call me an idiot Yeah I'm the idiot Sorry You can't do that! You're so late! I'm hungry I'll starve to death It's child abuse! Where did you learn that word? TV No more TV for you Where's mom? Asleep. She said she works at the dollar store tonight Make food soon! Wait by the TV Gets! ["Gets" is the catchphrase of comedian Dandy Banno] [The closest cultural translation might be "Got you!", or TBBT's "Bazinga"] Food's ready Food, guys Stop watching tv It's time to eat Thanks for the food Looks good Does it? Really? It's good! You're just eating rice, eat the vegetables too Morning Want some food? Yeah Where's dad? He said he has an important meeting What? A meeting without a job? He's probably just playing pachinko again That's even dumber He's an idiot~ Thanks Thanks for the food Hey, eat the carrots too Tonight is your last night shift, right? Yeah, for this week I'll be back See you later See you later Counting on you, little mother Bye, then Come here Aihara-kun Your girlfriend's here Don't cut it too much It'll be fine I always cut my brother's hair Today, a girl in my class asked me what's so good about you I didn't know what to say Enough that I wanted someone to tell me the answer What did you say? I said it's that you're about as hopeless as a slug That's pretty mean Makes me want to die Yeah, you would It's a lie, though I did praise you I said you've got guts I want to die even more Why? Are you dumb? Okay, it's done Momose, have you ever wanted to die? Yeah Of course Please don't die I won't Of course I won't Thank goodness You're a nice guy So nice it's gross Makes me want to vomit Why? It's a good thing, isn't it? Being a good person is pretty worthless But Miyazaki-senpai is a good person He's not a good person He's an idiot You like him even though he's an idiot? Yeah I don't get it I see I hope you get it one day Weather's nice I'd like to die already What? I'm lying Let me cut your hair No I don't think you know how And I'm growing it out anyway Like Kanbayashi-senpai? Hold on Grooooss~ Gross I'm happy I've always wanted to eat this Why haven't you? You know why We're not allowed to have snacks out of the house You still follow that rule? Maybe it's more like a habit Besides, it's better to not be able to get everything you want We had ice cream together before, right? It's a bit nostalgic I should have had a matcha parfait Let me have some Okay I have pretty good self control Saying it about myself, though Can you pull off the act all day? I'll do it We are dating We are dating I'm happy even though it's like this What? I'm happy I can spend my day off with Miyazaki-senpai That's good Alright, let's do this Yeah This flower is pretty Ah, the Delphinium This flower represents discipline, self sufficiency, compassion It spreads happiness over you You know your stuff I like flowers You're exactly how I pictured you Really? Yeah I don't get women I don't get you You seem to be doing well with Momose You looked like a real couple just now, it surprised me You told us to do that I don't get me either Should we get something? Sure There's a theater here, huh I had no idea So this is what you do on dates Detective John Book Eye Witness While trying to protect a boy who witnessed a murder a detective stays in an Amish neighborhood that protects an older lifestyle and falls in love with the boy's mother [The premise of "Witness", a 1985 film starring Harrison Ford] Love grows when there are obstacles, doesn't it? This looks interesting It does Thanks for today I'm happy we get to watch this movie together What's wrong? I don't feel well I was so nervous yesterday, I couldn't sleep Seriously? That's a bit pathetic Here Thanks Let's go in You go ahead Aihara-kun doesn't seem to be feeling well Are you okay? I'm totally Please, go ahead Then.. we'll go on in Let's go Even though I'm fine You don't need to see it? It's fine It'll be boring anyway What? You're tired, right? I'll let you use my shoulder I want to ride a boat But they say couples who ride these boats will break up You believe things like that? Well, not really You want to, right? Yeah Then let's do it this way Are you alright now? Yeah, sorry I couldn't watch it What kind of story was it? A love story about two people who lead very different lives The scene where they embraced eachother in front of a sunset was really beautiful Do you think its possible for people that different to come together? I think it's fine in a setting like that God will let it be I'm so happy, 4-Scoop Ice Cream! It's been a while since I had it This is called 4-Scoop Ice Cream? Yeah It's famous around here You've never had it, Kanbayashi-san? Her family has this rule No eating snacks outside the house Their maid prepares things to eat at home Is this something people would normally have tried? Yeah In the summer of grade 2 Senpai took mine and made his an 8-Scoop I've never forgotten it That's awful! Even then, 7 of them fell off! I cried Sorry I had to see my favorite matcha ice cream on the road Matcha is my favorite, too! Mine too! You're both old fashioned! [Matcha is typically seen as something older people like] I'm the only one who had no idea about this I feel like an outsider It's good! Here Kanbayashi-san! Here Here Here Here Momose! Tetsuko! Aihara-kun! Momose! Miyazaki-senpai! I picked up one that fell off Thought I would give it to you I'm going to see Tetsuko home Thank you for today See you both again Bye Playing catch was fun It would be nice if we were all just friends Don't follow me I'll see you home It's fine I'll do it You're troublesome Let me be alone Do you think I'm fine with this? This is the worst The absolute worst The worst is.. Unattended bikes are the worst, aren't they? They can't consider people's feelings I really hate it Tanabe-kun What's wrong? Are you alright? So everything was an act We're not going out There's no feelings between us But The things she's done for me Holding hands Cutting my hair Lending me her shoulder Coming to my house Wearing my clothes Having fun with my mother Complimenting her food She's really mean So mean You've really fallen for her, havent you? Which one do you want? The chocolate one? It'd be better if we never met It'd be better if she stayed a stranger I wonder I don't think so Do you know the ending of Maihime? Hm? Ellis, thrown away by the boy she loved, goes totally crazy Love is terrifying It being something she could go crazy over is proof it was special It'd be better if I never knew all this I'd like to know those things This feeling is a monster It grows in you and you can't do anything "Monster"? Tell me what zoo has "monsters" like that I'm sure it's really pretty If it's you, you can beat him What? The last boss A level is something that goes up just by fighting It's nostalgic, isn't it? We played here a lot as kids You still alone? Yeah I haven't been here since my dad died, though Senpai Do you remember? It's scarred, huh He couldn't pay off that amount of debt in his entire life An artisan shouldn't try his hand in management Right? It's a bit laughable It's all because he's just an artisan Shun-chan, where are you going? Has Noboru come yet? That day was your dad's wake, right? Yeah But it's fine Why do you think I showed up? I ran off So it worked out I was the one who was saved So forget it I'm still thankful If you hadn't come, I'd have died of blood loss You're exaggerating You don't have to listen to me I'm still using you You've gotten taller Do you have a dream for the future? A dream? Yeah I'm going to re-open this shop I'll do anything to make that happen My dream is to grant my father's dream You're doing it for that? You're dating Kanbayashi-senpai just because of that? Not just that What about Momose? What is she to you? What's up with you? Don't get so serious Come to think of it, you two are getting close Why don't you just start dating? Go ahead, hit me Hit me! You really are Nil admirari You really don't have any interest That's why you can live with it I'm below you in every regard I'm only level 2 I actually want to understand other people's struggles So I get it You're hurting everyone So hit me I respect you Shit You're as annoying as ever The things you know aren't the only right ones Even I.. [He is acting the opposite of Nil admirari] To Momose [Momose] Aihara-kun? What are you doing? I can't believe you're here I came to give you a letter I don't understand This is from Miyazaki-senpai Let's take a walk I think he did like me And there are lies written in here I don't know You didn't read it? Of course not People normally would I wouldn't I think I would What was in it? That we shouldn't meet anymore No more calls or texts, either Why? There is no why There are things that can't be helped What should I do from now on? You'll fall for someone else Sorry I can't believe that this would ever become a good memory I'll be stuck with this feeling forever He's an idiot You're an idiot! Miyazaki Shun, I love you, you idiot! I still love you! But I really hate you! You idiot! You don't understand feelings like this, do you? No I'm not able to understand It'd be good if you can one day You really are a good person Let's go back Yeah This will be the end of our act So we won't go home together anymore? No I suppose people who break up don't talk even if they see eachother at school I guess not I'm sure we won't speak again I think I'll cut my hair There's no reason to grow it anymore Shall I cut it? No way Let's go to the zoo Liar I won't lie anymore Do you need a napkin? I don't Your nose is running It's not Show me I said I'm not crying, idiot Look at me I don't want to Even though it's my last request? Hey, Momose Look at me! Is Miyazaki-senpai at work right now? Yeah He's keeping busy He always comes home after midnight If I tell him I saw you, he'll be jealous His shop seems to be doing well I saw a poster of his at the station Yes, it's going well Did you pay for his classes? Not me, my dad He's left the school uniform business to my brother so Shun-kun is looking forward to doing something new It melted I can never finish it This is a dayflower, isn't it? You know it well I thought my next novel would be about Novalis He's a German poet Oh, right The writer of this It's a story about a man who dreams of a blue flower and goes on a journey "What is the greatest injustice?" "Having things you don't deserve" The blue flower turned out to be a dayflower I was interested, so I researched it "The Meaning of Flowers" The dayflower represents Respect, nostalgic relationships, things like that Did you know? Yeah You gave him a Houzuki, right? [Chinese lantern plant] Huh? The day the four of us went out together You gave him a Houzuki that you found [Houzuki] [Betrayal] [Unfaithfulness] [Infidelity] Did you know? That's a secret Thanks for the food You're welcome I wonder if she will come to your lecture tomorrow Momose-san Huh? If you see her, there's something I'd like you to tell her "Thank you" There's been a lot between Shun and I since graduation But I think the reason we got through it is thanks to back then Back then? Yes Because it was fun? Or..? [implying it was hard for them] Both What about for you? Both Then, see you again Senpai Are you happy? Of course The happiest in the world [Aihara Noboru] Aihara These too, please Yoshioka-sensei, are you planning to give these to every student? Well, you never know if another author will come from our school I might be the last if the book fails You haven't changed, Aihara You probably don't even remember me from high school I do You and your friend, Tanabe He's studying to become a teacher You haven't seen him? Weren't you close? This book.. Is it not about your time in high school? [First Love] It is, of course, a work of fiction Well, good luck tomorrow You too Um Can I look around the school? Yeah [Students are not allowed on the roof without permission] There really is nothing to see [Translated and subtitled by Stythe at euphorictranslations.com]
