 

                        Wait, hear me this You have my honest answer Are you feeling insecure? I see it on his face No Soo-Jung, do you know that we are subject to foreign players? Especially Brazil Then also by the film 3 which We in the film that very disease. I have read about it Western men and Eastern does not have any different Eastern men better. It is Did she know this? That's four hands to really. But very weak Do you know cheap sausages? That soft Mine but not small. But very hard Really? His words this should say when we sit together better I go abroad, sure will have a lot of work so I used this new age study Will not have time to know many men Unfortunately - Well done - What are you doing? Soo-Jung, she really is... Standing still. Okay? Wet and n Wet? Obnoxious. New England wet it There must herself wet game Fun too Damn, almost winning and then - Kitchen and - Why? - I previously - Why? - Do not be - After this long just met, why so early? Yeah, I missed you. I stay a little bit more to go Alright. So-Yeon, go careful At that party should call me Amble Okay? Today is the farewell party Soo-Jung my home I'm glad you came Of course I have to, I'm studying abroad I went out for a little To speak kindly Damn, not the same at all New 83 day game She was with another man? Two kids in love 7 years only two months have changed Why so? Are prompted for a new boyfriend So-Yeon? Heard very handsome Busan is the head chef at the restaurant. I also thought that one fat guy anymore But, on the surface,... Why so? You know from before? Everyone knew only each I do not know? No, So-Yeon do not want to let him know We'd love to tell you The people in the know, world, but also told me to? Brain lost already? I'm just telling the truth You are so... Where I lie inherently She She thought she was very good? To study alone but to start friends came to see you? Korea sure is not the future new should find an excuse abroad Going to be over 30 years old, to study what the hell? How about you too hard? Drink drunk as to be should have to go online to find Viarga I guess he is a user Viarga youngest in the country Do not say bluntly. Not or He silenced me. Crane focused Handsome chef's name too? I'm younger than him More handsome than him Name chefs richer Damn You want out? In the well At the memory squeeze my ass Are you home? Alone? - Yes - Suy.t Do not speak Today I have to obediently listen to you If so, just press any keyboard Otherwise, press 2 times If I understand what you say, then press go Right. He behaved so Are you sleeping? Listen to his voice seemed asleep Now you're in the tub I opened the water in the tub, then slowly lay down Too warm Slippery Especially between the legs Told him not to speak that Let me tell you, what are you doing Left hand holding the phone Right hand slowly embrace best friend My fingers are touching it You pull it away You can suck? I want to use spit mouth to get it I'll be very gentle Will be made from Suck that both the Let them go. Do it now Do it now Do it now Now you are in offline You will hear the water flowing Hear? Hear the water flowing You will easily reach more excitement I'm going crazy. It is I'm about to reach peak In little more depth Hello I love Oh I love Now he can speak it, you find? Very happy What's this? As a sex hotline? Time is popular initiative offers to customers? Service take place? - How much call charges? - Who are you? What? Crazy. What do I do now? Seung-Joon, he sleep? Asleep. Do you know what time? Not. Today I changed the phone Do not save your contacts. Should not have his number What are you talking about? I hear you say this His tail number is 7892 Nothing. I'm just told me to change phone Yoon-Jung Tomorrow morning I have to go to work early Did not we have an appointment. Going to eat tomorrow? Do you still remember? Remember to dress for the beautiful in Do not be late Goodnight Wait Now is that any asshole can Would a madman She talking on the phone said, about sex with strangers? She or it Strictly speaking, it not phone sex Where she did not have that one. Just... You press the wrong number. Should meet the pervert Suddenly want to try phone sex. Certain causes Would you like to advertise underwear? I do not forget you only trade online only offline Just wait and see, South Korea will have Victoria Secret program for which see Watch out he Seung-Joon has not proposed Oh, poor sister The name that appears is too much Because of him I resign If he refuses to marry me, shall feed them, how good I was told not to resign because of his Just... In the eyes of two people, Lee Yoon-Jung I was resigned to marry? Losing two people always Her dear We do not store shooting This beautiful, how much money? Sister, Should I divorce? A person is married, a divorce, or indeed To tell the truth, the whole week, I have not done it A week is not that relations divorce. Silly reason too You do not talk nonsense. He heard that She, she is not marry him Seung-Joon truth? Do not ever do that Once married, number of sex will decrease She is my brother? I speak as a woman First, the number will decrease Each time will also decrease Also, the feeling will be less vibration I too negative there Do not have sex love will no longer so Sex is like talking so - Lack of communication will not be love - Yes If under dry Heart will dry According to her judgment, the disease sisters have lost heart feeling I do not inherently tell two Today is the fifth anniversary of met our Seung-Joon never remember my birthday or Christmas But today remember and reservations at restaurants Does this mean? Proposed Congratulations to her What? Well, thank you Most men lack creativity Gift birthday cakes, proposed to give the ring It's a lack of ideas Today was supposed to take action surprise the enemy There's nothing romantic. One know that they are looking at rings It omissions He only shame If you do not mind, I can help I mean... If so, I was impressed Coffee Do not joke I opened up view We know each other for a long time, I do not have anything to blame Today I was thinking, if he does not take action I'll be a little angry Really? So I hope that you will like this I also want to buy a more expensive But hot to look very crude Okay, I do not like Where the luxuries I'm not that kind of girl too shallow - Right? - Yes Just you have heart I liked both Are respectfully Hair tuck? Congratulations to you As everyone can see it Just for money in this lunch box Can activate the sensor, dogs will eat money At the same time will make the lovely movements It is this creative toy The introduction of products that are all Very interesting This even adults will love Lee Hyun-Seung What? What do you see? Yes He asks what's up? I asked what do you think? I here... ... curious about his thoughts My thoughts? My thinking is... Do you think over it? I do not say much He is working. Do not see it? Work So-called work? The new make money called the Damn it. I've said no You do not have the scold me I was his mother? Eventually have to feed him ever again? Did not tell him some time again? Until when? You must wait until you are there? I beg you, do not torture me anymore We are no longer small. It's time to face the truth and Brother Do not be like that anymore Can not live forever in a dream I think that you will not do - I did not mean it - Not true Just now my mouth has spoken If you like what wait for me till now No, ever since I thought so If I thought like that Anyway, he could not succeed Keep this do again - That's the guitar I bought for you - Yes, by Gibson Please pay what guitar How much money? He is indeed bitch Of course he was a dog. I told him, very practical woman In professional terms is ignoble So I do not love Do not be too pessimistic So-Yeon would also suffer Nothing but suffering Basically, women are very sensitive Not related to the good man bad Honestly, I feel So-Yeon will return to center switch He'll say that. Do not drink anymore. Damn You just leave him like that will cause him more pain Woman is free to guests. So-Yeon is a woman. So... Soo-Jung health, anyway? Still working to get money to go to school He viewed Soo-Jung He heard here Treat them despicable. It is best viewed from the hole Unless the mother in the world all women, I have played both Course unless Soo-Jung and So-Yeon Except always the mother of two young Soo-Jung Of course I miss you So you do not play music anymore? Unfortunately, too So-Yeon ruined talent of a young man I like that? Of course. He is the author the best music I've ever met Remember the last track I think you heard? Of course. Piece of music that Especially that guitar solo song Right. My favorite passage No guitar solo section at all Only solo piano Are you smoking? I went out to buy cigarettes and come back soon - This is the phone's So-Yeon - Why? Why listen to other people's phones so - Do not you? - Return for Kids Returns for Kids Hello Woman in this world are the recommended first of all? Kind of woman like her, why can you love someone truly? All the same only Woman is a hole. Right? As I see it, she is a sick pervert Say what is... He wanted to die? He recently escaped from a mental hospital? He is perverted yesterday, right? Pervert He was mad that new Map crazy, waste Bitch, named animal metamorphosis That crazy, waste, dog, metamorphosis It is... - I tell you - Why? Now you tell me what? What? She told anyone crazy, waste? That I get. Okay. Metamorphosis? Her metamorphosis is true. The Tomb child neglect Neglected village? Add people? This guy is crazy Do you know who I am? Night call to insult others. I reported to the police that So the night call provoke others? I have to be reported to the police true. Map sexual harassment I have evidence, just take that message She really is the thickness She heard clearly, the phone now Recording function that Last night she called me, told Alert suck I collected all - Really? - Of course it is true Last night she remembered tell me something? Alright. No need to tell the police. I go on the internet as always Hey, how is downstream After all he is a man, how shameful too Shameful? Insult others is metamorphosis and nerves. There must also be infamous? How different from metamorphosis and nerve? Not. It is... I called my boyfriend, accidentally press the wrong number Even so it should not Obviously, she was wrong. Why insult others metamorphosis Because he calls said the strange words before What is the curse of women This card, debit card, the hole Of course I have to fear We also did not know At that time indeed I did too Sorry Was he lost love? Not so In fact, I have words to tell one person But not had the nerve to tell her I should not let go so easily Middle of the night like this, suddenly I grieved too Listen to me here Do not cry anymore Do you want attention? Say, I heard him But do not cry there I'm not crying I have nothing to say to her Me and she was very understanding Our love, unlike others Do you know the feeling they understand each other? Very special Most people who love each other Have such vibrations If you can not forget, I'd clean forgotten But can not Maybe not forever be Angelic smile Longer soft hairs After this is no longer a chance to see Looks like he really love her Do not think nostalgic memories Think of the sad memories, that can help you She enjoyed rants Where Are the old woman instead. When I say they did not listen My boyfriend Foot rot Tidy disease. Everything must be arranged orderly When he slept, kept turning his back to me She's nice bite Given before bed holding my hand Wait until she's asleep, I pulled his hand out again Said to Also, a long time since I did not do it Use sucking mouth Maybe she does not know And I just do not export is Why not? It viscous sticky oil. Like nose It is blowing up his face, you comfortable? Certainly not, In fact, yesterday was the first time I do it after splitting with his girlfriend But that is not to have sex But it felt weird Did you like it? What? There Well okay Can say that the Everybody, stand up This Midnight phone call so long, call Seung-Joon? Course Relations of them very good, or call all night - Has proposed to me? - Mom I feel you and Seung-Joon? There are just people who have a special relationship? Well, the feeling between the parents? In particular, to understand each other? She had this feeling? Course At any time? In any case will have this feeling? At the top Sometimes even your father's shirt Intentionally left two buttons To open a chest T- underwear Butt shake by shake Your father will not stand Then he hands his mother hugging waist Mother, suddenly tired too Mild ago Motherhood excited to have it removed? Never mind. Mother to class The baby is Yoon-Jung, get him a glass of water Even in the case than he That? And one more thing Do not panic offline Lingerie show started What? All gone? Excuse me, Yoon-Jung So do not like it? He watched carefully I love. He'd had it with me But he still has work to do I know that. He went away Thank you forgive me I sleep okay. Let me turn off the lights for Something that thanks to excuse him. Eventually he mean Her boyfriend is busy working that I do not know, then I look sexy Also, not only that... Seung-Joon, she lifts up one size offline Stop That? So the size of the child enough? When breast lift up feeling of touching it Not too soft. He did not like Chest so hard, he touched through any feedback? Comedy too I know - Lee Hyun-Seung - That I recall okay close What? Maybe today I have an appointment with you But I have to climb the tree. Now what? Heard him play. Vocals? No, just guitar He did not want to continue to write music? I think that writers All souls. What are you doing? He refused to play with me What are you tuning for guitar I bought that Volume to be so long? Guitar like women Must adjust slowly, new sound Then you adjust them a try What sound does not Sound normal. See a problem then Do you not know that tune Hello Really? What color underwear today? T pants Because easy to take it off. Men love this kind of Girl with big ass new wear pants Watch out you do not know my size I can not even show you She cons so Not only to butt My body is beautiful But long-tail that compliment cat cat But people tell me model, it felt very distant So also a bit worried Not only the body, face also makes people more worried Sometimes I panic to see his face Each day has a different feeling Is not, talking-doll? At no time have they said what cha. We meet If you have given me will not speak words I seriously Not you? We can comfortably talking on the phone like that There have never met? I know what you mean Me ask you a question While familiar girlfriend, he can sleep with other people? It is the job of the bravery He was a good man That? 7982 had an affair? Of course not. If I copy forgives him It seems her boyfriend is also a good man Free tonight? I do not have an appointment to anyone When working Hyun-Seung unfocused but the others are very focused Flirting before the ladies' room, but Tickets at 7 pm Sister-in-law, see you hard Last camping, are not to Camping? Do you know anything Whatever, as long as people can come together is good enough This here. I called her to What are you doing? I sit down? Of course it is Her sister-in-law does not know this? After I resigned, she arrived This is my sister that Hello you, I listen people mention about you too Boss, why do not you listen to him is a cute girlfriend like this? Did not I say, I am very picky stars Considered that at his face I thought the beer girl hug It turned out that his juniors, like you before What? What are you doing? This? Right. Apparently, because of you, I have already installed Little girl, how old she was so Look at her do you remember brothers and thick surface pursue - Right? - Yoon-Jung, I misunderstood then lm mouth. Hear you say it In my eyes, you so funny? Do you have a field that playing with others like - I - Why? Sure you also remember Apparently they were told not to drink, and yet others have forced me to drink Drink 1 cup, 2 cups, and that's been together 5 years Drink This is the last cup you drink with me Why are you drinking so fast? Wine of her rather than Drink slowly, watch out for choking Sister-in-law loves to drink too Remember to buy her some wine to the offline You eat too candy pineapple flavor? I feel this smells delicious Very aromatic Course Sticky too. I went to eat here You want to get together? Big brother, he went to eat before going Looking movie? His voice was so? Sad movie Her voice was that? You want to meet? Do not do it I'm crazy. Crazy then Not true I did not do anything bad, right? Right. Where okay Hello What? Recently there any grocery store? Grocery? Thank you so much He went straight in the direction of this approximately 200 meters to Thank you Indeed not cool at all I'm here Sorry, this appointment our little shit What? Really? Sorry, I do not have anything to defend No So perhaps it would be better She did also true As she said, if we see perhaps our relationship will end Well Why did she suddenly? What's wrong? - Yes - Hello Hello Wait a little Recently there any grocery store? I first came to this place See that she is as beautiful as she said it So what will you do next? Wait I do not Stop it. Stop I said stop that Sorry Not. He did not do anything but sorry but Okay? No, I'm self-regulation of mood Now for me it is necessary You want to call? I bad? She knew then asked Sitting there like a fool Yes Looks like the time I'm afraid Afraid that when I know the truth, we will all end End, there is nothing to be afraid Marriage As a child I thought, to the age now I will become a special woman But unfortunately... I'm a woman normal and respect the sense of security A normal woman nothing at all, dreams can be achieved ... not much Normal women, not with strangers ... Where phone sex Revenge? No What panties? Normal underwear It is... I take all that they Are you tired? Last night I left early that Okay. I'm not tired Sorry Tuna here Ms. Jin-Joo, more beautiful home Needless to say sweet, Where no free food Eat it before then, The most expensive dish is that Business lingerie? It is the same Eat natural offline - Yes - Thank you Jin-Joo offline - Yes Do not listen? No need to listen well Who's calling? A sister you only Just listen, do not mind Yes - Hello - What color underwear today? - I'm eating - I'm hungry - So you eat more in offline - I? Why are you calling her? Do not joke Do you know his leg so rotten? Recent contact with Soo-Jung? Are probably very busy If not, then... I know, you're annoying like Hyun-Seung You know it's annoying to say? Do not point my nose sticks A few days ago, I had a dream see a beautiful naked girl To this chest, hip to this. Very glamorous Relations from behind I am very excited, both 10 seconds and not stand But I give up easily When turned, her excess did not notice, I gave rhythm And lies on top of her But I accidentally saw her face. Damn Do not know what to say anymore Then what? This is our secret okay His face is His face He groaned hear There are more terrible than what? I've released I dreamed of him but also ejaculation This made me torment forever He is, it is a dream ass Hello, this is the phone number Hyun-Seung silly Hello? My friends joke Is his voice Seok-Woon? Hello Honey, you lied to me once? What? Why you ask? I'm just asking, is not it? Do you? Delicious meal in a restaurant, can not be happy back home? I just want us to honest with each other only Recently, I do not know anything of his After I resigned, work in his company? Why? Should he beat a report for you? I did not mean it Yoon-Jung, recently we not arguing, not that good? Just once not argue, the latter may continue to do so It turns out that we are continuing to Going with her boyfriend So-Yeon called me today Really? She said what? Her appointment That is not good? I feel a little afraid to see her See a So-Yeon standing next to another man Did not know she was So-Yeon I know in 7 years I know that feeling Compared with the feeling that the enemy traitor At first look then feel alienated After So-Yeon to break up with him, proactive contact with him? No. This is the first time But I have to find her once Going to find her? Was he ... Drunk and went to find her? Someone reported to the police for harassment He heard here But that should not be, but he need a battle plan - Operations? - Yes To let her forget his silly job After he had become a dashing boy Battle plan called A cool guy Pretty, huh? First, I met five minutes late No, 10 minutes late Have to do to look busy, walked on the phone It's better to talk about the work in the company Well, the director, I have inspection reports Asia and Compared to the previous record the party has no idea what Yeah, I'll call the head of Kim Started the implementation of development plans First... - Hello - What are you doing? Chainsaw girl? Phone with you? Do not forget to always chic View out to replace the phone and then Recently you well? Looks okay? A few days ago, I have met I'm in the theater The girl was with his girlfriend? Well Recently wrote music? Leaving then, to each age understand everything These words he said, I still feel yet available Help you overlooking the fact that I How bad do you really? No, I'm good for you Long time no see or he drinking with a cup offline - So then did not see each other again? - Yes I miss her Choose what song you want? Me brother of Kim Hae Song Next invite you to listen to packaging Miss you Kim Hae Song Whether a day I can not wait That song too Loss of face too, why is that? Farewell then, what to think anymore, right? I'm talking with someone? Why? Meet? The two talk for hours? Now tell her to meet I want to do? Hyun-Seung Are you crying? Do it again Why is that? Beware of the diseases that He was this? In the end what happened? So-Yeon did you say? You did not tell me about your time I know I told her, but she did not laugh Course We had to drink, earlier still very good Suddenly I asked her a question What? Did he asked... I asked her, my boyfriend is how He's very good Money - I think you know her boyfriend for money? He asked that's all More handsome than he His girlfriend big boobs than me As I see also where very large Because she did not deliberately do it to the others That your brother his larger What? Damn it. Then he say? How To? She told not to laugh Sorry, Hyun-Seung - Then what? - At first she did not want to say I have no interest in what it of him, but I still want to know Yeah, she's talking to? Not. Is 23 Damn it. 23 small stars? That is not small. Is the coat of Jordan Right. So-Yeon is a bit too if it was me, I would say less Think of that scene names 23 relationship with So-Yeon, I'm going crazy No problem, the length does not matter which But that's... I asked how she might think I focused on the length of that But the name of her 7892 compared to me? You want to know? I confirmed him to more - What do you want to sing? - Just not a love song - Love songs? - No problem. I do not like to stop Why? The situation is not so trivial cases? Because the story itself love is trivial Meet, know each other, separated Suffering Then meet again People probably hate the continuation of such boring So married Why are you looking at me like that? Nothing Wait a little offline So what should I sing? He said my voice What is appropriate to sing - Moaning voice - What? Like this? This audio or too - Like that? - Why now? Sounds good too Really? Yes it He truly is a genius He continued dedication to music Why? Hyun-Seung I'm sleepy too Wait a little offline Lee Yoon-Jung, Lee Yoon-Jung is not it? Long time no see, glad to see her again Very happy to see her again Why not contact? Everyone misses her there Really? Yes, the last time to see her... Did not she tell by marriage new should resign? Married? - That's it... - It is not? A few years ago there were loud sure going to marry that Mau married. Marriage is great that Now the beginning of this chapter? Besides I'm not very old where If she continues like this, that will dull Now the men conditions or to the age of women So she continued to go to work? She was right Goodness, her eyes... ... are wrinkles? Where is it? Why do not I see? Her friends? He is... You normally only Handsome, I thought was her brother, but I gotta go, I came here to work - Is meeting with partners. Keep in touch offline - Yes. Get along Who is it? Because of her, I did not attend the class meetings. Come - Sorry - What is it? Why? Let him I'm not you but her fiance I followed her a few years ago she agreed to Yoon-Jung my house is very shy - Marriage is also where the proud - Yes Congratulations to her Thank you I did not say all that You mean what they say hurry up I you do That? I said quickly then finish fast offline She is very bad Is precisely the same as a sea turtle that I was the one who hit that He is my guardian? Do I need to say sorry? Sorry, I'm wrong Sorry Because I think not caring What is it? No need. You do not need to say sorry What makes me angry is... She says is not wrong at all. It's frustrating Themselves frustrated then she would be more comfortable? Was all she said her reason, her own that she felt she was only poor Who does not love myself star reception and love others? These words because he said it was strange Maybe my recent angered many women and In the beginning I always a mindful that I say again She was indeed a cute and sexy that women At least better than the other sea turtle Pain? Pain, but was slapped on this side Damn Next time I'll write an article non-trivial love songs for you to hear When I look into your eyes I see a lot of things For him When you touch me ...to try feel I've been here Why? From time to time? Indeed only love write new songs like What are you talking about? - Do not pretend anymore - After all is a new one for? - What to Buy? - Beer This is good God has said, new love can help us forget the old people Do not talk much anymore, Soo-Jung? Looks like I misunderstood her She morning to go to school, evening commute, I do not know - I decided next month will fly over it - Really? The boy is happy and Now whether money sex is not Moans pretend False sentiment Exploited all my feelings Damn I wanted to love I wanted to love Do not move okay Do not do that - Do not do it in front of my house - Like new, more stimulating than Seung-Joon stop I sure do not want that, you copy? Sorry Sorry Seung-joon, are you okay? Light off Each time you want to do what that I do not want to quarrel with you I went away We do not see each other again I feel I'm going crazy, we should not be like that Did not we is good friends stars Right? You're right too Now between we are not very stable Because of you, because he too Because of the friendship between our Friendship? Do you see your friends sleep together? Why? He Seung-Joon sure sleep with her because two people are you? Not I understand that. We're also bed because of you that Recently, Yoon-Mi stars that? Before this solitary also told that the These days they are also fine. Just not right there Her condition grew more currencies Difficult to blame, people in the car then buy a ticket, so my turn to be Should I break up? I'm just saying that At parting with women, psychological need to prepare Do not like me, do not prepare nothing was left He certainly Soo-Jung with others? German is the men? Do not they spend a German sausage Damn it, you shut up Want to do me? Yes, go find them delicious German sausage I told him to shut up that Mau sorry to go I am not sorry that Say what? Bastard This time I'll introduce you, I know a guy open karaoke Although not luxurious nightclub Girl there? Go - Hello - I do not want to be friends - You sure you do not want to be friends - What did you say? Hello Hello I do not hear the phone? Little bit more Did not he have something to say? Say What are you doing there? Hello Hello Hello What are you doing? - Hello - Do not joke - Hello - Hello Say I'm not the owner phone number, right? I'm her boyfriend. Who are you? He is her boyfriend? After all, who are you? How do you know my number? Even asked? Do you know girlfriend or call me? I'm 7895, she on or press the wrong number is what? Today I have another misunderstanding, you know? She does not know how to use the keyboard? That? I do not know Because his girlfriend just sent the wrong So today I got message from kissing The other night my phone. The phone for her Please calm down Now I can calm down? Do you know the mood My now what? Do you know? Damn Ok, so I changed some other Too noisy, shut up. Now there is no alcohol here I feel lately seemed to have been changed You're a fool that Said he would think wild? Now it's okay Yoon-Jung, I'm sorry He told sorry so. Why did not you say anything so You do not need to apologize also Yoon-Jung Yoon-Jung Yoon-Jung Yoon-Jung, because I love you so new you like A few days ago he had prepared. Hopefully I can be more fun I'm over here Recently he came to understand many things If you need a side he will be children Today thank you very much He proposed to me then I have this big before but also fight arrested  Are you injured? Strange too, I do not believe I've been here I also think you will like Soo-Jung? I do not have the 3rd person. We broke up before He also said Just broken up he finished familiar person, is not different from each other at all Not only his own suffering At that time, I also very painful It was the most painful since he was born A few weeks later, I often cry alone A few weeks? Did you know that because of you, I have done so many stupid things? I know. Error due to children Not your fault Today his mood is not good, words seem a bit heavy I know you are a good girl, do not know who I'm with I'm still a good girl I broke it Because I can not forget you - There are a lot of good maps - More than Recently strange, at first I kept asking to marry that Now dream of becoming reality is not fun? No, I feel tired He Seung-Joon delays lot years and then, suddenly rush to do? It was my brother-in-law that Please see the Of course I had to invite her Yoon-Mi, give her the key. Little bit more of my with mother sits taxi offline You have come to a place. She will pay for car You have the money Thank you You, but I do not know what it is But I always support you She stars? Hyun-Seung Hello Hello She is So-Yeon? I heard him speak about her many times before, nice to meet you Finally two together. Congratulate him Find you have anything? Right. I forgot Beng away. Watch for them at all Watch this I print wedding cards and Add sugar should visit gave him always Congratulate Yes Ms. So-Yeon also come and for fun There are many delicious dishes The shrimp to stop at known as crab imperial Crab, king crab, shrimp lobster is Yes Lobster shrimp I have to go Two very good value pairs that Must respect each other offline Come on What we eat him? Or eat pasta offline If you do not want to eat bread, eat it Whatever dish Or soup Is not he like to eat tuna soup? Then drink a little hot alcohol I'm sorry I'm sorry Of love itself is... A very tasteless Meet, know each other Broke, suffering Then meet again If you do not want pointless it again People decide to get married So beautiful Finally to the wedding day and then Really beautiful Hello We capture offline Take us a plate type Come We have to come true? This tour is for anyone, motherfucker? What if today you're at home, why suicide? We have to live in the sins of the whole world there You can not say kind words at all? I love What is it? Not only have we? I like with you? Honey, wait? Here than what I'm good too Eat this Today girlfriend who married? I do not mean to tell her where Looking at him I want to give a punch It turned out that he. Poor real Know each other through phone sex? Hey, lady Told not as you think so Now you mad at me? No, he was angry in particular? That's not goodbye What is it? They do not like our relationship So our relationship is like? Of course, love and relationships You with me? Why are you've never heard him say Must use its mouth? - Was he not your brother? - Yes I'm not with you... ...sleep together already? Because I like you But he never spoke me words like Hey, do you want to do that? I want to go home He knew then - I love you, I love you - Really? I love you So why are you so small? I love you. Love you. Love you to death I love you. I love you I love you. I love you Hyun-Seung He's crazy Offers the bride and groom entered the hall Buck Hyun-Seung Or too Handsome boss Mau stop Hyun-Seung The two soul congenial As each of grace heaven Love each other dearly Crazy Hurry up He is going to destroy family happiness of others Sub-element name, what are you doing? Even if you prefer, I also never told her Use your phone says A phone call away People This is a perfect couple See the snake on the head? - Sorry - In this place There is a group sing This... The group also sing I was late. Sorry The following songs, I would be donated to the beautiful bride Like a wind, a sudden blow to the Kiss in a heartbeat As a rain suddenly fell The other end echoing laughter Or so. This is the song Like a wind, a sudden blow to the In his hand is my chest On my butt is his pants The other end echoing moans Please tell me what color my panties Let him see my panties Let him watch the color of it Things inside her pants it makes people curious Are you crazy? Who is it? Are you familiar? Who is he? - Two people familiar? - I miss you You're crazy Want to die? Quickly pull them out Damn it, let go of me This first home You explain to me what this is? Who is he? Who sleep with me What are you doing? Are you crazy? I'm sorry Because I do not feel guilty So I feel guilty Yoon-Jung You replace I answered him okay Should I feel guilty? What? Close your eyes do not prove you are blind child Not true Pretend to be blind Very sad that Mournful, do you know that? Invite woman on the bed to his wedding He found very refreshing? Said then... The two sides are at fault This is a legitimate defense that the mother Not Not like that She should just get drunk few uncontrolled In his eyes, she is nothing This boss I think I like him so new that? At that time his constant drinking begged me so I agreed Wait Said... The two slept together? As it happened before his familiar The two know each other? So that the ancients did not agreed about love in the office - Bastard - Yoon-Jung Yoon-Jung Bastard Noona I yelled at him a bastard, map crazy also He did not know cause loss how to you No Thank you for helping me ruin the wedding this silly Thanks to you both After many years... You can find their ego I love you I will never words like that anymore I love you Okay Be Okay Yes Done Let go Beautiful Noona She was grateful we were both born there What is it? Outside the snow is great, weather Will cause nostalgia rush Old time memories will slowly rushed to This Ready? I use her name to call offline What should I do? Nervous Of this position increasingly disrespectful - Each week the program Masuri - So who becomes infinite substitution? Composer does not have the most basic century Lee Hyun-Seung Hello, I'm DJ's Radio Masuri, Lee Hyun-Seung Hello The week will sing program Masuri is... Ms. Lee Jin-joo ...in the new, very special song This is a very special song I know the story composed this song - It was sitting next to me - Lm We did connect with her Lee Jin-joo Hello Ms Lee Jin-joo Hi Ms Lee Jin-joo Hello Hi Ms Lee Jin-joo The song that she will sing today is... Is a song by Lee Hyun-Seung this writing, is not it? Yes Meaningful lyrics Very good right? Austerity I know We will listen to the arrangements You prepare sing now Like a wind, a sudden blow to the Kiss in a heartbeat As a rain suddenly fell The other end echoing laughter Map crazy, perverted She is pervert, the Tomb child neglect Like a wind, a sudden blow to the Rushed into my heart regrets Always told me to reason, do it yourself you pathetic alone People that do not love yourself Who can receive and love but Hyun-Seung The other line fell silent Please show me your heart Please tell me the secret of his Let me see that love Sincere feelings What is it? Aunt Lee Jin-joo? I think love songs are mediocre Love Itself is very trivial But that song is not My panties That Privacy is something inside the pants it makes people curious Well, it was a special confession She is still on the ...she wants to confess? No I told you would never believe him again Then ended up going But... missed as he said I'm sorry he also wanted to end? If he heard of this program I wanted to tell him - I also... - Wait Now What are you wearing panties? Damn it. Text and Now we will start the music program Mau open up music Pants pink lace Well, let's start to pop music
