 

                        1 It's 8:34 in the AM. It's getting warm outside Good Morning, everyone! Welcome to this morning's show. I'm your host, Sky! We're honored to have the new godfather of Hong Kong cinema Jeff Sin of Outstanding Productions here with us Hi, Jeff! Good Morning! Jeff, your Chinese New Year film last year was a huge hit What's your next move? Thank you We're planning our next Chinese New Year film now We'll cast a new actress for the female lead It'll be a fresh face for the audience That's great news! I hope all of you paid attention because you may be that next big star! How much will you invest into the film? We will invest HK$89 million into this production The talented Kar Wai is already on board as our director That's exciting news! That's all the time we have today Thanks to Jeff for coming on the show We're looking forward to more great Hong Kong films from him Of course! Tune in the same time next week for the latest movie news We'll be right back. Stay tuned If I have the chance to star in a film, I would... Stand aside, Dreamy! My name is Ki Chu, not Dreamy Dreamy, as in Daydreaming. Do you understand Cantonese? Go daydream somewhere else. Do you get what I'm saying? This chair is for the lead actress! Ching Yu! Please take a seat! You look so nice today! Daydreamers should go home. We're trying to work here He's not going to cast a new actress It's just publicity Who would spend $80 million on a new face? Whore Number One, in position! Where is she? Here! What are you doing? Get changed! Got it! Hurry! Don't look down on the entertainment beat We made these stars into who they are today Who exposed the two-faced and the liars? Entertainment reporters are also out for the truth! Don't lie! Isn't it still tabloid paparazzi work? I have a journalism degree from Chinese University. With honors! Get a rookie for a job like this I belong on the battlefield One day, I'll follow the footsteps of my idol Robert Capa My photos will be revolutionary. Stunning I'll be like those foreign journalists I'll come home with my head held high, adored by all! I was just like you once. I competed in a beauty pageant If I hadn't lost to that bitch Spinach Lin, I wouldn't be here! Wait! Don't leave! Let me finish A cleaning lady can dream, too! You're in love with the Twelfth Master. Just deliver the tea to him Got it! I will bring out my Audrey Hepburn smile and follow the Stanislavki method Go inside out and outside in to attract his attention I don't give a damn what you use Just give him the tea and flirt with him I don't know anything about flirting I don't care! Just do something! Director Hi, Mr. Sin! Tell me about this scene It's a great scene! We haven't started yet, but we will soon What brings you here today? You haven't started? Yo! Can we get started! What are we waiting for?! Where's the AD?! Here! Didn't you hear me say hurry up? Excuse me As we discussed last time, can we increase the budget? In today's market, HK$20 million isn't a lot Ready! Here we go! Roll Sound! Sound speed! Stop! Stop! Stop! Shift right to get a better angle of my face. I'll concentrate better Also, I'm not Tony Leung. Focus on my nose, it's where the drama lies Come on, act smart. Let's go again! OK, let's go! And... action! Here's the pipe, Twelfth Master! Yu Fa, I don't... Cut! What are you doing with your eyes, Whore Number One?! We have to go again because of you! For you! Forget it Let's go again! Screw it. Give me two tight shots instead I don't want to see Whore Number One again Back to positions Action! Here's the pipe, Twelfth Master Don't leave me, Yu Fa! Ahh!! Ahhhhh!!!! Ahhhhhhh!!!!!! Cut! What the hell? Just play what you're asked to play. Why are you acting up? Where did you find this girl? Forget it Lunch time!!! Why the hell is the door opened? Your shit doesn't stink? Get out! You'll fall for me in 15 seconds That's not how you do it. I'll show you You'll fall for me in 15 seconds Hey! Are you listening to me? I put my heart into today's scene, but I was mocked in return You know? We're called a dying industry because of people like them When I become a star, I'll change everything My life is already changed before you can change the industry I got transferred out of breaking news Don't be sad. It'll be OK, right? Yeah, it'll be OK, right? You're still a journalist Hey! Hey!! Hey!!! You can't drink soda just because you're happy. You're out of shape You were an athlete when we started dating You had such a romantic wedding proposal Now, look at you. You're a mess You men are so unreliable Hmph... what do you know? This is the fashionista look of the season Hmph! What about you? Look at yourself You said you were an innocent village girl when I met you You even said you could paint and play the pipa Look at you now! You're daydreaming about being a star We moved in two weeks ago. Look at all this stuff Why haven't you unpacked? Your idol is all over the floor! Poor her Oh, what happened? I'm really sorry He's here! Hello, everyone Mr. To, will you take off your underwear at your next show? Tell us something! How do you feel about this round of Israel-Palestine peace talks? It's a good thing! World peace is good, right? But state media isn't very optimistic about it We should all be a little optimistic. Anything can happen A few more questions, Mr. To? What a great reporter What kind of question was that? Cut! Show me the take You can come watch the playback, Ching Yu Sure Don't move! We need continuity I love these water beads. Good. OK! We're wrapped for today Great! Jeff, you're my favorite film executive You're young, hardworking, and you have the good taste to hire me You're my favorite director, too, Kar Wai Ha ha! I want you to make an innovative film Something that will break new mold for Hong Kong cinema Sounds great! I have this story that I've wanted to tell for a long time I didn't want to sell it to just anyone I want to give it to someone who can appreciate it. That's you! You're the beacon of hope for Hong Kong cinema This is the start of something great, Jeff! Ha ha! So, when do I get the deposit check? Can you see me, honey? Of course I can. You're not a ghost Why? You know, every character of a film is important You can't call BBQ pork without rice a BBQ pork rice You can't call cart noodles without noodles a cart noodle Uh-huh What are you trying to say? Why does everyone treat me like I'm invisible on set? Those people are just vain They won't acknowledge you if you're not a star Those stars are two-faced liars. You don't belong in that industry Why? Do you know how to make the boss happy? You think they like you for your talent? They just like your... ...body Hey! I don't believe the whole world is like that You worked hard for everything you've achieved. Right? Right Not everyone approved of our marriage back then No one believes that a toad can jump to the clouds But you worked hard to marry me This is the fruit of your labor So, where is the fruit of your house cleaning labor?! Ah! I knew you'd get that New Year film lead role! Congratulations, Ching Yu! It's not confirmed yet. I don't want anyone feeding lies to reporters for attention I'm in a good mood today. Lunch is on me! Thanks so much, Ching Yu! That's so nice of you Thank Ching Yu for her kindness! Why? She's buying lunch! Thanks, Ching Yu! Let me get the orders Red bean drink, extra red bean! Got it Do! Re! Me! Who are you? ...Whore... What? ...the Whore... Oh, the hooker! We have replaced you What? Go talk to Baldy. He'll pay you Another fallen star in the film industry - Hello - Excuse me, are you Ki Chu? That's me I'm calling from Outstanding Productions My boss Jeff would like to meet you. Are you free? I am. Very free! When? Where? I'll be there right away Hello, Miss Chu. I'm Jeff Sin Jeff Sin? I know you Please, just call me Jeff I had to make some changes, so I took out your role... What did I do to you? Do you think this is musical chairs? You think you can control us like puppets because you're rich? Please leave us, Judy Sit down, Miss Chu Fine Aren't extras people, too? You can't just kill an actors' dream because you have the power to! Do you think that you represent the film industry? All of society? All of Hong Kong? Everyone in Hong Kong likes me. Just ask around I have a Facebook page. Do you know how many likes it has? ...Yes, it only has about 20, but at least people like me! Do you know how important extras are? We put our all into every line we have, every chance we get Do you know? We lack a new generation of talent. Did you ever give us a chance? A film uses an average of 20 background actors When Hong Kong made 300 films a year, we needed 6,000 extras Do you know what that means? That's 6,000 chances! Now, there are only 40, 50 films a year. How many chances did we lose? You fire people on a whim. Did you think of our feelings? People like you are killing Hong Kong cinema Haha... Miss Ki Chu, are you done? I'm done Please sit down You may have failed as an extra How about a lead role? But it comes with a condition Do you have a reservation, sir? Why? There are empty tables all over We require a reservation. It's how we know that you're meant to be here Meant to be here? Hi, table for two under Chu Please follow me Why are you dressed like that? Shush! Why are you dressed like that? Shush! You're the loud one. What's going on? Is today an anniversary? Why the expensive meal? This meal is on me. Don't worry It's on you? Did you win the lottery or lose your sanity? Neither Today... my boss offered me a lead role! Isn't that better than winning the lottery? Shouldn't we celebrate? That sounds too good to be true Did you have to do anything? You can't have Why would you sell yourself for a lead role? Do you remember that you're married? Now you think I'm the invisible one? Shh! It's not what you think The company just forbids me from dating. No rumors, either That's it? That's easy No dating and no scandals... That's fine with me But you have to help me I told you, it's fine I'll dress nicer. No more slob! Do you get what I'm saying? If they won't let me date, why would they let me get married? That's why you have to help me You have to help Are you ready to order? We're not hungry. Just get us two glasses of water One normal, one with the star What's the water with the star? You know, the French one with carbonation! With an S S... What's after that? Do you mean San Pellegrino? But that comes from Italy, not France Oops... hahaha What's the water with the star? How pretentious I'm a star now I have to act like one. That means my water needs a star on it Cheers! You're really something Hi, Ching Yu Hi, everyone You're all early. Thank you all! Ching Yu! Congratulations. That lead role is definitely yours! I hope you're right. You get an autograph for being so sweet Really? Does anyone have a pen? Here! Thanks I'll sign here - I'll do it now - I want it too! But my shirt is in black... - It doesn't matter - because I might be too busy to do it later See you later! That's pretty nice, isn't it? Hello! Thank you all for attending our film's press conference As you can see, our new film's name is "2047" Let us welcome Mr. Jeff Sin to say a few words for us Hello, everyone. I would like to announce that the talented Kar Wai will direct this year's Chinese New Year film Please welcome Kar Wai! Thank you! Kar Wai Thank you! I want to thank Jeff for his kind offer This $80 million Chinese New Year blockbuster will be made using very innovative technique It will be a groundbreaking experience for the audience I'm excited about this already I'm sure that you all want to know who will be starring in the film Please tell us, Mr. Sin We have also made a very generous offer to cast Miss Ching Yu Please welcome Ching Yu! Hi! Thank you, everyone Thank you for your support. I won't disappoint you... Thank you for taking up the supporting role in this film, Ching Yu! Who can it be? Who's the lead, then? Who will be playing the lead role, Mr. Sin? The lead role for our film will be played by Ki Chu, a new actress! Please welcome Ki Chu! Hello... Congratulations! You really have a great eye for new talent, Jeff! Let's get together for a group photo! Please get closer Over here! This way! Please pose for the center first Over here! This way! Please pose for the left side too Be honest. When can I go back to doing breaking news? If you don't file anything today, you're going to the kids' newspaper! I do have something. I've got a scoop about this girl! What's on going? What scoop? Never mind... Are you confident about your first lead role, Ki? I'm still new to this business. There's still plenty to learn The director is known to be demanding. Will you be able to handle it? I will need guidance from all of you in the future. Thank you all! The new girl! Miss Chu Jeff, you've got something special here Take care of her for me Sure thing Pay special attention to this one Of course I will Are you a trained actor? It's OK. Leave it to me Everyone says that when I'm handed a rookie I give them back a superstar You still have a three-film contract with me You're holding plenty of good stuff, Jeff! What are you doing? Paparazzis can reach you anywhere these days There's always one lurking nearby! Don't say that. You said it yourself paparazzis are journalists, too. This isn't so bad I can be your mole. We definitely won't get caught You're really something! Focus! Get these magazines on the shelf Be careful! People's attention is so fickle nowadays Are you her fan, too? She's so great I'd give up years of my life if my wife is half as pretty as she is $25, please This way, please! Center, please! Come here, Ki Stand closer. That's right. Smile Good. This way. Can we get an interview, Ki? Sorry, our filming schedule is tight, so she's not available right now But I promise that I'll set up interviews for you all later This way, please! Give us a smile, Mr. Sin This is an easy shot, Ki. Once the camera moves, enter the shot here Just keep walking and walking until you reach this spot A vampire will hop out. Just ignore him Keep walking and walking until you're out of the shot, then we cut Actually, once you move, I'll yell cut Once I cut, we can't use it anymore. You get it, right? Do you want me to try it once? Try what? The shot Let me try moving the camera. Once it moves, you enter the shot. OK? OK, try it. Kar Wai, why didn't I know about the title change? What title change? Which film? This film. It's now called Too Old For Satan That was always the title 2047. Sounds like Too Old For Satan Right? That means you've changed it You wanted innovation, Mr. Sin No one has put ghosts in a Chinese New Year film. It's groundbreaking Isn't it? You're right, but he's not wrong, either OK, let's shoot Love working with you Let's try it! Cut! Is it stopped? That camera's stopped, too? OK, all four cameras are stopped! OK! That's good! That's it! Ignore her and keep walking. I'll cut when you're out of the shot We just cut. Sorry. Let's get a more perfect take We'll keep this. Let's go again Kar Wai... I want to say... What's up? I thought I got a major supporting role. Why am I a hopping vampire? A major supporting role can't hop? That's crazy! Haven't you seen Vamp Night? Or was that Twilight? Anyway, it's the one with vampires and wolves They're all leading roles And they were spectacular in it. You can be, too Ignore her at all costs. Let's go again This way! This way, Ki! Let me take a look Who the hell is that? Sit somewhere else. You're scaring people Get out of the way. This seat is for Ki! That's your chair, Ki. It's the lead actress chair Go away. Why are you sitting so close? Go on! Something is blinding me. What is it? Because there's a bright star in here, right? That's right! I hear popping sounds, too It's because your skin is so fair and delicate that it pops. Am I right? That's right! You have such fine skin. Can I touch it? It's so smooth Isn't she beautiful? She is! Such smooth skin, right? That's right! What about me? The boss is here! He's so hot, just like George Lam! Boss! Ki, a cosmetics brand asked for you to be their spokesperson What? Really? Why? Because you're worth it Boss! Your company owns so many brands. There must be one for me I do, Ching Yu. How about the dog food that's edible for humans? Wow! Sure! I'm a good pet owner Sometimes I would try the dog food before feeding it to my doggie I'll do it! Honey, it's my parent's wedding anniversary soon The family is getting together. Remember to show up! Sure. We definitely have to celebrate that Let me take care of the venue! Hello? I have a scoop! Ki Chu is already married It's totally true. I heard it myself This would be a hell of a headline if it's true I can see it already "The married girl next door." It will be the talk of the town! We just need to find the husband We'll hold the report until she's done with her cosmetics ad Then she'll really have hell to pay I'm so excited just by the thought of it! That sounds cruel, Ching Yu Who's that? I'm William Chan! William Chan? Never mind. Your magazine has a reporter named Mo Lai Just send him over I'll make sure that he finds the evidence on set! We have a deal, Ching Yu! I want to burn fat! Just eat properly. Can you stop for a second? You already eat too loudly. Now you won't sit still. It's not good for you Look at how you eat! It's disgusting You should read more in your free time, broaden your horizon. That's what it takes to be a war reporter! What do you know about being a war reporter? It takes courage to be on the battlefield You can't get that from a book! Besides, reading and eating BBQ pork are unrelated! My eating noise and exercise are unrelated, too! It's my first ad! It's natural to be nervous! Fine, fine. Hello? I just got an exclusive: Ki Chu is married! What, really? Ki Chu is already married?! That's amazing. I'll snoop around tomorrow OK. We'll talk tomorrow. Bye! What are you sitting there for? You have to hide How can I go out in this getup? This is nuts! This is an exclusive scoop. Follow Ki Chu 24 hours a day Find out who her husband is This is gonna get us record sales Well... A journalist's job is to uncover the truth. What's the problem? How is this different than reporting from the battlefield? You're right... but... I understand! Are you for real? "Find Ki's husband, and I vow that you will return to breaking news" I'll keep this safe, so you can't go back on your word A deal is a deal! Come here, Ki Let's talk about the shoot. I want you to interact with the horse And I want you to push away your hair more Do you have any questions? No Really You have a message, Ki Sorry! No worries Don't worry, only Tat and I know about this And I'm the one assigned to it. It'll be OK Thank you! Smile! Why are we robbing this place? There's no one here! There won't be anything to steal The internet says rich people come here because it's well-hidden - Who are you here with? - Dad. - Are we in the wrong room? - Mom. Sis Dad. Mom. Sis Is this fashion? I saw a table of people dressed like you on the way in That's an interesting trend One movie, and you're already a big star? You should marry a rich man, like me What's wrong with your brother? That's not what I mean. I'm just saying, when I go to parties I hire Maggie Cheung's makeup artist. She earns ten grand per job You should pick up a specialty. You can be a famous makeup artist It's better than acting! Let's eat. Have a chicken head. It's your favorite! Do you know what today is, honey? It's our wedding anniversary! No, it's your son's graduation! Don't you have to take a lot of photos at school? You've loved photography since you were little You haven't paid this month's allowance, son! Right... right... Son Tell me if you two need money I can consider helping you... you are my little brother, after all Uh-huh... That's right! You haven't given me this month's allowance too! Mom, I gave you $10,000 earlier this month But that was last month! Last month? Let me go out and think... Where do you think you're going? She already paid me last month? Your buddies are robbing the place! What?! This is a robbery! There will be cops! And reporters! We'll be exposed! What are you doing? We gotta go Corning home tonight? Remember to give us a call if you're not! Since when did they change their jobs? This way! Get outta here, bro! Carry me! Do you remember that we ran a marathon hand in hand? We did? When was that? I knew it! You men are so forgetful! What are you doing? I'm looking for curry chicken Who would eat the lunchboxes if everyone's peeked into them? Are you done? I'll take this box. Sorry... That was good Really? What would you like to eat, Miss Chu? Would you like something different? No, thanks Whoa! What is that? Did you arrange this? I didn't ask for it Hey,you! Sorry... sorry What the hell are you doing? We're filming. Can't you be a bit more discreet for a paparazzi? And don't make up any fake rumors! Go away! I'm sorry... sorry... sorry... Don't screw it up! That's the line! Did you hear that? That felt so genuine. "Don't screw it up!" You took that to a new level. Tell the writer to add it in This is the feeling I want in the next scene. Don't screw it up! Like that, right? Right! What the...! "To find Ki's husband, you have to be her friend first" BBQ pork rice and cart noodles, please. Are you a fan of Ronaldinho? No man can match him in charisma Even though he's gone to Mexico I still believe that I will find a man like him someday Right... Excuse me. Hello, Tat? How's it going? I'm on it... I'm on it... You're on it... How long are you going to be on it? You have to file something I want photos by tomorrow! I'll have it right away! Don't worry! Careful! There's soup in that Let me check Let me check if there's a camera in there. You're becoming a real pro! I'm just doing my job. I need to know if something shady is going on Is Jeff hitting on you? Today, the director asked me what's the most important thing for an actor? Drama! I asked him how I can improve, he said the secret is... Qigong! Qigong will calm the mind and clear the thoughts It'll help me get a handle on my character Haha... A few days ago, you said that's what the star water is for What do you know? Do you want the noodles or the rice? You can choose first tonight! That's nice of you! I had to push you to a corner to get something out of you But at least you finally got something Still, can't you get clearer photos? I'm a war journalist. I belong in war zones Have you ever seen a high definition war photo before? Tell me War zone? This is a war zone! I beg you, get closer next time! As your idol said You're not close enough! Remember, entertainment journalists are also looking for truth Do well, and you can go back to breaking news Get closer! It's almost two o'clock Good, good. Run... that's right Who is it? Who is it? Good work, everyone. Dinner is on the boss tonight! Thanks, our handsome boss! Please sit... next to Ki, of course! You again! What are you doing? I'm just taking photos Are you posing as the stills photographer? I'm done! I got it! Wai, will you get someone to watch the front door! Roger that! Hey! I feel sad for her husband She's getting hit on everyday, and he has no idea What a pitiful excuse of a man What did you say? Why are you mad? I wasn't talking about you Go and find Ki Chu's husband! Let him know what the real Ki Chu is like so he can turn a new leaf It's late. Have you eaten? The executives were upset that their holiday film looks like a horror film So Jeff took me to dinner and asked me for advice So... you've eaten Hey! I just heard that the company will announce a new director tomorrow I hear that they've hired Ang Lee! Oh... I have an exclusive Unfortunately, our director Kar Wai has left the project due to personal reasons. We're looking for a suitable replacement now Mr. Sin, rumor has it that Kar Wai was fired because he turned a holiday movie into a horror film. ls that true? Or did you fire Kar Wai because the two of you were fighting over Ki Chu? Please tell us the truth! Can you tell us something? I will not respond to absurd rumors Are you after Ki Chu or not? I have photos! Wow! Who do you work for? I will pursue legal action I'm from Nine Magazine Please tell us, are you dating Ki Chu? Tell us something! We're done here I have the photos! Give us a response! Please respond, Mr. Sin! Hi, Mr. Chan. It's Jeff from Outstanding Productions How about this? In addition to the cash, you get an exclusive interview for my next film Just make what happened at the press conference go away Good. We have a deal. Thank you! What happened to the report about Jeff and Ki? I was told last night that everyone is forbidden to report it No way! Why? Why do you ask so many questions? Listen. The entertainment beat isn't easy It's even tougher than breaking news Just put your effort into finding Ki's husband! Aren't you Ki Chu? My daughter loves you Right, honey? Who is she, Mommy? Ki Chu! You talk about her everyday! Sorry, my daughter must be too excited to remember Let's take a photo! It'll help freshen her memory Sure Sir, can you take a photo for us? Oh, you're not a Chinese? Can you take a photo for us? A half-body shot is fine. Sorry... a half... half. Thanks A half-half-half shot? Right, half-half One, two Wow! Great photo! Really? Let me see What the fuck? You asked for a half-half-half photo I did as you asked. Is it my fault? Women are such troublesome creatures! Sorry, sorry, sorry I'm sorry for your trouble Thank you! You're really beautiful! Half is better than none, right? What's so funny?! I look like this because of you I don't even look human I have a different disguise everyday. This isn't a normal life I'm going to need an assistant and a makeup artist, like you I'll need my own minivan, too! That's real funny... You don't understand me I'm not young anymore I finally have a chance to pursue my dreams And all I get is resentment Ahhhhh!!! Uh-huh... uh-huh I was worried that your life would be affected if people know about us You didn't know that I did this for you You're right... I didn't know that But, think about it I'm supposed to have a wife, a family and freedom, but I don't have them! I don't care! You have to agree to one more thing What is it? One of us has to go out two hours later than the other. Then no one will suspect us Two hours? Yup! Now get changed and go out for shopping Why? What am I buying? BBQ pork rice and cart noodles! Fine Wait! Can you dress up as Do Min Joon? These photos were taken by a Nine Magazine journalist named Mo Lai He says he's already found your husband Are you married, Ki? No Does Nine Magazine have a vendetta against you? Why do you ask that? That Mo Lai took out photos of us at the press conference and accused us of dating! You're early today I bought you a new wallet Oh. Thanks Your editor doesn't force you to follow me anymore? No. The new director of your film is the hot topic now, not you Honey Would you ever sell me out? Of course not! Why has Ki disappeared from the magazines? That's normal. She's not a superstar. Just another shooting star passing by What do you know? You don't know what you're talking about! You're a Ki Chu fan? So am "Support Kar Wai's vision. Boycott the new director's version" "Support, like" Kar Wai! Kar Wai! Kar Wai! "I'll boycott the movie if they replace the director" "Change the director? Are they nuts?" "That pisses me off so effing much!" "I support Too Old For Satan!" "Why don't they hire Ang Lee, then?" What does everyone think about replacing Kar Wai? What was that title? Too Old For Satan? Who would want to see a film with that title? I've reviewed the contract. The company won't suffer any loss from replacing the director But it will affect our public image Honestly... I think that we shouldn't have hired a new actress We lose box office guarantee, and it's a tough sell Am I right, Shirley? Sorry, I only handle foreign films. Aren't you from Hong Kong, Shirley? You're all from Hong Kong, and yet you don't support local cinema Why are any of you working in film? Aren't we supposed to support local culture? I hired Kar Wai because I believe in his innovative thinking I think we should respect the filmmaker's vision I chose Ki Chu because I think she has real potential We only make 40 to 50 films a year now The chances of finding new talent is slim. If we can't take up that mission then Hong Kong cinema won't stand a chance! Get ready, everybody! What? What are you doing? I haven't heard from you in ages! Now it's more than the husband Jeff is involved now Can't you be a more professional paparazzi? Can't you be a more professional paparazzi? I gave Tat so many scoops, but he hasn't published them What do you think her husband looks like? Is he buff? No way Is he handsome? I don't think so He probably isn't wealthy too I'm guessing that he looks like a toad How can that toad reach the clouds? Do I really look like a toad? My wife isn't that vain She's not obsessed with looks We didn't date for very long before getting married but I know her. She's not materialistic I'm not as rich or handsome as Jeff but I have ambitions and smarts, right? And I don't look like a toad at all Breeeaaaking newwwwwssssss! Tonight, Jeff and Ki Chu will... Please speak faster, Ching Yu! I know you know that I'm not Ching Yu They will be at Jack's Restaurant in Lei King Wan tonight You know what to do! Hey, honey This commercial shoot is running late I won't make it home for dinner OK Are you ready, Ki? Almost. Give me ten minutes! No problem, take your time Poser! He probably stole that from a movie I know you like BBQ pork rice and cart noodles So I hope you'll like what I've prepared tonight She's changed... It's over... Thank you for your kindness, Jeff But I only want to think about my career at this stage What if I'm stopping all your work from tomorrow? Fine! If I have to be your girlfriend to have a career then I don't want one I don't want to trade something for work Good. I love your personality! You won't sell yourself out to get what you want Ki. I officially announce that I intent to go after you He's gone too far! Fine! Honey? Are you done with work? I don't want to talk about it right now. I'll tell you when I get home How dare you hang up on me? Cheers! Come on! It's go time! Be careful Thank you Be careful, Ki Good night Mr. Sin! Are you Ki's boyfriend now? Were you already going after her when you cast her? We clearly saw you kiss Ki. What is your relationship? Please calm down, everyone I just drove Ki home after dinner The kiss you just saw was a polite goodbye kiss What is your relationship, exactly? Ki is my employee, and I am her boss Is that all there is to it? Can you be more clear? Did you cast Ki because you wanted to go after her? Or did you just want to sleep with her? Was this a case of the "casting couch"? Watch your mouth! There was a rumor that Ki is already married If that's true, then this makes you a home wrecker! Listen. I admit that I like Ki Chu Did you hear that? He says he likes you! You think he likes you for your talent? He just likes your body Stop it! I remember you You handed in doctored photos to Tat and said that she's married You handed in doctored photos to Tat and said that she's married Good thing that I stopped the publication in time or you would've destroyed Ki's reputation! I've asked Ki. She said that she's not married! Of course she wouldn't admit it She loses the role if she does Where's your proof that Ki is married? I have proof! I'm her husband! I'm Ki Chu's husband! Shoot me! You've been searching for me, right? I am your boss! I'm her husband! Shoot me! Let's go Toady is reaching for the sky He's crazy! I'm her husband! That's toady, isn't it? No way You made the cover! Don't run away Have a copy on me. It's normal to land on the cover My wife used to be a star, too. She is also on this week's cover! See! Here, take it! Take a photo with me! "Reaching for the sky: Crazed fan claims to be Ki's husband." "Find Ki's husband, and I vow that you will return to breaking news" What do you have to say? What do I have to say? There is nothing to say You know what I want to say Everything's changed since you got this role Our live has changed. Our relationship has changed My life has changed Are you happy now? Why should I be happy? Should I be happy about a husband who doesn't understand me? You still remember that you have a husband? When you hid away your ring Do you know how terrible your husband felt? I don't think you see me as your husband! When did I do that?! I can't wear my ring because of my work When have I neglected my duties as your wife? Except for that fried egg you made before our wedding You've never cooked for me I always have to get BBQ pork rice or cart noodles I'm sick and tired of them! I told you I wanted soda, fried chicken, hamburgers But you won't let me eat them! It's for your own good! They're unhealthy! So you won't let me eat anything unhealthy You say I should read more because I need to broaden my horizon Guess what? I can write my own book now It'll be called "My Wife is a Superstar" I'll put my experiences in there! I didn't know you were so dissatisfied with this marriage What about me? Have you ever considered how I feel? Do you know how I survived these few years? I apologize at the end of every argument! Why don't you do that for me? Do you know how many men wanted me? I ignored my family, my friends They said some really nasty things, but I insisted on marrying you You don't know how much I sacrificed for you! You want to compare sacrifices? Look! I made sacrifices too! My dream is to be a war reporter Do you know what you, this family and this salary turned me into? A paparazzi! The people that you superstars call dogs! We're just making a living! Do you have to treat us like that? If you actors just lead clean, normal lives then we wouldn't have anything to write about! What's wrong with you? Of course something is wrong with me! I'm a toad! Everyone in the world knows that I'm a toad! I have nothing now! It's over! Forget it. Let's get a divorce I don't want to be in your way and I can't go on with this Fine. When will we sign the papers? For your sake We'll wait until your movie is done I don't want to kill your superstar dream, Miss Chu! Thank you, Mr. Lai! "Try as I might, the ridicule won't go away" "We've finally lost each other" "We've lost our grip on each other" "Our troubles aren't fun and games anymore" "I thought I wouldn't mind the mocking" "I was weak, even for just a few seconds" "The closer I get, the smaller it seems" "Even as I live in fear" "I refuse to lose it all by bowing to reality" "Everyone says it's impossible" "Everyone says you're too lovely" "Do I trade away my love or my identity for destiny" "I must remain kind, for better or for worse" "I promised to seek a better life for you" "All this honest frog wants" "is a kiss" Hahaha... Haha... How can you laugh, Tat? I'm in this because of you You're the one who wants to be like Robert Copa Get closer, get good photos You really got close enough I told you to find her husband, not become her husband You really didn't have to go this far It's true that we make news up... but why didn't you consult me when you made that up? Calling me her husband would've been more convincing, right? Don't worry. People will forget the name Toady very soon! Go and find some news to blow this one over People will forget about you soon Where am I supposed to find news? Keep following Ki and Jeff, of course! Remember our motto, uncover the truth! Say no more. Go! I'm not trying to teach you anything, but let me show you What a shot! What an exceptional director! What's the film called? You don't know the name of the film? It's called "Guilty" It was such a huge hit that it was impossible to get a ticket What's the Chinese name, then? See Fi! Hello? Yeah, it's done. You can come watch it anytime It's great! See ya Look at that. She's been putting on body wash forever Who was that? The producer Why did he call? I answered on your behalf He asked about the marathon anniversary video and said that you're done The marathon anniversary video? Aren't you editing that? You're supposed to edit it You're the one that's supposed to edit that! Action! I didn't let you eat it for your own good! You had it before Why do you need to eat it every day? I've had enough! I've had enough! I want to break up with you! Good take! Perfect! The moment that she broke up with her boyfriend really broke my heart. Tears were flowing! Perfect timing, boss. We're almost done I hope so Let's wrap for the day then We're done! We're done! Are you OK, Ki? You can get your assistant to help you It's fine. I'm used to packing for myself Are you free tonight? Would you like to have dinner with me? Sorry, I'm a bit tired today I think I'll go home and rest Sure. I'll give you a ride Thank you Is everyone capable of hurting others for the sake of their own success? Not everyone, but I'm sure most people are Am I one of those people? Have you ever hurt someone? Yes! You and him By him, do you mean Mo Lai? You don't have to tell me. What you think inside is what matters You can get your assistant to help you It's fine. I'm used to packing for myself Are you free tonight? Would you like to have dinner with me? Look! Those two are up to something. I told you Are you done? Can you give it a rest already? Look! They're always looking at each other on the set. Something's up! I didn't see any of that on the set You're a paparazzi, man! You know how to stir things up Making a mountain out of a mole hill is your specialty, isn't it? Be honest. What did she do to you to deserve this? Why do you have to destroy her? I don't know! I don't want to make up stories anymore I quit I don't care if they're involved anymore! I just want the truth What? We're done, vampire. Can you get off now? Sorry. Thank you Hey Isn't that Ki Chu? Why is he holding her hand? Who cares? No... that's... Toady! Hello? We've got a story! Scene 10, take 56 Waaaaaa!!! Waaaaaaaaaaa!! Cut! Keep this. Let's go again! What can I improve on, sir? That was good, but let's get a better take! Miss Chu, we hear that Toady is really your husband. ls that true? Why didn't you admit it last time? Did you deny it because your company forbids marriage? Or did you deny it because you know Mr. Sin is after you? Please calm down! Ki will answer all of your questions During the press conference at three o'clock. OK? Fine... You two... follow me! What is your relationship with Ki? Answer honestly Ki and I got married two years ago... I'm sorry boss! I know I shouldn't have hid it from you, but... But I knew this was an important opportunity for Ki so I forced her to lie about our marriage. It was my idea Come here You don't have to say anything Let me handle it We'll find out how the toad mananged to reach the clouds Here are our stars for today. Let's see what they have to say Please look here, Miss Chu Over here, please I'm sorry... I'm sorry Ki and I knew each other in secondary school I was after her, so I invited her to the marathon. That's all there is to it Why did you claim to be her husband, then? I got rejected, so I decided to lie about being her husband You just made up the whole thing on your own? That's right. It was all in my imagination I am the toad who was reaching for the heavens It was all my fault I'm sorry about the trouble I've caused I'm very sorry! I'm sorry Mr. Sin, do you have anything to say? Everything is in the open now. They've been through a lot So we're done here for today. Thank you all! This is true love Using any mean to get the one you love and accept your failure Smart man! He's lying! They really are husband and wife! For the media having a photo means having the truth. I have the truth! This is valuable information I got it from my friend at the TV station When they were editing the marathon anniversary video They found this We need some time to process this before we can respond I will have a response for you later today! When? Are you for real? Give me half an hour! We just gave you half an hour. Now you want another? How can I help you, sir? Give me a price, Tat I really can't help you this time, Jeff I told all my fellow journalists that I have proof How can I tell them that it just disappeared? Just give me a price! We are journalists, we have a responsibility to report the truth I sold you those photos last time because I knew they were fake The video is real this time, so I must report it This will be great for sales! I'm sorry! I made you take all the blame Don't say that It was my fault, too I asked myself whether I really did put myself in your shoes Your dream is to become a star Just as my dream is to be a war reporter I neglected your feelings because of my dream I was wrong, too But you'll lose everything if the video is for real You won't be able to act anymore You'll be out of the industry for good I've made some connections during my time here I can always find a job. I can be the tea lady... Tea lady? They make $40,000 to 50,000 a month! Why don't you come back and cook for me instead? What do you mean back? I'm still your wife. We're not divorced I've always wanted to see you do the heart dance for me Since I'm always the one that says sorry You've never done it for me Take out your phone Look At what? Just look Honey! Darling! Now you can see my heart dance whenever you want, right? Thank you, honey! Can I eat french fries and drink soda, then? No way! What would you like to say right now? What I would like to say is... Ki, will you marry me? I wish I can have true love like that too! Can I have your phone number? As all of you can see... That's true love! That's the core concept of this film! I may not have been wearing my ring but I kept it with me all along I never took off my ring, either I promised you that we'd be together forever I just found the ending of my New Year film Blind marathon runners see ghosts after crossing the finish line hand in hand! Great! Let's get this show on the road! Put Ching Yu back in her cage first! Dolly ready? Camera ready?
