 

                        Centuries ago during the times of feudal Japan, armies would fight over control of the failing empire And The Shogun ruled! His personal assassins were known as shadow warriors and they were the most lethal of killers We still exist today But now it's a global market Assassins by trade, we only target men of corrupt and evil ways We are always successful on our missions and we never leave our targets breathing We are the best in our field We are the Shadow Syndicate What are you barking at'? Go check! I'm not gonna miss next time It's okay. Use the whole mag this time. Last time I failed because of you I shouldn't have missed Hey you! Hey come out Something must be wrong They're over there. Go! Shoot! Stop! Where are you going? Come back! Don't leave me here! Good job 9W5 Let's torch this place and move out My father wants to meet you all, one on one You called me here Tatsuo? I am passing over the business to my son With all due respect Tatsuo, There is no question that Ken is the best assassin But he has plans for the Shadow Syndicate... well, that are less than honorable Please reconsider Now times have changed My time is over Now please leave So what do you think about Ken being the new boss? It's the perfect choice. He's the best assassin by far. You know he wants us to target the whole family. I mean that's something we haven't done before. If you want, you have the guy, I'll take the kid and wife. We move out at nightfall. Hey hey you! You can't stay here! You have to leave. I seem to be having trouble with my boat Do you mind giving me a hand? Hey whoa! Whoa whoa mate. My boat - It's not starting. I don't know if it's the battery or what or the engine, Can you get a jumper lead or something, you know I... Get down on the floor Get down Get down! Who are you? Hey! Sam! Don't start the party without me Where's the wife and kid? I took care of them already Good on you! I knew you were one of the boys. Oh please don't! - Come here - Please Daddy - Daddy - No no please don't What! You said you took care of them! No! You! Traitor! I'll take care of you later Calm down Butch, calm- You gotta leave You gotta disappear Thank you There will be others C'mon, let's go May I help you? Sorry, I don't mean to disturb you You are welcome. Please come in. What is your name? My name is Sam, and you? Ca me Phra Mam Be calm, don't be so tense. Make yourself comfortable Put your right hand over your left Breathe in What happened? This man was attacked by a tiger What's this? With this herb, I can help him No, don't touch! This sword has spirit Phra Ajarn spoke about how long time ago, during the Lanna period, there was a great warrior In a battle to protect his kingdom, opposing soldiers overpowered him, and took his life He was so revered by the people that he was immediately cremated so an ancient ritual could be performed to keep his spirit with them From his ashes they forged a blade that would protect them and could not do harm to the ones he loved Phra Ajarn, thank you for all that you have done We welcome all who look for peace How can I ever know peace. I've done such dark things. To find peace, you must look within Thank you Thank you, see you later Oh sorry Oh, sorry You speak English Yes I am Wait! You're the girl that was in the dance earlier Yes, did you like it? Oh yeah it was beautiful Thank you Your first time around here? Yeah, it's the first time Do you like it? It's great, yeah I like it Would you like some drink? Sure One more milk please Thank you - Thank you - It's alright Come, I show you around - My name is Malee - My name is Sam - Nice to meet you - Nice to meet you Look over there, they have something interesting to show you Yeah, go over there Come Sam, there is something I want to tell you What's that? I'm pregnant, 3 months What'? Really? WOW! That's great, what should we name him? If it's a girl, we call her Suree? And if it's a boy, then we'll name him Shiro Q Kay Yeah Yeah! Woo! How did you learn to do that? Watching my uncle when I was a boy. He was a blacksmith. Good Memee Memee - Hi Memee - Hi I've finished this Looks beautiful I cut it like this, is it okay? It's okay, looks nice It's very beautiful - Thank you - Thank you What a beauty You think you can just disappear from us, huh? Did you think you could run away'? Shire, you have 10 be a good boy, okay'? Sam! Stay here, don't go away, okay? Stay here, I love you Shiro And this is for Butch Enough See you in hell Sam! Sam! Sam! Stop it Sam! Come here! Leave me alone Is this you girl? Leave her alone! Sam! Sam No! Let's go Shiro Shiro Shiro Malee The jungle is dark And my enemy tall It's left me feeling weak and naked and terribly small So I cling to the life That came from her death I walk til I'm weary way passed feeling weary not stopping to rest And I won't settle Just to settle the score There's nothing left if there is nothing worth fighting for I cut with the sword Made of spirit and flame Tearing through the terror the darkness getting nearer protecting my name And I won't settle Just to settle the score There's nothing left if there is nothing worth fighting for I've got nothing left if I've got nothing worth fighting for The Shadow Syndicate receives their assignments from a satellite signal that can be accessed from tall buildings and a set of computer codes Together, they're invincible So I will hunt them down, one by one I will show them no mercy and I will slaughter them all I prepared false passports for Shiro and I I cannot leave Shiro with Phra Ajarn The Shadow Syndicate can find anyone, anywhere So the safest place for him, is with me Hey Joseph! Hey Sam! Oh my god, my old friend - Good to see you my old friend - Yeah, good to see you too Hey, that's a cute little boy you got there This is Shire Nice to meet you Shiro, please come have a seat Alright, you're my guest Futoma, bring the tea please Just a minute Can you take Shiro to the back to play with the other kids? Yah, my sister will take care of Shiro She's got like a hundred- I'll be gone for a few days I'll be back as soon as possible, okay? What kind of trouble did you get yourself into this time? So, has everything been arranged? Nevermind, I don't want to know Everything has been arranged Here's the tickets, and you leave 6 o'clock local time And this, is for you After what you did for me, If something happens to me, give this to my boy okay? Q Kay Take care I'll be back in a few days I couldn't take Shiro with me The desert elements would've been too hard on him And so, I must go it alone My first target, is Red He was a mercenary before being employed by the Shadow Syndicate And since Ken took over the business, they will work for anyone who pays a premium Even if it's terrorists Huh! We used to kill terrorists C'mon, come here, c'mon Are you getting everything ready? C'mon, I told you, I told you. Everything was- Yah I'm trying boss, I just talked to them Just take care of it, okay? Tomorrow we have training exercises Okay boss, I'll take care of everything Hey you get m work! Get to work, get to work What the? No, please! No! What the? Who are you?! Sam! But you're... dead? So this is what the Shadow Syndicates do in these days? Training terrorists, killing innocent people? Killing's our business and Ken has opened our market We are making more money than ever before And my wife? You know what happens when you cross the Syndicate Then you're gonna find out what happens when you cross me! I go to Cage's hideout An environment only he's tough enough to survive in Not even the rats stay here Cage was born on the streets, he was raised on the streets, and he rules the streets And tonight, he'll die on the streets How you doing my boy, huh? I'll be right back, okay? I won't be long, I promise Cage! What do you want? You know what I want C'mon! You think you can kill me'? You piece of shit! To find Yo, I go to his home and walk the winding streets of the slum Many here look up to Yo A deadly killer with lots of money To them, he's a hero, a modern day Robin Hood To me, he's a soon-to-be-dead punk C'mon, baby, fight! That's right! I'm betting 2:1 Bring it on! Take your try! See? See? Let them know what you've got Bite! Bite! Woah! the tail's loose! Hey pal, what are you doing here baby Hey you, I'll take care of your child He's dead meat How dare he step on our ground Who does he think he is? What do you say boss? Just look at him I didn't think you would get here so soon Not soon enough! You know I don't like weapons but if you want we can do that Get him - Hey you! - Hey no need, I'll take care of him Watch Let's go Shiro My next target is Yak More of a monster than a man People in his homeland believed he was a tree ghost He's not a ghost But when I'm through with him, he will be Sh, sh, R's okay Shire, daddy's here Hush little baby, don't say a word Daddy's gonna buy you a mocking bird Sh, sh, go to sleep Shiro Before my showdown with Ken I must leave Shiro with one of the few people I trust Ry o-san He is a swordmaker, and he lives the old ways of the samurai When I was a little boy, my parents died in an accident and I was left alone My uncle arrived and took me to live with him He taught me how to fight, how to survive, and how to live off the land But he was a tormented soul Haunted by his demons, he couldn't take care of me So he sent me on an old fishing boat, to a distant land to find a person he thought could When I arrived, I walked and I walked until I couldn't walk anymore And that's when Ryo-san found me That meet, gave me shelter and he honed my skills And that's when Tatsuo recruited me Ry o-san Sam - I'm happy to see you Ryo-san - Yeah This is my son, Shiro Very lovely I have to ask if I can leave him here with you for a while There's something important I must do and you're the only person I trust Can I leave him with you? Okay, I'll take care of him. Okay. Here you go It's okay, cry Shiro, I'll be back as soon as possible I love you Of all the assassins on my hit list, Ken is the one that I'm most worried of This is why I've decided to meet him face to face No surprises, no ambush So I sent him a message I arranged the date, and the location Despite the risks involved, I wanted to meet him on his own turf I want him to know the seriousness of my intentions I want him to know that no place is safe for him Not even his own backyard Sam, you managed to kill my whole team I'm impressed I didn't come here to talk You know you won't leave here alive So what do you think Sam? Maybe I'll just cut off your limbs So you can spend the rest of your days in guilt It's you who caused your wife's death whose only crime is that she loved the wrong man Maybe I'll visit your son, when I'm done with you C'mon So it seems that in the end, it is you who'll have the happy ending Soon you'll join your wife on the other side That is, of course, if she will have you, if she can forgive you for what you have done So at last Shiro and I can live in peace Still, because of my former life, we must lay low I miss Malee And Shiro, he misses his mom Try, throw me the ball, c'mon C'mon Oh, good throw, c'mon C'mon, over here, c'mon Okay, woah! What a kick! Q Kay Shiro! Shiro Shiro! Tatsuo let him go I take your son, like you took my son Ken wasn't as honorable as you He had no boundaries and he killed my wife Please, I'm begging You Let him go, you can take my life As you wish! Sam Sam Sam Use the blade You okay? I saw your mommy here with us today C'mon I realize now that she's always with us She's in the wind, she's in the trees She's in the earth and in the sky She's everywhere You okay my son? Yeah? Let's go home now - Daddy go home - Yeah
