 

                        I must take the stone to Paladin. I want to stop until I reach the monastery The Paladin will send to you that silver my path is sure I have no fear. And the goddess says you are to stay here for time being Trust the goddess always. - For adventure. - To riches and gold. This you're, Marek. And that nice piece of magic in the Ogre cave. - Gojun will be upset - Sure he is get you? friend. Trust the goddess. Something is no right. The stone. He took the stone. And I saw her for the Darkspore. Be well my sister. The Warrior Thane, I have seen how you look at him. Make your choices with a clear heart and trust the goddess always. He has had enough. - Marek, enjoy your fun - Teela has gone because of you. - He is drinking full - That is enough Get off of me, you cripple punk. Leave me alone. Leave me. - He is drinking full - Go away. Marek, no... More Hello dagen. Necromancer your darkness is real thing. - It draws you to me. - Marek. I've been waiting so hard time Let me free from your pain I can make you whore forever Marek, I know you. Arise. Gojun. Come with me. you appear into the darkness And he is appears back. I am so foolish. The forces drove us together... ... but we did not see it. I'm not looking for one so young or woman. - I'm sorry. - What do you see about , Gojun? - You're a necromancer - Necromancer ? You so advance the barrier in a long time. He searched and I wondered With an agree warrior search in a certain period into a sleep with my own He has found you. I had a dream, a figure. He knew me. Szorlok. He is the darkest as necromancers... ... 80 years ago he's trying on me by Deira door star. Over the Darkspore Synthesize Century Over the darkspore Synthesize Century Over the darkspore Synthesize Century You hold the Darkspore. Over the darkspore Synthesize Century All you show when I unify the heart of the Lich King. Now you will fulfill the true purpose of this ceremony Lich king, for a thousand years your power will rival the gods. Szorlok, In the names of all the gods, I command you to stop. No. Take the Darkspore, we will hold him. Gojun the betrayer. The black heart beats again. Darkspore is mine. Parts in the wind. For the four corners of the land No trace of the passing Man has not known a power, that he does not crave. Those are bounded by the darkness do anything... to keep their power. The darkspore and they all stand against Szorlok. If the shards put together, there is no way to stop him they have the power even beyond death. What these have to do with me? You are necromancer your darkness is something he seeks. Well, I won't be controled. Yes, perhaps But the lure of power draws in the wisest men to their doom. Szorlok was much like you once. - I'm not like him. I am not evil. you borrowed life for selfish gain Is that not evil? I'm not evil. Evil runs in the blood of all men You're untested and one day You'll be forced to choose You have the potential Marek. For well good and for well evil. But you need to learn to control your power,or the choice will be made for you. How can I control something I don't understand? I'm alone in this. I will teach you. But you must be wary.Marek When you delve into the void, there is others who can sense you. Thus why Szorlok empoison your dreams and Kishkumen is able to find you. The man with the yellow eyes? - I took Kishkumen to Caeryn. - The darkness has come. And the world has need of heroes. For now you must stay here. I will return in a few days. apeta, well fetch me something to write with. A message from your friend. The Elf. Kill Marek and come to my room. Put those over there. No, no. This one goes there. And that one goes there. Right? Hello, Marek. I found you. Dagen's looking for you. Come on. - I'm going to bed. - Patience stay there It takes some time to rebuild the brush is broken Right, of course. Just a little attention here. Yes, and it should open right up - What is it? - I am not sure. But Kishkumen has one just like it - Dagen, we're in trouble. - Why? Give me some ink. Is it a cypher? -or of a code maybe? No, it's a map. Mondiatha. - What is Mondiatha? - An ancient city of giants. It's destroyed now, but it's only It is the biggest treasure ever happening. The Darkspore in Mondiatha.We have to get there before Kishkumen does. - The Darkspore. Am I missing something? It seeps city and heart of the Lich King. Broken into four pieces. Caeryn took the first piece from the temple.And for Kishkumen was after. - the second piece is in Mondiatha. - What is it worth? If it forced, an army can become invincible The limits of this power is death and destruction. I see why he is interested. With any luck this map shows the entrance. Whatever it is, we know where it is will be. - We shall avenge the Caeryn death. - I promised Gojun by to stay Hello blue heart; If you see it is where the risk of developments Kishkumen has half a day on, Marek. We owe this to Teela. We owe this to Teela? Last I checked Teela's goddess owes us. However A hidden treasure of legendary proportions, unguarded ... and to have taken it I could be worry I am free; but we all could be rich. - Fight the treasure. - Fight the treasure? I don't have to share this with you, Ok! It could very easily, I have just taken this and... Marek, you can get you face of those posters Then and Then ... You could save the world. We leave today. With Teela? Good luck with that. She isn't speaking to anyone for 14 days. But an assess, mourning rite. - I'll find her - Send this one He need the work out, some of his anger You and I can get my silver's worth in the bed. Paid before to noon. What time is it? Noon. Tell Teela we are not with her Eat fruit. Noon? your slave girl with the deformed foot I like to purchase her from you She ran I put a bounty on her head. yes the bounty is too high Yes. Bounties are high. She's worth what? 500? 600 on the open market? what a pimp like you wants for the trip of the girl anyway let's just say she's left an impression on me Make an offer? yeah 200 gold in your pocket right now And you let my girls, my purse to track her down. I will be grateful to be rid of that conniving bitch Okay. Leave. Leave I want her back alive and unharmed Teela, Teela I know you are still mourning, but ... Teela, Kishkumen murdered Caeryn ... Because he's going to unite the Darkspore I need to stop him Come with me. Who are you, Marek? Why do you seek such dark magic? You used the same dark power which killed my sister. - It is a power that I do not understand. - Or control You were marked by evil for all to see. Your foot is twisted and cannot be healed you seek danger surrounded by evil You say you wish to be good. You have no power over the darkness inside you.It calls you. And in time it will claim you. It is your fate. - Sorry about Caeryn. - I'll come with you. And I will report you and I will deliver the Darkspore to Paladin. He will know how best hide it. Declare yourself. Declare yourself. Beware of attack. Go to Mineas and give them report it Make haste. Hold them off. Teela I will tell you about those ten giants friendly loyal. - Yes, several times. Yeah. - Marek hasn't heard, have you? - where you broke the Dragon? - Ha, yes. What's that sound? It's elvish. No, doesn't sound like any elvish that I ever heard. Someone' s in trouble. Let's go have a look - Get off me. - Get off. - Serious - Nasty look figure. - cock or cock Indian - cock Indian - We do not know who he is. - Teela, we can find in this moment please - Dagen and Thane, with me? - Now you're on your own on this one sweetheart. All right here we go Let's go on this pass Go and fight; shit. - Dagen. - Dagen, come here. - Come now with me. - Dagen, do you petrified there? If I get eaten by a pixie, just tell Tell them it is a dragon or something. Dagen. What do you want from us, fairy ugly? Come on, it won't be less it won't be long. Let's get him out of here before they wake up. Have you seen a man with yellow eyes stark off? - I'm o the Garun-Dan. - Fuck you all. What would you know, half-breed? Dagen. The Garun-Dan were destroyed and didn't mark their faces... ... like savages from the north. You're not Garun-Dan. Are we standing in rocks all day? - We're turning to the road of Mondiatha. - Don't fucking tell him the mission. Make caution with yellow eyes who commands a horde of Orks. - What did I say? - His name Kishkumen. Do you know him? don't be stupid, so no need to ask your question. He did not even answer that, I am close to the gods I must warn this world into life Before the tests replaces with them How long have you wandered? - Ten migrations of the Elch. - Alone? - Thane. - Don't lie to us, long-ears . - I speak the truth. There is no honour in lying. You saved my life. I owe you a life of that. I'm bound to you until that debt is repaid. Just one every girl once He is lying by the way. He's Dreucki they lay Probably planning on slitting our throats tonight ... And painting pictures of it all over his face. You believe him? I am telling you he is pure evil. Good and evil are cross every living being Of course not. what tribe - Are you sure about this? - We can use him - What's your name? - Qole. Qole, You do not owe me anything I've been a slave and I will not accept to enslave anyone But you're more than welcome to join us. Free All right, but give him a shirt. The Dark elf dies a bloody, bloody death Right there in the middle, that is where my pile of gold is. Our pile of gold. Something new? - Shell of the cockatrice. When use the right spell you can turn flesh to stone. I know a woman from Valencia has the same power. Right. vary with us some on else barrier Right. What do you suppose this is? - It has a heeling potion - I'm not asking you Qole - I was hoping to offer it to you. - From which you get that. In Ogre cave. Probably it is part from a temple I might go and see where find Teela If you excuse me. Very well, Right. Harm a hair on her head and I will find you.Dreucki The crow's plucked out his bonny, bonny eyes. Why you stare me that way? It pleases me. An amulet, the legend of my people. The sun follows the moon until she slows He lies next to her in the sky. Before they part . He draws the stars from her and cast them into the night . Telling everyone of their love. It means a lot to you. It was a gift from a woman. Oh. My people no more slotted I'm the last one So are your faces marked? In remembrance? I was raised by a shaman. So are your faces marked? In remembrance? Goodnight, Marek. Thank you for keeping watch. - This daily bathing is unsafe. The goddess demands it. - Keep talking. - About what? - Tell me of your childhood. - There's nothing to tell there. Please. My father was a soldier. I think I'd seen him twice in my life before we got word he'd been killed. We were put on the street. I joined the army that marched across the world Ended up here, long way from Mineas. Are you from Mineas? - Is this capital very grand? - I wouldn't say that. Filth and shit, beggars. However, there is a grand buildings, alright. people grinding up against you , and they piss in the street - Then how you imagine it? - More beautiful In fact The Sun Goes Down The city starts to glow You can hear the music. You hear people laugh and sing. And love. Thane. Sorry. - I am sorry, I am sorry. It is so hard to find a woman in privacy in this woods. Put your sword away You do not need it tonight. Help! Dagen wake up, come on. Qole, my sword. Can someone hand me my sword? Oh ,oh. Good shot. She's come with us. The rest of you are free to leave - You have to kill us first. - Hey ; Hang on.. Oh .Gods. They are magnificent. And she's good at the rope. - Any of you bastards try to follow us. I cut your throat and spine. You understand? Aphrodisiac. - Damn - Marek. Marek. Marek. Who are you and what do you want with me? Our new master wants to meet you And with the trouble you've been, I intend to collect in full. Tuen and Samos scintilla's. There're men in the woods Not Deirans and they have horses. Tuen and Samos scintilla's. - I told you? Not Deirans. - Why are Orks marching with men? Hey, over here. We will find you. Marek. You freed youselves? Only thieves who can break away from the rope. Qole frees us using Teela dagger. Where are the bounty hunters? They fought with troops Kishkumens. They headed north, Mondiatha purposes. You recognize them only by the eyes or their mole. We must move quickly to catch them. It's two-day march. We've got six hours to find it. No , No It's not enough time to find treasure buried in a city. - Now inform me - Orks track the Darkspore. There is another way, through the mountains. - Passing Donkerbos. - How far is it? In 12 hours we reach the place. Passing at night, residence swamp creatures. - Do I need ask? - No. The stories to scare children. If we meet about Kishkumen and his whore in a straight bottom We lose. Aniset will there the pass is sure. Now we can take the chances going into the long way road All right. Who is in favor of the shortest? It was your idea. Yes, but it's not a good idea. I will go although I did not raise my hand for. This is a terrible,terrible idea. This is more frightening than story frightened children? What it is frightening We're being watched. More than watched. We're being followed. - Aniset, hear my prayer. - It's too late to call Aniset. No. I go and do what you want You're mine. Marek, release. Release. Release. Teela, he needs your help. I cannot do anything... I could not feel my fingers anymore. - Who knows what it does mean - Who? Kishkumen. How ? It's your doings. Now I do not can shoot with my bow. It's your fault Tell the truth to them, Marek. He sensed me. When you used the magic... He can feel my presence because he is a necromancer. - So just like in the Ogre cave... - I suck life force. - Why did not you tell us. - I could control it. - Tell them the truth. - I can control I would use it again. Then heal him. your dark magic is too strong. I should not join you. I saved your life. And take my hand has many benefits. Remember that it's something that you cannot control. I saved your life. Maybe you saved to suck life. - Hold, hold. - Dagen. Dagen. Dagen. Hold. Hey... Hey... Fuck you Dreucki. would like dark evil and damaged Enough. We do not have time for this. We have to move. Hey. Come, Teela, we have to move. - We need to rest. - No time. You saved them. I will kill them. They hate me. They are afraid of you. Some could feel the dark side... because they are afraid of being close to you today What should I do? Or we will die? There's always another way. Marek. There is no destiny can be fixed. The gods will help You're strong. You've been chosen. This was once a great city. They thought they could lure their gods from heaven. by treasure Instead earthquakes to dust and he buried them all. Their mistakes are stockpiled wealth... And the treasure will spending then The entrance is on side around this place We proceed. - Just like that? - Maybe this entrance. - Maybe only rock and sand. - It look Sathuan. I read a lot about it when I was child It Zwerfpad stone. The others are in the four elements of the worship in Mondiatha This mark is on the map, but there is no spell to open it. He was so strong. That symbol of the archway there is also on the map. But such symbols, I can not recognize it It's five points and five stones. Marek, I need to speak with you. We are very close to the end Teela We'll talk on the way home after we have the stone. - I need to say now. - Then say . you said a hundred of that already and said it repeatedly. What? - You blame me for Caeryn's death . - That what I ask you to say -And it's the truth. - And you're right. I am necromancer and I could not control it. When Darkspore being there and... I touched it, Kishkumen will see Something in me pulled me into and strength increases every day. I'm not sure I can resist. - We have come in this way . - I did not go with you. You must keep you away from me. The Darkspore can destroy us all You know, I say this feel the priests. What you see have the trace that we can not imagine it in other way. Sorry buddy. Stop. - Qole, I need your help. Well, It is that simple? Qole. - Qole. - Let me go. It's simple It is simple She started She finally lost her mind. - Portal is open. You will see anyway necromancer. He sense you here. Well done, Marek. Always stepping in front or behind, never far from each other My master have seen you in the dark Marek the slave girl. But you do not know who you are, Do you? Szorlok have a great purposes for you. Drop your weapons. In time he will show you who he really is and you becoming. Now you will save me from the troubles to collect the stone We will not serve you Szorlok. Yes you will serve. Whether the live or the death Just like your sister's death. Necromancer, you will go retrieve the stone and deliver it to me -... or your friend will die. - Do not, Marek. There is no love for your sister I see. Very well. - I'll go. - But Marek... - I have no choice. - Then we all go together. Marek, you will be lost. And show the dark will rise... - No, no. - Marek. The poison united with her blood with a sense terrible pain as a result. Until it reaches her heart But I will heal if you return the stone. You have about two hours. So.I suggest you make your decision quickly We have to go now. We will go. Let's go. Come on, dagen. I will tie to you all Marek, you'll be lost. - black is pitch - Briefly. Tempus Alorus luminescent. Tempus Alorus luminescent. That way. And the good fairy find Sacs and sacs full of gold. Silent, Dagen. There is a door over head. With a lot of gold in behind it, I hope. - What's that sound? - Mouse. let's go Are you sure it was a rat? The sound is amplified through the tunnel. Do not worry, Dagen. His voice was strong as many others. Get away from me. It's not a rat. This is a dog monster. You have a chance ; You know. Once revoke straight sword lying here. And this is only by a rogue priest notice. If I kill you, I do with pleasure. Kill me? What you talking about? Let's keep moving Ogre, rats , hordes of orks. Why is it always so complicated? Hello? He was still alive, but he was not breathing. - He's sleeping. - Sleeping? What do you mean sleep? Place is cursed. You cannot trust your senses here. We have to keep moving. Mind should be clear and just think our task. We can tie ourselves together. If a person is asleep, the other must be pulled. I do not want to bind myself to anyone. Silence. This is the first intersection. The door is this way Good knot. It is a magic wand, huh? I know someone needs it more than you. I do not understand. It is not in the map. Oh, giants They must have fled here when the place is buried. Place is cold, isolated place to die . Do you think they know it will destroy their world? Maybe they think , they can stop it. He did not love you. -Let's we report. - Everyone is dead. - Who's there? - We must withdraw. No one is here They All are dead. Tell me your name! Come on, keep on the road. Come on. There should be a door here. This is the end. I can feel, we are close. I could feel the stone Darkspore. This is one, There must be more. Hello, sunshine. Treasure Mondiatha. Why stir treasure? This is really deceptive. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Dagen, we have no time for their wealth Run. - Maybe he's not real. - No, he was real. This way. Through this way. We have to back , we have to find the stone Finding the stone, we will die Hold this. I smell fresh air. Help me up Hurry up, Dagen. This way. Looks just like essay to escape from the mother's womb Run. Dagen, I fight him quikly Hurry up he is behind us, dragon is also looking for me. I think Darkspore keep the dragon alive. - Perhaps this can help us? - Schasaat. - Save it for the dragon. - What is that? If this is successful. We can distract him... I would shoot him with this stick. Go all surround him Or you flick it safe when would you talk - It's a good plan, Marek. - Without darkspore he will killed Run, coward. It is that a dragon or my sword. You'll be a fucking hero, Qole while doing all this. Spread or all will die. Hey, come get me. If you can, ugly. Schasaat. Schasaat. Schasaat. Marek. Dagen. Qole. Hey. Come and get me. - He came. - Be careful, Marek. Miamortile odillus rittik. Bring Darkspore me. Obey me. You're still alive. Fuck me ; Be careful next time. you welcome I'm good without the kisses, thank you. Take the Darkspore. Run and do not look back. Another way as Gojun pass All the treasures left behind there... This is the one piece left take it put it into the sun - Just one more shot. - To save Teela. Nothing like selfless. And there is no end for you. Darkness will take this time. The only absolute powers in this world is death. Goddess of light, hear my prayer. Fill me with your presence and Let me die, please. You will surely die, but not without friends as witnesses. You have touched it. I can tell. Its power lingers with you still. Where is off? He was buried with sand. Your honor our agreement and heal her You would trade what matters most for what matters least. It is too important to sacrifice. Or cover your lies. - Where Darkspore? - We have never found it. - Stop it, stop it. - That is enough. I date you to pay Shoman, Release me from my badge You've served me well, my child You're free now. You are fucking bastard, already I told you. Do not trust him. They have already done so. Let them free. Where is our money? - No. - You gave your word No. Marek, I know you. What should I do? We will die. There's always another way. Schasaat. Kill them. You cannot escape. I will be back. I'm sorry, Marek. Remember ; what I said to you The fate is not waiting - What happened? - Raw time that what happened You can fix and save bodies? I can save everyone obeys - He escaped with the Darkspore. - We failed. You're not wrong to believe and hope. your suffering is nothing If we are not fighting this darkness,... we will be part of it Caeryn said so. And you do not stop against darkness, Marek. I was wrong. There is goodness in you. And you're so strong. And your struggle has just begun. where we go ? Aniset instead of Caeryn would I save this party And I need you Marek I'll follow up goddess told me the other way. I'm sorry that I was not able to heal farther I am grateful of this nice on watch When i am there at the gate of Mondiatha . I wish tope death. But I'm hold into alive... Because I want to see you alive once more Do you know what I want to do next ? We get the biggest tank of ale. The time has come to spend a week on my back How are you going to pay for that? Scaly Panthers has a toothy grain One hundred of gold a piece . was it go? And it is yours. Six hundred gold. Six hundred gold. I'm here to purchase my freedom Very well show me your mark - Do I know you? - I doubt for. holds This girl has runaway she's my property you buster Dagen, dagen. Her life is for my taken My get He is lying 600 Gold is in danger some in this bag 600 Gold Give me the contract with my freedom 600 pieces of gold in the given by a runaway slave? Majesty , please. This girl is my property I believe gold is mine. Fine Please this is no right He is your master under the law I think he is all right. Ah No, Is not that Marek, I will come for you. Oh, if you of course have a lot of time for me my dear But I'm in the light finding the ways to make it up to me Get out My friends would come to me. Silence. These people want to sleep. Listen very carefully you worthless piece of shit You're going to sign on the freedom contract of Marek Or I'll cut your head off Do it myself What? What did he say? - Say that again. - What? I think he's right. Sign you back here. Beautiful. Here we are you paid for it Nice and we go wow. wow, we do not really must pay to him If you ever follow her again, we will be back But this time we'll break your bones. You would not be survive. Understand? Hey Hello, little marmot. They are waiting for us. - It is good to see you. - You too. - Ready for another adventure? - What now? Maybe we should do something in a warmer place.
