 

                        The story and the characters in this film are fictional, if found any... mresemblance to people living or dead are quite accidental The Kerala's drama community movement for the people, those... ...who lived and strived for the movement those who had perished... ...and still living all the male and female drama... ...performers alike, we dedicate this movie to them. This movie belongs to them. What a tiresome waiting is this? Why are they not approaching? As the day gets longer and longer it seems like a sea... ...which cannot find its shore. Did it get delayed in spotting him? Or Did any kind of delay occur for starting off to here? What ever it may be I'm really tired..Really tired! Hey look, look! Isn't she her? My maid who is approaching? Come maid come fast. Where is he my beloved savior? Maid what did he say? Come on speak up! He has answered saying time has not come. Pardon! Time has not come! Still now time has not come! What kind of time dragging is this? "How come the time has not come..." "...when will that time come, is it tolerable" "How come the time has not come..." "...when will that time come, is it tolerable" "Merely to make fun don't say tales" "Like bees awaiting for rain to come" "Merely to make fun don't say tales" "Like bees awaiting for rain to come" "Though he is poor good in heart consider me as your whore" During thetime when the drama lamp's wick got ignited... ...in the souls of Malayalees. The prominent ones which ruled the stage were 'Tamil drama troupes'. Melodious songs and dancing lady which was embodied in Tamil plays. The tutor Ochira Pappukutty with his graceful dancing... ...Tamil plays were nullified by him. The tutor's female character set the minds of prominent doyens in... ...Tamil play to tremble like - Brahmashri Ananda Narayanan lyer's... ...and Subaiya Bagodafis. The first super heroine in Malayalam. The palace set and special singers during that time... ...Tamil-Malayalam fusion plays were staged in an escalated manner in... ...Kerala shore it was during this time 'Cochin Eppan Tarakkan's play... ...named 'Maria' emerged. Mariam ma was liked by all who hailed from a small Christian family. Here it paved the way to social oriented drama. Vaikkom Vasudevan Nair(eminent writer in Kerala)... "associated with Muthukulam (Eminent playwright in Kerala)... ...formed 'Yachaki' (Women in alms) The one which roused sword... magainst the customs in Nam boodiri caste (A forward caste in Kerala) B.T's 'Adukkalayill Ninnum Arangathekku'... ...(From kitchen to lime light) With the sound of working class K. Damodaran's 'Paatta Bakki'... ...(Tins left behind) M.P Battathiripad's 'Hruthumathi'(The season) K. RamakrishnapillaPs 'Prathima'(The statue) Likewise the life of Malayalee was candidly and directly... mportrayed on the stage. The Tamil drama bandwagon treadled through the... ...mountain passes of Palakkad. Here the first drama prohibition had also taken place. Abayadev's 'Navayugam' (New age) was prohibited by... ...Chithira Thirunal Bala Rama Varma (The royal king of Travancore, Kerala) The king feared whether the play would pave way for a social change. Will the curtain of drama fall when its subjected to fear by anyone? For social change and for a conscience of rebellion... ...K.P.A.C became a tutelage movement and its play shook the land. Bharatha stage and other things are ready from Chavara. Play ground is crowded with men and lot of police also. Collector has declared to arrest on playing the drama... ...annulling the prohibition. To hinder the coming of actors and actress there is police guard in... ...each and every narrow paths. Some how must reach at the stage manipulating the sight of the police. Whatever it may happen the play must go on at any cost! Does anyone have fear? For us play is not an entertainment its a revolt! Each and every actor is a fighter in this arena of strike Fast make arrangements to get ready. "The day has come upon you with the fire ball" "The day has come upon you with the fire ball" Poetic story recitation is really in its full swing. Poetic story recitation is only to fool the police. By the time when we reach the green room the curtain will fall. The lights will be also gone. By that time the recitalist and the group will move away from the stage. We'll commence the play. "My god in this sorrowful drama why you make me an audience for it" "My god how will I bear it" My dear RamanauRamana... "Though we are two bodies we were one in heart is it not" "Weren't you my life" "Though we are two bodies we were one in heart is it not" "Weren't you my life" The play is about to begin the one which was waited by you anxiously. Kerala People's Art Club presents 'Ningal Enne Communistaakki'... ...(You turned me into a communist) Hey Lady! Hey lady!What are you doing over there you lady? There is no one present here to take if a shack of palm leaves falls. The house has not been thatched during the time of last harvest. When the crow fly's with shit it will be dunged inside the mouth. "A small sickle.." "The moon" "The one who throws the sight." "Under the beautiful shade of that tree" "Girl who stands wafting" "Girl who stands singing" "The girl who throws the sight on the small sickle shaped moon" "Under the beautiful shade of that tree, girl who stands wafting" "The girl who throws the sight on the small sickle shaped moon" "Under the beautiful shade of that tree, girl who stands singing" lnquilab Sindabad, communist party Sindabad! Stop it you fellows! Stop it I say! Down with police raj! Down with police raj! Stop it I say! Police go back! Inquilab Sindabad! There is an order from collector to arrest you on disobeying the prohibition. Kindly co-operate with us. Inquilab Sindabad! Stop it you fellows! Stop it I say! Comrades be quite! Be quite! The district collectorAbdul Salam says as small pox is spread... ...at Kovalam, the play must be prohibited. Then if so my beloveds the governmental system must... ...prohibit the play through out India. Inquilab Sindabad! The small pox is spread on the evil clutches of democratic platforms... ...in this country in every nook and corner we will stage the play! The play is a revolt! The self uprising of the oppressed! No bureaucracy can stop that! Inquilab Sindabad! Inquilab Sindabad! Communist party Sindabad! Inquilab Sindabad! When the party bifurcated in 1964 after leaving K.P.A.C Bharathan... ...along with friends formed an own troupe named... ...'Sargavedhi'. (Divine stage) After that,'K.RA.C Bharathan became 'Sargavedhi Bharathan'. After 40 years of epoch making presence in drama life... ...Bharathan had bid farewell to the stage. At that time when Bharathan's son Devadas... ...was a school going student. Devadas continued the legacy of father and grandfather... ...even at young age he took the reins of 'Sargavedhi'. During 70's, 80's and the beginning of 90's drama movement... ...which was highly acclaimed by public, the golden age of drama. Devadas became a lustrous star. As an actor, as a script writer, as a director he victoriously won the stage. Umm! Read it! Umm! Death certificate! For the prisoner Julius Fuchi! Had the fate in reading own death certificate. One of the biggest jokes in this century. From the walls to bars seven steps! From the bars to walls seven steps! Seven steps forward and seven steps backwards! The distance created by spinning on the treachery against the country! The best actor Devadas Sargavedhi. Play - 'Agnishalabam'... ...(Butterfly of fire) Presented by 'Sargavedhi Theaters, Kollam' My god where has she gone? This is K.P. A. C Radhamani. The debut performance was in 'Ashwamedham'... ...(horse sacrifice by kings) in 1962. During that time aged 15. After 2 years when tutor Bharathan left K..P.A.C Radhamani also joined. From that day to till today Radhamani is there with... ...'Sargavedhi theaters'. Sister I'll go and come. Child why can't you sit there quietly on saying that head is spinning. This is Radhamani's sister Thankamani. Not married. After four decades of drama life left the stage. When Radhamani and Thankamani joins it's 'Maayanadu sisters'. During 60's beloved voice in the Malayalam stage was a singer... ...hailing from Kozhikode. Fell in love and married him. Married life for 3 years. After the death of Mohammed Khan. Came back to'Sargavedhi'... ...without the presence of Radhamani on the stage... ...of 'Sargavedhi' was too little to find. But in 'Yatramozhi' (words of departure)... ...there is no role for Radhamani. Though the play in which she has got no character to play... ...when the drama vehicle of 'Sargavedhi' moves... ...Radhamani will be present in it. That is the birth right of Radhamani. No one used to deny that. At the 'Chinnakada'(local auto stand) stand the driver of... ...'Snehayanam'(name of the auto) He is hero of the 'Sargavedhi theaters' who made the play... ...'Snehayanam' a great hit. Sasi please park the vehicle properly. After removing the uniform and by adding the old address... ...K.P.A.C Aboobakkar. Everyday play won't be there life is still there daily. That is why this double role. Right from the day of inception of Sargavedhi theaters... ...angel Johnson is there. All though in the angel plays of Sargavedhi it was Radhamani... ...who enacted as angel.That name was awarded to this Johnson. It was an acting masterpiece founded by Ponkkunam Varkey... ...(A great play-wright in Malayalam) Agasthiam ma The one who is sitting behind this Plattan Kuttan Pilla was the... ...controller of the lights-on which the first acting was performed. Karakulam Parthasarathi owner of Karakulam Ahallya theaters... ...director, actor. There was time when Ahallya's A, B two troupes were flying to and fro in the... ...tem ple festival grounds of Kerala Now the troupe is closed. Sold the house lost all the savings. Kadavoor Manikandan the permanent expression is 'contempt'. Though acting in the play is the bread winning... ...the main aim is movie and serials. Suma the heroine character in Sargavedhi. Though is six months pregnant can't disdain the routine habit can't... ...cancel the play still comes on the stage Arianadu Ravi one upon a time was a busy drama actor in various troupes. In between nested back to Sargavedhi. Although as there is no character on stage... ...the main character behind the stage. Baby Kuttan manager of the... ...troupe and the main helper of Devadas Sargavedhi... ...he is the one and only one This is my world. Many of them are in the troupe right from the days of father. Those who lulled me and showed me the world! In my blood in the... ...blood of my generations the ones who filled the ember of drama. Through them my generation was taught to see the dreams! To love, to quarrel, to revolt, the golden age of drama is over! Sister will it heal by 15th. Should or shouldn't apply medicines? Apply sister you apply on 15th there is a shoot of the serial. If there is a flaw in continuity everything will be ruined. That is why. For him the serial on 15th is the big thing. For him no worries if the drama stages or not. Buffalo! Don't you know him he will never be well off! Don't curse angel brother! Leave the breath. Got Jalal vehicle has got good damage... ...but luckily the cut outs are not torn. Then call another vehicle and fill the materials... ...and tell to go the spot at the earliest. It's from the place of drama. Tell, we have started. Yes. Tell we are on the way. Yes we are on the way. On the way. No won't get delayed. Straight away should complain to the female commission and say. How come playing drama with a girl who is 6 to 7 months pregnant? How is the condition doctor? How is the condition doctor? Sister! No problem! Since no one has got no major problems shall we all go? After finishing RadhachechPs drip! Can't cancel the drama. Where is Parthasarathi? What kind of a creation is this? Brother come don't we have to go? 'Here by the time it gets ten at night the current will go... ...When the current goes'.She will go out saying to catch the chicken... ...comes back after one or two hours'. 'Shouldn't one doubt her'? 'Must catch the chicken is it not? Two hours to catch the chicken'! 'What's wrong in that'? What is this Das you had done the drama is to begin at ten... ...is it the time to reach? This is not correct. Didn't Jalal say? Our vehicle met with an accident. A narrow escape. Can one say all this in the temple festival arena? The news boys in the committee are adamant that there is no need of drama. On account of old relationship and since we are giving a booking... ...Finally it will be on my shoulders! Look! Hereafter don't call me for such kind of issues. Okay then don't waste time again did you have any food? No. Then come to the dinning hall. 'Why is that you going out at night ten o'clock'? Are you sure don't have any back pain and all is it? No till 7th month I was playing a role of gypsy and was rocking the stage. That too that was 2 plays in a day. Hey don't you know that play you? Why not? There are several things in our ladies blood... ...what is good and what is bad. In it if a sesame seed falls in to it it's finished! Even one falls from high tops... ...we will stand like this that is drama. Clean the leaf. Are you not having food? How to take? Doesn't matter. Why? What had happened? Did you burn the hand? Feels like touching on the ice block. Was there food offering at the temple in the morning? Yes. What is it? Just asked that's all. Once again thank you all encouraging us on our program. Let there be a knot is it not? Sure there is no problem with the hand. That can be removed on reaching the stage. What should I do with it? Manikanda let it be there. Audience will think some robbers might have... "whacked on the nose. Suma you stomach is little bit visible tie little more tighter. Radhachechi you go and sleep don't stay without sleep. Not feeling well and more than that... ...When all are on the stage Dasappa will I be able to sleep. I'll sit here. Make it fast it's getting delayed. Just sign on this. Make it fast just wipe once more..Here. Give it here I'll close it. Dasetta its only 15. What was told was 16,000 is it not? You count properly. There is nothing to count on it that's the fine charged... ...as the drama vehicle got late. Lovers of art with the next bell the drama will be commencing. 47th drama of Kollam 'Sargavedhi Theaters'. 'Yatramozhi'. "Divine stages lands of heaven" "Curtain is about to rise life is going to be enacted" Sir. When is the train to Trivandrum? Only just now one has gone. Why can't you talk little decently to travelers? Need to except only this much decency. All the audience has left. That is because the time is past one o'clock. These days who will stay behind leaving behind... ...the sleep like in olden days. How much will be your monthly income? My daughter will make that much money within a day. Why are you laughing? No nothing, there are lot of people daily commuting to north and south... ...money and to siphon off money, just laughed thinking of that. Haven't you kept the certificates safely in the bag? My daughter should be careful on getting in to the train. Walk to here stay awaylAre you still in this vicinity is it not? Can't get up on seeing the masters is it not? All that period is gone sir. Are you Jayadevan cf hhwaramangahm'!? Child what kind of an attire is this? But still, my god I had to see you in this attire. A fire brand leader at the college, poet, speaker. To hear Jayadevan... ...sir's speech I have all waited at the college threshold. No matter how much one speaks, writes poem this is all the destiny. Can eat balls at the central in Poojappura! Still what had really happened to you Jayadeva? Teacher I blatantly told the truth that is the mistake I did. In 1975 during the time of emergency like me several... ...young persons mouth and eyes were shut the truth was locked in... ...the casket by the bureaucracy here. Ready with the sword to chop the heads of new generation. Do a person like me do any crime to adorn with handcuffs like this. Suparna children have come. Did you know? Daughter did you know? What is it? Don't make mother tensed. My mother for me everything is A plus is that enough? Looks like father is there. Father, where are you father? How many times have I called? Daughter phone was in silent mode. Father didn't hear it. Didn't hear even other wise on calling to tell you a good news... ...father won't be available. What is it daughter? My result was known, for everything have secured A plus. Is it? Yes. In the school only three people have secured A plus. This Priyamvada Devadas is one among them. What should father tell for this? Really happy. Father had excepted this what did mother say? Was really happy then cried a lot. Father for which course should I join? I'm not interested in medicine and engineering. That is your like that is my like. Or else consult with mother and take a decision. Then you call father. What is it? Seems like you are not feeling well. No thing like that that is because of happiness. What is Mam doing? Tell her like sister should secure A plus in everything tell her father... ...had told like that. Okay father. 92 Udayan's Chaithanya theaters vehicle got turned over. Poor Udayan got killed. Lot of people were hospitalized. On that day the all drama players heart got trembled. They unified together and with in one month they had collected... ...Rupees eighteen Iakhs. After settling that and with the balance money they created... ...a welfare association. The issue is not in numbers whoever is there must remain united and fight. For mimicry performers, singers and even cinematic dancers are... ...privileged with a feast right at the main entrance For stage performers in the backyard porridge severed after digging a hole. This is all bad time man! Shouldn't stand for it! For the stage performers who know the history must never stand for it. On serving it must be at the main place along with the family members. A stage performer should posses the guts to say that. Sargavedhi Bharathan had that little time before you also. In this building of Kurup sir tutor Bharathan started office in 74. During that time the monthly rent for this was Rs.50. Even after 39 years Dasappan is still paying the same rent. Do you have any account of money that was siphoned by him for play? So this blood will boil. For us since we are used to this there is no boiling. Is it not man? Man anything there, as short eats? Some notice is there shall I take it? This is all a kind of test of time. Either today or tomorrow drama will come back. Like the short hair, tall pants radio which came back. You wait and see. But people like him should put some effort. Like pigs giving birth they are people here who writes drama. No use of that. Must write the life of the man those who see must fail his sleeps. If things go like that booking agent Vikaraman Pillai can sit in the house... ...calls will begin to come here. Dasetta. Yes. That Mapranam. Have you told that I'm here? No just reached down. Just say something and dismiss from there itself. People are mad here at that time... Hey man!Haven't you got advance from him saying you will write the play? Now what is the use of scolding him? In the last season to stage the drama there was no means at that... ...time was this persons coming. Had accepted it, it is now a nuisance. Where is Devadas? He was here but now went outside. I believed that move back you lad. No Pappachan chetta had just left now. You don't know this Mapranam hey lad move back! Leave from my hand here he is! Who is here? Is it your grandfather? Devadasoo out of love and respect to you saying this your staff... mmembers none of them has get decency If Pala St.Thomas theater was closed down 3 years back... ...that was not because Papachan didn't have the money to maintain... ...the troupe. But on thinking hard earned money should be never... mparasites like him by eating and stooling. Then Papachan started St. Thomas vision two serial four albums... ...money invested is also gained in Papachan's pocket. This is like someone who told long time ago. The father who died and went to heaven if he intends to do... "something what can we do? Father appeared in front of mother who crossed 90... ...early in the morning at 3 o'clock.Saw the dream early in the... ...morning that too on the day of raising. Will come true I went to ancient church at Kaanady and did the service. From there also I was told to start the troupe... ...or else will be get the set backs. My dear Devadas again don't procrastinate. Whats up? Have you started writing anything? Leaving to write. Is it so? Why not? The dialogue is sparked all of a sudden. My god has any title been fixed? Any thing was said? 'The elixir of life' 'The elixir of life' god that is enough. Mother I'm going. Have something and go. No need. Now itself got late. Always it's like this. Mother again gone without changing this computer nothing... ...will happen. On trying to do something urgently it's life is gone! Even though secondhand only I know the difficulty in procuring one. For some time learn without computer. Radhachechi did you walk all this way when not feeling well? Aboobakkar had told he will come as he was not seen I walked to here. Where is ourA Plus candidate? It's all gods blessing Radhammachi is really happy. Again are you not going to college? Must learn and become a smart child did you hear? Where is our naughty one? She had gone to school. Don't you want to go today? Today is holiday. On hearing child had won initially I thought about you. With these children too young to fly. For 8 to 9 years you all alone. Didn't you tell father? Will she not say that? Even though I'm bring her up in a hard way. Inclined to that area. He is always like that on the children's concern he is always tensed. Lucky at least tension is there. At least now why can't you take this children and go to see him? What for'? No need let it go on like this in this manner. Get some hot water to drink. Will take tea. No need. Hot water will do. Here father had brought this and given present for passing. Now mother shouldn't see this can show when Radhammachi leaves. Then that is enough to get angry. I saw I'm not the mother in law in T.V serial to throw... ...what father had purchased. You came before I reached is it not? Gods blessing was given by Seena for Priyamol. When is the treat for this? Treat for what? With great difficulty taught the child and got passed... ...after that treat for you guys? Shall we not go again if we get delayed... ...there will be crowd in the hospital. Radhachechi do you have dialysis today? Now it is two in a month. I will also come. Why do you want to take trouble? we will go no need. Walk man! Only few troupes that can be counted by hand are left. Inside that there are 16 groups. Don't you know that? Any way let the committee take place. Vehicle that is handed over in a near by workshop. To mend that in to it's old form Rs. 50,000 will be required There is no use in saying all that here. If at all anything is granted either 5 or 10 Don't expect anything more than that. Monday there is a committee will see after that will call you. Pala St. Thomas theaters proudly presents 'the elixir of life'. Cinematic bible drama.Written and directed by Devadas Sargavedhi. Mapranam has started the publicity now there is no escape. At the earliest start baking the cakes. Is there any one who are nuts like this? You call him now. What is the use in calling him? Somehow make arrangements to return his money. Other than that... Now the season is going to get over some how manage to get 5 or 6 stages. Let me just put this burden down. The drama which got state award in 91. The play which was staged in 1000 places. That's all true but Devadas old drama is old drama. What have I been telling for the past 3 to 4 years? You write a new play. You give me a mind blowing title. I will start taking the booking. Will also collect and give decent advance also. Without that what magic can I do sitting here? We are waiting in front of hospital gate. Without paying the bill how can we get inside? When will the Baby Kuttan come? My god I forgot that! Abooka 15 minutes will reach there. Do you have any money with you? Where will I Dasetta? Pillacha since it's little urgent give Rs. 1000. 1000? From where? Radhachechi has got dialysis today. About to leave the hospital has not paid the bill. In the mist of hundred things in the morning I forgot that. By killing some one tomorrow morning I will bring the money here. Are you sure? Sure. It's the money to pay rent don't fail. No. Come man! Yes Booking agent Vikraman Pillai yes it's there. All the bookings are there. If it is song program will be more than rupees fifty thousand. If it is Rimy Tommy, M.G. Sreekumar it will come to near around Rs. 3 Iakhs For mimics also these are all the rates. Oh! drama will come in between... ...ten and twenty five thousand. Whichever may be the troupe. Hit man! Take! Take! Child how long have I asked for starch water? A T.V out here was dead for 7 to 8 days. No one has got the time to repair that. Hey girl! You go and tell this to Peter. Chechiamma, Radhachechi has told it Baby Kuttan. On telling it to peter will he not demand money? Only for our concerns no one has got money here. Let them do it if they want. Grandmother here starch water. I don't want nothing of this sort. What is it? Got angry on saying about the 'W. What kind of a creation like this? Why was it got delayed? Like in the pump to get the petrol filled it was queue there also. Let me just have a bath. Dasetta we are going to mend our 'W. Don't call me for anything for a half an hour. Get lost man! It has been one week since running after this person. Now he is more busy than the collector. Hey fellow!In the prime age I was flying high with music and dance. In a greater speed than you. Now the wings has been chopped by god! He was busy for 3 or 4 days regarding the matters... mconcerning the troupe. No because he was delaying it. There is no much life for this. We must buy a new one. Then you fetch one! Let me see I've taken a 'Karu nya' (a local lottery) Radhachechi you go and take some rest for some time. Aren't you having the class today? No today it's holiday. She really turned out to be like a maid in the kitchen, sister. What to do? When I go out isn't she the one who manages the things around here? When that T.V opens it's eyes sister's all the worries will be over. But what for us? Every time when going to hospital to fill the blood it worries inside. Not thinking about my ailments but on thinking about these children. On handing over two children to me my son and wife went to... ...Guruvayoor for praying. Finished everything with a bottle of poison! Though 3 to 4 years are over by now still the heart aches! For what reason did he and she did this unpardonable crime? Why un-necessarily again and again... Daughter has set the meal with fish will have a test! What is the time now? 6:50. You may leave if you are having some other appointments. No need will finish this and go. Old why are you here to die? Did anything happen? These kind of fellows.. My heavens!Who is this Radhachechi? Hey fellowlKrishnal It's been a very long time since saw you. Where are you now? Still in Ernakulam on the way coming back from Trivandrum. On seeing the 'bar' just pulled over! At that time the old dream girl on the stage appeared just like that. No need all this time you didn't intend to check whether... ...we people are alive or not. My dear Radhachechi not that I didn't intend not to... ...come and see you people. How is that possible? He had evicted me is it not? Is that all old stories Krishna? On the T.V, on magazines on seeing your photo I used to call everyone... ...and show. Saying this is our lyricists G.K. Not that why is Radhachechi in front of this bar'? Came to take 2 shots! Go man his kind ofjoke! When drama is not there, we must survive is it not? Here there is a small job. What job? That is not worth mentioning!But still I saw you. Come get in to the vehicle. Will drop you at home. No need there is little distance from here will walk and go. Right time for the young girls to walklCome you girl! Where is he staying? In the same lodge itself. Then Sudarma? She and children are in a rented house. The fault is on whoever part is... ...there a life like this? Regarding the case of troupe I have told haven't I? All this time there was no reason for you also for not having any contacts Radhachechi I have decided today anyway I'm leaving after meeting him. If there is anything left regarding the previous... ...grudge let him finish off that also. "No, you don't exist in me" "Me and this world" "Then what's left behind" "Except deep sleep" Can I come inside? Asking..Can..l Come inside? Without taking anybody's permission had this... ...G. Krishnakumar born in this world. So here also no need of permission. Now we have a gap of 9 years between us. That is being ended here. Now there is only a distance to 'Yamen Kallyani' between us on... ...that side there is tutor Bharathan and on the other side my father... ...the very Gopalji of tutor 'The inner drama - Bharathan Sargavedhi' 'Drama is not an effort free creative action on each step it's a... ...blood dipping self sacrifice'. 'A drama performer let him be an actor, writer, director I believe... ...is always on the war front' By swimming sea and back waters there was a time when the... ...youngsters were on the run to find the play. During that time tutor Bharathan has written these words. At that time and even now drama is a challenge. In one way or the other. While writing songs by taking a room at times to get a word, after finishing... ...one or two full have stayed without food. Even today! During that time will think of you jealously, will think of your writing. Why do you want to fail when you have a genius like this before you? You must write a new play. With the changing times with a... mprotest a new play. Don't I have the desire to see the Sargavedhi back to it's old form? After all am 'I an old subject of yours? New era, new play now nothing of that sort is there in my mind. A ship which has reached half way on it's voyage. Somehow must reach the other shore. That's all. Have you played drama by applying colors on the face in... ...the temple grounds? Where there are no audience. Must play only then will understand the grief of drama... mperformers in the new age. When the old play is repeated again & again that's... ...why there are no viewers to watch. If you are not in a mental state to write a new one. There is a drama that is completed after writing in your box. Can't you dust it off and take that? 'Jwalamughi'(one who adorns fire) One of the best plays of yours. You announce this drama for the next season. Das must see drama as a drama. You are mixing with life that's where your problem is. A cut throat interest rate! What to say thing must go on? Did it get late? Must release the vehicle from the workshop drudgery on that. No that will be made later. Brother Parthan was evicted from the lodge, brother Kurup has... "arranged a room for the 'time being. What a person he was own troupe, own car, bungalow. Now here no place to lie down. Stop the vehicle stop! Devadasoo I came to see you. My Devadasa why are you behaving like this? After announcing the title 10 to 30 calls came for booking. ButVikraman Pillai is not taking none of the booking. What booking? You mean what booking? On drama! Our 'elixir of life' what he says is you told can't write drama. Yes told! What? Told! How is it possible if you say like that? What is this 'no rule land' or what? You don't know the real character of this Mapranam. Hey you! Take the vehicle performing recitation or what? The road is blocked. Devadasaml want my elixir of life! Go! Looks like the college is over. Today is daughter's first day in the college. Will just take a look and go. 'Freshers welcome' Father! How come father is here? Waited to see daughter. How was the first day? Good. Is it English literature? Must read lot of books. Daughter you learn well and write us an English play then we have to go... ...'whites' place and stage a drama over there. Where are the others? Father is there play today? No child the vehicle was in the workshop We are on the way after collecting it. Daughter get in we will drop you at the house. No that is not necessary she will go in the bus. That's all right Dasappa when young she had traveled a lot in this vehicle. Look first day in the college we will celebrate. That's true daughter get in. Get in child. Come. "Bamboo winds wafting with a humming noise" "ls there handful of flowers" "Flowers are flowing in my heart in memories" "Doesn't it posses colors of memories" "Bamboo winds wafting with a humming noise" "ls there handful of flowers" "Flowers are flowing in my heart in memories" "Doesn't it posses colors of memories" "Slowly moving to fade The curtain of blue sky" "At a distance some star waiting with make ups done by applying colors" "Slowly moving to fade The curtain of blue sky" "At a distance some star waiting with make ups done by applying colors" "As the stage wakes up to action lull-able native green parrots" "Will you not come this way flying" "Bamboo winds wafting with a humming noise" "ls there handful of flowers" "Flowers are flowing in my heart in memories" "On disrobing the costumes and prepares to slumber at night" "A night bird inside me sang without sleep even at that time" "On disrobing the costumes and prepares to slumber at night" "A night bird inside me sang without sleep even at that time" "When the dawn raptures at a distance" "Winged with newly colored wings" "Again will the autumn come" "Bamboo winds wafting with a humming noise" "ls there handful of flowers" "Flowers are flowing in my heart in memories" "Doesn't it posses colors of memories" What is that you want to see by peeping? What is the use of saying man? Who is she now? She is a flying star in South India. Speak lowlDasappan is inside. If there is no job why can't you all go? Fast fast! Fool make way! Where is Augustia, Mafia? You husband and wife haven't you started off together from the house? Where did she go? Even othenivise it's her character all of a sudden she will be missing. Here she comes! Where were you? To Jerusalem. Hey man! Did I tell you and went for lighting the... mcandles in the church? Won't hear the ears and nothing! After today's play there is only one more drama left in this season. After that all will have to sit face to face is it not? Our Dasapan should have the right thought that... ...next year let there be anew play promised to offer candles to Mother. What a wonder is this? Why on time today? Usually will call and say waiting on the way. Since there is serial may not be able to come that is what was bluffed. Baby Kuttan was ready to act in your absence. Brother angel is it not serial without our expectation will put a garland... ...around our photo that is the routine practice. Yesterday they fixed me on the wall! It will be 300 episodes instead of Manikandan search for some other... ...people wasn't it all that you were talking? Who told? I have not told anything like that. Will not say also it is drama which nourished me. The drama is my bread. Who wants this serial and movies. Enough, enough, because of the tongue in your month now only... ...came to know that serial director had fixed you on the wall. I will show you today move back old man! Has that girl come who told will come as substitute for Suma? Luzy has gone to pick her. Before we start told will reach here. Will she able to perform in a good way as she is the central character? Luzy has told had learned all the dialogues and all. Dasetta will face as it comes. Has not seen Luzy? You make a call once again. Where is the person? Says won't come. What happened? We have told Rs. 600 after going to Palakkad and by tomorrow... For 2 days Rs. 600 is not enough. In cinema on working as a junior artist will fetch Rs. 1000 per day. Why? Not yet time to go. This persons character! Radhachechi shall we call Suma once again? That is what I was also thinking. What ever be the difficulty she'll understand our situation. Don't call will straight way go there. I have told several times that this year she must be... ...omitted from the drama. You have also agreed also. I was a fool on the forth day I got on the vehicle from the next week... ...onwards she started acting. Without my knowledge. Finally in the 7th month met with an accident and I came to know... ...about that day before yesterday. If she dies when the vehicle runs over her, doesn't bother me at all. A pig without obedience! But if anything had happened to my son. Would have burned you and your vehicle! What is this? Saji don't forget your past your gulf money which came yesterday only. Till that time you had lived on the money that was given by this person. Yes I have agreed I have not told no. But 10 to 12 years I have also played drama and had lived with it... ...but I stopped when the time came for stopping it. Even if it is the tasty food on getting rotten it must be thrown to... ...the waste. On walking with it by packing it. The men will howl at you and it will incur a bad smell on whoever... ...One who touches or catches. What is it girl? Do you again want to go to do drama? Go inside! Simply creating mess to people! Dasetta why did we come here? Let me sit somewhere with peace of mind. Jalal stop the vehicle. Even if we leave now on reaching there it will 6 to 7 o'clock. What to do again Dasappa? What else to do don't you have the number of the committee people call... ...and tell them drama won't be staged. A little while ago when the Pillaichettan called told, had started. Again if we say like this" They you go and bring a heroine man! Have you heard what one person has told? A bundle of soiled cloths! A rotten food stuff! Without knowing the change in period. Lot of lives still clinging on to that! Lucky the diesel is saved is it not Thomacha? Turn the vehicle and park on his throat! DevadasoomPala St. Thomas Theaters had announced new play... ...did you know that? The name is the same 'the elixir of life' written and directed by famous... ...Benny P Nayarambalam. Paid the advance and have written the... "agreement also. On that a decision is being taken. Now our issue. One and a half Iakhs that was given to you is just... ...'a throw away money' while playing cards... ...at the club by Pappachan. But that's not the issue. You and your father and your father's father were great 'doyens'... ...in Malayalam drama movement. Mapranam Papachan and father Kunjachan were 'worthless ones'. I've a doubt you are having a misconception like that in your mind. If it's there Mapranam won't allow that Devadasoo. K.P.A.C Bharathan's dramas were Communism was tugged in to the... ...throat of ignorant compatriots. Just to 'stir' that my father had started the troupe. For that my father was granted with the certificate from the Bishop House. Accompanied with golden jubilee celebration of 'Vimochana Samaram'... ...(liberation struggle) for the brave revolting Mapranam Kunjachan is... ...awarded with the 'letter of honor'. Why? Do you want to see that? So the gist of what I mean is this much. If your father is an 'elephant' my father is a 'whale' 'blue whale'! One and a half Iakh rupees taken by you in two installments. Forget about the interest.Now on the this very moment I must get it! How can that be possible here? Hey lad! Go and mind your business! A penny from that if it stays in an in- appropriate place it will create... ...'hick-ups' for me day and night. Devadasoo you take that money. Take the money I say! All of you take your belongings and get down fast. Can't you understand what I'm saying? Get down! Get down I say! Come fast! I don't have as money with me. You... Take this vehicle! I don't know how much it will fetch. Check it and if it doesn't sum up, the balance I'll sent it over there. There won't be nothing like sending the balance and all! Okay for the time being let it be whatever that is received. This vehicle along with the materials that is kept on top, Mapranam's money... ...won't be tallied with it. Hey you Avaran go and take the vehicle! Will not be having the clutch and brakes must drive carefully. Stop here!Here! I have been doing this job for the last 35 years. Till now I was not put into a situation like this. Do you know that? On calling this Vikraman Pillai and when drama is booked there is a trust... ...by committee members. That is what is ruined by you. Ragavettan from Parali called... ...and spoke foul words to the core! Did any one think that girl will cheat like this? Is this all a reason? When own father dies, on the stage the drama must be enacted. It had taken place is it not? Das, the name of a great person Sargavedhi Bharathan... ...is doomed today with in a day. Again can I tell the name of Sargavedhi Theaters outside? You don't tell! Not with the mercy of any booking agent that the... ...'Sargavedhi' has reached so far. I and my troupe had lot of 'festive days'. So this hunger won't make us cry. Vikraman Pillai you don't be upset thinking about that. Before the play starts an hour before just with a single phone call the... morganizers can cancel the play. The drama performers must go back without speaking anything. But for the troupe! When vehicle gets toppled over and if4 or 5 dies the organizers need... ...not have to know all that. For them the play must be staged! How did drama have a pathetic condition like this Pillaicha? For a drama troupe consisting of 20 people at Kollam goes to Kan nur to... ...perform and comes back how much does you agents collect and... ...give as remuneration? Merely Rs. 16,000! From this money bag how much will a performer get as residual? Will this money be sufficient to fill diesel for the vehicle? But still people like him plays the drama. Dressed in costumes and plays in people less... ...festival grounds. For what? Is it for crave on money? With the 'little money' gained after a drama performance is... ...it dreaming on that? No! Out of love for drama! Just to remind themselves they are alive still now! Hey you girl Radha! Do you remember that day... ...when we all left K.P.A.C and gathered at the house... ...of brother Bharathan? Dasappan at that time was too little a child. How to forget? When the party got divided and lot of people stood on the other side. Only brother Bharathan and Gopalji stood firmly beside E.M.S &A.K.G Going to start the new troupe are you coming? To me. When brother Bharathan calls how can it be possible without leaving? I came here. You also came along. There are several people in this country who can't accept the... ...reality that the party is split. Thinkers, creative men, good comrades. I'm also along with them. But I do not have doubts because I'm a communist. More than that a drama performer. We are all putting colors on the face to tell the tales of struggle. Of one who toils in the soil, the tenants,daily labors. For all that the strength was given to us by our party. Today when the party splits in to two we all have the pain. But must stride forward by taking a stand. All of us love our party more than we love ourselves. Loves a great movement like K.P.A.C. Much greater than that loves the drama. On account of that a harsh decision to create a new troupe other than that... ...there is no other way before us. To create a flame in the path of revolution and creativity... ...we are giving birth to a new drama troupe. With the next bell the drama will be started. Patrons Kollam Sargavedhi Theaters proudly presents... ...ours debut drama 'red soil'. Written and directed by Bharathan Sargavedhi. Songs written by Darman Ilayidam. Music Gopalji. "On divine stages the curtain has arisen" "Divine stages lands of heaven" "The curtain has arisen" "The life is about be enacted" "The time is awakened in tales" "Here..." "Nights are moving like the sea" "Divine stages." For each and everything there is a time span. Son beyond that nothing will stand. Brother Bharathan always used to say drama is more important than life. I also thought all the more like that. Now with the experience I have corrected it. The life is more important only after that everything is there. At the age of 17 Dasappan joined giving shelter to these 'orphaned ghosts'. The good age was ruined by you for us. Enough. Again if you continue swimming with this burden you won't reach the shore son! On the debt till neck, there are no plays also. No person to act. No one to watch also. Then why? For whom? Son you close this troupe! Even when the drama is over the life is remaining there. For us to sit together like this why is a roof of a troupe needed? When drama gets extinct in which ever places... ...son it's there in our minds is it not? "The black studded bird singing alone" "In your song which is like silk" "Why is it so sorrowful can you tell" "Even after pecking on honey dipped fruits" "How come no sweet songs on the lips left behind" "No sweet songs left behind" "The black studded bird singing alone" "In your song which is like silk" "Why is it so sorrowful can you tell" "When it rains like a drop, a pot" "Have one watched while sitting on the ridges of the threshold" "A golden dream not seen by anyone" "When it rains like a drop, a pot" "Have one watched while sitting on the ridges of the threshold" "A golden dream not seen by anyone" "On that day the good days which was sparkling in your eyes" "The black studded bird singing alone" "In your song which is like silk" "Why is it so sorrowful can you tell" "Even after pecking on honey dipped fruits" "How come no sweet songs on the lips left behind" "No sweet songs left behind" "No sweet songs left behind" 'Pain, pain of giving birth... ...Only females can understand the depth of that' 'When her tear falls your life will be ruined' 'Sky is showering the blood rains' 'Sky is showering the blood rains' Stop it! Stop it! Dasetta what is this? Leave man. What is happening here. Is it marshal arts or is itjumbo circus? What? What is this? My teacher Mohanan. On the stage of national drama festival drama should take place. Not this kind of non sense. On the stage when one somersaults will it be a drama? First make them understand that. Don't create a problem. Stop that! Go and sit you go and sit there. Sit here Dasetta. Drama m ust com municate with people. Drama is the tale of life struggles that is to be projected... ...from the stage to audience. When the lips are moved from there here those who sit here... ...their hearts m ust go trembling. That's drama. Will not get all that from books and internet. Will get from experiences. 'We realize one thing that this world is in the hands of wicked ones' Das where are you going? Get inside the vehicle. Get in Dasappa. What man is your booze down? It's not on booze on seeing the non sense in the name... ...of drama anyone will get mad. I'd come to say an important matter. On saying that to him on the spot will say 'no' That is why decided to say in front of every one. Baby Kuttan had called and said the plans to close the troupe. Didn't feel any shock on hearing it. Like a patient who is on a ventilator. On saying dead just a feel like that. But at night I couldn't sleep. Mans strength is good memories of by gone days. On saying that can we see Sargavedhi like that? All our life what's more even the life sustaining breath is all that. So keep it on hold the decision to close down the troupe. Das a last try to regain what was thought as lost. What I tell, see that in that perception. Last day had a get together with director Anand. As the whole night was discussion of the stories. I told about our old drama days and also I mentioned about your... ...'Jwalam ughi'(A volcano) On hearing that he got thrilled. That drama he intends to make a movie out of it. If you agree his next project will be 'Jwalamughi'(A volcano) You dust off that script tomorrow and we will go and see Anand. He will give you a good amount as advance... ...to settle all your current problems. All that will not work out. On failing in drama and winning in movie... ...I could have done that long back. Hey man!Who failed? What failed? A play that was written by you and thrown in a dustbin that was liked by... ...one person and he asked. That's all! My dear friend first you get rid of your ego. Be confident on own skill. The rough patch of drama that is not a new thing. During the times when T.V serial and mimicry came the drama... ...movement struggled more than this At that time how did you and Sargavedhi out live that. On account of your skill and determination. You can do that again. Das, we will give this drama and in the next season... ...Sargavedhi comes up with a new drama. That will a coming back of Sargavedhi... ...and drama movement here. I'm sure! When you take the pen and paper with the old energy... meverything will happen. Are you coming with me? You say something else. What something else.. Don't make me to say! On talking with him his booze will come to me. Radhachechi I'm not going today... ...we all have certain responsibility regarding the matter of Sargavedhi. Everything mustn't be decided by him. Who is it? Who has come crossing the gates of this hermitage? Even the wild animals are reluctant to enter in to the place of 'Yatnasala'... ...(the place where the rituals are performed) whose are these foot prints? Wait one minute! Manikandatell little more naturally. Even the wild animals are reluctant to enter in to the place of Yatnasala... ...Whose are these foot prints? A seer a person like that was not seen by me before. Son you hear this and learn. A person..Like that was not seen... ...By me before.Not as tall as me but handsome than me. Son stand in the front.. Here and learn by watching. Not as tall as me but handsome than me. Eyes of lotus petals.Long black hair that is flown on to the brow. On the neck and the hands sparking 'Japamalas' On approaching near so far, so far..A fragrance in the air not known. On approaching near so far, so far..A fragrance in the air not known. Are you the daughter of tutor Mani? Yes.Come inside without getting wet in the rain. Dasappa she is the girl whom I told. What is child's name? Jyoth I . At Kayamkulam where the tutor Mani's house was situated now there... ...is a big building, Baby Kuttan had checked and told. Child where are you staying now? When father died things were in real bad shape. Everything was lost. Now in mother's brothers house. At Kainagiri. This is Devadas SargavedhPs... I know. Have seen a drama at Kayamkulam. Vijayan might have told. The main character in the drama. The story of a sage. The role of Vysali. A character with lot of acting to do. I haven't acted so far. If you have the confidence everything will be all right. Many are coming to act like that. Have you studied dancing? At school..Little bit. Completely wet do you have any thing to change? Yes inside the bag. My wife Sudarma. For the time being let her stay in the camp itself is it not Dasetta? Yes. Then enter with the right leg ceremoniously. This is our camp. Later will meet all of us one by one. Do you drink black tea? No, don't want. This is an inevitable thing in the drama. Black tea, donuts made of gram and Dinesh beedi.(A local cigar) Even though party men had quit can the drama men leave it? When she gets ready then we will check with the rehearsal right away. Sudarma make it fast. How come every body's face is brightened what is it? Finally what was searched came to us is it not Dasetta? This child is okay.Not used to acting is it not what she told? Then you have lot of experience is it not? Radhachechi her eyes has got a kind of shinning is it not? A special attraction. She has got a character. It's in Dasappan's hands to make her act. Will be okay she came with the rain is it not? The rain will be heavenly showered in the country. "When a rain showered in the dawn" "Without sleeping whom have you waited" "Like the tip of a tender leaf" "Like water droplets, the love is there in your eyes" "There it prevailed" G.K where are you now? A composing for a movie of mine at Trivandrum. My time is becoming brighter hand full of films. Became happy man! When are you coming this way? There is a thing. Let me see tomorrow I'm going up to Ernakulam. At that time I'll come through that way. What's up with our saint? Did you get the heroine? Not only got one a girl high above my expectations. In the first rehearsal itself she created an amazement. Acting for the first time in life. Though we have made drama with lot of heroines. A different kind of stage presence. You just come and see that's why I called you. Where is it? Where is saints hermitage? On the direction to the west. Far from these rivers... ...mountain passes, thick woods. A beautiful land where all the shades in this universe are painted. Is there a land like that? A universe which is more beautiful than the forest. Yes young man. The life and customs out there are all different. What you don't know what you haven't seen I will show you the entire... ...beauty of that universe. Young man are you coming with me? Why did you stop? Excellent. Is it not G.K? Why not? This fellow gets easily excited it's always like that. But in the case of Jyothi no wonder how he got excited. You really astonished me also. Joesph it has come out well this will do. On putting the costumes, the Vysali has come out good is it not Dasetta? You do one thing. Yes. Tomorrow itself hand over all this to Pillachan. Okay.Then Baby Kuttan you also go and sleep. Jyothi haven't you slept so far? No there is test for P.S.C I was studying. Test! For what? For job. Then drama. Don't know during the time of fathefs death it was B.Sc. second year. Because of debt and problems couldn't complete the course. From then on started writing the tests. Can't continue without getting a job. Next Saturday is our drama's inauguration. At Calicut. Then daily with 1 or 2 shows through out this season. In the mist of this how to go to write a test? It's good on getting a job. A fixed income. Acting is also a profession can you see like that? I don't think I can do that. Can do there is a big actress in you more than what Jyothi thinks. Perhaps an actress who can show wonders. Our this drama is the starting of that. Go and sleep to settle the current problems I'm handing over some money to mother tomorrow. Go and sleep! "Which beautiful dream curtain have you arisen and come" "Through which soft blue sky have you come" "Anointing with bliss did you dissolve in the intimacy in the soul always" "Like a thousand joyful moon rise brightened within me" "Which beautiful dream curtain have you arisen and come" "In your eyes the deep blue sky is touched and taken" "My expressions are being copied by seven heavens" "In your ornamental box of dreams am 'I not a vermillion spot..." "...my lustful lights at dusk are being made" "Without you never does me or my life sustain" "What else will remain except darkness and lust" What is your opinion about our saint? He is a poor fellow only got little bit of muscle, useless. That's all true but his interaction with Jyothi is not that good. Unnecessary touching and nodding silly talks I have seen that. A poor girl on seeing his muscle and sugary words and if she clings on... ...his shoulders we are the losers. That's true! It's me. Open the door. Open I say. Mother have not come is it? No while preparing to start got delayed. Tomorrow the play is at Trissur is it not? Told she will reach there. What is it sir? No nothing. Sister'? I was sleeping. Sir are you not sleeping? Time is very late at night. Close the door, close the door! Play the saint and the Vysali only on the stage not beyond that! Did you understand? Must remember that people with you are seeing that. Nothing like that as sir thinks. Nothing doing. That will not happen in my troupe. May be you may not have intended anything but that lad is not like that. Once this drama is over he will not be there in the Sargavedhi. But you should be there you must be there in this troupe. Now I know your potentials more than you know. Yourtalent is not to end with one play. You must love acting, drama. Must posses an un-quenching passion towards it. For a director, for a writer an actress who makes his character immortal... ...all kind of lustrous desires I feel towards you. There was no actress in Sargavedhi before this to lure me. May be selfishness or weakness again you must be there in my life. "Without you never does me or my life sustain" "What else will remain except darkness and lust" "Which beautiful dream curtain have you arisen and come" "Through which soft blue sky have you come" "Am' I the red flowered tree that blossomed in your moon light" "My world is here becoming fragrant" "Is it not because of the rhythms arising from your lute" "My silence is becoming musical consonances" "Without you never does me nor my dreams remain" "What else will remain except darkness" "Which beautiful dream curtain have you arisen and come" "Through which soft blue sky have you come" "Anointing with bliss did you dissolve in the intimacy in the soul always" "Like a thousand joyful moon rise brightened within me" Am' I late? Bakkar-ikka...why is all sitting like this? No play today. Yes we will reach there on time. We are not doing for the first time. Okay then fine. How can people be like this Dasetta? Already we are late 5 to 6 hrs running time is there is it not? Has everyone reached? No sister is just sitting like that. Go and tell to get inside the vehicle. Radhachechi come getup Dasettan has started. Sudarma don't create a scene. Come and get inside the vehicle. The acting is only required on the stage not in life. Father! Where is this girl going? Sudarma just wait! Dasetta! Hey man! Tell her to get inside the vehicle nicely. Sister come get inside the vehicle. There is a solution for everything. Baby Kuttan move! Radhachechimwhat is the problem? Nothing everyone should have been cautious when crossing the limits. Jalal. Yes. Start the vehicle. She will come back. She has been playing drama for the last 20 years. It's not that she doesn't know that drama is greater than everything else. Baby Kutta might have gone home. You take a taxi and go to the spot and call. What ever earth quake happens she can kill and eat... ...anyone, time can be allotted to her. But once the drama is over! Tell her that. Audience as part of monthly program of... ...Dhrishya Fine Arts Society, Kollam. Your life is decided by you. We all are having only role in your play. That must be only like that. Who ever it may be. For 16 years she has been living trusting only you. You didn't think all that is it not? I will not blame this girl. On coming along with your father from K.P.A.C. I was younger than her. Compatriots have told several things about the relationship... ...between Radhamani and Sargavedhi Bharathan. On account of that have heard lot of teasing and poking words. Even your mother had cursed me a lot. I do not know what you had thought. Till death your father had not tried to convince anyone, anything. Radhachechi also never felt that was required till now. Where you have failed never once had your father crossed the limits! Sargavedhi Bharathan had the mental strength for that! How come you didn't posses that? On saying 6:30 the time is now 7 why not yet ready? Begin fast V.I.P's are all present. What? Is there any problem. No nothing like that. Sir you may go will start now itself. In the first scene Sudarma is there no. She is not seen yet! Baby Kuttan has got a mobile is it not? Why don't you call on that and try? Get lost man! Had tried a lot the phone is switch off! Hey man ring the bell fast! One taxi has come! Has Sudarma not come? Didn't come. Das, it will turn up to a problem. Called several times pleaded really in an obstinate mood! Where is Raji? Change the role of maid and put on her costume. From now on you are the mother of Vysali. Baby Kutta in the script where ever there is maid's... ...portion strike it off and tell her where ever she has to act. Then what about the dialogues. Hey fellow! Do the prompting for that! Even if the sky crumbles over if anyone shows any kind of... mobstinacy, the play will be staged! No one imagine that Devadas can be defeated like that! Where ever succumb to failure Devadas will not fail on stage! On the Sargavedhi's stage Vysali is more important than Vysali's mother! Yes she is more important! Revival from everything. Clear off the old bushes and thickets in the... ...mind and coming back as old Devadas. Das, if you take effort you can do it! But must take effort! Today night think peacefully. 'Jwalam ukki(A volcano) - Drama' After the 'Rishi Sringan'(The saint) Sargavedhi was about to stage this drama. I had mentioned that. It's been 8 to 9 years till now he has not written anything. Not even a line! Is it writefs block Devadas? Can't say like that didn't feel like writing. So didn't write. In the case of many who can write genuinely that's like that mostly... ...even if it's in the literature or in Cinema. You know what happens then the country will be full of hymns of tadpoles! Anyway since you have brought him before me G.K Let me shake hands with you. Avoiding certain limitations of drama, there is a excellent movie in this. Some changes in the structure should be done for cinema. That can be done if he and me sits together. Let Devadas itself write the script is it not G.K? Why not? No need sir that is not required cinema is something which I don't know. That and all sir you do it by yourselves. I've got nothing more to do in this. Since he compelled, only because of compulsion. I'm giving this out of respect towards a great director like you sir. Like he said to clear off the old bushes and thickets in the mind. It felt like it's a necessity for me also. Devadas you wait as G.K told me I've written and kept a cheque for you. I do not know what is the price perceived by you... If it has fallen short kindly pardon! Take it man! Don't make me an indecent fellow. Take it man! Das, you don't consider this as a failure, a rebirth for Sargavedhi. First of all take back the drama vehicle. With the balance clear off the debts dear one, freshen up and... ...put sandal-wood paste take two shots sitwith pen and paper. Writer's block and all will be gone automatically. Let a mind blowing piece of art arise in your head for Sargavedhi. The bar is in second floor. "Awakening a new episode, spreading out end of an era of blood" "Continue the acts of multitudes let the memories of hymns of people arise" "Divine stages heavenly lands" "The curtain has arisen" "The life is about be enacted" Here, take this now paper and pen, start the war, don't say this and that! The season is coming first of all let a rocking title come first. I'll manage rest of the things. I always used to say the drama is not dead... ...people like you must put some effort. There are few people like me in this region awaiting for your drama. After so many years every body's soul got cooled. Though I told to shut down the troupe... ...out of despair it was fire in the heart. Just imagine his condition. What a life he had lived! That drama which was locked and kept for 5 to 8 years... ...it was like casting off a spirit! After a very long time it was today had seen Dasappan smiling. Every 2 weeks used to fill blood now it's weekly once. Don't know how long will this damaged vehicle will run daughter? Before that Radhachechi has a wish. Like that drama's spirit was caste off the spirit in your and Dasappan's... ...mind must be cast off. Dasappan is going to write a new play. I'm going to tell him to write a role for you also. You should come on stage along with him. The relationship was started on the stage before. Again this should be united through the drama. Radhachechi that won't happen in this life time! Had Dasettan ever accepted me as an actor? I thought had given me the consideration as a wife. To evict me from the life and drama it required a moment for Dasettan. In the case of some other people it wasn't like that. That drama was locked up in the box all this time... ...not on account of getting any other actress is it not? Whatever you people say for me it's hard to think that spirit is... ...expunged so easily! Radhachechi if you sit like this, today's dialysis will be canceled. Haseena you take her. I'll go to tem ple and come. MadammAd agency men are waiting. I'm little tired tell them to meet at the location. Here. He has come to the reception at the downstairs. What should I say? Don't know Anand you say! "Which beautiful dream curtain have you arisen and come" "Through which soft blue sky have you come" "Anointing with bliss did you dissolve in the intimacy in the soul always" "Like a thousand joyful moon rise brightened within me" 'Jwalamughi -A lady that shines like a volcano' An ordinary girl named Kamala from a small village in Kerala reaches in the... ...streets of north India Becomes Jwalamughi(A volcano) by adding love, hatred and sex. From her unusual experiences in life. May be an actress like you who has got a high degree of range can... ...only depict that on stage. Really whom am Ito sir'? Is it a lover, mistress or a character who is dressed up on stage? What is this Jyothi? I feel dejected on myself! Because of me what is lost is sir's peaceful family life. It doesn't matter. That is over! With certain loses will get some other gains. Now it's you today going to write the last scene. This Jwalamughi!(A volcano) Where? Where is Jwalamughi? For those small closed doors isn't her anklets that is sounding? Is it that fragrance from her body that is spread in these winds? Isn't it for her that the entire street is waiting forgoing the sleep? Jwalamughi? Are you hearing the sobs of this lonely singer? Jwahmughi? OhlHeavens, director Lal Jose sir! Please come! Greetings Greetings, did my arrival create any discomfort? What discomfort? This is Devadas Sargavedhi. Have heard the name a lot. Then when this G.K talks... ...you and Sargavedhi comes in between ten times in a minute. We are on the journey to Trivandrum... ...on telling about the final rehearsal, Lal was very adamant... ...that he should see it. What is there? It's a pleasure, can sit here. All of them are our permanent artists. I'm Kadavoor Manikandan have come and met sir one or two times... masking for a chance. Might have not received is it so? Come! This is Jyothi Krishna! Greetings. The girl who had a rocking performance as Vysali, didn't I say? In this Jwalamughi!(A volcano) In the new movie of sir both hero and heroine are new faces. What man? Can I recommend? Then sir shall we just carry on? Come carry on. You seldom sing these days. In this 'Geeth Mahal'(Palace of songs)... ...beside the small door in the dark how many times had... I been waiting for the song? On the night on coming to this street. On the very frightening night when my soul and body was ripped of by those vultures. As a self-cry those divine music that was wafting in my ears. How come never did I hear that again? In each and every night when the stars waits without sleeping. When blood drips out from the feet that is adorned with anklets. How can I sing? I can't do that Jwalamughi!(A volcano) Dasetta started lodging in here? For that she is not staying here on your expenses. Is it? Eh,' No! I Go! Has she slept? Sir what is the time now? There are people staying in near by vicinities. Don't we have to go out and walk during day? Hey girl!Why is that you mother having a dislike? Nothing people are saying this and that, that's all what is said. Do I have to go? Is it that I must go? Not because of that. Then if it's to convince people I don't hesitate to tie a thread on the neck! If you agree. What ever who ever says I cannot eliminate you! Jwalamughi is now my obstinacy also! On the stage you are my strength. Yesterday in the final rehearsal you had defeated me. Today, Lal Jose sir had send some one. Asked whether could come to Ernakulam. For what? In the new movie as a heroine... As a heroine.. No nothing had just send the person that's all. That G.K's recommendation is it not? I guessed do you want to go? I haven't told I will come. Answer to the question do you want to go? No you won't go. More over how can you go? Tomorrow it's our Jwalamughi's inaugural play. This year every day we have got the drama. Simply if some one says anything will you just go like that? Jyothi without you is there this drama tell me? Will you go? Look! Without you I won't have drama's at all! What kind of a stupidity is this? I will tell you one thing if it's inaugural play means... ...that should be staged in the premises after the... ...party's state committee. I'm not answerable to just 5 or 10! But 10,000 of them! Don't con! Stop you fool! She had cheated is it not? She went top lough in to movies is it not? Devadas what to do now? What must I answer to committee people? Everyone will stampede over me and batter me to paste! Not only today's play this entire year there is booking! What the hell are you going to do? What to do? This year no drama for Sargavedhi! All of you pack up and get lost! All of you cook and eat this! For a creative person like you, never should say a 'no' to you! But today I must tell you that Mr. Devadas. Even though you are the initial person... ...who first found an actress like Jyothi. I'm the one who had extracted her talents as an artist. As you know. Yes. In my last 3 movies she was my heroine. In my last movie she has secured an award also. She had shared the olden days entire life with me. Many things which are to be remembered and... ...many that are to be forgotten! G.K don't you know the relationship between us? If the Jyothi's decision is that I can never force her. I don't have any other choice other than Jyothi to be Jwalamughi. What should I do Mr. Devadas? When I asked she answered in a single word. Not interested to dig her past! Enough! You can babble anything! Can decide anything! But he is the one who started everything! A relationship that was cut for 8 to 10 years I didn't know it was for this! Good! You had become a reason to fail in front of her once again! You are one who is a real friend! Now look! In front of this person also you had made me in to a debtor! He left after getting really hurt! Was your decision little hard? The story repeated again is it not? So, don't I have my own rightness? Even now I have respect to him. I had adored him..Even before. I was having lot of love also. Even now that love is still lingering some where as balance. Thinking like that, is my life that is to be surrendered below his feet? Don't I posses the right to leave for me! On vouching and deciding what is right to me. Became little hard! At that time and also this time! Dasetta what kind of a speeding is this? Where are we going? Prabhakara...sell it or break it up. Whatever you want do and give what is there! Now there is no need of this one. Everything is over! Dasetta what is the issue what is the problem? On getting old shouldn't keep it must be thrown away! Even if it's the vehicle or troupe or human being! There are some mike sets some curtains are all inside give it to... ...some scrap shop! Leave man! Nothing is required again burn everything down! Once upon a time in your building there was 10 to 30 offices... ...and boards of troupes. It was all there is it not? Finally, one by one was closed down... ...only there was the office of Sargavedhi! Now after dismantling and throwing that also everything is over! Now the thing named professional drama... ...we will all kill it by squeezing it's neck! There will be lot of rent arrears what ever it is check the accounts and take it! And then brother Kurup you end this love towards drama! What that is not required for the 'time' nothing is required for us also! I will retain this bed for some more time. I don't have no other place to go! Dasappan's present situation is like a kite with out strings. No piece of mind thinking about it. Before getting extinguished it was the blaze-up, all that happiness and... "hugging which lasted for few days. That is over! Now no one would have to dress up and come out from homes... "saying to act 'm dramas. In the next 'Chingam' (First month of Malabar era)... ...it's the 50th anniversary of Sargavaedhi. Enough now it's enough just like the longevity of human being... ...it's also like that! Must end at the time of ending! "The black studded bird singing alone" "In your song which is like silk" "Why is it so sorrowful can you tell" "The boat which has gone to other shore on reaching to this shore..." "...will it not dark sky be brightened" "Does the sleepless nights be faded today" "Does the tale of your tear drops end today" "The black studded bird singing alone" "In your song which is like silk" "Why is it so sorrowful can you tell" "Even after pecking on honey dipped fruits" "How come no sweet songs on the lips left behind" "No sweet songs left behind" "Divine stages lands of heaven" "Curtain is about to rise life is going to be enacted" 'Drama is not an effort free creative action on each step... ...it's a blood dripping self sacrifice'. 'A drama performer let him be an actor, writer, director... ...I believe is always on the war front' (The dialogues from various plays) For the last 3 to 4 days lying in this manner, in between will ask for alcohol. If not purchased and given it will end up in scoldings! After drinking his mannerism is like all the characters which were played... ...from the times of grand father is with father! Father! Father! Get up father! Father it's me who have come. Look father! Where is it? TakelTake I say! Father no need! That..is.. Father! Daughter! How come daughter is here? Go, go to the college. Father! "How come the time has not come, when will that time come, is it tolerable" My beloved many a times I prayed for you and pleaded but... You didn't come. Kindly come my love. Maid! My heavens hallucinations! Daughter did you see? Fathefs grand father Ochira Pappukutty Asaan. Have enacted as Vasavadatha. (The story of a whore) When he comes up on stage as dressed in female form even the... ...'Apsarasu' (seductive women) will fail! That much grace is there on face daughter did you see that? There! (A hymn sung by saints) Is it now the time has come up on you? This body which was glowing like sun countries soldiers had chopped it! Look daughter! The legs and hands of Vasavadatha On 7,000 stages had Pappukutty Asaan played... wand succeeded as Vasavadatha. The golden era of Malayalam drama had started from there. Then what it is the same fate of Vasavadatha for drama also... ...after chopping the hands and legs drama is also dumped in... ...the funeral grounds, look! Come father! Come! Walk! Tombs of who sacrificed! Tombs of who sacrificed! Father my wound is healing, all ourwounds are being healed... ...the medicine for that is found out by father. Sir all the procession had come! Up hold that flag! That flag is yours! That flag belongs to your race! That flag is going to spread through out this country! Did you see daughter's grandfather K.P.A.C Bharathan? On the stage he was a fire brand a great artist which glowed on the stage. I want to hold this! I want to hold this! High..High..Up! Look!When the drama was made in to battle sword for the social change. The last link of that lineage! Daughter's father Devadas Sargavedhi! Look my child! A fool who enacts vigorously on stage, where no wants it! This is my father now! My father is always in the land of memories of old... ...drama days which is lost. Sometimes on waking up in those intervals as if in a drama vehicle which is... ...running delayed to drama location always in a hurry. My father irritated always, sometimes my father feels he is on some stage. On watching sometimes becomes Vasavadatha, in the drama... ...'You made me communist' becomes comrade Gopalan! Becomes several characters staged by father and grand father. As a creative persons with all the weaknesses and lived with an... mun-compromising attitude. My mother was always a lady with obstinacy. The time will expunge all the mistakes and obstinacy. When mother came and touched, like a child father obeyed! Along with us holding the hands of mother descended the... ...steps of the lodge. In our small house on that day for the first time our father! After so many years on that day father had the food prepared my mother. With out any bad dreams father quite well slept on that day. Today sitting on the threshold read the newspaper. Old friends one after the other came searching for father. Today it was the birthday of father. Then the days and nights of happiness and peace of mind. I and Malu converted my room to father's room. Father again started reading books. We got back the fathefs love which was hidden in the soul. Tomorrow, mine and fathers, all of our unforgettable day in our lives! Patrons in the 50th year of Sargavedhi we proudly presents. Jwalamughi(A volcano) written by Devadas Sargavedhi. Direction - Priyamvada Devadas. Respected ones I'm Priyamvada Devadas. Father's and grand father's and my grand father's and by gone all... ...drama in the flame of their memories I surrender this drama in the... ...feet of my dear father. The golden era of drama must return again. We new generation long for that. "Divine stages lands of heaven" "The curtain has arisen" "The life is about be enacted" Where? Where is Jwalamughi? For those small closed doors isn't her anklets that is sounding? Is it that fragrance from her body that is spread in these winds? Isn't it for her that the entire street is waiting forgoing the sleep? Jwalamughi? Are you hearing the sobs of this lonely singer? Jwahmughi? For decades back, there lived a street singer who lived in these streets. And Jwalamughi who loved him. This is not their story. Those memories are lingerings in these streets. From the remains of that a new age story emerges. "Awakening a new episode, spreading out an end of an era of blood" "Continue the acts of multitudes let the memories of hymns of people arise" "Divine stages heavenly lands" "The curtain has arisen" "The life is about be enacted" "The time is awakened in tales" "Here..." "Nights are moving like the sea" "A tale of war staged on the tip of a battle sword" "A tale..A tale" "A tale of war staged on the tip of a battle sword" "A tale..A tale" "Shuddered on hearing awakened an era" "Holy rains deleted and rewritten magical stage..." "...is approaching vehemently" "Divine stages lands of heaven" "The curtain has arisen" "The life is about be enacted" "The time is awakened in tales" "Here..." "Nights are moving like the sea" "Nights are moving like the sea" VTV
