 

                        1 (SINCE I FOUND YOU PLAYING) No use lookin' for a cheap joint, honey Wastin' my time and money Those days are through Since I found you Just a little love in the morning light Now I got the feeling that just one night won't do Since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you I don't miss nothin' since I found you No more walkin' down lonely street Wearin' holes in both of my feet And feelin' blue Since I found you Don't really matter what the boys are doin' All I really care about is you and me stayin' true Since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you I don't miss nothin' since I found you (GLASS SHATTERING) Yeah? Mr. Escobar? Hi, uh, it's me, Nadine Hightower. I really hate to bother you. I just want to ask a favor of you. Listen, if it's money, I can't help you. Uh, no, sir, no, sir. (STUTTERING) It's not. Could I come in and talk to you for just a minute? Honey, I'd love to, but I got an important client on his way over. Oh, this'll only take a minute. It's about those photos that you took of me. Art studies. Those were art studies. Yes, sir. But to tell you the truth, they were lots more artistic than I bargained for. And the thing is, I'd like to have those photos back. Did you get paid? Yes, sir. $22. Did I touch you? Did I lay a hand on you? Well, no, sir. Then you got no gripe with me, young lady. Now if you'll excuse me, I gotta go. Mr. Escobar! Now, that day at the Five and Dime, when you come up to me and told me you was a close personal friend of Hugh Hefner, and then you asked me to take those photos, I mean, those art studies. To tell you the truth, the only reason I said yes was because you told me that Playboy was bound to pay me lots of money. Now I'll pay you back however much you're out. I'll give your wife free manicures for the rest of her life. How about that? I'll do anything. I mean, almost anything. Will you quit that? I'm not leavin' until I get those photos back, and that's that! Okay, come on in, then! Come on, damn it! Lucky for you, I'm about to become a very rich man. (KNOCKING ON DOOR) Damn. You wait in the back. Don't come out till I holler. Okay? In the back? Yeah. All right, I'm comin'! I'm comin'! (ESCOBAR GROANING) (GASPING) Lady, I got... Oh, my God. Mr. Escobar. Oh, my God! Oh, my God! (KNOCKING ON DOOR) CHARLEY: Mr. Escobar? It's Charley Draper, Photo Supply House. I got that carton of developer you asked for. I'm real sorry about this. CHARLEY: Mr. Escobar? Oh, hey, are you the janitor? JANITOR: Yeah. What's the problem? I got this package for Mr. Escobar, and I can't get nobody to answer. Hang on. I got the key. You can leave it inside. (DOORKNOB CLICKING) Hey, hey! Call the police! There's been a murder up here! MAN: What's goin' on? Hey! Somebody call the police! There's been a murder up here! MAN: Right up there? (PEOPLE CLAMORING) (POLICE SIREN WAILING) (TIRES SCREECHING) (PEOPLE CHATTERING) (CAR TIRES SCREECHING) Hey! He's upstairs! MAN ON TV: And now, Search for Tomorrow. MICHELLE: I think Roger's gonna have an affair with Vanessa. VERA: Are you crazy? Vanessa's got the hots for Brad. You're late, Nadine. You got about umpteen calls from Vernon. (WOMAN CHATTERING ON TV) VERA: Well? "Well" what? Are you gonna tell Vernon you're pregnant? Vera, I don't want to talk about this right now. He is the daddy. That just happens to be a biological accident, that's all. Hon, that man is your husband. Ex-husband. That's just as much your fault as it is his. Vernon loves you. Vernon don't love nothin' but himself and that damn Blue Bonnet bar of his. That man is flat-out irresponsible, and I do not intend on lettin' Doris Isabelle... Doris Isabelle? I'm namin' her after Mama's favorite sisters. What do you think? (SIGHS) Nadine, I love you like you was my own flesh and blood. But I do not intend to stand around and see that baby get born without a daddy. Then you sure better rustle up somebody real fast on account it ain't gonna be Vernon Hightower. (CRICKETS CHIRPING) Oh, you won't forget about the garbage? Of course not. Are you sure you don't mind closin' up? Get outta here and have a good time. MICHELLE: Bye-bye. Bye-bye. MAN: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The top story on the 6:00 news tonight involves the brutal slaying of an Austin photographer, Raymond Escobar. Mr. Escobar was stabbed to death in his studio on East 6th Street this afternoon. The studio seems to have served as a love nest for Mr. Escobar and the woman who killed him. Our reporter talked to deputy sheriff, Leon Rusk, at the scene of the crime. What makes you suspect the killer is a woman? Well, we have several leads that point to the fact that the killer's undoubtedly a woman. For one thing, we found traces of lipstick and cheap perfume on the collar of the deceased. (KNOCKING ON DOOR) REPORTER: We now take you back to the studio. I knew sooner or later you was gonna come out of there. What do you want, Vernon? Now, did you, or did you not sign them divorce papers? Hmm? You gotta be kiddin' me? 'Cause if you didn't, I swear, I'm gonna strangle you on the spot. Don't provoke me, Vernon. I got enough on my mind... Damn it, woman, I'm tryin' to get the Blue Bonnet refinanced. If you ask me, the Blue Bonnet's nothin'... I didn't ask you. Fine! Now, there is no way they're ever gonna let me have that money unless you sign that paper saying you agree to the divorce and promise to make no claim on the Bonnet. Do you see the keys to a brand new Buick convertible with white sidewall tires, radio and air conditioner? 'Cause when you see the keys to that car in my hand, you'll see my name on those divorce papers and not until. Now, you got that, slick? Come here. Don't mess with me... You just come here for a minute. I'm warnin' ya! You know I'm mighty stronger than you are! You see that Chevy? Hmm? You see that busted headlight? You see that bailin' wire? Now, you think I'd be drivin' around in a wreck like that if I could afford a brand new Buick? And who might that be? That happens to be Renee Lomax. She's the Uvalde High School Pecan Queen of 1947. Vernon, darlin'? Uh-oh, whoa, whoa. I'm not in the "Vernon darlin'" business anymore. Remember? Vernon, darlin', what if I was to sign those papers of yours? I told you before, I'm not payin' for any brand new Buick. What if I was to forget about the Buick altogether? All right, what's the deal? I'd just like you to run a little errand with me, that's all. What kind of little errand? Well, a couple of weeks ago, Vera asked me to pick up this stuff that she keeps in a storeroom on 6th Street and I just keep forgettin' and if it ain't there by tomorrow mornin', she's gonna have a real shit fit. And, well, you know what a 'fraidy cat I am of the dark. Nadine, it's me, Vernon. Remember? Your almost ex-husband? Now I know how you are, especially when you get your mind set on somethin'. I know you're not gonna give up on that Buick out of the goodness of your heart. Vernon, be honest with me. Are you ever really and truly gonna give me that Buick? Hell, no! Then what am I losin'? (DOOR BANGING) Sug, I'm pretty sure that I got her convinced to sign that paper. (EXCLAIMS) The thing is, though... Mmm. (CHUCKLES) Uh, sug... Oh. The problem is that she's got some kind of deal goin' here. I'm gonna have to help her straighten it out. So, uh, I want you to take the pickup, go on back over to your place and I'll call you later, all right? Vernon, just think. As soon as she signs those papers, we can get married. Yeah. Mmm. (HORN BLARING) Honey, go on now. Vernon's gotta go. (CLEARS THROAT) (CAR ENGINE STARTING) Nightie-night. (PICKUP TRUCK SQUEAKING) (TIRES SCREECHING) VERNON: Hey! Goddamn it, woman. (TIRES SCREECHING) Are you tryin' to get me killed? (CAR RATTLING) When was the last time you cleaned the sparks in this thing? You know me, Vernon. Live and let live. They don't bother me. I don't bother them. Hey, slow down. Huh? Slow down. NADINE: What? VERNON: Look at that. (MUSIC PLAYING) What's that son of a bitch doin' in there? (CHUCKLING) Givin' away free beer? How's the old Blue Bonnet gettin' along anyway? Fine. It's doin' just fine. I heard you was about to go bust. Well, you heard wrong. The Blue Bonnet's just about to turn the corner. It's just gonna take a little longer than I expected, that's all. You mean, that jukebox you bought with my money just ain't doin' the trick for you, is it? I told you before, that was a loan. I'll pay you back. I've got big plans for the Blue Bonnet. By the time I'm through, it's gonna be the showplace of Austin. The first thing I'm gonna do is get me a new sign. Mmm-hmm. Then I'm gonna get the dance floor fixed up. I'm goin' to get me a name band. I'm not talkin' about one of these low rent bands. I'm talkin' big time. The Blue Bonnet Lounge ain't never gonna be anything. First of all, it's in the worst location in all of Austin. I must have told you I don't know how many times... I know what you told me! But you was wrong. Then I must have told you... You was wrong! I don't want to talk about it anymore. But, I... Period! Fine. We'll talk about something else. Fine. Okay. Ain't she a little on the cheap side for you? Who? Miss Low Rent Lust back there. Renee? Are you kiddin'? She's got a good job with the Lone Star Beer Company. She don't look that smart to me. Well, she's smart enough to work in Accounts Receivable. I don't know, Vernon. She looks a little on the chubby side to be Pecan Queen. Well, at least she doesn't spend all her time findin' fault with me. Here we are. (SIGHS) (POLICE RADIO CHATTERING) (THUNDER RUMBLING) VERNON: Why are we goin' in the back door? It's a lot quicker this way. I can't believe this. I left the keys at the beauty shop. I guess we're just gonna have to go back and get 'em. What? We came all the way out here and you don't even have the keys with you? If you hadn't been so obnoxious, I might've remembered. Now, come on, let's go. Hold on, hold on, hold on. I'm not ruinin' mine and Renee's evenin' because you ain't completely put together. Now, did you bring a nail file? Vernon, I don't have the time to stand here and play games with you. It's gonna take half the night as it is. Now, come on, let's go. You forgot the night we was in Tulsa, we had locked ourselves out of the motel room. Remember, I did that little trick with the lock? Ooh, Vernon, aren't you the smart one? (LOCK CLICKING) There's no need to do that. You know, Nadine, I'm way ahead of you on this deal. You always have been, Vernon. There ain't no beauty supplies in here, is there? NADINE: Not exactly. And this place don't belong to Vera, does it? Uh-uh. You know what kind of trouble that we can get in... Shh! (WHISPERING) You wanna wake up everybody between here and El Paso? Do you have the least idea what could happen to us if the owner walked in and found us like this? Hmm? I'm talkin' breakin' and enterin'. I'm talking three to seven in Huntsville. Not to mention me losin' my liquor license. Don't worry. That ain't gonna happen. I swear. You want to explain why you're so sure? Well, if you have to know, he's dead. Dead? You mean, dead dead? Hey! Hold on. I don't know what's goin' on here, but I'm not gettin' mixed up. VERNON: Nadine, we're gettin' out of here right now and that's an order. You comin'? (FOOTSTEPS POUNDING) Well, I'll visit you in the jailhouse. Adios. (POLICE RADIO CHATTERING) You know what'd go down real good right now? A nice cold bottle of beer. You plannin' on us drivin' up to a 7-Eleven in a police car and askin' the cashier for a six-pack? It just so happens I hid a couple of Lone Stars up there in that stiff's icebox. You hold down the fort. I'll be right back. Hell, Cecil, you're not as dumb as the Captain said. Nadine? I mean it now. This is your last chance. (PAPERS RUSTLING) Forgive me. (VERNON MUTTERING) That woman is dumb as a post. I swear, if she thinks I'm goin' to prison on account of some dimwit idea of hers, she's got another thing comin'. (CECIL WHISTLING) VERNON: ...being around, get her out of trouble, there's no tellin'. (DOORKNOB CLICKING) Of course. Nadine? (SIGHS) Damn it all, will you let me in? Nadine? (KNOCKING ON DOOR) Nadine, I mean it now. I know you're in there. I can hear you movin' around. She don't have the sense that God gave a goose. (SIGHS) VERNON: Wait a minute. We break into the place in the middle of the night. The poor son of a bitch who owns it turns out to be dead. For all I know, she probably killed him herself. Lord knows, she's mean enough. Officer, am I glad to see you. There's a very suspicious-looking character running around out there. I was just on my way back in to tell my wife to call the police, and I must have gone into the wrong place by mistake. Honey, don't do that. NADINE: Run for it. Now why did you have to do something like that? I was doin' just... (GUN FIRING) (SCREAMS) Give me the keys! (CAR ENGINE STARTING) (TIRES SCREECHING) (TIRES SCREECHING) (POLICE SIREN WAILING) (NADINE SCREAMING) Step on it, Vernon. Step on it! Watch out. You picked a hell of a time to stop! (POLICE RADIO CHATTERING) Hang on, darlin'. (NADINE EXCLAIMING) (TIRES SCREECHING) (WHOOPING) (GUN FIRING) (NADINE SCREAMING) (CRICKETS CHIRPING) You mind tellin' me what the hell was goin' on back there? Well, sort of like this. One of the girls down at the shop, and don't ask who it is, 'cause I ain't gonna tell ya. Anyway, this guy Escobar took some, uh, pic... I mean, some art studies of her... What you mean is this old boy talked her into posin' bare-ass for a bunch of pictures? And that bitch's ass is not all they've done. Vernon Hightower, you got a dirty mind. For your information, Mr. Escobar was in the Army with Hugh Hefner of Playboy magazine fame. How about that? He pulled that one on her? He didn't pull nothin'. I knew those gals in the shop wasn't the smartest things in the world, but I did give 'em more credit than that. And I'll bet you, that she's got a husband that's even dumber than she is. Hmm. Are you tellin' me that we nearly got ourselves killed... I swear, I never saw anything like the way you drove that car tonight, Vernon. Never. Uh, mostly luck. I mean, the way you went 90 miles an hour backwards, without gettin' us killed. And then you stopped the damn car. I couldn't believe it. "Goddamn, Vernon, what a hell of a time to stop!" I didn't say it like that. (CHUCKLING) Yeah, you did. I did not. Here I am, sittin' around like we was still... (SIGHS) Listen, you can't drive the Ford on account of the police will be lookin' for it. Oh, no, okay, I won't. I know this, this old boy who owes me a favor and I'll take it over and have him paint it. That'd be real nice. I guess I'd better be goin'. You're lookin' real good. (CLEARS THROAT) No, I mean, you know, it looks like, you're eatin' real good. Not too much or anything. (STUTTERING) What I mean is that you look real good. You look real good, too. Real good. Well, I better get on my horse. Renee's gonna be kinda worried. Well, here. Let me get you some ice, okay? I'll be right back. (SIGHS) Ugh. (SIGHS) Oh, boy. Hmm. (EXCLAIMING) (CAR DOOR CLOSING) (CAR ENGINE STARTING) (SIGHING) (SNIFFLING) It don't do no good to cry whatsoever, so you might as well quit. (SIGHS) It does you no good to talk to yourself either. (SCREAMING) (THUNDER RUMBLING) (FROGS CROAKING) BUFORD: Reverend, I told you the last time you were in this place that I would not, I repeat, not tolerate any handlin' of snakes on this premises. (SNAKES RATTLING) What the holy hell is this? Sir, we'd surely be grateful if you wasn't to make them mad. What I mean is, that way they ain't gonna be no use to anybody. Listen to me, you pinhead. I'm gonna keep this box right here in my office under lock and key until you pissants are out of town. Now get out! (SNAKES RATTLING) Miss Hightower, I'm Buford Pope. Would you please come in? (DOOR CLOSING) I want to apologize for bringin' you here in this crude and vulgar way, but how come a nice girl like you would let a low-life like Ray Escobar take some indecent pictures of her? Believe me, I'm startin' to regret it. Nadine... You don't mind if I call you Nadine, do you? Nadine, I've got reason to believe that you were at Ray Escobar's today, lookin' for these photographs. I've also got reason to believe that you've come across somethin' else while you were there. And I'm just about positive that whatever it was that you found, it belongs to me. Now, is it possible that you have that somethin' else we're talkin' about on you? Well, I might. Floyd? (SNAKES RATTLING) Nadine, we've got ourselves a little problem. (DOGS BARKING) (DOORBELL RINGING) (MUSIC PLAYING) Why, you miserable son of a bitch. You got some nerve showin' up here. If I wasn't otherwise occupied right now, I'd come out there, and I'd whip your butt. I swear... Dwight, I don't see why you're so hot under the collar there, pard... You owe me $450, not countin' legal fees of $370 and change. You're lucky I don't get the sheriff on you. Yeah, Dwight? I'm your own family. Don't that count for somethin'? We are third cousins once removed, period. My mother does not remember ever layin' eyes on your daddy. Well, I just thought I'd come by to tell you that your third cousin once removed is gonna be a jillionaire. I just thought you might want to know that. Vernon, you don't have diddly-squat. You owe me $820 plus interest, the bank is about to foreclose on that chicken shit bar of yours, and now you're talkin' about bein' a jillionaire. Har-de-har-har. (GRUNTS) Where'd you get this thing? You wouldn't happen to have a cold beer in the icebox, would you? I'll lay odds you didn't get a hold of this by legal means. I ought to call the police. You do that, pard. WOMAN: Sweetheart? Hey! Good for you, cousin. (CLEARS THROAT) How much you figure land along that highway's gonna be worth an acre, hmm? A lot. That sounds reasonable. I figure, right now it can't be worth more than $500 to $600 an acre. A few thousand dollars in the right place, I might end up with enough money to get the Blue Bonnet on her feet. Then watch my dust. Can I have my picture back, please? Now, Vernon, that ain't gonna do you the least bit of good unless you can afford to buy the land. You don't have a pot to piss in. Well, that's why I've come to see you. I figured, with you being a fancy lawyer and everything, you might have some designs in that direction. Well, I'll tell you what. You let me have the rest of those maps, I'll see how much cash I can raise, and whatever profit I make, I'll cut you in for sure. How about that? Hmm. No. No, I don't think so. Damn. Let's try this on for size. You're a lawyer, you call up some of your rich friends and raise, mmm, let's say, $50,000. Then I'll let you have these photos. WOMAN: Dwight, hon? I'll be right in, darlin'. Vernon, this better not be another one of your swindles. Hey, Dwight, I swear, this time everything's strictly on the up and up. (SIGHING) No, sir. I ain't telling you where Vernon is. You can break my arms, my legs, it won't do a bit of good. (RATTLESNAKES RATTLING) The only Vernon Hightower I know runs a dump out on South Lamar called the Blue Bonnet Lounge. He ain't the one. Why don't you boys go out there and pick him up? Don't shoot him, unless you have to. (VERNON WHISTLING) (MUSIC PLAYING) Good evening there, Boyd. Sorry I'm late. How's business? Not so hot, Mr. Hightower. We only took in $6 in change so far tonight. Well, that's all right. I got a feelin' we're about to turn a financial corner here any minute. You want a beer? Hmm? Sure. (LAUGHS) You know, I've been thinkin'. You know what we need around this place? A new sign. Somethin' in neon. Vernon Hightower's famous Blue Bonnet Bar and Lounge. And then... Mr. Hightower, sir? I ought to tell you the Lone Star people called. They said if you don't pay 'em what you owe 'em, they're gonna stop any more deliveries. Why ain't nothin' ever easy? Give me a nickel. (SIGHS) I was born in a small town Mama was a farmer's wife We knew everyone for miles around We lived here all our lives Renee? It's me, Vernon. Listen, the way it works out, I'm not gonna be able to see you tonight, hon. No, nothing's the matter. It's just that, I'm in the middle of this big financial transaction, and I got these details I gotta take care of. You know how it is. Listen, I'll tell you, you could do me a little favor. Remember how you said that you could get your boss to do just about anything you wanted? Well, if you could get him to fix it so these Lone Star people quit pesterin' me for the next couple of weeks, I'd sure appreciate it. (STUTTERING) I mean, I'm good for it and everything, it's just that, all my money's tied up in, you know, assets, that kind of stuff. Yeah? Sug, I knew I could count on you. Yeah. Sug? Sug, I gotta go now. I'll miss you, too. Me, too. Toodle-oo, now. (SIGHS) Tell me somethin', Boyd. When was the last time you had a raise, hmm? A raise? Mr. Hightower, I ain't even been paid in the last two months. Oh, hell, boy. (CAR APPROACHING) I'm sorry about that. (BRAKES SQUEALING) Hey, I'll tell you what. Startin' next week, I'm gonna double your salary. Evenin', friends. Came to the right place. First drink's on me, Vernon Hightower, soon to be one of the richest sons of bitches you ever set your eyes on. (NADINE SCREAMING) (CRASHING) What did you do to him? Oh! Don't worry, honey. I fought like a tiger. Mr. Hightower, my name is Pope. I've got good reason to believe that you have in your possession somethin' I want a whole lot. I might have, I might not. (SCREAMS) BUFORD: Do yourself a favor, son. Don't get smart with me. Listen to the man. He's real serious about this. I paid a whole bunch of money for some information, and the son of a bitch I was dealin' with tried to double-cross me. And the short of it is that you've got somethin' that belongs to me. Now then, I'm asking you nicely. Hand it over. I can't do that. I'll tell you what I will do... Mr. Hightower, if you think you can deal yourself into this, forget it. You're a two-bit loser, son, and you haven't got the brains or balls for this. First off, I won't have you talkin' like that in front of my wife. Stop! Stop it! Look, can I talk to my husband in private? Floyd, the woman wants to talk to her husband. (GRUNTS) (GROANING) Now, hon, this is not the time to start one of your stubborn streaks. Don't worry, darlin'. I'm on a roll. (GROANING) Now, then, whenever you're ready to get serious, I'm ready to do business. You want to get serious? All right, I'll get serious. Unless you hand over the goddamn map, I'll kill the both of you. (BUFORD CHUCKLING) (CHUCKLES) Well, if you was to kill us, I expect you'd never get your hands on that map. That's a fact. But I think I can fix it so you'll be real anxious to talk, unless, of course, you've got a fondness for rattlesnakes. Hon, he's not kiddin' around. Where'd he get a bunch of rattlesnakes? Well, by a strange coincidence, I happen to have about five or six rattlers right inside this box here. He's tellin' the truth. I swear. (RATTLING) You gonna hand over that map? Uh-uh. No, sir, I'm afraid not. Well, you sure you're not goin' to change your mind? (SIGHS) Uh-uh. Mountain? (NADINE SCREAMING) Oh, God! I'm snake bit! I'm dead! All right! Let me see. All right! Let's see. Let me see. That's it there. Right there. Oh, hell, you ain't snake bit. That's a splinter! Hold that box right there. Floyd? Come here and put somethin' on top of these sons of bitches so they don't get out. Uh-uh! First one comes close gonna get a face full of rattlesnake. Oh, goddamn it, man. You lost your mind? You let them snakes out of there, they'll go after you as well as us. All right, you. Get your car keys out, put 'em on the desk and get against the wall. Floyd, you do that, boy, you'll be wrestling duckshit come Thursday night. Floyd, you don't get those car keys out here, you're gonna be wrestling a diamondback in about one minute. (SNAKES RATTLING) (KEYS JANGLING) You're gonna pay for this. Darlin', find the car, start the motor and honk the horn. I'll be right along. Okay. (DOOR SLAMMING) Well, Mr. Hightower, let's us have a little talk here. I know you're in what they call financial straits. So, why don't you let my boys here set fire to that dump of yours? That way, at least you'll collect on the fire insurance. All you have to do in return is hand over the map. I appreciate that, Mr. Pope, but that won't do me no good now. See, I let the insurance lapse about a month ago. (LAUGHS) All right, boys, if I was you, I'd head for high ground. Get... Yikes! FLOYD: Let me out of here! (MEN CLAMORING) (MEN SCREAMING) (SNAKES RATTLING) (FROGS CROAKING) VERNON: You know what my problem has been all this time? I've been under-capitalized, that's all. You wait and see. We pull this deal off, I'm home free. Vernon, I don't know. Buford Pope seems like the real determined type to me. Don't you worry about Pope now. I'm on top of that whole situation. Hey, wait a minute. You don't believe what that son of a bitch said, do you? You don't think I'm some sort of a two-bit loser, do you? No, hon. I've known you a real long time. You can pretty much do anything you want once you set your mind on it. You mean that? I'll always love you You know, it's funny how you forget things. NADINE: Like what? Well, like, sittin' in the kitchen, drinkin' beer, shootin' the shit with you. Forgot how much I loved that. I'll lay her down Like this Vernon, I think there's something you should know. Sure. I'm... You know, with your looks, you could've married just about anybody. Hmm? That's why I've been bustin' my butt over at the Blue Bonnet, so you wouldn't feel you made a mistake. And also you'd feel that you had something to be proud about. People like you and me, we never get the breaks. This time, it's gonna be different. This is the one chance that I'm ever gonna get, and I swear, I'm lettin' nothin' get in my way. There we go, runnin' off at the mouth again. What was it you was gonna say? Hmm, nothin'. Wasn't important. You fixin' your hair different these days? Uh, yeah, I copied it from a picture in Modern Screen. You like it? Yeah, it looks real nice. What's that perfume you're wearin'? Evenin' in Paris. Why? No reason. Your life is no longer my home Without no news from home I remember the first time I set eyes on you. It was a Friday night, over at the Dairy Queen. You was wearin' a pink sweater. Vernon, don't do this to me. I saw you standin' there and I said to myself, "Vernon Hightower, you are a goner." I can't be here If you've got the money, honey I've got the time We'll go honky-tonkin' and dance to the music fine Anytime Dance to the music fine If you've got the money Honey, I've got the time There ain't no use to carry Let's start out tonight (COWS MOOING) If you've got the money Honey, I've got the time Vernon! Vernon. (KNOCKING) Sug, it's me, Renee Lomax. Soon to be Mrs. Vernon Hightower. What the hell... Renee, what are you doin' here this early? RENEE: I got a surprise for you. Oh, all right. I'll be right there. I talked to my boss. Ow! God damn it! What, is somethin' the matter, honey? No, no, everything's fine. Well, hurry up, sug. I got to be to the office by 9:00. (WHISPERS) Vernon Hightower. Don't worry. I'm on top of this whole situation. (MOANING) Mornin', mornin'. Good mornin'. Oh, darlin', what happened? Huh? Oh, it's a long story. Uh, so what'd your boss say, hmm? Oh, Mr. Schmidt? He said no. He says as far as he was concerned, you were no-good, shiftless white trash, and you were getting what you deserved. Oh, God. So this mornin', I went to his office real early, and I snuck this bill that shows all what you owe out of his filing cabinet. Uh-uh! I think I'll keep it just to be sure you behave yourself. Unless, of course, you want to come lookin' for it. Honey, now come on. You got to be at work by 9:00, now. I guess you're right. (BOTH EXCLAIM) Uh, hold on now. I can explain everything. It's from Scarborough's. I swear, this has to be the most beautiful thing I've ever set my eyes on! I'm gonna try it on right now. No, no. Uh, honey, you don't wanna be late for work, do you? Hmm? Hey, I got an idea. Why don't we leave this here, hmm? You can come back later and try it on. Uh-uh, I wanna take this with me. I'm not gonna let this out of my sight. Mmm. Baby, wait out in the pickup, hmm... All right. ...while I get my jacket. Vernon Hightower, I'm standin' back here buck-naked. If you let that dimwit walk outta here with my favorite nightgown, you gotta be kiddin' me. Trust me! I got a plan. (ROOSTER CROWING) (DOG BARKING) (RATTLING) (SHRIEKING) (GUN FIRES) Hey, Dwight? Yeah, it's me. You got the money? Great. Now then, I got this little errand to run and then I'll get the map and be right there. Oh, Dwight? I swear, you won't regret this. For the first time in your life, Vernon, you're probably right. He's on his way. Shouldn't be long now. Vera, I gotta ask a favor of you. But you gotta promise me one thing. No questions, okay? Okay. Now I know payday ain't until tomorrow and everything, but I gotta get out of town real fast. So can I have my money today? Please? $5, $10, $15, $16, $17, $18. Does this have anything to do with Vernon? As a matter of speakin'. Well, did you tell him about the baby? Oh, Vera, please! All right, all right. $19, $20, $21... VERNON: Nadine? Damn it, where the hell have you been? I been lookin' all over town for you. Please inform Mr. Vernon Hightower that how he spent his morning is no concern of mine? I swear, none of that was my fault. Would you please tell my ex-husband that I couldn't care less. The man is tryin' to explain. If you'd just let him speak. "Trust me," he said. "I've a plan," he said. Okay, I said I'm sorry. Sorry just don't get it done, Vernon. Damn it, Nadine, that was nothin' but business back there. Don't look like no business I ever saw. Well, whatever it was, I'm sure the man has a perfectly good reason. You hit the nail on the head. Just listen to... Where's my damn nightgown? Look, here this poor man's been traipsin' all around town lookin' for you just so he can settle this little misunderstanding. It ain't no little misunderstanding, Vera. Nadine, now the least you can do is listen. All right, Vernon. Thank you, Vera. Now, darlin', I swear, that woman don't mean a thing to me. What woman? His fiancee. She is not my fiancee! Vernon, how dare you! You got a hell of a lot of nerve chasin' around this town with some floozy. You got a wife here that's pregnant. Vera! How come? I ain't ever talkin' to you again. How come everybody in the whole goddamn world knows I'm gonna be a daddy except me? If you hadn't been so busy with that nymphomaniac you're gonna marry... Oh, damn it, Nadine, I keep telling you... Let me give you some advice, purely as a friend. When you do tie the knot with Renee, don't plan on spendin' your anniversary at the Blue Bonnet. She won't appreciate it one bit. I keep on trying to tell you, I am not gonna marry... I am not the least bit interested in your future plans. Doris Isabelle and me are gonna... Doris Isabelle? My daughter. Don't I get a say in the matter? I mean, I'm the daddy! It's not the same. Listen, you don't know any more about being... (CAR BRAKES SCREECHING) (NADINE SCREAMING) (POUNDING ON DOOR) MOUNTAIN: Floyd, go around back. See if you can get in. FLOYD: Come on, you little rat shit! I want my car! They didn't come out the back, so they must be in here someplace! All right, Hightower! Might as well come on out. Sooner or later, we're gonna find you. (STEPS CREAKING) There ain't no sign of 'em down here. (FOOTSTEPS PATTERING) Come on. This is gonna be like shootin' fish in a barrel. Come on! I'll be right back. Where you goin'? I'm gonna find us a way out. You comin'? Mountain, in here! Watch out, now. We can't go down that way. It won't reach that far. We ain't goin' down. Then where? Uh-uh. I ain't gettin' on that thing. No. No way! No way, Jose. Vernon, I can't. I'm afraid of heights. Do you know that? That ought to do the trick. Uh-uh. I'd just as soon you shot me right here and be done with it than set foot on that thing. Nadine, you've got a baby to think about. Now haul ass. Doris Isabelle, this whole mother deal ain't workin' out like I expected. I got an idea. Whatever you do, don't look down. (NADINE EXCLAIMS) Oh, God, Vernon. Vernon! You go first. (GRUNTING) Come on. It was easy. Doris Isabelle, oh, if we get out of this thing alive... (NADINE PANTING) Hon, whatever you do, don't you ever fall in love with a man on account of his looks. You learn from your mama's mistakes. (GRUNTS) (EXCLAIMS) (BOTH GRUNTING) (BOTH PANTING) (LADDER CREAKING) No. (SHRIEKS) Oh! Oh, my God. My God. Oh, God. (PANTING) (SCREAMS) (LADDER CREAKING) Darlin', if I don't make it... God, don't talk like that. But if anything should happen... Please don't talk like that. I love you. I always have, always will. Damn it. If I'd known you was gonna quit on me like this, I wouldn't have fell in love with you to start with. If this is your idea of how you're gonna get out of this marriage, you got another thing comin'. I ain't done with you yet, Vernon Hightower. We started off together, and by God, as long as I'm drawin' breath, you're gonna have me to deal with. Now you got that? Let me do it. Well, look here. All right, Hightower. Now where's my car keys? In my pocket. Why don't you come and get 'em? No. I got a better idea. No! Now, you wanna keep on being a smart-ass, you're gonna be pickin' your teeth with wrought iron in about one minute, buddy. Vernon! (SCREAMING) (NADINE SHRIEKING) (SOBBING) Vernon! Vernon! Vernon! Are you okay? Come on, darlin'. We ain't got all day. If you think I'm through being mad at you on account of Renee... All right, you first. Go on. (DOORBELL RINGS) What's she doin' here? Thrilled to see you, too, Dwight. Come on, Dwight, we got business. I swear, you two are livin' testimony to the fact that it's better to be lucky than smart. Mr. Estes here has seen fit to throw in with me. I guess he figures it's better to have a small piece of a sure thing than half interest in a cemetery plot. That's right. Me and Mr. Pope are partners now. But no hard feelings, Vernon, but you'd have just screwed this up, somehow. I'll remember that, Dwight. I don't suppose you happen to have that map on you? I didn't think you would. I'll make you a deal, all right? You let my wife go, I'll see to it you get that map back. What about this? You get me the map, then I'll let your wife go. You don't have a choice, Vernon. All right. You go with him, Estes. Me? Why me? 'Cause I said so, that's why. South of town, Old Highway 91, there's a salvage yard that belongs to me. I'll leave the gate open. Try not to be late. You know what your problem is, Vernon? You don't ever look at the big picture. Now that map's gotta be worth five, ten million dollars. That means raisin' a lot of money fast. So I went to Mr. Pope. I mean, everybody knows he's a high roller. You tell me something, how much do you expect to get on this deal? Well, we haven't worked out the exact figures yet. I imagine about $500,000. What makes you think Buford Pope's gonna give you that money? Because we have an agreement. Why wouldn't he? Well, I guess $500,000 is reason enough. I mean, Dwight, once he's got his hands on those photos, what the hell's he need you for, hmm? Vernon, Vernon. Where is the map? Suit yourself, pal. It's right here. Uh-huh. Yeah. Uh-huh. I saw that same TV show. Now hand it over. I'm warnin' you, anything happens to Nadine, you're as good as dead. You got that? Do you mind if I have a beer? Hmm? I usually don't drink this early in the morning, but this is an exception. Be my guest. Vernon Hightower, I'm so mad at you I could bust! Renee, Dwight. Dwight, Renee. I sincerely hope you are not in business with Mr. Hightower 'cause he is nothin' but a low-down scum! Don't I know it. Do you see this? This is a size 6. I wear a size 8. You'd think, somebody that's supposed to be my fiance would know a thing like that. But I'm such a trustin' person, I thought it was an honest mistake. So what do I do? I go down to the store and try to exchange it. And what do they tell me? They tell me they cannot take it back because it is a used garment! Used. Furthermore, they hadn't had this particular style in the store in six months. Well, I didn't even know Vernon Hightower six months ago. Oho, if you're tryin' to scare me with that thing, it won't work. You must've told me a dozen times already about how you keep that gun in the ice chest just for show. About how the firin' pin's jammed and it won't shoot. Here! As far as I'm concerned, we are no longer engaged! It was nice to have met you. (DOOR SLAMS) (CHUCKLING) I don't know, Vernon. This just doesn't seem to be your day. Floyd? Any sign of 'em yet? Not yet. I gotta be frank with you. I don't see you gettin' away with this. That's gonna be the easiest part of it. The hard part, the part I'm not lookin' forward to... Let me have that bottle. The fact of the matter is, I've never killed a woman before. FLOYD: Here they come. You got that map? DWIGHT: It's right here. Now I was wonderin'... Floyd? ...if we... BUFORD: Mountain? Where's my damn car, huh? BUFORD: And my pistol, God damn it! You and me gonna have a little talk later on, you hear me? Now then, Mr. Pope, there's a couple things that we never did work out. Now, not that there's gonna be any kind of problem, but I was just wonderin' if we could get somethin' down on paper. Some kind of an informal agreement. Hey! I lived up to my end of the bargain. Let her go. This place looks like pure "D" dogshit, don't it? You may not think it, but there's enough explosives here, if he was to put a little gasoline in the right place, light a match at the wrong time, this dump would go up like a Roman candle. There'd be no way they'd ever find your bodies. Take 'em on in and shoot 'em. Hey, hey! Now he wasn't talkin' about me. I was especially talkin' about you. Hey, now, we had an agreement, damn it. You can't just back out Dwight! Dwight! I guess this just ain't your day, is it, cousin? Son of a bitch! MOUNTAIN: Now, move it! Come on! Get in there! Come on, go! FLOYD: Move it! Now go on over there against that wall. Go on. I guess this is it for us. And I gotta get this said. Now, I know I ain't been the easiest person to get along with. I know I'm stubborn and selfish... All right, that's far enough. Now which one of y'all wants to go first? Hold on, Mountain. I want to talk to that son of a bitch over there. But Mr. Pope told me... I don't give a shit what Mr. Pope says. You finish up outside, I'll take care of these two. (DOOR OPENS) Now then, where's my damn car? You got about as much chance of gettin' that junk heap back... Now, you look here, shitface! You don't tell me where that car is in about one second... You even think about tryin' anything, you can wave goodbye to your private parts. (PANTING) All right, we're goin' out that door, and you're gonna tell your friends to put down them guns. You got that straight? Yes, sir. NADINE: You mean to say to me, you had that thing all along and you didn't tell me about it? Mind if we talk about this another time? And all the time I was just thinkin', this is the end. I'd never see you again. Here we go. Uh-oh. Uh, Mr. Pope? We got us a small problem. Floyd, goddamn it! (NADINE SCREAMING) (GUN FIRING) Come on. (SCREAMING) Look at it this way. Your share just got a whole lot bigger. Get on out there. (CLANGING) (CLANGS) (NADINE SCREAMS) (GASPING) Hon, if you wasn't to yell so much, I'd sure appreciate it. Understand? Here. Come on. (GUN FIRING) He's over there by that rusted-out Chevy. This ought to keep 'em busy long enough for us to get outta here. You got a match? Do I look like I have a match? You know, you could be a hell of a lot more help sometimes. All right, here's what we're gonna do. I'm gonna start shootin'. You're gonna throw this as close as you can to that car. I'm gonna set it off from here. You ready? Vernon, is this gonna work? No. Oh! You missed. Hell, I know that much! Listen, this is not the easiest thing in the world. You didn't think I could do it, did you? All right, come on, let's get outta here. All right. Wait here. I'm gonna get the pickup. I'll be right back. Vernon Hightower, you leave me all alone here... (GUN COCKING) Mr. Hightower, you're beginnin' to get on my nerves. Nadine? That's right. (SIGHING) Why is it you work your butt off all your life just to get ahead, and it takes a couple of nitwits about 10 minutes to screw the whole thing up? Honey, once I get that shuffleboard in, I can enlarge the dance floor, get a bandstand, a crystal chandelier. Aren't you countin' your chickens just a little early, sport? Trust me, hon. Now then, about the new sign. What new sign? You think 40-foot across is too small? 40-foot across? Have you gone out of your mind? I guess you're right. Anything bigger than that would look gaudy. If you think you're gonna throw away all our money on some... Just trust me. Vernon Hightower, let's get one thing straight right now. The Blue Bonnet's never gonna do squat. I don't care how much money you put into it. You know, I was thinking somethin' in neon, that sort of revolves... The sound of my voice don't seem to be reachin' your ears. Hon, we gonna have us a baby. And you know what that means? That means we have to start actin' responsibly. And you know what that means? We'll put it high up so people can see it for miles around. "Nadine Hightower's world famous Blue Bonnet Bar and Lounge." (PHONE RINGING) What color neon? Royal blue. Uh-uh, pink. Pink's my lucky color. Well, we'll talk about it. Mmm, maybe we could paint the outside a little. Put up a big picture window, somethin' like that. I could hire some waitresses with those little short uniforms on, you know, with the bows in the back. Now then, Mr. Hightower, we've listened to Mr. Dwight Estes and Ed "The Mountain" Hayes. They both corroborate your story. Furthermore, the prints found on the weapon used to kill Mr. Floyd Simmons belong to Buford Pope. We're formally charging him with the murders of Raymond Escobar and Floyd Simmons. Well, if you'd listened to me in the first place, we'd all have saved lots of time. Mr. Hightower, just about the only thing you're not guilty of is murder. First, we have a resisting arrest. Then we have breaking and entering. Then we have some more resisting arrest. And we have something here we haven't quite figured out what to call it yet. And then, according to Mr. Hayes, you entered into a conspiracy to defraud the state of Texas by stealin' a map from the Highway Department for the purpose of commercial gains. Well, that is about the damnedest thing that I've ever heard of. Isn't that about the damnedest thing you ever heard of? Then you deny having said map on your person? You're damn-well right we deny it. Don't we now, honey? Then you won't mind if we search you. Oh, hold on. I didn't say that. Good. Uh, Sam and Gerald. Hey, now. Hey, wait a minute, now. Hey, I know my rights. I'm supposed to be able to call my lawyer. All right. You can do what you want with me. My wife didn't know anything about this. Do you know what the penalty is for somethin' like this? Six to twelve in Huntsville. Vernon, trust me. No use looking for a cheap joint, honey Wastin' my time and money Those days are through Since I found you Just a little love in the morning light Now I've got the feeling that just one night won't do Since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you You don't miss nothin' since I found you No more walkin' down lonely street Wearin' holes in both of my feet And feelin' blue Since I found you Don't really matter what the boys are doin' All I really care about is you and me Stayin' true Since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you Don't miss nothin' since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you I don't miss nothin' since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you Don't miss nothin' since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do I don't miss nothin' since I found you Don't miss nothin' since I found you Since I found you, honey, I found love You're the only one that I'm dreamin' of I don't miss doin' what I used to do
