 

                        Her name is Kyungjin Yeo Kyungjin... I feel strange just saying her name She has something special that no one else can touch It's the dream of any man to go traveling with a woman he loves I wished for that too, and we did go on a trip However, my fate... no, first let me tell you how we met Thief!! Thief!! Thief!! Snatcher, Stop My purse! Somebody catch him! Get him! Please help me! Excuse me! Hey, stop! You! It's not me, it's him! Why are you chasing me? It's not me It's not me. I'm a brave citizen! He's getting away! He's getting away! Over there! That's what they all say What are you doing? My eyes! My eyes! Help me! I'm dying here I can't open my eyes My eyes! Get this off of my eyes Anything you say may be used against you in a court of law You have the right to remain silent, but if you do, you're a dead man My neck! "You have the right to consult a lawyer If you're broke," The government will get you one But I doubt it'll help you any Sir, a criminal caught red-handed! Aren't you off duty today? Sir, a cop's a cop even if she's off duty Ma'am! He's the thief, right? I caught him Ma'am, you remember me? I'm innocent! You were robbed at a shoe repair shop, and I ran after the thief Hey, shut up Are you sure this time? Why don't you trust me, sir? Well... Gimme your lD In my back pocket Give me a break Occupation? Physics teacher At Sunik Women's High I start next Monday Cut the crap! Or you might get in real trouble I can describe the thief He was wearing a blue shirt and black pants He had curly hair, and an earring on one side His eyes were narrow, and there were a few whiskers on his chin He had a long nose, with white skin... And his shoes were... suede with gold decoration You remember in great detail, huh? Betray your partner, then you can go free? I can draw a picture of him Shut up! You could be his accomplice He doesn't seem like an accomplice... Exactly! It wasn't me I'm innocent. Really! Truly! Hey! Come over here Smile He looks the same! Well... What? I don't look like him at all Get your ass over there and shut up! Don't you smell a criminal, sir? I don't smell like a criminal! He's got sharp ears, too Can you draw a picture of him? These handcuffs... I'll undo them I've never lied once in my entire life! So you can draw, huh? All done Me next! No way." No. It's not what you think My instincts are always right You're under arrest Say cheese! One, two... You caught him? Yes, and he works solo Well then, I'm outta here Hey! You're just going to leave? Can't you at least say sorry? "Sorry" is not in my dictionary If you want to hear it, change your name to "Sorry." Then I'll call you "Sorry." You're so pretty You're doing volunteer patrol in red light districts? Yes You're late Everyone's gone off in pairs Then should I go alone? No Wait. Your partner should arrive soon Let go of me Shut up! This isn't legal! Can a cop treat a citizen like this? Sure, why not? Hey, it's you again! Did you get robbed? Please believe me! Please! You bastard, come on here and sit down Lots of delinquents at your school? I don't know, I'm still new Kids who sniff glue? I don't know yet Hey, let's eat something Welcome These days kids do Ecstasy Lots of school violence and cyber crime, too But the worst are school gangs who steal from weaker kids Need to give those bastards a taste of real life There's an old saying... "Only the wicked see the wicked" What did you say? Nothing You pay! Do you have change for this? I'll eat more then A bitch in uniform! Do they run a beauty pageant to select cops? Don't do that, you idiot She's cute. Yeah, right Better than your girl Your standards are too low You wanna die? Hey you, get over here! Oh Come on She lost her mind What the...? Gimme a break You're in the wrong place today, Sister! Did you throw that? You're in high school, right? Pick it up! How much is the fine? I'll pay Have you lost your manners? Pick it up! What if I won't? Pick it up Hey Sister, what's the matter? Are you having your period? Leave us alone, huh? Pick it up Follow me, you bitch! Take it easy Don't get mixed up with these kids Notify their school, and they'll take care of it Come on you...Shit! Let me go You're hopeless. Get off of me! Shit, You bitch! You bitch, you'll regret this Hurry and pick it up! Shit! Dad! A drug dealer. Drug? If we follow him The guy on the left must be the dealer Let's tail him We might be able to get the whole gang No way. We should be looking for kids, not drug dealers Those drugs will all end up in kids' hands, get it? Let's just call the station and go That's the DEA's job Then it'll be too late You go, I'm going home Let me go! Uncuff me Come on Let me go. I'm not a criminal Let me go please! The more you wiggle the tighter it gets Gimme the key. I don't have it Of course you have it! Where are you touching? Let's go Get down What do you think I am? Get down! Come on up! Go over first and get down What am l? A ladder or something? Am I stairs? I'm a teacher! A teacher! And this isn't even your district Don't piss on the street One. Two. Three! Who called the police? Son of a... We didn't! Drop the gun! Drop the gun! Drop the gun you bastards Don't point the gun at us! You're dead! We need to get the leader! Let's get out of here Freeze! Who the hell are you? Let me go. I'm an undercover cop What's an undercover cop? I don't know. An agent who does secret investigation Nice work Who the hell are you? You ruined everything! I could've nailed them all You ruined it! Let me go! You destroyed my masterpiece Let's go Do you know how great my plan was? You threw mud on a Picasso! Come on up, hurry Give me the key It's gone. I must've dropped it while we were running Let me see. Don't touch It hurts Hold my hand. It won't hurt as much Everyone had to rush out for backup We don't have any extras They took all the handcuffs we had Oh, and did you... beat up some kids on the street? Yeah, why? His father is a big shot in our district He's in a rage! He's coming here. You'd better hide Why? I didn't do anything wrong He's the godfather of the nightclubs He's almost like a gangster Hurry and go Nice introduction, Sheriff So you're the bitch who beat up my son So what? Wait, sir! You stay out of this Sir, let's talk first Get out! Hey, bitch How dare you hit my son? You want to die? Are you staring at me? I don't care if you're a cop Go ahead, bitch! Take it easy, sir Let's talk it over Who the hell are you? Hey bitch. What did my son do? Cops shouldn't hit people He was smoking on the street and acting rude so I taught him a lesson If his Dad doesn't care, I don't care if he smokes who are you to hit him, bitch? Stop calling me bitch, you son-of-a-bitch thug! What? You're asking for death Calm down, Officer Yeo I'll take care of this, sir She needs to be fired She's a waste of taxpayer money Hey you, watch out when you walk home at night Hey, boys. Remember her Don't forget her face! Yes sir! How about you and I just step outside What the hell? Do you think I have time for this? You bitch Why, are you scared? You ill-mannered bitch! You asshole! I can't take this shit anymore! So you can yell, huh? Stop staring at me, punk You son of a bitch You're a big guy, huh? That doesn't mean you can hit a police officer! Who the hell is this? Me? You wanna know about me? Shit! Murder, arson, rape... I'm a three-peat offender! You wanna die too? What's the difference between three murders or four? Do you wanna die? On your knees, now! On your knees! On your knees!" What are you doing? Can you do this in a police station? You're one to talk On your knees, bastard! What are you guys doing? On your knees! Rich bastards get away with everything! I'm sick of this world! On your knees! Repeat after me. I'm sorry, officers I'm sorry, officers Louder, assholes! I'm sorry, officers I won't do this again I won't do this again And you! Teach your son some manners, okay? Teach your son some manners, okay? Not that, asshole! Now, beat it while I count to three Whoever's left is gonna die! One...Two three! Who's left? Sorry, sir I've done a bit of acting Put this on Can't you wash your foot after I wash my face? Until this process is finished... Did anyone lose this lunch box? No one? Then it must be the teacher's Take this Ladies. I need to say something as a police officer I am officer Yeo Students need to study. Right? Yes So don't go around beating up weaker kids, You with the lunchbox! drinking booze or smoking... How dare you eat when I'm talking! You! And if you hang around red light districts, I'm gonna whip your butt, got it? As for your teacher Mr. Go He is a very nice man, so don't give him trouble He's my boyfriend, so don't you dare try making eyes at him Go now We slept together too Go, please! A relationship like this... This is great! Which of you is Chundeuk? Be honest You need a servant, not a boyfriend, right? A boyfriend should help his girlfriend, shouldn't he? Which floor are you on? The top floor Put these over there. Okay You're a twin? Nah, that's a composite photo You're a twin, right? Guess which one's me On the right No, the left You're really a twin Who's older? On the right I don't play the black keys Why not? Just because What's your sister like? Is she like you? Then hook me up with her Just joking She's dead We were so similar, no one could tell us apart Mom put us in different schools so people wouldn't be confused She was like the black keys, and I was like the white ones She was really playful, and she liked to switch roles with me Yeo Kyunjin Yeo Minjin She got me to take exams for her, and made me do things she didn't like doing I used to hate her for that Six kings have been born in this land, so the heaven helped... This sentence indicates that our country... And then one day... It was the date for graduation photos I had a piano competition, so I asked her to go take the picture for me And while she was going to school in my place, she was hit by a car I should've died instead of her So neither of us has a graduation photo She wanted to become a cop Do you still play the piano? Sometimes... but I play without the black keys How about you? Me? The only memory I have from high-school is when I had to go on a trip with both arms in casts Here, say cheese! One Two Three! That's funny. Yeah, it was Let's start OK! Myungwoo! Myungwoo's a fool! Am I late? Just an hour Is it that late? I bought you a present Really? Me too It's a book that your student Chundeuk wrote You should use his full name to show respect. He's over 90 You have a student who's that old? Here Thanks District 230. This is line 2 We see the suspect... chasing him now Faster! Run! Quick! Hurry! Let me go! Let me go! One kidnapper is caught, two are heading for district 103 with the hostage Block nearby roads Freeze, or we'll shoot! Request backup! Be careful Pick her up Can we leave him like this? Just go Suspect heading for District 1 03 I repeat Suspect heading for District 103 Yeah. I'm running my ass off, No I'm not and you're lying in bed? Officer Yeo in district 103 Wait, Line 2 Officer Yeo in district 103 Two kidnappers ran behind Taeyang Requesting backup I'll call you back later! Officer Yeo is still chasing alone Can you run 100 meters in 1 1 seconds? What? That's how fast this girl is? I can only do 15 seconds Stop. Let's stop here Get her on her knees On your knees What do we do with her? We need to make a decision Do we kill her or not? What should we do? You decide Let's kill her Kill her? Yes. The bitch saw my face But... even if... How could we? You kill her. You do it No, I can't!. You do it It's your specialty! My specialty is welding Grab her, Grab her! Where? Shoulders One shot in her head and she's gone! Should I stab her on the left or right? No! Did you kill her? What the hell? Let's get him first What are you doing here, Sir? No! You can't kill her Why not, man? Come closer! Can't reach! Come a little closer. Come on Okay Come on! Just a little bit more Damn, nothing's going right today! I'll see you in prison, I'll go first I'll shoot. Freeze! Kyungjin! Quiet! Kyungjin! Kyungjin!! Got you! Come on! You! Hiding in here, huh? What are you doing here? Can I help you? Is Mr. Go here? He left already You didn't you see him on your way in? No, I didn't... Bastard Where'd you get this piece of junk? What do you mean, junk? She's a beauty! You bought it? Of course How much was it? You don't need to know I'm going off on a road trip all over the country! No pavements! Yeah? I'll go too I'll take a vacation Don't you need to stay here and catch bad guys? Bad guys are everywhere Try this. It feels like flying I must've been the wind in my previous life I want to be free as the wind When I'm not around, if you feel the wind blowing, then that will be me Then is this wind you? It's my friends If I die, I want to become the wind again Mmm, the fire smells great Isn't it nice? It is You know why people join their pinkies when making a promise? No, why? Once upon a time, in a huge, vast country, there was a princess who was very, very beautiful Mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the prettiest of them all? Of course that would be you, my lady Really? Do you think so? If you're lying, I'll break you into pieces! I never lie, my lady You are the most beautiful You're so pretty Because the princess was so pretty and wise, princes came from all over the world to seek her hand Finally, five princes were left in the final round In order to choose the best match for her, she gave them a test She hid her right hand and unfolded one finger The five princes had to guess which one it was So that sign came to represent a vow of marriage The prince and princess couldn't have been happier But then the Crusades began, and the prince had to go to war The prince promised to come back alive, crossing his pinky with hers But ten years passed, and the prince didn't return She didn't even know if he was still alive But since the princess was still so pretty, many people came to ask her to re-marry She kept saying no, believing that he'd return, but she couldn't turn them down any longer So she decided to marry a man who joined pinkies with her One day, a filthy beggar came to the palace Everyone tried to get rid of him, but the princess called him in, saying everyone deserves a chance That beggar was her lost prince The truth was, the prince had been killed on his way home The soul of the dead must depart after 49 days That day was the 49th day In order to keep his promise, the prince returned as a ghost Finally the princess found the body of the prince Now you know the meaning of joined pinkies, right? Yes. Can I ask you a question? If I die, will you die for me like the princess? Are you crazy? Why should l? Stop putting wood on the fire! The room is boiling Are you trying to burn me to death? Does it hurt? What happened to your lips? Forget about kissing her tonight Aren't you sorry for this? Like I told you before, if you wanna hear me say that, change your name to "Sorry" My name is "Sorry." Call me now Your name is Myungwoo I changed my name. Say my name. I can't approve it Why not? I changed it Stop fighting and eat! You're hurting my ears Myungwoo! Myungwoo! Myungwoo! Wake up! Please breathe Myungwoo... Please... Please breathe! Please breathe Please breathe. You fool. Breathe! Please breathe!!! Why did you save me? I don't want to die after you When a golf ball and table tennis ball is thrown at same speed! We went back to our ordinary lives Me teaching students, her chasing criminals Who can report to jurisdiction 230? Officer Yeo, coming to Nu Karaoke Jurisdiction 230, this is line 2 Backup requested The criminal is the notorious jail-breaker Shin Changsoo Block the entrance, and wait until backup arrives Kyungjin, this is dangerous Let's not go It's Shin Changsoo We can't pass this up This is our chance to get promoted Jurisdiction 230. This is line 2. We're in front of Nu Karaoke, district 1 13 Backup still hasn't arrived No, Kyungjin! He's over there! Put your hands up! Weapon on the table, hands in the air! Drop your weapon or I'll shoot Officer Jo, are you okay? Yes This is Line 2! Nu Karaoke Changsoo Shin on the run It is the notorious Changsoo Shin Officer Yeo is chasing by herself It's me. I discovered something This is really special Where are you? I'll help I'm chasing a criminal now! No, it's too dangerous She sounded different that day I could figure out vaguely where she was I know that she's stronger than me But sometimes she acts without thinking, so I was worried Damn that bastard. I'll remember this Shit! My big shot daddy will not like this! Oh, hello Get down Quit smoking, punk Got it When the hell are they going to use their guns? Let's go. Where? It's the jail breaker Changsoo What? Freeze! Freeze! Shit, we screwed up Let's get away. Come on Jurisdiction 230. Line 2, line 2 District 1 17, a citizen down at the factory behind Evening Star Park Call 91 1. Call 91 1 Jurisdiction 230, line 2 District 1 17, a man down Please call 91 1! Myungwoo Don't die. Don't die How can you die when I saved you once already? Don't die. Don't die This is a dream. This is a dream Jurisdiction 230. Line 2, line 2 District 1 17. A man down Maybe I was destined to die in that river Don't do it Don't do it! Let me die! Let me die! Lie her down Why are you doing this? I killed him. I killed him Hi, this is Myungwoo Either my battery's out, or I'm in a non-serviced area Leave a message after the beep and I'll call you back ASAP Which non-serviced area is that? Come back Hurry and come back No, never mind. I'll come to you I'll come to your side Hey lady! What are you doing there, lady? Why do you care? And don't call me lady I'm not that old You're trying to commit suicide right, lady? Jumping off? She says don't call her lady Ask her for some money. I'm hungry Money? We're not beggars Then what are we? Hey lady! I mean, Miss We ran away from home Please give us some money before you jump. We won't stop you." What? Just 50 bucks Aren't you a little out of line? Or a credit card would be fine You won't be liable after death You guys are really something Wanna see me get angry? What's it this time? She seems angry I'm hungry, dammit Why can't she give us some money? Hey, if you got something to say, speak up. Don't whisper like cowards! Give us some money before you croak! Your guts will be sprayed all over the street anyway bucks will do. Or let's have sex Make the most out of your body before you jump Let's get it on. You little shit! You bastard, get over here This is unbelievable. She's pissed. " You mongrels! You guys are dead! Come on let's have a hot night! Hey! Run! You guys are dead when I catch you She's wild What? You rude idiots Catch us if you can! Hey, I can see her panties Panties! Panties! They're black! No, she isn't wearing any! That's why it's black It's purple, you dirty dogs! Really, she's not wearing any! No, how could she be You're dead! She's still following us. Take this Shit! Don't give me this. Take this yourself! Why are you giving me this It smells, I don't want it Where did you learn that kind of crap? What did you say? "Screw till you die"? You dirty bastards! We were just hungry We haven't eaten for three days It's true What do you want? What should we have? Pizza! Pizza? Watch her eat! I can't believe she was just trying to kill herself You said it I haven't eaten for 3 days either I need to eat to be a pretty ghost What's the use of that? If you jump off a building, your guts will all burst open, directions. What did you say? Cut the crap and bring me more salad No cucumbers or croutons You go. No beans Why do you always order him around? You go! Damn. Don't eat everything. Got it More pizza, please! This is cab fare to go home You better go home I'm going to check! Ok? Thanks, Miss We don't need to thank her We're the ones who saved her life What? Give me my money back No. Thank you very much You have to go home. All right? You have to live, too Excuse me! Is this the way out? Well then... Take care If you feel the wind when I'm not around, that's me If I die, I want to become the wind Myungwoo Are you here? Is this you? Or is it just the wind? Tell me! Tell me, Myungwoo! Myungwoo! Did you become the wind? Did you really? I can't believe this This is the day you leave me forever The 49th day after your death But I'll come and find you before that day. I'll be sure to Come on! Get in! This place is 30 years old... come in Doing all right, guys? Nice work Hey, Park. The guy you caught Get him in! You can use the desk Min was using Your locker is over there Where's Kim?! @! @! @l don't know, sir Oh come on What time is it? Detective Kim! Yes, sir? Not you guys I'm looking for Kim Youngho There are a lot of Kims here, sir You're not even a detective There he is What time were you going to meet? I don't know Hey, Kim! Yes sir She's your new partner I'll see you guys later Hello, sir! It's nice to meet you "I'd like to see you play piano I'd like to see the real you" Who are you? A cop? Don't come closer, or I'll shoot! I'll really shoot! Get out of here! Detective Yeo! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go away! Learn to shoot straight Yes, Ma'am If he resurfaces, call me back And don't let anyone else know I need to get Changsoo myself Don't worry Did you say Changsoo? No, nothing I have some other errands to run I'll see you back at the station I won't speed I'll let you. Follow that car Freeze! Freeze! Shoot him! Call the ambulance! Careful! Myungwoo! How can you die after I saved you once already? I must've been the wind in my previous life Please don't die Be honest. You need a servant, not a boyfriend, right? A boyfriend should help his girlfriend, shouldn't he? Aren't you sorry for this? If you want to hear me say 'sorry' you'd better change your name to Sorry Breathe, you fool! Where are you? I'll help He's my boyfriend, so don't you dare try making eyes at him I'm a three-peat offender Murder, arson, rape... Try this. It feels like I'm flying There's a saying... "Only the wicked see the wicked" Am I late? My name is 'sorry'. Call me now Are you here? Is this you? Or is it the wind? Tell me. Tell me. Myungwoo Tell me. Tell me. Myungwoo Did you become the wind? Did you really become the wind? Don't die, Myungwoo! I can't believe this I must have been the wind in my previous life Line 2 Line 2 Call the ambulance! Hurry up! This is the day you leave me forever The 49th day after your death If you feel the wind when I'm not around, that's me But I'll go meet you before that day. I'll be sure to Call the ambulance! Myungwoo... Myungwoo... Is that you? Detective Yeo, wake up! Concentrate on anything Just try to live Keep talking to her I can't, tears keep coming out Do you remember that time? You were like Robocop Robocop can't die from one gun shot I have a confession to make Detective Yeo, try to live! I have to tell you something I need to confess something Be quiet, please! They told me to keep talking Check her vital signs. BP 60 Her pulse is weak. Connect the monitor and call cardiovascular Call cardiovascular She stopped breathing Get the D.C. ready! Intubation! Check the EKG. No change. " Officer Yeo! Your night shift is over Go home, okay?! @! @! @Yes, sir Myungwoo! Myungwoo! Myungwoo! It's you, isn't it? You were alive Why did you run away? You know you can't run fast I could've run well But I only have one lung now How could you pretend that you're dead? Didn't you think about how much it'd hurt me? I didn't want you to see me this way Who cares? I love you no matter what I'm not Myungwoo any longer And you're not Kyungjin Myungwoo. Myungwoo's dead Admit it, will you? Don't pretend I'm alive But you're alive. Myungwoo's dead! Myungwoo The EKG's back She's trying to live. What? She's trying to live. Connect all the lines. Check her vitals again Get the chest tubes ready Prepare some blood Hey, Kim. I can see that you have the hots for Kyungjin But you're a married man No love confessions, OK? You're awake The operation was successful, Get some more sleep What's the date today? Today? The last day of October Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Myungwoo Somebody must've heard my prayer I can see you I need to go I'm glad that I saw you before I left No! Myungwoo Myungwoo. Don't go I'll follow you, if you go No. It's not your time yet You have many days ahead of you No. No Don't be so sad because of me We'll meet again. Can't you feel it? When we meet again, tell me all the happiest memories you experienced from this life And when you hear me whisper in the wind, you'll meet someone who has a soul like mine Now, let me leave with your love in my heart Myungwoo! Sorry You don't have to call me that My name is Myungwoo I won't be so sad anymore I'll believe that you're always with me If you miss me, come back anytime Even as the wind Come back as the wind Were you looking for me? Oh, this This just came in at the lost and found. It's got your name on it "To my savior Kyungjin, I'm yours" Kyungjin, how are you these days? I hope you're not hurting anymore I'm always beside you Remember I told you once that when you hear me whisper in the wind you will meet someone with a soul like mine? Can you feel it? I am near you You will meet him today Do you know who brought this in? Please stand back from the train Please mind the gap between the train and the platform... I could hear his whisper in the wind. I could feel it It was him. Standing beside me Let me introduce my girlfriend. She is... someone who shed many tears over me Her name is Kyungjin. Kyungjin Yeo I feel strange just saying her name, She has something special that no one else can touch
