 

                        One More soju. Soju here in me? Drop knife Drop the knif motherfucker Four... Please do not kill. This woman will die because of you. Aunt.. Aunt towel Hey fucker. Hey.. This fucker Asshole The rascals Two asshole For hand struck Motherfucker Only one step more Come Back, you little bitch. Son of a bitch Hand withdrew More poke dead motherfucker! You Scared GNOME anybody did that? What would you have done? How'd you do that, you son of a bitch. Why not? The next time you want in your mouth, even the litter Not kill You do PR to me, the central executive par The suspect has gone suddenly, that alley Obliterated as the statute of limitations Legal innocence. Victim of this incident Choehyeonggu H. Let's meet. Grissom to suspect might be watching the broadcasts Short, take your You just ask me to do something, but Live here, please Craving for nine nine nine Thus no craving for compulsory nine @ @ By Turn the channel, why? Looking good there, huh? Night I'm coming up on the television channel why Dolly ask? Kind choebanjang stop eating? Then you look too uncomfortable because A.. The Uh expression Type I remember that the defense until a few tea. That's right. Oriental champion World Champion dwaeseo Mother in the grave just wanted angyeo like a championship belt Expression Oh wait you home now, huh? Let's talk a little with my brother Mom after being so Orphans and the difference is not Was like a brother for I will never forget. Expression ah Fuck you Jeonghyeonsik Expression ah What are you doing? If your mother see in the sky will truly liked. This fucker Killed, even if the cub rummaging Col Bo And I'm not that then sift? This fucker Your heart, 'cause One came down, let's talk Type I'm sorry Expression ah Her current enlarger. Phone has been Just pick up the phone. That Hopeless Middle of the night I'm on the midnight'm Aw mom a few sight Shorter to do than go on and on so few, he alcohol or too much Eoyigo pick up the phone or Child Gwangju Night Car wash on the weekends my mom helps Tossed out the case, even if not to call Gee always sleep guy who flops or When you helped me, yeah? Not help me when I told What did you say? Water turn? Killer is the author of I yiduseok Mr. Only 17 years ago, the nation abuzz Yeongok the perpetrators of the murder chain Own said. Already ended at the time the statute of limitations By virtue of being serial killer point directly autobiography Covering competitive conference within the yeolttwin happening. Are now coming yiduseok Mr. You gave journalists and publishing Ceremony Sincerely thanked. Repent of his crime, while Considering the authenticity of the put down in words Offensive, please refrain from the questions. Oh, yeah. Fully ttadolrimyeo the police, the number of deaths Discussed at the time made the perfect crime until The perfection of the crime What is the reason? Themselves breaking Wake up to themselves the perfect crime. Implausible Oddly Guilt, I'd like to make. Someone else just like me This guilt Did catch the horn. Sheesh, what now guilty Sound to fuck horse shit.. Yiduseok Mr. As you can see, Voice of criticism here and there would emerge What Are you not scared or worried? I confess Can get confused right now but I Through this book In the future. Such terrible events Occur only hope we do. Looks fairly compliant chose. It Is not ever eligible for a separate skin care? So women reporters do not question me? His real culprits of definitive physical evidence? This book, you'll find plenty of answers out will think. So Choebanjang by Looks like you're not here today Then you really I'm sorry. Current enlarger, I do not know that you are talking about? Choebanjang shot by warhead I can remain here. This is just Its warhead photos. Can you show me the gunshot wound marks? Uh-oh... Will be distributed to bookstores nationwide from tomorrow Internet purchases will be available from midnight today. Good article, thank you. Oh, this motherfucker was a long time trying to read chaekjom Please only one word. Do not shoot. Example? More time to take... Condone this should Yiduseok Mr. Photos in the rain Why did you do. Just Rain line deliberately meant to know? What to say so I'm not. Gee Hold on Tomorrow let Stop.. Why come here do you think? You moron Emerges. Emerges. Kim, Won - Jang by Kim, Won - Jang by Currently, it's like what? Once forgiven by yiduseok Mr. Kim, Won - Jang Could we please. Kim, Won - Jang current feelings by what? Cold you think it'll take yiduseok Mr. Come home and drink because Example? I'm like kicks. Just Was wrong. Teacher Uh... Teacher Kim, Won - Jang by... Kim, Won - Jang by Come on out Me Yiduseok Mr. Now feel, but only say the word, please. Tell us Hey Shiny Not the culprit this motherfucker... What how we have no idea how to put you grab Obvious culprit. I be held responsible? Guy'm also assurance that our Father seoneun Example? Why lose. Responsibility I Watch not literally. Ugh crazy asshole Mac, you'll notice it's not better because you saw. No, not the culprit so Seamless detail All of it could not catch Tight tight what hell there is no Know how it'll last because of the disappearance. Not it only her former wife. Dude, I not very CiD Completely Library's Good to see. Huh? See your favorite Murder eoyigo yeongok Not since Star? Why not? And Star's ready, you fucker. Be the way The cubs, the son hit the yiduseok right? Real culprits are satisfied with what? Did not catch wife put Yiduseok may not be the real culprits got this little bitch. This motherfucker face Look Where this killer's mug? Be what you smell that? Smell me Where I think I smell jjanggae Meals have been Hey what are you timing right, now, and calculated Dude, I take it Yes, sir. The magnetic field is now starting to look awfully good throat well beyond sigetseupnida. Ugh Something to eat'm not going to know what real culprits jjagal Cover You now what did she say? So not eaten once, in one? And meals not won jjanggae So what soy sauce crab eat by.? Bitch has to climb up these days, you getting neunda. Ugh I just check Constabulary juniors or just Hungry Wu We kept me Hey jjanggae Police station once more, let's run! Magnetic field three pickled radishes lot Cole? This bread as it came Be a lot of pickled radishes? Fuck fucking asshole's real I confirm Hey! What the fuck is fucking horror? Apples would officially choebanjang him by yiduseok Mr. Those are what's now, not export Has expressed this position. Get out. Get out. What is your position? Choebanjang by The market here's what's the bottom fuckers Oh, get out. Soon Published surpassed As the detective in charge before Ironic situation what do you think? Doing this during a meal, it's more ironic. You said that yiduseok Mr. Feel guilty if someone would speak the words H. puts in. '? Get out. Get out. Difficult coming up here do Where are touching Get out faster. Ayu get out faster. Get out. Fuck real Eat a little Strangler fuck Not like to say, you know. . Yiduseok. What the fuck are you? Long time no see. Choebanjang by Take your hands off me, you motherfucker Aw groupie managed well. Long viewing Nice to go show support Smile. Camera has a lot of Do not tremble gaesujak two asshole. That you're still abusive. Huck... That crazy? What is the relationship? What did you What can say? Get out. Get out. Thank you. Get out. Out 'm Yiduseok Bob ate? Example? Or getting a lump son of a bitch. @ Do you want to eat more Eat more rascals Should have a pistol with this little bitch. Gangdohyeok Mr. Who is this, please? Suffering did. Sound True.. Heigh Gee, who amateur are a squeakyass It says very hideout Hey, did they took care of it Whew goes. Are. I am It's now called bubble burst Would rice in just pants? Huh? You.. You.. Choi Choegangsuk? Pants or put Base doubles darn kids Shame on you do not realize is that Be marketable talent in the ground This Anything? This year finally tracked them down to find out the results Situation to take with us for guinea pigs that people are judged A few minutes, did you not. Fused But Aunt Necessarily be bereaved? What the hell... Anything for me what hidden card One hundred to buy One hundred and four Dohyeok Newbie Why do not you delete eaten your face One hundred and four, and with the Lord? Sit down, do not sound Agde when writing. Just Be members anyway once Variety'm true, huh? is a killer I yeonil bestseller Judgment of a record-breaking... True picture pretty Handsome guy should indeed now a murder World, so it's eating less swearing this Why not? Repent, I'm too late, even more beautiful wife. He's so not permitting the fan club and join gimjakga? 's Fan club? Phew or applies what Sign up way. Distance flirting haenotgo now foreign-me? No commissioner it Yiduseok side of the contact was Oh, so I'll contact that have been? No Director Maybe choehyeonggu H. Seems to be once again to think about. The last time, there's the case jajangmyeon Pasted together with its yiduseok release Is this guy I do not know what you did during the live broadcast may. Unconditional two Cap Andoemyeon following the resignation able to think No commissioner, but it Still could shoot them during the live broadcast. Ceded half Night pidinim Example? If Total bread They're shooting This Los grade It's just scoop Immediate liaison to But to whisper What did they yiduseok two jajangmyeon going threw.? Cubs jajangmyeon to throw so I threw. Indeed H. Press play I Get yiduseok. Was guilty shoots are not the quality I'm Now press play and I'm now Right. Press play something really cool, am I right. Cubs Anyway, H. You know, I had the foresight That I see Cubs ulterior ulterior Repent and go neatly made 's Trying to doing business, huh? Franchise what celebrities like Andak jade fuck you? Huh? H. Phone This motherfucker Hello? I know you know. What debate? Opinion, how to drive? Older bereaved families the most old-fashioned. Also Dr. So Tung Chin slap one? I went to see her offspring do not live learned Look I just tried to extort something one just I'm not Saint Fuck trembled Went to choebanjang very gittong to full Figured this happened, right? Ugh clever. The referendum debate goes focuses asshole, right? I was Yet, I'm gonna toast tempted early Cigarettes also do not drink alcohol do not He too about your body pack. Funny.? Town? Killer If do not get the body Funny you ask? Ah no Service uniform; Yijakga by Celebrity whereas now Care of yourself, of course, ought to Skin Shall I book a one shop.? Example? Irradiated going to sound a million Kidnapped? Just I'll be Sit back and Worcestershire fuck Or Mitch geotne My daughter is Kill yiduseok sure know where buried before You died in my hands. Kill? Aunt Me We fuck your minions? Why risk for your daughter to wear what? This motherfucker Night Fused Just you alone to go to I say he did. This fucker out the distance in bread without sleeping, you said so. This fucking I'm on the bread for the first time, do you know why? Yiduseok catch that son of a bitch that encompass Tough chicks baettaegi many Kalchim can be put is he From then put on the bird. If you want the First thing Hand to grab the extended That motherfucker was chasing And I know whether how? Into Please my hand Dont kill that son of a bitch my hand Does appear that motherfucker Eolssiguna gathered fit Fuck do're shivering This fucking station gyeopgeo Disgusting? Do you see when you see us as comfortable mountain until now? Huh? You're not the only one I bought is not Every night dreams every My daughter is dying, my sheer scream Are echoes in my head But so easy to kill that? I GNOME Dismembered dwaeseo Painfully dying in front of my Want to see to his plea One of those beams Did you hold up now Do you mean I know how you feel. I Yes You also know it's difficult Well, you really Ever thought erase scars? Ship without criminal yijeongdo visual must also be But I erased any cubs made. This I , But I do not mind you Do not abuse yourself, What's your name? Brother, it's me. Do you remember? Lockup Aw really Name Choehyeonggu indeyo. Asshole Aw Son of a bitch very popular Nice, huh? Line stand straight. Jin.. Be earned a lot of money.? Books. Put this motherfucker You bastards What are you doing? H. What's to this little bitch. Performance of official duties of the Aw this motherfucker face look this Sign undergo doegetda to you. This fucker Life jjotgat ninae I Huh? Asshole bastard like or lick Ugh, is that son of a bitch a lot of paleo book? When you have events like autograph Bodyguards and police Paved. What other time when Daily aeko yiduseok Grado hotel pool We're opened 30 minutes before the writes to borrow. Huh. The whole pool to borrow. For security reasons, a lot of people view the Presumably many ways difficult. Money.. Print alone prevailed... Hotels in terms of promotion, not lose it Like making money chasing very're wearing a chase as fuck Pool, even Bodyguard much is not it? Of course itjiyo But It's not that guys like sticking to swim So what? What am I gonna do? Once the plan Tao. Ugh jakganim Me serpents What is Jakganim Be quickly thrown quickly Jakganim jakganim This way, this way, Jakganim Quickly Fast fast fast He's okay. Stay with me. Wait Wait return it as soon Jakganim jakganim Sir 119 soon Stay with me. Jakganim Party here : How long have you been bitten? Is she going to be okay. Recovery injection jolt at the fine will be. Briefly Help In any part or Your Own? Yongsan-gu, John New. We Yongsan-gu, is it? Uh.. Have you had some kind of mistake do this. I was posted in yobeon Yongsan tuna. This fucker My dude @ @ do not. Huh? Ojima Do not worry as soon as the fuck Ojima Dad let's go And and and fuck Why hyeokyi he die? But just do not know its own departure This somewhere come up Hey fucker. There There Grab hold Grab! Grab! Huh Mr. soon Ugh grab Dad brake Mount Hurry! Soon chased Why we kidnapped them from the jurisdiction of're the motherfucking shit. How did it go? Localization Eg The bodyguards did were followed. Gwacheon move towards that everyone have against these people in the next Sillim But Where's Lieutenant. Is right next to the Fuck 's Mom.. It's OK. Sukah Mom'll be alive? No there is no mom. Horatio.. How do I? What is going on here? How How's it been what's been behind Old man step on it. Found. Okay Kids really Ugh really Oh, man, I really Tread a little kid I said Is pursuing. Are treading But why can not speed? Oh, and keep quiet. Oh, really want me to try do something Shushes rascals This keeps up we caught, was not it? Oh, man, I really Calm down the fuck Child Stop the car. Huh? Oh what should I do? Uh what are you? Put Son of a bitch That fucker. Momentarily stop Oh, man, motherfucker Hold Hand 're All pounce Fuck this motherfucker car paste Two ssaebal One trillion Careful Are you crazy motherfucker! IC Stop the car fucker. Quickly erected 're Rascals Dying Pull Dad stop Sukah are you okay? Oh Come on The rascals home What else are you gonna do? Is dominated view or be Fuck the fuckers Fuck The real thing. It's so sudden How the hand could not write. Bald-headed son of a bitch, you do not talk straight? Hotels in the pool What This fucker what snake? The real thing. H. Bitten by a snake, call 119 haetdeoni Appear as they waited for the report haetdeoni it'd be talking about? Yes, I did. Fuck Design, have you been eating properly and according. Now here is H. What's Ah... Do not come here. I May I I do not want you. Yiduseok Beg you, but only say the word and by choebanjang. Choebanjang by Of kidnapping law identifiable identified? Kno. Now Choebanjang by The mountains jiaebi Gangseok, and Kanji Long because the same address will be hard to understand. Kind listed schools gangdohyeok the baby a few days ago Gibbons everyone have against these people is difficult. Are you sure you want to lookup cell phone, even. Fucking driveway Cannon wrote Centipede Would you wrote off the cell phone? True 119 degree Cannon? Ou 'll Come and went home Another Rumor Bereaved families of the victims suspect they're some kind of Is that correct? Let us not create a novel. Choebanjang we really did not see the Riga stabs wish never saw? " That was the shit out of the car trembled human Is not calm. He must be a wrong judgment Survivors is not the word Is. You glad this? Huh? Having a good time? Me Hear, hear, and... TV When you come to me point janke Get your head in the game, huh? Stop Look a little sighing All of a sudden properties of the head and ink? Her current enlarger. We dispose of a car wash and coffee shop or play a Do not write when you do not sound or look a little paste. In here Kid these days, just the wives Coffee Shop in turn give one So much that drivers Have received severance pay, huh? Turn placed one coffee shop Wives and children live ohsondoson obtain some well? Huh? Her delicious coffee one I remind other know what? Huh? Huh Mom Wives Taste The Mom rides these days do not drink coffee. Young Bari... That kids That specializes in out-of-state American Express'll drink this Don't know anything about peasant And why this In addition, the shell paste It's going Gee ought to know say He's gotta say this to? Ouch Ok ok I never heard comes home a few days so I know L'm the nature of the head and eoyigo really was kidnapped, yiduseok Mr. Now gravitate to the families of the suspect, rather Strange phenomenon occurs.. I went ahead and met acquainted seeing whether That looks bowed elaborately prepared not seem to. Easy.. How did? Want to have in the case. Those taken when writing special shooting bums out. Here Kim. Onggu? Gimyonggu. Materials Not gimyonggu that exceed rental sitting I bought it at all. Going And bring a little smell. Yeah? Recognize immediately contact Aye-aye, sir. Oh Kim gyejangnim me I came to borrow the matter matter. No, but This is where we want one? I tell you it should be reported to a break, okay? Not be reported to me? Ugh Strewth real You war I? Hold boiling eat, I'm going to be leaving I saw the escort to use it anyway. Why not? What This fucker? Give me your car keys This B.S. Vonage Chief, Mr... He's an asshole, do not see the Yiduseok that son of a bitch I try to bring him back. Dives gimyonggu the personnel taste. Sponsor Chung, Tae - Sub Is whether the son of After? Of whether we Corp. Chairman? Hey son, Chung, Tae - Sub Director Phone number is illustrated Can do a trace on the third floor location and contact Location tracking. Own heavyweights was becoming Tested and approved Nagi wait to take some time to think. Hey, you fuckin 'asshole do not have time right now What to do wait dude By the detective, I'm available right now. H. Wait a minute. What? It's my main sport affair. Crisis, identify fast and accurate John went inside motel if you want to Being inserted, 1 minute and 1 seconds Captures precisely the moment we not? This watch cheaper packed completely omitted, and chasing to get Hello Is proud fucker. Night H. Again allows. Okay Then do it Night's, how should this I got Now your mac position was captured. Where are you? Four in Suwon, Osan, I'm going towards. Osan? Stay away from me and how? Example, 7km Osan IC to fall now. Yes yes Osan IC for gsr. Route? 23. Me and distance? 3km Now? Very little he asked. I got Jiyo attach support right there. Is not just the atmosphere and Example? Until I get back to you. Do not contact me any'm waiting Not what how to get How do I make it Uh... Wakes up. Wakes up. Hey fucker. Wake up occurs. Occurs. Come on, you little bitch.? Wake up wake up you little bitch. Yiduseok Is my daughter, you know? Jeongsuhyeon What would you have done? Jeongsuhyeon.. Yeah jeongsuhyeon! @ Ah Is my daughter, what did you do? What would you have done? Hey? What is What happened to What the fuck? A power outage? Cellphone 's People with mobile phones? Oh Cellphone Child fuck what happened to this Oh fuck surprise. This old man fuck real Should be dominated're from Do not Look Check it out, let me go Take away the I think what's gone Coming through. What? Uh... Million! Oh dohyeok okay? What the fuck Doing, bitch? Sidetrack I Put a knife to the neck of the cubs, a This nonsense when you're dead. Kills. This motherfucker Keep your voice down. What, what's wrong. What have you got? No, it was a lie? Stay calm look. Just yiduseok Why. Mother, what are you talking about? Next month to tell us where Mother Calm down a bit. Yiduseok Dad's replaced @ @ Dunn. On the second floor Is my daughter, to tell us where I'm Calm down a bit. Mother Who is this? Mother, what's wrong with you. Who am? Who's out there? Icy real What is Who goes there? Where, where is Quietly to you Tae - Seok Oh yiduseok gone Was gone yiduseok. Yiduseok Still not the end of yiduseok Look Motionless horse Not shut the door to door Dad There Where? You son of a bitch Augusta, really No Me gasinae crazy. Fuck This motherfucker I told the snuff Was kidnapped me on my paenbun. Done with a pure heart, I was Now Made a good ending. Kidnappers respond to any legal will the word? Yes All the work is what has happened up my Who's Who Do you want to earn? So next week Citizens also attended the discussion hitch?? Of course. Stations and with the promise of the world I... No h No What is that car. Oda a shootout, even Your Own? Rascals insurance process Child motherfucker Now came out to put Malppal you fucking kidding me Digits to apologize, I think. Anyway, H. There really going to go out? I do not know. H. Our bereaved families, but also protect the Is not we get a little lost earnings? Do it quietly, you little bitch. Where you went hyeonggu hyeonggu 'm Choehyeonggu That What the hell? That your work is not it? Please've walked out. Hey ma cubs brought you daemae Pick up Going Delayed walking out What do I do? Geumeun Ana this motherfucker real Sukah Where are you going? Oh, poppycock Go fishing Yes Not too long gangbaram also  Yes Oh Huh? Do not worry about it, first party Yes Will go over there and sit H. simyeon. Hey motherfucker? Celebrity? Ou H. You're late. Me because I crushed a few days ago told me that once cool Anyway, day and night So grateful. I fuck What time remains to go back Who is the assistant director last ad. Who is the last ad. True if the party slumber drinking 100 minutes. Cue Exceeded 3,000,000 in one month yeoman published Net income nearly 20 billion estimate The bestselling author Serial killer yiduseok Walking in the footsteps of penitence and good deeds, he Really wrote this book for what? Hello viewers? National debate sonjonghak. I'm a killer. Popular, this book is amazing indeed. Put the factors of its popularity First, you'd start getting a rush of controversy. My full professor by A simple example of the popularity factors. Because the author of this book killer. The statute of limitations by exploiting a legal loophole I wrote an autobiography called itself Unprecedented worldwide marketing strategy, is not it? Maybe the author yiduseok To write this book, over 10 innocent women and 's Who may have brutally murdered. Distinctly defined professor's imagination Is not It? Right. My imagination yijiyo. But two jumps Shows a definite purpose, one will In this book, launched Crimes committed by the author himself. Thoroughly as a way to make money is that you are using. No, no, no grounds to say that you're making? Now Lucrative called Oh me, wait a minute. And let's not get too excited. Expected four times since the beginning of the heat was quite hot. Chapter attorney by a book published before He said he woke up and contact Mr. yiduseok. At that time, he yiduseok Mr. As he'd done such a flagrant crime, To prevent While to say that I hope the small foundation Then think again because 's Frown haeohneun nose. The story just hasimyeonseo Will remember to shed tears of penitence. At all.. Everybody just calm down a moment. Aw I'm sorry. Four Here he choeyounggu H. Our photos of the crew and in an interview Mr. yiduseok this is not the actual culprit claimed it was his Do you have concrete evidence? I'm sorry, but yiduseok will be arrested soon. With fraud And at about the same time He has not found the body yet Handling the incident as a simple missing one I also by the same person in that case is a serial killer That last conviction was a crime of the perpetrator. The answer is simple. It Because not a crime committed by Do not sleep on it, but for the last crime I That's why there was no information Then the First and last time I met you and me, and that night Said to me, remember? I do not know. So did I say? I H. Unlike Then the meeting did not have a very pleasantly The original life Rather than the power of memory More time to rely on the strength of oblivion law Does not it? Oblivion? Say you're very good at this. Impostor, motherfucker! Scammers cubs, they said.. Oh my God.. I'm wrong about that does not? Quite hear as a human rights lawyer, turtle. Word.. Auntie I asked her Aunt. Litter.. Choebanjang by Wait a minute. I'm sorry. In the sense just cool Open Let me show you the viewers opinion. Hello Where you live Who are you? I am operating in a bookstore in Busan Nampo Bongrye. , Please tell me your opinion. Yes.. Ouch book Mama Do... 'm Selling cats and dogs. So I truly thank yiduseok I wanted to say that Two seokah your really handsome. Updated and a little breather taste. Yeah, the word offering is We are choebanjang by my book on iso. To enable four of the publishing industry Need a variety of books published And the point somewhat the same opinion been a fall. So Let me show you the following comment. Hello Who Is Where to buy? This is kind of my own community recognized. Do you mind if initials. Article as Difficult to uncover the identity do not think, gentlemen. Jiyo comment tell me how it went. As a fan I yiduseok Mr. Have a few I'd like to ask you a question. So choebanjang by Jump in the 100 meters in a few seconds, you know? I do not know. Jeokeneun choebanjang by loss Up to 100 meters in 12 seconds broke do surprise. Mr. yiduseok to escape to an alley or On the roof was used to Mainly straight, knowing it was "reluctant Did you ever Four I guess. Come to think of it now Oh Me So choebanjang rice wine at home by There's a write hit to upset Ever, did not induce the same? Stroke prompting it only judo overthrown law member. Large - No, I'm from Induction'm majoring No, But it's not my power only ssaen. I instrument geoljal cover I cook quite hagoyo. We're sorry, but do you stop asking questions Opinion, can you tell us? Ah yes.. Yiduseok Mr. By appointment choebanjang can never keep You Did you know? Heard you late today. Watch one would owe four good ones. Now My fans I thought it was 're A fan you were choebanjang by Yiduseok jakganim Yes? I Why do these questions whether Really do not know? I do not know, really. Until now, the reason I have not caught do Example? J. What do you mean by it now, OK? Not show yiduseok Do So What's That bastard is that What's aunt that believes You're not? Choebanjang by My Iranian people. Mineral water should Choebanjang by Choebanjang by Proceed. How did it earlier track outgoing pups? , Yeah, yeah, yeah I'm doing right now. Be a little bit fast Call me a little bit What? Mother get? Fuck it sooner, but what if you talk? You tell rotating Momentarily go out because I knew it 've Been shoveling too much snake yeoseo yeah. Gee gandaengyi times came out years Or yiduseok so bad MOULINEAUX foot chase vs'm very People are confused. Please say a few words. Mr. Tell us yiduseok. Are you busy with the reported one. Is it true to say that? Please say a few words. Cut me some slack here. Yiduseok Mr. Interested interested in receiving prank phone calls Reporter nimdeul does not mean a great deal of confusion. But anyone the right to claim a comment Followed andoejiyo that's not true. Why is this since this There. 's Mom? Lee cub feet Where is H. H. Uh Where are you son of a bitch? Two cubs me H. MOULINEAUX foot Cub me you son of a bitch! Me and Lee feet fool me, you son of a bitch. Me two ssae Kiya H. Stop H. Me H. Shown MOULINEAUX foot bastard H... Yihyu Fuck O heck? Why in the middle of the night kind of came Sound screaming fuck quack, O Why the fuck Ma For Sulzer needle where to eat your shoe? Are you okay? Whew Yeah, what're you doing, sleeping in the night? The boiler is not in my room was broken I told you over Aarhus and she never shuts Why did This Ugly Hold still When are popping open in the euyigeu Mr. called Mineral water should Four With my mom for a minute, and Example? Where Are H. Type enlarger. This ssippaeng is Subtracted'll Hey Mr. 's Why icing is this dress? Anyway to reduce if you're Finally, once the human voice Please hear. Please do not kill. Uncle I... 'll Want to live. Not sure why the perpetrator when the victim.. Detective, I'm the victim here. I Hello Mwoyi rascals Hello Not need to tell you... Detective, I'm a victim. Hello I want to live Example, is a powerful team. Fits. Evil Hello Oh.. Oh.. Not sure why the perpetrator to the victim hitting the right. Detective, I'm the victim here. I Hello We are going down It must be to tell you. Mineral water should Example Call reporters Maybe something got? Crusher one who said it? Example? What are you going to do? We will show once Himself claimed to be so bad My man named Karl sent our side. National results of forensic Bloodstains remain on the knife My blood is consistent with the findings came out. Not how they're So callers Are the real culprits of the murder yeongok chain means? Yiduseok Are you saying this is not the killer. Now It to conclude that it is difficult. Also studded bullet in the body of the yiduseok At that time, I've been using the same model and to The last missing person missing uncertain, but will not part Unless the perpetrators of direct experience So hard to describe It is true that the content that is listed in the book details. Well, sir, the son whom? Or more. Oh, what's No results either did not know who really would not know? My guy I call something When sent KarI choebanjang Is not the real son of a bitch? This is not Did you forget your sseunchaek yiduseok. Spring, but can not write detailing the know. Okay Good Redemption go directly 's Party face-to-face at this time. Three paste discarded But yiduseok choebanjang or renovate There's no way to unseat Jay To find a way. You two I'm getting a paycheck. Night pidinim Los dog class? No, I do not know Jay contacts? Contacts if you do not know Beat, even rivers and TV Did not you do not The boys would know not Hello Conclusive evidence of the knife is going on? Look... Jay Not tell the reporters do not bar too. Who are you? It's me, oh my voice, not smiling. Uncle! What @ @? Gee I'm sorry. You doing, bitch? Alone car wash today, Mother monsignor would A little help give Yai son of a bitch Bycatch Altogether H. 're Just chicks were in front of you see it? A lot of people do. Neat. This fucker Sucks they can be triggered. Quite At the time I would have been kidnapped You look at the photos taken bodyguard Safe cash intact. Kalman disappeared. Stole my murder tools, knives Yeongok serial killer called stealing my title to come Sounds like a plan Part of who I do not know Indeed looks like an amateur. Will tell you more information at a news conference tomorrow. Yiduseok two When nalttwi so far it's about to let? Paste Gun few kids in the car wash to be assured? So or is gonna fuck went over to his house, and when dipped boost What are you? What is your Asking if you really know? You think are the real culprits. So I dont believe it varies proof phone. 'm Well aware of my billboard That's' cause I saved later Have you forgotten? Dude, are you now Are you excited? Calm, but I knew that son of a bitch Choebanjang by Jeongsuhyeon Think about why dead? Hello? Example Are you sure? Of heart, but only say the word, please. The hospital side, well for the non-discriminatory low. No. of people in the room of Mr. yiduseok You said you've steal knife Is this true? Four Part of his Article copyright targeting crime think 're Barking up the wrong tree in full swing. Since Until today, I sseunchaek All proceeds earned Approximately 21.7 billion All the families of those who have lived with me in pain due to I think it wholly to donate. Ultimate seokssi Are you going to sue? Dawg sounds're sitting this motherfucker Why the fuck shut the fuck up throwing milk for bereaved ladies did me harm Clean never shuts cubs Do not want any legal penalties. We bow To decide I'm... to me the wounds inflicted Me motherfucker Do not you think that real repentance? He felt the pain should be a little bit Yes, it does. Just a simple image management, I do not think so. Back to hoping. My past stems will be invalid Book, but anyways I think that the Cubs do to atone sweetened mind. Well uh a little while Restaurant one crushing will be announced. Dining room Mwolnael Would Brother Meat? Sashimi House? Aha raw beef house it's perfect, eh? Do not yiduseok raw beef hot? Huh? Or not? What did you say? About what? Is that true? What Tivo do. Now? Yiduseok? Next plan is entering politics. Making money while my achievements 're A lot of campaigning floating. One suggestion I will Stupid to the police. Actor, the actor one person or For this party face-to-face. National debate on the Yiduseok Mr. His real culprit is surely solidify A good opportunity to do You would just come out? Yiduseok party face-to-face, Mr. Yeah, are you going to do? J. two minutes 's A funny man. Yes, Then once attached pocket Oh.. Oh me JC Jiyo give GP contacts. Example? Hey true.. Under the trees I find the real killer to prove that Need will be The exact location Asked will be notified by Hey Mister, what we're now..? Uh what.. No trees graffiti're doing? Example? Dude... A bastard. What is it dawg Appreciate graffiti on a tree Dadeuleo Give me that he needs Broadcast on the day of bodyguards, 10 people attach What pisses chase when Stomach hyeokssi step into the scene on the day will be Tao forklift articles Stations to gather with me that day, a crowd Jersey Banker to be committed to the installation structures. Ah well another aunt . Attend as an observer, I Sit there 'd Applaud hits Granted you That moment, the son overshadowed My hand I'd like to kill. Oh Really? Not then The daughter's body How he did not find it? My daughter In my heart Let me ask you. This This is what glucomannooligosaccharides? Today Korean ideology unprecedented debate Is scheduled to take place in the national debate. As many of you know The statute of limitations has already been obliterated Discussion covers the real culprits of the murder yeongok chain indeyo. At that time, the investigation took more choehyeonggu lieutenant Appeared to confirm the middle Yeongok serial killer's autobiography I am the killer of the author and Mr. yiduseok Send the knife used in the crime, Newly own somebody who is claimed JC scheduled appearances It is noted that the real culprits overshadowed what'll Abduction situation. Hey choebanjang Necessarily Shadys rinikka hansae tight and get him either huh? Tivo and fuck and I'm sure 100% responsible'll Yiduseok killer. Killer. Killer. Cheater Jay Kowtow Kowtow Kowtow H. What happened to slap her Aunt's. You still have the party standby. I'm Jay arrived yet Somebody enters the remarks starting STANDBY Cue Hello viewers? National discussion of sonjonghak. Serial murders of events yeongok today Who are the real culprits of the subjects placed Yiduseok Mr. H. and choehyeonggu And their real culprits claimed to be renewed and JC homage to the End, we will proceed to discuss. JC is now almost arrived to the station, I got a call. Did not attend To obtain a broad understanding and viewers. Then bereaved family representatives From Word's battery pack design, we will start to hear the discussion. What am standing? Where are you confused. No microphone is passed I'm still dead When my daughter Away from my heart could not be sent. Our stories by bereaved yiyamalro was a nightmare. He says that coming into the back door pidinim J. Then quickly send you toward the rear entrance Login , The son who It only even Wait a minute. Viewers now JC has arrived. Meet Please go through the screen. Four JC is approaching towards the studio. Should be turned off Off, off, Impressive still wearing a mask to be. Okay, here 'm Jay Must be JC Lee and Soon we will emerge. Side. Will go over there and sit down simyeon. Example, please be quiet moment. JC? As the spot came out to prove the existence of their own. Do not go off for viewers willing to give? JC's face finally would put the face-to-face. First H. How's it going? Jeongsuhyeon two Alive? " It After a while Know. The fact that I killed 10 people. Jeongsuhyeon Mr. JC That could have killed him. Soon The truth will be revealed. Now I think sending signals pidinim J Okay Seniors OB van from now cement that connection me, please. JC's request in advance by Our OB van on the outside I'd say. Let's connect you get out in the field in the OB van. OB van afloat screen connection Yes, we now listed in the hills near Ansan am. The yeongok chain murders of the 11th here in the victim, The amount of body jeongsuhyeon buried that the tip came in Body a daunting task. Maybe that now seems Yes, speaking as soon as you touch seems to be what was found. Four now finally remains is unfolding. Now you can see him like that Is called the moment of 17 years wanted. You look jeongsuhyeon the amount of on-site viewing. Jeongsuhyeon the Missing at the time, was wearing a white coat. Bastard Motherfucker That bastard Must be the real culprit No, do not give up yet, guys. What's Ah... Of tsetse Come out? Now kids Brother believed What are you afraid of? Her back her kill Rest is obvious not sure who killed my brother Calm down. H. Emotional, we do not have to do so? Rationally, I suppose. You do this. Handpicked same real culprits. - Gentlemen, you still have to 'm Going into a re-shoot after 4 minutes Go down Example? Go down @ @ @ @ What are you doing now? Who stab you to insert your own ad did you do that? No... Fatale no idea of ssangyok. Broadcast'm thinking about it. Even beyond the season was over? You Do you know how much a broadcast? No Director This keeps the program due to disciplinary reasons taken away, she might go. Broadcast if you go, I'm my own, do not you think? Stands chasing Ugh, I do not know. Man, you do not know, who know? Not report the commissioner to take care of everything I'm telling you. Director of that son of a bitch Commissioner me, dude You write a resignation preparation or This motherfucker I'm done. You gotta stop this Representatives by the matter with you? Oh Put MOULINEAUX Broadcast power. Eight good life I Dude Choebanjang by Jeongsuhyeon would be alive believed Is not it? MOULINEAUX foot cub Well son of a bitch. Me and Lee foot fucker. Get out. Me me You son of a bitch. Dohyeok Oh Stop Enough. I locate the cubs I'll kill him! I can not catch its cub because Victims growing me think Brother, let's take a look at my face for a few minutes Have a look at my face do Night Jeongsuhyeon I frankly I grudgingly Or you or no... I This allows the choehyeonggu Marriage Can not live on the estate? You and I want to live I'm When did this happen? One anttokgat When I did not find any identical Do not be too hard to Okay Mom to come when I think What time is it now? Bapan Junee died four Brother buys watches I do No food will go well if something Like me Then I'll have my brother Bob. Now, do not you? Go Have been telling me. Go fast Or enter Hello? You said my words, do not you? Road at night, so And think it would be dangerous alone sends Bumping More dangerous Why do not you come Is going Dear viewers, TV stand to see I think you'd have received a considerable shock. Yet, in order to uncover the remains of jeongsuhyeon DNA tests still am. It's a joke, This embroidered table. Folks Floating feed him peevish no Choebanjang by Be revealed a few days, if I Cool today, just take your admit. Choebanjang by So yiduseok Mr. So for the rest of the murder Do you still insist that their crime.? I Yes, go ahead. Yeongok the perpetrators of the murder chain Not Pan.. Let not him? Oh, wait a minute. Moment you shut up please. Haha Crikey.. 'm Very confused and embarrassed. Not So How such detail that you can only know the culprit Book to put in what was a questionable indeyo. Wrote the book I do not Not So 1423 Who wrote the book mean? I've written the book. What does that mean? 's Real name jeonghyeonsik yiduseok. First victim My mother was Oh, wait a minute. Jeonghyeonsik material. Four us in advance to the bereaved family liaison I looked into the material. The first victims, bereaved families jeonghyeonsik Mr. Before the statute of limitations ends, I'm not supposed to have died from a traffic accident. Died that day jeonghyeonsik Yiduseok newly born. As you can see, Look like soon face is almost enough to not be able to find other It Me and I'll tell you. The winter of 2005, was At the time Disconnected goes untapped Placed, but barely paste Enough plastic surgery can not be avoided Was wearing a face injury. So Forming surgery yiduseok seeds made? Choebanjang's proposal was Did Hepatic expression himself and won. The real culprits to attract choebanjang by 're Way behind. As I killer is until the book written You always wants to be exposed in the media Megalomaniac was So he's choosing to murder I have a tool to promote the achievements of those Dawg If Through the book, someone famous jindamyeon A bitch hungry  Thankfully Really Thankfully Bait deogunyo deopseok water. We h Fool I've been Is the recipe than I thought. But the statute of limitations until the last forehead per Why did this make was that I do not know Oh.. Chung, Soo Youn She Was it? You catch Jamila lived or how he died. Or is buried where That's all we wanted to know. Then I had you tried to kill Now We Jamila it seems unwanted I hesitate. What do you mean by that? Have and That's what you have left so loud Cena? Quickly once or let Moxibustion incurring the end The human voice Please hear one last. Choebanjang by No games, what I know. So Send this, but my opinion Mall even get Jeongsuhyeon the Like a demon killed is cruel bred dog called? 's... Enter the voice I h More sad. You really Scared Straight the fuck shut up and listen. Not had heard of the recorded sound 14 presidential election, General counting results Kim Young Sam, the Liberty Party candidate Election is promising. After a while @ @ broadcasting leads Midnight on MBC News will Informing sound) (midnight visual Did you hear that? Chapter 14 presidential ballot counting broadcast Then midnight December 19, 1992 Vision December 18, 2007 Still 14 minutes remaining, the statute of limitations What the fuck jjotgat rascals Type Lived in the same house two years Much much heard Jamila is true surprise. Choebanjang by Guilt have not got a hope he lives Buried in the moment Looking you think. Was wrong. Please forgive me. Please do not kill me. Me want to live. Real I want to live I Exactly Live There is a reason why. No You do not have to kill me. In my stomach There's a kid you Shut up, two cubs Child fuck you're hurting. Icy bloody That was calculated by the menstrual cycle Jamila, was holding a So I think that the self can not kill lying I kid you do not like how Earn revenge would even consider doing this was that, huh When I gave you my time could have picked Broadcast far out Each other nasty What's going on Put the gun down. H. Everything is okay now. Yes You got that right. I was wrong. Nasty should not do this, I Geulji? Then Jamila you're sorry too I was wrong. You and me Done here yijon It's a little piece of H. No Jamila this motherfucker Die because you're The opposite side to the opposite side Jump As you gaze you mom fucked up. Magnetic dies, leaving son alone Well for yourself grown up Shut your mouth you son of a bitch! Shit motherfucker Come here, you son of a bitch! This motherfucker This fucker You son of a bitch Still, and Friggin 'son of a bitch motherfucker 'm MOULINEAUX feet Icy either Fuck Hey Mr. Motherfucker Son of a bitch this also @ @ is it? Just quickly siteo whole Below Drive carefully rascals Hey Lee Give the key as soon as Mister Mister That @'ll Fuck @ @ Standing fuck chasing That's Mr... Fine.? Decent chaff? Is that okay? Ever television Choebanjang Where are you from? Are you okay? Jakganim? Mother, are you okay? Fuck Suspect JC motorcycles seized Ilsan escaped in the direction of the current being. Motherfucker Where'd you go? Lee balnom This guy just fuck Rear end. Two rascals Jjokka MOULINEAUX foot bastard Son of a bitch H. And.. Supervisor Are you okay I want to kill Calm down. True! Catch him Or what Yaya makeo What the fuck? Night Dip Dip Dip @ @ Ah prevent Put Let me go Like cubs die. Let me go Much you expect? Why are you so late? Because of that incident, mental beats Eat really fast and now have to shift haejueoya What do you eat? So five Make Stop police scene. Hard lover and eating rice meal is Christmas Eve. Yeah, I know. Stories have police eat him if they will get married? Your momma say goes. Understand Understand when mom feels Breaking up with me you gonna get? My mom what's bothering you? What's going on? I.. Ha.. Like a brother and I want to live Go Well Do not have the time to take you home? Yeah, a little vain mom meet at our house. Neonae My brother Doug Selfish. yeongok serial killer who murdered choehyeonggu Mr. Today finished a jail term of five years Released from prison. This case, the statute of limitations for murder charges in the Meanwhile, Much been falling? Suffer've Scar Would not, removing the?
