 

                        Please stop the cart. - Yes sir. What a great painting! Why is it on road like waste paper? How did it come here? Who could've thrown it here? May be thrown it without knowing its value. lt's just a girl's painting, why are you praising it so much? Only a painter like me can understand the greatness of such a painting. What? ls it such a valuable painting? Yes, may be it was painted over 100 years ago. lt must be having a history. lt could fetch crores abroad. Our country doesn't value art, so it may be worth 20 or 30 lakhs. You say it's more than 100 years old, don't know who painted it and no signature on it too, put your sign and exhibit in the Sankranthi painting contest, if we get that much money, let's take it as a boon from God to get rid of our poverty. You're wrong. lt's sin to claim as ours what is not ours. My biggest sin is to marry you. The lifeless paintings you paint wears expensive dresses and jewels too, but as your wife, l'm not fortunate to buy even a small nose pin. Stealing another painter's hard work is equal to committing suicide. lf you consider it's an insult to sell this painting to make money, it's better you commit suicide. lf you consider it's an insult to sell this painting to make money, it's better you commit suicide. For a harsh word, will you take your life? Gift that to someone who deserves to keep it. Dramatization is the divine monosyllable Veda... That which has rhythm, beat and harmony... To the rhythmic beats, my legs are making matching moves... Heart on jig, that's my song... To the lilting music... union of soul and body... ln this dance contest Gayathri and Nivas who are adjudged as the best, are being presented with this rare over 100 year old painting. Welcome! Take Rs.800. Sign the voucher. it'll become Rs.8000. You play. Take Rs.500, priest. Please sign the voucher. That's it, Rs.500. Add a zero to make it Rs.5000. Hubby, they are here. Greetings. - Greetings. They say zero has no value, but only l know it's true value. Father, Rs.40000 in the bureau... Just tell me where you've kept it, don't shout, if your uncle hears it. Go. ls it you? You're his brother-in-law, so he let you, me and our family have free run here, why are you so avaricious? Silly woman! l'm taking the cuts for our daughters' marriages. lf they elope with someone, we may end up in humiliation and death.. My father wants me to marry one with cars, if he comes to know you're a car mechanic, he'll break you down into spare parts. Shall we elope then? No...no...let's tell about our love to father after Gowri's marriage. Let's elope if he says no, for now, l'll take leave. God! Ensure her sister is married soon. Where is your sister? Groom's people are here. How long will she take? Her college friends are her, they're getting her ready. That's why it's taking time. lf groom sees you now, he may insist on honeymoon first and then marriage. Look, your sister's friends are from city, right? Make sure nobody enters out house. You all are ready, l'll change and come. Where's the groom anyway? May be taking a tour of home to assess the value of father-in-law's property. Keep quiet! Auspicious time, bring Gowri. Mother...father... l don't want this marriage. l don't want this bride. Let's go away. Stop son! lt's not fair to leave abruptly without any reason. Father, get into the car first. l'll tell you the reason after reaching home. What happened upstairs? Why did the groom refuse the proposal and walked out in huff? Did the groom walked out? l don't know why did he leave? But Gowri's friend is unconscious upstairs. What happened dear? Did you faint? Snake! - What? Snake? Very big snake! About 30 feet long! lt raised the hood and hissed at me. What's this hubby? She says she has seen such a large snake. Do you remember l told you about seeing Nobody believed me then. From what the girl says, l'm sure the snake is somewhere here only. ls it him? He looks more like a squirrel catcher than a snake charmer. Where is it? Where's the snake? Where's my Nagalakshmi? You can't even move an inch the snake here with this stick.= Why? Do you know its length? Do you know what snake l've caught? l'll kick you to stop saying that. Ask about Anaconda Abbulu in Hollywood, entire America shivers! First go up and see, let's see who will shiver you or the snake. Do you know what had happened while making the film Anaconda? Stop your banter! First catch the snake, we'll know your expertise then. l think these people are more poisonous than the snake. One thing! - What now? l'll go up alone, nobody should follow me. Why? Want to slip out from there? Watch yourself if l slip away or come out carrying the snake. Rajyam! Where you my dear? God! Make sure he catches the snake. lt seems the snake charmer didn't die from a snake bite. According to post mortem report, there's no poison in his body. An innocent snake charmer got killed in our home... Sir...sir...we searched everywhere but didn't find any snake. Okay, you go. Doctors in hospital say no poison, people say there's no snake here, what's this strange? Elder daughter is like that. Gita has vowed never to marry. Gowri's engagement got cancelled twice. A snake charmer got killed in our home. May be it's a serpent's curse, let's meet an astrologer. Do you think this astrologer will solve our daughter's problem? Our family astrologer said the problem is in our home not in her horoscope. Not only he said he's the right man to solve the problem. He's not only an expert in Vastu, but scholar in geo, water and air. What's his name? Somebody is here, bring them in. Please come in. He's there! You've come with a problem, from a place of problem, l'll come to your home, As your astrologer said, not only your daughters but horoscopes of others are also fine. What about my horoscope then? May be there's some bad omen in this home, let me see it. Come. Open the doors of this room. lt's me Chandramukhi! l saw this painting in Ganga's house 5 years ago, how did it reach this place? Who is she? My second daughter Gita. What are you doing in this room with the painting? She's a painter, her life ambition is to paint a replica of it. No...no! Put an end to your ambition right now. Close the door permanently. lt's my life ambition to paint it. Even if you close the door, l'll open the door to finish the painting. lf you try to open the door to finish the painting, l'll tie your hands with my divine power. How did this painting reach your home? My elder daughter Gayathri and her husband won it in a dance contest.- When? l thought the problem got solved in that home 5 years ago, this painting reached this home and the problems resurfaced again. Where is your daughter and son-in-law? The day this painting came into their possession... They both died in an accident. They died immediately after the painting reached their hands, the reason is she! lt's Chandramukhi! We are unable to understand what you're saying, astrologer? By the way, who is Chandramukhi? Why are we facing problems because of her? Whichever home this painting reaches, a girl in the family will face problems. Till Chandramukhi takes her revenge, she'll not spare that girl. Why should we lock this door then? Why not just throw away the painting? lf you throw away the painting, only the painting goes, the problem will not. By now Chandramukhi would've possessed any one of your daughters. How to find it who has been possessed? There are just two people in lndia to find that. They've solved many such problems and got acclaimed world wide. One is Bradley's assistant Eashwar, another is Eashwar's assistant Vijay. Who among the two will come here? Without fans, there'll be no heroes... Without followers, there'll be no leaders... Without workers, there'll be no owners... Without devotees, there'll be no Gods... You're the hero, leader, owner and God... Never follow anyone, march ahead... Your power is the weapon... your love is the temple... Trust it, my brother... Your sweat is the fuel... today is your wealth... Get up! You're a creator... This is what the heart wishes... this is what treats the man... Allopathy, telepathy and homeopathy, every science says the same... Quit fear and shiver and march ahead... Feeling content and stopping the endeavour is wrong and it's a disease... Drawing boundary and shutting out dreams is disaster, open your eyes... Quit that habit and lit the fire of ambition... You're the body...you're the life... You're the pride of the country... Show swiftness and march ahead... Greetings doctor. l'm Ramachandra Siddhanti here. Ramachandra Siddhanti? My Guru's friend. How are you doing sir? l feel you're not fine. Only you both have the capacity to find what's in heart by hearing the voice. Chandramukhi's painting in Ganga's house, it's now in a man's house in Tirupathi. Just now my guru called me from America about this. But l've a small doubt, can l ask? - Go ahead. You and my guru solved this problem long back in Ganga's house, right? How did it resurface again? Painting thrown away from Ganga's house reached Shankar's home in Tirupathi. So what if it's there? How is the painting connected with the problem? So many problems have cropped after the painting reached Shankar's home. Two people are dead. When l see this l feel Chandramukhi's problem is still alive. You're giving me the case which Eashwar would be handling, l can understand the confidence he has in me, l'll take it as a challenge and solve the case. Happy to hear it. Eashwar told me l've a surprize in it for me, that's why he's sending me instead of him. l don't know what's that. lf he says so, l'm sure there will be. l've to attend a seminar with my Guru in America, do you know that topic? But l'm going to handle case directly. l'm coming there! l'll keep up your name. Till now you were in America, now you're going to Tirupathi for a case. Take dad's blessings before leaving, son. Okay. lt's a bad omen if a photo falls down, son. Mother! The photo has been hanging for 15 years now, the nail got rusted and gave in unable to hold the weight. Don't you accept it as blessing if a flower falls from God's photo? lsn't it better if the photo itself falls down, mom? What are you saying son? Mother, don't take anything negatively. Take everything positively. l'll come back successfully, okay? Whatever be it, please sit back for a minute, have water and then leave. Why? What can l say sir? lt's a tradition. lf anything crosses our path while going out, we must have water. What if a cat crosses the path? Should we feed milk to it and then go? May be our ancestors would've said it for fun. lf they say it, will you also tell the same thing? Don't you've sense? Don't you've brain? Don't you've knowledge? What's this hammering in the first scene, sir? Get into the car. - Me? With you? Mistook for carrying this bag? My mother has selected a bride, l'm going to home town. l got it sir. You want to know why l'm marrying at this age. You may get 100 brides in every street for your personality. For my personality, l may not get even one in 100 streets. lnfact we are going now to meet a girl. ls he a doctor or broker? l'm a doctor not a broker. How could you read my mind? Doctor, please teach me that technique. Get into the car, pick up the bag. - Okay.- Come. Would she approve me? l'm sure she'll approve you, will you approve her? Would she be that horrible? World beauty! Epitome of beauty! What's the problem then? - Little older than you. How old she'll be? - About 125 years old. How come this song is playing in your car, doctor? Just for fun, playing a CD. There's no CD player in car, right? Kept it under.- Under whom? - Under you. Thanks for making it. You said Chandramukhi's painting is in this house. l came rewinding the history listening to that song. Are there four girls in this house? You've your guru's mischievousness too. People around me must be happy. That's my guru's principle and mine too. Why are you surprized? This time you must pass intermediate. Surprized, how did l know it? You'd failed twice already. How did you know my sister failed in intermediate? Hema, l know you to had failed twice in eight class. How could you say correctly about girls in my house, doctor? l'm coming to you now. How people above 90 years are so healthy? What do they eat? What do they drink? You want to do research and write a doctoral thesis on it. You count the age and l figure out with mind. l've never seen anyone like you till now, doctor. Can you tell anything about me? Designing is your hobby. Painting is your life. lf you get any painting, you don't rest till you paint it. How are able to tell correctly about people in my house? Just for fun. But a character is missing from this house. Do you think he knows about our eldest daughter? Don't talk loud and announce it to him. l'm in this house for two days now, l don't even know their names, but you know everything... Some come and get to know about people, some come after knowing everything. l'm second type. Robbers do come prepared, he's not a thief, is he? Stealing brother-in-law's money by adding zeroes. Shall l tell you the balance? - Oh no, he's extremely dangerous. l must send him out from here. - lt's impossible for you. He's reading the mind. - That's me! Where's the thing we should meet? l mean Chandramukhi. Please come. Chandramukhi? Where's everyone? l'm alone here. l'm coming for you... Why are you standing here for a family photo? What happened? Why did you lock this room? l told them to lock it. - Why? To know which girl in this family is affected by Chandramukhi. How can you know if the door is locked? You'll get the clue to the case only when the door is open, right? Unnecessarily, astrologer locked up this room. l can understand your anxiety. Your ambition is to paint Chandramukhi. Astrologer is stopping you. Nobody will stop you from painting it. Paint happily. l sincerely wish that your ambition be fulfilled. Down is lose and top is frozen? Shock in the top and down is very weak. Face is perfect but legs are shivering. Pant isn't wet, right? - But face is wet. You like her? - She must like me, right? Why wouldn't she? You're the lone bachelor here. She ghosts love bachelors like country chicken curry. Do you've to tell that so loudly? - Just for fun. Think these are not hands but legs. lf hands become legs, what would legs become then? What will nose become? How about ear? Why are you talking strangely? - l said because people talk like that. lf people say like that, you too would talk like that? Don't you've sense? Don't you've brain? Don't you've knowledge? - Sir, please l do have. l beg you sir, these are your legs only. l say holding your legs sir. - What are you saying? What am l saying? What was l saying? Why am l behaving like this? l've wet the bed here and you're sleeping soundly under the sheets. Why are you waking a sleeping man and asking are you sleeping? lt's my fault. Doctor, it's ringing twelve. lt'll ring twelve times at midnight, not 13 times, you idiot. Go to sleep. - But l've a small doubt. Clear it and l'll go to sleep. - Cry it out. Will l marry in this life? - l do believe you will. Would l've children? l believe your wife must have that faith in you. What should l name the children if l do have? What? Chandramukhi? Where's the doctor? Who was l talking to till now? With Chandramukhi! What's it man? - Why did you scare me like this? ls it justified? - Just for fun! This is part of treatment, how will you get courage then? That's right sir, how can a donkey know the fragrance of sandalwood? l blabbered something in fear, please forgive me sir. Shall l tell you something? Other we both, everyone else in this house is a ghost. Already l'm scared and you're scaring me more. How can l sleep now? l'll give you a tablet to sleep. - Give me. l don't mind the high dose also. - Get me some water.- Water? Give me. - No, l'll give directly. This is what you call blind faith. May l sing a song in Pure Dhanyasi raga? You too join the dance with me. What's this Gunasekhar? Why are you silent? Don't worry, nobody can disturb us here. What are you at this late hour? This is my house, l'll do anything at anytime in any place. Anyway what are you doing at this late hour? Girl elopes with lover and lodges complaint on parents... l've two daughters. Why is she coming form upstairs? Why are you coming down the steps instead of coming from our room? Doctor wants bed coffee so... Did you go to his room to serve him coffee? Did you ever serve me bed coffee in our 25 years of marriage? lt's been years since you've forgotten about the bed, why you need a bed coffee? - Okay, you go now. Forgot bed, you know that well. Where are you going dear? - l'm taking doctor's coffee. Why are you shaking so much for that? Try to pass the exam atleast by copying, go. lt's my responsibility to save married and unmarried women from doctor. My house in on fire, no use in being complacent. She's going to take bath, l'll stay here till she comes out. lf not she may also go after the doctor. l'm here! - l've put the ladder. Then l'm coming. As guru said Chandramukhi's anklet sounds at midnight in Ganga's home, and here getting out from bathroom roof, romancing in day time! Something is happening here. Tiles are removed, the door is locked from inside. But nobody is inside. Nobody is here! Come out...come out l say... Hema...open the door! - Father is calling me, bye. Family members! Come here! l'm ruined. - What happened, Appa Rao? Tell me without crying. Hema is taking bath inside. - Why are you crying for that? ls she using more water or worried about soap wearing thin? Calm down foolish lady! Why would l worry if she takes bath alone?- Then? Doctor too is inside. Call him out and bash him up. Throw him out from the house. Open the door, my daughter. Open the door. What's it father? Have you come out alone? Where's the doctor? Where are you hiding, doctor? Where's the doctor? - He was inside little while ago... What's the confusion there? Doctor is there and you claim he's inside the bathroom. l thought you know to read minds only, do you know to fly in air also? Doctor is no ordinary man! Nurse took a day off and he turned me into a woman for two days. l'll push you from the roof. Anyone would push if l scold, why are you pushing for praise? For me praise is also like scolding, come. Come. father, you've gone crazy ever since he's here. First you get treated by him. Father! Where are you going? - To take bath. As father l've a word for you. - Tell me dad. No women in the house must take bath till doctor is in this place. What makes you believe that the problem faced in Ganga's house 5 years ago, has cropped up again in this house? When Eashwar treated psychologically affected Ganga, Chandramukhi's room door was wide open, l saw with my divine vision Chandramukhi leaving the room in the form a snake. lf you use the same power to find the snake now and tell me, let's catch the snake and problem will be solved. Psychologists like you would make fun of astrologers like us. Remember one thing, Ganga went in search of Chandramukhi in that house, but here Chandramukhi has come in search of someone. Why should she come here? Why not go after my guru Eashwar? Why not come after me? Doctor don't brush it aside as silly, find out first who in this house is possessed by Chandramukhi. After that l'll decide what should be done. Doctor, l'm unable to get sleep even after doing yoga. l'm afraid l'll die here. lf l tell you what astrologer told me, you'll be shocked. What's it? Chandramukhi is in the form of a 30 feet long snake here. Till yesterday you said she was ghost and now you say she's a snake, if its ghost we can live thinking it's not there, but snake will be here definitely, and we may die if it bites. lf you know such things, keep it in your heart don't scare me telling that. Would anyone keep snake inside? We must let it go out. Why do you tell me when there so many others here? What if you see the snake and die in shock? Snake...snake... - lt's not a snake but belt. l kept it there. He talks about ghosts, snakes and belts. lf you stay here, you're sure to die in installments. Run away before dawn. Where ever you my go, the snake will not leave you. He'll understand if l speak in mother tongue Telugu, l'll speak in a language he'll not understand. How can it come? l'll run away stealthily. l'll chase you and won't leave you. Not only mother tongue, you'll understand in any language l may speak. Give me the tablet which you gave me last night. l'll give it not throw into mouth, catch it. Pure hallucination! Fire...fire...doctor, douse it. Open the door...open the door. Fire...fire... Doctor, come...come... Come... Doctor, come...put off the fire. Sir... Astrologer's house is on fire, put it off. Put off the fire! Come! Did you see this? You didn't believe when l said Chandramukhi is here. Do you believe now that she did this to kill me? She's scared of losing her evil power to my divine power. Don't get angry, you've divine power so she used fire against you, but who are the people who attacked me? lt could be anyone who had attacked you, but it's her who had attacked me! l'll go out from here in fear. Nobody can dare touch me till l've this divine power with me. Where are you coming from at this late power? That is... There's current in the house, right? Why are you carrying a lantern? That is...that is... l didn't give this to Eashwar in Ganga's house. But l feel you need this here. Though you don't believe it. You must wear it around neck for my sake. You trust in God and do everything, but l see God in everything l do. l believe God but not superstitions. l trust only the science l've learnt. Chandramukhi! This house is more interesting than Ganga's house. Hubby, l went up to call doctor for breakfast, but he's not in his room. Good riddance! Last night he was attacked, who doesn't want to live? He may have run away. You mean doctor? He's playing outside with women. With my daughters? Not just daughters but with your wife too. Play...play...play a game of Kabaddi... Pick up a volley ball and kick a goal with football... Stick and stone, slide, Gilly, play every sport with spirit... Play marbles and enter Guinness book of records... Play housie in Olympics... Play monkey jump on tree in Commonwealth games... Win the world cup in stone throwing game... Win the French title in snake and ladder game... Shine in lPL playing card game... Start match fixing... Goal...goal...kick a goal... lf women play hopping game, it will shape up your bodies... lf you join together and play gymnastics, your beauty will glow... Robber and police game will spice up your life... Game on the river sand will excite your life... Make us play mom and dad game... Come to me... l'll not spare you today. lf dance program is going on here, it's happening here not in the room with Chandramukhi's painting. Come...come... Come... Come...l'll come for you... l'm yours and l'm here for you... Who is it? Who shouted now? Ask them. Our eldest daughter Gayathri. You said she's dead. Lied to you. A dance contest was conducted in Hyderabad, in an accident that happened while coming back with Chandramukhi's painting, my son-in-law died, my daughter lost her mind seeing her husband die in a bloody accident. l said about a missing person on the day l came here, it was about Gayathri. l'm here for you welfare and why did you lie to me? Second daughter's marriage got cancelled because of Gayathri, and has vowed never to marry in life, to save my third daughter from such a plight, we lied about eldest's death. Would any mother lie about daughter's death when she's alive? l committed that sin. That's why l'm getting punished. Who is dancing and singing song at midnight? Though she's mad, she hasn't forgotten the dance she learnt. With such a big dot, laughing and crying, dancing and singing, infact l went there at night to feed Gayathri. What's your opinion about Gayathri as a doctor? l feel she's mad. Any doctor can cure her madness. Gayathri is not mad, Chandramukhi has possessed her immediately after she got the painting, and killed her husband Nivas, because Chandramukhi will not accept anyone other than Gunasekhar as husband, your guru Eashwar would've told you. l'll prove that you're wrong. lf you bring Gayathri to the temple tomorrow morning, l'll prove she's possessed by Chandramukhi. Did you see doctor? Gayathri feared to enter temple because she's possessed by Chandramukhi. Cattle, sheep and birds ran in fear because of Chandramukhi. lt's the evidence that animals scent the evil first. l too know birds and animals know the upcoming earth quakes or Tsunamis. May be animals and birds reacted to some earth quake when she stepped in here. Whatever we may tell the scientists, one question will always remain. Science is part of knowledge and not the other way round. lf l don't make Gayathri sit, and make her say she's Chandramukhi, my name henceforth shall not be Ramachandra Siddhanti. Bless women of this house, Goddess. What's that? Leave me! Who are you talking to? With Chandramukhi. Where is she? - Under the basket. Who Chandramukhi is? A 30 feet long snake. Can it be under this basket? lt's not under it, watch out. You made fun of me just now as if you're a brave man. Why are you afraid now? l like MGR, l like Sivaji, l like Rajini, l like Kamal, l love Tamil! Please leave me. l kept it under the basket. Why? What just happened, that's what was happening here earlier. That's why l did this. What's this doctor? - What? l almost died in fear. Thank God! - lt means! Oh my gosh means? - Oh my gosh! This is not proverb, people generally use it, l too used it. lf they use will you also? Don't you've sense? Don't you've brain? l just said that to relax, why are you hammering me? Just for fun. Thank God! Thank God? lf he says it's not wrong, if l say he'll hammer me. Sailing with the wind... l said that to myself. Siddhanti! Jump into the water! Will you accept now that Gayathri is possessed by Chandramukhi? lt wanted to kill me because l'll drive it out of her today. Gayathri has been locked in the room, how can she come out? Chandramukhi may come any form, when she'll enter Gayathri's body, and when she leaves it the form of snake, nobody can tell. First diverted our attention towards Gita and the painting. Now that we know she's in the body of the mad girl, she's trying to kill me now. Though there are many who say God is there, there are few who say there's no god, when God men produce Shiva linga from mouth, even rationalists are doing it, l'm asking you a question on behalf of all of them, do you really believe there are ghosts and devils? ln this world if you've light, there's darkness too, if there's truth, there's false too, if there's fire, there's water too, likewise if there's God, then there will be evil power. People who had the experience will believe it, those who didn't would wait for the experience. Nobody can dare touch me till this divine power is with me. l want to unravel certain things on my own, till then please don't offer prayers for Gayathri. l came to this library has book on Venkatapuram king who ruled 100 years ago. Can you please check if it's still available? l'll check, wait a minute please. lt's there. Check in the biography section. Life history of Venkatapuram King. Authored by Surasena. ls he King Venkatapathy Rajasekhar? ln the desire to become the king got killed by his own brother, HH Venkatapathy Rajasekhar. My guru said Venkatapathy Rajasekhar ruled the kingdom. But the book says another man killed him and ruled the kingdom. lf it is so, who could he be? His Highness Nagabhairava Rajasekhar! Guru you said l'm in for a surprize here. ls it this? lt means you've read this book already. Was Nagabhairava who lived Was Nagabhairava who lived His Royal Highness Nagabhairava Rajasekhar is arriving! Be alert! Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) Wonderful! Venkatapuram king Nagabhairava has entered our fort, lord! Lord! Wonderful! Great! Wow! Lord, priceless diamonds, pearls, topaz, crystals are here! Fill our treasury with it. A rare priceless diamond is there in it. Valuable than these? What's that, lord? May be this is what you call killing with eyes, Commander. Who is this beauty? You saw, my lord, a court dancer. Her name is Chandramukhi. ls this the moon that makes real moon to diminish and vanish in jealous? lt's a boon to enjoy your beauty. lf one doesn't get that, it's a curse. Lord, you've won over this kingdom, even if l say no, you'll not spare my daughter. all l wish she must be alive somewhere, be happy anywhere she may be. lmpossible. l'll not come with you. Even if you forcibly take me, l'll not come with you, only my body will come. lf l ever live, it'll be with my Gunasekhar. Lord, Nagavalli loves Gunasekhar who dances with her. Nagavalli? - That's the name we gave her. After she got fame as a great dancer, people called her as Chandramukhi. lt that's your wish, then let's take Gunasekhar also with us. Lord! Find and bring him with us. - So be it, lord. l like you and you like Gunasekhar, then both of together dance in my court. Where's Gunasekhar? l'll never break my promise. Look there! You're pulling him like beast, what's this horrible? You love him more than your life. Shouldn't l know if he too loves you as much? What do you mean? lf he survives till we reach my kingdom, it means he truly loves you, Lord, he's dead. Cut the rope. His love is false, that's why he died. Safeguard it in our treasury. Look after my Chandramukhi like a queen in my palace. As you say lord! You're very lucky. lf you do as he says, Lord will give his life to you. His Royal Highness Nagabhairava Rajasekhar is arriving! Be alert! valorous King, with great history... Powerful like sun, people hail your victory... This world is rotating looking at you, maiden... Powerful than thousand lightning... Real beauty... The sensuous beauty is moving like chariot... My heart, body and soul is following you... Sharp sword like eyes... life like beauty... Your body is lightning that can split the sky... When your tender feet dances... earth will shake where ever it may be... Silent devastation... There's no one like you... Your youth... lt's spreading like new light hot and swift towards sun... Smile is butter.. Waist is hot savoury... We've been destined long back to become a couple... First time... et me come to you... Let this great warrior fight and lose to you... l'm seeking refuge in you... come to me...become mine... Charge me up...have a blast... Treasure of pleasure... My present to your great dance and beauty. ls it painting? lt's oozing life! l'm grateful, lord. l'm pleased with your talent. Lord! Accept my gift. How could you paint so wonderfully! l enjoyed her beauty in my heart and painted it, my lord. Gift for painting her. For enjoying her beauty. Other than me no man should enjoy her beauty even in his dream. Lord who loves you so much, why did you dance with vengeance before him? l didn't come here to love him. To kill him. l must kill him myself to avenge the killing of my Gunasekhar. lf l don't burn him alive and reduce him to ashes as revenge, my name henceforth shall not be Chandramukhi. Can fill a heart and kill a man too. What a great beauty is yours! Aren't you... - No yet dead. l just acted as dead. How could you come here? Nobody has seen you, right?- No. lf anyone sees you here, you'll be dead. They mustn't know you're alive. Hereafter we must meet secretly. Sell this and arrange to stay somewhere near by. He's coming, go away from here quickly. Go! When you are here, l didn't want to waste time watching your painting, so here l'm, don't get afraid, l'll not take you by force, l may be like Lord Krishna in romance, but l'm cousin of Ravana when it comes to following tradition. l'll never touch any woman without her consent. The fear that was on your face when you came here is no more, l see the happiness of getting what you're not supposed to get, indeed you women play with lives of men. Lord has ordered to keep this painting in your quarters. l'm going out on a hunting mission, will be back after two days only. Stop! You march ahead! Nagabhairava will not come back for next two days. Let's unite before he comes back. Come! He'll desire me till l'm a virgin. lf we make love once, he'll no more desire me. Come! Come... l'm coming for you... l'm here... Celebrating the memories... l'm spreading out for you... l'm stretching hand for you... My heart is dancing... What relationship is this... ls it a continuation from earlier birth... ls it a flower or honey filled flower? ls it a flower holding the honey of my love? Come, l must embrace my love... l must take you into my arms... To celebrate our union of love... Let the union of love continue... Let the hurdles vanish... Let everything fall into place to celebrate love, come... Who is it? - lt's me! You? Please don't harm him. No! Don't harm him. Arrest him! Leave me. Don't kill me. Leave me....don't kill me. No...no... l found fro the happiness in your eyes last night, that you've seen him and he has come back alive, how dare you bring him here to my palace, and make him sleep on my bed. Douse her with oil! Get me a torch! Burn me...burn me... For killing me and my Gunasekhar, if l don't kill you on the festive day of Durgashtami, my name henceforth shall not be Chandramukhi. Come... l'll not spare you! l'll not spare you alive. You'll die in my hands only. King, Chandramukhi has died mortally, but her soul is still alive. She died on Durgashtami day, next year same day, offer a sacrifice and locking eight sides, we must impound her soul in it. That's the only solution to it. As you say. nobody should open this door. By mistake if it's opened, Chandramukhi problem will resurface. So Ganga opened the door after 100 years. Tell me my lord! Though l've burnt Chandramukhi and reduced her to ashes, l'm unable to forget her. l'm seeing Chandramukhi in any unmarried girl. So, order every virgin in this kingdom to leave immediately. lf not l'll kill them. Who is Nagabhairava asking to leave this kingdom? Our elder sisters and younger sisters, and your daughters, before he sends away our girls, let's unite and kill him. Nagabhairava who managed to escape that day, few think he had committed suicide later, and few others think he was murdered, and few others believed he was still alive, nobody till now knows which is true and which is false. So, this book was read earlier by her! l know to speak in Telugu. lt would be over 100 years since Chandramukhi's family perished away. But you're the second man to inquire about them in last 3 or 4 years. Who came before me? - A girl. Girl? - Yes. She was fine before asking the details, before coming out of Chandramukhi's house, holding the painting of Chandramukhi, she ran away like a mad woman! One more thing people here say anklet sounds were heard from her home. But after the girl went away, the anklet sounds has stopped. That's Chandramukhi's house! l saw in my divine vision Chandramukhi leaving the place as serpent. So, the painting seen in the out house was taken from here. A dancer named Nivas died in a road accident, but the lorry which hit him had run over two shops before with brake failure, the case was closed two years ago, why are you inquiring now? The snake charmer had heart problem, so l had warned him not to play the hautboy, but he played it for money, he died vomiting blood. So Chandramukhi isn't behind the deaths of these 2 people. This man's horoscope is great! One in a crore has such a great horoscope. His life span is at peak! But govt. records say nobody has lived more than 116 years. lf you go and see in the caves of Himalayas, there are people who are living for more than 200 years, even a snap of finger can break their skull, so they live in isolation and absolute silence. Living on just air and they don't excrete out anything, if such people ever die, it happens by nature only. You've cleared my doubt. Do you know whose horoscope was that? - Whose? Nagabhairava Rajasekhar! He's somewhere here only! He's still alive! l can feel his movements. You must find him. Only then this family will be out of difficulties. l'll make a sincere try. You find the King, and l'll chase out Chandramukhi from Gayathri's body. Before doctor catches Chandramukhi, it's better l catch one of these girls for myself. lf l get her, it's like getting an apple. What's it uncle? - Uncle? Take off your hands, mind your work. Clean it. She's a book worm, very easy to trap her. How do l look like in this dress? You look like my younger paternal uncle. lf you lose the hair in the front, you'll be like my elder uncle. Why don't you wear such dress every day? Why? ls it so good? ln this dress you look like... - Really like? My late grandfather! You study, let him die. Go! Am l like your late grandpa? She's like Chandramukhi's property, better to stay away from her. What to do? She's the right choice for my standard. Got any details about my inquiry? We heard about a 120 year old man living on the hills of Ratnagiri. lf you go there, l'm sure you'll get the details. Sir, he lives in the dilapidated fort on the hill top. Nobody in this village has ever seen him. At times we hear loud cries. Didn't anyone try to see him? to the fort and never returned. Who will dare after that? - l'll try to go there. Will you? Go ahead and try. Who are you? Go...go away! Don't come...go away...go... Don't die in my hands. Go...go away! Make her to sit there. Don't come near me...don't come... Who are you? Who are you? Tell me! Tell me...what's your name? Tell me! Tell me...tell me l say Tell me! Will you tell me or not? Tell me what's your name? - Chandramukhi Gayathri! l didn't give this to Eashwar in Ganga's home. But l feel you need this here. ls it divine or coincidence? Take her to the room and lock the door. Mother, doctor is here. You always take me where ever you go, why did you leave me alone in this palatial house? My mother says my sister isn't mad but is possessed by Chandramukhi. He didn't sprinkle sacred ash but caned her to get the answer. Yes doctor, when astrologer asked her, she said her name is Chandramukhi Gayathri. She said she's Chandramukhi Gayathri inside the holy mark. By the way, what about your inquiry? Did you meet the king? ls he still alive? He's still alive but Gayathri isn't possessed by Chandramukhi. Don't you trust me? l do. But please give me an opportunity to clear my doubt. Get my kit. Till now l was never happy, don't know if l'll be happy in future. Remember one thing, the girl inside is not Gayathri but Chandramukhi. l beg you sir, you can cure humans but not ghosts. Let's leave her to the long hair man. ls it necessary to dance with ghosts now? lf you can't avoid, you go inside, if anything happens to you, l must be outside to inform others. Sister! l'm innocent! l'm not a doctor but a nurse. male nurse, sister. lf you want to possess anyone, go for the doctor. Leave me sister... please leave me sister, l beg you. Sister has understood me. Good that l used to watch Tamil films often. Sister... Hold hand. - Okay. Not mine but Gayathri's. l'll not hold hands of other women. Then l may have to give you a shot of injection. That's much better. Sister! Sister! Sister! Sister... l'm taking you back 10 years. You joined Shobha Natya Mandali. You got acquainted with a man there. lt blossomed into love. lsn't it? Later on you married him. Tell me what's his name? You were presented with Chandramukhi's painting in a dance contest. Do you remember it? l do! What happened after that? We won a big contest but were presented with an ordinary painting. Couldn't they've given a gold medal or a title? You don't know about this painting, the lady in the painting is Chandramukhi, a great dancer who created a style of her own, this painting is more valuable than the medal or title you want. Anyways l'll present you a title as your guru. From today your name is Chandramukhi Gayathri. Chandramukhi Gayathri... When you and your husband were walking, a speeding lorry hit him, seeing your husband die right before your eyes, you were shocked, and fell into a confusion whether the incident really happened or not, a man who you loved more than your life and married him, if he dies, your husband's soul will be in pain because you didn't shed a tear for him, it would be crying to shed a tear for him, cry your heart out to bring out every tear in you, cry till the pain and sadness in your heart comes out in tears, cry... Siddhanti made her cry by beating and he's also making her cry. l'm unable to see my daughter going through this hell. What happened, doctor? Why is she crying now? Let her cry...cry... ln few minutes she'll recognize her people. l came here in fear, but l'm leaving proudly from this room. l'm really proud to be your assistant. Why is Gayathri crying now? Your daughter is not mad anymore. Really doctor? Go and see her. Forgive me sir, l didn't mean insult you. Watching her husband die, her mind got blocked, she didn't cry or shed a tear for him, now she's crying her heart out, she survived all these days because of their prayers only. Mother...father... Dear! Thanks...a thousand thanks... Ajust thanks isn't enough for a good man who did great service... Working hard all these days to bring back smiles in the family... To a God who brought light to the home... The patience was yours... The help was yours... The victory is also yours... The endeavour was yours... The sacrifice was yours... l was just with you in it... The missing rhythm is the starting of a song... When you stop dangers on the way, it's happiness after that... These are divine ploys of God... This is the auspicious day when the bad period got over... My heart is dancing... l got the boon after a sacrifice... l'm now on the move because of you... l was born again after you came... l'll take another birth to repay my gratitude... A thousand births... You all are celebrating as if the problems here are solved. You're mistaken that Chandramukhi problem is over. What's this sir? He's right. Chandramukhi problem is still there. l got doubt on each one every day. lt was very difficult to find who was possessed by Chandramukhi. When you taking bath in the well, somebody tried to kill you, you weren't wearing the holy beads at that tme. l observed this. One day you told Gita showing the holy beads, nobody can dare tuch me till this divine power is with me. l remembered this and went to meet Gita in her room. Looks like you've brought all the great men into your room. Where did you buy it? l didn't buy them, l painted it myself. Stop cracking jokes. Did you paint? Wonderful! When you could paint others so wonderfully, why are you not able to paint Chandramukhi? That's what l'm unable to understand. l could paint anyone in a day, but every time l'm trying to draw this painting, l'm missing something, if l get the eyes perfectly, l'm missing the nose, if nose is perfect, then l'm missing out on lips. May be you could've seen these men personally. Or else may have read about them. Did you see Chandramukhi or read about her? First know about her and then start painting, l'm sure you'll achieve your aim. Don't l know about Chandramukhi? Do you know her complete story? Nagabhairava abducted Chandramukhi, Chandramukhi met her lover Gunasekhar secretly, king who came to know this knocked down his head, and burnt alive Chandramukhi and reduced her to ashes. So you know many things. Not only that, there's a big book about the king also. Guru told there's a book on Chandramukhi, is there a book on the king also? After talking with Gita, l went to the library, l learnt everything about the king, after finishing the book, when l came to sign the ledger, l saw the name of the lady whom l had suspected. Who? Come, l'll show you. How many are there in your research on people over 90 years? lt seems there are 5 lakh people living for more than 100 years. l saw on the internet. There are many sages in Himalayas who are living for more than 130 years. l heard about one or two people living in our region. l'll find out who they are and complete my research. l saw one of the two people you mentioned now. Close to this place. - Near by? Till now not a news has come out about him. lnfact nobody has seen him till now. What? Nobody has seen him till now? He went into a fort near by many years ago, nobody who went into the fort has come back alive. Only l've come back. What's his age? More than 130 years. Did you see him? Did you really see him? Not only l saw him, l know his name too. What's his name? Nagabhairava! Where is he now? There's a hill Ratnagiri near to this place, he lives in a dilapidated fort on the hill top, he's still living in the memories of his dead lover Chandramukhi, he's still living with a desire to have her if she's born again, poor mad king doesn't know the true character of Chandramukhi. What do you know about her character? Though she openly talks about Gunasekhar only, it seems she had many lovers, it seems she used to take a new lover every night and satisfy him. lf king isn't there, lover, if lover isn't there, then a soldier, if he's not there, then a male servant. Any man she got for the night. The truth is that Chandramukhi is a nymphomaniac. A cheap prostitute! Hey dog! What do you know about me? l'll never ever think of anyone other than my lover Gunasekhar. lf you say anything bad about me, l'll burn you alive. l don't want to burn you alive, l want to burn alive Nagabhairava. Don't get sacrificed before he dies. Go away from here...go! Who are you? Chandramukhi or Gowri? Tell me! Tell me, Chandramukhi or Gowri? Tell me! What did l do now? l committed a sin. Committed a sin. l've committed a sin. Committed a sin. Leave me...don't embarrass me. Please go away. l don't like this. No use... Go away! Doctor, please kill me. lf you don't kill me, l may kill someone. l don't know how to praise you, doctor. How did you find Gowri was possessed by Chandramukhi? The day l came here, l went around this house that night. l heard a song then, l ran towards it, somebody was singing and dancing in the outhouse, ,but ran away on hearing my foot steps, l followed the anklet sounds, l ran into Gita, l observed then that Gita wasn't wearing anklets, the next day when your room got burnt and were shouting for help, all the members of the family came running, except Gowri, l observed that too, that was the first time l suspected her, another day l heard song and someone dancing in the outhouse, l saw another painting of Chandramukhi, the painting in the house was given as present top Gayathri, getting doubt where did this painting come from, l entered the room, suddenly someone threw a flower vase on me, trying to escape from it l slipped and fell down, Gayathri who was sleeping there got up and shouted loudly, when Gayathri was right before me, l heard another girl running away wearing anklets, Gayathri was with me, then who ran out? l was trying to find this out, you asked them to bring Gayathri to the temple, family members pulled Gayathri to the temple with great difficulty, but while returning back, Gowri alone managed to pull her easily, l observed this and was surprized, to confirm my doubt l went to Gowri's room that night. Looks like you're tensed, doctor. - What to do? l told astrologer that Chandramukhi isn't in Gayathri's body. But he won't believe me. lt seems he'll offer prayers and prove Gayathri is possessed. What do you think about it, doctor? About what? About my sister being possessed by Chandramukhi... l saw the shiver and tension in Gowri's voice. ...about that. About that? l can tell firmly that your sister is insane. l can say there's no problem of Chandramukhi in this family. l saw a type of psychic vibration on Gowri's face. As you say there's absolutely no Chandramukhi problem in my family. Yes, there's no Chandramukhi problem in this family. l saw Gayathri's dance costume in Gowri's room. When Gayathri was sleeping in the outhouse, Gowri used to turn into Chandramukhi and dance there every night, all of you thought it was Gayathri who was dancing in the outhouse, but it was Gowri who used to sing and dance there. Why was Gowri possessed by Chandramukhi? One day l asked Shankar Rao about the attitudes of girls in the family, He told me Gowri used to be in hostel while studying in college, l suspected some incident would've happened to affect her there, l went and met her friends, Chandrika, a friend of Gowri loved a boy, knowing about Chandrika's love, her maternal uncle, ran a car over that boy to kill him, and tried to marry Chandrika forcibly, unable to escape from uncle, she doused herself with kerosene and immolated self. The incident of her close friend's death hurt Gowri very much. To escape from it, she started research on people who lived long without dying young, she used to visit library to read about kings and emperors, she read about the history on Venkatapathy King, when she starts reading the book, she's Gowri, but she turns into Chandramukhi while reading it, since Chandrika too had similar experience like Chandramukhi, it made a deep impact on the psyche of Gowri, but she signs the logbook as Gowri in English while taking the book, but used to sign in Tamil as Chandramukhi while returning the book. To know more about her Gowri went to Chandramukhi's house in Thanjavur. Earlier Gowri has little sympathy on Chandramukhi, but after seeing the painting and her home, it turned into empathy, she entered the home as Gowri, but came out like a mad girl. What you said is right. But why did Gowri try twice to kill me? Though l knew there's a problem here, l told Gowri that there's no problem here, that's why she didn't concentrate on me, but you strongly argued that there's Chandramukhi problem here, that's why she tried twice to kill you. Then, who attacked you that night? They were ordinary men like us, but were sent by a gentleman, on the day of engagement, it was Gowri who made the groom run away in fear, she accepted to marry publicly, but went upstairs alone to scare him away, bridegroom himself told me about this. Hey dog! Do you want me? Will you dare marry me? Do you know who am l? l'm Chandramukhi! l saw with my eyes Gowri turning into another person. Go away from here! Go! Gowri who came down sat innocently as if nothing happened. Gayathri won the painting in a contest, Gita's life ambition is to paint Chandramukhi, but Gowri turned herself into Chandramukhi. You've cured a mad Gayathri, how are you going to save Gowri? Don't worry, he saved Gayathri, l'll save Gowri. Will you bring the king here? l'll conduct the prayers near that fort not here. l'll drive out Chandramukhi from Gowri in that sacrifice. Are you sleeping Chandramukhi? Sleep well! Your game will be over tomorrow. l'll drive you out from Gowri's body tomorrow. He promised to save my daughter and in trouble now, who will save my daughter from Chandramukhi now? Father...mother... l told you to look after Gowri, why did you leave her alone? Gowri is missing, father. l searched entire home, don't know where she's gone. My dance costume is also missing along with Gowri. l'm scared. Where would be Gowri now? She knows Nagabhairava's place, l'm sure she would've gone there. Gowri's life will not be in danger from the king, right? Don't worry, it's not Gowri who's gone in search of Nagabhairava. lt's Chandramukhi who is waiting to take revenge on him. l managed to escape from him once, if he sees me again, he'll not spare me alive, if l try to stop Chandramukhi who wants to seek revenge, she'll not hesitate to kill me also. l'll save Gowri risking my life. You keep offering prayers to your family deity without losing hope. Hey dog! l'm here to kill you! l'll not leave you till l kill you. Come out man...come out! l'll transform into air... l'll take on you... l'll squeeze out your life... l'll burn and reduce you to ashes... Come...l'm hungry... l'll finish you tonight...come... l'll not spare you... l'll kill you... Take her away! Take her away quickly! l'll spare without killing him. Leave me! l must kill him! He killed my Gunasekhar and burnt me alive, l must burn alive and reduce him to ashes. Chandramukhi, look at the fire on his body. ln few minutes he'll burn down to ashes. You don't worry. Come...come... Come...come... Come...come... Come...come... Come...come... Come...come... Come Chandramukhi! The bride groom whom you scared out is willing to marry you. Okay? Not only Gowri, you've made Gita also to agree to marry. What happened to your love with mechanic? Did you tell your father? lsn't honourable to earn honestly than swindling money? Not only Gowri, you've cured me also. Hereafter l'll not swindle money. You fixed marriages of so many here, what about your marriage? Oh no! l've decided. - What's it sir? What have you decided? This is outrageous, don't spoil my chances. What did l tell you coming here? - What did you tell me? Didn't l promise to fix a girl for you? She's all yours! That's why they say marriage and vomit won't stop once it starts. Just tongue slip! Come here! Come l say! How am l to repay my gratitude? - l didn't do anything, our elders said good things will happen to good people. People around us must be happy. That's my aim.
