 

                        Even the moon is shadowed once in a while Let alone small human beings Easily shadowed into darkness They still linger in the air Your sweet words and concern make me feel I am stabbing you in the back. Believe me, it's not easy But try to understand, and divorce me It's harder than death for me If you shun me, I'd rather die I'm back But I am I'm home Welcome back Somebody here? No But I heard you Forget it. You're back early today Hey, come here! What? I picked up this kid Where? He followed me from Kudan Homeless? No, just lost. He's from Chigasaki Let's put him up for the night Don't bother with him But I feel sorry for him Why should we do that? Let someone else do it Take him to Tane You won't put him up? Not me. I hate kids Really? Leave him with Tane He's a good kid Not me. Take him over there I see Come on Good evening Good evening Good evening Hey, come here You see, Tane Do you like to have a kid? I picked him up, and I want you to take him in What's all this? He followed me from Kudan And he won't leave me will you put him up for the night? Why don't you put him up? Tamekichi is dead against it If he doesn't, I won't Don't say that, he told me to ask you Let him stay, will you? No thanks Look, I'm asking you No. I hate kids Come on, have a heart Hey, Mr. Tashiro, it's no joke Please! Hey, wait! This is no way Here Dry it with the fan This is a mess. What can I do? About what That kid, he's a nuisance I beg off taking care of him What's wrong? He wet the bed last night Ruined a good mattress Peed just like a horse Some calamity Where's Tashior? He just left It's all his fault I'm not keeping the kid so do something Do what? Keep him or send him away it's up to you I took him for one night now it's your turn Don't be silly Who's being silly, just think! You're responsible, too Tashiro found him so you keep him here Not me, no thank you The kid who pees like a horse Why don't you kick him out? Don't be stupid. Then, you do it What a thing to pick up on the street Let's ask Kawayoshi Yes, let them take him, alright? No, we can not I have lots of work and kids And not enough room You've got enough room. A nice place Raising 3 children or 4 makes no difference It's not the same How about your place? My place is no good Why is it no good? Nothing wrong with it Let him stay at your place He could help you That's right, let him stay Oh, come on Tashiro picked up a devil I guess someone must take him back to Chigasaki Then, we can find his house And leave him there That's the best thing to do How about it, Tane? Fine, but not me Oh, don't say that No, count me out But someone has to go Then, you go What do you say? What do you say? Will you go? No kidding! Some trouble Tashiro picked up Alright, we'll draw lots No hard feelings, whoever gets the marked one will go Alright Kawayoshi, alright? It's alright I'll make the lots The X mark is it If you get it, you go It's me! So, it's you. Sorry I'm getting in deeper trouble No hard feelings. Just luck Tane, it's your luck What luck? On, come on, how about some tea? You kidding? Hey, mine's got an X too That's right. Mine too See, haste makes waste, eh? I get it Keep it between us, alright? Of course It's a long trip. If she finds out she'll kill us We didn't know them well He's a carpenter and his house was destroyed We just rented them a room while he had a job here For 10 days or so Ah, I see And a couple days ago, He left with the kid looking for work in Tokyo Do you think he'll come back? I don't think so He took everything with him The mover might know where he is I don't know Here Your father's a hardhearted man, too You didn't get lost, you were deserted Why don't you stay at that house? They'll keep you You used to live there Take it, there's no more After eating, go to that house, alright? What's this, now? Look, be a good kid and get me some shells I want them for souvenirs Go on, you're a good kid, go on, hurry I'll bite you! Fortune, physiognomy, palmistry Can a fortuneteller really tell all that? Sure. There's nothing else as positive as that But I saw you go out wearing rain boots and it turned out to be a beautiful sunny day Weather isn't my business the radio can tell you that Welcome back Oh, welcome back I know it wasn't easy Did it go well? Nothing goes well His parents aren't there I wasted my time going to Chigasaki Besides, the train was full I got in through a window I didn't know the train fare went up Thanks, Tashiro Sorry What's he carrying? Potatoes. I bought them cheap by the station I'd be damned if I came back empty handed Poor kid, he's worn out Only 16 pounds Did anyone come when I was out? No, nobody We'll have a regular meeting tonight at Kawayoshi's Oh, that's right It's about time Today's a lucky day for Kawayoshi How's that? His son won 2000 yen in the lottery It's not bad at all He'll treat us tonight, I hope I hope so, too I'll get rid of the potatoes now Put the potatoes down You can make a bed, can't you? Go to bed early Don't wet the bed again, you hear? We want you to remain head of our group No, let me quit this time Don't say that, you must do it We'll help, but you must be the chief Don't fight us Everyone's asking you So, that's settled It's all settled, yes Well, then, I guess I have to Thank you That's the final decision Can I serve now? Yes, bring it out This is great! You've prepared so much This is not much but Hey, Heichan, come here! Congratulations, and thank you! Heichan, you're great. He's a lucky boy You've got to be good or luck won't come to you Luck will fall on a pure minded person Is that so? That's right. You can't win if you wanted 2000 yen That's why kids win Is that so? You try, you won't win If I can't, you won't either That's why I don't do it But I go to the race track It depends on horses Please, everyone Yes, let's start I don't see any tea leaves This is the real sake! This is good. Let's drink and have fun Tashiro, I hear you're good at peep story telling Well Peep? You know, this One can't judge people by the surface I thought you were decent! What're you trying to say? Remember the peep show at fairs? Ah, you mean that! I used to love it so much that I got trachome Not trachome, it's trachoma Tashiro, sing it Don't bring it up now Sing it, Tashiro. Please That's something I must see Come on, do it Come one, Tashiro, I beg you '"Come and see it, the show is open'" Well, then It happened in Tokyo a naval ensign in the big city... fell deeply in love with an army general's daughter The first child of Viscount Kataoka Her name was Namiko oh, what a beauty She married the ensign Baron Takeo Kawashima They honeymooned at Ikaho And when tired of the game they returned to Tokyo As a military man, the time to go to war had come He hurried to Zushi to join his crew As he was going aboard Namiko waved from shore Crying, she shouted '"Come home as soon as you can! '" And he looked at the pale moon above the pine trees What a tragedy of Hototogisu Very good! You sing it well It was great Weren't you a professional? Oh, no Very well done, wonderful You embarrass me It's true. Better than fortune telling Isn't there secondhand peep-show gear for sale? That's right, we haven't seen one for a long time A meeting like tonight I can have it every night Good-night Good-night Good-night Good-night, I had fun Tashiro, do that again soon Well, good-bye Good-bye Are you still up? Go to bed, go on Afraid of wetting the bed so you can't sleep? If you do it again, I'll throw you out Remember that, alright? Yes Then go to sleep, I'll wake you up during the night Good-night, grandma Auntie Auntie, good-night Your father's really hardhearted A carpenter nowadays can find a job anywhere To feed a kid won't take much After all, that's your own child Raising you this far why desert you like this? Your mother died long ago Your father's a good-for-nothing You sure are a poor kid what will you do from now? Fast asleep already? A kid is a kid. Hello! Come in and sit down Where've you been? The teacher's place. Grinding wheat? Yes. What was rationed at your place this tome? Flour When was that? Yesterday, white flour Ah, before I forget My mother wants a pampas grass brush I run out of them now She needs it to clean her false teeth I'll keep one next time Hello. Welcome. A very nice day Hello. Are you finished with the steaming I asked you? Well, no Day after tomorrow? Well, no He's a good dyer, but he takes ages Everything's, wait till next year That's not true I'll hurry up, 3 or 4 days Alright, do a good job Yes, sure. At 1:00 PM you get candles and matches Tomorrow will be flour I see, thanks for last night Well, excuse me Good-bye Have some I have something nice I got it at teacher's Take it This is precious, just like the old days It must be expensive And it's delicious The man who sold me a mirror Has he a rubber hose to sell? Oh, the man there Would you ask him? Sure, but it won't be cheap I have no idea how much it is But the mirror he sold me I made a nice dresser I see What's this? I am in a mess Whose child? He's homeless, who knows if he got lost. Or was deserted Don't you need a boy? Not me, I need a rubber hose Do you know anyone who'll take this boy? I've put him up for 2 nights now Come here, son Don't give it to him, it's too good Don't say that He won't appreciate it, it's expensive Come here, son What do you have there? Cigarette butts What're you doing with them? I give them to Dad What do you have in your pocket? Empty it I say empty it Nails Filthy kid. Now, go away! What's his father do? Carpenter. His house in Hachioji was destroyed That's why he picks up nails Even a cold-hearted father to him it's his only father Time has changed When we were little, we kept getting coins from father To buy candy and stuff There was nothing to worry about in the whole world That's right Okiku, you were good at blowing your nose like this Your sleeve always shone from snot Tane, you used to do this Children nowadays don't do that they're different Yes, I think times are harder for them They worry too much about living picking up butts. And nails, we shouldn't let them do it It's not right for kids That's right, kids should be more carefree. Well, I must be going Don't forget the hose I'll ask him Here you are. Good-bye Good-bye What did she give you? You should say thank you if someone gives you something Come here, son Come over here With that 10 Yen go and buy a lottery ticket You'll win money, I'm sure you will You're more or less pure minded go and buy one You know where they sell them? Yes Go, and win 2,000 Yen Don't stop to count the money on the way back Yes You work hard This is nothing. Easy job I don't call it work It's like killing time with something to do Have you seen the portable shrine in Kuroecho I made? What a pity my skill is left unused! Well, maybe I shouldn't Shouldn't what? Can I ask you a small favour? That's alright, what is it? A rubber hose, a long one A hose? It's hard to find Even if I do, it's very expensive You want to buy it? No, it's for, you know The mistress of the geisha house? She won't mind the price I'll find it for her I've got a bicycle tire No puncture in it, brand new. Good one Hello Hi, there Excuse me Father, you are home today Sure, I'm home today and what is it today? I went to the beauty parlor but it was so crowded. Yuki, I haven't seen you for some time you look good Is that right? Gaining weight nowadays is almost a miracle. Father, have you had lunch? Did you bring something good? No, but if you haven't I thought I'd eat with you You must be kidding Without bringing anything you want to share my lunch? You see what a father has to go through? Well, see you later How was it? Did you win? I didn't You didn't win? Nothing? They gave you cigarettes? No They didn't? You lost 10 Yen for nothing? Yes You're stupid Your everyday conduct is no good losing 10 Yen. Hey, don't cry, you're a boy Here, take this You are silly, really! Look, I lost 10 Yen you made me lose it I lost 10 Yen for nothing! Kawayoshi! Oh, welcome back The soda you want, I found it but you must wait 2-3 days Oh, thank you very much Thank you so much Don't you want a sweater? Turtle neck, a nice one What's going on? Tane is mad or something Well, you ate them, right? If you did, say you ate them! Or I'll really punish you! You stubborn kid! Aren't you going to tell me? Didn't you eat them? Now don't lie to me, you ate them didn't you? What are you mad about? This kid ate my dried persimmons Tane, you didn't have to be so mad I'm not mad only about the persimmons I'm mad because he's so stubborn Did you eat them? Don't scream at him like that Why not? Leave me alone Well, I don't know what to say You see, Tane, I ate them What? You ate them? Yeah, they invited me to Who did? You see I got this craving for sweet things. And I happend to see them You didn't have to tear off the middle ones They seem to invite me to eat them the best ones. You should listen to yourself What do you think you are? You owe the boy an apology. Poor boy! I guess I was wrong, I'm sorry, son Forgive me You sure had a hard time. I'm sorry Look at that! I'm sorry, son I was wrong It's alright now, I know you didn't eat them Poor boy, I was mistaken Will you forgive me? There, stop crying. Here You mean he did it again? Impossible kid Your scolding didn't sink in? Like a horse again? And he's fanning it again? I thought he was, but he's not there You must have scolded him real hard I had no chance to scold him He's missing all morning I thought he was acting funny when he woke up. Then, his bed was all put away and he's not around Where the devil did he go? It's after 2 o' clock, isn't it? Tane, I'm afraid he won't come back at all This is a case of '"Piss-and-Run'" You think so? I wonder where he went Where? He has no place to go anyway He'll be like an alley-cat Silly kid, he'll get hungry Don't worry, he'll live on garbage here and there Tane, it's good riddance for you The devil's gone You think so? You nagged him again I didn't do that today I mean, yesterday Well, I scolded him a little yesterday About dry persimmons he was so stubborn He never spoke Just tears came out of him. What could he say? He didn't eat them That's it. But he was tough He kept on glaring at me like a stubborn old mule He was so stubborn that I got real mad, So I glared at him and screamed Poor boy Then, the guy over there said he took them I guess I was a little too hard on the boy You were always short fused And when you're mad your face looks horrible Too much for any kid the way you look. Your glaring at him must have done it That's right. I did it too much but I apologized Come to think of it, I wet the bed at that age, too I used to do that too Anyway, I feel sorry for him You know I think a boy like him might become a great man All the great men weren't all that bright But rather stupid and dull when they were little That's what they say And he was gathering nails for a heartless father, Picking up all the butts he does have a gentle heart I say he was some kid, yes he sure was I guess you lost a treasure He's precious to you, isn't he? You were fond of him, weren't you? Sure you were You like him very much already Do you think so? Sure, it's so obvious Is that right? Hmmm Why Humm, now? I didn't realize it That's right, that's the way it is Already affection is being built between you two Like a dog, it starts to wag its tail before you know it It's the same thing but you can't see the tails, But both of you are wagging tails before you are know it The boy's tail is small and slender, Your tail is fat and long, like a bulldog Oh, stop it. I'll hit you I hope a kind person picks him up What now? I think the boy gave them to me It's dangerous here I'll come again. Bye Good-bye What will you do if the boy comes back? Treat me? Tane, will you look after him again, please? And don't scold him so much He's so afraid of you he wet his bed again. You found him? Where was he? At Kudan, where I first found him He's scared of getting scolded by you and has no place to go. I think he suddenly missed his father I couldn't help but feel sorry for him Will you let him stay again? Alright Don't scold him now He's sorry, and he's outside Take care of him Here you are, thank you I'll go home, too Come on now, you must be hungry aren't you? You are hungry, aren't you? Now, eat it Thank you Sorry there's no rice. I ate your share And I didn't cook any tonight Tell me, do you like me? Yes You do? You can stay here with me Will you be my son? Eh? You will? Yes Eat this one, leave the burnt one Eat a lot, you can eat all of it Tell me, what is it like? It's great, I never felt so good in my life You call it, maternal love You look like a grandma nursing a grandchild Stop that. I'll hit you Look, that cap is too big It fell off 3 times now Don't worry, his head will grow to fit it soon By the time he goes to school it'll fit him Son, want me to carry the cap? Auntie, did we see badgers? We saw them The cage next to the rabbits When do the badgers change shape? Only at midnight Can we stay here till midnight? No, we're going to a photo studio Why don't you join us? It's bad luck with 3 in a picture That's superstition Right, photographer? Yes, please I'll be in the center Please, it's alright No, I don't like pictures Come on, you'll only look good next to me No, I won't Don't be modest We look alright? The boy should have got a haircut But his nose is running all the time so I didn't take him The cap's too big Is that right? Yes, it is Shall I hold it? Alright? Yes, it's better Is it? Are you ready? Now, don't move, shut your mouth Your nose's clean? Now you just look at the ball Mother, quiet please Close your mouth, please Here we go Now. Thank you How did I look? Like a lady I put on my best look. Did I look funny? You looked exactly like it Like what? That thing we saw at the zoo Why, you... I'll hit you You sure your nose was clean? Didn't we have fun? Yes The tempura was good, wasn't it? Yes Want to take it off? Yes Isn't she a nice lady buying you this nice sweater? Yes Wear it carefully You'll wear this to school too Yes Aren't you tired now? No I'm exhausted Would you hit my shoulders like a good boy? Yes A little lower. Yes Get your hair cut tomorrow Yes You'll be a good boy when you stop wetting the bed You sure are a good boy you'll get over it soon Yes Excuse me Who is it? Go and see Yes. It's Dad! I'm his father You are too kind to look after him Thank you very much Not at all I came to Tokyo on the 9th with him And I lost him at Kudan I looked for him all over Finally I went to Chigasaki today hoping he was there And I was told that you had him That's nothing, but you must have been worried Yes, you see, we only have each other I even went to Hachioji where we lost our house Is that so? You had a hard time Aren't you glad your dad found you here? Hey, say thank you to the lady I'm sorry he has no manners Thank you very much for everything That's alright Say thank you to her and we must leave Yes A token of my thanks I bought them at Chigasaki You didn't have to do this It's nothing, just potatoes Thank you very much Wait a minute This is for the boy Is it alright? Please Thank you It's very kind of you to do this... Thank you Not at all. Take care now Yes Son, come to see me with your Dad once in a while Be sure you come back here, alright? Thank you very much Say Good-bye to Auntie Good-bye, Auntie Don't lose your Dad again Yes Good-bye Good-bye So, his father came, eh? I'm glad he found him You can sleep peacefully now So, he was lost, not deserted Yes I see. Anyway, I'm glad it came to a happy ending What's this? You don't have to cry You didn't like the kid to begin with Still you miss him? I'm not crying because I'm sad Just think, how happy he is now You see, he got lost just as he said I thought the father was a real hardhearted man But I was wrong, he's a real nice father He was looking for him all over the place Now, he found his son and they can live together. Think how happy they are... It just makes me cry. Father's not a bad guy he's very polite, too He's sort of dignified and got a gentle heart Really? I'm glad to hear that The kid is just a kid Once he sees his Dad's face, he's totally forgotten all the butts and nails here Is that so? A father and a son, it's very nice I'm happy I wish I had pampered him a lot more I regret picking on that innocent boy like I did. Come to think of it, our feelings have changed a lot Being selfish like we are now, won't do Like pushing people away to get on the train. Eating our fill, ignoring others who are starving. We worry too much about our own lives What you're saying is right I realize it now Children are marvelous I only had him for a week but he really made me think I wish I could have lived with him longer Tell me, Tashiro, Can't I have a baby any more? You? It'll be awkward if you have a baby. You're a widow Oh, no, I mean, adopt one or pick one up. Then, it's possible I got this urge, I want a child Yes, a child is a wonder Will you read my palm? If I can or not Born in the year of the Wild Boar? Yes Then, go in that direction Which direction is that? Hongo or Shitaya area Shitaya? Near Ueno park? Saigo's statue is in Ueno You'd better look around there Near the statue of Saigo
