 

                        Screened at the Arts Festival Toho Productions FLOWlNG Adaptation from the original novel by Aya Koda Cinematography by Masao Tamai Music by lchiro Saito Cast: Kinuyo Tanaka, lsuzu Yamada Hideko Takamine Mariko Okada, Haruko Sugimura Sumiko Kurishima Chieko Nakakita, Natsuko Kahara Seiji Miyaguchi, Daisuke Kato Directed by Mikio Naruse TS UTA HOUSE l'm back! Fujiko, you're really coming on l'll do some practice when it gets a bit cooler Eh? Someone's been using this Nanako...watch what you say. We all have to live under one roof Namie says her payment slips don't tally up She's got the cheek to suggest we've been cheating her l've got it all written down here So what? You could've simply made them all up! You've no right to point the finger of suspicion at us A country girl like you... ...with filthy hair and grubby hands! That's right. When you first came here, you were absolutely clueless Exactly You had no idea how to treat a client l heard you even asked them to feed you! You didn't even know what salmon was before you came here! Well, where l come from in Chiba, we don't have such food Oh, dear me! Yes? Tsuta House... Yes? You want to speak to my mother? Ponko, don't stray too far! Mother, it's the Geisha Guild for you - You told them l wasn't here? - Hmm... What's all the noise downstairs? Well, Namie's complaining about her pay She's got to understand we've a business to run here l'm getting no sleep at night, so at least keep them quiet during the day lt's the end of the month, though, and the bills are due All they say is, "Where's our pay?" Just pretend not to hear them ACCOUNTS - How many for dinner tonight? - You'll have to ask Yoneko She never seems to lift a finger! Where are you off to? Just out - Excuse me? - Coming! And you are...? l've been sent by the employment agency Here... Just wait a moment, will you? - Who is it? - The new maid Do you want these? Come in Thank you Mrs...something...Yamanaka? How do you read these characters? lt's pronounced "Rika" - "Rika" ? Oh! - Unusual name, isn't it? - Sounds foreign to me - Hard to pronounce, too At your service, mistress Please, there's no need to be so formal - Are you married? - My husband died the year before last And my child died last year. Since then l've been supporting myself Oh, really? l would actually prefer to employ an older person like you You shouldn't talk about the elderly like that! Everyone over 30 here is considered old! Anyhow, you can order young people around but they're not very sensible - Older people know better... - They're always whingeing, though! l'll do my very best for you, if you'll take me on Everyone l've been to see has said l'm too old Let's try you out and see, shall we? Well, this is where we all eat, work and sleep We don't have any special requirements l'll do my best for you Mother, l'm just going out - Where to? - Just out Just because the new maid's here doesn't mean you can swan around - Where's Namie? - Gone out somewhere - Where's Fujiko? - Gone for a cold drink Not again? She's been having them all day, she'll get stomach ache Show her around the house - Come on, then - Yes... There's the toilet That's the kitchen And this is your room This is the bathroom Nanako, show her around. l'm going to get Fujiko That's how the senior geisha can act! - Let me help you there - That's all right. l've finished now l hope you don't mind getting your hands dirty. Otherwise, you'd better leave now! That was Yoneko, the mistress's younger sister. She's bone idle Katsuyo is the mistress's daughter. She doesn't miss a trick! - Nanako! - Yes? - ls Ponko down there? - Ponko? lsn't that Ponko l can hear wailing? Well... ...l wonder where she could be Look out for her. She's not been very well recently All right! They look after the cats better than the girls in this place! Your name's difficult to say so we'll call you "Oharu" instead, yes? Whatever pleases you, mistress - Would you give this a rinse for me? - Yes, mistress lt's all right, l'll get it Hello? This is Tsuta House... Oh, hello there again Of course... You're requesting Namie? Very well Yes, me, too... No, not at all Yes, let's make it next month We all have to work for a living Very well. All the best Good morning Morning - When you've done that, run a bath - Yes, mistress Oharu, come here Someka? This is our new maid Pleased to meet you Someka lives in an apartment nearby Nice to meet you You're naughty, running off like that Ponko's here now - Did Namie say anything to you? - No, nothing special l just wish you girls would come and talk to me straight l'll tell them you said so You there! Be careful there l shouldn't tell you this, but we're not permitted to have a fire ls that so? lt's against building regulations Do you know that prayer to guard against fires? Trace the character for " water" on your palm three times... ...then raise it towards the fire. You should try it Can l help you? l'd like two bonito and three packets of seaweed for Tsuta House - For Tsuta House? - Yes Oh, welcome to the store The problem is that your last bill is still outstanding l told the girl not to order anything more until the bill's been settled Oh...well, today is my first day working for them so l know nothing about that Well, l suppose you've been a loyal customer... ...l can give you one bonito And the seaweed? Just let her have one packet Oh, don't do that! - How does that feel, madame? - Fine - Are you off to Fujimura's ? - Yes Pass me that Where on earth has Namie disappeared to? She's got two bookings tonight Maybe she's gone looking for extra work on her own? Although she's young and resilient, l wonder if she can handle it l'm off now See you later Have you any sauce? Sauce? Madame would like some sauce? She's so untidy! - Good evening! - Yes? Oh, it's you, sister - They said you weren't feeling well - l'm not. And l'm up to my neck in debt l've got something to tell you. ls anyone upstairs? lt's an untidy mess, but go ahead - Oharu, tea for two upstairs - Yes, mistress l owe her a lot of money That's her elder sister. She lives near the Kishibojin Temple Oh... The two sisters have mortgaged this place to the hilt They are stepsisters with different fathers, though So, have you had any news from Osaka? There's no reason to expect any We haven't signed on anything Anyway, we're disconnected completely To think you turned down Mr Hanayama for that good-for-nothing, eh? How much did he swindle from you for his new business venture? Have you just come here to scold me? Not at all. l have a gentleman l want to introduce to you He's a director of a steel company He's invited us to go to the theatre with him Excuse me - This is the new maid l told you about - l see Welcome, madame We're relying on you... ...because nobody is perfect in this place! l look forward to being of assistance, madame Please excuse me l'll have one of these So, l think this fellow may help us out The steel industry's big business these days - Do you think he'd lend us money? - Well, that's all down to you This is your last one, right? Ponko! Naughty cat! - ls Namie back? - No, not yet - Mummy, buy some more - You've had enough ls my aunt here? Yes. She never forgets to show up at the end of the month! Oh! So pleased to see you You should be careful, your voice travels Are you hungry? Not that we've much to offer No, l ate earlier And l always go to bed early, too Good idea. lt saves on electricity bills And it keeps the wrinkles away! Someka, l expect you to start paying me some interest Good evening Yoneko, can't you start working a little harder? Enough. l'll be going grey with all the worrying l do That scared me to death! Ponko? They're so beautiful A geisha's costume is her weapon. We spend a lot on kimono The one your mother was wearing this morning was a real eye-catcher l was once a geisha for about six months, you know - We were all bought these kimono - Really? My mother went into such debt to buy them Did you not like the life of a geisha, Katsuyo? l wasn't suited to it Everybody said l'd never be successful in this business l'm just no good at flattering people that l don't like Mother's exactly the same, but she has remarkable talent She's beautiful, too Still, it seems to bring her nothing but bad luck What kind of man will you marry, Katsuyo? - No one would marry me - Why do you say that? What did you used to do, Oharu? Me? Nothing in particular l was just an ordinary housewife But what becomes of girls like me? My mother spends all day flattering people... ...but no one really cares about her That's why l fight for her There's a guy here, says he's Namie's uncle. And he's really angry Namie's uncle? Yes. And there's something nasty about him l'll see to him Welcome, sir How may l help you? And who are you? l'm the maid l've only been here four or five days l want to see the mistress of the house l'm afraid you just missed her. She's gone out l bet she's hiding somewhere, eh? lt's better for her to eavesdrop on me from behind the screens She should come and talk to me face-to-face Eh? l don't know if you know my niece... ...but they put her to work here and then cheated her out of her wages! We can have this talk elsewhere if she wants l can't wait around Tell the mistress l'll be round later, eh? l'll be back to pick up all the money that my niece is due She's the only one of our sisters who succeeded in becoming a geisha She's pretty and sings beautifully There's only five years between us... ...but with my looks, people often think we're mother and daughter! Now where was it...? You were the best geisha at a party l attended Mr Muramatsu says he has heard you sing before Your reputation is well-deserved Well... Oh? lsn't that Mizuno's wife? From the Mizuno restaurant She used to be a senior geisha to my sister lsn't that Mr Saeki with her? - Excuse me for a moment - Where do you think you're going? At least it's a bit cooler today, isn't it? l'm Mrs Tsurumoto from across the way l see. Very pleased to meet you Everyone's been telling me what a wonderful maid you are Bye Welcome back, mistress Can l have a word, Oharu? And now the rowing motion... - Welcome home - Afternoon l don't want you talking to our neighbours. All they do is gossip l'll be careful from now on, mistress Mother, something terrible has happened What is it? - Namie's uncle showed up - From Mt Nokogiri? He kicked up an awful fuss. He said he'd be back Oh... Oharu, do we have any sake left? Oh, there was some in it yesterday You have to keep it under lock and key, otherwise they'll just drink it all - Go buy some more - But... lt's almost the end of the month. Tell them l'll settle up then The mistress has so much to worry about Her elder sister keeps tight control of everything She's been swindled by her man, and business isn't looking good And some girls have left us this year -... ...Yukimaru, Tsutaji and now Namie - That's three of them! - There used to be seven girls there Oharu! Over here! There you are - Come and have a drink with us - Come on Thank you, but maybe some other time - Buying sake ? - For a client? No lt's for the mistress to drown her sorrows Well, enjoy yourselves. Please excuse me - Why is she always so formal? - She's not, is she? l'm back How come you went to the theatre? Who did you go with? Why do you want to know? What's wrong with me going to the theatre occasionally? My aunt wouldn't invite you anywhere without an ulterior motive Stop worrying about me Shall l bring some sake up for you, mistress? Sake ? Yes, please do Oharu... ...have you been on your own ever since your husband passed away? Yes l never thought a woman could live without a man Oh, yes...l'd very much like you to stay Three free meals a day... ...two days off a month, and 3000 yen monthly l especially appreciate you being here - Thank you, mistress. l accept - Yes? A geisha's life looks glamorous from the outside... ...but it's not always like that lt can be, sometimes, though... Mother! Telephone! You're not a little child any more! You don't just disappear when l've made all these arrangements Eh? Mr Muramatsu? Yes, he's still here waiting for you So come back right away l arranged all this for your benefit! Yes...yes. Look, l know how you feel, sister... ...but, like you say, l'm not a child any more, so l refuse Right in front of Madame Mizuno, as well! How embarrassing! Carrying on like that at my age! Look, leave it to me, l'll sort it out Eh? The money? l don't have it. lf l had it, l wouldn't be in this state Look, l know you think l'm useless, but just give me some time, OK? Yoneko, you good-for-nothing! TO: MR GlWATSU, KlMlTSU, CHlBA PREFECTURE How do they reckon that much? There's no way we're paying that! They've got a cheek! - Oharu! - Yes? - Will you check on Fujiko for me? - Of course. Anything else? - See if Nanako is at the beautician's - Yes, madame - She plays mah -jong in the mornings - That's her own business l have nothing but bad luck! l'm just going out for a bit l wonder what my sister's up to. That man's coming tomorrow, right? l just wish she'd tell us where she's going and why - Good day to you! - Come on in ls she in? - Have you got a client this early? - l'm sorry about the other day l don't need any apologies. Today's the last day of the month, right? l know, l know That Mr Muramatsu that you met, he's such a nice man Despite your behaviour, he wants to see you again He wants to offer you help. You don't meet many like him nowadays Look, l know l owe you money, but l have to say... ...no matter how reduced my circumstances become... ...if l don't like someone, then l can't ... ls that so? You and Yoneko are both the same You'd do anything for a man that you liked Yoneko's not a geisha girl, but you can't live like that nowadays But you? You've mortgaged this place to pay your man's loans Mortgaged to my rich sister lf you're trying to blame me, then you're barking up the wrong tree! - Where are you going? - l'm going round to Mizuno's l think she's got a temperature l keep telling her to look after her - What's happened? Where does it hurt? - My head hurts See what's happened? Come in Phone for a doctor! Anyway, l'm going out l await your return, mistress Hold it there. Lean in a little more with your shoulder Catch it properly. And... Good. That's all for today l'll see you now, Otsuta - Thank you - Say hello to your mother for me - Bye-bye - Goodbye That's Umeka's daughter Umeka's a housewife now She's not keen on her daughter becoming a geisha, though Something wrong? There's something l want to talk to you about... l see... l saw you at the theatre the other day Please forgive me for not saying hello - Shall we go outside? - Yes Coming! You're very quiet Last time l saw you, you were yelping like a puppy! l can't bear to watch injections Stop it! lt'll make you better How old are you now? l'll get Oharu to help. Oharu! - Yes? - Can you help me hold her? - You want me to hold her? - We need you - Right, be still - Excuse me Now, Fujiko... ...you're such a clever little girl, aren't you? You'll listen carefully to what l tell you, won't you? lf you wriggle around like that, the needle will break and it'll be much more painful Very brave! There's a clever girl. lt'll all be over in a second Really? Well, come as soon as you can She's waiting here, so hurry What's Mr Hanayama doing? Oh, l see. That's good Mr Saeki will be here in five minutes. Will you explain it all again to him? Yes l feel embarrassed in front of Mr Saeki for causing you all this trouble Not at all lt was all thanks to you that he got the job as Mr Hanayama's secretary l was thinking he'd make a good husband for your daughter Katsuyo Oh, really... l just wished you'd come to me sooner for help with your financial problems Otoyo's treating you appallingly. And what's with this fellow from Chiba? lt's like they're all trying to tear off a piece of you! l think you've been far too complacent in your business dealings Yes? This is Umemura's Yes, she is here Yes... Yes, of course. l understand For me? Mr Saeki said Mr Hanayama has just returned so he won't be able to make it ls that so? Many thanks - Well, that's a shame - lt is Fujiko's not been feeling well, so l should go back May l suggest that you meet with Mr Hanayama? l couldn't Why? Apparently he still talks about you, you know? After what happened between us, l couldn't possibly... But you didn't agree to meet Mr Saeki to ask for help from him alone, surely? You wanted to enlist Mr Hanayama's help, too lsn't that the truth? Dear, oh, dear! You're not a girl of 20 any more, Otsuta l know you too well Just leave it to me, it's no trouble Thank you for everything, as always Take good care of her - Don't give her anything to eat today - Very well Thank you so much Telephone for you, Aunt - Who is it? - Mr Momiji wants you to come over l don't want to go out to work elsewhere with Fujiko not being well l'd prefer to do the maid's work here Hello? Yes... Yes, but unfortunately Fujiko's ill... - Tell the mistress l'm off to Shinkine's - l will Sorry l took so long. The local store was out of ice, so l had to go to another Someka, l got what you asked for Thank you l'm really hungry No food, or you'll have to have another injection l've no idea where your mother's disappeared to - There's your bread roll - Thank you - And three croquettes - Croquettes are so cheap and tasty You'll need these l'll give you one Thank you l had them refried for you to keep them hot That's very kind of you - Any pepper? - Yes - Oh, it's empty - l bet there's no chilli powder either Buy some next time, but don't tell them it's for me Pass that sauce And a little ice Welcome home Evening Welcome home How's Fujiko? Her stomach's hurting, but it doesn't seem to be anything serious Her mother ought to be looking after her The doctor said no more injections! Really? That's good - Where's her mother? - She had to rush out Unbelievable, isn't she? Welcome home, mistress Sorry to keep you waiting You must be feeling hot. There you go That's nice and cool for you, isn't it? Welcome home Where did you go? l went looking for him... but he wasn't around You should be ashamed of yourself, chasing around after him like that What was l supposed to do? The child's sick and he's the father What? He left the child with you and disappeared! Didn't Katsuyo's father do the same thing to you? l'm going to take a bath Sorry... ...l didn't mean to compare my situation to yours, sister l'm not even a geisha... l'm just Fujiko's mother And you let us live here with you... ls it raining? Mother... What is it? l'd like to meet my father. Would that be so bad? l have no idea why you and he split up... ...but l can't bear it As you have no one to turn to Don't worry about me lt's parents that are supposed to worry about their children Silly girl! What are you crying about? Listen, Mr Saeki is coming over sometime soon Why don't you go to the cinema with him? You said you wanted to take a boat trip on the river lt would be so lovely and cool on the river Look, stop hanging around your father, will you? Mr Momiji? lt's Someka here Thank you Listen, if you need a geisha to entertain you, please let me know Please let me know, won't you? WOMEN' EMPLO YMENT OFFlCE - She's gone to the temple, you say? - Yes She said she wanted to avoid a rather troublesome visitor Welcome, madame Another polite greeting? Everyone says what a wonderful maid you are Not at all. l'll bring tea... Wait, wait! l have a favour to ask of you Please give this to Madame Otsuta There's 1 00,000 yen there. Tell her l brought it for her l'll tell her more about it when l see her next time lt's such a lot of money... Well, l have to be somewhere rather urgently... ...so could you quickly write me a receipt? l see, madame... Miss Katsuyo is out, l'm afraid, but Miss Yoneko is in... ...so maybe it would be better to hand the money to her rather than me l'm sure Madame Otsuta wouldn't want them to know about the money Very well, then. l'll take the liberty of counting the money here? Hey! ls there nobody in? Oh, it's the man from Chiba... Namie's uncle? Yes - l'll go and talk to him - But... - You count that - Very well Many thanks, madame You always say she's out! She is out, l'm afraid. Please come in and see for yourself And who are you? - l'm an official from the Geisha Guild - An official? This is my younger sister's establishment so l'm no stranger here My mistress told me to ask you to wait l'm not leaving until l get what l came here for! l'll come in Please come this way Here's your receipt, madame - Hey! Which way am l going? - This way... What shall we do? lt'll be all right She went to the temple for a lucky talisman - And he turned up while she was out! - Yes He's not carrying a knife or anything, is he? Don't be silly! You certainly can't judge a person by their looks... ...and that mistress looks like she wouldn't hurt a fly! lt's a violation of my niece's rights! She used her like a whore! What does your Guild have to say about that, eh? Well, l don't get involved in such difficult matters - l really wouldn't understand - Eh? Tell me, is it true that there's still a stone quarry on Mt Nokogiri? A quarry? Of course there is! l work there, don't l? Just look at my hands. l use a pick every day ls that true? Because "Nokogiri" means " saw" ... ...l always thought that's where saws came from! You silly woman! Hey! lsn't that her? Mistress... ...l was given this for you by Madame Mizuno Really? Listen, don't tell anyone about this And go and get some snacks and two bottles of sake And bring three sake cups. Plus we need some fruit... Pears will be fine. Get two Right, l'm going home. Your turn to take over! l'm terribly sorry for all the trouble You'll need more than a lucky talisman to deal with him Really? - l gave Oharu some money for you - Thank you lt's 1 00,000 yen from Mr Hanayama. Mr Saeki brought it round yesterday - Thank you so much - Don't mention it Don't let them get their hands on it Hey! What's going on? Quick! Or else the whole neighbourhood will hear - Hey! - lf you need me, give me a ring - Thank Mr Saeki for me - We'll talk about it later Thank you Are you all right, sis? Mummy, l'm scared - Hey! - l'm awfully sorry Let's go back upstairs, shall we? There you go, two pears And one apple - Can l pay for the apple separately? - Yes What did you say? What kind of a fool do you take me for? You think you can settle this without paying me? Please lower your voice, we have a sick child downstairs Please excuse me Sorry for taking so long Your change... ...440 yen, mistress Oh? l only gave you 1 00 yen Oh, that's right l'm sorry. This is my change There you are Even the maid's making fun of me! You tell me that business is down and you can't give me any money... ...and yet even the bloody maid's got money to throw around! Sorry, but the change was from my own shopping l bought an apple for Fujiko Before he died, l remember my own child was overjoyed to get an apple Hey! We're not discussing the dead! - That's all, Oharu, - Yes, mistress l'm not leaving until l get my money! - Look... - Good morning Yoneko's man, the cook, has turned up Come on! You've come all this way, at least just look at your child! l don't want to. We already discussed this And what did you say? "Fujiko's mine, l'll look after her!" l only came here because l feel a duty towards your elder sister Just look at him He always thinks he's so high and mighty lf you can't look after her properly, then l'll have to take her away! Pleased to see you lf you're going to yell at each other, do it inside, not on the doorstep! Sorry l haven't been round for a while Please take this to cover the cost of the medicine What's this? You'd better come in Listen, l've already settled everything with her But you ought to give her a good talking to She still comes pestering me for every little thing Yoneko! Well, you'd better come in anyway - Delivery! - Round the back What time is your last train home? Eh? l'm not leaving with only 50,000 yen! You can't fool me! l've given you all that l have You live here in the heart of Tokyo and you say you haven't got any money? Listen, l'm ready to settle this in court if you want All l need to do is inform them l know you're all in this together lt would do no good dragging this through the courts No good to who? l'm not the one in trouble! Mother? ls that a client with you, Mother? Shall l come up? Oh, you're back l'm worried about you What's all the shouting about? ls he threatening you? - What? - Now, now Has he hit you, Mother? Tell me if he has lt's fine, it's nothing at all What are you talking about? Just stop worrying about me, it's fine. lt's nothing at all Oharu, bring some food up. One bowl of rice and tempura As soon as you can Mother! l'm the one who should be worried. Where have you been all day? Hey! What's going on? l'm coming now! - Always at your service - Thank you - Take him to a hotel, understand? - Yes l'll deal with him for you l don't know if he'll like it, though Please be careful He'd better not be taking me anywhere strange! Not at all. Why on earth would we do that to you? You can get a good night's sleep somewhere nice and quiet Careful Take care, won't you? Welcome home Quick, in here l've heard it's been awful First, the shouting match between the guy from Chiba and Katsuyo... ...and then Yoneko's Ex turned up! - How do you know? - Bad news travels fast Someka met Koito... ...Koito told Chiyoko... ...and Chiyoko told me, that's how l know! lt's so hot - Where's Someka? - She went home early today Hey, did you know...? Someka lives with a man ten years younger than her! Did you just hear a man's voice? You've left your laundry out on the floor above Oh, l'd forgotten about it... Take it down immediately. You shouldn't leave it out l'll see to it at once - Are you new here? - Yes My name's Rika Yamanaka, Long time no see, isn't it? Are you on patrol? - Oh, were you in bed? - No, not yet Oharu, bring a hand towel and some cold water - No, it's all right - Please just rest a while - Listen, order a bowl of noodles - By telephone? - No, from round the back at Hakuga's - OK - Mr Hakuga? - Eh? A bowl of noodles, as fast as you can Well, you can laugh all you like... ...but a police officer's life is hard We often put our lives in danger in the line of duty That's why police officers all look so strong ln handsome uniforms! You should marry one, Nanako, then you'd never be afraid again - He's got a gun and a truncheon - You're right Right, l'd best be going Just stay a little longer. Oharu? Oharu! l'll pass it up to you, OK? Got it? What's up? Has your phone broken? Wait till you taste the flavour! - Good morning, madame - l bet they're all still in bed CURRlCULUM VlTAE MlSS KATSUYO KANNO Good morning You can't still be in bed, surely? l've already had my lunch But geisha are never early risers, it's bad for your health! lt's because you're working so hard What are you doing there, Katsuyo? A curriculum vitae? What on earth for? l apologise for not returning your money for last month Listen, Otsuta... You, too, Katsuyo. Listen to me. lf it goes on like this, you're going to go bankrupt... ...so why not change your business? What? Change business? Well, is Katsuyo going to inherit this business? No, she detests the whole geisha business. l was thinking more of Fujiko Fujiko? That'll be ten years from now. What will you do in the meantime? And this place is mortgaged... l know that. l shouldn't trouble you any more with this l know someone who may be interested in running it as a hotel You could sell this place for a good price, pay me back... ...and then invest the remainder in the hotel Someone's interested in buying this place? Madame Ohama Mizuno wants to start up her geisha business again - Madame Ohama? - Right l'll be back. And tell her she won't get rid of me for 50,000 yen! l'll come by and pick up Namie's things later in my car He's gone at last You think that's the last you'll see of him? What a carry on! Tsuta House has one of the best reputations in the business... ...and yet that fool swaggers around here like he owns the place And you think l should sell the place despite its reputation? lt's not my idea, it's Madame Mizuno's ! Ask her yourself if you don't believe me - Good morning - Morning lt's so busy here that it's impossible to get any sleep l don't know what Otoyo said to you... ...but unlike her l would never charge interest on a loan to my own sister l know you're having trouble and l worry about you... l'm sorry But whatever happens... ...l would never reproach you for anything But if you were to take over the house... ...then l would prefer you to have it rather than my sister Oh, Otsuta, you're taking this all so seriously l'm far too busy running my own place, anyway You're always summoning me urgently! - lt's been a while - Yes, it has That's because you'll only come if it's urgent! That way, Mr Hanayama can't complain He's not as patient as he used to be... Like he's expecting the worst to happen! Tell him he'll damage his liver with all that stress He should arrange to see Otsuta some time Why don't you bring him round here this evening? This evening? You told me he'd made the same suggestion "l haven't seen Otsuta for such a long time," he said What l think he means is that he'd like to see you As he's getting older, Otsuta... ...he's feeling nostalgic about you l wonder... He was my patron but we parted company So what? Tell him Otsuta is in a spot of trouble and needs his advice He wouldn't say no, would he? He's not that kind of person He still has feelings for you He always looked after you, never letting you wear the same kimono twice! And he gave you that 1 00,000 yen the other day About that 1 00,000 yen... He gave it quite willingly, didn't he? lt was just like he was giving out pocket money, wasn't it? Listen, l'm fine... l felt terrible having to ask him for the money l couldn't ever trouble him again... And how long have you been a geisha? At any rate, you must meet up with Mr Hanayama And you, Mr Saeki, owe a great deal to Otsuta, too Let's make it 7:00 this evening lf you can't bring Mr Hanayama along, then we'll go to him There's a strange atmosphere here today, don't you think? Not only today. There's always a strange atmosphere in this house But l'm glad the mistress is meeting an old client lt'll do her good... lt'll do us all good - Oharu, come with me - Yes, mistress - Good day! - ls that the kimono man? - Which sash will you wear, mistress? - Help me with my hair, Oharu - You have such beautiful skin - Not any more! Back in my day, we used to take great care of our skin Girls don't bother so much these days. Or with their hairstyles... lt just doesn't look the same somehow, does it? No... When we were young, geisha were seen as very different creatures We always tried to be better than the other girls But that's all changed nowadays Our costumes, our hairstyles, our artistry... ...all those special things about a geisha are disappearing Young geisha today are just like any other women lt will be autumn soon Last year's colours simply won't do You can't go out to see clients dressed inappropriately, now, can you? Miss Someka, can l tempt you with something new? Let me see... How about this one? A very popular colour this season... Good day. l have the perfect colour for you, madame lf you get your hair done in a traditional style, you'd look even more stunning - Oharu, would you call me a car? - Yes, mistress Welcome back, madame Are you going out somewhere? Where have you been? l heard from a high school friend about a sewing machinist job What? A sewing job? l feel bad staying here for nothing and not paying my way Are you being sarcastic? No daughter of mine should ever have to do work like that Please don't even think about doing such work Those machines make such a racket... l'll be back later This way Where's your sister seeing this client? Do you know, Yoneko? No idea. She can still turn heads, though That awful little man from Mt Nokogiri... ...l heard he swindled her out of 50,000 yen! l suppose l am to blame for that whole situation with Namie But she's such a disagreeable person l couldn't stand her! And l hate her even more now that she's gone l have nothing to apologise for l won't even deign to discuss the matter lt's difficult for my mother, though She has a heart of gold really and that's her weakness That's why she ended up separating from my father l guess she's just unlucky l'm afraid Nanako's with a client right now Eh? Yes... Number 1 565, Koishikawa Yes, l understand ls that a client? Someone called Mr Takayama Takayama? He said he's at that inn on Koishikawa l see... l knew it! The embers of their love have been rekindled! He's her old employer - The guy who promised to marry her? - That's the one Oh, it all makes me so jealous! Someka, why don't you treat yourself? Might bring you luck... Don't you think the colour's a bit dull for me? l'm only just 50, you know Who knows how long l'll live, or when l'll have a chance to wear it? l think a subtle colour suits you better. lt'll make you look younger, too You think so? Shall l buy it then? Yes? Madame Someka? Yes, she's here ls that a client? Tell them l'll be right over! l understand, yes - They need another geisha at lshimura's - Any place will do me l've got to start paying for my new kimono! l'm off to find myself a new patron Someka, your man won't be too pleased Oh, so what? Your guest has arrived, madame Really? Thank you This way Sorry to have kept you waiting Oh? You've come alone? Yes...l'm terribly sorry l'm afraid it was impossible for him to come this evening l told him l couldn't go without him... ...but he said he had some pressing business No...it was too much to expect him to be able to attend lt's not your fault Madame Mizuno instructed me to offer you whatever help you require She even phoned him Thank you But...it was hard for me to pluck up the courage to come here But now... Please excuse me... ...but your meal is ready to be served - Please bring it in - Yes, sir Hello? ls that number 1 565, Koishikawa? May l speak to Mr Takayama, please? Welcome back Oh, that wasn't much fun after all Oh...it's me Well, l'm not sure... All right Why treat him so harshly? lt's been a long time - Do you have a 1 0 yen coin? - What for? - Just for a moment... - Give it me back after lt's heads. That's it, then. l'm going. Thanks You know, that inn isn't that wonderful And to ask you to come to an inn... well, that's just bad manners She's right Hello, is that Takaya's ? Can you do me a chicken sandwich? Plus vegetables for two. And bring them over to Tsuta House, yes? - ls mother not home yet? - l wonder where she's gone Should l wear a kimono or a Western-style suit? Why not put on fancy lingerie and wear a kimono over the top? - You can get out of it quicker - l beg your pardon! Where are you off to? l know, don't l, Nanako? Please tell sister that l'm taking a day off - How are you getting there? - By car - Don't go too fast! - Oharu! Yes? - Get me a cab, will you? - Yes Welcome home, mistress Let's take this discussion elsewhere, shall we? We can't have you coming to the house and screaming at us You deserve to be screamed at! But we were the ones who were fooled, you know? She lied about her age by two years l know l shouldn't say this, but Namie and l never got along l never did anything against her... ...but what right did she have to act like that? l spoke to her harshly... There, you see? You've just admitted you mistreated her! - The police are here... - What the hell did you call them for? He said that he'd like you to accompany him down to the station, too, mistress What? Me as well? lf you're going, Mother, then l'll go with you She's had to go with that Chiba man to the police station? Well, l'll go straight to the station, too lt's nothing serious. l know someone there ls that so, madame? Well, thank you so much, madame What's going to happen? They'll be fine. This geisha house has one of the highest reputations ls it really that bad for the mistress and Katsuyo? - lt's true - What will we do? - What's going to happen? - Oharu! ls the bath free? Yes, it is - l'd like to take a shower - A shower? Still burning with all that passion from last night, eh? No, not passion, just disappointment. l wish l hadn't gone There's nothing worse than a stingy guy down on his luck What are you talking about? l think now is definitely the time to break up He thinks he can have me for old time's sake without spending any money! l'm so hungry. l haven't had breakfast yet - l'd love curry and rice - l'd like that, too! - No, you're still only allowed porridge - Only porridge? lt'll be ready in a minute. And l've got you some pickled plums Oharu, pickled plums always bring bad luck! l don't know, even talking about them is unlucky! ls that so, madame? Hello? Yes, that's right Madame Someka? Oh, Someka's there, is she? Perfect Call her for me Hello, Someka? Listen, l promised to entertain a client for Madame Mizuno this evening - Could you stand in for me? - Who, me? Well... Thank you so much Yes...yes... Thank you so much for considering me in your place Can l just ask you, are the songs timed to five beats or seven beats...? ...and it changes there? lt's such an honour to be asked to take your place, mistress Who'll pick you up from the police station? Oh, really? Well, please take care Good afternoon Oh, welcome, madame l've just been at the police station and it's not looking too good Anyway, they'll be home later after they've been questioned Really? The mistress just called to ask me to take her place this evening l'm all excited about it... ...but it's too bad that she can't make it herself l see... She asked you? Well, do your best for Otsuta, won't you? Yes, of course l'll telephone Mr Saeki to come. You should have a man in the house - You must be exhausted - Welcome home Sorry to have caused you so much worry Sometimes these things just happen Tomorrow Mr Saeki will come here - He'll speak to the police for you - Thank you l've learned a lot from the experience Aunty, mummy's gone - Oh? Where's Yoneko? - She just popped out She's always popping out, that one l have some things l'd like to discuss with you... - Can we go upstairs? - Very well lt's late, Fujiko. Go back to sleep l've been thinking things over at the police station... ...and l'd very much like you to buy this house Oh? Why is that? Do you not see that's the only way? After this, the reputation of this house will be in tatters lt would be better than watching it fall into ruin Really? Well, l'll have to think about it l don't know if l'd want to... lt would be much better for us if you were to buy the place Well, l'll talk the matter over with Mr Saeki l didn't tell you this before... ...but that money from Mr Hanayama was given as a final favour Say no more l thought as much Forgive me l can no longer depend on men for my welfare Please excuse me Someka's back! Oh, l fancy going to Hawaii! By plane, of course And say goodbye to Japan Welcome home. Everybody's back l thought so. l knew everything would be all right Oh, l'm so drunk lt's great work, being a geisha The bright lights... ...and the beautiful arrangements of yellow flowers! Fine food to eat... ...gorgeous kimono to wear... ...and making money through entertainment - There's no other work like it - You're right! lt's always such fun when you can fool the punters And fooling them is my best trick! What's wrong? - Are you all right? - l'm fine, l'm fine! l'm fine! Oh, no, l feel terrible...terrible! l heard that Otsuta has been in a spot of bother - Are they all back home now? - Yes, they've all returned lt wasn't anything the mistress couldn't handle Listen... ...we're looking for another maid and l thought of you... - You're just joking - No, l'm serious You must excuse me, l'm in the middle of cooking lt's an absolute travesty for us all, being taken off by the police And your reputation will be tarnished from now on, too l wanted to talk it over with you... ...about selling this house and paying off my debts Really? So you're going to open an inn like we discussed? No, l'll continue here in my profession as a geisha This is the only profession l know Continue at Tsuta House? Madame Mizuno agrees it's a good idea She'll buy the house and then rent it to me Eh? And when did you reach this momentous decision? Last night - lt's settled, then? - Yes l'll receive half the money when we sign the contract At last, l'll be able to pay you back all the money l owe you Please excuse me Mr Saeki has just arrived from the police station Really? l'll be down in a moment Excuse me - Mr Saeki? - Yes Now l see. Madame Mizuno's putting up all the money... ...but Mr Hanayama will be the actual owner Very smart That's not how it is at all l have no idea what you're up to... ...but l know it's not what it seems lt's all very typical of a geisha! You'll get your money back with interest - Can l offer you one? - No - Oh, thank you so much, Mr Saeki - lt took slightly longer than l thought Carting me off to the police station? You amaze me! We've been through all of this You were almost up on a blackmail charge... ...and wouldn't have been going home for quite a while Well, let's have Namie's things, then Well, now it's all over. Let's drink to that. Oharu? Yes, coming Excuse me Sake at midday? Things are looking up - Mr Saeki... - Pleased to see you l must thank you for all that your aunt is doing for my younger sister l hear she's willing to buy this place. l really am most grateful to her Please give her my best regards l'll call on her soon to thank her Sister, won't you have a glass? No, l never partake between meals, that's my rule. Thanks anyway Please... Oh, don't bother doing that for me! You have much more important guests here Tell Someka that she has to pay me back everything this month Another one? lt's got a funny taste Well, that's the end of it And Namie has a new job At some third-rate place Well, tell her to drop in to see us some time l wonder... She's stuck as a third-rate geisha now, so she wouldn't come round here Oi! Call me a rickshaw, will you? A rickshaw? Certainly, sir Please... - l'll get going now - Thank you From now on you, your aunt and l will have many dealings together Mr Saeki, l'm going out, too. Will you walk with me? l'm going back to my office Just as far as the bus stop, then? What she really wants is for you to take her to see a film Good job they had you around... ...otherwise this place would've been finished - Bye - Many thanks So, you think my mother should continue in her profession as a geisha? Well... l want her to leave the profession for good lf only you could advise her... There's no way l could do that l shouldn't really say this to you, Katsuyo... ...but l think that life as a geisha probably suits your mother best My aunt thinks so, too l feel sorry for my mother Do you have any marriage plans, Katsuyo? - l haven't given it a thought - Why not? To be given away as a bride? Or take a husband into my home? You're free to choose whichever Yes, it's up to me But l'm from a disreputable geisha house that has little earning potential Who would want to marry a woman like me? My husband could become the house manager... ...but young people nowadays aren't interested in the business - l don't know if that's true - l wonder... But it can't be helped now l'd only feel ashamed if l got married l was born into a famous geisha house but only trained as a beginner lt feels like l'm only a half-geisha l don't know what l am Marriage is just a dream More importantly, though, l worry about how l'm going to make a living " ...and they all agreed." Understand? - What's this? - This? Just hold on a moment Yes...that's right She hasn't returned home yet - Who is it? - l understand, yes... - lt was Madame Otoyo for Someka - Oh, pay no attention to her - Aunty... - Coming Morning Have you been drinking, Someka? Forgive me, mistress My sister just phoned for you Mistress... ...that man of mine went back home to the provinces... ...yesterday evening Are you talking about your boyfriend? He probably thought nothing would ever become of us Seems he's gone back home to get married l did everything for him! Men can be so heartless! Let's read over there Listen, Someka, you may not want to hear this... ...but l think it's for your own good After all, he was ten years younger than you Better to be done with him while you still have another chance Please! Don't be so harsh on me! Did you feel the same when you separated? But you'd never have got married so it's better that you've separated And you should repay my sister's loan as soon as possible l'm relieved that l'm selling this house Lucky for you, you have something to sell l've only got myself and my samisen -playing to sell l can't earn enough to repay my debts But now you've only yourself to feed Mistress, l'm working as hard as l can every day... ...but it's still not enough You know what? l checked at the Guild office They said they'd received all my payment slips But when l asked the accountant, the amount you'd sent was lower So however much l work... Listen to me! lsn't that right, Nanako? You said the same when Namie left "These payments don't add up." You showed me your notes, didn't you? - Yes... - They can hear you on the street! Someka's making the same complaint as Namie You can't give us back the hours we worked... ...but you can give us back the money Well, you never settle up what you owe me... ...so l don't pay attention to the slips So you admit it, then, you fix the payment slips? Maybe Mother makes the odd mistake now and again... ...but that happens everywhere! - Oh, is that so? - All geisha should quit their jobs! - Katsuyo... - You're just feeling sorry for yourself lf you don't like the work then you should leave Thanks for your kind advice! Let's go, Nanako Someka... Come on, we can find work elsewhere, this isn't the only geisha house l know l have obligations to you, but l also have reproaches! - Someka... - Why don't you get out, then? OK, then...l will get out l will get out... l'm crying...but it's not because of what you've said l'm crying...because my lover has left me You know nothing about men! What's so good about knowing about men? Eh? What does your daughter think she's talking about? So, women don't have to depend on men? ls that right, mistress? Mother! Enough, Katsuyo! She thinks that women don't have to depend on men! Right? She says women don't need men! Mummy! Good No, that's wrong. l told you before. Do it again... Yes... Careful... Careful...good... Good That's enough for today You have to study very hard if you want to become a geisha - Oh! - Mistress... l had far too much to drink the other day and spoke out of turn l can't apologise enough, forgive me Please forgive me, mistress Stop that, Someka. There's no need to apologise Mistress... ...will you let me come back? lt feels so good coming back here and seeing the new trainees... ...l think l'm going to cry l intend to make a completely fresh start. l hope we can work something out Mistress... ...that Nanako is awful, isn't she? She's working at Tsutaji's now As she wishes - Where's Katsuyo? - She's upstairs sewing ls she really? Katsuyo? How nice! l love that noise the machines make. l'll go up and see her This is for you... Oh, you shouldn't have l'll let Otsuta keep the house for a while... ...but l may move her out and open a branch of my restaurant there instead At the house? And what will become of the girls there? lf they want to continue as geisha... ...then they can all go across the river and find work there Still, l've seen their new trainees and none of them has any potential Otsuta's been a geisha many years but she's still no judge of character They'll all turn out just like Namie One has to put in years of hard work to become a geisha l'd like you to consider this... ...you're a woman with many fine qualities... ...and l think you're wasting your talents as a mere maid What do you think? l don't require an immediate answer... ...but l'll give you a month or so to make up your mind l was also considering Katsuyo... ...but on reflection l don't think she'd fit in at all lf you say no, l have plenty of others to choose from And the mistress knows all about this? Of course not So? Well... ...l don't think l can accept your offer, madame l'm terribly sorry Really? Very well, then Don't breathe a word of this to Otsuta or anyone, will you? No... Well, then, if you'll excuse me... - Good - Fujiko's coming on, isn't she? - You think so? - Oh, very promising l have a new geisha to present to you! Oh, l say! - May l present Takiko to you - lt's a honour to meet you - How wonderful she looks! - Congratulations l see that you've fully recovered, Madame Otsuta. l'm so pleased Thank you so much We're starting up our business again with some new faces l wish you all the best Please excuse us - She must've cost her 300,000 yen - You reckon that much? That sash she was wearing was nothing special And her hair wasn't arranged properly at all, was it? But they don't care about those things nowadays That's true Mistress, l bought these for everyone as they looked so tasty lt's my treat Oharu, you're such a kind person lsn't she? l don't know what l'd do without her help Not at all. l'll bring the tea through in a moment Oharu, get the girls to give you some help - Kiyo! - Yes? - What is it you're making? - l'm no good l'm not sure l'll be able to make anything! l'm just practising You're very diligent, Katsuyo No, not really l just know that l have to find some kind of work l can't do what my mother does l have to find some means to support us both when she gets old You're right You know, l'm so glad that you're here, Oharu l can always talk to you and ask your advice Of course, l'd be happy to offer you help and advice anytime Yes...l know that And l realise that you may not be here forever... Well, l'd like to take a short trip to my late husband's hometown - ln the provinces? - Yes l have to visit the graves of my husband and child After that, who knows? My husband's relatives are very strict l left home so l could be free from their constraints... ...but now l feel it's selfish of me to stay away l see... Please try one of these sweet buns, they're delicious The End
