 

                        Hi! Come in. Please don't. Hello? Mom? l'm working Don't call me anymore (Mr. Chan-Overall: Useless) What's up? l'm bored Mo one asked you out on Sunday? Too many They're either short on looks or brains or both Don't be too picky Different levels, hard to communicate Don't expect too much Just as long as they are physically normal Mo commitment, no pressure Thanks, l really don't need to go on Paid Dates l'll send you some new guys You like? They're so so Why don't we meet for a drink? Let's just be friends, you don't need to sway me Any Girls out there? l really need one tonight ls Silver available tomorrow? Silver quit long ago, how about Lin? She's too wild, l want someone gentle but fun ldiot Got a client, you want him? Mo Why are you so lazy lately? Miss, we are the police Does Miss Wong Ka-hei live here? Wait l am she You are Do you know a Girl named Cheung Shin-see? Her webname is SILVER l don't know her very well Her family reported her missing a month ago According to her phone records, you called her even today You don't know her very well? l can't find her either You called but couldn't reach her. l see... We just want some information about her Don't be nervous No more TV if we don't install Digital receiver We can watch anything on the net Deeper... Don't stop... Harder... Deeper... Don't stop Lift your skirt up for him The new bag is available now, Iet's check it out l don't want the same bag as the mainlanders Didn't you know Ms. Gucci only buys limited editions? Sorry... Let's work in my room What the hell? What are you doing in my room? We bought the computer together and l can use it anytime You never paid for your half Give me your share l'm your brother, Give me some time Get the hell out! What's your name? Caro Don't talk to him l used this hand Pervert! He's not that bad Your brother is a normal guy Masturbating is better than seeing hookers He's looking for Paid Dates Paid Dates are not as bad as Call Girls! How can you have such low standards? Let's work Okay This one is funny Her voice is raspy, very sexy in bed lt drove me crazy l filled the whole condom with cum Stop reading that, let's work Gucci, take a look We don't have enough time to finish this No, Gucci What? Gucci lt's the limited edition that you want! That's the one l want Only 3 minutes left for the auction Put in your bid So many bidders today Okay Bingo, the bag is mine Don't look at me, you know l'm broke Miss Kwan l'm the one who won the bid for the bag That bag, l... l want it for sure! No matter what... But l'm out of Hong Kong for 2 weeks l'll close the deal once l come back Thank you, bye Faster. Come on. Hold it for 10 minutes...and you'll win. Okay ln a meeting, talk later, bye Come on... Ten minutes, what did l win? What are you doing?... What are you afraid of? So expensive The money you make from this is not enough l'm really hungry You have to call me more often Your Girlfriend is like a dead fish ls it like making love to a corpse? Wait... Get out of the way... What is it? Let me see... You said get out of the way... What? l don't konw Let me check it What? The soda spilled on the computer Oh! No! Try this lt's useless! Don't you hear that? No... Sorry... Do you assemble computers? Yes, what is it for? Video games Take a look Getting a new computer? Do you have cheaper parts? Mo, that's the cheapest one So expensive You are an agent Others make tens of thousands a month. You're always broke Why? l know Think it over Thanks l know l need more business Have you seen my Girl, Silver? She seems to be missing Silver? Why? Does she owe you money? Yes l've been calling her but no answer l told you to be careful Mot everyone treats you as a friend What about you then? You just have a big appetite Yeah...l'm gonna eat you too You're sick Your saliva, bitch You're so tasty Hello Ronnie? lcy? Have a seat... Help yourself She's Lin? Bitch, talking behind my back? So? l should go Mo, just stay for a while We are not gonna eat you, Ieave if you're scared Go l'm going Call me She's a character Taiwanese hot chick But she's nice though. Loyal to her friends You guys come here often? Sometimes Our flats are small so we hang out here, what about you? Where do you hang out? l just stay at home Lucky for you, your parents are never home You're so free lt's boring if you have too much freedom Call me if you are bored We hang out a lot Because we all live in the housing projects We smoke, drink and hang out... What kind of guys do you like? Last night, we called the police and reported a fire All these handsome firemen came All have great abs Are you guys so wild all the time? Sometimes, it's fun Come here more often, Iet's go out together Okay? Okay Eat No, thanks Want to be a Paid Date. How do l start? Put up your personal details Put up your measurements, someone will contact you on MSN State your boundaries beforehand Like no anal or sperm swallowing... Wear condoms and get paid first, some clients cheat Okay, thanks Gucci, 16 years old... No, Gigi, 16 years old, 32 - 25 - 34 Mo looks, no figure, l'd ratherjerk off Don't think you can't be seen in the dark Get a make over You guys are so critical, you must all be very handsome Show us your pictures Thanks, Ronnie Can we be friends? and this piece in particular is interesting. lt's by the renowned artist Eduardo Paolozzi Hi, Gigi, l'm Ronnie Hi, my real name is Gucci Hi, Gucci l'm curious...why are you doing this? l bid for a Gucci bag and l need the money to pay for that Do you get paid after sex or before? Do you get paid just for a date? Mo one ever called me, how should l know? l don't know anything Are you still a virgin then? Don't be shy, you'll make a fortune if you are lf you have any questions, feel free to ask me Feel free to roam around and enjoy the sculptures (VIRGIN) (LV sells virginity) You're really a virgin? Try for yourself How big are your breasts? Very small, 32A Don't worry, they're enough to use VirGin for sale, anyone want to try? How much? Mo thanks, if she's a pig AV Expert, you seem to be interested in that LV virgin Anyone would be interested in a virgin l'd like to try a virgin more than a threesome She's the hottest thing on the net AV Expert, will you put in a bid? As an AV Expert, l'll leave that to young guys like you AV Expert... Let's meet tomorrow, l'll introduce you to a pro Great lcy, Lin Remember, if you can choose, you're the boss She's calling foryou She's coming... Does it really hurt? Feels good more than pain lt's wide enough, don't be afraid What? She said your ear hole is wide enough, it won't hurt ls it really painful? Like toothache or headache? Like a stomachache Yours is as wide as a tunnel They're nuts Hello, J Salon Looking for Jacky? No problem Ronnie Icy, yes? l found you a hot fireman look alike What? hot fireman look alike. Come on out l don't want be a Paid Date lt is compensated dating but we're not sex workers Don't be a prude What's the difference? We only go shopping, watch movie, eat but sex is not a must You choose, not him Come on... Ronnie Hello Sorry, l'm late It's okay Mam, Ronnie Hi... Have a seat...Where were you? l got the shoes for you Really? Sure As a Gift? AGift l wasn't going to take your money Thought they didn't have my size? l asked them to send the right size over So l got them That's really VIP treatment Aren't you studying design? Yes She's studying fine arts, that's a perfect match Really? Woo her Woo her? Talk to her l mean talk to her Communicate Communicate, Okay Are you still studying? l'm almost done (Any cheap Paid Dates? Mr. Moss) You're back You want the computer? Don't go on porn sites in my room lt's disgusting l'll turn it off if you don't like them Done, it's all yours What have you been doing lately? You look so much hotter Save it for your chicks, it doesn't work on me This is a great look lf you weren't my sister, l'd be turned on Don't be sick Don't touch me You should tie your hair up You are as pretty as those young models Don't smile with your mouth open Right, that's more camera friendly Gorgeous Get out, l have to change Try to dress up for tomorrow's shoot What shoot? My friends are looking for a young model to shoot l highly recommended you You're not human Selling your sister to take dirty photos lt's a way to get more experience All the beauty pageant Girls say that Go to hell.. Get out Why did you break up with your boyfriend? Do you go on Paid Dates often? Just shopping, movies, dinners, like this l see (How about $2000?) ($4000 to pop your cherry) ($5300, please reply) ($6300 for real virgin) (No negotiation, $10000. Yin) $10,000? Deal 1 LV 4 o'clock tomorrow,C541 Kowloon Tong Station, okay? LV Turn off the computer and prepare dinner Okay Dismembered body parts were found on a bus yesterday lt is believed that they belong to a young female There are different theories as to why one of the victim's ears was placed in a Ziploc bag The police is looking for the victim's identity should anyone know... What's with you? Why were you like a dead fish just now? lt's like making love to a corpse l wanted to know what your Girlfriend feels like Was l like her? Why? l like you Oh, no Bro What are you doing here? You have a date? Yes Waiting for a Girl? Yes...just go away. That means you've got money, pay me back l don't have any Going out with a Girl doesn't mean l have money Just go away... Then ask her to pay your debt Take twenty dollars for the subway Go home Here's a few hundred, take a taxi home... Go... That's not enough How dare you lt's so rude to snatch other people's money You haven't paid me back You have my money, now go l want more l'm not hiding any money...just go l'm not leaving, l'll wait with you Please go away... Don't read it out loud, it's disgusting You broke your appointments again? l don't know what she's thinking She said they were okay but she didn't do it What's the problem? l only have one chance in my life l want to find a suitable guy You're not looking for a husband l'm not you, you said you would go out with that guy first But you slept with him Shush, l thought he was cute l was excited by him, you won't understand You liked him because he didn't French kiss you You fell for him right there l don't have any feelings for them Lin said you're the boss if you can choose You are not me You need money, not feelings Calm down, l'll help you to teach her You're a big Girl now You have to know what you really want Got it? Yeah, just speak directly Don't be afraid lf you don't have time to find clients, l can help you but we're friends, there's a discount You want a commission for her first time? We are friends, l won't charge you for your first time But if you did it...you have to tell me Hold this $500 Thanks Let's go eat Come on, let's eat What do you want to eat? You get paid to sleep with her, don't miss this, bros The Girl is hot but don't expect good service She's good in bed Hot babe on the scene Never thought l'd get paid for sex She's one of a kind on the market l want to try her too Mews, money-sex Goddess She's my All Time High She won't see just anyone Stop boasting about yourself Sour grapes You're jealous, l understand She's beautiful and cool, try her soon There will be a demonstration to defend the rights of prostitutes l hope all of you will come tojoin us to defend your future What are you talking about? Talking about sex to their face ls to make them admit who they are Hi, trade? Where? Special request, Tsim Sha Tsui, a Girl with period Worth her while, $5000 Hello? Lin What is it? Are you menstruating? What M? The client wants a Girl with M l want M too-Money...l'm busy tonight Do you have your period? Don't you have your period? Yes and it hurts like hell That's good You want to buy the computer, right? You take it Fine, bye Bye Prostitution is just a job lf you think sex workers are vain and pathetic... l have to go out Okay As soon as l became a prostitute, l was alive and kicking All my clients enjoyed my company After sex, l took my fellow workers out to eat and play l made money and had fun Which job is better than being a prostitute? Then my asshole boyfriend forced me to quit so l became Madam Coco l really want to be a prostitute again l'll shower first No l'll Give you $200 more You have to pay extra for kissing How much for using handcuffs? $2,000 Let go of me What are you doing? What did you do? You filmed it? Go away... Give it to me l paid you l'll Give it all back Don't want it, bitch Don't pretend to be pure Be smarter next time What are you going to do? Give me my glasses What? It hurts? Have a rest l can't let Chun know about this lt's better if he knows You should've left him long ago What's wrong? Why is she crying? lt's your fault. You screwed up everything What's going on? You're the cause of it all You've messed it all up What did l do? You gave money to clients What's wrong with that? lt's fine for you because you're rich But for us, we don't have money lcy had to take a client l didn't force her You think you're different? You're a whore too l always Give you a commission lf you're too good for us Leave Get out l didn't ask you to Give them money You're rich, we're not Go Let's go What happened? Tell me Someone filmed Icy Hey! Let go Speak up You assault a police officer but you can't talk? l'm a cop PTU lf you let me go, l'll forget about this l'll keep my word Let me go l'm a cop No l recognize you What? Gucci, film this lt's more fun with the police lt's not too late Let me go If this gets out, he'll be in bigger trouble Let go of me Police? Big deal. Speak up Pervert cop lf you don't kill me now, l'll come for revenge Revenge l filmed it to protect myself Use a condom to protect yourself, not a camcorder? You might blackmail me or set me up l'm setting you up now. What's you PIN? You'll be filmed at the ATM machine This guy is a pervert, he might be the psycho-killer Mo one would know if we killed you, PTU Then kill me You love blood so much... lcy Let me... Bastard! PIN What's the PIN number? 172210 Give us your address Come over here Wow Learn something Stop playing, get to it Here... Found it... Icy Delete it What now? Open the window We're fine again Thank you What is it? Au Bun l'm not sure l want him, but l want the apartment for sure Shut up! Bitch! Go Help yourself... Bro Paid Dates is like prostitution on the internet l hope teenagers in Hong Kong arm themselves with positive values and not sell their bodies for money and material goods Silver? Silver? Where have you been? The police is looking for you Have you got money? Help me What's going? Silver What happened? Still up? Had a nightmare? l had a nightmare about my missing friend last night What's wrong? Sorry lt's not what it seems... What is it like then? l don't mind you being an agent, why are doing this again? l listen to you and stay at home every day What do you want? Let me explain...sorry Chun, sorry... Listen to me. l wanted to buy you a compute l know l feel more useless No. l'm so sorry Chun, please don't go. l...We... Let's play video game No Chun Miss Wong Ka-hei, we've found Cheung Shin-see She was murdered We could only find her body parts We suspect that it's related to compensated dating We need your computer for our investigation (Au Bun has Unfriended you) The number you have reached is not in service and there is no new number... Hello, Miss Kwan lt's me, l'm the buyer of your bag l'm sorry, l'm still in the mainland No, of course not Give me one more week, l'll be back soon Lin Icy Have you got any clients? Forget it, l'll find one myself We have money these days You should stop for a while l'm not doing it for money Lin Forget it Bros, what would you charge... to pop LV's cherry? $5,000? At least $100,000 l'm asking for one million l'm fair, $1 for a sperm Then you're asking for 100 million? You're all vicious l want to die You're young and beautiful, why do you want to die? Mom, l'm busy l'll call you later, bye l'm upset Even if you're upset, don't be Ai Lijima lf l were her, l wouldn't want to die You should read her autobiography before you die Before you die, don't waste your virginity and give it to me Are you an animal? Just don't be foolish Thank you for comforting me You're welcome. You'll still be here even if you're not a virgin anymore Open the door l'll show you what real fun is No Please, don't... Double the pleasure Please, don't... Mr. AIDS? Phone number for my Paid Dates... Here are the numbers for the Girls l slept with See if you slept with them too Mind your health, brothers Do you have the AIDS list? What?! l got it too! Me too Get tested now Hello? Hello, Ronnie? You on there too? Must be an old client What about Lin? l can't find her Hello, Lin Icy What is it? l need to ask you Can l go to your place? Wait for me at the stairs of Hillwood Road Lin lcy What? l don't know how to say it l'm scared Today...l... l understand ln fact, Ronnie and l... Don't worry, l'll find that Mr. AIDS Mr AIDS? Well? No, how about you? Hey? Mr. Moss? He was useless What about that one? Au Bun! He used to see Icy He might be Mr. AIDS Mot him Wait How do you know? Sorry l didn't know it would turn out like this You didn't know? Or you don't want us to know? Stop that, Lin You pass him to us after you're finished You passed him to Ronnie too, didn't you? You want us to enjoy or to die together? Stop that! Calm down lt's none of your business My brother is Mr. Moss, he slept with you too Lin Sorry Shut your mouth. You're good for nothing Go to hell (lf l could choose again) (l would be more careful picking clients) Guarantee no AIDS, no pervert. Goodbye. Icy Hello, this is Icy l can't take your call right now, please leave a message What is it? Lin l can't find Icy. Do you know where she lives? lcy? Mo one knows where she lives She's missing Gucci AV Expert, can you do me a favor? Absolutely Find Icy for me, please Looking for Icy Have you got her picture? Yeah, l'm sending it to you My primary school classmate Primary school classmate? l probably have her address in the yearbook So long ago? She's moved l know her boyfriend We used to play online game together Her boyfriend and l are in the same association Just check the IP l found her Her name is Wong Ka-hei, 19 years old She lives on 4/F, 52 Granville Road in Tsim Sha Tsui This one? Is it this one? This one This way lcy... lcy, open the door... lcy... ls she in? lcy... lcy, open the door... Try crashing in... lcy lcy Hey Stop that, okay? l'm getting weapons for Chun Let go of me! Why did you hit me? Let go! What is it? Here are your ID cards l'll get tested with you guys l'm going for a smoke Hey, mom Are you busy? Nothing special, just calling because l have some time How's grandma? Let's tell each other what we really want to do but haven't done yet so we can complete each other's wishes if someone gets it l must have that Gucci bag lf we don't die, we'll buy it for you lf anything happens to me... could someone take care of Chun for me? and buy him a computer too? l want to find someone to love me lf l die... l want all of you by my side l don't want to die alone lf l die, l want to die here Even if you have AIDS, you won't die tomorrow Death is easy Maybe someone would throw acid at us from up there and fry us all Why should we be scared of this report? Yeah, what are we scared of? Let's throw it away Let's do it One, two, three You said throw it away You really did it lt's on top of that bus Let's go and get it The bus is leaving Forget it, you are probably fine l've known Silver for... over a year We were casual friends We'd hang out sometimes But we didn't talk much about ourselves l just know that she used to be broke l didn't charge her commission a few times But she even borrowed more money from me l didn't lend her money and she disappeared You know what? My previous name was Agnes b. l changed it to Gucci last year l think we should upgrade ourselves At least l didn't call myself Hermes l know my place Anyway, the most important thing is not to be outdated and keep up with the trends (See you Saturday, Tsim Sha Tsui) l just want someone to love me My only criteria is that person be a man Someone to eat and hang out with That's what l want Just the two of us An ordinary couple l want to go back to Taiwan to see my mom l miss her When l got AIDS... l wanted to cry l wanted to tell her that l missed her but l couldn't l'll go back to see her when l have time And we can have a meal together lf l can choose one more time l'll choose my boyfriend l love him, because... he loves me much more than l love myself Hello, are you AV Expert? Gucci? You are... AV Expert How old are you? Thirteen Where should we go then? Let's go eat, okay? Yeah How have you been?... Their world is... so real, so close to life with immediate emotions and more laughter Something l don't have We did a test lt made us look at ourselves clearly but the price was very high
