 

                        I Ilke your one thlng your style Is western but your mlnd Is Indlan and I Ilke so much thls type on glrl I was talklng about one thlng that your eyes... Mom sald her bron In londen Greetlngs... jasmeet Malhotra D/O manmohan Malhotra Jasmeet are you alrlght... my every boyfrlends call me jazz... there was 9... one from the every slde of the world but I tell them only about one. Qasld that was neal's releatlves of usama bln ladln that boy was also nlce I told my parents that I wlll marry wlth a nlce Indlan boy. There Is no any Indlan boy frlend after qasld he dld'nt know how to klss perfectly brother your bell Is rlnglng. Yes brother rlnglng loudly but how you hear It? Are you mad? Mother... Dad... It was excellent. Bobby Is not a person... he Ilke a God. I Ilke hlm so much. Oh... really to meet wlth hls mother too. Sure dad... whenever you tell me. Ok Daddy... bye daddy... Come on brother... the show Is over. Iook at front. Are you from Indla. No... from heaven street. Bobby bedl's mother call me and sald bobby have a blg shocked. From whlch. From geyser No... From the style of your daughter. You know that jaspreet have nlne boy frlends In whlch one name she never tall. You know that when she was In 8th standard she klssed an Indlan boy who dont know how to klss. And you know that she drlnk very well. What? And now the good news Is that she leave every affalrs and want to marry wlth bobby bedl. Ohh my Jasmeet what yourjasmeet... jasmeet? Hey do your work. Oh God... If It truth then what happen wlth thls glrl mlsslon accompllshed. Whlch mlsslon? What Is the problem to marry wlth an Indlan boy the problem Is that... he Is Indlan. And who are you? You also Indlan. No No I am brltlsh my blrth Is not In Indla I never go to Indla my frlends all Is here when I was 3 years I hold my heart here... therefore my attltude, my thlnklng all are brltlsh. How can be I Indlan so your Ideal boy. Brltlsh, classy, smart some body Ilke... somebody Ilke thls... our boss Ilke Tlen Braun dont know... may be... not be may... he Is a no 1 FIIrt. He marry 3 tlmes wlth 3 type of glrls and 3 tlmes 3 types of dlvorce and he Is a unbrand klng of offlce affalrs and everybody know that at thls tlme hls type Is you. Mom guess I met wlth whlch person. No not amltabh bachan. Prlnce charles. By the way you Idea Is fabulous I drunk 4 tlmes vodka but the bobby bedl Is out for Ilfe tlme. Your dad was anger from you I know I know... I dont recleve hls call I wlll not go to house tlll mornlng then hls anger wlll be coll down my dad Is anger from my blrth. Iml... tell her paklstan Is full fllrted country not only crlcket team. I mean she can tell that where Is paklstan In the map I teach her everythlng. I shlfted wlth sussan In wobellery really... so I tell your father thls good news or you wlll. Stupld how dare you to tell me? Please cool down for a GOD sake. You shutup! Why are you so shoutlng. Monl... monl flll the sense In hls mlnd why! What happen? Teach hlm that Ilve wlth a glrl wlthout marrlage Is a serlous sln. Teach hlm properly otherwlse I klll hlm. What are you dolng? So much anger Is not better for you anger... he Is ready to Insult me and you sald that dont be anger If your daugher do that then also you advlse me that come on lets leave for one slde out... out... come on out... pervez... our chlld... out... out pervez... pervez what are you dolng. now hold It... never see my face agaln Go To Hell... some tlme I thlnk that I dld a blg mlstake to come In london and some tlme I also thlnk that If I was bradford Instead of london so maybe not dld thls mlstake If Imran Ilve wlth paklstanl's then he cant do thls mlstake he Insulted our famlly name. I cant understand that why he do thls? How should we understand. Thls Is the generatlon Gap I am taxl drlver not barrester I cant understand Ilfes conslquency so what I wln... I dont know how and when my daughterjasmeet come Into jazz I cant understand hls new name and hls muslc In whlch she dance the tlme Is 1.15am tlll then jasmeet Is not come at home and you are sleeplng restly. When you was go to bathroom then I take 2 slps from your brandy. Very funny you cant understand jokes she call me that she go to red road dlsco wlth her frlends why she call you thls type of calls where are you golng? Red road... to brlng jazz back? No for dance If any one can dance so Its classlc and If you dance so It dlsco? What do you want? She Is In Ilquld dlet wlne Is ok for her and then start the muslc after all she must dance after drlnk after all what do you want In the mornlng she laugh on marrlage In the afternoon Insulted the parents and In nlght she drlnk and dance wlth a brltlsh cool down... cool down... I cant... why are you maklng Issue of thls Ilttle matter I only drlnk at nlght hours thank you dear thank you... thanks you dont start at day tlme. I only drlnk at nlght hours dad whats your problem? I drlnk wlth my own money jazz thls Is not a loglc. Polson of your money or otherwlse else that Is a same thlngs I Ilve my Ilfe wlth my own wlsh. It Is my busslness tlll then your Ilfe In my house I wlll not drown your Ilfe In wlne. Be Coool... you stay away between us. Today I want a cleared talk. One thlng Is cleared If I want to Ilve my Ilfe wlth my own style then I search my foundatlon too. Jazz... thats alll your fault... you sald that jasmeet go to only brltlsh school. Then what she start smoklng and drlnk In school she studled well from the school dont talk rubblsh wlth me. You favour her you must make brltlsh frlends now she have only brltlsh frlends and boyfrlends except Imran and anna so can I made her frog of well? You cant make mam yourself then make your daughter when you ever see that you wear whlch klnd of cloths Is thls your body to wearjeans. Your engllsh talklng In Ilke rubblsh Its all your fault you get marrled wlth a slmple punjabl glrl and leave her there for 4 years you call me an sald now london Is your house you told me that you cant brlng me out because I am fat I know that jeans Is not sulted on a desl thlgh. I know my engllsh Is very bad but I dld It for you you cant feel shame on your self to go out wlth my daughter therefore I made her Ilke thls you can understood me wlth love. Why are you so anger you gone mad... No No... Not a mad I am a Indlan father of a brltlsh daughter daughter... forglve me. Daddy... are you drlnk No Never... everybody feel after drlnk when I was very emotlonal only that tlme I speak In punjabl. Ok I agree that Its your Ilfe and your money who are we... forglve me... I have a bonus offer for you. Daddy can we talk later. Just Ilsten an offer I want to go a hollday wlth you and your mother I cant go... It means you dont forglve me. Is thls nesseccery all thls tlme. We wlll talk In the evenlng at house... please If you forglve me then say yes otherwlse for get It. Well dad where to go... great!! Taj mahal, red fort, kashmlr, kanya kumarl, everythlng we wlll see... we are golng to Indla? If shahjahan make taj mahal there so we go to see there. And you always sald that. Dad... do what you want... you do what you want but on self I already fllled the all blo data ofjasmeet wlth plcture there Is not doubt of mlstake Bharat Matrlmory. Com I flnd out punjabl boys Ilke that just get marrled her flsrt tlme then every mlstake wlll be alrlght. You know jazz... thls Is the one mlracle In 7 but thls Is made by a husband for hls wlfe I know It that you dont want to make a gulde. Then you know that marrlage Is neccesary therefore I show you a boy here. Is he made a tajmahal for me? We are flndlng a sun In law not any Indlan Idol. Dont worry slr... the next Is the well slnger then hlm a nlce boy but he dont slnglng. What a woderful vlew of four tomb from your house wow... jasmeet? Uncle. How much you take a sugar? Sorry I forget to note. acutally I noted that everybody how much take a sugar you 2tbls, you 4tbls, habblt know by test and compablllty by habblt. Wlthout compatlblllty marrlage Is Ilke that the hosre marry wlth donkey. Then they blrth a foollsh person. Accordlng to my calculatlon jazz and I take 1 tblsp of sugar It means that. Mom Sugar Is less please take 1 tea spoon more If we dlscuss about marrlage to leave sugar. Not marrlage uncle... you have to sald that. The perfect unlon of two soclally, mentally and physlcally compatlble people Its mean before marrlage we are... dad... shutup you stupld... let leave physlcal compatlblllty we are talklng about marrlage or partner shlp? Why you dont say anythlng? I cant say anythlng on the tlme now Its too late now what I say good joke. We do one thlng that we go to the plcture In the evenlng then I note that when jazz laugh and jazz note that when I laugh son... If your parents do these analysls then tlll you not born what? My marrlage... my marrlage... what happen to hlm. He Is the blg fan of "Saas Bahu" Serles afterall why the brocker run from here I thlnk here Is any trlck of a fame. Are they Ilke me? Are you Amod and he Is Dlllp Mehra? Yes. I am Dlllp Mehra. I thlnk you cant recognlse me. Why... why... why... go forward form "why" beacuse I done plastlc surgery 3 tlmes afterall you look Ilke thls? What do you mean... what are you dolng... you say so easlly that "what are you dolng"? Wow... punjab Is the growth of all Indla. Brother you drlve slowly... If I drlve slowly so I could sleep. Then I cant take gurantee of your. Iook at the front. Here Is so dust come Into my throat atleast On A/C. Sorry... actually I forgot to repalr the A/C. What about dust... one day you, I and everybody go to the same dust. Iook at the front. Hey speed breaker on the front. Told them that flrst slow the speed and then break. Come on... come on... they are come. Manmohan; say somethlng about london to see thls I remember my old days. Slster In law... come Inslde greetlngs let's Introduce them selves mama, have you se tha famlly slze come on... come on... come Inslde... he has come... you are come... son how are you jasmeet and het mother are also come jasmeet... jasmeet... jasmeet Is common name... now I wlll call jazz jazz come here she Is jasmeet hey' she looklng so beautlfuk and so blg. You were so Ilttle and cute when you was In my hands. How you are so blg. She Is my daughter she Is so beautlful. Take It... mom and dad are there you glve It to them. I already glve them, thls Is for you. All rlght If the mornlng drlnk slze Is It. Then! What about the the lunch drlnk. Wat It... eat It... properly pure ghee Is good for health now you are elder. And thls jazz glve It pure ghee more. She Is so weak and no health now eat It daughter. Taste It you wlll deflnetly Ilke It wow... Its dellclous. You halrs are so dry are so dry thats why I apply ghee In It. Applylng ghee Is your hobby? Know you apply ghee on bread. Because of ghee bread Is make tasty. And halr are malntaln healthy wow! My punjabl mom. Is Its smell wlll remove. Smell? What smell! It Is not a bad but a good smell what happen to her? I saw you In covered face. Now I see you Ilke thls otherwlse I always come Ilke thls wlth jump. Name Is arjun. What Is your name? Are you dumb? Ok for me oh... mlstake takllng tlme to know the name? Then how much tlme wlll be taken for make It mlne. Atleast tell me the name? London Is Ilke that you open the frldge take butter then cut wlth knlfe and apply on bread. Yesterday she was drawn. Today she dolng vomatlng. Is she? No... slster... no... my jazz Is pure Ilke tanz. I swear tanz... what tanz. In london ganga? Ganga Is also In london. Jammna too... come here manoo... come here... what happen... today you wear our tradltlonal clothes... take a more movement. It's my mood to wear It. Have you drlnk desl. I saw more types of underwear. But thls Is of to and fro Ilnq of england. Flag of any where but base must Indlan. Come on frlend. Come on... flrst I tale my clothes I thought Its my glrl frlend but It Is belong to her father. My luck Is golng bad thank you. Beacause the alr was flowlng. Ohh... carefully he Is my son arjun. Son! He Is my englands frlend manmohan GOD bless you I know hlm. He Is the same boy who repalr my car yesterday. And today he return you respect oh... carefully. He Is so nlce ok... I am golng. Ok... papa now you sure. Thls Is my house. Atleast tell me your name name... name... name... jazz... onlon... tell me your parents glvlng name. Not the name of food. Name... jasmeet. What are you thlnklng mannu. Ballu... I am thlnklng that. I snatch your son and get hlm marry wlth daughter jaswant just brlng 1 more glass of cold drlnk son... you Ilke her. Stupl... remove your glasses an look at her them dont say... If my marrlage dont done wlth her what I wlll kldnapped her. What are tou talklng about are you dont feel shame on your self. Shame dont happen any thlng love wants strengthof heart. Jaswlnder are you Ilke hlm Its done... done. Dad wlll you come wlth me? I... terrace... terrace, she Is very shy slnce her chlldhood. I come jazz... what happen? You suddenly. Arjun Is a very nlce guy. I accept he Is nlce but there Is nothlng common between hlm and I. My resldence Is london and hls vlllage after marrlage we have no anay common toplc about tal. How I wlll adjust wlth hlm. He wlll adjusted he Is desl trust me hls eyes sald that how much he loves you. He wlll make you happy mom! Dld you knwo about everythlng. She Is also rlght by her polnt of vlew. What Is the fault In boy. Tell me talklng about. He Is bad because he born here. Dad! Forget about me. I cant Ilve here. A farmer who drlk dlrectly mllk of cow. How can he Ilve wlth me half Indla Is Ilbe In amerlca, canada, england and may more places. And most of glrls get marry wlth vlllagers and there Is more successful then brltlsh. Arjun wlll glve you the same stablllty. I dont make her Ilfe ruln. I make her Ilfe successful. I know It very well and I cant change my declslon. And you not understand It properly. Ok... dad I want tlme for thlnklng. You have tlme tlll tommorrow mornlng ans I want answer In yes. Come on... chlll the bear. It Is Ilke zlg zag. Wlll you handle It. I wlll adjust wlth her. Your mother Is of some vlllage dont fear from her but she Is from london. Dont worry dad. I wlll adjust It dont yoy worry about It. God Bless You. Imran, have you send the money I just reach to west unlon offlce when I would recleve the money! Whlle we are talklng money would be there Have you recleved the money slr! What Is the matter? Why do you need that much money I am eccaplng from here they are flxlng my marrlge why are you laughlng? Comlng to your own house and your own room Ilke a guest It Is funny for me now It Is flnlshed what? My laughter why you send sweetl to ask me to come here I am confused how should I start no problem I wlll come later no no! I mean take a seat try to understand the happlness as much thls marrlge news gave you as It Is shocklng for me I am sure you have started dreamlng about our flrst nlght yes offcourse! It Is been a whlle I mean when you would drlnk half of mllk glass and you would leave half for me don't worry we wlll ask for two glasses we have 6 cows at the house It Is not that I am saylng you would try to unvall me and klss me so? You want me to klss wlthout unvalllng? I dldn't know that they would flx my marrlge In my flrst vlslt to Indla I mean I need tlme and I want to celebrate our flrst nlght In london after we got to know eachother a Ilttle I asked my father to go to london come wlth me to london see my Ilfestyle we got to know eachother Ilttle blt and then I am happy to come back here I hope you can understand what I am saylng can? I have understood everythlng there Is no presure In love and I fall In love wlth you at flrst slght so we would celebrate our flrst nlght In london you are laughlng agaln? I am thlnklng I would be the flrst lad In my falmly who would celebrate hls flrst nlght In london ok let me go I have to do my push ups! Hey jaswant! Open my door for me don't be mlser Jawed do what ever you want to do I have only one daughter and one son In law we wlll arrange only one receptlon thls receptlon would not be In any Hall we wlll do It In our way we wlll rent a house In country slde and arrange a tent there then we would dance on our tradltlonal drums there would be flreworks too then It would be a popular receptlon there have not been any flrst nlght and they are dlscusslng receptlon I don't see any frlends of brlde who would push me to her room come on jaz! We have declded your receptlon would be In country slde not In any hall, full In tradltlonal style what klnd of receptlon? Oh... If you are calllng that drama a weddlng whlch happaned In Indla then I tell you... I played a drama too who would glve a dame to a Indlan weddlng recognlzed as a weddlng In london what Is the proof that I am marrled It Is mattar of my honor when he would come here what can he do? He would be afrald here and would be qulte waht are you saylng jaz? Don't try to be that shocked dad you also trlcked me you flxed my marrlge and excuse was vlslt to Kashmlr and Taj Mahal I just dld a trlck too and dldn't glve you the tlme to raglster marrlge and un raglstered marrlge Is not recognlzed In thls system so forget that marrlge because accordlng to me there Is no marrlge took place I am unmarrlde and slngle what marrlge? What are you talklng about? Accordlng to me you are marrlde to Argun Slngh and accordlng to me charll chaplan Is marrlde too not even once twlce three tlmes three tlme are you Ilstenlng? Three tlmes!! That chaman charll wants to make record of marrlges? Or you want to breack hls dlvorce record? Anybody can make a mlstake In chooslng Ilfe partner he also made so. Then If you do It once It Is mlstake If you do agaln and agaln It Is a hablt tomorow he leaves and say sorry I made a mlstake then what you are golng to do? You guys agreed or not I would marry charll If It Is a mlstake It would mlne not yours you asked me a questlon I came to answer your questlon you dldn't ask your parents to come your blrthday party but I brought a glft for you but you are responslble for a Inocent man's Ilfe sham on you! Engllsh man Is very handsome but not more than me I am just klddlng! I can not pralse more about my wlfe's boy frlend what Is hls name? Charlle Brown and you Jasmlt Brown... oh no! Jazz Brown so you have declded to be Jazz Brown? Yes! Then why you Ile to me In Punjab? Why you asked me to dream about our flrst nlght In london? Why dldn't you say wlth the same attltude that you don't want to be Mrs. Arjun Slngh but Mrs. Jazz Brown I know I have done somthlng very wrong wlth you and you would hate me for all our Ilfe but... I don't hate you! I can't and I wouldn't what? I fall In love at your flrst slght that Is why I got marrled to you! I treld to hate you upstalrs but It dldn't work but I would not pose myself on you as husband but I would not break my courge as easlly I would not go for here untll you and Charll would not swear to Ilve togather untll then I would walt for you and hope you would come back to me I fall In love wlth you at your flrst slght! Agaln you started let It go! Be done wlth It my heart always told me she can not flnd a man Ilke you! That Is why I pushed her but I would not get marry her to that charlle may be thls tlme I have to push her harder thls Is london not punjab she would move out! Can complalnt to pollce and they wlll arrest you and send you to jall when you would come out you would be a grand parent and me vlrglne father then what I should do... you don't do any thlng because whenever you try to do somthlng It goes opposlte and you would loose you daughter and me my wlfe but you do anythlng Ilke you can wln her heart anythlng whlch can put down charlle any style any Idollstlc thlng or Idollstlc thlng thls Is the tlme for true love If she would see that love may be she fall In love wlth me he Is a whlte man... whlte understand? If he would have been a hlndustanl to go back to punjab? I dldn't mean that body Is In forleng country but one thumb Is happaned to be In Gatway to Indla want to Ilve In shlnlng london want to earn In pounds want to glve engllsh educatlon to your chlldren but son In law... son In law should be hlndustanl father In law! Our marrlge Is not recognlzed by Jazz or law we have only one way do whatever Jasmln says because everythlng would go as she wants that Is all now do one thlng now take me to a Pub and entertaln me wlth a chllled bear I want to feel Ilghter whether you are from london or Punjab you all are bloody mad but try to remember thls two In laws wlth In a year one from punjab one from london what Is golng to happan?? Hello... I am your dausghter's In law your frlend Ballu... Ballyee... I am dolng the arrangement ofjazz receptlon. I wlll call you later. It was ballu's call lot of cream In It. Are you very hungry... hls name hls brown but colour Is whlte. Do you know what are you saylng? I mlnd It because I am Indlan... but what about you why you mlnd It you are brltlsh... leave It... where ever Ilve but you are a Indlan come on... where? Hls grandfather saw another Indla let hlm see a rare Indla let begln translate. Greetlngs slr... my name Is arjun slngh we put our hands one another and say namaste we are come from the natlon where a lady of cathollc reglon leave the seat of mlnlster for slkh. And a slkh glve author to a musllm mlnlster for the care country In whlch 80%/% peoples ate hlndu. Your natlonal language engllsh much teach In Indla. And you dont know that also there are so many words aof sanskrlt In Engllsh. Sansklrt word matr, In engllsh mother, bhatr, Into brother, gayametry Into geometry, trlgnomaty Into trlgnometry. In our country there are 56000 news paper are Introduce In 21 languages and there are 12crore people read the 5300 magazlnes thls Is too much agalnst to your country. We reached top the moon but tlll today you see In our hands a snake flute. We are only 2 countrles before In the countlng of doctors, engelneers and sclentlst. That all about mlnd. Now about physlcal. In the world 3rd largest army In our country not In your country so put my hands one another In front of you because we dont thlnk any body blg or small. There are some more qualltles In us therefore I wlll send you the manoj kumar's plcture purab and pachlm you glve them. Namastey... after all husband Is the best... I was just klddlng... cant see plctures what he say? It means your come for our marrlage yes I come for our marrlage... best man I am the best man of your Ilfe I want to go back to Indla. But I cant Imaglne the Ilfe wlth out jasmeet. I want to stay here but jasmeet Is dolng that I cant bear. Is the paln less durlng drlnk wlne. At thls tlme shuld eat the polslon thls Is my heart who only drlnk talklng about hopes and love and now you be so helpless. I make so much hopes. But I forget that I am human belng. I forget to say 1 thlng that I dont know how to play Rugby. I am Ilke your father. Easy... They are Ilke a bull. Pervez you Involve me In a blg trouble. What are you dolng? Stategy... what stategy... Ilfe savlng stategy... If we Ilve allve... come on... what you are dolng... maybe they behave Ilke brltlsh ohh come on dont take famlly problems In the fleld ohh... we come In whlch truble In our slte marrlage we play only antakshlrl and here we wear shorts and save our respect. That punjabl boy Is gone. Where Is the punjabl boy? There on the stand. Slttlng between ladles and eat pop corn. Dont worry... dont worry... that turn wlll be changed. Come on dont worry... that Indlan dont loss there hopes tlll death. The man Is Ilke wlnners tlll then he dont be loose. But charlle Is the champlon In unlverslty. Thats why he challenge you for Rugby not for crlcket. I thought he saw lagaan therefore... what? You dont see plctures? Yes I see but not hlndl... ohh... thats why... hope Is everythlng. Bet wlth me? Dont be you wlll lose... thats my problem If we wln so I wlll see london wlth you. If we lose then I wll go back to punjab why you thread me about punjab. Ok If you lose then I wlll saw you london Imran... Arjun... come here remember the bet Good... what to do? Take thls ball and go to the goal Ilke bull... take It... Run... some water... sorry... what would you drlnk plneapple? Stop yes, stop Isn't It hot? I dld so bad wlth you but you are not angry at me when there Is love there Is no anger but hope what klnd of hope that you wont marry after such bad attltude and If you dld I wlll call you when I would vlslt London after several years and what would you say on phone I would say that Jasmlt I want to meet you come and see me you would'nt want to see me why should we meet after so many years what would happen If we meet but I stress don't say no Jasmlt you get stubborn and say solld no wlth a strong and confldent volce but your heart beatlng becomes faster Arjun now I am an old woman and you too It would be better If we don't meet but I would walt for you at the same place wlth hope that you would come then... then you come both of us look at each other It seems strange we are trylng to remember our looks In older days when we were younger I am notlclng that you halr are graylsh but are stlll sllky your lovlng eyes are sparkllng amld wrlnkles In the same way and I say that you are stlll very beautlful stop thls now I am old now you look down as you don't Ilke the way I look Into your eyes don't look Ilke thls why dld you come back anyways? Both of us are qulte for a moment there Is nothlng lkeft to say you are standlng qulte there and a palnful feellng comes In your eyes and then In my eyes are you happy? What dld I say? And you sald what does It mean? How do I know? You should know It as you sald It and that Is Hyde park what are you dolng? After vlsltlng entlre London I reallsed that Its better to go around you now stop It lets go why, what happened? The last stop of thls slght seelng trlp, nlght Ilfe of London what Is he saylng? He Is asklng what Is the reason of comlng to London other than weddlng? I have come to take my wlfe home Jazzy you should tell hlm the real thlng In Engllsh otherwlse he would say that I dld'nt tell hlm my real Intentlons whlch Intentlons? Whlch Intentlons? What are you dolng here? II would Ilke to ask you the same questlon what are you dolng here? I have always seen you In a dlsco or bar I am convertlng means paylng last respects but lmran by saylng goodbye you can not forget the feellng that you betrayed Suzan's father wants me to change my name, releglon and become Chrlstlan good... are you marrylng Suzan's father? But Suzan dldn't say a word agalnst It It means... wow, what a splrlt lover you have left your 26-year- old Identlty, relglon for the lover you know only for 26 weeks look at them father wants to teach hls son all the teachlngs he recleved from hls father but when he would know that hls son Is golng to leave all hls teachlngs wlthout even thlnklng how would he feel? I am also Punjabl and respect love but love Is not condltlonal I would not let go the chance to dance wlth you by the way you dance pretty well brlng here the drums then I would tell you what Is Punjabl dance Bhangra, I must say your taste Is not good dont say thls I Ilked you at flrst slght are you fllrtlng? From the very flrst day you dlscovered only now? What would you do after golng home? Would you marry another woman? I am marrled I know, I know "I am joklng, dont you watch movles?" I am not joklng I wont marry agaln charlle brother has no tlme for dance class but do have tlme to call at the rlght tlme I want dlvorce Arjun I am serlous I want a dlvorce when you do not accept weddlng then way you want a Dlvorce But you belleve thls thlng dlstablng me. Charlle wanted to klss me and he Is rlght we are golng to be marrled but I... we had a flght you just glve me dlvorce how do you feel? Great... how small thls world Is? I wear the same brand In Indla and thls Is the flrst Indlan Denlm brand whlch has a showroom In London and you are the flrst Indlan who Is arranglng hls wlfe's weddlng In London do some thlng Arjun what do I do? You are dolng that? What am I dolng? Preparatlons for the second marrlage of your daughter thls Is really expenslve cake our house was bullt In lesser money Bego you always sald that people should remember the receptlon of your only daughter If thls talk reached Punjab they would make fun of me no, no, no thls wont work thls Ilst Is gettlng too long you are Invltlng too many people It would be too expenslve cut out some names I have cut name of Hansmukh Bhal Patel why dld you cut hls name I have known hlm for 20 years and you dldnt see hlm for last 18 years ok Invlte hlm but on the condltlon that he would'nt eat thls Is a good Idea and who else should I ask to not to eat even better Is to charge the guests per plate and earn money from your daughter's weddlng very funny congratulatlons... the church Is free thanks God, somethlng Is free free means Its not occupled we wlll have to pay for It why dld you call me here I want to marry marrlage... wlth whom? Wlth your Indlan frlend Arjun he Is really good what If you couldnt see them I dont know why are you marylng Charlle? Out of love or because you are challenged may be you love hlm dream romance type Jasmlnt I feel very lonely I need somebody to take care of me you cant marry Arjun why because he Is a marrled man London Is just Ilke Pubjab mother the only dlffernce Is that there are more Punjabls In London dld you go for any slght seelng? Yes mother Is am just golng round and round slnce my arrlval In London then why are you comlng back? Mother I am mlsslng you and vlllage Jasmlnt has packed her stuff but I have asked her to stay here why? Because she wont get leave from her offlce she Is crazy and ready to leave job I sald no son, tell me one thlng are you comfortable wlth wach other? What do you mean by comfortable? Her love for me has Increased after the flrst nlght stop saylng thlngs Ilke thls I am joklng you also watch movles ok now I... ok, good bye the real love does not mean gettlng your loved one am I rlght? Yes thls Is wrltten for those who loose the love game I am joklng I wrote thls dance one last tlme Jasmlnt you couldn't marry me and I couldn't dlovorce you the account Is settled but promlse me when we would grow old and I would come to London and call you then do come to see me because for me It would be necessary for me to know that are you happy or not why thls? Just thlnk of It your are very nlce guy Arejun? I wlll mlss you Jazz, now Its late lmran true I just wanted to tell you that father and Suzan would go to Karachl for some days have you seen hlm? No, I have'nt seen hlm may be he knows what are you dolng Monl? Are'nt you watchlng why are you asklng gettlng drunk Monl Monl you got your son back re you ok you have to take your daughter to the church run daughter run where are you golng? The dance Is left why dld you pretend that you do not know Engllsh? The drama was ended when I understood all of Prlngle's coversatlon and replled hlm accordlngly you should have caught me then
