 

                        This ring is beautiful, it suits you It isn't too flashy for everyday wear It's our last pair Chun, take a shot of this ring Tell me, which do you like best? I like this best but there's no discount for this This one is nice too, there's a 20% discount The first one is better, but it's too expensive The second one is not bad, its design is nice It's hard to make a choice Take that one, just as you said I want the most expensive pair The ones without discount? It doesn't matter. It's once in a lifetime, I promise you won't regret it What was that?. Bomb!. Bomb!. Run! You have to go try on the suits later, don't be late Run... Six months later What's up?. Chun, take a shot of this ring Tell me, which do you like best?. I want the most expensive pair The ones without discount?. It doesn't matter. It's once in a lifetime, I promise you won't regret it Shameless! You have to go and try on the suits later, don't be late I worked overnight Finished?. It's your turn now How many today, sir?. give me a kiss you're bad Leave him What do you want now?. I've said it many times before I didn't kill my wife Bugger off if you don't have enough evidence Pour a glass of wine for the lnspector You've probably never tasted a $30,000 bottle of wine Poor cops rarely taste the fine things in life The wine is no good, it reeks of blood If you have evidence, arrest me. Otherwise, don't mess with me! Yesterday we arrested the murderer you hired in Macau Next time, don't hire gamblers Look for yourself The whole thing costs $300,000 Loanshark Cheng asked me to kill his wife for him I'm willing to testify against him Damn Let go! Oh my finger Let go! Does it hurt?. Assaulting a police officer?. More years in the slammer for you Put that steak in a doggy bag for him I was just in there for a minute to get something Come on. Give me a little face here. Mister, you're illegally parked Do you know who I am?. Your commander Wong plays mahjong with me every night He calls me Brother Blackie You're still writing a ticket?. Why don't you go catch a thief?. $320 is nothing to me I bet tens of thousands on one race I can pelt you to death just with my horse racing wins My tire rims cost more than your month's salary You're destined to life as a lowly patrolman... Here's your ticket for illegal parking I can add on a charge for littering and abusing a police officer Would you like that?. Let's go, son It's smelly Let's go So disgusting Mister Mister PC 5299 calling Control, 5299 send Request for ambulance, unconscious man found. No visible injuries Location is Zetland Street in Central roger Did he die?. Such foul smells Mister, are you okay?. Don't be afraid. The ambulance is on its way. Six Right Have you eaten?. Yes I kissed someone today You're a big boy now. These things happen Ask her to come to dinner It was a guy! Guys have to eat too It was a homeless man. I saved him by giving him CPR! Don't even hope. There's been no letter or call Granny, have you ever considered that Tat won't ever come back It's all in Fate's hands I never thought your parents would be killed in a car crash either I know. You said I was three, and Tat was six then... Yes, I took both of you to hospital You had a fever then. And now, 20 years have passed Granny Anyway, not matter where your brother is No matter what he is doing As long as he believes in it He has my support I remember he told me to be a good cop That's right Did you get any sleep last night?. How are you going to work?. I already asked my wife to get you some sleeping pills You'll be fine after you pop a couple Cousin, I already took a whole bottle! Don't call me cousin when we're working. I'm lnspector Wong You're going to be in hot water one of these days I don't understand. Ivy's been dead 6 months, what is it with you?. If you want to resurrect her, then exhume her body A few drops of blood and a talisman, and you'll have your own "Ghost" Quit thinking about revenge all the time You're a cop! Why don't we do this?. Why don't I transfer you to a desk job from next month?. You not feeling well?. Your breath stinks. Inspector Wong, Tiger returning to his den The target's name is Tiger He is suspected of supplying arms for a few recent robberies The guns are from Thailand He got the guns at the terminal yesterday Double 7! Pun! Tiger is approaching you! Wait for my orders. Sister, how much for an orange?. Not for sale, go! How does she do business?. She's so surly Crazy Crazy! Watch out get out Open the door Hurry up, start the car Only a robbery I'll give you my money Drive faster! Police! Stop! Stop! Carry on, ignore him. Be quick Police, come here, stay here What's wrong with you?. I haven't given orders At least give me a heads up when you decide to get into action! At least let me be prepared cousin Do you think you are the only cop capable of catching a thief?. Sir, I have heart problems. I'm going to sue him Let's talk about that later Let me call an ambulance for you now Hurry Yes Sir, congratulations! You are going to have interview for promotion again My buddy Dickson wants to make transfer to learn from you They got into deep shit today There's a guy called Chan Chun. He's brave but he's crazy He's always getting them in trouble. Chan Chun, I've heard that name before Useless! When you're a cop, being brave is not enough, you have to use your brains Only one type of people can survive in this world And, it's those who are capable Did you ever hear anyone mention useless people?. Yes, sir! Police, please turn off the engine and show me your license Turn off the engine and get out All of you get out now, quick Sorry we were going too fast, I know My wife is about to give birth, I have to get her to hospital. Please Honey, be patient, it'll be quick Sorry sir Could you give me a chance?. I will never do that The driver went a wrong way before Sorry Sir, his wife is about to give birth Even if she is about to give birth Yes You don't need to go that fast I know Go... Thank you Chun, go and check them out Yes, sir Your lD please... Hands on your head, out of the car now! Do you hear me?. Let him go Get off now Put the knife down Let him go Don't try anything funny... You're really sly, luckily I'm not dumb There are hidden compartments cousin Of course I know that hidden compartments... You, bastard Cops are at work here, move along if you have no business here Put down the gun Don't do anything foolish Let me go Let me go, now Let me go Let go, don't you want to kill me Put down your gun Let me go Help Go Boss, I had nothing to do with it I'm not the one you want Go Sorry Sorry, I didn't know it would be such a big deal I just took my share of the money. If you want I can give it to you The people you want... Go and look for them Get up It's been 6 months. Do you know what we've gone through?. Speak, where's the money?. I don't know I didn't betray you I was only responsible for the explosives I didn't know you used it to rob an armored truck Listen to me, we risked our lives But we won't allow others to risk it for us Who's the buyer?. Why doublecross us?. Were you the guys who robbed the armored truck 6 months ago I asked you if you were the ones that robbed the truck Cousin Asshole, you don't have the guts to admit it?. Bend down I really don't know, I can't tell even you kill me I really don't know Go and look for Ho Wing Keung. I really don't know anything Ho Wing Keung! Go down and keep my brothers company. Sir, please don't wash the bullets We need to take it for tests Sir, you swallowed three bullets Are all three in there?. Count them yourself If there are any missing, you can fish them out yourself Sorry, sir All right?. Go What's so funny?. What are you laughing at?. Is there nothing to do at the police station?. Let's go. We're leaving, sir Get out How are the others?. Chun was stabbed three times. He's still in critical condition The other men should be discharged in a couple of days Don't get mad, I made you some soup Soup?. Who asked you to make soup?. Have you checked out the robbers like I asked?. We're looking into it but i want to see how you are first What's there to see?. There's nothing to see Can't even get some information, and you say you're from lntelligence Why don't you go?. Go Fellow officers, the Chief is very concerned about the two officers The purpose of this meeting is to see how we can nab the culprits You have the details of Tien Yeng Seng Tien Yeng Seng is the mastermind, Tien Yeng Yee is next in line They are suspects in an armed bank robbery 6 months ago They got away with US$100 million According to intelligence from lnterpol Thai police, Vietnam and Cambodia have all been after them They surfaced again in Hong Kong last night They grew up together in flames of war After finishing their military training They formed a mercenary gang and created havoc Until the last time when we took down three of them OK, this operation will be under SP Law and Wong Cl Sam will be assisting in the investigation Yes, sir Actually I have already applied for early retirement With vacation time, it'll only be about a month Sir, let me handle it These men committed a crime in my district Good, that's settled then You'll be working together, we leave it in your hands It's no problem, sir. In fact, I'm honored You're great, holding on to 336 Of course, I told you to follow suit Living the good life just beware of the anti-corruption guys Don't talk nonsense Cheung, you're really loyal Why don't you throw this crappy car away?. I haven't used it for a long time. That's why it's just sitting here It's an old car, but still works SP Law is our commander for this operation Sit Armored truck robbery in Central, The stolen amount was US$1 00 million Yesterday Kowloon Bay, yesterday, Two officers are still in intensive care Today, Sham Shui Po, an arms smuggler was killed Officer Wai King Tat is a suspect That's why we hope you can give us some information on your brother Or any other information that can help us My brother wouldn't do such a thing You're a police officer You have a responsibility to aid us in our investigation During his disappearance did Wai King Tat try to contact you in any way?. No Did anything special happen?. Do you have any information you can give us To find your brother?. No You're in an awkward situation. Take time off. If you have any news of Tat Iet us know immediately Don't forget you are a police officer Can I ask you a question in private, sir?. Leave us Yes, sir What do you want to know?. Before he left, my brother said he had an important mission Did he go undercover?. You should know Tat is a suspect now Until the case is solved, everything is classified Sorry, sir But if that is true, as his officer you should protect him A commanding officer should protect his men But he no longer works for us Whatever road he chooses, it's his problem I know my brother too well Sorry, sir you know what he's like No matter how white he was before If he wanted to turn black, it would be so easy I've said all I want to say Heroic inspector, Fong Yik Wei excretes bullets to save a life Shit! Don't think about it. Serious Crimes will take over They brought in a Wai King Ho for questioning Apparently his brother is connected to the robbers Wai King Ho Wai King Ho?. Which precinct is he with?. Shoot me any information Hey, don't do anything impulsive Your info isn't much use. Just leave it to our other colleagues Hey, cousin, do you get what I'm saying?. Don't be a hero. What's up I'm looking for your brother Wai King Tat, Where is he?. Don't just keep quiet. You're not going till you say something You're looking for my brother too?. Don't pretend How many, sir?. It's okay Iced tea Iced coffee Iced lemon tea I know you're Carson Fong from Eastern And you're Chan Chun who always gets into brawls Sir, so what have you found after following me all this time?. Wai King Ho, where is your brother?. Your brother is involved in several big jobs, hand him over I've already told the organized crime bureau everything I'm a cop, not a criminal Your brother is a criminal You're not so innocent yourself I'm warning you If I find out you're withholding information, I'll cuff you myself Your brother has turned If people find out about him you'd be disgraced I'm telling you Your brother is like this glass of milk It's already changed colours. Kid, you get it?. I believe my brother is still a good cop I know your girlfriend died because of these guys And you want revenge And you want to get your repute back You're both not fit to be good cops My business is none of yours Hey, kid?. Are you asking the questions or am l?. If your bullets are not clean, the toilet is over there Terry Dog is here Boss... Hey OD... Terry... Get out, I don't want to serve you Get out Come with me, I'll pretend nothing has happened Terry, you OK?. How many times have I said no?. Go home, I won't spend the rest of my life with you I'd choose someone better, you loser Your brother, Pau, is in hospital because he took his goods You're not really that bad are you?. I'm getting blamed because Pao OD'ed?. My astrology sign matches him better than yours I'm Gemini and you're Capricorn, we're not compatible Go home, you talk too much OK, fine. Nothing more to say at this point We should stop it just because it's unpleasant. Enough! Speak with you?. You haven't earned the honor Quit pushing and shoving OD please give us some face, don't make trouble Please talk outside Help...stop it You, let him go Police, what's going on?. Show me your lDs, against the wall! Your friend?. Are you OK, officer?. I thought you were from the Junior Police Call You're charged with illegal assembly assault, and coercing the underaged Against the wall, and hand over your lDs You're acting on pure arrogance Come out and show us then Don't fool around with the officer, Iook, he's going to cry So what if they're cops?. Don't think I'm afraid just because you're an officer I'm saying you're rubbish you're a useless cop, so?. Go away, cop! Yeah, scram, officer! I'm adding a new charge of mocking an officer Watch your step Throwing a fit What's happening?. How's it?. Your lD is here, come get it, pig cop! Attack! Get him!! I'm also a cop What did you say about cops just now?. You said we were rubbish Yes, I say that only because the force rejected me I'm just bearing a grudge Go Are you crazy?. Stop it! Thank you... Thank you... Are you stupid?. Follow me Hello report centre There's a fight on Star Street, no officers responding Hey, this ointment is priceless. Rub some on Is this your brother's room?. Yes So painful Wai King Ho Thanks Don't be a hero if you can't stand pain. You're lucky to be alive It is the duty of a policeman to maintain order in the society To preserve justice, protect the lives and properties of the citizens Don't be pretensious Why did the two of you help me then?. Had it not been for me you'd have been stabbed several times We should just have let them kick each other's asses first Smarter to let our colleagues come and take out the dead So your brother held the shooting record Useless now, I broke his record last year And, runner-up trophies are just embarrassing That judo trophy is my brother's favourite, he enjoyed the contest Even a third prize was meaningful.What do you know?. What do I know?. Those are the words of a loser Hey, where is your brother?. I said I don't know. Your wound is very deep You're crazy Not so hard Gentler! My back hurts a little, are the wounds serious?. You'll live Help me Be gentler... Not so hard, it hurts Granny, you're back These are my colleagues Chan Chun and Fong Yik Wei You... Fell down Cars crash Chasing crooks What?. Did anything come up?. The suspects tried to flee to Thailand after that job But they were stopped by SDU at Tai O Pier Three died, another four escaped They only reappeared last night when they killed Tiger And Tiger?. What's his connection to them?. Tiger was brought in for questioning They suspected him of selling arms to the gang But they didn't have enough evidence to charge him All the guards who were on the route died Except for the supervisor, Ho Wing Keung, but he's now insane Doctors said he suffered a nervous breakdown He's been admitted into an asylum hasn't shown any improvement Ho Wing Keung is your cousin?. He's in special care unit, upstairs to the left of the stairs He can't recognize anyone but you can always try Thanks Brother, drinking water is good From the looks of you, your illness is pretty serious But I think there's nothing wrong with your memory Who was the mastermind?. Who betrayed us?. Tell me Are you afraid to speak because you also played a part in it?. I recently went to see your wife The kids are growing up fast Your son told me you were here This place isn't bad, pleasant surroundings. Better than jail Your poor family split up like this They're really suffering inhumanely Hey, there's cop Run You really should appreciating your family They've stuck by you through your illness We're different. We have no family Iet go But we are seven brothers My brother Now there's only four of us left The patient has suffered post-traumatic stress He's not only lost his memory He doesn't react to external factors Who betrayed us?. Kitty, is Ho Wing Keung in his room?. No, he's in the lounge, he has a cousin visiting Shit! What's up?. Mind your own business Could it be someone from OCTB?. Would someone from OCTB say he is a cousin?. Ho Wing Keung Ho Wing Keung Don't scare him Don't be afraid. We're from the police Do you remember a robbery 6 months ago?. The suspects have reappeared Please let us know if you have any information on them I don't care if you're faking it or for real You're in grave danger now They already killed Tiger, you're next Think about it If you're clean, they wouldn't be looking for you Speak There's a bomb, there's a bomb, there's a bomb... Bomb! My car, hey, why are you in my car?. Hurry... Safety belt... Watch out for the people. That asshole was pretending Mental patients are not lucid Did you think I wouldn't be able to find you?. Where's my wife and kids Relax, you'll see them in awhile My money is in a safe place, I'll give it to you. Don't harm them I don't want your money, I just want ours. Call him I haven't seen him since that night. I don't know where he is Who is he?. Move OK, I want to know my family is safe before I tell you In front No worries, ambulance is on its way My leg... my leg... Hang on Hang on, sir... Get out, get out of the car Stop Ho Wing Keung Get out of the car Bastard Do you know how many lives you're responsible for?. They have my wife and kids, I have to save them They're just kids, you madman! Hey kid, don't look... Step over here I promise you I will tell you everything when I see my family I promise you I will He was really the one who betrayed us six months ago But it's useless to hold him You can see he hasn't the guts to steal your money So what if you kill him?. Is that going to make you a hero?. You speak sense, it's almost like you've known us for a long time That's right I haven't really answered your question I was the one who committed the robbery six months ago, so?. Six months ago, a woman was out shopping for some rings Wedding rings She's dead now because of these robbers You killed her, you all killed her She was my fiancee So this is all to avenge your girlfriend We're quite similar in some ways The seven of us grew up in an orphanage together But you cops you killed three of us You're killers and robbers, you have no right to accuse us If I let you go now, wouldn't you kill me too?. So it's OK for cops to kill?. I vowed that you will die a horrible death You think you can kill me?. I believe so, yes, because this is a righteous world If you don't live past the next second How would you know the world is righteous?. Where is justice?. Where was justice when I was starving?. I get justice through my own bare hands Remember, you have to have the ability You promised your woman I made a vow to my brothers If there was justice in this world I hope we keep both our promises What's the point of all this rambling?. I dare you to let the kids go Looks like you want to eat me up, I don't blame you for being pissed off It's personal, you're not being professional Professional, my foot! You're inhuman Being human is not important, surviving is Hold it You look like my brother, but not in temperament My brother is much kinder He's called Wai King Tat, do you know him?. He's a cop, undercover cop, right?. Where is he?. I already said he was undercover do you think he's alive?. I killed him Your brother didn't suffer It just took one shot Why?. Why did you have to kill him?. Why did you have to kill him?. Why?. I'll put you behind bars If you want revenge, you can come after me I admired your brother, really Had he not been a cop we could have been friends Actually you're like your brother You must be some kind of model cop But let me tell you the person who betrayed your brother is also a cop Honey Daddy Kit Keung Daddy I missed you You're a good boy What's happened to you?. It's nothing, just a misunderstanding You said everything would be fine in 6 months I'm fine now Let me tie up loose ends, I'll be back in a few days. Don't worry Keung, don't leave us There's some money in the safe deposit box, take it You have to listen to your mum, OK?. Be good, listen to mom Come back soon I'll be back once I've settled things. Look after him Come back soon OK Listen to your mum or I'll spank you when I come back Hurry back, Keung! The phone number is 9238 0906 It's hard to get hold of you You were so wrong not to get rid of all of us at Tai O Pier Rubbish we want our money back Take the money to the Tamar Carnival I cannot return empty-handed this time Take the money to the safety boxes in Tamar in one hour Don't try anything, don't make me go get you at the police station Give me the phone Damn it! What are you doing?. What are you doing?. Are you inhuman?. Look at your friend, if you're not here within an hour... Kids, which of you has a hair clip?. Is the money ready?. Good, wait at the ferris wheel We'll come to the station to get you if there's even a penny missing Someone will bring a bag of cash to you at the ferris wheel Get it for me, wait at the north entrance You have 1 5 minutes If you're late, your friend and the kids will die Remember, take off the handcuffs and people will die Get off the car Sam sir Are you two mad?. What are you doing?. Do you even realize you're in deep shit?. Hand over the money What money?. We're here to catch crooks They're holding more than 1 0 kids The bombs will go off any time, we're out of time Freeze Don't come closer, I get a bomb Ask them to get away Calm down You guys calm down, there's so many people here Bomb Get out Go Ask them to get away Go Chan Chun and Carson are holding Sam How did this happen?. Sam got news the suspects would turn up at the Tamar He went down with a team and next thing we knew, this happened They're both cops There are bad cops too I'm SP Cheung how many hurt at the scene?. What's that?. Is it a clock?. I haven't seen that Odd sounds Don't touch that, it's a bomb What are you playing at?. You're cops If you carry on like this, even the Chief won't be able to save your ass Wai King Ho and the kids are in their hands Our hand was forced, sir Tien Yeng Seng is holding the kids hostage and asked you to bring the money Then what are you still investigating?. After the robbery 6 months ago The mastermind took the money, now the gang wants the money Really?. They killed Tiger first, then went for the truck's guard Ho Wing Keung Who's the mastermind?. Don't know yet but he's a cop The gang has just gone after him OK I trust you. Quick, give me the gun I'll get someone to save Wai and the kids Quickly, where is the location?. The bastards didn't come, only two cops Carson Fong and Chan Chun I said they didn't come I told you not to mess with those bastards They're going after you now It's OK, I know what to do Why?. No reason. One wrong step and there's no turning back Sorry OK I believe you. Quick, give me the gun I'll get someone to save Wai and the kids He didn't need a gun to help us Sam sir... Up there, after them! What's written up there?. Go Hurry...hurry... Hurry Run faster... Where's my sister?. My little sister is missing What can I do?. You run over there, quickly. Tell me who reaches first What the hell, still sleeping?. Get up... Hey, I'm Wai King Ho Any news on the two of them?. They ran into trouble at the fair, no news since then Hey, Lam Lam Where are you?. How are you?. Wait... How's Ho?. Ho called. He's coming back with the kids Are they all right?. Remember this number Please check out the number for me See who it belongs to, and where, OK?. That's it It's hard to guess what will happen Hey, your phone Sam's dead I know who you are Split your money Don't try anything funny... Talk later What's the matter?. Cheung sir, Law sir we found Sam's body at the fairground What?. Issue a warrant for their arrest, we have to get them no matter what Yes, sir Lam, have you checked it out?. Yes, it's done Yes, it's here in the station, it's SP Cheung The call is from his office line. That's it It's Cheung Man Yiu There are orders to arrest you what's happening?. Where is SP Cheung?. He's still in his office Find out what other information there is. Let us know Sir, the Chief is here and he's demanding to see you Where is he?. He only said he wants you in the conference room I'm on my way down Why did this happen?. Why was Sam killed?. Why?. Did you take money?. Did the gang pay you a lot?. I'm really perplexed Whether you believe it or not Cheung sir and Sam sir were the ones involved in the robbery case You two have killed a Chief lnspector Don't think you can make up stories and get away with it Permission to speak, sir Say it That day, only SP Cheung knew the route of the armored truck No one else knew the gang would try to flee at Tai O either Or reappear at the fairground, sir I don't have time to explain to you, sir SP Cheung took their money and they're at the station to find him Where?. At the station?. This is the station, as you know You think this is a playground?. I'm just saying their target is Cheung Man Yiu They will go wherever Cheung is sir Enough, no more nonsense You are under arrest You have the right to a lawyer If you have anything else to say tell it to the judge Law sir, someone to see you urgently from the intelligence unit What?. Why?. Law sir, we've discovered something Cheung sir procured Wai King Tat's file 6 months ago After that Wai disappeared, and then... Are you telling me Cheung is in it with the robbers?. Yes, an hour ago Cheung already transferred all his money to a Canadian account He's also booked on a flight to Canada tonight If you don't go after him now will be too late Hey, quiet, keep it down Now, go home and listen to your mum and dad OK?. Yes! Uncle is going to go after the crooks now Be careful! Bye! Michelle, please send the children home The kids are all here You're getting big troubles Don't ask, just go. Thanks Right, wait for me out front. Don't be late Enough, stop! I was wrong But I didn't want to betray you I wanted you to go and rob but you killed many cops. What could I do?. You threatened to kill me, I wasn't going to sit around and wait You forced my hand, you would have done the same if it had been you We're all in this for the money. Let's just split it No use killing me. You can take my share and split it The cash is in the parking lot, I'll take you there What?. I located lnspector Cheung, they're going to the parking lot Go The money's here, I didn't take any of it Give you back the money take it Don't kill me Take it, it's all there The money's here, Take it all and let me go Cheung Why are you involved with the robbers?. Why did you?. Do you know how many have died?. How can you make it up to your brothers?. To me?. Were you so desperate for money?. If so, you could have borrowed from me. Say something Bastard, I can't be bothered Gasoline, run Go, I'm fine... Inform the others the suspects are disguised as cops, hurry! Go... Nobody move! Queue up... Stop Stop Stop Upstairs Sir, are you okay?. Police! Freeze! Hey... Stop running! Retreat Cheung sir... Area cordoned, sir Too dangerous, they have heavy artillery and bombs Tell them to back off It's improper, sir This is an order, retreat! Don't move Shoot then Shoot and avenge your brother What are you waiting for?. Your brother had a chance to kill me But he was too soft, and I killed him in the end Shoot Shoot me here. It's where he got shot I'm a robber, no one will blame you if you shoot me Then you would have paid tribute to your brother Quick Killing is such a thrill Is it really?. Is that the only way to survive?. This world is not like that I have no right to kill you, I'm a cop. You're under arrest You're as stupid as your brother My brother and I had a duty to catch you, not kill you Police, don't move I am... You shot the wrong guy Idiot, why didn't you shoot?. Put down all your weapons Your brother told me something once But it's unfortunate You and I are not alike I exist in a dog eat dog world If you don't kill, you will be killed I'm a bad guy, I can't change You won't understand But you have changed. The bomb didn't go off in the bus It shows you have a conscience Why?. Why are you brave enough to kill but not to change?. Give up, you can't escape Put down your gun, come out! I promise you I'll be a good guy In my next life Put down your gun Do you want to die before you'll give us the money?. I want you to go down and apologise to my girlfriend You can't have revenge You're in such pain, I'd be doing you a favor in killing you The money is here Brother Police Wai King Ho Arrest him, arrest him, arrest him... Let go, he'll kill you Arrest him... arrest him, arrest him... Wai King Ho Wai King Ho I'm sorry, I tried my best It's alright you just lost some blood. Don't be afraid. It's fine I'm not afraid my brother said I shouldn't fear if I was doing right We know, you and your brother are good cops Wai, you're great But don't be so anal Take things easy my friend Sorry, I haven't asked to see your photos Be worth her love for you We are police officers We've been friends for 20 years I didn't want it like this If you don't die, I can't be get away with this I wouldn't do this if I had a choice Put down your gun... Sir, are you all right?. Let them go let them go Shut up, shut up and listen to me Let the two of them go Let the two of them go they're also police officers Don't you hear me?. Call the Chief of Police I thought you were dead It's OK, don't cry Shush I'm sorry What are you doing tomorrow?. Looking for work Find some for me See you Are you not showing me respect?. Do you know who I am?. I play mahjong with your CSP Wong every night $320, that's nothing to me. How about I give you $640?. Bet you're not this efficient catching crooks Look at you, you're a mess Mister, if you continue like this I can take you back to the station and charge you with abuse Dad, no... We're waiting for you Yes, sir
