 

                        The Ballad of Narayama What are you going to do at Shinyashiki, Tatsuhei? Nothing. How's your Dad? Not so well, and not so bad Arlue, give me the axe Grandma, how old are you? Your teeth look so healthy There should be no problem even eating pinecones and dried beans I haven't eaten such things before Grandma has about 33 teeth. Don't be silly, only 28. You stop counting after 28. Surely more than 28. Kesakichi, stop talking and go to work. Is that smelly boy still sleeping? Risuke, Risuke... Harumatsu's hungry. Did you go to Shinyashiki last night? Did you go to that bitch's house by stealth with the farmhand in the country? No, I didn't. They treat that dog like a sweet girl The ex-master has killed the farmhand who maltreated his daughter I said I didn't go there. Though a farmhand, you are still my brother You would be disgraced if you caused some scandal It's so smelly here, let's go over there Uncle! I... What happened? Don't scream It doesn't seem so sweet now. Where is grandma? Mum! Mum! You all right? It looks like Misuiko in the paddy field there really trouble to face her at that moment To meet Misuiko? She is so fat it would be impossible to make a mistake Really? My daughter-in-law will send me to the grave. When? Within 10 days I think You must send me there Risuke, where's Misuiko? Where's there? Wash your face a little next time, ok? I barely can breathe now.... Your Misuiko is at the field So what, at the smelly field? She will be smelly soon So I don't have to go there to handle it yet Thanks for telling me Then go there to handle it or it will hinder my work She is not smelly yet However, go there soon! You idiot! Why are you so nervous? However smelly she gets she cannot compare to you OK, I won't butt into your business! Anyone in the country knows it So smelly! If I finish this I will go to the field then What the hell is that? Isn't that what you want? It's without measure Isn't that Shioya? Oh, Suzuba, long time no see Haven't seen you for a year, the girl is cute But her mother Tatsuhei's wife... I've heard about her. So miserable... After her childbirth, she went out picking chestnuts and fell down from the cliff Get up! get some drink Has Tatsuhei gone to the hill to work? No, to the field. I thought I met him at the western mountain on the way here Saw Tatsuhei? I maybe mistook him, as I was so far away Suzuba, my purpose coming here today is nothing else but.. Isn't this salt? I've not made a decision to buy it Not for business It was Mr. Matayan of the neighbouring country who told me to send it to you The neighbouring country? I beg you to do me a favor for Tatsuhei's remarriage It's so cold The madam is coming from the neighbour country She is called Tama Just became a widow the day before yesterday She will come here after the 100 days of mourning She is 37, 8 years younger than you I needn't make a selection for my plight Smelly boy, don't come near me Risuke, don't come near him if he told you not to Kesakichi will inherit from Tatsuhei to become the master of the family Tatsuhei Did you go to the western mountain this morning? No Shioya said he saw you You are getting more and more like Ribei now He said he saw the master? It is impossible for a man who got lost 30 years ago to be still alive Oh, a mistake Don't cry Mum You really don't know about Dad's disappearance? It was when you were 15, and Risuke was 5 Very bad harvest that year The girl who just gave birth was sold to Shioya and Ribei's mother and me both are 69 That's the age to go to the mountaintop and bad things coming together, Ribei's very disappointing for failing to bring his mother to the mountaintop Well rules are rules, kindness is not the issue. and he just felt himself running away so painful so disgraceful you are the same I am different, different from Dad of course Matsu, how many pubic hairs do you have? I don't know. Let me count them out for you No, Kesakichi No I don't want it at such place bracken it doesn't matter I'll pick up twice quantity of bracken for you I'll pick up everything for you Pick up many many things for you Oh, so painful... Come to my house! Come to find how many teeth my mother has Tatsuhei, I don't mean this I'm just imitating your Kesakichi's song Is that Kesakichi? Yes Though don't know who is that, come helping me My son is a devil, he doesn't let me eat even kill me who is that outside? Dad, he's Neeko's Tatsuhei Oh. I see He wanted to die last night He had done that once before We thought that he would go to the summit this winter because he's already 70 So did your mother. Kesakichi, are grandma's teeth ghost teeth? Wretch! she likes you so much No longer let you eat I envy you Why? I won't live for long but it isn't good either, to be like me, so healthy able to eat but nothing else I also want to come to the summit I don't want to die in my bed and be buried near there The result is same All our souls will come to the summit in the end All of us will meet at the summit together Really? Sure Your husband is also waiting for you Though I have no idea about my husband No one knows where Ribei went He only left his gun at the valley He died long ago though he was a bit thick but not a bad man I have no idea you are so wretched Wretchedness does not matter, but humiliation does Kinba is almost dead When will she die? Maybe in 1 or 2 days The woman will come in two months then mother could relax it doesn't matter whether she comes or not I don't want this woman. If I would remarry my wife will look after Yuki I don't care. What? Furthermore, we can't afford additional two people Wretch, don't eat Your brother will marry Ameya's Matsune Wretch, shut up! Is it too large? Not serious A great coffin! How about Kinba She just died Really? Hurry up Mum, still alive? Not yet, I got well after eating the baiqiu It's baiqiu Idiot Baby The harvest is bad this autumn The grass grows too quick Are you coming to worship Is this Tatsuhei's home? Aren't you Tama from the neighbouring village? Although I could worship there But they tell me to come here Because they said there are good things to eat here So I come here stealthily at midnight Oh, you must be hungry Baby Come in, quick Why are you there? You should come in early Because I'm alone, that's not good though brother said he would take me here He was in drink while worshiping Shioya said grandma was kind, told me come here early it's my duty to take you here that would be fine, I would follow you though I would tell Shioya I'll come to the summit soon It also will be OK later No, no, God will cry if I go early These trout were all caught by me Are you able to catch a trout? No one could catch more than me, in my home or village I know where they are I will tell you later You can eat all these things There are many sun-cured, too I go to call Tatsuhei Help yourself Only two? Don't tell anyone else, Risuke What did you pick up? Nothing Give me some There's nothing Give me This smelly boy, smell ugly You are also a farmhand, I'm a farmhand of your uncle's generation Don't be too exalted Beast! Eat slowly, call Tatsuhei now I'm of the age to come to the summit, my teeth all broken better than before so do I Reichu is moving, Reichu? He is greeting you Baby Shiro Baby, come here Shiro! don't move! freeze! Shiro! Shiro Aen! Aen! Aen, very efficient The snake has been done This new house has something strange, like a ghost There was a barn before near the doghouse and a farmhand lived in it He assaulted my daughter finally he was killed by father I was sick, haven't die when come to the mountain the farmhand that was killed by father haunts us now After I die you will serve as the one-night wife of the farmhands by turns One farmhand each night? Yes! then come to worship the God also let the farmhands worship the God if you don't do this the farmhand will make trouble in this house forever Aen! it's your duty! you must do penance! I know, don't be anxious Screw up, I know I will do certain penance You are lying I'm not lying Who told you? The lord of the new house it was his last words last night to whom? Of course Aen Then why how you know? From Aen.. I just passed by Wretch! you must have gone to tempt Shiro! Wretch! I didn't The stinky guy gets crazy, because too stinky He was abandoned by Shiro, he's mad Mad! mad! Beast! they have the impertinence to disdain me God, please let me cure the stinky sickness soon Let Aen's husband die soon, and.. Wretch! you cheat me I know all the things that occurred yesterday You spied on brother and his wife? Did you seek? Are you talking about mother's teeth Teeth? Mother said don't tell anyone else I'm talking about Shiro at the new house Wretch, what about mother's teeth? Brother You know? Come here Let me give the guy a lesson Brother Always perpetrate a fraud Brother.... mother I like your teeth, like stone, solid and big I want to kill you If I go, what about you? Be law-abidng I'm a pig, in front of brother Yes, listen to me, all will be OK Don't you feel stinky? What will happen to Stinky? I think mother doesn't care about my stench It feels like a sword Now it's raining inside me. The baby seems much bigger than before When will it be born? Next year. Would the baby's face be like me or its father? Like grandma Grandma said he would be premature What sin does a premature baby have? It is from procreating too young Grandma dislikes me She said I am like Arha in the song who is helpless Come to my home to eat tomorrow Really? We will limit one bowl per person from tonight Yes! Matsu, you are excellent in that aspect but are awful at making a fire I'm sorry every time Anyway, there are many in mother's home Penance to the mountain God What can I do to help them? Then don't go! The unborn child is so bothersome How can we prevent them from occuring? Everybody must make a decision quickly I want go to bed Everybody get up! Hurry up! Where are Tatsuhei and Kesakichi? They have gone Where? the rain-house? Your home, you have no need to go You go look after Yuki The sound heard just now is rain-house He had the impertinence to steal the beans harvested ten days ago I caught him Then appease the mountain God, follow the rule Go search! Find! Find! It's a bit thick, it's in Ameya's potato field Less than half of this No wonder we harvest so few this year It's been picked back early Look, so many! Ameya's father had also been sacrificed to the mountain God Forgive me! Because there are so many people in my home, we are hard up Many persons? Who sired them one by one? I'm wrong, I know I'm wrong Kesakichi! Kesakichi! Kesakichi! I beg you! Isn't Matsu your wife? this and that are two different things Everyone's house is hard up. The daughter of Ameya has theft in her bloodline Two generations must be sacrificed to the mountain God Where's Aen? This time you could just apologize We must have a plan Aen's father died just now Everyone come to distribute The beans are good, let me eat some Don't simply eat, come to the mill Why? The food in the pot is just enough for one bowl per person Really? Winter will come The woman has come after all The food supply is enough for five months I hope so Is our food going to be enough for the winter? No, we must find a solution Otherwise I won't be able to sleep I don't care about him, he would steal again Then what do we do? That is why I called you to come to discuss We will gather at Makichan's home You also should go I will come to each house to summon them You are working hard We must make a decision tonight If we decide to eradicate Ameya's home We can't let Matsu escape You must realise this right now. But she was married here, The baby in her womb belongs to Neeko's home That would not be reasonable. Tatsuhei, it's because you are like this that others say you are soft like Ribei Who says? Who says I am like my father? Oh, you hurt me... Let us discuss with grandma Let's gamble tonight Really? Then divide it into three parts, is it ok? One person just loses out, is it ok? I take it Too many! too many! I'm so sorry It would be good if it's a girl A girl does not need to be killed, and could be sold Matsu, Matsu Hasn't Ameya eaten tonight? You bring these to them Tonight you should sleep there to look after them! Well Too hot! Tatsuhei-- Come quick Kesakichi had better not go Why? Don't ask why. Does it taste good? Let me go! Help! No! Wait! Matsu Matsu Kesakichi Kesakichi No! Wait! Bastard! There's my baby in Matsu's womb Matsu Kesakichi Go back Grandma, where is Ameya's daughter Where is Matsu! Arlue, don't mention anything about Ameya Go to sleep! quick Kesakichi, come in to warm yourself Grandma, you cheated me Kesakichi It was you who asked Matsu go back to Ameya Why? Why did you ask her go back? You got her killed, grandma! You beast! You devil of a grandma Mum, why didn't you tell me? Mum I will go to the summit this winter My mother's home's grandma has gone to the summit I also should go, since the grandma has gone Living here is very hard I can meet Matsu at the summit Meet Matsu Never mind, the household is already reduced by one Her unborn child has also died We can get through this winter There might be another child born soon Idiot! Don't worship there Worship the Shinyashiki God later, quick! Bastard! put off your underwear Move up, quick Wrong! Not there. bastard There! Move your waist there The day before yesterday is Shouzo's turn, last night is Gen's turn We take turns from the west Then it will be my turn tonight Bastard Bastard Stinky guy! serve you right! You have been passed over. so do you Your wife has been killed, you can no longer have a woman better than you, no wife you laugh at me, Harumatsu you look down on me, bastard well, I can't bear anymore, wretch! wretch! Harumatsu it is said Aen have abandoned you... I don't care about those things how can I lose sense because that? let you become a bridegroom is that Aen meet me? idiot! not she listen! only one night! no later really? when? won't be long but you must start with a clean slate don't play the field and bait Harumatsu like a fox only one night just like what I said last night bear only one night! what should we do if he killed Harumatsu? Then we would be hard up this winter What will happen if he plays the field You ought to know! I beg of you! Only one night for him! He is so stinky, and has no money to give others and no potatoes It's whom stolen the potatos slinkingly though reluctant, can't you bear? you are so boring! I see because you abandoned Risuke he has no mood to work any more. Can't you bear only one night? even though he is stinky... I'm very sorry, but not him... I would die! But it was your late husband's last words Maybe he said it was all right to skip Risuke I went to the grave this morning to beg not to have to couple with that stinky guy Suddenly a butterfly as big as this arrived though it's autumn now. A butterfly? Yes! fluttering there happily It seemed very happy So I come back reassured My nose is not so sensitive, I can't smell him so I don't mind this Are you saying ok? Though I'm not unwilling I haven't been used for a long time .... Don't worry, it's his first time .... I will go tomorrow Tonight we could invite all the people of the mountain and it's not too early now Go and call everyone together, quick Mum Hurry up Otherwise they will have gone out to work I saw Ribei Where? Just now at the grassland of the mountain I go to call every one you... Ribei It's the soul Now your soul could not be forgiven So you linger there I want to go to the summit I won't call you, idiot I went to hunt for a bear with father when I was only 15 and killed him here when I came back I said to father after considering "It's better to carry grandma to the mountain" And he said "What do you know?" and got angry suddenly We began to fight. I killed him with my gun then laid his bones there Tatsuhei I liked Ribei, but he made me ashamed. It was not you who killed him, but God Don't tell the others, understand? Tama, you'd better put out the fire Kesakichi, when finished there bring the cloudy wine here Shake it well Tatsuhei, though it's early, go and wash Arlue, that's ok Tama, come here Grandma, wonderful! If you watch carefully during the day, you can see the trout playing close it stealthily in the night you have a try Tatsuhei told you to lend your body to Risuke, is that true? Don't do that, reject him Spread your hands Caught Yes, just like this Now I have taught you all the things Don't tell anyone else about this place You can only come here by yourself Though it's hard to go to the mountain, toilsome The wine is good, Suzu is so crackerjack You must obey the rules of the mountain Pass the winter-tree, climb over a second mountain, there will be a pool Walk around the pool three times, then walk over the ladder Make your way over a mountain there will be a ravine Cross the ravine, then proceed two miles and a half On your way there are seven bends, that is Seven-Valley When you pass through Seven-Valley you will arrive at the saddle back... From there is the road to the God There's a road to the God, but sometimes it is hard to see... The higher you climb, the better. God is waiting for you there You mustn't look back while you go back from the mountain There's no need to go up to the mountain if you are unwilling You can also return from the saddleback. Also don't let others know this I'll tell you what you ought to know Here It can be used if necessary What do you want to do? Tatsuhei Ba! Tie him up Do not want to go to the summit It would not be long We would meet at the summit For the sake of God, for son, you'd better go now Don't worry about home Dad! let's go home! It's a rabbit's tooth! it's a amulet Do you want to go back? Mum! are you tired? I don't want to, how about Mum? Our ancestors have gone to the summit for hundreds of years as we do now. There will have been thousands of persons like you Kesakichi will carry me And another 25 years later Kesakichi must go too. We have no means but this to survive. Is the God waiting for you at the summit? If it's really there It ought to snow the way it says in the ballad. Dad Dad! go to the summit! Snow Snow, it's starting to snow. Mum! it is starting to snow Mum! it's so cold! Mum! you're very lucky, as it is snowing while you go to the summit Mum! it is really starting to snow It's so cold! It is just starting to snow Wonderful, are you hungry? What's the matter Grandma is so lucky Just like in the ballad. What a savory aroma! Let's all eat at home starting from tonight.
