 

                        They say that it's safe on the other side. That people don't kill over there. But the narcos are over here. My dream is that there would be no more murders here. I want to see him! We can't get through here. They're saying hooded people came and killed him. They took out an AK-47 and shot him. Well first with a pistol. Then they ran out of bullets so they took the AK and started shooting the car. Good thing they didn't hit the gas tank. It would have exploded. They shoot randomly and liquidate everyone. That's how they killed my uncle. He was going to church. My uncle was just walking and got shot. He choked on his own blood. We're going out to Guadalupe to pick up a body. The streets are empty. Because of the situation people don't leave their houses. Here in this plaza they left dismembered bodies, without heads. Sometimes only the heads with a message. We have to come out here to work and it's very dangerous for us to be here. Juarez has always been a dangerous city. In 2007, we processed 320 murders. Then the drug war arrived in our city. In 2008, we processed 1,623 homicides. In 2009, there were 2,754 murders. 3,622 were murdered in Juarez in 2010. In El Paso, Texas, just across the river there were only five murders that same year. Making it the safest city in the United States. I was walking in peace around Guadalajara. The damn government started a battle. With an AK-47 but no bulletproof vest, I cruised in my white truck I hit one, my rifle never fails. With a good eye and a good pulse, my school fights back. All right "Ghost" my friend... What do you want me to put in your song? The more stuff you let me know, the more I can make it interesting and the better it will come out. Say that I come from Michoacan. And now you can find me in Oxnard. What caliber do you carry'? A 9mm. Or the R15. Do you want me to say your name, or just call you "Ghost?" "El Ghost. " That's it. Gonna go meet up with "Ghost. " A little hustle I got going on here. Let's do it here in the truck. Is everyone ready or what'? Walking around without hearing with bags under my eyes I don't like the usual Only the best quality inside these jars. The clients ask and they pay. And I bring them the package. The car stayed parked and I went in my Silverado South to north on Highway 101, always in transit. With payments for my friends. My name... it slipped my mind I'll pay you now? Solid? Damn, no tip'? Savings. Did he like the corrido'? Yeah he liked it. Tomorrow I'm gonna record it for him. ...and he asks if I want to sing in a band he was starting. We're bloodthirsty, crazy, and we like to kill. Sing it! Sorry. Why do you work with a mask'? For our security. There are so many people at the crime scene. We never know what people are in the crowd. Maybe the murderer is one of them'? Please... my children are over there! Let me see! I'm fine! Let me see! My children! - Let me pass. - I can't. Why not'? It's my house. We saw two cars arrive. One of them stopped, put their hand out the window and started shooting. There were three shots and then they left. And Who did it? A kid. Maybe 14 or 15 years old. "There are 11 left. " They are going to come for 11 more. That's it. We'll have to walk. This is going to be a bitch. Get behind the line. They killed him! In this last year, many of my colleagues have quit out of fear and insecurity. I know the danger that we are in as crime scene investigators. But this is my job. It's what I like to do. And so I refused to quit. I was born here in Juarez. My father was born in Juarez too. It's a beautiful city and very sincere. Six or seven years ago, This was a very different city than today. Now there are no jobs. There are no businesses they have closed because of extorsion. So many innocent people here have lost their lives for being in the wrong place. The only way I can help this city is through my work. We'll be right there. You are probably asking, as are other Mexicans, if this can change. And my answer is "yes. " Yes it can change. Things can change, and they will change for the better. It's Mexican weed with an American name. Wow it smells nice. Like the scent of a woman. Thanks to the fucking weed. You take it like this, right'? A little gift, a bonus. The guy liked the corrido and he gave me a weapon. That's how it is. 1... 2... 3... BuKnas! What song does this fucking bazooka remind you of'? With an AK-47 and a bazooka on my shoulder. Cross my path and I'll chop your head off. We're bloodthirsty, crazy, and we like to kill! What violent people in El Paso, Texas! That's why we are as disturbing as ever. This song is what we are all about! With an AK-47 and a bazooka on my shoulder. Cross my path and I'll chop your head off. We're bloodthirsty, crazy, and we like to kill! We are the best at kidnapping. Our gang always travels in a caravan. With bullet proof vests, ready to execute! I'm number one, code name "M1" I'm backed up by El Chapo. My name is Manuel Torres Felix sending greetings from Culiacn. SEMEFO consists of the forensic medical service, criminal investigation field work the ballistic laboratory the chemical laboratory the genetics department criminal identification and vehicle identification, among others. Right now we are the busiest forensic department in this country and the world. We have two bodies. Completely burned. Completely burned'? Damn. Copy that. It's difficult to work on the bodies here. We can't get them out. It'll be safer to do back in the lab. The men in the car were first executed by shooting. Then they were doused in gasoline, and the truck was left burning for everyone to see. Revenge is something we've experienced first hand. On June 3rd, 2010, my colleague Juan Luis was assassinated. He was gunned down in front of his house after work. A month later, Saul Chavez left the office to go pick up his kids from school. He was murdered as he waited outside. Oscar Miranda was the third member of the unit we lost. The hitmen unloaded over 40 rounds from automatic weapons in front of his home. They were all killed on their way to or from the office. I just saw a suspicious car outside. When was this'? Right now. I just got back. You should contact the coordinator and the boss and tell them... Fuck. Do you have your radio'? Those were gun shots. High caliber. If you see any action or anything just call us so we can send you 23. Thank you. Wait, just let me check. You always go out with a prayer on your lips. You never know when things will happen. You always have to look what vehicles are at your side. If you see a strange car... Look, that one doesn't have plates. Those are the kind of vehicles that we're really scared of. This is the risk of working here. This is the "Movimiento Alterado". Straight out of Sinaloa. Sending reinforcements to decapitate El Macho leads wearing a bulletproof vest. Bazooka in hand with experience Wearing grenades, death is within. Tvviins Culiacn. ...the girls take off their clothes a private party like you can't imagine! Hit it! Hit it! If there wasn't so much violence in Mexico, we wouldn't have such badass corridos. And that's reflected in the Movimento Alterado. This is the first time all of the Movimiento Alterado bands are here on Sunset. In Hollywood, with all the celebrities. We do it in L.A. because it's very powerful to give birth to new musical movements, artistic movements. We upgraded to The House of Blues now. ...a new Mexican-American culture. All this culture is being mixed together. People have come here from all oven. It's so cool to see regular people... They go to a club, and they feel narco for that night, you know? Komander, Komander! Komander how are you? Is this the first step to Hollywood'? Let's hope, let's hope! We're going to see a series of great artists... a huge lineup of 22 artists. You said you were going to arrive at 11 am. I was waiting here with the weed. This is a musical movement from Los Angeles but really it comes from Sinaloa. And so it's an honor to present, straight out of Culiacn, Sinaloa... my main man, Komander. - Great corrido. - Yeah you like it'? My mom listens to it. She says, "it reminds me of you!" Yeah I wrote that in Durango. Badass, dude. Oh you wrote it there'? He's started playing the accordion. One day you can be like me! Who wants corridos? One, two, three... BuKnas! Take a bite out of crime! People are very drunk, very hyped up. Often people have already taken drugs. There are fights in eight out of every ten shows we do. You always hear these narco corridos over the police frequencies. After we hear a narco corrido, it means there's been an execution. Thanks, we'll be right there. Never come around here. And now they drive by twice. Why? They were scouting ahead, working for the bad guys. They're all the same guys. I don't understand why there are so many police here. They should go and catch the criminal. The federales stop people, but then just let them go. And the local cops abuse their power. They're bullies. It's their fault so many innocent people die. Just now five or six people were killed. Including workers, clients and supposedly a police officer too. Nice Christmas. Sometimes you ask yourself, "Did I mess up?" "Was there something I didn't do right?" Some people even say... "You guys are just bullet collectors. " It's sad when people don't value your work. The truth is there are many deaths that... that sometimes... it gets frustrating. As a crime investigator, I play my part in the system. He was watching the news. And I asked, "What happened son?" - He grabbed his face. - "What happened son?" A colleague. - "What happened?" - They killed him. Now Richi doesn't go out. He doesn't go have a drink, go for a walk. He doesn't leave. He comes from work to home eats and sleeps and then goes back to work. When he leaves in the morning, I don't know if he'll come back. Sometimes I wish that you would leave that job. Why don't you quit my son'? Why not'? Give me an explanation'? There is no other work. And it's my career. But last week, you lost one of your colleagues? Sometimes I worry so much, you have no idea. But like Richi said, it's his work, it's his career. If he leaves his job, what will he do for work? All the small businesses are closed or closing. And those that aren't closing are paying extortion money. What if you get married and go to El Paso'? If he gets a good job there, we'll all go with him! This is my house. I was born and raised here. I've lived here for 34 years. This has always been my room. My own space. Here it's just me. This is where I laugh, this is where I cry, all of it. Yes my son. Be really careful okay'? Bye son, God bless. Richi doesn't want to leave his work. But the higher he gets promoted the more danger he's in. And he tells me "Mom, at 6pm lock yourself in. " Unless you see that they're customers, don't open the door for anyone. These young guys come in... They come in with little papers like this, and they leave you a phone number. And you say, "What is this'? What do you want?" They say, "Call this number, I don't know anything. " You're afraid and don't know what to do. But you have to call. They tell you they'll come by to charge a certain amount. - But why'? I don't have very much... - I already told you. If not, close your store. We'll burn this place down. What can we do'? OPEN - Joaquin, you okay'? - You got hit by the ricochet'? Calm down, my love. A gun shot! Another! It's all taken care of. Where to now, boss'? We run the risk that this fucker will tell his friends. Cut it. Okay, out. This is how movies need to be made, stupid. He's here! It's the actor from "El Baleado"! Take eight, camera two. Action! You're dead! Cut. Everyone listens to narco corridos. I don't think there's anyone who doesn't like them. I would like to be the girlfriend of a narco because it's a way of life, not anything bad. Well, okay, it is something bad, but it's a way of life. It's been coming for years, in our Mexico. It's something that's a culture for us. Where are you playing now, at the Nokia theater'? Yeah man. Sold out, dude. Arriba Los Angeles! ...I've got so much to learn! I need more words, more slang. You should send me to Mexico to live there for six months or something. If you're born here, you don't have the same vocabulary as someone from Mexico. I have to get my information from YouTube and the Internet. All Komander has to do is walk outside. For that reason I've always wanted to go to Culiacn, to write more corridos. How are you my son? I'm good grandma, thanks. You've been dancing! I was thinking today... I just could not have met a better woman than you. No, I'm serious. Awww, love! I kill at a very early age. That's why I live so traumatized then to get over the trauma, I go get into a fight. Now nobody can catch me. They'll say "He has flown away. " ...with his AK-47 at his side. We are getting to work... I don't like his voice. He has a good tone, but the Gordito Chaparrito is better. Yeah, why couldn't he come? In the mafia he is known as M1 by his friends. Active collaborator. My girlfriend and I have plans... to live over there in the United States, in El Paso. She feels more at peace there. She doesn't want to live in Juarez because of the insecurity and danger. We have to think about the safety of our kids when we have a family one day. It would be a major change. After you cross the bridge, you feel a certain quietness. A different rhythm of life. How do you feel, Richi, coming back to Mexico? You wouldn't believe how much more free I feel because it's my country and my city. Here I'm less worried about breaking every little rule. I just feel more confident. It'll be hard to live there. There are different customs and culture. A different language. I'll miss this. Everything that's here - Mexico... Juarez. Juarez isn't just death and violence. There's also love. Kindness. Respect. There are good people. What's your name'? Carlos Hogada. And who received money'? In a video posted online, a captured member of the Sinaloa Cartel is being interrogated by members of a rival cartel. They force him to identify corrupt officials working with the Sinaloa cartel. Who else inside the law is paid off by the Sinaloa Cartel? Corrupt or not, the officials named in the video knew they were targets now. Give me more names! The coordinator of SEMEFO in Juarez. What's his name'? Two days later another video was released. This time, there was no talking. A written message appeared, saying: "This is what will happen to people who continue to work for the Sinaloa Cartel. " And this time, as usual, a narco corrido playing in the background. The situation in the office was very uncomfortable. The guys began referring to Oscar as "dead man walking. " After knowing about the threats, and certain information being circulated your life changes radically because you need to take precautions. You can't go out like you used to or like any person does walk through the mall... And you have a family too right? This is something you have to explain to them'? Yes, but in the last year we've lost colleagues. It's a risk all of us who work here take. You're not working in a flower shop. It'd be stupid not to be on alert. And I'd rather not talk about my family, so I don't give them any ideas... Although Oscar was shaken, he kept working until he received a threat: "If you don't resign, you'll be executed tonight. " Oscar quit, and was never seen at the office again. The first thing that happens is you stop fearing the law. We have the law bought when we work. Because it's a cycle. All of it. Did you ever torture anybody'? Once. I've had to do many things. I've had to do favors for many people. There were three people hitting him with wooden bats. And when he wouldn't tell us where were, we burned him, pressed nails into his hands, everything. But in that moment you don't feel anything, because... if the people you're working with see your weakness, you're no longer useful to them. So you need to turn cold. You can't have compassion for other people. Sol picked up the bat again and worked up my nerve. I took the bat again and gave him three more hits but these I gave him to the back of his head and it all opened up. I couldn't sleep for a week. I don't think it will ever end. On July 25th, 2011, there was a massacre in the Juarez prison. In a video released by the authorities inmates dressed in white easily take keys from guards, who then simply walk away. They open the doors to the cell, and other prisoners emerge with guns. 17 inmates were murdered that day, and another 20 were injured. It took 24 hours for the authorities to take control of the situation, and for us to gain access to recover the bodies. So the fact that you catch less. Does that indicate that there's actually less movement of drug trafficking? That could be a bad number too, right? You're catching less. The most natural herb ever, marijuana from Sinaloa. No to drugs. No to drugs. We got a shoutout on YouTube. "This video was specially made for my friend Edgar Quintero and my friend Jaime from BuKnas de Culiacn, Sinaloa. " That's it. Make no mistake. This is for our friends the BuKnas! To our friends The BuKnas! Every time I watch this video it hits me. I want to raise a glass. That's my friend "300" right there. Him and his brother with his wooden leg. 300 came up to me as a fan and asked how he could get a corrido. Arriba Sinaloa, motherfuckers! The Sinaloa Cartel has always been there. It's been the strongest cartel after all these years. And that's very important for corridos. You have to recognize what direction things are going in, and what's becoming popular. The Sinaloa Cartel is on the rise right now and that's why we sing corridos to people who deserve them. He sings for BuKnas de Culiacn. He's a singer. Yeah, we already know him. The years have passed, today I am a hitman. Working on the line for El Chapo and El Mayo I'm a brave person, a hard worker. And I'm alert 2417 I'm good at this and I follow orders my name is "300," tell me when and where. Business is booming, even if it doesn't look like it I've overseen it down to the last detail. We've been looking at the statistics of all reported crimes. And we've found that out of every 100 homicides, only three cases advance in their investigation. And once those three are in court, even less are actually found guilty and punished. So 97% of the 10,000 murders in the last four years have not even been investigated. None of them have been punished. And if there's no punishment, people will just commit more and more crimes. In recent years, there's an increased focus on forensic science. The problem is that all this forensic information is not going anywhere. After the crime scene investigators collect all this information there are very few cases where they actually follow that trail of evidence and find the guilty party. Almost never. We have seen many many cases of authorities collaborating with criminal organizations. My opinion, based on what I've seen is that the administration is very careful to make sure there is no investigation. This is going to be unsolved and it's going to be like a blackout in our history. Can you tell us what happened with the body that was found in the government office last Tuesday'? Cut. I don't know if it's okay to talk about that case. There's an infinite number of cases. We simply do our job and don't know why. On October 10th I went out on a call and found a dismembered torso. Human Jigsaw Puzzle. By nightfall, we had collected over ten pieces of that one chopped-up body. Not long after, a video of the victim's mother appeared online. Who authorized this war'? Who did they ask for permission'? They didn't ask the citizens. We are in the middle of this war. They are killing us. They are killing our children and nobody is doing anything. Nobody shouts! Who told to turn this into a battlefield? Who? Who told this animal that he could leave us like lab rats'? He should be the one fighting! He should go to the front lines and not our children. Why do the all the mothers stay silent'? Why'? They decapited him alive. Those animals out him up into 16 pieces. Everybody saw when they took my son. It would have been better if they killed him right there. But they decapitated him alive. That's what I can't stand. The pain. That I can't stand. Shout, Juarez, Shout! Shout about the pain they are causing! Why doesn't anybody shout'? Today, Durango, I want you to pay attention even if it hasn't happened to you. But I want you to look around YOU, and think and listen to the pain of the cries: "Give me back my son! Give me back my father. Give me back my brothers. " Because if you don't cry today, Durango. If you don't go home with a new awareness that tomorrow can't be the same as today that tomorrow you can't live the same as you lived today. Tomorrow you have the responsibility to build a better Durango because if you don't become aware today tomorrow Durango will be an abandoned homeland. We've walked 3,400 km to get to Ciudad Juarez the epicenter of the pain of this country. The march stayed in Juarez for two days. Over those 48 hours, we kept working like always, and processed 19 more homicides. I want a protection blessing. We're going to Mexico. What part? To Culiacn. Close your eyes. How good that you have faith. What parts of your life would change if someone gave you a million dollars'? What wouldn't I do'? Build a house for my mom and dad. A house for me and my family. You have your plans, but in that moment you won't know what to do with that money. You know why'? Because you don't need it. You simply don't need that money. Or do you? I just need my health and to be... Exactly. Health and security. How old are you? How old do I look? Twenty-seven. I just turned 60, and one day you will too. And at this age you have done what you've done. And once you complete your mission then that's that. I'll be back. Are you going to behave? No parties in the house okay'? You. No after parties in the hotel. Not in Mexico. Fuck no. Mexico's dangerous. Yeah I'm scared. AK-47! What did he say'? He said AK-47! Wait wait wait! What about me? Stop lying to him, Edgar. This is to everyone who says BuKnas aren't in Culiacn. Here we are right in the middle of Culiacn! On a little ranch outside the city, here we are! Check it out, look all around us! If you know it well, you'll know where we are! Hey, look at his shirt! BuKnas, see'? That's me, in the middle. Is this all yours'? Yeah, everything here is ours. It's really peaceful here. Well of course, this is our territory. You guys are the bosses here. Just tell us what to do and when to do it. Because you know how the water runs here. I don't want there to be any problems. We came for what we came for. Do some singing, have a good time... We can go wherever we want. I just feel grateful right now. Happy and grateful for... Even the dogs don't bark at us here. What? Even the dogs don't bark at us here. This is the good stuff, bro. My friend and I were cooking meth. We were happy, over there at the ranch near Modesto. When the DEA came, the lookout was in place. How much is in each bag? One pound. How much is that worth in dollars? $9,000 each in Los Angeles. $100,000 total. He traded in his boats for pots to cook meth. He brought it to Phoenix, Arizona where he sold the "crystal". Catrin and I will cook and we'll send you the rocks. Just keep working at it, the gringos will keep smoking it. That's the song. Put it on the list. You have to write down a few songs so we can record them in L.A. Anything I write in my garage in L.A. is just bullshit. You have to experience the real thing to write about it. I didn't hit a single one! Arriba Culiacn, Sinaloa! What a surprise to find you on my ranch. He'd been waiting for me for a while. Because I have so many hitmen. They offered me so much money I don't care what you say. They paid me to kill him. Right now, we're gonna play for this guy. And he's going to pay us cash. He wants us to go now. Here'? In here'? No, we're going to his place. Okay fine. He's the son of "The Rooster of Sinaloa. " "The Rooster of Sinaloa"? Okay. The private party's on. Let's go. I've got some "cuchita blanca. " Four little grams of it. Can I try some tomorrow'? Yes of course. I'll give you some to try. How is life here? It's the best, my friend. It's the very best. If you have money, you do whatever you want. Shoot guns... smoke marijuana... ...in front of the poli-oops, I didn't say anything. Sometimes we shoot paintballs at the transit cops. Yeah we start shooting "boom boom boom" and they all go, "Ahhhh!" They get really scared. Money and happiness. They're the same thing. First you get the power, then you get the money then you get the bitches. ...In other words. I bring a bag full of ammo of pure AK-47 and .45. Don't presume to be brave I have enough, thank God. At the federales' checkpoint. They only say to me, "Pass through, sir". Don't ask where I came from. Much less where I'm going lam a Sinaloense and very true I have enemies, what can I do'? I will never forgive traitors. And if I fight, I won't lose. I never get scared. When provoked, I respond. It was night and all of a sudden we started to hear a very loud engine rumble. And Richi thinks they're policemen. They pass near our car and someone in the first truck says: "What's up faggots?" And Richi turns around and tells them: "Go ahead, go ahead!" Eight trucks pass by. Really big trucks with masked men inside. That's when I said, "These aren't policemen!" Suddenly we were in the eye of the hurricane. Like that. And the guy in the passenger seat got out. The guy who said "what's up faggots?" Yes, the guy who said "what's up faggots. " He was an elegant man. With a trench coat nearly touching the floor but elegant! Classy shoes, nice pants and shirt. Skinny and with white hair. You would think he was a lawyer. He comes down holding an AK-47. He starts to tell us, Coco first with an AK-47 pointed at his stomach. "Don't you know who we are?" "The truth is I don't. " When they realized we weren't doing anything they started to leave. All the vans took off. The first thing Richi does is get the radio and call 23. Nothing. The next day Internal Affairs called us in. "Do you remember the trucks?" I remembered that they were luxury trucks. "Did you see the plates?" I saw them. I saw. But no, I didn't see. I didn't see anything. I'm supposed to risk my life and my family's life'? How much more do we have to deal with? Will it change'? Will this change'? God willing. One month after listening to our conversation. My friend Isaac Jesus Orona was murdered. He was ambushed near his home becoming the fourth investigator in our unit to be assassinated. We're with you. In this line of work we're like a second family. What happens to one of us happens to all of us. That's how Isaac's death affects us. We already miss you tremendously, Isaac. Rest in peace, number twenty-one. - Bravo three. - Present. - Bravo nine. - Present. - Bravo thirteen. - Present. - Bravo twenty-one! - Present! I'm suffering the loss of a son. That's two of my children they've killed. The first was named David Saez. - And the delinquents took him with a bullet to the head. What's going to happen to the future of our city'? And not just this city, but all of Mexico'? Will our society be destroyed'? And those who work for the government... They are all afraid. If they quit, wherever they go, that fear will hound them. But I'd tell them not to resign. I'm afraid. We are all afraid. But we can't always live in fear. All the big dogs end up here. All the folks from Culiacn. Alvarado, Ruben Cabada... All the big dogs. Since birth, I've wanted to be like them... I would love to be like Pedro Aviles or Seor de los Cielos. But of every thousand fuckers, only one gets there. Maybe not even one! There are people here who wanted to be buried along with their pickup trucks. There are other tombs with bulletproof glass. Bulletproof. Just because they wanted it. They do it because they can. Here's how it should go. You know where they dropped the head and the legs'? I want you to say, "Here. " Here they left the head, here they left the legs and here they left the mustache... got it'? Last year, like my boss just said... they found the head and body of a person, separated. They say it was a gift. A small gift for the dead. Over there you'll find the new rich. The new narcos. So this section is all new'? Three years ago, none of this existed. And now? It's a city. That whole area there will keep expanding and expanding. Next time you come, this will all be packed. I like the "bad life. " Look. You see the person over there'? That person was killed. You see the police'? They will take the bodies and then leave. I tell them the truth. This is the reality they're living. We can't deny reality. I drive through the streets and see people without hope. They hear the sirens and see us as angels of death. I see the streets full of evil and the good people hiding out of fear. The youth have lost their values and now idolize the devil. I do my job as professionally and scientifically as I can but without involving my feelings. What are my options'? Weep? Bear it'? I have to continue my work. It smells here. It smells awful. It smells of blood. It smells of death. And fifty meters from here, on the other side of the border, nobody wants to know what happens and they shut their eyes. I miss the Juarez where I grew up. Where I played. Will it return again'? What is the limit'? Why go on'? But at the same time, here I am. In my beloved Juarez.
