 

                        It began here in ireiand at the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast. Three thousand men would labor here for more than 2 years. They were building a monster the largest ship the world had ever seen. In the spring of 1909 a mountain of steel began to rise against the sky. The ship would weigh 66,000 tons her hull would span 4 city blocks, each of her colossal steam engines was the size of a 3-story house. The huge scale of these things was a source of delight. It was a scene out of Gulliver's Travels when the ship's anchor through the streets of Belfast. Some few observers found this giant threatening and wrote of her nightmare scale. But their forebodings fell short of the event, for the fate of this ship still fascinates the world and her name is a synonym for tragedy. In 1910 the huge ship taking shape in Belfast was a supreme wonder in world accustomed to miracles. Every day it seemed something bigger or better was invented. Never had so many people been so prosperous, never had they taken such delight in showing off so this was called, "The Gildde Age." This was a time when horses still got most people around. But things were rapidly changing thanks to the machines of a new age everything from rubber bands to radios from lightbuibs to automobiles. Progress and prosperity money and machines, almost anything seemed possible and often it was. May 31st, 1911, the Roual Mail Ship Titanic, slipped gracefully into Belfast harbor. It was the largest moving object ever made by man. The Titanic was designed for the rich passenger trade on the North Atlantic. It was not only the biggest ocean liner it was by far the most luxurious. Aboard Titanic it was hard to remember that this was indeed a ship. Advertising the delights it offered the White Star Line called Titanic, "a floating palace." So confident were Titanic's builders that her trial vouage lasted just 8 hours. Almost as an afterthought she was said to be, "unsinkable." On April 10th, 1912, Titanic's maiden vouage began. With their maids valets and chauffeurs their mountains of baggage the rich traveled in a style almost unknown today. In an age that worshipped wealth the 325 first class passengers were an awesome assembly. Titanic was like a time capsule laden with the splendors of the gilded Age. In 1912 these films were shown in theaters to a public eager for any glimpse of Titanic in fact, this is actually Titanic's smaller sister ship the Olympic. But the excitement and spectacle were true to the event and many people couldn't tell the difference. Titanic sailed from Southampton at noon, she was expected to reach New York just 7days, with 2,228 people aboard her. There are a few authentic pictures taken aboard Titanic on her first and last voyage. A vacationing priest Father Francis Brown, caught these poignant snapshots of his fellow passengers. Most of them on a voyage to eternity. The next day Titanic made her last stop pausing off the coast at Queenstown, Ireland. Here tenders brought out the last passengers, mostly Irish immigrants headed for new homes in America, and here the lucky Father Brown disembarked, taking these pictures on his way. Father Brown caught Captain Smith peering down from Titanic's bridge poised on the brink of destiny. Then Titanic sailed into the twilight zone of legend she would not be photographed again for 73 years, vanished in all but human memory. The event of Titanic's last hours have not faded with the passage of time. The tragedy irony and sheer terror of this night still seize the imagination. A British film, made in 1929 was one of the first of many Titanic movies: Full ahead. Full ahead, sir. Despite radioed warnings, Titanic struck an iceberg. She carried only enough lifeboats for about 1.200 people and not even that many were saved. In 1986 a new chapter in the Titanic's story began. The men and machines involved did not even exist when Titanic went down. From the Woods Hole Oceanographic institution came the research submarine Alvin and Dr. Robert Ballard a geologist and undersea explorer. For decades Ballard had dreamed of being the man to explore the Titanic wreck. Now, if all goes well he may succeed within a few days. On July 9th, Ballard's expedition backed by the U.S. Navy and drawing on proven underwater technology puts to sea from Woods Hole. One seven five. One seven five. The research vessel, Atlantis II heads for Titanic's resting place about 1,000 miles due east. A rare alchemy of talent desire and circumstance, has led Ballard to this adventure. Many led Ballard to this adventure. Many have called it foolish and at any rate, impossible, it's been a hard sell. No one person, no one organization on one shared my dream. There was pieces of it the technology part, the ship part, the submarine part. It's very much like Cinderella going to the ball. So I had to go around and get the shoes from somebody and the dress from somebody and the coach and the coachman and then I knew everything by midnight, I'd turn back into a big pumpkin so I had a sense of urgency to get it done before I ran out of time. The year before a joint French American expedition with Ballard as co-leader sought to locate Titanic. A 150 square mile area was searched by sonar devices and remote TV cameras towed along the bottom over 2 miles down. But Titanic and not lie where she was thought to be. TV pictures revealed only a monotonous plain of sediment sometimes enlivened by a sluggish fish or empty beer bottle. Days of futile search dragged on. It is 1 a.m., September 1st, 1985. The search has been going on for 56 days. #1:Wreckage. Bingo. Yeah! #2:Somebody ought to go get Bob. #3:Bob's gone love this. #4:This is it! Look at that thing. All: Oh, alright! Yahoo! #1:What is it? #2:I don't know but it's manmade. #3:There's more stuff coming. #4:lt's the boiler! #1: Yes, yes, that's fantastic! #1:I'll be goddam. The sucker exists! Gooddam! #2:Has Cathy got the champagne? There was an immediate outpouring of excitement a bunch of kids yelling and screaming and jumping up and down, very unprofessional. And then the whole force of actually being at the very spot where this tragedy had taken place and seeing the ship, it was very... everyone just cracked. Emotionally everyone just went down into a big trough. And we had a simple quiet service on the fantail. We felt better and it was that time realized that I was deeply affected by it. When we came back I wouldn't talk about the Titanic for 4 months. I just wouldn't talk about it with anybody. I just went and hid. But Ballard's Woods Hole laboratory soon recaptured the thrill of discovery. Reviewing pictures taken by remote cameras, Ballard was eager to get a closer look. Ballard was confident that the submarine Alvin couldn reach the wreck and the U.S. Navy agreed to sponsor an expedition. They say the name of the ship is on one of the capstans. Oh, it is? On the top, yeah. It should be visible. We'll have to go and take a look. A tiny TV camera serves as the single eye of Jason Jr., a robot submarine developed for the navy in Ballard's lab. Jason is ideal for exploring wrecks; getting TV pictures in places too confined and dangerous for manned submarines. Preparing for the Titanic expedition Jason and his operator, Martin Bowen, go into intensive training. Jason is powered by 4 electric motors. He can venture as far as 200 feet away from Alvin, the manned submarine. Jason is much like a dog on a long leash, moving on commands from his master. Here in the lab it's easy to navigate but deep on the Titanic wreck, in pitch darkness it will be another matter. Often Martin's only viewpoint will be Jason's electronic eye. Now some 11months after Ballard discovered Titanic's resting place he is returning aboard Atlantis II. It's clear by now that no one knew Titanic's precise location when she sank. This original confusion explains why the wreck was so difficult to locate. There are no landmarks the coast of Nova Scotia is some 350 miles away. The sea tolerates no gravestones or monuments only the knowledge of what lies 21/2 miles below gives this place identity. When you're out at sea it's just a big, monstrousthing. It has no dimensions. You tend to wander around in the ocean and not feel that you're any where at any on time. Then when you find the Titanic it rivets you to that one spot. You know exactly where you are and you know exactly what took place right where you are and that's eerie. You want to see lifeboats or people in the water that you can take drowned right around you. Yeah, you hear them, you feel it. Very much so. The grey down of April 15th,1912 revealed a scattered fleet of life boats. Hundreds of bodies floated in the surrounding waters. The boats contained just Aboard the liner Carpathia amazed passengers took these snapshots as the survivors were rescued. Her compliment of passengers doubled Carpathia raced for New York. Everything was quiet calm and orderly. It was too soon to explain and too late to cry. Tragically rumors and confusion kept hope alive that others might have been saved by other ships. Slowiy, as fragmented and conflicting radio reports came in the world began to realize what had happened overnight. In London, silent crowds gathered at the offices of the White Star Line Here many of Titanic's passengers had bought their tickets and here a precious few were reported alive. In Liverpool, homeport of Titanic the streets were full of dazed and grief-stricken families begging for news and reeling in shock when it came. In New York wild rumors circulated one paper reported Titanic still afloat and everyone safe. Anxious and incredulous crowds gathered in front of newspapers and offices of White Star. Suspense and uncertainty grew for 4 days. Finally, on the evening of April 18th, Carpathia arrived at last. Then as night fell there followed a chilling pantomime which brought home the full impact of what had happened. In the glare of photographers flashlights survivors lined Carpathia's rails but as thousands waited Carpathia first unloaded Titanic's lifeboats. Seeing finally was believing all that remained of the greatest ocean liner in the world. By the next day survivors had dispersed. Frustrated newsreel cameramen were left to film mere boys, young stewards who clowned and laughed even as the rest of the world mourned. There remained the task of bringing in bodies only some 300 were found out of 1,523 people lost. In fear and superstition Many ships avoided these waters for years afterward. Brought ashore at Halifax some victims were claimed and shipped home For others the maiden voyage of Titanic ended here in Canada just a few miles from the North Atlanic shore. Today these graves still are tended at the expense of the shipping line which took over from the owners of Titanic. The disaster is memorialized like a great battle which changed the course of history. But what was the meaning of it all? It caused only an instant's hesitation in the march of technology. But, somehow, Titanic made people think and they are thinking still. Every 5 years the valiant dwindling band of Titanic survivors is invited to attend a convention of the Titanic Historical Society. Thank you very much. You look pretty good. Thank you. There are only about 24 known survivors alive today. But the number of people interested in Titanic is growing and this fascination reached a fever pitch when the wreck of Titanic was found. July 13th, 1986. The first attempt to reach Titanic by submarine is planned for this morning. Bob Ballard and 2 companions will ride to the bottom in the research submarine, Alvin. In his enthusiasm Bob Ballard has perhaps made things seem too easy. This morning he has many promises to keep. The crew compartment of Alvin is a sealed, equipment and 3 uncomfortable humans. Alvin is a tried and trusted design. It has mapped underwea mountains located a lost H-bomb, and now is poised over the most celebrated shipwreck of modern times. Once launched Alvin is independent of its mothership. The crew can communicate with the surface, but in the deep they are so far from help, they might as well be on the moon. To conserve electrical power Alvin will fall to the ocean bottom only as fast as gravity allows. The slow plunge will take 21/2 hours a time of tedium and growing suspense. Alvin, this is A-two, over. Go ahead. Roger. Ralph we have the tracking running well and the bow section should be a range of about 800 meters, bearing two three zero degrees, over Ballard reports that Alvin's batteries are leaking and its sonar system has failed. He must rely on imprecise directions from above and he cannot stay down much longer. Alvin, this is A-two. According to tracking you just drove over the forward section. Suggest you come to course 280 and travel for 200-300 meters, over. I can't believe they can't see it. I can't believe they cannot see it. They can only see 30 or 30 feet. It's... of water. Atlantis II, Atlantis II this is Alvin. We are at the Titanic, over. Roger, Alvin, we understand you found the Titanic, over. Roger, we're sitting at the base it appears be near the stern or the midsection. We are deciding what to do next because we're running low on power. No sooner is Titanic found than the dive must be abandoned. It takes another 21/2 hours for Ballard to regain the surface. We had problems with the submarine so we had to abort the dive and immediately head up. So I saw it for 10 seconds and that was it. So, well have to go back and do it tomorrow. What happens next? Well, they're gonna be up all night. They've got a sick puppy and they got to fix it, and it's gonna take them all night. Alvin is quickly repaired but the mood next morning is uncertain. Everyone has been reminded that technical problems, bad weather, or a combination of both could terminate the expedition. This time everything goes according to plean Titanic, no longer lost, no longer legend. There are people aboard the great ship once again after Now, like astronauts newly arrived on a distant planet Alvin's crew is learning something new every second. A disappointment; Titanic's decks thought to be intact have been consumed by wood-boring organisms. What speared to be planks turns out to be ridges of caulking. A revelation; standing all alone is the bronze peaestal where Titanic's wheel was mounted. It gleams as if brand new. What we thought was organic growth appears to be rust. The ship looks like it's bleeding steel and it's rusting down its entire side. All over it's draped in rust. It's formed a river and little veins that flow down the side and out onto the sediment. All right, let's terminate conversation. We are losing our light energy and we'll see you on the surface, over On the return to the surface a near disaster the robot submarine Jason, is dislodged from its garage on the front of Alvin and almost lost. Only quick word by divers saves the million dollar robot. Well, that's one way to come home Jason-swimming. That's right. Repairs will go on all night as Ballard reports what he's seen and prepares for tomorrow's dive. We come in on the debris field, right through here. Titanic is a frightening place to explore. Everywhere there are wires, rails and tubing which could trap. Coming in along the mud line toward the ship should be fairly safe. But the robot, Jason can get close to such hazards and venture inside the wreck without risking human lives. Alvin's crew is skeptical about robots in general and Jason in particular. But, Ballard ignores today's problems and plans to send Jason deep into Titanic's interior on the next dive. The funnels are all gone. We've never even seen one in the debris field. The idea is to bring Alvin down in a vertical sense and land at certain places. Naturally we'd like to enter the bridge and we'd like to go down the staircase and there's a nice landing pad right here. That staircase goes down many many flights so it would be a question of how deep you wanted to go in. But certainly at least 2 to 3 decks in On succeeding dives special cameras aboard Alvin pierce the darkness and reveal spectacular aerial views of the wreck; traveling aft, passing over the cargo holds and cranes... the bridge area where the wheel pedestal stands alone the hole where the first funnel once stood big enough to admit a locomotive. Now on the third dive Alvin makes a landing at the edge of Titanic's grand staircase. Make sure that that lip won't jam J. J so he can't get out. Don't get too close. Right. Jason is launched with Martin Bowen at the controls. Go forward. Tethering out. I'll be taking shots periodically. Further out. That lip is right in front of me. Yeah okay. If you can just head out over the edge Like a frightened puppy Jason seems to want to dive back into his garage and go home. Gaining control and confidence Bowen sends Jason down into the grand staircase. Seventy for years have taken their toll this is what Jason's camera sees this is what once was. Seem-ingly there's nothing recognizable here but, then, pillars define a room. One of these light fixtures still hangs from the ceiling suspended both in space and time. The elaborate ornamental clock is gone leaving only its outline on the wall. Jason bumps into something causing an avalanche of rust. Alarmed, Ballard and Martin Bowen decide to withdraw. Keep knocking that rust off. Yeah Now, 2 miles down Jason salutes his creator. For man and machine it's a moment of eerie victory. In further tests Jason skims over the wreck like an inquisitive humming-bird. He can move more safely and quickly than Alvin and get in close to capture small details. Something door for use... This door for bridge... This door for use of crew only. Napier Brothers Company Engineers, Glasgow. Napier Brothers Limimted. Some parts of the ship seem almost new paint still clings to these window frames handles and hinges still turn, and the awesome steel anchors still hang from Titanic's bow. Soon Baliard's work for the Navy may produce robots so sophisticated everything can be seen and controlled from the surface. On some jobs manned submarines like Alvin may not be needed. The success of Jason on Titanic is a major step toward that goal. Bring it around A little more, there we go. Okay, if we want to drop weights I'm happy. Okay. Success. God, that was not easy. In one spectacular dive Robert Ballard and Martin Bowen have accomplished all their major objec-tives. We had a chandalier right there! We were taking pictures, of it. We went dancing in the ballroom. Now for 9 days Atlantis gather information on Titanic Deployed each night, an unmanned instrument package captures some 57,000 photos of the wreck site. I want to go through regions, not specific targets. There's only a couple targets left. Ballard and his colleague Dr. Elizar Yuchupe, begin to create a detailed map of Titanic's remains. That's it There's nothing else but that. It reveals new information and sometimes contradicts accepted accounts of the disaster. That's right down here, you see that's where it would be. So south of the... South of the wine bottles. Most strikingly the wreck lies in 2 major sections, This supports some eye witnesses who said the ship broke in 2 as it went down. Between the 2 sections of the wreck lies a vast field of debris and scattered throughout the wreckage are many common place objects; a bottle of champagne still corked and a cup, sitting on a 57 ton boiler where it gently came to rest 74 years ago. Ballard brought nothing up from Titanic and had vowed not to interfere with the wreck. But that was before Alvin came upon the assistant purser's safe The handle turns but the door won't open. At any rate, experts say it was emptied by the crew before Titanic went down. As the wreck is explored the Titanic story is relived and in some cases revised to suit new evidence. It is 11:40 p.m., April 14th, 1912. From the crow's nest an iceberg is spotted dead ahead by lookout, Fredrick Fleet. Fleet immediately rings on alarm bell and calls the bridge where the First Officer William Murdoch, orders the wheel, "Hard a starboard," and the engines, "Full astern." Titanic grazes the ice, possibly causing only a few crumpled hull plates but enough to tell Captain Edward Smith that his ship is doomed. Captain Smith personally walks back from the bridge to the radio room where, soon after midnight the first distress call is sent. Radio is its infancy and the newly adopted signal, S.O.S. Is a novelty to operator jack Phillips. Orders are given that women and children must board lifeboats. Near the boats some first class passengers gather here in the gymnasium. One is multi-millionaire John Jacob Astor, on an extended honeymoon with his young second wife, Madeline. Astor's wife boards a lifeboat here, on Titanic's port side. But an officer refuses Astor and so, he meekly chooses to stand aside, and die. Few yet realize that because of inadequate laws there are only enough boats for half the people aboard. Distress rockets are fired from the starboard wing of the bridge. To the north there is a ship, the British steamer, Califarnion Titanic's rockets are reported to her captain, Stanley Lord, but he does nothing goes back to sleep and will spend the rest of his life trying to explain. Many lifeboats are still being lowered half empty. Few understand that Titanic is actually sinking. The lifeboat davits are still extended here at boat station 2, where Second Officer C.H. Lietauer is in charge. Lietauer sends half a dozen crewmen to open doors and help fill the boats from decks lower down. The men were never seen again but one set of doors still hangs open. Here a twisted davit once held boat number B and here stood an aging distinguished couple, Mr. And Mrs. Isadore Strauss. Offered a place on the boats Mr. Strauss refused it, then Mrs. Strauss refuse to leave him, and so, they perished together. In a single first class cabin there was a wealthy woman traveling along. She was a tough and earthy character, requiring no assistance. She boarded a lifeboat boldly took over command and was known from then on as "the unsinkable Molly Brown." And now, at last, 1,500 people began to realize that soon they were going go die. But on the boat deck near the entrance to the grand staircase the band played on. No one could agree later what tunes were played and all the musicians drowned. But Titanic's band, and its leader Wallace Harltey, became immortal heroes of this disaster on the sea. Few honored Captain Smith who had ignored many warnings as he sailed boldly into history. He went down with his ship his last words disputed. Some said he told the crew "be British," others, "it's every man for himself." When the Titanic expedition ended Bob Ballard left behind a plaque honoring those who died here. Titanic is their monument more than 2 miles beneath the sea. It's memorial to this period of time to that mistake of arrogance. It's a whole bunch of things all bundled up and now, down at the bottom of the ocean it's a very peaceful place a very quiet place. It's sitting upright on the bottom very nobly and at rest.
