 

                        No land on Earth possess more wonders than Egypt wonders long hidden but revealed occasionally in a glint of gold or a curious tale. Our story begins with a death the death of an unusual boy. Worshipped as the son of Re, the Sun god he was a pharaoh of Egypt We don't know how he died, only that his death was sudden and mysterious. His body was preserved in the manner of other pharaohs and priests anointed his coffin to prepare him for his final journey into the world of the dead. The rituals had to be finished before his father the Sun, descended into darkness. So this young pharaoh was secured in his tomb surrounded by kingly treasures and his seal was pressed into its entrance. From that time on it was to be a place of peace hidden and undisturbed throughout eternity. This young King's name was Tutankhamen. For 3,000 years, King Tut and his tomb in the Valley of the Kings remained concealed beneath shifting sands. Other tombs were discovered and completely pillaged but not his. Believing he could find it, an Englishman named Howard Carter mounted five arduous expeditions but they yielded nothing. In 1922, he returned to Egypt for a sixth attempt. That year he brought a beautiful canary to brighten his spirits. The workmen called it the Golden Bird and told Carter it would bring them good luck. But as work began success seemed a remote prospect. And time was running out. Carter's benefactor, Lord Canarvon was an English earl fascinated by Egypt but even he was losing faith... and had threatened to cut off the money. Yet Carter persisted knowing that if found intact the tomb would be filled with amazing artifacts that would help us peer through the shadows of time to glimpse a world of human splendor long lost to glimpse our very beginnings. That's a great story Grandpa but I want to know more. You live here and I know you can tell me the real story. About? Well, my friends want me to ask about the "curse" how anyone who entered King Tut's tomb... ...will have some terrible things happen to them. Yes, yes, I know. I don't know if I believe it. But will you tell me about it? So the pharaohs, the tombs the monuments the great civilization who built them you are not interested in? But the Mummy's curse you find... Exciting! Yes, I can see that. All right then. you shall hear all about it. But first we must take a trip together. Where will we start then? At the source, of course. The source of the Nile. It is the longest river on Earth, the greatest river in Africa crossing nearly half the continent. It is born of two rivers the White Nile which rises near Lake Victoria and heads north through Uganda-and the Blue Nile which descends from the highlands of Ethiopia. They meet in the desert of Sudan, forming the main trunk of the Nile. By the time it drains into the Mediterranean Sea its waters have journeyed more than 4,000 miles. To the outside world the source of the great river was an enduring mystery. But to the ancient Egyptians, the source was clear: the Nile flowed from the realm of the gods. But what has the Nile to do with mummies and curses? Everything. There would be no mummies, no ancient Egypt-in fact, no Egypt at all without her. You see, Egypt without the Nile is a desert... suitable for camels and scorpions, but not great civilizations. It's only here along the flood plain of the Nile that the desert's heat is softened... and arid sand is turned to rich farmland. Nourished and irrigated by the Nile, Egypt became the longest lived of all the great early civilizations. In ancient times, so much water raced down from the lush valleys of Central Africa that the Nile overflowed its banks in seasonal floods. Mineral-rich silt was carried toward the desert of Egypt from lands upstream, where wildlife flourished. Rich land made possible a vast farming culture and a stable civilization able to turn from daily survival to works of the mind: science, mathematics, engineering and astronomy. They studied the heavens and the seasons gave us the 24-hour day and the 365-day calendar. Egypt, an old saying goes, was the gift of the Nile. But the Egyptians believed there was one thing even mightier than the Nile: the sun-the God they called Re, the God who created everything. Each morning with its rising the Sun God would be born. Each night in setting he'd die. But the next morning he would rise again never failing. He was eternal. When a king died, it was believed that he became one with Re: His son the new pharaoh became Horus the falcon, the living God on earth. And so the Egyptians accorded their rulers absolute power which they used to build an extraordinary empire an empire of buildings so enormous and art so exquisite we are still trying to understand how such wonders were created how stones from the desert were turned into timeless monuments. Some of the oldest buildings on earth are here preserved by the desert air and the skill of their creators. Some are so old that they had already stood a thousand years when Tutankhamen was born. The enormous obelisks of Karnak were carved from single blocks of granite, moved hundreds of miles by boat rolled on logs and perhaps levered up with huge timbers. Giant statues of Ramses the Great carved at Abu Simbel are still some of the largest figures ever sculpted from solid stone. We don't know how they did it, but we do know why to honor the pharaohs, both in life and after death. Honor the pharaohs after death? Does that have anything to do with mummies? Yes. Look at Tutankhamen for example. When the young kind died, the priests sought to create a magical new body for him. For 70 days they labored, drying and preserving the royal body with salts and ointments, then wrapping it in hundreds of feet of linen laden with protective jewels, charms and amulets. And finally, crowning the mummy with an exquisite golden death mask. Tutankhamen was ready for the afterlife. Had the boy king lived and died a thousand years earlier, he would have been buried like pharaohs long before him in a monument of colossal proportions the man-made mountain of stone called pyramids. They probably saw the pyramid's shape as a mystical link between earth and sky, providing the pharaoh's soul with a stairway to the heavens. Of the fabled Seven Wonders of the Ancient World only the pyramids of Giza remain-built more than 4,000 years ago. Nearly 500 feet tall they contain some of the largest pieces of stone ever moved by humans-as much as 50 tons or more. Yet this was accomplished without wheels or pulleys or even iron tools. How in the world did they do it without modern machinery? The gods certainly didn't do it. They used their minds. Knowledge built these great great structures. Highly sophisticated knowledge. Look. All of the Giza pyramids are built in perfect alignment with certain stars. That takes a knowledge of astronomy. The pyramids' foundations are laid out in perfect angles and dimensions, precisely correct for the height they wanted to reach. Now that takes knowledge of geometry and mathematics. And finally, you must get these big stones from down here to up there and you must make them all fit perfectly. Now that takes knowledge an incredible knowledge of engineering and organization. Organization? Absolutely. You just said so yourself. It wasn't the gods who built these great monuments. It was people. Thousands and thousands of people. Imagine being one of these people living in a tiny village more than 4,000 years ago. Life would be pretty much the same day in and day out-farming, herding cattle fishing in the Nile. Then one day, you're selected to journey by boat down the Nile. You're now part of the great national project to build the pharaoh's tomb. But you have no idea what kind of tomb! And then you see a monument to the sun to life eternal. How did they move such heavy stones to such great heights? There are many theories, but they probably pulled the blocks up mud-slickened ramps raising the ramps as the pyramid grew. Masons then set the stones with such precision a postcard couldn't fit between them. To create the Great Pyramid of Khufu, it took over 20 years... more than two million stone blocks... and some 20,000 people. And they might have been slaves, but now we think they were mostly peasant farmers recruited to work here part of the year. With their help, the early pharaohs built more than a hundred pyramids-80 of which survive today. But what about the kings who came later? You told me King Tutankhamen wasn't buried in a pyramid? No, he wasn't. They stopped building them. And for good reason. There were robbers who cared far more about heaps of gold than an eternal journey. The pyramids, to these thieves, were like enormous billboards saying, "We've buried the king in here and all his treasure with him." At any rate, a new plan had to be devised. That's why 500 years after the last pyramids were built a new era of kings decided that instead of building tombs which everyone could see why not build tombs which no one could see. Three hundred miles south of the great pyramids across the Nile from the modern city of Luxor is this barren maze of valleys in the shadow of a natural pyramid. Here no thief could find the royal tombs. Here the kings and queens of Egypt would remain immortal or so they thought. But greed breeds ingenuity. Cleverly hiding their devious enterprises, robbers scoured the Valley of the Kings. Over time, each of the valley tombs was found broken into and completely plundered-except for one Except for the tomb of Tutankhamen That at least is what Howard Carter believed. And, if he was right it would be the greatest archeological discovery of modern times But after five years he still hadn't found it, and the situation was becoming desperate. Then, on the morning of November the 4th, 1922, a waterboy trying to secure his jug hit an unusual rock. Carter sent a telegram to Lord Canarvon in England to come quickly and went to Cairo to meet his benefactor. But while he was away something very strange happened. The golden bird that had brought them luck was killed by a cobra. Well, now the cobra was the protector of the pharaoh. And the canary represents those who had entered the tomb. So the cobra ate the canary because of the mummy's curse. More likely he ate it because he was hungry. I like the curse idea better! Well, certainly the workmen believed it was the curse. The death of the golden bird was a bad omen to them. It meant that someone close to the project would die within the year. Rumors of a curse mattered little to Carter. He hoped his dig would uncover a tomb like this one the tomb of a pharaoh named Ramses the 6th who ruled long after King Tut. Carter wanted to find treasure. But if not, something just as precious. Pictures... hieroglyphs that would reveal priceless knowledge of how the ancients lived and what they believed. These images are from the Egyptian Books of the Dead, passports to eternity which were buried with a mummy. To help a dead king reach the afterlife, they supplied answers to questions he would be asked spells to deflect dangers along the way. But preparation for the afterlife began long before death. In grand temples once supported by these pillars-among the largest places of worship ever built the living pharaohs gave offerings as a way of communicating with the gods in the world beyond and courting their favor. Both immense and colorful, temples like the great structure called Medinet Habut were the settings for magnificent rituals that proclaimed to all not only the pharaoh's power and wealth but his devotion to the gods he would one day join on a journey through eternity. They sure seemed preoccupied with life after death. Yes, and probably because no ancient people enjoyed life as much as they did. There are picture stories of invention and adventure of board games and ball games, of dance and music... of acrobats and mechanical toys... of the affection between husbands and wives... and of family unity and love. It was the most advanced civilization of its time... and it went on for 3,000 years. But the empire they amassed attracted invaders. Among the stories on temple walls are accounts of battles against outsiders who tried to conquer the kingdom of the pharaohs. But, the invading empires became more powerful even more determined and so gradually, inevitably, the kingdom of Egypt began to crumble. Well, how could a place as powerful as Egypt just collapse? Actually, many things happened, but mostly it was the weakening of the pharaohs' power through civil turmoil, making Egypt vulnerable to invaders. Little by little much of the pharaohs' great empire-along with its secrets was reclaimed by the desert. But even as the monuments of Egypt crumble, the stories are rediscovered by modern archeologists deciphering the distant past. Scholars and artists are preserving the Great Sphinx for all humanity. Research within the Giza pyramids has revealed the brilliance of ancient architects whose sophisticated designs prevented the collapse of these inner chambers and passageways. DNA analysis is helping to identify family ties of the royal mummies and to give us clues about how they lived and died. New excavations are uncovering the support system of settlements and facilities for the workers who built the Giza pyramids. These new discoveries and many more-owe themselves at least in part, to one discovery not quite as modern of the tomb of a teenage pharaoh. On November 26, 1922, Howard Carter reached the wall outside the first chamber of Tutankhamen's tomb. What can you see? Carter, please, can you see anything? Yes. Yes. Wonderful things Wonderful things And they were wonderful things... kept hidden for over in four chambers carved from solid rock. They entered to find the only intact king's tomb ever discovered in modern times. And in the burial chamber, four golden shrines. Inside the fourth shrine, three golden coffins, one inside the other, and at the center... the mummy of the boy king Tutankhamen. This was the greatest treasure ever found in Egypt well over 2,000 objects of gold alabaster lapis and precious jewels made thousands of years ago by master craftsmen. They gave us a personal glimpse of a royal life in ancient Egypt-and fueled our drive to continue searching to continue learning. So through discoveries like Howard Carter's and those of modern archeologists, the ruins of ancient Egypt means something to us. The stone creations that still loom up from the desert are mute testaments of humanity's great stride forward from hunters and gatherers... to builders of majestic structures, to dreamers of grand dreams. These stone wonders are the shape of our beginnings towering symbols of our rise to become thinkers artists, poets... and builders. These great monuments keep us humble, too. After all, they managed to survive for nearly 5,000 years. How long has our modern civilization been around in comparison? Not very long. Not very long. Now as to the matter of the-the curse: Lord Canarvon died from an infected mosquito bite five months after King Tut's tomb was opened. So it is true, after all. Well, Lord Canarvon did die an untimely death, but Howard Carter lived to be 65 and the little waterboy who was one of the first into the tomb because of his size lived to a ripe old age, as did most of the workers. Clearly, there was no curse of death. But beyond all of that, a curse, you see, flies in the face of everything the Egyptians believed in. You mean life. Yes, life. Death, for them, wasn't an end, it was the beginning of a great journey through eternity, where their gods and kings sailed the morning ship across a lake of flames in the sky, rising in new life each day with the sun. Two thousand years after Egypt's last pharaoh died a modern film crew has just 34 days to bring their ancient world alive. But putting history on film is always a delicate business and tackling ancient Egypt may be the toughest filmmaking challenge of all. Ancient Egypt began more than 5,000 years ago and its remarkable civilization lasted 3,000 years. The magnificent remains of Egypt's glorious past include the pyramids... temples Tut's tomb and its treasures yet the people that created them were a mystery to us. But today we know more than ever about life in ancient Egypt and director Bruce Neibaur is celebrating our knowledge in a larger-than-life film. The thing that draws me to history is the fact that we are all part of the same human experience we're all linked together in some way. What's happened in the past is bringing itself to bear on what's happening in the present. Bruce is filming the "Mysteries of Egypt," a giant-screen Imax feature for National Geographic and destination cinema. It's a monumental undertaking there are hundreds of extras thousands of costumes and props and over eight tons of specialized equipment designed to shoot the biggest film stock in the world. A standard 35mm frame is about this big Imax is about this big and it's thrown up on a screen six stories high... every detail shows up. Authenticity is everything. And the crew is under constant pressure to achieve perfection. Costume designer Jackie Crier has been working since dawn. Today, she must transform hundreds of extras into pyramid builders for a crucial scene. Down river archeological advisor Zahi Hawass waits for shooting to start with producers Scott Swofford and Lisa Truitt. I take full responsibility for everything bad in the film. If anything goes wrong I will throw Lisa Scott and Bruce in the Nile. Getting it right can be difficult, because just how the Egyptians did build the pyramids is still a mystery. We know they devised a system for moving mammoth chunks of limestone. We know the system was efficient one 5,000-pound stone could be added to a rising mound every two minutes. But what we don't know is how they did it without wheels or cranes. They simply do not show pyramid building anywhere and so what we are left with are surmises or inferences that we make from the stones the size of the stones. But you know the rules of physics haven't changed. We have found sledges. We have found ropes or fragments of rope. We have found ramps of pyramids. The evidence has an interesting tale to tell but getting the story on film requires some distinctly modern tricks. Production designer Michael Buchanan knows everything has to look just right. I'm trying to make the plaster look like real stones. So it doesn't look like what it is! The plaster stones weigh only a fraction of the real thing, but the actors' efforts are real. As the camera rolls, on sledges up increasingly steep ramps. It's a dazzling sight... and one not seen on the Giza plateau in over 4,000 years. Until now I haven't seen any film that is done on ancient Egypt that is accurate. All that we see is like When I saw the stones going up the hill, it really looked like ancient Egypt. So this is a huge pay off and to have Zahi's stamp of approval is a big, big relief. But more than stone was moved to build the pyramids traveled to the isolated Giza plateau. How they got here might surprise you. Four thousand years ago, the pyramids weren't surrounded by desert. The Egyptians built harbors and canals that brought the Nile deep into the Giza plateau. We can imagine, back 4,600 years ago, Cheops building his pyramid, what he did he cut this harbor, and the harbor was connecting with the Nile. The harbor was used every morning when the workmen are coming. Everyone is holding his lunch and coming, and coming in boats, and they work here and building the pyramid from the sunrise to the sunset. Bringing that ancient harbor to life will be one of the most difficult tasks the crew undertakes but Bruce wants the scene on film. All the modern tools are employed-extras across the river are cued by walkie-talkie... and even the sailboat has a motor hidden from view. Duck out, man! Turnover! Roll it please turning, turning, turning. But nothing goes as planned the wind won't cooperate and the Nile's current forces the boat backwards. Oh, man-collision! What was done with ease over 4,000 years ago may be too much to accomplish this day. We have a panic moment here. See what I'm wondering... if we had some good lengths of rope that we could throw on shore and draw that in. It's a last ditch attempt sail the boat anywhere near the shore and have the extras drag it in with ropes. Throw the damn rope. But the nightmare continues. The light is going, and the shot with it. I quit... the boat looks great... yeah all the physical elements are great... just, you know, we just want to get the boat to go up the river turn around and come back. And we finally just we have to move on and do other things. At least there were no casualties. During the actual building of the pyramids, mistakes often resulted in serious injury and sometimes death. Building the pyramid for sure there was many accidents we found about 12 skeletons. At least ten of them had accidents on their hand two of them had accidents on their leg. It means maybe a stone fell down on their leg. Pyramid-building was dangerous work. In the next scene, the crew will film a runaway column stone. It's only a prop, but it weighs about 400 pounds. Actors, extras, and an Egyptian stuntwoman must scramble out of the column's path at the last possible moment. There is little room for error. While the prop gets a last minute touch-up... the film crew shoots the stone's point of view. She's quick! Thank God. I've done things like this before but not as dangerous. Finally, both camera and column are ready to roll. Three, two, one, go! The shot comes off without a hitch and the crew now turns to their biggest challenge recreating the funeral procession of Egypt's most famous pharaoh. Carter, please, can you see anything? Yes, wonderful things. Wonderful things. In 1922, an obscure English archeologist named Howard Carter unearthed the remains of an even more obscure pharaoh named Tutankhamen. Carter had discovered what all others had despaired of ever finding a virtually unlooted pharaoh's tomb. And the treasures of King Tut have never relinquished their grip on the world's imagination. Now director Bruce Neibaur's crew wants to bury King Tut all over again. High above a desert valley, the crew prepares to capture the boy king's funeral procession. In Tut's time, the pharaohs no longer built pyramids for their tombs-instead they hid their treasure filled burial sites in the remote valley of the kings. The valley can be a tricky place to shoot as the director of photography Reed Smoot, knows all too well. It's tough because the sun hits the horizon, it's beautiful for about 30 seconds, and then, boom! It's midday. But everyone feels the pressure and lining up extras can be the bane of any casting director's existence Meanwhile, costume designer Jackie Crier rushes to outfit them. I'm not always calm. I'm pretty calm. Months of research, design and artistry have gone into the costumes. And into the props as well. Egypt's finest artisans have carved an exquisite replica of Tut's coffin. Made of gold over plaster, it looks like the original. And like the original, it's not easy to move. How heavy is the coffin, Michael? It's a nightmare. Advisor Nicholas Reeves has arrived. The author of several books on Tut, Reeves is here to make sure the boy king's last rites are performed according to ancient protocol. His only reference source lies deep within the valley of the kings... on the walls of the tomb itself. Reeves also thinks these walls contain shocking clues about how the young pharaoh died. Why should he have died at 17? There's no trace of TB or any other illness. Nothing at all. He was healthy when he died. And x-rays taken of Tut's skull suggest the possibility of foul play. Certainly x-rays of the head show damage which might have been caused by a blow. In fact, Reeves thinks Tut was murdered... and that his killer attended the funeral. But as the sun creeps up over the horizon, the immediate concern is getting the procession underway... and on film. But before they can start, another question-what sound should the funeral goers make? Taking their cues from modern Egyptian funerals, they decide on wailing. And production designer Michael Buchanan demonstrates for the bemused extras. But there's a last minute hitch. Reeves is bothered by the golden staffs. There's no time for scholarly debate. They've got to go. Action! Three thousand years after his death, golden light and mournful sounds fill the valley as the coffin of the 17-year-old boy-king once again makes its way to a final resting place. From an Egyptologists point of view, what's quite striking is the colors... the contrast of the gold against the backgrounds... and the noise and the whole atmosphere of the thing. I think it's captured very well. A filmmaker's imagination brings back a lost moment in time. At last it's time to rehearse the scene where Tut's advisor, Ay, administers last rites... just as recorded on the tomb paintings. But Reeves suspects Ay had more than a ceremonial role in the young pharaoh's death. Ay may well have had a hand in Tutankhamen's downfall, I suspect. He had the most to gain. It was Ay who took over the pharaoh's throne after Tut's death, but we may never know the truth. With the sacred rites finished, Tut's coffin was carried deep within a labyrinth designed to foil grave robbers sealed in for an eternity... which turned out to be a mere 3,000 years. Tutankhamen in life was a minor pharaoh. He's quickly forgotten by his successors and by the ancient Egyptians. Now he's probably the most famous king Egypt has ever known. I think if he's looking down on us, he's probably quite happy. One of my hopes for this film is that people will see it, and they'll be stimulated enough to go to the library to learn more about the project. I keep looking at this stuff and these beautiful scenes we're getting, because I do feel at times like I can really see what it was like. Creating a sense of past is what they've pursued all these days under the desert sun... hoping to share the secrets of ancient Egypt.
