 

                        I am the place with only three colors- blue of sky, white of snow, black of rock. I am the place where the temperature is often very cold. ...and where the air is uncomfortably thin... I am the place where life, ALL Life, is very fragile. I am the mountain so high that no bird can fly over me although many have tried. To the Tibetans, I am Chomolungma goddess mother of the earth. To the Nepalese I am Sagarmatha goddess mother of the sky. And to the rest of the world, I am Mt. Everest. the United States bound for the Kingdom of Nepal to join the Inventa Everest 2000 Environmental Expedition. They will team up with the largest contingent of Sherpas ever assembled for a clean-up operation. Their goal is to unburden Mt. Everest of over 40 years of expedition garbage and to summit the world's highest peak. Here the Westerners meet their Eastern guides and make their final preparations. Bob Hoffman, a former airline manager, is the expedition leader and mastermind behind the half-million dollar clean-up operation. Apa Sherpa is responsible for managing all Sherpas on the expedition and overseeing the climbing logistics. Pemba Nurbu will help coordinate a team of 22 clean-up Sherpas. Professional mountain guide Jim Williams, along with Apa, will lead the 9 member climbing team... Each member has paid their way for a chance to summit Everest. Sometimes called "Mr. Everest" for reaching the top in his 10 previous climbs, Apa will climb this year for a world record 11th summit. Apa combs the back alleys of Kathmandu in search of materials for the Base Camp Puja ceremony. Rice, incense, kata scarves, and prayer flags are all on the shopping list. The prayer flags are gonna go over our complete camp area... and we'll have 5 lines of prayer flags going out. I still have mine from the '98 expedition. Prayer flags are thought to bring good luck in Buddhist cultures... The blue is the sky... The white is the... clouds... clouds, yeah... The red is for fire... The red is fire... The green is earth... Yellow. And the yellow is water. And also each one has a prayer on it, and the Lung-la horse is the fast-carrier of the prayers to the heavens ...and it's believed that each time the wind blows the flags are sending those prayers for safety to heaven... so that's the significance of them. Before the expedition can set out for Base Camp, Apa must bring the ceremony items to a Rimopche to be blessed. However, Rimpoches are not always easy to find in the bustle of Kathmandu. Finally, after many turns, they find him. Rimpoches are Buddhist holy men considered to be the reincarnates of former high lamas. The traditional tea is served, and the puja offerings are blessed. accompanies Hoffman on a dawn run at the Monkey Temple. Should the surgeon from Connecticut succeed in this summit bid, he will be the oldest human being to do so. This will be his 4th attempt. Having completed their preparations, the team embarks on the last air leg... ...the one-hour flight into the Khumbu Valley and the beginning of the trek to base camp. Coupled with gusty winds and a very short landing strip that requires good brakes... ...Lukla airstrip gives even the most experienced Khumbu pilots reservations about landing here... That was some ride... Our pilot kept saying "Holy shit, holy shit, it's a holy shit" From here they will walk the rest of the way to Base Camp. Porters and yaks shoulder much of the load... Each porter carries up to 70-pounds... ...everything is instinctively weighed simply by touch... Mt. Everest lies on the border between Tibet and Nepal, in the Sagarmatha National Park. The word "Sherpa" does not mean "mountain porter," as it is often mistranslated in the West. It simply means "People from the East"... referring to the neighboring region of Tibet... The Sherpa people have been migrating to the high reaches of the Himalaya from Tibet for over 500 years... With a population of 1000, Namche Bazar is the largest village in the Khumbu region. Even today, Tibetans come weekly to this Sherpa capital to ply their wares at the Saturday market. The team will return here at the end of the expedition, carrying all the collected refuse to be recycled or incinerated... Canadian, Jamie Ross is the environmental director of the expedition. Ross was also a member of Hoffman's 1998 expedition. We are working with a group here called the Sagamatha Pollution control committee, and they are a group organized to oversee environmental issues in this park which is the Sagamatha national park. The most important thing to come out of this expedition is have a major impact on the clean-up up at Base Camp and on the mountain... Get a lot of trash off... and raise awareness of what we're doing, so that other people will do the same. The SPCC will work with the 17 teams climbing MT. Everest this season. Each team must provide accurate counts of equipment going to Base Camp. The government requires that teams must pack out expedition garbage or lose a 4000 dollar deposit. By current Himalayan standards, this Expedition is a massive operation. It will utilize 200 yaks... to carry and 1 ton of food to sustain the entire team for 8 weeks... The Tengboche monastery lies approximately half-way between Lukla and Base Camp. The Monastery was established in 1916, and is one of the more renowned Monasteries in the Khumbu region. Here the team rests and receives a blessing. The team awakens to an un-seasonal snowfall. The presence of snow at this elevation can mean an early Monsoon season. On the tenth and final day of the trek, and just eight hours walking distance from Base Camp, the team reaches the Sherpa Memorial... It is a very significant place, to, you know, just come and visit them because this is very special place for... for the climber... the climber who died on Everest and other mountain... and, as part of the Buddhist religion, once the people died, we have to cremate on mountain, on the top of the mountain, which you can see the whole mountains... and the river... running river... that feels... that will take you to the heaven... we believe in that... Do You Have friends here? sure... Yeah... It's very spiritual... I just love the sound of the wind... It's a chance to reflect... It's at this point for me the expedition becomes very real. Seems to be a gateway for me... Where the trek finally ends and now we are starting into thinking about climbing the mountain... This is a very solemn place... It's where our humanity meets the top of the world and the heavens... because all these stonework's that represent that lost their lives on the mountain shows the effort and the loss... Well, this is a mostly... you'll see Sherpa climbers here... But these days, they are sharing with the Westerners, too... I knew Scott Fischer a little... He was one of the toughest mountaineers I ever knew... When you think he and Rob Hall could die on Everest, it means that anybody could die on Everest... It reminds us of our mortality and reminds us that we have to know when it's time to turn back, and try and always make the right judgment calls... Not go beyond our capabilities... Everest is worth climbing, but not worth dying for, that's for sure... There is a young Sherpa boy... He was on another team... There was only three teams in 95 on the mountain... And we were going on up to Camp 3 and we were at the bottom of the Lhotse Face and he was getting nearer to the camp and he didn't clip into the fixed line... And he fell, and we watched him fall, all the way down the mountain... Leaving a trail of blood... By the time he hit the bottom of the mountain he was already dead... And it was the first time we had seen anyone die on the mountain... And it always reminds us just how dangerous that Lhotse Face is... I always just come up here and just spend a minute... There's too many up here... too many... While certainly no 5 star hotel and after 10 days on the trail, Base Camp is a virtual Shangri- La. Home sweet Home... Located on the Northwestern edge of the Khumbu Glacier and situated against the West shoulder of Everest, this piece of communal real estate is free of avalanches, rock- slides and falling ice seracs... Apa. I'm save arrived... Sun's out it's a gorgeous day... Be a hell of a lot better if you didn't show up. I was having a good time... I hope my bags unpacked you son of a bitch... We told them to take it back down the Khumbu... Too much weight it killed about 3 yaks trying to get all your stuff in... I was expecting to have my tent up by now... I don't see my tent... Uh, Bob, where's my tent? Each climbing season, Base Camp must be built from scratch. The only materials used are the rocks and boulders that are churned out by the ever-shifting glacial moraine... While comparatively safe, life on the lateral moraine of a glacier does have its challenges, It's hard, it's cold and it moves. A 5 foot per day glacial flow slowly agitates years of biological waste deposited at the upper camps. A continual contamination of ground water is a constant health hazard for the people living at Base Camp during the climbing seasons. The human waste problem at Base Camp is hard to distinguish from the animal waste problem at Base Camp. What we've found so far is that the water supplies in some places are showing moderate contamination with fecal coliform. And fecal coliform is an indication of contamination by biological waste. Whether it's by humans or yaks, we don't know, we can't tell that here. But what we are finding is that some areas that people use for water sources are actually contaminated, and that makes us, obviously, change our water sources, be more careful with the water that we're drinking. And, uh, trying to make sure that any human waste that's generated here is definitely contained and treated so that we're not contributing to that problem... At this elevation the amount of oxygen in the air is half of what it is at sea level, which makes the actual act of cleaning-up more difficult. The Sherpas live at elevation some as high as 14,000 feet, which naturally allows them to physically accomplish what many people from sea level cannot. We've hired an additional to concentrate on the clean-up effort. Our plan for camp 2, once we get it established is to have the Sherpas clean up as much of the exposed garbage as possible. So far reports from the teams who have gotten in there have indicated that we have a very high snow and ice level up there. It's going make finding this garbage and removing it a very difficult task. The Sherpas will then continue up to camp 4 to remove some of the hundreds of oxygen bottles that are still up there as well as tent poles and general trash. Before proceeding beyond Base Camp, each expedition conducts a puja ceremony. The puja asks the spirits for understanding and tolerance of Human activities... Asks for luck, health, fair weather, and permission to climb the mountain... The puja is conducted by a monk or Lama. The alter is built of stone and is part of the Base Camp set-up. This is the heart of the worship site or Lhap- so... The climbing gear is laid near the fire. This is so the smoke from the burning juniper branches may purify the crampons, ice axes and ropes so vital for the days ahead... On the morning of the puja, Sherpas and the westerners alike bring the sacramental offerings to the lap-so... Rice, incense, & beer, are traditional gifts to the spirits. Near the end of the day-long ceremony, and with prayer flags in place, the center pole is raised to embrace the camp with good luck. Finally everyone chants together while holding handfuls of flour... "Go up, may good fortune arise." hang which is a rice beer, is shared by all members of the expedition as a way of closing the ceremony. Tomorrow the team will venture into the Khumbu Icefall and begin a week- long acclimatization at the higher camps. Avalanches, falling ice seracs the size of houses, and aluminum ladders precariously balanced over crevasses- are all hazards in this lumbering river of ice. More climbers have perished in the Khumbu icefall than on any other part of the mountain... Even the summit. Human beings do not perform well at this elevation due to the lack of oxygen. An acclimatization-process is necessary to adapt the body to the thin air of this new environment. Time spent at the higher camps enable red blood cells to multiply which in turn will carry more oxygen. The climbing team continue their acclimatization while the Sherpas push up to Camp 4 to begin the cleanup operation. Although the Khumbu icefall is regarded as the most dangerous leg of the climb, the Lhotse face is no casual walk in the park. It is a 4000 foot near-vertical wall of ice. Like the icefall, multiple trips up and down only increase the danger for anyone traveling... Because the wind-blown South Col is accessible, we wanted to go up there and clean off the hundreds of oxygen bottles that have been left... and mainly, these are the large, heavy ones that no one wanted to bring down in the past. Some of them weigh up to In Nepal, the average annual income is five hundred U.S. dollars per year. At twenty-five dollars per oxygen bottle, this man will make his income in 4 trips to the South Col. Down the hill he will walk with 5 empty Bottles in his pack... worth $125 U.S. dollars. Ask any Sherpa why he climbs, and the answer is nearly always the same: "I climb today so my children do not have climb tomorrow." But how did the garbage come to be here in the first place? The climb up Everest itself is so arduous... so dangerous... so cold and windy... that past climbers felt lucky to get out alive. They thought little about the trash they left behind. The accumulation of garbage is simply the past 40 years of climbers reaching for the roof of the world... and often hastily retreating. This is Pemba speaking from Camp 2... over... Base Camp, can you hear me? Our Sherpas are going up to South Col and starting to bring the oxygen bottles. And I'm going to scale here, hoping to weigh some oxygen bottles... I'm going to send down from Camp 2 to Base Camp, Because there are 9 Sherpas coming up tomorrow from Base Camp to Camp 2 and on the way back I'll send down there some garbage and empty oxygen bottles... over. OK. I understand. It's possible for us to weight the bottles here instead of... Today's our rest day. We're out looking for garbage and trash left by previous expeditions. That's not going to well, because the snow- and ice-cap here at Camp 2 is way higher than normal. Usually this is bare rock and you can see a lot of the trash, but now it's covered with snow and ice so we're combing the area without too much success. A storm moves rapidly up the Western Cwm, temporarily halting the clean-up effort. The climbers accompanied by several Sherpas retreat back to Base Camp with the first full packs of trash and oxygen bottles. The remaining Sherpas will wait out the storm at Camp 2. Once the weather clears, they will promptly resume the clean-up operation. All the trash and bottles that come into Base Camp must be weighed and logged, to accurately compensate the Clean-up Sherpas. As well as present a final report to The Sagarmatha Pollution control committee... ...and on the oxygen bottles, here's how much per kilo... so if it's one 15-kilo bottle, or 6 for a TOTAL of 15, you get the same money by the weight. So now can you say that one again? I just wanna make sure that I got it right. Okay, so it's 15 kilograms... Okay now but how many rupees for the full trip? Camp IV to Base Camp is 3800 rupees. I think most of the Khumbu Sherpas, they're all belong for the trekkings and climbing. Because we don't have education. We have a good school in Kathmandu, but we can't do anything. If we want to learn about, like a doctor, at the doctor schools, engineering schools - everything is Kathmandu. But, to the Sherpas who live in the mountain areas, they are good for the mountain areas. Because they are used to the altitude... They'd like to study about the doctor and the engineer, but they don't have enough economic ...the problem of the economic. So they are running for the Everest, and other mountains, because they get the good money. Because, you know, this is my income... without this I don't have a job. After this, I have like 5 or 6 months in Kathmandu without job. Because my son, I have 2 boys... they are in school... I have to look after all of them... and I have to pay for the house rent... like every man. And because of the expeditions and trekking, we get a good job, to earn money, and our children, they are very lucky, they can go to school in Kathmandu. Otherwise they stay in our village... we don't have a good school in our village. Sherpas are extremely good business people. The families work in these units, so as a family unit, they will make a fairly substantial chunk of change. Probably, in the end, more money that a U.S. guide would make on the trip. Weather forecasting in the Himalaya is extremely challenging. Expeditions rely on daily satellite images streaming in on the internet... Uh, we've got a weather report from Breckenridge next 5 days. And that weather report is not good, repeat, the weather report is NOT good. While the clean-up team of Sherpas tend against the inclimate weather at the high cam the subject at base camp is the rapidly closing summit window. We are looking at a good day and I don't see the point of going other people until we have a month of good days. I think everyone realizes or feels like at least I feel like we got only one summit in this group, we are not going to go up twice and if we put this much effort and time we should wait for a better window deal. What's the downside of waiting at Camp 2 rather than waiting here? What you gain in acclimatization you lose in strength, and the balance is not equal, and while you acclimatize a little more, you may have a little less of a headache when you get up to 4, you've grown that much weaker. At Base Camp your maintaining. But I am looking at the weather and the weather has not been good, It has not been the weather I've seen on this mountain 3 previous times. Know that the disasters that have occurred have been three things; you've got bad weather, high winds, deep snows, you're not going to get to the summit, a couple of people do... If you have long lines of people going on up, and you get caught up in a cue more or less to speak, you don't make it. And you go up too high and your sitting there waiting for your summit, you're so beat up, you don't make it. Weeks of living and working at this altitude continue to take its toll the climbers. Team member Rob Chang has fallen ill and has little choice but to leave the expedition. I've been climbing for 11 years. Going down, I know what it means. But like I said, I don't want to become a liability here. I'm not getting better... I'm kinda feeling worse, so... It's always a matter of judgment in terms of the time it takes for your body to acclimatize. Which is a finite process that you have to spend time getting used to this altitude, so you're comfortable breathing. Your body needs time to acclimatize to that. On the other hand, the other thing that's happening to your body is there is a continuous, slow deterioration process going on. And so it's a balance of the time it takes to acclimatize, and get that done properly, and not wait too long, and let the deterioration process get ahead of the acclimatization process, and then you have a net loss. Living at extreme altitude is not physiologic. It's man wasn't made to live here for a long period of time, and in fact, there are no indigenous populations that live this high. Part of the problems are that you don't sleep as well... you mal-absorb fats, particularly you tend to lose weight... with that you lose vigor. ...and then the thing that you don't wanna have happen is the body begins to metabolize the muscle mass... and that results in weakness, and weakness does not work when you're climbing Everest... you gotta be strong. We do everything we can to prevent weight loss: we have huge high calorie meals... many of us take supplements of different kinds to keep the calories on. In fact, I've always thought I could open a Mt. Everest Weight-loss School and guarantee our participants in writing the loss of weight. There's no way you can maintain your weight up here. And that's we're sorta facing here as we wait out the weather. Sherpas continue to make progress on cleaning up the high camps amidst deep snow and harsh weather... We have 324 oxygen bottles. Expecting another approximately Trash-wise, we brought a bunch of trash down from Camp II, and that's been mostly food waste, old tents, tent poles, gas cans, there's some batteries, and the total on that is approximately 500 pounds. We're picking up some of the oldest bottles, and the heaviest bottles earlier teams which were helping out with cleaning-up didn't bring down because of their weight. All of the oxygen bottles that've been brought down are dated, and this particular bottle was manufactured in June of 1951. The first team to go up was in 1952, it was a Swiss team. The leader, a gentleman by the name of Lambert, and Tenzing Norgay, reached the place we call The Balcony, at about 27,000 feet... In other words, they almost made it to the summit. They came very, very close, and we believe very strongly that this is one of those bottles from that very first attempt. Or, in other words, the very first oxygen bottle that was ever dropped at the South Col. There were a number of these little fat ones... We've all seen pictures of the Hillary-Tenzing climb... This is the exact bottle that Hillary and Tenzing used on the '53 climb. This style of bottle was only used by that team. It was a military bottle that was manufactured for the British military. After that all climbers were getting their bottles from Europe, and they were privately manufactured. So we have 2 real antiques. Finally, after nearly 7 weeks, Bob Hoffman receives the weather report he has been waiting for, the summit is clear... What this is giving you is a constant feed of O2... at 2 liters, 3 liters, whatever, per minute. You'll probably find that you, up high, will wanna have your mask on most of the time. I'm kind of conflicted about it. On 1 hand, I find it very constricting. I feel as though I'm being asphyxiated. I wanna rip the mask off, and yet, I can feel my fingers getting warmer, my toes begin to warm up, and I move faster. And so, I think the benefits far out-weigh the negatives of using an oxygen apparatus. This is the glamorous side of mountaineering, right here. I was just checking E-mail from my youngest son, and he says, Dad, be careful, I don't wanna lose you now. And I thought, God, what am I doing to the people at home? I got a tear in my eye thinkin' I've got this 18-year-old kid afraid I'm gonna die. And I have no intention of dying, but we always have that risk. I think not enough exposure is given to this side of mountaineering, because it really is in some ways a selfish sport, because I don't think enough of us pay attention to what effect it has on others... So I just think about the glamour and beauty and all the height. It's good on the climbing. It's good to think people back home. The anxieties and in some case the sufferings they go through. On Sherm's 3rd Everest trip, one slip in the middle of the night nearly cost him his life... I think we were just below the Balcony and suddenly boom! I don't know exactly what happened, I think I just misplaced a crampon. I went down, and when you go down on a steep, icy surface you begin to enjoy the effects of uncontrolled gravity. A crevasse saved Sherm from falling off the 5000 foot face of Everest. Bob Boice witnessed Sherm's fall and traversed in the dark along the icy balcony to reach him. Boice abandoned his own summit aspirations to short-rope his injured friend the 5 hours down to Camp 4. Others joined in the rescue effort, in what would be an excruciating two-day descent to Base Camp. Sherm was evacuated with severe, multiple injuries that would take nearly a year to recover from... Hoffman's team will be one of the last expeditions to the summit this season. Additional clean-up Sherpas will accompany the climbers to the summit to do a final sweep of the upper mountain. As long as we don't get any more snow tonight, we'll be all right. I'm just concerned about more snow, because that could give us avalanche danger. But if we don't get any more snow tonight, we can cut a trail on up. The wind is from the south... and it's never good when the clouds are moving in outta the south. That's always what I've always looked for. We normally get the winds off Everest going in the more northerly, ah, easterly direction... But shit, movin' outta the south... And until that wind shifts, we're gonna continue to have this. I think all of the waiting around was worth it. I mean it was hard for everybody, including the people who were making decisions about when to go, but now we're up here and I think we're ready to do it. We still have a long way to go... I don't know if the weather's gonna be on our side or not... But I mean who knows, the spirit of these mountains can do very funny things... and if not, today might have been just a long training exercise. The weather up here is a crap shoot, and if what Apa said yesterday is right, from here on out it's monsoon season, so, we should stay up here, and give it a crack. So I want everyone into Camp 4 by noon-time, so we'll get an early start... We'll be hydrating and resting, and then we'll start out for the summit somewhere between 10:00 and Climbing through the night... Our goal is to be on the south summit between 6 and 7 o'clock in the morning, and on the summit between 8 and 10, and then back down to 4... Stay the night at 4... 2... 2 back here to Base Camp, and then it's party time. Chuck Huss and Dan Smith are stricken with altitude-related illnesses, and will stay behind at Camp 4. Six American climbers and 12 Sherpas depart for the summit before midnight. The team leaves the night before to give themselves extra time to reach the summit and descend before the periless afternoon storms arrive. For the next 7 hours, the team will climb in complete darkness. As dawn breaks, the sun is out... but ominous clouds form below and the winds above begin to increase. Apa and 3 Sherpas are out in front, breaking trail... Apa fixes the rope lines up the 40-foot exposed face known as the Hillary step... From the summit the first transmissions are heard... Apa and three Sherpas went to the summit. Apa Sherpa summits Mt. Everest for the eleventh time and establishes a world record... His moment of personal glory is fleeting as Apa descends back into the worsening storm, looking for Sherm Bull. Nearing the Hillary step, Apa encounters Lily Leonard, Jim Williams and Francis Slakey. All three will soon summit each for the first time... The storm continues to intensify... This is Base Camp. Where are you do left? How are you doing? Over. Complete white-out conditions here... Can't see a damn thing... I'm stuck in place... There's no Sherpa following me... And the team's totally spread out. At 11 AM and in the complete white-out, Pemba Nurbu is the last to summit. Pemba and 3 cleanup Sherpas descend, cleaning up discarded oxygen bottles as they go. Below the south summit, Bob Hoffman wisely decides to abandon his summit bid. Alone and with snow blindness in one eye, he turns and descends toward the South Col... finds Sherm Bull... Unwilling to allow the storm to daunt him, Sherm pulls himself methodically up the fixed lines. Taking into consideration the intensity of the storm, Apa convinces him to turn back and give up his dream... Sherm and Apa is turning back... For those in Base Camp, all that is left to do is to wait for confirmation that the team has arrived back safely at Camp 4. Bob Boice, alone at the south summit, calls in to report that his oxygen tank has frozen up. Hello Ben, it's Robert... Ran out of o's between the summit and the step... Jim Williams intercepts the transmission. Boice, relax start breathing... get yourself in a comfortable place... It may take some time... ...eventually finding Bob Boice weak and very cold. Williams replaces the frozen tank and the two descend together back to Camp 4... It has been 22 hours since the team left Camp 4... They now begin a 2-day descent to Base Camp. In their final sweep of The upper mountain and the South Col the Sherpas will pack out more than 100 spent oxygen bottles and other refuse. I'm so proud of you, hon. You don't know how much. Man, that was a bitch of a day and you just didn't wanna hear what I wanna do. I'm super proud of you. I'm 58-years-old, and it kicked the stuffing outta me coming down... But coming down was really life threatening... I mentioned to you that I had one eye shut down... I had to take off my goggles, so I knew I was susceptible to snow-blindness, but I couldn't see outta them... And this blizzard, we had a white-out the whole time we were up there... and so what I was having to do... is... we had a line of ropes going up, and I clipped into a figure-8 and repelled backwards, where I could kinda see where the rope was coming from... But I kept on stumbling into deep snow drifts. This frost-bite... I think it's almost worse maybe 5 days after it happens... supposed to when it has actually occurred. I mean I've never really had a bad case before, but I knew at The Balcony that I was gonna have... frost-bite... I'll be honest with you, I'm really scared... I hope I don't... like, lose anything ...like any tips... you know, that wouldn't be good... you just don't realize how much you depend upon your fingers until you lose them... for a few... for a few days. Actually we get on the summit at the right time, around 8 o'clock on the summit. First I went to the summit, I went to fix the rope up to the summit, then I come back to Hillary step where I met Lily, then went back to the summit again. This time I want to get all the teams to the summit, but the weather changed and only the three summated... So you see it as your job to get the whole team on the summit? On the top... I want to get all of them on the summit, but the weather had changed... The next thing you know, Apa pops over the hill. This guy, I'm tellin' ya... I just can't... Oh, you've heard about him... I can't say enough about him. Not just as a Sherpa, but as a person. So he comes over the hill, and I'm struggling away, and he said, "Sherm, I wanna get you to the summit more than anything in the world." And he said, "You know, I think, probably, I could, get you there." But then he said, "I dunno about getting you down, Sherm." He said, "I think you might die." And then he said the thing that really got me, he said, "I think a Sherpa might die doing it." I said, "Apa, I take your advice 100%. I would never put someone else's life at risk for somethin' I wanna do. I mean it's one thing if a climber wants to risk his own scrawny neck, that's somethin', but to take somebody else's life, put that at risk, there's no, no one has the right to do that particularly on an egotistical adventure like climbing a mountain. I thought it over about "Apa, let's go down... let's go down." And I gave up my dream, and I got a little emotional about giving up my dream... been trying to do this thing for almost 10 years now... but... there are more important things I chose in life - I chose my wife, I chose my family, I wouldn't jeopardize those things... Bob, are you gonna be dancing this evening? I don't think so... just being here... thank you... just being here is about all I can manage. He loves that bathrobe. The Inventa Everest 2000 Environmental Expedition left Base Camp with 632 discarded oxygen bottles... and over 600 pounds of garbage from the high camps. reached the summit of Everest... and a new world record was established by Apa Sherpa. For the Sherpas this ends the climbing season, many will return next year to support other expeditions... Our simple message is... that no matter where we live... no matter what we do... we can do a better job in cleaning up our own environment. If we were able to come to some place as difficult, and with an environment as harsh as Mt. Everest has, and clean it up, there's nothing we can't do in the world in helping the environment.
