 

                        Great actor is the one who speak lie like a truth a person who speaks lie for a truth is called bloody drama I cannot sleep. So you cannot sleep? Since when? I eat all bottle but still I cannot sleep you are also not eating? You should not do this because of 1 break up it happened because of a suicide attack if you save someone then his life is your responsibility why all pressure is on my boyfriend? You glass can hurt you I also danced with her do you remember our dance? You want to kill me? I could not kill myself you should not say this I have found out good time. I was dying, why you saved me? Do you know how I prepared myself? They give me good life day before yesterday I sent her suicide note you sent day before yesterday and it will reach tomorrow when you speak lie then it hurts more people like to take help but you like to give help he will not stay here where she lives? Who are you? I'm your nephew friend I want his birth certificate he wrote a lovely letter to me I had an eye operation, I cannot read I will read his letter I'm was tired of life now I'm enjoying my life but now I got a good job where he works? Its a very good company he is 12th standard failed they were shocked to see my personality madhar can do only 1 work I really forget she is family doctor medicines are here. Do you know nandini? I told her if you want to see mandhar happy then leave him she was crying alot now I know why you saved me? You will be in a big problem for whom you will wait? I'm not doing any fake drama. Its my real drama your grand mother said you did acting in childhood this is your last warning next time if he will tease you then I will beat him I cannot come inside everytime something drops on me you think I'm very close you are not real life seeta lets go to police station fill form fast otherwise patient will die your patient is a drama I asked nurse but she refused give me for 10 minutes I have to find my life you are a beautiful person I dont know where is she you cannot cancel this, you have to pay complete payment I'm going to kill him Logesh is my material supplier today you helped us alot it will not remain fresh do you remember our 1st date? Where you hold my hand 1st time then we went to watch blue movie you were wearing hot black top you remember his medicine timing but you forget our anniversary he is a narsisist. A person who loves himself most until when he will tolerate pressure? His best friend is getting married is the connection of our wedding with him? We have spend so much for him on his suitcase i have committed to them how I will find replacement so fast? So fast is not possible its so long, speak end line directly are sure you want to marry RP? I'm a fool RP has did so much reharsal with you, believe in yourself he is my big competitor you are going on stage he was a topper thank god paresh bhai bring him to mumbai we will do seeta vehra scene real action is starting today a person can enjoy drama whose blood has drama I'm also a singer but he is a human being and human being do mistakes I will not allow you to bring my career to suicide point where are you? What are you seaching? Where are you? Its make up time I'm so sorry. Its broken I will call you later by mistake I give you my credit card slip there is time left in my entry they are so beautiful. We are going to kerala for honeymoon now it cannot remain same I find another for you it was a normal thing it never happened with me go from here her kiss was better than her its better for you to go from here george washington said its better to be alone than bad company if a dog has bite you then relation will not remain same if you forgive him then you will make big mistake because vegetables are not available down my building I dont want you to make cry there is a light after every darkness you again saved me why dont you do something? Kill him all india radio rejected amitabh bachchan voice people remember only successful people which is your favorite restaurant? I dont have time for good news it was my favorite restaurant which scene you like most? Do you remember when amitabh bachchan was confused at time of bombay to goa today you have to become mehmood sir if i was in all india radio and then I would never reject him how do you know abhishek bachchan? You are not useless mandar only 2 minutes left in his entry anything could happen mandhar what are you doing? You are so selfish and mean its not my style. Everybody wants to work as raam its better to die you again come to help me. How you will manage alone? Where? I dont know about your relation tell me about men's thinking like shahrukh khan of devdas he is not normal narsisit, he is wounded narsisist I will not meet you if you want meaning then google it I dont know what I will do? You will love it I was thinking tonight we will go for dinner I dont want to go for dinner with logesh I was thinking you are not seriously you proposed me, I thought we are on next level which is your favorite restaurant? Do you know mandar? I and mandar was very hopeless I want a person who cares for me you have come with a wrong person he saved me from wrong person one day you will know we create drama to know truth my boyfriend ditch me for dinner I'm making a show in which mandar is in lead from which city you have come? You did sex change operation like... i know you have any facebook flower? Say what you have in your heart i want to give something that she cannot imagine he is looking at us if he will see us kissing then he will not tease me again she could not see your daily drama as we came home she was packing her things you did not say anything? Please listen to me again you are lying my problem is not that girl, nor mandar its not enough? Honesty is also a thing you say this because you dont want to share your problems with me atleast speak truth to her i was doing this because logesh was there we were doing acting thats why I hold you back we did a great performance I never told you but because of you I'm feeling light because of you I'm alive our hanuman has a double bed in single room everyone should have a friend like you I have found your nandini now I know why I was not forgetting her this is the way to heaven you call ambulance now let me go do something that she will come to you she does not love me I cannot see she is a male or female then how you know she loves me or not take your profile and go from here inspector is your friend why you bring him? Why you said bedroom? I would make pieces of her you dont know but what you know about him? He told me how to live what he do? You were right I remember 1 thing make new look I take his love from him I dont want to buy anything its our acting time you have kidnapped my seeta I want to hide from myself. I'm raavan take right and go I have kidnapped your seeta you always do this on me, I think you have taken my luck what I have to do? Like her she is special friend of both of you you have something special he can spend whole life with you so you should take back this ring you have to speak truth how do you like me? How you like my body? If i go to gym and make good body then I will meet her you are my well wisher you have no confidence she will like me she loves him wear some good clothes i think i and nandini because of you i have never seen a person crying so much I also tried that position she is nandini what you said it was not coincidence? I wish I would see everything clearly what you are doing with my car? Sorry a little bit scratch so it was my 3 months drama in these 3 months your love, fiancy and behaviour you had break up first from you at signal people scared I have found another actor I was flying high now I'm ok I wanted to do something else its good you have come back nothing can happen to anyone its impossible to go out from here i have captured your mind you came in the face of angel what kind of man you are? You are not feeling guilty? What happened with you? Only you can do this I think you know him better than me he cannot see people's pain I have never told you before I can only listen to your heart voice
