 

                        (All incidents and characters in this film are fictitious, bear no resemblance) 'The Heroine' 'NEWS' 'Welcome to Doordarshan news' 'Highlights' 'Amarnath hailing from Nandivaram, a village near Madras...' '...has been missing for the past 1 week' 'A reward of Rs 1001 will be given to the person who finds him' 'Due to this steep rise in the number of missing persons...' '...panic stricken many have evacuated this village' 'The Police department has taken this mysterious case as a challenge' 'For the past 15 years this is the village where many have gone missing, Swapna' 'The entire village looks like a crematorium' 'Not even a single soul can be spotted in this area!' 'What baffles the Police is though the village looks empty...' '...number of visitors mysteriously missing alone is on the increase' 'Missing persons list is...' '...Ambattur Shankar' 'Vellore Suraj' 'Madurai Kali' 'Coimbatore Kannan' 'Tindivanam Periyasami' 'Virudhunagar Karuppaiya' 'Along with Kanyakumari Kumari Muthu, few others are also missing' 'Not only has the Govt taken this issue seriously...' '...but has declared Nandivaram as 'restricted area'' 'Have you ever heard of such an atrocity?' 'I believe the folks in Nandivaram are missing by the dozen' 'Despite the police force combing the area for the past 15 years...' '...not one of them could be traced' 'That's why to restrict the people from going into the village...' '...the Govt has built a wall' 'So be it' 'Did you tune into our News?' 'Don't risk your life by stepping in to that area' 'Trisha' 'In a case registered a week ago in Pondicherry...' '...the police force has traced Karunakaran's mobile signal till Nandivaram restricted area' 'The department is now expediting the enquiry' 'The Central .govt has hiked up price of petrol again by Rs 3.20 per liter' 'This has inconvenienced the public in a major way' 'Ganesh Venkatraman' 'Satyam Rajesh' 'Sushma Raj' 'Dr.Brahmanandam' 'Music by Raghu Kunche' 'Watching this introduction did you assume he is the hero?' 'He is the villain in this film' 'His name would top the list among all crooks in the city' Excuse me - Shravani...? - Sanjay...? Hi...! Joe, meet Sanjay He is the to-be groom I am supposed to meet - Oh! Really? - Yeah! I'll wait outside, okay? 'She asked you to go, then why the hell are you hugging her?' 'Bloody bug!' Okay Thank you! 'Karunakaran, who went missing in Nandivaram's 'restricted' area...' '...according to police sources is a criminal wanted in many cases' 'The police department is once again requesting the public not to enter that area' Thank God There is no rumor of a spirit like in the film 'Kanchana'... ...which is killing all the people The police force is posting photos of people who died in accidents And cashing in on people's weakness These are all tricks to increase TV viewership! So you aren't scared of spirits? What bunkum and B.S! Okay, wait I'll show you something to you, ma'am Action Hey, cut...cut...cut I told you to hit her You're hitting on her instead What the hell did you teach him? Move, you moron! Watch me You must grab the ghost like this and hit Beat her to a pulp Why are you glaring at me? I'm a human being You're after all a spirit 'You must pound her to a paste, understand?' In a film shoot all this is fine But what if you see a real ghost face to face? I'll trample it and smash it to pieces And strangle its neck So funny Dad told me about you I believe you take short films? What genre? - Only horror - Oh really? That's why spirits don't terrify you 'Worked out to my advantage' 'If I continue in this manner...' '...initial formalities will be successful' 'Even if she kicks you...' '...you should fall into a flower basket, Sanju!' Coming to the point I'll tell you how the person This is how I want my husband to be Say yes if you are okay with it Otherwise simply say no First one I'll retain my surname even after marriage It will be my dad's name I thought as much Feminism showing its head Second one No questions asked about my whereabouts or programs No enquiries whatsoever In fact you shouldn't even broach that topic I'm not your husband You want to be my husband! Last and very important All my friends are only boys No girls at all You shouldn't object at all You mean I shouldn't object even for an abortion! Right Excuse me Tell me, dad Shravani has 4 boyfriends it seems, I just heard about it 'It seems' for you 'It is so' for me 'Should I cancel that alliance?' No...no Finalize the very same alliance 'Why do you want to marry a girl with loose morals?' Dad, shall I narrate a small story to you? A man is starving 'Okay' So hungry he is writhing in pain He finds a biscuit in a muddy mire What will he do, dad? 'What?' Will he eat the biscuit or walk away from it? I would walk away Correct, dad But instead of the biscuit if it was a bar of gold? Simple, pa That chap is yours truly You're looking at the bog I'm looking at the bar of gold Do you get it, dad? She's worth billions Even if generations eat into it no one will land on the street Fix the wedding date directly without an engagement 'Okay, da' Are you married? Already you've lost half your hair Before you become bald... ...follow my footsteps and get married to a rich heiress - So, yes or no? - No Can you explain? Why you are not having any objection? First point Not just you Why should any girl change her dad's name after marriage? Second point If boys aren't plagues with questions of their whereabouts, why single out girls? And last but not least Friends are just friends Why this gender bias? I don't have any objection Excuse me Yes, dad Yes, I like him Yeah - What's your name? - Sanjay Sanjay, dad Very open minded I like him When kicked you didn't fall into a flower basket You fell right into a feature film! Have a ball Fix the wedding date directly Because I'm having trip with Arun after my marriage Yeah, dad Okay Marry me Make out with someone else, huh? 'How atrocious, Saravana!' Yeah, we'll discuss about it 'Name Sandhya, Home town Salem' 'Father is a bus conductor Mother isn't educated' 'But after completing her B.Tech she is staying in a hostel' 'She is the epitome of innocence' 'Why is she coming here at this time?' Hey, girl friend, huh? It's okay, dude Cool! - Glad to meet you - My pleasure By the way Joe is waiting Sanjay, you have a nice time with that girl Will catch up later Bye Joe is waiting, huh? Never thought I'll get a hit formula like this for my feature film! Sanju, it's okay You'll be a billionaire in the very near future All this is pretty common Cool, buddy! Sanjay is waiting for you Hi, Sandhya Come...come Who is that girl? The heroine of my next short film She has just auditioned Why should she audition? You are the director Since we pay for a feature film we audition the artistes But for short films when the artiste invests money, she auditions 'Thank my lucky stars!' What was the surprise in store for me? Not now You must spend the whole day with me Promise me you'll stay 'Scared my dark skin tone will stick to you if you touch me?' At the stroke of 12 you'll be surprised You shouldn't ask me till then and neither will I tell 'I wanted to propose to you at 12 and surprise-' - Shall we go? - Where to? Don't you want the surprise? Congrats, 'machan' Heard you found your match Not the final match This is just practice You took my car saying you're getting hooked formally? And what is this rehearsal? Thank your stars you're my friend Aravind, where's the key to your farm house in Chengalpattu? In the dash board Help yourself! Okay, keep this under wraps Our friends drown themselves in booze even if it is phenol There's no end to your villainous- 'Don't waste my time Hang up now' Moron! You need to be treated at once - I'll be right back - Don't, Sanjay I'll ask for directions to go to Chengalpattu - Don't, listen to me - Wait inside An old man with an iPad, huh? This stirs a doubt in my head now What's up? Hey, Candy Crush, eh? Do people have such a crush on Candy Crush? Will you play even in the midst of nowhere? Hello, excuse me? - Old man - Yes? Can you give me directions to Chengalpattu? Can you tell me how to reach Chengalpattu? Why...? If you know, tell me Otherwise say no What do you why? 'Back to his silly game!' Old man The girl in the car is Sandhya My friend Aravind's girlfriend Very innocent Her parents are forcing her to marry a groom she doesn't like So she ran away He's in Hyderabad He is coming here Until he gets here in the morning... ...he wanted her to wait for him in his farm house in Chengalpattu Please be kind enough to tell me the way You've driven past Chengalpattu If you turn back, you'll see a board 1 km from here That's the right way - There's a board there, right? - Yes, of course Thank you very much, sir Old man Just once Can I also play? Sure, go ahead Bloody ass! I asked you directions, and you ignored me Searching in google? What is that glare in aid of? I'll pluck your goddamn eyes Listen to me now She is my girlfriend If someone asks you for directions, if you know, you should answer Instead if you ask stupid questions... ...I'll beat you to a pulp All their paternal instincts will rise like an antenna for these old man Be careful What happened? He acted pricey to me Will I keep quiet? I showed him what he is up against! Why did you pick a fight? Go and apologize to him Do you want your surprise? Or an apology to some random moron? 'Chengalpattu 25 KM' 'Nandivaram' 'Chengalpattu' - Hey, stop...stop - What happened? Look there Chengalpattu board You're right Let's turn Why is it so desolate? Will people sleep so early in this village? Look over there 'Ask that man' Excuse me 1 minute Can you- He looks so familiar Wait I've seen you somewhere before It is said 7 people will look alike Oh! Revelation Who are you? Where is he? Where is 'who'? You saw only me Cool...cool Okay, tell me where Aravind's guest house is? Outside the village Dumbass! Can't you speak properly? Is everyone around here weird? - Aha Aravind...! - So beautiful You've maintained this farm house so well Now that I have stepped in... ...your farm house will get salvation! I plan to propose to Sanjay tonight You are my witness Make sure he accepts it 'Sandhya...?' 'Come here' Bless me - How is it? - Simply superb I was the one who forced Aravind to buy this farm house Really...? She believes whatever I say, imbecile! This exterior plan is also mine I gave him the money to buy Let's go 'Why isn't it opening? Did he give the right key?' 'Come in' This place is truly out of this world, Sanjay Whose idea is it? Sanjay, I'll go up and look around Okay Go, I'll be here Sanjay...? Sanjay, where are you? I'm scared What's all this? Happy birthday to you, Sandhya Dunce! I clean forgot Thank you so much, Sanjay How is my surprise? Why wait? Cut the cake Knife...? Just a minute 'Don't know where the kitchen is' 'And I must look for a knife' The knife is right here It looks like a meat knife? So funny knife There is sauce sticking to it Cut the cake now Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you Happy birthday dear Sandhya "Oh! Sandhya, touch me now" "Oh! Sandhya, kiss me now" "Oh! Sandhya, hug me now" "Oh Maria..." "Oh Sandhya touch me now" "Oh Sandhya hitch me now" "Isn't it a natural feeling in this age, darling?" "Just once, my love" "Crush me now" "Only once and how!" "Kill me now" "It's a heavenly feeling of a different kind, darling" "Oh! Sandhya, o' nightingale" "One look at you, calling bell rings in my heart without fail" "Oh! Maria, anklets tinkling You are my hottie darling" "You turn me on, what-a feeling!" "No...no...no You can't have your way" "All that I'll encourage only after marriage" "Even if it's perfect logic You hit on me, a chic chick" "That's a voyage after marriage" "You know what's a good habit? For purity to be hugged to the hilt" "In the heat of our desire, dear even winter won't come near" "Kargil war can be the base in the arena of our embrace" "Your shyness sparkles like a diamond Don't waste time, let's enjoy every second" "On a rampage after marriage" "Even if 'I am all yours' you declare You turn my body on fire" "All that I'll engage Only after marriage" "O' Sandhya" "Don't touch me" "O' Sandhya" "Don't hitch me" "Isn't it a common feeling in this age, darling?" "Only once, baby" "Don't crush me" "Just once, sweetie" "Don't kill me" "It's a heavenly feeling of a different kind, darling" "Just shut up, okay?" Don't, Sanjay Let's do this after we are married 'Just you wait I'll make you toe the line' Hey Sandhya, you're right You know something? Do you know how much this Sanjay loved Sandhya? 'He plucked the thought out of my head!' Till our wedding day I promise I won't touch you Okay, take rest 1...2...3 - Sanjay - Yes She fell for it What, my precious? You're a nicer person than I thought you were Thanks a ton for understanding me Go to sleep Good night 'I deserve this!' 'I was so bored' 'I believe there are some old albums in the store room' 'That's why I came here to look for them, but-' Come on Sanjay Change your plan Summer, right? I'm so thirsty Hey Sandhya, Fanta or Coca Cola Drink Fanta You'll sleep well Okay, as you wish 'It will all be my wish from this moment on' 'I saw it here' 'Coca Cola' 1 isn't enough for her Let me add a few more This is for you - You said you'll get me Fanta - But you said it's my wish (dialogs from film 'Aranmanai') 'You just can't escape now' 'You'll be dead-meat, moron' 'Cheater! How dare you?' 'You were trying to seduce a girl who trusted you?' 'Marry her...marry her' 'When she wakes up she'll blackmail me' 'I should act right now' 'This is enough to be 1 up on you' 'If I place it here, everything will be recorded easily' N.Sandhya with Sanjay Enjoy the hot video "Eyes sparkling bright, full of delight My world revolves around you alright" "Your photo in my pocket caresses me My heart skips a beat, ignites fervently" Let's do this after we are married, Sanjay Only before wedding, Sandhya Give it to me This wide angle isn't a good idea Let me get a close-up shot Drink a little more I'll be back in a minute (song from 'Dum') 'Let me zoom a little bit' 'This looks fine' 'Where is she?' 'Did I drink what was meant for her?' 'How weird is this!' 'Can't see her in person but I can see her in my camera?' 'Bottle is in mid air' 'My head is spinning!' (film 'Kadhalukku Mariyathai') 'You know this scene, right? 'I do' 'As soon as I say 'action' come in front of the camera...' '...beat her to a pulp' 'Why do you get so riled up about spirits, sir?' 'If you really see a spirit face to face, what will you do?' Editor! You told me the music score was in sync! Now I realize what you meant Sanjay Sanjay Do you know how long I've been waiting for your arrival? 'Why...?' Do you know how eager I am to express those 3 words? 'Is a spirit in love with me?' 'If I get caught that's it, kaput!' That's why I turned down the rich groom my dad suggested 'His stars are lucky!' - Do you know why? - 'Why, dear?' For you, for your love Am I the lamb for the slaughter? I won't marry anyone else but you, Sanjay, trust me Trust me 'Just because I yelled at a ghost will it fall in love with me?' 'If kicked I thought I'll fall in a basket of flowers' 'Instead I find I am in the clutches of a spirit' 'Aiyah...!' 'Don't...please don't' 'Don't be upset' I can hear voices 'She won't betray you' 'Why don't you tell him?' 'I have told him so many times' 'Tell him not to do it' Wow! Nice pose indeed Looks like a scene from an old film Hello Excuse me? I was so happy when my little princess kicked me on my chest as a baby But today I feel miserable I would rather commit suicide than face that disgrace Dear, don't Don't say that Listen to me just once Why don't you listen? How will I face the landlord? Can I bear the humiliation? It's better to commit suicide - Don't - Sir, don't Somehow I will make our madam agree 'No, Subbaiyah' 'I don't want to marry that rich landlord's son' 'Where?' 'Even if you try to persuade me I won't change my mind' 'No, pa' 'Is it a live telecast?' 'This is my decision even whatever your threats may be' 'I won't give up my love' 'I'm positive about it' I will marry only Sanjay whom I love with all my heart No one can change my decision 'Daughter, stay calm' 'Tell her no one can change my decision, Subbaiyah' 'Sir, don't' 'Don't hurt this innocent girl and add to your sins' 'Please listen to me' 'Get her married to Sanjay whom she loves with-' 'Subbaiyah' Wow! Height of emotion! Old man, you rock even at this age Not only your image Even your grey cells are great! Instead of a long shot when he cries... ...could have cut a close-up shot Where is the camera positioned? If the fruit hasn't ripened can you blame the tree? Are you blaming me because I planted it? Where is the camera? For the sin of being her father... ...I'm prepared to mete out the punishment for this sin 'I can't bear to see this torture anymore' 'God, help me' 'Why are you still standing here?' 'Go...go' 'Bring me the poison' 'I won't commit that sin-' 'I am your master You have to obey me' 'Aiyah' 'Bring that poison' 'My dear, don't do this' 'Saradha' 'If your love for me is true...' '...don't stop me' 'You have bound me with your bond of love' Poison drinking 'Don't, dear' Hey, waiting He drank it, huh? Life gone? I won't let you die Baby? Baby...Baby? Your father drank poison and died, baby Do something Why aren't you saying anything? Baby...Baby? Listen! Your father has collapsed, he may be dead And you are playing hide and seek at this time Is that priority now? Don't, madam Listen to me Dear, I can't live without you Both dead Your mother is also dead Is that sweet pudding? All of you want to take the same route! 3rd in the list? Hello Aravind A family consumed poison and died in your farm house 'What are you blabbering?' Yes, right in front of my eyes Because their daughter didn't agree to their choice of groom - Even the servant is dead - Is it so? Can you see them? I'm telling you they died right in front of my eyes What's wrong with you? Dude, I forgot to tell you something What? A family committed suicide 35 years ago it seems The real estate agent told me when I bought that house But I didn't give it much thought If you can see them they must be ghosts Scoot from there at once Who are you? Answer me Tell me Who are you? Sir, I am Sanjay Sanjay, eh? So you are the reason for all of us dying - No...not me - What are you waiting for? "I will appear Here and everywhere" 'This is Sandhya' 'Where is she then?' 'I was lying here' Sandhya...? You're bruised all over Where did you get this dress? I saw it there I just wore it Do I look good in it? Remove it Strip...strip No, Sanjay Let's do this after we are married You sound like a broken record There is a ghost in this house Let's escape What...how is that? There is a ghost in this house What...how is that? Is this the time to reel out funny dialogs? There is a ghost in this house This is her dress Why are you laughing like comedian Vadivelu? You are not to be blamed They made a clown out of the ghost and made horror comedy films You fell for it Believe me Very true I know you direct horror films Why are you getting scared? I thought the ghost will run a mile scared of you! Even I thought so till I saw those ghost! Even superstar Rajinikanth will react the way I do I'm not any star I swear on you See how they have ripped me apart? From when you were a kid... ...how many horror films would you have watched? 100 to 200 With such a track record why won't you get this illusion? Ghosts and ghouls are your fertile imagination How can you say this? Then how do you explain this blood stain? You would have tripped and fallen True to your job you are pulling a fast one No, Sandhya Believe me 1 ghost can be seen only through a camera Dumbass! Ghosts can be seen only through cameras I have seen this in so many films I've heard they can be seen in mirrors too Haven't you seen it? Not that Hello...hello? That sound That anklet sound That's the ghost Can't you hear it? 'Sanjay, come to me' Listen carefully She is calling your lover I told you it is just illusion You are obsessed with it 'Sanjay, you are always like this' 'Wait, I will come' She said she is coming 'Sanjay, I am here' Look through your phone If you are wrong I'll break your skull Okay, just do it Where? Right 'Is your stomach making somersaults?' Don't What is that supposed to mean? - Don't come near me - What? Don't come near you? Don't come near me You are that ghost Stop blabbering I'll clobber you Hold it Look here Go fast I am unable to move my feet Sanjay...! Sanjay Why is she standing here now? Sanjay, come Come Hurry up Gayathri...? Gayathri, dear 'What is he doing here?' Gayathri, dear 'Yes, pa?' 'Appa'...? 'Come, my dear' I think she watches Sanjay Leela Bhansali's films 'Look how long her 'dupatta' trails' 'Appa' - What happened? - Battery gone - Give me your mobile - Wait Here Hello, dear Yes, pa What did you cook for dinner? Remember Karunakaran whom we killed? I fried his brain What do we do now? 'I love brain fry, dear' You see her through this camera I'll see him directly What game did you play today? That family drama where they all die drinking poison, pa She created those 3 ghosts who pounded me unconscious Whom did you play with? That chap who is supposed to go to Chengalpattu whom you diverted here I've been playing only with him all this while Just finished 1st round - 'Is it so, dear?' - What does she mean? We came to the wrong farm house All because of you! You hassled that man with the iPad and he showed us he's boss Wonder how much worse it can get for us Wait...wait I've seen him even before asking him the directions He didn't just divert us He has followed me We are trapped, Sandhya Trap, eh? I said I'll strangle a ghost if I ever see one face to face He has got angry and with and trapped me after hearing me say so That's why you shouldn't let your tongue run They will definitely take revenge That means? - Will they kill me? - God only knows Enough of your games for today Take rest now No, pa, I have 1 more round to finish She ripped me to pieces What's the next round? Your wish Take care I have a long queue of people waiting for me I need to take care of them Sanjay...? Sanjay Where did you disappear? Sanjay Where are you, Sanjay? Sanjay You are here, huh? She is coming close to us I am here Sanjay What is this, Sanjay? Where are you hiding? Sanjay Hurry up Come out, Sanju baby Who is calling me at this time of night? Put it on silent mode You playful thief! You are right here, huh? Come out Getting delayed for the next round Hello? 'I'm Aravind here Let me talk to Sanjay' Someone called Aravind it seems How did he get your number? Hello...? Where are you? I just arrived at the farm house Are you here? - Talk gentle - I am inside I am also inside Where are you? How did you come in? The main door is open, right? First tell me where you are You tell me I'll come there I am next to the pillar near the kitchen Hide there I'll join you right away But your chapter is closed if those ghosts catch you Okay, let's go Wait Let's just cross check once What do we do now? Wait, she is the one talking in Aravind's voice I'll come up with a twist Hello? How long do I wait? Where the hell are you? I am hiding in the bedroom, come here I'll be there in a moment She's really going up the stairs Come, let's watch her She has gone She is inside - Run and lock the door - You want me to go? Go now Rot in there - Yes...yes...yes - Come fast Hey, come here 'How dare you lock me up?' 'Open the door' 'Open the door now' - My phone fell down - Pick it up Pick it up, faaast Hurry up - Sanjay? - What? - Main door is closed - Whaat? The other side? This window? This side? Come, I say! Open the door She has the whole house under her control Look how she's acting, witch! How do we get out of here? Sanjay Do you really, truly, deeply love me? What timing to get such doubts, I swear! If you truly love me you go open the door first Typical female trait To trap us at the right time! Wish I could strang- Okay, are you coming with me or not? I'm leaving now, have fun playing hop skotch with Ganga Hey, Sanjay Who is Ganga? Your sisterly spirit 'Kanchana'! See you 1...2...3 How can you escape without finishing my game? Do you know what I do to those who leave my game unfinished? Take a good look Have you killed him too, akka? Yes, I killed all of them Someone save him Someone please help him Someone save him (popular song from '16 vayathinile') What's wrong with her? She looks different Her walk, dress, et al Whom is she looking for? "Tell me, where is my king?" Murali Krishna...? - Gayathri - What, pa? Murali Krishna didn't come today either Murali Krishna didn't come, huh? Murali Krishna didn't come, huh? Who's he? Hey! Look here This is our chance Let's go Let's go through the main door What do we do now? We are trapped Kni-f-e! Come here, Sanjay If we don't finish the game, the audience will feel bad Bloody well show your face Trying to escape, huh? Come on Don't joke, 'ka Do we have a chance to even try to escape? I won't escape I swear on you No, on her- I swear on my own self My tongue twisted the other day and I scolded a ghost, 'ka Kindly forgive me, 'ka Please say something Will you kill us even after we have apologized profusely? I'll let you go Really, 'ka? Thanks, 'ka You've proved there are still good spirits on our earth Akka has given permission Let's go, Sandhya Let's get out of here Hey, hero Did you call me? If you go away then who'll finish the game? Who else but me, 'ka Whether playing a game or planning a heist... ...no one can beat me What kind of game? Hide and seek, hopscotch? Board games, cards? You need to answer my questions Sanjay, be quiet That's a cake walk You mean the reality show 'Who wants to be a millionaire'? Or its Tamil variant? I went because hero Suriya called me You participated, huh? I meant I was part of the audience Let Sandhya play first Why are you getting me in trouble? What did you do near the door? You ladies will get us caught only if you get a chance We men create a chance to get you caught You will be crucified Go ahead and ask, 'ka Sandhya is ready it seems What's the connection between the 2 of you? I am in...love with him What did you see in him to fall in love? First time How will they cross? Why tax my gray cells when I have Google in my phone? 'Ghajini' the film "The one with sparkling eyes" 'When he helped the kids across so cleverly...' '...I saw him in a different angle' 2nd time during the auto accident... ...when he saved me without even knowing who I am ...I realized how good hearted he is Stop, we need to take her to the hospital To be honest, that's when I really fell for him Later when he carried me in his arms I felt blessed Where's the hospital? My faith in him was so full fledged I came all the way here Is all this true? Yeah 100 %, akka Total lie Shall I tell you the truth as it is? What did you say? You saw him in a different angle? Do you know the angle he saw you in? What a sexy seat! How did you collect these details, akka? What else did you say? You realized he's good hearted and you fell for him? You didn't flip for him He made it look like you fell for him 'Let me puncture the bald head' Blood Akka, your network is very widespread indeed So he carried you like this in his arms, huh? You considered yourself blessed To him it was a chance to make a pass! Where is the hospital? There should only be 3 questions in a round But you're plaguing her with 10 times 3! Will you ask only her? Won't you ask me anything? Before this girl arrived... ...what were you doing with another girl in that coffee shop? Haven't you watched 'Who wants to be a millionaire'? Questions should be general Not personal like this Is it so? Suriya sir, update yourself If you ask such questions... ...that chap wouldn't have won 5 million in your last episode, right? I was auditioning for a short film, 'ka Why are you hitting me? I'm answering, right? That's the truth' ka I went to check out a marriage proposal Alliance? His wedding has been fixed with a girl worth 1 billion Akka, you shouldn't ask personal questions in public Can we shift to general knowledge? G.K? Okay Why did you bring this girl here? Pass this question, 'ka No man handling Actually I brought Sandhya here to surprise her on her birthday In between thanks to a game played by your dear father... ...I have no choice but to participate in this game Greetings, boss Nailed me, huh? I came to entice and finish the matter What do you mean by finish the matter? Sandhya, I wanted to spike your soft drink Record whatever I do to you Blackmail you in the morning And then delete it later, bingo! That's all, akka I confessed it all Thank god Game over So we'll take leave, 'ka Come, Sandhya Hey! Sandhya I said let's go I loved you with all my heart You thought you could use me to satisfy your urges, right? My fault to trust you I blame myself I trusted you I deserve this Why is her expression turning ruthless? Cry your heart out As long as girls like you are cry babies... ...men like him will use and throw you in the trash can Only solution is not to cry Not shed tears Not shed tears Yes, I should not cry But make you cry Stop Please don't do anything to me Leave me Sandhya Hey! Dude? Hello, my dear, how are you? Why are you introducing my entry? Zip your lips Now that I am here I will handle it Didn't expect me, right? Jasmine Cupid to all ladies You thought you alone can enjoy and escape? No, you can't The matter has got leaked Shut- You seem to have gone through hell? Not at all How can you get tired as early as the interval? Forget it I'll finish the 2nd half Just listen to me 'She is my girlfriend Don't do anything to her' Isn't that your dialog? No way Having fixed your wedding what's your game with her? Playing mummy-daddy game? - Game eh? - Take rest I will take over Where is my doll? Where is she? Don't go near her Hear me out She is poss- Possess-! "Shall we get married, elope, dear?" Don't like me, huh? Am I am a blockhead to say I don't like you? You look like 10 girls ground together to make a hot, spicy chutney, precious? She has even changed her voice I am not able to control myself Where is my bedroom? Where is it? Tell me Upstairs, huh? Double okay Bro, that's a gh...gho- Don't say ghost you gunk of a goon! Say go, go now You dumb ass! Scent of jasmine Cupid, sought after by all women Time for the flowers to crumple and for us to rock and roll in bed Follow me, my precious Watch my performance! (humming) Hey girlie Feeling shy, huh? I'll make out and make your shyness disappear Turn around, my dear Beautiful Fantastic Electrifying touch If you want to touch me you need to play a game with me Play games with a lady? Playing a game with a lady is like eating candy This jasmine fellow won't make glam dolls throw a temper tantrum What's so great about these ladies' games? These board games, hide and seek At the worst they play hopscotch That's all, girlie Bingo! You got it right Jasmine fellow this is no ordinary girl She's a power horse Not just this game I'm waiting for the main game If you play its mere 3G But if I play it's 4G speed Want to watch me in action? Where's the chalk? Ah! There it is Whose turn first? Yours or mine? You first Till men start the game women won't even make their move Shall we start the game? If you win you can touch me Will do And if you lose? - If I lose? - Then I will touch you She falls into the category of being pea-brained Her brain must be below her knees What I need is her touch To make a girl win... ...for the first time I will lose in life Please touch me Who hit me? My brothers? Where are they? They are invisible Only action What should I do then for you to touch me? You need to play another game But I'll suggest this game Shoot Which one? Hide and seek I'm okay with that First close your eyes Okay 1...2...3 Jump Let go of me I'll run for my dear life Let me go - Go - Let me go! Friend? Got screwed royally Piped down, huh? Cupid sought after by women You'll rock and roll in bed with her You boasted you'll crumple the flower and the girl! What happened inside? She crumpled me to pieces and ripped me apart, man If she had born in Hollywood... ...they would have rolled the red carpet and awarded the Oscar to her This is no ordinary performance Peak performance She isn't a deadly chick She is quite drop dead gorgeous But a dead girl's spirit has possessed her You mean ghost? No, devil Both are the same Take a look at this 'These board games, hide and seek' 'At the worst they play hopscotch' 'Jasmine scented fellow Where are you hiding?' 'Show me your performance' No, I stopped playing and went away 'Jasmine fellow!' - What will it do now? - Nothing much You'll slide and glide there right next to her Don't pull a fast one now Why will I go alone? What about you? I finished many rounds already The story twists and turns Jasmine man Show me your performance I am waiting eagerly Tie this Let me see Let me see who wins Natural or supernatural? Listen to me You're stepping into danger zone Just do what I say Am I a girl? Just tie this piece of cloth Not tie the wedding chain, you ass! - Challenge - You're mad! You tie me up Let's see what happens I am not connected with this one bit, escape! Even I have brains Not just for that ghost If she has the guts ask her to drag me - He's over stepping his limit - I'm challenging her Why did you exert yourself, akka? I was just kidding, 'ka Show me your performance Don't strangle me, akka Please spare me Show me, I want to see your performance - Show me - STOP IT! Hey Sanjay! Save me I came thinking I'll meet a glam doll You got me trapped with a ghost, you buffalo! My dialog is over Finished with your dialog, huh? Actually mine starts only now Clean bowled Sanjay, save me Save me If I don't untie him, his life will be in tatters Show me your performance Dude, just zip your lips You'll be fine You want me to be silent Shut up, you bloody psycho If my 'jasmine' lineage should end with this Murali Krishna... ...you're the only reason Murali Krishna Murali Krishna Murali Krishna Did you come to meet me? Ye...yes, akka, he came just to meet you Your Murali Krishna Tell her about you Can't you see this is your Murali Krishna? You thrashed me so terribly my whole body has blisters I hit you? That's the joke of the year Who is this? Your friend? Greetings, sir Why are you terrified of me? I saw a ghost on the way to this place That's all Hello, 'ka I am Sanjay This is your Murali Krishna Yes Murali Krishna Jasmine Murali Krishna You wait here I'll get ready in a jiffy Very happy to hear that Please go, madam What would you like to drink? Tea or coffee? You've already offered me and I had my fill! My power is full Go and get your bag and baggage Okay, Murali Krishna sir (song from '16 Vayathinile') May she and her goddamn song rot in hell Let's escape, dude 'Why is he coming in here?' Hey, old man What are you doing here? - Do you know him? - Good question This is the old man who directed me to this farm house - Do you know that? - He didn't bring you here He has booked us Diverted us and trapped us into his web Then this ghost is also- A ghost, he heads this ghost gang! My fault to have even let you live for so long! Let's go 'Where can I hide?' Open the door Shut it 'Why is that girl's photo hanging on this wall?' 'One more on this wall' Just shut up and find a good place to hide Give me some room He seems to come suddenly like Computer Graphics! Bloody scumbags! Will you try to seduce women? I'll kill you, wait and watch Bloody scumbags! Gayathri?! Gayathri 'Can't open the door Come here, I say' 'The door is closed' Open the door Open this door Please save us Hey! Look over there My dear Gayathri Why are you crying, sir? Why did you divert us here, sir? If she knows Murali Krishna isn't coming, akka becomes dull But if I say he is here why is she ecstatic? (song from 'Kuzhandaiyum Deivamum') Greetings Even if you've lost money... ...you never scrounge in your daughter's birthday celebrations She is my only asset You look like a heroine in a cinema, dear - Why do you need this umbrella? - I am a heroine, teacher Shouldn't a heroine be beautiful? That's why I'm holding it You don't lack anything You look like actress Sridevi when she was your age 'Watch today Right away' 'Directed by Bharathiraja Starring your angel Sridevi' '16 Vayathinile' in Devi talkies' 'Daily 4 shows Watch today' (popular song from '16 Vayathinile') "Tell me will you, where is this prince of mine?" Wait...let me tell you - You saw this film? - Not just saw, grandma I saw it 25 times! "O' breeze so cool, flower carmine" - 'Lights' - 'Clapping' - 'Sound?' - 'Rolling, sir' - 'Camera?' - 'Running, sir' - 'By 1 take 2' - 'Action' Six I'll book 6 films in 1 go 6 films?! But you have to say wither 'Yes' or 'No' If you say 'yes' you can be here If it's a 'No' you can leave Is it 'Yes' or 'No'? - Hey you there - Sir? Ask if the heroine is ready or not for the bedroom scene There is a long queue of beautiful girls waiting It isn't enough if you want to make your daughter a heroine You should teach her to be street smart also Bloody scumbag! Come here You dare hit me! - Take your hands off - Father, don't hit him What audacity! - Don't, pa - Throw them out Appa...! I just wanted my face to be seen in a camera at least once But looks like I am not lucky to see myself as a heroine, pa No, dear Let's not make any effort for this - Okay - Let's go home What? - Glory to Allah - Who are you? I'm basically a cameraman from Bombay He's my Tamil friend, who is looking for a heroine for past 6 months So far he hasn't found anyone suitable Now it's confirmed Where did you hide her all along? For her to fit the character to a I trained her for a month And brought her today Fix this girl first Raja, sir Because of 'sleazoids' like you... ...those who want to become heroines ...remain as junior artistes Gayathri akka has become a heroine...yaay! Hello, who is it? 'I'm production manager Murali Krishna here' Tell me, sir 'Shooting starts from this Friday' Shooting...? 'Yes, madam' 'Memorize the dialogs given to you' 'I forgot to tell you' 'When you step out, remember to take an umbrella' 'See you soon' Okay, sir Manager Murali Krishna, dad What did he say? I believe shooting starts this Friday You'll be in a film shoot soon Congratulations, heroine madam Yugendar bro The other day I lied that I've trained Gayathri That's why she got the heroine chance But I'm kind of apprehensive So just once I thought I'll check Gayathri's performance Gayathri, have you memorized the dialogs given to you? Can you act it out for me? Do it, dear Okay Action Do you know... ...how long ...I've been waiting for your arrival? Do you know how my lips are... ...trembling to say those 3 words, Sanjay? Now the servant Don't, sir Please don't agonize over this Your daughter... ...will never deceive you - Now the mother - You did a good job Good job indeed! It sounded more like kids shouting out a lesson This isn't called acting - Sorry, sir - Bro...? If you don't mind I'll stay here And teach Gayathri how to act properly I can't be happier than this, bro "Whatever happened to me?" "My heart swings so joyfully" "Such a feeling's comin' over me My tender age sings like a koel gaily" "I revel in the waterfall of gladness duly" "I am amazed at my own self truly" "In my dreams my wings I spread I fly in the blue sky overhead" "I'm flushed with desire from this second I'm on fire" "With bonds of friendship Love beyond mere kinship" "This girl's heart carefree is on a questioning spree" Hello? 'Madam, this is Murali Krishna here' Tell me, sir 'Only 2 more days left for Friday' 'I called to tell you it would be better if you can check the costumes' "The joy around me thanks to you surely" "Can my finger point at you my handsome beau?" "My heart skips a beat I'm swept off my feet" "Shall I shout your name, dear to everyone far and near?" "Though my feet on the ground in the skies my heart floats around" "Magic wand you waved for me to be so dazed?" "Even when my lips caress not a sound heard; speechless" "Weren't you the one who schemed all alone?" "With friendship as the key-word Our love most cherished in the world" "This girl's heart vulnerably is on a questioning spree" 'One man in a thousand' 'Joyful Palace' "Stringing flowers of joy together" "Shall I make a garland in my soul forever?" "Shall I make this feeling of wonder a prisoner for life in my heart forever?" "As eyes opened the door wide dreams flew like cotton flakes aside" "This fluster within me thanks to you truly" "Even if we stand far away our love breezes by to stay" "You are the one now who showered this love?" "With friendship as our bond Love transcends beyond" "This girl's heart innocently is on a questioning spree" Do you know how long I've been waiting for your arrival, Sanjay? Shooting starts tomorrow morning You'll be surrounded by people After you deliver your dialog, people will applaud Everything will seem like an illusion to you In that illusion you'll forget everyone Including me! That's why I would like to share something with you today Yes, Gayathri I'm in love with you Tell me, Gayathri Am I in your heart? If my dad agrees I'll also say 'yes' Rangaraj sir Tell me A daughter who respects her father's words A father who treasures his daughter with his life I love Gayathri If you agree I'll marry her Only if you accept Even if you don't, it won't affect our friendship in any way As expected, shooting will commence tomorrow morning I'll be the camera man and she'll be the heroine Decision... ...is yours Murali Krishna sir, tell me 'Tomorrow is Friday 1st day of shooting' I remember that very well, sir Should be ready at 6:00 a.m in the costume you sent Is that all? 'My intentions are good' 'You'll soon become the most sought after heroine' 'There's no doubt about that' Please don't mistake me for calling you repeatedly Not at all, sir Tomorrow morning at 6 o'clock, I'll myself come in the car Okay, sir Please be ready 'Hey dude!' 'My long awaited hunt of 6 months...' ...will have a full stop from me today I will have the pleasure of enjoying my 100th girl tonight Wait until tomorrow evening, dude After getting fully drenched why is a hood necessary? Pa...? Now you know I will have the pleasure on my 100th girl's company And that girl is you I'll make sure I kill you Appa...! 100 is always special to me Just like a film running for 100 days Do you know how my 100th girl should look? Just like you Like a flower untouched She should love me You'll be fine, pa Only then I can drown in her passionate embraces That's why even though the other 99 dolls... ...didn't intoxicate me ...when I saw you, I got really high All this was my screen play According to it, tonight is our first night together Wait, pa Whether you accept it or not... My father He'll die if we delay a moment longer He has to be rushed to a hospital immediately I'm begging you Please save him I will save him definitely But please smile just once Let's just go for a quickie You're my century We'll go and be back in no time Please...please Come with me Appa? Leave me Don't...let go of me No, let go of me Don't You seduced my daughter I completed my century She's my daughter Are you still alive? Come Come to me Appaaaaaa! Appa?! "Praise be to Goddess Kali Personification of Shakthi" "To wreck the wicked human duly Trident in hand rises an enraged Kali" "Even if you offer blood to appease her she shows no mercy whomsoever" "Kotravai, o' war deity who protects her devotee" "This evil man's head, o' Kali burn to cinders mercilessly" "Like vermillion red, your third eye ablaze Save this star-crossed girl with your grace" "Fury in your eyes, blood-shot frenzy Dance to drive the evil force, Shakthi" "Into the traitor's heart, pierce your spear Let your 'dance of fury' be a lesson to fear" "With your eyes in red-hot fury snuff this demon's breath, o'Kali" "Epitome of femininity Goddess Mahalakshmi" "You displayed your power fiercely Praise be to you, Goddess Shakthi" "Blow the conch of impending death Drumbeats echo till he leaves our earth" "Be it a sheer demon or a mere human God's will prevails in the end unbeaten" "With as wipe of her sword she sliced Demons Sunda's army she paralyzed" "Demon Chanda and his army she slayed Her lion killed the elephants unafraid" "Weapons from her hands with speed killed her foes, in cold blood indeed" "May more victories gather Mahisha the demon's slayer" "One with braids of hair King Sailendra's daughter" "Divine Mother rushes to her children's aid Wipes out evil with her violent crusade" "Upholder of good over evil The slayer of Mahisha the devil" "One with lovely locks of hair Hail king Hemavana's daughter" 'Destroy him!' He stopped me from realizing my dreams He made sure I wasn't seen in front of the camera even once Not just him, pa The entire male race who wants to rape innocent girls I'll close their chapter Kill them My dear Gayathri (Song from '16 Vayathinile') 'Though she killed that sex starved villain...' '...she was unable to come out of that illusion he created' 'That's why, past 35 years she thinks every Friday...' '...as that fatal day before shoot commenced' 'From that day if someone cheats innocent girls like her...' '...she'll kill them' Then why have you not killed us as yet? Dad 'Tell me' I don't want to marry this girl you fixed for me 'What are you saying?' Cancel the wedding Heard that? We waited only for a change like that to happen No one is born a bad person It all depends on his or her upbringing First we give them a chance to change If they don't change, we will kill them I can never compensate ...for making me turn over a new leaf That's why I want to make a film with Gayathri akka Please give me a chance to make her a heroine Just don't say no, sir Are you in your senses? Speaking of the impossible Will you shut up? Why don't we make Gayathri akka's dream when she was alive come true at least now? Okay - Is it possible to execute? - Certainly, sir Look at this This is enough to make a film with Gayathri akka 'I will marry only Sanjay whom I was madly in love with' 'No one can make me change my decision' She wants to act in a film That's why you can still see her in these frames My daughter - Dad - Huh...? - Shooting, pa - Yes, dear If these people come to know we are making a film with real ghosts... ...they will have multiple heart attacks Shut your bloody gob I'm already tense the artiste hasn't come On top of it you're pestering me Am I a pest to you? Wonder what will happen here! Where's that camera man? Our buildup Balraj! Why did you hit our director like that? Only then he'll come under my control I'm the director of this film, sir You should've said so before I hit you 'Shift your head a little bit' That parrot will also come under my control What kind of story do you intend directing now? - A seedy kind of movie? - No...no, sir It's a ghost story A prince enters a girl's life to fulfill her dream to become a celebrity star He'll come and kill her The girl who's wandering as a ghost will come back and kill him This is it, right? Why don't you do a new story? Same wine in an old bottle Think of a new script Hear me out, sir I'm making this film with the original ghost This is the new point Spirit...ghost I believe he's filming it with a real spirit Did you hear it? A real ghost is acting in this film Original ghost! This is the reaction to what you said A punch dialog should have the desired effect Which body is the ghost in? Oh...oh...got it Spirits tend to choose only female bodies That body, right? You're right How did you know? Okay, I'll do the screen test for your spirit now Kaput! By that time get ready with your punch Punch, you vagabond! Shall we do the screen test? Can you give me a pose? Pose like this I think she doesn't know the success formula I know how to deal with you Counting start, Balraj Six...I'll get you signed up for 6 films Only 2 words Yes and No If you say 'yes' 6 films get booked If you say 'no' you'll lose this film too! 'How come no reaction?' Seems like a bigger - That was a touch touch! - I heard a bulb bursting Not only did it burst but plucked the fuse too! (song from 'Kulamagal Radhai') Shall we start, sir? Ready...ready Okay, everybody ready Gayathri, are you ready? Okay...ready Balraj sir, keep an empty frame Okay, dude Your wish is my command Gayathri madam Shot ready Art department Give her the trident Gayathri, 1st shot Get into the mood You should rise and ravage in a rage beyond measure That Yugendhar used you and cheated you, Gayathri Is it important to bring his name at this time? That Yugendhar killed your dream, Gayathri You'll rot in hell I'm scooting Come on, Gayathri Come on You can never become a heroine Kill him This is the emotion I want Continue He's saying action but can't see a anyone Come into the frame You said women are like flowers You said you are in love with me You promised to make me a heroine! Instead of praying with flowers... ...you raped and killed me You miscalculated my innocence I won't let you live Not only you But I'll kill all the men who think like you I'll decimate them 'The Heroine Super Duper hit' You made a film with a ghost Weren't you scared? Not just you Wasn't your unit scared? He's really shooting this film with a real spirit just as he said Escape! HOW DARE YOU TRY TO ESCAPE?! Is she still living on this earth or not? If she's here, why is she hiding? When will she show her face? Wherever injustice happens to women, I'll be there subtitled by rekhs assisted by harini, kirthi, sethumadhavan "Hey! You girl" "Come on rule the world" "Put your paws up and roar" "Show them your power" "P...po...power Girl power" "When thunder claps late at night heart will miss a beat, what a fright!" "In a thick jungle, middle of the night you have a flat tyre, o' what a fright!" "If you yell at your boss, tanked and tipsy next day morning, office is scary!" "If ex-girl friend trapped by your wife it's holy terror for the rest of your life" "If you sign surety and friend absconds your tummy will somersault in response" "You find no hall ticket in your pocket when you enter the exam hall, holy sit!" "Booze can make a few panic Many find shadows petrifying" "Ghosts sure thing find God terrifying" "Humans are scared here of their own kind, my dear" "Another kind of scary feeling Are nightmares spine chilling" "Lies find truth's face unnerving" "On harvesting day, if sky overcast farmer's life filled with dread in fact"
