 

                        Itrs necessary to clamp down on vulgar programming... There were clouds over Delhi and the North and... Narayan has given many tv interviews. But he has never watched any Have you never watched your interviews on tv? No. Why not? Because lrm blind Straighten the mountain, Hanumanji. And bring your arm in the angle Herers the next question. What do you need to kill mosquitoes? Baygon Spray? Good night mosquito mats? Tortoise brand incense sticks? Or a mosquitonet? Mosquitoes. The right answer! This gentleman is our first bore! Wherers the Mother? The director wants you Whatrs the program for today? Werre shooting a music video today Whyrre you standing here? Hurry up. Wonrt you wear some clothes first? These are my clothes! Irm your senior programming executive. And yourre just a cameraman. Wherers Topi? - Herers topi (cap) Lucky thing to have found a place like that. Wonrt you say something now? - What? What a way to sing! Look at your fatherinlaw here! You...? - Yes. Hers no mike-man... hers a thirdrate lightman! Shut up, you old sonofagun! You, lrm going to... That girl had even said, rrl love yourr and you had to butt in! Bloody crocodile... Shut up! And tell me... are you marrying my daughter or not? Irve got to fix a date! Just like you to go on like a bad LP record! Will I marry your daughter? Wonrt you? You and your daughter... stinking noodles! Will I marry her? Wonrt you marry Maggi? - No! In that case, lrll touch your weak spot! Try doing it... - I will! Go ahead... - Mister... Ask him what werre fighting for. - You neednrt interfere in this... Bloody eunuch! - What? Bloody eunuch! - lnsolent man! Will you marry Maggi or wonrt you? Lay off, bald egg! You touch my weak spot? Irm not marrying your daughter! Call for you, Topi. Did you call our client an eunuch? Someone tickled my ribs... I call such guys eunuchs. Bloody eunuch! Shut up, you dog! Dog?! Not dog, sir... eunuch, lay off! Topi, are you marrying my daughter or arenrt you? Get lost! Irve lost my job! Tell the M.D. about my weakness. Get in... so whatrs your problem? - Whenever lrm tickled... Bloody eunuch! What did you say? Stop the car! Donrt leave me here! Stop! rrLook back at me, my loverr rrCome, fall in love with merr rrGive me love for my love; give me a rose...rr rrDonrt you be scaredrr rrDonrt you refuse merr rrWrite your feelings on a piece of paperrr rrLook at me, my loverr rrCome, fall in love with merr rrLetrs lie on the hot sands, and breathe togetherrr rrOn the sly, letrs make loverr rrLetrs run away togetherrr rrCarry me on your shouldersrr rrTake me to a temple on Fridaysrr rrOn Saturdays, letrs go to the discothequerr rrTake me to watch the The Titanic on Sundayrr rrLook at me, my loverr rrCome, fall in love with merr rrWerre made for each otherrr rrThe two of us are made for each otherrr rrSo whatrs wrong with you guys?rr rrWhy are you looking away, my love?rr rrHave you grown old at heart?rr rrYourre a machine, not a man anymore rr rrYour insides are looseningrr rrYourre like a plantrr rrWhy were born at all?rr rrln love, my love... rr rrlrve even grown a beardrr rrYourve passed out... and werve taken a beatingrr rrShould I give away my heart, my life is going to be ruinedrr rrShould I be a winner in life... Irll find a thousand girls, babyrr rrLook at me, my love rr rrWerre not going to fall in love rr rrCome, fall in love with me rr Come on in, son. Whatrs todayrs cartoon, Papa? - Look at this. Yourve made a politician out of me? I wished to see my son as the chief minister today. Chief Minister? You mustrve been dreaming. Oh no. I showed your horoscope to the astrologer today. He was amazed. He said he had seen a horoscope like yours, eighty years ago. Only Lal Bahadur Shastri had as good a horoscope. Well? Yourre going to be a leader, are you? Ird have been happy if you said lrd be a programming director... or won an Olympics medal. But you send me into politics! Know whatpolitics is? A gutter! Hurry up... itrs about to go. Look! What happened, Mom? Shivars name will appear now. Camerawork: Shivaji Rao... go and ring up the briders folks! Dammit! Couldnrt they hold the credits for another five minutes? Your sonrs name appears for a second and you kick up a fuss. I thought you had seen a snake. You donrt know anything. Just stay quiet. You havenrtpaid me the money you lost yesterday. I will... sure will. Or lrm not your son. What are you doing...? What? Whyrre you applying the henna? Yes, lrm applying henna. But lrm not a kid anymore, Ma. Oh sure, yourre a grown up man. No matter how much you grow, you will remain my son, okay? Look at those pictures and choose a girl. This one looks like Tulsi, doesnrt she? And this oners Henna! I showed her your picture. She said you look like Shaktiman! Dad! Do I look like Shaktiman? lrd reason with a wife, not tv! Havenrt you liked her, son? Shers good, but somethingrs lacking. What thing? That thing which makes butterflies flutter in your stomach... that which goes straight to the heart and says, rrThis is it! Full and final!rr Do you feel that when... you see that girl in rrHum Paanchrr? - Hum Paanch...? That idiotbox is making you talk like an idiot Keep out of this! Yourre always interfering like a commercial break! Tell me what kind of a girl you want. Irll find her for you. With hair like the clouds... her eyes like that of a fish... rosy lips... a nose like that of a parrot... a slender neck like a peahenrs... and tender hands like a lotus... that would be something. A girl like this? You mustnrt go looking for a bride for him! Yourll bring home anything! Is this any girl? Itrs a witch! Just what you were before marriage And how were you to look at? - l...? I was... He looked like a perfect cartoon! You take my place? Lucky guy Hello and welcome to Phulgaon As you can see, itrs a lovely place... and our Chief Minister Mr Balram Chavan is paying a visit here today On behalf on Qtv, your favourite anchorperson Urmila Long live the Chief Minister! Long live the Chief Minister! Donrt bow. This garland is meant for Dr Ambedkarrs bust, not you. What kind of Chief Secretary are you? You ought to have told me! C.M., my foot! Illiterate ass! I typed out the whole program for him. Is the Minister distributing dhotis? He might snatch the one you wear! Go away. Glory to Babasaheb Ambedkar Minister... please shake my hand! Irm Pawar! They wonrt let me meet you, sir! Irve been waiting for you! Itrs I who did all the decoration! Irve been waiting for you, sir! Let him go. Set him free Long live, the Chief Minister! Come here. Irm blessed, sir! I only wanted to shake hands with you Drive the car. lrve been waiting all day, sir! Shake hands with me, sir... Please, sir! Thank you very much, sir! Take care of the camera, Topi Yourre getting a proper supply of water in the village, I hope? Therers water everywhere, ever since you have become the C.M. When were the street lights put up? Lights? Itrs about a year now, sir Hers lying! Who spoke? I spoke When were the lights put up, dear? The day before yesterday. Because you were expected. They arenrt even connected to electricity This man is lying. Watch your tongue, girl! You speak nonsense before the C.M.! Calm down... donrt get excited What are you guys up to? The chief of the electricity board... comes from your area and so are many other officials. So what are you guys doing? It isnrt just the Electricity Board. Itrs that contractor... I donrt want to listen to anything. These folks cast their votes for me. And I promised them street lights. So why arenrt they working? Dada, these people have only cast votes. The local contractor has given us money. He sent 4 million during the elections. He uses up the power for his sugarmill. He holds 5000 votes of the minority. All right I want electricity here immediately! Have it disconnected after 2 days Out of my way... - Eunuch! Who was it? Who said rreunuch?rr Who used abusive language? Who? Long live, the Chief Minister! This is for you. A reward for speaking the truth He just about escaped today! Why did you talk nonsense? Are we mad to remain silent? Werll even lose the electricity... we have at home! Yourre going to get beaten up someday. What sin have I committed? To speak the truth is no sin? Baggu? Do we have electricity yet? - No. Thatrs just what I said! And everybodyrs scolding me The C.M.rs circus is moving away and yourre angling for a girl! Pan the camera Whyrre we going to Phulgaon? - To meet a flower Itrs going to be fun then! Only I will meet her So why am I going with you? To get beaten up! Eunuch! rrThe easterly winds blow...rr rrover these paths that meander high and lowrr rrln these paths, letrs get lost togetherrr rrLetrs sleep and wake up togetherrr rrFrom my slumber, I awaken...rr rrl discover, I have forsaken everything, to go with yourr rrlf it doesnrt happen now... itrll never happen everrr rrYourre my love. Irm your loverr rrWhether someone believes it or notrr Whors that? Who clapped? - I did! Irm the scarecrow! Since when have you begun to speak? I speak only to those I like Speak from where you are. Who are you? My name is Shivaji Rao, son of Bhim Rao I hold a diploma in visual communication Irm a cameraman with Q-TV. Age: One day. I was born yesterday when I set my eyes on you I liked the girl who, without any fear, told the C.M. the truth What I dislike is that tractor which is disturbing us My favourite village right now is Phulgaon In my camera, I have taken away your pictures What I have lost to you is my heart I have realised that you are the most beautiful girl in the world I want to know your name. I donrt tell scarecrows my name So tell me then, please Hey, listen... Did you take my pictures? Yes. Why ask? It was a casual question Wait... wait there! rrLetrs traverse through these high and low paths, my love...rr rrl want to lose myself in your lovely embracerr rrLetrs sleep and wake up togetherrr You canrt get in here! Itrs a traffic signal. Get down! The bus doesnrt belong to you! Why didnrt you halt at the stop? My sweet will. Are you getting down now or do I give you a punch? Irve my exams at 2. Had I missed this bus, lrd have missed my exams You didnrt stop the bus and yourre acting smart now? Arenrt you getting down? No, lrm not! You bloody... get down! Hers bleeding! You push students like this? Beat him up! Get him! Halt the bus! The students are going to beat me up! Students have assaulted our colleague. This bus isnrt going any further! Get down, everybody! Whatrs happening here? They beat a fellowstudent... werre staging a demonstration. Out of my way... out! Whatrs happening here? Canrt you see the traffic jam? Get that bus out of there. Donrt you know who I am? A driver of the ruling party. Okay? - Fetch the camera. Quick! Arrest the students. Only then will the bus move. This driver has assaulted a student. Till he apologises, we arenrt moving Park the bus somewhere. Werll talk once the traffic is cleared The bus isnrt moving! - Listen to me! The bus-drivers have caused a traffic jam at Fountain. They claim some students assaulted them. The students claim the opposite. Nobodyrs listening to anybody Itrs a free-for-all out here. Ask the Commissioner to rush to the spot. Or things could get worse The ruling partyrs leaving... follow him! The Chief? Sir, Sakharam Shelke was badly beaten up on duty Blood is flowing like water from a tap! Itrs an affair for the unions now. Talk to all the district units Have transport ground to a halt all over the state! Will the cab move? Sure will. On your head! Will this bus go to Jaslok hospital? - Eunuch! Itrll go to hell! - How much time will it take? Therers a traffic jam. Go home and go to bed! Go! Eunuch! Whom did you call an eunuch? Why must you drivers do such injustice? My daughterrs 32. Shers supposed to get married today The bridegroom is waiting for her and here she is The auspicious timers slipping away Theyrll go away, if we donrt get there on time With folded hands, I beg you Please do not ruin my daughterrs life Please take that bus out from there. Go away, donrt chew on my brains! What a nuisance! Irll be late again Itrs time for the interview. Irll have to commit suicide if I donrt get this job. Brother! I beg of you! Get this bus out of the way. My husbandrs had a heartattack. At least let the ambulance through Else, herll die! lrm helpless, lady I can move my bus only when the one ahead moves God! What am I to do? This way, sir... - Whatrs the situation? Irm fed of reasoning, sir. Itrs drivers versus students This fight is between students and the driver of this bus Whors the driver of this bus? Me, sir Move the bus. It isnrt moving! You drive a bus, donrt you? Get it out of there Let me see how you drive Itrs no joke! This bus moves over my dead body! Come on Start up... herll move. - Go ahead! Letrs see Try it! My friends wonrt remain silent if you drive it over me! With my body, the whole of Maharashtra will burn to ashes Drive the bus! Go ahead Where did casteism come in from? A Muslim constable has run a bus over a Hindu driver We wonrt take it lying down! Werll slit their throats They donrt know our strength! Stop everything! Nothing moves! Bring life in Maharashtra to a halt! Stop everything... Connect me to the C.M. Pronto The Commissioner wants to talk to you Go on The situation is very bad, sir With your permission, I could break their legs and lock them up Hey! Donrt go overboard One of those drivers belongs to my party The others come from the community which helped me get elected And the students too help us during the elections Touch anyone of them, and we will lose our support We keep getting scared that they will withdraw support... and insignificantparties keep threatening government with casteism If they arenrt stopped, theyrll turn the state into a graveyard We must atleast use teargas to disperse the mob... Disperse them, will you? Not them... my government will be dispersed. This chair I sit on... doesnrt entirely belong to me. Therers the party supporting me The community is another claimant and also those... on whose money werre running this party. Fourth come our workers. Without even one of them, this seat of power will collapse If it does, lrm going to hit you with the broken chair! Okay? You must never solve such problems. We ought to make an issue out of them for political reasons Let them scream their lungs out Once theyrre through, theyrll be tired, and forget everything The swine! Here goes your Queen. And the King arrives! Smash everything around Whererre you taking the TVs? One for my wife and the mistress. Why deprive your sisinlaw? I donrt have a third hand, sir Oh get lost Whyrre you taking pictures? Get lost! Donrt stare! Irll break your head if you take my pictures! Theyrre vandalising shops and setting vehicles on fire, sir Public property is all being ruined If I had to issue shootingorders, lrd have done it long ago Let the buses be set on fire. Let a few shops be robbed Irll put together a committee and send them over to the spot Take care till then What a cheapskate for a C.M.! He canrt take any decision The exams must be underway. Irve lost a year... Sorry, lady. Hers no more. He has left me all alone! He has lost a lot of blood. He might die Any hospital around? ltrs a kilometer away But how do we take him? Therers a traffic jam Take care of the camera. Irll carry him How are you, Kumar? Okay In a little while more, you couldrve lost your life Thank this gentleman who brought you here on time Whatrs your name? Listen! Champakali! - What? Your name is Champakali, right? - No. Is it Anarkali? - Yuck! Is it Kathakali then? - That isnrt a name So what is your name? Why must I tell you? How will I call out to you unless I know your name? You donrt need to call out to me - Lizard! Irll call you a lizard unless you tell me your name. Lizard! Go away, blind bat! - Blind bat? Yes. Irm a lizard. Yourre a bat! rrHers lying. Who spoke?rr Herers the lover from Bombay... Thatrs me! rrTheyrre lying to yourr rrThis is for you. A reward for speaking the truth rr Baggu? Do we have electricity? - No. rrThatrs just what lrm saying. And everybodyrs scolding me rr Nice? Whatrs so nice with a crying face? Does I look nice when lrm crying? - You do Listen. You see the footage for free. At least tell me your name Your film has my name. Look it up for yourself rrManjari, why did you have talk that nonsense?rr In the riots that broke out, everybody forgot the student... who lay in a pool of blood. Such was his condition... that unless he received immediate medical attention... he would have died. Under the circumstances, our cameraman... Shivajirao, carried him on his shoulders and took him to hospital Over to the student rrThank this gentleman who brought you here on timerr The credit for saving this studentrs life... goes entirely to our cameraman Shivajirao Bat! - Where is it? That footage on the riots you got, every tv channel wants it The telephones just wonrt stop ringing You are no longer a cameraman. Yourre a senior newsreporter Donrt you scream, okay...? All right. Just donrt finger me Eunuch! Shut up rrlrm Shivajirao, son of Bhimraorr rrlrm a cameraman for QTVrr The bat! What visuals, my friend! Shut up and change the channel The bathing sceners entirely mine. Only I get to see her Go ahead. Irll move. Itrs pack up for you. You shameless, insolent, rascal! You take pictures of me bathing! Give me that camera What are you doing...? One moment Show me every picture you have taken Right now! Let me at least rewind it. You take me for an easy girl? Look at this Move away! This is me? - Who else? Why did you take such pictures? You were angry the other day... that I gotpictures of you crying. To take beautiful pictures then... Irve been going around with this camera from 5 this morning Ird have taken some more pictures. But something pricked my leg You heard me screaming and everything got messed up Whatrs that? - A thorn Not a thorn! A bite! A snake bite - Snake...? Irm going to die! A snake has bitten me! In your village, when a snake bites someone... donrt they suck out the venom? There you go again How could you not realise that a snake had bitten you? You escaped because it was not a venomous snake What if it were venomous? To see you happy... I can do anything. Anything? No. - I knew it Should you ask, lrd say I can do anything for you If you ask if I could lay down my life for, lrd say rrSorry...rr rrNot life. Because I intend to live with you all my liferr Manjari, you spoke without any fear before the C.M. So tell me how you feel about me rrAsk me not...rr rritrs for you to understand...rr rrwhy my ears are brimming with tears and why my bangles tinkle rr Your tears tell me how you feel. Give me a smile... smile Smile, or lrll shoot your crying face again Smile A proper smile You were better off crying. Smile, I say A ghost! Give me a pose. And donrt move rrYourre sweet at timesrr rrAnd sourrr rrBut I love you as you arerr rrYou seem to be a liar at timesrr rrAnd truthful toorr rrBut I love you as you arerr rrl feel like touching you, to make sure...rr rrif yourre for real, or are you a dream rr rrWhatever I am, I belong to yourr rrBelieve me, my love rr rrYou are the cloudburst of love rr rrYou are the kohl in my eyes rr rrl go where you go... rr rrln you, lies my life rr rrA peahen you look like rr rrYou have stolen my heartrr rrWhat name am I to give you?rr rrJust give me the hint, my love, and lrd rush to yourr rrMy beauty is all for yourr rrGive them all uprr rrBreak every tie and come to me rr rrLetrs live together in each otherrs heartrr rrYourre sweet at timesrr rrAnd sourrr rrYou seem to be a liar at timesrr rrAnd truthful toorr rrBut I love you as you arerr The camerars rolling. Give it a smile. Donrt be shy What happened, Manjari? Whyrre you running away? Can you tell me whatrs happening? Can you tell me who you are? Irm her father. - Father-in-law! Not father-in-law. Father. What a daughter you have! Shers great! Letrs shake hands on that! Irm no Congress! Kalu! Balu! Harya! Come here quick! This chap was harassing Manjari. What are we to do with him? I could break his limbs and throw him in the lake You wear shortpants and bother our girl? Watch it. Irm going to be your brotherinlaw. The name is Kalluram. Whatever it is, cool down Use too much of English and lrll throw a punch at you! Eunuch! What...? Shut up! Sorry, my weakness... but I wasnrt wrong, was l? Whatrs the tension for... Guests are like God, okay? So park yourself there. Go on Look, fatherinlaw... lrm not your fatherinlaw Irm in love with your daughter. I wish to marry her What do I lack? Irm earning man. I can even sing and dance. Ask Topi, if you wish. Oh yes... here goes! rrl was walking on the path... enjoying a snackrr rrl was romancing the girlrr rrYou got jealous... so what can I do?rr I know a bit of Karate too This Bruce Lee will now break this coconut with his bare hands No. Oh yes. Give him a big hand! You land me in the soup, Topi? Drag the old man into it Irll fix you! Watch the coconut break into to The next item! Herll stop a moving truck with his teeth What? Not now... Hers fasting today So kids, what do you think of your brotherinlaw? And what do you think, grandma? You have it made! Who are you? Do you watch tv? I only tend to my fields. I was the one who saved a student in the riots that broke out recently I saw it on tv! - He saw it What do you do for a living? - I used to be a cameraman earlier Irm now a senior newsreporter. Is it a Government employ? No. Itrs private. - I want Government service You canrt get a job in the government. Yourre overage Stop joking. I want my soninlaw to be in the governmentrs employ Whatrs wrong with my job? I get a salary of 15,000... with all the perks. Itrs just like a government job I want him to be a government servant These tv channels close down every other day Even if the salary is just a thousand rupees... I want someone who has a government job Only then will my daughter be secure and happy Go and find a job like that. Werll discuss this later Where do you disappear? I kept looking for you all weekend We went to see the lizard. - Lizard? Hers kidding, sir. You werenrt around this morning I went to the employmentexchange for my wedding, sir Employment exchange for your wedding? Yes, sir I donrt understand For a husbandrs job, sir Shall we talk business? - Sure Yourve got to interview a very important man Who? Irve never interviewed someone, sir. Whatrs the big deal? This is your chance. Donrt let this opportunity slip out of your hands This is an exclusive show for you, Shivaji And your first guest is the C.M. Why is your hand trembling? My first interview, sir That too, with the C.M. Wonrt I be nervous? The C.M. is no devil. Hers a human being like you and me Have a natural chat with him. As if yourre talking to me Show me whatrs in your bag Hello! Today... todayrs guest... Our guest today... Our guest needs no introduction Hello, sir. - Hello You will take the interview? Yes, sir Whatrs your name? Shivajirao Hello! Our guest today needs no introduction The whole world knows him, as do you and me Come election time, the public casts its vote in the hope... that the chief minister will solve their problems And every time, they meet with disappointment and betrayal Just as what is happening in your rule. Why, sir? Looks like you donrt step out of your studio Today, every family in Maharashtra has a color tv... and every village a dish antenna. There are telephone booths in every corner. They have the lnternet Every man has a car for himself. Every man wears proper shoes... a watch, goes to amusementparks and trendy eateries Such is the level to which standard of living has risen I can safely conclude that in the last 15 years... there hasnrt been a single starvation death Farmers donrt get two square meals, let alone a MacDonald burger No worker moves around in cars. He labours in the hot sun The rich are getting richer. And the poor are out on the streets Our city happens to have the worldrs largest slum, sir People still face hardships in crowded buses and trains They still spend hours in long queues, for their rations Children still beg at traffic signals People will always point fingers. Do you know? Ever since I have taken over as Chief Minister... the literacy rate in the state has risen to 64.8 per cent Kerala and Mizoram have a 90 per cent literacy rate Maharashtrars No. 1 in industry and business Even in crime, itrs the No One There are just 35.8 per cent... people, under the poverty line. In Punjab, itrs 1 1.7 per cent And an average manrs income in the villages... is still a measly 3 rupees per day. Get your figures right first... before you talk to me. This is the World Economic Forumrs report... and this is the World Bankrs report. The World Bank claims that the loan it gave your government... did not reach the public. Your ministers ate it all up So they withdrew the next installment of loan You donrt know, son. The World Bank had set conditions... that would have mortgaged the whole state. What were the conditions, sir? Could you tell us in clear terms? I donrt need to tell you. Irll tell the people The people are watching you and hearing you. So tell us why the World Bank cancelled its installment It isnrt so easily explained. Itrs a 1000page document There are 18 sections in all. You will get it at the secretariat Spend 15 Rupees on it and read it out to the people Whatrs the next question? Before you entered politics... what was your family background? Our was a very poor family We were into farming. What is your salary now? What? Your salary After deductions, it should be about 18,000 a month Which means, annually, you make 2,16,000... so you mustnrt have made more than 2 or 2.5 million till today But you own properties worth 5000 million. Where did it come from, sir? Good God! Hers stripping the guy! Nonsense! If you want to know about my property,... file a case in the court. Irll tell the court what I possess There are 1.4 million cases being heard from the last 15 years anyway Harshad Mehtars case hasnrt yet been decided Those involved in the bomb-blasts have been acquitted In a rape case, when it was time for the verdict... it was already five years since the woman had died And you ask me to file a case? Remember this, sir? - lrve seen it somewhere It was your election manifesto Yes, I remember. I myself had itpublished. We will establish a social order devoid of crime... We will strengthen law and order in society Women will be able to move without any fear Every family will be provided electricity, water and provisions Education will be provided. Inflation will disappear... and happy days will be here again lnstead of rrhere againrr... they published rrwill disappearrr and I myself had it corrected Has all this happened? - Hasnrt it? You speak of strengthening law and order But you are the one who destroys the law You are the one who encourages casteism Are you trying to provoke me by saying things like that? Not at all. I only wantpeople to know the truth Take a look rrHave life in the state brought to a haltrr rrRun the bus over me and you think my friends will remain silent?rr rrThe whole of Maharashtra will go up in flames with merr A busdriver brought the whole city to a grinding halt When questioned, he said he belonged to the ruling party Another driver threatened communal violence The Commissioner of Police could do nothing... because you wouldnrt let him act. To protect your votebank... you let the whole of Maharashtra go up in flames Property worth 2500 million was razed to ashes... owing to your silence. Vehicles were set ablaze... several people were injured and killed... all because of you You did notpermit anyone to take any action Because you did not want to lose your chair. Isnrt that true? Hers trapped! You are making baseless allegations to sensationalize this interview I have proof One of those drivers belongs to my party The others come from the caste that helped me win the elections And the students too help us during the elections If anyone of them is touched, werll lose their support Let them scream their lungs out Theyrll soon get tired and forget the whole thing Let buses be set on fire. Let shops be plundered Irll put together a committee... Well, sir? You value your chair more than the public. Isnrt it? Speak What happened? Hers giving him a bath Speak up! The cat got your tongue? Switch off the camera Irll have you hacked Butcher! Ask him to switch it off Stop it! Switch it off! You sonofagun... Canrt you hear me? Stop this bloody farce! Cut it, or lrll burn everything to ashes! Aim the camera at the control room. So let me deal with this charlie Hers coming here with the camera! Stop it! Put that slipper down. This isnrt the state assembly Why arenrt they switching it off? ltrs a live telecast, you idiot! Like the Cricket matches! The whole nation is watching Can they see me, too? Yes. And your filthy slipper too And this guy wants to be member of parliament! Welcome, sir... this way. Show me your slipper, please Where was the slipper from? Kolhapur or Lucknow? Dada, enough of the interview. Shall we go? The interviewrs over, isnrt it? Jai Hind Itrs a live telecast and people are watching People still havenrt got the answers. Please sit down A nice work of dubbing You had someone with my voice talk any nonsense... to instigate the people against me I donrt consider it necessary to answer such questions I have personally shot this footage, sir How much has the opposition paid you for this job? How much would you pay if you were in the opposition? You ask me any silly question on satellite tv... and expect me to answer you? Why must l? Itrs your duty to give answers. 800 million people have elected you Do you know who a Chief Minister is? Have you ever been to the C.M.rs office? Do you know what itrs like to be in there? You ought to see how many people come calling every day People who cry, who ask questions, who thank me, seek my blessings Some garland me, some abuse me! Do you know the things I put up with? Only someone who occupies the C.M.rs chair will know In a riot or emergency,... I donrt get carried away and take impulsive decisions I get to the root of the problem and solve it I donrt ask silly questions. Just what I did that day You did nothing that day, sir. What you could have solved... you let it get even more complicated for your own benefit And you justify yourself here? Play with fire and you will burn You donrt understand! You will know, when you play with fire For a day, just one day,... become the C.M. You will know where it hurts. That isnrt the answer to my question, sir. What you say makes for a good argument But it is notpractical. ltrs absolutely practical There is a provision for it in our Constitution Werll only have to pass a minor ordinance. Thatrs all 24 hours makes no difference. Yourre joking, sir Yourre the one whors joking. Occupy my chair for a day... and you will know what fires I burn in What a crown of thorns I wear on my head! You will realise how many got literacy and were rid of poverty You must sit here then and I will ask you questions In this very program. Do you agree? Whatrs the C.M. up to? Hers playing a oneday game. With the C.M.rs chair. Ever since he has been to Bihar... he keeps talking nonsense No, sir. Thatrs your job. Not mine Well? Run out of steam already? You reporters are like dogs, barking after cars The moment the car halts, you run with the tail between your legs Well? Would you like to be C.M. for a day? Itrs a live telecast, my boy. Everybodyrs watching. Answer me Take it! Say yes! Shall we end the interview? All right, sir. If it is possible, lrm willing I will occupy your chair for a day The C.M. is trapped! He took this for a party meeting! Good thing, too. Irll get to work with an educated C.M. for a day All right then Jai Hind Come on You gave it to him Calm down... peace Mr Chavan is growing senile He invited that guy to become the C.M. for a day Now tell us if there is provision for this stupidity in the law? There is. When assembly is not in session... this can be done by passing an ordinance There is a precedent for this. Whatprecedent? Someone in Bihar was made a chief minister overnight recently And this is what happened when the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh... went abroad for a bypass surgery. - When a leader in Delhi died... her son was made the Prime Minister. Does he have the right, however? Neither is he dead nor is he ailing. He only spoke nonsense on tv Not so much of English. Just tell me if this is possible Itrs possible, sir. You can use your discretionary powers... and do it through a gazetted order You canrt make an idiot the C.M.! For that matter, we canrt go around drinking poison, can we? Hers right! All this is nonsense You donrt know politics. That guy showed on public television... that the Commissioner did not take any action because of me Had I admitted itpublicly that he was following my orders... not only would I have been beaten up... but the next time I went seeking votes, the electorate would beat me So I had to be oneup on him. Thatrs okay, sir... but what if he does something seriously wrong for us? He can do nothing! Till he gets to know the duties of a C.M.,... his day will be over. It will be good for my public image rrBalraj Chavan kicks his post to defy allegationsrr People will get to know how easy it is to make allegations... and how difficult it is to rule a state You know best. It has to be right, if you insist Herers my resignation, Governor And herers the letter of support, signed by 188 M.L.Ars... to make Mr Shivajirao the C.M. for a day I, Shivajirao, take the oath... that I will discharge my duties as the C.M. of Maharashtra... to the best of my abilities By becoming the C.M. for a day... Shivajirao creates history in lndian politics To cover the event we have the media from all over the world So letrs meet our new C.M. Even junior officers arrive in a Toyota. And the C.M. comes in a rickshaw? Looks like the country has a future From being an ordinary tv reporter to the C.M.? Irll talk tomorrow. Let me work today You score today Immediately call heads of all administrative departments This is an officer from the r84... No time for introductions, sorry We have everything, and yet we are counted among the backward countries There are three reasons One, those who donrt discharge their duties with honesty Two, those who do not let others work with honesty Third are those who abuse their position and power Everyone involved in shady deals either indulges in sycophancy... flexes muscles, bribes his way out,... or parts with a portion of his illgotten wealth to go scotfree From the peons to the officers, you have all become corrupt There are thousands of complaints against such officers... but no action is taken. They end up in dustgathering files I want you to move heaven and earth to dig up all those files Make telephone calls or fly around the state In one hour, I want all those files If someone takes ill... Irll personally open a file for him! What are we going to do with the files? Werre going to suspend them all You have scored a sixer Have you come to the slums to distribute foodgrains and clothes? I donrt think we should have any slums in the country The Government built houses for you, right? Yes, sir. So whyrre you living here? Where else will we go? For 2000 families, they give 20 buildings How many of us can live in there? - Whors Director of Slum Board? He was around... come here. Donrt hide How many buildings allotted to them? 1680, sir They claim it was just 20. What about the rest? You mustrve given them away to the ministers, right? From the land allotted for these slum-dwellers... half is swallowed by politicians. As for the rest of the houses... 75 per cent are taken over by employees of the housing boards... and party members. This gentleman must have 25 of them, right? If there is anything still remaining, these folks get it And theyrre smart guys too. They rent out the flats they get... and move over to start new slums. Tukaram got a flat too, sir He has rented it out to a Sikh for 2000 Rupees Why didnrt you take any action when you know the truth? You know how ministers... Forget the ministers Why didnrt you do your duty? Has the typewriter arrived. Whatrs your name? - Mr... Just tell us your name. Werll do the rest Type his suspension order. What are you doing, sir? Irll die! Please donrt do that, sir! Forgive me! Stop it, sir... Say something, sir... Sure. Type it out quickly Irll be ruined, sir Where were you allotted a house? At Shastri Nagar, sir Come with me Fetch the trucks and bring all those people to Shastri Nagar... who were allotted houses there Very well, sir Fatso! Kiss your job good bye! This is the one, sir What is it? - Wherers the owner of the flat? Here I am! What is your name? Irm Tukaram. And you...? Yourre Tukaram, lrm Bill Clinton Hers the one whors chief minister of the state for a day Why didnrt you tell me? Come on in, sir... We arenrt coming in. Yourre going out Why am I going out? - This flat was allotted to Tukaram And yourre staying here illegally. lrm paying a rent! Why must I vacate it? If you donrt vacate it... yourre going to prison. - Prison? For eight years. Eight years?! One moment... Get your stuff, Rajinder Kaur! Letrs return to Bhatinda Check all the flats. I donrt want any outsiders Irve brought them all, sir Throw out all illegal occupants These folks will live here now Once werre gone, if you rent out your flat again... and go to live in the slums, the C.M. will imprison you. Who wants to live in slums? Werre unemployed, you see We rent out the flats to manage two square meals Werd be grateful to you if you could give us some employment, sir I have become C.M. for only a day. If you want me to do something for you, you will have to change Whatever you buy, from a needle to a motorcar... make sure you pay the sales tax when you buy it Sales Tax is the governmentrs right. On a goldpurchase of 1000 rupees... 4 per cent of sales tax works out to 40 rupees To save those 40 rupees, you donrt ask the seller for a bill He takes advantage of that and the entire transaction... goes into his black money which does not reach the government So you mustpay the sales tax. For itrll increase and reach you finally Do not buy goods if the seller does not give you a proper bill Herers your bill. 440 Rupees. I want a proper bill Me too If some refuses to give you a bill, report him to the police Those shopkeepers who donrt issue bills and donrtpay sales tax... will have their licenses revoked How much would sales tax amount to? 4 million, sir How much are we paying now? 400,000 No wonder hers asking. Pay up today, or herll withdraw our license Whatrs he up to? - Hers a moron! As if the nation will progress by recovering sales tax How much is the income from sales tax in a day? For us, or the exchequer? The exchequers! - I donrt know So what are you the revenue minister for? Whatrs this? - Get him! Whatrs this? A magnet He uses it on the customers How much would it weigh? About 200 grams 200 grams in two kilos of sugar How much do you cheat in a day? Speak up, or yourll get it Whatrs this? The World Cup Anyway you measure, you get 2.5 liters instead of 5 Theyrre champions when it comes to thievery, sir It all works out to 1500 Rupees a day In a month then... he makes more money than a chief ministerrs salary You donrt own the money They go around the city, picking up rags They labor and slog all day to make the money What must we do with him? Slipper him! I suggest we hand him over to the public Each one of them will get 100 grams of him No. Werll cancel his license. Whatrs your name? Give us the real name or you get hit Whatrs your name? Satyavan Conman, eh? What a C.M. He takes decisions instantly Time for public grievances. Between 12 noon and 1 p.m. Call number... I want to talk to the C.M. - Go on. Irm calling from a public hospital in Kolhapur My son is seriously ill with flu. Irve had him admitted here The doctor attending to him ought to have been here at 10. But he hasnrt yet turned up. My sonrs body is on fire! Please do something, sir Is anyone in the hospital around? Put him on the line This is the Ward Boy, Vithal - When will the doctor arrive? Any moment, he should be here. Is he always so late? He has his own dispensary, you see. Once he has finished his work there, herll come here Whatrs the name of the doctor? l.K. Gadgil Yourll soon receive a fax. Give it to the doctor and tell him he has been suspended. He mustnrt come to the hospital again. Let him look after his clinic Who are you, sir? Have another doctor attend to the child immediately This is Sakubai from Nagpur, sir. We collected every penny... and bought a scooter for my husband so he could go to work The scooter has been stolen. Itrs a month... since we lodged a police complaint. But nobody takes any action When we talk to the inspector, he uses foul language Please do something, sir. Is the complaint in your name? My husbandrs name. Atmaram Sir, this is Atmaram here. - Go on I had a lodged a complaint when my scooter was stolen lost last month So...? Any news? People lose huge cars and vans and therers no trace of them. So whatrs your scooter worth? What is your name? Uday Mohite What will you do with my name? Big man, eh? You will complain to the D.S.P.? Yourll get nothing, no matter whom you complain to. Your scooter was opened up and sold. Go and find it! Is your fax machine on? What is it to you? Nothing to me. You have been sent a suspension order. Check out if itrs okay, or lrll send it again Who are you, sir? From Thane. An urgent call, sir. - What is it? Someone wants to give you... - Whatrs that? Lizard! What mischief is this? Bravo, bat! Great job yourre doing. Keep it up! Are you watching tv? - Yes What shirt have you worn? Yourd look great in a blue shirt A blue shirt...? All right. Hang up now A blue-shirt for the C.M. Is the C.M. there? - Yes? Irm calling from A.M. Womenrs College, sir Problems of eveteasing have crossed their limits, sir Thugs from a nearby colony are always harassing girls here This is an everyday problem, sir. Which is the police station around? Despite all the complaints the police are afraid to take any action Stay there. Werre coming over Have the area inspector Hurry up If only you had taken some action. - Back off... move! Who called me...? - I did What happened to that girl? Those thugs dragged her... she was hurt on the head and had to be rushed to hospital Follow this up, Mr Bansal What the hell are you doing when there are so many complaints? Itrs a small accident, sir... Hers lying! Quiet. Irm talking to him. - You talk. There are a handful of thugs in the slums nearby. Their leader is Ranga, a political murderer He has the support of some political leaders So nobody says anything to them. They walk the streets like mad dogs They make obscene gestures, grab any girlrs hand... pat us on our backsides... even reach for our breasts Arenrt you ashamed? What do you take a salary for? We canrt go into that area. An inspector once went there to catch him. And they hung his head in the square. Donrt you have a gun? What sort of a cop are you? I didnrt have the Commissionerrs permission The Minister asked me not to act, sir You are all thieves! Include every name in the list. Donrt spare anyone Where does Ranga live? There, on the hillock Ranga, lrve seen those slums somewhere Itrs our area. Theyrre showing it on tv Look at him! Isnrt he the C.M. for the day...? Itrs him, all right. Whose room is he getting into? - Yours Come to interview me, have you? Get some makeup done first Yourll take my pictures? Itrs like Matrix 2 Kneel down Women are like my sisters - Louder! How much have we collected from sales tax, Bansal? No one could have made more in a day. 2500 million Invest the whole money in an employment scheme for the poor The more capable they are, the better jobs theyrll land Is my list ready, Mr Bansal? Yes, sir. A huge pile Districtwise, talukawise, it tells of everyone who became a millionaire This oners of those who donrt do their duty honesty These guys interfere with othersr functions And those are the guys who abuse their power In all, there are 45,518 people Suspend all of them Itrll be midnight by the time you sign so many suspension orders So issue an omnibus order. Put it on the internet Like results of exams, have the list displayed on notice boards Irll give the Collectors the orders to suspend them There are some Collectors too. You sign their suspension orders If your name also figures in this, lrll put my signature on it I have a tongue that wags, sir. But my hands are clean How can they muster the courage to indulge in such things? From the Ministers, sir. They share the spoils too Which ministers? - Which one isnrt? Food, finance, PWD... 12 departments in all What do we do with these tomcats? Put them in a cage So do it Shivajirao, down down! Move It had to happen The police have arrived I have evidence of corruption against 12 of your ministers Irm sorry, but I have no other option except to arrest them One punch from me and yourll spin like a top! Call them over Touch anyone, and lrll break your hands! Not as easy to do that. The scribes are all watching Please ask them to cooperate Whyrre you guys coming in? Break the door I was here to pee Whatrve you done, Mr Chavan? Go away Irve achieved nothing in a day, nor have I served the people I did only what a chief minister ought to do Had you done as much in the last five years... our state would have made greatprogress Thank you very much Your day as the C.M. is over. You may go now I have 5 minutes to go. And one last thing to do You are at the root of your ministerrs corruption You play an important role in their corruptpractices Hence, I arrest you too This tomcat wasnrt in our list! Stop being childish. You donrt know the law The Chief Minister isnrt a drunkard you can lock up at will You need the Governorrs approval for that You need the Supreme Courtrs orders. There are so many other formalities Irm sorry, but lrm the C.M. right now Yourre a common man Arrest him Your good times have begun Do you have anything to say? Are the allegations true? The day hers released, herll finish me The lawyers are here Lawyers Useless! When will you get me out of this? Tomorrow theyrll jail me Do something, quick! Bail has been arranged. Just sign Werre going to the magistrate to get hold of a bail order I want the courts to stay on all his orders Irll pass an ordinance to render the orders null and void May we leave now? - Run Hey Bansal... Bloody fix! Are you trying to hide? No sir. I was just standing aside Come here. I canrt bear to see you like this I just stood in a corner and I wept. Melodrama isnrt working with me Taught him the ropes, didnrt you? I swear by your chair! You made him the Chief Minister. Mine is just a job To be with the Chief Minister. I was justputting on a charade Had he been uneducated, he wouldnrt have known a thing. It turns out... he happens to be educated. Worse, he has brains. In one day, he go it Donrtplay this game with me. Tomorrow morning... Irm the Chief Minister again. No! Forgive me! I have children I could have acid thrown on his face Forget it. Irll let him be. He raises his voice against you Something ought to be done! Shall I break his bones? Yourd break the arms of a man who scratched you. He slaps you And you let him off? But I donrt forgive him That upstart has tainted my 30 years in politics What he has done in a day, he ought to be feted... bathed in milk, in honey, in blood What a guy! Screwed 45,500 of them in just a day The janitor! Our invisible man! Has Shivaji Rao done it to you? Can I get a soda? Had one too many last night? Here you are If he becomes prime minister, he will fix everyone in no time Our Chief Minister for a day! Shivaji Rao What happened? - I fell in muck What use is soda? - Therers no water No water in your shop? He cleans up all of Maharashtra in a day He must be cleaned up in a minute Shivaji Rao is here! My lion! My maned lion! Play the music! Put him down. Donrt give my baby the evil eye Come on, take some photos Come on, marry me. - What...? For a day Hers too busy. Irm available. So what dryou think? The chief minister! ltrs Shivaji Rao Greetings, Mr Minister. - lrm no minister Quiet Son, hold out your bowl. - Bowl...? Your shirt. - What for? For a gift of paddy. - I donrt understand Wiping out the middlemen between the peasants and the government... was a great favour for peasants. Now we can sell directly... to the government. After expenses, werll make 5000 more to a ton Every year, we make the first offering of our paddy to The Gods You are our God now Yes son No, thatrs talking too big. Please donrt talk like this We give from the heart. Accept it. Accept it, please What will I do with this paddy? Please make an offering to God Take it, please For the love, the respect you have given me, I accept this I travel so far for my Manjari, and yourre going away from me? What happened? Tell me With the gift of paddy they make you a God. But what have I to give you? Life is mostprecious, but my life I shall not give up. Because... I want to spend a lifetime with you. And for a woman... therers something even more precious than life. Her honour I give you all that is mine. Manjari, have you gone mad? I have nothing more to give you I want nothing. The trust you repose in me... is more than enough for me rrLetrs take the ups and downs of life together, my loverr rrLet me lose myself in those arms I loverr rrLet me awake, let me sleep in your armsrr rrl have crossed the limitsrr rrWhatever anyone might say, lrm in loverr rrltrs now...rr rror neverrr rrMake love to me, sweetheartrr rrLet love poison me...rr rrlike a scorpionrr rrLet me carry you away in my dreamsrr rrLet me hide you away from the whole worldrr rrl follow yourr rrl belong at your feetrr rrAnd when I close my eyes, take me in your armsrr rrltrs now...rr rror neverrr rrMake love to me, sweetheartrr rrLet love poison me...rr rrlike a scorpionrr rrLetrs take the ups and downs of life together, my loverr rrLet me lose myself in those arms I loverr rrLet me awake, let me sleep in your armsrr rrWhen the heart is on fire, who can sleep?rr rrMemories of you invade my slumberrr rrThe moon and the stars...rr rrhave travelled with us...rr rrfor lifetimes, they have witnessed our loverr rrltrs now...rr rror neverrr rrMake love to me, sweetheartrr rrLet love poison me...rr rrlike a scorpionrr rrLetrs take the ups and downs of life together, my loverr rrln those arms I love... Let me lose myselfrr rrln your arms, let me awake... Let me sleeprr Following Shivaji Raors exposes of corruption... by the Balraj Chavan government, has resulted in... withdrawal of support by Chavanrs allies The Chavan government has fallen. Fresh elections have been announced Look! A mouse felling an elephant Whom would you like to see as Chief Minister? When the last-timer turned out to be a robber, we voted for Chavan And he turns out to be a bigger thief. And that bastard Mishra... uses the opportunity to bring the government down Any of them will sell us out None of them. - We should have someone new Give the oneday guy a permanent job Shivaji Rao is the right man Government by Shivaji Rao The only man around is Shivaji Rao. The rest are all like us What for? Your name is on every lip You must enter the fray I have no interest in politics. lrm with you. Donrt be afraid You wonrt get a better chance Irm a normal guy looking for a normal life. 8 hours of sleep The food Ma cooks, and Papars cartoons And the freedom to do whatever I want. Films on Sundays... pav bhaji on the beach and my lovely village belle I have it all, all but a government job Irm taking the civil services exams. The government wants you And yourre looking for a government job? Words from Shivaji Rao, the man who shook up lndia in a day? Papa finds flaws with Mars cooking every day, till Ma asks him to cook One day, Papa enters the kitchen. He cooks. By chance it turns out well Doesnrt mean he can cook every day. Cooking isnrt his job He sketches fine cartoons, and lrm a fine reporter Will you spend the rest of your life asking questions on mike My job is to reflectpublic opinion. Is that enough? Wonrt you serve... the greater good of your country? I shall, but not as a politician As part of the executive. - To hell with the executive After the trailor, the public is waiting for Shivaji Rao... to show them the real picture after he becomes Chief Minister They wait with bated breath and Shivaji Rao says he wants to sleep He wants to enjoy himself. Whatrs stopping you from enjoying all that? You can still become Chief Minister Smash up the place Here they come. Want to watch a movie? Try Bandit Queen Want to become the next Chief Minister? Go on, become Chief Minister Stop him What do you think of yourselves? Want some interviews? Camera here Come on! Wantphotos? Here, take some photos Great. Closer to the light source Eunuch! What did you call me? Do you have running water? - Yes Why donrt we have running water? No electricity. Everyone else has electricity Not a clue The phoners dead too Let me go and make a complaint. In how many departments? Who are you? lrm from the municipal corporation What is the matter? - You have flouted rules... while constructing this house. Itrs a foot and 8 inches extra here The commissionerrs office has ordered a demolition Thatrs how it has stood for 30 years. Whatrs this sudden development? You havenrt even served me notice. - You were served notice. But... you didnrt take it. What can I do? When did you serve notice? Is this any time...? - Bulldozer ahead Yourre harassing us What are you doing? Stop it! - Donrt do this Get out of my way Stop this Let go Out of my way Whatrs this...? What happened? Why are you in bandages? Some trouble at QTV. Minor injury. They overdid the bandage Shiva, why is this happening to us? They stop the water Then they cut electricity, then the telephone line Now theyrve destroyed our home, destroyed it, Shiva Donrt cry. Retribution for your day in office Take Ma inside, please Come Enough. They destroyed my home! Irm not going to keep mum Balraj Chavan is behind this. Go and get the lawyer Stop You want to fight in court? Very well, go ahead 1.4 million cases are pending. Remember yourself on tv? Same happens to your case too Since 1947, people have moved court against several politicians Was a single scoundrel punished? While the case is sub judice... hers free to enjoy himself, till he dies of old age Files are closed and left for cockroaches to lay eggs on You want me to clam up, Mr Bansal? Irm from the media. Irll call in... television, press. Itrll blow up in Balraj Chavanrs face Forgotten what he did to QTV? What wrong have I done? In this country, doing a good deed is doing the worst wrong All I did was an interview, and I was doing my job Becoming Chief Minister for a day was an accident. As Chief Minister... I did what a Chief Minister ought to do. But itrs over Irm back to being a common man. Why are they still after me? Who says yourre a common man? The day you took the chair... you became a politician, you belong in politics Stand apart and you will be crushed or left to rot You expect Balraj Chavan to leave you alone? If he wins the elections, he will set the police after you If he loses, he will set his goons after you. he wonrt leave you Where does this end? Migrate. Else enter politics Irm not entering politics. Then stop cribbing about what... your fault is. This is why men like Balraj Chavan win. In time for... the fight, you hide with tails tucked between your legs. Men... Iike you are this countryrs curse. You show them dreams. Then... you say it can never be. Damn Come on Shivaji Rao is up No! Donrt take my photos! Irll lose my job Let me keep my job at least till he becomes Chief Minister Yourre back? Canrt change. Irm the dogrs tail What have you decided? To take a shit. Get that? Move, the man wants to shit Mind your manners. No one in here. Stand back Donrt you see where hers headed? I know. Son, lrm Opposition Kumar Vishal. I know you use the loo first thing in the morning Irve been here since 5 am. I have 40 legislators waiting to sign up Please join our party. Whether it will be you or l... who becomes the Chief Minister, werll decide at the general meeting Listen... I have some pocket money for you. Itrs in the car Where do I keep it? 100. - Hundred what? Million. Hers in too much of a hurry for it Listen to me. So much for toiletpolitics This is our misfortune! You donrt presume yourre accountable for... what you swallow? Hers accounting for what he has swallowed. Sit Greetings, Mr Shivaji. Master, not mister Werre from rrServe the Nationrr. Join our party You will be the next Chief Minister. Our leader has made a contribution Towards your efforts. 500 million. Just tell him yourre joining us 500 million? Income Tax? Mr Topi... Yes? 2 million for you As commission for signing him up. - More! Thief! Irm Hemant Mishra. Ours is Alliance Party Couldnrt get in through the door. So I climbed down Just like climbing down in politics. No problem if you donrt wish... to enter politics. All you need say is that lrm like a brother to you I shall rule in your name. The sword you wielded for a day, I shall wield Every day of the year Which party is that? Shiva, my son... Come on Farmersr Party Son, they said on tv that you were beaten up badly Manjari started crying when she heard. I couldnrt bear to see her cry So I brought her over. How are you? Better Can I talk to you in private? Everyoners talking of you. I was worried they might... drag you into politics. Donrt get into it. Itrs a filthy quagmire Step in, and yourll be sucked in Irm not being selfish. I tell you as a father Before doing anything like that, do spare a thought for Manjari Son, I like her. Shiva, do what I say. Marry her Letrs go away from the penumbra of politics Give way, Topi. lrm in control. Irm responsible Yourve become a big man! Dryou know how many are waiting to see you? The youth are ready to lay down their lives since you were beaten up Itrs rrShivajiShivajiShivajirr on every channel. All over the world... everyoners glued to tv sets waiting for your yes or no. What say you? Forgive me. Irve to say nothing now. Irm a simple man. I got beaten up My home has been razed, lrm a troubled man I beg of you, please leave me alone Come with me This is not a paid crowd, not lured with chicken-and-booze Not the ones laden on trucks. Theyrre here because they want to Because they believe. This is a good man, a good leader He will give us a better future, he will give us good governance Ask any man, and he will say he wants to become a doctor, a civil servant But no man wants to become a leader. Ask them Everyone shuns politics, because itrs filth. But no oners willing... to clean it up. They leave the country in the hands... of old hyenas, who donrt even have time to live. In this country, every man aspires for a 20,000buck job. And... a pretty girl. Come time to retire you expect to save up enough... to buy half an acre of land? In the suburbs. To build a 700 square feet house. Painted yellow, and a garden... to recline in the sun, while you read the newspapers and... tell your wife, rrDarling, politics is ruining this countryrr You have no right to blame a politician Had Mahatma Gandhi cozied up at home with his wife and kids... you wouldrve been cleaning latrines in some Englishmanrs house Had Thomas Alva Edison not left home, would we have electricity? Had Graham Bell thought like you, would we be using telephones? Before it dies, even the silkworm uses itrs spit to weave silk... to be remembered by. Werre humans Look at him. How is he bothered? Who are you for him? Since 5 am... he has been waiting for you. Hey, why are you here? Is this a fair? My country has become lame, like me. Make it walk The headline. Shivaji Rao of the new party, rrPeoplers Causerr... has swept the polls with record votes Every candidate has won Not just majority. His party has won all seats Be happy. Lizzy I hope we will do together what I tried to do in a day I have appointed two ministers to each department One, an experienced elder. The other is young and zealous Laws, we have for everything, but nothing is implemented Corruption rules the roost. No matter how much we might try... governance will be an effort in vain. We must find out whatrs wrong. Why? We mustpunish the guilty, we must correct. Irve thought out a way Complaint box. The facility already exists If wrong is still being done, then itrs because itrs out of reach... for the common man. Werll have a separate Department of Complaints It will function under my supervision Complaint boxes will be placed in every village, at every crossroad Water, electricity, potholes on roads... errant civil servants taking bribes, including me, if I err Without fear, you shall complain. Action will be taken in 24 hours No matter how big the problem, it will be settled in a week The day I find complaint boxes empty, lrll know lrve given good governance The day I find complaint boxes empty, lrll know lrve given good governance This upstart has ruined all the parties in one husting As long as hers in chair, we canrt do anything Irm thinking of going back to the chilli trade in Kolhapur Even selling chillies will get tough. He has set sleuths after us... Iooking into unaccounted incomes. Out of nowhere he has dug out... 800 cases, out of old files. He wonrt rest till he sees me... rotting in jail. Must do something about him Pandu, fix him Keep this. - What is it? Who knows? Shivaji sends For the village lass! Cellphone? What do I do? Press rrOkayrr Talk That way How are you Manjari? - You still remember me? Silly! How can you talk like that? Of all the bouquets lrve received... I wept when I saw yours. Irm pining to see you No one can stop me. But such is the responsibility, that I canrt leave I called Patil so many times. Your father took the calls And he said you werenrt at home and he hung up on me Thatrs why I sent you a cellphone. Whenever you wish to talk, call me Will you never come to see me again? lrm coming on Sunday Sunday is 5 days and 6 nights away! What if something happens...? Daddy is looking for a government employee for me. Anything from... postman to a vaccine centre worker, to an electrician, veterinarians... Irm so scared. Donrt worry. Very soon... Sir, the infotech people are waiting Irll talk later, Manjari I want to talk to him. - Whors him? Therers a 36 men here Including me. Who do you want? lrm Manjari You shouldrve said so. One minute Call for you. - Who is it? Lizzy. Say lrll call later Hers busy. Herll call later Topi, Manjari speaking. Topi here, loud and clear! Howdy? Bad. Get him on line. Hers talking lT with the Japanese Irll tell him when hers free. Everyone says, no one does Neither does he call. If he wonrt talk to me, why send me a phone? Chief ministers are like that. Their time isnrt theirs rrDarling, take merr rrl beg of you...rr rrtake me to the starsrr rrlrm playing swordsrr rrHow can I play with your love?rr rrFrom the maze...rr rrhow can your beloved rescue you?rr rrDarling, take merr rrl beg of you...rr rrtake me to the starsrr rrGovernment job?rr rrYourre just a king for namesakerr rrWhat use are you, Chief Minister?rr rrCurses on your lips, lust in your eyes?rr rrWhy are you blushing?rr rrHow heartless you are, why are you so selfish?rr rrlrm prayingrr rrNow itrs upto you, sweetheartrr rrDarling, take merr rrl beg of you...rr rrtake me to the starsrr rrCome into my heartrr rrlrm not unfaithfulrr rrlrm not cruelrr rrDay and night I think of yourr rrlrm peaceless, lrm sleeplessrr rrl canrt even squirmrr rrWith desire... rrwith passion...rr rrin my eyes... rrl come to yourr rrl come unto you, my love. Letrs play hidenseekrr rrDarling, take merr rrl beg of you...rr rrtake me to the starsrr Manjari, whatrs this sound? - What sound? My ears arenrt ringing. Let me have it Where did this come from? I ask you, where from? Gave it to me. - Who...? He He spurned you for politics! And you still talk to him? What have you? Vegetables, what else? Open up Sure, lrm not carrying a bomb All right, 1000 Rupees. - 1000? What for? Bringing stuff into Mumbai for the first time? You got to pay tax to get in. But therers no tax on vegetables Donrt argue. This is private tax. Everyone pays up If I donrtpay? The stuff doesnrt go in But you land in jail. Show your permit Yes I apologise! I made a mistake! Please forgive me What yourre doing is betrayal. For every cent you extract as bribes... traders recover in five-fold. The result is inflation Consumers are crushed. Arrest him Shoot him. No, take him away Traffic diverted Irm travelling to that village on personal work. Why so many cars? A single car is enough. The entourage follows you So much money being spent on my security? Irm not repeating the mistakes of my predecessors None of your predecessors were on hit lists. You are Itrs our duty to provide you with complete security. You are... public property. Werre more worried for your life than your privacy You are riding car number three In that case, lrm going nowhere Hi Manjari, howdy? Doing fine? Rule says, one foot earth, half a foot deep pebbles Two inches of asphalt, and use the road roller five times Rains keep washing this road out. Make sure it lasts five years Else, lrll flay you alive. Get it? Shivaji Rao rules. Remember Yes Mr Public Thatrs what has become of us. Paupers are about to flay us In the land of virtues, therers no evil. Shivaji rules How go these bangles? Great stuff. Glass, from Ferozabad May bangles chime, may gold and silver shower while Shivaji reigns No, thatrs nothing. Give me that. - These? Yes Problem. - What? I forgot my money. Can I give you next time? I donrt even know you Do you know me now? Am I familiar? Chief Minister! Donrt scream Irm on personal business. Please donrt tell anyone Hers in Phulgaon. In disguise Keep an eye on him. Irll be there Keep this. - Thanks By my mother! What an opportunity! But not a photographer in sight Will you give me an autograph? - On what? Here On the beaten track walk the cowards Off the beaten track tread the brave, the poets, our true sons Coming on Sunday! Forgotten? You keep promises you make to others But Manjari means nothing to you? Pest Anyone at home? - No one Who says? Sheghost? Where are you going? Who are you? What insolence is this? No insolence. Irm upto mischief What mischief are you upto? First, lrll caress your lips Then lrll bit you under the throat Irll pinch your waist, then a small rape Okay, go on Shameless! Yourve shaken me! Pest! With the headgear... and whiskers, you think I wonrt recognise you? Out with it Got my girl Why a getup like this? Manjari, lrm just your Shivaji now No files, no meetings, no Bansal, no police, no Topi. Irm spending... the whole day with you Really? What can I do for you? First, lrll eat. Irm famished What happened? - I fried bread in butter oil Also porridge. But you didnrt come. I was so angry I gave it to the goat Stale bread is all there is. Thatrs enough Therers nothing more. I have you. What more do I need? rrStale bread... rrStale bread and you is funrr rrCold water and you is intoxicatingrr rrFor you, lrll do anythingrr rrlrm dying for that bosomrr rrGoodness! rrHow can you talk like that? Makes my heart go dhadakdhadakrr rrGoodness! My heart goes dhadakdhadak toorr rrLetrs catch butterflies... - And climb a tree?rr rrWhat if I fall?rr rrAnd get hurt? Irll be in painrr rrThatrs passerr rrJust an old love storyrr rrSay something newrr rrLove in times of affliction... and I suffer a new sicknessrr rrOur hearts dance ta-thai-ta-thairr rrGoodness! rrHow can you talk like that? Makes my heart go dhadakdhadakrr rrStale bread and you is funrr rrCold water and you is intoxicatingrr rrManjari, my love...rr rrLetrs go for a swimrr rrLetrs steal mangoes firstrr rrlf yourre caught, yourll take a thrashingrr rrWhen in love, it doesnrt matterrr rrEverything changes...rr rrnow yourve had your wayrr rrOh, what a spell yourve cast on me...rr rrCupidrs arrow strikes sweetpain in my heart...rr rrmakes it go dhakdhak... all the way from Delhi to Mumbairr rrStale bread and l am fun?rr rrCold water and l am intoxicating?rr Two Sundays a week would be fun, no? - Yourre the Chief Minister You can take any day off. Whors there to tell you off? The public is there. Irm their servant Yourre so-sweet. Thanks to you... your Dad is now giving the wedding a thought. Letrs get married fast I didnrt have your permission. But saving your life is my duty Hers with us You may come out I never imagined theyrd get as far as this A life in shadows of imminent death may be of your choosing, not ours If you still want to marry him, tell him to give up all this... and come to you like a common man. Else, you may die a maid But I canrt bear to see you a widow What are you doing? Why, what happened? I should be the one massaging your feet. Instead...? Son, lrm just touching you to assure myself that yourre still alive Let go of my foot, please! Didnrt I do it when you were a kid? For the sake of others, you do so much, you live in tension Sleep a while, son Go to sleep I was applying henna May l...? - Yes Been years since I slept in your lap. Canrt I spend the rest of my life... on your lap? No chief ministership, no security, no tensions Wouldnrt it be nice if we could rewind life backwards like a video? What happened? Why are you crying? Yourve gone so far from us I got so much to tell you, Tell me Ma, what you want to say Go on, Ma. - What else? I want to see you married. What did Manjarirs father say? Nothing, he just... Papa, switch off the phone Itrs Mr Bansal. Must be important. No let up Signalrs weak in here. Let me step out. Hold on Yes, signalrs better. Go on Intelligence report! Therers a bomb in your house I was applying henna. May l...? The henna isnrt even dry Dadrs watch Wouldnrt it be nice if we could rewind life backwards like a video? Yourre taking my place? Yourre lucky rrl Shivaji Rao swear that...rr rrwithout fear, prejudice, favour or animosity...rr rrl shall protect all livesrr Let go What did my parents do to harm you? Why did you kill them? Can you bring them back? Tell me, can you...? After months, I was talking to my parents My father was massaging my feet, Ma was painting my hand with henna I just went out to take a telephone call And... There they lay in pieces, strewn all over Men bury their dead, cremate them. I just washed them away All because of this scoundrel, all because of him Do you think staying on as chief minister is so easy? For all the antics you staged to become the peoplers hero... maybe someone, a terrorist, a fundamentalist, or a politician... didnrt like what you did. And he killed your parents Stop this melodrama! Itrs all your doing. And I know that Irm letting you go because lrm helpless. But the law wonrt spare you Ruffled my hair. Give me a comb Before he sends in the law... we must topple his government Spark off riots, set the city afire. There should be blasts, men must die Ruin the law and order situation Donrt worry. Everythingrs organised. Werre leaving in five minutes Goodness Respected Chief Minister, four days ago... some dangerous looking men are squatting in my house. Perforce Theyrve been talking of things like bomb blasts and riots Werre scared. We beg of you, please take immediate steps... before they do something nefarious. I wish you well, always A responsible citizen Where did this letter come in from? - No time for all this talk Arrest Pandurang immediately I told you to arrest Pandurang. Why have you called me here? Sir, when he got to know that werre about to arrest him... he got himself admitted to hospital pretending hers ill Look at him, lying like a watermelon Mr Pandurang, I got to ask you some important questions I hope you will cooperate Brilliant act My client is suffering from high blood pressure... high blood sugar and heavy chest pain. He cannot talk Given up law for medicine? The medical report says that What kind of treatment is he being given? Due to acute diabetes, a boil on his leg has turned gangrenous The doctors anaesthetised him and amputated a leg My leg! Wherers my leg? Itrs drying on the terrace Look at this! The diabetes is acute. What will they do now? They will amputate the other leg Please leave. You get out of here Nothingrs wrong with me! Irm perfectly fit Thatrs what every man thinks before he dies. Look... you have blood pressure, chestpain, diabetes... kidney failure, gangrene. - You donrt understand! The reports are false! Irm perfectly fit, I swear Now tell us, where are the bombs? Which brand of balm? Tiger Balm? Trying your hand at comedy? Out with the truth Else, you wonrt leave alive. lrm telling you the truth I know nothing. With the false medical reports... yourve landed yourself in a trap. It says you got high sugar No one can stop us from amputing that leg or your arms Pandu, choose one finger. - What for...? One for your leg. - And this...? For your arms. - And that...? For that other thing. No! Donrt cut anything, please! Irll tell you the truth Werve wired four places. The railway terminus The bus terminus, the Central Bank And a blue cab Take your furniture back My legrs back! Praise The Lord Can I go to sleep? In the lockup Deploy bombdisposal squads. Round up all the blue cabs Quarantine the cabs Found it? Not yet sir Go on, sir. Werll take care of it. No, itrs my responsibility too One second Check that Clear out! Fast Take care of him Not you, sir. - Back out Back out everyone People are saying that you planned the blasts... to topple Shivaji Raors government He rigs bombs, then he defuses them himself. And he accuses me Did any of the bombs go off? In the last moment, there he was... defusing them The alliance between our 3 parties leaves him half the force he was Hers trying to use new ruses to hack at our roots What about the blast in his house? It didnrt kill him, did it? He sacrificed his parents at the altar of public sympathy Thatrs the kind of man he is How do you react to that, sir? There will be an enquiry. Your parents. Did you? How come you called me here? - It wasnrt because I wanted... that I have become Chief Minister. Nor did I squabble with you... for your chair. Millions came to me, they made me run for office They made me win, hoping lrd do some good for them Now when I want to do some good, yourre coming in my way Am l? Yourve got me sitting at home For all the money, the brains, the manpower you will garner... to topple the ruling party, had you even spent a percentage of it... for public good, yourd be here, and lrd be happy sitting at home Strikes, riots, blasts, all the time. Do I do my job? Or do I go looking for bombs? Friend, you have been after me... right from the beginning. If you think lrve really done anything... well, you have the police, the law is on your side. File a case Investigate, appoint a commission of inquiry. If itrs proved, hang me Irm not stopping you, am l? I know very well how... rogues like you play hidenseek with the law But as of today you cannot escape me You accept defeat so soon? Who has won, who has lost... yourll get to know soon. Son, for 30 years... Irve experienced politics. Irve chewed up and spat out the best of them If lrm here with you, the whole world knows... that here I am in this room, all alone with you You arenrt getting away with killing me If yours has been a 30year experience... mine has been a yearrs, battling you Add that to your 30, and I have 31 Now lrm going to shoot. This bullet isnrt meant for you. Itrs for me You fooled me! Scoundrel! What yourre saying, makes for nice debate. But it isnrtpractical Absolutely practical. Become Chief Minister for a day, see for yourself That was a fine interview In the end, they made a politician out of me No sir He played politics for dirty business You played politics for a good purpose That too, only once. - But l... Yourve said nothing, lrve heard nothing Look at this! He shot a good man! How merciless Was that wellput? Make way I was selfish for my daughterrs sake But you lost your parents for the sake of others? Now yourre all alone But you are a great man. Indeed, great May you be happy forever, son
