 

                        Come here Do not want to be me I'm here ... I am Elizabeth My Love Come here We are together Hagen ignoring me these not ignore me, see my Elizabeth ... WELCOME TO YOUR DESTINATION , Hagen gave you the opportunity to choose chance to forget everything and live your life in peace Instead chose HELL What are you talking about? Elizabeth is dead, Hagen Torn for all eternity, by the plague that infected You could've left it all behind Instead, you came here So you ... you will be ... PUNISHED It is normal, you know ... the body deteriorates rapidly We all have to go through it So you should not feel panicked at is happening It happens You know ... You can return to my ... it sounds funny Really .. Although it is not fresh out ... Previous Bacteria Emptied the contents of your intestines I digested You will have stomach pain, then see what to do ... There is always a way ... When you're ready return to my I know that death will not leave Become an obstacle You are a very strong woman So when you're ready return to my Let's get you out of here There are only a few minutes of the day I keep fit It can not even see me but you can hear me You hair is falling but never mind I can buy some There is always a way Perhaps some extensions when you return I know you love me You always have and I love you too No matter ... who are ... Or what you could have become ... ... I love you. Really I remember when he died .. tell me one thing ... did not want to put against you I was just sad You said would come back I felt that you were not fooling me I mean ... Your body is not resisting I fear that when you return nothing left to what you back ... ... You just come back ... Screw this Sorry, this closed The barber is not in the house I said that this closed The barber was and took all the money What? Do not want to shave you? We are not stupid, Hagen We were watching everything you did with it every night ... ... In the same place ... not to speak, I have anyone Hagen! Fuck the money! I'm talking about your wife the bathrooms ... necrophilia ... You did it for a long time, Hagen and frankly, a little disturbing You're lying She was on vacation So cheating on your wife these with a corpse? Take what you want and go, please Hagen ... I know what is best for you and see ... I have something you really want You do not know what I want On the contrary, I think I know Do not try to get angry or things will get Here ugly Just listen to me We watch your nights her endless Without moving, cold as stone very very dead Do not get me wrong, no I oppose what you do In fact, I understand Really, too lost someone close once my brother ... Tomas If I could turn back I would ensure you are never out of my hand but it was too late they already had cremated was nothing more than a pile of ashes If only I'd known then ... But now now know I know a way to bring them in death What do you mean by "get them"? You say that people come back from the dead? Exactly, you will see ... death is only separation of soul and body Sometimes the spirit leaves the body wandering ... to find another -What you say is ... -That I can unite again Both are crazy We are not us pick up a corpse You are right What if we crazy? What if all this shit mambo iambic is nothing but a lie? and your wife is leaving nothing but dust ... away from you forever But what if ... WHAT IF .. ... you had a chance? an opportunity that I will give getting it again and then you will spend the rest of your life wondering would have happened if you had taken that risk Will not you take the chance? Did not you do? Vamos Take your shit and we Stay there ... alli So, what do you do? I'm looking for buried treasure He is silent This dumb, do not be stupid What are you doing? Do not worry These are maps Show me where found the gates of hell "Hell? The portals to the other side, I say the Gates of Hell because someone you really deserve to go to heaven? Here then is where they travel? Correct When the body dies ... the soul passes through these holes these doors to other dimensions Have you ever found? If ... found a and saw a "And they look like? -A no - Nothing? Not look like anything, Hagen, are empty, dark are large holes in the blue Use your imagination That makes no sense Find a place where there is a door But without the key I can not open not what's on the other hand, not to where it opens No where to be closed So ... as we find this key? Here is my friend ... is where you enter What are you doing Travis? Travis! Please do not do this! Please do not do it, Travis! You will be my key to open that door Let me go! Give me that! Relax, it will not hurt I lied! You said you'd bring Elizabeth! I lied Nooo ... Hagen not lied to you ... Let's bring Elizabeth but I need someone to go to hell and take You are a coward A coward! Give me that knife You are right that I am a coward not what's on the other side but if I never turn back so I send you, you'll be my guinea pig Are you ready? We will monitor every move you make Your breathing, heart rate, all When you get there, Hagen Elizabeth finds and bring it back and one more thing ... Morbeus greets from me ... Have you seen? I have done more to see it I'm here for Elizabeth Just take me with her and I'll go in peace Peace How can you talk about peace after the pain you caused me You're in my tears You knew of my suffering now introduce you to yours 11 months ago Well Travis, appear to have passed 5 weeks I have a check for you here's your check You know, we need to talk I know my parents left me more money than this I think we can use it now Have you seen the conditions under which we live? The clauses of the will of your parents specifically say that money goes to your brother, $ 300 a week - I'm sure ... "No more money I am sure that when making a will 300 dollars a week was a lot of money Now it's nothing, and had not wanted ... God, listen Sorry, the will of their parents is irrevocable I can not do anything about Look ... I loved my parents, was very close to them and I'm not trying to take profit from his death Tomas love is all I have I just want the best for No doubt Travis Damn! Okay Come to dinner Then I have to go to work OK? Hey, stop Tom, look Tom, stop We've been through this a million times No no dinner napkin Tom, stop, stop DEMONS! STOP! I'm sorry, okay? Tom I'm sorry, okay? Stop, relax Sorry Things are tough now And just try to do the best for you I do what I can, ok? We'll be fine, ok? Come, eat Open your mouth OK? This will not work Do not cry Tomas, is broken Damn! Look, look! Electricity could now Okay I'll be home as soon as possible, I love you, be good, stay out of trouble Come on girls and boys 'm Mr. Skinny Sui Sui Suicidense Come on girls and boys try it I see my piggy eyes 'm Mr Skinny and I am your guide Sirens shining the dolls are for ransom Wake in the morning shot in the mouth Come now Tomas not hesitate Use a knife and lead us to the South Suicide! Ladies and Gentlemen! Welcome to show Mr Skinny! Are you ready to see what we hold on tonight? More when we return ... Your time is up Do not try to force it, destrabalo and pull it out, beware Do not try to move too fast That's for sure No. .. I only accept cash Without exception I need the other As you requested Are you sure that this will work? the other did not work Many people use caramina is a decoupled plant so you will not feel pain Let another round No No, not about how much I raise while this heroine kick me If this works, the next two sessions are free What is ..? Where am I? Today is your lucky day Who are you? need your help Is this a dream? What do you want from me? This is a dream Does that hurt? How about? "Together Again! Let's have fun! No more of your stupid brother Do not take it! but it is not me ... let's have fun Something is stuck in my rectum Have you ever thought about suicide? Eh, eh? Ever? Ever? This stuck in my rectum, I have work, I do not want in my rectum "You'd kill for me? Let him out, gets stuck in my ass! Damn stupid! I will remove it, open it and kaboommm! Do you realize how much we amused? If only you to join me and kill yourself Look, look! The TV works Do you like it? Do you like your brother? the skin is cut, Will not you be like? He would be so proud ... so proud ... Look how nice knife, this you will feel so good Wow! You're gonna be so happy! No more wheelchair Sam! 300 and will not be enough I need someone to take care while I work otherwise ... he killed ... My parents had wanted, "It would have killed the - Okay Vere I can do OK? Yes, it's Travis Christopher had told me gone I'm Travis, assume that you ought to ... If Look ... I can not leave only Him .. He is a suicide It SUICIDE Do you ... have experience with something like this? With kids? Look, just come Chris deal of money, right? You're pretty weak considering your vocation Now we have established I'm not a dream need your help Fuck someone else must be YOUR Why? Because you're weak Let go and see Your spirit is weak Your will to live is gone you hate yourself poisons your body this becomes vulnerable for class I am not Far from it I will not help Tomas you love it? What do you know about my brother? ALL in danger Lie! I do What kind of danger? you brought the class to the Your weakness ... ... and television man is not so kind to me like you ... You're running out of time !!! What's wrong? Do not you hit? Is it? If it is the Look, I just need someone ... I need someone to care, to prevent him from hurting leave the TV turned on, do not forget ... do not forget that it is strong If you're hungry there's food in the kitchen, just do it If something happens ... I'll kill you You're just in my head just went through this ... if it were not know what is happening at home I warned you did not have long time wipe and go home, Travis Tomas! Tomas! "Where are you? Where do you bring? Where is he? Your brother is not dead change of venue only Help me find it, tell me who did it and I'll help you According Demons have rules I had to resort to you Some have tried break these rules but do not worry know where it is I had a little chat with your brother What I have to do? Nothing you have not done before Your short people for money but do nothing more with this ability teach you the art of Necromancy me back to your living "Back from the dead? You're crazy Okay Bieeeeennn Once we have become visit a man and give a message to that man and I'll take you to your brother At least I'm not tied doing fine find him and tell that We can reunite with his beloved What? What do you mean to find it? Do not know where he is? Even not but we meet each and the my Elizabeth How long will it take us? "Weeks? "Months? Years? To hell! Why do we have to look? We do Somehow he keeps his soul away from my and need my REVENGE I just want my brother Take me to the now The deal is you bring me Hagen Take me to my brother NO! I've been patient with you all that mattered was you get high when I found you If you ever want to see your brother again you obey Why can not you do this yourself? circled symbol to your friend I need it in Hagen Then do your Even in the body of your friend, I can not empower the symbols that connect our worlds That should be on your side Well! I will cut off and then take me with my brother If 'll take you So, now what? Do we share a nice time looking while a corpse is rotting in my apartment? patient Here suffering souls forever and I gave them everything and also my I've waited years Hagen Together we will bring up here it finds and will be mine ... finally Jesus Christ! I'm crazy It's all I have left I'm crazy, that is Good job, Travis! Now let's find Hagen Morbeus! I did it! Hagen suit you! Where is Thomas? Well done, Travis We are pleased with you've done now we have our vengeance Do you drink? As promised, we will take Tomas has not finished yet Where is Morbeus? Where is Thomas? There are things you need to know things in here that show you I had a deal with Morbeus Where is it?? Where are you, you fucking coward? Where is my brother? Now you can not see your brother He lives in two different worlds What do you mean? If you want to be with your brother you should give your life need to surrender your soul Join Travis death That was not the treatment Deal? You do not make the rules here This is our world If you want to see your brother, you will obey No not reject our offer Travis 're a fool He's my brother Give it back! Your knives will not work here You can not fight with what is dead That your insolence is your punishment Spirituality religion the last resort of every man and woman and when the world does not make sense Am I trying, in my despair, to find answers to the afterlife? When all failed tangible Is this a shortcut to thinking? A shortcut to feel? How many bedrooms do I re-open? I've searched every dark corner I have tried everything nothing My blood and my pain, me of replies Elizabeth Do you still love me? You know, I was not sure to prepare breakfast or dinner If I were you get a job regular schedule How could we speak, if she or even look at me? Give me Give me another ... another beer Tomas know ... he does not do those things is just a kid The need ... new things, chair and a brother NUEI, new life You know? Sometimes drunks tell the truth some people said that alcoholics do not lie Did you know that the Nazis put the alcohol they directly through the veins ...? - What are you talking about? "I'm No, you can not go You can not go Does the world feel so solitaire just because there are others who have the same problem as you? I wish that You know I love you I love you too What do you think? Sometimes I wonder if ... if the baby will feel sick when we do The baby is fine Also I am a gentleman I wonder what would you do if I was not If I should die Do not know - I would kill - Never kill yourself If I die I promise that I'll - Volveras? - If I have my ways Oh, yeah? Maybe or maybe I'm reading a lot of garbage written Morbeus you know, spells and stuff Why do you keep him? "Baby, come on, we've been through this - But I never gave a straight answer - I know, maybe just I like to have someone who loves me and would do anything to tell - I love you! Is different Maybe I have just scared of breaking his heart This is going to go crazy and is going to be getting worse And then what? - You and me? - Of course "I'm hoping to break that losing - I would rather die ... Just think of it, living with broken heart God! I wish to die and I avoid all these concerns I hate the fact that you stand together That is what I have to do? - When we kill it for me? - What? Would you? do anything for you The pain affects us all even without knowing Hagen, no! we work to do What job? What is this? "It's for Morbeus "Yes, but it is? It forboside This is to kill baby bees This is good for killing humans Yes, but it contains an ingredient if you kill him It kills people. Do you understand what these saying? Listen, I will not go to prison Let's sit down and think about it it's crazy - I've had much time to think, Hagen You're not the one who has live with this idiot - You know, I do not like you're here pe ... - Do it for me! Hey, this is crazy How often should I repeat? We are talking about killing a man! For us to be together - Baby, this is crazy If you're going to do it, do it tonight I think I suspected It's just a matter of time so you know I want to be with you, this baby is yours and I want this to her real father, TU Would you marry me? Of course it makes I'll be yours and when he's gone Morbeus Nothing will stand in our way So is true love, right? - I love you - Me too - Do it for me - I love you I'll do anything for you Oh God! I'm crazy for you What do we do now? We must get rid of the body Bring it up Bring it up! Take the keys Kill! Why do not you die? Only Muerete There is nothing here for you the baby is not yours Suel ... I ta ... Die, you piece of shit! It's my baby! She is mine! She is mine! Die! I can talk I'm dead Very killed not cry so, Morbeus Is not this what you wanted? Your own personal hell one that you created with your own will The mate The mate and I'm in hell Are you disappointed that there is no fire or stones called just a boring place without beginning or end I did not want ... Save yourself the tears , Morbeus She deserves everything that happened. She betrayed you And I take away your child She did not deserve this She put both was simply too ... And you you got so much you could barely see her with another man worrying about the loving Where is it? is food for the dead, your tears and pain only increase our thirst for vengeance everything we did I thought it was my baby Children do not care who must respond only care about those who can look after I can call ... PAPA You are my father and I am your child I came from another seed but here We will forever We will create hell for those hurt us I do not belong here There is no other way, Morbeus, than that of vengeance I do not belong here! i "Then where? "Up with the living, hearts and broken minds, treacherous Here we make the rules Knew more than the darkness of light Study the hell my whole life Meets my revenge and I will serve forever Forget the other world, papi I only bring more pain Elizabeth suffers here Come celebrate with your child I want my revenge! darkness will consume you, father Anything ... then so be it Bring here to Hagen eat your soul But remember .. When finished belong to me
