 

                        CJ ENTERTAINMENTPRESENTS A BIDANGIL PICTURES PRODUCTION SONG JOONG-KI PARK BO-YOUNG EXECUTIVE PRODUCER JEONG TAE-SUNG How hideous... A WEREWOLF BOY Turn off the TV. Its distracting Im watching it Any news from Eun-ju? She called yesterday She says she misses you She couldn't tell me herself? Its nighttime here when she calls I suspect she has a new boyfriend What? In Korea? You should've kept your eye on her Good God, listen to yourselves She's 19 She's supposed be dating Hello? Yes Does Mrs. Kim Suni live there? That's right May I speak to her, please? One moment, please Gran, there is a call for you from Korea It must be Eun-ju Hi, sweetheart! Are you Mrs. Kim Suni? This is she I see... Thank you Who was it? What's it about? I need to go to Korea PRODUCED BY KIM SUJIN, YUN IN-BEOM WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY JO SUNG-HEE Gran! Can you believe I got a C on my midterm? My professors use such posh language they don't even sound Korean The key is to doing it over and over That's how you learn anything - Hello? - Hi, mom - Did you meet her? - We're in the car right now Where abouts are you? Gangwon-do, Hwacheon-gun, Do...gae... - Where is that? - Dogye... Put gran on the phone Okay. Gran? Hi, it's me I had a good flight, ate well, and I didn't forget my pills You shouldve let Eun-ju take care of it Its no trouble Just make the sale and come right home Is this where you used to live? Yeah, only briefly It looks kind of creepy now Like a haunted house A haunted house? It was like that even back then A place fit for a monster How old were you? When I was about your age When I was as pretty as you Back then... Quiet! I feel terrible for troubling you like this - Its no trouble - Thank you so much Thank you Get out of the way, Suni You must be the younger one Put that down, sweetheart You should get some rest Im all right Just that one, then Oh dear, that's a heavy one Neighbors should look out for each other Its only right Stop running around, Dong-seok You'll break that What a nice house! Hey, come and give us a hand here Let me get that Please don't mind him What do you think? Plenty of fresh air, the house isn't all that bad either My summer house is in the area, too The fence was too high, so I got rid of it Thank you Im forever in debt... - Stop it, mom - What's the matter? That's my ball - Careful - Look! A pig bladder Why won't you go inside, Suni? If it wasn't for you, it would've taken us an eternity - Don't mention it - Please help yourselves Sweethearts, did you say 'thank you'? - Thank you - Thank you Dong-seok and Dong-mi, did you thank Mrs. Kim for the food? - Thank you - Thank you Half way through the meal? Mr. Kim is out of town? He passed away 2 years ago I do a little proofreading to look after the girls I should invite the rest of the neighbors over to say hello But this is the whole village Its just us and Dong-seok's And there is a woman who lives with us but we rarely see her Ive been here for 5 years and this is the first time Ive been inside this house How many bedrooms are there? You have a telephone, too No-one lived here before us? Well, there was this man but we never got to know him He pretty much kept to himself Hardly ever spoke at all And then... Sweetie, can I have some more soup? Then, he died of a heart attack Left undiscovered for a while, too In the barn outside, he kept coyotes or wolves of some sort Wow! Why would he...? For the meat? No, I think he did some kind of study on them He would walk around with big books What gorgeous girls you have! Schools are quite far away though The little one will go to Taeryeong Elementary and the older one... Jeonghwa Girls' High School, right? Suni doesn't go to school Im sorry I didn't prepare much How is it? Please, we have plenty more food Im gonna get something from the yard Its chilly out Don't be too long We can't really afford this big place but we had to move for Suni Her doctor insisted What's wrong with her? Its her lungs She studies at home for her diploma I can't remember the last time I saw a smile on her face She has no friends, either Honey... Poor little thing... No wonder she is as pale as a ghost That's no big deal I haven't set foot in a school my whole life Who was that slimeball from earlier? He is the son of my late husband's business partner - So, not one of yours? - No I knew it! He looked like a nasty man Watching old people work with his hands in his pockets What was the slimeball doing here? It was the slimeball that got us this place Only two other families in the entire village! They seem nice though Ill leave the window open and get the furnace running Your medicine? Just took it - How's the smell? - Awful - Dust? - I don't know Tomorrow, Ill give the place a thorough scrub down Get some rest I think I will, darling Moonlight Melancholy Do not touch! - Kim Suni Dark shadow inside meaningless being Rot away and perish Drop dead, useless invalid! Wake up! There is something outside Wake up, Sun-ja Mom, Suni won't leave me alone! Good Lord! Suni? Was that you? Where did that come from? Where is your sister? In there, mom - Oh my God, what happened? - Why didn't you wake me? What were you doing out? Are you hurt? Here? How horrifying! You should've called me Must have been a stray wolf Is she okay? Just a scratch - I boiled some potatoes this morning - Oh, you shouldn't have! Im sure it won't come back Have a good day Leave that, honey Id rather you do some studying and get your diploma, if you want to go to America Mom...? Yes? Look What's that? Good Lord! Mr. Jeong! Stay still Is that what you saw last night? It could be. Im not sure Go away Shoo! Shoo! Come here Come on out, come on Its a human Who are you? You want this? Mom! Okay... Here, take it What's this smell? You want more? Yes? What are you doing, mom? Just tell him to go away Its okay, sweetheart Why isn't he going? He can't talk? I think he understands though He is just some tramp Just shoo him away Name unknown, age undetermined... Damn! Do you have a pencil sharpener? What are you going to do about him? To be honest, there isn't much we can do They say there are 60,000 children orphaned by the war He looks about 1 7 or 18 Orphanages won't take in adolescents like him Is that a cut on his face? Jeez! What's wrong with him? Was he abused as a child? Shouldn't you take him in and look into the matter? That's our job all right but my captain will blow his lid Just throw him out Ill see what I can do Can you look after him in the mean while? Why should l? Like I said, there are some 60,000 war orphans A copy of application form, - a copy of income certificate, - Sorry, can you slow down? certificate of taxation, certificate for a surrender of guardianship, status report on the child under your care But Im not his guardian... - Then, you should've gone to the police - The police sent me here Just say you're the guardian and declare surrender of custody Why would he go to an orphanage if he has a guardian? Lady, we're going around in circles Then of course, there is an easier way What's that? How much did you pay him? Five hundred dollars Five hundred dollars? What a thief! We'll have to get him cleaned first ...and crush their ambition to communize the world In his keynote speech, the director of Central Intelligence Agency announced the launch of Anti-communism Center Forget your dreams of taking over the world What the heck? Sweetie, can you find some of dad's old clothes? You, come with me Hey! What are you doing? That's for your bath. Don't drink that Stop growling and take off your clothes Come on What an awful smell! You are not a child I shouldn't have to do this for you At least you have the decency to hold onto your pants Ill scrub your back but the rest is up to you Are you asleep? - Where's mom? - What a stench! Hey, come on! Come and have your supper Food, over there Oh, dear... What's wrong with him? - The poor thing must've starved... - What are you gonna do about him? I talked to the county office today They'll get in touch soon And until then? The officer has a lot of connections It shouldn't take long How about we take care of him till then? What? Only for a few days Cant just ignore him now Sweetheart, I promise you Be a good boy and get some sleep, all right? Stop making funny noises You shouldn't do that at night Come down Dog training manual How long is this unpacking going to take? Honey, it'll spoil your appetite Im not eating with him Im going to the post office Are you going back to studying any time soon? Im trying to find my books Where are they? Go away Get away from me! Don't you come any closer Get away from me! Hey! Mom! Mom! Do you want this? Anybody home? You're still unpacking? This is why you need a man in the house Move over How come you're still unpacked with 3 women in the house? What's that thing still doing here Please leave I have to study Why would you need a diploma when all you gotta know is how to cook a nice dinner for me? - Don't touch me - Don't be like that Im going to Seoul for a few days How about a proper good bye? What the fuck? Jeez! You... You... Creep! Thanks - I can't get to the food - Work your way around Hey, that's my rice! Will you calm down a little? Dog training manual Do you know where he is? Who, Cheol-su? Cheol-su? I decided to call him that for now Your father wanted that name for a son, If we ever had a boy Then, Sun-ja arrived and I felt guilty even if it wasn't my fault So, where is he? Sun-ja took him outside Can you believe that girl? We've only just moved in and she's made friends with everyone Dong-seok! Wait for me You suck No, I don't Ill tell grandma that you left me out We'll let her have a go after this Okay Home run! No, that was a two-base hit Dong-mi, you're up next Then, Cheol-su - Where did he go? - Over there Cheol-su! Wow, he is fast Throw me the ball Throw it hard Come on You can't throw it like that Stupid Cheol-su Guys! Why won't you answer me? Oh God... Didn't you hear me? What have you got in your pocket? Cheol-su, when I say 'wait,' don't eat but wait, okay? Here, w... ...wait What is she doing? Let's go see the goats - Goats? - Yeah, they eat paper When I say 'wait,' don't eat! You should wait Don't... eat, got it? One more time I said 'wait,' you idiot! What? What are you gonna do? No! Hey! No! Wait! No. Wait! Wait! See what you have done? You did good though You wait like that, okay? Now, when I say 'eat,' you eat When I say 'eat,' eat like this Here Here we go Wait Not yet... Not yet... Good... That's a good boy Now ready? Eat I said 'eat'! I said 'eat'! When I say 'eat,' you eat like this Hold still Im supposed to do this Good job, Cheol-su Im not doing this because I like you Im trying to work out a way to eat with you Now, one more time Who put this behind the wardrobe? Was it you? Don't know I thought you weren't eating with him Its all right. Call him Dong-mi? Dong-seok? Guard your plates Wait Eat Wait Eat. Little at a time There's a good boy What? Let's eat ...I fall into endless bottom Death. Despair No! Wait, you naughty boy! Wait! Well done, Cheol-su Now spit out like this Fold it like this You see? Put it in the wardrobe Good job, Cheol-su ...and tie the two ends You're doing good Sun-ja can't do this yet You learn fast Sure When did you last cut your hair? Are you asleep? We're going to the market Get ready But Im not done He looks great Get ready now Cheol-su, we'll be back real soon There are some chestnuts in the kitchen No, wait... - Mom, can he come with us? - If you want Come on Why are you wearing your slippers? Put on some proper shoes. Hurry! What a tomboy! Move over Im going! Chop, chop Cheol-su! Your sweater! Can I get some candy? No. Its bad for your teeth How about this, then? Somebody please cover her eyes Are you getting me new trainers? No, something for Cheol-su What do you think of these? Seriously? - They're old men's pants - Cheol-su, darling? What do you think? Nice, huh? Where did he go? He was right behind us - Cheol-su! - Cheol-su! Cheol-su! Kim Cheol-su! Where did he go? He's over there - Get your mom - But Ive got money There you go And one for the little one here Hey, what are you doing? You gotta pay before you eat! He'll pay What are you yelling at him for? He's your son I want one, too Can we get two more? Go on, children You have beautiful kids I have two girls and a boy, myself Darling, you gotta chew your food - Here you go - Thank you Don't take off like that again Are you listening to me? You shouldn't wander off like that I think he should see a doctor He's gone a little red and got a few scratches Is this the only medical facility around here? I think I should take him to a real hospital You see, this huge iron beam fell on top of him Get out - Oh, I didn't mean ... - Get out Im so sorry, I didn't mean any disrespect It just came out wrong Sit down A real hospital? And Im a fraud? I run a good practice Ive been serving this community for over 30... for 30 whole years... Is it bad? Take him to a bigger hospital some time This is called caramel We have more but have to wait till tomorrow Will you give us more tomorrow? Sure - We have dried persimmon at home - What's that? - You don't know what dried persimmon is? - What is it? Dried persimmon is dried persimmon Suni, are you coming with us? You're such a bother! Where are you going? To see the goats They look real scary - What's your 100 meter record? - 20 seconds Cheol-su! This is for you Its a beanstalk Give it water and it'll grow bigger - I can easily beat you - Yeah, right You'll get in trouble for that Its okay. Its a used one Get your own! That's not it. Look No, it's like this - Right, sis? - What? You try Try what? Come on To me it sounds more like... Don't laugh Mr. Jeong is coming Run! Told you not to feed papers Here I come No! Sun-ja! Pass the ball Go over there, Cheol-su No hands You gotta kick it No! Fetch the ball Hey, wait... Yes! That's cheating! Cheol-su, you're out Im fine! My ball! Yes Come with me for a second Good cooking It smells delicious Hot! - Dinner's ready - Dinner's ready Dinner's ready Dinner's ready Mom, can I get a new baseball? Cheol-su lost mine last time Here we go again He threw it so hard that it went as far as the goat pen So, Cheol-su is good at sports Maybe he should become an athlete How long is he going to stay with us? They're still trying to find a good place for him There is a boy in my class who lives in an orphanage He never brings lunch and wears the same clothes everyday Well, it's not a nice place to live How dare you look down on me? I have more money than all of you put together What are you mumbling about? You think you're better than me, too? Anyone who dares to challenge me will be taught a lesson Got that? Are we going to your place for another drink? You drink like a horse, girl Want something other than ... You distracted me, stupid cow! What's that? Its that damn freak again - What are we gonna do? - Its okay. He can't talk This is my landlord's house What just happened? You... Cheol-su You're up with the sun, aren't you? Come here Do you want to try speaking? Watch carefully and follow me 'Dee-geud' Come on, try Move your tongue like this 'Dee-geud' Dee... That's right. 'Dee-geud' 'Dee-geud' Stop staring at me like that Write the next one How hard can it be? Just write it Draw a straight line, you see? Like so Your hands are very warm Keep doing it over and over and eventually, you'll get it Come on, do the next one I haven't played in ages So I might not be as good, but Ill try anyway Its a song I wrote a while ago You can't laugh All night long, I gaze out the window waiting for the sun to come up Because I can see him when the morning comes Thank you for holding my hands Thank you for gazing into my eyes Thank you, prince of my dreams, for coming to me like this There is a second verse, too Hello? Mrs. Kim? I'm calling from the county office What is this about? I looked into it and an orphanage looks difficult but there is a facility for the disabled that could take him in Mrs. Kim? There is no such person here What are you doing? Did you stash food again? Don't even think about it because I won't eat it How long have you been wearing the same clothes? Mom says she'll get you new clothes and always forgets Are you decent? This looks better than anything you've ever put on Let me see You look hilarious Look at me! Look at me! You and l, we look ridiculous Take a look Sweetheart, Im home We gotta hide. Quick! Where did she go? Her shoes are here Shush Aw, Ive been holding this in for too long Don't come out until I say so Im home! Mom? - Where are you? - Im on the toilet - Hey, Sun-ja - When did you get here? Ive been calling you Why didn't you take this? But I wanted to help Where's Suni? Must be out with Cheol-su She never used to leave the house Im worried she'll collapse again No, no! Im gonna take some rest Eat your potatoes and quit bothering me Poor Mr. Jeong's goats have all escaped Mom, where did you find this? You should've looked harder before asking for a new one But, I did! You sure did... Take a quick peek and come to me about everything Have you seen my pajamas? What's that you're wearing? Pack your school bag and go to bed Ill pack in the morning Wait Don't even think about it What are you doing here at this hour? You should show some respect Such an ungrateful brat, aren't you? Come with me Let's grab a snack I just want to talk to you Cheol-su, stay Who've we got here? Come here Come here Why does he growl like a puppy? Keep messing with me, and Ill marinate you in bean sauce... Im only trying to help you up Don't! Hey, Im not gonna eat you - What the heck? - Holy crap! What's that? What happened to him? What happened to him? Do something! Get away from me Don't! Im sorry I won't do it again, I promise Dad! Wait Wait... A ghost? Suni, you saw him, too - Don't know what you're talking about - What? She says you broke into the house and tried to assault her Let's go to the station - Break in? - Go to bed, Sun-ja Into my own house? And look who got beat up here Don't you know who pays for your hospital bills? And this house? My father! It was my father's business that your family joined later When he passed away, you stole from the company I know about things Bringing up hospital bills or this house won't do you any good So, shut up! Sweetheart, what are you saying? That's enough Have you lost your mind? That's it! Get rid of that freak or move out of this house Fine, bring it on! Let's all go to the station together Officer, you saw the bats and knives they wielded at me Why don't you call your father, too? I have so many questions for him If you're not going to do that, leave my family and Cheol-su alone Steady, son This is fucking ludicrous Think you're so smart? Please, Ji-tae! You have any idea - who my father is? - Please stop him Cheol-su, what was that earlier? Don't worry. Its gonna be fine So you had some drinks before? Some rice wine... Just a little, eh? - Come on, stay put - Just a little Venus Oh, Whiskey! Foreign alcohol can screw you up real bad You don't believe me? We were minding our own business when that freak attacked us and killed us all Put the damn freak away! No-one died. Just minor injuries You little piece of shit! Why did you stir up trouble in the middle of the night? - Officer... - Shut up! They're regulars here The situation doesn't look so good for you Destruction of private property, breaking and entering and assault... And it's not really my business but what was that about embezzling company funds? Calm down, sweetheart Why don't we call it a night here? Come on, let's all go home - Let's not bring suits between neighbors - You're absolutely right, officer Im sure you can talk things out Officer, can you uncuff him? The smell is suffocating me Doesn't it bother you? What smell? What a stench! What are the books for? They belong to him You didn't happen to call my father, did you? Of course not Im letting this pass because I don't want any more trouble I know Why should we fight like this when Suni will marry me one day? Let's try to get on a little Where did you find a freak like that? You can't let him leave this room He's dangerous What's all this? Must belong to the former owner Last of what I found Park Jong-du? Professor Kang? Who the hell are you? Do you know a man called Park Jong-du? I saw something interesting and wondered and wondered if you knew anything about it Sit Stay down Your legs will hurt Sit and wait! The smell won't go away no matter how hard I clean Its cold out Why don't you go inside? Its too stuffy inside You've been working hard lately Im going into town to post some manuscripts I only came in because it was getting cold You can stop waiting now Is that supposed to be me? I can't I don't have that anymore But I brought you something else Ta-ta! My dad bought this for me but I never read it And I won't be reading it now because you're gonna read it for me When you have learned to read and talk, read it to me Ill stroke your hair a hundred times That's an order Do you know what a snow man is? Have you ever seen snow? You make one by rolling snow into a ball We'll make one together when it snows On top of the hill where we played ball Itll be so much fun Promise? Like this Now, go back to your study Its stuffy in here Hey! Where have you been all this time? Why haven't you learned to talk? At least you're super strong Im not good at anything You're a good boy, aren't you? You're never going to hurt people again You have so much more to learn from me Will you stay with me forever? Say 'yes' Yea... See the pile of stones down there? Ill race you Whoever gets there first wins a favor We'll start at three, okay? One, two! There's no-one home Dong-seok's at school - Suni! - Kim Suni! Cheol-su! Suni! Miss Kim Suni! - Suni! Cheol-su! - Kim Suni! Where did they go? Look over there She's with Cheol-su Stop crying, mom I knew this was bound to happen sooner or later How did he get past the lock? - Cheol-su! - Suni! - Who are these people? - I don't know We found them Where? Where are they? - Suni! - Where? Suni! Calm down, Mrs. Kim - What are you doing? - Just stand back Hey! - What are you doing? - Stand back, kid Its an anesthetic gun You're trying to shoot him with it? Kiddo, it's dangerous Come on, Cheol-su Let's go home Good Lord! Suni! Are you all right, sweetheart? Wake up, child! She shouldn't come this far out Wolves are social predators that live in packs and are known for their remarkable persistence They can survive without food for a long time and mate with just one partner for life What on earth are you talking about? Was that too complicated? Dr. Park wanted to create super soldiers that can carry out effective infiltration Where do I start? So, what you're saying is that's not a human-being but a beast Park and I worked together in the same field and we were good friends So, he sent me this letter saying ... Let's not talk about things that need not be mentioned Can I get something to drink? Of course His experiment had serious moral dilemmas as it involved human subjects If this gets out, it'll become a huge scandal Whoever commissioned this project ... There is no evidence that the government was involved with his project I never mentioned any government It was entirely his private work Gross - Don't delve too deep into this - I never wanted to We'll need to take Cheol-su with us for some testing I made myself clear on the matter No-one outside can know about him He is not to leave this premise Why are you so concerned about someone's private research work? Why do you have so many questions? Im not sure of the details either We'll observe him for a few days If it turns out he was part of the wretched experiment, we have no choice but to put him down You're going to kill him? We can't afford to let this... I mean, the boy to get out Im not following you at all But you got this all wrong Cheol-su is a good kid even if he can't talk Even after what you saw today? If we'd arrived a little later, he'd have eaten her You should've never taken him in Grrr! Careful, sweetie Its okay, honey We'll be back in no time Bring him his meal See you later, Suni Let me take that Practice your writing Ill be right back, okay? Eat plenty and don't make noises at night He's trying to escape Suni Are you okay? Wait Wait, Cheol-su I told you he is dangerous If this happens again - Swear to God Ill shoot him - Shoot him? Don't you touch a hair on his head Let's go What on earth is he doing? Learning the alphabets Ga, na, da, la... What for? You gotta learn what you don't know As you see, there isn't much movement other than occasional staring at the door Why isn't he eating? Because Suni isn't here Freezing! If he shows a hint of violent behavior, we'll put him down I can tell from a glance whether someone is a danger or not His blood type is undeterminable What about other readings? His vision, hearing and sense of smell are all good Too good, actually His body temperature is a little high How high? Its not a fever He is naturally hot And he has a bone density and muscle power that matches an elephant If anyone asks, tell them all the readings are normal Sir? If we don't take him with us, he'll be killed here - Sun-ja! - Cheol-su! Wanna spin a top? It just rained, idiot I have to stay home Cheol-su can't play either Why not? Just can't... Next time, okay? It was a temporary shock Nothing to worry about Her conditions have improved dramatically - Its amazing what a change of air can do - Oh, thank you, doctor! - I got so worried - Mom Let's go home, mom Everything is normal He seems to be quite gentle by nature He's one of those kids who lost parents in the war There are tons of orphans like him That's right He's so much cleaner than me I sometimes forget to brush my teeth before bed but he brushes his teeth even after lunch Colonel What are you saying? You said you can tell from a glance Didn't I tell you that he turns into a monster? He is different from us He can't talk and is freakishly strong He is a satan What do you mean by that? I don't have time on my hands Can't be sitting around here all day You can stop waiting now Come here My conclusion is that, although he lacks social skills having been raised by animals, he is capable of learning and has the will to learn Pending further observation, hurting that boy will be a meaningless murder He has never displayed violent tendencies If that's true, Ill report back and return to base He is so handsome, too He reminds me of my nephew I saw him I saw him hurting goats When? A couple of weeks ago At night You were with him that night? What happened? We were driving when we saw him hunting Mr. Jeong's goat He was hunting a goat? How? Pardon? He was feasting on it like a wolf Why are you telling us this now? I was scared he might hurt me If you were there with her, why didn't you say something before? Im telling you now You know you're such a shitty liar If you're gonna make up a story, at least make some effort Who's calling who a liar? Mr. Jeong, you know that Cheol-su didn't do it Did you see him hurt your goat? - I didn't see him prey on it - But? I saw him at the goat pen that night Do you still have the dead goat? No But it wasn't killed by a wild animal - I saw it with my own eyes - Stop lying You little bitch... Hey, watch your mouth! Don't you see that Im here? You have no respect You all have lost your minds All this nonsense because you can't put down an animal? We'll examine the site tomorrow Everyone go home for now Get some rest, sweetie What do you want? I have something to say What? Cheol-su would have jumped over What? If it was Cheol-su, he'd have cleared it easy but the fence was hacked apart The dead goat had no open wounds, only broken ribs Bring your car around tomorrow I want to check something I put some straw mats over the track Im going to show them tomorrow What do you want from me? If you've been telling a lie, come clean and Ill keep my mouth shut Stop hassling good people and go back to Seoul Hey, Jeong! Hello? Excuse me? Who is it? - Its a reporter - A reporter? He wants to come by for some questions tomorrow Hang up the phone Shouldn't you be packing? Journalists are coming Don't be ridiculous Change him back into his own clothes Just in case Did you... Did you hurt the goat? Im going back in Im sick of these country bumpkins - Go and take a look - Yes, sir Damned blackouts What the heck? Hey... Ma'am, it's completely bashed up What's bashed up? Do you have a screw driver? One moment I just wanted to talk to you Im sorry Ive been an asshole to you How are you holding up, man? You know what happened to the guitar? You know, the thing you sing along to Suni's been feeling down lately Her guitar's gone missing She can't sing, so her health is getting worse She might eventually die, you know? You know who's taken it? Jeong did You know, the guy that keeps goats Who would do this? Its a secret but Suni doesn't really like you In fact, she hates you Bring the guitar back to her Who knows? She might like you a little for that Go get it now Its back on - That's a relief - Its back on Where did he go? Oh my God, the boy has gone nuts What happened to you? How did he get out? Where on earth did he go? We'll look for him He's gone to Jeong's farm He's craving the taste of meat How do you know that? I saw him on the way here Where is this place? Lead us there You might want to bring the real gun What's going on? Who's there? Cheol-su? Hey, what are you doing? What's gotten into you? Stop it! What's happening? - Colonel? - Go get the lady - Hey! - Are you all right, sir? Mr. Jeong, are you okay? What are you doing? You thief! Help me Kim Cheol-su! Put your hands in the air and come out of there - Come out of there now - This way, ma'am Oh my God! Honey? What happened to you? Wake up, Mr. Jeong! What the hell? What is she doing? Hey! Where are you going? Stop! Oh my God! Sweetie! Come back here Let me talk to him That's my daughter Put the rifle away Come on, shoot him Shut your mouth for once You're pointing the gun at my child What if she gets hurt? Cheol-su... Its not here Come to me What the hell? Are you crazy? - Back off - Put the gun down - If you move, I swear Ill shoot - Please, Ji-tae, stop! Get out of the way Put the gun down Step aside Please, stop - Ill talk to him - Ive had enough Get out of my way Son, drop the weapon and back off Listen to me Ill count to three If you don't move, Ill shoot you, too One, Cheol-su, wait Stop it two, Stop this - Stop! - Three! Wait! Cheol-su, wait - Suni! - Sis! Think you're better than me? Stop it! Think Im a laughing stock? - Do something! - Huh? Look at this mess What the...? After all that I did for you Do you know how much I liked you? Just calm down, boy Go after him and kill him Cheol-su Are you really a freak? Which is it? Which is the real you? I don't care I don't care if you're a freak Suni! Its a rock, you idiot Suni! You need to hide Hurry! They're coming this way Ill tell them you ran away Don't follow me Go away, you idiot! If you come with me, they'll kill you We can't be together now Go! Piss off! I hate you Get your dirty hands off me! Go, you damn fool! Oh, God... Im sorry, Cheol-su! Im so sorry Don't follow me Im going Don't you follow me Don't go Go away! Im going now Go away! Im sorry... Just don't follow me Over here, Colonel What is it? She came from that way She's on her own Are you all right? Where have you been all night? Where is he? I don't know What? Why are you harassing her? Are you lying to me? I don't know He ran away How can you not know? How dare you accuse my daughter of lying? - How can you not know! - Will you just stop? Calm down, everyone If anything goes wrong, I swear to God... We should talk What now? If we expand the search words will get out Wasn't it your plan to cover this up? Journalists will arrive soon We'd better get our story straight Unless you want things to go a different way Return to base for now - Hurry - Yes, sir This is not the end of it If he shows up, contact me immediately All right? We'll be gone, too What shall I do with this? I meant to buy him some new clothes but I never got a chance Come on, Suni! Bye - Take care - Bye! Dong-mi, come back here When Donghwa Trading went under, the property was transferred to your mother And she left it to you when she died A new resort is coming to the area You'd want to sell it, I presume? It should do well With clean air and all that Can we stay for the night? They must have rats here Why did you want to stay over? Don't know You always say that Gran, wanna see this? What a good-looking young man! He is, isn't he? Does he come from money? I don't think so Then, just have a little fun and dump him But he's so good to me Be good to him Men love getting compliments When you grow up, you see things that you didn't use to see Knowing more might seem good but it turns you into a coward It only happens once in your lifetime And it never comes back Hello? We're deep in the countryside My gran? She is something else Yeah... Let me call you back No, Im fine Good night What have you got there? Its a stun gun that dad got me Just in case Wait. I'II come back You've been waiting for me? Come here You can stop waiting now Im so sorry, Cheol-su Why did you do it? Why did you wait? Im so sorry I did it all I did everything I ever wanted to do I got married and had kids I lived my life Im so sorry I've become an old woman now And my hair's gone all grey No You haven't changed one bit Your hands, your mouth, your eyes you're still beautiful I really missed you Snow man was tempted by what the dog told him and suddenly felt a heat in his heart That's really good Dark as a charcoal, his body is made of brass When you put woods in his mouth, it starts spitting fire We're going now? Why? Did you forget something? Let's go Gran, I saw someone last night He was watching me on the phone You think you'd be scared but for some reason, I wasn't afraid Hello? Good morning, it's Kim from the county office One moment Its the officer from yesterday Im not selling it Pardon me? You're not? Thank you for holding my hands Thank you for gazing into my eyes Thank you, prince of my dreams, for coming to me like this All day long, I look upon the sky waiting for the moon to come up Because I can talk to him when the night falls Don't forget our promises Don't forget our secrets Don't forget how your eyes made my heart pound
