 

                        # My heart is beating faster # # Can't control these feelings anymore... # - # I've waited long enough... # - Go, bro! # It's time to step up and deliver what you want to see # # My blood is pumping, now this is how it's gonna be # # It's 45 minutes of love # # I wanna see you push and you shove # # I'll show you just how far to go # # It's time to lose all our control # # So feel it # # I can't control these feelings anymore # # Believe it # # My heart is racing and I can't seem to get enough # # Am I dreaming? # # Feels like a drug, but I know it's just adrenaline # # Go # # Just feel it... # - Come on, let's go! - # My heart is beating faster... # # It's 45 minutes of love # # I wanna see you push and you shove # # I'll show you just how far to go # # It's time to lose all our control # # So feel it, I can't control these feelings... # Come on! Kick his ass! # Believe it # # My heart is racing and I can't seem to get enough # # Am I dreaming? # # Feels like a drug, but I know it's just adrenaline # # Go, just feel it # # Oooh, my heart is beating faster # # My heart is beating faster, can't control these feelings anymore # # I've waited long enough, I want it more than anyone # # It's time to step up and deliver what you want to see # # My blood is pumping, now this is how it's gonna be # # So feel it # # I can't control these feelings anymore # # Believe it # # My heart is racing and I can't seem to get enough # # Am I dreaming? # # Feel like a drug, but I know it's just adrenaline # # Go, just feel it # # Oooh, my heart is beating faster # # It's 45 minutes of love # # My heart is beating faster # # My heart is beating faster. # Yeah! Yeah! Congratulations, Diego Carter. You are the new Gladiator Challenge World Champion. And now to present you with the belt of this prestigious organization- Mr. Ted Williams. Diego, make us proud, brother. Those were some highlights from Diego Carter's championship match. As we spotlight World Cage Fighting Champion Diego Carter, you can't help but have compassion for this all-around athlete, for no other contender in this league has ever worked so hard to get to the top. His ascent to victory was paved with hardship and humility. A fearless technician whose punches carry the dreams of a small child who grew up off the coast of La Plata in rural Argentina. Now he makes his home in Los Angeles the City of Angels, where he toils in the shadows of the Hollywood limelight. Returning to the roots of his legacy, Diego quickly gained respect and notoriety in the martial arts world by being the toughest pound-for-pound fighter in his weight class, taking on each new rival and ending victorious. No one can dispute the sheer determination and willpower of this champion. He trains tirelessly in anticipation of every victory. He is a simple man capable of extraordinary strength, speed and agility. We'll hear more on Diego Carter right after this break. Hey, you guys want to get some food? Is that him? Oh my God# Come here. - Diego! Diego! - Oh my God, he's so hot. Can I have an autograph? - What's he signing? - Enjoy the fight? I want to be a champion like you one day. I'll save you a fight. Awesome! - See ya, buddy. - Hi, guys. Hey, guys. - What's up, man? - What's up, boys? - Hey! - He totally just looked at me. Oh, I hope so. Come on, man. I mean, we're gonna go party at the club anyway, right? So why don't we bring some of your female support group with us? I know you're not a big fan of the party thing, but I think if you just invite a fan or two or three or four- Four or five of 'em, bro, seriously. Georgie Georgie calling. Hey, what's up? Are you calling to congratulate me? Half those moves you learned from me, my friend. Well, I would like to think I added a style of my own to it. Are you coming to celebrate at the club with us or what? Nah, you know what? It's your victory party, bro. And if I show up, everyone will hang out with me. All right, baby. I'll see you next week at the gym again. Take it easy, Diego, okay? Thank you, Georgie. All right. If my guys want to have fun, who am I to stop them, right? - Yes! - Hell, yes! Diego, you are the man! Hey, let's go snatch up those ring riders, man. This is the place. Party time. - Man, look at that line. - Don't worry, man. - We got Diego. - Diego! - Autograph please? - Hey, I'll meet you inside, bro. - How you doing? - All right, let's go party. Cool. Can I get your number? It's already there. - Thank you. - Thank you. Hey, man. What you doing over here? I thought the gay club was down the street. That's very funny, but if I remember correctly, the last guy who thought I was gay, I kicked his ass. There you go, always thinking about my ass. We're just playing around. Just our way of initiating you into the championship club. Hey, Diego! Yeah, I'm talking to you! You got shithouse lucky in that fight, man, and you cost me money! You son of a bitch! You cost me money! You should've bet on the right fighter. You know what? Let's do this. Let's just do this, guys. You buy us all a drink, okay? You buy us all a round of drinks, and maybe we might forget about it. - How's that? - We already forgot about you. Shit, you ain't half as big as you look on TV. Why don't you just do like you do when you fight and run away- all of you bunch of fucking track stars? I don't think you guys even know how to fight on the friggin' streets. We only fight in the cage, homie. He says- he says "We only fight in the fucking cage. " You gotta pivot when you punch. You been drinking, huh? I love this place, man! Yeah, we get to drink and take out the trash. Enjoy the rest of your night. Call us if you need anything. All right, guys. Peace, bro! Peace. - Hey, ah! - Hey! So, look, can we go in? Well, uh, so looks like you won your fight tonight, huh? You think you're a tough guy now? - Well, how about that rematch then? - Let's do it. Now can we go in? I love it when he does that. Look at this. - Hey! - Hey, look who's there. Hey, I want you to meet my pop. Oh my God. Look at you. Look at- you look great! How are you? How are you? Hey, Pop, how are you doing? - Have a seat. - Get up, get up. - Sit down. - Good to see you, sir. - How are you? - Good, thank you. Sit down. Look at- you look amazing. This guy is the best fighter I have ever seen. No, I mean it. I've known you- I don't know how many years I've known you and he has never... never asked me for a favor or tried to strong-arm me for anything. How old were you when I first met you? - 17. - 17. My God. You know why I like you, Diego? Because you are a fighter. Not like half these fuckin' pussies that think they're fighters. You are a real fighter in the true sense. Well, I couldn't have done it without you, my friend. There's a lot you can learn from him. If there's anything you need- anything- you know where to come. Huh? Thank you, sir. - Cheers, guys. - Definitely. - Cheers. - To Diego! - Hey! - To the party! Oh, look at the party. Let's hit that dance floor, friends. All right. - Diego, you sure you don't want to come? - Nah, you guys go. - I'm tired, man. - All right. You don't feel like dancing, Mr. Carter? No, not particularly, no. Well, that's okay. I can get your attention in other ways. Oh my God. Who is that? Hold on. Just stay here. I'll be right back. - What'll it be? - Gin and tonic for me. What's your name? Sandra. I saw you in the cage today. - So you know who I am. - I can give you what you want. And what exactly do I want? You'll have to follow me. I'm not big on surprises. If I'm going to follow you, I want to know - exactly where we're going. - A fight, Mr. Diego. One that I guarantee you have never seen before. Lead the way. Have a nice evening, Mr. Carter. So what exactly am I considering here? A tournament where the best fighter fights for the ultimate prize. - And where are we going? - Just follow the directions. It changes every night. So how come I've never seen you at the club before? It's not much further. How do I know you're not some kind of sexy, blonde serial killer? Maybe I am. A little out of the way, isn't it? We like to keep our engagements exclusive. Hey, that's Bill West. He disappeared from M.M.A. two years ago. You will find our organization attracts some of the best fighters in the world, Mr. Diego. Yeah! Yes! Are there any rules here? There is one. And who might you be? Call me Seifer. Pleasure to make your acquaintance. - Seifer? - Yes. You see, you not only fight for survival, you fight for your opponent's prize. They are consorts. Every time a fighter fights he must put up his consort as ante. If you win, you get a night with your enemy's consort. If you lose, he gets yours. You're kidding, right? No, no. This is unlike anything you've ever seen. This place recreates the most ancient behavior- the fight for a mate. It's a primeval urge. Nothing is more powerful. The men go in hungry. They fight to protect their mates and to claim their enemy's. The fighting you will see here- the most brutal thing you will ever come across. I will give you $250,000 for your first fight. I make that on a regular fight. Yes, but here you have no taxes, no training, no agency, no management fees to worry about. That makes it almost double what you earn normally. Some men fight for glory. Some men fight for money. Money. Some men just fight to... satiate their bloodlust. It is a hard choice. Yeah. Anyway, can I call you or something? If you're interested in entering the tournament, you will earn the right to a consort by fighting in the preliminary round. If I win, can I make you my consort? I'm generally not allowed to be considered. Well, "generally not allowed" is not necessarily "not allowed," so... I'll win this fight and then we'll see what happens. Mr. Diego, you should be more concerned about what would happen if you don't win the fight. Yeah, right. That's Diego Carter. Is he fighting tonight? Yeah. You bet. It's going off uneven odds 'cause he hasn't fought here. Oh, screw the odds. I want a piece of that. Large piece on Carter. Hey, champ, what are you doing here, slumming? Maybe he wants to see what a real fight is like. Good luck. No rules, no referee. No belt will save you, pretty boy. Welcome to bloodlust, my friend. Oh! Yeah! Diego! Diego! - Diego! Diego! - Yeah! He's good. - Sloppy. - Right now he is. But did you see it? The point where he let his rage take over? Just imagine what we might see if we set the other fighters loose on him. Diego! Diego! Diego! Diego! Diego! Diego! Mr. Carter... we are honored that you have blessed us with your presence. Congratulations on a beautifully-fought match. - Thanks. - You have earned a place in this tournament and a right to a consort. Please... make your choice. They're all very beautiful ladies. But I'm afraid for me there's only one choice- her. Mr. Carter, I am afraid that Sandra is my personal assistant and is therefore unavailable as a consort. I thought you offered me the woman of my choice. Very well, Mr. Carter. Sandra is your new consort. Let us hope that you have a long and promising career. Thanks again. So you're mine. This is your place? No. This is your place. Mine? Welcome to your new home, Mr. Diego. - This is a mansion. - You're very observant. Your breakfast is ready, sir. They call him Crusher. His real name is Igor Kurkovich. He was a former officer in the Serbian military. Crusher was discharged from service for alleged war crimes, but no charges formally brought against him. He entered M.M.A. shortly afterwards and rapidly became one of the most dangerous fighters in the Eastern world. The problem was Crusher's style was too brutal for the national venues. None of the major organizations were willing to grant him a license. That is, until reigning U.S. champion Danny Jones granted Crusher a title shot. It only took him 28 seconds. Danny was never able to fight again. These guys are animals, Diego. They'll get up every time you knock them down. It's not a sport to them. It's life or death. Sounds like fun. Then maybe we should get to work. Let's get to work. Hey, this is Diego. Leave me a message or I'll choke you out. Diego, this is George. Where the hell have you been, bro? You doing okay? Call me, huh? Hey, take it easy, Diego, okay? Welcome to The Tournament. Place your bets. The visitor hours are over. - I'm here to see Diego- - Visitor hours are over! Listen, I don't want any trouble, okay? Diego has a visitor. George, what the hell are you doing here? - What the hell are you doing here? - Fighting. Why? Why? Because you disappeared off the map. And then I find out from some shady people that you're fighting in an underground illegal tournament. Look, I know what I'm doing, okay? It wasn't exactly easy to get in here, Diego. You really want to associate yourself with this? - How about we both get out of here? - No can do, brother. Look, George, for the first time in my life I feel like things fit. There's no bullshit here, brother- no managers, no P.R., no reporters. Trust me, this is a whole new league. Yeah? That doesn't make it any good. But you know what? If you already made up your mind, I got better things to do than to argue with you. I'm only a phone call away if you ever need me. - Got it? - Go it, bro. Place your bets. Diego, I will crush you like a little bug. And when I squeeze the life out of you, people can pick you up in pieces. Diego, I'll see you in the cage. I've been training very hard for this. We'll see who's the best fighter. Crusher versus Carter, Come on, put 'em up, Diego! - Come on, fight! - This is a different kind of a fight for your man. I wonder if he will adapt. I have seen fighters get really hurt from this if they weren't prepared. He doesn't seem to be too prepared from what I see. Keep looking. What exactly is your plan for him, if I may ask? It will be fun to see how far he goes. Fun? Yes, like in the movie! Will he go to the dark side? Besides, why do you care what happens to him? I don't. Diego, Diego, Diego! Diego, Diego! Congratulations, Mr. Diego. Well, I couldn't have done it without you. And you're right- this is something else. What's next? You gotta be kidding. You won. You get your prize- that's the rule. - Maybe you and- - Go enjoy your prize. I'll see you tomorrow morning. - Hi. - Hi there, gorgeous. Are you ready for this? I know what you want. # There must something, sworn to tear me down # # Oh yeah # # My pain is building # # Tearing me inside out # # Oh yeah # # Will I finish last again? # # Here I wait for this to end # # I forced the pain I struggle with # # And I am open to you. # Sandra, is that you? - Who the fuck are you? - Diego Carter, right? Name's Stone. Sandra sent me. Yeah, my mansion's bigger. You fight enough fights, you get a bigger mansion. - You are in the tournament too? - I am in the tournament. Like I said, Sandra sent me here. I see you two have already met. I'm here to train you if you'll listen. I know your opponent Marco- he's a badass. I recognize you. You're the world cage champion, five years ago. Mmm, six. What happened to you? All of a sudden, you disappeared. I guess I needed a change of setting. All right. You fight hard, but you need to fight smart. Feel his next move. - Capoeira? - Yes, tough to beat- unless I teach you. Nice moves, Diego, but I don't go down that easily. - Thank you. - Thanks. So what do you think? Are you going to hang around for a while? The tournament? Heh. Sure. This could affect your standings in the more legitimate fights. Who cares? There's more money here anyway, plus the perks. Yeah, the money, the women, the fights- they set it all up to attract guys like us. But there's a downside, Diego. People get hurt here- really hurt. I won't get hurt. I don't see an "S" on your chest. Everybody gets hurt. Cheers to that, my friend. Tell me something. Monique is Stone's consort, right? Yes. They seem to have something special between them. They do. Stone has been doing this for a long time, and Monique has been doing it with him for a lot of it. It's weird to see two people that really care for each other in a place like this. In Russia they say that even on the battlefield a rose can bloom. That's what I love about you. It doesn't matter. You need to forget about everything except your next fight. The problem is there are some very powerful distractions here. You are about to see something awesome. Tonight, a very special event. Welcome to the tournament. This is real fighting. This ain't no M.M.A. bullshit. I'm undefeated. I got some surprises for you in the ring- shit you've never seen before. I'm gonna come in there and fuck you up. I grew up in the streets of South America. I've been fighting since I'm 12. I have more than 100 fight on the street and I never lost a street fight. And I never will, so let's just get in the cage and see who's the best. Let's do that. Carter versus Marco. Looks like our man's doing all right. What's going on? What happened to Diego's advantage? Hmm, looks like Marco picked up some new tricks. Good job, bro. My man! Taking care of business. I couldn't have done it without your help, my friend. No charge. We've gotta party, amigo. You gotta be kidding me. I can hardly move. Come on, Diego- a nice hot tub, some champagne and beautiful women? That settles it! Last one to the pool has to wear their bathing suit. - All right. - And don't forget your prize, buddy. I don't suppose this falls under your job description? Looks like we need some more champagne. Come on. Hey, Stone, which one was the best consort you ever had? I don't want one. I got Monique. - That's all I need. - Come on, man. If she doesn't care, why should you? Because I do, that's why. Before Monique, fighting was everything. She saved me. You go fight, Diego, just make sure you don't lose yourself along the way. Thanks, Stone. Let's go get some drinks. Sounds good to me. You better watch out, Diego. I could have had you right there, bro. I tap out. Hey, man, we're gonna head on out to the casa. You cool? - I'm good. - And good luck on your next fight. Sandra's a good girl. She'll take good care of you. Thanks, guys. - It's about time you got back. - What are you doing here? - Where's Sandra? - She took the night off. Look, I can't do this tonight. Oh, I see. Well, I can help you with that. Looks like our guy is having fun. You don't understand. You don't have to do anything tonight. Okay. I mean, if you don't like me- I like you fine. You're very beautiful. It's just that something easy is not that exciting. Well, all the girls are easy here, Diego. - That's the point. - It doesn't have to be that way. The fighters are here because of the money generated by the fights. The women are here to keep the fighters happy- it has to be easy. We're brought here to work, Diego. And there's no work except for the type we do at the tournaments. And the people who run it... don't take no for an answer. You're not doing me any favors by not sleeping with me tonight, Diego. Because tomorrow night... I will be given away or kept. There must be something I can do. There are too many people making too much money off the fights. If you tried anything... they'd kill you. Then they'd kill half of the other girls to teach us all a lesson. Our best hope is that maybe when the tournament is over, they'll let us go. - That's a long shot. - It's all we have. - Is Sandra in the same way? - She has it even worse, Diego. She belongs to Seifer. She has to be at the beck and call of that devil. Seifer? Tell me about him. He grew up on the streets of Russia. And he was sent to prison when he was a teenager. That's where he started fighting. Rumor has it he killed several men in the ring. After that, he escaped and fled here to America. It was his idea to combine the prostitution rings and the underground tournaments. I can't imagine what kind of monster could be so cruel. What are you doing? You seem down, my darling. Is something the matter? - What do you care? - Aw. You really care about that fool, don't you? He sleeps with every woman that comes his way. You really have feelings for that? Are you jealous, Seifer? I thought you were a bigger man than that. Yeah. I'll be glad to be rid of him when I leave. - Leave? - My turn's up next fight, Seifer. - Ah, yeah. - I'm getting as far away from this place - as I can. - Do you think you can leave?! I've done my time according to the rules. Oh, there are no rules! Only what I decide. And if anyone disobeys me, including your little friend, I will crush him. You will not leave here ever. You belong to me. Your friend belongs to me and I will turn him into an animal before your eyes because I can. Oh yes, you will watch as his nobility gets replaced with bloodlust. Where are you going? This is not the way to your room. I was- I haven't broken any rules. Oh, but you have, Marcela. You broke the primary rule- you did not sleep with the winner of the fight. He said he wasn't interested. He said I didn't- I didn't have to. Then you convince him, you little slut. Please don't hurt me, please. I'm afraid, Marcela, that you might inspire the other girls to insubordination. No, I promise. I'm going to take this as a very serious matter. No, please. No, please. Seifer, please. I promise. - I promise I'll go back. Please please. - Kiss me on the cheek. Please don't. Please don't. - Hey, guys. - Hey. Hey, Diego man, where have you been, bro? Dawg, you had everyone worried. So nice to see you guys. Come on, let's take a walk. - Wow. - Jeez. So, Diego man, are you okay? Am I okay? Are you guys ready to party? That's the question. What's wrong? Normally I mention a party and you guys jump through the roof. Is your dad okay? Yeah. No, he's fine. It's not that. So then what is it? Diego, no one has seen or heard from you in three months. And then we find out you're staying in this expensive place with some nasty-looking motherfuckers guarding it. - Who did? - My dad found you. And he had to call in a lot of favors to do it, man. Look, this is some heavy shit you got yourself involved in, Diego. We just want to help out, man. Look, I understand your concern, okay? This is just a different kind of tournament. Yeah, an illegal kind. I'm just fighting, like before. Now come on, let's go. All right, then we'll just hang around for moral support, just like before. No, not this time. I'm on my own. You guys got to trust me, okay? Everything's gonna be fine. Next week we're gonna have fun. Drinks are on me. This is my fight and I gotta finish it my way. Trust me. All right. They are consorts. Every time a fighter fights, he must put up his consort as ante. If you win, you get a night with your enemy's consort. If you lose, he gets yours. I trust you had a good time with Marcela. I thought that was the idea. We didn't do anything, okay? We just talked. She explained to me why all these girls are here. What do you care? I care. I care about them, and especially I care about you. There's nothing worth caring for. Don't say that. I've been selling my body since I was a little girl, Diego. Is that the type of woman you really want to be with? You had no choice. It wasn't your fault. And yes, you are the woman I want to be with. This is the way Seifer wants you to feel about yourself. That's his control. He twisted you so you can't see the truth. We've both been tricked into being here. But now I know what's going on and I can do something about it. Can I help? I'm counting on you. I mean, look what happened to this place when you left me alone. # I can't imagine not waking up next to you # # I can't imagine not waking up next to you # # I'm gonna crawl in bed, never leave this view # # Of you, I said # # Do you remember when we would talk all night? # # Sleep less just to watch the dark turn light # # I do, you said # # If I say too much # # Don't say enough # # If I wait too long to admit I'm wrong # # If I let you down time and again # # Just know that I'll be here for you # # 'Cause I believe # # Even when things go wrong # # 'Cause I believe # # Even when I'm not strong # # 'Cause I believe. # I was thinking, Diego- if we were to just leave, sneak away... You have contacts that could help us. I can't do that, Sandra, not with what I know now. Besides, sneaking away is not my style. We'll go to the tournament tonight. I'll have a word with Seifer. We'll see what happens. What happens is he'll make you fight. Fine. I finally found something worth fighting for. I hope you're right. I'm always right, baby. # When you step on a man # # You done crossed his path # # I'm not sure if anyone will know # # How we go, how we go, how we go. # Seifer versus Stone. Sandra, why are Seifer and Stone in the ring? Monique, why is Stone in the ring with Seifer? I tried to convince Stone. He won't listen to me. There is a way out, Diego, and it's through Seifer. Stone can beat this guy. Come on, Stone! I can't believe it. Come on, Stone, you can do it! Bloodlust! Bloodlust! Bloodlust! Bloodlust! Bloodlust! Bloodlust! Bloodlust! Russian! You have not yet earned the right to fight me, Mr. Carter. You have to fight a few more rounds and win to get that privilege. I don't play by your rules. I'm taking Sandra and Monique out of here. You want to rescue the ladies, be a hero? Then stay and fight. If you win your matches, you get a shot at me- just what you always wanted. Oh, Diego. Oh, Diego. Oh, Diego. If you do not want to fight then I will let you leave, but the ladies stay and they will pay for the trouble you have cost me. Their only chance of getting out is if you come back and fight. Sandra! You know I did not want it to be this way. Did you hear me? I never wanted it to be this way. I never wanted to have you held against your will. I wanted you to have much more than the other girls- a chance to be with me, to rule with me. Where's Monique? I have not yet decided what I will do with her. Maybe I'll put her back in the rotation. Maybe I'll put her with the sickest son-of-a-bitch fighter I know. Maybe I'll put her back on the streets where I found her until she learns some respect. Maybe I'll just kill her. Maybe you too. All the money and power- you're still a fucking nobody. You know what? I'll tell you this- you enjoy the last thought you have of him, because I will rip Diego to shreds. And I will save a little piece for you. Goodbye. I don't have time for you. But I do. Hey, Pop, we found Diego. What do you want us to do? - Can you hear me? - Yeah. - Listen to me. - I'm listening. I want you to get over there right now. All right. You too much of a pussy to fight me? I told you before- you have to prove yourself in the ring before you have the honor of fighting me. I can beat up anybody. I have no doubt you will win against your opponents. What I am interested in is seeing how much of you is left afterwards. Excuse me. I'll be right back. Good job, Mr. Carter. At last I've found a worthy opponent. It will be an honor to fight you. You know nothing of honor. And I came here to destroy you and everything you represent. Bold words, Diego. Let us see if you speak so eloquently as I break your spine. Yes. No. I thought you were worthy. It is a shame. If you had done what I asked you would have had everything. Now you will have nothing- not even your life. - Freeze, asshole. Stop it right there. - You, stop it. You will have to learn, Diego- no matter how great a fighter you are, you cannot beat God. I brought some friends, asshole. My God, you're beautiful. You'll have to forgive him. He was raised in the woods. - Who are you guys? - We're friends of Diego. We're gonna get you guys out of here. Come on. Get going. - You guys all right? You all right? - Yeah. She needs to go to the hospital. I'll take her. - Let's go. - Let's go, guys. Get the hell in here. Close that door. Jeez. Nice fight, Diego. Can we go to the club now? Hell yeah. We all need a drink after this night. Oh, hell yeah. Shut up! You know you almost gave me a heart attack? Eddie, let's go. #... That's worth fighting for # # Got the wind knocked out of you # # Don't let go # # When they think they got you # # Come on, bring it now # # Nothing's gonna stand in the way # # I won't back down # # I'll do it till I do it again # # Come on, bring it now... # - Come on, fuck him up, Richie! - Come on. Come on. How does your face feel, asshole? Come on. Tony, your son is a terrific fighter. He's got a great coach. Good thing he retired, because I heard his wife was gonna break his legs if he didn't. Come on. # It's worth dreaming for # # Pressure's going down on you # # Never let it show # # When they think they got you... # Come on! # Come on, bring it now # # Nothing's gonna stand in the way # # I won't back down # # I'll do it till I do it again # # Come on, bring it now # # Nothing's gonna stand in the way # # I won't back down. # Yeah! Whoo! Thanks for coming. Hey, how are you doing? Hey, what's up, man? How are you doing? Richie, great fucking fight tonight, man. - Hey, I'm proud of you, bro. - Thanks, Diamond man. I couldn't have done it without you. Thank you so much. - Pop that baby. - Let's get it going. - Ow! - Ooh, yeah. Hello there, gorgeous. Hi. You don't miss it, do you? Sometimes. Do I have to worry about you fighting again? If there's one thing that I learned from all this, it's that I'm a lover, not a fighter. Hey, where's Diego? Diego! - I don't know where that guy is. - Hey, there he is, look. Look at our boy dancing with that fine lady. - Whoo! - Ow! # So much, so much, so much to say # # Being with you takes me away # # So much, so much, so much I wanna do. # # You say you know just who I am # # But you can't imagine # # What waits for you across the line # # You thought you had me # # But I'm still here standing # # And I'm tired of backing down # # And I'm here now feeling the pain # # Of a thousand hearts # # Been to hell and back again # # I won't take this # # You try so hard to bring me down # # Can't break the broken # # You still don't seem to understand # # It's your turn to see just # # How it feels to... # By BackFire
