 

                        First movement YAU MUK-YAN Tom Lee Piano. I'm here to tune the piano. I' m busy today. Come again some other time. Come in I said I' m busy come another day The guy is here. He has a job to do. Don't give him a hard time. - Go away! Go away! - Please come in. The piano is upstairs Now be good and stop crying Hush. Stop crying. Please stop. Will you stay? You folks are coming back the day after tomorrow I'll look bad if I stay on here. Don't you agree? But I already told them. They all know about you. You have to come up with a better excuse if you're trying to dump me. Don't be silly. Be good. Let me get you a glass of water. Have some water But you don't have any money I'm used to it. I won't die. Now be good, go inside and wash your face. You're looking to slip away No, I won't. Promise. Now, go on Go on, wash your face Oh...I thought you were catching a cab I got in, felt my pocket and it ain't deep And all that time... she's still crying. Damn! My Sunkist suitcase is on its last leg. You go around with these masking tapes? That's cool Are you a part-time burglar? I wish I were Damn! I left my underwear inside her dryer. It's my own fault I was packing my books and I forget all about it. Yeah. What more do you want? You know, one should never have... too many unnecessary things. Throw them out whenever you can. You can always buy them again when you have the money So you are also literate I'm a writer What? You don't believe me? "Love in an Orange Box" Yau Muk-Yan (Nomad) My nom de plume My real name's a major embarrassment: Yau Wing-Fu Mine's Chan Kar-Fu Your name's also Fu? Now are you impressed? There're several more inside here They haven't been printed out yet. But it won't be long. This is your trick to pick up chicks? Me? Pick up chicks? Man, you don't know me. I'm getting off Look! A betting centre! Come with me I thought you were broke All the more reason to make a bet Stupid! So, what have you got for race 3? How would I know? You never played the ponies? Great. Let me have $20! It's only $20 Beginner's luck. You're a winner for sure. Come on! Give it here! Let me rub off some of that luck. Hurry up This one! $20! Keep an eye on my suitcase, will you? Pass him, pass him, pass him! Right on! Really? A winner by a mile. It's beautiful. Are there any left? What? Noodles Winning makes me extra hungry No more, that's it Let's go downstairs and get our money Dinner's on me You go ahead. I want to watch some TV. What if I disappear with all the money? Then I chuck your stuff Take it easy. I'll do the cleaning when I come back. Big space. You live here all by yourself? It's really nice So. We won $1,654 It's $800 for me and $800 for you. The rest already went into our stomachs Still some there What are you doing with all these paper underwear? I move around You don't expect me to wash underwear, do you? I want to take a shower Don't worry, I'm not going to look. I'd rather you go first All right, all right Let me make just one more phone call, Okay. I can never... get hold of these guys Page them - Hey - So? Take it easy Come on, relax! I'm not one of your chicks Don't waste your charm on me Sleep with you? No! Sleep here? Yes! Let me stay one night please? Second movement: MOK MAN-YEE You're early today No work today Yesterday was my last day Why did you refuse to keep the key? Oh don't bother First I'll lose it second I don't live here Oh really? So you don't live here? There aren't many left but still have some principles. Did you see someone move in just now? Yeah. Monopolizing the elevator. A real nuisance. Check out the crimson sky Yeah, it's beautiful It's going to rain. The turf may be soft tomorrow. Aw, shut up! You're driving me nuts! First, a lot of people are still in bed And second, you're playing stinks! Twisted minds come in all kinds and forms. She definitely qualifies for one Listen. She's doing it on purpose She likes it. What can you do? Nothing! You should wake up anyway You have a novel to write don't you? How can? With all these noises... Bitch! Ah ha! How about a woman with a twisted mind? She thinks she's so cool real hot shit. She meets this weirdo in a raincoat from downstairs. The two of them find themselves trapped inside an elevator... I'll call it "Love in an Orange Box" "S & M edition" Good. Now get on with it And quit messing around, okay? This is your key Hey. Small world! I've been paging you. Why didn't you return my call? They disconnected me. I couldn't pay the charges. Miss Leung, please try it Your hand is large and nice. You are a fortunate person. Really? You have strong passions Ah! And a long career line Meaning I'll still be tuning pianos when I'm 100. How's Mr. Yu these days? He's retired He used to tune my piano. We got on quite splendidly. And he said... he wanted his grand daughter to study with me. Is that right? Yes Many high government officials used to study with me. Do you know this tune? It begins like this... That's J.S. Bach romancing his young wife. Altogether he wrote more than 20 of them. This minuet is the most famous Straight-laced Bach writing love songs can you imagine that? Do you play the piano? No I first played this song when I was 7. It's been more than 60 years Look, the injured party is ready to accept an apology and not press charges. What more do you want, buddy? Save it Let me put on my shoes and I'll go down to the station with you. It's up to you. But once it enters my book its final. Criminal vandalism. You're looking at several years in the can. Apologize? No way! Get the car. Let's go to the station. Get the car? What're you talking about? Do you think this is fun? Do you think your're going on a joy ride? Officer, what's going on? Is this any of your business? Bitch Miss, I'm sorry May I apologize to you on behalf of my friend? Is he dumb? No, just stupid Talk to the law and quit ringing my bell My friend just got laid off. He's upset. He'll really be done for if you press charges. How about this? Let me repaint your grille. There's another condition. The tortoise stays there for three months. You bitch! Three months! Let me do it, okay? Please You'll just create more trouble. Go on. Go downstairs and play your ponies. Ponies my foot! That bitch. The moment she comes back. She starts torturing me with those tones. I'm just starting my novel Now all my inspiration is gone! Go take a shower. You smell terrible. I get you into this trouble Don't you think she's better off dead? Close the windows turn on the air-con and you won't hear a thing. Go on go. You're a nuisance. Go. You're the only person in the world who's good to me. Save it for the chicks. My name's Chan Kar-Fu. What's yours? Good morning Uncle Wong. Fu. Is that really you? The night watchman said... two cops went up to your place last night. It's nothing. They're my friends. Friend? Uncle Wong A few days ago a girl moved in, right? I think it's the Sth floor Is that right? Hard luck, my boy. She's right upstairs from you. Stay out of her way. She's dangerous. That day she moved in. I watched her quarrel with the movers. Said she wasn't going to tip them and well she didn't. Said they scratched her piano. Those movers were big guys, yet she wasn't afraid of them or anything. So you see, she's tough and not good for you. But you know that? I just have the right girl for you. Remember Mrs. Cheng from 8A? She has a daughter her personality... and her looks... Some other day, Uncle Wong. I got to go. So what do you say? I have to set up an appointment. Good morning Uncle Wong. Hi! Mrs. Cheng. A quiet evening, isn't it? That bitch! May be she got run over by a car and is now lying in the hospital. You're so mean. You dig her! I what? So there was antagonism in the beginning... You wanted to do each other in but in the middle of it... You read too many cheap fictions. Your brains are turning into Jell-O. People actually buy these books? What can I say? And women actually fall for guys like you. Now what do you say to that? Did I ever send them flowers call them on the phone or pick them up from work. That's what I say this world is a twisted place. Not a bad paint job on the grille, I say. Nice shot I'm going home now to play the piano. If you can't stand my music, stay away. Bye Looks like I'd be looking for another place. Scared? She wants to play but I'm not biting the bait. We'll see. Hey, Fatty The name's Faye as in Faye Wong. Does it matter? I'm looking for a restaurant... That has a good atmosphere and not too expensive. What do you recommend? Sun Chiu Kee Sun Chiu Kee? The one in Causeway Bay It has a fountain a statue of Venus. Magnificent lighting and French toasts are only $18. So? Want to go out with me, huh? Are you gay? Just because I'm not interested in dating you? He's got a nice dick. What? I mean his jacket. It's a Dic-K-N-Y. Sharp eyes you got. You look at other people other people look at you. What is it this time? Don't blame me. It's her. Miss... Try not to take a shower and cook at the same time. People may die It's lucky we didn't douse your apartment it could have been ruined. Now go on upstairs, open the windows and air the apartment. It'll be okay. Air the apartment, understand? It's lucky that I found out in time. At first I thought shit she's going to kill me. That's really taking it a bit far. Miss, can I have you identity card please? How could she get it in all that smoke? You wouldn't even have time to put on your underwear. Stay away from all those people Mr. Chan? I'm Mrs. Cheng from 8A. This is my daughter. Uncle Wong, the watchman said the people in 4B are really nice. Come visit us when you have time. And make yourself at home. It's going to take ages to clean up No, I think this charcoal black looks pretty cool. It stinks Ah, instant noodles. I'm famished! But how are we going to cook them? Let's come down to my place. I don't know you very well What're you talking about? After what we went through? Oh, it's a new jacket. Damn! It's okay. I'll wash it for you. Chan Kar-Fu Mok Man-Yee Third movement: YAU MUK-YAN and MOK MAN-YEE Chan Kar-Fu Chan Kar-Fu Hey, wake up. Don't you have to go to work? Are you ill? Do you have a temperature? Shut up! Want me to call in sick for you? There's a tonsillitis epidemic going on. Let me have a look. You should see a doctor Do you want congee? What kind do you like? You asshole! I'll kill you. Look at you. So violent. The fever has made you demonic. I never saw anything like that. Look People will think it's a hickey I don't know lions are into S & M They're just like you I want to get some cigarettes Why are you so violent? Now you know what noise pollution is. Well? Go! Your piano's wacky like you. No wonder you never sound right. Chan Kar-Fu knows how to tune a piano. Your flatmate? He's a professional. That prig? He's really cute. You just don't know him. He's better than you anyway. At least he has a job. A novelist by profession and a horse gambler by moonlight. I'm awfully busy. Now leave. You're bothering me. I don't want to Your piano it's making eyes at me. Oh really? The piano is feminine in French. That makes it a woman. All women make eyes at me. Don't patronize me. The piano is masculine in French. Je suis tres occupee! Is that French again? Oui. It means I'm awfully busy. I don't have time this evening. Something I say all the time. Well then go on, leave Get lose, go away! Hey relax. Let's do a duet. What is it? Are you so ill that you've lost all appetite? Don't waste food. Why're you so hungry this early? What did you do last night? That's for me to know and you to find out. Picked the quinella for Race 3 paid over $3,000. What injustice! This world is really twisted! Shit. It's guys like us that make guys like you look good so useful and so practical. Which means you won't be looking for a job? I will, after the racing season. In any case you won't be working today, is that right? Give me a break! A lot of struggling artists have patrons. Van Gogh has his brother and I have you. When I become a novelist rich and famous... I'll save you a big room in my mansion on Red Hill Peninsula. You, a novelist? You haven't produced one single page. Nag nag nag. You're becoming more and more like my mother. Nag nag nag! Talk talk talk. You have enough saliva to make tea. By the way that bitch upstairs... asked me out this weekend. That bitch upstairs? Sure. She's the bitch upstairs and you're the tortoise downstairs. I thought you didn't dig her. Not so fast. We're only going out. For how long? I'll call quits when I'm tired. It won't go on all day. I'm asking every time you pick up a new chick how long does the relationship last? Word like "pick up" and "chicks" They don't exist in my lexicon. So, you want to go? No. No? Mok Man-Yee, I kiss you! Yau Muk-Yan watch your mouth! Let us kiss Chan Kar-Fu! Good Chan Kar-Fu, I kiss you! I've lost my voice from all the shouting Got a throaty? No What about cough syrup? No American ginseng? No Chinese flu medicine? No You're so cruel I'm going to pass some of this sore throat on to you Remember me? Moore... Demi Moore! You're so nasty! What? I'm Bruce Wills! A minute ago there was not one customer Look what's happening now That's groupie behavior Have you known him for long? Not much longer than you. Tell me about him. No, better not. I don't want it to go back to him... to make him think I want him. Which means you really want him In any case, the guys I want are all the same Better stay out of harm's way When do you figure... he'll get himself a real job? Would you rather see him carrying a briefcase, hanging his head... and being ordered around? I knew this guy from Form 3 He's in my class and was a lot like Yau. He acted tough skipped classes didn't do his homework. But every time after class... the girls would line to lend him their homework. The next year the guy just quit. I didn't know if he went to another school or what. The girls turned funereal. Even the teacher got a bit depressed losing a favorite punching bag. Do you envy him? Go get some change. The great novelist-to-be... will be needing it You know what? You're beginning to sound like him. No, I can't Of course you don't know me After Cindy ran into you again... at the cafe that morning Hey buddy, it's all over between us I really love Cindy I never loved anyone like I love her And I thought she also loved me But after that morning she went home and cried for two days and nights I think she never loved me I was just an asylum... where she could lick her wounds Why did you treat her so? What's so good about you? You got ban aid? You got panadol? We're done playing and sleeping together. It's time to make a U-turn Can't make a U-turn without a roundabout. May be you've never had the chance to be dumped. But there's a first time to everything Yau Muk-Yan, we're finished! Good-bye Are you looking for him? He's not been back for a few days Come on. That's not him. A few days ago I did the most daring thing I ever did in my life... It's always like this One minute I tell myself to stay clear of that sort the next I throw myself into one The more I want to play smart the harder I fall It's been so many years Yet I still haven't learned Except for one thing. Don't give him the chance to dump you take the initiative yourself. Is there a difference? Wonder how many betting centers there are in Hong Kong? Let's head back Are you not looking for him anymore? I never said I was looking for him I should never have moved in here The first time I laid eyes on him... I knew it. Damn! I'm damned! Was it that morning when he banged on your door? It was that day when I went apartment hunting I looked out from the window and saw him come back from roller-skating He picked up a bottle of mineral water and doused himself And I said to the agent I'll take it. Can I play the piano? He never asked He just sat down and played I've found a job. I start the day after tomorrow. And I've fallen in love with a girl But she wanted to dump me No girl has ever closed a door in my face. Mok Man Yee you're the first. It's okay. I can do it Is the job permanent or temporary? Permanent, I guess Work hard and don't start hollering... Got you. It's something I like going to morning training talking to trainers... writing. It's easy enough. Let me lend you an alarm clock You have to get up early for morning training. I really appreciate your putting me up for such a long time. It's okay - One day when... - Yeah, Red Hill Peninsula Fourth movement: Variations Lingnam Publishing House Just now... A tall man brought it Even the writing isn't right It's supposed to be a novel Close enough The Auditor Lingnam Publishing House Let me find out where he went to school "The X O Pair" written by Chan Kar-Fu He got some nerve And he wanted to be a writer can you believe it? Trash it. You have better things to do, don't you? Are you still here? I'm almost ready to go Bye Friends, are you feeling lonely? My name is Chan Kar-Fu Would you like me to tell you a story? Once upon a time... In a faraway place called Town H... was a very old cathedral. One night, two uninvited guest suddenly appeared. For orphans the only way to improve... their station in life was to study hard. But these two characters... liked to day-dream in class So they failed all their tests. One of them got a big zero. The other got a big cross So one of them became known as... Cross... and the other, Zero It's obviously a children's story Why do you say it's a love story? Can you read? Finish it first I agree he doesn't write very well, but... He doesn't write very well yet you want me to finish it? If I read everything that comes my way I'll be here forever everlasting One good thing... about this writer is that... He doesn't know cliches like forever everlasting Do you mind looking at me when you speak to me? Why do you always keep... your head down? You want something weird I think this one's pretty weird Dear listeners... Do you find your work boring? Would you like some excitement? Why not go to the famous Haunted Ruins to look for gold? Those ruins have to this day scared... exactly 100 people to madness But no wonder. Because invaluable treasures... are known to be buried inside So are there really gold in the Haunted Ruins? The answer may be a riddle So, if you're interested... to be the 101 ... Hey Mr. Mask Who called me? Who is it? Who called me just now? Who is it? Hey, Mr. Mask you're a dollar short What did you say? I asked you what did you say Cross? Zero? Did you make this costume yourself? Yours not so bad Hey, I'm here first But I opened the lock I'm here. Come in. What? - There... - What? Cockroaches! You need more than a flash light going out in the evening. Let's get out of here. I don't see any jewelry here. lf there was, it's all gone Wait Wow, gold! We're rich! Bingo! Congratulations! Finally, someone is able to claim my gold Now you can really live happily... ever after. Take it. Go on. Don't be afraid. Take it all You so lucky what's your hurry? I told you there's no such thing as a free lunch For all the gold that I've given you I ask a small favor in return It's not too much to ask isn't it? See that music box? Take it, find this person... And say it to her for me " I love you Mok Man-Yee" Don't fail me! Because if you do I'll be on your heels to the end of the world. So we're done playing Santo Claus Now what do we do with this? It's a gift for you So it's up to you I think you also have a share in it Be my guest, keep it Not really. You be my guest. It looks better on you. No. You should have it No. I don't want it! No. I mean... We spent all his gold. We should do something for him in return. He shouldn't ask people to say... such corny things for him My god. So many Mok Man-Yee in Town H It'll take forever calling everyone of them I think there're only addresses here no telephone numbers You don't say Just pick one at random Mouth it and call it quits That's right He's back again! Just kidding Let's look for them one by one, okay? You don't need to scare people all the time, do you? Poor chivalrous duo... The first time they went out into world and they met such fate. Tutu, I beg you. My boy has been crying all night and I didn't sleep a wink. This really isn't a good time for me... to read stupid stories But love stories are always stupid. Do you think our readers... will fall for this? Some stupid spook trying every way... to get those two characters... To find that... Mok Man-Yee Maybe I am out of touch with love and romance these days But to me the greatest love story will always be... Dickens' " A Tale of Two Cities" Well, everyone has his or her way to express. I think this Chan Kar-Fu... is rather like Dickens in " A Tale of Two Cities" maybe he's using an indirect way to express his feelings for a certain individual. All right I'll finish it But promise me one thing Don't ever tell me again it's "A Tale of Two Cities" Is there a Miss Mok Man-Yee here? That's me The owner of this music box... wishes to tell you " I love you" Is he rich? Go! Go! Go! That's me I don't think so The person we're looking for is a woman I was a woman but now I'm a man. You have a problem with that? We'll never find her Where on earth is... the real Mok Man-Yee? That guy. He's really twisted He played cool when he was alive Now that he's dead, he put the load on us Come to think of it " I love you" is really corny Imagine. A big man... Braving embarrassment to say it and getting no response whatsoever How terribly humiliating Obviously those three words are... invented for men What about the women? If you love a man what do you say to him? She says nothing, she waits. She lets the guy do the talking. Then she says hmm, me too. That's it. Hey, do you remember this place? This song sounds familiar Haven't we heard it somewhere before? Over there! We got it! We got it! Mok Man-Yee is my aunt When I was young, she used to play me a song. In fact it's the same song over and over again. She never got married It looks like all these years, she was waiting for someone. When I started making music myself she was already quite old. Seeing that she's waited so many years I wrote a song... and put the telephone number into the lyrics lf they are really meant for each other then may be... Where's your aunt now? She's passed on Didn't even wait for us My aunt's one no longer works I love you Mok Man-Yee I've known it all the time I'm going Me too Here in this world every second there's out there... waiting to say those Which explains why florists do such good business Right! I know a business... that's perfect for the two of us. Cross and Zero. Us? L-O-V-E Express A Mr. Romeo... wishes to tell you He loves you very much! Get out of here! She's marrying me tomorrow! Mr. Casanova... sends us to tell you He's madly in love with you! Go to hell! How gentle is the rain that falls softly on the meadow birds high up on the trees serenade the clouds with their melody. Oh, see their beyond the hills the bright colors of the rainbow. Some magic from above made this day for us just to fall in love. You hold me in your arms and say once again you love me and if your love is true everything will be just as wonderful. Now, I belong to you from this day until forever just love me tenderly and I'll give to you every part of me. Oh, don't ever make me cry through long lonely night without love? Be always true to me keep this day in your heart eternally You hold me in your arms and say once again you love me and if your love is true everything will be just as wonderful. I want to tell you... You don't have to. I've know it all along. Some people find their Mok Man-Yees But some people don't That's the way it is It reads much better after you've edited it Are you not going home yet? You're unbelievable You've resigned and still you work so hard. I don't want my successor to handle my mess Do they pay you well over there? That's not the issue That's right The people here are too conservative A smart woman like... you should go outside and stretch your wings You know, I really hate to see you go I think everyone here will miss you So maybe some other time... Yes, I hope I can have the chance... to work with you again. All right then. Good luck with your work I'm going It's raining outside It's okay. My car is parked... I know I always see you getting your car in the rain. I have an extra umbrella. Please take it. All right. Don't stay up too late. So, what's up? Big-time writer? What's up? How did you do it? You never said you loved her What good would it do? I just think... it's plain stupid that you didn't Let's just say we travel on different roads Well you may want... to go on forever on your road I'm moving on I'm moving This time I'll be on my own No harm learning to pay my own rent. Moving to Chai Wan It's not too far away from Red Hill Peninsula " A Tale of Two Cities" No promise off-air play. Luck prevails somewhere someone find his Mok Man-Yee. Others just pursue in vain. This is life except from "The X O Pair" by Chan Kar-Fu
