 

                        1 I said, "Mother, I'm a grown man. "You can't tell me how to live my life." She said I'm still her child and as long as I live under her roof, I'll abide by her rules. I've heard those words all my life. I said, "Mother, I pay half the bills around here. "I buy the groceries and the cable and most of your clothing. "I can't believe that doesn't entitle me to an equal vote at the very least." She said I eat all the groceries and watch all the TV. And that she hates the clothes I buy, which is a total crock since I notice every time she goes out, she's wearing something that I bought. I said, "Mother, I'm not asking for the Hope Diamond. "I just want the house to myself for one evening. "I wanna cook and I wanna invite an old army friend over for dinner. "Is that so terrible? Is that so much to ask?" She said, "No, no, no. "Not under my roof. Not while I'm alive." That's when it happened. That's when I snapped. I'm not ashamed, though. I'm not even sorry. See, I see now that my whole life has pointed to this moment and I'm so grateful for that. See, a moment of clarity is the rarest gift we're given on this planet. I just wish there hadn't been so much blood. I can't post this. The moment you come into view Chances are you think that I'm your Valentine I'm leaving now! Wallet, wallet. Wallet. What an effing day I've had. It started right away when I got caught behind that freight train again on the highway. I thought it would never end. So by the time I got to the store, I was 10 minutes late, which isn't that big of a deal except when Johnny T. Asshole's the shift manager. I mean, seriously, if it's such a tragedy that I'm 10 minutes late, why are you keeping me off the floor for another 15 minutes just for a stupid lecture? I knew a thousand assholes like him in the army, always gotta show you who's boss. So, instead of working the register like I'm supposed to, he has me bagging for Consuela like I'm one of those stupid retards they keep hiring. I... It's just embarrassing. And Consuela, she can barely speak English, but that doesn't stop her from telling me how to do my effing job. Like I don't know how to bag a carton of eggs, for goodness' sake! You know what? I'm not gonna let them ruin things and spoil my mood. I brought home a nice piece of fish and some wine. I'm gonna make myself a glorious meal 'cause that's what I deserve. Chances are 'Cause I wear a silly grin The moment you come into view Chances are you think that I'm in love with you Oh, shit. It's fine. Pick up the... Pick up the phone, make the call. Just make the call. Just call him. Hello, Edward? It's Peter. I know, man, it's been too long. It's... It's great to hear your voice. There has been a change of circumstances around here and I... I just... I just wanna... I'd just love to have you over for dinner. You know, no big deal. Just a nice meal and some conversation and... No, you can't bring anything. Just yourself. I swear, if you try to bring something, I will kick your ass. I just want you to come over for a nice, well-cooked meal for once in your life. Will you do that for me, please? That's too bossy. Hello, Edward? It's Peter Snowden. Hello, Edward? Hello, Edward. It's Peter Snowden. I know, it's been too long. Yeah, I miss you, too, man. Fuck! There's been a change in circumstances around here and I would just love to have you over for dinner. Hello? Yeah, may I speak with Edward, please? It's Peter Snowden. Well, hello, Gloria. How are you? I didn't recognize your voice. You sound wonderful. How are you? How are the children? I'm sure they're sprouting up like weeds. Yeah. Hey, may I speak with Edward, please? I promise I won't steal him from you. I just want to... Just want him for a moment. Oh. That's too bad. Um... Can you tell him I called? Will you give him that message? Yeah, he can reach me here. Same number. Yeah, thank you very much, Gloria. Bye. I know she won't tell him I called. I'm not stupid, okay? That woman is psychotic, I swear. She's been pulling this shit as long as I've known Edward. Deleting my messages, tearing up my letters. You know that's not even legal, right? The woman belongs in a psych ward. When Edward and I first met in the army, he'd talk about her and say the most awful things. I mean, this was like 18 years ago or whatever, way before they were even married. And I would say, "Edward, that can't possibly be true." But now that I know her myself, I can see that he was telling nothing but the truth. Anyway, I'm not worried. I'm not worried. Man, when I talk to him in person, I'm sure he'll come. There's no reason why he shouldn't, now that my circumstances have changed. Man, this is gonna be so great. I don't know what to cook yet. There's plenty of time for that. He probably can't come until, like, Friday at the very earliest. He likes steak, but I want to do something special, something extraordinary to mark a new beginning. Man, my mind is just spinning. Anyway, the point of all this is that it's finally gonna happen. And if Gloria thinks she can stop me, that old bitch doesn't know who she's dealing with. Fuck. Lillian, you vain old woman. Can't afford HBO, but we can afford this. Hello? Oh, hello, Vicki. I'm fine. How are you? Uh, she's not here. I think she went shopping or something. I don't know. She didn't say. You should see what she bought today. It just came in the mail. It's this ridiculous makeup mirror. Probably cost over $100 or something. Maybe you should come and live with her for a while. Yeah, I know you're married, Vicki. How is Charlie Sphincter doing, anyway? Well, you're the one who gave it to him. You are, too. Anyway, it's the perfect name for him and you know it. No, I'm not working today. No, I'm not gonna get fired. I was sick that one time. What did you want me to do? Get up from my deathbed? God! I don't even wanna talk to you right now. That's right, Mother! Smoking in the house! I'm sorry it's not even 5:00 yet, Mother. I'm breaking all the rules. Look, I'm not even dressed yet. And the police haven't come to arrest me. Turns out there's not a law that says you have to get up every morning at 7:00, put on your clothes and your makeup and your costume jewelry. Whoever would have guessed that? It is my day off and I'm trying to relax. Not that it's possible around here with the doorbells and the telephones ringing every 15 seconds. God, what a fucking zoo. Hey, Edward. Fuck. Hey, Edward! It's Peter Snowden. Hey, no big deal, man. Just wanted to catch up. Uh... Will you call me, please? You know the number. So listen, Edward... I know you're probably never gonna get this message, but whatever, right? If through some miracle of God you actually hear these words, I just wanted to tell you how much I miss our conversations. You hear that, Gloria? Our conversations! I swear, it's like there's some conspiracy that says I can't be friends with another man. I mean, is there some sort of friendship law I'm not aware of? If so, illuminate me! Shit, I hate talking to this fucking machine. Sorry, sorry. I know you hate it when I use that language. I'm getting better, actually. Mother says so. Edward, just give me a call. Just please... Just give me a call. Please? Trout in walnut sauce. Love that. Roast sherry duck. Hmm. I don't know. Shit! This should be fun. All right, hang on! Okay, here we go. Ready? Oh, look! Nice stationery. "My dearest Lillian, "grace and peace to you from the Lord, our Father." She sounds like Paul's letter to the Ephesians. "I trust my words find you in good health. "You are my oldest friend and I do miss you so. "It has been beastly hot here in Mobile as I'm sure you remember. "Zachariah and Maybelline "are expecting their first grandbaby next spring, "which will make me a grandmama for the very first time, "a development about which I have decidedly mixed feelings." I bet she does. "James and I have discussed your dilemma "and feel Peter's words and expectations are beyond the pale of a Christian household. "He is a confused and tortured young man, "and while the temptation to succumb to your more tender instincts "may be great, you must hold steadfast "to your knowledge of the Lord's Word. "Remember what Jesus said in the Gospel of Matthew. "'Anyone who loves his son more than me "'is not worthy of me.' "I know in my heart that eternal damnation "is not the fate of your most cherished boy. "We must pray that someday soon he will meet a Christian woman "of unfailing compassion and grace. "Until that day, please know you are in my thoughts and prayers "and that I remain your most loyal friend, "Charlene Carothers." "Dear Charlene, "please excuse this typewritten missive. "Adjustments to my medications have worsened my tremors "to the point where my handwriting is unreadable." "You should know that Peter takes extremely good care of me. "Indeed... Wisdom... "Please entirely disregard the content of my last letter. "Choices... Recently of Peter's friend Edward... "Peter cooked us a delicious meal "of grilled trout in walnut sauce. "I hope you can see for yourself... "Love surpasses all understanding, as you well know. "Until then, I'll expect you to trust my judgment. "Sincerely, your friend, Lillian." Please, please, God, let him pick up. Hello? Edward? Is that really you? It's Peter. Peter Snowden. I've missed you so badly! I wasn't sure we'd ever speak again. No, I've been calling you for days. Gloria's been blocking my calls. Are you free to speak now? Can... Can you talk? Okay, listen, I have something to tell you. Mother has moved away. It's true. We have the place all to ourselves, just like we talked about. Yeah, so I want you to come over to celebrate. I wanna... I wanna cook you something special. You can? You can come over? When? Edward's coming next Friday. That really doesn't give me much time. I'm either gonna do that new trout recipe or maybe the roast duck. I haven't decided yet. Your comments are very welcome. I believe in God the Father. It's awfully easy to think sometimes that He's not listening. Don't you ever feel that way? But that's what makes this night so special, to know that He is listening and that He does care about me and that He does love me. I mean, it's just breathtaking. But I can't just sit here, though! Oh! When I think about this house and everything that needs to get done, Lord help me. I know what I need to do. Look, Mother. It's Nana's quilt. You always loved this one. Hello, Vicki? It's Peter. Yeah, I know, I got a new cell phone. Of course she knows about it. It's her idea, practically. She needs to reach me at work sometimes. Good Lord, of course we can afford it. We're not paupers, you know. I assume Jenny's off to school? I did call you right back. No, I did not say immediately. Oh, please, I did not. Look, Vicki, I said I'd call you back and I did. Man, you're so contentious! Anyway, yeah, listen, I have some exciting news. Yeah, we're gonna redecorate. Yeah, everything! Yeah, I'm serious. It's about time, don't you think? This place hasn't been touched since Daddy left. How long ago was that, 30 years? I swear I look at this place sometimes, it's like a mausoleum. I'm just gonna back up a truck and gut it like a fish. Like Daddy used to do on that pontoon boat, remember? Remember how he used to disembowel those catfish? Well, that's what I'm gonna do to this place. I swear I'm just gonna disembowel it. Of course she knows about this. Look, she's very amenable to my ideas, you know, Vicki. You talk about her like she's some kind of monster. She's really not. She's actually quite reasonable. She has been lately, anyway. Yeah, new carpeting. New paint. Definitely new draperies. I don't know how much that'll cost. Not that much, probably. Who cares anyway? We'll just put it on the MasterCard. We should have started this 10 years ago when we got that settlement money! Could have done a little bit at a time, like I said. Or we could have hired somebody. Instead I'm faced with this huge fucking job all by myself. What the hell do you care? It's not like you ever entertain. You'd be content to live in this dusty old mausoleum 'til the Second Coming of the Lord. So, I'm stuck doing everything myself, as usual! Edward will come to this filthy, miserable hovel and I'll just be humiliated. You'd love that, wouldn't you? Don't even try to deny it. Amen. Good Lord, can't I get a moment's peace? Hello? Oh. Hello, Mrs. Carothers. Mrs. Carothers, you know Mother would never let me call you Charlene. That would be disrespectful. No, I'm sorry, she's... She's not here. She's, um... She's playing bridge this afternoon with her friends at the church. 'Course I'm sure. Why, where else would she be? No, no, that was last year. They... They changed the schedule this year. Anyway, how are you? Uh-huh. Yeah, how's the weather in Mobile? Oh, I'm fine, Mrs. Carothers, thank you for asking. We're just... We're just doing a little remodeling around here, which is quite a bit of work, as you well know. So much to be done. Out with the old, though, isn't that what they say? Yeah, I'll tell her you called. I'll give her that message. Hey, you know what? You should write her one of your letters. You know how much she loves to get your letters. My first thought was to replace the carpeting, but I think I'll just leave that be. I'm gonna paint Mother's room and this, the dining room, but there is still just so much to be done. But I have to be realistic. Edward's gonna be here in a few days and I just can't have the house be in a state of utter chaos. I just... I just can't. I have to be done by Thursday at the very latest so I can begin preparations for our meal. I think I've settled on the trout recipe, but I still haven't decided yet on the other courses. And believe it or not, I haven't even thought about dessert! I know! It's just ridiculous! Anyway, the Good Lord will take my hand. He always does. In the meantime, your comments are very welcome. I'll call you Adam, and I'll call you Eve. Tropical fish, they've been Edward's favorite since he was a little boy. They were his abiding passion. But he doesn't have any of his own because Gloria says they're too expensive for a young family. So, look what I got! I don't care about the money. I don't care about that at all. I want this to be Edward's sanctuary. Aren't they beautiful? The pretty one is Eve and the other one is Adam. He just left his wife. Isn't it romantic? It's like Titanic, only the lovers have survived the catastrophe and learned to live together forever underwater. No one can stand between them now or tear them apart. They'll be happy for the rest of their lives. Shit! Fuck anus! I know it's in here somewhere! Where the hell have you put it? This is fucking ridiculous! Edward and I both enjoy a nice espresso after dinner. We have a beautiful machine here for that, but Mother, in one of her spiteful moods, has hidden it somewhere. She is a bitter, spiteful old woman! Hello? Yeah, I would like to buy your espresso machine. B25-8261. Yes, but before I order, I just need to know something for certain. If I order it today, will it be here by Friday? I don't care about how much that costs. That doesn't matter to me. Okay, great! Yes, that will be perfect! Let me give you my credit card number. It's a perfectly good number. Just try it again. Okay, fine, whatever! Just... Thanks for nothing. It's a fucking conspiracy. Yes, yeah, yeah, I did... I did make those purchases, but can't you just increase my limit? No, this is... This is an emergency. I mean, don't you care about your customers? I mean, what am I supposed to do? No, no, I have company coming on Friday. Don't you understand? Are you retarded? No, I can't possibly wait until next month. Do you wanna ruin everything? Fine! This isn't over yet. I know all your hiding places. It occurs to me that I haven't told you much about Edward. Here's a picture. We've known each other almost 18 years. Since basic training. Before that, really. Our recruiter sent us a ride to the train station. We rode down together. We hit it off right away. The army wasn't easy, I'll tell you that. They don't want you there, there's a thousand things they can do to you. Finally, it just... It just got too much, though, and I came on home. Edward re-enlisted. We drifted apart. Anyway, finally, we ran into each other again a couple years ago. And, it was... It was a funny occasion, actually, because it was Valentine's Day. I was at the library returning some books for Mother, and he was there for story time with his kids. We talked and talked, and it was like we'd never been apart. He works downtown, so sometimes I'd take the train down and we'd just hang out together in the city. Those were wonderful times. Of course, I couldn't bring him back here and he couldn't bring me to his house either, so we had to skulk around like bandits. Anyway, he's a wonderful man. My best friend, for sure. We kind of had a... We had a little misunderstanding a while back, and that's why... That's why I need... That's why I need to get him back here. You know, so we can just get that all behind us. There is nothing I wouldn't do for that man. And I know he feels the same way, too. I don't know what you want from me, Vicki, I really don't. I have given her your messages repeatedly. Maybe she's angry with you. I mean, you two have an argument or something? Well, what have you said to her recently? Anything that could be misinterpreted? It could be any little thing. You know, anything at all. Well, you never should've said that. Yeah, well, you know how she is. She probably took it the wrong way. I don't know, I mean... She has been acting a little depressed lately. You know what I've been thinking? Maybe she should go down to Mobile to visit Mrs. Carothers. That'd be nice. You know what? You would be the absolute hero if you were to send her the money for that. But you should send it to me, not to her. That'd make it a nice surprise. Uh... Well, I guess Denver would be all right. Are you sure Charlie Sphincter wants another houseguest? Mother didn't feel very welcome last time. Well, that's what she said. Well, just... Just send... Just send... Just send the money. We'll figure it out. We'll see where she wants to go. Hello? No, she's not here. Can I take a message? Oh. Oh, hello, Mrs. Beasley. So, she didn't show up at bridge? Really? Uh, wait a minute, of course not. What was I thinking? She... She hasn't been feeling too well. No. No, you don't need to put her on the prayer request. She'll be back on her feet in no time. Yeah. You know what, I... I misspoke about that. She is here, but she's resting. No, I'd rather you didn't do that, Mrs. Beasley. She might be contagious and Mother would just be mortified if you were to catch something, so... No, no, please don't, Mrs. Beasley. I know that's exactly how Mother would feel. Hey, listen, I gotta go. Gotta go. Shit! There have been so many times, Lord, when I thought that you had forgotten me or abandoned me. I know now that you were preparing me. Preparing me for this precise moment in time when all my prayers would be answered. Strengthen my faith, Lord, and Edward's faith, too, as we step forward together in your glorious plan. In Jesus' precious name, amen. This is it. The big day. I've already been grocery shopping. I know I could've gone yesterday, but I wanted everything to be just as fresh as it could be. I got some flowers for the table, too. Gerber daisies, which I love. They're expensive, though. My goodness. I haven't decided yet what I'm gonna wear. Unfortunately, my closet is a barren wasteland. I know, I know, I should've gone shopping, but with one thing and another, I just didn't get the chance. You know what, it really doesn't matter. Edward is notoriously oblivious to such considerations. I'm actually a little nervous. Isn't that funny? I know I shouldn't be, but it's just been so long since we've seen each other. Luckily, I still have lots to do around here, so I can't get too worked up. Not enough time. I've gotta clean up around here and then set a nice table, but most importantly, I've gotta get started in the kitchen. My walnut marinade, after all, will not prepare itself. All my life Even before we ever met I have loved you All my life Vicki, I've told you, she doesn't wanna talk to you. Well, did you send the money? Well, why not? She's never gonna forgive you unless you do something. Because it's supposed to be a surprise. I'm gonna buy her the ticket and then tell her it was from you. God, Vicki, we've been through all this. She's in her bedroom reading. No, I will not. She doesn't wanna talk to you. She told me that explicitly. Yeah, well, you go right ahead. You do that. She probably won't be here when you get here, though. I'm gonna put her on a plane myself. I am, too. Yes, I do have the money for that. I do. Well, that's none of your business. You don't care about her. You never did. You call her once a week like you're doing her some big favor, like she should be grateful to hear the sound of your voice. Well, guess what, Vicki. She doesn't care about you anymore. She's tired of your nonsense. Okay. Here we go. Hello, Adam. Hello, Eve. You guys ready for a special evening? Time to get dressed. Edward! Hello? Mrs. Beasley, I told you she can't come to the phone! What is the matter with you? When she wants to speak with you, she will call you. Is that so difficult to understand? Well, it is 7145 and he's not here yet. I'm sure he just got delayed, though. Luckily, I haven't put the trout in the oven yet. I'm surprised he hasn't called. Gloria probably took his phone again. She does that sometimes. You know, I'm sure that's what's happened. He may have gotten car trouble or something of that nature. Or maybe he got lost. I did give him the address, but these cul-de-sacs can be confusing. You know what, I probably... I probably should've picked him up or met him somewhere. This is my fault. I'm gonna apologize to him the moment he gets here. How could I be so stupid? What? Nope, he's not here. I'm gonna call him. Hello? Yes, may I speak with Edward, please? It's Mr. Jones. Look, just put him on the phone, please. This is a matter of the utmost urgency. No, no, I can't tell you what it's regarding. It's a private matter. No, no, I need to speak with him now. Well, that's none of your business. I... I did... I did tell you my name. I did, too. Will you just put him on the line, please? I can tell he's there. Listen to me, do you wanna get sued? Do you? 'Cause that's what's gonna happen if you don't put him on the line immediately! Yes, okay, fine. Yes, it's Peter. Not that it's any of your business, Gloria. Look, look. Look, I'm calling for Edward. Look, why... Why do you have to be this way, Gloria? Why? Look, I have never hurt you once in my life. Never once. Look, Edward and I have an appointment this evening and... And I just... I just need to speak with him. Is that so terrible? What do you mean he's not coming? He didn't say that. No, he would never say that. You're a liar. You're a liar and you're gonna go to hell! You're gonna go to hell and you're gonna rot! Gloria, you better put him on the line. You better put him on the line or there are gonna be consequences! There are gonna be consequences you can't possibly imagine. If you think I am gonna let you stand in the way of our friendship, you are very much mistaken! And you have opened up Pandora's box and you are gonna regret this day for the rest of your life! If you think I've come all this way only to turn back empty-handed, you are unimaginably naive! I know now what I have to do. This is just a temporary setback. It's not even that, really, it's a... It's an opportunity. It's an opportunity to show Edward how it feels to be loved beyond all earthly considerations. To be embraced by a love that knows no boundaries. Whether we're together in this world or the next, we will be together. Hello? Slow down, slow down, Vicki. I just woke up. Just... Just give me a second. Yeah? What? No, no, she's not here. I told you that. I put her on a plane. I did. I sent her to Mobile. What? What are you... What are you talking about? Who told you that? What channel? Police are investigating this morning after the body of an elderly African-American woman was found in the northwest suburban forest preserve. Police are expected to release an official statement later this afternoon. The case is being treated as a homicide. I'm Heather Storm for Channel 12 News. The benefits of laughter. It's no secret that laughter makes you smile. I'm gonna... I'm gonna have to call you back. ...levels of chemicals that have a positive effect... Pastor Barrons, you're the third person to call, and I can assure you everything here is just fine. Mother has been feeling a little under the weather, so I sent her to Mobile to visit her dear friend, Mrs. Carothers. No, I... I spoke to her just last night. She's having a marvelous time. She thanked me again and again for... For buying her a ticket. No. Mrs. Carothers, look, I did not... I did not tell the pastor that. I said that Mother was visiting friends in Mobile and he must have presumed that I meant you. She left on Thursday. Well, that's none of your business. She does have other friends, you know? Lots of other friends. No, I think she may be upset with you, Mrs. Carothers, if you wanna know the truth. Well, what did you say in that letter you wrote? Huh? I think you must have said something terrible. Hello? Hello, Gloria? It's Peter Snowden. Yes, I'm... I'm calling to apologize. My words and behavior last night were inexcusable and I'm deeply sorry. Yes, you have every right to feel that way, Gloria. You... You certainly do. I... I don't blame you for feeling that way. I don't blame you at all. Yeah, I'm not gonna make excuses. Um, I'm a... I'm an emotional person, and I let my temper get the best of me. But I wanted to assure you that this will... This will never happen again. No. No, it won't. Um... It'll never happen again because... I'm moving away. Yes, that's what I said, I'm... I'm moving away. Um... I know you don't want Edward to speak with me and I don't blame you for that at all. I just hope that you will extend my apology to him as well. God bless you both. It could never have been any other way. I can see that plainly now. We struggle mightily against God's will for our lives, but ultimately we must succumb. And isn't it funny how good that feels? I don't know where we'll end up ultimately. Um, someplace out West, I imagine. We'll drive and drive until we find what we're looking for. I can see it quite clearly, so we'll know it when we get there. I can see it right here. We'll have a little house with a garden and we'll be miles away from our nearest neighbor, and we'll go into town once a week, pick up our mail, and stock up on groceries, and we'll wear rugged boots and cowboy hats. It seems so obvious now. I don't know why I never thought of it before. I've been too much the good son, I suppose, looking after Mother. Oh, Well. I knew it. Edward, I knew you'd call. I knew you'd call. Listen. Listen. Listen, we have so much to... No, just hold on. Hold on. My circumstances have changed again and I need to leave town, but... No, no, just listen. I want you... I want you to come with, okay? I'm gonna pick you up in the morning and we're gonna hit the road like Thelma and Louise. Can you imagine the fun we'll have? We'll wind down the window and we'll sing into the wind and we'll... We'll stop at honky-tonks for lunch and for dinner. And we'll take turns driving and we'll go west, west, west until we find the place where we belong. A place where nobody knows us and nobody cares and where we can just be together. Just you and me. Just be... lam, lam listening. I am... I always listen to you. I... Edward, why would you... Edward, don't say... Don't say that. Edward? Edward? "Dear Edward, "by the time you read this, I will be dead. "I apologize sincerely if my recent behavior "has been an inconvenience to you and your family. "That was never my intention, "but ours has never been an easy relationship. "I n the weeks to come, you may read about me in the newspaper. "Events have unfolded unexpectedly. "I pray that you won't judge me too harshly. "Please know that I have made every effort to protect your privacy. "Our relationship has been precious to me. "More precious than you can possibly know. "This is not the resolution I would've chosen for our friendship, "but in the words of the hymn, Farther along we'll know more about it. Farther along we'll understand why.' "I have no regrets "and wish only the best for you and your family. "Ours is a sovereign Lord "and it is not always our right or our privilege "to discern His purpose. "Edward, "until we meet again in the presence of our Lord Jesus, "I bid you farewell." Who's there? Peter, it's Robert Beasley. Robert Beasley from church. Oh, uh... What do you want? My mother sent me over. She's worried about Lillian. I said I'd check in on her. She's not here. Can I come in for a minute? I... I said she's not here. What do you want? Can I have a glass of water? No. Can you just go away? Hey. Hey! What are you doing? I need a glass of water! You can't just come in here! I'm not leaving 'til I see Lillian! - I told you she's not here! - I know that's not true, Peter. Lillian! Are you crazy? You're gonna freak out the neighbors! God have mercy on your soul. What did you say? My brother Bobby died in a car accident in 1981. I was six years old. On the day of the funeral, one of my dress shoes went missing and Mother was in a terrible uproar. Vicki eventually found it under the porch stairs outside. Mother says I hid it there on purpose. And I suppose I probably did. I thought if we didn't get to the funeral, he wouldn't really be dead. Bobby was a very special boy, and Mother did the best she could under the circumstances. I never... I never hated her for what she'd say to me. I just wanted her to be happy. So, I joined the army and I looked so handsome in my uniform. Everybody said so. And then I met Edward and I thought, "She'll love this boy. "I mean, she will. "They'll be the best of friends." I believed that sincerely. And now I've lost them both. Hello, Vicki. No. She's not here. It's awfully late. Yeah. Yeah, I... I understand, Vicki. I think you should... I think you should call the police if that's how you feel. Can I... Can I tell you something before we hang up? I wanted to tell you how much Mother loved you. I'm sure I've said things to the contrary in the last couple of weeks, but they're untrue. She loved you very much. No, no, no, Vicki. Vicki, no. It's all right, it's all right. Yeah, I love you, too. Nothing can ever change that. Okay. Bye, Vicki. Don't worry, it's not loaded. No one's gonna get hurt. Well, almost no one. I imagine they'll burst through the house, guns drawn. I am an armed and dangerous criminal, after all. This will be my final video. I wanted to thank you all for watching. I've been reading your comments and some of you have been very kind. Some unkind words have been spoken also. Nothing I haven't heard before, of course. I don't know why people say such things. It makes them feel a little better for a while, I suppose. It doesn't matter to me anymore. I know where I'm going. They're finally here. Yep. They see me. They see the gun. Yep. I'm out of time. This is it. Before I go, I want you to promise me something. I want you to promise me that you will hug your babies. Hug them just as tight as you can and whisper in their ear. Whisper in their ear that you love them and that you'll always love them and that nothing could ever, ever stop that. They're breaking through the door. They're coming through the house. Remember what I said. Do it today. Do it right now 'cause you never know what's gonna happen. You never, ever know what's gonna happen. And remember the Book of Revelation, Chapter 22. "He who testifies to these things "says, 'Yes, I am coming soon."' Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Come.
