 

                        A Vinko Brean film WILL NOT STOP THERE CROATIA 2008 Lucky for me, I'm not a Croat or a Serb, I'm a Gypsy. A man of the world. Croats and Serbs are way too complicated. They pull you into their stories and you can barely get out. Where should I start this one? It's best from the beginning. Here it goes. Do you have some domestic porn? From all the republics and provinces of the former Yugoslavia. These are Serbian, Slovenian, Bosnian, Croatian. Take your pick. Little Red Riding Hood I want to know about this actress. Little Red Riding Hood. I had two of her movies but I sold them. How can I find her? It doesn't say where this was produced. Ask the Wolf. Who? The Wolf from Little Red Riding Hood. That's me. In that movie I had a lot of hard scenes with her. That's how it is in this business. Come on, hunter, if you've got a gun. Only the people who were involved in making these movies know that the Wolf from Little Red Riding Hood is really uro from Pitomaca. My life could've been peaceful. It would've been, had he not come to see me that day. Hello. Does uro Hana live here? That's him over there. Hello. Do you know this woman? Hey, hide that! Hide it! A 100 times I've said not to come to my house. But now that you're here, tell me, how big's it? How big's what? Your IQ, what do you mean what! How big's your thing! If it's shorter than 30 cm, no way you're gonna get hired. They don't pay me for my youth and good looks, but for my 'onomaly'. It's not that, I'm looking for a fellow actress of yours... Put that away! -...Little Red Riding Hood. Hide that! Hide it! Are you maybe her ex-husband or ex-relative or something like that? I'm not. Do you know her? Well, have you seen the movie? -I have. So, what do you think? Do I know her or what? Could you connect me with her somehow? I don't know where she is. And the people who shoot these movies, could I get in touch with them? Put that away! Put it away! Get in here! If my wife sees that, she'll miscarry and then we're fucked, you and me both, get it? uro, here's your coffee. Make another one. Is that your friend? -No, I'm just... This is my new manager. Great guy. Says he sold out all the concerts in Austria. There will be enough money for a new jacuzzi. I got to take him with me to the concert in Vienna tomorrow. A man's got to do what a man's got to do because a women shouldn't judge their husbands. Take care of mom and behave, you hear? Go, scoot on inside, on the double! As soon as I'm done playing, I'm coming home. uro. Watch what you eat. Why on earth didn't I learn to play violin! To Austria? To Belgrade! Can you? Sure, sure. What's with little Pussy? She's got a cold. Poor thing, she has a fever. In a female voice, please, so I can get into character. A female voice? What's with little Pussy? She's got a cold. Poor thing, she has a fever. Let me feel her. She's hot all over, she really has a fever! She's sweating like crazy. Oh, doctor Dolittle, thank you so much for your help. If I had money, I'd only sleep with my wife. Hold on, that's not in the script. Where's that line? That's no line, that's the truth. This is that uro guy with the anomaly. Hello. International fame brings nothing but international trouble. Money may not jingle loudly bit it's sound carries a long way. Let me see you be a public figure without your wife finding out. Are you going to play? -Like hell I am. But someone's going to steal it. They rob cars like crazy here. I can't come home without my instrument. Do you even know how to play that thing? I do, if worse comes to worst. But fuck that musical shit. That couldn't help me feed seven children. This job pays much better. And people appreciate you. I'm most appreciated by the most important figure in the movies - my producer Cane. What're you waiting for? Pants off so we can see how big it is. No, this is Martin from Croatia. He came here looking for Desa. Stevan takes care of the supporting cast. He's a co-producer. This is that Croat from Cane. I'm listening. I'm looking for a woman. You got it. What kind? That's her. Croat, eh? Where did you serve during the war? We didn't meet. -That's right. If we had, you wouldn't be here right now. Near Obrovac. Against the army leader Staniic. And now you want to fuck his wife. You got to take the good with the bad. Sometimes a producer changes the starring actress because of the audience. No way! reasonable price. Are you working here or jerking around? Mica's working, her classmaster's here. We're waiting. Where's Desa? -She went to the train station to wait for the train from Zagreb and tell Croats to go fuck themselves. -Again? Where were you wounded? Shrapnel in the spine. She's a lovely woman, solid gold she is, but gets drunk as soon as she gets a whiff of alcohol and goes crazy. That's why her work suffers. -She's throwing away her career. She's got a place to go. Her house in Croatia wasn't damaged much. She could get renovation money from the Croats and have a decent life. What?! They weren't rebuilding Serbian houses even when the former Commies were in power in Croatia, let alone now when Ustasha are running it. You're wrong. Desa was married to a Serbian army leader. It was a great love, but ended sadly. Forget about her. I'll fuck you for 65 euro. Quiet! and you can have her. It really is a shame we hadn't meet. Gold speaks louder than words. Who knows who you should help in life and who you shouldn't. Many people are born, but only a handful grow up to be men. If you ask me to lend you a car because you want to raise 35,000 euro to buy yourself a woman... I'll lend you the car, no questions asked. Just don't ask for money; poverty is everywhere you go. But the poor aren't those who have little, it's those who want a lot. But you still haven't paid me a thing. Not for my photo supplies or anything. It's been six months now. I need to speak to you urgently. I need the money. The contracts I had signed with your late husband. Here's his signature, that's mine. And the due date here. Four months ago. A detective? You can see how desperate I am. I really hate bothering you and this makes me feel truly uncomfortable but you're my only chance. I don't carry that much money around. Here, I only have I'm sorry. Here you go. You may collect money both from the dead and the living. But who can raise 35,000 euro? But, if you can't get the money in an honest way... Then you reach for other methods. Gold is clean even in the dirtiest of purses. You just need to know where the money is. And it's everywhere. In maps, for example. You're his now. Listen to him. Please, get in the back. No, don't... Here's her passport. She doesn't need a visa? Keep pouring this into her, we already got her drunk so she won't cause a scene at the border. As long as she doesn't throw up all over my string bass. Wow, Little Red Riding Hood. We're doing a movie. The first Croatian-Serbian co-production. Premieres this summer. A good man wants to help, but if he has to lie... to hell with them. That's how I got myself out of that mess... Or at least I thought so. But where one story ends, another begins. Here, madam... the bathroom, feel free to freshen up. This is the closet. Plenty of hangers. These drawers are yours. I'll put these things away. There's the kitchen. You can leave your shoes here. Here's the fridge. Nothing, I'll pick up something later. So... in the bathroom... -I'm clean. The light doesn't work so well, sometimes it won't click on... Just give it a tug or two. I'll put these things away so you have space for yours. Do you want to try me right away? Just make yourself at home. Good night. There's a king size bed, a living room, a bathroom and a kitchen, too. You'll be working alone in that place? She's struck gold. These polite Croats are weak fucks, you won't even feel it. -Good for her. Sure is. He didn't hit me once. Wait, wait... he didn't punched you or kicked you? Unbelievable! Not even when he was trying you out? -He didn't try me. Fucking fagot! -Croat pervert! You won't know this road. It was built not even two years ago. It's not in such bad shape after all. No holes. Windows and doors need to be put in; maybe some work done on the roof. Paint it inside and out, put in some power lines and indoor plumbing and you could live quite comfortably. Give me a double. What are you doing back here? What are you staring at, Peric, just keep pouring. Bring the bottle. You're back! You've come to fix the house and to visit me? You think my husband's gonna let a Serbian whore prance in front of my house? Why are you all standing around? You let her drink here and while her husband slaughtered Croats, you were all clapping! Hit her, Mio! Go right away, or else. D'you hear? Don't whisper, smack her so she knows her place! Janitor... Still jerking off to the suiting up for PE? What?! What the hell?! Go. No one will be hitting or insulting this woman. I knew it would be like this. Women are complex beings; they speak even when they say nothing. You only get to know a woman when you look at her up close, because from afar you can't get to know a town or a house, let alone a woman. You only watch from afar when there's a war on. Soldiers watch their enemy from afar, and they are sure that they know him. Because that's a soldier's nature, they aren't required to think. They just get their orders. And wait. But even if you know what's already happened, you can never tell what's about to happen. Bananas and two yogurts. If a woman was a man's only worry... ...he'd have it easy. But he doesn't. Who cooks for you? I do, mom. How's business going? It's alright. Does your wound hurt? A little, when the south wind blows. I read that they will increase pensions for disabled veterans. That's a good thing. -I know. This is old news. When his mom arrived in the hospital two months ago, the doctor told him straight away. Your mom's lab reports are in. What can I say? She has complete kidney failure and is entirely dependent on the machines until we find a suitable donor, of course, you see? Am I not one? -I know. But your dear mother doesn't want me to cut you open, butcher you up, see? Never mind what she wants, I'm the donor. Fine, we'll know everything after they do a check-up on you down in the basement. Trouble will make a man do anything. When a mother is sinking, a son will grasp hot irons if necessary. Every son, even Martin. And then the doctor told him... It's no use. Your results aren't good, so you really won't be able to give a kidney to your mother. We must do another check-up on you so I can see what's wrong there. Here's the referral. Bye! And that's when mom said... Don't you lose any sleep over that. It's not the end of the world if you can't be the donor. aklina will be. My sister's as good as they come. She'd give her heart to me, let alone a kidney. That's just what sisters do. And that's when mom's sister said... Plasma 142 cm. Or LCD. HD. PAL sucks. I'd give her my kidney right away but that requires an operation and you can easily die once they cut you open. And if I die, how can I leave my husband with such a TV? I can barely see it and he's even worse off. Look at him, all squinty-eyed. Why doesn't he get glasses? -He can't. They make him look ugly. And then she said... Hayabusa GSX 1300R Super Sport, that's what he wants. I think the Suzuki Bandit 1250 is right for him. That's a true street classic but you can choose. Now that he's got a bike, he'll find a girlfriend and can get married tomorrow. That's why we're adding a floor. Paid for the materials and all, but the builders want cash. Once we pay for that, I can die in peace. Now what? If he could sell maps to earn money for Desa, he could do the same for his mother. Klaric, Klaric... Here it is... Thank you. Thank you again. Are you a fagot? Not all people are fagots. There're other sorts. Some are private detectives. And their work's truly a man's job. Whenever you get a case, it takes all your strength and smarts to solve it. She's at the market. Going from one stall to another, buying cucumbers and carrots. Look, I know they always meet at places that aren't suspicious, like the market. I cooked it for ten min and when I took it out, it was like it hadn't been cooked at all. What's she talking about? With whom? Suspence is growing. She's discussing cooking with her mother. Aha, she's cooking for him... I can't talk now, this's the scariest part. She's buying lingerie. Awful design. Whore! I'm gonna kill her! Nothing has happened. I'll call you if something starts. Something's always up. Focus, Mr. Martin. Listen, Mr. Kokotovic, I'm doing my job. Don't keep calling me. I'll keep following her, regardless of the danger. And the work of a PD can be very dangerous. Especially if someone accidentally notices you. And everything you experience in life is accidental. Granny, granny, why are your eyes so big? So I can see you better. Granny, granny, why are your ears so big? So I can hear you better. Why are your teeth so big? So I can bite your ass. And why are yourjohnson so big? So I can rip you apart! Everything in life happens accidentally. Only accidentally can you get your hands on a good movie. Or accidentally see an acquaitance after ten years. Come save me, hunter! Now, do you think Martin's a fagot... No. And? What's she saying? -She wants to come back. Unbelievable. Is he smacking you around? Isn't letting you eat? Does he make you do farmers? What? He's no pimp, that's for sure! If not, what is he? That's just it. I don't now what he wants from me. Maybe he's into organ sales, geez! What organs? What's the matter with you? Don't come back. This guy's feeding you, letting you sleep in luxury and isn't making you work. Play dumb and enjoy. And keep out of his way. You'll see what he wants. Maybe he wants to marry you. -Bye! Ah, marriage. A happy marriage is the best thing that can happen to a woman. All women know that. They know how things work in a happy marriage. A woman's world is her house and a man's house is the world. That's why husbands are never home. But as the saying goes: a house doesn't rest on the ground, it rests on a woman. A single female hair has more pull in it than a pair of oxen. Lucky's the woman who knows her husband loves her and that he'll come back home sooner or later. I'm going. Alright. That's alright. I'm here. Welcome. I'm the guy that called yesterday. Good for you, feel free to call again tomorrow. No, you don't understand. I called about your late brother. I know where he's buried. -Good for you. I said I'd give you the information. Keep it to yourself, buddy. It's your brother! You don't care where he's buried? I'm not crazy to give one penny for that piece of shit. Not if he were alive, let alone now. Let him rot where he is. Hello. I'm the guy that called yesterday. About the place where your son is buried. Just a minute. Get lost. Good evening. Good evening. How was work today? Like every other day. I wanted to bake a cake but there's no more butter. Could I? Today is a great day, great day, great day. Our Desa's birthday, birthday, birthday! Congratulations! Hello? Croat. Women are complex beings. We men aren't capable of understanding why women do what they do. Who can know what's on a woman's mind? Happy birthday. I had a vase. Somewhere. I wanted to make coffee but there isn't any more. And so gramps said: Fine, let's bet on the other eye, but this time we put in twice as much. The guy said, it's a deal. So gramps took out his dentures and bit down on his other eye. Coffee. -A big coffee and a beer. That's the truth. Martin. Have you seen my new car? aluminum hub-caps, sunroof. Came from Germany, has 12,000 km, all highway. Even has fog lights. What's up with you, Martin? Found yourself a Serbian bride? Let's go, we have people waiting. Let me introduce you. Desa, these are... -Janko. A captain in the Croatian army, retired. This is Nikola. Reserve ensign. Do you know, Mrs... Desa, is that right? What a player he was in his youth? Did you tell her how you and I used to check out girls together? Let's see some ID, this is a raid. Cut the crap, Pita! Come on, the gang's waiting. Are you playing? He's not, he's busy. Let's go! Goodbye. After women, friends are the best things in life. You sleeping? Ustasha! You motherfuckers! What the fuck are you doing here? We brought you some pie. -You've been jerking off to that Orthodox pussy all day long, and we get nothing down there. Have you even seen that SA leader, huh? -Get out of here. The Serb's got a new wife, keeps running back home to fuck her. People say she's one hell of a piece of ass. I have no idea. What, you want them to see us? I'm not going anywhere until we see her. Get your asses out of here. They're gonna destroy us! There she is! Fucking hell! Look at those tits! Now you've seen her, now jerk off. Get out of here. The major is gonna have your asses. -He can go fuck himself. You'd think, once a friend, always a friend. A fine piece of ass. Good for her. But time takes its toll. A man is not aware that everything in the world changes. Evan a mountain, let alone a friend. Though a man keeps hearing bad things about his friends, he doesn't believe a soul. Just pay into my account the sum we agreed on... Martin, do me a favor... Look, those aren't just expenses. You need to shoot a moving tire from 120 m away. What your friends are really like, you can only find out accidentally. Call me in half an hour, I must go, otherwise it will overcook. So shalt thou feed on Death, that feeds on men, and Death once dead, there's no more dying then. Only accidentally can you hear a friend's voice. That's the major. It's better not to know what your wife, your children and your friends think. Is everything alright? Just fine, I arrived today from Belgrade. Not over the phone. Come over in half an hour. But those whose business it is to poke around other people's belongings, women and houses tend to forget that. Nikola, tire. A regular. Not a bulletproof one. Security, at the last door. You, get the bags. Get in the car. Drive carefully. Not crash the car. Again. Money... to me. And close the door behind you. Good evening. Here's the detailed description. Yes? Maps of the graves of Croats who have gone missing during the war. And then you accidentally find out what your friends do for a living. This is the information about where they were buried. Down to a meter, here. Now, the maps you sent me were worth 1,500 euro per person. Here it's worth more, And you accidentally find out that maps are where the big money is. Why should I buy information from you that I already have? But that is our information. -It's mine too! A smart man investigates why business isn't going well. Just a minute. Because a smart man knows - everything comes to those who wait. Get lost. And when a smart man hits a snag, he turns to books. The medals of war gave an honorable cling in the festive echo of revenge and death. For we, which now behold these present days, have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise. Shakespeare. For I am shamed by that which I bring forth, and so should you, to love things nothing worth. And even a smart man gets angry, especially when someone else uses his maps and collects his money. It can only be one of you. He'll be very sorry once I find him. He'd be well advised to turn himself in. It would be a shame to punish all of you just because of one man. In England they only eat pancakes once a year. A friend who used to live there told me about it. They have "pancake day". And just that one day. February 20th. They make pancakes and eat them. At no other time. Poor people. Pardon me. Excuse me. Pardon. I'm sorry. I'll just take a shower. Mr. Martin? Are you ever sorry that you refused my offer? What offer? When I offered that you try me. No. I'm not sorry. I'll just take a shower. That's it. Alright then. Good luck. Good bye. If you ever need me... Sleep... I'm going. You have a lot to do today? -No. I knew things would turn out like this. I knew it even back then. When I see a man and woman together for the first time I know how it will end, because good things are easy to recognize, if you have patience... But things don't always end well. Hello? Some Nikola. Nikola, come in. Nikola, are you ready? Come in. What took you so long? Come over here. What's the matter with you? Stop fucking around and come in. What? -You motherfucking junkie, wake up! What? You said you would. Nikola, come in. Come in! What did I say? -You said OK... in the bar. Come in! When? Nikola, you've got to do this! Don't fuck with me. The van, the tire. - If you don't do it, the major will skin you alive, do you hear me? What tire? -I can't make that shot. Look at me, would you just take a look at me! Nikola, you moron, come in! That's your job, buddy boy. You take the shot. That's just what I'm gonna do, you Serb lover. You piece of shit, you can fuck that SA leader's whore! But you leave me hanging?! Serbs sure got to you. Nikola, here he comes. Can you see him? If you don't stop him, I'll empty my Kalashnikov into him. You're gonna have to explain to the major why people died! I don't know, I swear on my mother's grave. How can you not know? You brought him to me. I did... but I don't know a thing about him. The man just appeared on my doorstep. He paid a lot for me to just clean his house. A real oddball. Hey, neighbor! Hello! Is that your friend? Is Emina home? Nope. She's out. Goodbye. Maybe the man's a movie 'biff'. Maybe he saw you in a movie and liked you. Who can understand us men... What, don't you like it here? Hey, neighbor! I put Little Red Riding Hood in for my kids to watch and the wolf seemed kind of familiar. Should I give this to Emina or will you come over some time? I sure would like to be Little Red and you can be whatever you want. Rahmeta, your house is that way. Go catch some snakes. OK, neighbor! It's your call. You wanna go back to Stevan and have to work with people like me? Just be quiet and don't ask any questions. We'll see who this Martin is and what he wants... Take it easy. We'll find out. Come on, it'll be alright. Only a dumb man gives advice to women. Women feel when something's not right. It's called women's intuition. A woman has nine souls. Open up! It's the postman with a pay check for the SA leader! Madam leaderess, we brought you some pie. Come on, you Serbian whore! Open up! Let's go, guys, she's not home. What? What happened? They were banging on the door. No one lays a finger on her! DIPLOMA The War Of Independence Memorial The sniper rifle M-76 is a soldier's best friend. It says in the manual: At no time should the sniper be separated from the person who has commissioned it. That is how a sniper becomes an integral part of the soldier. The most important characteristic of the M-76 rifle is its adjustable optics. It makes it easy to aim. When did he come in? An hour ago. Why didn't you take him down? He didn't keep still. Shoot. Shoot him! Why didn't you shoot? I would've hit her. -So what? Are you OK? Fine. You've been here too long. They're the same. Both her and him. It's OK. Just shoot. There he's... smoking... Take her out too, she'll raise a ruckus. She's raising a ruckus now. Let's go. Run! 'Morning, neighbor! Off hunting so early? Partridges. And he took the sniper... he'd been hiding it! Well, maybe he went hunting so he needs it. Then why did he buy me from Stevan for 35,000 euro and how does he know which house in Obrovac belongs to me?! Because he hunts? Because he fell in love with you. Listen to me. When Martin comes back, try to work something out. If you can and if you can't... go back to Stevan... Just leave me alone. I can't any more! You're in love? A nice girl? She's in love with you too? You're going to marry her?! Here I am, Marija! I've come! I won't let my sister die! My dear aklina! Tired with all these, from these would I be gone, save that to die, I leave my love alone. Finding the first conceit of love there bred, where time and outward form would show it dead. Is this why you phoned me? To recite poems at dawn? That's what I call love. That's how much I love you. This kind of love cannot be bought. Other people buy it. Some for 100 euro per hour. Some for two euro. And you buy it for 35,000 euro. With my money. You betrayed me for a Serbian woman. Before this is over, I must teach you how it feels when love dies. So you'd know how I feel. Martin! We must talk! Stealing, you bastard, huh? Stealing from us?! Get out, you motherfucker, out! Who did this to you? Martin? Not Martin, that slut of his. Where is he? I don't know, they took off. -Where? In the car. You know this house from before? What did you do here? Was that you? Did you shoot? Where did you shoot from? Keep walking. Don't stop! Walk faster! What do you want from me? Smile, act like you're having fun. Come up here! -Get in there and freeze. Stand against the wall. Don't even think about going to the window! You hear? Stay there, don't move! How long does it take to take aim from this far out? Three seconds. I'm counting... One... Three... Why did you go to the window? Because I love you. Here this story could have a happy ending if life weren't complicated. But, in complicated stories important things get forgotten... When Martin did additional tests two months ago, so that he could donate a kidney to his mother, the doctor had told him. Take a look at this here. This is the X-ray of a head. Your head, of course, whose else's? Now, you see this ball here? That a tumor, darn thing. It's too large, stuck to this nerve center, see? I wouldn't want to go tickling it with a scalpel. That cannot be operated out, see? Doctor, Mrs. agar is seizing. Every single day! Tie her to the bed. What can you do! Man makes plans, God laughs. Where you have been and where you're coming. What you did and what you finished. What you said and what those who knew you'll say about you. You haven't done one good thing. We have nothing to remember you for. But you should feel pity for those who are still living. Thank you for saving me, hunter! And not for the dead. Would you like to be my wife? Will you marry me? Marry you? Well, yeah. Would you? I set a date for our wedding in the registry office. Three weeks from now, Friday, the 18th. You'll be taken care of. I've got brain cancer. I'll be dead in three months. After I die, you'll get my pension. You'll also inherit my place. Just give me your passport so I can do the paperwork. When I write my will, you won't have to wait for the probate. So you won't have any complications 'cause you're a foreign citizen. What? Stop here! What? You bought me off Stevan, brought me here and for what? What were you thinking?! Stevan beats me, makes me do all sorts of things, robs me blind, but even that's better than watering the flowers on your grave! You could've told me this the moment I came here. Any time, I'd have gone away. I wouldn't have to go through this a second time! I can't take this again. And finally, it's a good thing she went away. What would she want with him? Because at every step you take in life you bump into death. Either your own or someone else's... in war and in peace... Viktor, what is it now? Don't you like it? I've got a bunny tail too. -Why?! And then you realize, "It's a good thing I'm next". MARIJA GAJSKI AKLINA GRDELJ Born the same day, died the same day, they gave their lives for each other. They say you shouldn't speak ill of the dead, but if you start speaking well about them too soon, you might be surprised. Destinies are written in the stars and not put into words. Where is he? We have to start! That asshole, he should be here any minute now, he promised. I'll go meet him and you entertain the guests! What should I do with them? -What you know best. Not that... play your nose! Hiya, manager, come with me. Sit yourself down here, the toast is coming up. Go on. Hold it, uro, it's my turn now. Thank you all for coming to my and uro's bronze anniversary. I married uro when I was 15 years old and I bore him a lot of children. When I was younger, I thought all husbands were like my uro; bringing breakfast in bed, buying flowers, cleaning, cooking, doing the laundry, kissing and hugging. Everything I want, uro brings to me. I can see he's happy when I'm happy. Now, uro, I forgave you for that acting thing because I know you love me. And because of the children. But you won't be making those movies again. And you, dear neighbors, who brought me all these DVDs, you don't have to spend any more money. Here's a life size sculpture of my uro. Feel free to look at it as much as you want! Now, let's dance! Black angel when I laid my eyes on you Instantly I knew Without you I won't go on No, no, no, that's no ploy. Living alone is no joy. Woman, you've made me see You are my destiny. uro, what are these people doing? In case you haven't noticed: Hare Krishnas just married you. Into our house I'll carry you Woman, from tonight it's us two May the Moon from above shine the light On our path to the bed from its height. With my song I'll be kissing you Your breath I'll breathe through and through. And when the Sun a new morning does bear Our happiness will not stop there. Go on, love birds, give me those chairs. ...will not stop there You'll make me a lucky man Bear me children that's the plan. I will make you my wife. The Gypsy's playing sounds so rife. When you're by my side Myself I can easily abide Let me take off your veil all of white And give you a kiss with all my might. Inspired by Mate Matiic's dramas 'WOMAN WITHOUT A BODY' and 'SONS ARE DYING FIRST' Directed by Produced by Written by Music by Edited by Cast And guest appearance Other cast VIRTUAL-D, Zagreb
