 

                        - Go, Travis! - Yeah! Hey, Travis! Nitro Circus started very organically with a group of friends. It's their childhood dream that's manifesting itself in the present moment. People are so conditioned in watching movies that they all think it's fake. There's real life on the line in what Nitro does. Go, Travis! To get to a live tour and actually pull it off is insanity. It was not possible. These guys will never make it. Nitro is about trying to find where it's not possible to go and then going there. Childhood never ended for this lively band of brothers. They've always had one mission. To have more fun than anyone on the planet. Go! The crew is led by two good old boys who met when they were 12 years old. Jeremy Rawle, a hippie lawyer who gave up his failing law practice to fight off the symptoms of midlife crisis. - Am I done or do I need to do that again? - You're done, no. And Godfrey. The son of a trucker and the poster child for adult attention deficit disorder. Under Gregg and Jeremy's unorthodox direction... ...the crew recorded their adventures in a series of short movies and even a TVshow. Through some creative financing, they made this movie. Shot in 3D, which cost a butt-load. They pitched their idea to Hollywood, but Hollywood crapped its pants. The studio executives were terrified that this movie was too dangerous. Pussies. The end goal for the Nitro Circus, the dream they've shared since childhood, was to perform their stunts live in front of an audience. They set their sights on a show at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, but would anyone really come to see them? I mean, who are these guys anyway? I'll tell you who. First off, there's Travis Pastrana, the modern day Evel Knievel. Eighteen time X Games medallist and five time national champion. But he can't throw a ball to save his own life. He's the all-American wonder kid and ringleader of the Nitro Circus. Then there's a 26-year-old man-child. Yeah! Not in my house, punk! Not today! Streetbike Tommy. He is the most adorable member of the Nitro Circus and the fattest. He loves cheeseburgers, soda pop, and hates his everyday occupation of hanging drywall. But the Nitro Circus is more than just fat, hairy men. Jolene Van Vugt. She is tough, sexy, and downright full of it. She is the only one with a vagina. She keeps the boys in line by not just competing with them, but showing them up. Nitro Girl is the real deal. Not quite as sexy, but just as ballsy is Erik Roner. Extreme skier and base jumper, he has no business on anything with a motor. Although he's completely out of his element with this group, he's always game to hurl his body into harm's way. For a dude with a tramp stamp he's one bad mofo. Come on, Special! No, no, no, no. Come on, hit him, Special. Come on, come on, work it low, work it high, come on. Which brings us to Special Greg, Travis' cousin. He's a jack of all trades and master of none. Like a cat, he always seems to land on his feet. And like a nasty honey badger, nothing can stop him. Special, you got him. Well, all right now. That's what I'm talkin' about. At least one member of the crew has a steady job for now. Jim DeChamp. He's Travis' oldest friend. He has a super long neck and is somehow able to always cheat death. He's the current world record holder for consecutive one-handed claps. These guys don't give a rip about what most people think is possible. They only care about pushing each other beyond their comfort level, giving it hell and seeing if they can come out all right on the other end. They've been doing this since childhood. This is the Nitro Circus. So we might as well pack seven people into a school bus and see how far that puppy can fly. God. Oh, shit! Yeah! My twelfth-grade teacher was right, and I was meant to be a bus driver. Hands down one of the coolest things I've ever gotten to do in my life. Absolutely. Their biggest goal is to share what they do live, in front of a packed house at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. We came from Mexico to see the show. We are really, really excited. I've definitely never seen anything like it before. Those guys are crazy with talent. This is the best day of my life. Rock 'n' roll. I think the reason that people connect to Nitro Circus, it's... I think everyone has a relationship to fear. I think you can all sort of hearken back to that moment where you did something very stupid and somehow just skinned under the wire of death. It's almost like that idea of, like, if you had the balls, or were willing to do it, it would be so much fun to get with all your friends and go do sketchy things, and give you this amazing adrenalin rush. It's crazy. Half the shit these guys do, they have to go out of the States because it's illegal to jump off buildings the way they're doing it. It's illegal to do the stuff they want to do in America. This shit's illegal, guys. That should be your... That's when it should be like, "Uh... This might not be a good idea. " Travis is like, "No. Let's get on a plane. " Wow. This is one of those stunts that, this is why we do what we do. Well, we just got up to the top of this skyscraper, This is going to be a very interesting base jump. First of its kind ever, and we're not too sure exactly how it's going to go. When you jump off that, that ground comes at you real fast, I'll tell you that much. You got about four seconds to figure it out. - You're good. - What could possibly go wrong? Well, for some reason, me and Crum are the only ones down here on the ground. - We... I think we're Team C. - Yeah. 'Cause we wanna see what's gonna happen down here... 'Cause we wanna see what's happening. So we got Roner perched on a blob, and there's two fat Elvis Evel Knievels jumping onto him, and he's gonna shoot off the blob on top of the building. You know, what happens is, I get so nervous that I have to pee. - 'Cause I'm so nervous... - For them. Yeah, I need to pee like, 'cause I have to pee. I'm not even doing anything. - You should pee, man... - I think I'm gonna pee. Hey, Jer, you ready for this, baby? It's go time. Almost 500 pounds up there, I think, maybe more, of men meat. How is it out there, Erik? It sucks! - We've been waiting our whole lives for this. - We're damn good, too, man. You got it, Rubs! You got it! - Three... - Yeah, Erik! ...two, one! I love you! - No, no... - Perfect! Perfect! Perfect! Perfect! Yeah! Yeah! - Dude, already. Already. - Whoo! Oh, my God! I thought he was gonna go way further away from the blob. That was not far enough. I about shit my pants when you turned in towards the building. That was heavy. Yeah. I didn't go very far out. I think I saw someone having tea in their apartment building. Real close. Hi. I think Roner deserves a group hug that he's still with us. Get in here, you little rubber neck, you sick puppy. Can we be done with the skyscraper blob drop? Do you see what just happened? Tommy ejected, missed all the safety boxes and slammed into the ground. My fucking ass. If Tommy had bounced the other way, he would have lobbed himself right off the building and that would have been the end of Tommy. Tommy, I got a couple cheeseburgers comin' your way. Thank you for launching me over that building safely. Outside of Streetbike Tommy, you guys are far superior athletes. We're more theatrical with our costumes and man-on-man contact. You guys have more things with motors in them, and we do more pranks. I came from Jackass and when I met the Nitro family, it felt very familiar to me. I get the dynamics of it right away. It's like all the same inbred family. Really just always boiled down to the difference between Jackass and Nitro was, our Jackass stunts are always designed to fail. Everyone accepts that. Nitro stunts, you have to succeed or you die. Same mother, different daddies. In this game of Freedom Flyers, the objective is for me to leave my mother's nest and fly, with the help of a bungee cord and a jelly doughnut inner tube. Hit that there jump, launch in and take out as many of my friends and as much of their home as possible. In other words, I'm a wrecking ball in the form of a bird. So Rubs, this is your speed test for this. We need to line up how you're gonna jump, and to see how fast you need to go. - So you're our guinea diver. The water's three foot deep. You're gonna be 20 feet in the air going at 120 feet in distance, no problem. Okay, let's get you on that tube. You got it, Rubs! Is that far enough? They told me it was time for me to leave the mother's nest, and I'm ready to go right back into that nest. I think that was the biggest DDT body slam I ever had. Oh, I don't know about this one. There's so much that could possibly go great here. - Great possibilities. - There's a lot of scenarios. The goal was Tommy, now the goal is to take out Parks. Parks is the only one left on top. I still think Tommy should be hit. All right, I'm ready to freedom fly. - Go get 'em, Roner. - Good luck, Roner! Oh, he's hit! Oh, my God! What the... Yeah! Roner gave a thumbs-up. Parks, you hit the water so fast. That was like, "Boom! Judo chop!" That was one of the hardest hits I've ever had. The thing about freedom is you can never stop fighting for it, so we're gonna try again. Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Whoo! That was a lot of destruction, that was awesome. Special got knocked the F out. Special took it. Wow, what a hit. Freedom Flyers has been pretty damn rough until this point. But unfortunately, we didn't accomplish what I was trying to accomplish, which was take out my friends and their home. I think we gotta do it again which sucks for me, but I'm gonna try to have a positive attitude and try to catch more air. Red rover, red rover! Send Roner on over! You can take our lives, but you can't take our freedom! Yeah! Yeah! Perfect. Back up! Perfect! Oh, fuck! That's gonna leave a mark. - We gotta carry him off the battlefield... - You got blood on there. - We gotta carry him. - Holy shit! That's probably where your teeth are bleeding from... Is that Roner's blood? Wow. As soon as I saw you take off, I was like, "He's hitting straight Tommy. " And I was like, "Uh-oh... " For a minute I'm like, "I got this, I got the stars. " You dropped. When I saw you, I was like, "Yes! I finally got one!" For all you people that wanna be on Nitro Circus and come out and do this stuff, ooh, it's so much fun. Perfect! As we found out, freedom ain't free of pain. To fill an arena in Las Vegas is no easy task. Everyone tells them they can't do it. A loss in what they do is different than losing a game. You miss a field goal, you miss a field goal. You miss doing a double back flip, you die. And they approach every obstacle like that. Those are paying fans looking to be entertained. You just can't lose. Travis' compound that he has in Maryland is a true testament that he lives this life. It's in such a beautiful setting, these lush trees all around and it's just, yeah, the devil's playground, man. Death is everywhere, you can smell it in the air. The only thing that is burnt in my brain from that dude's house, is the first time I went there. We're going into the foam pit and this random dude just comes around, and he's like, "Travis, can I flip?" And Travis said, "Yeah, flip. Just don't go right. " And that's when the dude took the 110 off the side. Like, smoked himself. And I saw that with my own eyes and I was like, "Dude, don't go right. " Burnt into my brain. It's a little factory of bad ideas. Well, Trav, after all these years of talking about it, you finally built this loop in your backyard. And every single thing that we do, someone in our crew steps up and Jolene has volunteered to step up first. Thank you, Jolene. So you came right out this morning, said you wanna hit this first. Comin' in hot. Everyone's got to go first once and I just... Just go. - Push me down the hill. I don't care. - We don't even know if this works. All right, let's get up there and do this. - This is a way better loop. - You're on your third loop. - Hey, guys, Tommy's on his third loop! - I'm lookin' for a baker's dozen. Loops are stupid. I don't know why we built one. I guess just to see all these people that scared, that are such bad-asses. And Jolene gears up first. Crazy girl. Crazy. I have nothing but wonderful things to say about Jolene because I am scared to death of her. Being the only girl in that whole crew, it must be very difficult. And she pulls it off like a champ. For someone who doesn't have balls, she has the biggest set. It looks fun, though, Jo. You're in the hot seat, not me, but it does look fun. - My main concern is aiming. - I do have a word of advice. - Do you want to hear it? - I don't. I think I want to vomit. So I think I want to go. Okay, we're ready to go, but aim for the black line. That's my word of advice. - Just get in there and hit that thing! - Yeah, what's takin' so long? Okay, just stop talking! Yes, ma'am. Yeah, Jo! - Okay. - This is gonna be cool. - Got it. That was awesome! That was awesome! That was rad. Good job, man, she stuck that thing. She's pumped. Look at that. I own you, Mr Loop! You're saying don't lean too far forward 'cause you'll die? I don't know. I did a tricycle, you're doing a wheelchair. Big difference. Oh, man. I need some wheelchair advice. Yes, and unfortunately, you're the only one of your kind, - so, sorry you don't get any advice. - So I gotta talk to myself. You're a unicorn. You're the only one of your kind. Only the only difference between a unicorn and you is that you've been spotted. Aaron Fotheringham, aka Wheelz. He was born with spina bifida and can't walk. If you ask him, he's not in a wheelchair, he's just riding one. Makes the rest of the crew feel like pussies. It's my house. I'm scared to death to go round this loop and Wheelz is gonna try it on a wheelchair and I am scared for him. Good luck, Wheelz. - You own this one, dude. It's good. - Come on, buddy. You got it, you got it. Speed, not too fast! You got it, you got it, you got it! - Shit! - Are you okay, man? Oh, my God. - You are the toughest, dude. - You are so tough. Oh, my God... That was like seriously the first time I've ever seen things that are floating. Aaron, your head. How are you conscious right now? Dude, you hit so hard, I thought you were gonna start walkin'. Yeah, Wheelz! Wheelz, are you ready to leave this loop behind you? - I sure am. This thing broke my heart. - What are you doing with that? Oh, no, no, Wheelz! No, it's my loop! You're not setting that thing on fire! All right, Tom P., you have always wanted to get some respect, somehow, some way, as a real athlete. Yeah. You're gonna begin your freestyle motocross career today. Awesome. - What are you gonna do? - I don't know, whatever comes natural. Buckle it up. Oh, boy. Consider this try-outs for the Vegas show, so don't screw it up. Okay. Ow, fuck! Ow, fuck! Ow, ow, ow, ow. My ankle's fucked! We got you, Tom P. That is a man! Hey, Wheelz, why has it gotta be an ankle, man? This has to support this. You know what I'm sayin'? - Couldn't have been a finger? - Yeah. All right, guys, this is the tallest, steepest BMX ramp that we have. Jim, you want to calculate this ramp for us? Not gonna do my math calculations. I'm goin' no pedals, no brakes, and just goin' with how big the hill is. I really think that's about right. Nice knowing you, Jim. He's goin' so fast. Good grief. - Giraffe neck down. - Oh, my God! Giraffe neck down. Jim sort of needs a little more coaxing, especially if it's out of his comfort zone. And he kind of gets guilted into like, "Yo, I can do it. I wanna be... "I can do it, too, I can do it, too," and then some catastrophic thing. If you hit absolutely perfect, I think you have a 2% chance, good luck. Two? But he's goin' really fast. Too fast, too fast. I even thought I was goin'... My judgement these days is way off. I always think I gotta do it faster. He's a real wild card and he gets great footage. Getting ready to jump the Big Wheel at way too fast of a speed. Holy shit! What's a Big Wheel? Okay, it's a kid's toy. They must be the best put together Big Wheels ever. Like, these guys are jumping them at least and landing no problem. Like, it doesn't make sense. I think the only way that I would be able to get the feeling is if I had... If I had to try to ride the trike. Which I don't wanna do, Travis, so fuck off. All right, guys, over the past three years, the most elusive trick that we have not been able to do, is the double back flip on trikes. This has turned into a mission. We have a launch ramp. We have Mount Mulchmore, and today is the day that we beat this trick! All right, hands in! "Nitro" on three. One, two, three, Nitro! I'm the guinea pig. I got the short straw. You know how that works. We got a long day ahead of us, so let's get to work! Fire one! Oh, boy. No, no, no, no. No idea what to change from what Special did, but, can hope for the best. - Fire two! - Fire two! Yeah, Dusty! Go! It's gonna happen! It's gonna happen today! It's happening today! Today is the day that history's gonna be made! A double flip on a Big Wheel is goin' down! You just gave them a glimpse of the great white buffalo. Who's up next? Hi, Mom. You proud of me? Fire three! Fire 10! Come on, baby! - Get the blue mat! - Blue mat! - Get the blue mat! - Blue mat! Fire 11! Fire 11! Come on, come on, come on. Dang. He's out. - I just got a calf cramp, give me a second. - You got a calf cramp? You landed on your face and you got a calf cramp. Yeah. This has been an absolute bear of a trick. We've had all the top trike riders come out, all to Maryland to do a double flip. Everybody has thrown down their best. Everybody's been concussed, everyone's been hurt. Dusty's taken the hardest hits. And Dusty's goin' back up 'cause he's the only one of us that's even close to doin' this thing. So, fingers crossed for him that he can ride out of this thing in eternal glory in Nitro. So, this one's really been a tough one. I hope I just land this one so I can go in the pool. Dusty Wygle. Dusty is a new recruit to the Nitro Circus. "Fresh meat" as they say. Yeah, boy! He's dripping with talent and still nave enough to try anything the older members say. He'll definitely work in the live show. Fire 12! Yeah! Yeah, you got it! Yeah! This was why we all came to Maryland. This was the trick, the stunt, the fun day that we all wanted to have and you conquered it, man. Hose me down, dress me up, let's go out tonight. Get so excited about being the world's first double on a Big Wheel when it's just you and your friends that do it. No one else, no one else in the world. You're claiming, "Boy, this is the greatest day of our lives" because it's like, four of you have ever even tried to do it and you're the only ones with these highly modified, next-level Big Wheels, okay? So it's yours to own forever because no one's ever gonna do it. All right, Hubert, somebody's gotta stick that landing. We've got all that mulch. What are you thinking? I'm thinking me and a four-wheeler and extra ramp equals success. - Good luck. Nitro Circus! Representin'. - Red Nek Power. Hubert Rowland, everybody's favourite redneck. Straight from the back woods of Tennessee, he's handy with anything from a wrench to a tractor. He builds the stunts for the rest of the crew, and makes a mean batch of moonshine. Come on, Hubert! - Is he coming? - Here he comes. Holy crap. Yeah! Yes! - Whoo! - Is he out? Dude, I had no idea you were trying to have the quad ride you instead of you ride it. Right now, the mulch pile is winning. Yeah, it's kicking ass and it don't care whose name you are. I'll be honest. Don't try to straight edge. Just flip that baby. The fact that he stepped up to do this, I'm nervous for the guy. Well, here he comes. Commit, commit, commit, commit. Oh, my shoulder. Yeah, it hurts so bad. Get me on the floor. Get me on the ground. Hubert, I'm so proud of you! - Is it out? - Hold on, his shoulder's out. Yeah, his shoulder's out. Could we get a shoulder back in with a side of relish, please. You know what, I don't think it is. Are you sure his arm's not broken? - Put it down! His arm might be broken. Hubert, I think you're just shocked that you were so amazing right there. Another guy that has no business doing that type of stuff and you just kicked its butt, buddy. Good job. All right, well, you hang out for a bit. We're gonna go on to another stunt. You come join up with us later. Come on, boys, girl. Look, performing live is... It's live. There is no, "Let's take two on that. " And especially doing what you guys do, there's definitely no take two. Nitro! I ain't feelin' so good right now. All I need is 16,000 people out there going, "Yeah!" I'm gonna kick it up. If you need a take two, it means someone probably got hurt. Always told my boys, "You gotta go like hell. " Gregg never went easy. He always had to push the envelope. If Scott jumped 100 feet, he had to jump 110. Maybe from that, they got more and more and more competitive. So here's the deal. I am the present world record holder of the longest and highest semi jump in the world. My older, fatter, unskilled brother believes that he shall be the world record holder after this day. In 15 minutes I will be. Scott! Scott, you okay? - I'm all right. You sure? - Look at the truck. It is destroyed! Holy shit! You pulled an endo on a semi. That's so cool. It doesn't count unless you land on wheels. - Good job, though. - That was fun. You got issues. We're here at this beautiful lake. It's a glorious day, you got your Red Bull rockin'. They've got this amazing jump set up. We've got tons of Astroglide. By "amazing jump set up" you mean "scary ramp of death into water filled with rocks". Cool. - Awesome. - This is Nitro Circus. I've seen you land on a head from 30 feet up with a street bike on top of you. - Yeah, and that didn't work out too good. - This has gotta work out a lot better, then. It's a win-win for you. You hang on, you go. Why do you guys always say "win-win" when I always f-ing lose? Godfrey, you've tried this out. Like, Jer's chopper out there, you've got it all modified. Well, kind of and I'll tell you, if he hits it hard you're goin' for a ride. And I'm just tellin' you guys, you're goin' for a ride if he cranks on that throttle, so... Well, the guys said they wanted a little horsepower to pull the rope, so we brought in our friend The Colonel to give us a little help. - You think this is really what they asked for? - No. Whoo! This does not look safe at all. No, you're good, you're good. Don't worry about it. It may possibly be the most redneck contraption we've come up with. Crum, I'm about to give you He hit so hard! Cool! You all right? Ow! Ow! That's what that felt like! Dude, if you saw it from where I was standing... No, like the side view? What happened? Violent. He came in, came up that take-off, smacked his face dead on... Yeah, I knew that... He like... He was... He was still holding on and violently hooked himself lifelessly. - On the two front legs. - He was just... It didn't look real. There wasn't enough lube. It was all dried out. I got serious burn marks down my whole entire chest. It was peeling off me and I was like, "I'm not letting go!" I would suggest wearing protection. It started burning, I was like, "It's pulling my skin off. " I was like, "I can't let go. It's pulling my skin off. I gotta hang on. " Boom, and I'm like, "I'm just gonna do a flip and land. " Then I'm like, "I'm still in the air. " I'm so proud of you. I just wanna show you guys what glory looks like. Dude, your stomach is horrible. It hurts, dude. Does anybody have any aloe vera? With my experience and your smart mouth, we're the best team to have on safety boat. Totally. The worst scenario you could get is a burned stomach from not enough lube on the ramp. Today they started selling six packs of awesome. - Parks Bonifay is up next... - Wait, wait, wait. Sharks Bonifay. Sorry, sorry. Sharks Bonifay is up next. Parks Bonifay. Professional wakeboarder, who hit the zenith of his career at the tender age of six months when he became the youngest person on Earth to water ski. His career has gone downhill ever since. There he goes! Yeah! Yeah, that was so good! Oh, my God, he's floating, he's breathing. That was huge! That was gigantosaurus. Hey, that was 75 miles an hour according to the Nitro speedometer! - Travis just said I went 75. According to the speedometer. I did one and I was like, "All right, enough air to do two. " You did two. So I go into two, and I come out of two and I'm still like 25, 30 feet high. Then you did a half. Then I was just like, "Do I go three or do I just try to dive," and I think I tried to dive. That's why my wrist hurts. That's what happens when This feels like I tore my uterus. - You goin' third gear on this one or second? - Third. Third. - Just basically ejecting into the stratosphere. - Yep. - Is that the plan? - Yeah. If anybody can do it, it's you, Special Greg, with your special powers, your special muscles. Yes! Special! It's just fun working with a bunch of amazing athletes. That's what it's all about. I think at the heart of every single one of us, there's an athlete in there that just wants to smile and have fun every day. Well spoken, Greg. That's really what it's all about. What we need to get is Tommy has got to get his sissy, fat, doin'- nothin', white-card, flag-polin' butt off of there. - Tell us what you really think. - Yeah, I was holding back a little. Yeah, no, I've been talkin' to him. He is so terrified of this. And this is a lay-up. If Tommy doesn't do this, I don't know what to say, like... I don't know if he should be on the show any more. I mean, I love Tommy as much as anybody, but you gotta do something at some point, right, Crum? Unfortunately, you're right. He is the fat, funny guy. Hilarious. But we still need him to launch. - Get up there and get Tommy into it, Roner. - I'm gonna go pepper Tommy. - I like to be talked into... - It's called support, man. There's lots of times I don't wanna do it, and people talk me into it, and I'm grateful. You're doin' it for you, right, Tom? Give it a firm grip. Get this ankle. Tommy, I cannot tell you how proud of you I am. - This is a big man. - Yeah. Tommy, that's the thing though, dude. You're scared and you're goin' anyway. That's awesome. That's what it's about, buddy, that's what it's about. This is why Streetbike Tommy is Streetbike Tommy. Tommy, you're scared? Jeremy. Stay loose, Tommy, nice and relaxed. Confidence. - You got it, Tommy, you got it. - Hang on, buddy, hang on. Make a lot of noise for the acoustics. That was a big guy going through the air right there. It hurts so bad... Somebody get me... - Ow! - All right, I'll tow you back. - Just breathe. - Aah! Fucking shit! - Hold on. - What hurts, Tommy? - What hurts? - My motherfucking hip, dude. - Ready? - Yup. Everybody that made me do that, thank you! We had to talk Tommy into every part of that. And I'm like, "Tommy, I swear, I'll just roll onto second gear just nice and easy. " As soon as he got goin', I was like... He had the pop. He got more pop than most people. Well yeah, he had a lot of weight goin' up. Everything compressed and went... Whoo! It's like Kung Fu Panda, seriously. That was awesome, Tommy, I'm proud of you. - Our job is cool. - Right? Thank you! And you go home today with that glow instead of goin' home and not tryin'. I'm not saying... Here's the thing. Yes, it is better than drywall. But let me tell you somethin'. My job's good. Your job is good, and you're good at it. It's not just better than drywall. I mean my job's good. Yeah. I love it, Tommy. I love when you're this happy. Look at the moment. Look at the glorious moment right now. - I'm gettin' a little glazed over. - Yeah. - I'm not gonna lie. That was stressful. - You're gonna cry now. Look at the big teddy bear. I love you, buddy. - I don't like water. - I understand. Or heights, or speed, or... It all scares me. - Good job, bud. - Yeah. - Let's go get that Kobe steak. - Yeah, let's do that. - And the girls. - It hurts so good. Oh, my God! Oh, boy! - God has a mighty fist. - Yeah. - Wow, now this. Always properly lube. Oh, God! Don't do that. Don't do that. It's so tender. Streetbike Tommy. Legit. That dude is legit. Everybody knows when he launched the bike over the foam pit... Shit! No concussion? You feelin' everything? Just willing to do anything not to work. Like, I don't wanna have a job. I just wanna keep the party going for life. He knows he's gonna get hurt, whatever he gets on, you know. It's, like, gravity is not kind to Tommy. You're like, "Dude, what else can this guy do?" You know... Why is it when I show up at the set, and my name is on the roster, when I stroll up, you guys got somethin' just completely out of hand, and you think just 'cause you slap a couple funny stickers on it that I'm gonna be all pumped. What happened to the phone call last night where I was like, "Tommy, do you wanna jump a boat?" And you're like, "Hell yeah, I wanna jump a boat!" - That wasn't me. - It was you, I have a text as well. That was some other fat guy using my phone. Tommy, you're always talking about, "As long as it's got horsepower in the stunt, you're good. " Well, that's before I needed to talk to the FAA for a boat-aeroplane licence. Captain Awesome, let's turn up the heat and make this thing go! This is your moment to shine. Let's do this. Glad you're so psyched on it, Tommy. Let's go! Put this thing in the water. It is so windy. It's, like, the worst conditions imaginable. We got whitecaps breaking over here. Tom P. Is getting in, I've never seen him so nervous. He's not talked at all today. We have a jump... Everyone, in my opinion, might be a little too close, but he is comin' and I gotta go watch this. That is so rough! Get him! Get him! Get him! Get him! Get him! Get him! - Let's check your beard. - My beard good? - It's a little singed. Safe, it's safe. No, it's safe. Dude, there's no singes, bro, came out clean. Then we're good. This is the ramp setup for Vegas, so test it out, see if it works. That looked painful. - How's your head, Special? - How's your legs? We are here today to play Nitro Golf. This is a hole-in-one contest. He with the most flair, flying through the air, and getting a hole-in-one, wins. - Hands in. - I didn't agree to this. One, two, three, Nitro! Nitro Golf, round one! Fore! Okay, not so bad on the first round there. That's a mulligan. I'm goin' again. - Dusty's gonna get this. - I'm scared right now. Get in there! - That's a hole in one! - Hole in one! Dude, this is so much fun. Your turn, Special. It's possible. Now give us some flair. As bad as that went, it went really well. - Do we not have to do that any more? - That was awesome! I couldn't figure out how to get the bike straight and... All I'm sayin' is I think he got the long ball contest on that one. More push, more push, more push! - He's out. - Really? I didn't have enough club, you bastard! I needed more club! Where's my caddy? Super nervous, just so you know. This could be really good or really bad. One more time. Yeah! I'm in! I'm in the ball! I'm in the ball! Yeah, I'm in the ball! Nitro Golf rules! The winner of the first inaugural Nitro Golf, Special Greg! All right, so a few years back, I rolled seven and three-quarters time, in a rally race. Travis' crash that he had in Colorado years ago was one of the biggest crashes actually caught on film the world around. - Are you alive? I'm fine. How are you? Holy shit! That was a hell of a ride! Whoo! Today, Gregg Godfrey is gonna take a crappy Mustang, driving as fast as it'll go, hitting this ramp, and seeing how many times he can roll the car. I can't wait to watch. For Gregg to take that on, like, "Hey, I'm gonna go take what you did, and just try and beat you," is actually a really funny concept. I give him a lot of credit for the balls that it takes to actually go out and try and do that. What do you think his odds are of beating your record? I see this possibly goin' good. And by good, I mean horribly bad. I'd hit the ramp at 110. - I would... - Faster's better. - Faster's better. - Faster's better. More speed. You can't go wrong with more speed. - No you can't. - Who said that? What rule is that? - It's written. Look it up. - Yeah. It's in the rule of speed? - Yeah, look it up. - It's in the dictionary. So right now, what we're doin' is we're sittin' on the set waiting for Gregg Godfrey to have his balls drop somewhere from his throat to at least the mid part of his stomach to turn into ovaries. And then, eventually balls. So he can actually hit this jump to try to beat my record, where I didn't even intentionally crash, and he's intentionally crashing. Here we go. Wow, he is hauling the metal! This is such a bad idea. What is he thinking? - This has suddenly gotten way cooler! Why is he doing this? Now I know why he's taking so long! That's good. You gotta be crappin' yourself, man, but that looks good. You're not gonna catch air, you're gonna tumble, it's gonna be good. I'm good. I'm gonna go out and just pull me in and we'll go. Gregg, you're gonna be good, you're... This is gonna be a lot of... This is gonna be fun, man. Enjoy it. Yeah, this is gonna be fun. It's gonna be for us. I was gonna say it's gonna be a lot of fun for us. When I said it's gonna be fun, that is not gonna be fun. - What kind of a friend are you? - He's gonna get shit-whipped. It looks really fast, and it's really scary, and I would never, ever, ever intentionally flip at that speed. Having said that, if he wants to win, he's gonna have to go faster. I'm sailing away Set an open course for the virgin sea - I love how scared Godfrey is. - He is totally out of his mind over this thing. 'Cause I've got to be free Free to face the life that's ahead of me He's so nervous. I've never seen this out of him. And I'll try, oh, Lord I'll try to carry on He's all in! This is really happening. - Oh, my God! He's going really, really, really fast. Go, go, go! Boy, that was violent. That is awesome! Are you alive? - Yeah, I'm not hurt. - Yeah. You got such good air on that last jump, man. You came off that ramp so fast, and then you took off and it landed, and we're like, ah. - Did I just land on the wheels? No, it landed on the roof. I didn't think it was gonna roll at first, and then it started rollin' so fast, then you were flyin'. Wow! Godfrey, you are a nut. An absolute nut. Why would you sign up for that? - Now you tell him. - Nah, I wouldn't have signed up for it, crap. Your shoulder's hurting a little? Stand on that car. Claim it! Claim it! Yeah, Gregg! - Oh, that was violent. - I'm glad you're alive, dude. Is that the battery? - Yeah, that's the battery. As you can see, the battery's just toast. Just launched... Incredible. I'm speechless. I have no words to describe this. - That scared me. - Who does that? Who says, "I'm gonna try to roll a car as many times as I possibly can?" What an idiot! Did we get a count on the rolls yet? His entire goal was to beat seven and three-quarters. The official count... Seven! Not that I'm excited, but I kinda won. I mean, I lost, but I won. Depending on which way you wanna put that. Sorry, Gregg. Better luck next time, champ. Well, Jim and Crum, you have been specially chosen for this stunt. I'm lyin'. Nobody else wanted to do it. It's up to you guys. Godspeed. We're the last remaining stunt meat. Fly straight. All right, I'll give you $5 if Jim gets closer. Jim will go up, stall, ditch it. Crum will go up, stall, ride it all the way down to a back flop getting smooshed. Yeah. I don't think you're far off. He's comin'! He's comin'! - Oh, my God! Oh, my God! - Way too fast. He's going way, way, way... Whoa! I panned all the way there, and I had to do a couple corrections on the way, I'm like, "I'm going way, way too fast, I don't know how to slow down. " Hello? - This part where it looks... - One second, Crum, but you got all the things in place to go ahead and do this right the second time. Good luck. Why do I not feel as confident as you, Travis? Crum. He's a part-time handyman, and he doesn't give a shit. Hi, boys. He's got just enough talent to turn girls' heads, but not enough to seal the deal. He's hoping the live show will change that. Yeah! Crum! Crum, you are the first person on Nitro Circus history to bail out of something once you started at it. You're only as good as your last stunt. This actually maybe the most disappointing thing in my life was just now. - I'm disappointed in myself... - I know you are. - Let my friends down, and I let myself down. - You didn't let me down, you owe me $3. No sympathy here! Crum, the good news is you get to try this again. The bad news is the rest of the crew has no faith in you. They're drivin' away right now, they just left you. What? Sometimes, you get a second chance in life, and you gotta take it. And your friends ain't there to watch ya. Who needs friends when you got a second chance? Pain is not the word. The motor died! Halfway across the water... And I was like, "It's just not my day. " That's just embarrassing. Hi, I'm Wheelz, and I'm Jumping this big-ass ramp in my wheelchair. Trying to harness the Nitro cast before a show or stunt is pretty much like trying to herd a thousand clinically insane stray cats. Except they all have skateboards and motorcycles and they're all faster than me. Five minutes! Five minutes, goin' out there! Five minutes! No, I got fans. "Streetbike Tommy. Best of the Nitro crew. " We've had to leave the country on many occasions to get the kind of footage that's gonna make people flock to see this movie. You know that there was no strings, there was no special effects, there was no green screen, there was no nothing to say that they didn't actually do it. And, that's what you guys are doing. You're just actually doing it and saying, "All right, watch. " We just arrived in Panama City, and we're gonna start the day off with Jim trying to hydro-skim across the Nitro City pool. In true Nitro fashion, it's gonna be either really amazing, or Jim's gonna eat shit. I'm ready for either one. I call anything over baby pool good. You said that, right, officially that anything over the baby pool is me? Yes. If you and your bike make it over the baby pool, I don't have to do this. - Clear. - Yes! I have never selfishly hoped that someone has made it as bad as I hope you make this. This is probably the gnarliest hydroskim I've ever actually seen. So, good luck. Please make it so I don't have to do it. Yep. - Hey, happy trails. - Nice knowin' ya. Okay, so he's gonna come from over there, through the hotel and across the grass, and he's gonna drop eight, 10 inches onto the pool, and then he's gonna jump the little pool, land on the grass, hopefully the bike's underneath him, and then over the rocks, into the ocean, and ride away... Right. Go, go, go! Am I hurt? No good. I needed to go faster. That went as bad as it could have gone. Oh, my gosh. This little blue piece right here saved his life. Had that not been here, it would have been a back or neck cracker on this. Yeah, whoever came up with that idea, Jim owes him a thousand handshakes. Well, apparently, Trav is going to gear up right now because that was technically a fumble. - I actually don't want Travis doing this. - I agree with you, but I think he can do it. - Yeah. - That's the thing. Like, I think Trav can skim through here and get a touchdown. If he does what Jim did, Trav's goin' to the hospital. If Trav dittos what Jim did, busted shoulder, concussion... Yeah, Trav's head cannot... Yeah, he can't take it, and his shoulder will buckle. Jim didn't make the touchdown. He didn't make the field goal. And unfortunately, he didn't even make the two point conversion. On his last drive, he got the turnover. And now it's my turn. So he didn't have enough speed on the 450, and I'm gonna try it on a 250. This is the part of the show where I crash, and then Trav goes back, "It's so easy," does it, no problem. I'm gonna go have a beer, I'm not even gonna watch him. Ronald McDonald's on his bike. God, does he look stupid. Why is he wearing a diaper? Shit! I am nervous. That was insane! I can't believe it! Oh, my God! - How the hell does he do that? - I don't even know how he hung onto that. - He's such a douche. - I hate him. He's way too good at things. He's way too good. That speed was intense. I hope he gets stung by a jellyfish right now, honestly. You gotta give it to Jim, though. A, going first. B, on a bike that weighed twice as much as my bike weighed. And C, he didn't have all the goofy lookin' hockey pads. He just frickin' pinned it. And he's a durable son of a gun 'cause he landed flat on his face. And he's still alive. Thank you, Jim, again. I think a lot of times you just never expect the worst case scenario. Hey, Tommy. Ever since I've seen this stunt in an old spy movie, I've wanted a piece of it. - Where'd you get your instructions? - The Internet. We're totally safe. They don't have fear. They just don't... They're scared of stuff, but in their minds, they only think about making it. They never think of what's gonna happen if they don't. When it comes to something like flipping that car, what you guys are doing is mega sketchy. If you guys land on your wheels, I'll go nuts. I don't think you're going to, though. Just sayin'. We're the two dumbest people in this car right now Two dumbest people in this car right now My heart's nervous for them! I'm nervous as shit right now. All right, here we go! Yeah! - Oh, boy. - Moment of truth. More speed, more speed, more speed... No! Oh, shit, oh, shit, oh, shit! Jim, you all right? Jim? Are you okay? Jim, we're comin'. Stay still, buddy. We need to cut him out of this car. Let's bring him to the ground here and we'll strap him in. We're dealing with something possibly with his neck, so we gotta be really gentle as possible, okay? We're taking care of you, pal, you're gonna be all right. Getting you to the hospital. You're all set. We need to check you out. Nice work, everybody. The difficult part for any athlete is that you have a crash. If you're scared of that stuff and you think about it... When that deal happened out there with Jim, we were all scared and everybody was worried about him. He's hurt. He's really hurt. He's in a situation that most of us could be in and dread. Even when it does go wrong, these guys are mentally so strong. You know, when it goes bad, it goes bad. There's nothing you can do about it. When you fall down, you gotta get up and brush the dust off and go for it again. You can't quit. Good morning, Panama. Yet another day of Nitro Circus and we are gap-jumping tricycles and bikes over 400-foot buildings. I just remember the last shoot that we did when the Big Wheels fell apart, and the first guy that went down, the tyre fell off. Second guy that went down, the handlebars actually went all the way down. Dusty went down, the bicycle went down, and then we had a flat tyre. We've come a long way since then. - Yeah, that was five days ago. This is so stupid! God, this was such a better idea on paper. Everyone's a little worried about safety. Jeremy and I decided we'd check and see what the worst case scenario might look like, just to put everyone's mind at ease. Bombs away! And launch her. Oh, God! Holy shit. Oh, my... Oh, my God! Seems perfectly safe if anything goes wrong. Why is it everything that we do that's deadly also has to be sketchy? You think if it's deadly, it would be a perfect setup, but it's not. It's always stupid. All right, Spec, come help me. We all concur that he's so scared of not making the gap, which, granted, that's death, that he's going to go too far, in which case, that's just a broken back, so... So he's gettin' a push by Special Greg. It's a long way down. I hope he'll make it. All right, Erik. Three, two, one. Hold on, hold on... - You okay? - You all right? - That was the biggest jump ever. - Oh, my God! Man, that was so high and so far. Fill it up again! Hey, if you're gonna flip, then just go ahead and flip it. If you're not gonna flip, then we're roshamboing. I'd rather see me crash than you crash. No, we're gonna land this. I'd rather see me land than you land. I'd rather see me land than you land, so we'll roshambo for who gets the privilege... I'm already over here! All right, well just jump and meet me over here. We'll have a cocktail later. - All right. - Good luck. See, that's what you call reverse psychology. I definitely did not want to flip. I'm scared shitless even trying to jump. That worked, that worked great. Couldn't have asked for anything better. Thanks, Greg. So the plan is to go twice as high and twice as far. - Is that the plan? - That'll do better for you. That'll work, right? All right. Love you guys. Love you, pal. All right, fuck it, line it up! I am covered head to toe. You look like a homemade action figure. All right, well, rubber neck, you accidentally went too far and almost got all the way in the boxes. So Jim, let's get all the way to the boxes, man, give me a push. - And I mean a push. - All right. I can tell Travis is nervous. Because whenever he gets nervous, he's like... I can just hear him chirpin' up there like a bird. - You got him, Jim? - I'm gonna get a nice little spot right here. - You ready? - A good push. One, two, three! That was shit! We're good! What kinda push was that? Maybe if you weren't wearing Actually, that's probably a good point. I didn't think it was gonna be... Actually, I knew it was gonna be that scary. I was just fooling myself, thinking that maybe it wouldn't get done. But be careful what you ask for because Nitro Circus will give you the opportunity to do it. We're dream makers. What can I tell ya? - Makin' dreams and nightmares come true. - Mostly nightmares. Ready or not, here we come, Vegas. It is one thing to watch it on television, but live and in person, it is like seeing a UFO. You can never fully appreciate it until you see it live. We're a couple of minutes from show time, and I've never been so nervous in all my life. Go, Travis! Travis! Travis! Travis! I had no idea what the hell I was even showing up to. I just walked in the arena and it was packed. One minute! One minute! The Nitro Circus is like art. What all these guys are doing now, people aren't gonna be doing in the future. You guys keep getting doors slammed in your face because everyone feels like someone's gonna die doing these stunts. The fact that so many people did say no, makes me believe even more strongly that this is a great idea. It's been a long road comin' here, let's prove to the world that we can do this. We have 10 seconds to stop. One, two, three... Nitro! People always said that Nitro Circus couldn't work as a live show. But with this much passion... It was always gonna work. Are you kidding me? You have just seen history, Las Vegas! Will you please get loud? Will you please get vocal? Get ready to be inspired! Get on your feet! - Go Wheelz! - For Aaron "Wheelz" Fotheringham! Out of all the members of Nitro Circus, Wheelz really embodies everything that we stand for. The desire to push his own personal limits is above and beyond, and by doing so, he inspires others to live life to the fullest. I'm on my wheelchair, not in it. Being part of Nitro Circus is a great opportunity to be able to show people that nothing's impossible. They are absolutely grown kids, living their dream, doing exactly what they want to do in a way that no one's done it before.
