 

                        So this is the overwhelming Qin Army? Who is talking? General Liang from Chu It's Zhang Han here I'm going to chop your head off If you have the courage Ridiculous Kill him You are no more than this Let's go Kill them! Xiang Yu and Liu Bang's united army have conquered Yong Qiu We have seized Ding Tao county Zhang's army is forced outside They're retreating to the west We're ready for an overall attack So they won't have time to breathe But our soldiers are exhausted from chasing the Qin army The difficulty is the rain They need rest to recharge before attacking Zhang's army I agree with General Gong to stop fighting for now and wait till the weather turns It will be good for us That's a bad strategy Good weather can favor us as well as the enemy They're nothing but old soldiers Let's keep attacking them and keep them confused Bad weather keeps them off guard Most of our soldiers are too overconfident This will lead to our failure You are worrying too much He doesn't dare attack again He's figuring a way to escape That's enough of a worry for him The rain and the muddy road help to keep them away from us We wait until the weather clears to destroy them completely You are so confident Be rest assured I'll show you his head tomorrow He'll be completely discredited and will suffer once he meets me I wish you success and victory Ok Ok send out my order Battalions set out immediately He is still inside You go back to rest now Let me look after him You must be tired after today Have an early night and rest I'd like to attend to you I don't feel tired Go to sleep now so you can start off early But I can't fall asleep My uncle Xiang Don't worry. I will You go to sleep now I'll stay with you I feel anxious and nervous Do you know My parents died when I was young My uncle brought me up He's the dearest to me Uncle is kind and respectful God will bless him in safety The reinforcement army is here The army has arrived Kill them Just in time Have them all killed The situation's deteriorated What a beautiful night It's good you are here I was going to see you You're rarely in a carefree mood We are here to plead for you to send a rescue army The moon looks a bit strange It's unfavorable to us We are in the turmoil of war There aren't enough men to guard the city What assistance can we lend? Didn't he promise us to bring Zhang's head back? Assistance will mess up his plan The urgency is to guard the city His Highness sent us here to help the general Now that he is in trouble What's the use of guarding? His Highness real intention is to get a hold of the town If we give up what we already have His highness won't be happy We'll suffer the consequences Don't mention His Highness Let me ask you again Will you help the general? Please excuse me I can't defy His Highness That's fine. I'll go myself Come on Kill them General I was wrong Don't say anything You are wounded Self conceit leads to failure Somebody Somebody I Sir Withdraw the army Withdraw Yes, sir Emergent message from the King Liang is heavily wounded and has retreated to Peng The King orders all generals to meet at Peng county Pass on the order to call back the army to Peng But we'll conquer Chen Liu soon My uncle is badly wounded Get the army back to Peng Hurry Yes, sir Welcome General Xiang Is Liang back yet? He is already back How is his wound? I have no idea Let's go His Majesty gives the order Generals from all routes meet at the court immediately I must see my uncle first Ask him to wait General Get away Yes, sir Please settle down now I'll meet the King Quick! My nephew My nephew My nephew Uncle You've come back Yes I'm here to meet Your Majesty Please get up My gratitude Where's your sworn brother? Xiang... Why don't I see him here? He must miss his uncle so much He's gone to see his uncle I knew you have something urgent So I hurried here My beloved We are at a crucial juncture General Xiang ignores the order If you don't punish him he'll be like his uncle and be dangerous to the state How could Liang be dangerous? It's true he fought his way and won every victory But he's so conceited and underestimates the enemy I tried to persuade him Generals were getting careless and soldiers were inattentive while the Qin Army had been reinforced But he simply ignored this and got attacked from Qin If he had followed your advice he wouldn't have been wounded The wound is something personal This failure and the retreat has endangered the state Thanks to your judgment to move the capital to Peng and to stabilize everything It's a blessing for the state Now Xiang disobeys orders again If he's not punished our state will be in danger It's true Liang and his nephew have made the mistake But they contributed in establishing the state Most armies are their followers The punishment will fluctuate the army Let's settle things first and make plans later What a military counselor Your arrogant wisdom got my uncle badly wounded Don't be impertinent Yes, Uncle I have one favor to ask I'm from a mountain village and you appreciate me so much Whatever you command I'll give up my old life to achieve it I wish for you to assist him To press Chu against Qin Please be assured of this I've made up my mind to sacrifice my life to repay your kindness I accept him as my own nephew Kneel down to your god-father Uncle, I It's my last request and you want to disappoint me Listen to me just this once Ok, Uncle. I will My respect Please stand up I'll fight to my last breath to live up to your expectation Don't forget You're the descendent from a family of honor Uncle, Uncle General Uncle Uncle General Uncle Uncle, I swear to Heaven I'll kill Zhang Han and take his head here as a sacrifice to your soul An ambitious man should bear the unbearable You'll stand out one day Even if the heaven falls you should be able to stand I owe so much favor to Liang I'll go all out to assist you to achieve his wishes I'll take out Zhang Han to peel him, to decompose him to revenge you You are so up straight Liang would show his gratitude in heaven I'm doing my duty Xiang's so disrespectful He's been here many days and doesn't show up He holds the funeral privately with total disregard He simply ignores Your Majesty It's such an atrocity He's gone too far Xiang's family has strong family ties with the army If Xiang takes the military power he'll endanger your position I'd like to ask for leave Yi My nephew Please dissuade him I have no way out This is to relieve the wine I'll come see you the morning Please wait a minute Yi Please don't blame him He's very depressed I apologize on his behalf I understand Please dissuade him anyway This is a critical time The responsibility lies on him I tried everything Anything you know will help? He's got a knot in his heart To undo it, he has to eliminate his depression He should cry his heart out This is from your god-father Please drink it I won't accept his offering Now stop bothering me this I'll return the bowl and tell him you had it in return for his kindness You don't have to do that Liang's been winning every victory Why was he defeated in Ding Tao? He must have gotten careless to underestimate the enemy Zhang is never a mere nobody We should be careful with him Yes Zhang is really tough but Liang was never worse It must be the Qin army that assisted Zhang The Qin army is heroic and fearless Not like Zhang's useless troop of captive-turned soldiers There must be a reason he failed Liang's death will change things We should be very careful Well said The situation in Chu will change They have the King up there Assisted by Xiang and Fan and Chen Ying and Lu Chen We should have a safe route to avoid blind death Xiang should be the successor But he's too irrational And has newly lost his uncle lt'll be hard to recover soon And the King's trip to Peng is in fact to get military power rather than moving the capital Things will be settled soon The King is sure to take action to achieve something stable He's right Some only want a shelter Some seek support As for me I have you as real brothers I need not yield to a king But this is too good to pass up Xiang Uncle Xiang So you don't want a woman? How do you know that? When you want a woman your mouth waters unlike your frowning now Mouth watering? That's too much I never interfered before but things are different now What's different? Bullshit You were right to rely on Liang But now Liang's collapsed You're now a hair in Xiang's hand completely different than before I didn't expect you to be concerned with my affairs Of course I am I'm not married to a nobody I have followed Liang all the time and naturally follow Xiang now Whatever it is But Xiang's not as prestigious The King wouldn't want to be a puppet Song and Chen will take the chance to persuade the King to get the power back But from my point of view Xiang won't hold out long But I owe Liang a lot of favors But favors die with the person What even if they are in power? You should know that They'll use their own relatives You are not from their family Good Evening You are here just in time Please take a walk with me May I know where you are going? That's a good question I've lost my way really You are open and determined How can you lose your way? When I was back in hometown I had only a dozen people Even if I messed up Ten days in jail, it's settled It's completely different now I have a big army If I make any mistakes How can I face my brothers? I'm so much baffled Not sure what to do You are virtuous I admire you fully Thanks With the present situation you have two options Not hard to decide on which one What options? Here are two roads for example This one leads to Xiang's camp This one leads to King's Palace Which one would you take? We have bright moonlight but this road is not cleared I'd take the bright road Good choice Anything you'd like to talk? I'll introduce someone to you What? In the wilderness? To meet someone? This way I'm here to show my respect Please take it easy If you have anything for me I'll visit you in person Won't bother you to come here I have deep respect for you two gentlemen I'm pleased to meet you both Due to the confusion of the Chu we don't want to embarrass you It's better to meet you here You are so considerate No wonder you are in such important position Chu needs to be put back in order I admire your talent and with the assistance of Zi Fang you're sure to achieve success I was born a plain civilian never to expect such achievement Royalty and Filiety are my soul obligations I can sacrifice my humble life to fulfill my obligations Please get up I'm pleased to have you all here Due to the death of Liang And because our rival army Qin is quite strong We need to set up a new order to be able to defeat them Do you have any suggestions? This is my decree Kneel down to show respect God bless the King's decree I look exalted but I'm worried for the common state's revival To fight Qin, the most urgent is to regulate our state I hereby appoint Liu Bang the prefect of Shang with the title of Wu An to head the shire of Shang Grant Xiang the title of Chang An to head the army at west Peng I hereby appoint Lu to head the army at east Peng Follow your assigned duties I bless you with gratitude Our gratitude to Your Majesty Please get up Please claim your authority signet I, a humble civilian get appointed such high position should sacrifice myself to repay your favor That's too much My gratitude to Your Majesty I'll reward those and punish those accordingly Priority is to resist the Qin I'd like to make a deed Whoever gets hold of Guanzhong the capital of Qin will be the King of Guanzhong I swear not to renege on this We'll put forth our effort Excellent I'll be the King of Guanzhong King of Guanzhong King of Guanzhong Liu is indeed a man of grandeur Liang, for some reason was a bit doubtful of him I wanted to keep his services But that's not his ambition He's only the King's chess piece But so is the King of his Xiang's family has him as the King merely out of justification but it fuels Liu's ambition not favorable at all for Xiang Guanzhong is the main Qin issue And the Guanzhong deed is crucial While Zhang and Wang are attacking Zhao We march west to grab Guanzhong before they can return We'll set our base at Guanzhong to further deal with Zhang As for the state of Chu the Army will follow Xiang and then we'll be very strong Zhao has asked for assistance What's the situation? Zhang's crossed the Yellow River and is drawing near to Zhao The King of Zhao is surrounded They've asked for help Conquering Zhao will take a while Let's chance it, and march west You must remember to request from the King to get Liu to save Zhao We can then take the chance to get Guanzhong to settle it Here's His Majesty Respect to Your Majesty Any business? Zhao's in danger of Qin's attack I'm willing to save Zhao They asked for assistance yesterday I'm considering who'll go Now that you have the petition and are clear of my intention It's called assistance it's actually a confrontation Be well prepared for a victory Minister Song will be the chief general Xiang will be the hypo-general with Fan as assistant general These are your orders to cooperate to save Zhao We understand the order Go back for preparations Yes. Your Majesty God helps Your Majesty Even Liang was not Zhang's rival Xiang's really asking for trouble Your Majesty will soon take the control Minister Song Yes, Your Majesty The fight with Zhang's Army Have Xiang as the pioneer He'll head the charge Zhang's army is still far It's easy to get Guanzhong Why should we pick the tough one? Even if we get Guanzhong We still need to fight with Zhang Better sooner than later But while we fight with Zhang Guanzhong can be overtaken It's as if we're handing it over Especially that Liu Bang I want to revenge my uncle Even if someone attacks Guanzhong it's not so simple We can wait until I kill Zhang and return to attack Guanzhong Liu is merely a wild one He's not up for this task yet But Song's the chief general We should guard against them Song's a mere nobody Let's go to help I'd like to confront Zhang to test his abilities That Zhang is brainless Follow my orders Pack up your stuff Be prepared How can you do that? We are getting into Guanzhong soon He is right It's not an impossibility Keep this very confidential so Xiang won't be suspicious We are all ready We can start any time Good Yi Yes You should stay here what What did you say? I can't take you with me What? Take good care of her But you said you'd be with me and never depart without me Didn't you say that? But this is an exception No Quick! Quick! Come back early He'll have a fierce fight An Yang When will we confront them? They are suffering from hunger How can they fight? You should think of a solution It's been more than forty days They are unfit for combat Come on and drink General Xiang requests you Got it Get off Yes, sir Chief General What's that? We've been stuck here for forty six days So what? Qin Army is attacking Julu Zhao's in great danger We should cross the river to mount an attack and conquer Qin It won't work Qin has four hundred thousand We only have one hundred thousand That's a great disparity We need to maintain our forces Even if Qin wins over Zhao Qin will have decreased and we can take advantage If Qin fails we can then mount a charge to attack from behind Now we should take no action We can just watch them fight I'm not that good in combat But I'm excellent in strategy That's very reasonable No point to take the risk You're the one who has the foresight Since we've confirmed the plan let's go back to rest Xiang is straightforward He also bears hatred for Zhang He can easily have a rebellion I'm forcing him to So I can use it as an excuse to get rid of him Then I can take over his army smoothly and successfully Is this decree from His Majesty? In such turmoil one should think for oneself The King is not what he used to be He's got his own plan And we should also have a plan Give out the order tomorrow All soldiers must be ferocious and as venomous as possible Anybody who dares disobey will be sentenced to death This will set Xiang up Any mishap can lead to disaster We should wait Can't wait any more What does he take me for? But he's sent by His Majesty He's more superior than you What can we do about him? Let's wait for a better chance I don't care who he is Whoever prevents my attack is my enemy We feel the same as you do But we need to hold back and make another plan Song's despises us already Any hasty action you take will give him a good excuse If he proposes to the throne how do we cope with that? Orders cannot be breached We should forebear it Who cares about the damn King? Can he rule without me? Song is nothing but his dog Don't talk like this in future Why not? It's true Even if it's true wise men play things by ear The King trusts Song and Song's also ambitious If you confront him and annoy the King all our efforts will be wasted We need to be steady and sure and keep our strength He's completely right We wait for a better chance to revenge Liang We'll fight all out for that No more talking I'll wait a few days then I hope they don't corner me I swear to the Heavens Anybody who stops my revenge even if he's a heavenly dragon I'll rip him apart into shreds The army has settled down to wait for the opportunity His Majesty, I'm here to report News of victory will soon arrive Off with you now Yes sir What are Song's intentions? He's been out so long What's he waiting for? Has he changed his mind? He's been faithful to me experienced and prudent We don't need to worry But... Be patient Just wait for his victory Fill it Come on Drink and be relaxed Come on drink Come on Fill their cups Here's General Xiang Get on them Kill them We can always talk, General No more bullshit Here's the traitor's head The mission is accomplished You've done a great job I'll request that you be rewarded My gratitude Here's His Majesty's decree The Qin sovereign's cruel I'm from the Big Chu My people are suffering We should unite to resist Qin Song as the chief general is afraid of death himself He is scared of Qin army but longs for glorious victory He even conspired with Qi and put his son as minister there He disobeyed my order refused to assist Zhao I now order Xiang to kill him No disobedience allowed What Song has done is totally disgusting I've been ordered to kill him We are all off spring of Chu We can't forget the humiliation of losing our state We must share the bitter hatred to repay His Majesty's kindness by reviving Chu You always have our admiration We'll follow you to our death to conquer Qin to revive Chu I'll lead in this attack We all follow you Go and restore your troops and wait for the order to attack Qin Yes, sir Zhong Yes, sir Zhong Half of the plan's accomplished You'll carry out the next I'm at your disposal Go report to the King that Song's committed treason being unfaithful to His Majesty Xiang's killed the traitors He should be appointed chief general Do you understand? Yes I do Hurry up Yes sir God father... Anything you want to say? I'll treat you as my uncle I'm your nephew Excuse all previous disrespect It's all in the past Don't mention it any more I'm very grateful Your well-thought out plan fulfilled my wish. Thank you Don't mention that You will have a fiercer fight You can't neglect it Zhang's threatening quite cunning and experienced He has the most powerful army You should be very careful He's not an easy nut to crack I fear nothing Even if he's made of metal I'm going to remove his head and sacrifice it to my uncle I heard that just now Xiang has killed Song Song has His Majesty's decree but conspired with Qi His son is Qi's minister He withheld for forty six days Not to send assistance to Zhao and indulged himself in fun didn't care for the soldiers They have committed treason Xiang's faithful to Your Majesty He's killed them What? He's killed them That's outrageous It's completely true Song's been very faithful to me considerate and experienced He must have his own plan Xiang is under Song He should follow instructions Please investigate this Song's intention was clear Killing him was wise No more talking Xiang must have played a trick He's bodacious and inexcusable It's true he acted before permission It's absolutely not sober enough But defending Qin is our priority Be cautious and pardon Xiang He's completely right He's from Xiang's family Punishment will disrupt the army But how do we handle this issue? Song's killed and dead anyway Why not entrust the Army to Xiang? Instead of punishing him you promote him He'll be grateful to you and go all out to serve you Zhong Here I am Go back to tell Xiang I appoint him chief general Order him to attack Zhang now to make up for his guilt I obey your command Xiang's appointed chief general to fight against Zhang It's a disadvantage to us It's true we won a battle against Qin army in Cheng Wu But we are still slow in action If we go on like this Xiang will take the chance I didn't expect Xiang to be so swift in his actions Give out the order Start the march to Guanzhong tomorrow We'll do it at once All the gods up in Heaven I hereby prey to you Bless my man with victory and return them back safely Come back to me safely I hear Xiang's killed Song He's so audacious He doesn't know who he is He's killed Song Song was appointed by the King The King will hold a grudge He's too irrational There's a faction in the army before the Chu start fighting They are already losing That's a military taboo With his few thousands he wants to fight with us It's like an egg versus a rock You are absolutely right It's easy to defeat Xiang If he dares to show himself I'll send him to his uncle so they can unite in Heaven We'll attack Qin lt'll be three days to arrive We are in an inferior position and they outnumber us greatly in military forces This is a fierce battle What is more all states are watching us fight so they can reap the rewards We can't wait any more The Army's in a fighting spirit They share our bitter hatred They demoralize with no action Let's make use of their spirit What's your plan then? March forward No way to retreat Zhang's Army is across the river They have four hundred thousand We're only one hundred thousand lt'll be a fierce battle What I want to tell you is we are not to lose our lives but we will seek revenge for our ancestors who died miserably by their rule We will shed our last blood before we will ever retreat Never retreat never retreat never retreat never retreat Now listen to me Get onto the boats Attack Julu Have a deadly fight They're more powerful than us We're at a point of life-and-death We need a quick battle Give out my order Bring three days food Smash all the bowls Sink all the boats There's no turning back This is real war Qin camp outside Julu This is no child's play You can sink your boats You can't multiple your army You drive a dog to a corner he'll spring forth to bite He's desperate now Dangerous at risk of their lives They only have three days food I'll see how long he can sustain They've surrounded the field That's a huge battle field We have to stay in one spot and centralize the strength Always strike the vulnerable spot But where's the spot? Ying Bu Yes, sir You take thirty thousand to raid the ferry and block the reinforcement We'll attack both sides to smash the Qin army in one day Command understood All the rest follow me We divide into three parts Zhong Here I am You take ten thousand men Yes Chief General Ji Bu Yes, sir You take ten thousand men Yes, sir Long Yes, sir will follow you Yes sir Let's start immediately After you carry out your part come to join us in Julu We'll give them a quick blow Yes, General Kill them all Withdraw quickly Charge! Surrenders, spare from death All resisting, kill Where's the Chu army? Their camp's thirty miles away What? Chu Army's cut off our path Reinforcements can't get through Didn't expect him to be so quick Can't neglect him Wang Yes Take two hundred thousand men to fight Xiang His forty thousand won't last long Yes Charge! Kill them! Charge! Withdraw! We demolished another two camps Beautifully done! You use the retreated Qin soldiers as your cover to gave them a sudden blow You are so wise You see thru my tricks That's settled Ji Bu Yes You take a short break Yes Zhong Yes, General Send your men for another attack Give them a back thrust Yes, sir Let's go You should take a break too Killing is when I'm at my best I can still kill hundreds more Your turn will come later Follow me Don't worry When he's facing the enemy He's like a god of battle I've never seen such a fighter You are born an overlord! Xiang's drawing near No retreat! Get them! Kill them! Kill them! Kill them! Kill them! This is insanity This is no battle field This is hell They don't want their lives Where's General Zhong? Don't worry I'm coming You are wounded It doesn't matter I can go for 300 more rounds But you had a lot of rounds Let me get onto it and bring back a general's head Good Good I don't feel tired I won't stop until their death Follow me close Yes Follow me Yes Prove to the world you are the god of battle You are the invincible fighter Kill them! We are losing the battle! You fought 9 rounds already Qing army's completely collapsed We should launch an overall attack Who'll follow me to square up? I will I will I will The whole army follows me! Ji Bu Yes You charge on the left Yes Long Yes You charge on the right Yes Zhong Block their route of retreat Yes We'll use their blood to color our armour We'll never turn back Kill them! Kill them! If you see me from heaven you can be gratified The world is ours now Chu army Chu army Chu army Chu army's pressing up They are pressing up Run quickly Run now Run quickly You can't run away Runaways will be killed Anybody retreating will be killed You'll get paid one thousand if you march forward You get paid ten thousand if you kill a general Kill them Charge They are charging. Run quickly Run quickly No escape. No withdrawal No escape. No withdrawal Town of Julu I'm here to see Your Majesty What's it like outside? Overwhelming yelling and screaming Qin's army must have charged into the town It's Chu army that defeated Qin Qin's army has been defeated I request Your Majesty send troops We and Chu can attack Qin's army How big is Xiang's army? About fifty thousand Fifty thousand? Where are the 200 thousand Qin? There's no time for hesitation Chu's putting one against ten Half of Qin are wounded or dead They are so scared of Chu They are very fragile now If that's the case you take the army to break in Yes. Command understood We've lost Julu Two generals were taken captive The army has collapsed All other states join Xiang n attacking us Our respect to you You are a legend We admire you greatly Three thousand from Wei to join you to resist Qin I've been expecting you Thanks for your assistance to rescue me from the besiege I'm so grateful to you Please go in for a chat All right Please Are you convinced or not? I'm completely convinced We can't fight any more To fight with a real hero the failure won't bring shame to my name You are the real hero I admire you He deserves a big funeral Yes Chief General Whether to accept your surrender I need to ask my uncle in Heaven Kneel down Kneel down I know you'll kill me I 'm not scared of death I thought you were too heroic to fiddle with such small things I'm a mere loser, but But you fought to revenge your uncle You got on the wrong person You murdered my uncle What have you got to say? Yes. I killed your uncle But on a battle field either side should die Whoever killed your uncle was ordered by the Qin Emperor The real murderer is the Qin Emperor, not me Whatever you say you must die today One day I'll exterminate Qin Be at rest now Don't worry about the rest For the Big Chu, March on March on Kill. Kill
