 

                        Put them all there! Captain, we found this one. Shout: "Long Live the King". Hang him! Burn everything! CILENTO, KINGDOM OF THE TWO SICILIES Lazy bums! Get moving! - Where are you going? - Runnin', pa. Mom! There are men on the beach. - What do they want? - They want you. - Who are they? - The Capozzolis. The Capozzoli brothers? Good lord! I need the overseer, where is he? In the olive grove. Get your father, Salvatore. Wait here. Lady Maria, you're giving all this money to them? - Let me do this, Saverio. - As you wish. Farewell, Lady Maria, and thank you. If the soldiers burn our town too? They won't, no one knows we're here. Excuse me, sir, Lawyer Cucco is here with Doctor Pinto. - Where are the Capozzolis? - They've vanished. If the police find it and read our signatures, we're done for! That proclamation is too extreme, I told you. Asking for a Constitution and aid from France, you can't do that! We have to take a step at a time. We never should have trusted them. We'll meet this evening at the usual place. No, with all the gendarmes around, the rectory isn't safe anymore. Come on in. When my father died, this door was painted black, since then it's not been opened. Today Mom unlocked it and said: "Go in". Look! Salt. Give it here, it's French. The Travels of Pythagoras. A philosopher from here. Zeno was from here. The sect used to meet here. - Now where? - I don't know. I do: at the rectory. Why don't we go too? They're not there now, they're not meeting for a while. But there's something you can do. What? Go and get the proclamation. The one read to the people. If the police find it, the sect is done. Why him? He's one of them, we aren't. Sarraino won't give it to us. Say the Capozzolis sent you. But it's not true. The proclamation has to be burned. So, you got the courage or not? - Yeah. - It's for tonight. But the town was just burned down. - See, you're scared! - I'm not. I'll go tonight. I told you over and over not to hang around those two. Know who the men in the boat were? Bandits, murderers and brigands. People who had to hide... No, they're Carbonaris, Jacobins... You're wretched! You don't understand a thing. You just parrot the words. You're in with the gentry. You take after 'em! They're Jacobins in Paris but here... Let me bite my tongue. No, actually... I'll show you. Come with me. Take yourjacket. - Evenin'. - Evenin'. Go inside. Keep moving. Lift that stone. Lift it! See where a part of the oil goes? - Where? - Take a good look. Understand? The gentry steal from farmers even the miserable amount of oil they sweat a day's work for. But since I run the olive press and I'm their right-hand man, our family gets some. - Not true. - Smarten up! The gentry, those Jacobins, are people who rob the poor! You've studied, because we're rich now. But your father was born a peasant, never forget that. Watch it. If you talk about this secret, I'll kill you. Quiet, come in. Take this paper. Wait outside, I'll bring you a gun. "This impoverished people," "moved by harsh, positive desperation," "is here today to ask" "the good government of the Constitution of France..." If anyone sees you, shoot. Leave by the lower path. Hide that paper. Ready! Aim! Fire! Chop the others off too, for all the towns around here. Let it be a warning to them! This is how they'll end up... all the King's enemies! Long Live the King! I give my name to Giovine Italia, an association of men holding the same faith, and I swear to consecrate myself to constitute a nation, Italy which is One, Independent, Free, a Republic, and to carry out the instructions given to me in the spirit of Giovine Italia, by men like myself, who represent the union of brothers, and to keep its secrets, even at the cost of my life. I do so swear, invoking upon me, the wrath of God, the abomination of men, the infamy of perjury if I betray all or part of my oath. I give my name to Giovine Italia, an association of men holding the same faith... I give my name to Giovine Italia, an association of men holding the same faith... Ladies and gentlemen, may we have silence, please. PARIS Thank you. Vincenzo Bellini has been engaged by the Paris Opera House. The French may be forgiven their volubility. Now they will tire of Constitutional Monarchy, as they did of Absolute Monarchy and then the Republic in all forms, then the Empire, then the Monarchy... For us Italians, it is not amusing. Our liberation depends on the French nation. One day it will see it is unworthy of such a mission and will change its ways. It will be what it should have been and what we hope it will be. Never fear, as always, France will come to Italy's aid. Marquis, France has only aided us when our ruin forestalled its own. We have no debts of gratitude. And we'll not accept a graciously granted freedom. What a sharp tongue! Let's now hear our friend's music. She's an extremely seductive creature. You can hope for a gallant adventure, but don't fall in love. She's seductive, but denies herself at the crucial moment. Might she have syphilis? With the lives she and her husband led, it's the least to expect! It's time, let's go. Here you are, Baron! Princess, these are my friends. We're friends of Mr... Filippo Strozzi. Let's speak Italian then. Your Mr. Strozzi imbues us with hope that one day we'll be part of the same nation, we who speak the same language. It's precisely this we love about him, isn't it? The inspired faith of Mazzini. Most of Europe's police forces know that Filippo Strozzi is Mazzini's code name. You run no risk in this house, nor does he. Tell me. Three years ago you generously financed the attempted insurrection of the Sect of True Italians. - And I should finance this idea of Mazzini's too. - Yes. Wasn't that defeat enough? The True Italians are a sect of rogues, we despise them. They are ridiculous compared to Mazzini's plan! Sects, secret societies, conventicles don't aid our cause. There are few of you and you're quarrelsome, ponder it well. The most important thing is to have faith. - In God? - In the people! Do you know any plebeians, apart your farmers and servants, who certainly won't open their hearts to you? You have the look of gentry, you own lands. Yes, especially olive groves. Our friend is in Giovine Italia and he's a peasant's son. We'll be giving him the money we collect in France. I see, wait a moment. Shut up, those are secrets. Here, read this. This was put on the facade of my building in Milan. Even if I wanted to, I'm unable to give you any money. The Austrian governor hinders the access to my patrimony. You must regain possession, for yourself and for our cause. I have no faith in this expedition. But I'll have you meet someone who can help you. Not to please Mazzini, who spreads bad rumors about me, but for the passion I read in your eyes. Come with me, I'll introduce you to Marquis Rosales. Paris, huh? - What do you do in Paris? - We work with a physician. - Why are you going to Turin? - We're looking for squill. It's an herb needed for an expensive medicine. The purest anywhere is near Turin. Let's go. Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. TURIN - Salvatore, Rosa's coming up. - Alright. Did you get it all? - All set, you'll sew that yourselves? - Sure. Get moving. Salvatore, how do you like it here? - Not bad. - And Rosa? She's getting used to it, she may have a job with a milliner. Then she might like this. It's a gift from Paris. Thank you, Angelo. It's very elegant. I don't know... There. Never forget, we're brothers. How've you dressed my Salvatore? Looks like a ladies' man, huh? - Did I cut the squill right? - Yes. We prepared it like you said. - The doctor in Paris will be glad. - I'll set the table. - Don't, we're leaving right away. - Won't you stay a while? - I made 'cavatielli' pasta. - Stay a bit longer. No, the council thinks it's not wise, we'll go to the designated Inn and leave tomorrow at dawn. - Martyrdom. - Resurrection. Mr. Tambasco, this brother comes from Parma, his name's Antonio Gallenga, but we'll call him Procida, listen to him carefully. He wants to make an attempt on the Savoy King's life. Carlo Alberto? He can't deceive liberals, and then hunt and execute them. Carlo Alberto must die and I'll die with him. There's no other way to get close and stab him in the heart. I've studied my plan well. - What does Mazzini say? - I met him in Geneva. He gave me the name of Procida. He got me a false passport to get to Turin and he put me in contact with your council as my base. - What should I do? - Procida needs a weapon. - He wants to stab him. - In fact, he needs a dagger. It's impossible to get a weapon in Turin at the moment. What should I do? Steal a knife from a kitchen? I said it was impossible in Turin. Go to Mazzini in Geneva and he'll give you a dagger. - Why doesn't he go? - He's too well-known. Besides, the council wants a third brother to receive what will become a seal. You've just arrived, the police don't know you. - But I still have to receive... - Trust. Carlo Alberto's death will fire our uprising, all our efforts will be given an extraordinary boost. This is your passport, you'll leave tomorrow. It's an outrage. They're ridiculing the King! The King in a brothel... This play is immoral! Just like "Hernani"! We want verses, not this trash! They're interrupting again? With the excuse of Classicism, they want to stop all progress! Here's the real poetry. Wig-wearers! Close the curtain! - Brigands! - Yes, and proud of it. Call the gendarmes! Let them continue! Let them act! Respect the actors' work. Stop! Let them act! GENEVA Have a seat, Tambasco. Would you like tea? No, thank you, I must leave right away. So, how are preparations going in Turin? Sir, there are few of us, and the police are everywhere. Sometimes I'm afraid to talk to the other brothers, I'm not sure I can trust them. Don't worry, the councils are under my authority. Keep fear under control, it can be dangerous. Look at Procida. Men like him should give us courage. When my fraternal friend here presented his project to me, I objected, argued. I tried all I could to dissuade him. But that boy isn't afraid of dying. He is one whose determination stands between God and conscience, and whom Providence puts on earth to teach despots their power can end by the hand of a single man. I suffer thinking of our friend's sacrifice, but I know, in this way, he'll begin a second life, not only in Heaven, but also among men. He knows this and it is a thought which will comfort him as he dies. Ours is a rough road. You know, they jailed my dearest friend to force him to betray me. He said nothing and as soon as he was alone he broke a piece of metal from the door, sharpened it and cut his jugular. The guards found him in a pool of blood. He died despairing of men and without being stirred to revenge by any word of mine. His corpse is always before my eyes. Go, my friend, the road is rough, but the reward is bright. May God be with you. May I see it? - It's barely sketched. - Please. You really don't deserve it. For my playing? For the way ideas play in your head. No one has ever drawn my portrait. The expedition to Savoy will fail, Mazzini recruits rich middle-class. Class conflict is necessary. Mazzini wants no terror or blood. But he had two spies murdered! They were surely plebeians, Mazzini doesn't spill blue blood. Why do you insist with this story? We know the police spread this rumor. He didn't have those spies killed. What harm would it have been? It's a crime against all law. The law? I damn the law. Laws on property, who cares? We don't own anything! Laws on justice? To defend what? Laws on freedom? Without work, tomorrow we're dead. Revolution or nothing. Domenico, there's no equality without revolution! So what about fraternity, freedom? A betrayer is no brother. Our political and moral creed... I'd almost say a religious creed, is expressed in just one word. Equality! Equality of political rights. Our final and permanent objective: equality of social condition. That's our battle. We could experiment, unite the farmers to cultivate farmland together. They haven't enough brains for these experiments! Alright, but for all the problems brought to bear on the farmers of lower Lombardy, the landowner could be of help, looking into what happens on his land! Examining renters contracts to obtain more regard for the poor. Possessing lands can't include such hassles! It must! Are landowners limited only to the possession of State bonds? "May the spice of our kindness" "be not such grave torments," "but mild distain and mild refusal," "fights and wars to be followed," "restoring the heart," "by either peace or respite." Thank you for staying with me so late. I was very depressed. I understand you. If men of such distinction are indifferent to the farmers... One must live among the farmers, something none of them do. The inert find it hard to lift a finger and inertia is a filthy sore! When Angelo and I arrived in Paris, the revolution felt in the air. There was a fervor, an excitement... I don't know why, but weeks are passing, months and the goal seems more distant. We aren't made for deceit and truth at the same time. Little by little we tire of the cold we find in what appears to be ardent and bright. The fault is within ourselves, but we don't realize it. In calling illusion, truth and truth, illusion, we let ourselves be transported by the stream without looking back. I'll let you rest, you must be tired. - Good night, Cristina. - Good night. See if he's in there. - Well? - He's not. Let's go. - Well? - He's not inside. In fact, the hearth is cold. Did you look in the barn? - Nothing. - Let's look in the hay loft. Damned Gallenga! Where can he be? - He must be around here. - He knew he shouldn't be seen. Call him! I have something to tell you. I'm expecting a baby. I have to talk to you. Not even my wife should know these things, but I can't stand it anymore, I have to tell someone. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. With this, it's 30,000. So you met Mazzini? Quiet! He's a very rigorous man, but we can't talk here, Rosa mustn't know. Salvatore, are you scared? No, I would be if we were attacking the ships in Genoa, or going to fight at the border. - There'll be fighting in Turin too. - It'll never happen. No fighting either in Genoa or at the border. First, we were supposed to leave in October, to do a blitz. Then in November, then December, meantime the General was gambling the expedition money away. This is February, the police knows everything by now, there are spies everywhere, anyone can betray you. And then there's Gallenga. Mazzini was convinced he'd kill Carlo Alberto. How did it go? Gallenga shuffled around, saying he had to perfect the plan, meantime he went around boasting what he was planning. - Quiet! - So the plan became known. The council got him a house in the country where he stayed a few weeks and then disappeared. Everybody's disappearing, of the 1 ,200 who should be in the expedition, there's now less than half. - What are you saying? The Swiss police caught the Poles and seized the weapons and the German volunteers were broken up before they could unite. - How do you know all this? - I told you, it's all out! - There are spies everywhere! - The spies talk to you? The spies spread the news they want. It must be a tactic, they're hiding daylight, it's all false. I don't believe it! We have to wait and see. We'll see. Let's pass down under here. Hold it. Here are the weapons. Are they all there? What, don't you trust me? Want to count them? No, let's get out of here. He was very touched while telling me his story. Just listen to it, it's such an incredible story. If you want some more, sir... This story is really incredible, no jokes. - As soon as he goes out... - Where is he going? It's you? You scared me. Tomorrow we burn Savoy and the fire will spread to all of Europe! - You're drunk. - I'm drunk with joy. Kiss me. Where are you? Come here! Let's stay together! Sir. General Ramorino said the expedition is over. He's given orders to the troops to break up and go home. Where is he? I must speak to him. He left over an hour ago. Damn him! Do you intend to give me the amount I ask, or not? I don't intend to. Princess, you have an income of 600,000 lire at your disposal. Where did you get this ridiculous information? From my maid? I won't give you anything, Angelo, your insurrection failed. Doesn't your father send you money from the income of your land? If you think you can arm these men, pay from your own pocket. My father stopped sending me money, his excuse is the crops got destroyed. But I'm not going back. And you won't help me. The Belgiojoso school! - What do you mean? - There's immorality in Milan. The Belgiojoso school's responsible. You people from Lombardy don't have the Republic at heart. The truth is, I strive for a government guided by a beggar's son, I strive for democracy, the only one worth risking a revolution for. But to found a democratic government, wanting it isn't enough, the people must be ready. Educating a people isn't done in a day! It takes time and energy. But you and those bloodthirsty ones seducing you insist on a dagger to free a people who'll never follow you because they don't understand you! - No! The first effect of the revolution will be to split wealth in equal parts for all. Although ignorant, they'll rise up, at least out of selfishness. And then what will they do with this revolution? You can't tell a people you're free, you must say: "Here are the boundaries between slavery and freedom." You have to spread light in their minds. Make them aware of their rights and duties. Princess... do you think you know more than Charles Teste, Voyer d'Argenson, Auguste Blanqui? I have no definite certainties, Mr. Angelo Cammarota. When I use the word "believe" I'm expressing hope. But I can't stand you an instant more repeating the words of that Bernard and of his teachers, as if they were... I despise you, Angelo. But be aware that these friends of yours undermined the expedition through doubt and sarcasm. Traitors undermined it! I was mistaken about you, Angelo. Farewell. - What's his name? - Saverio. Like the overseer, may he rest in peace. Cheers! I'm happy you're here too. The Lord is merciful, He always sends nice gifts. I'm glad to see you. May God bless the earth you tread, but, remember, only good deeds. Father Carlo, you know I have my own ideas. But there aren't just atheists in our family, take Carmine for instance. Domenico too has dedicated himself to a good cause. Yes, but some give with joy, like Carmine. And that's their reward, because through those hands, God speaks to us. Through those eyes, He smiles upon the earth. But there's lots of anger here too. Anyway, today's a day of feasting. And Carmine will make a good priest. Could I taste a little wine then? Salvatore, you didn't offer any wine to Father Carlo? - They didn't give you a drink! - To Saverio's health. Angelo, what are you doing there? - Come dance with us? - No. Look what you've come to! Don't be so unsociable! Arduino, which one's your girlfriend? I'll introduce her. Come on, let's dance. Let's see if you can dance. Leave her alone, are you nuts? - Back off, leave him alone. - I ask your forgiveness! See why I don't dance? - Because you're bigots. - Shut up, Angelo, go away. Domenico, take Angelo away! Come here, you stop too! Play! - Nice party! - Get out of here! Come on, play! Dance! All of you dance! Dance! You spent two years in poverty while they were living high and now you let them ruin your son's party! You're wretched! May I? Come on in, Angelo. Nice party. Thank you. I thank your mother, she was very generous. Did you see all the beautiful fruit she sent? So, you're staying here and doing your father's job? That's how it goes, it's best this way. I'm the only one left to support my whole family. The new overseer. Did you see the council about it? - No. - I know. They asked me to explain your behavior. What is it, are you my keeper? If I were, I wouldn't let you hide when there's a need to fight! - What? - I know everything. You were in with the dirtiest spies in Turin! - You don't know a thing! - You've disgraced our group! - You're a traitor! - You're false and a liar! You've always despised me, but now I despise you! Come here, my Lord Angelo. Want to see something? Look here. Do we abolish this? Start a revolution right here? - What is it? - Don't you know? Don't you know your families steal oil from the farmers? If you don't know, I'll tell you, the overseer will tell you. You bastard! - I did it. - What? Salvatore was a spy, a traitor. He sold out to the police, he's been punished. You're insane. Mercy is the weapon of cowards, history must see them as cowards, betrayers, traitors like that rat! An exemplary punishment was needed. Revolutionary virtue is ruthless! Mazzini would never have allowed such infamy. - He'd have struck the first blow! - No. This is no infamy, it's an act ofjustice. We made an oath. Don't forget that. Give me a clean shirt, I have to leave right away. When even your hopes have been dashed, not seven times, but seventy times seven, never repudiate hope. When an attempt is made without success, we must look around, look within ourselves and reflect carefully. Discover and admit the mistakes made and see where they came from. Look for ways to put things right. Then start again from the beginning and a third time and a fourth, until you achieve it. Ours is a war, a deadly war, which has been fought for years, for centuries, and you think you'll win it with the first battle. Search them and put their things here. "I heard nothing more about Angelo," "but during these years of conspiracy I've always thought of you, Cristina." "News reached me about your contribution to the Roman Republic," "about the hospitals you've organized" "for the volunteers wounded in battle," "and about the joy in the eyes of those boys." "The Republic in Rome, the Pope fleeing with his court of bishops," "Mazzini proclaiming universal suffrage," "the lands handed over to the farmers." "We couldn't have imagined anything more grand." "Italy was coming to being, Cristina." "We would become a united Italy, free, republican, democratic." "I had set out to reach Garibaldi's army," "but I was ambushed." "I fled and almost at the border, I was arrested." "I'm serving a 30-year sentence for association with a sect," "hoarding of weapons and armed insurrection." Long Live the King... Long Live the King... "This is perhaps the last letter I'll be able to send secretly." "Please know I've never stopped fighting" "and I know that a nation will never be free and independent" "except through buying this freedom with our blood." "Your most devoted and faithful Domenico." MONTEFUSCO, KINGDOM OF THE TWO SICILIES Here you are! Some come from Ischia, some from Procida, or from Nisida. A penal settlement for crimes of every type. You're no longer with the Camorra here, there's no sea here, we're at Montefusco here. The King has declared this prison a remarkable one! You'll be locked up, State criminals that you are. I was raised on tobacco, gambling, wine and swearing, but I can read and write. So I can make my reports, but I never read. Reading is a waste of time. Makes a guy end up like you. You're all scholars, look at your ruin! Damned pen and paper, ink and all the books on Earth. They've scrambled your minds. Never ask for books, or anything to write with. You mustn't correspond to anyone outside of here. The books you have with you, and only if you behave, will be returned to you. But don't hope for any others. One: 25 blows for every scrap of paper. Two: 25 for every pen or pencil. Buttocks thrashed bloody for every illegal letter that comes in or goes out. Turn around. Take them away. Sit down, all of you. How are you? They beat us to a pulp and crammed us into a livestock cart. Us too. Worst was, most of us had believed the guards. They were hoping to regain freedom. Did you see? They even brought Carlo Poerio here. Have you ever met him? Years ago, in Paris, in Princess Belgiojoso's salon. Come and see, Giovanni! Domenico, sir, you come and see too. No. - Want to make the bell ring? - Give me a coin. You're throwing bread away? Shut up, she's my hope when I get out of here. She smiled at you! Since you got your Dante back, you don't talk to anyone anymore. It's such a consolation for me to read these verses again. Although the book's in such bad shape. Would you like to eat with us today? No, you already know, I'd rather not. - Forgive me. - You forgive me, my friend. I have a bad disposition. - The gentlemen send you this. - Thanks a lot! I sewed the guard's jacket and he gave me this bread. - No, thank you. - Take it. - Thanks. Domenico, come with me! Domenico, sir? The other day Nisco was put into the infirmary, his mother told him to pretend to be sick so the doctor could give him this message. You can hardly read it, sweat has bleached it, but we managed to make it out. There are maneuvers to bring the French back to Naples. They're really serious this time. Ferdinando would be exiled and Bonaparte would come. Luciano Murat's name is rumored. The Neapolitan patriots aren't sure what to do. This means that someone believes this is the path to follow. The note's addressed to you, it's your opinion they want. Right! The proposal for Murat is crazy. The new French emperors are just a bland copy of Napoleon. Ferdinando must fall before there can be a King of Italy and the King of Italy must be Italian, he must be a Savoy. What do you think? I'm here because I believe in the Republic and democracy. Don't ask my opinion about crowns. We're here too, that should be enough for you to deign an opinion. Once all liberals, even those in the North, moderates or democratic, monarchists or republicans, everyone, believed that to found a modern State in Italy the initiative should come from Naples. When there was talk of the Savoys, more bigoted than the Bourbons, no one thought our fate should be entrusted to them. Is it worth our suffering to see the son of that traitor Carlo Alberto succeed Ferdinando? What is tiny Piedmont compared to the great southern territories? Listen, it's reality that hastens the situation. I argued to make the Bourbon monarchy constitutional. I hoped it might lead the unification process. And now? I too am convinced that the unification of Italy either comes about shortly, under the Savoys, or it will never happen. Don't drag it out, the round will pass by soon. It's decided, the answer is no. My brother Alessandro wrote: "Oh Italy, no foreigner has been generous with you." May Piedmont be, forever and always, our North Star. Keep together. Come on, move it! You've got an hour. What are you looking at? Move! Come on! Francesco, sir? Did you know that Mellucci is a sorcerer? He knows how to fly us out of here. Are you serious? I believe in these things, don't joke. I'm not, he can't do it only because the bars are in the shape of a cross. Sorcery can't work. Damned crosses! Pass the bowls around. Domenico, sir, are you coming in there too? - Today we all eat the same. - I'll come when it's ready. Meat for everyone today. Now don't say His Majesty doesn't care about you! Not much meat left. Can I do something? You can grate some cheese. Today's Easter, everyone gets meat. Nice glasses! I feel we'll be home by next Easter. It's a real holiday today. What's going on? Why the bell? Shout: "Long Live the King!" You have to shout it! Long Live the King! Ready. Aim. Will you shout it or not? Long Live the King! Fire! This was the noise? It can happen, my men are zealous. Let's go. - There's a problem with your legs? - No. You're not walking normally. We know you've had problems with your sight, too. Wouldn't you like to be treated? You risk going blind. Rumor has it that Ferdinando is considering a generous act, he'd like to free many prisoners on the day of the Assumption, from among those who've asked for a pardon. Sorry, a pardon or a grace from the Virgin? Don't be so funny. We know you're hotheaded. Why not? Why do you think it can't be done this way? A document like this would be a political act. I don't think so, it might seem an act of cowardice. Stop, we've demonstrated what there was to demonstrate! I can't stand being given lessons on dignity. A pardon, petitioned collectively, would be compatible with the dignity of everyone. Domenico, sir, what are you doing? You shouldn't treat even a worm like that. Forgive me, all of you. That's how the Mazzini followers behave! Skunks and traitors! You did right, Domenico. - Shut up. - Yeah, shut up, the two of you. They'll be sent home, understand? - You're right. - Knock it off! The Marquis weakened for a moment. They'll never petition the Bourbon for a pardon. These men are monarchists, Savoy or Bourbon, no matter, they're in cahoots with the King. Stop it, it's true they're monarchists, but they've been chained like us for all these years. Let's try not to become brutish. To the Chamber! Lock it! It's a trick! They break the rules and are taken to the Chamber where they make an agreement with the commander. - Are you sure? - Yes. I'd hidden a scrap of paper under a rock, it's gone. Only someone in here could have taken it. - They're betraying us. - Damn them! They'll ruin all our sacrifice. They were holed up like owls, now you'll see how they bite us. Baron? Do you know I petitioned for a pardon? I know. My family needs me back. - My wife is dying. - You told me. I have to go home! Calm down. Don't think I'm collaborating with these owls, as Lord Sigismondo calls them. I'm no informer. No, you're not an informer or a coward. But our only weapon is not to petition Ferdinando. Look at Michele. He's seriously ill. And he's here because he knows there's no other way. Good luck. Lord Sigismondo of Castromediano, Duke of Morciano and Marquis of Cavallino. What is it? The commander is waiting for you: you'll be leaving too. It's impossible he signed a plea in secret. Sigismondo has important family. Not only at court, also among the clergy. What? Quiet, he's coming. So? He began with the usual story: "The sovereign is clement," "he pardons those who deserve it..." I said I refuse his clemency, I didn't ask for it. He grinned, as if he didn't believe me. Do you think the King would release Castromediano, without being sure of convincing him? Maybe he was reassured by the Bishop of Lecce. It's all a farce! It's always the same story, the gentleman saves face and comes out nice and clean. Think he'd have told us if he'd petitioned for pardon? Traitor! It's not true! - You believe me? - Certainly. Do you believe me, Domenico? I didn't ask for anything. Try to rest. Lord Sigismondo, now that you'll be free, please, go to Monte Sant'Angelo, and tell my overseer not to abandon my farm. You know, abandoned houses are lost. Stop it, leave him alone. Lord Sigismondo, you can do what you like down there... Stop it! They're inflicting the worse kind of torture on him! They want us to believe he's a traitor, to divide us. Go away! Calm down, try to rest. Yes. Are you ready? Mr. Domenico will accompany me. At your orders... Duke, sir! I can't stand the idea of traveling with them. - I don't deserve that. - They're unfortunates. Let's get going. - Farewell. - Farewell. Duke, come along. Close the gate. Get moving! Duke, sir! No soup or bread as of tomorrow, then we'll see if you still feel like celebrating. Let's go. They let me bring newspapers. You can read for yourselves. Could I speak to the Duke? We'd like to know what's happening outside. We'd like to know if the traitors are free. Lord Sigismondo is back here, as you see, he's no traitor. What about the others? Stop it, he should rest, get some rest yourselves. His stay in Naples was a fight against every sort of perfidy. - How's the Duke? - Fine, go to sleep. Why don't we have them come in too? Our secret meetings have such value in those poor wretches' eyes, who've suffered even more than us. We have the memory of conversations, readings, we can even think of a future. Instead, what's in their memories? Their fields, irretrievable work, lost families. I'd say to call them too. You, Baron, what do you think? Yes, we could call them. What do they understand about the intrigue of Cavour, the intentions of France, the secret contacts with exiles? Let's first try to understand and discuss what backing to count on, then we'll explain it to them. We'll talk it over in the next few days. So, the newspapers? Read for yourselves. Domenico, this is for you. There's an article by your friend Cristina of Belgiojoso, about what happened in Rome when they tried to set up the Republic. You'll understand a lot of things. Great news! Cavour is sending troops to Crimea. So Piedmont will have the support of Europe's major countries. So, it's the right moment! That is, if Mazzini doesn't come up with one of his crazy ideas. A good bottle is in order! Look what I've been keeping. Watch for the guards. - Long Live United Italy! - To Piedmont! - Long Live the Savoys! - To the war in Crimea! - Cheers! - Cheers! To King Vittorio Emanuele. LONDON Cammarota, the vaults are damp, how can the fuses not go out? This fuse has been studied to keep burning at the water's surface. How did you come by these maps? The Cathedral Chapter financed some work on the vaults. Did you participate? No, one of the French brotherhood was in the team that had to clean this wing. So, he got them for you... Why all these questions? I'll place the fuses, even short ones. How important are our lives compared to liberation from the tyrant? Maybe your friend doesn't want too many victims. There may be hundreds. So? How many thousands died because of Napoleon I? How many will we count under this one called Napoleon III? Perhaps you have the artistic aspect of the cathedral at heart. For me, you could have taken these papers directly from the Ministry of police. Who guarantees you're not a spy? What else can we expect? The president of a democratic republic has become a tyrant, he has people call him Emperor! Isn't that worth a cathedral and a few hundred dead? Listen to me carefully, Angelo. We decide what to do and when. In this type of thing, it's best to use your head not your belly. I made the mistake, by violating Mazzini's advice not to have anything to do with you. It was the last chance. Gentlemen... We'll meet again. - Good evening. - Good evening. What is it? Opium. It wasn't easy to find this quantity. And above all, it's very expensive. It's no drug for our pockets, my dear Crispi. What did this man from France want? Show his plan to assassinate Napoleon III. Mr. Bernard? It's you. I've thought about what you said. Finally! So? You can count on me. - And Mazzini? - He means nothing to me anymore. Tell Mazzini that Orsini no longer recognizes any master, and will no longer let you judge his speeches in advance. He won't be an instrument and speaker for other's ideas. Mr. Bernard! Good evening. Let's sit here. May I introduce another Italian exile, Angelo Cammarota. He fought in Rome. Wonderful! It was generous of you to bring champagne. Thanks to you, my conferences are crowded. You deserve it, you're the talk of the press. Politicians, scholars, artists feel honored to be presented to the mocker of Austria! To Orsini! To Italy! I invited Francesco Crispi too, I've heard he's very courageous. Do you know him? Not well, but I like him, because he's Sicilian, determined and you see him around, not like the prophet, who never shows his face. They say Crispi is faithful to Mazzini, but I think he's smart enough to understand the cause needs new nourishment. If the attacks on Napoleon III keep failing... It's important for it to succeed? Certainly. Napoleon III is the enemy of Italian freedom and supports governments that keep Italy a slave. If he falls, all nations, starting with France, will rise up to free enslaved peoples, your own being the first. The one who dares to do this will be Europe's glorious liberator, the initiator of a new era. Why don't you French try? It's our duty now to state the truth. The truth? - What truth? - The absolute truth. On which the reasons for all our actions depend, all our gestures, everything. I never thought I'd hear religious talk here. I don't mean God. It's not necessary, if a people doesn't feel it holds the truth within itself, it doesn't believe itself destined to act in the name of this truth, it will never be a great people. A great people will never accept a secondary role, it must demand leadership. That's what I mean, the truth, not God. What do you think about this? I'd like to act with other Italians, be led by an Italian hero. - When did you last see Italy? - Almost 10 years ago. I fought in Lombardy in 1848, then I became an exile, working as a porter, I've carried so many trunks! Taking a few home with you too! Yes, I spent six months in jail, but a man like you can understand these weaknesses. - Alcohol, and women... - I know how to fight! The good of my country is in my heart, nothing else. - A slice of apple? - Thank you. I'm certain of your worth and I'm grateful for your consideration, but I now intend to follow a political strategy, offering Cavour my services for the Piedmont cause. His king, Vittorio Emanuele, may be worthy of trust. Your choice is quite surprising. Aren't you a republican? My unalterable principles are republican, but it's time to push Piedmont out of its indecision. How will you contact Cavour? I've already written to him. The revolution of peoples is losing a saint. Perhaps the greatest. Perhaps the last. Get out! Cavour is right, you're a bunch of fanatics. Dangerous, ferocious, fanatical murderers. Dismal imbeciles. - Mr. Gallenga. - Who are you? I saw you at the Worcell's and followed you. I've finally found you. What do you want from me? - Did Mazzini send you? - I don't want to talk about him. Not directly at least. May I come in? My name's Angelo Cammarota, but that means nothing to you. I don't know why, in your book, you confessed you wanted, as a youth, to attempt the life of King Carlo Alberto. The love for truth, that's why. See how I've been re-paid? I had to leave Parliament and Piedmont. All this for having served the country, I've scandalized. Hypocrisy reigns supreme among us. In those years it was known that among the ranks of Giovine Italia some wanted to kill Carlo Alberto. Now that I've written it, this old story is a scandal, it's all the talk, it's become a national case. But I'm a journalist, a well-known writer. Maybe you wrote it because you hate Mazzini and wanted to strike him in some way. Why do you say that? I wrote him for years, loyally expressing my disagreement. He never replied. It's not bad to change your mind. Those who believe in the unity of Italy have stopped professing to be republicans and conspiring. Don't worry, I hate him too, that Mazzini. He stabbed Italy in the heart. He's a clown, a coward. I remember him well. A few days after the fall of the Roman Republic he was in Geneva, eating with gusto at the "Balance". You know how many men he had sacrifice their lives? And what did he do? The courage to take from its precious holster that gun, the gift of some rich English woman, is something he's never had. You talk very well, but a bit too much, Mr. Gallenga. I won't ask why you extinguished in your heart, that firm decision, although it's a mystery to me and a deep pain. Your conscience bears the failure of the insurrection in Savoy. What are you saying? You're crazy, it's something from 30 years ago. - The insurrection... - Ended in a bloodbath. But it's not what I want to discuss. Tell me about the betrayal of Salvatore Tambasco. Who's he? Salvatore Tambasco. Don't pretend not to remember. I don't know what betrayal you mean. It's an old story, he died many years ago. I won't allow you to let another I want you to say how Salvatore Tambasco betrayed as we were preparing the insurrection in Savoy. He was simply appointed to receive a dagger from Mazzini. Simply appointed! A simple farmer is brought before Mazzini and you say he was simply appointed? - You have to say what you know. - I don't know anything. - You're crazy, possessed! - Talk! Try Melegari, he may know something! - Where is he? - In Parliament. You're all in Parliament. Piedmont is too far, I can't go. Refresh your memory, I'll be back. "Considering Mazzini's ideas, it can be said that he wants..." Here I'd suggest: "In the midst of Mazzini's confused ideas," "it can still be said he wants..." Yes, we'll correct it like that. I'll do it. Sir, what do you know about this Cammarota? Why? Are you suspicious of him? He's never convinced me. He was a Mazzini follower, with Giovine Italia until the 1830s. At a certain point he must have had problems, because he ended up in the Foreign Legion, making the rank of second lieutenant. I always refused to join the Foreign Legion. How can you swear allegiance to the French emperor? It was before Louis Napoleon buried the Roman Republic, when many Italians believed in aid from the French. In Rome things became clear, he fought valiantly. I trust him. The Roman Republic... that's where Italy was to be begin and where it all ended. What did Cavour reply? I've received no reply. - I have grave news about Pisacane. - What is it? He landed at Sapri with 300 armed men and tried to incite the farmers, but they called the army and got them slaughtered. They thought they were brigands, escaped criminals, wanting to destroy villages and rape women. Pisacane killed himself. Angelo... I think your soul bears something terrible, dirty, bloody and at the same time, it makes you ridiculous. You want to throw yourself into this crime as a way out. I don't understand from what. Didn't you kill one of your uncle's servants? Just a poor man, for futile reasons? - I was a boy. - We all were. But then we became murderers and there's no paradise to gain. Tomorrow, look for this Rudio. Antonio! Gomez! A strange man approached me, he asked for my address on Orsini's behalf, know anything? Still nothing, but I know Orsini will be needing you. Someone will come to you in the next few days, don't talk to anyone about it. Bye! Are you here on Orsini's behalf? Yes. He asked me to speak to you about an initiative that could take you abroad for a while. Your absence will permit your wife to receive 12 shillings a week. My name is Giuseppe Brusca, born in Montichiari on March 2, 1814. I'm a laborer, I have a wife, Benedetta, and a son, Michele. - Gomez? - My name's Nicola Frangipane. Born in Savona on October 17, 1810, laborer, a wife, Maria, and two children, Giuseppe and Immacolata. Cammarota. My name's Marco Del Priore, born in Salerno on November 20, 1808, I'm a plumber, I have a wife, Carmela, and two children, Bruno and Michele. Good. Here are your passports. Angelo, this is the mercury fulminate to be poured in the bombs. The cloth must stay damp, be very careful. It's extremely dangerous. Here's Orsini's address in Paris. You'll meet him there. Learn it by heart and destroy the note. Fine, go now. - What are these? - They're nozzles. - And this? - All things for gas. - Are passports in order? - Yes. You can go. Next. PARIS Remove it. That's enough! - Enough! - Shut up! Ready. Close it. Agreed? We'll meet at the depot in Rue Rossini. Wait here. Wasn't that Crispi? Certainly not! Well, look, Angelo Cammarota! Weren't you in London? I'm just passing through. When did you arrive? A few days ago. Why are you here? To visit my family. You have family in France? How are they? - Very well. - And you? I'm fine, thank you. What's this? Get over there! Gendarmes, over here! Hands up, or I'll shoot! It's dangerous, handle it carefully. Take his gun. You have lots to tell me... It was my day off, I even had Opera tickets, shit! Take him away. Be careful with that. Move along, there's nothing to see. - Cammarota? - He's been arrested. What? They say an Italian was arrested, that's all I know, it must be him. Go! Your Majesty, please... This way, Your Majesty. Death to the assassins! His Majesty, Napoleon III... Long Live the Emperor! So? Orsini, approach the bench. Who threw the third bomb if it wasn't you? I'd given it to a third Italian I met in Rue Lepelletier. You didn't trust yourself or your courage, since you entrusted another with what you should have done yourself. A man who's afraid doesn't talk as I do. I don't want to compromise others. But you compromised Bernard, who's waiting to be tried in London. Why? Why do you refuse to name this Italian? I could, he must be out of France by now and far from persecution. But I don't want to do so. Rudio. Did you see Orsini talk with anyone? No, sir. You say you came to France to visit your family to then go into Italy where you hoped in a revolution. Yes, sir. Did Gomez hope the same thing? I wouldn't say Gomez is a man of politics. He knows nothing and hopes for nothing. Alright... Let's finish the events of the 14th. - Sit down. - Thank you. You followed Orsini. Yes, but first I put a gun in my pocket because we didn't always agree on things and I didn't want to be alone with him and defenseless. Instead we were out in the street and he said we should never separate, actually, we should reinforce our old friendship. That this concerned the revolution and he was afraid he'd be searched and wanted to get the bombs out of his house. So I, to encourage his trust, I told him I'd volunteer to place one. We went to Orsini's, it was 7:45 pm. Then Rudio came. But I was in a cold state of mind and since Gomez was late, Orsini said: "Has he gone to spy?" You said that yourself! Rudio, no arguing, don't react. - Continue. - It was Orsini, not me. Then Orsini took a bomb and put it in Gomez's hand, since he'd just arrived. He put another in Rudio's hand, one to me, two for himself and he said to go out. And where did you go? Defendant Cammarota, where did you go? I left them at the corner of Rue Saint-Honor and never saw them again. I was in a hurry to get rid of my bomb, because I wanted to go back. But then I thought the boulevards were much nicer so I went there. I saw lots of soldiers on horseback and a light... whitish. The more I walked, the brighter the light got. I didn't know what that meant. I walked to the end of the street and I saw the theater lighted up. I kept going, the crowd grew bigger and bigger and I followed it. And then... I got to the corner of Rue Rossini and there I was stopped by Mr. Hebert, who knows me. That's all. You are going towards God who forgives you and you'll find the way of mercy. So, I give you the last rites. No, there's no need. My place is in hell. Can you do something for me? - What is it, my son? - Sit down. Why does the Holy Father not renounce his temporal power? Why not? May God bless you. Stand. Remove your vests. By order of His Majesty the Emperor, the Minister of State decrees that the prisoner Antonio Gomez is sentenced to hard labor. Prisoner Carlo Rudio will have his sentence changed to life imprisonment. Prisoners Felice Orsini and Angelo Cammarota, in accordance with the law of June 10, 1853, for having attempted the life of His Majesty the Emperor, have been declared guilty and sentenced to death by the Court. Angelo! Domenico! You've never loved the Savoys, Domenico, I know. But you must recognize that today Vittorio Emanuele is King of Italy, of a united Italy, although still without Rome and Venice. The tree has been planted, yet with diseased roots. Unity was, for the Italians, a powerful passion which overwhelmed all other needs. I'll remain silent, until things take a definitive turn, so not to be accused of adding oil to the fire. But the day will come when I can say all I know and think. Now Garibaldi wants to conquer Rome militarily, against the will of the Italian government. I know you'll run to his call. What's happening in the South is frightening, brigands have taken over, the State doesn't enforce the law and no one trusts anyone anymore. My dear Domenico, look after yourself. If you go through your village, which you've not seen in 20 years, please, put a flower on Angelo's tomb for me. Farewell, your friend Cristina. - Where are you taking this linnet? - No one could care for it. - My wife passed away a month ago. - I'm sorry. I said goodbye to the places of our happiness, and left. You're from Caserta, don't you have anyone there? We had no children, but spent many years together, lovely, splendid years. And now it's finished. You're young, you'll re-marry soon. No, it's the world that's finished. - Don't you see what's happening? - You're right. War, revolution, unity of Italy. These fighters, when they get up in the morning, instead of trying to re-do the world, that's been done and re-done badly, if they listened to the silence of that hour... - You know what I mean? - I don't really. The moment when birds still don't sing. It's a magical moment, made of everything and nothing. Like this linnet. THE DAWN OF THE NATION Ladies and gentlemen, we're leaving. - When you're ready... - Coming. - What's this trip got in store? - Who knows, these days... All aboard the carriage! Domenico, sir, when you like! The next station is Sala Consilina? In three days. - I'll meet you there. - I wouldn't do that. It's far away, how'll you get there? - I'll get there. - You won't. And I'll lose a place, you know how many I left behind? I'll pay in advance and even leave my knapsack. As you like. But I can't wait for you, get there on time. Go! Forget that Spanish girl, she'll cast a spell on you! Leave me alone. I have to get to Palinuro, they say you can help me. Go down to the port, Armando's got a boat going. Wait, don't be afraid. I won't hurt you. I took shelter here to sleep. I'm going to Centola, but it got late yesterday, I was afraid I'd get lost. Why are you with the goats? Where are your brothers? The soldiers killed them. Soldiers? Why? They said they were brigands. - What's your name? - Lucia. I'd like a little milk. Thank you. Sit down. - Do you know Father Carmine, the priest? - I do. - Does he live in the square? - No, Don Tiburzio's there. - Who's he? - The notary. And Father Carmine? In a little house, I don't know where. Will I find him in church? No, the earthquake destroyed it. Mamma, you're not eating? This is all we can offer. We're poor. What else, if we're in excommunicated hands? Not many people around since the earthquake. They all left. I was tutoring only Don Tiburzio's children in Latin. And where's Caterina? She's not here. She's a servant. Your sister is a servant to Don Tiburzio. Do you know who Don Tiburzio is? The one who took our confiscated things. Nothing to say? Say something. At least say you're sorry. It's your fault that they got confiscated. Because you couldn't ask for pardon, you had to stay in jail, you had to make Italy. How long since mamma spoke? Ten years. If you want to sleep here, there's straw bedding. No, thank you, I have to leave right away. Move along! Stop! Halt! - Where are you going? - Reggio Calabria. What's up there? Get off, please. Give me your documents. Come on, unload them. Alright. Thank you. - Documents? - Alright! A soldier! That's what they deserve! That's 30 cents each. Isn't it all included? No, here you pay to eat and sleep, but someone will have to sleep in the hayloft, we're full. Goodnight. - I've got these. - They're worthless. They're out of circulation, it's lire now. I've spent them all, these are mementos. What great memories! - What can we do? - I'll pay for him. Please, take this. Thank you. I was a tailor in San Leucio. We had a hundred workers, made the most beautiful silks in Europe. I sewed clothes for the most beautiful noblewomen in the Kingdom. Now, there's nothing left. No factory, no work, no silk. Just poverty, horror and poverty. You're right, those from Piedmont just brought poverty. But that's no reason to regret the Bourbons. If you say so... Garibaldi's our last hope. If he gets to Rome, he'll be powerful again and we, in the South, will get our land back. Those from Piedmont have to go back home! - You're a revolutionary. - Of course. I believe in the unity of Italy and you should fight with us! Quiet! Keep your voice down. He's right, it takes nothing to call us brigands and shoot us. Didn't the Bourbons do it too? My father was killed like that. He and his comrades rebelled in Cilento and were slaughtered as brigands. The chief rebels got their heads cut off and stuck on poles. The poles were put in the square in Palinuro. They were there for over a year. Luckily my father's wasn't cut off. Aren't you from Apulia? Yes. But I was born in Cilento. My mother had to escape. She told me these things. What was your father's name? Salvatore Tambasco. What is it? What's wrong? You're pale. You're sure your father was killed by the Bourbons? What do you mean? Bourbon spies did it, my mother told me everything. He was in the Capozzoli gang, ever heard of them? Alright... I'm going to sleep. I feel very tired. Goodnight. What a strange man. Know anything about him? You've traveled together. He's a man... who doesn't talk much. I know he's from Cilento and carries a gun like you. You have to fight with us, you've got nothing to lose. That's not true. I have that linnet. Wake up. Do you have a horse, a mule? Hurry. It's night, where'll you go, and you're alone? - You're sure? - Yes. I have a horse. He's a good one though. It's all I have, is it enough? Watch your back! Domenico, sir! - Why are you running? - And why did you follow me? You knew my father. I saw it in your face when I talked about him. I want to make him proud and you have to see it. You're going to join Garibaldi, I saw the book you carry. We can go together, the coast isn't far. Let's go. How far could you go on foot? I couldn't take anymore. How can you fight this war? You're an old man. Old men should fight wars, if they die, who cares. I'm so hungry! - Any cheese left? - Sure, in the knapsack. Good! - Don't want any? - No, I'll eat later. Who knows all the junk you ate in Turin with pa. Cheese is good there too. - Maybe even better. - You're joking! After we free Rome and Venice, why not go around Italy? Up North, it must be nice. You're sure? Later. I'll go get firewood. Hello! Know how far to Melito? It's down the beach. - Has Garibaldi arrived? - No, his men are there. - They're waiting for him. - Thanks. Hey, guys! Get ready, we're coming! You two! Are you already in a section? - Not yet. - Then come with me. - When do we leave? - If the General comes, this evening. Take those two, have them sign up! - What's your name? - Vincenzo. - What do you do? - I'm a volunteer! - What do you do in life! - I do two things. A cobbler. I come and go from the Vicariate and I act. Giovanni, let's show them. The Company of the Vicariate! Quiet! Opening line. My deep respects. Has Your Lordship ever been here before? - It's the first time. - I'm sorry. Thank you so much. Here is one's own, one's disposal... One's-own-disposal makes a law. Those who are lucky to enter here... Great luck! He has to pay a tiny sum for the French guys. Who are these French guys? That's what we call them, they're in need. We give them something and they behave, they behave, we behave, everyone behaves. Listen, I am... Crispi's in cahoots with the Mafia! Sorry, I didn't know, the Knight's having me make a bad impression! My deep respects! How dare you make fun of Crispi? We're actors, we do this in the squares of Palermo. You know what Crispi did for the unity of Italy? They're doing nothing wrong. Crispi is in Parliament where they make useless speeches, but they're about to push a cannon all the way to Rome! - How dare you? - What's your name? What's this? We can't speak freely even here? #When Garibaldi calls out the role,# #all his sons so bold# #will light the bomb,# #Red Shirts of Garibaldi...# Garibaldi, up there! Long Live Garibaldi! #...the sun of April,# #and you showed you were no coward.# #That's why you are so dear to me,# #red shirt, rare shirt.# Long Live Garibaldi! Rome or Death! #We'll kick him off his throne,# #no more popes in Rome.# #We'll go to St. Peter's, then to St. Paul's...# #...we want their heads to roll.# #The guillotine is in the square,# #we want their heads to roll...# The General said not to respond to Italian fire! Run, or the Bersaglieri will kill us all! Want to die like an idiot? Run! - Giovanni! - Shut up! We're on your side! Come here, it's safe. Let's go, it's safe. Why are you crying? - Did your friends die? - He was my comrade too. You got us killed like animals! Stop, quiet! It's not safe here. We have to stay together, let's find an escape route. Come on! Wait! Don't be afraid. - What's your name? - Nino. - How old are you? - 17. We have to reach the other side, will you do some scouting? You're a boy, they won't notice you. Saverio, give him yourjacket. We'll be waiting there, don't delay. I've already seen you, do you know me? Try to understand what they do to deserters. The boy's back. Well? No one's around, but Garibaldi is dead. - You're sure? - A shepherd told me. We'd better move before they catch us. - There'll be an amnesty soon. - For deserters too? I think so, I don't know. What do you care? Any of you in the regular army? Me. - You too? - Yes. You too? You didn't tell me! Let's go. Let's stop. Here's fine. Got any water? Mine's empty. Halt, weapons down and hands up! Surrender! Weapons down and hands up! Weapons down! Commander! Look who we found. - Where were they? - Here in the convent. Jumpin' jehosaphat! Lucky! Check their identities and if there are any deserters, shoot them. You can't, there is an amnesty. What do you know about amnesty? Only a court can judge them. I'm the court here. Take them away. Farewell. Let me die with my comrades! Ready, aim, fire! Murderers! I see the ghosts of the martyrs, they accuse me of killing them to resurrect the land of the dead. Calm down, Giuseppe. - And if he died? - You mean Garibaldi? Don't worry, it's nothing serious. It's over. The time for legal action is over, we have to begin the extra-legal action. We have to blow up Rattazzi, the King, Parliament. Give me some paper. "Dear Sigismondo," "I came to Parliament as you asked" "and brought the letter they fired me with:" 'Dangerous Republican and fomenter of social disorder'. "I need to work to live" "and you've proven to be the generous man I knew," "with your proposal of help." "But I wanted to see you to talk" "and question myself," "because I find I'm at the point of departure." "Our struggle ended in failure" "and I'd like to unravel the tangle," "to see if a wrong interpretation of those ideas" "is responsible for what happened:" "Italy of today is petty, haughty, murdering." "Entering Parliament I realized I'd never know." I have no other flag to raise. Mine is the one I raised when landing with Garibaldi in Marsala: Italy, one with Vittorio Emanuele! Those who want another flag do not want a united Italy. The Monarchy unites us, the Republic would divide us. We unitarians are, above all, Monarchists and we will support the Monarchy far better than the old Monarchists! "I saw you from a distance, Lord Sigismondo." "Your face was marked with proud disgust," "surrounded as you were by people who took advantage" "of the new political situation to increase their own power." "This Parliament" "will not allow discussion on what each patriot did." "The exiled and ex-prisoners will be celebrated equally," "like debris to number hurriedly, whose speeches only bore." "I left, no one noticed me." "But I don't count." "We were many, we were together, prison couldn't hold us all." "We should have begun our fight when we got out." 'We'. "Sweet word." "We believed." Thanks to agreement with France, Rome is given to the Kingdom of Italy and becomes its capital in 1871 . Cristina of Belgiojoso dies in that same year. No authorities participate in her funeral. Francesco Crispi becomes Prime Minister in 1887. He will give Italian politics an authoritarian turn launching the country on a disastrous venture of colonialism. The stories of Domenico, Angelo and Salvatore, fictional characters, partly trace the real events of conspirators Domenico Lopresti, Giuseppe Andrea Pieri and Antonio Sciandra.
