 

                        All those who wish to accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, Please, come to the railing and be comforted. The Lord be with you. ...Like it's the most natural thing in the world. Nobody looks at me funny. Nobody even gives it a second thought. I mean, I have this dream all the time. There's never any sense of sin or shame in it. Don't you just love being naked? Uh, look, I know we just met and everything but would you like to go out on a date with me on Saturday night, Norma Jean?. My uncle, Ted Lewis is opening a show... The Ted Lewis?. Yeah. Ted Lewis is your uncle!?. Oh wow! God, Eddie, I'd love to go! Really?. Yeah! Oh, my heart is beating so fast. Can you feel it?. God! It's like having our own private swimming pool. And to think they pay you for this. Yep. Eighty dollars a week just to sit in that life guard's tower over there. The best part, by far, is that Miss Emmeline Snively's Blue Book Modeling Agency is located right in the lobby. Well, I'll tell you a secret, Mr. Edward Jordon. I don't intend to be a bathing suit model for too much longer. In fact, a year from now, I'm going to be a very famous actress. Sure, sure, sure. I mean, bigger than Betty Grable and Jean Harlow put together. I'm going to be so damn famous, Eddie, nobody'll be able to touch me. Of course, my husband has always discouraged me. He says there are a thousand beautiful girls in Hollywood who can act and they're all looking for work. Uh, where is your uh... husband, Norma Jean?. Over seas - where he belongs. He was recalled to duty in the Pacific. Well, he's okay and all but I don't really feel anything for him. I suppose I'll have to do something about it one of these days. God, I want this feeling to last forever. Is everybody happy?.! Eddie, that's Errol Flynn! Look, over there! He's standing up. Oh, it is... It's really him. He is so dreamy. Let me borrow your pen for a sec, will ya?. Oh my, that's gotta be Orson Welles! Where?. Over there, by the exit. That's not Orson Welles. Eddie, I am having a wonderful time. And I just love your uncle. He reminds me of you. He's so commanding. He's so sexy! Well, he's a great entertainer, sure. But sexy?. The man's fifty-eight years old. You know how you said you'd introduce me?. Yeah. The next time he's in the area, we'll go out on the town. We'll make an evening of it. Well, why don't we go back stage and talk to him after the show?. I just wanna shake his hand. I wanna finally meet a real star, Eddie I don't know, Norma Jean. I mean, there's usually a lot of commotion back there. A lot of weird people hangin' around - it's not the best way to get to know someone. Do I embarrassyou, Eddie?. God, no. No. Mr. Lewis, I am so thrilled. You are my favorite enter- tainer of all time! And I just wanted to tell you how much I admire you for dancing with a negro in your act. I don't know how long you're gonna be in town, Uncle Ted. But, I'm in a play at the Cast Theatre. It's " A wake and Sing," by Clifford Odets?. It's a greatplay. It's very political. Actually, I got the second lead and I was wondering if maybe you could... Sure, Eddie. Sure. If I have a chance, I'll stop by. Here you go, kid. It can be real tough starting out in show bizz. Hell, I aughta know. That's not necessary. Ah, come on. A big town, a gorgeous girl... You need a little dough to have a good time. Am I right, huh?. Am I right, boychick?. There. Is everybody happy?. You know what, Eddie?. I got my final divorce papers in the mail today. I am officially a free woman! Free, white and twenty-one! I can't help myself -- I feel like celebrating. Yeah, well... And then we both got somethin' to celebrate You're pregnant?. Nope. I have just signed a seven year optional contract with Twentieth Century Fox! When were you gonna tell me?. At dinner. Over a bottle of champagne. It's up for renewal every six months at their discretion. Seventy-five dollars a week to start with but then it keeps climbing, right, every time they renew. So, if they keep me around for the full seven years then I'm gonna get somethin' like fifteen hundred a week. I mean, Jesus, Can you imagine?. You'll be able to say you knew me when. Wow, Eddie. That's great. That's really terrific. Of course the minute I signed that made me eligible to join the Screen Actor's Guild, So now I have my SAG card, too. And I'm already up for my first part. Well, I mean, it's not much of a part, it's just two lines. But it's a Dana Andrews movie and I think it could be... Well, fuck your contract, Eddie! Fuck your contract, fuck your SAG card, fuck Dana Andrews and fuck you, too! What the hell is the matter with you?. Let me tell you something. I don't have a guild card and I don't have a studio contract but I know there's only one way to get them - - I'm gonna be in the goddamn movies if I have to fuck Bela Lugosi to get there! You know, you always talk about being an actress but you never done a goddamn thing about it. You wanna be an actress?. Okay, so act! It's work, Norma Jean. Get into an acting class, do your scene work, Iearn the craft, work your way up like I did! Oh, you think girls get movie contracts because somebody respects their talent, Eddie?. I'll tell you how girls get movie contracts, they fuck the right people, that's how. And that's exactly what I'm gonna do. And I'm gonna be rich and famous and powerful and you'll be able to say you knew me when. Oh, God, Eddie, I really screwed it up, huh?. I said some pretty awful things. God, I'm sorry. I'm so upset I can't sleep. You're not really mad at me, are you?. I don't think I could take it if you were. Say you're not mad at me... Eddie?. I'm not... really mad at you. It...It's just that sometimes you're... you're like, you're like... What am I like?. I don't know. You're like two different people. Both of us love you. Don't just Bitch me, Eddie. Please, don't. Don't. I won't. I'm not. I uh... I love you. Alright, Ladies. Brown and Bigelow have asked us to find a fresh face for their 1947 calendar. They want a girl who embodies the spirit of the post-war woman. No professional modeling experience necessary. The job pays 250 dollars. Your name, please. I'm Adrian Wallingford. And no, I've neverdone any former modeling before, but I do have work experience. Really?. That's right. I was electrical supervisor at Locheed, on the Liberator Bomber series. My unit made... Hi. Oh, I hope I ' m not late. I ' m Norma Jean Dougherty. From the the Blue Book Modeling Agency?. I was so afraid I was going to be late. Could you... Would...Would you mind zipping me up, please?. Sure. Thanks. You're sweet. Would you mind standing under the light, Miss... Dougherty. Norma Jean Dougherty. Sure. Is this how you want me?. Mr. Jasgur usually lets us listen to Jack Benny when we work Sundays. Great, isn't he?. We presentthe Jack Benny show starring Barry Livingston, Dennis Day Rodchester, and your host... The one and only... Mr. Jack Benny! Oh, look at that. Oh, yes. Oh, it's a beauty. Gladys?. Gladys?. Honey?. You'll find another job real soon. I hear they're hiring neg cutters over at PKO. Leave me alone!!! Leave me alone!!! Leave me alone!!! Jesus loves me, this I know, 'cause the Bible tells me so. Norma Jean?. Norma Jean?. Look at me for a second. Your mama's sick, honey. She's going to have to stay in the hospital a little while. So how's about you come and live with Doc and me?. Juust till she's better. Why can't I go live with my daddy?. Do you know about your daddy, Norma Jean?. Uh-huh. I have his picture. His name's Stanely. Stanely Gifford, and he lives in dairy. Ma says he's just about the handsomest man she's ever seen in her life. Ma says if you squint your eyes, you'd swear he was Clark Gable. And you know that your daddy's very, very busy right now, don't you?. Why doesn't he every come to see me?. He would't have to bring me candy or toys or anything. Just come say hello. Come on now, little lady. We're gonna have a good ol' time. Just you and me and Gracie. Come on. Up! What do you say we go pick up your things?. And then, what does Harlow say to Ben Lyon?. She says, "I wanna be free, be gay, have fun! Life's short, but I want to live when I'm alive." And "Dinner at Eight." What does she say in "Dinner at Eight?. " Um, to Marie Dresser?. Dress -- ler. She says, "Do you know machinery's going to take the place of every profession?. " And then, what does Marie Dressler say?. "Oh, my dear, that is something you need never worry about. " Oh, that is so good. That is perfect! Just perfect! Baby, your mama's here. Can you say hello?. Gladys?. Alright, here we go. Oh, oh...Oh, my God. Easy, Gladys. That's alright. It's alright. It'll be alright. Now, we'll just set you down right there. Oh, my back. It's okay. It's okay. Isn't she pretty, Gladys?. Tell your mama what'ch you're gonna be when you're all grown up. Say, "A movie star, baby." Tell her you're gonna be a movie star. Gonna be our own Norma Jean Swanson. Or maybe we'll call you Norma Jean Stanwick! How'd that be?. Let's face it girls. That wonderful guy in your house and in mine is building your happiness and the opportunities that will come to your children. Split-level homes may be in style, but there is simply no roomfor split- level thinking. So when my Jimcomes home from a hard day at the office, our Family Room brings us closer together... Is there more?. What was your name again, Miss?. Dougherty. Norma Jean Dougherty. And who sent you to us, Miss Dougherty?. The Blue Book Modeling Agency. Have you ever auditioned for radio work before?. No. Not before. No, never. No. Well, Miss Dougherty, you are to go back to the Blue Book Modeling Agency and tell them they should send you out for print ads, and print ads only. Under no circumstances should they put you up for any job that entails reading, speaking, moving or anything that might vaguely be construded as acting because you do not have even the slightest aptitude for it. What?. Blonde hair photographs better. It can be made to look light, medium, or dark just by controlling the light. That's why my biggest demand is for blondes. If you wanna go places, honey, you've got to bleach. But Emmeline, it won't look natural. What's so great about natural?. The good Lord spreads it around, child. You've already lost the hair lottery. It's going to look gorgeous. You'll see. You'll feel like a different person. You know, some women really look better blonde. There. Now, you just sit there and relax for a few minutes, okay?. And I'll... Would you like something to drink maybe Sure. I've got some Coke, or some Tasty Oragne. You should work at a hospital. Doc's a funny name for a cowboy. Come on, little lady, let's ride! Now, this is the way the gentleman rides: gallop, gallop, gallop, gallop! And this is the way the lady rides: trot, trot, trot, trot, trot, trot, trot! And this is the way the farmer rides: gallop-deloy, gallop-deloy. Oh! Come on, honey, give your old Doc a kiiisssss! My God, you're pretty. No. Aw, Gracie, honey, we were just playin' Norma Jean, this is Mrs. Dewey. She's very nice, I think you're really gonna like her. But, I'm not an orphan. Hello, dear. I...I think it's for the best. Just for a little while. Just till Doc and me can work things out. Come inside, Norma Jean... I don't belong here! Meet the other girls! Let go of me! Don't leave me! No! Grace! Aunt Grace! Aunt... Ow! Hello?. May I speak to Stanley Gifford, please?. Who's calling?. This is Miss Norma Jean Baker, his daughter. Um...Gladys Baker's girl. Uh...just a moment. He doesn't want to speak to you. He says if you have any questions you should call his lawyer in Los Angeles. I'll give you the number. Do you have a pencil?. Bless you! Blesssss you! I'm Mary Louise Gifford, you... Your father's wife, your stepmother. I've travelled all the way from Hemet to beg you -- your father's in the hospital. He's dying. His last wish was to see his daughter just one time before he meets his maker Tell him to call my lawyer. Do you have a pencil?. Absolutely perfect! You look like a whole new woman! Hey, Eddie! Eddie, take it easy over there! Somebody help him! The two of you dancing together, you looked like some kind of burlesque skit! I'm not seeing him because of the way he looks, Eddie. Yeah, no kidding! So, who the hell is he?. Johnny Hyde. He's a very influential agent. In fact, he's Vice President of the William Morris Agency. Yeah, I've heard of him. Johnny's the one who discovered Lana Turner. He also repressents Bob Hope and Rita Hayworth Not to mention my Uncle Ted. That's right, I didn't know if you knew that. Ted's the one who introduced us. You have been seeing Uncle Ted!?. Well, sure. When he's in town. Why are you getting so upset?. Why?. Why?. Because he's married, that's why! To my aunt! And I'm gonna kill him! Listen, Eddie, I don't give a fuck about your uncle. But if he wants to help me out and all he wants in exchange is for me to spend some time with him, and to be nice to him. How nice?. Huh?. Eddie. You used Uncle Ted to get to Johnny Hyde. Oh, who are you to talk?. Are you trying to tell me you didn't use your uncle to help you get your SAG card and your studio contract?. Oh, yeah, sure... He mighta made a couple calls for me. Yeah, but I didn't have to sleep with him! Oh, and I did. So big deal. Johnny Hyde is going to be the best thing that ever happened to mein this town. I mean, after you. Eddie... What we have is real. You know you're the only one I love. Johnny, I can't believe I just saw Eleanor Powell and Loretta Young! I'm having lunch next to the most famous stars in Hollywood! Well, baby, you're gonna be bigger than all of 'em put together. Ah, thank you. Whoa-whoa-whoa! Mmmm. Who's that?. The goyish-looking one is Darryl Zanuck he's chief of production at Fox. Started off as a writer at Warner Brothers, used to write Rin Tin Tin movies. And the Greek guy sitting next to him, that's Spyros Skouras. He's out here from New York. He's the chairman of the Board at Fox. So, this guy grew up in a little village in Greece, his family raised sheep and now he's Zanuck's boss. So what we have hear is a guy who used write for a German Shepherd sucking up to a guy who used to be a shepherd. See, everybody's beholden to somebody else. Don't ever forget that. Can I meet them?. You listen to me. Right now, you're the mystery woman. You see, everybody in this room is dying to know who you are. And I want to keep it exactly like that So just trust me. I do. You know I trust you, Johnny. You're the finest man I ever met. Well...I have ulterior motives. So do I. What are those?. Nembutals. Can't seem to get to sleep without them anymore. And these are Benzedrine. One to go up and one to go down. I hope your doctor knows what he's doin'. That stuff's really dangerous. Actually, your uncle sends them to me. You're crazy! You wanna kill yourself?. I know what I'm doing, and I know exactly what I need. You're just gonna have to take me the way I am, Eddie. Take me the way I am or don't take me at all. Most of the gals who pose for us are actresses or models. Usually the don't like to give their real name. So you can make up any name you like. How about Margaret Tuman?. Or what about Judy Garland?. Oh, honey, I could tell you stories, believe me. Okay, Norma Jean. Get ready. Great. Mmm, good. Very good. Okay, here we go. Get in position. Yes. Oohhh. I like that. Oh, beautiful. Right in the camera. And... Yeah. Nice. This girl's gonna be a major star, Darryl. Just look at these fairways, will you?. Like velvet and right in the middle of the desert. Hillcrest is a goat track compared to this place. I'll tell you something, she has real flesh appeal. Oh, yeah?. I promise you, you haven't seen anything like this since Harlow. Harlow was never Miss September. Yeah but... Has she got any film on her?. Not until you authorize the screen test Eh. Will you look at that! On in one and then I three putt! Hmmm. Daryll, I understand that Henry Hathaway needs more prep time on "Northside 777." Actually I could call Jimmy Stewart and get him to agree to a two week delay. It won't cost you a nickel. Alriught, Johnny. Shoot your screen test -- black and white. Color. Deal. Johnny?. They called me at Hillcrest. I came as soon as I heard...Johnny?. I'd be lost without you, Johnny. You have to get better. You have to. Besides, I know what you need. What?. This. Oh. Come here. Johnny?. Oh, oh, oh, oh... I've fallen for her, Mozelle. Oh, Johnny, you've fallen for every blonde starlet you've ever represented, including me. But you've never made a fool of yourself like this before. The entire Morris office is talking about it. Abe Lastfogel says you act like she's your only client! So, is this going to be some kind of ongoing thing?. I'm sorry, Mozelle. I love her. I want to marry her. Well, maybe she'll let you. She's ambitious enough. But she doesn't love you, Johnny. I don't care. Then you deserve each-other! She's a bimbo, John. She's a one-line telephone operator... She's a walk-away funny waitress. Come on, Darryl, you've been wrong before. Who hasn't?. She's a star. From the neck down she's a star, but the girl has no chin to speak of. She's got a nose like a baked potato. Let's have a blade. After this, we redefine the chin, you'll hardly recognize yourself. All contract players at Twentieth Century Fox are required to study at the actor's lab Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings. You'll need a singing coach. You'll be paid seventy-five dollars per week. I know. I know. Then let's start with your name. "Norma Jean Dougherty" is not a movie star name, and that is the sad fact of it... You remind me of someone. Ever hear of Marilyn Miller?. No. She was a great musical comedy star on Broadway in the 20's. Funny...Sexy as hell. God, I was crazy about her. Marilyn Dougherty?. What do you like?. Any-one you particularly admire?. How about Lincoln?. Too many "lins." Besides it should be a literative. Maybe we should stay with American Presidents... Marilyn Madison?. Mmmmm, no. "Marilyn Monroe." Has a nice round tone to it. What do you think?. Norma Jean?. Who?. Then long live Marilyn Monroe! You never really loved me. You just thought it would be fun to be in love with me, that's all. It's true... Torvald. Um, when I lived at home with Papa, he always told me what he thought about everything. So I never had any ideas of my own. Oh, dear. No. No, no, no, no, no. What comes next?. Um... You never really loved me Orville... Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to...I'm...I'm... I don't belong here. I'm...I'm sorry. You okay, Norma Jean?. Don't call me that. I'm Marilyn. Look, it's alright. Everybody's gone, you can come out now. Oh, god, I was hathetic out there. Everybody else has talent, it's easy for them. Oh, you're wrong, okay?. It's not easy for anybody. But, they can all get up there and do it, Eddie. They can all get up there and perform, same as you can. I'll never be an actress. No, listen. All you need is some coaching. Okay?. Every time you perform you're gonna improve. I'll work with you. We can rehearse together. We'll do scenes together. You're great! You're gonna be great. Promise?. Guarantee it. Mmmm. Hey! I bet Johnny knows all the best coaches in town! Diction! Diction! Diction! You speak with your mouth closed! I-did-not-want-to-pet-the-dear-soft-cat I didn't want to pet the quick... I ' m sorr-- Oh, it's not it, is it?. You have to know your lines backwards and forwards so you can throw away the words and speak the soul! If you arrive on the set unprepared, you are guaranteed to fail! And if you fail, I will be crucified. I'm sorry, Natasha. I am trying to love you, but sometimes you make it so difficult. You don't have to love me, Natasha. Just teach me. When you left you broke my heart. Because I never thought we'd part. Every hour in the day, you will hear me say, "Baby won't you please come home?. " Your vocal range is tiny, your volume is small and your phrasing is...is trite. Altogether it's pretty terrible. But not hopeless. Is isn't?. No. You can... You can carry a tune. Not... not very far but you can carry one. And the sound engineers can bring up your volume when you record. And you do manage to create the illusion that you actually know how to sing. I do?. Yes. Uh... So, let's take the last verse again. Try and slow it down a little bit, alright?. Play with the rhythms. Like this...Uh... "Every hour in the day, you will hear me say Baaaabeeee, won't you pul-eeze come hommmmme?. " It's...it's uh...It's called phrasing. Have some fun with it Alright?. Got it?. "When you left you broke my he-art. Because I never thought we'd part. Every hour in the day, you will hear me say...Baby! " Big finish now. "Won't you pleeease...come..." You um... You move well. This is the allegro vivace. Can you hear it?. It comes very gently, but it builds... and it builds... Good morning. Hi. Well, how was the concert?. Inspiring. I waited up all night for you. Oh, no, Johnny. You need your rest. I'll get my rest when I'm dead, which is gonna be sooner rather than later. You know that, Marilyn. I don't want to hear that kinda talk, I won't listen! How can yoiu be so cruel?. Becuaes you let me. I'm going upstairs. You coming?. Marry me, baby. I'm crazzy about you. I know you are, Johnny. I wish I could feel the same way about you. I mean, I love you, but I've never been in love with you. I never said I was. Yeah, but millions of women marry men they're not in love with. Millions?. Really?. I had no idea. Is that just counting L.A.?. No, don't joke with me, Marilyn. Now marriage is based on a lot of other things, you know, it can be based on mutual repspect, trust. That wouldn't be fair to you, Johnny Besides, I'd be even more of a joke than I am right now. Good night, Johnny. Good night. Ah, feeling better, my dear?. Sure. Just like the English Ch... Oh, no. Not again! Cut! I'm sorry. Alright, we'll try it again after lunch After lunch everybody! Ah, thank you, dear. Miss Davis, would you mind if I got some publicity stills before lunch?. Not at all. Um, Miss Davis?. I just wanted to say that I think I'm screwing up out ofnerves - working with you and all. I uh, mean I've seen all of your movies and I think you're such a talent. I mean, I must have seen "Now Voyager" at least ten times. And when I was a kid I... I remember going with my Aunt Grace to see "Jezebel." I musta seen that movie a dozen times, and afterwards I 'd go home and I 'd do all of your monologues. I mean, not as well as you did them, of course, but... I mean, I knew all of your lines by heart. What I mean to say is, it's just an honor to be on the same set with you. Thank you, dear. Now get the fuck out of my shot. I don't know where I ever got the idea I could turn you into an actress. You don't have it. You'll never have it. Who the hell was I kidding?. You know, I've mae up hundreds of actresses but I've never experienced a metamorphosis quite like yours. I gotta tell you, I get goose bumps every time. Go get 'em, kid. Gentlemen, in just a few moments Miss Baxter will be available for photo-graphs outside the... Hey, what's the name of the chest that just walked in?. Now, listen to me, Darryl. I want you to consider using her for "Blondes." I hear she sings. Sings?. She barely speaks. No, we've decided to go with an established musical performer. What?. Opposite Jane Russel?. She ain't exactly Ethel Merman, y'know. Skouras, this girl's talent is...slight. Then how come she gets four thousand fan letters a week?. That's more than Darnell and Hayward together. How come she's on the screen for two minutes, the audience stages a riot in te theatre?. And how come we put on a test screening of "All About Eve," she doesn't even get a screen credit -- we get three hundred comment cards back one hundred and fifty of them wanted to know who is the blonde with George Sanders. Tell me, how come?. Sweetheart?. Darling?. Sweetheart, over here. No, no. Over here. Come sit next to me. Don't do this. Take a walk, kid. Amscray! Yes, sir. Right away. Oh, you look magnificent this evening. Thank you. Doll, do you have a picture comin' up?. Why, I don't know. You'll have to ask Mr. Skouras here. How about a big smile?. Well, I mean, I think it's time for us to renegotiate. Yeah, well, Russel's getting a $ 100,000 and we're still capped off at five hundred a week. Yeah, but Jane Russel's a well known star with an established track record. Well, maybe so, but the name of the picture is "Gentlemen prefer Blondes" and she is definitely not the blonde. So, we want a large dressing room with Donna, get Dr. Prinzmetal... What was that?. Hey, what's going on?. Johnny?. Johnny?. Oh, Johnny. Johnny, Johnny, please wake up. Please. Told you she was a lousy actress. I want you to go to his house, round up all her slutty clothes, dump 'em in the backyard and light a match. Then call someone and have all the locks changed. But first, get her outta here, I don't care if you have to drag her. We're just like a little family now. Aren't we, Natasha?. But what if I don't want it to be over. I'm in love with you, Fred. You cry too easily. It's because your brain isn't developed Compared to your bosom, it's embryonic. What does that mean?. Look it up! You mind is...is inert. You never think about anything. You just float through life on that pair of waterwings. You would be a terrible example for my children. It wouldn't be right for them to be raised by a woman like you. But you're the only man I've ever loved Well, Marilyn, given your extensive history, I'm sorry to heart that. Was I supposed to love you?. A man can't love a woman he feels no respect for! Freddy! You couldn't handle a family if you had one. And raise children?. Forget it! You can barely drag your ass out of bed and make it to the set before noon. Shut up. What makes you think you're fit to be any-body's mother?. Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! No man will ever love me, Johnny. You're wrong, kid. Once you learn to harness your power, every man in the world will adore you Just not the ones who know you personally. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Over here. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn?. Marilyn!?. Marilyn!?. Marilyn?. What have you done?. Oh, you foolish, foolish girl! Oh, I am far too old for this. I guess that's why she really needs someone like I to educate her. They are coarsening you. They are making you into a buffoon! It repudiates all the fine work we have done together. It's a famous play, Natasha. Carol Channing originated the role on Broadway. Lorelei Lee is a great part. Medea is a great part! Lorelei Lee is a vacuous moron! You are an actress! You should be playing Gretchen in "Faustus." You should be playing Portia. You should be playing Ophelia... No, I refuse to set foot on the lot. I will not be party to this profanity! Oh, please. Please, Natasha. Please don't speak that way. I do. I do want to play those roles someday, and Grushenka, too Gru-shenka. Accent on the first syllable, please. I have to be more established first. I'm so scared. You don't know how scared I am. I have these voices in my head and some days I feel like I'm about to explode. I can't do it without you. I need you to be there. I'll do anything you want. Just tell me. Tell me what you want me to do. Don't you know that a man being rich is like a girl being pretty?. You might not want to marry a girl just because she was pretty, but my goodness, doesn't it help?. And if your daughter wanted to marry a poor man... Cut!!! What?. No, no, no. You don't yell cut because you are not the director. She botched the line. And do not take that tone with me, Mr. Hawks, I studied with Reinhardt! Really?. Well you must of flunked. I want you off my set and don't come back. Howard, if she isn't here, then neither am I. You know, maybe that's not such a bad idea. I know a hundred actresses who could play this part. Every single one of them would shoe up on time, know her lines and sing, dance and act a damn sight better than you can. Now look what you have done. Well, there are no broken bones, but she needs to stay off her feet for several days. How many days?. Don't... Don't it hurts. Can you do something?. I can give her something that' ll help, sure. Oh, please. Please. So where is she?. It's eight thirty. Marilyn sometimes runs a little late, Joe. Two hours!?. It takes a lot of work to look like Marilyn Monroe -- even if you are Marilyn Monroe. And speak of the devil! You look terrific, honey. Thank you. Say hello to Joe DiMaggio. How do you do, Mr. DiMaggio?. It's always a pleasure to meet one of David's friends. He's the best publicist in town. Well... So, are yoou in show business, too?. Marilyn, you're kidding?. He's only the greatest baseball player since the Babe. Oh...Who's the Babe?. What a kidder. Huh. Joe?. Uh...Gee, Sil...Look at the time. Um...You know, we're gonna leave you two kids alone. Get acquainted, okay?. And uh, don't worry about the check, alright?. It's all taken care of. Uh, the Veal Marsala's great, by the way. Enjoy! Cheers. Cheers. Oh, this guy's elec-trifying. Does he speak?. I'm afraid I don't know very much about baseball. Well, you wear baggy pants, chew tobacco and hit a ball with a stick, okay?. Marry me. I'll teach you all about it. You just met her three minutes ago, you moron. Why, Mr. DiMaggio, I've only just met you. Well, in that case, have dinner with me tomorrow night. Well, why don't we start with dinner tonight, Joe?. Surely you cannot be serious about this person. I am certain he has never read a book in his entire life! Joe is very sweet, Natasha. He makes me feel safe. He takes care of me. And he's very good with his hands. I take care of you! Natasha...sometimes you sound just like a jealous boyfriend. Mrs. DiMaggio, where will you live?. Anywhere my husband wants. Marriage is my main career now. Ohh-ho-ho. Are you planning a family?. Of course. Manhood means many things but womenhood means only one. I'd love to have six children, God willing. I won't let you ruin us, Marilyn! You can't do this! Will you keep house for your husband?. She's a movie star! I'm looking forward to it. I'm learning how to cook all of Joe's favorite foods, Iike steak and lasagna. Right?. No! No! No! No! No! Noooo! Well, I can see you have a real aptitude for this. You're a regular Mama Leone. Cannot wait to watch you scrub the toilet bowl. Oh, will you lookit fuckin' Woodling?. He's dumb as an Irish Setter! He can catch a ball like a frog zappin' a fly, after he got it, he don't know what to do with it. Rookie's Lefty. Are you crazy?. We're tryin' to watch a ball game here! Hey! Hey! Here comes the Neanderthal. Hey Joe, you gotta see this! Rizzuto just took a line drive to the nuts! What's wrong, Marilyn?. What could possibly be wrong?. You are burying us alive, that's what's wrong! We are cooped up in this house all day watching "Hopalong Cassidy" and "Father Knows Best." You don't even talk to us! All you care about is hanging out with your dimwit pals, sitting around burping and farting and scratching their balls! Are you sure you're okay?. Of course we're not okay, you blockhead We need some room to breath! We need to work! We need to feel the crowds and the fans and we need to be in a city with a pulse! I'm fine. Okay. Good. Listen, uh, just forget about the lasagna. Just make some spaghetti, okay?. The fellahs are hungry. Lunch is served! Alright. Marilyn, Tom... All set?. Now, darling Marilyn, when you get to the... What you call it?. Crating... Watch it with your heel. Alright?. And roll sound! Rolling! Mark it. And...action! You know... The sense of being in love. That's a very interesting point of view. Oh, do you feel the breeze from the subway?. Oh... Marilyn! Marilyn! Billy?. Billy?. What is it?. Um, I don't know... The... The panties are really sheer. Even up on the crane I could still see the dark pubes. Jesus. Marjorie. Marjorie?. Please. Eh, could we put another pair of panties over those panties?. Thank you. In the space of a single day, I believe we have increased Marilyn's wardrobe of underthings by 200 percent. Joe, Joe. Hey, what do you think of Marilyn showin' off... I had no idea they didn't renew your contract. What a lousy break. Yep. I've been thinkin' about gettin' back to the city for awhile now and try my hand at Broadway -- where they appreciate real talent. Hey, am I distrubing you, Marilyn?. Do you realize that you haven't taken your eyes off your goddamn reflection since I've been here?. Well, gee, Eddie, I hate to break it to you, but what do you think actresses do in their dressing rooms?. I don't know. I guess it depends on how self-absorbed they are. He's back?. The life-guard?. Don't let him insult you like that. Get out of here. Sure. I was just leaving. No, no! Not you, Eddie. It was just a line that I was working on. Could you please sit down?. I'm sorry. Please. Well, you delivered it well. Like he would know?. You know, sometimes I have to look in the mirror to see who's there. Know what I mean?. Nope. Much better. I see you're mixin' booze with your downers now, huh?. What booze, Eddie?. It's Champagne. It's still booze and the combination can kill you. What?. You're gonna lecture me now?. Am I...Am I the only person that tells you this stuff?. What about your husband, huh?. And what about your... Your...Your friends?. I mean, for chrissake, don't you have any friends?. Well, of course I have friends, Eddie. Ha! But see these here are my best friends. They're the only ones who are completely loyal. The only ones that never try to change me. They shake me see, and some-times they get very nasty and they yell, "Hey, bitch! Get the fuck outta bed! " Oh, yes. Sometimes, when I feel my clock running down and I'm dead on my feet and I can't dance another step, the run all over my body and turn all my switches back on.. They make me alive again. The way they lined up to see me in New York. Don't let it go to your head. The same folks line up to see the fat lady and the two headed calf. They love a good freak show. You seemed to enjoy it. You think I'm fat?. You're a little prky around the middle if you want to know. I didn't ask. You know, Zanuck says he thinks "The Seven Year Itch" is gonna make him a bundle. He says it's my best role ever. Well, you've had enough practice. It's the same role you always play -- cheap, dim-witted floozie. He says I'm really incredibly good in the picture. Then why is he sending us this crap?. Have you looked at these master-pieces?. "The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing," you play a rich old man's mistress. "The Revolt of Mamie Stovere," you play a hooker in Honolulu. Oh, and here's an art movie, "How To Be Very, Very Popular, Starring Marilyn Monroe as Curly Flagg." You should be working with Burton, with Brando with Olivier! But what if I'm, you know, not that good of an actress?. I mean, what if I just don't have that kind of talent?. Then you'll just have to develop that kind of talent. You'll just have to march into Zanuck's office and remind him that he would lose about a million dollars a year without you. You'll just have to tell him you want to do serious roles in serious films with serious directors you select. And then what?. Then will you be happy?. Will that be good enough for you?. Will anything ever be good enough for you?. No, dear. Movie stars don't choose their own pictures. I choose their pictures. That's how they get to be movie stars. Understand me?. You are a movie star because I made you a movie star. You could send me your sister from Phily or your aunt Josephine from Minneapolis... If I wanted to, I could do the same thing for them. No. If I am a star, it's the public that has made me a star... No studio... No director... The public. Is that so?. Well, all the public wants to see you do is sing and dance and wiggle your ass! Who do you think you are -- Katherine Hepburn?. You wanna play Shakespeare?. You wanna play "The Brothers Karamazov?. " Not the Brothers. Grushenka. Huh?. She's a girl, Mr. Zanuck. All right. Let's defer this discussion. We'll talk about it after "The Seven Year Itch" is released. Well, now I think you need my help to promote that movie. So that gives me more... What was that word that Johnny used to use?. I know...Leverage. We're here today with Marilyn Monroe, the first woman in the history of show business who successfully negotiate her own independent production deal. I'm Sidney Skolsky and I love Hollywood Marilyn, I understand that under the terms of your new deal you'll be developing screen properties to produce yourself out of your office in New York. Now, uh... Why New York, Marilyn?. Well, Sidney, I believe it's a better atmosphere for me to find good materia, and for me to learn to use myself more fully as an actress. You will never find anyone who loves you like I do. You cannot even recognize sincere love when it is offered to you -- you ungrateful brat! I took you in when you were nothing. I breathed live into you! I made you into a star! Yeah, you and apparently everybody else in Hollywood. You would have thrown away your career for a moron -- for a cretin! I am the one who saved you! Yeah, well, Joe isn't my husband anymore, Natash. And neither are you! Make it real. Make it honest. You are angry. Juliette is angry. The nurse is dilatory. You want to yell. You want to scream. So...do it. Go ahead. Come on, yell. I can't. You can't?. Then get out of the business What are you feeling now?. You're frustrated now?. You're angry?. Then Yell, goddamn you! God, I'd die if he screamed at me like like that. That's better. Now... Listen if a doctor gives you good stuff and it works, you don't have to like him, do you?. This torture should be brought in dismal hell. Did Romeo slay himself?. Mr. Strasberg?. I really enjoyed your class today. You're so brilliant with actors. I have... Well, I've been wanting to extend my range as an actress. And I've always dreamed of studying at the Actor's Studio. It takes a lot of courage for those who are already functioning professionally to come to work here. Unfortunately, you have already acquired many odd habits and mannerisms which you now have to unlearn. I recommend private lessons in my study perhaps three times a week. You might even like to stay for dinner afterwards. Thank you. We've met before. Elia Kazan introduced us years ago. I don't know if you remember. Why of course I remember, Art. I was just a very unimportant starlet then and you just won the Pulitzer Prize for "Death of a Salesman." I'm prepping a new play, uh... "A View From the Bridge." We open next month at the Coronet. Uh...perhaps you'd like to stop by and watch a rehearsal with me sometime maybe make a few suggestions. They'll say, "If Arthur Miller's interested in her, she must be more intelligent than we thought. She must have hidden dimensions we never even suspected." They'll probably say, "If Arthur Miller's interested in her, he must be desperate to get laid." Didn't you figure it out last time?. So now, instead of trying to cook spaghetti, you're gonna try to make matzo balls... They're harder, you idiot! You're not meant for love and marriage -- you're not built for it. Stick with what you're good at. Nothing if I listen to you! He's old enough to be your father! And then there's this voice in my head, "Do this. Don't do that." It never ever stops. You know, some days... Well, a lot of days actually -- like even today... I uh, think I'm about one step away from becoming a raving shit throwing lunatic just like my mother and my grandmother... You know?. 'Cause it's in my blood. It's in my brain. I...I don't... I don't want to end up a zombie. I don't...I don't want to end up lead around by some nurse Iike some kind of a wind-up doll on wheels. See, every morning I wake up and I worry about whether I'm gonna end up in some hospital, strapped to my bed and crapping in my clothes -- screaming gibberish. Am I gonna end up like my mother, Dr. Kris?. The science of the mind has progressed a great deal in the last twenty years, Marilyn. We are not as quick to hospitalize as we once were. there are new therapies, new medications. Tell me something, Dr. Kris. What would you think if I became a Jew?. But I think it should be a serious name don't you?. Like Isadora -- for your father. Isadora?. The kid'll probably hate us for the rest of his life. Oh, no. I know! What about Abe?. Abraham Miller. Well, what about Sarah, or Hanna... or Rachel?. Oh, no, Papi. I got a boy in here... And I'm gonna paint his room blue and not a pastel blue, either, more like a robin's egg blue. Oh, Papi, we're gonna be just like normal people, aren't we?. Oh, do you think he'll be as happy to see me as I'll be to see him?. Two guys dressed as women, you think that's funny?. It's been the basis of theatrical comedy from Shakespeare to Feydeau. I think it's silly. Well, that's the point. Plus, he wants to shoot it in black and white. My contract expressly guarantees that I will always be shot in technicolor. Then turn it down. Well, somebody has to bring in some money around here. So, I guess it might as well be the pregnant wife. I can't count on you to do it. I seem to remember that you used to be a writer. So what have you written lately, Arthur You turned out to be a full time job. Well, that's right. Just get up and walk away like a fucking milquetoast! Why don't you write about getting a stupid job! Oh, Arthur...Arthur...Arthur. How are you?. Alive. Lucky me. There's something wrong inside me, Arthur... Some defect...Some evil. God doesn't want me to have babies. We're gonna have lots of babies. We're gonna watch them grow big and prosperous and dignified. They better take after you. Sorry. I'll get the doctor. No. Pleaes don't go. Please. I'll be right back. Okay. Eh...Well, you must be very happy. No. Liar. Come on... Tell me how babies would just stretch my belly and make my tits tag. Go ahead, this is your chance. This is your opportunity. Tell me how I would have ended up fatter and flabbier than I am already. God, you're awful quiet today. Never when I want you to. What's the matter?. This is one of your greatest days. Don't you know I love you, Marilyn?. Action! Where is that... bon-bon?. Cut! And...Action! Cut. I have an aunt in Vienna -- also an actress -- her name, I believe, is Mildered Lachenfarber. She always comes to the set on time, she knows her lines perfectly, she never gives anyone the slightest trouble. And at the box office, she's worth about fourteen cents. You get my point. What good is being Marilyn Monroe if I can't have a normal life and family?. A family... I'd settle for just one baby. Why does everything have to turn out to be so shitty?. Maybe God is trying to tell me something. I'd probably be a kooky mother, I'd probably love my child to death. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it!!! Did you hear her?. That voice. That noise. It never goes away. Please make it stop, Dr. Kris. Oh, plese, just turn it off. I'm going to prescribe something for your nerves. Oh, go ahead. Eat the whole bottle -- then they'll be reeeally sorry. Oh, go straight to hell. How can you have so little respect for yourself when I love you so?. There. There we go. Papa?. How come you never talk to me in those beautiful flowery sentences like you write?. When the movie's over, I'll be better. I'll be a good wife to you, Papa. Acting tears me up inside. The first time I ever saw you, you were so beautiful and so angelic that you almost made me believe in God again. And now?. We're losin' the light Mr. Clift. I'm on my way. I hate you, Arthur. Really?. Why is that, Marilyn?. Well, you're so smart, why don't you figure it out?. You told me you were going to write me the best role of my career. This is the best you could do?. The character is passive and stupid -- she just wonders around all day long feeling sorry for herself. Is this the way you see me?. Is this the way I inspire you?. "The Misfits!?. " You're the misfit, Arthur. You don't know the first goddamn thing about darma! And after all you've taught me. You're a lousy writer, Arthur! And you're a lousy husband! They need you in the bleachers now, Miss Monroe. And hey, kill that motor, will you?. We're ready for a take. No. Go on. Just drive. Go. Go! Just go! Just get outta here, goddamn it!!! Get out of here! Which is it, communism or freedom?. We'll triumph in the next five or ten years. That's what should concern us. God, he's brilliant... Absolutely magnificent. I think he's gonna be another Lincoln. No, no, no. Don't do it that way. Wait. I'll show you. This works much faster, believe me. Weeeee! Sometimes, I open them up and I let the granules dissolve on my tongue, like communion. But mostly, I mix it with stuff. I like Nembutal with gin. But Dexamyl's good with champagne 'cause it bubbles see... It's really the best combination. Unless you can get your hands on some Mandrax. I once almost lost a whole bottle of Mandrax on an airplane. It happened a couple of years ago. I was flying to Louisville to shoot "Raintree County" and I went to the john and I managed to drop a hundred and fifty randy Mandies down into the TWA crapper. What did you do?. Well, I had to go in and fish 'em out. My right arm turned...turned... turned blue all the way up to my elbow! It itched like a sonuva - bitch for like three weeks. Ohhh... That's what I love about you, Monty. You're the only one I know who's more fucked up than me. What?. Arthur's never coming back, is he?. Well then he's the biggest fool God ever made. I haven't washed my hair in days. I haven't slept in a week. "Something's Got To Give" starts shooting in nine days. I have a wardrobe test on Monday, and I look like somebody who's been buried and dug up again. So, what can you give me to bring me back to human?. What do you usually take?. Nembutal, Seconal...Chloral Hydrate... Phenobarbital... Amytal, Dexamyl...Demerol sometimes. You take the Amytal and the Demerol intravenously?. Mmmmmm, usually. Self-administered?. I know some doctors... I like the "professional touch." From now on, I'd like you to restrict yourself to one doctor. For the time being, I'm going to allow the Chloral Hydrate -- it's fast acting and I think it's going to help to wean you off of the other barbiturates. But... ...No more IV drugs. Now do you understand?. Party pooper. Thank you. Mmmmhmmm. Oh...Marilyn?. This is my son, Danny. Hi. Hi. Oh, go ahead. I'll see you tomorrow. Walk her out, Dan?. Oh, sure. He doesn't have to. Hey, Danny...What are you studying?. contemporary American Government. Really?. Can I ask you something?. Uh, I hope I can answer. If you were going to meet the President of the United States, what would you talk about?. Of course, if you like sports, uh, we usually have a pick-up game of uh, touch football on Saturdays -- usually quite fun. It is fun. Excellent Brandy. Mr. President?. Yes?. Isn't the massive build up of U.S. Aid and the dispatch of thousands of "advisors" into South Vietnam a direct violation of the Geneva accords?. Well, the uh trouble is we... we are violating the Geneva agreement. Uh, not as much as North Vietnamese are but violating them never-theless. So, whatever we do has to be done with a certain amount of uh... secrecy. And of course there's always an element of uh... danger in that, isn't there?. Thanks, Mr. President, for the things you've done... Battles that you've won. The way you deal with... What's the matter, honey?. You're wearing my dress. That dress costs twelve thousand dollars, you bitch! Is that the sort of language a First Lady uses?. I don't think so. But first Ladies don't look like whores they don't act like whores and they don't stink like whores. Stop it! Stop it! Can't you see that you're just going to ruin everything if you go out there looking like a high priced slut! You have to wear something simple. Something elegant. Something befitting the wife of a President. Jack likes me to look sexy. He says it gets rid of the pain in his back. Yeah, right. This is better on me, anyway. You're too fat to wear it. Haven't you read, Jackie only weighs twelve pounds... Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot. You only read Dostoyevski or is it tolstoy?. Can't you forget about Jackie?.! It's just a political marriage. He doesn't love her. He never sticks his band up her dress like he does to me! You think you are so grand. The President's whore! How many women do you think he has?. Isn't this what you wanted?. You're the one who wanted the nice clothes and the money and the power. I did this for you. Bullshit! You've never done anything for me. But I'm gonna do something for you... ohhhh... What the hell is going on here?. Marilyn, you were supposed to be on stage an hour ago. What did you take?. What did you take!?. I didn't take anything, Peter. Nothing, I swear, that's the problem. Okay. I'll take care of it. Thank you! Oh, Happy Birthday, Mr. President! Happy Birhtday to you! Say, how'd you all like to hear another one, huh?. Honey, what on earth did you do to this dress?. I've had to sew a whole new seam way up the fornt! And it was plenty tight to begin with. You know, I may have to open up a slit in the back, just so you can walk. I'm sorry, Hazel. I can't find Sidney Guilaroff anywhere. Somebody said he left about a half an hour ago. He's probably half way to Idlewild by now. The only hairstylist still hanging around back stage is Mickey Song. He's the guy who does the Kennedy's. Oooh, well, I sure as hell don't want to look like Jackie. You ask him to come in. Hey, you tell him I wanna look just like Jackie. In the history of show business, in fact, there has been no one female who has meant so much, who's done more...What?. Mr. President... The late Marilyn Monroe. Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday, Mr. President... Happy Birthday to you... The President's concerned. We're all concerned, in fact, that uh... your involvement with him has become a little too public for comfort. Especially since your performance at the Birthday Gala. But you were the one who asked me to sing Happy Birthday to him. And you...you telephone the President from your dressing room when other people are present. And you put these phone calls through the FOX switch-board. Now, the family cannot, and will not tolerate this level of indiscretion. He's going to marry me, Bobby. No. I don't believe the President ever gave you any reason to think that. So now I have to ask you not to attempt to contact him in any way. Now, he believes it's the best thing for him, and it's the best thing for America. And personally, I... I think he's crazy. Listen, I'd uh...I'd like to give you my private phone number. This'll put you right through to my desk at the Justice Department. But they can't fire me. I've never been fired before in my life I had to promise them that you'd be on the set on time every morning. Well, you've worked exactly four of the last twenty-one days. Every man woman and child in America saw you singing Happy Birthday to the President when you to me you were home sick with a virus! Ah, honey, you're all out of chances. But I was ill. You know know that I was So Liz Taylor can get sick and I can't, is that it?. Every time she sneezes they spend four million dollars to break down the set and move 'em to a warmer climate. And her arms are fat. Oh, Henry, her arms are so fat. I make millions for them and this is how they treat me!?. Fucking Weinstein -- fucking bastard -- Judas! No, he's out to get me. They're all out to get me! Especially that stupid, no talent, over-the-hill washed up Cukor. What do you mean?. Of course you can! You're the Attorney General of the United Staes, for chrissakes, you could do whatever you want! No! You can! You can! No, you could! If you wanted to you could put them in jail. You...you could, you could audit their taxes, you could deport them. You can have them assassinated! Oh, no. Oh...Bobby. Bobby...Oh... God, Eddie, wouldn't you know it, I'd get a dog with depression. Uh...it's a beautiful house, Marilyn. I'm impressed. I am. Thanks. You know, I've been planning a trip to Mexico to pick some tiles and furniture and stuff, I'm actually gonna leave on Thursday. It sounds great. Did I tell you?. I've been renegotiating my deal at FOX?. They're gonna hire me back at twice my old salary. I don't even wanna ask. You know, Eddie... Being with you, is like old times. Rmember the Ambassador?. Yeah, I do. You used to love me then. You know, Eddie. When I was little, nobody loved me. Nobody at all. But then when I grew up, I learned that I could make anyone fall in love with me... Just by taking off my dress. Well, I guess I've gotten smarter since then, so...I'm gonna say goodnight. You're leaving Eddie?. Yeah, I have to get back. Hey, did I tell you?. I made a settlement with FOX. They're gonna pay me five times my old salary. I'm gonna start to work next Thursday. What happened to Mexico?. After I get back from Mexico. Have a safe trip. There are eighty-eight tiles around the rim of the swimming pool. There are three-hundred-sixty-seven flagstones in the walkway. There are one thousand, eight hundred seventy-four tiles... on the roof... No! I told you, you have to walk at least three steps behind me! There are eighty-eight tiles around the rim of the swimming pool. There are three hundred sixty seven flagstones on the walkway. There are one thousand... Hello, sweetheart. Oh, yes! Yes! You are happy, aren't you?. Aren't you happy?. Oh, yes, you are! You are. Robert Kennedy residence. Hi. It's Marilyn. Could I talk to Bobby, please?. Just a moment, Miss Monroe. Angel?. Mr. Kennedy's unavailable to speak to you. He is accepting no more calls until further notice. Please, don't attempt to make contact. Thank you. What are you doing?. Sometimes I have to hurt myself, just to see if I can still feel. Get out of my house! I hate you! It's all your fault. He dumped you as fast as he could because you're a cheap piece of trash. You're ignorant and you have no class. No. That's you. I'm Marilyn. You're only good for one thing. That's why every man you've ever known has walked out on you. They've all walked out on you. Even your daddy. Freddy, Johnny, Joe. I won't listen. I won't. Arthur, Bobby. Even your fans. They all left you. We could have had it all! But you had to go and wreck it, like everything else in your life. I'll make you go away. Thirty-six years old and your tits are sagging faster than your ass. No. I'll make you go... I'll make you go away. Your mind is gone. You're just a drunk and a pill head. No wonder everybody left you. It's too late. Everybody hates you. Never work again. The world will be better off without you. Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so...
