 

                        Awvvw! Father and son won't let me sleep, eh? Good morning, son Good morning Enough? Good morning, mom Good morning, Sid Do you need to raise your leg this way to drink your coffee? Not just my leg My bum too! Hari, what's happening in the world of programming? Well...google designed the new Dan language they hope'll become... ...the next vernacular of web programming like the Java script Also there's a significant difference between the- Dad, do you understand anything about programming? No, I don't Then, why discuss this? Father, every time we talk, energy is lost from our body You talk less You live more Hey! Pinky boo Morning! I'm fine Dad's not really fine, though Yes, I'll shower Yeah, I did brush my teeth Okay See you Ay! Sexual frustration!! Will you please get out from here? Dad, that wasn't aim ed at you...but me Good morning, uncle Good morning, Hari Ma, where's my other slipper? Did you see it? Those are my sandals - Hello - Hey baby! - How are you? - I am good Muah...! Should I pull this behind? I have cleaned my room Tell Mini not to go in Hari, are you coming...no? Aren't you late? Pathetic! There is another strike happening again on 19th We just had 1 recently Wonder what this is for! This is to protest the hike in petrol and diesel prices M nm- 'a Shall I make a note of writ and petitions scheduled for the 19th? I'll inform the clerk about the hearings for that day too Okay, Sara Do that I just hope all these strikes change things for the good, eh? 'You're listening to Sid rig ht now' 'I knowl am late today, so-' Ma'am, Sid has a great fan following for his program His nature is so much like yours Sara, when I was young I used to be like him I was so active in my college 'I intend talking about some different people today' 'I know you are all rushing to your offices and schools' 'Here's a cool song to start off your day' 'This is 93.5 Red FM Listen and keep on listening...' tiff "Are these webs self-spun? Who is this gentleman?" "ls this truth a pile of burning coals alive?" "As time ticks, people and their habits change You search for change that takes a new image" tiff "I ponder...who is this man? His mind and name unknown" "Nation in turmoil with his eyes blindfolded Hither or thither to vanish uncharted" tiff 'NORTH 24 MILES' tiff In a relationship with Sandeep...come on! Yeah, it's true Then what happened to Rohit? No idea - Where is it? - I have it, dude Hi everyone This is Simi the rookie Simi...Ausu, Salam, Priya, Happy, Niveditha, Easa Hi...l'm Guru Guruvayurappa (God)...! Can you move...? You're blocking my view Can't you just call me Guru? Salam, Suni will be training under you Hasn't he reached? No way! You come...come Please sit Thank you That's good I hope you know Malayalam Have you been introduced to everyone? Yes There is 1more person whom you must meet - Lord Hari - Lord?! He is grandson to the Queen of England Has he taken off today? No...he has set a time for himself 10:30 sharp He'll walk in Sir, come let's go in this lift Hi! Would you like some coffee? Sure, thank you You are welcome . so. - It's okay Sim I...Hari Hi, I'm Simi So? Get uP Simi! That's Hari's seat That's my seat Do you get it? Don't ever sit on it I'm sorry Will someone from your house come and take this away? Hari, isn't it bad etiquette to behave like this with girls? Don't you have any other work to do? Don't bother, dear You can use my seat anytime I won't worry It's alright, Simi I told you I'll talk to you later! Okay! Fine Now hang up Oh, sir is already here! Singh...? Everybody was crying Did Sam cry? - No - Lovely Simi...? Happy scene, isn't it? Hi Sam How's doing? All set Prathiba? Everybody having a good time? I know, Hari There is a leaking pipe in the bathroom There is only half a bottle of hand wash But this is not a meeting to discuss all that Sorry...sorry Punctuality will be appreciated Please turn up on time for our meetings I have some good news for the entire team The function MRI data processing software we had developed here... ...has been approved by both the US and the European medical councils - Wow! - Wonderful Peter called me just now He has congratulated the team members specially We at Cabot should be proud of ourselves! Party...! Harm! Yes...we'll party tonight No problem There is a special mention about Hari Krishnan who has designed it In fact, Peter has asked Hari to shift to our office in San Jose Only later he remembered Hari's fear of flying Hari is scared to fly! Hari has aerophobia, right? But Hari, you'll have to attend a conference in Trivand rum Oh no! Hari, only Trivandrum It's not as if we are sending you to USA! But, sir...! No 'buts' and please don't call me 'sir'! It is an important conference by the Indian Medical Council And the main topic of discussion will be the program you have created! And who better to explain the program than the creator? I'll let you know the dates And remember this, Hari Tonight's party is in your honor And you had better be there Can I have 2 peach punch? "You and I enjoy rhythms of this song This song is just crazy bang on" "For the first time, in your eyes I see a sparkle bright and starry" "Desires and dreams glow let's go there and dream it now...!" "Hey there's a fair, just be there, grab a pair and just don't care to care" Isn't that Hari sitting over there? What? Isn't that Hari sitting over there? - Where...? - Look behind you That's my brother! Yeah man! Is that Hari's girlfriend? Girlfriend...for Hari? I will show you something That girl will cry now She will really cry You want to bet? I'll bet for 100 bucks You will lose the bet Watch out...Hari will leave now Didn't I tell you? See for yourself...he's gone He's gone You lost! He has spoilt it Has she taken a pledge to cry every morning and night? You are the only one left to cry Scoundrel! Stop it, he will make you piss Move away...! You are the team leader Can't you do something about this? What can I do? Last appraisal, didn't we all give negative reports about him? And look what happened! Sam said the company does well only because of this devil! I'll give you a solution lf we plan it out well it will work out beautifully What plan? Son, for a change Chicken...? I had good fun His dance was good Hi uncle - Join us for dinner - Hi aunty Hung ry-u! Aunty, it's cold, is it yesterday's food? Where were you all? We went for a party At the club, Tanthri Nice place He was there He was at the club too At the club?!!! Some office...some panymsomething And he was making a girl cry God help me! I wonder where he will end up... ...with all these curses from so many girls - Resignationm? - Give it to me! Hari? Resign? Huh? Ream'?! Priya, who told you this? - I saw the letter -I don't believe this Will anyone give a letter these days? Guru, let him just do anything It is alright Did I hear it right? Yes Don't get me hyper for nothing No...no Then...all those candles I lit as offerings weren't futile Satish? Prasad...? Come here soon Pay him...all of you Take this too - Mine -1 minute Collect it from everybody - Guru, move - Did you pay him? I've given your share also Hari is resigning from the job on, is n? 1,2,s,4,s Give me your share for Hari sir's resignation Acho! Let him go and die somewhere I want Hari's booth Who wants his booth? Let him get lost Such an egoistic person Have you seen his attitude? Fool! He and his stupid pair of glasses and a bag he carries around...! Exactly! Are you sure? Hari...are you sure? Yes Prathiba? Come inside Yeah, right away Come in, Prathiba Move...move What is it? Can we celebrate? No...? Which blessed time did you conceive him? Ifl remember right, I wasn't the only person involved in it Why can't these American companies work all 7 days? Hari, aren't you going to see the doctor? Today is Saturday As if you need to remind him about that! Hari? Who is this? Prathiba...let me see Hari, it's for you Hello...? I'm Hari's mother Hari is unavailable Prathiba...? Okay, on the 19th I'll tell him about it Hari, your train ticket for the 19th is confirmed Prathibha just called I think it is for Trivandrum Trivand rum? I wonder what for! Welcome to our Saturdays Oooo ooh! Cheeeeeers...! Why can't you wait for the others before you start celebrating? Dad will be here soon We should have invited Hari as well Oh Yeah! You couldn't think of anyone else?! Can you even think of our plight without him? Then what?! His programs are our only reasons for our survival Salam is right Hey, forget this program of touring the world and get the food But I find him very cute What about my- Go, get that Must be dad One day he will look at me and I'll kiss him th- Prathiba...? Hi...Hari Come in My ticket You didn't have to take this trouble I would've sent it through Mani It's okay 1 minute Hari, want to join? You said it may be difficult This is the progra- What happened? Didn't get kissed, eh? - Hari? - Yes, doctor How is everything? Everything is fine Do you have anything to tell me? No Are you off to Trivandrum? What ifl am? Can you travel alone? Get out of my bed Get out Can you get me 'poli'? These sweet pancakes Get me 2 packets Enough? Enough...enough What time is the train? 12:30 Why are you leaving so soon? Should I drop you, Hari? Ma, I'll be late You want to get dropped? Bye Safe journey, son Where are you going? Did I ask you where you are going? Sir...? Madam, this is his berth Please move to your own berth Thank you, sir What is it, Moid heen? When? What do I do now? Sir...please help me Lend me a hand Sir, what happened? Do you want water to drink? No Please help him Please turn off the light, will you?! I must go back home My wife has been taken ill Which is the next station? I'll call the ticket officer Sir, over there We'll reach Paravoor in 5 minutes You can get down there - Okay? - Thank you, sir It's alright Careful...watch your step Let's sit here Move aside, man! Moidheen's call kind of left me totally weak and shattered I usually don't leave her alone like this and travel by myself Nothing to worry Moidheen always makes a mountain out of a mole hill - I left my bag in that train - What? I must reach Trivandrum- These are small fish Do you want some? No, my wife doesn't know to cook this fish - Sir? - Yes When is the train to Kozhikode? To Kozhikode, huh? There are many trains But they won't stop here I left my bag in that train Why didn't you go in that train? L...his- How can you be so careless? What do I do now? Why are you asking me? Give a written complaint to the person seated in there Train number, coach number, seat number and color of your bag If you are lucky you may get it There is a train from Kollam to Kozhikode But, don't you have to go to Trivand rum? I will ensure you are safe before I go Hello...bro? We need to go to Kollam Kollam? Rs 1000 Kollam...not Coimbatore I will give you maxim um Rs 250 You can go to Kollam or Coimbatore But you need to pay for the auto There's a strike now I won't get a passenger on my way back Let me sleep in peace It is okay I'll pay him Let's get going Come on, get in Get in Sir, get in soon You can get down here Walk straight ahead and you'll reach the railway station Get down here? Did you agree to drop us midway? We won't get down Stan the vehicle The road that side is all broken It is just walkable distance from here - You can easily walk it up - How can you say that? It is alright Let us get down here I will pay you only half the amount I'll pay him No need I've kept it ready Here is the full amount Madam, shall I take leave? Good night Get lost! Since it is a strike, the trains will be delayed The exact time can't be specified Shall we go try at the KSRTC bus stand? We've been waiting What strike? Govt vehicle is for common man to travel in Bro, I'll give you the keys You can drive it for the common man It's such a hassle for so many people Bro, when is the bus to Kozhikode? What will we do stranded like this in the middle of the night? Do something soon Brother...? Bothering us with the strike Bro...bus to Kozhikode...? There will be a bus to Alapuzha Get onto that, you might get a bus to Kozhikode from there You have to give us an answer We've been waiting here for ages Let us sit here It will take a while for the bus to come Sit down In all this confusion I lost my phone Do you know your number? Let me call your number 94469... ...63543 It says 'this number does not exist' Did I give you a wrong number? Anyway, it is lost! Tell me your landline number Residence number is No sound at all I hear only some noises I've forgotten that as well It is afaulty line I even forgot to give a complaint It's okay...anyway I'm going there, no? Is there any other number? Moidheen's number Ever since I started using this mobile phone... ...l can't memorize any of the numbers 98460332-88 Or 88332 Try both Aww...the battery has run down Hey, can I have the phone? Which phone? Your phone I don't have a phone What? I do not have a phone What did they tell you when they called? They said my wife is having severe breathing difficulty When I suggest going to the hospital... ...she never listens She will be fine Yes, nothing would have happened What is your name? Hari Krishnan We met at Shoranur She is Narayani But she prefers to be called Nani Where are you from? Ernakulam - What is the time? -4:50 What is the time? 4:50 AiVoH What happened? What is it? 1, 2 or shower? Huh...? Do you want to pee, crap or take a shower? Two Rs 2/- - Give me coins - I don't have any Here's the balance Yuck! It is all over there What? Crap What crap is he talking about? Hari...? In here...get in, careful Stop...stop! I must get in too Stop staring and climb up Get in both of you Oh no...break down What's the problem? Axle of the bus is broken We can't go now Will another bus come? Who knows! You can go if one comes along - How can you say that? - Let me see What do we do now? How can you leave us stranded in a place like this? You have to arrange another vehicle We need to reach Kozhikode immediately May be you can board a ship Walk straight that way to reach the backwaters Axle of the bus is under repair Can anything be done? Shall we walk that way? Come, let's go It's pitch dark here Oh! You have a torch with you! Do you use it always? Not always...only when it's dark How long do we walk...? Where will we reach if we walk like this? Absolutely...no clue! Let's see What happened? - Brother...? - Yes? If we cross this lake can we get any vehicle? Today? You may be able to get into an ambulance Can you take us across? This is not such a boat I use this for fishing You can't get onto this Brother, please help us We'll also help you fish No, that won't work out I'll pay you something, comrade The old man has got brains The 3 of you can get in Come on Vasu, loosen the mooring rope I'm not coming Okay, don't! Who asked you to come along? Brother, how heavy is this boat? What? How heavy is the boat? I have not weighed it yet! What is it? Will it sink ifl also get in? What a pity! "Was the lonely path feeling demure? Did thunder clouds exhaust their downpour?" "On sidewalks peacefully sleeping with silence enveloping" "ln this jungle, sun's rays patrolling arms swinging and gracefully strolling" tiff This jetty is an old one, eh? Yes My father used this for fishing and now it's mine Hey! Catch hold of this What is this? Something is pulling it! Must be a fish Awwwwwwww! Fish!! Tiff "ln this world happily lived the people though submerged in strikes and turmoil" "ln this world carefree lived the people though submerged in strikes and turmoil" "Truth stabbed every day relentlessly while revelry rents the air repeatedly" ls there any place here we can get some food? "Oh you poor souls...life scorches indeed within us the ashes of a flame that seethed" tiff Oh! I must enter through the rear door today Toddy...! You can get yummy tapioca and fish curry here You can wait here We'll both go and get it I'm coming too I'm really hungry Huh? Come on 'Long live Mother India' Mischievous! Puroshothamanmwhat is this? Shall we sit here? Is this a television soap? Or a family pack? What do you have? Toddy I mean, food to eat Like tapioca and fish or some such thing Oh...that kind of food? There is fish egg, fish fry, small fish, tapioca And then there are white rice pancakes I'll have a plate of tapioca with fish gravy Sir, what about you? Okay, 2 plates of tapioca with fish gravy Sir, what would you like to have? I don't want anything Why is that so? Don't force him Brother, please serve us fast Rajesh...2 plates of tapioca with fish gravy Where are you from? Where are you going to? We are on our way to Kozhikode Oh! I see To be frank, we ended up here because of the strike today I was wondering how you found this rotten shop Sit down My dear boys, take your seat You just forgot me, isn't it? You don't come here these days Or have you all stopped drinking? What would you like to eat? There is fish egg, fish fry and head fry You know what we like to eat So, I'll serve you all now I first met my wife- Sorry, what? I first met my wife in a toddy shop like this She was heading a strike against alcoholism And I was doing the same for the laborers here Our beliefs were so opposite Like how they say, 'opposites attract'! Go...go Okay, I'll go Those bike-boys have agreed to drop us till Ernakulam okay Where are you off to? It is a short cut Short cut? The bike with the girl is not in sight They are just a little ahead of us We will catch up with them soon I can't see them They are just ahead Don't stress yourself There he is! Stop the bike Stop...l say! '12 miles more...' Hello? What is it? Whaaat? He hasn't reached? Are you sure? Maybe he didn't leave at all Let me find out from Hari's mother okay Hello? - Aunty - Hi, Prathiba He left quite early yesterday Please reduce the volume, Sree He hasn't reached? No way he'll go anywhere else Are you sure? Can you check again? Okay What is the matter? Hari hasn't reached Trivand rum yet Nani...? Nani...? Hari...?! Her bag What happened? The strap's broken What do you think of yourself? You don't have to show off this over confidence all the time Imagine if something had happened...! This over smartness is nothing to be proud of! I wonder where we are Thank goodness! Get down This is awful I wonder why IT professionals and cops are not affected by the strike Hey...! Just come here with me What is it? - He hasn't reached - Who? Hari? Are you sure? Does Sam know about this? It was your idea to send him there Go and tell him yourself What do we do now? What do you think we can we do?! - It flows down from there - So beautiful! Let's jump into it I will jump into it now It's lovely Hari, aren't you coming? What pure water! We can even drink it What is the distance we've covered now? What distance are you referring to? Furlong, kilometer or 'Kaadham' (5 miles) Like how people in the olden days called it? - Doesn't Kaadhu mean 'ears'? - This is 'kaadham' Haven't you heard this saying... ...'Even if Mecca is 1000 'kaadham' away, it will still be fresh in the heart?' It is 16 kms as per today's calculations Wrong! What? Mecca is just 4600 kms from here 1000 'kaadham' is 16,000 kms Shall we go? Yes, but where to? We must go north, isn't it? How do we know where north is? Sun is not visible either Why are you carrying a screw driver and such stuff? North is that way What is this? Man vs wild? What does that mean? There is a man called 'Bear Grylls' who hosts a survival reality show on TV Do you think this is a game? Do you think this is a place to vent out your personal grudges? If you don't know, everyone in the U.S values... ...Hari's expertise more than any of you They even value him more than me! If anything happens to him jobs are at stake Did you try calling his home? They've been informed that Hari got down at the Paravoor station And his bag has reached Trivandrum Paravoor is close by, isn't it? This is Paravoor, near Kollam Do you mean Quilon? I don't care Paravoor or Parabikulam You better go and find him right now How will you go now? Appan has his bike, Bullet I have my 2 wheeler too So, what are you waiting for? Go...! Or you wait! I'm coming Sir, will you be able to climb this? I have climbed so many hills and mountains Stop there...l say! Stop running Don't run Run Stop there It's the cops...! Run for your life Sir, what is it? Why did he run? Stop! I know you must be wearing one Are you wearing one? Are you wearing one? What? Underwear! lam wearing a boxer Show him what he is supposed to do Anish...! Get up and go stand there Remove it I haven't done anything Why did you run? Anish I know what to do What is it? You should reply only to my questions What is in this bag? It is- Anish...! Give it to me Sir, I think he is a medical representative ls it so? I'll kick you Get up! You morons! Remove it...you rep! Someone told us we can reach Kottayam if we come this way Anish...can you reach Kottayam this way? You can reach Munnar, Them, Kambham... ...and finally the Bay of Bengal! You are over doing it Who is he? His son Who are you? His daughter? - I am- - Yes How will you reach Kozhikode today? Just like how we reached this far from Kollam There is a vehicle going to Kottayam from here Do you want to travel in it? Sorry!! Is there any news about your brother? No, dude What actually happened? He went on some official purpose Some conference or some such thing But he is missing now What will you do now? My dad has called for the police and army Let the police and cops just wait Why don't we try to find him before they do? How do we do that? - How do we go from here? - I will be right back I truly believe in the Indian govt. Allegations against me is a major conspiracy My party and I believe I can prove it too Sir, if the court proves othenuise will you approach the High court? The court won't prove otherwise I'm very sure of that Did you find it difficult to come here because of the strike today? I was at home till yesterday I'm a social worker and these strikes don't bother me Where are you going to now? - Who is this? - I don't know, sir! I am on my way to Ernakulam Bishop from Kalaipurackal is in the hospital I'll visit him and get back We are 3 of us Can you take us along with you? Thank you, sir This is the 1st time I am travelling in a minister's car Where is your place in Kozhikode? Ram anatukara Isn't that in the district of Malapuram? It is the border We need to reach Kozhikode immediately That's why I- Sir, road is blocked towards that side So can't we go there? No, sir - What is your name? - Narayani - What about yours? - Hari Krishnan What do you do? FPGA Architect Oh, our future! What about you? I'm a social welfare trainee with a NGO in Trivand rum Which NGO? - Aren't you the health minister? - Yes Have you gone near the Mullassery canal? It is so polluted! It has been cleaned Don't you read the papers? Sir, road is again blocked this way Turn the car back to Pala We can see the bishop later The 3 of us...? What do we do about them? We can drop them at the next junction How do we go from there? Arrange a police jeep for them to go I wonder how long we have to walk You asked stupid questions and spoilt the chance of a lift Leave it...it's okay Hari is safe We've reached Ernakulam Now he can go home by walk easily We were told a vehicle will be here - What for? - For us to travel in - For you to travel in? - Didn't the minister inform you? Minister? Which minister? The Health minister We travelled in his car till here How are you related to the minster? He was the minster's mentor There is a vehicle here but it is under repair If it starts, I can drop you at the airport He has started it You are really smart Shall we take leave? Aren't you coming along? Hari, aren't you going back home? No, I'll come along with you To Kozhikode? You can get down here Convey my regards to the minister We are really grateful Sure...carry on Sir, please wait for me I'm coming along with you It's gone That's also gone Where are you all off to? Kozhikode I am off to Chaavakaatu Day before yesterday, I've been blessed with a son I just landed from Dubai There is a car coming to pick me up But due to the strike it is stuck somewhere I tried the railway station too There are no trains, either I wonder when there will be an end to these strikes Walk faster Man, didn't I tell you we need not go today? Every Indian citizen has the right to pull in a strike So does the Indian constitution, allow a citizen have the rig ht to... ...obstruct 'right of movement' of a fellow citizen? You are right but nobody is seeing it as an obstruction It calls for a holiday and hence a celebration ls there any chance of getting a vehicle? Strike allover today I wonder if waiting here will be of any use We can only hope Some car is coming Stop...stop...! We came here before you did What difference does that make? Get in soon We have to go urgently Everyone has their urgency tiff "As a song be with me once more on this silent journey" "Memories rush to hide like flowering tress left behind" No, don't get into that "Strange shores and miles unknown must be crossed in this torrid zone" tiff "Will you walk with me even if breeze doesn't accompany?" "As a song be with me once more on this silent journey" tiff "Rhythms that never ceased played on the heart strings" "Step by step we progress our unexplored desires" "As a path perceived by the burning eyes Faces and expressions fade as time flies" "At the destination as each journey ends like a burdened shoulder a new one extends" tiff "Will you walk with me even if breeze doesn't accompany?" "As a song be with me once more on this silent journey" "Will you walk with me even if breeze doesn't accompany?" - What do you do, Hari? - I am FPGA architect ls there any technology to catch fish easily? Let us rest for a while and then continue Sit down Fooled you...! From where did you get it? Where did you run off to? How can you leave the child alone like this? I was busy with some work That's why I didn't realize Go to your mother Looks like you all have travelled a long away! We- Come with me I live close by Come with me Come Take this balloon Where are you off to? We need to go to Calicut immediately My wife is not keeping well Fuel is low Petrol and diesel is hard to get now I will drop you till where this van takes us What is your name? I am Vyom kesh, my wife Lajju and my daughter Pyali Do you know in the novel by Sharadendhu Bendhodhadhyaya... ...there is a detective character with your name? - Is it so? - Yes Detective? With my name? I swearl didn't know Daddy, you're great That Vyomkesh may have been a great hero But this is the 3rd strike ever since I came here Only yesterday, we decided to stay back here Have you been here for a month? Actually more than a month! More than 45 days You seem to have travelled a lot Yes, we have Are there strikes in other places too? No What are the places you've visited? We are visiting all the temples My wife doesn't know Tamil She is from Kutch And I don't know Kutchi So, what language do you speak? Gujarathi or Kutchi? Kutchi It seems you know many languages "Whateverl wish to speak, beau should be spoken by you" "Day and night we should interact!' Come here Vyomkesh, how old is Pyali? She was born in Gujarat, 4 years ago Pyali, come and play with me They don't have a common language to communicate Can you ask him how he professed his love to her? Vyom, Nani wants to ask you something Go ahead In what language did you tell Lajju you love her? Language is no barrierfor love Only the experience counts - Did you understand that? - No Language is no barrier for love Only the emotion counts Pyali, come here What are you looking at? Are you wondering why I have 2 watches on my wrist? One has the time at which I found her Other is the time that we are living together I've been using sign language to communicate with her till now But I want to ask her something now Before that, can I ask you something? Tell me How did you get a baby if you had no common language? Why do we need a language for that? We've achieved the impossible Isn't this do-able?! What do you want to ask Lajju? Ask her what she likes about me - ls that all? - Yes, that's all Lajju, what do you like about him? I like his moustache So cute - She likes your moustache - Oh! Really...? Look at this Try smelling it Coffee powder Just imagine Vyom and Lajju's situation Without a common language to communicate Actually, it is ideal They'll both have peace of mind! Otherwise the wife should be like Hari Who doesn't open his mouth! Sir, are you tired? Keep walking How old are you, sir? By next year I'd have seen 1000 full moons! So are you 100? No, I am 84 Maybe my calculation is wrong again! - Sister...? - I'm coming Sister...brother Mustafa is here Let me come in first Little devil, is your circumcision over? Move aside Master, come in Please sit down Come in, sister Nani Please sit down Haseena...? Sit down Mother, is Ambusa'ka here? He is on his way Please serve them something to drink Dad's little pearl...! Come here Haseena, he is fairerthan me! Sit here What is your name? Jubeena Mohammed This is Haseena and this is my son I was praising you! Can you see Nani? Who is this...? Did you see your dad? So cute Sir, what is the need for this? This is a ritual okay Take it Alright Hari...Hari Look at this baby Careful...careful Don't pee on Uncle Hari's lap Come on...dad will carry you He will not drink it Please drink Ambusa, where were you? They told me you have arrived I had to unload some stuff and that's why got delayed Sir, this is my brother Am busa and this is my brother-in-law I found them on the way How did you manage to reach here? It was tough They have to reach Kozhikode now Kozhikode? Is it okay if you can reach Beypore? Yes, my house is close to that place Kunjumon! That's it Give me your bag, master Give me a hand Be careful while you get in Thank you Bag... bag! !! You and your bloody bag! Kunjumon, be careful Why are you treating them like kids? Carry on...and do let me know once you reach safe Sir, hope you have my number with you Yes, I do So we'll meet somewhere Not just somewhere We'll come for your son's first birthday to taste your yummy biriyani! Yes, please do I'll make it with mutton - Sir, carry on - Thank you Kunjumon, be careful Abdu, you can start and stop only when we reach Beypore I wonder if some foreigner will shoot us Shoot us? No foreigner or Watson will come near us Hold on tight and sit ls there a bathroom? You want to pee or crap? Just pee into the water Your urine won't increase the salt in the water But if you want to crap... ...go the other side or your pants will get wet No need What happened? Hari, rub her back for her Are you alright? It is because she isn't used to travelling on water Are you married? What? Nausea?! What happened? You must be married, rig ht? Is this the first time? Yes It is because of the wind We' re reaching Bey pore We are about to reach Please slow down a bit Do you see that school over there? My wife worked there as a teacher for 35 years Her students are like our own children I went to Trivandrum only to get a certificate attested for a student Do you see that building... ...with the flat tiled roof and white compound walls? That was where my wife, Sharad ha, Ramani, Thomas and I lived in hiding When the case was over, my wife and I decide to live there Later on, she insisted on giving it to our fellow party members Now it is our favorite office for our political party meetings She has suffered a lot of torture from the police That's why she suffers from repeated asthma attacks She cooks excellent gravy of mackerel with buttermilk which is very popular She won't allow any guest to leave without eating That's her nature Do you have a handkerchief? Please drive faster We've reached Stop here Stop here, I say! We have to walk a bit Will it be tough for you? Let's get down - How much? - Rs 180 Oh, you are all here! ls it a welcome committee? Keep the change Nkiuiheenuf? How is y our teacher'? Just come with me Moidheen...he called me He is also one of her students He is usually with us in all our activities Moidheen...? We have a bit more to walk Are you finding it difficult? Nanu, come Moidheen Rashmi, I had to break my journey I'll get your certificate next week Don't cry What is this? - Moidheen...? - Coming, sir You knew all along, right? Shall we go? Poor soul...! He's all alone now I'll visit him next week Hari, will you come with me? Shall we go and eat something? Come...come Where do you work in Ernakulam? Sorry I keep asking you unnecessary questions? - In the train - In the train! Do you want black coffee? Yes Brother...? 2 black coffee 2 black coffee Where were you off to? Trivand rum I usually travel on this train every Sunday Where do you live? lam from Shoranur but I'm hardly there Are you always like this? How? Acleanliness freak...! Sorry tiff "Stars were born on the night of this journey" "Time left its colorful foot prints within me" "Was it the star that shone unblinkingly? Was it a path that blossomed unending ly?" tiff "My dreams you embraced from yesterday together we move forward as one today" Hari? Tiff "Does our journey have a future intertwined in strange desire?" "My heart hummed with a desire to glance To say something, a few words perhaps" "Your doe-eyed shy gaze remains fresh, not a haze" "ln this morn, many a 'kaadham' step by step we did fathom" tiff Maya, what is your problem now? Is it because Hari no longer laughs in the morning? Or is it because you people can't wake up in the morning? Didn't his laughing exercise become a pan of your daily routine as well? He has even started to have more than 2 steamed rice cakes Chicken...! He has started eating chicken too He must be having a better appetite now No, doctor, he has gone mad Something has gone wrong with him Lost his marbles He used to walk to and fro but now he doesn't It is after that trip he went on Doctor, what do you think is the reason? It could be self realization Another reason could be a complex feeling of anxiety This behavior will increase in proportion to anxiety Maya, I mean...it could be love tiff Hi Sam! "Are these webs self-spun? Who is this gentleman?" "ls this truth a pile of burning coals alive?" "As time ticks, people and their habits change" "You search for change that takes a new image" tiff "I ponder...who is this man? His mind and name unknown" "Nation in turmoil with his eyes blindfolded Hither or thither to vanish uncharted" tiff "As time ticks, people and their habits change" "You search for change that takes a new image" tiff Hari, you usually come here on Saturdays Why have you come on a Friday this time? You have anything to tell me? I have lost something To lose something did you find anything in the 1st place? I don't know Should we not find what you've lost then?
