 

                        1 - Clementine? What are you doing up here? - I wanted to get a better look at the Northern Lights, to see how bad things really are. - Worse than you can imagine. (Electricity crackling) I'm afraid Christmas is in serious trouble. - So, what can we do? - When you figure that out, be sure and let me know. - Kevin, you're the man of the house. Are these for the Christmas lights or the router? - Actually, they're what's left of your old hairdryer. I saw a video on Edison. I got inspired. - OK, that's the last time I skimp on movers. Everything is mislabelled! Oh! Nice T-rex! - It's a reindeer, but if you see a T-rex, let's go with that. - Oh, pragmatic artist. Guess you got the best of both parents. Oh, honey! We gotta leave in 10 minutes! You're gonna be late for school. - I'm not sure anybody would notice. - Oh, Kev, come on! Look, I know one of the hardest things to do is to fit into a new school, but it just takes time, you'll see. (Cell chiming) Oh, that's my editor. He wants to see me in the office. Come on! - Probably just to tell you you're his awesomest reporter. (Chuckling) - You're awesome! You've always been my biggest fan. Thank you. - Mom, what if Santa looks for us at the old house and all he sees are empty rooms? - Honey, if he can deliver a billion presents in a single night, he's gotta have some sort of system that can track all of us, don't you think? (Chuckling) Come on, let's go. How is it in the making- friends department, huh? - Tommy Chan said sorry when he tripped on my backpack yesterday. - See? That's something, right? - Seriously? - OK, maybe not, but you've got to keep trying, OK? Oh, I have an idea! Why don't you think about maybe joining a team or a club or something like that? - Well, I was thinking of starting, like, a Christmas committee to put up more lights and stuff at school. - That's a great idea! Come on! (Child squealing) - (Kevin): Lights and decorations tonight! Promise? - Promise, if we have to tear through every box in the house. - Great, 'cause the only time you see green and red around this place is when the 6th graders dissect frogs. - Eww! Gross! But I get the point. (Bell ringing) - Top of the mornin', Kev! - Hey! - Who rides a bike in the winter? - Mom, this is my teacher, Mr. Wilson. - Hi, I'm Ryan. - Chelsea! I didn't realize Kevin's teacher was Irish. - Oh, I'm not, actually. I just like to keep the kids on their toes! (Both chuckling) Nice to meet you. - Yeah! Your teacher is unique. - Yeah! I like him. He gets you to see things differently. - Kiss for Mom? No? I love you! Come on, buddy. Talk to somebody. (Telephone ringing) - Uh, better make room by the crossword. There's something strange going on with the Northern Lights. - Morning, Trevor! - Morning. - Hey, Chuck! Nice piece on the bus strike! - Thanks, Chelsea! - Yeah! - Hey, you want some eggnog? - No, actually, eggnog and I are not friends, so you enjoy! - Right choice! Avoiding Chuck in Christmas-party mode is the best advice this advice columnist could give you. - Listen, maybe you and I could have lunch today? - If that means joining you at your desk for a sandwich from the vending machine, no thanks! - I'm sorry. New-kid syndrome! I feel like I have to prove myself to the higher-ups. - Well, here's your chance! - Oh! - Morning, Chelsea! - I was just coming to see you! - Good, good! Walk with me. - OK. - I've decided to shake things up and try you out on the "City Beat" column. - Really? Oh, I won't let you down! - I know! Back in Wisconsin, you were the one who broke the story on the wholesaler who was selling cheap cheddar as gourmet gouda, right? - Yeah, well, I have a nose for news, and that didn't smell right. - Put that wit and tenacity in your column, and you'll do fine. Your first assignment. The town canceled the Christmas-tree lighting in Greenwood Park to save a few bucks. Think you can you handle a "politician turned Scrooge" story? - Yeah, of course! Um, should I... OK! (Scoffing) (School bell ringing) - Mr. Finster? - Yes! - Chelsea Hastings from The Examiner. I called you about the tree-lighting ceremony. - I'm sorry, we're closed for the holidays. - Doesn't the public deserve to know why it was canceled? - Ms. Hastings, right? - Yeah. - The ceremony's expensive. Power, labour, liability. The mayor made a decision. - It's a tradition around here! - A tradition that seems to have been forgotten. If you have any questions, talk to the mayor's office... or the planning commission! - What do they have to do with the tree lighting? - More than you might think, but you didn't hear it from me! (Bird chirping) - Yes, he said the planning commission, which, of course, is conveniently closed for the holidays. I'm telling you, Jasmine, there's more to this story than meets the eye. Mm-hmm! Listen, I gotta go. I gotta pick up my kid. I'll call you later. - (Ryan): So, to sum up from the textbook, "fractions are numerical quantities, "when added together, comprise the whole." Confused? I know I am. (All chuckling) All right, let's see if we can make this a little clearer. (Sighing) Suppose we took these scissors to this tie and made the tie a fraction of its length. (Children laughing) I'd say that's about half, right? So, if I took it and cut right here, it would be... All together now! - (Children): One fourth! - By George, I think they've got it! (School bell ringing and children laughing) All right, so, remember, Christmas vacation starts next week, so you have exactly 2 days to pick your holiday project. It can be an experiment or a paper or a plan to change the world! Think bold! Think big, people! Hey! Nice to see you again. - Thanks! That was an interesting demonstration. - Yeah, well, anything to get the point across. - What is the point of the holiday project? - My mom's a reporter. She was born to ask questions. - It's OK. The point of the project is to teach the kids creative thinking. - Well, I think your creative approach to math has turned your $20 tie into a penny worth of scraps. - Well, you obviously don't write for the style section, 'cause it was a $6 tie! - Oh! Tell me it went better today. - Today was better. - Really? - No! But you told me what to say. - Spill it. - OK. This reindeer sweater, bad idea. ( Choir singing The First Noel on radio I also heard a nasty rumour from the lunch lady that the town's tree-lighting ceremony was canceled! - Yeah, I'm actually writing an article about it. I was gonna tell you today. - So it's true? Remember back home, the tree-lighting ceremony in Nelson Square? Practically the whole town got together! - Yeah. - I really miss all that. - Yeah, I know, buddy. Me too. But listen, uh, you know, this place is into Christmas. I mean, hey, look! Look at that inflatable reindeer right there, right? He's giving 20% off for the holidays, huh? - Nice try. - Honey, I'm sorry we couldn't find the box of decorations, but we'll keep looking tomorrow, OK? - It's OK. Good night, Mom! - Good night, honey. Sleep tight! - Now, that was Christmas! - Clementine! There you are! I've been looking all over for you! - I'm really worried, Mom. Things are way worse than people realize. Just look at the ornaments! There's one for every kid in the world, right? So we should easily be able to read by their glow! But they're totally dim! - I have to admit, I've never seen it so dark. - So someone has to do something now, before it's too late! - I hope by "someone," you don't mean you! - If not me, then who? - Clementine, that's what you said before the glacier fiasco and the snowplow incident. - Hey! I'm a problem solver, and those roads were very slushy. - Everyone appreciates your contentions, but you have to admit you do have a tendency to leap before you look. Hey, focus on your studies. When you grow up, you can join the rest of the family in the Guild of Brain Stretch. - But, Mom, it's just I feel like I'm meant for something else, you know? Something... something bigger! Wait... wait a minute! What's that? Now, this kid really gets what it takes to make Christmas dazzy! Kevin Hastings. Why isn't Christmas like it used to be? - That's exactly what I've been wondering! - Honey, he can't hear you. (Sighing) - Doesn't matter. I heard him. SNO-M-G! I've got a great idea! (Doorbell ringing) - Mom! Mom! (Doorbell ringing) Whoa! Cool! (Beeping) Flight 7-Niner-Niner! You're clear to land on runway Alpha-Charlie. Make sure your flaps and landing gear are down. (Cartoon characters talking, indistinct) - Whatever you say, Tower, although, I don't use a runway. - Uh, who is this? - If you don't know who you're talking to, then why are you giving flight instructions? (Beeping) - I was just fooling around. - I know! I'm just messing with you. So, you like the present? - Yeah, it's awesome. It totally turned around my otherwise crummy month. - If it makes you feel any better, you're not the only one with problems. Do you wanna talk about it? - Yeah, except my mom will freak if she catches me talking to a stranger on the radio. - Well, technically, it's not a radio. It's a Northpole communicator. - North Pole? - Yeah! It's where I live with my 9 brothers and sisters. - You live at the North Pole? - Oh, not the North Pole. I actually live in a city called Northpole. Name's Clementine. See? Now we're not strangers anymore. Right, Kevin? - How could you... - Now, you tell me about your lousy month, and I'll tell you about mine. - No one around here gets me. (Kevin talking, indistinct) - We are two of a kind, Kevin. I mean, where is it written a small elf can't make a big difference? (Electricity crackling) - Excuse me? Elf? Wait a minute. (Static, beeping) Hello? Clementine! Hello! - Kevin! Hey! Who are you talking to? - Would you believe an elf? - An elf? OK, Mister, time for bed. (Chuckling) An elf! (Woman coughing) - Who needs a gym when the library's open? (Chuckling) - Yeah! Uh, Ryan, right? - Yeah. - Shouldn't you be in school? - The kids have music class on Tuesday mornings. It gives me a chance to do my own homework. - I see. New tie? - Oh yeah! - Yes! - I buy them in bulk on the Internet. What brings you down here? - Just doing a little background work on Greenwood Park for an article I'm writing. Of course, the research is up there, and I'm down here. - You wanna see some world-class mountaineering? - Think you should be doing that? - Don't worry! I spent a summer as a ranger in Yosemite. - (Whispering): Yeah! - Well, maybe not a ranger, but I did manage a concession stand. - Ah! Thank you. - A parenting book, huh? Everything OK with Kevin? - Oh! Yeah, um... (Chuckling) Well, to tell you the truth, Kevin hasn't made any friends here, and he's been inventing a lot of stories, and last night, he was talking to an elf. (Chuckling) - Well, the imagination can be a great coping mechanism. - Or a way to avoid facing reality. - Well, look, I'm sure he will be fine, but I'm happy to keep an eye on him at school. - Thanks! Happy reading! - Hmm! (Wind blowing) (Electricity crackling) (Reindeer snorting) - Hey, Randy! We've got a big problem that needs solving. How about a trip down south? Wow! Look at you all ribboned and bowed and ready to fly! All right! It's time to get into the snow zone. - Hey! - Hey! - Well, we might as well get started. At least we have 2 people on the Christmas committee! - Christmas committee? I thought this was the gamers group. (Sighing) - Nice Christmas committee! (Both laughing) - Hey, honey. Don't stay up too late, OK? - I won't! - And listen, I'm sorry your committee didn't take off, but I promise we'll have our own terrific Christmas. - All right. Good night, Mom! - Good night. (Static) - (On radio): Hey! Kevin! (Beeping) - Clementine? - Sorry I lost contact last night. The Northern Lights are freaking. We've gotta talk right away. - I don't think I'm supposed to talk to you. My mom says you're the product of an overactive imagination. - Your imagination's fine. It's your mom's and a lot of other people's underactive imaginations that are the problem. I mean, where's the joy? Where's the happiness? - Good question. - Glad you think so, 'cause I need you to find an answer to it before Northpole's a goner! - Goner? What are you talking about? - Best way to explain is to show you. Put down the communicator, and look out your window. - No way! This is so sick! - Yeah, well, I wanted the one with racing stripes, but beggars can't be choosers. Now jump in and buckle up, 'cause we gotta fly! - Uh, fly? - Oh, do you know a faster way to Northpole? - If my mom finds out about this, I'll be in my room until I'm old enough to vote. (Giggling) - Go like snow, Randy! - OK, I've had some weird dreams, but this is the weirdest! - It's not a dream! This is what I'm trying to prove to you! Northpole is for real! OK, look down there! Those are some of the guilds where toys are made. That's the Guild of Yummy! And that's the Guild of Spin and Fly. (Kevin chuckling) Oh, and my favourite, Reindeer Games Stadium! - This is so cool! - And over there, that's the Guild of Bounce and Spring. There's Snow Row. That's where I live. And those are Northpole canals. - It's totally awesome! - Yeah, well, we say "dazzy," but "awesome" works too. Oh! You're gonna have to put these on. You're not allowed up here, and I'm in enough trouble already. - Candy-cane tights? - Yeah! - Green shoes? - Cute, right? - If anybody at school finds out about this, I'll be a piata in, like, 3 seconds flat! - My town, my rules. Bring 'er home, Randy! - Whee! - (Male elf): Oh! That's wonderful! - All right! Come on! Come on, come on! Remember, act like an elf. - Ugh! They don't call these things "tights" for a nothing. - Whee! - Whoo! - This is amazing. How come they don't just use the bridge? - Duh! Because bouncing's more fun! - Makes sense. Oh! What's up with the light show? - That's what we need to fix. If Northpole's gonna survive, we need somebody to do something to keep the cycle of happiness going. - What's the cycle of happiness? - When children down south feel the joy of holiday togetherness, sparks of happiness flow up and become the Northern Lights. Then they float back down on Northpole as magic snowflakes. And magic snow powers everything. It's what the elf guilds use to make toys, toys that make kids happy, and so then the cycle continues just like it has for generations. Until now. (Elves talking, indistinct) And so less togetherness down south means less magic snow. Without some kind of miracle, the Northern Lights could go out, which would be the end of Northpole. - And the end of all the toys from Santa! - Oh! Well, now you're getting the picture! Man! No toys? (Both laughing) Why am I laughing? - Because getting smacked with a snowball made of happy moments makes everybody giggle! (Both laughing) Anyway, now that you've seen the problem, we need to get busy. - Uh, we? - Yeah, you and me! It's up to us to make the miracle happen. - I don't know about that, Clementine. It sounds a little out of my league. - (Santa): Clementine! - Oh boy! My ice is totally cracked. - Santa and Mrs. Claus? - Kevin Hastings! You almost had me fooled! - Uh, well, you see, Clementine... - Does this have anything to do with my missing reindeer? - Uh-huh! But I've got a very good excuse. You see, Kevin and I are working together on the happiness problem. - You volunteered, Kevin? That's nice! - Well, I haven't exactly volunteered. I mean, Clementine's talking miracles here! I have trouble opening a jar of pickles! - Well, even the smallest snowflake can turn into the biggest snowball! - If it gets a push. I know you're worried about me finding you in your new home, but if it'll make you feel better, you take this magic snowflake, and we'll find you no matter where you are. - Wow! Thanks! - (Mrs. Claus): Good luck! - Thanks, Mrs. Claus. (Sighing) So, what do you say? (Sighing) - What else can I say? I'm in! - Oh, Kevin! You're the deer's ears! (Chuckling) Now let's get you home. Come on! (Birds chirping) - Mom, you're not gonna believe what happened! - Morning, Bed Head! Whoa! - It was amazing! First I talked to Clementine! - You made a friend named Clementine? - Yeah! She's an elf! - You were talking to an elf again. - Not just talked! She took me on a flying- sleigh ride to Northpole! And I met Santa, and saw all the guilds where they make all the toys! And I was drafted on a special mission to help save Northpole and protect Christmas! - Wow! That was some dream! - That's what I thought at first, but it wasn't a dream! Look, I got proof. - Oh, you got the rest of the Christmas decorations! Great! - No, Santa gave me this himself so he can find me no matter where we live! It's a magic snowflake! - OK, honey, I want you to listen to me. I know that this move hasn't been easy, but we're gonna get through it, like we always do, together. - But, Mom, I... - Honey, go get ready for school, OK? Come on! (Sighing) - At least I know what my class project's gonna be. (Chuckling) - Magic snowflake! - Hi! - For the mayor? - Yes, but I have strict instructions to deliver it personally. - Oh! Uh, OK. Just one moment, please. (Sighing) - So, as you guys well know, we are T-minus 2 days till Christmas vacation, which means it's time to pick your projects. All right? Now, dazzle me. Enrique! - My project is to measure snowfall. - OK, how you gonna do that? - Using my cat's water dish. - Wouldn't you rather use a beaker? - Pico de Gato won't drink from a beaker! - OK, moving on! Andrea, what's yours? - I was inspired by the Jane Goodall video we watched last week. - To do a field study on learned behaviour? - No, a field study on which of my Christmas presents cost the most. (All chuckling) - OK! Kevin, what's yours gonna be? - Uh, well, there's been some really great ideas floated around here, and I don't wanna upstage anybody, so I'll tell you later. - No, sir. Out with it! Now, I know you got something great. What's your vacation project gonna be? - (Muttering): I'm gonna save Northpole. - What's that Kevin? I couldn't hear you. - Um, I'm gonna save a place called Northpole, make sure Santa can still bring presents and stuff. (Children laughing) - Hey, hey, hey! It is an unconventional idea, but as Einstein said, imagination is even more important than knowledge. All right, look, Kevin, we'll talk after class. Now, moving on... (Telephone ringing in distance) - Thank you. - Please come in. Sit down. Oh, and which happy constituent do I have to thank for this? - Chelsea Hastings with The Examiner. You haven't returned my phone calls! (Chuckling) - You're very tricky, Miss Hastings. I applaud your tenacity. - Well, it seemed better than interrupting your speech at the Kiwanis. Tell me, how do you feel about cancelling a century-old tradition? - Ah, this is about the tree lighting. Look, I was elected on an austerity platform. Now, I'm not gonna spend money on some ceremony that, well, hardly anybody goes to anymore. - I'm sure it's not that bad. - Have you been there? - No, not yet. - It's an eyesore. The warming chalet is all boarded up. The skating rink needs maintenance. I'm sure you can understand my position. - What I can't understand is why the planning commission, who usually overseas construction projects, is suddenly involved with a Christmas-tree lighting. - And who told you that? - Sorry, I can't reveal my source. - I can't comment any further. - I see. Well, at least I'm starting to. - OK, let me make sure I got this right. Sparks of happiness rise and form the Northern Lights... - Right. - Which then float down in the middle of magic snowflakes that elves use to make toys, which make kids happy, and the whole cycle just repeats itself? - Exactly! Means more Christmas happiness overall! And maybe that can snowball. - Wow, you've really thought this through. - So you'll let me do it? - Of course I will, OK? But supposing that your hypothesis here is correct, what are some of the things you can do to help spread holiday happiness here? - That's where I'm kind of stuck. - Well, what are some of the things that make you happy at Christmas? - Well, in my old town, Christmas is all about carolling and baking cookies, and the best thing of all was the big Christmas-tree lighting. It was so cool how the whole town got together. But my mom said, here, they're not even gonna have a tree lighting. I mean, really? - I know, it's funny. It used to be huge. I guess, over the years, people just sort of forgot about it. - Maybe they need to be reminded. That's what we gotta do! We gotta save the tree lighting! - Save the... (Chuckling) OK, that's a, uh, that is a tall order, Kev, but I did ask you to dream big, didn't I? All right, let's break this down. - Hi, is this the public works department? - (Man on telephone): Yes. - I wanted to see if... - Can you hold, pleas Can you hold, please? - Yes, of course, I'll hold. Oh! (Panting) (Crow cawing) - (Female voice): Please continue to hold. (Scoffing) (Birds chirping) - Used to be one great park! When the ice was groomed and that tree was lit up, it was magical! What you're holding in your hand means the end of all that. - I don't think I'm following. - Those numbers are coordinates. A few days ago, a couple of surveyors drove up here. "Peterson," I think, was written on the side of their truck. - "Peterson"? Or did it say "Pendleton?" - That's it, "Pendleton." Whoever he is has something in mind for this place other than ice skating. - So, how's the investigation going? - Well, it's an enigma wrapped in a riddle inside 3 layers of mystery. Or is that a turducken? (Chelsea chuckling) - Did you talk to the mayor yet? - Yeah, I can see why people like him. I still don't think he's being straight with me. - You always see the half-empty glass. - Honey, somebody has to, or we'd run out of milk. - Who's Ernie Pendleton? - Hmm! That's what I'd like to know. (Doorbell ringing) Oh! That's Mrs. Tucker. Now, listen, make sure you do your homework, OK? I love you. Hi, Mrs. Tucker! - Hello! How are you? - (Chelsea): Good! Thanks for coming over. - (Mrs. Tucker): It's always a pleasure. He's a good boy! No trouble at all! - I'll be back before dinner. - OK! Hello, Kevin! - Hey, Mrs. Tucker! - Doing your schoolwork? - Mm-hmm! - All right, dear! I'll be watching my soaps! Let me know if you need any help! (Inaudible) - So, how did you know I'd be at home? - Magic snowflake, back pack. Hello! - Oh, yeah, right. (Grunting) If we're gonna do something, we gotta hurry. My babysitter's soap is over in exactly one hour. - OK, so what do you have in mind? - I was thinking about what Santa said, with, you know, snowflakes turning into snowballs. - And? - And what if we get a lot of people together to do something really Christmassy. - Like? - Like saving the town's tree-lighting ceremony! That could create a ton of happiness sparks. So, what do you think? - I think it's pure genius! Let's go! - Whoa, there! Not dressed like that, you can't. Throw on my old coat and switch hats. Be sure to pull it over your ears. - What... what's wrong with my ears? - Nothing, except mine are round, and yours aren't, if you get my, uh, "point". - OK, but these clothes, they don't reflect my personal flair. - My town, my rules. - OK! - Slow down! You're gonna melt those keys. - How come everybody at City Hall runs for the hills when I ask them about the canceled tree-lighting ceremony and that survey flag at Greenwood Park? - Good questions! Here's another: Jake in ad sales is a great guy, and I was wondering if... - You mean the guy who talks too much about monster trucks? Yeah, no, I don't think so. Thanks, though! - All right! I tried! - Hmm! - Help us save the Christmas-tree lighting! - Make a donation here! Help save the tree-lighting ceremony! - Help save the tree lighting! - Hey, you two! You're driving off my business with this racket. There's no panhandling here! Now, shoo! - We weren't panhandling. I'm pretty sure we would know if we were handling pans! - Move along before I call the cops. - I think he needs a dose of happiness. - No! They don't have magic snow here, remember? Run! - Uh-oh! Sorry! Merry Christmas! - I can't believe you snuck out on Mrs. Tucker! You almost gave her a heart attack! What has gotten into you lately? - Uh, Christmas? - OK, we need to move beyond the obsession with Christmas. Broaden your horizons. - I don't have time to have my horizons broadened. - Kevin, you're 10 years of age. You have nothing but time! - I don't know if you've noticed, but I've only got a few days to work on my class project to save the town's tree lighting. - That's your class project? I don't mean to sound like my usual negative self, but I think that's gonna be a tough one to pull off. - Mr. Wilson says I'll learn more by doing something difficult and failing than doing something easy and succeeding. - That's what Mr. Wilson says, huh? - Yep! - Well, I guess that's pretty good advice. Listen, no more skipping out on Mrs. Tucker. I mean it. - OK. Wait! We still have to get our own Christmas tree. - You're right! How about you and I go get one? - And not just any tree. The absolute best, most amazing Christmas tree we can find. - You got it! (Chuckling) (Birds chirping) Is that a Christmas tree or a giant sequoia? - But I like this one! - Can I do a bait-and-switch and offer mini-golfing instead? - Sorry, too late. - Hmm! - Hey! That's quite a conifer you got there! Kind of makes this one look a little... - Puny? But accurate. Guess I'll keep looking! - I think we should keep looking too. - All right! Hard to beat perfect, but I'll try. Bye, Mr. Wilson! - See ya! (Chuckling) - Funny to see you here. - 50/50 chance. Only 2 tree lots in the whole town. - (Women on radio): There's a place not too far With tree and a star There might be mistletoe You won't know unless you go... - Oh, that's a beauty! - Clementine? - In Northpole, we light up a tree every day of the year. - What are you doing here, and where's your hat? - Oh! Gosh, I am such a snowflake! - Hurry and get back to my house before anyone sees you! - OK! - Go! - (Chelsea): Kevin told me about the Christmas project. - Yeah, I asked them to think big, and boy, did he ever! - Fostering imagination is fine, but your assignment is enabling his whole Northpole fantasy. - Just because you can't see something doesn't mean it doesn't exist. - Like elves, right? - No, but... - Look, it's fine being the one filling his head with sugarplums, but I'll be dealing with the sugar crash when it comes, and believe me, it will! - You ever notice how Christmas trees are kind of like people? - What do you mean? - Well, some trees are too sappy. - That's for sure. - The other trees, they're just, like, well, they're just way too prickly. You can't get near 'em. - Hmm! Yeah, I get it. - Look, Kevin is just looking at things a little differently, you know? Something I think everyone should do once in a while. You OK? - Yeah, I thought I... Nothing. (Talking indistinctly) (Grunting) - Ah! - Perfect! Now, if someone would just call me an ambulance... - I thought you were a mountain man, huh? - Only in my mind, not my back. - Thank you. We never would've gotten this monster in here if you didn't offer to help. - My pleasure! - Maybe some hot chocolate will make your back feel better? - Terrific! - Two marshmallows in mine, please! - I know, I know! (Clementine talking, indistinct) - (Clementine's mother): I don't know what to say, honey. - I know, Mom. I worry too. So things are getting worse? - I'm afraid so. Assembly lines have slowed, and elves are starting to talk about not being able to supply enough toys for Christmas. - Don't let your candy cane lose its stripes, Mom. We're working on it. - I know you are, honey, but don't get your hopes up. It looks like this problem may be even bigger than your determination. - Tomorrow, we kick things up a notch. - Kevin's talking to his imaginary elf. I wish he would just make one real friend. - Well, I was 12 when our family moved us to Colorado. I became a little withdrawn, but, hey, look at me now! (Groaning) (Chuckling) Wow, nice Christmas display! All you need now is a nativity scene made out of office supplies. - Yeah, I tend to bring my work home. - Oh, that isn't Greenwood Park, is it? - Yeah! Did you know it used to be called Christmas Tree Park? It's been having tree lightings for almost a century. - Hmm, it was so cared for back then. Look at these two! (Chelsea chuckling) (Cell phone ringing) Go ahead and take it. I gotta get going. - OK. Thanks, though, for helping us with the Christmas tree. (Chuckling) (Door opening and closing) Hello? - This is Watson Elementary. We're having an after-school assembly tomorrow, so pickup will be at 5:00 p.m. Merry Christmas! Beep! - You're not supposed to say the beep. - Oh, sorry! I was just so in the moment. - (Chelsea): Mr. Pendleton? - Yes? - Chelsea Hastings with The Examiner. Hi! - I have a publicist that deals with press inquiries. If you'd like to make an appointment... - I just wanted to ask you a couple questions about your plans for Greenwood Park. Look, I understand that you had a crew surveying the property. Do you and the mayor have plans that I don't know about? - Please, just take my word for it: After the holidays, it'll all sort itself out. - I would be a lousy reporter if I took everybody's word at face value. - I'm sorry, I really can't comment any further. (Cell ringing) - Mr. Jenkins! - Drop whatever you're doing. There's a protest going on at Greenwood Park. I need you there. - Greenwood Park? - Why are we still talking, Hastings? - I'm on it, sir. - (Man): We need you all to stand back. Just stand back. - Excuse me. Oh, sorry! - (Man on walkie-talkie): 10-4. - Copy desk? Hey, this is Chelsea. I'm here at the protest. Can I dictate a story? Jenkins will want this on the website ASAP. Yeah. (Panting) A lone protester in Greenwood Park caused emergency vehicles to come out this afternoon. - He's really wedged in up there, Captain. Bucket's going up now. - Fire officials have gathered to try to coax down the reluctant figure suspended 50 feet above the ice rink. As far as a statement from the protester... - Hey, Mom! - Kevin? What are you doing up there? - Stringing up decorations! Figured if nobody else would do it, we would. - Sir, that... that's my son up there! - So I gathered. Ma'am, why don't you step aside? We'll handle this. - As long as he's up there, I'm staying right here. - I see the ornament doesn't fall far from the tree. (Captain chuckling) - (Man): You got him? (Crane beeping) - I can almost see our house from up there! - Yeah? Did you also see me lose 10 years off my life? Oh gosh! Oh! Thank you! Honey, I thought you were supposed to be at a school assembly meeting friends! - I was actually here with a friend. Clementine? Clementine! Huh! She was just here a second ago. - Clementine? The elf? - Exactly! - We're going home right now. - I heard what happened. Is Kevin all right? - If you consider grounded for life all right. I knew this was gonna happen. - (Woman on TV): Firemen were called to Greenwood Park, where a child was pulled from a 60-foot tree... - Get your facts straight! It was a 50-foot tree! - More strange activity with the Northern Lights. - Well, at least he wasn't hurt. - Yeah, but he could've been, all because of the ceremony that nobody cares about and a park that's not gonna exist in a month. - What do you mean, isn't gonna exist in a month? - Mr. Pendleton, the developer, he's building condos on it. - What? How could that guy be such a Scrooge? - I don't know. If I knew, maybe I could change his mind. But right now, what I'm worried about is Kevin. This whole thing has gotten out of hand! - OK, OK! Look, let's just take it easy. - OK, this is what I'm gonna do: I'm gonna pack our bags, book us tickets to someplace warm for the holidays, away from this town and your little assignment that turned into Kevin's mission! - No! I can't leave now! It's too important! You gotta believe me! - Honey, it's a fantasy. It's not real! - Yes, it is! - You listen to me, Mister! - No, you're wrong! Just 'cause you don't think it's real, doesn't mean it isn't! - Kevin! Honey! Kevin! - He's just a little boy, Chelsea, who isn't quite ready to grow up. - Yeah, I know 2 people who are stuck in that phase. - Which is probably why it's so hard for you to decide whether to let Kevin stay in his own little world or drag him kicking and screaming into yours. - Good night, Mr. Wilson. (Door opening and closing) (Sighing) - This Pendleton guy wants to demolish the park! - Kevin! - So there will never be a tree lighting ever again! - I know! I heard everything, including what your mom said about wishing she knew why Mr. Pendleton is such a Scrooge! Which gave me an idea. OK, grab your coat, and let's go. (Sighing) (Knocking) - Kevin? (Knocking) Kevin? Kevin? - So, tell me why we're here again? - To find out why Mr. Pendleton is so mean, he would cut down the city's Christmas tree. I mean, who would do such a thing? And maybe whatever we find, your mom can use to help bring the tree-lighting ceremony back on track. - Sounds like kind of a long shot. (Sighing) - Right now, my friend, it's the only shot we got. (Giggling) - I checked State Street and the park on my way back over. - I shouldn't have been so hard on him. - I shouldn't have encouraged him in the first place. - I'm gonna call the police. (Electricity crackling) - What do you think Santa will do if he catches us sneaking into the archives? - Don't know and don't wanna find out, so pipe down! (Whispering): Right here. - Hurry! If my mom checks out my room and sees that I'm not there, she'll have bloodhounds looking for me! - We're getting warmer and warmer and warmer and... (Gasping) Bingo! We've narrowed it down to the past 50 years! - Another power dip. - Because we're running out of magic snow. - How many Ernie Q. Pendletons can there be? - Apparently a lot. - What were those mothers thinking? - Oh! Got it! Wow! Age 7, 8 and 9, all he asked for was a gift for a penny. Money must've gone a lot further in those days! - They weren't gifts for a penny. They were gifts for a person named Penny. "Dear Santa, can you please bring "some white ice skates, size 4, "to my friend, Penny, "so we can skate together. "Her mom is sick, "and her dad says they don't have any money for skates. "Thank you. Ernie." - All he asked for was gifts for her! - But nothing for himself! - Which means maybe he's not all bad. - We gotta show mom! - Yeah! OK, help me! Come! - I need to file a missing person's report. - (Kevin): Mom! - Never mind. Kevin? Honey! I have been so worried about you! Where have you been? - Collecting information for you about Mr. Pendleton. - What? Information? - Yeah, about why he's so mean, and it turns out maybe you were wrong about him. Maybe he is a good guy. Look! When he was a kid, he never asked for any presents for himself, only for somebody named Penny. (Sighing) - Where did you get this? - Uh... - Kevin! - Northpole. We found it in Santa's files. - (Chelsea): "We"? As in you and Clementine, the elf? (Sighing) Honey, listen to me. You know you're the most precious thing in the world to me, right? - Of course. I didn't mean to scare you, Mom, but I thought it was important, 'cause it might help protect... - (Both): Northpole. - And Christmas? - Right. 'Cause even though you don't believe it, I know it's real. (Sighing) - I, um... I believe that you believe. And that's good enough for me. - Really? - Yeah. And if you say spreading holiday cheer is the only way to save Northpole, then we better find a way to do it. (Doorbell ringing) - Oh, that'll be Clementine! - This should be interesting. (Door opening and closing) - Hey, Ms. Hastings! I'm Clementine! - She's the one I've been telling you guys about. - Right! You're the, um... - Only member of Kevin's Christmas Committee! - Listen, um, thanks for being here for me. I think maybe I was a little over the top, and I'm sorry. (Chuckling) - Well, I might not have any kids of my own, but from 8:00 to 3:00, I have 30, so I can empathize. For what it's worth, I think it was a wise choice to play along with the fantasy. At least for now. - Yeah. He's not gonna be innocent for much longer, and I guess it's better to embrace it than to cut it short. You helped me see that. - Does that mean the mission to save Northpole's back on? - Well, we've met Clementine! We can't let her be homeless, right? - We? You still want me along for the ride? - Well, are you willing? - Why would you think otherwise? - Ask me when we have more time. Right now, we have a tree lighting to save, right? - All right, I'll see you. - OK. Good night! - Good night! - Mmm! - OK, so, how's this gonna work, Mom? - Yeah, how's this gonna work? - I suggest a 2-prong attack. You guys spread the word. - Sounds good to me! - Cool! - We're gonna need food, funds and a permit. - We're on it! - And I'll get something even more important. - And what's that? - Leverage. - I got the list of the mayor's biggest campaign donors. Guess who's at the top: Mr. & Mrs. Ernie Pendleton. Uh-huh. Oh! Yeah, I gotta go. I'll see you back at the office. - Excuse me, sir, I think you dropped this. - (Man): No. - Get some food, OK? - Hey, Chelsea! - Ah... - Don't worry! I'm not gonna try and set you up with anyone. I just wanna see how your story's going. - Well, you know, a couple things aren't adding up. I could clear up one thing if the planning commission wasn't closed for Christmas. - A woman I sing with at church works for the planning commission. - Seriously? - She'll be at practice tonight. Maybe she can help. - You are a lifesaver! - I just hope you can carry a tune. - (Laughing): Yeah! ( Jingle Bells ) - Donate to the town tree lighting! Save a Christmas tradition! - Here's a buck for some trumpet lessons. - Normally, I would be offended by that, but it's for a good cause, so thank you, sir! - Merry Christmas! - How's our website doing? Any better than we are? - Well, we've only got 5 hits, and four of them are me! - Which means we've already had one hit! - (Ryan and Kevin): Yeah! - Hey, guys! - Hey, Mom! How's your side of the attack going? - It's coming along. How about you guys? - So far, we've raised $4, including 2 Canadian quarters and a bus token! - So, that puts us at about 98% short of our goal. Hmm! - (Ryan): Or 2% closer to victory! - I think we need to find a better way to get the word out. - You know, I think I just might have one. - (Chelsea): Seriously? We're supposed to change minds with tree scraps? - Well, you call them scraps. I call them festive pine art. - (Chuckling): Well, either way, it'll be fun, which, as they say back home, is the best reason to do anything. - Hi there! I'm Ryan Wilson. This is Chelsea Hastings. - (Chelsea): Hi! - Any chance you remember the tree lighting in Greenwood Park? - Oh, I do! Haven't thought about it in years. But it was beautiful, and so much fun! - Well, it can be again, with your help. Hope to see you there! (Woman chuckling) - Can any woman resist your charm? - I'm hoping one woman can't. (Chuckling) - So, how'd you get into teaching, huh? - Uh, well, after college, I did a lot of jobs, but teaching is the best by far. - Really? Why? - Light bulbs. - Light bulbs? - Yeah, turning on over kids' heads when a concept they've been struggling with finally sinks in. - Hmm... - I love that. Oh, hey! - (Man): Hi there! - Hope to see you there. - Thanks! - Merry Christmas! - (Man): You too! (Clearing throat) - Must be a challenge, being a single mom. - It was definitely hard the first year after Kevin's father left. But I never had any illusions that the world would make it easy for me, so... - Is that why you're such a skeptic? (Chuckling) - Well, partially by nature, partially my job, and partially the result of living with Kevin's father. - Hmm... Feel like telling me about him? Oh, hey! - (Woman): Hi! - Here you go! Hope to see you there! - Thanks! - Yeah, sure! Um... We met in college, both English majors. I wanted to be a journalist, he wanted to be a novelist. Only difference is I worked towards my goal, and he only dreamed of his. - Where is he now? - Oh! I don't know. Probably some place with coconuts, dreaming of his first draft. - (Clementine, giggling): Oh, look! Here's more people. - (Kevin): Special delivery! Tree lighting on Christmas Eve! - Ah! That fella could pull a sleigh! Hope to see you at the tree lighting. Whoo! - (Ryan): Once you make learning fun, my job's easy. - Fun? Yeah... Come to the tree lighting. - Thanks! - I used to have some of that before the responsibility of a pesky thing called paying the bills. You know, I used to pack a mean snowball. - Oh, really? I bet you talk a big game. - So, you don't think I'd do this, huh? (Both laughing) - Oh, really? It's on! - (Laughing): No! - (Kevin and Clementine): Snowball fight! (Laughing) (Screaming) - (Ryan): Oh, what do you want? You guys want a piece of this? Oh! (All screaming and laughing) (Panting) (Clementine and Kevin laughing) - (Josephine): Gloria ( Choir vocalizing ) In excelsis deo - Nice job! Nice job, everybody! Let's take five! - Hi! - Hi! - Josephine, this is my friend Chelsea, the one I told you about. - Thank you so much for talking with me. - Well, to be honest, I'm not really sure if I should. - Look, all I need to know is January's agenda. If it wasn't the holidays, it'd be public, right? - Right. I guess it's OK. There are 2 items: a proposal to widen a crosswalk on State Street, and an offer from a company called Pendleton Development to purchase Greenwood Park. - That's all I needed to know. - Merry Christmas! - You too! Yes! - (Jenkins): Hastings! When do I get the park story? - I'm just putting the final touches on it right now. - Good! I wanna go big with this in tomorrow's edition, and we go to press in 2 hours. Chelsea! - Yes, I understand. - OK. (Keyboard clicking) - OK... (Sighing) - (Kevin): OK, what's next? - OK, so now we need 2 mittenfuls of sugar. - All right. - One... Nice! - One... - Two! - And two! - Perfect! OK, and now, one bellful of sprinkles. - A whole bellful? - And no skimping! There's no such thing as too many sprinkles. - (Chelsea): Hey, guys! Sorry I'm late! Hi! - Guess what, Mom! We just got an anonymous donation from the website! - Ah! - A ginormous one! - Yeah! Ginormous enough to afford a generator and lights. - We might actually be able to pull this off, hmm? - To our secret, but very generous, benefactor. - Thank you! All right, cheers! - (Ryan): Cheers! - (Clementine): Jingles! - Jingles! - Excuse me... Be careful, it's hot. First batch out of the oven! - Thank you! Wow! That is amazing! - For every cup of flour, 2 cups of happy. Got the recipe from Grandma Lolli, who created it with Grandma Dolli, with help from Grandma Lacybell. - You have a lot of grandmas. - Tell me about it! Last year, I got 204 pairs of socks for Christmas. (Chuckling) - Can I ask you something? - Sure. - You and Kev, you're just pretending, right? I mean, you don't really think you're from Northpole? (Chuckling) - You know, sometimes, it's harder for people to believe in things they've never seen than it is for others. - Yeah... That basically describes me. - But, Ms. Hastings, for Kevin, you ignored what your head was telling you and chose to listen to your heart instead. And just so you know, that meant so much to him. And what you're trying to do here, to bring the town together, to light the tree and make people happy... Well, that means so much to me too. - Clementine? - Yeah? - How old are you? - 13... decades! I'm kidding! (Giggling) I'll get you another cookie. - Hey! Oh, it looks like you've been working all night! - Well, I promise posters, I deliver posters. - A man who finishes what he starts. I'm not used to that. - Maybe it's time for that to change. - I need some more coffee. You want some? - Sure! (Birds chirping) - OK, so I have the food all set, um, you've got the posters. I just need to get the permit, then we're ready for tomorrow! - Whoa! - What? - Well, isn't this the story you've been working on? - Let me see! Jenkins wasn't kidding when he said he was gonna go big. Huh! Wow! I wonder who's gonna call first, huh? The mayor apologizing or Pendleton's lawyer, threatening to sue. I guess I don't need these anymore. Wait a minute! I don't believe it. - Believe what? - 1964 junior skating pair champions, Ernie and Penelope. "Penny" is short for Penelope. - I don't get it. - It has to be him! - Who? - Pendleton! - Yeah, I mean... It could be, I guess. But, so what? - I think I made a huge mistake. Can you hold down the fort for me? There's something I gotta do. - Yeah... (Car door slamming, birds chirping) (Doorbell ringing) - Ms. Hastings! I'm surprised to see you here. - I wouldn't have bothered you, but... - Apparently, your article's caused quite a stir. The city council's decided to launch an investigation. - What a mess! Look, I know I'm the last person you wanna talk to, but if you could... If you wouldn't mind answering a couple more questions for me... - Why bother? You got your headline. - I did. But, just... I think I got it wrong. (Sighing) rday. For nearly 50 years, Penny was the light of my life. - Was? - I lost her 6 months ago. - I'm sorry. I didn't know. - W-we grew up next door to each other. Walked to school together, played, skated... We had our first kiss on this rink. She... she loved Greenwood Park. - So, why build condos on it? - Condos? No, Pendleton Towers is going up by the old brickyard. - But I know you were planning on buying the park! - To fix it up, and then donate back to the city in trust, so it could always be a place where people come together and have fun. - Why didn't the mayor tell me? Why didn't you? - That's not what Penny would've wanted. No, no plaques, no publicity, no names over the door. "The joy is in the giving," she'd say, "not in the credit." - Well, now that your gift is no longer anonymous, are you still gonna go through with the project? - Even if I decided to go ahead, the city's reconsidering my offer based on what you wrote. - I'll make sure the paper prints a retraction. Maybe that'll help. Mr. Pendleton, did you happen to give a donation to the Christmas-tree lighting campaign? - Well, if I did, you know I couldn't tell you. Ms. Hastings, what made you bring me that picture? (Sighing) - I wanna begin by saying how truly sorry I am, Mr. Jenkins. And I assured Mr. Pendleton that a retraction will go to print. - A retraction is not how I intend to kick off our holiday issue. I wanna be serving turkey, not eating crow. - But... - Look, we can deal with this in the new year, if anyone still cares about it by then. - This is a man's reputation! - And I'm sure you feel appropriately contrite about what you did to it. - Of course I do! - Look, we'll wait. We'll see how many letters we get. Anything else? - You can expect one letter for sure... my letter of resignation. ( Rock on radio ) - Yuck! - (Ryan): How's it going? - Not my best one! It's a mountain of frosting. - That's more of a toupee right there. - OK. - Looks good! - Yes, it does. - (Kevin): OK... Wow, it smells good! - (Clementine): A little more happy sprinkles! How's it going? - (Kevin): Good! - (Ryan): Let's see! - It's going out of control! (Ryan laughing) - Hey... - Mom! What's going on? - I didn't take you seriously about Mr. Pendleton, and if I had, I wouldn't have made the mistake that cost him his good name. We didn't get the permit. The mayor rejected it himself, and he's having maintenance crews take down the posters. - What? - I'm really sorry. - How could they do that? You're just doing your job as a journalist. - Ex-journalist. I just resigned. I've become such a skeptic. I nearly missed one of the best parts of parenting: being reminded of what I was like when I was a kid, before I became so jaded. You know, I couldn't make myself believe that Kevin's friend was an elf, but I had no problem believing that Mr. Pendleton was a crook. That's just not the person I wanna be. And thanks to my kid and Clementine and, well, you... it's gonna change, starting now. - I think I just got my first Christmas present. (Keyboard clicking) - What you doing? - Oh, just writing about what I've learned in the last couple of days. - It did get kind of crazy around here, didn't it? - Yeah. Crazy fun! I love you. - Ditto! (Sighing) - Hey, stranger! - I saw you'd cleaned out your desk and thought you'd left without saying goodbye. - Well, that's one of the reasons why I came back... and to ask you for a favour. - What's on it? - An unauthorized final column. I was hoping you could sneak it onto the online edition for me. - Is it a rant about the callous nature of the news biz? - Uh, no! - Too bad! - Yeah. You'll still sneak it in for me though, right? - Of course I will. - You're the best! Thank you! (Sighing) - I've been looking around for you! What are you doing? - I was writing a note to thank you... and to say goodbye. - What? You promised to spend Christmas Eve with me! Remember? You can't bail! - I don't know what made me think that I could actually make a difference. - You did make a difference! To me! This is the most dazzy Christmas ever! You made me believe in you, Clementine. It's not fair to stop believing in yourself. - Mom... - Hi, honey! Is everything OK? - Not so much. Clementine's pretty worried about Northpole. I mean, I'd be freaking out too if our home was in trouble. - Hey... Did you just call this place home? - Oh... I guess I did! (Chuckling) - Let's go talk to Clementine. (Chelsea): I'm glad you guys decided to spend part of your Christmas Eve with us. - So's my dog, otherwise, he'd be wearing reindeer antlers again. (Chelsea laughing) - How are you, Clementine? Look, I know things didn't turn out how you'd hoped, but, if nothing else, you and Kev became friends. - And we had a good time working together. - Yeah! So, I'm sure that sent some happiness to Northpole. - Yeah, but not nearly enough. - Then there's only one thing to do. We need to make more sparks. Hmm! - (Chelsea): Oh, permit-schmermit! That's what I say. (Laughing) - There's no law against a few citizens enjoying a public park on Christmas Eve. - And having our own, personal tree ceremony! - (All): Yeah! - (Clementine): I love the smell... - All right, here you go. One for you! Clementine, for you. - Oh! Thank you! - You're welcome! - Hey, I'll race you up there! You know, I feel better already! - Me too! - They look like they could use a little company though, don't you think? And, ta-da! (Chelsea, Kevin and Clementine laughing) - Awesome! - Dazzy! - (Ryan): Huh? (All laughing) - Now it's perfect! ( Choir singing in distance ) - ...leaves are so unchanging O Christmas Tree... - Look at that! - Wow! - (Choir): ...thy leaves are so unchanging Not only green... - Wow! - I guess we really did get the word out, huh? - But also when it's cold and drear O Christmas tree... - Uh, Mom! - (Ryan): Uh-oh! - (Firefighter): Well, lookie here! The human Christmas ornament! You, uh, have a permit for this event? - Actually, um, not really. No. - (Firefighter): In that case, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to break out the equipment and string up the lights, anyhow. - (Kevin): Yes! (Clementine laughing) - I knew I packed the treeluminator for a reason! - Each bough doth hold its tiny light That makes each toy to sparkle bright O Christmas tree O Christmas tree Thy candles shine so brightly - I'd forgotten all about this until I read your column. It was wonderful! - Thank you! Well, at least one person read it! - A few more than that! It got picked up by the wire services. - The wire services? Really? - Almost a million hits and not slowing down. Your story's flying around the world faster than Santa's sleigh. (Laughing) - Hey, if your story went viral, then... (Gasping) Snow my gosh! I gotta go! Here! - (Kevin): Wait... Hold on! Clementine! - (Ryan): We gotta... - (Chelsea): Yeah. (Clementine laughing) - (Kevin): Clementine! Where are you going? - Home! - What about the tree-lighting ceremony? - Don't worry! I'll know when it happens! Merry Christmas! - Why, that is one special... elf! - You're gonna see exactly how special in 3, 2, 1! - Did I just... - Was that... - Guess this is one Christmas you'll never forget! Merry Christmas, Mom. - Merry Christmas, sweetheart. I love you! - Let me go put on my skates. - OK. Well, this is actually... - Uh-huh! Yeah... Where's the mistletoe when you need it? - You could use your imagination. How about right here? (Chuckling) (Chelsea): It's easy to forget what connecting with one another feels like. With a few keystrokes on a computer, we convince ourselves that we've communicated. (People talking and laughing) By believing that's enough, we lose sight of the importance of human contact and the joy of gathering together as a community. - How are you? - That's what's so wonderful about this special holiday. It provides an opportunity for fellowship, a chance to truly touch our neighbours, friends and families with generosity of heart and spirit. And if you ask this reporter, it's nothing short of miraculous. You weren't kidding when you said you skated worse than you played the trumpet! - Well, as long as I can hold onto you, I'll be fine. - (Jenkins): Chelsea! - Whoa! Mr. Jenkins? - The phone's been ringing all day. The newspaper's never had better, well, press. - Um, Ryan, I'm sorry. Kevin, this is Mr. Jenkins, my boss. Well, former boss. - Not so fast. Listen, Chelsea, I was wrong. We printed the retraction. And here's some confetti for New Year's Eve. Your letter of resignation, rejected! (Chuckling) Come and see me on Monday. I'm giving you a bonus! - Christmas miracles do happen, huh? I'll be right back! Mr. Pendleton! I'm really glad you came. - So am I. (Chuckling) Penny would've loved this. Friends, neighbours, reconnecting for at least one special night. - Evening, Ernie! - Oh, Mr. Mayor. - Sir, I owe you an apology. I got it all wrong. - Except for this. No, as far as I'm concerned, the no-longer-secret project is still on. - Well, most of the city council is here skating, so I'm sure that after tonight, there'll be no problem accepting your gift. - Good. - Mom, tree's ready to light! - Hey, you must be Kevin! - Yes, sir. - Well, word is, getting our community together to celebrate Christmas was all your doing. - Actually, I had quite a bit of help. - Well, still, I think you should do the honours. (Mayor): Gather around, everybody! Gather around! - (Boy): You rock, Kevin! - (Girl): Whoo! Awesome! - Merry Christmas to all, and to all, a good... light! (Crowd cheering, exclaiming) - (Man): Beautiful! - Oh! Beautiful! - Yes! - Oh boy! - (All): Holy night All is calm All is bright Round yon Virgin Mother and child Holy infant So tender and mild Sleep in heavenly Peace Sleep in heavenly Peace - We did it, Randy! We did it! (Laughing) We did it! Whoo-hoo! (Clementine in distance): Whoo-hoo! - That a girl, Clementine! - I told you she could do it! - And as always, my dear, you were absolutely right. - Oh! - It's time to deliver a sleighful of happiness! - Put her down over there, Randy! (Elves cheering and talking excitedly) - It's so dazzy! - Merry Christmas, Northpole! Merry Christmas, everyone, everywhere! - (Santa): Ho ho ho!
