 

                        Speak Italian We've arrived. I stopped here so we could stretch our legs It's a marvelous painting I cried the first time I saw it This light reminds me of the autumn in Moscow Come on. -I don't want to I'll wait for you inside. -I don't want to! "I'm tired of seeing these sickeningly beautiful sights" "I want nothing more just for myself" "That's enough" Have you come to pray for a baby too? Or to be spared them? I'm just looking If there are any casual onlookers who aren't supplicants then nothing happens What is supposed to happen? Whatever you like, whatever you need most But you should at least kneel down I can't. -They're used to it They're used to it They have faith. -Probably Can I ask you something? Why do you think it's only the women who pray so much? You're asking me? You see so many women here I'm only the sacristan But you must wonder why women are more devout than men You should know Because you're a woman? No, I've never understood these things I'm a simple man But I think a woman is meant to have children to raise them with patience and self-sacrifice That's all she's meant for? I don't know. -Thank you You've been a great help You asked what I thought You want to be happy There are more important things Wait! Pitiful Mother, merciful Mother Painful Mother, tormented Mother Merciful Mother, compassionate Mother Anxious Mother, blessed Mother Loving Mother, bright Mother Mortified Mother, holy Mother Painful Mother, proud Mother Inspired Mother, bright Mother Mother of all mothers, who knows the pain of being a mother Mother of all mothers, who knows the joy of being a mother Mother of all children, who knows the joy of having a child Mother of all children, who knows the pain of not having a child Mother who understands all, help your daughter to become a mother I just don't understand you You go on and on about the Madonna of Childbirth! We drive halfway across Italy in the fog And you don't go in to see her What are you reading? Arseni Tarkovsky's poems In Russian? It's a translation Quite a good one Throw it away Why? The translator's a very good poet Poetry is untranslatable, like the whole of art You may be right that poetry is untranslatable But music? What is it? Oriental music But how could we have got to know Tolstoy, Pushkin and so understand Russia? None of you understand Russia Nor you Italy then If Dante, Petrarch and Machiavelli don't help It's impossible for us poor devils How can we get to know each other? By abolishing the frontiers Which? Between states Hello You know a maid in Milan set fire to the house? Which house? -Her employers' house She missed her home and family down South So she burned the thing that stopped her going back Why did your musician, Sosnovsky go back to Russia if he knew he'd be a slave again? Why won't you confide in me? Read this. You understand What? The letter from the Bologna Conservatory? Yes. Was Sosnovsky successful when he returned to Russia? Was he happy? He started drinking and then He committed suicide? -Exactly I'm sorry, I was asleep Do you have any identification? I'll go and get the keys Those aren't the other hotel keys, I hope? No, they're to my house Here's your key It's our best room Good night, Andrei Your room is on the next floor It's nice here The countryside's pretty too There's the river, the mushrooms People keep coming back, they often fall in love here You and your boyfriend will like it He's not my boyfriend Go on, he's sad because he's in love No, his mind's on other things Did you knock? -I hadn't yet Do you want to call Moscow? You haven't talked to your wife for 2 days No, thanks One, two, three Andrei Andrei, get up. We'll be eating soon! I'll be downstairs. It's lovely here St. Catherine used to come too! I'm coming What does this Russian do? He's a poet. -What's he writing? A biography of a Russian musician In Italy? -This musician studied in Bologna and came to these baths When? -At the end of the 1700s Was it Tchaikovsky? No, his name was Sosnovsky Didn't he marry a local woman? No, he was in love with a Russian slave and died for her What's the hurry? Does your poet like Italy? Too much so What's this strange music we keep hearing day in and day out? Wonderful music! Beats Verdi any time Hands off Verdi. This is Chinese stuff A different civilization with no sentimental wails Voice of God, of nature Pretend they're not there Just go on your way It's gotten into my mouth. Move slowly What does it taste like? -It's a liquid sulfur! So it's good for the skin. -Disgusting! I'm fine. I'm falling asleep In the 60's a drowned body was found here Don't talk about it otherwise I get scared In the war I've seen thousands of dead soldiers Now listen, it's never too late to learn Whatever happens, don't interfere Have you heard their talk, what they're interested in? You've got to be different You know why they're in the water? They want to live forever Look who's here! Look at them! My cigar's gone out, anyone got a light? Why do they make fun of him? He shut himself up in the house with his family for 7 years to wait for the end of the world A religious fit, they say Nonsense He was jealous of his wife Later she ran off with the children Jealous my foot, he's nuts That's not it, he was just scared Scared of what? Everything You're wrong, he's a man of great faith And how, he kept his family locked up for 7 years! When they broke down the door his kid shot out like a rat and he chased after him We thought he wanted to kill him! Here's the Russian poet! Miss, I don't smoke but could I have a cigarette? Of course, as you don't smoke It's gone out. -So it has Thank you Never forget what he said to her He who? And her? Saint Catherine! So what did God say to St. Catherine? "You are she who is not" "but I am he who is" Did you hear that? Bravo, Domenico! Did he speak to St. Catherine himself? Don't tease him Domenico has a degree! In what? What is "faith"? Even your Italian was better when you first came What does "faith" mean? In Russian it's "vera" Why do they say he's mad? He's not mad. He has faith There are lots of these lunatics at large in Italy Asylums have been closed down but the families won't have them What is madness? They're troublesome, inconvenient We refuse to understand them They're alone But they're certainly closer to the truth He has another fixation now What? He gets into the pool with a lighted candle Everyone's afraid he wants to drown himself so they throw him out and save him I don't believe it Ask them Can we ask him to have lunch with us? When? -Now! Now - you don't know what time is it What time is it? -It's 7 in the morning! In the morning? Does that man with the wet shoes come often? It depends. Sometimes he does, sometimes he doesn't Where does he live? Up above Bagno Vignoni In the square What's so funny? Andrei! Stop! Why? You're prettier in this light I'm beginning to understand What? Why do you think he locked up his family for 7 years? How should I know? There he is I've brought a famous Russian writer My life is normal, there's nothing interesting about it But we hear you had a lovely experience I read about it too, in the papers Tell him about it It's not worth it Maybe not, but this gentleman has come from Moscow For me? He's come a long way What did he say? -He doesn't feel like talking Try again, it's very important Stop for a minute! -Go! What's wrong? Have you offended him? You've offended me! He's crazy! It's not up to me whether he talks or not! I'm going! You try you know a bit of Italian If you don't like the way I work say so But I'm a good translator and I even improve on the original I'm going back to Rome. Our trip's over All right Excuse me I think I know why you did that What? The bicycle? Before, with your family I'm tired Where are you? Come in! Did you hear that? It's Beethoven! One drop plus one drop makes a bigger drop, not two May I? -Smoke When I don't know what to say I ask for a cigarette too But I never learned to smoke It's too hard You have to learn to not smoke, to do important things Such as? Some wine? We need bigger ideas What? I was selfish I wanted to save my family Everyone must be saved, the whole world How? It's simple You see the candle? All right Why do you say "all right"? You're confusing me You cross the water with the lighted candle Which water? The hot water St. Catherine's pool by the hotel the steaming water All right, when? Now I can't do it I don't want When I light the candle and get into the water they pull me out They kick me out And they shout, "You're crazy!" Get it? All right. -All right? It's all wrong! Help me Help me. -All right, but Of course The taxi's here for the Russian who's going to Bagno Vignoni It's late I must go Thank you Why me, of all people? You've children? -Two, a girl and a boy Is your wife pretty? You know the Madonna of Childbirth? By Piero della Francesca She's like that but all black Go with the candle We're planning something big in Rome Zoe! Where are you? Answer me! I'm scared of being alone I know what you're thinking, but that's enough now It's wrong to keep thinking the same thing What do you want? Dad Is this the end of the world? Are we going? Stand back! They're letting them out! I knew they were in there I used to listen in secret The water had run out in my bathroom Do you mind? I thought you'd left No, I'm still here Good. -You don't look pleased Look what he gave me Who? -Domenico! You're a funk! Full of complexes You're not free You all seem to want freedom but when you get it you don't know what to do with it or what it is That's enough It must be this country, the air one breathes here Because in Moscow I met some wonderful men What are you all after? This? Not you! You're a kind of saint You're interested in Madonnas You're different! One "intellectual" tried to keep me locked up! Can't I ever meet the right man? I don't mean you, you're the worst But I swear I'll find my kind of man! And I have, he's waiting for me in Rome You dress badly too And you're boring You're the kind I'd sleep with rather than explain why I don't feel like it What are you saying? Don't you see? I found myself in a most embarrassing position! I've had enough! I can't take any more! I'd like to sleep for 10 days and wipe you out Maybe there's nothing to wipe out because you don't exist It's my problem Why do I like idiots? Men with no charm I might look young but I know all about charm! Go, go, please You know the night I met you I dreamt that a soft worm with lots of legs fell on my head It stung me. It was poisonous I kept shaking my head until it fell off. I tried to squash it before it reached the wardrobe but it was no good I kept just missing it I just couldn't squash it. Since that night I keep touching my hair Thank God there's been nothing between us! Just the thought makes me sick! She's insane Run back to your wife! Though you nearly betrayed her! You're a pig! Anything else? Hypocrite! We're going to listen to some music What's going on? -Nothing, nothing Oh God! Now the General and his Chinese music! But you won't drive me away! Dear Pyotr Nikolayevich I've been in Italy 2 years very important ones both for my profession and for my everyday life Last night I had a bad dream I had to stage an opera in the theater of My Lord the Count The first act was set in a park full of statues but they were naked men forced to stand motionless And I was a statue too I knew I would be harshly punished if I moved because our lord and master was watching us I could feel the cold rising from my marble pedestal as the autumn leaves settled on my upraised arm Yet I stood still But when I sensed I could resist no longer I awoke I was afraid For I knew it had been no dream but my reality Yet I would die if I never returned to Russia if I never again saw my homeland the birches, the air of my childhood An affectionate greeting from your abandoned friend Pavel Sosnovsky Maria Andrei! As a child I fell ill from hunger and fear I tear shreds of skin from my lips. In my memory I lick traces of salt, of freshness And still I walk I sit on a doorstep, looking for warmth I stagger deliriously as to the piper's tune I was hot, I opened my collar and I lay down The trumpets sounded. A light pierced my eyelids High above the pavement mother flies, beckons with her hand and flies away Now beneath the apple-trees, I dream of a white hospital As a child I fell ill I must go and see Dad I've a jacket in the wardrobe. It's been there three years I'll wear it again when I'm home in Moscow I never go anywhere, I never see anyone What are you doing here? Don't be afraid Don't be afraid of me. It's I who should be afraid of you You could shoot me Everyone shoots in Italy And there are too many Italian shoes! Dreadful! Why does everyone buy them? These are 10 years old. It's not important All right! You know of great romances no kisses nothing at all. Very pure! Hence great Feelings unspoken feelings are unforgettable Here it's like in Russia I don't know why You know I don't speak Italian well Here's a story A man saves another who was sinking into a slimy pond thereby risking his own life Now they are both lying on the edge of the pound out of breath, exhausted The rescued man says: "Idiot" "why did you do that? I live in there!" He was offended What's your name? Angela, good girl Are you glad? About what? About life Yes Good girl Sight grows dim, my strength is two occult, adamantine darts Hearing weavers for my father's house breathes distant thunder The tissues of hard muscles weaken like hoary oxen at the plough and no longer when night falls do two wings gleam behind me During the party, like a candle I wasted away Gather up at dawn my melted wax and read in it whom to mourn, what to be proud of How, by donating the last portion of joy to die lightly and in the shelter of a makeshift roof to light up posthumously, like a word Why must I think of this? I have enough worries My God, why did I do it? They're my children, my family, my own flesh and blood How could I? Years without seeing the sun, fearing the light of day! Why? Why this tragedy? Lord, do you see how he's asking? Say something to him But what would happen if He heard my voice? Let Him feel your presence I always do, but He's not aware of it I'll bring the car around in 10 minutes Mr. Gorchakov, phone call for you For me? Please wait Hello? It's Eugenia How are you? Fine Guess why I called? Your Domenico is here, the lunatic from Bagno Vignoni No, I know he's not mad It was so you'd understand He's here in Rome for a demonstration He's been making speeches for 3 days Come and say goodbye to him I'm leaving, immediately He keeps asking if you've done what you were supposed to do Of course I'll tell him right away Thank you I'm glad we could say goodbye I'm going away with Vittorio We'll probably go to India Vittorio's my man he's from a distinguished family in Orvieto Good, Eugenia, I wish you all the best Same to you. Say hello to Moscow for me How are you keeping? How's your heart? I don't know, I've reached the limit I'm bored I want to go home Hello, Vittorio I'm going to buy some cigarettes I want to change my ticket, I'm leaving in 2 days' time What's happened? Nothing Can you drive me to Bagno Vignoni? When? -Now I'll have to let Italy-USSR know I wait, right? -Right Trust him not to leave today What ancestor speaks in me? I can't leave simultaneously in my head and in my body That's why I can't be just one person I can feel myself countless things at once There are no great masters left. That's the real evil of our time The heart's path is covered in shadow We must listen to the voices that seem useless In brains full of long sewage pipes of school wall, tarmac and welfare papers the buzzing of insects must enter We must fill the eyes and ears of all of us with things that are the beginning of a great dream Someone must shout that we'll build the pyramids It doesn't matter if we don't! We must fuel that wish and stretch the corners of the soul like an endless sheet If you want the world to go forward we must hold hands We must mix the so-called healthy with the so-called sick You healthy ones! What does your health mean? The eyes of all mankind are looking at the pit into which we are plunging Freedom is useless if you don't have the courage to look us in the eye to eat, drink and sleep with us! It's the so-called healthy who have brought the world to the verge of ruin Man, listen! In you, water, fire and then ashes And the bones in the ashes The bones and the ashes! Wait for me in the car Hello Where am I when I'm not in reality or in my imagination? Here's my new pact: it must be sunny at night and snowy in August Great things end small things endure Society must become united again instead of so disjointed Just look at nature and you'll see that life is simple We must go back to where we were to the point where you took the wrong turn We must go back to the main foundations of life without dirtying the water What kind of world is this if a madman tells you you must be ashamed of yourselves! Music now Music! I forgot this O mother! The air is that light thing that moves around your head and becomes clearer when you laugh The music doesn't work! Zoe! Zoe! To the memory of my mother
