 

                        Do you have anything a little different? I'm not sure I get your drift. Do you have anything with unusual footwear? High heels? Boots? Leather boots... with laces? Very good, yes. I'll take that. Um, do you have any other material that shows... restraint? It's a big favorite among certain customers. The model is very popular. Do you have any more pictures like this? I'll have to check the stockroom. Sir, I'm Detective Farrell of the New York Police Department. We have to ask you a few questions about the material for sale in your shop. We have reason to believe you are selling obscene and indecent literature on these premises. Any witness who feels that he or she may be embarrassed by the lights or by the TV and movie cameras... they will not be asked to testify for television. Because of the rules of the building, we cannot have smoking in the courtroom. That is difficult for some, I realize... including the chairman. Since assuming the chairmanship of the Senate Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency, I have become increasingly concerned during each passing week with the effect pornographic material has on American adolescents and juveniles, and with the widespread distribution of this insidious filth. Father Egan, you think this pornographic literature is having a substantial and degrading effect? I certainly do. It is corrupting. It is rotting at the very roots of our nation. Communism will never defeat America. No, it's something from within... within the nation that will rot and corrupt it. Dear Bettie, how are things in New York City? We haven't heard from you in a while. I guess you must be real busy with your modeling career. Here's a picture of you and me at Christmas after church. It was nice being together again. Hope you visit soon. All my love, Goldie. "And they went forth and preached everywhere. The Lord working with them, confirming the word with signs." Amen. I know, friends, that one of these days, God's gonna call me home. When he calls, I know it's gonna be... praise God... to my eternal home. But before he calls, he's gonna give you the chance to come to him. Yes, friends, don't you know the Lord... gives every sinner man and every sinner woman the chance to come to him, seek him out? I feel like singing an invitational hymn now. Brother John? If there be any unsaved souls here tonight Who feel like giving their hearts to Christ, come seek him out. Okay. Y'all, Mrs. Craddock is looking. - Let her get an eyeful. - Who cares? Do we look like Ziegfeld girls? Girls, get on back in the house! - Come on and do your chores. - Come on, let's go inside. Bettie, I wanna see you. Come on up. Oh! Oh, why thank you. Uh, ma'am, Are you gonna be all right waiting here like this on your own? Do you have a boyfriend or a husband or something to keep you company while you wait? Well, thank you for your concern, Officer, But... no, I'm not married. I'll be fine on my own. "...The fundamental principles of democracy is the people's right - to be represented..." - That's a pretty girl. You wait here. I'm gonna go ask her for a date. Billy, you fool, that's Bettie Page. Every guy in town wants to date that girl, but her mother won't allow it. I'd sure like to meet you, but if I can't, I'd like to meet one of your sisters. Well, you can. They're prettier than me. That's hard to believe. May I sit down? Well... Hey! "One of the fundamental principles of democracy is the people's right..." - Did you write that? - Yes, I did. I'm on the debating team. Got to memorize it by Friday. I'd like to debate you sometime. You're probably a lot smarter than me, - but I bet I could put up a good fight. - That's very interesting. I was never much for studying. They just passed me in school so I could play ball. Football? Yeah, I've seen you play... - against Hume-Fogg. - That's right. You're a good ballplayer. Yes, I am. I'm a good dancer too. - How good are you? - I know a few steps. If you come out with me, I'll show you. - Well, I'd like to, but... - Better hurry up. You're gonna run out of time. - I signed up. - You're going overseas? That's right... the army. Well, my mother doesn't approve of dating. That's a shame. That's a darn shame. You tell your mother Billy Neal would like to take you out. Maybe I will. I'm gonna marry that girl. No, you ain't gonna marry her. Everybody wants that gal. I don't know. I'm gonna marry her. Let's see if I can get this right. - Oh. - Whoo. See you Monday. I bet it'd look good on you too. It's a beautiful night out, isn't it? Yes, it is. Say, do you like dancing? My buddy and his girl are going dancing, and they invited me along and I'm starting to feel like a third wheel. I really could use a date. Well, I do like dancing. Love to dance, in fact. Well, my... my friends are just up the block. I'd be thrilled if you'd come with us. Yeah, I think I will if you don't mind. Great. - My name's Scotty. - Bettie. - Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. Thanks so much. Have you been to the Victory Ballroom? I love to go there on a Friday night. The band really cooks. And I'd just bet you can really dance, can't you? Well, I like to dance. If the music's good, I like it. - This is Jake. - Hi. - Hi. - And Ray. - Hi. - Pleased to meet you. The more the merrier. Ain't that right? Why are we... leaving the city? Where is this place? Where are we going? Where are we going?! Don't try and run. Oh, please, for the love of Jesus. - Please. - Don't make trouble now. Can't nobody hear you around here anyway. You know what we're here for. Just get in the back of the car. Please, I can't. Please, it's that time of the month. Shit, I thought you said we were getting some tail here. Well, she'll have to give us some kind of a satisfaction. "Dear Goldie, I've decided to make a fresh start in New York City. I've found an apartment just off Times Square and painted and decorated it myself. I entered a beauty contest or two. I won second prize in one, which was not too bad... a set of brand new Revere pots and pans, which I needed very much. I hope this finds y'all well and healthy and you kids are staying out of trouble. Love to y'all. Bettie." - Can I ask you a question? - Well... Don't be nervous. I'm a policeman. Let me show you my badge. See? I was just curious... have you ever done any photographic modeling? Well, not for photographs. Well, you look like a model. I'm a policeman, but I'm a photographer too... on weekends, you know? If you let me take your picture, I'll give you copies for free. - Take my photo? Right here? - Sure, why not? - Looking like this? - Sure. I don't know. You're a southern girl, aren't you? Well, I don't wanna make you feel uncomfortable. Oh, no no, it's not that. Don't get me wrong. I worked with a colored woman, and she was real nice. It's just... Well, I... Oh, what's the harm in it? - Come on, over here. - Good. I don't think the kids should see this. Good, Bettie. So where're you from in the South? Nashville, Tennessee. - Ah, home of the Grand Ole Opry. - You know it? I hear it on the radio sometimes. My wife listens to it now and then. Could you lift your chin up for me, please? A little more. Good. Now, uh... Head up and to the right. Great, Bettie. Good. Hey, Officer. Uh... well, it seems as if some of the people here aren't happy about me taking your picture, Bettie. Well, they're just prejudiced. I used to be when I was younger, but I grew up and I learned better. - All we're doing is taking pictures. - There's kids here. Maybe next time we should use my studio. Let's go. Good. Good. Uh, give me friendly. Now, give me pert. Good. One more. And give me haughty. Good, Bettie. Good. Now, could you turn to the side for me, please? I'd like to see your figure in profile. Okay. All right. Now, this is a trick that a lot of photographic models use. If you put this in your swimming suit top, it will enhance your bustline. This is all lumpy. Well, you have to put it underneath. Oh... Oh. Good. Now give me saucy. Good, Bettie. Great, Bettie. Great! Yeah, the poses are great. Now, I have an idea. Would you mind if I changed your hairstyle? Come, please. You have a high, round forehead. There's nothing wrong with it, but it catches the light. But if we covered it... it wouldn't catch the light, and it frames your face. Yeah, I see what you mean. - Yeah? Shall we try? - Sure. Austin, Green & Dunleavey. How may I help you? Yes, sir. I'll connect you right away. - Hi, I'm Bettie. - I'm Art. Step this way. Did Jerry tell you what the setup is? You can change in there. The other girl still has a half hour to go. That's Maxie. You can learn from her. She knows all about the three essentials... clothes, pose and expression. - "Clothes, pose and expression." - Over here, over here. - Maxie, this way. - And look over here. - Over here. - Down here to the right. - You'll get your turn. - Maxie, we're dying over here. Don't forget us boys in the corner. - Oh. - Very good, Maxie. Can you bend over on one leg? - No, like this. - Hey! Hey, no touching! Do it again and you're out on your rear. You don't have to worry about that. There's no funny business here. I see to that. You think you can do it? I can sure try. Let's see that smile, kid. Turn to me. Lift that leg a little bit. Yeah. And higher. - Mmm... - That's nice. I saw it. I saw beaver. - You're dreaming. It was a shadow. - I saw it. - Mm-hmm. - What's her name? - It's Bettie. - Hey, Bettie. Can you bend over for us a little bit? - Please? - Show us your keister? - Hello, keister. - Very nice. Nice. That's good. To want or need a mask to hide behind Comes from a distrust of ourselves. It comes from our fear that we ourselves are boring. All right. Now, let's try to go back to that first object exercise... recreating two minutes of ordinary life when we're alone. Bettie, would you like to show us what you've been working on? The curtain rises and you are sitting on stage. You are alone. You sit... and sit. At last, the curtain comes down. Nothing could be simpler, could it? The curtain rises... the curtain comes down. Bettie, my angel, it's not necessary to remove your clothes. I'd like to try the exercise next if I may. Okay, Marvin. Ahem. Curtain rises. Curtain down. You see, Marvin sat... and waited, and did not act anything. Now, it may not seem interesting to you, to sit and wait as you do it, but it's life. Now, that's all for today. I'll see you on Wednesday. Thanks. Hey, don't worry, Bettie. It's like he said... it was a hard exercise. I was terrible. I couldn't concentrate. I felt silly. No, no. I liked what you did. I thought it was really interesting and very modern. Don't feel bad. Hey, how about a milkshake? That was back when I was trying to write a great American novel. It all seems so juvenile. You know, trying to be Ernest Hemingway. But then a friend dragged me to Herbert's class, and, I don't know, acting just felt so... - inspiring. - I know exactly what you mean. - It's like when you're in church. - Uh-huh. Well, sometimes with the preaching and the singing and all, you get lifted up... up out of yourself. It's like you're taken to another place. Yeah! Taken to another place, that's it. Bettie, I feel like I've been talking about myself for hours. So what about you? What drew you to acting? Well, I started in high school and did all the plays. I guess you could say - it ruined my life. - How so? Well, I was gonna be our high school valedictorian. Everyone said it was gonna be me. The valedictorian gets a full scholarship to Vanderbilt University. - It's a real big deal. - Hmm. Well, one day I... I had a dress rehearsal and I cut one class... one stupid art class. So I got an A-minus instead of an A, and Martin Murphy got the scholarship. And I got to be salutatorian and a place at a teacher training college. And I hated teaching. All the boys whistled at me and acted up. I just couldn't control the class. I wanted that scholarship so much. Jeez, I'm sorry, Bettie. Hey, you know, It seemed so bitter at the time, but maybe it's fate telling you you were meant for something else. Well, I wonder. I hope you're right about that. Yes. Like this? Look at that over there. Here we go again. I know it's coming. Listen, girls, I just want you to know That Peggy is gonna be doing - some semi-nude posing today. - All very tasteful, of course. If you're feeling shy about that, bathing suits are just dandy with us. Although there's nothing more beautiful than nude modeling in open air. Art, I've told you, my boyfriend would blow his top if I did that. Of course, of course. It's completely up to you. Thank you, Art, Frank. We appreciate you telling us. Beautiful. You know, sometimes when I get homesick, I just go to Central Park and walk around for hours. Gee, I like to do that too. Some people think I'm funny for spending so much time alone. Oh, no, Bettie. You're in very good company. Many of the world's greatest thinkers spent most of their time alone. They did? Well, I'll be. I'm roasting. Do you wanna call it quits? Oh, no, I'm fine. I love the sun. Well, we'd better move into the shade after these shots though. You don't want get a mark from your bathing suit straps. Well, thank you, Charlie. That's very thoughtful of you. You know, I could take this little old bathing suit top off if you like. Really? Oh, sure, yeah. - if you don't mind. - Well, I've been thinking about it... and what difference does it make, a little piece of cloth? I agree. Absolutely. Oh, thank you. You know, Bettie, You're the most popular model at our club. Flattery is the devil's tool, Charlie. How's this? I don't know how to say this, and don't be offended, but... well, we've come this far... Do you think you could take off the bottom as well? After all, it's just a little piece of fabric. Now, don't you go throwing my words back at me, Charlie. I'm... I'm sorry. I shouldn't have asked. Just kidding you. It's fine. Sure, I don't mind. Um, um... Bettie? - Bettie? - Yes? If we show too much, I could get arrested. - What do you mean? - The top is okay, but you have to hide that. Oh... Oh, I'll just put the bottoms back on. No no no, you don't have to do that. Um, the backside's okay. How's this? Oh, thank you. That's perfect. A copy of "She: the Man's Picture Magazine." Oh, Marvin. A-ha, there she is. - In roller-skates this time. - I know, they're silly. "Gals think men are beasts! This doll thinks a gorilla makes a safer boyfriend. You wolf!" I'm not sure I like the idea of other men seeing you like this. It's a bathing suit, Marvin. - You make it look so good. - Come on. Yeah, I know. I know. - Yes... yes? - Hi. I got your name from Maxie. My name's Bettie Page. I'm a model. Oh, yeah. She told me about you. Just one minute. Yeah, we got some nice William Holden. Color 8x10. Yeah, Stewart Granger we got, yeah. Just come into the store. Anything you want, we got, okay? - Thank you so much. - All right. - So Maxie told you about us? - Yes. She said there would be some unusual costumes to put on. Okay, great. Why don't you go right upstairs and talk to my brother Irv while I close up here, okay? Klaw Studios featuring the largest variety of popular model photos in the world. Well, what are you interested in? Films, cartoons, pictorials? We got some great new pictorials in, very high quality... just a moment. Hi, I'm Irving Klaw, You hungry? We've got sandwiches over there... - some beautiful sliced brisket. - Oh, I'm fine, thanks. Okay. Dressing room's through there. Uh, no more "Boudoir Beauties in High Heels." What about some fighting girl movies? No? "Bound in Rubber," "Pleasure Parade," and "Fearful Ordeal in Restraintland." Now, that last one's an excellent seller, because of the quality of the poses, which in my personal opinion are among the most strenuous bondage photos ever made. Whoa-whoa, how anyone walks in these old shoes is beyond me. You don't have far to go. Jack, give her a hand. - Oh, hello. - Pleased to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - These shoes are kind of unusual. We get a lot of requests for them, don't we, Irving? Sure do... 8" stiletto heels, black seamed stockings, High heels are very popular. - There you go. - Okay, sit her down there, Jack. All right, Bettie. Let's go. Beautiful, Bettie. Oh! I think we got a little problem. Something's peeking out. Oh, yep. We better put another pair over them. Yeah, we gotta put these over the ones you got on. These will be okay, huh? As if the customers care. It's the shoes they want. Shoes and boots, boots and shoes... - they can't get enough of them. - Why? Don't ask. It takes all types to make a world. What kind of types? You see, the customers who want this stuff, they're very respectable, very high quality people... doctors, lawyers, diplomats... Even a judge. They're not people like us. The pressures they've got... they're not your average Joe. So what if they want something that seems a little strange, right? - If it makes them happy? - Sure. Sometimes they come into the store, and I can see they want something different. Irving says I can spot them a mile off. - Oh, she can. She's got an instinct. - If I think it's shoes they want, I'll pull out a movie star... Lana Turner, let's say, with a nice pair of high heels... and I'll point to them and say, "Hmm, something like this, maybe?" Oh, the look on their face... like they're so relieved I understand. And then I start pulling out the special stuff. Look at the time. We gotta go. - Jack, let's put some music on. - Okay. Let's put some music. You like music, Bettie? - Oh, yeah. - You okay, Bettie? The shoes hurting? I'm fine. Just fine. Turn your backside to us so we can see the stocking seams. Nice nice. Wonderful, Bettie. To me, turn to me. Great! It's nice, right? Just get into it, feel it. Gorgeous gorgeous. Oh, you're so happy. She's great. Oh, that's right, honey. Do that cha-cha, give me that. Great, Bettie. Gorgeous. Listen to this..."you have long stretches of nervous letdown in playing your part, complete artistic impotence. At such times your playing is lifeless, stilted." I think he was talking about me there. No, no, he's talking about all of us. I'm just so nervous. Uh, they liked the photographs I sent them, - but they never heard me speak. - It's a western, right? - Uh-huh. - Well, maybe they'll need a good Southern girl. Just remember, acting is about truth. You find truth in the character and no one will give a damn - that you're from Tennessee. - Settle down. Okay, start from here. Come on, turn. Not... slowly slowly, not so quick. And look at me with your beautiful eyes. Now, this way. Straight. Now, say something nice. Um... I don't know know what to say. Come on, we're recording sound so you can say something. - I'm sorry. - Don't be so sorry, okay? You're behaving like a six-year-old, okay? Come on, look at me with your beautiful eyes. And? Ahem... hi, I'm Bettie Page. Um... I'm from Nashville, Tennessee. Right. Okay, that's it. You're all done, sweetie. I thought you looked really great under the lights. You're a knockout. Real star material. Uh, you think so? I was awfully nervous. You'll have to work on that accent, of course, But it would be no fun if you were perfect. Say, why don't you have dinner with me tonight? I could give you a few pointers. We could get to know each other better. Oh, I'm sorry, but I can't. I already have a boyfriend. Oh, come on. It'll be fun. It's always an advantage to know the producer personally. I really have to go. You try and do a girl a favor... Still not tight enough. I told you, it won't go any tighter. I've been trying for 20 minutes. You'll ruin the whole thing because you're too lazy to do it properly. Oh, come off it. - Set the shot up the way I told you. - Okay, I got it, I got it. Bettie, you're supposed to be here at 10:00. You're not on the clock, you don't get paid. Irving, you're in the shot. - Okay. - Ahem. Give it in the eyes. Give it in the eyes, darling. - Beautiful. - Can we see a bit of heel maybe? - A little bit of heel. - Uh, that's good, A little bit of bum. I really like bum. - That's perfect. - Lovely bum, darling. See, she's one of our best. And then he admitted that he paid Roz 12 bucks an hour, And they gave me 10. Cheek of it! So I says to Irving, "Pardon me, but who's been freezing her derriere off every Saturday for the past six months? Not Roz Greenwood. Gee, that's not fair. Roz is real nice, but you're a better model. - Everyone says so. - Hey, girls, how you doing? Yeah, we're cold. Can we get another heater in here? I'll see what I can do. Bettie, if you keep brushing your hair, it'll fall out of your head. Let me explain something to you. This is one of our private sessions... John. We call him "Little John" to tell him apart from the other John, "Big John." He's the photographer out there. Anyway, Little John has some special outfits he'd like you to put on. - I'd say they're special. - Maxie. Yeah, all right, some of them are a real hoot, but he's a very nice man. Yeah, he's not normal, - but he's nice. - he's one of our best customers, So will you try and do what he says? - What does she mean? - Oh, it's nothing bad, You just have to scare him and act mean. Like this. Actually, it's kind of fun. You're lucky. Wait until you see what I have to do. Hey! Ouch, that's too tight. Well, that is rather the point, my dear. The tighter the better. - Paula. - Maxie, are they hurting you? - She's all right. Aren't you, Maxie? - I am not. - I'm getting rope burns. - All right. Let's get a move on. Bettie, stand over there. I'd like this young lady to look very strict. He'd like her to look very strict. He'd like you to look very strict. Come on, my dear, more passion. Fire. More... tigress, huh? Whoa, very good. Dominate the men who adore you. Crush them with your exquisite high heels! "Come, fill the cup. And in the fire of spring the winter garment of repentance fling." Oh, that's very nice. Is that from a poem? Not just a poem, my dear, the poem... "The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam." Whoa... oh, no, thank you. I don't drink. Come on, have a drink with me. Most of the time these last six months, I seem to be drinking by myself or with strangers whom I don't much like. Might I tempt you with a mushroom cap? Oh. So what do you do, Little John? He has a very successful legal practice - with many distinguished clients. - How is business, John? - You been keeping busy? - Uh, quite busy, But mother hasn't been very well So I've been spending a lot of time at home with her. Sorry to hear it. And what about those legal difficulties you mentioned? I had a letter from the postal inspector warning me about sending some of my pictures through the mail. What do you know - about getting around that? - The only court ruling that I know of on that issue is the case of this fellow, Al Urban. The post office tried to prevent him from sending photographs of nude men through the mail. They got the Civil Liberties Union involved And the Chicago court eventually ruled that the materials - were not obscene. - We don't even have nudes. He just had to be careful he was only sending his stuff to adults. Tell me, what do you think of all this tying-up business? You seem to have a knack for posing. And I'm always on the lookout for comely wenches who don't mind a bit of the old rope and gag. Well, it certainly was different. I liked what you did with that riding crop. It's a treat to see a girl with so much spirit. Oh, I enjoy acting very much. I've been taking lessons. Oh... we shall have to put you in a little film or something, shan't we? Little John old cock, What say we give this charming creature a role in "Sally's Punishment"? I bet she's a dab hand with the cords. Could you stop there, please? These films include bondage, spanking and flagellation, all illegal to send through the U.S. mails. I will need you to sign a stipulation stating that you will agree not to sell any films, photographs or drawings depicting these acts. Sir, if I may, my client sells a number of photographs of stills from Hollywood films. Take one, for example, from "Tarzan and the Slave Girl"... a scantily clad actress is tied up. Lash marks are visible on her back. Now, this film passed the National Board of Review. What is your point, Mr. Gangel? Well, certainly, you can't intend for my client to stop selling these Hollywood film stills, Inspector. Those images represent a minute part of a feature-length film intended as harmless entertainment. Mr. Klaw's films and photographs are created with the deliberate intention of inciting lust and lascivious thoughts, and should therefore be barred from being sent through the mails. If you do not cease and desist, this will become a matter for the courts. Hi, girls. That looks very artistic. - What's it called? - "Bettie's Clown Dance." - Very nice. - How'd it go? - Not good. - You look terrible. Is that your heart? - Did you get the fluttering again? - Ah, no no no, I'm fine. - Bettie, that's all for today. - Listen, Bettie, I hope you don't mind... we need to take a little break from production, maybe a couple of weeks. - Sure. - Take off. Take a vacation. You know where I'd go if I could ever get away from here? - Where would you go? - Miami Beach. That's where I'm gonna go if I ever get to retire. Sit in the sand and watch the waves. Sun and fun, Bettie. Dear Goldie, guess what. I decided to take a vacation. I've been spending loads of time on the beach. The water is so clear and so blue. Now I've been working too. A friend gave me an introduction to a photographer who takes beautiful artistic pictures. I hear she's one of the top glamour photographers working today. Her name is Miss Bunny Yeager. - Miss Yeager? - You must be Bettie. Please step this way. - Would you like some water? - Yes, I would. Thank you. - Is this you? - Yes. That was taken in Hawaii. I was a model too. You brought some clothes with you. I made this. Is this what you normally pose in? Yes. What do you think? Well, maybe the bathing suit and the stockings. Not the corset. I believe the female form can stand on its own. In fact, I'd like to see you in the light. Do you mind standing over here by the window? And what brings you to Miami, Bettie? I don't know. Well, I love the sunshine, love the ocean. Well, that's perfect. I do some of my best work outdoors. Yes, she's been shot by just about every photographer in the country, but I think I caught something special in her personality when I photographed Bettie Page. The first thing I noticed was that for some reason, when she's nude, she doesn't seem naked. Maybe it's just her all-over coppery tan, or maybe just her attitude. Whatever it is, it conveyed to me that here is a true nudist. Bettie's attitude towards her lovely healthy body is the essence of nudism. "Dear Goldie, yes, they made a postcard of yours truly... a bunch of them, in fact. I had a wonderful time at the beach here, and made some money too. Wish you could have been here with me. Hope to see you at Christmas. I can't wait to walk through those old piney woods again. Love, Bettie." What are you bringing us for Christmas, bricks? Hope you got something good for me. You won't be getting a thing if you don't stop bellyaching. And thank you for giving us this food when others are in want. And thank you, Lord, for the blessing of family. Please shine your precious light on our son Jimmy, who's in mobile and can't be with us today. And on this day of celebration, let us say a prayer for Roy Page And, Lord, help us to forgive him for abandoning his wife and family. For what we are about to receive may the Lord make us truly thankful. - Amen. - Amen. Jack, don't take all the mashed potatoes. Save some for the rest of us. So have you met Marilyn Monroe yet? No, Jack. She lives in Hollywood. I'm in New York. A man from "The Tennessean" called. - Says he wants to interview you. - He did? Says you were voted "Pin-Up Queen of the Universe." Oh my. How long are you gonna make a living doing that? Uh, you know, Mama, I'll get by. All that teacher training. It just seems a shame to waste an education. You know I hated teaching. I wish mama would just let that be. Has mama said anything to you about my modeling? Not a word. But a few weeks ago, I was rooting around in her closet. Suddenly, I came across a whole stack of magazines with you in them. - Not the nudist ones. - Of course not. Just the glamour stuff. You still look good in a swimsuit. Oh, I never was as pretty as you. Madam, as I live and hope for salvation... - Ha! - Aye, I am as like to be saved as thou that believes naught save some black magic of words and verses. Oh, madam, if you would know what misery is, listen to this man who is more than man and less at the same time. He will tie you down to anatomize your very soul, he will wring tears of blood from your humiliation, and then he will heal the wound with flatteries no woman can resist. Madam, she is jealous, and heaven help me, not without reason, for how can I be content with this black-haired, black-eyed, blackavised devil now that I have looked upon real beauty and real majesty? Oh, he is compact of lies and scorns. I'm tired of being tossed up to heaven and dragged down to hell with every whim that takes him. I am, of all ladies, most deject and wretched. We know from Stanislavski that there can be no true art without living. To reproduce feelings, you must be able to identify them out of your own experience. Now, Bettie, would you tell the class what you did to find the truth in the lady-in-waiting's emotions? Well, I tried to think of something that would make me really scared. And what was that, Bettie? I thought of what Jesus might do to me for all my sins. Marvelous. Are you sure? Okay, I'll get back to you. This is quite an elegant knot, really. The more the subject pulls, the tighter the knot becomes. - What did the lawyer say? - Not good. It's not good. Can I have - a word with you in the office? - Of course. Carry on. You're off the clock at 9:00. What's the matter, Bettie? Watch your language, Mr. Willie. Oh, it's just an old army ditty. It helped keep our spirits up while we were fighting the beastly Hun. Don't you approve? I believe in Jesus. But of course you do, my dear. Of course you do. Do you mind if I ask you a question, Bettie? What do you think Jesus would say about what you're doing now? Well, Mr. Willie... I've thought about this quite a bit. I'm not really sure anymore. I think God has given each of us some kind of talent and he wants us to use it. That's why he gave it to us. Mr. Willie, would you mind untying my hands? - It's hard for me to think like this. - Certainly. God gave me the talent to pose for pictures, and it seems to make people happy. Well, that can't be a bad thing, can it? Not to me, it's not. But what does God think? Well, I can't say for certain. I can't speak for him. I do worry sometimes about some of the things - that I've done. - What things? I posed naked for photographs. Have you, my dear? You naughty girl. But is that really bad? Adam and Eve were naked in the Garden of Eden. So they were. Oh, I don't know what God thinks about all this. I hope that if he's unhappy with what I'm doing, he'll let me know somehow. I'm sure he will, my dear. I'm sure he will. Did you love it? Bettie, you love of my life! Oh, come on in. - What's your poison? Whiskey? - Orange juice, please. Oh, Bettie, you will kill me. You're such a square. Hey, would you do me a favor and grab those? Bettie, come on, there's somebody you gotta meet. He'll murder me if I don't introduce you. Did anyone ever tell you you look like Montgomery Clift? No. Howie, Howie. - I'd like you to meet Bettie Page. - Hi. Howie Lippman. Pleasure. Listen, I've got this sensational new nightclub opening next week. We've got a full orchestra, a floor show, comedians, a juggling act... we're pulling out all the stops. I'd love it if you and some of your friends would come down and and see us. Did you see that girl? The black-haired job over there? - That's Bettie Page. - No, really? That's her? She looks different with her clothes on. There will be a lot of press. You could wind up in Winchell's column, - and "Hello, career," right? - You're Bettie Page, - aren't you? - Yes, I am. I'm really sorry to bother you, I heard you might be here. Um... I have a lot of your pictures. If you don't mind, do you think you could sign this for me? - Sure. - And could you tell me something? Does it just make you sick to see guys like me grovel like this? Oh, no, it's fine. It's flattering. Don't you just wanna crush us, humiliate us, punish us? No, sir. I'm sure you're a very nice person. Hey, there you are, doughnut. Hello, there. Here you go. - Thanks. - Hey, are you signing autographs? - Can I see? - Thank you. Hmm... "Long black stockings," hmm... "200 excellent poses." "Bound and gagged"? "Rubber masks"? - Bettie, what is this? - Oh, it's just some silly photographs I did for Irving and Paula. Bettie, I... I don't think you understand what this is. It's just... - weird. - It's just costumes, Marvin. We're just dressing up. There's no harm in it. Bettie, doctors write books about this sort of thing. It's... - it's abnormal. - For goodness sake, Marvin, - I'm not nude. - Bettie, Do you understand what kind of man buys these pictures? They're for special customers who like these kinds of costumes... high-quality people. I met one of them. He's a lawyer. He's very nice. Wouldn't hurt a fly. These people you work for... is this what they ask you to do? Who are these people?! They're very nice people, Marvin. Look... this thing in your mouth, - what is this? - It's just a prop, Marvin. It's just silliness. We're laughing all the time - when we're doing this stuff. - Bettie, it... it's disgusting. I'm gonna go get some air. - Hi. - Hi. Will you take a picture of me? - Yeah. - It's silly. People take pictures of me all the time, but I don't know how to take one of myself. Shall I just stand right here? Yeah. You just press the little button there. Okay. Here's your camera, Miss. - Where are you going after the beach? - Home. Would you like to go out with me? Uh-huh. - I'm Bettie. - Hi. - I am Armand. - Oh... - it's nice to meet you, Armand. - Nice to meet you too. Don't think for a minute that the jungle abounds with cuties like this. That pretty hairdo and that naughty little leopard skin are products of a complex civilization. Of course, what lies underneath Is both civilized and primitive... depending on her mood. I'm gonna send these pictures to a new magazine. It's called "Playboy." Do you know of it? - No, ma'am, I don't think I do. - Well, it's new... very tasteful magazine, printed on beautiful paper. It's very classy. Look towards me, please. - Like this? - Perfect. Now, Bettie, the magazine wants to know how old you are. - I'm 32. - Oh... well, I never would have guessed. I don't think you should tell them that, though. No magazine wants a model who's over 25. Smile, Bettie. Okay, I need you to lift your knee up. I'm seeing a little bit too much. You know what's funny? Irving Klaw Would never let me pose with my top off. - Irving Klaw? - Yeah, you know him? No. I think I heard his name on TV last night, though. - Some government investigation. - Irving on television? Yeah, I think he's in a little bit of trouble - What kind of trouble? - I'm sure it's nothing. It's probably just some senators blowing a lot of hot air. Eyes to the camera, please. How about a wink? We shall show by these hearings that a large portion of the market for this material is with inquisitive and impressionable teenagers. There is a peculiar resemblance to narcotics addiction in exposure of juveniles to pornography, but there is one difference, however... the injection of heroin into the veins of an addict stops with the addict, but the contaminative effects of pornography in the hands of just one minor are incapable of measuring. Irving says they can't shoot anymore - until they sort this out. - Yeah. Maybe it's time I stopped modeling and just worked hard at my acting. People are getting tired of taking pictures of me anyhow. Never. What are you gonna do? - I got a plan. - You do? You know Frank and Charlie from the camera club? - Yeah. - A couple of months ago, they asked to borrow my apartment for a private session. So I said, "What's in it for me?" So they paid me a little something, And then it became a regular thing every Thursday. Then another couple of guys asked, and I thought, "Why not go into business - for myself?" - How? Well, I got myself a white fur rug. - Nice. - Well, not real fur, but good enough for pictures. And a couple of pillars. That's on one side. And on another wall, I'm gonna get a mural painted of an Italian lake; And maybe a fake fireplace on another wall, so I can shoot three sides and get the most out of the space. Do you think Paula will be upset? - Maybe. It's competition. - Mmm... But you got to look after yourself in this world. And you can't be a model forever. I was reading the theater section of the goddamned "New York Times" today, and a drawing of this guy, Petruchio, swinging a whip in "The Taming of the Shrew"... the play by Shakespeare... is all over the first page. - Nobody cares. - They're all hypocrites. Then, I see this illustration in the "New York Times Magazine" Of "Kiss Me Kate," a Broadway musical. What does it show? Spanking! They wanna shut me down for distributing images almost identical to these. Shh. Don't say too much. Remember what the lawyer said. I'm beginning to get a persecution fear complex. Don't. - You are Mr. Klaw? - Yes. Mr. Klaw, were you... Sir, in accordance with your suggestion, we don't want any pictures. Thank you very much. We appreciate your cooperation. Uh, Mr... Klaw, were you requested to bring any books or records? - Yes. - do you have them, sir? I decline to make them available under the 5th amendment of the constitution, that they may tend to degrade or incriminate me; and under the 4th amendment of the constitution that the subpoena is vague and illegal. Do you wish to make any statement as to why you think producing any books or records called for here might tend to incriminate you? I decline to answer under the 5th amendment of the constitution, that an answer may tend to incriminate me. Dr. Henry, I direct your attention to a booklet entitled "Cartoon and Model Parade," published by Irving Klaw of 212 east 14th street. I specifically call your attention to the movie "Negligee Fight." The heading reads that this 16mm movie shows the terrific battle that ensues when both girls claim a black negligee. Is this the masochistic type of perversion to which we just referred? - It is. - Is there a sexual deviation known as "bondage," where a person - is trussed up with rope and chains? - Yes. - That is fairly common. - You say that... that bondage is fairly common? Fairly common in this particular group... that is, the group of sexual deviants. Tell us more about that... uh... bondage being fairly common. Among those that are familiar with this variety of sexual deviation, it is a matter of common knowledge to them. You mean they like to see someone who is bound up... - Yes, they do. - Pictures of them? - Some of them do. - Now I direct your attention to a series of photographs called "New Specially Posed." "Bettie can only feel fear as she is unable to see her captors. Now that the pole was bound to her body, Bettie had to crawl on all fours like an animal. The floor made Bettie's knees red and sore. The unwieldy steel brank kept slipping back and forth, Irritating the tender flesh at Bettie's neck, thus making the cold steel an added menace. It was most exhausting, But Bettie's strength and endurance were equal to the task." Doctor, could I ask you... could... could... could children be sexually perverted - by looking at photos of this nature? - Yes. Would you say it is a fair statement that suicide, murder and psychosis is the result of this type of trash? In some instances, yes. Mr. Grimm, I want say as Chairman of this Subcommittee... I know the embarrassment and the distaste you have in coming here to talk about the tragic happening to your son on August 20th of last year. We appreciate your cooperation. - Mr. Gaughan, you may proceed. - Can you, Mr. Grimm, tell the subcommittee how it was that your boy met his sudden end on the evening of August 20th, 1950? Now, I realize it is an unsolved murder, but tell us what you know. He'd worked all day for me, come home dirty and tired in his work clothes. He was away all evening, which was unusual. He never left the house without telling us. I found him the next morning in a very... grotesque, weird situation that I've never been able to cope with or understand yet. He was um... trussed up in a very unnatural position. Looked like it had been planned in some way. He wasn't hung like most people hang themselves by the neck from a rope. And the fact that he didn't have any clothes on... he was a modest boy... led me immediately to believe that there was some sex angle to it. Mr. Grimm, do you recognize, sir, that booklet, entitled "Cartoon and Model Parade," published by Irving Klaw the Pin-up King? - Yes. - Would you tell the Subcommittee how you first came across a copy of this book? Through a mutual friend who was interested in the case. I found very similar pictures of tying people up in this book that reminded me of my son's case. I've never come across anything like that before. I was looking for a clue. Sir, let me direct your attention specifically to page four. That picture illustrates a model named Bettie Page. Does that accurately reflect how your boy was found? It's more or less the same... a very similar position. I haven't had the police into it. They let the case rest. They said it was some sort of accident due to some impulse on the part of the boy. I-I don't care what the police think. The way he was tied... it wasn't anything any youngster like him with his character could concoct himself. There wasn't any history of that, no similar action on his part. He led an outdoor life. He was active in the boy scouts from the time he was a little bit of a fellow. He had only been home for two days from boys' camp in Tennessee when... when I found him. I feel he could not have put himself into this position of his own making. It... it had to be brought to his attention either by someone else showing him how or he saw a picture of it. I do feel there is a definite connection between this sort of thing and his death. And I also feel there is a definite evil to this, and I'm bound and determined to do what I can to suppress it. This is not a healthy situation! It's not wholesome. There's nothing cultural about it. It's just no damn good! And that's all I got to say about it. - Miss Page? - Yes, sir? Your testimony is no longer necessary. You can go now. What do you mean? I've been sitting here for 12 hours. Why is it no longer necessary? They didn't give an explanation, ma'am. Do I have to come back tomorrow? No, ma'am. They said they won't need you anymore. You can go. Our girls had fun doing this. A fetish? Do you got a fetish? I don't got a fetish. All we were interested in was taking pictures and making money. We gotta burn them... burn up those negatives - and they'll get off our backs. - Are you crazy? After all that work? Years and years of work. I've had it. Come on, there's no point anymore. The lawyers, the money... I'm gonna get out of here and retire to Florida, sit in the sun and enjoy life. All this stuff's wearing me out. "You needn't try to comfort me. I haven't come here on any but equal terms. You said, 'Let's talk truthfully.' Well, let's do. Unsparingly, truthfully, even shamelessly then. It's no longer a secret that I love you. It never was. I loved you as long ago as the time I asked you to read the stone angel's name with your fingers. Yes, I remember the long afternoons of our childhood, when I had to stay indoors to practice my music and I heard the playmates calling you... 'Johnny! Johnny!"' Not bad. Not bad at all. Thanks for coming in. It's quite a treat to meet the notorious Bettie Page. Send the next one in. Let's get out of here, make a fresh start. Look at what this life is doing to you. Hey, Bettie. Bettie! Bettie? Bettie? Bettie. Sweetheart, do you want something to eat? Oh, my God... tonight, I know that first things come first and the most important thing of all is that men and women and young people surrender their lives to Christ. God, don't let a mother's boy who heard me preach here tonight go to hell. Don't let a mother's girl who heard me tonight go to hell. Don't let a daddy or a mother who heard me preach tonight go to hell. - Save them! - Amen. Save them tonight... from all their sins. May they be born again, washed in the blood, saved through and through without the loss of any, I pray. Amen. Amen. Did you get saved tonight? Didn't quite make it, but you came up and made a stand, didn't you? - What's your name? - Bettie. Are you ready for me to pray for you, Bettie? - Yes, sir. - Good. O, Father, we ask You that You deliver this woman from sin. Destroy it by the spirit of God. Heal her through and through, including her heart. Make her a new creature in Christ. What did you say? A wonderful... - a wonderful feeling. - Did it come then? Yes, sir. I believe it did. - What did it feel like? - It was, uh... - a lifting up. - You felt a lifting up? Well... amen. "And God shall wipe all tears from their eyes and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And He that sat upon the throne said, 'Behold, I make all things new."' - You're Bettie Page, aren't you? - Yes, I am. Bettie Page the Pin-Up Queen of the Universe? What, what happened to you? I've turned my life over to the Lord. - No kidding. - I left all that behind me. God doesn't want me to pose anymore. Oh, no offense meant. Your pictures were pretty tame. The stuff they sell now on the newsstands'll make your hair curl. You don't have to be ashamed of what you did. I'm not ashamed. Adam and Eve were naked in the Garden of Eden, weren't they? When they sinned, they put on clothes. "And He said unto me, 'It is done. I am Alpha and Omega... the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things and I will be his God, and he will be My son. But the fearful, and unbelieving..."' - How's it going? - Oh, fine, almost finished.
