 

                        The Japanese are here ! Yisheng White Cloud Peak Strange rock, dead tree, cave Yisheng ... Damn You killed my husband l won't let you get away with this The Japanese soldiers are here ... Be quiet One more sound and we'll kill you all This is a Christian hospital You can't do things like this here Listen up We shot down an American plane yesterday Where are you hiding the pilot? Tell me now We don't know, don't know You don't know? Honda, pick a few and shoot them We don't know, don't know Fire! Well, are you telling? We don't know, don't know Fire! My child ! Leave my child alone ... Stop it! You're nothing but a beast Fire! Stop it! Hold on l'm the American pilot You can go to hell Take the women to the concentration camp Mary, hurry up, it's assembly time Elizabeth, hurry Clean them Clean them up good With your tongue, now Come on Yes Let's go Hu Lizhu Attention Report, the first squad team has lined up Attention Prisoners of 13th woman camp have fallen in At ease Bring her in Bring her in Bring her in Bring her in Female prisoners of this ... concentration camp Look at her ! This traitor didn't appreciate our army's ...kind intentions She resisted... and attempted to escape She has ruined your camp's reputation Which means she has jeopardized... the generous intention... brought by the lmperial Japanese Army l want you all to punish her severely Do you clearly follow what the Commanderjust said? l want you to kill her He said you'll have to finish her off Get the whip Yes Strip her Yes Drag her over here Yes Thrash her for me! Whip her, now Next one Hit her, hit Hit her, hit l've killed her... l've killed her... Damn Beat her to death Don't shoot, let her run That was great, Commander Come over to help Don't even try, they're armed You know? You can speak Putonghua? Yes, l can l work for the lnternational Red Cross l'm a nurse We must get out Or they'll torture us We'll end up like them Yes, but we'll have to wait for our chance Don't try it There's no way to escape Just accept your fate lt's the same everywhere You must bring me along! Don't worry, we will lf l can get out l will take you along We'll take her along What? Haven't you had enough trouble?! We can't take a blind girl with us What are you talking about? l am not talking to you Fine, stop it Jennifer. We'll have to come up with a plan l can't take it anymore Damn, no speaking Sit down Quit talking and eat up Come on, eat Eat No talking l'll beat you ... Stop it! Come on l'll kill you Stop it! lt hurts lt's me, sorry l've got the wrong person Help Come on Stop it! Be quiet or you'll be shot outside You have a job to do Tonight we will welcome... a group of lmperial Japanese Army's heroes You must serve them well Hurry ... Go ... You ... All ready You dare to go against me? l like it. Take her along Yes, sir Not this one, she's mine Damn Stop moving No... Take off your clothes No... Stop moving No... No... l know you'll like it Don't be afraid Come on Don't run Come over here, baby Damn We are all brothers We will unite to build the country Your code name is? Wuchang Hankou Comrade Hong? Yes Can you still remember where the gold is? The other day l was hit by the Japanese l only remember the White Cloud Peak l can't remember the rest The gold is for buying weapons Hello, anybody here? Coming Go, l'll contact you Leave now Coming Have a seat ... What would you like to have? A bowl of congee Right away Get off the car Take her Go... Damn Let's go help her Hey, Yoko Yes Take them to Prison camp 8 Where are you from? You can speak Putonghua? She's a Red Cross nurse l'm a student The Japanese troops showed up one day Our fellow classmates ...were captured And the girls were sent to concentration camps lf l can escape l will revenge for them Enough. They might hear you Stop talking. l'm Mary What's your name? Wang Xia, and you? l'm Jennifer She's Hu Lizhu l'm Hong Yulan Elizabeth Your eyes ... l've been blind since l was a little girl Enough on the topic The Japanese army like our loyal friends l like you Thank you, Commander. Cheers lt's over. You all leave Yes Mako The girl l picked last time Please bring her to me Yes Come with me Now! Bitch l'm going to have a good time tonight Leave now Yes Come on, baby Changed your mind? Untie me first Fine Good Damn Bitch Let go Commander What's going on? Drag her out and kill her Don't be mad, sir l'll find another pretty one l'll take care of her Punish her Yes, sir What's the shooting about? Nothing, get out Take her Go ... Good night Stupid cow Let's go You stay and rub my back Don't leave me, please Hurry and get out Don't go Go ... hurry up Come No, no... don't ! No... Sit tight! Don't talk Sit tight and no talking Come on, go to your seats We'll leave at midnight l'll take five of my friends Five more? You forget your mission Yes, l must take them We're friends l can'tjust leave them here Fine, tell them to get ready Get up, we're leaving What? l'm not leaving We're leaving, Elizabeth Get up now Are you sure you're not coming? l don't think you'll make it Comrade Zhang Take it Listen. The guards... will walk by every 15 minutes l will try to cut off the electricity ...in 15 minutes You must get out during this time Got it? Got it What about you? l'll catch up Head to the west lt's darker there. You won't be spotted so easily Hurry Wait for me Didn't you say you weren't leaving? Changed your mind? lf all of you are gone except me The Japanese will suspect me Alright Let's go Lizhu Lizhu... Don't yell Hurry, here Hey, Yamamoto What are you doing up? l had a few drinks, couldn't sleep You couldn't sleep? You want a girl? Mind your own business l heard that last night... Where is he? What are you looking at? Where's Yamamoto? l was just talking to him l guess he's gone to bed Let's go Hurry Cigarette? Hey, one for me l'll bring it to you Thank you Thank you What are you doing up? Can't sleep What's so funny? Talking about girls l've run out of matches, got any? Yes. Matches What's going on? The lights have gone off Alarm, quick Get up... The Japanese are coming Leave her Run... Repair it now Yes Hurry Wait for me lsn't he Zhang? He's injured You're hurt? Hurry, they will be here soon Someone sold us out No Run, now Surrender. You're surrounded lf you don't surrender now, you'll all be shot Surrender now Fire After l'm gone There's another man who can help you Who? Cui Guodong ... Water, give me some water Water? Sorry, it's all gone Who was it? Who is the traitor Someone sold us out lt wasn't me Only you are close to them Mako is fond of you, isn't it? But l am only ... lt was you Too bad Zhang's dead No one will help us now l know someone who'll help Who? Who? Who will help? Commander lnoue. Even if we leave them to die out here That spy may organise another batch Why don't we free them, and spy on them We might get a lead later lt's a good idea Commander The blonde, l want to ... Fine Take her and have a good time Thank you, Sir Go What is it? The Commander ordered to send you this prisoner Come in Before Zhang died... He told me who you are There is a spy among your group You know who she is? No But we all suspect ...it was Mary She hangs out with Mako all the time Zhang said you can get us out You must come up with a plan We can't take this anymore How many of you together? Six l will try to take you out Especially Hong Yulan Why? Hurry She's the reason why Zhang and myself ...risked our lives by staying here Let me tell you about what our comrades have done Three months ago We've received news that the Japanese troops... have robbed a pile of gold bars from the banks in cities occupied by them They planned to ship the gold to Japan The Government has ordered three teams One was headed by Yulan's husband, Yisheng To get back the gold Unfortunately, during the shooting Both the enemy and our men have killed all except Yisheng who was badly injured He tried with his best and moved the gold inside a cave nearby After he had hidden the gold... Then he hurried back to the base And sent a telegram out So that others will take care of the gold When he was sending the telegram The Japanese troops arrived Yisheng was killed... in an encounter with them When he was about to die... He didn't finish sending out the telegram regarding the hiding place of gold So he told his wife Hong Yulan But Yulan had a shock ... when the Japanese was hitting her She couldn't remember a thing now Our mission is to... try to get Yulan out as soon as possible We must locate the gold... and transport it all back to our base Hong Yulan is a brave, strong woman We all are All our fellow countrymen are lf this was your country Would you do the same? Of course Because we are patriots That's why we'll risk our lives lt's late, you should head back l want to tell you something Thank you for saving my life Why did you let them go? Cui Guodong is right We haven't found out who their leader is lf we kill them now They can always organise another group lf we free them and spy on them They could lead us to the gold You should have told me first l'm head of security here l'm in charge here l can make any decision lt's important You shouldn't have listened to an interpreter That ... Cui Guodong is Chinese But he's an orphan He has been raised by Japanese l've always treated him as Japanese Fine But l won't take any responsibility in this Commander, a telegram lt's prisoner no. 372 of Camp 8 Hurry and get to the bottom of this Report to me soon l'll take care of it No ... Another one No ... Where's the gold? l am Hong Yulan. No.372 Another one Tell me now. Where's the gold? l am Hong Yulan. No.372 Wire her Yes Will you tell me now? l am Hong Yulan. No.372 What? He's a spy That's right He works for the Chinese government Damn, shoot him now Guard Commander. Wait At least for the sake of gold... l plan to keep Cui Guodong alive Why? Because his mission... is to gain back possession of the gold bars So, has that female prisoner confessed? Fine, you'll take care of it Right away, sir Yes Hey, come out Where did you get all those cigarettes? From the Mako You're shameless Taking favours from the enemy Have got to beat some sense into you You useless cow Enough, Elizabeth Come over and help Jennifer Cui Guodong, l'm right here Jennifer, how's Hong Yulan? She is badly injured l don't think she can make it... if she's taken for another torture Here's the plan They're having a celebration tomorrow We can start moving You still haven't found out who the traitor is we'll be in great danger There's no time We must take a chance now As for your friends ... No, l can't leave them here Well then At least we'll have people to help Yulan Thank you. You're the best Damn ! Go to the cafeteria We can leave now Wait for me Please take me along Don't, she's a spy No, l'm not Fine. But we'll keep an eye on you Otherwise, we won't take you along Whatever you say Mary, be careful l am not the traitor We have to rush out. Hold tight Why are you stopping them? So that Cui Guodong will think... that they escaped, ...and not that we let them go on purpose Good plan Elizabeth, don't be sad We were all wrong about her She died terribly ! Never mind, she's gone Let's keep going We will be safe when we reach West Bay Your ride, Commander Go Go The engine's dead What's going on? What's wrong? Damn, the water tank's broken Then what now? You fix it l can't fix it Hurry What is it? lt sounded something like a car engine Really? l didn't hear anything Lizhu has a very good... sense of hearing l guess she's right Maybe the Japanese troops are here Hurry, this way lt's empty ! They're gone, Commander They're gone? Please follow me, Commander Commander Don't worry, l've arranged everything Where are they? That way Elizabeth's gone Hurry and look for her Elizabeth ... Hurry. l'll go look for her Elizabeth Elizabeth... Are you alright, Elizabeth? Let me help you Let's have a little rest Fine, let's take a break So you're the traitor ! Hurry Quick Wait Where's Hu Lizhu? Haven't seen her Hu Lizhu Hu Lizhu... Hu Lizhu Go The spy is still among us How do you know? There are signals left for the... Japanese troops on our path Really? Hu Lizhu is killed Where? Underneath the falls l think she might have found out who the spy is And she got killed Don't tell them yet Because l haven't found out ...who the real spy is What do we do? The troops will catch up shortly l must divert them You take Hong Yulan and the others ...to the White Cloud Peak But there're so many of them How can you handle them all? l've already contacted the guerrillas They'll be waiting for me Guess it should be alright But you should be very careful Because any of them could be ...the real spy ! Guodong Don't worry, l'll be fine Take care and be careful Hu Lizhu ... ls she back yet? No, not yet She might have been lost l'll go look for her The Japanese troops will catch up soon Jennifer. You take them and go first l'll catch up afterwards Go, hurry Let's go then Hurry Move forward Commander Our plan worked The gold is inside the cave But where's Cui Guodong? He might already be inside We can kill him also There might be guerillas around Lieutenant Commander Go search Go on Move forward Guerillas ! This is White Cloud Peak Where's the cave? l can't quite remember What cave? Wait Cui Guodong risked his life and got us ...out here on one condition You know that, don't ya? What condition? He wants to help Hong Yulan out Because they are patriots They want to get back the gold that's why they worked undercover l asked him to take you along There must be plenty of gold We've struck gold No, the gold isn't private property We can'tjust take it That's right, it belongs to our country lt's for buying weapons to resist the Japanese Where is the gold? Then only Hong Yulan can answer that l can't quite remember All l remember is White Cloud Peak White Cloud Peak Yisheng White Cloud Peak Strange rocks, dead tree; the cave Yisheng Strange rocks Dead tree The Cave Hong Yulan Found it ... Cui Guodong, here's the gun l'll head to the White Clouds Peak first Snakes Let's split up You go over there You go over there. l'll check that side Great We've found the gold ! Wang Xia, you're the traitor l kill you Jennifer Don't worry, l'm here We've found the gold lt's Mo Lizi Who? She is our undercover Cui Guodong. Come out now Come out to surrender Guodong, how can we escape from here? l've got a plan lt's the gold, Commander Jennifer l love you
