 

                        The New Monsters Even though it's contaminated by the effluvium of the neighboring city... the air here is still pure It's still rosy, your Emminence Oh, lavender! A sprig among the white clothes I still see my mother, preparing the armoires... while my brothers and I were under the giant fig tree eating the last of its fruit This fig tree seems to be cursed by our lord Maybe the pollution from the city is too nearby Very much so. Gaetano? Are things that grave? I fear so. It's Sunday too, everything is closed I could call an ambulance Arriving at the inaugartion in an ambulance doesn't strike me as dignified So what can we do? - Clean it again - Yes, go With any luck it'll be a disgrace. The parish is nearby Let's go They'll be happy to recieve it It's closed, let's try over there THE MONKS MORE HOMES LESS CHURCHES - We've been waiting for months! - And the light? - I have no water in my home! - I have no gas in mine! Enough! Will you let me speak? Perhaps it would be better, your Emminence... I've complained a thousand times, I want a solution! Order, order! Order One at a time, democratically Who has asked to speak? Let's all go to city hall and speak to Marcus Aurelius! The municipality isn't responsible Then who is? - They've deliberated - Who? - To be more precise, I propose to name... - Go on! Shut up for a bit, let me finish! I propose to name a commission that will recieve... - Where, in the city? - Where else? - It's always the same thing! - I want to speak! - I want to speak! - Mother, there's one on a red dress Who is it? Hello Father. Forgive me sir. I don't know what to call you. Excellence? Emminence? I don't know This is the community of the parish of St. Mathew To what do we owe the honor of this visit? What is your name, my son? I am Don Paolo Arnoldi. Oh, of course I've heard of you, friend Paolo May I sit among you? Franco! Take a seat Make yourself comfortable, please Please Who has asked to speak? We hear you. Who wants to speak? You won't speak? Did he scare you? Me, scared? No one does anything because everything is in ruins What do you mean, ruins? It's all cement - We want a solution! - Very well - We'll took it by force! - Yes, and the police will throw you out - We could lose everything. - We'll lose more if we don't try - You never do anything! - Shut up fascist! It's been a year! A year I've been trying to get you to understand, to reason! Seeing as how you can't agree on anything, we'll vote - The priest has gotten angry - What are we voting on? You won't vote, your Emminence? No, I don't think it's appropriate What does his Emminence care? He washes his hands of it Did you see, your Emminence? These unfortunates have been abandoned by all This is no man's land, and that's not the only problem You don't want to give your opinion? Of course. With true shame and profound agony, I take the stand to speak to you all Shame, because I came to your community... due to a coincidental and everyday mechanical accident and not forced, as I should have been, by any religious feeling And the pain is real at seeing the total lack of well-being... in which you live out your everyday lives A lack in well-being that can turn in to violence.. The dumb, the useless, the stupid violence I've heard some of you, you in particular, I believe, say: "Let's go..." "Let's take over..." "Let's attack..." Look who's talking about violence! Yes, yes. I... No, no I exercised violence Did I changed your mind? Did I convince you? No! I only increased your anger. Isn't that so friend? So now? Go on. Go on children Let's return you to your community ...which at the moment stands accused... - Son of a bitch ...of neglecting spiritual virtue in favor of, perhaps in an execissve manner, social matters, the betterment of your material conditions I don't accuse you, no. I don't accuse you. Although it's true... that the saints could elevate themselves even among misery I recall St. Francis, the beggar of Assisi, St. Benito and in thousands of heroes of the faith... who managed to get rid of everything, to be happy in poverty But they were saints We aren't We're imperfect But how could you not be imperfect? You who follow a different sort of happiness, worldly happiness For us happiness is justice! Yes, justice What are you doing? Get out! - Get out of here - Begone Justice, yes brothers, but, what justice? What sort of justice? The justice of a priest who doesn't feel the responsiblity... of wearing with dignity the holy vestements? No, the justice of god - It isn't the vestements, your Emminence! - Shut up, let him speak Very well, Jesus said: "Blessed are those who hunger for justice for they shall be satisfied." But he also said: "Blessed are the meek, because meekness... shall be turned into riches" - When did he say that? - He said it - Didn't you see Zefirelli's Jesus? - Yes, yes Let us read the Gospel, beloved children, and remeber Christ's words "Do not forge a treasure on earth... where thieves loot and pillage. Instead forge a treasure in heaven" What a tongue he has! - They should make him pope. - They should. Today is a day of celebration. Perhaps not for you, but surely for me, because I am among you.. my beloved congregation And I want that this house of the Lord, which isn't a house of intrigues, or of frolic... be illuminated with light, like is done... in palaces on holidays Light, then, all your lights! Illuminate your souls! - Let the light penetrate... - How beautiful! - It looks like Christmas - Yes, Christmas And all together, children, let us listen to the old and much loved... ringing of the bells for the glory of the Lord Yes, very good, go on little one And let us express through the sound of this old organ... our feelings of faith, of charity, of hope... of meekness. Yes, and of obedience And let us sing together, my flock, to the glory of the Lord He will be proud! Your Emminece, Gaetano is there, we can leave Raise up your voices! Let them reach the heavens! Yes, your grandmother. Yeah, go to hell. Yes, of course Wait a moment Hello, very kind of you - Where are you going? - To Bondano. What a pity, I'm taking a detour to Ponzelle first It's quite a ways away - You couldn't? - To Bondano? No, they're waiting for me Get on anyway. You'll gain some ground and then... we'll see. Go on, get in Very well, get comfortable I like this, you know? Picking people up on the road Women, of course Because the presence of a woman in the car... always gives things a touch of joy. That's how it is It makes travelling easier too Oh, these boys... How can they get in with the first one that comes by? They should have some caution. Don't they read the newspaper? I mean, sexual violence, rapes I could see you are a good person Thank you very much But I'm still a man I could even be your father, for example I hope this question isn't rude I have a daughter about your age What did you say your name was? I didn't say - Piera. - Piera? That's good, like my car Look here Piera. Piera! Look That's the cars name? - You named your car? - No, let me explain I had a secretary for 12 years Truthfully, she was a bit more than a secretary How great for you! Was it romantic? Romantic, what do you think? I'm a sentimentalist above all things! This necklace is lovely! This is lovely too. What is it? What is this? Something typical? Look here young lady! Look, 99,979 kilometeters That means that in 21 kilometers... we'll be celebrating 100 thousand What a car young lady! I'll celebrate it alone, it's 10 until the detour Excuse me, but that's the price of the ride If you ask for a ride, you should be ready to pay something I would be willing to take you, but only if there were... a valid reason Do you understand me? What do you do for a living? Are you a salesman? No, textiles. Fabrics. I work from home. I have a special way with the ladies Yes, because I am profoundly feminist Ah, it's what they call black jobs Holy Virgin, what an ugly expression Why black? Do you think I swindle people? Don't you know how many would be on the street without me? No one wants to work nowadays! That's the truth Young people today don't have the will They just want to play guitar I work and my friends do too Very good, young people should work It's better than taking to the streets throwing bombs Do they do that for you? My child, don't you read the newspapers? Haven't you heard of the muggings, of people being kidnapped? The armed groups, the Red Brigade? It's enough to just open a single page, look What's written here? Here, for example Escape? Tell me, I can't see. What does it say? FAILED ESCAPE OF THREE DETAINEES Three detainees escape from the women's jail in Bovone. If women escape from jail nowadays too, we're ready You can't live in peace nowadays, that's what I say Bovone? Bovone is near here The prisoners had a gun, with which the youngest... ...gravely injured a guard - How horrible! They are Marica Svlatah, 39 years old. Assunta Scandapico, 36 years old... and Piera Puzzilo, 20 years old Twenty years old! What did you say? - Piera? - Yes, Piera Puzzilo, that's me - What are you doing? - Keep your foot on the pedal, don't hit the breaks, go on like nothing's happening Like nothing's happening? Please! a sidestreet, turn there - What, are we in a movie? - Do what I say! Very well - Take a right here - Alright, I understood - Keep going - Be kind, what do you want? - Stop here - What do you want? - Ah, look! - What's going on? A hundred thousand, exactly. A fated moment - Yes, this is fate - Let us rejoice No, I'm thankful. There's no shortage of beverages - Drink! - No, I don't drink - Drink! - I can't! - Drink! - My god! Can you tell me why you escaped today? You should ask me why I was there in the first place - Why were you there? - It's written there I killed the director of a bank - My god! - This girl is a murderer Come on, let's get back on the road. Get it moving It looks like it won't run anymore - So now? - It's got dirt inside, it won't run - Open the hood - It's not my car Open the hood! Push there please Where is the hole? - So? - I don't know where to push Imbecile! Imbecile! No one taught you anything? Do you only know about women? Go find a rag! GREETINGS FROM FRIENDS - God bless you. - You too. - Until tomorrow - Have a nice day - Hello - Hello, Don Salvatore - Hello - Goodbye dear Don Salvatore! Greetings from friends Did he see you? Were your faces bare? Who shot him? They shot at me. When don't they! THE RESTAURANT! The bill please! So we have two servings of pasta, one of soup, two servings of cake, bread, half a bottle of wine... - Goodnight! - Goodnight architect - Do you have a place for eight? - For you, always. We'll put these together I come all the time, it's quaint but genuine You'll soon see. I tasted flavors I forgot even existed - There's no places like this anymore - It's marvellous, I like it I came with my friend Indro Montanelli the last time he was in Rome - With Indro? - He'll write an article He writes what he wants with that pen I'll go to New York next week for two days - Do you like my dog? - I have a headache... I'll take your order architect. What can we get you? Pork soup for everyone to start with Eight soups! - And the house wine! - How's the soup? A quite sophisticated broth, yet delicate Why don't you go to hell? Go to hell! Cretin, if... if your mother wasn't dead... Why don't you go to hell - You'll like this octopus - Don't play with the food And you keep insisting! What did I do to you to treat me this way? You'll see But it will be possible You were offended by that? Go to hell You want a war? You'll get it Idiot. You're an idiot You're a cretin You'll soon see, you son of a bitch! Cretin! You'll see cretin. Come here - What are you doing? - Here you go. I'll teach you to bother me Understand? Stop bothering me Oh, my foot! - What's happening? - I don't know They mortar. They prepare spice like my mother I'll strangle you! You need exercise! I'll kill you once and for all! Go to hell I'll kill you this time I'll shove this up your ass I'll shove this in your mouth until it comes out your ass I'm not a faggot, go to hell Peace? Peace The turkey. They're killing the turkey right there They make everything fresh Do you wanna go on or not? You give up? You give up, huh? Alright, now get under the faucet Get under the faucet so I can clean you I'll teach you not to bother me You don't have the balls, I can beat ten like you I can't see! I tell you, I can't see! It's true, I can't see - Dry off with this - Thanks What did you give me bastard, ripe? Go to hell! You're starting this again? Eat shit! Idiot! Eat shit! Cretin! Look what you did At least put your wig back on Where is my wig? - Where is it? - It must be with the octopus. - Damn. - Where is the octopus? What did you order? Eight pork soups This is disgusting! Give me the plate What is this? It's all dirty. You really are bad - I'm bad - Yes - You're bad - No, you're the one that doesn't like me You know I like you If you liked me like I like you... Go to hell Ah, because I don't like you You decide. Do I like him or does he like me? You should both eat shit - The clients are waiting... - We add the sauce... Put it on better, damnit... - And? - What's going on? You're going like that? Here it is! At last! I'm as hungry as a wolf! It's exquisite! I like it without cheese - Without cheese - Well, I think I'll come back - It's expensive, but worth it - What is this? It must be a secret of the cooks - A delicacy - Exquisite - There's no more restaurants like this - They even add grapes What will the second course be? We have brazed octopus, intestine stew, pork stuffing, fried sausage... A fly. How could it have gotten in? And spinach ravioli with cream sauce We have everything, if we don't have it, we'll make it FIRST AID Come here dear Forgive me for not staying but I promised my mother I'd go... to Princess Altopratti's thing on the Lefebvre schism I don't even know where the house is, I've never been there The only signpost my mother gave me is a monument Isn't it late? I don't know, if they don't let you go in talk to the owner I'll be waiting - Goodbye - Goodbye! See you soon Thailand St. Indonesia St. Burma St. On the corner of New Zealand Oceania St. How strange, I go round the world but always end up here Here's the signpost, at least There's a man there, I should ask him Good evening kind sir. Could you do me a favor? Do you know Cambodia St.? I need to get there for Princess Altopratti's thing They told me it was behind Mussolini's monument, I think - My mother told me - Oh! But you're badly wounded kind sir! What happened? A bomb? Some thieves attacked me. Help me You ask me for help, kind sir What can I do for you? I don't know I don't even have one of those little first aid kits It's in the Land Rover, I take it when I go on safari It's always useful if your ass gets gored With a buffalo it's not so bad, but a rhino... with a rhinoceros, you're screwed Get me out of here! Where to? I have a family reuinion I'm talking about my parents, I can't take you - To the hospital - The hospital? With pleasure, but I don't know any hospitals... I only know a private clinic in Geneva I go once in a while to rest You want a ride? I see you've gotten comfortable I didn't expect this, I've never given a ride before Tell me where I should go, because I... am lost here. This shoe is yours, I suppose Take me to the hospital, straight through here Now I see, it must be the one near the Tiber Let's try to hurry... because I need to go back for Princess Altopratti's thing The old hag must be yawning by now The hospital! Yes kind sir. Are you happy? Me too. We've arrived Good evening all you kind people! I have a gravely injured man here that needs your care Can you take care of it? It's full, there's no room A bus full of Dutch tourists flipped over Well now! Flipped? Seeing that this man doesn't speak, you could put him... with the tourists. He'd pass as a foreigner. Who would know? That's not it. The hospital is full! We have no room I understand, but he's badly injured, I found him at Mussolini's monument He asked me to bring him to the hospital. I brought him, now what should I do? Don't waste any time, take him to another hospital There's one on the other side of the bridge - It's just five minutes away - So I should take him? - Seeing that you have the means - I'm the means? Did you think this white car is an ambulance? I am Joan Maria Catalan Belmonte... and this man is losing a lot of blood and he got... the entire interior of my car dirty. So what do you say? We say what we can say. Take him to another hospital! The Mercy, on the other side of the bridge Very well. Are you sure? The Mercy? Thank you for the information Help I hope I'll find the Mercy hospital quickly It's full of tourists, there's nothing to be done, they always take the best spots I know, today everything is one problem after another It's better to stay at home than to be out there If not you can have unfortunate encounters The globetrotters that look for rides, you say no... and then they insult you, this is looking serious I vacuum, I always vaccumed, always. I don't shoot up They tell me: You don't shoot up? No, no I don't Then you're old fashioned. I am as I am I take a drink I vaccum and I take a drink A good cocktail, by the way, almost like drinking straight Here it is. Please. Take a drink. Please You don't drink. You're a teetotaler This isn't a cocktail like my barman makes me My dear barman at the club. They're explosive! I also prefer this antique car It's useful for many things Mother and my friends tell me it's a piece of junk No, it's not a piece of junk, it's a room on wheels I take a girl, put her here I go to a solitary place that's in touch with nature, I lay her down on these soft seats... and I give it to her good over and over again If you weren't in such a state and were a woman... I would've jumped your bones by now When I talk about these things I get very excited Look, out of curiosity. Sit Sit, for curiosity, sit Here's the Mercy hospital Yes, Mercy, I think Yes, we're here Wait, don't move What do you want? Praised be Jesus and Mary sister I have a gravely injured man to which I gave succor What should I do, do I go in with a car or do we unload him here? - We don't do first aid here - Don't do first aid? - It says there: "First Aid". - Until 11 at night - Until 11? - Yes You don't help after that hour? - No. Hey, kind sir? Next time get assaulted at 9... or 10, max, at 11 they won't help you Sister, I'm Joan Maria Catalan Belmonte, devout servant of the pontifical throne I must leave him, I have an urgent meeting to discuss the Lefebvre schism I don't know anything I'll do everything. I'll take him, put him in here, that way you can take him out when you open tomorrow There are no exceptions for anyone. Take him to the military hospital I have to take him sister? Praise to Jesus and Mary Did you hear how that nun was adamant we leave? There must be an orgy among the nuns and orderlies going on I wouldn't have minded, I like parties I can't feel my arm anymore... I can't feel my leg anymore... It's being in one position so long! That happens Also the humidity It happened to me too when I was a solitary navigator Mother would tell me: "You don't have balls, you're a coward, as a man you don't exist." Then I got sick of it... and one day I said: "Enough!" "I'll buy a boat and navigate it around the world by myself." That's how I did that. I was a solitary navigator Day and night, between the sea and the sky The sea and the sky Among nature, the master of the world You don't know what it means to be a solitary navigator Alone, in the vastness of the sea, in solitary meditation in contact with purest nature and then you realize: "What an idiot I am... to take on this journey that isn't worth shit." I, of course, tell it as a feat of strength - But I'd never do it again - Help... We're here dear Sir? Sir! - Yes? - Where are you going? Dear sir, I'm at my limit. From one end to the other I went to all the hospitals with a man that's been massacred by an pirate of the concrete seas and is in need of first aid Is the injured man in the military? Military? Let's ask the poor bastard? Excuse me, are you in the military? He isn't answering, he must be in a coma We were talking just now Why must he be in the military? It's a military hospital, it's for soldiers The poor man surely did military service Who hasn't? We've all done it Joan Mara Catalan Belmonte, calvary second lieutenant Cazzanighe I left the horse in the stalls What use was it? They assigned me to the secret service... of the Ministry of War for my mastery of languages Does that surprise you? I was raised by five nannies that spoke five different languages Five prostitutes that initiated me in to satanic eroticism Later I deserted because I wanted to go behind enemy lines... to look for mother, who was leading a company of her majesty's, the Queen of Italy, a refugee in Bari, naturally When I got to the English lines I talked to the officer and said: "I'm going to look for mother." Just imagined it, they beat me all over The beating they gave me! And they would say "Tell us why you want to cross the line." "I'm going to look for mother." And they would hit me They beat me all over Evidently the English couldn't conceive of a grown man... that goes in search of his mother. There mothers abandon... their children like dogs Where does the term son of a bitch come from? What should we do with the injured man, should I take him inside? We can take military men if they have a pass Look, I gave him a ride. Please hurry, I have to go to the Lefebvre schism, understand me? If I don't show up they'll kill me We can't accept civilians, only men in active service Forgive me, don't insist, these are strict orders I'm sorry, but the time to say goodbye has come You must understand the importance of my meeting Know what I'll do? I'll leave you here, where I found you, at Mussolini's monument Don't worry dear. Maybe it'll be better there You could've ended up in the hands of a mad surgeon... that's now sleeping after an orgy He would have opened you up and sewn you shut, leaving a scalpel inside Come, kind sir. You know what? You're much, much better Even your color has returned. Goodbye, kind sir I am infinitely grateful. You made me aware of places that I was utterly ignorant of: hospitals When I tell this story at the club everyone will be dying of laughter When I tell them that there's a hospital where at 11 o'clock the Mother Superior enforces her curfew because she has her own things to do And another where two gorillas in white tell you... that the hospital is full of Dutch travellers And yet another where you can't get in unless you're a war hero Luckily I found you at Mussolini's monument THE SONGBIRD OF VAL PADANA Nostalgia is in my heart Night falls and the smiles die Of all the dreams that have gone so far away there always remains some lie The light dims over my home The sky is full of hope The happiness that is no longer mine... leaves only a sad goodbye Fiorella! You're great! Fiorella! Wonderful! You're the best! Go on, you're doing well! What a voice, what timbre, what a good tone it has! Fiorella, you're number one! No one is your equal. Go on, you're doing well! Have you heard? One says Mina, one says Milva, another says lva! No one compares to you From a physical point of view too. Look at those lips! And those breasts, how firm they look! And that ass? You can't see it now, but she has an ass ... so many promises were in vain... What a woman boys! You can't imagine it I would always make love to her - Would you do it with her?? - Sure, why not? Bravo, very good. He said he'd make love to her - I would do it too - Fiorella! You're a force of nature! Is the coffee ready yet? - Who is that? - The singer's husband. Fiorella! You're extraordinary! - Come on, let's dance - No, I want to leave - Come on - I'm tired of you A triumph Mr. Director, a real triumph You nearly got a standing ovation, even the technicians were fired up Excuse me maam I said it's alright but don't get carried away They asked what we were doing the next season There are many engagements and we're tired You are? We debut in Rome, then we have to film a TV special, a tour through northeastern Italy, we're going to Argentina... - Of course - But I'll try to find an opening... for another spin around here. We'll be back, so we can do what we did tonight again - And we'll speak again - We'll talk and mingle Just call me and we'll set something up What? You haven't hung it up? I give him a picture and he doesn't hang it up It's even autographed. Look how well it turned out They both turned out well I'll take the coffee to Fiorella. Careful, I'm bringing Mrs. Fiorella her coffee - A triumph - It's nothing to fuss over It's enough to listen to the crowd. They were going wild How's your throat? So so, I can't eat anything Good, that way you'll lose a few pounds. The important thing is your voice However, this is the second time this has happened to you How is it possible? This is the second time. How is it possible? I don't know What causes this loss of speech? - I don't know - Cure that throat Maybe you should let it rest a while No, there's work to be done The worse things are, the more you should work Work develops the organ and prevents atrophy Fellow citizens! Tomorrow, in the Trocadero Club in Caprania... Fiorella and her brilliant repertoire of songs... Italian and International, classical and rock Everyone with Fiorella in the Trocadero Club in Caprania. These dolls Come here You don't want to? No Come on, it'll do your throat good My voice is gone, I can't speak Your voice is gone? - Your voice is gone!? - No Don't say that, not even as a joke Open your mouth wide, show me Oh god, it's so inflamed God, it's so swollen. Give me a C just to check In mi bemol. Damnit, with all those body parts you have why did it have to be your throat? Give me a C, let's check - Father, do something - I'll dust the dolls How was the operation? - We haven't operated yet - Oh, no? It's silly, a polyp on the vocal cords - Thank you - I would advise against operating The heart is fatigued due to a small kidney dysfunction Small problems that are easy to control I would postpone it for a few months This can't be, is this a joke? Who will take care of her engagements? You? Your assistant? Do you know who Fiorella is? "The Songbird of Val Padana". That's all well and good, but this bird needs to recover its wings I'll be more than happy to operate her in a few months No, no, do it right now Operate on her now. I am her husband - I take full responsibility - What responsibility? St. Biaggio, he who guards the hands of the surgeons... guard the hands of the surgeon here, guard and save her from all danger, or at least her voice An autographed picture. An offering While the boat floats, let it go While the boat floats, don't row What's that? What's that? No, no, no. It's murky! It's very murky, it's not the same voice as before! There's nothing to be done That butcher of a surgeon recommended we not operate The butcher didn't want to operate He didn't realize what we all have to risk What will we say in time? That's how god wanted it! No one has any pity for our profession If a soccer player breaks his leg and plays like shit... the public doesn't mind and applaudes anway But a singer, once she loses her voice, is worthless Thank you, I ask my public to forgive me.... but I still haven't recovered from my accident And that's why my voice is so weak The grasshopper saw the ant one day... Look what it says: "Fiorella, to save a child, fractures her legs." Subtext: "The singer refuses all publicity" She threw herself under a car to save him Fiorella, you saved a child like Giuseppe Garibaldi You're Beethoven's Heroica! You're a great woman Fiorella! When love arrives, the bell will ring. LIKE A QUEEN It's been so long since we went out together, eh? We're together today, are you happy? Is this car new? No, I've had it two years now Then it must be two years since we went out Mother, would you like a coffee and cream ice cream? I'd like it, but I wouldn't be able to sleep afterwards Remember when I took you to the gardens? Of course I remember One time you got lost and I worried so much How could I not get lost? You were always talking to your girlfriends You didn't pay any attention to me. You did to Sandro, he was always mommy's favorite You were both the same to me, I didn't have any favorites - Equals, you say? Yes, yes, equals You're always looking at your watch, is it getting late for you? - No - Oh, no? This day is all yours. Eat - So many trees! - Yes - So many! - That's what I said, this is a paradise Look. Smell the air Better than at home What is this? Where are you taking me? Nothing. Where am I taking you? To see a lovely place I was on the way and I said "Let's go see what it is!" Have a look is free, right? What are we going to see? What are we going to see? Look! Have you ever seen a place like this? One gets tired of being at home and comes to this great hotel Free, calm, independant Let's get off Come on, off! Come mother Come, hug me, like that. Let's fly! Are you happy? Look mother Look at that park. See how big it is. It gets lost in the horizon Where can you find this horizon in the city? I'm alright with you and Patrizia too We are too. Come on mother, see what a palace this is They say that it's wonderful inside All very antique, come visit it mother - This is the chapel - A private chapel! Like in a noble's house What mother? You don't ask for the Virgin's blessing? Little Virgin Give me your blessing This is the infirmary, there are four doctors... that alternate 24 hours a day - Did you see the help? - I'm alright I know you're alright. What's that old saying? "A doctor on hand, trouble won't land" The single bed rooms are all taken That's a good thing, this way you'll have someone to talk to Hello madam The lady is mute, it's a nervous problem Yes, I understand. Poor thing It's alright. Mother is deaf - I'm deaf? - Instead of talking to someone... who never shuts up, now you'll be able to speak - To myself? - To yourself It's like at home, nothing changes - Is this the bathroom? - No, the closet The bathroom is in the hall, it's a common one Very good, at least you'll get to talk, it's not good always driving everywhere Look at me, 50 and I'm already all rusty Very well sister Come mother Do you like it? What are you doing? Singing? Mother also knows it. That's good Lovely voice, eh? This is the games room The dining room and the television - Is it a color one? - No That's better, it's bad for your eyesight It's been a month since it worked If it's been a month, forget about it There's the kitchen What a smell! They told me the kitchen here was great - What is there today? - Bread and cheese - The lady is quite talkative - Yes, quite Excuse me sister Perhaps it's just a rumor, I don't believe it but... ...is it true they get beaten? - You're kidding? Us? Never! Sometimes, if they throw a tantrum... - Yes, of course ...a little slap, like this Of course, just slow down with those hands You're already getting used to it! Very good. What are you talking about? She wanted a token for the telephone because she says they don't let her make calls Can't you see she's joking? She's pulling your leg I'll ask her. Mrs Liberata, may I make a phone call? - Of course, come here - You see? Wait here I'll be right back, don't move - Please - Thank you sister Hello? Hello Patrizia - Want some? Please - No thank you sister No, it's the nun. Yes, we're here How is it? Um... How is it? Patrizia... You know what I think? Listen... I'll almost take her back home Doctor! Doctor! Excuse me sister Mother? My mother? - You lost her? - Yes There she is. Damn it Mother! Mother! You were here? Why'd you go out? - I told you not to move - Why did you bring me here? - Where? - To the asylum - The asylum? - Yes You frustrate me so easily! - What does the asylum have to do with it? - Don't get upset Mother, we're doing it for you. For your health. For your well being Looked after, cared for. Do you think they do all this for free? Don't get upset, it's bad for mother Why do you always get upset? Who's upset? I'm laughing. You laugh too mother We're three little pigs, we're three brothers and no one seperates us - Remember mother? - I remember When do you want to bring me? Eh? When will we bring you? Anyway, on Thursday Patrizia and I have to go to Cetona, the Cruscittis made a country home and... - Are they fun? - No, they aren't. I don't know why I'm going And Patrizia took a month's vacation The maid left and there's no one What do you do all alone at home? What I always do. I've done it many times That's alright, but I'm always thinking that you're not a girl anymore I'm your son, I have the responsability not like that favorite of yours to whom you don't matter No. To me you were both the same Yes, but it wasn't like that So you're bringing me Thursday? Thursday you say? As you wish What are we doing? We go, we come, forwards, backwards Now that we're here But I didn't bring anything. I don't have anything No! You have everything. You have everything mother Look! Look what Patrizia prepared for you Look at that suitcase. She had a feeling you'd want to stay She prepared everything, like a daughter. You always underestimated her, always treated her like a stranger - I like Patrizia very much - She's the one who likes you! More than her German mother! Sister, we're here! Mother is staying! When will you come to see me? - Always - Every day? I can't every day, isn't that so sister? Yes, only on Sunday - Oh, tomorrow is Sunday! - Yes Tomorrow is almost today. What do you say? You won't have gotten used to the place by then Next Sunday you'll have much more to tell me This is mother's suitcase Three months in advance like we agreed on. There's also a bonus - Goodbye mother - Goodbye Goodbye mother dear. How I'll miss you - Goodbye - I'd stay with you but I have to go back - Goodbye - Goodbye dear - Tell Patrizia I said hello! - Of course! Goodbye - The chidlren too - The children too. Everyone - I'll call you - Yes, whenever you want Just let Mrs. Liberata know, right sister? - Yes - Yes Goodbye Franco What do you mean goodbye mother? What do you mean goodbye? Treat her like a queen! NO WORDS - You getting on? - No Would you carry my baggage? I'm headed to the pool - Hello captain - Hello I love you... So much, I love you... In the air, I love you... If you look at me like that it means enough, let's end it... I love you... I am, I love you, deep down I am a man... who has no cold in his heart, in bed I rule, but I tremble before your breast I hate you and I love you It's a butterfly that dies beating its wings The love that is made in a bed, take my other measure Today I return to your home First of May, I'll need courage I love you and I ask your forgiveness Remember who I am... Open the door to a toilet paper warrior... and give me your light wine What did you do while I was gone? And the linen sheets, give me the sleep of a child What are you doing? Dream Frolic and spin and work a little I want to hug a woman who irons... while singing and who doesn't take me seriously... before making love Dress up the rage of peace, covering it with light I love you and I ask your forgiveness Remember who I am... I love you, I love you, I love you... Give me your light wine... Do you speak Italian? French? English? What are you doing? Dream Frolic and spin and work a little Make me hug a woman who irons... while singing and doesn't take me seriously... before making love But you, where are you from? Wait Where? Announcing the departure of the flight to Amsterdam Go to gate 4. Alitalia, flight 370 Attention, all passengers waiting for flight... TVA 940 to Athens and Tel Avis... please go to gate 13... Goodbye Rome, a K-Z airplane exploded immediately after... taking off from Fumicio, causing the death... of all 86 passengers and the entire flight crew The current reasoning is that it was a political attack In the plane traveled the Prime Minister Yaser Kaskanian... who was heading to Geneva for the convention... of the heads of state of third world countries. An explosive must have been hidden in a music player THE FUNERAL EULOGY His hat A small hat and a great comedian His inseperable company, his war banner, set loose and won on the stage sets All of us who are symbolically the great public are gathered here to lament the passing of a colleague and master He who so generously brought laughter to an entire generation Formighela! Goodbye Formighela! For thirty years I worked by his side... backing up his work in silence I proposed it and you acted it out I did a thousand things, no one laughed You, with a single thing, what can I say? By just lifting a finger you brought on chuckles - It's true - Isn't that so? Now you're gone. You won't cause more laughter But your repertoire, the mirror to the soul of Rome, will live on in the history of theatre We'll always remember you Formighela The jokes in the restaurant, when I, like an idiot, asked: "Waiter, what is there to eat?" You immediately responded with: "I don't know, go look in the kitchen". What, you laugh? We'll always remember you Formighela. When accompanied by a guitar you sang: "I dream always of your kisses Your fatal kisses Your mordant kisses Your mordant kisses" I'll also remember you for the joke about virility, when I would tell you on the telephone: "Hello? Hello? Who's calling?" "Hello, who is it?" And you would answer: "Your penis!" The ticks, the song about the ticks "The Three Ticks", let's go I have three nervous ticks. I babble a bit When I sing, it can't be heard. When I speak, however, I can This first tick, a rattle. The second, a lisp The third is a draft. All three torment me And my dear friend from... from the old neighborhood gave me a recommendation... to a director of the RAI that looked for... an announcer I went, and I got... in line. When my turn came, I told the director this... this... this is for you They threw me out! When we go out, lights, voices and fantasy With love, very pretty, very Parisian This is Paris, this is night, this is Paris If you come to my house some day be sure to bring some fantasy What word do you want to hear? Italy, Italy, Italy Yes, we're like that, we like to laugh in Italy You won't regret it, you'll be very happy in Italy Yes, we're like that, we like to laugh in Italy You won't regret it, you'll be very happy in Italy Yes, we're like that, we like to laugh in Italy You won't regret it, you'll be very happy| We'll see you for the laughs In Italy, Italy, Italy We'll wait for you in Italy Bravo! Bravo! - Bravo! - Very good! When we go out, lights, voices and fantasy We'll see you for the laughs in Italy, Italy, Italy Yes, we're like that, we like to laugh in Italy You won't regret it, you'll be very happy in Italy Yes, we're like that, we like to laugh in Italy Don't applaude me, rather applaude him Italy, Italy, Italy Come and laugh in Italy THE SONGBIRD OF VAL PADANA GREETINGS FROM FRIENDS FIRST AID LIKE A QUEEN THE RESTAURAN NO WORDS THE FUNERAL EULOGY
