 

                        NARRATOR: The deep blue. The origin of all life. Lagoon bays, oceans and seas. Billions and billions of litres of water, all containing an abundance of species, which are unique to our planet. From the smallest living being up to the biggest animals on earth. From harmless vegetarians and animals who live on plankton, to the most dangerous predators on earth with razor sharp teeth which can wreak havoc beyond our imaginations. Beings that we love for their blaze of colour, and beings, that for centuries, we have feared for the stories told about them. All of this is accommodated by the wonderful, almost infinite element of life, the sea. Here, in the oceans of our planet, live some highly trained predators. Sharks are one example of these predators. They have been on this earth for over 400 million years and, in that time, have hardly needed to change or adapt. They are the kings of our oceans, truly the pinnacle of sub-water evolution. The number of species of shark is still not entirely clear because, to this day, new, previously unknown species are discovered. At this time, we know of about 500 different species. All of these sharks have strategies and tactics to catch prey. All of them are perfectly adapted to life in the sea. Some of them hunt in the daytime, some only at night. We will now search for the most dangerous hunters and find out what makes these animals so frightening. We will also find out which of these underwater hunters is the most dangerous and which can be crowned king of the predators. More than half of these animals live in the deep ocean, around 650 feet down, so they are rarely seen by man. All various sizes, shapes, and textures are represented. From the 21 inch dogfish, to the giant whale shark, which can grow up to 60 feet long. From very rare species, which have only been seen in specific areas, to common ones which can be found in almost every part of the world. Let's go on a journey to discover these impressive and beautiful animals. Let's dive off together into the fascinating and exciting underwater world of sharks. We start with a very common fellow. The family of reef sharks. They can be very different and the largest reef shark can reach a maximum of 7 feet in length. There are three species of reef sharks we take a look at. The whitetip, the blacktip and the silvertip reef shark. Have a look at this beautiful breed, and you will quickly realize how you can distinguish between them. For, as their names imply, there is a band of colour on the tip of their mayor fins. Reef sharks can weigh from 30 up to 70 pounds. With its slim body shape, it is perfectly adapted for hunting in the coral reef. Here, the agile hunters find their prey between coral branches and in caves. Small fish, crabs, lobsters and squid are its main prey. With deft, snake-like movements they can manoeuvre in even the tightest of crevices. The different members of the reef shark family can grow from 5 to 6.5 feet, making them larger than most human beings. In rare cases, some reef sharks can reach a length of 9.5 feet. Their mouths contain 96 teeth, three times as many as a human, which makes them extremely effective hunters. In addition, the reef sharks also have exceptional sensory perception. His excellent sense of smell acts as a radar, which is useful, as he prefers to hunt at night. But even during the day the stomach can growl. And, so, if the sharks are not resting they are always on the lookout for small snacks. The whitetip reef sharks have a number of favourite places. Even over several years, these animals visit the same resting places day after day. The reef shark, like all sharks, benefits from its exceptional skeleton. This is because the shark's skeleton is made of cartilage, and not bones. That is why it's more pliable than most animals. This is an immense advantage for these hunters. A relatively low body weight and high flexibility make these animals quick and agile swimmers. Unprovoked attacks from this modest species are extremely rare. If they feel threatened, they would much rather flee than fight. Once the white hunter learns of the advantage of a reef, he always comes back. Diving tourists are delighted. Attracting the gentle souls with fish bait is easy, and peaceful sightings of the sharks are guaranteed. Unfortunately, their prey is also very popular within the human diet. Therefore, by overfishing, we increasingly eliminate the natural habitat of these sharks. In some parts of the oceans, we have already annihilated 80% of the population of sharks. The main reason for their decline is that they are very often caught by longline fishermen and gill nets. With limited breeding, sharks take a long time to reach puberty, and then only get a few offspring a year. The survival of these sharks is difficult enough as it is, but a strong presence of near-shore fisheries makes it even more troublesome. Better management of shark fisheries and shark habitats is urgently needed. In their natural habitat, the whitetip reef sharks have only one group of natural enemies, bigger sharks. Like the tiger, white or bull sharks. They are higher in the food chain, as we will see later when we come to our top three predators. During the daytime, the reef sharks sleep on sandy ground and in caves. They sleep off the nocturnal hunt. Unlike many other sharks, the different reef sharks do not necessarily have to be in motion to breathe. By opening and closing their mouths, they can create enough water passing through the gills to extract oxygen out of the water. In our ranking, all the different reef shark species only occupy the lower end, but they are still dangerous predators ranked high on the food chain of their reefs. On the other hand, they are completely harmless for divers, so it is possible to observe everything about them that fascinates us. If you are underwater, it is very likely that you will come across a reef shark sooner or later, because this species is so geographically widespread in warm temperate seas. These two clown fish always rest in their favourite place, near a protective sea anemone. With it, they live in a symbiosis. The anemone is toxic to most fish. However, the skin of the clown fish is immune to their poison and, so, the clown fish hides in its tentacles whenever the next dangerous predator shows up. Within this colourful coral world, there is yet another highly specialized hunter at home, the nurse shark. The family of nurse sharks can grow from 1 .5 feet to 14 feet in length, making them double the length of the whitetip reef shark. The most unusual thing about the shark is its liver. It can weigh up to 88 pounds, 20 times heavier than a human liver. The liver is so large because, unlike bony fish, sharks don't have swim bladders. They instead rely on their livers to produce an oil which gives them buoyancy. These hunters can be found, not only in the East Pacific, but also at the coast regions of the Atlantic. If the nurse shark decided to attack, he would only need one bite. The reason for that is the mouth construction of the nurse shark. It works like a vacuum cleaner, and sucks the prey in. Hunting, he shows the typical behaviour of the nurse sharks, searching in columns or under rubble for hidden prey, which he will simply suck into his mouth and do his best to filter the water. Although remnants of coral and algae have been found in the stomachs of nurse sharks. The vacuum effect not only makes hunting easier for the nurse shark, it also allows him to breathe while he's not moving. The nurse shark is one of a few types of shark with this capability. This gentle shark can be quite lazy during the day. Caves, little sandy places, or under coral columns are perfect places for a nap. This is when he likes to be around his own kind who enjoy the quietness of the day with him. Even though the nurse shark doesn't have great eyesight, he is still not one to mess with. Sharks have fantastic senses. For example, they are able to locate other fish even in the deepest, darkest recesses of the ocean. The reason for this enormous advantage is the lateral line, a system of sensory organs which reach from the shark's head to its tail fin. The nurse shark seems to have two small tusks. Actually these "tusks" are barbels. The barbels are found on the shark's snout and contain powerful sensors which help the shark detect nearby prey. The good-natured nurse sharks are easy prey for spear hunters. But the greatest menace for the nurse sharks are the changes to their native habitat, the reef. And, especially, fishing and finning. The numbers in the southern Atlantic at the coast of Brazil are a primary concern. Nurse sharks, though, are not on the same level of danger as larger sharks. Their features still make them individuals which need to be taken seriously. This hunter is just like the nurse shark, fond of looking for food on the coral reef. The moray eel. She has no paired fins or gill cover. She, therefore, bears most resemblance to a snake, but, in fact, belongs to the eel-like bonefish family. The moray eel can be found all around the world where the water temperature is right. The longest moray eel ever found was an incredible 13 feet long. Even though moray eels don't have the best vision, they will always find their prey. Their sense of smell is four times as powerful as that of a dog. The moray eel's size varies, depending on what kind of eel family she belongs to. Some come to just a hand's length, others are up to 10 feet long. This fish has come dangerously close to the eel's mouth. Luckily this moray seems to have no appetite. Even though it doesn't have any protective armour, sharp rock edges are of little concern for the moray eel. She is covered with a thick layer of slime which functions as an overall body layer that protects her well from external injuries. These smaller creatures can also be scary. The reason, the constant opening and closing of the mouth. This, however, isn't designed to scare, but allows the moray eel to breathe. She holds her mouth open to let oxygen-rich water flow through her gills. But if the mouth remains open, caution is advisable. A moray eel can attack easily, quickly snapping her mouth shut. Here, we see the eel's head with its strong hook teeth. Their bite can be fatal. Their teeth are not only very sharp, but also dirty. For that reason, an eel bite can be infectious for victims. But that's not all. Their teeth are also equipped with barbs. Just one bite and he doesn't let his victim off. With her flexible muscular body, the moray eel can press herself into very small crevices. Eels like to live hidden in caves, crevices and coral reefs, and will usually only leave to hunt at night. During the day, you only get to see the head of the moray, which sticks out of the shelter. Morays live most of their lives in the same cave. Larger eels have several shelters that can be up to 650 feet apart. Morays often live permanently with cleaner shrimps. The shrimps remove leftovers from between the eel's teeth when the eel opens its mouth. The cleaners are not eaten, as they are mutual benefactors. The moray prefers to eat at night and usually stalks in the cover of darkness to catch her sleeping prey. But sometimes their hunger is just too great to ignore all those treats around them. Although moray eels are rather near-sighted, when it comes to their sense of smell, they cannot be messed with. The large surface area of the nose gives a marvellous sense of smell. When he goes hunting at night, his highly trained nose makes up for his bad eyesight. If a fish wants to be safe from him, he shouldn't go near the reefs. Other predators use this area as their hunting territory, too. A lightning-quick attack and a swimming style that is comparable to a flying arrow are its trademarks. This is the barracuda. At just 1 to, in some rare cases, 6.5 feet in length, the hunters of the barracuda family may be smaller than some of the oceans' top predators, but they make up for this with their speed. This is due to their extremely streamlined, arrow-shaped bodies which means they can swim more than twice the speed of a motor boat over a short distance. He bares enormous canine teeth primarily in the lowerjaw. The scissor-like teeth dig deep into the flesh of the victim, and cause very serious wounds. These silver arrows are masters of observation. Their vision is excellent. Even in murky waters they have great orientation skills and can find their way without any difficulty. This helps them considerably when finding their prey. Sometimes a barracuda will pitch up camp in, either turbulent harbour waters or well-visited bay areas. This inevitably results in some surprise rendezvous with humans. Adult barracudas are very confident. They defend their territory aggressively. They do not differentiate between other marine life or humans. Some barracuda even look out for a nesting place on rocks or ledges. A perfect stronghold to prepare strategies for attack and defence. They bide their time in between rocks and corals. The barracuda is unparalleled in terms of speed. Barracudas don't leave their prey much time to think. Their victims always need to be on guard. If the barracuda has any appetite, its bite would only take 41 milliseconds to close. If it came to a swimming race, they'd certainly be victorious. Once they get going, they're like torpedoes through the water. With a top speed of more than 30 miles per hour, they are one of the fastest creatures in the ocean. There is limited understanding of their reproduction. Like most bonefish, they spawn into the open water, where the larvae develop into adults. They are oviparous, meaning they spread their egg cells in the open sea. Full moon seems to be the preferred time to spawn. They assemble in great swarms at the edge of rock and coral reefs. These little nippers roam in groups. This is typical behaviour for young barracuda as they mainly hunt small fish. The adult animals would never be satisfied with small nibbles. Instead, they prey on mackerel on the high seas. These speedsters can even keep up with young tuna fish. The barracuda is not only native to the Pacific, they can be found in tropical and subtropical oceans and have even been known to visit the Mediterranean area. Barracuda are very fast and deadly predators who spread over large parts of the world. More than any other shark, this species have to rely on speed and surprise to catch their prey. Even if we sometimes wish this killer is not able to catch their victim, the barracuda contributes an important part to the balance of the sea world. So we are lucky to have such a skilled hunter in our oceans. These eagle rays calmly orbit over the corals in search of food. But this reef belongs to the hammerheads. The hammerhead sharks, with their hammer-shaped head, are the most curious looking sharks. The great hammerhead can grow to truly giant proportions. The head is widened by its cephalofoil. The cephalofoil looks like a bent rectangle, which is the typical form of a hammerhead shark head. The hammerhead has settled all around the world, where we find tropical and warm waters, but he always remains very close to the coast. Up until today, we know about nine different types of hammerheads. Some hammerheads grow to a length of around 13 feet. But even more impressive than their size is their ability to sense electricity. This is equivalent to a human being sensing the electrical current given off by a 12 volt battery through two floors. Hammerhead sharks are present in almost every ocean on earth, but they especially love the warmer regions. They feed on fish, crustaceans, squid and stingrays. Hammerheads are one of the rare species which can reproduce without a partner. Genetically, the offspring is a clone, because the genotype is identical to their mother's genotype. This kind of reproduction only usually occurs in smaller species such as insects, snails and amphibians. So it is particularly astonishing to observe it taking place in a species as large as the hammerhead. But unlike these small creatures, the hammerhead does not lay eggs. They instead give birth to living offspring. This, and the fact that sharks are very difficult to keep in captivity, resulted in the first observations of the parthenogenesis reproductive technique happening only about 10 years ago. But scientists are certain that this type of reproduction only happens under unique circumstances. The young scalloped hammerhead sharks are found in groups that can grow to several hundred in strength. They swim along the coast in swarms, using their powerful sonar to, literally, scan their surroundings for prey. This sonar is so effective that the hammerhead shark is far more likely to find prey in their hideouts than any other kind of shark. The reason being its head which has many advantages. Ampullae of Lorenzini are organs that can read electromagnetic fields and they are arranged in three different centres on the shark's head. This helps the hammerhead locate the heartbeat of its prey much easier and faster than its rivals. Its eyes are located at the two ends of the head. As a consequence, the hammerhead has an advantage over other species as he has a wider field of vision for a better perception of his environment. The cephalofoil of the hammerhead shark doesn't only contain the Lorenzini ampullae. It is said that the wider head improves its ability to manoeuvre and also increases his perceptual field. The eyes and the large nasal passages are located on the outside of the head, so that their sensory organs are able to detect prey in a wider field. In addition to these great senses, the hammerheads are also equipped with a very large dorsal fin. An advantage for quick navigation. But, too often, their fins fight the final battle. They are high on top of the list for shark fin traders. Experts estimate that the species of scalloped hammerheads and smooth hammerheads, are dying at a rate of one to almost three million animals per year, due to the fin industry. The hammerhead shark young are born in the shallows of coasts and in bays. They regularly fall victim to fishing nets, caught in droves when in close proximity to the coast. In open water, long lines, bottom nets, and trawls tend to interfere with the hammerheads. Hammerhead sharks are valuable fish in longline fishing. They are caught as, so-called, "unwanted" bycatch. But are often, illegally, a very welcome catch. And increasingly substituting overfished species such as tunas. Conservationists have been fighting for a regulation of shark fisheries, and a ban on shark finning. Success is not yet in sight. Humans are not the only ones who consider the hammerhead sharks a part of their diet. Consequently, the hammerhead must always be on guard when larger creatures are around. This giant, proud and spectacular creature is moving towards the sharks. Growing up to 50 feet in length, the whale shark can be particularly intimidating. The hammerhead indeed appears scared, and so makes quick its escape. But this panic is not necessary. This giant is a rather harmless fellow. Just like basking sharks and megamouth sharks, the whale shark filters plankton and similar organic material from the water. Even though small mackerel or young tuna are sometimes found in the stomachs of whale sharks, they are, in fact, completely harmless to humans, despite their colossal stature and predatory appearance. Although the whale shark is the largest of all living fish, it is also the most peaceful. It glides through our oceans with his 20 tons, as peaceful as clouds through the sky. Any person who has been lucky enough to encounter a whale shark will describe it as a breathtaking experience. Most people are amazed by their sheer size alone, but they also boast an amazing pattern on their skin and move elegantly and gracefully through the water. Their large fins seem to swing in slow motion, and their whole presence is an amazing spectacle to behold. However, the whale shark with its great size and presence is not the predator it might appear. It is, in fact, just another creature on a long list of endangered species, and is, so, not ranked in our list for the world's most dangerous predators. The night transforms everything above water, but this change is even more apparent beneath the water's surface. Whilst humans tend to sleep during the night, many of our dangerous predators are vivacious at this time of day. There are, of course, lots of reasons to hunt at night. The most important reason is that most of the prey fish are inactive at night. This makes them easy targets to catch. Furthermore, sharks are not able to sleep, at least not in the way we human beings are familiar with. Sharks sleep in a way that they switch off all unnecessary functions, and just float slowly through the water. A similar pattern can be observed in dolphins, who only sleep with one half of the brain. Their slow floating is important for their survival, because their breathing is based on the water's movement through the shark's gills. To catch as much prey as possible many sharks go hunting at night. Here their amazing sensory organs are very helpful for finding their prey. Whilst most fish, and other sea dwellers are in sleep mode or in slow motion, sharks are out on the prowl trying to fill their bellies. This shark certainly commands respect in the area when he's on the prowl. The reef's more modestly sized fish do their best to hide, but this shark doesn't give up easily, and continues the hunt for his next victim. Gliding and darting close to the reef. The movements of these predators are graceful, yet aggressively focussed. Their appetite is never fully satisfied and their search for food is a pursuit which fills their every living moment. Let us make use of the dark and quiet of the night, and accompany our friends for a while during their night dives and their search for food. This parrot fish has the ability to alter his skin pigmentation in order to blend into the background making him harder for predators to spot. The shark's quest for food isn't over, and he continues to stalk the waters for his next meal. The variety to be observed in the ocean is incredible, and some fish bring a welcome glimpse of beauty to this sometimes savage and unforgiving food chain. And now we have come to the three finalists in the battle for the title of our oceans' top predator. The tiger shark, the bull shark and the great white shark. The tiger shark can reach up to 18 feet in length. That's almost as tall as three basketball players put on top of each other. But the tiger shark is a proper heavyweight. Tipping the scales at almost a ton, he can be as heavy as 30 reef sharks. The tiger shark's home is the lndo-Pacific, especially Oceania, but also The Bahamas near the Gulf of Mexico. He is feared by his victims and competitors, alike, when moving through his territory. When a diver meets a tiger shark, he's instantly fascinated by its size and its fearsome stature. People tend to fear this particular predator because it enjoys being near beaches and around murky waters. Thus, encounters with swimmers and surfers are bound to occur. It has an incredible nose that is capable of smelling blood even from miles away if the current is right. The tiger shark has small pits on the snout. It holds electroreceptors called ampullae of Lorenzini which enable him to detect electric fields, although it's a lot weaker than the hammerhead's Lorenzini ampullae. The tiger shark never intentionally seeks to attack humans. But he is still known as the vampire of the sharks because as soon as it gets a taste for blood it gets into a blood rage. These sharks have even been known to eat waste in the water when they are in a rage. With theirjaws they can break the shells of turtles. Additionally, the tiger shark has no difficulty in attacking extremely large creatures. It doesn't even flinch from the giant manta ray, which can be up to 19 feet wide. The tiger shark can be a real killer, and that is why it's in third place of our competition, Underwater Predators. The bull shark occupies the second place in the competition for the most dangerous animal in the ocean. The label "bull" is very appropriate in this case. This shark, when it is in a rage, can be the most aggressive of all sea creatures. That's because of the shark's enormous testosterone level, and because they can be found in brackish water in rivers far away from the ocean. This, combined with their bite force of up to 6,000 Newtons, means there is nothing which can compete with the bull shark. Along with the white shark and the tiger shark, the bull shark is among those shark species responsible for the most attacks on humans. The international Shark Attack Files of the Florida Museum of Natural History describe 91 unprovoked attacks and 26 deaths since 1950. It is believed that many of the killings that are attributed to the white sharks have actually been carried out by bull sharks. The confusion is not surprising, because, first of all, the two species look quite similar, and, secondly, it is unlikely that anybody would remain calm enough whilst being attacked by a lightning fast bull shark to remember the specific characteristics of the attacker and report it afterwards. A bull shark usually enjoys spending time in the shallow water near shores and in river mouths. Even in a calm sea, underwater visibility is greatly limited due to swirling sand. These conditions are perfect for this lightning-fast killer, whose sensory organs have fully adapted in order to hunt in complete darkness. It's virtually tailored diving suit is a great advantage when it comes to hunting. Its skin is studded with millions of small teeth, which greatly reduce frictional resistance and help the shark swim faster. In Africa, Central America and South America, the bull shark can even be found far into the heartlands, in lakes and rivers such as Zambezi, Mississippi, Amazon, and lsabel lake. This means that not only does it dwell in brackish saltwater, but also in pure freshwater. This wide and flexible hunting territory, enables the bull shark to adapt to changing environments. Because of this incredible ability to adapt, a population of bull shark was even found in the Nicaragua lake. This flexibility is what has enabled the bull shark species to survive for so long. The bull shark is a huge heavyweight, growing up to 13 feet in length and weighing over 660 pounds. When attacking prey, it is confident and aggressive. But don't be too afraid. Bull sharks mainly feed on mussels, rays, crabs, bonefish and other sharks. Humans are certainly not on their menu. And now we come to the undefeated king of the sea. The peak of evolution, the absolute fighting machine. It is, of course, the great white shark. Feared by humans, more than any other form, hundreds of legends and stories have emerged about this wonderful species of the world's oceans. And that's no wonder. If you happened to come across a great white shark, it would be etched in your memory forever. Whether it be near the water's surface, or deep beneath the waves, it is clear that these animals are well honed killing machines. Their impressive stature and confident movements, alone, are usually enough to show the other creatures who the boss is. But let's take a look at the great white shark a little more closely. The great white shark with its length of 21 feet is not only among the largest, but also among the heaviest predators on earth. The most impressive feature of the great white is its biting power, which measures around 18,000 Newtons. Ten times stronger than the biting power of a lion. This gives the great white shark the most powerful bite in the animal world. The great white shark owes its name to its white belly. Its white belly and the dark back act as camouflage for the creature. The colour mixture on the skin of the shark make it extremely difficult for it to be detected by its prey. This makes it possible for the shark to attack at close range. White sharks usually attack from below and from behind. They sneak up on their prey until they are close enough to spring a surprise attack, so that the victim has no opportunity to flee. But speed is only one component of the shark's hunting success. The great white's teeth are the main reason for its recurring victory sprint. Humans' fear of sharks existed far before the movie, Jaws. In the 16th century the English captain, John Hawkins, caught a huge shark, most probably a great white shark, which resulted in a huge wave of anxiety when it was presented in London. Back then, organs from other animals such as rhino tusks or snake tongues were attached to these creatures. Of course these organs were not real, but it helped fuel people's feelings of fear and anxiety towards sharks. This fear and panic resulted in various horror stories, fairy tales and myths about the great white shark. Considering his horrifying appearance, he is the perfect inspiration for wild fantasies. The fear that humans feel about this animal is mainly based on its bite force and its razor sharp teeth. The teeth of the great white shark stand in several rows. The great white looks to put these teeth to use by patiently waiting for a vulnerable animal to attack. These are inherited from the extinct megalodon, a shark that lived 1 .6 million years ago. This giant was the largest predator to ever inhabit the earth's oceans. Compared to the megalodon, the great white appears to be the size of a goldfish. If 18,000 Newtons seemed impressive, the megalodon had 180,000 Newtons of biting power. When a great white shark attacks, it ambushes its prey and attacks it by biting with the lowerjaw and then the upper. It shakes its head back and forth, tearing off large pieces of meat, swallowing them whole. A great white shark has up to 300 teeth at any one time, and the great white may grow and use more than 20,000 teeth in its lifetime. Imagine how easily we can chew a piece of steak. Now imagine what we could do with 20 times more strength. Additionally, the great white's teeth are extremely sharp and can rip all their prey into pieces. They can easily bite anything in two, not just bones and cartilage, but even entire wooden ship planks. But, although the great white shark could be every diver's nemesis, he is actually a very intelligent giant. Presenting this fish as a brainless, bloodthirsty monster only proves humans' ignorance and fear. Sharks and their ancestors have swum through the oceans for more than 450 million years. Because of their amazing skills, they haven't needed to change for all that time. Only a few prehistoric animals still survive today. For example, crocodiles, turtles and sharks. After so many years on this planet, sharks outnumber most other animals and have developed to become the most lethal hunters that we know of. These voracious hunters take their own important place in nature, though. Sharks regulate the sea's natural food chain. Without them, this delicately balanced food chain would be disrupted, and some species could become extinct. There is nothing more natural than the hunting nature of a shark. Although humans are not naturally part of a shark's diet, we sometimes see ourselves as victims of intentional shark attacks. These attacks are, however, due to our carelessness. There are only a few attacks that happen every year. The true tragedy is that people close their eyes to the truth. Longline fishing has led to the death of countless rare and interesting underwater species. Many deepwater fish are also at risk of being caught unintentionally by fishing trawlers. It is not only the fishing industry which is responsible for threatening the extinction of sharks. The main threat is how carelessly humans treat nature. The human race's insatiable pursuit of money and power has led to irreversible damage to the earth's finite supply of natural resources. This, coupled with humans' lazy attitudes towards conservation, could spell disaster for some of the earth's natural species. If we want our planet to continue being inhabited by such a rich and vivid diversity of species, we must start to show greater respect for mother nature, today. And this includes showing renewed respect for sharks.
