 

                        One day, a child who was discovering the sea asked me: " The ocean, what is the ocean? " And I did not know what to till him. What is the sea? What is the ocean? How do i describe it? OCEANS For millions of years Life flourished on Earth, and in a very brief time, began the era of man, the balances of the nature that we believed immutable, We changed. Everything hastened. Man risked into space and depth in search of other galaxies, Another milky-way... In the infinite of a water drop There Is..., Asteroids... Planets... Already pulses with life. In oceans history, of the people of the sea, wild professions, wild hordes... In an age of great discoveries, the sea had no limits, the resources were infinite. The navigators they were navigating the oceans, Brshing against a world They couldn't Imagine It's plushness, It's diversity, It's mysteries... In those times, away from Man, Animals were distributed in immense territories... On there Ocean. Distant coasts were conquered, new open worlds, unknown species. A page of animals history had just passed. Only the kingdom of the night kept on being unsuspected and unseen, invisible. Submarines ... herbivores: Almost familiar images of a terrestrial life, returning to the sea. Between the species, There are surprising bonding... necessary. Might be fearsome in appearance. The predator is Often protective... the smallest, indispensable for the biggest. To conquer new territories, the animals are taking advantage of every opportunity, At the smallest incident, danger. Utilizing a thunderstorm, they drift with a rickety boat to the Shallows, An uninvited passengers Go out to the ocean, to the adventure. They will be lost in the vast Ocean. Or,with the winds and the currents, they will take life to other shores. New big games are carried out On the new stations. On the Vast Feedom of the seas which animals wander through without obstacles, from one continent to another. Without rest, adventurers of the oceans they are thrown towards other latitudes. In the mystery of the depths, Nature tested everything, all the colors, all the forms. Sometimes, it offers to It's creatures strange masks, extravagant. For The need, to survive, the animals cover thousands of kilometers towards the cold and fertile waters. Roaming the vast waters. Extinct. Extinct. Extinct. i must till him that too. Endangered species, extinguished forever, scarcely discovered and exterminated. Extinct. Extinct. Several steps to protect Millions of years of evolution, annihilated in a few decades. How many species have we made disappear? How much are they in route to extinction? How much are they threatened? If our indifference Is an accomplice of the extinction of other species, then the will to protect them, is also Extinct. In all the latitudes, men slide in the heart of the oceans with respect... to discover, to understand. the hiden reality... to explore another side of the mirror... To the myths and legends Which occur in the magical world of Discovery. The history of the oceans has just begun... To Till it, It must include Its marine species, even with the smallest, the most insignificant... There's still so much to discover... A Universe in weightlessness... where gigantic animals Evolve with grace And agility without being afraid of man's presence . As a conciliation, harmony is possible. Sometimes the sea destory the ships, But nature restores whats broken, and what was a ruin turns into refuge. In the storm, solidarity exists amongst men. Can't we be united to protect the oceans? The circle of Life That observes our planet. It has never been fully discovered , it has never been attacked as it does today. The rivers drag pollution up to the coast. Carried by Ocean currents Acting as veins To the heart of the oceans and they spread the poison to the vast waters. The trace of human Evolution Dirty beaches and shallows. In the extremities of Earth, in the white sanctums, the animals still lives far from Man, like the dawn of life. on another side of the Earth, another refuge, another sanctuary, another ocean... the same Image of a virgin territory. Soon, the Ice world will be navigated, open to commerce. Where will polar species go ? will there surviving instict help?. The screams of threatened species Will not be heard. We must prepare ourselves to live in an artificial world where some representatives of every species Will be preserved on animal reservations, in giant aquariums? A Pale reflex of a senile diversity. up untill today in the known-universe, Only Our planet has life. no other planets. This Earth does not belong to us alone, it is shared by all species. It's our hope. The diversity of species Is necessary for our own existence. Everything is still possible. For millions of years, the nature is renewed itself... savage... free. Please, save the earth think about your children think about life. No animal has been mistreated During The movie The scenes of massacres has been reconstructed.
