 

                        Many people get introduced to us in life Those who know fully about us and yet wish to be with us, are Friends There is innocence in friendship There is happiness in that innocence Those who wish that happiness will remain as Friends Forever Two girls can remain as Friends Forever Similarly two boys But a boy and a girl can remain as friends forever? O MYFRlEND SlDDARTH NAVADEEP SRUTHl HASSAN HANSlKA Music RAHUL RAJ Please wait for some time Game of hide and seek Cat'll come, be safe Rat Keep quiet, thieves where they are Girl closed eyes Go find out the thieves - l'll join you - No, you aren't in our gang Give me my doll Your son has brought my daughter's doll from school She is crying that she wants that doll - Your dad is calling - Coming dad! What dad? - Did you bring that girl's doll? - He took forcibly from my hand - Tell me the truth - Yes, l took - Where did you put it? - l won't tell you l kept it in her school bag - Sorry sir! l didn't see it - lt's okay Those who've come as partners now should be partners in the game too - l don't want him as my partner - l too don't want her as my partner Who is teacher here, you or l? Once you are fixed as partners, l can't change it - l got one prize - Really? - How many prizes did you get? - l got 2 prizes You haven't won in any game till now You must win in this game - Okay? - Okay Oh mom! - Why are you following me? - That is my prize - lt is mine too -And mine also Let's do one thing Today l'll keep this shield with me and give this certificate to you You show it to your family and l'll show this to my family Tomorrow we'll exchange it - Will you allow me to play with your gang? - Then, let's be friends Let's grow this tree as a witness that you and l are a team Bit by bit, the tree should grow up green like our friendship Let's tell to the sky that our friendship is great Let's make the plan to reach the stars Let's watch this world from there l've come to receive him Yes, train has come, bye The train reached home long ago Wake up and come Even the train may not be punctual but you are l was confident that you would wake me up l thought you would be changed after gone to Mumbai We shouldn't change the best qualities what we have l'll kill you Did you inform home? lt is not so easy as playing a guitar to handle the situation Tell me that if you didn't inform home l'll return in this same train l am Siri, man Come on, get down Samantha Deluxe Boys Hostel Why did you stop here? Egg will be served twice in a week, and chicken on every Sunday Why do you say this to me? lf uncle doesn't accept, you'll have to stay here -Didn't you tell home yet? -l didn't, l'll call you aftertelling that Don't try to escape Uncle knows that you've come here l went searching to pray but got stuck Do you have brains? What we asked him to do? What he did and come? No sooner he came home that you started to scold him We sent him Mumbai to study MBA But you know what he did? He came hanging a guitar to his shoulder Music leads to a career?. What should l tell if anyone asks me that what you are son is doing? Should l tell them that he is playing to a band? He had studied as l said, he would have got a good job, ...5 digit salary and got security to his life My life would be good if l had studied as he said But if l do what l wish it'll be better than that Look! He did what he wished to do and now telling me Lord Krishna's sermons He doesn't care about his future Nothing like that uncle Music also brings good career nowadays You always support your friend Won't you think about me? Please relax There is a reason in your anger lt is wrong that he didn't study MBA Think for a while He has already learnt music without our knowledge Now we can't do anything l trust him and his talent Till he gets settled in his life l'll take total responsibility Do as you wish - Thank me - Go do your work l'll kill you Go, take your bath and come l'll serve you breakfast lf l get an award l'll tell your name first on the stage Go man Apply the sandal and sprinkle rosewater over that on handsome Lord Krishna's idol Fragrance from that will spread all over Malathi, correct your movement -Are you Chandu? - Yes You always come late, right? Teacher asked you to sit here after you come - Why? - There is some music audition - Oh God! l forgot that music audition - She asked you not to walk to and fro Cigarettes are prohibited here - ls this also told by your teacher? - Common sense Hey, chatterbox! What are you doing here without practicing the dance? Because l came late like you Check whether strings are okay or not Have you brought the plectrum? Play what they like Don't play what you like Will you stop your nonstop music? First day school going students too won't get such precautions There won't be many guitar players in Hyderabad l'll definitely select in this audition lt's looks like a Bonala Festival You told that you are the one and only guitarist in Hyderabad lf l come alone and get selected there won't be any fun lf l get selected from among them then they'll know my talent Are you blind? - No, listen to me - You idiot! - Listen to me! Leave him - Stop it, buddy Here is going on music audition, and not boxing audition - He is talking forgetting the manners - No sir, it is him only Will you stop smoking? Are you angry for this orthat? Both of them What did we come here and what have you done? lt was my mistake there Are you a boxer?. You hit him and caused nuisance there You've to be composed in such a situation l can't take things easily in your matter l thought that you would get selected in first audition and impress your dad Why did you worry as if l lost a chance to play before ARRahman? lt doesn't matter before AR Rahman or Raghu Kunche You've lost an opportunity l don't want an opportunity to prove myself as a musician You won't come good Chide me you want Hit me if you want Don't keep a grim face Chide me you want Hit me if you want Don't keep a grim face ln your anger and in our arguments ...can sense some music Ask the whole world and understand it, dear friend There is melody in the pleasant breeze Do the Sunstrokes give pain? Doesn't the drizzle teach you music? Shall l become a sad poem? Let it be philosophy or lord Krishna's sermon There is poetry in every form of life Let it be happiness or sorrow There will be music Chide me you want Hit me if you want Don't keep a grim face There are 7 days in a week Yet day and night doesn't swap We can't determine the beginning or end Go towards success with a goal in mind Work hard to get known in history Realise that victory and defeat alone are not goals Eyes need dreams story needs twist Be ready for anything Aren't you Chandu? lt is me, Reethu Don't you remember me? lf you are Chandu, definitely she is Siri She is our collegemate in lntermediate don't you remember her?. She has become so pretty to not recognise her Where have you been all these days? After my intermediate course my father got transferred to Delhi - Oh l see! - Last year we shifted to here - What do you do? - We are teaching classical dance No thanks, l've some important work l've to go urgently We'll see next time She says she has some urgent work Let her go Hey Shajahan! Your Mumtaj has gone Shall we go now? Why did you send her away? l was scared that you would build a Taj Mahal for her on this road Don't get jealous l'll build a palace for you l'll kill you Get going - Hey Chandu, leave me - How did you recognise me? l am yourfavourite aunty, you know l came here 2 days ago but you have dropped in today to see me lf you say sorry so sweet like this anyone would get convinced with you l am feeling like flying in the air... What is the matter? You are so happy - l've some secret with me - Secret!? Tell me what it is First l'll tell to Siri then l'll tell to you Mom! l want coffee At Mumbai, have you learnt music or sold coffees in railway station? Nothing! Drink your coffee first What? You are looking at me as watching a ghost Since l've seen Reethu, Hyderabad appears very colourful to me l feel like playing the guitar standing close to rainbow What? No reaction from you? l knew that you would do something like this when you saw her eagerly yesterday What should l do now? Do you want me cut a cake and distribute it to the whole colony? - Why do you say like that? - Then how should l talk? Uncle scolded you only day before yesterday l thought that you would understand me l'll kill you Don't behave childish First concentrate on your studies This is not time for that You can fall in love later Damn your advice! Go away - Tell me now - What? - That secret - l can't reveal because it is a secret - Did Udhay call you? - Yes, he said that he would come next month and told that we can discuss about the engagement then Siri is a lucky girl She told us about the boy she liked, got our consent and going to marry him What luck? She is my only daughter After her marriage, she'll go to USA leaving me alone lf Chandu and Siri love each other and get married... ...they would live with us No, their both characters are different Siri learned dance while studying but he discontinued studies and learnt music He has no clarity in his life But Siri plans her life nicely lt is better for them being like this Let me help you Mom! How long will he use this vehicle that should be kept in the museum? - Why doesn't he buy a new one? - l asked him that many times He was dreaming that you would complete MBA and get a good job... ...and he would buy a new scooter with yourfirst salary Because of that adamancy he didn't buy that till now Udhay sent his greetings to you Where have you been since the morning? l am asking you Tell me You can't understand even if l tell you Have you gone to meet Reethu again? l waited the whole day to see her again Don't you have brains? Morning l told you clearly Again you blabber her name Have you gone mad? Why did you disconnect it when l was chatting with Udhay? lf this small disturbance irritates while you chatting with your boyfriend ...how frustrated l would be because l didn't see Reethu? - l am in love - Me too -Are you comparing your love with mine? - Yes Listen! When Udhay proposed to me after understanding each other in a year ...l discussed with everyone, l agreed especially after you said okay l didn't love him blindly like you Will you please stop your preaching? Love is not a trade to deal like business You never listened to me then how will you do it now? - Yes, l'll do as l like - You'll do, but your responsibility is mine - You don't need to advice me - l am not advising you - l am telling the facts -Are you telling the facts? Okay, l'll forget Reethu Will you forget Udhay then? - You know what rubbish are you talking? - l'll talk like that - Go man - First go from here - l came here first - This is my room - Today you can go inside - l won't Why? Yourteacher and l are not talking to each other - l am also not talking to her - Really! - She is a devil - You are right -Are you chiding me? - Oh God! lt is teacher l've been thinking whole night what you said is right l too have been thinking what you said is correct How should everything happen in a process like me? lt is correct that everything, in life should happen in a process like you - l hurt you unnecessarily yesterday - No, l behaved foolishly No, l hurt you Okay, why did you come now? You told me to exchange this after l came from Bombay - When will do the next exchange? -After 3 years After 3 years!? l don't know where we live after our marriage What? Won't our friendship continue after the marriage? lt depends on our spouses understand us My Udhay will understand me How will he understand? l talked to him on the phone but l didn't meet him in person Udhay is not like you He is open-minded He won't hide anything in his heart He'll speak what he feels Then my Reethu too will understand me Come what may, next exchange is after 3 years Shall we go look for Reethu? Don't bring that topic and make quarrel between us l accept that Love is not a trade Come She was my classmate in Sri Chaitanya Junior College She was my classmate in Sri Chaitanya Junior College Didn't like her then Couldn't forget her now - Let's go and search for her - Hey Faltoos! Where should we go? Does the flying kite roam with postal address? lt'll vanish to nowhere if the thread is snapped Will conduct a Google search for her everywhere Ask the wrong people and you'll get hit severely She should've been pretty then She was my classmate in Sri Chaitanya Junior College Didn't like her then Couldn't forget her now - A boy was going after her - He is a doctor now Do you have any one of them of her? - But l heard she went to Delhi - We know that She was my classmate in Sri Chaitanya Junior College Didn't like her then Couldn't forget her now Yesterday l searched for her in the orkut and facebook but couldn't find her She knows only notebook how can she be in the face book? She might visit the temple on Saturday Let's go search there Pub is nearby Nothing wrong, let's go search there You? She is an innocent girl She was my classmate Couldn't forget her now Do one thing Give an Ad in the dailies Let's buy a slot in the Gemini T.V Let's make a programme 'Where is she?' Let's revolt until we find her Let's make it a sensation and give lovers an inspiration No tension if we find her out Until then nothing functions She was your classmate in Sri Chaitanya Junior College Why didn't you like her then? Why can't you forget her now? - Bye mom - Bye Reethu, come early in the evening We've to go to Baba Temple l've already kept a big wish list to Baba That's why l shifted to Lord Venkateswara - What are you doing here? - l've come to push this rack No, l came to buy some books But unexpectedly l saw you here - Are you getting good salary? - This shop is ours - l think your dad was in army - Yes, he opened this shop after he retired lt would be nice if he had opened some music shop - Why? - l would have got a job in that And we would have met 2 days before Do you remember the beauty contest that was held in our college? Though you are not beautiful you participated in that Winner got 98 votes but you got 2 votes One vote would be yours you know whose was that second vote? lt was me From Miss lndia to Mother lndia, lf you participate in anything you'll be the winner You said you want to buy some books Can you please select one best book from this? Generally you girls have some idea l thought to select the same book Shall we go to have some coffee? Tell us which is a good book among this lt is difficult to us to find Touch one of them What if my daughter had touched a different finger? l would've given her another book Don't you know which book is best in this? Don't you have that minimum knowledge? lf it is so, how can we buy books here? Come, let's go There were 9 books so you showed 9 fingers How if there were 11 books? What is your problem? You show fingers for everything There is no friendship between us to discuss my personal problem - Why have you come again? - To help you You've kept a board that helpers wanted You should try here but here l can't offer you a job here l need one helper to our band l can't spoil your life by offering this job to you So you are thinking about my future But l am thinking about your hotel's future What happened? l don't know how to face my dad - Have you lost this chance also? - Henceforth l can't roam with you Go man l can't take pocket money from you - So you got the job - Yes, thanks to Reethu l am with you since childhood You express pains to me but you thank her?. l don't thank myself in the mirror... ...because you're like me in the mirror Thanks, l got the job because of you l think our relationship has become strong to invite you to the party No try, you are coming there Generally l don't accept gifts but l won't refuse if it is from you lf you arejobless you'll have to carry boxes like this - He has got a job - ln which band? - Not in band, it is in Lahari resorts - How much salary? - Yes, you didn't tell me about the salary - lt is Rs 10,000 He'll have to start with Rs 20,000 to 25,000 You know how much is needed to run a family in the city? lf you had studied as l said your life and salary, would've been good Go What Chandu? You've completed studies What are you doing now? He is not in any job that is worth revealing Give me that file Will she come? You got insulted by your dad Like a buffalo.. ...you're asking about her without any shame - Will she come? - lt is 105th time - Will she come? - lt is 106th time - Tell me will she come? - You chanted it for 107 times Don't worry, she'll come - Didn't l tell you that she'll come? - Shut up and come Shall we go? - What is next? - What next? - That you've got a job... - Yeah, l'll do thatjob Not that, l am asking about your marriage Our marriage!? - Aren't you in love? - Who told you that we are in love? Why should someone tell it? Since collrge days, wherever see you both were together ln the classrooms, canteen and library You didn't never allow anyone between you Entire campus, we thought that there is some affair between you There is nothing like that between us Siri already has a boyfriend They are going to get married soon - What is that? - l can't choose anything myself Why? - My dad... - l'll tell Since her childhood, her dad selects whatever she wants But he suddenly died in an accident 6 months ago Then she realized that how much she depended on her dad for everything That's why this confusion When did you do this research? You followed only till the book shop but l followed till her house Oh l see! Chandu got a job - Thanks for your coming -Actually l've to say thanks to you Because l came here l get much relief What is this? l am asking the same to you Why did you do with her?. She asked to be friends that's why ls she your friend? Look! l am only your best friend lt isjust for both of us, l'll kill you if you share it with anyone else l feel happy fortouching her hand, why do you feel insecure? - Don't you treat Reethu as your friend? - Don't you know that l love her? As everyone, are you also using friendship for Love? - What is wrong in that? - Friendship is the base of any relationship Today she told l am her friend But tomorrow l'll change it as her love Get on - What is it? - You can eat Pukatla(pan cakes) again - Last time l paid bill forthat - You fool! Listen to me l am selected to do one year course in Shobana dance academy - l am going to Chennai next month - Won't you evertell a good thing? l have been trying forthis for 3 years you know that lt hasn't completed 3 days since my love starting Reethu is getting close to me now only With whom will l share my feelings if you leave me suddenly? lt is my dream At any cost l have to go to Chennai l know that you'll do monkey tricks like this lt is a photo copy Original copy is at home Please don't go One month time is there let's think about it - Tell me that you don't go there - Okay l won't go - What else? - Shall we go to lunch? Keep quiet As to get digestion the food, why are you taking us around the city? - Hey killer, get down - l won't, you get down Please get down You go home in the auto Why did you leave her like that? lf you want to buy dress for me, we'll have to go to Abids - But why did you bring me here? - Dress is not for you, it is for me - l called you for you to do the selection - No, l'll make you select your dress Me!? You know about me well l'll get confused Okay, today l'll select and tomorrow your mother will select Whether good or bad is just an opinion But liking is a feeling Don't waste a second and select the dresses that you like from them You've selected totally 20 but 10 pink coloured dresses are there From this what you and l know is that your favourite colour is pink ln this 10, 3 are flashy and 7 are simple lt means you are a simple minded girl All dresses look good But only a few will be comfortable to you They won't close the shop immediately Go and try them These 3 are comfortable Now you've selected your dress l'll get changed if l am with you Yes, you'll change as yours Your thoughts are new and surprise me What would have happened if l hadn't met you? You were not with me till yesterday l couldn't believe it whether it is true or false l doubt whether l could ever tell this word to you or not Your silence speaks My heart listens to it No need of evidence than this for our love Won't leave you alone for a moment That's why l was born before you Though l've a long road to go l can't move from you l am your path and destination l'll make you walk with me My heart will get shattered in anxiety Become my consort and remove my anxiety He is going mom Go and tell him - lt'll be good only if you tell him - He won't listen to me, mom Go tell him, mom Has he bought it? - lt is for you - For me? Yes, he has bought it with his first salary on installment His job is not security for him He doesn't know when will he lose it lf we don't pay monthly installments correctly... ...bank people will come and take away the bike My scooter is betterthan that By saying that you'll change me why do you look so dull? -A small problem - What happened? Don't we have such a friendship between us to share our personal matters? lf you ask me cutely like this l look sad with different reasons daily Your silence speaks My heart listens to it No need of evidence than this for our love l won't leave you alone for a moment That's why l was born before you Until l see with your eyes l don't know about the dreams l have found my dream in your form now Let the feelings raise in me Let the time melt in our friendship Do you want choice? This is Yes, and this is No l've understood that l can't be happy without your company What will you do newly by going to Chennai? No aunty, l've to go Tomorrow is the last date to join How can you stay alone in that new place? Don't scare her She can take care of herself She is not like your son You go dear but be careful lt is not problem about her leaving She is leaving without informing Chandu Something is going on between them - Did you quarrel with each other?. - No aunty He got new friends and has forgotten old friends Be careful - Where is Siri, aunty? - She's going to Chennai, without listening to us - Why are you going without telling me? - l've already told you - That day you told you won't go - But today l am going - Why? - Everyone gets a priority in the life only once This is my priority now - ls that more important than me? - You've something more important than me - Why did you feel so? - Won't l feel so? How did you behave with me before and how do you behave with me now? - ls Reethu your problem? - Not Reethu, it is you You know when did you call me last? Tell me When you were in Mumbai, you used to call me daily But now you don't pick up my call if l call you - You are avoiding me totally -Are you mad? - Why should l avoid you? - You are avoiding me That day you left me alone on the road ln the theater, you both sat in one place and made me sit separately You left me in middle of the lunch Every matter you'll share to me, but till now you haven't told me that you bought a bike for uncle Have you thought all these were done intentionally to avoid you? lt is you, who should understand me lf l am trying to avoid you, why did l tell you that l love Reethu? Why did l take your help? lt would've happened without my knowledge, when l moved to her closely l thought that l am moving close to Reethu but never expected to go away from you Do you know why l have come now? Just now Reethu accepted my love l came very happy to tell you that first, but... You are angry and going off to Chennai We thought that our partners should understand ourfriendship But if they are our problems... what are we doing lf my love is the problem to our friendship l don't want that love l'll go and tell Reethu now l am going away that our friendship shouldn't hinder your love affair Why will you be a problem to me? No one can separate us We can't be parted even if we want to You boasted about your priority, right? lf you want to go, go away Go away l'll allow you to play with my gang Will you allow me to play with your gang? You mean Thursday? Okay sir, bye Will one week time be enough for the engagement? We don't auspicious time often l'll take care of other things You don't get tense unnecessarily You know how beautiful it was at the last camp site we visited? You look very handsome in person than in the photo He is my selection l am very happy today First time, my fiance and my friend have met each other Me too You like that? Then you take that iPhone and l'll take this chain l know that you are friends since childhood But l bought them both for you lt is good if it is with me But if it is with you, it'll be very nice There is some good time on coming Thursday ls it okay for you? lt is okay for me Call my dad once and confirm it Did you feel forthat? l told you that he is open-minded person Why do l feel for that? Tell me the truth Do you like him? To tell the truth...he is superb You selected a correct person Because he is in love with you deeply he felt very possessively How many marks you give to our love? You can use this phone often if you want to ls it your Majnu's phone? l don't want that Laila He liked you very much He gave 10 out of 10 marks for our love Then how many marks will you give to our friendship? l've just come, l need some time to rate yourfriendship - Why did you take that money? - To buy a guitar and present to Chandu Chandu has gone for shopping but he hasn't come yet Look there! He is coming Why don't you use this bike instead of coming in auto? l bought that bike for my dad, not for me, aunty He told that he won't use that bike Let him use it or not, it is for him only His dad is adamant This boy is stubborn l don't know when will they change that -Are you Udhay? - Yes, it's me - You're going to marry ourteacher, right? - Yes, why? - Take care of her well - Why? You like her very much lf you don't take care her well she'll torture us with her dance class - ls it? - Yes - Greetings aunty! - Greetings dear You look so cute - Have you come alone? - Yes He'll do anything to get the promotion Dear! lsn't she so cute? We three of us are classmates l didn't mind them then Recommendation is not enough, talent is also needed On the auspicious day of Ekadasi, in Chandra mada srikara year(Telugu year) ...this engagement is fixed before the elders ...that late L.Venkat Rao's only daughter Ms Sirichandra ...and M.Vasudeva Rao's only son Mr. Udhay are agreed to be married Make the betrothal Don't you have the sense to knock before you enter a girl's room? - Girls? Which girl is here? - l'll kill you - Give me the lighter - When did you start to smoke? Shut up, give me the lighter Good boys like us don't have that bad habits You tell these stories to Reethu, but not to me Because Reethu didn't like l've stopped smoking ls it? Very nice! You are Pawan Kalyan, and she is Bhoomika and your love story is Kushi l have told you many times to stop smoking But you stopped it when Reethu told you Don't get jealous lt gives a kick if we stop something for the girlfriends You too are like me You know how much time l pleaded you not to go to Chennai lf Udhay hadn't come there you would have gone l didn't go because he came there What is your problem? - Go man - Yes, l am going to Kerala tomorrow For what? Airtel people are contesting music competition there My boss told me One band is looking for a lead guitarist lf l prove myself there l'll be settled in my life - l'll also come with you - You? What for? l promised to uncle that until you get settled in life l'll take care Today only your engagement got over lf you come with me how will your Udhay feel? - l'll take him with me - Will he come? He'll definitely come, if he knows that l am going there Bring your Reethu too - Oops! l won't come - Why me? - l can't leave my mom alone so many days - l'll get bored there Who will take care of the shop? l won't mind, go if you want to He'll definitely come He isn't Chandu to come with you wherever you go, like a pet dog He is Udhay, he maintains his range l am going to Kerala Do you need some lift? You said you can't come While you are going for your friend can't l come for my fiancee? You said you can't come l can't be without you for so long Speed...speed Speed of the wind Speed...speed lt is within us Speed...speed We are a flow of lightning We have the pleasant moments without minding its ending We have the happiness without any reason You know that there is no form for tomorrow Go head, in this air like your day Speed...speed World is all about speed Speed...speed No limits for it Speed...speed We are a flow of lightning Let the over flow of joy come with us crossing its shore Ask the time what is ahead on your path Realise that this world never changes as new one But look at it newly with your eyes Speed...speed Speed of the wind Speed...speed lt is within us Speed...speed We are a flow of lightning - Greetings! - Greetings! Where are you from? Telugu? Just a minute Having tender cheeks, come, golden complexioned beauty! Come playing Kathakali, you golden Moon! Having tender cheeks, come, golden complexioned beauty! Come playing Kathakali, you golden Moon! Like a gold chained cuckoo, and colourful peacock... Ladies, adorn the garland and welcome them Take it and go away A great welcome! Thank you, Kannaiah My name is Clarity Kannaiah! Full of clarity -Are you Telugu? - Yes! My mom is Telugu and dad is Malayali They got married without clarity But they got clarity after l was born And they divorced - Tragedy? - No, only comedy Take this inside Oh God! - What is this? - What are you doing? He told me to take this inside But he didn't say clearly which one l meant the luggage Do you mean this luggage not this luggage? - Yes, keep(thagalai) this inside - Okay! Both the luggage are of same weight -A bad news for you - What is it? - Your roommate is Siri - l'll hit you What? Don't do! What are you doing? You told me to fire(thagalai) the luggage That's why l am going to fire it Your damn clarity! Get lost Then they asked me to fire that now they asked not to do that No clarity! Waste fellows We are all like the strings to the guitar Though every string is important... Good music comes only when all strings are played together We are also like that We've to make holiday trips like this every year One year!? lt'll be better if we make it for 6 months once lt is very difficult to make a meeting once in a year After marriage we will settle in US They will stay here We won't get enough time to go after our aims, goals and aspiration And l can't allocate time to meet friends l didn't say that to disappoint you l talked practically, that's all Let's be happy wherever we are We'll be more happy if we all meet together Let's go for swimming tomorrow - Hello Malayali dear! - What? Tell the items what we ordered ltems should be fresh, got it? Open it and see - What is this? - They are very fresh You can't get more fresh than this in this Kerala l meant food should be cooked and warm but not to serve the items alive like this - You didn't tell that before - We are telling it now We are very hungry Go, bring the dinner - What about us? - You would starve if you don't have clarity - Chandu, it is not here - lt is not here also My guitar is missing Have you seen that? No, l've not seen Here, l am so tense but you're playing the game - Definitely you might have hidden it - Go man That clarity Kannaiah might have put it in the campfire Go look there! Thanks doesn't suit you Tell something differently lt is a costly guitar Have you looted any bank? - She looted me, not in the bank - Has she booked you this time? All girls are same They say they are equal to us, but never spend a penny Chandu, it is not there too We tried very hard to hide it from you since we bought it l told you know that he'll feel happy - How is it Reethu? - lt is good that she gave you lt would've been better if l had gifted you - lt is good - lsn't it? To participate with you in the show, ...the lead guitarist and singer, Chandu from Hyderabad has come Sir! No need introduction You idiot! We liked your music samples lf l had known that it's yours, l would say 'No' need you We need a lead guitarist and you need a band - There is no choice for both of us - What choice? Go man lf you don't have problem with us we can start the work Really? Do you remember it, Udhay? That day l told you on the phone ...- that he hit someone for sake of me - Yes, l remember Now he joined in the same band ls there any problem for you? Don't know that how the life shows a person Enemies may become friends and friends may become enemies These are the places selected by me that we are going to see next week We've come to encourage him We can't go anywhere till this gets over He is practicing lt is lndia's bating Come, let's go and watch it No Udhay, l am going with Chandu to the practice Let the rain shower... - Let the rain shower... - That's it No boss, we've made a full plan to give clarity to that clarity Kannaiah Come and join us What is it? Let it be this guy orthat guy, Let it be anyone, comes to rule us... Hey Appala Naidu! May you use atrocity or be a don May you use rowdyism or politics May you use goondayism or come with groups One by one, your people dead bodies only will fall down Tides near the shore will flow in blood Sorry brother! lt is torn This game is excellent l will also try lt is Balakrishna Your ears only should work while l am talking You won't be alive for your next birthday if you use anything else Why did you hit me? Our Balaiah told this dialogue very stylishly in 'Simha' But you couldn't bring that feel We, his fans get hurt There is no connection between him and me - l'll try one more time - Okay, do it lt is Chiranjeevi - l'll dance now - Will you do superb? l'll tear it off Why did you hit me again? How dare you try to dance like Chiranjeevi Did l dance superbly? No one can be compared to Chiranjeevi, he only can do his style We are fans, we can't accept When someone hits you and if you feel tremors in your brain, then, he is Pandu When someone hits you and if you feel tremors in your brain, then, he is Malayali lt is Pandu, why did you say Malayali? -Are you Mahesh Babu fans? - Yes l got it You continue l'll leave What is this? ls it a group dance around me? No, you said that you got settled in Kerala long ago Then how do you know about these Telugu movies? - You are dead - Don't hit me Hey ladies! Take me and put down somewhere Why did you bring me to the water? You told to put down but you didn't tell the place clearly Keeping 4 days for the competition you are cleaning the car - Go for practice - Don't get tensed, killer l'll win in the competition and build a Taj Mahal for Reethu - What about me? - l've already fixed a palace for you l'll kill you Karthik called me and told that he's at Trivandram That short Karthik!? Pack your bag We are going there for 2 days l can't come lf you want you can go l told him that we both are coming lt's just 2 days Go killer Go Siri You can enjoy it l won't go He is practicing with the band already he quarreled l am very tense what is going to happen next? l won't come anywhere until the show gets over Whatever l plan it wouldn't happen Oh mom! Move Reethu! Are you mad? Want to get irritated forthis small thing? Are you hurt badly? You know how important this show is for him How will he perform now? Just 4 days left Do you know how idiotically you behaved? lt would be nice if you hadn't come here l didn't do wantonly Leave the topic Come, let's see the doctor in the resort For what? Having concern on me, Siri scolded you in the evening Don't misunderstand her This is too much Why should l misunderstand her? Who scolded me? lt is Siri She has the rights to scold me No need your explanation for this You are bothering too much Go take rest - To give medicine to Chandu -Already l've given to him You go spend some time with him He'll feel better then Don't spend too much time He'll get tired if he skips his sleep - lsn't it small injury? - Small injury, but his fingers got crushed Don't know how he will play the guitar in the competition? Competition won't be stopped if he doesn't play the guitar lf Siri calls you again ask her to come back There is no problem for my finger l don't know whether it is right or not talking like this in this time As a friend l should tell this to you You went to Mumbai to study MBA but learned music and cheated everyone Everytime when you were doing like that l supported you But this 10 minutes are not like that This competition is not between you and the other bands This competition is between you and yourself l promised to uncle that l can trust you and yourtalent Don't disappoint me My daddy pockets are always plenty My friend pockets are always empty My daddy pockets are always plenty My friend pockets are always empty A girl saw me in the campus canteen Suddenly l got changed by her She told me later that she is my love and she wouldn't die leaving me alone The next one month, we roamed all places together My next one week, she was not with me The next Friday, it was her birthday party in discotheque The next moment, l had to pay the bill My daddy pockets are always plenty My friend pockets are always empty My daddy pockets are always plenty My friend pockets are always empty My iPhone rang with tring...tring sound To meet her, she asked me to come fast She asked me to buy her a gold ring She said she would soon give me a surprise The next one month, l flew in the air The next one week, l was in full tension The next Friday, l met the thrill in my life The next moment, she adorned that ring to someone else My daddy pockets are always plenty My friend pockets are always empty My daddy pockets are always plenty My friend pockets are always empty That day l overacted too much Without you we would not have won the competition Aren't you and Siri lovers? Seeing your reaction that day we thought she was your lover What you are telling is like a breaking news We are friends since our childhood People miss their love for career That day you missed superb chance for her You mistook us only as lovers But Reethu asked 'when was our marriage'? Udhay never mistook us like that - For what? - Siri is happy because you won Else she would console you whole night And my plan will be failed - What plan? - Because our work is over, Mr Udhay planed to take his fiancee Mrs Udhay, for one full day date Mrs.Udhay agrees to that Shall we go too? Next 24 hours, we won't disturb you and vice versa This agreement is okay for us too You didn't tell us anything about Chandu ls it such a secret, Kishan sir? What great thing has he done to tell everyone? Again you're talking modestly What will he do more than this? ROCKSTAR OF THE YOUTH Our boy has won in this big competition Everyone wants to be a Doctor or an Engineer But your son is great He has chosen a different field You are great As a father, you encouraged him and he's come to this position Chandu is lucky to have a father like you Kishan sir, you've to give us a party in the evening We've to make pooja for the bike Shall we go? When everyone says that l am the reason for his success l feel sad and guilty l couldn't enjoy his success l have been only a fatherto him l should've been a friend like Siri.. Dear! You know how exciting l feel to be lonely in the middle of the water How do you know that l like such places like this? l became your lover because l remember your every word that you told me l told it casually, but you remember and have brought me here l am very happy l have been waiting since we came to Kerala to see this happiness in you Only thanks is not enough for making such a big plan lt is betterto hit me than you kiss there l should only hit for this before the marriage l don't know all that - Tell me, Killer - Come to the resort urgently What happened? This matter can't be told over the phone l want to talk to you directly Come fast - What happened? - Mom called me - Uncle and aunty are not coming home - Why? Because Uncle and aunty are roaming around the city in the new bike - Really? - Yes, really l can't believe it To this small matter, have you come day breaking my plan? What Udhay? ls it a small matter? Tell them, how big matter it is for you Do you know Reethu, since how long he has been waiting for this day? l am very happy today more than the happiness of winning competition Because of you only, l got successful in the music, love and life lt's enough, get down That day you asked me to rate yourfriendship Now l am telling Yours is not friendship Even though it is hard to hear l am telling the truth Not only for me, you both appear like lovers to everyone Udhay! You are broad minded l thought that you would understand us l didn't expect that you too would talk like this l can't be such broad-minded.. ...to ignore you moving so close to him in front of your fiance l want to ask you whom you like more, me or Chandu But l fearthat you will tell we are equal to you You are comparing two unequal things You and he are different We are friends since childhood, now and forever But you are, yesterday my boyfriend, today my fiance, tomorrow my husband My relationship with him hasn't changed but with you, it has changed Don't you feel like that? Chandu, you made a mistake, hitting Udhay You shouldn't have done like that l can't keep quiet if Siri gets into any problem My problem is also that l thought you are everything for me when l started my relationship with you l expected the same thing from you Any girl would think that her boyfriend should give the priority to her only But you are giving her more priority than me l thought to take more care of you But she takes care of you before me Have you understood this much only about our friendship? l don't know how to tell you l feel somebody is occupying the space between us l am going to share my life with you not with her Why do you compare with Siri? Our expectations also will be changed along with our relations lt'll be good if you move close to somebody when you are my girlfriend lf it is after our marriage... l'll feel you are my own lf it will be continuing like this then, many problems will creep between us Udhay! What do you want to tell to me? lf you want to live us together you both should be part The day when he proposed to Reethu, he told me that he would ...leave his love if it would be problematic between us Similarly l can't leave him for sake of our love But l want you, Udhay Come Reethu lf we have to be happy take one decision, Chandu l'll do anything, to live with you happy and to make you happy You know, when she felt that herfriendship would be a problematic for our love ...she wanted to go away but never told me to forget my love You want me to go away from you l can't live with you happily leaving Siri They are young They would have quarreled in emotion The problem will be solved if you go and talk with Udhay once Problem is not there lt is with them They left their love and come But they aren't knowing the love between them What is this mom? They entered newly into our life They don't know about us that's why they talked like that But you too... l can't find anything wrong from what Udhay spoke Seeing your closeness, when that idea came to your mom ...it is not surprising to outsiders to think like that So your lovers couldn't understand you lf anyone enters into your life they can't understand you Then, what if you meet this problem after your marriage? lt is betterfor you to discuss this now itself The decision is in your hands lt can't be told that husband and wife would be good friends But good friends can become good husband and wife lf you want to live togetherforever... There is only one option for you You both should get married Don't you think 'l'refer her and 'She'refers me? ls it our wrong being a boy and a girl? Can't a boy and a girl be Friends forever? Will you part ways to satisfy others? l've learnt how to choose things in life But l never expected to be one of the choices Been together, dreamt together lf we must live separately, what is that relationship? Forcing us to get married to live together is ruthless ls there any relationship between the bird and the tree? ls it wrong to build a nest without that? ls there no friendship between the bank and the river?. ls it possible to describe it? l don't thank myself in the mirror because you're like me in the mirror Don't you think 'l'refer her and 'She'refers me? ls it our wrong being a boy and a girl? Can't a boy and a girl be Friends forever? Will you part ways to satisfy others? - Dude! When is the bachelor party? - My engagement is broken lf there is no image, to appear to the eyes... Will you defy the soul that keeps you alive? lf there is no sound, to listen to the ears... Will you defy heart beats that keeps you alive? lf the feeling can't be expressed by word Does it mean such silence is not worthy enough? Tide touches the shore now and then ls it fair to restrict it? Don't you think 'l'refer her and 'She'refers me? ls it our wrong being a boy and a girl? Can't a boy and a girl be Friends forever? Will you part ways to satisfy others? You go What have you decided? Yes dad, as all of you think that there is love between us l am very happy that you've understood there is love between you Friendship is between lovers Similarly love is between friendship l can't understand what you are saying Tell me one thing, dad What is that you and mom show on me and what aunty shows on Siri? lsn't it love? For two people being together in any relationship... they need love between them The same love is also between us ln this love, we don't expect anything from each other The love that don't expect anything is called friendship Our friendship started since our childhood, when l pulled her doll from her hands After 20 years, my minds still have the same feeling lf l had pulled that doll from a boy, and if he wanted to be my friend forever You wouldn't say 'No', right? Your problem is because Siri is a girl After a boy and a girl get matured and still roam as friends... ...this world can't accept it We are living in the society that onlookers may misunderstand ...if brother and sister go for a ride in the bike You are right But they can't change the brother and sister relationship, right? Brother and sister Mother and son Father and daughter The society which is accepting them as true relationship... ...why can't it accept a boy and a girl's friendship? We were happily roaming in the world of friendship these days lt is because of freedom that you gave us And the faith you kept on us Since childhood, in the school, college, music, love, happy, sorrow and life She was with me in everywhere and vice versa We have shared everything But... But l can't even think of sharing my bed also with her Ever since l became aware of the world l've started to call mom as mom lt is equally true that Siri is my friend Seeing the dress you wear, jobs you choose l thought there was no clarity in the minds of youngsters of this general ...and was hoping you to reform After seeing your clarity in the small line between love and friendship We think that our generation should be changed lt's not our honour to give you freedom lt's your honour being same today without misusing it Because we're in the society that can't take a boy and girl to be friends forever l couldn't understand you We have understood that your friendship is also a relationship But your life partners should understand this May be it is harsh to you, l am talking like this despite listening to you As a father, you are thinking about theirfeelings But l'm thinking about the problems that will come between us in the future There is a problem Since we are childhood friends, We've behaved crossing an edge, forgetting the difference between a boy and a girl There was no wrong in you misunderstanding us seeing that We are just friends This friendship is very important in our life You are going to share our life if you can't understand that friendship ...there is no meaning for that lt shouldn't happen like that l'll marry Reethu and no one else What else should l do to make you understand? Siri loves you very much ls it okay for you if l don't meet Siri for an year? l won't meet Siri forever, never try to talk or see her Please marry my friend, Udhay lt is completed 3 years since you parted from Siri l am watching you and your band in the news and internet But Siri never mentioned about you all these days ln this 3 years, we were very happy without any misunderstanding Whenever a problem creeps up in life, we should make some adjustments But what you both did is not an adjustment, but a sacrifice There will be some pain if two people get parted in any relationship You both were happy after parting and made us happy That credit goes to your friendship As a common man, l wanted her to be my wife like how other husbands expect But, now l want grow my son not like me He has mother, father, family and society He should know that his mother has a best friend too That's why l want to gift my wife's best friend back to her Where is my certificate? lt is here What are you seeing? Will you allow me to join your gang? Time and distance are not barriers for friendship Though bodies are different Our life is one Let us live happily Let's tell the sky that our friendship is great Let's chart a plan to reach the stars Let's watch this world from there
