 

                        So this is Week 1. for the next year. I'm working here at Whistler Bungee as a bungee jump operator this week. I have no idea where this project is going to take me and who I'm going to meet and what jobs I'm going to do over the year, but there comes a point where you just gotta take the leap. Four, three, two, one. Bungee! Look around What a mess Anybody's guess But here goes somethin' Yeah, here goes somethin' Yeah, here goes somethin' When I graduated from college, I wasn't confident at all in terms of what career I wanted. I had no idea, really. I don't think there's anything that really stood out in my mind as to what I really wanted to do. I looked at school... as if something I had to do. I didn't really know why I was doing it, it's just that this is what you do. Most of the time when you see grown-ups, they're working. You will grow up someday. What do you want to be when you grow up? Here I was graduating, highest GP of my class, valedictorian, and all these people had these high expectations of me and saw this potential in me, but I had no idea where to put that potential. Right now, I think a lot of people are coming out of school with no clue whether the degree they just took really applies to their interests and really what can they do with it. The problem is people get in careers and they wind up in their 40s working 50 weeks out of the year for a 2-week vacation in a job they don't like, but they're afraid. I think he was afraid that maybe he'd make the wrong choices or that he would end up settling into a career that he didn't like. I became really depressed and down about it, and everything just felt so routine and as if I was going through the motions. That's when I thought back to my final year of college. We were sitting around the dining room table with my family, and each one of them had a different idea of the career path I should choose, except my dad, and he said "It doesn't matter what you do, just make sure it's something you're passionate about. I've been alive nearly 60 years and I've yet to find something that I'm passionate about besides your mother," and that was something that really stuck with me. Pursuing a career and earning a living takes up a lot of your time. If you can be happy doing that, you know, it speaks for itself. We are told so much growing up, "Find your passion, and that is the secret." Find something that you're passionate about. Follow your passion. Passion. Your passion. Passion. Passion. If you can, go with your passion. And once you do that, everything will fall into place, the money will come, the happiness will come. But how do you go about finding your passion? Get active and be proactive about doing something. If you don't know what to do, well, don't, you know, just sit around and wonder what to do. Do something. I started looking through classifieds and job descriptions, and I realized I had no idea what the job would actually be like, so I thought, well, what if I could try out these different jobs? Here's my idea: I'd work 52 jobs in 52 weeks to find my passion. Along the way, I'd learn about the different jobs and ask my employers how they found their passion. Every day I went to the library to prepare content for the website... things like why I was doing it, how to offer me a job, and then all my background information. I asked my employers to donate all my wages to a charity aimed at eliminating child poverty. I had a few hundred dollars that could get me started, but I knew if I wanted to continue for the whole year, I'd have to find a sponsor. It's a crazy idea. It was an idea that was just not possible in my mind. For sure I had doubts, you know, things like, well, who's going to hire me knowing I'm only there for the week? How am I going to travel from place to place? But I knew I had to just keep taking steps forward and refuse to acknowledge that little voice inside your head that casts doubt. Two things are going to happen with this project. It's either going to drop like a lead balloon or take off and fly. This is it, week 1. I'm working here at Whistler Bungee as a bungee jump operator this week. Lucky for me my soccer coach is an owner of the company, and so he thought he'd give me a try. I have no idea what awaits me and where this project is going to take me, but I gotta take the leap. All righty, here we go. Here I am, up Mount Seymour, really enjoying this job right now. I'm working as a snowshoe guide assistant. All right, who wants some hot chocolate? On your mark, get set, go! Right beside, right beside you there. Sean is amazing! Two thumbs up! So here I am, Week 5, I'm working as a columnist with the paper. Today's day three, and I'm... I'm going to show that employee entrance who's boss, so here we go. So here's where I work. There's my desk, there's the boss over there... pretty nice guy. Well, back to work I go. Here I am with Olivia. We are on our way to Edmonton. So for the first 5 weeks, my jobs were in the Vancouver area so I could stay at my parents' place, and then Week 5 I got a sponsor, nicejob.ca, and they gave me 1000 dollars each month to put towards travel expenses. I looked on Craigslist to find a ride share with somebody that was heading in my direction. Just got a phone call, Sean has a place to stay in Edmonton. Way to go, boy. Here I am, downtown Edmonton, working at Best Buds flower company. These are my co-workers. Hi! So I'll show you some things that I created today... pretty nice, eh? Also, we have this down here, and look at that... they are actually selling it! So here we are, day 1 of Week 7, I'm working at a yoga studio here at Lotus Soul Gym, so here I go. I was just instantly captivated by the whole concept. One of the reasons why that resonates so much with me is because I'm 59 years old, and I'm still trying to experience life, there's all these things that I want to do. When I teach yoga, I feel like I'm 100 % authentic. I never teach a yoga class and say, "God, I'm glad that class is over." I think, all to often, we accept whatever we land, whether that's through choice or by default somehow, in a career, and then we say, "Okay, well, I guess this is what I'm doing," and then we're taking away the power to choose. I don't think he's sure or understands what the potential is or where this is going to go, but I think he's willing to take the ball and run with it. Moo! Here I am, Week 8, working on a dairy farm in Rimby, Alberta. Right now I'm on a pile of manure. It's all part of the job. So here I am, Week 9, working at Lake Louise resort. This week I'm working with Hespeler Animal Hospital. This week I'm working with Hespeler Animal Hospital. I'll be a veterinarian assistant. Hi, I'm Tracy, nice to meet you. I imagine that takes some training, so lets hope some supervision is involved. I became a veterinary technician because I love working with animals and helping animals that are sick and hurt, and it makes me feel better at the end of the day when I've done something to make a difference. So this is Winston. We are going to put a catheter in him and take some blood. He's a little yappy this morning, so hopefully he's calmed down now, but I doubt it. Oh, Winston, Winston, Winston! Winston was a little rambunctious. He's a little dog, but he's a feisty little guy. He's a trooper. Those are kidneys. Really interesting. I got to assist with a couple of surgeries, take down, record notes and document, monitor the levels, so the pulse, the heart rate. It was a lot of information to digest. Hopefully over the next few days I'll be able to kinda figure everything out. I worked in a bank for years, and they pushed the sales, and I decided I can't do sales. You know, you want to get to school, get through and get out, and then get a job, and you think it's going to be all great, and then you realize that it's not really what it's cut out to be. You work for a long time before you retire, right, so you may as well be happy doing what you're doing. It's been really rewarding this week, working with the animals, you know, you kind of develop a sense of relationship with them. You know, each animal has their distinct personality, and you want to see them do well. She's going to be okay. Call me Dr. Dolittle. So I just got dropped off on the side of the road by the Greyhound bus. I managed to survive during the project by keeping costs down as much as possible. Bus driver said to go this way so I'm heading south. I'd hitchhike, take the bus, and stay at people's houses. Oh, here comes a car. Going to hitchhike. They almost hit me, actually... not too impressed. I think living as cheap as possible really added to the experience because most often I was staying at employers' houses and not at a hotel, so I was able to learn about the job but then also what the whole lifestyle of that profession was like. Here I am, first day on the job just heading to work working for a recruiting company. They recruit positions for corporate executives, so I have to look nice, so I got my suit, dug it out of my backpack. Wish me luck. I don't know, I definitely cannot see myself doing an office job anytime in the near future. It's a little mundane. Just dropping off these towels. First day on the job working at McGee's bed and breakfast... life of an innkeeper. And, you know, a lot of people say to me, "Oh, my god, well, I don't know what I want! If I just knew what I want, god, that would be everything!" Then here's what you do. Find out what you don't want. Here we are collecting cat tails and cutting them up, and then taking into town and then maybe selling them to restaurants. The easiest way to get a date or to attract the person of your dreams is "Okay, who's the date from hell?" It's funny 'cause I was saying that I don't think I could see myself in an office but I don't know if I could see myself in the forest day after day either. What's the job that you would absolutely despise and hate? And write all that down. "Don't want to do this!" See, people are really associated to what they don't want. Write all that down, and the opposite of that is the job of your dreams. And the opposite of that is the job of your dreams. In week 11 I went to a town in Quebec called Trois-Pistoles. The year before I attended a French language program there, and stayed with a host family, and the host father, he owns the windows and doors company in town, so he called me up and said, "Hey, Sean, why don't you come and do one of your 1 -week jobs here?" Trois-Pistoles is a really small town. It's kind of like you're in a bubble in that it's a simple way of being, so I was in Trois-Pistoles working, and there was this girl named Danna who I kept seeing around town. Sean obviously stands out a little bit because... the blond dreads and he's tall and personable. I'd see her everywhere, but we never really had a meaningful conversation. He caught my eye in Quebec City. I was just hanging out with my friends and I had this really nice silk scarf on, and it got caught in my jacket, and so my friends and I start prying at it. Karlin's trying and Matt's trying and everybody's trying and then all of a sudden... I kinda rushed on over there to play the hero role and try and get the scarf out of her zipper. And... you know, I guess it's sort of a knight in shining armour type feel. We watched the sun rise together that night. And here she was spouting out all these ideas and life philosophies that I thought were unique to me, so I couldn't really contribute anything meaningful to that conversation. I wasn't quite sure if he was listening to me and, like, actually agreeing with me or if I was just talking to myself, but either way, it didn't matter at that point. It was a surprisingly good conversation. We started hanging out more and more, and she got to know me better, and I guess we fell in love. You know, after a little bit, I found out about the project that he was doing and that, and so I realized that there... It would have been impossible to continue some sort of future with this. We were both not looking for someone in our lives at that time, you know, here I was, doing a different job each week, and I didn't have time to fall in love. It was obvious that I very likely could never see Sean again. The final morning when it came time to say goodbye, I couldn't speak. I knew that if were to try and say something, I would start crying. I guess it was at that moment that I knew this girl was trouble. I can't think of a time when a relationship actually derailed anything he wanted to do. It is possible as long as you make, I think, a right amount of sacrifice and knowing when to make that sacrifice. I remember thinking about my dad and when he first came to Canada. My mom was pregnant with my older sister, and they had five thousand dollars to their name. We were facing a number of challenges, particularly getting a job. Yes, it was exciting, but it was very, very frightening. Growing up in the middle class society, you tended to look more to the professions. It was almost by default, I think, that I became an accountant. Here he was in this new country with a young family. He needed to get a job so he could get a paycheck and put food on the table. He wasn't able to make job satisfaction a top priority. You find that you are going down a road, you get married, and then you have children. Looking after the family is a full-time job, and before you know it, you reach retirement. I really admire that my dad put us before himself, and it's something I'm really grateful for. Waking up this morning, I was just thinking... oh, like, another morning, come on, Sean, get going, get engaged, and... uh, it can be quite tiring, because day after day having to get your game on... routines can be nice too. With me this afternoon, you will be hearing a lot from him this week, is Sean Aiken. He's the man who's doing one week jobs for the entire year. Sean, thus far, how was your week been at Dave? I know it's early, it's only Tuesday, but so far... It is, it is early in the week, but so far it's been awesome! When I was a little kid, I didn't like being alone in the dark, so my dad got me this little clock radio, and the idea of somebody being there and entertaining you just struck me from the time I was about five years old, so I knew I always wanted to do this. Since you are trying to find out what you want to do with your life, what's really at the top so far? Is it yoga instructor? Radio DJ. Radio DJ. He's good. The whole key is to make it as conversational as possible. You're talking to one person, that's it when you're doing your thing. Dave weather brought to you by Staples Business Depot... I think that the most important message for you is to make contacts, call people up, go out for coffee, go out for lunch... that's how you get a job, not so much putting in the resume. You got a million people throwing in a resume someplace, but what you have to do is create a personal relationship with somebody, and that's going to get you where you want to go. Currently 16 degrees, tomorrow we have clouds. So I just finished my first little, uh, stint on the radio with Dave FM. I think it went pretty well. Talked about the job and everything, and it makes me wonder what I'm going to be talking about for the rest of the week. I don't know how these Radio DJs do it. It seems like they always have something to talk about, some news going on, and there's never dead air. ...with a chance of showers, and it's going to be 27. Nice work, nice work! All right! Okay! Yeah! Whoo! After Trois-Pistoles, I went home to Toronto, and I didn't really know what was going to happen with Sean and I. We both experienced some pretty intense emotions in Trois-Pistoles, and then the first weekend that I was home, I got a phone call from Sean, and he told me he was going to come and visit me that weekend. He hitchhiked to Toronto, and I was even more smitten with him. No guy has ever hitchhiked halfway across the country for me before, and that's pretty awesome. So, since Trois-Pistoles, me and Danna have decided to try and make it work... Um, I'm just not sure how exactly that's going to happen, and how we're going to make it work. I'm really happy. I feel like it's been forever, but it's only been a week, and I definitely realize how much patience everything's going to take. Sean had said to me, "I have no idea what's going to happen over the next year, but this is worth seeing what happens with this relationship." This week I'm working with New Tribe. It's a tattoo and piercing place down here in downtown Toronto. Now it's Monday morning. Time to start a new job, start off fresh over, and meet a bunch of new people. Hi, I'm Johnny Tribe. I'm the head piercer here. My name is Glenny and I'm a tattooer in Toronto. Hello, my name's Joey, and my job title here is the shop assistant, or the... this may get bleeped... but shop bitch. I was a young teenager when I first started getting tattooed. I thought it was really bad-ass and then I was like... "Oh, that would be such a cool job," but I never really thought it would be a reality. I had a friend of mine that had a small shop and he said, "Do you want to come answer the phones?" I started answering the phones, tried piercing, found out I was pretty good at it. Done, there you are. We saw a nose piercing... we saw a tongue piercing, and we also saw a nipple piercing, which all of them seemed like they hurt. Seeing the needles kind of go in, especially the tongue, was like... It was kind of intense. It was like... ah. Tongue back in. It's good. It keeps me young. I'm 42... I'm 41 years old, so it's always fresh every day. See all this? Clean it. Cool. I guess I'm just finding it difficult to really feel like I'm actually contributing to the company. I feel like dead weight a little bit, you know... like I'm not actually making a meaningful contribution. I guess that might be a limitation of the one-week job project in technical jobs such as this, you know... being a tattooist or a piercer where it does take that specific skill set, which in one week is kind of impossible to develop. On one hand, there's an artistic element involved when someone's, like, "Draw me a mermaid." But then when you go to do the tattoo, to actually execute it, there's nothing artistic whatsoever about it, so you might as well be welding. Until next week. Sean was about a quarter of the way through the project and I called him up and I said, "Hey, Sean, I quit my job." The first thing he said was, "Hey, you should come out on the road." I told him that would be an interesting idea, but I would have to run it by my wife, Karen. No, I wasn't happy at all about it initially. We had just gotten married, so it would have been difficult starting off this new branch of our lives without him there. I have known lan since elementary school. We met in Grade 4. In junior high, he challenged me to a game of ping-pong. He said that he was better than I was, and I said, "Let's have a match." And we played, and I won. He beat me, quite badly. And slowly after that, we became better friends. If you know me and lan, you know we really share a special kind of friendship and that, you know, not so many are lucky to have, and so it's something I'm really grateful for. Sean and lan have such a special relationship. I was worried about losing something to Sean. There was still a long time in the project till it was complete, and so I asked Karen, "Okay, I'm just going to go on the road for 2 weeks..." just a taste of the experiences that Sean was having on the road, and then I was going to come home. I'd like to think that we all need to accomplish something every day. We need to have a reason to get out of bed, so understanding yourself and your own personal interests is paramount to your future happiness. Unfortunately, this is going to be his last stop on his journey, because he'll never want to leave this place. Today, this morning I was working on the production line, so once the bottles come through, they're finished, in the box, so closing up the box, placing the box on a crate, and then they take them away to be shipped out to the stores. You know, it sounds really boring, but actually it's kind of fun. You get into a mode and it's just... Team steam. This job is absolutely my passion, and as soon as I started delivering beer and got involved in the brewing business, I realized this was the right fit for me. What sells beer is having a network of contacts. I spent the afternoon with Richard, one of the sale reps here at Steam Whistle. It was a lot of fun, you know, we went out and met some clients, tried to generate some new clients. Should I just put this over by your bar here? You know, he identifies it takes a lot of motivation. Most of the time, you go in there, they are going to say no, and you just got to be persistent and keep going back. Think about the things that you like to do and how you may be able to apply those interests to a career, and then based on that information, go out there and make a search. If you are waking up in the morning happy that the fact that it's Monday morning and you are going to go to work, life is going to be way better. Then all the other stuff, which is evenings, hanging out with friends and family, and weekends, enjoying your time off, life is good. Welcome to Steam Whistle, and hope you have a good week. So I stand out on the streets. A big part of what I'm doing this week is promote the ride to conquer cancer. We have different pamphlets and displays for the different stores, so basically what I'll be doing is going around to these different stores around here to hopefully to get up some point of sale information about promoting the ride to conquer cancer that's happening next June. I have been hired by the foundation to come and manage and oversee what's going to be the largest bike-ride fundraiser that Canada has ever seen. I have the ultimate job. I'm able to combine my passion for bike riding and sports and athletics with doing something meaningful and giving back to the community. Thank you. It's good. I like when they say yes. It's a good feeling. It's like you made a sale. Not really a tough sale, but it's a good feeling nonetheless. When I first graduated from school, I took a job which I really loved and I had passion for, and I thought, "Okay, it's time to try something else... branch out." I took a job, well, selling toilet paper. I hated that job and my advice is don't sell out. Don't find a job that is a means to an end because it's a paycheck for you. Find something that inside your heart, you want to do. At the end of the day, it'll work out. So I'm pretty happy with the way things turned out today. Uh, I got the promotional stuff into about, I guess, Um, not bad for the first day on the streets. Time to head back to the office. I went to go meet the, uh, world-renowned cancer researcher Dr. Tak Mak today. Uh, I'm fortunate because I'm trained as a scientist and I'm paid to do what I want to do every day. I mean, isn't that amazing? I realized that the people who are most passionate about their jobs were the ones who had an idea of how they were contributing to something greater than themselves, um, working on a cure for cancer, I mean wow, talk about making a difference! You know, it mattered that they showed up to work every morning because they were part of it. Week 25, day 1, working with Roots Canada this week. Roots is a big sponsor of the Toronto International Film Festival that's happening this weekend, and they're responsible for the clothing and also the celebrity area, so who knows, maybe we'll get to meet some stars. To be honest, I have no idea what I'm doing for the week, I think there's... we're going to be covering the film festival, so doing their blog, taking some video footage, photos for the roots. Com website, I think that's all I know. I don't really know. I guess I'll find out. So, we've spent a lot of the day I guess waiting for celebrities to arrive and to get our chance, our opportunity, our moment to speak with them. So we just came down the stairs, and we just got yelled at for not doing our job, but we don't really know what our job is this week. We have three different bosses, and each one of them has different expectation on us, and it's just making it really hard. I think that my biggest challenge with the Roots week was that I didn't know what was expected of me. Trying to deal with that is difficult because you can't please everyone, which is a constant sense of unease and a little bit of anxiety 'cause you're uncertain of "Am I doing my job correctly?" Near the end of the week, I was told to go over to Toronto Island to this music festival and we were told to go backstage and shoot interviews with the different bands. So we get to the concert gates only to find out that we can't take our camera in with us. Uh, they gave us tickets for the concert, but they didn't give us media tickets, and that was kinda the whole point of going to the island in the first place. And so once again, we're unable to do what's asked of us, and that's just not a great feeling. That whole miscommunication has tainted the whole experience, and that uncertainty, and just not having a great feeling about it all. Sean's world is ultra optimistic, and I would say that the negative side of Sean's world is when things don't come through, I guess it's a lot more disappointment when you set your sets that high. I think I've learned a lot this weekend the importance of communication and clearly defining roles, and as an employee, if I'm not entirely certain what is expected of me to just stop and say, "Wait a second," you know, "I'm not too sure what my role is." How you approach a situation and the attitude that you bring in it is going to dictate, you know, the outcome or your overall experience of that situation. Success in life is a result of good judgement. Good judgement is often a result of experience, and experience is often a result of bad judgement, also known as failure, but we get an education. Lots of action going on down here at the festival headquarters down here at Roots. Wyclef Jean just came in, just doing some yoga moves on the yoga mat. That was pretty impressive. I mean, I was a yoga instructor Week 7, but I don't think I could pull that off. So my advice to you is while you're in college, do like my homey right here... you know what I mean? Get 52 jobs, you know what I mean... one job a week. Stop being lazy, you know what I'm saying? Let's get this thing going. So we decided we'd bust it to Montreal for a few days. Got a ride... posted on a ride share website, Craigslist, and hooked up with Rob, so he's taking us there, which is awesome, so that's what we are going to do. Here we are, Week 26, the halfway point of One Week Job, in Montreal working with Cossette Communications, so it will be really interesting to get an inside look of the ad process and how it goes from conception into production. Welcome aboard. Thanks for having me. No problem. We sell frickin' ideas! The analogy... it's like if we are the clothes of what the corporation wears. We have one foot in a board room with product managers, marketing vice-presidents who have a very high fiscal responsibility volume, and then the other part of your day... is with creative guys. And, uh, there goes my Venus. Venus and Mars... The job you're working on, the big idea is "une vraie biere de serge." It's real beer for real guys. So here we are at the production house. We are going to be showing the client the first off-line edit of the 30-second commercial shot for Molson a couple of days ago. It was pretty cool to see how, you know, the team comes together and everybody has their inputs and everybody has different ideas, and actually, that was something that I found interesting in that what made sense to this one person doesn't make sense to another person. So the challenge becomes the best possible way to get your message out to your target audience. Being in the situation where I'm able to try out a different job each week, it gives me a really unique perspective. Each week I ask my co-workers what they like most about their job. The number one answer I hear is the people they work with. The advertising agency is an industry where everybody becomes your friend. It's maybe a clich, but it's true. People are my colleagues and my friends also. Their work satisfaction comes from their co-workers and their friendships and their relationships they develop by being there. I can totally relate to that because I realize that whether I have the best job for the week or the worst job, it's the people that make the experience special. It's the people that make the experience special. Just on our way to an interview this morning. It's intense because it's going I guess live across all of America. So, morning show on Fox news. Sean Aiken is a creator of oneweekjob.com. Have you come close even defining what your passion really is? I'm getting closer. Boom! Hello, USA! USA! After the US media started covering the story, I started getting emails from Americans with different one week job offers throughout the States, and I thought it would be really cool to see what the American job market was really like. Like, who knows? Who knows what awaits? Here I am, Week 29, I'm in Atlanta, Georgia at the Atlanta Conference center. I'm going to be a trade show salesman this week. I'm working with a company called Fundamental Designs. They have designed this plastic squeeze bottle called the FIFO bottle. The first two people that started coming up, I kind of see them make eye contact with me and that kind of expectant look that... "Okay, you're kind of going to have to inform me what this product's all about." It gets down to an attitude towards the whole thing. If you feel that the glass is half empty type of person, frankly, not a good idea to be going down the road of an entrepreneur, but if you think "Yup, I know I'll be able to make it in one way or another," When you do fail, you realize, "Okay, that hurt, let's not do that twice," and then go out with a lot more confidence to then try it again, make it successful, and that's pretty important. This week is Week 30. I'm working with a T-shirt company just outside of Atlanta called Snorg Tees. When we started it out, I guess I was the driving force behind getting the business going. Um, the first few months, like, we put the site up and we thought we were going to run a few ads, and stuff was going to start flying off the shelves... no. Against the advice of others, I decided to add more shirts and spend more money, and things turned around abut three or four months in and we became profitable. Well, that's quacktastic! When you come in and you look at a business and you see "Oh, this is how things work," and it just seems like it flows smoothly, like, it didn't start that way. We're raised in the school system to work for someone else, so when you work for yourself, you are kind of, like, "Well, where is my paycheck?" It gives you a kick in the butt. You've got to be creative or think of some way that you're going to make sure you do. And then you say high-five! Week 31, I'm here at the Georgia aquarium. It's the world's largest aquarium. I'll be helping out at different exhibits, so answering questions about the animals, helping out visitors with directions, information stuff. I love my job. Every day is a good day when I get to see fish, and I see fish every day. That's a really big fish! The real message that we trying to convey with this is that you look at a globe and you see all these little oceans, but they're actually all connected, and as humans we think of "That's the Atlantic Ocean," or "That's the Pacific Ocean," or "That's the Indian Ocean," well, they're named that way for reference, but they're all connected. When you're first getting out of school, follow your heart, follow your passion, don't go for the money, you know, unless money is your passion. But for those that go directly for the highest paying job, it's probably high-paying because it is not a lot of fun. Here I am right now in the aquarium. As you can see, Sean Aiken is behind me. He is talking to this producer at CNN. Good Morning America called the other day, which is also exciting, No idea what's going to happen next little bit, but interesting to check it out. All right, thanks a lot, Sheila. Talk to you soon. Bye bye. Yes, it's awesome like CNN, Good Morning America, it's like wow, it's awesome, but I look at it just another opportunity to get some more jobs, get some more interesting opportunities and also another way to share that information and share the experience I'm having with others. When lan had been in Atlanta, I asked him to come home, When lan had been in Atlanta, I asked him to come home, and there was no disaster, catastrophe, no definitive reason why he needed to be home right then, but we had never been apart for more than three weeks. Lan left today to go back to Vancouver to spend some time with Karen, a couple weeks, he's going to meet up with me in New York two weeks from now. I'm staying here at the Hyatt Regency tonight. The Georgia Aquarium put me up 'cause I have an interview tomorrow morning at CNN. I'm going to go from Hyatt to homeless, because I don't know where I'm staying tomorrow. That's one thing with the project that I have to learn is that it's constantly changing, you know, and you can never take something for granted at all. You just gotta go with the flow and take it one day at a time, or one week at a time. So here we are, CNN, time for an interview. I'm going live, nation-wide, across the U.S. Yeah. Hey, I'm on CNN. All right, still trying to decide what you want to be when you grow up? Well, you'd better join the club, because one man is taking an unusual approach to uncovering his passion. He's working 52 jobs in 52 weeks. Sean, are you feeling okay? I mean, why 52 jobs in 52 weeks? Well, it's a good question. I finished my college degree and I had no idea what I wanted to do for a career. Just got back from my interview, got a bunch of different emails from people, actually, offers in Miami, which is awesome, because that's where I was looking to go, and also willing to actually help with the transportation to get me down there. There I go. After that, I don't know what I'll be doing. Guess that keeps life interesting. So I just arrived in Miami, starting work tomorrow, going to be working as an exterminator with a pest control inspection company, so that's that. Kind of having an issue with the project right now. As the project continues to grow, you know, more companies are interested in the publicity opportunities that come along with hiring me. It's kind of really difficult to balance that and the aspect of actually trying to figure out if that job's for me. I'm working here in Fort Lauderdale, Florida this week, with Horowitz and Company. I'm going to be a stock trader. When I was in college, I was really interested in the stocks, and that really excited me, and so I'm really excited to kind of learn more about how everything works in the stock market. I don't necessarily think that I always had that as a burning desire that I wanted to do this, but as I get more and more understanding of what it could do for others and how I could then really do well, and you stepped into it, and it was like, wham! You know, you get this incredible jolt of energy. It's pretty exciting from start to finish. I have a feeling that it's going to go back up. It's got one last surge in it for the day, and then I'm going to get out. While you have control of what you do, the markets have the ultimate control. The economy has the ultimate control. Unfortunately, with the incredible amount of stress involved in it, it kind of sometimes is very overwhelming. All this pressure... Go, go, go, go. Come on. You know, you want to hang on, and it's easy to become over greedy and try and stick in there, and you can end up getting burned. I, you know, if it was me here, I'd dump the stock. I would take my profit, move on, look for something else, or just kind of go away happy because the fact of the matter is that an extra two or three cents is not going to... The stock doesn't care about you. It doesn't? No, it doesn't care about you. Right now I'm focused all my attention on one stock, and how many stocks are there, you know, in just the New York stock exchange. I could be watching other stocks, and maybe other ones are moving, you could be making money there, but you can get wrapped up in one. You don't always have to do what you've always done. You have to be flexible... you have to be extremely flexible, especially today. And there's an amazing amount of things out there that you can do. It's not the career that defines you, you know, you are the definition of who you are, and a career is just a conduit to what you want to do ultimately in life. Ultimately in life. Here I am in New York. Lan's coming back on the road to do some more filming. Danna's going to come on the road for a few days. I'm really excited to see her. You know, it's been a while, and... I hadn't seen Sean in a few months, and I was quite anxious to get to New York. There's so much happening with the project right now too. Lots of medias picking up, so we haven't been able to talk too much on the phone or anything. And I wasn't sure if things had maybe changed him, or if he was different. I don't know. I'm excited to see where it's all going to lead. I was worried that maybe he didn't have time for the girl from Trois-Pistoles anymore. This week I'm in Manhattan. I'm a fashion buyer. Kind of a little nervous about what I'm wearing. I think she might be a little critical. - Hey, guys! - How's it going? Here, have a seat. We take this business really seriously. It's going to be, you know, kind of intense. Like when a designer calls me up and says, "I have something so out there and so new and so...!" You know what that means to me? Not sellable. And they are like, "Oh, I'm an artist..." You know what? Art belongs in a museum. This is fashion. Fashion goes in retail. Okay, Sean, so we are here. We are at one of the buildings in the garment center. We are going to be doing, I was going to a showroom, so we are actually going to place an order for one of our stores. So the next step is, pull out the pieces that you don't like... And then work with the ones that we do like. Actually... That dress was really a winner, and so was the tuxedo shirt. I don't know... well, I mean, like, those ones, I guess... I still don't like that dress. Beatrice, how has that been selling for you? This has been one of our best-seller dresses. Hmm. Fine. And when Mercedes was like, "Sean, you're doing this by yourself." I was, like... "What? What do you mean?" I had no idea, like, no background information about the client, but I just went with it, and I was able to just kind of figure it out as I went by asking questions and kind of drawing upon what I had been doing the last couple days, and then kind of hearing the words and the lingo that is used, and I think it turned out really well. At any age, you can make a change. I think that the biggest thing is fear. I live with it every single day. I wake up and I'm like, "Oh, my god, am I going to be able to make payroll this week? Are we going to be able to find a new client? What's the next adventure, what's the next retailer, what's the next designer..." But that fear, it keeps your passion going, and keeps you alive, and keeps you moving. This week I'll be a baker with One Girl Cookies. I'm looking forward to really getting in there and working with my hands and learning about the baking process, and obviously trying out some tasty treats. Alright, are you guys ready? Ready. People, I think, feel frustrated with their jobs when they come in and push papers around and at the end of the day, they don't really know what they did. I had a number of jobs like that, and that's probably what led me back here. I tend to roll in the middle just a little bit, and rotate. There's a lot of excitement in the back. Everyone's kind of buzzing around doing their own thing in the different orders that came in today, and so they have to really work hard to get those out on time. I've never really baked before, aside from maybe premade cookies that all you have to do is put them on the baking sheet and then toss them in the oven. And Good Morning America is coming in to film. I have a big zit on my nose. I feel so lame. Is that good? Sean Aiken has only been working at the One Girl Cookies Bakery in Brooklyn for a couple of days, but already, he's become a frosting expert. His goal isn't to create the perfect cookie, instead it's to find the perfect job. You know, you are here in a job one job a week. Do you think that's ample time that someone would be able to honestly say how they feel about a job? Is that realistic? You're right, it's not. You know, to say, "Is that the perfect job for me?" It's more about the overall experience for me in kind of learning, learning new each week. Some critics have called Sean's job a week experiment symptomatic... I feel the media can change people because of how much it feeds into ego, and so I was just hoping that Sean's priorities hadn't changed. My week as a photographer in New York, James, my boss for the week, gave me this list of all these items and asked me to go and collect these different things for a photo shoot. This week, a lot of media came to a head, and it was really overwhelming, all happening at once. I was trying to juggle all this media answering phone calls, answering emails, and just trying to keep my head above water in organizing everything with the project. New York Times. A young man gives a year over to the job hunt, sampling one at a time. And because of that, the job suffered. About a half hour before I was supposed to show up at James's house with all these items, James called, and I paused and said, "I'm still working on it," still thinking that a half hour was enough time for me to collect everything, but it was too late. From James's voice, I could tell that he was disappointed. He said, "Sean, I just want you to hop in a cab and get on over here." He didn't mention anything about my failure to perform until the next day. He stopped me on the way out the door, and he said, "You really let me down yesterday. I was relying on you to get all those different items." I started making excuses and said, "You know, James, I was on New York Times, and Yahoo..." And I started listing out these major medias and saying I was getting these important phone calls and 300 emails, and it was almost as if I was trying to validate not doing what was asked of me because of this media attention that I was getting. As James sat looking at me, I just felt transparent. To him that was somebody looking at his core and disappointing them. I got up and hurried out the door and down the street and around the corner and pulled my jacket up over my head, and just bawled. I just started crying. It was a weird feeling. I felt lost, and like I didn't know who I was anymore. I don't know where this image I constructed ended and the real me began. So we're sitting at the airport, I think it's 9:00 in the morning, and our plane was supposed to leave at 9:05 to Atlanta. Turns out there is actually no 9:05 plane... it doesn't exist, but there is one on December 18th. Guess what day it is today? Not December 18th. Well, I happened to book the flight on the wrong day. I got to call Danny the firefighter and tell him that we're not coming. Hey, Danny, it's Sean Aiken calling. Actually, we have a bit of a problem. When you really think about it, maybe it was meant to happen. Maybe we are not supposed to go to Florida. Cool, well, thanks a lot, Danny, I appreciate it. It was probably for the best. I really wanted to be a firefighter. So here's the plan, I didn't have enough money to go to Florida to be a firefighter, but I remembered an email I got from Irene and her husband, Darren, who own this pizza shop in Austerville on Cape Cod, so I called her up and I said, "Hey, Irene," explained the situation, and I said we could be on a bus, so we'd be there in six hours. She said great, so we're going to Cape Cod. This is our own private guest house. Have a look at the mini bar here. So we have truffles, beer... How nice is that? Bananas, fruit, living room area, two beds, sweatshirts on the bed for us, t-shirts, wireless Internet. Basically, we're never leaving. This is a 19 inch pizza. This is a successful career for me. I believe that careers take on multi phases throughout your life, and depending on where you are at your stage of development, you develop into that role. Always want to rest on your knuckles and your fingertips because if you go like that, you'll punch through the dough. As long as I'm finding satisfaction in what I do on a daily basis, and I'm happy with it, that's great for me because at the end of my last career, I was unhappy. I felt like I was trapped... You go around like a clock, round the outside. Five years into this career, I'm very content, very happy. I'm excited about the next five, ten years, and where I can take things. - Now it's your turn. - All right. - Work it in. - Yup. Actually, I'm really glad that we came, because the last few days, and it's just been so hectic. That's pretty good. Mamma mia. Coming here, and just meeting Irene and Darren... they are just so kind and real and authentic people, and to just so warmly welcome us into their home, really kind of brought me back to why I'm doing what I'm doing, and this is what it's all about. Meeting these types of people, and just to bring it back to what makes this experience so special. When you don't take an opportunity, sometimes you look like, "Oh, I should have done that." Take the time to find something instead of just settling for second best. You have to go out and find yourself first. Another happy customer. I realized in those few weeks that it had gotten completely off track, and gotten away from why I originally started the project, You know, to find a career that was going to make me happy. To the point, the media had been helping a lot by getting jobs, getting interest out there, but at the same time, it had overshadowed some of the jobs on the project. So that was cause to kind of rethink from then on how to balance the two. Welcome to Hollywood. This week, I'm a Hollywood producer. I'm going to be working with one of the top producers in the industry. His name is Randall Emmett. He's produced over 40 feature film titles, the most recent being Rambo. Fine, get me the LA Times, who else? It's a rip-off, right? Now, I know you don't have a creative bone in your body... How do you know that? Yeah, you're about as creative as a three dollar bill! All right, I'll call you later. What we do here is obviously produce movies, and most people don't know what that means, so we're going to try to give you a little insight to what a Hollywood producer does. You know, basically I'm responsible for buying the script, deciding who is going to direct the movie, who is going to star in the movie. It's my job to also secure those actors and also to the budget, make sure that we have the money. Unfortunately, we get probably I have a very small staff, we like to keep it tight. I'll have you read scripts the entire week and actually be my eyes and ears for stuff that we are looking out for. So when you read, then you have to ask yourself, "Okay, is this something that I think everybody would want to go see?" I mean, if my taste isn't in sync with America's taste, then my box office weekend most likely will be zero, and that's what we are trying to prevent. You know, it's really cool to kind of see how things come together from concept to actually bringing people together, getting the producers together, forming a company, and making the necessary calls, getting the paperwork in place to actually going to production and putting something on television. Now, here's the thing, and I'm not playing with you. It's called oneweekjob.com. They have a website, and you can go to it, and every week this guy, Sean, does a different job, and this week he's working for a movie producer... me! It's sick, isn't it? It's a great idea. All right, I'll call you later. Bye. Randy is really funny. He's always high energy, just left and right! His mind is just going all over the place. You know, people, when they watch Access Hollywood, Entertainment Tonight, that's what they think our life is. You know, it's a lot of business and it's a lot of negotiation. The other side of it is you get to go to the premieres, and that's the perks of the job, but for me, the passion is making good films and trying to put together a great film so that I can take an audience, you know, on a journey. It's my first day on the job as a real estate agent here in Hollywood Hills. You know, I never thought that I would want to be a realtor. When I was younger, I went through a bunch of jobs. I thought I wanted to be an actor, I then did voice-over for a while. Real estate is something I kind of got into accidentally. What we are doing right now is going on Caravan, which is where we go look at houses that are currently on the market for clients that we have. So I can look at them, see them for myself, and then tell my client about them whether I think it's something that will fit them or not. I didn't realize how much being a real estate agent is a lot like running your own small business. You are kind of working within the framework of a larger parent company, but in fact it's really your own kind of independent business, organizing your own schedule, your own hours, and meeting with different clients, and kind of coming to the office when it suits you, and when you need to. Now that we've gone through the preliminary questions with the client, and so we have a better idea of what they are looking for in a house, it's time to actually go out there and look at some different houses and try and get a list together that the client is going to be interested in looking into. The best thing about real estate for me is when I walk into a house and I know that that house is the right home for someone. Knowing that they are going raise their family there and that they are going to have memories there, and then showing that house to someone for the first time is just kind of cool, because their eyes light up and they are like, "Oh, this is it, this is the right one! So that's fun... that's the fun part for me. I think I'm the most happy when I'm in the moment, and when I'm looking around and I'm just soaking up my surroundings. I'm saying, "This is it! This is life! Enjoy this!" The positives of a mindset like Sean's world is that anything is possible. I know that sounds clich, but it's really true. The only limitations you have are the limitations that you put on yourself. One thing I've always loved about traveling is that I never know what tomorrow's going to bring. I wake up in the morning and think... what do I want to do today? It's just continually open-ended possibility. I am a lot more of a realist, however, I believe in plan A, plan B, and plan C. Things with everything were just picking up at tornado speed for Sean, and as much as I was trying to be there for him from halfway across the continent, it's just not always possible to be there for the ins and outs. So, just got off the phone with Danna. She was really down, had a really terrible day... wasn't too sure. I was like, hmm... maybe I'll start backing away and pushing away from her a bit, and maybe that's like kind of stop calling and give her her room, to figure out what she needs. I was just like, "Whoa, what are you doing? You're in over your head." Like, get out of this big trouble territory. This guy is on the other side of the continent, like... what are you doing? Wake up! And so I took a huge step back, and was just like, all right, you know, I'm here for him when he needs me, but I'm not going to overtly pursue this relationship any longer. So here I am, it's week 43. I'm a motivational speaker in Denver, Colorado. Eric Chester, I'm working with this week, has a talk here, a presentation with a student council. It's about 14 high schools, He's actually going to pass the mic over to me and tell them a little bit about what I've been up to for the past 43 weeks and why I'm doing what I'm doing. It's just about to get going here. I'm a little nervous... never been a motivational speaker before. It is something that I would like to do in the future, share my story and all that I've learned over the past year, so hopefully it goes well. You know, kids are dead-on honest. You can con a con, you can fool a fool. But you can't kid a kid. I didn't know much, but I pretended to know so that you know what wouldn't happen to you know who. And all of a sudden I became a teenager, suddenly I knew everything. If you don't resonate with them, they'll just turn around and they'll walk right out on you. In fact, sometimes when you do resonate they'll turn around and walk right out because they don't know what to say. They may be a little spellbound. As I look out in this room today, I see people who like quality of life. You are the people! You are the student council! You are the ones who had your... that raise your hands up! You stand up! You sign up! Finding a career is not an easy thing to do. It's a lot easier to make choices when you don't have a huge car payment, expensive habits, when you're light, when you can make a lot of economic choices very rapidly. Hello. Why would I do something so crazy? If you can effect a one percent change in the lives of a hundred different people, you will have, in effect, created a whole unit of human contribution, and when you think about that from the role of being a speaker, an inspirational, motivational speaker, you really can effect change. You feel 10 feet tall and bulletproof. No feeling like it in the entire world. Half the time you don't even want to collect your check because you didn't do it for the money, you did it because of the feeling that you have inside. It's an enormous unwritten benefit of being a speaker. First year that I was in child care, I was, like, ready to pull my hair out, but I decided to stick with it, and after that first year, I realized that it was a gift and that it was very important for the children to have a man in their lives, so that was kind of the thing where I was like... okay, it's important... and as you work with them, you can actually see them grow, so you can actually see results of what you're doing, and it's not just working on a spreadsheet and seeing some results of a business venture. You are actually seeing them grow and learn things. As a parent myself, I have found happiness, and now my family's happy because of that, so happiness trickles down. Everybody, everything, every company, deserves 2 or 3 chances, so if you go to work on your first day of work and it's a negative situation, give it a couple chances, and then if you feel in your heart that it's just not going to work out, make changes. Once we grow up, life's over, so I'm refusing to grow up, and that's kind of what I'm teaching my staff and the kids as well. What surprised me most about the project was that complete random strangers would offer a place to stay or like offer a job at their work. My son Judah and I were there to greet them with leis and what have you, and we welcomed them here, and the one week job project started in Hawaii. It's week 45. I'm a astronomer in Hawaii. This week we will be going into different schools. I'm working with an outreach program basically educating students on astronomy and trying to get them involved and kind of seeing the different possibilities that lie within that profession. We do that through hands-on, minds-on activities that kinda make it fun to learn. And place it on the front of the fat tube. Everybody got theirs together? Today we are going to be working with third through sixth grade here at Keaukaha elementary, and we're going to be kinda teaching them about ancient astronomy and how it connects to modern astronomy. Really the pay-off is seeing the spark in our young peoples' eyes and to see the difference in that we're making within our communities. I think that's to me the driving force behind what we're doing. They're having fun, but they don't even realize they're actually learning at the same time. We tricked them. So at last we finally made it to the Summit of Mauna Kea, now here we are It's quite crazy to think that here we are in Hawaii and there's snow everywhere. Here in Mauna Kea at the summit is gathered the 13 largest telescopes in the world. The reason why they have this concentration is because of the elevation, they're able to gather really good data. That's why so many of the world's top astronomers flock to this area for their research. The edge of the visible universe is the beginning of the universe. So because the speed of light is finite, the further away you look, the further back in time you're looking. Just because we have a horizon we can't see beyond does not mean that there's nothing beyond that horizon, it just means we can never know what's beyond that horizon because of the time it takes for light to get to us. Wow. There are too many jobs in which you're just constrained within a specific job description through which you can't go beyond. Look for something you'll be able to express your juices, your creativity, something that you're passionate about. To me, that's like... that's success. So walking around here at the base facility and seeing all this machinery and how it works, it's easy to get lost in the complexity, but it's kind of really interesting to see the questions they're actually answering as to what are the origins of the universe and why we are here. Just seeing Sean hunting for his passion felt exciting to me. I like seeing people take risks. I still believe that in my younger years, I began to settle. I felt a hope and inspiration to not be afraid even now as I'm older and going through transitions to say, you know, at any time, any place, or anywhere you are in your life, you can choose. You can choose once again to follow your passion and take some risks and go for the best life you can have. Sean? I think you found something. All right, here I am underground. This is an old lava tube. If I don't make it out alive, I just want my family to know that I love them and all my friends, and, you know, just carry on, you know? Keep on trucking. Week 46, I'm a park ranger at Hawaii Volcanoes National Park here on the big island of Hawaii. Looks like I'll be working with eruption crew this week surveying trails, trail maintenance, and ensuring visitor safety. Tons of active volcanoes, craters, a lot of lava flows, so it should be a lot of fun. The main thing is to provide visitor safety. The other thing is to protect the park resources. So what we do is we are available in case somebody needs help, they will come to us. Today we are going to be doing a back-country patrol, so the area we're going to be walking in is going to be over new lava flows with uneven terrain, and so we need to be careful of our footing and watching where we're stepping. Yeah, Rob told me his view on life, and he says that he sees it as a trail. It's a journey that we all must choose our own path. There is no use in looking back and thinking, you know, "Maybe if I had tooken another trail, where would that have ended up?" You know, right now, it's really difficult for me to look back, because I'm constantly thinking about my upcoming jobs and how am I going to get there, where am I going to stay when I get there, but, you know, at the end of the project, I know that looking back on it, I'll be able to reflect fondly on all the people I've made, all the experiences I've had, and all the things that I've learned over the past year, and just be looking forward to next trailhead. I don't know why, but for some reason, I knew something was wrong at home. When I called, my mom said, "Sean, doctors have found the lump, and it needs to be biopsied." She promised me that it was nothing, and that in her heart, she believed that everything would be okay. When I stopped home on the way to my next job, the doctor had called, and the results were in. And he told me that I had been diagnosed with breast cancer. Well, this is not something that you associate with yourself. You hear the word and it's always somebody else, but you never think it's going to be you. I remember so vividly walking into the house and Sean was down here waiting for me to come home. I took one look at him and Bob and I started to cry, so they then knew that I had not been given particularly good news. Immediately, I didn't know what to do, I didn't know what to feel or think. It felt really surreal. The challenge that Sean faced is whether he could continue the project, but that was a bridge he had to cross. In my mind, I was battling "Should I stay or should I go," or "Yeah, I should stay," and I was just kinda going through the motions, and I just wanted the time to stand still. Sean was packing, and we were taking him to the Greyhound Bus Station in an hour, but I saw the look on his face as if to say "Okay, maybe I should stay," and immediately I said to him, "Don't you even think about staying." There's just no way that she would be happy having Sean by her side when he had this so important a project to complete. They started herding me along and "Sean, you'd better get going. You're going to miss your bus. I just love the project, I just think it's so exciting, I just said to him, "Go do it, go do it for me, enjoy every moment, tell me about it, and just go live, go live." I think that a person given a choice would aspire to do great things with their life, and yet greatness is not just handed over to you. It's something you need to work at. There's going to be some obstacles, there's going to be some challenges, there's going to be some road blocks in your way, but if you have the will, the desire inside, you'll find a way through, around, or over those obstacles. I guess I realized that the project is not about me, you know, it's kinda grown, and there is something here, you know, there's a movement, you can kinda feel it, you know, with just how people are getting onboard and they want to be part of it, there's something more here, there's something bigger. Man the bird! Look at that. Pull it, pull it, pull it! Lean into it, lean into it! Lift, now drive him up, pick him up. Wow, after just even a few drills, I'm like wow, I've got a lot of respect for these firefighters. Exhausted, like, just fatigue. Like, I could puke. Yeah, I'm just realizing that it was really selfish of me to expect Danna to be waiting for me. And here I was travelling all over the place and being on the road, and it must have been really difficult for her to be at home, and now that the project's coming to an end, I'm really looking forward to working on us. I was so beyond happy for Sean to have all of this done, and he had completed it. Week 52, final week, I'm bringing it back to my home town, Port Moody, British Columbia. I spent my whole life here, so it's only fitting that I end the whole year, my experience, as being mayor of the town. Let's clean this town up. Congratulations, your job. Thank you. I think the ability to listen to the residents, and to see the results, to see those dreams and the aspirations of the residents become reality. To me, it is personal satisfaction. I've quickly realized, as mayor, that it can be quite difficult trying to manage all the stakeholders, so basically, you're trying to keep everybody happy. There's all these different committees, different interest groups, and everybody's got their own agenda, and everybody wants you to give them more money and not cut their budget, so it can be a difficult task trying to manage all these different peoples' wants and trying and keep everybody happy. How many people do we meet on a daily basis that hate going to their jobs, you know? Change can be good. You don't have to be born, raised, and die in the same town. You don't have to have one job, and that's the end of it, you know, you have to have a narrow vision. The world is yours. I've always known that I'm capable of anything and that if I really wanted something and committed to it, that I can achieve it, and, you know, to actually see all the people that have helped me out along this way, that I could not have foreseen, and the generosity, and just openness, and the willingness to get involved and support the project over the course of the year has been incredible. Do any of us know what we are looking for? I think maybe when we find it, we say, "Okay, that's what I was looking for." To me, the most important thing that I think Sean has done, he's set himself a target and despite all the obstacles, he met that target. That is something that will pay off for the rest of his life. Ultimately, by starting the one week job project, I discovered that my passion is to explore. I've decided I would be fulfilled as a real estate agent, a teacher, or a motivational speaker, but for now, I'm going to share my story. I want people to take away a sense that it is possible to find your passion. Sean is... he's a pioneer for young people to really begin to explore what it is that you want. Does it become maybe a bit of a rally cry for a generation? The longer you wait to pursue your passion, the more inertia you have to overcome. My advice is suck it up. I just think you have to go for it. You always have to go for it. Take some time and figure it out. Don't just jump into the first opportunity. At my age, at 45, time goes by very quickly. It's very precious. Don't waste it. Until you take your last breath, it's never too late. There was this great relief that one project had ended, however, I think we both realized that it was really the beginning of a new project, with each other. With each other. I hope that others take my experiences as just another example of somebody who believed in something and went after it, and it worked. What do you want to be when you grow up?
